

I
I
' 1
1
i
sis Hi
IHHu
G o '
\Kn
MAHCU
%
.1
< 5
4
UT
D
UFACTUREK
/
HI
»
»»jri
sw
m
n
i
H
=1
/O.
m
mrtrrp
rUfiwiimuiuimrww”’
.
z/
/ '
ft
%
NKg
%
m
Si
1
I
1
mmm
Another Overland Trek
Sydney to Adelaide.
A CHANDLER outfit, comprising
four Cars, left the garage of
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd.,
on Saturday, February 28, bound for
the South Australian capital, under
their own power, to the order of the
Moncrieft Engineering Company,
Chandler agents in Adelaide.
The route selected included calls
at Goulburn, Yass, Temora,_ Hay,
Balranald, Wentworth, Ren mark,
Blanchtown and Adelaide — 3. total
distance of just on 900 miles.
The end of the trail was reached
on Wednesday at noon.
Progress reports in the daily Press
announced that the outfit was running
to schedule and that the Chandlers
were, as usual, keeping faith.
NOTE:-—What ONE Chandler can do, EACH and
EVERY Chandler WILL DO.
AUSTRALASIAN
AGENCIES
MONCREEFF ENGINEERING CO., Adelaide
(Agents for S. Australia).
MARCUS CLARK & CO., LTD., Sydney
(Agents for N. S. Wales).
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne
(Agents for Victoria).
BRADLEY & HOLLAND, Brisbane
(Agents for Queensland).
PACIFIC MOTORS LTD., Auckland
(Agents for New Zealand). *
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2091.
Thursday, March 11, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Money Power or Luxury.
DR. FREDERICK LAW, author of “MASTERY
OF SPEECH,” gives in his fascinating Course of
Eight Lessons the secret which, if you had the
choice of only one gift for your boy. or , girl,
you would probably choose above money or power
or luxury, or any other desirable possession—
namely, the ready ability to be a good talker
at all times and under every conceivable condition.
50,000 took the course in England
in three months.
i
Send 42/- to the STANDARD ART BOOK COMPANY LTD., 29 Woolbroker
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the above course will be forwarded you.
S-TA'i-''.
\-r :
IL
f ou have? always wanted Electric Lights
YOUR home will be brighter and
more cheerful with electric lights—
more comfortable with electric
fans—more convenient with the many
labour saving devices that electric cur-
rent will make available for your use.
Fairbanks-Morse
«<F” Electric Light and Power Plant
is a low-speed, horizontal, self-starting,
water-cooled engine unit —simple, eco-
nomical, long-lived—with every part
readily accessible.
It consists of a “Z” kerosene engine, a
ball-bearing dynamo, a switch-board ana a
storage battery. The engine may be used
for other work wherever power is needed
on the farm.
ifr
h r
m
Ml
U
m
K
ill
4 j-
rift
r!:
u
ru
M
HQi
Ijllipp
See your dealer and learn more
about “F” Electric Light and Power
Plants. Fairbanks-Morse time-proven
quality assures reliability.
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., Pydney.
JAMES WARDLE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCIICOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
INCORPORATED 'I ’ I MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Depi., NEW YORK, U. S. A.
London, England, Bueno* Aires, Argentina
••■■•*» ■ ■■•.■•■ * 1 ■ B ■ ■ ■■ B ■ »»»•
(•■■■■*■*•■■ ■■■■■■ aatafllßtaa «*■■*■*■■■■■■■*■•*■■■. sat S3* '«»■
■KKKitßB««ci ■■■■■■ iißmii B«H.a«j[iiMHiMKß.iißiaßßiKaeiis*eK
■ftt «* B ■ ■ ■ ■ ■« * ■ * ■ » ■ ■ ■tig Rtf. ■ 111 a line bii n u Itxatt
ilCllßlllKKlKlllltllllililflllieX'ilUl
iiiikia tHniaamii*
Sfß te S
till
astiM
fit
*S.Bi*
et«S«
■ ■■
ft* KB 8
as
mama
(till
t«t
iißsa
(Bill
S 3 IBS
1111 l
****
(•■•a
2KSBS
(*■■l
mu
ars
*a**«
as
tea
in ilk
MKBfi
*sa*
■ ••SR
«1
(Ml
mu
a i
■i
■tut
<■■■
»*
S 2
««
■■Ban
mu
in
in ibb
■ ■■a
u
■ s’*
rain
klr
■ ■■
a as ■ a
EC
■ate
mu
«■«
•a »
IS
■ ■■
lit
■ ■■
*«
tins
► 1
an
ebb
BRBt
■ at
m
931
«
S>* 5
Ji
+B.
tast
ifi
i? 1
ii
■
■ a
lEll
K*l*
■ ■tat
in
■ at m .■ 9
*«
■ tat
a a
‘ ;v \
for the
Owner-Driver
THe Al
itish.
rd
\
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZAGKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepSt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in Thb
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
m
i
A. The Larynx
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of ,a Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
the Lungs.
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol'
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to' buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no deputation of
their own, and pan only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Go., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Facility
“Facility of production is the snare.” I
found that sentence in an article on the
prose and verse of an Australian writer,
and it is almost magnificent in its ancient
stupidity. It is an idea that was never
seriously accepted by any man who possessed
any sort of mastery in letters; and to the
verse writer who has learned his craft it
is an irritation and an insult. You
dp not tell the fast runner that he is dis-
qualified because he moved his legs too
quickly, nor despise the express because it
reaches its destination more rapidly than
the lumbering goods train ; but the man who
through lofig training and intense concen-
tration, or who through some native genius,
can think faster than his fellows and see in
a sudden flash what they can never see,
must be treated with suspicion. As a boy
in a Maoriland school Professor Rutherford
was in the habit of finding the answer to
mathematical problems without writing
down a single figure. The whole of the
elaborate working went through his mind in
a single flash; and his schoolmaster—one
of the biggest—was wise enough not to
complain of his facility Ip older schools
he would probably have been caned for his
genius. But the remark about too great
facility is the more ridiculous when it is
applied to the making of verse. That a
man should master his craft in and out
until his pen can say instantly the thing
that under stress of sudden emotion is in
his heart, that is a sin which must not be
pardoned. -
“Facility of production is the snare!”
How much loving and intense labor went
to the making of that facility? How many
generations of men and women with
rhythmical souls * wrought up to it? The
verses took half-an-liour to write; the
verses took half a millennium to produce—
both statements are equally true. There-
fore beware of facility; there is too much
honest and devoted labor behind it! Few
of our poets ever thoroughly learned their
craft; and too often the men really inspired
have become almost incoherent in their
effort to force into verse that which with
more facility they might have sung glori-
ously for the joy of the ages. Yet their
laborious discords have been the joy of a
certain class of critics—see how they
labored over their verses! In plain fact,
they had shirked their labor over their
verses so long that the actual writing was
a mere feverish attempt to do in an hour
that whibh should have had behind it a
lifetime—perhaps ten lifetimes—of patient
aud enthusiastic effort, c
But about this facility. What does it
look like? Here is a man sitting with ink
and paper. As he writes the tears spring
into his eyes and run down into the ink.
Twice he jumps up from the table; and
possibly once or twice he swears softly and
without meaning. In half-an-hour he has
set down six stanzas with only a couple of
alterations in his copy. They represent a
real emotion; and the verse he has used
has come to him without once straining
after a word. All the straining has been
to keep himself in some sort of subjection
till the thing that is hot in his heart has
been said. This is no fancy picture, but
the literal and simple truth about the pro-
duction of good verse with “facility.” Yet
that man’s trial flights, far back in his
boyhood, were little imitative things which
often failed so badly that they would have
made excellent shocking-examples for the
“Answers to Correspondents” column.
After years of painstaking effort, while the
music that was in him burned out like a
clean flame all the false rhythms and fool-
ish metrical desires of his youth, he was
able to say at once in verse what he wanted
to say. What a snare his facility of pro-
duction is!
Facility of production in prose or verse,
in life or thought, is the thing most
desirable. It is every man’s duty to study
the craft he would follow; and if he
cannot acquire facility he has made a mis-
take in the choice of his calling.
D. M. W.
The Book of the Prophet Jacky
“Jacky” Fisher, Admiral and for a time
First Sea Lord, spoke his mind frankly in
his book of Memories published last year.
As that was a fragmentary and incomplete
account of his life’s work, he has filled up
its gaps by publishing Records (Hodder and
Stoughton), of tire same size and similar
in style.
The new book gives more space to the
prophecies of Fisher which shared the fate
of Cassandra’s. No man of our time under-
stood so clearly Britain’s position in relation
to other Powers, and her dependence on a
Navy that was suffering from the deadly
Red Tapeworm. Fisher wanted to get the
best brains available into the Navy and give
them, the best chance possible. Therefore
he tried to establish a democratic system of
training similar to that on which our own
Naval College was launched. He wanted
speed in battleships, big guns and better
marksmanship. He wanted oil engines,
nucleus crews, the scrapping of every
obsolete vessel and obsolete admiral. To
some extent he succeeded in getting these
things done. But he also in 1904 foresaw
the revolutionary effect of the submarine,
and prints a letter of that date violently
urging the importance of this new arm. “It
is an historical fact,” he -wrote, “that the
British Navy stubbornly resists change. A
First Sea Lord told me on one occasion that
there were no torpedoes when he came to sea,
and he didn’t see why there should be any
of the beastly things now In one
set of manoeuvres the young officer com-
manding a submarine, having for the third
time successfully torpedoed the hostile
admiral’s flagship, humbly said so to
the admiral by signal, and suggested the
flagship going out of action. The answer he
got back by signal from the admiral was:
‘You be damned !’ ”
All through his career Fisher had to. fight
stupidity in authority. It was not till he
became Director of Naval Ordnance in 1886
that wooden boarding-pikes were done away
with. “I had a good look round at the
time to see if there were any bows and
arrows left.” His policy was to defend
Britain with submarines, use mines on a
large scale in the North Sea, and send an
armada into the Baltic to attack the German
Fleet so that a Russian Army could be
landed within striking distance of Berlin.
The inaction of the Navy and its reduction
to a subsidiary force made the old man
savage. He opposed the Dardanelles venture,
and was proved right in this as in his
other prophecies. The battle-cruisers he had
introduced despite all opposition were suc-
cessful at the Falkland Islands. When the
submarine menace was at its worst in 1918
the authorities used with success a sym-
pathetic exploder for mines and submarines
which he had patented in 1868. He has
reason for claiming that he was always right.
Records contains a synopsis of Fisher’s
career in chronological order and numerous
photographs of himself with various royalties.
It makes with the previous book a live
autobiography of one who had vision and
organising ability which might have won
the war cheaply in 1915 if he had had a free
hand. He was a benevolent autocrat with
a sense of humor; a snob and a democrat —
and a genius.
The Spanish Novelists
The case of V. B. Ibanez once again
draws attention to the novel of Spain, which
is the Cinderella of Spanish literature. A
nation that gave the Armada for the writing
of a page in England’s naval history, which
once claimed dominion over one-third of the
earth and the waters thereof, which
slaughters bulls and worn-out horses when it
feels festive —a nation which, in fine, has
given its name to the deadliest of all the vege-
tables- —should surely have furnished a
steady supply of fiction writers. And yet
the Spanish novelists whose names are
known outside the Iberian peninsula could
all be worked into a shilling ad. About
half these would be familiar to the middle
class of Madrid to-day.
There is- no reading public in Spain—-
at all events, not for fiction. That seems to
be the trouble. Your average Spaniard
would rather spend his money on fruit or
fireworks than on fiction. Wanting the
demand and the resultant criticism, there
has been no constant supply; and what has
been written,’ though it may have been spon-
taneous, has shown no signs of development.
Mostly, the novelist’s self-imposed mission
has fretted itself away in vain imaginings,
or he has in desperation adapted his pen to
other ends—preferably that of slanging the
Government of his particular day.
It is largely a case of Cervantes and his
immediate imitators, and after that a silence
broken only, since the nineteenth century,
by occasional mild mutterings. The earliest
of these came with the “walterscottistas.”
As suggested by the name, these were
romanticists, deriving inspiration and
method, however, as much from George
Sand as from Sir Walter. Caballero was the
type. Valera, who blossomed forth towards
the close of the ’sixties, provided excellent
fare for a purely * Castilian audience. In
the English versions you feel that you have
acquired merit through the mere time and
patience involved in getting to the last
page. Perez y Galdos, who came some little
while'later, essayed his hand at realism. He
heralded the struggle between the rival
schools that reached its height in 1875. It
was quite a Spanish struggle,, knifey and
noisy. But the realists were very tame
birds and the romanticists very sober devils.
Armando Palacio Valdes came next. He
began as a critic. His first novel, “El
Senorita Octavio,” was published in 1881.
Two years later he jumped into Spanish
fame with “Marta y Maria.” Producing at
the rate of one novel a year, he achieved
something like European fame with a series
of writings, mostly semi-autobiographical
and all grimly purposeful. “La Espuma”
(“Froth”) might have been written by
Savanarola, or Dr. Arthur* or Marie
Corelli, or all three together. ’ Valdes’s
picture of Spain and the Spanish reads like
a Tory version of a Sinn Fein Ireland.
Now we have come to Ibanez. His “Four
Horsemen” on its merits won to “best-
seller” rank against very moderate compe-
tition. It looked at the. war from a novel
angle, and its characterisation had bite.
Heartened by its success,, the . publishers
have put out “The Cabin,” with a foreword
to. the effect that there really is a school of
modern fiction in Spain. This second novel,
which ante-dates “The Four Horsemen” by
a number of years, will not go far towards
substantiating that claim. It has its merits;
but they are the merits associated with the
Spanish novel all through its ragged history.
Provincialism, bitter caricature rather than
strong portraiture, perverted humor rather
than a joyous sense of the comic, these may
constitute a certain measure of novel-writing
capacity, but not the whole art. “The
Cabin” harks back to the A r aldes type, and
that is one foreign to the taste of the
English- and French-speaking races. A
fruitful comparison might be made between
this work of Ibanez and that of Gustav
Frenssen in Germany. Those who would
probe the by-ways of national idiosyncrasies
will find entertaining if not elevating
material in such fields. Most of us, if we
feel that we have been neglecting Spain,
will dig up “Don Quixote.” The Spaniard
is essentially a drama-writing, drama-
patronising fellow. The reading world will
be well content to let him remain at that,
TELOPEA.
Thoughts and Words
By dragging into a discussion of the
relationship between slang in verse and slang
in speech a claim ’to “know white men who
not only talk Maori but think Maori” —who
except for their color are Maori —Will Law-
son (B. 12/2/’2O) introduces an irrelevancy.
The claim is a familiar fiction, based upon
yarns about pakehas who lived for many
years among Maoris and dropped into their
social habits. But even in such Cases the
apparent difference between the white and
brown man being one of color only—a con-
clusion that there is identity in mental pro-
cesses—has no more justification than a
similar ver.dict concerning the fashionably-
attired and fluent Mongolian who acts as
(Continued on page 24.)


Autumn and. W inter Modes
at Anthony Horderns’
HE
'-w-
--r
Mb” ‘li S
@
,1X285
1X282
1X990
The Most Charming Blouses
imaginable. Crtlpe de Chine, Georgette—all the favored fabrics, in dis-
tinctive weaves and charming color harmonies. The three illustrated are
described here.
1X285. —So delicately tinted the Champagne Georgette which was chosen for this
Model Blouse. The touch of simplicity is given by the French folded neck in
Black Satin de Soie, Beads and Mauve-tinted Silk Embroidery, together with faggot
stitching on sleeves, finished delightfully. ■
Price do /“
1X282. An’exquisite Model Blouse, fashioned from Sand-shaded Georgette. 'Hie
new “vogue” collar is charmingly touched with quaint embroidery, as is also the
hand-made folded front and sleeves. Fancy faggot stitching further embellishes.^
Price
1X996. This Lime-Shaded Blouse is carried out in heavyweight Crepe de Chine.
The round neck is delicately treated with milk-toned beads. Quaint the strappings
which pass through picot-tipped slits on the shoulders, tassel finished. Embroidety
hemstitching and folds on the sleeves finish exquisitely.
Price 52/6
; I
ft
D 217
D 353
Distinctive Skirts.
A range of graceful modes, introduc-
ing many delightful ideas that lend
originality and exclusiveness.
D 353. —The Stylish Walking Skirt,
illustrated here is in Black and White
Shepherd’s Plaid, featuring smart inlaid
panel at sides. Finished buttons.
Price 7 9/"
1)217.—0ne of the new seasons smartly-
cut Gabardine Skirts, as illustrated,
offset with double panel back and front,
trimmed Black Silk Military Braid. Ob-
tainable in Navy.
Price
D9OO As.smart as it is serviceable. An
up-to-date Skirt, in Cheviot Serge, featur-
ing a panel back and front, and further
adorned with Military Braid. In Black
or Navy.
Price • • • 66/(5
Lengths from 36 to 42 mein.- and waist
measurements up to 29 inches only at the
above quoted prices. (D 900.)
Exclusive Autumn Model
A magnificent assembly featuring many beautiful examples
of the Designer’s Art. The four illustrated, may be described
briefly as follows
JX1760. Magnificent Model Coat, in Lime-shaded All-wool
Fancy feerge. The double cape is edged with Beaver Fur. A
fine all-round belt and large buttons to tone with the fur give
an exclusive finish.
Price 19 Gas.
I)GX —Soft Velors Cloth was chosen for this handsome Model Suit
in the new tete-de-negre shade. It is cut on long lines, with a
slight flare at foot of coat. An exceptionally fine touch is given
by the quaint light-toned empieeements. The collar and skirt
are -similarly treated. A single button finishes in front. Rainbow-
tinted Satin lines the coat.
Price £l3/17/0
JXI 755. A Handsome Coat, in Rose-tinted Woollen Cloth, featur-
ing a collar of deeper rose, fringe-finished, and turn-back cuffs.
Tuck-like folds down centre back and quaint empieeements at
sides, finish together with the all-round belt and large fancy buttons.
Price £9/19/0
DSX. Navy Yelour Cloth fashions this exquisite French Suit.
The Vestee effect in front is handsomely hand-embroidered in con-
ventional design, as are also the novel empieeements which at sides
form pockets, and adorn the back. An all-round belt, smart collar
and buttons further offset. Slit at sides. Empieeements decorate
the well-tailored skirt. Fine check silk lines the coat.
Price £l3/17/0
ANTHONY HQEwERNS’
FASHION PORTFOLIO
Will be Sent to Your Address Free and
Postage Paid. Write for a Copy. Cos-
tumes, Coats, Furs, Hats, Blouses, Skirts,
Hosiery, Footwear—all are given promi-
nence in this Authentic Guide.
WRITE NOW.
“When brown Aniumn sheds its store.”
EVER has Sydney’s Mammoth Emporium been so
brilliantly arrayed to herald the arrival of the New
Season’s attire.
The delightful displays, embracing almost a score
of windows and spacious Fashion Showrooms, faithfully
portray all that is authentic and most becoming in
Fashionable Dress for Autumn and Winter 1920.
Ladies residing at a distance are invited to write for
the Illustrated Fashion Catalogue which, in its
modified form mirrors the diversity and distinction
of this charming assemblage.
Dainty Lingerie
El.—Silk Combination Gar-
ment, as illustrated, perfectly cut
and shaped, smart Camisole top with
elastic at waist-line, prettily trim-
med back and front with fine
Valenciennes Lace and Insertion. The
full knees are trimmed en suite. May
be had in Pink, Sky, Ivory,
Price 39/6
E2.—Charming Night Robe,
as illustrated, in soft Crepe de Chine,
cut in the becoming Magyar style,
daintily trimmed w’ith the finest
Valenciennes Lace and Insertion, in-
let w’ith fine Brussels Net, which is
embroidered in delicate colorings;
wide bands of Black Velvet Ribbon
are over shoulders, finished Black
Silk Tassels back and front. Colors:
Ivory, Pale Blue, or in Blush Pink.
Price 79/6
E3.—Lovely Camisole, as illus-
trated, in good-quality Silk, very-
pretty design and a most necessary
adjunct to the transparent blouse.
Trimmed Valenciennes Lace and In-
sertion, finished several rows hem-
stitching and fine tucks, forming
very chic effect. Shades: Pink, Sky,
Helio, Black, Cream, White, in all
sizes at 29/6
m
&
yrsp
E 3
i! •?
r-v; .: 0-
fiat*
E 2
t-V'S
m
)o
m
f\
D 5
(l/i
D6X
7
JX
1755
JX
1760
///
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
605 Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


imm
m
w. ' «sp
* mm
.;' ’- .' J* i v
<. ' .x
-TWlsj?!
■• aLVAASK
i
jssgsr4
•&&SS&
Begin making Kodak
pictures to-day;
you’ll learn to use
your Kodak in half
an hour.
Make this a
KODAK. Easter.
Let this Easter season be different to those of the past —make it a KODAK Easter.
Picture-making adds wonderfully to the joy of holiday-time, for a Kodak is always
with you, ready to record happy times, groups of merry-making friends—all the
delights of a care-free week.
You will never forget the joys of the open air and sunshine with a Kodak. An
album of Kodak snapshots, an enlargement on the wall, will be a continued source
of pleasure to you.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior
is a remarkably handy model —takes
pictures x 3J inches —compact to carry
and always ready for use Price 85/-
The No. 2C Autographic Kodak
Junior, takes the new small postcard-sized
pictures, 2J x 4| inches —splendid fox-
scenes and groups. Price £5.
The No. SA Autographic Kodak
Junior —one of the most popular models
I —takes full postcard-sized pictures,
31 xsi inches. Price £5/5/-
Other Kodaks to suit every purse and purpose-range in price from 47/6 to £lB. Ask for the Kodak Catalogue.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS,
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
“The Kodak Comer,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Great Strength is a
Big Feature in-
CHAMPION” WIARD
STEEL
BEAM
ROAD PLOWS
No. 69—Wiard Steel Beam Contractor’s Plow.
For Horses or Tractor. Weight 3151 b.
■ w
No. 65—Wiard Steel Beam Road Plow.
For 2 to 6 Horses. Weight 2001 b.
tai"
No. 66—Wiard Steel Beam Road Plow.
For 2 to 8 Horses. Weight 250ih
PJ
The fact that strength is vital in a Road Plow was kept,
constantly in mind in designing the WIARD Steel Beam Road
Plow.
Every part subject to strain was made “a little stronger than
seemed necessary”—Beams, handles, braces, shares. Building
this extra strength into a plow in these times of high-priced
steel costs money—hut it pays in added years of service and
freedom from costly delays.
Because they are correctly designed from an engineering stand-
point and dependably built in every respect
“CHAMPION” WIARD STEEL
BEAM ROAD PLOWS
insure greater satisfaction to their users.
Convincing proof of their sturdy construction is found in their
reliability in operation and the long period of time they con-
tinue on the job without lowering their high standard of
efficiency. Beams are of cast steel, handles also of steel, well
braced. Shares are of forged crucible steel of great strength
and durability, and can be drawn by any blacksmith.
Without a doubt they stand absolutely unequalled for road-
making—-tank-sinking and railway construction.
All the features of importance, together with illustrations of
all the “Champion” Steel Beam Road Plow Models, are shown
in our list No. 12. Send for free copy and get the full facts.
V '
No. 67—Wiard Steel Beam Rooter Plow,
For Horses or Tractor. Weight 2501 b.
Send To=day
for Free
Booklets.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd
Union House, George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.; Collins House, MELBOURNE, VIC.; Union Bank Chambers, BRISBANE, Q.


sdfsd
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com"
plexion with pimples and blotches*
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, wJI clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
The
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating; SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3% guineas per week.
Tel. YSOOI, 3002. Apply Manager.
BULL DOO
THE SELF VUu-AHIZIHG
V PATCH
Wi i_L REPAIR v
, ANY SIZE PJNCTURE „
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE'
OBTAINABLE AT ALL OARAOES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
ff %A\i Uwk
fmihjfcit hfp
lit
m
m
m
urns iU'&A)
tom,, i
w
df
DV:)
f7
%
r
I IIVVO «
'“ft
to
11
|0|ld King Smoke
was a merry olol bloke
when he called for his
The Kingly smoke
The crowning smoke-joy comes to you when
you get a flawless Briar pipe “broken in to
your satisfaction.
The GBD is made of genuine French Briar
perfectly modelled and balanced. The best
pipe at a moderate price.
MANY POPULAR SHAPES SOLD EVERYWHERE.
For your Infant or Invalid
Benger’s Food is appetising and delicious. Even the fresh new
milk used to prepare it is made lighter and easier to digest!
In the tin one food may look like another, but there the
resemblance of any other food to Benger’s ends. You prepare
sdf
225A
Food
in a way different from others ! Fresh new milk is always
used, and in a few minutes (see directions) both the Food and
the milk become blended into a dainty cream by a gentle first
process of digestion, self-contained in the Food.
To this, and to its great nutritive power, Benger’s owes its
unique position as “ the Food the Doctor orders. ”
Benper’s Pood is entif' ly British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when prepai mg it.
Booklet and fall particulars post free from:
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD.. MANCHESTER, England
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY
And at NEW York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depdt* throughout CANADA.
CA-O
gfC-A-P,
CA. C
o-vo
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
C'AC
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SAIFS OFFtrFS;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, S'dney - - - Phore City 2t>77
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
C-A-O
n^cT’flPji
ovo
*
Made in Australia.
Again Available.
Cheaper than ever.
Obtainable at all
Storekeepers, Saddlers,
Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants.
sdf
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night and Morning.
Last night I watched the rain of sorrow beat-
ing ; •
On distant uplands garmented in snow,
I heard at times the northern blasts repeating
.A hollow dirge of bitterness and woe.
I saw the tall grass bend, the olives tremble,
While ragged children shivered in the
damp,
Yearning to see our troops once more
assemble
Below the slopes whereon we used to
camp.
Now morning sunlight blazons earth and
ocean,
Through clouds of cool tobacco-smoke 1
see
No sorrow as I dream of war s commotion,
Nor do I hear the sob of agony.
My columns surge, wdth children trailing
after,
Down singing valleys carpeted with thyme;
1 hear the fitful peals of happy laughter
Echoing through the fragrant groves of
lime.
I see the loaded limbers and the horses
That wake the startled foothills into life;
The mounted vanguard of our mobile forces
Riding triumphant from the ruck of strife.
I see the distant cliffs that echo loudly,
The thunder of the column’s falling hoofs,
What time its laughing troops are stepping
proudly
Up slopes ablaze with terra-cotta roofs.
And over all I hear the children singing
A song I prayed might never, never cease,
The night I heard the chapel bells out-
ringing
Their praise to God for resurrected peace.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.
The Ministers.
On the eastern highway
Dawn, the damsel young,
For her lord and master
Flowers and jewels flung.
From his fiery charger
Fast behind her, he
Threw his golden largesse
Down on land and sea.
Midway on that highway
Noon, the middle-aged,
Stood with brimming flagon,
And his thirst assuaged.
Wine of thanks she gave him,
Wine of wondrous worth,
Sparkling with the beauty
And the joy of earth.
Down the western highway.
Still with splendor graced,
Twilight, grey and ancient.
Watched him as he paced.
As his glory perished,
Gold to grey subdued.
Flowers of sleep and silence
On the earth she strewed.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Blindness.
I walk abysses of Eternity.
Both soul and body grope and yearn to see;
The world is void and black, a blind mote I,
An atom among atoms, doomed to die
The death of sightless life, bewildered, cold.
I was so young, but, blind, I have grown old.
I am so far, so far from aught that sees
I shall grow mad if I forget not these:
Greens of branches tossing in the valleys,
Sun on grass, and green moss under lilies;
Emerald glooms in lakes; brown pools at
eve
Yellowing with sunset; petals that leave
The flowered branches weeping; shreds of day
Gold in a dark’ning sky; the quiet grey
Of shadows, and white moonlight; the gold
moon
Wreathed in the evening mists; the high
bold noon
In passionate summer, and thin bronzed
leaves;
The crimson’d woodland, where the wild bird
weaves
Passion and peace in song; the blue of skies,
The blue of wide seas, and the blue of eyes;
Gloss of white flowers, culled ere the dawn-
ing ;
Gloss of red flowers in sunlight yawning ;
Lavender clouds at eve, clouds white with
sun,
The thunder-black of clouds when lightnings
run
Athwart the world in jagged spears of light,
And rosy clouds; a seabird’s black-limned
flight:
The rose of firelight through a woman’s hand,
Rose of a heat-flushed cheek; the grooved
white strand
Washt by thin rippled opal; spume of green,
Crystalline waves with glassy troughs be-
tween.
My soul is windowless, so seems it dead,
And coldness grips my hands and heart and
head ;
The icy bands of blindness clasp me round,
I space the earth, end see it now. by sound.
I must so feel, and find not, till I die.
I think when I in cold corruption lie
My soul -will wander ways that wind and
wind.
And, crying, erope for ever, being blind :
And being through that blindness lost to
Love.
Fall often from the cloudy space above,
And creep down to the world, and wail and
sigh;"
So, through all unborn ages, live, yet die.
And, eyes that smile, why will you haunt me
so
Who. eyeless, dare not live, nor love, nor
know?
QUEENSLAND.
L. PATRICIA FRANCIS.


1 s
ip
The “Push and Pull
Tapping Machine.
This machine, only recently put on the
market, has already more than justified itself
as being the Faster' L apping Machine for work
up to and indue lag |in. Whitworth. It requires
little space and does a great variety of
accurate, ur.iiorm work.
It has a friction drive, and works with
remarkable rapidity and ease of operation.
You push to tap, and pull to reverse.
All Machines are fitted with a floating chuck,
thus making the tap self-accommodating,
which is a very essential feature. Taps either
blind or through holes, having an adjustable
stop to tap up to the depth desired.
Designed and made in Australia, this
Machine can be seen running in our
demonstrating department. Delivery from Stock.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.,
Machina Tool Matters and Importers, Coventry, England,
Telephones: City 1010 ft, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “U,athe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: Ldeber’s. Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teeth without scratching
Sweetens the breath;hardens the qtims
MADE
r
W
IN
/
Australia
If your chemisl’ or storekeeper
cannof supply, send \/s in stomps
Rocke.TompsittcCo. Melbourne.
“Not Afraid of Microbes?”
asked the Bank Teller, by way of
apologising for the dirty notes
he handed the School Teacher
for tier monthly cheque.
“Oh, not a hit ” was the reply,
“I'm sure no microbe could live
on my salary.”
The difficulty of existing on a
stipend embitters some, but
others find a way.
“REX” CAMP PIE
has helped many a housewife
s dve the p’oblem of supplyi g
her family wi h nourishing arid
appetising meat food at the least
expense.
“Rex" Camp Pie is the ideal
Summer dish, because it is
cooked ready to eat and only
needs to be served with any
dainty Salad to eb thoroughly
relished by all.
No waste, no crust. All m >at
and all satisfaction when you
serve “Rex” Camp Pie.
Sold by grocers
everywhere. Say
“Rex” Brand.
FOGGITT, JONES & COMPANY LTD.
Packers oj “Rex" Pure Food Products
] 19 Curers oj “Rex' Hums and Bacon
»
mi]
"MV*, BACON
ON6UE.
Martell’s Brandy
This Fine Old Cognac—the aristocrat of
Brandies—has remained unsurpassed for two
hundred years. A fine aromatic bouquet and
full distinctive body account for this long-
continued popularity.
The wholesome purity of this
“quality” whisky is reflected in its
perfect flavor—the delight of the
connoisseur and of all who drink
it. It is unquestionably Scotland’s
finest brand; call for Thorne’s
next time —and see that you get it.
WHISKY
Overstrung nerves relax and all mental strain
is banished under the gentle charm of fragrant
D
A
A
Cigarettes. As you smoke you enjoy infinite con-
tentment and tranquillity. Get a supply to-day.


The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2091.
Registered at the General Post Office.. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THU USD AY, MARCH 11, 1920.
Peice 6d.
THE PEACEMAKERS.
Various church conferences have this month deplored the prevalence of industrial troubles and carried vague resolutions
beseeching Capital and Labor to compose their differences.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maclbod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 (is. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid. To any address
overseas, £l/10/- per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, ray,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps or return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Thu Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.G.b;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 8 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.lj.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
bb Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., bit Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Boston Hat Works, Eighth Avenue,
West Calgary, Canada.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., ISJffi
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A. ; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency, 710 Market Street,
Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing Square News
Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street. Honolulu.
Egypt. — lgna.cc Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peddcr Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. —A Barker, Suva; F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwetdth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Bm., lid.; Sioz. to lOos., 3d. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, boz., lid., and sd. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1920.
THE BLESSED WORD “IRRIGATION.”
“Jest look how we irrigated our deserts in
Ammurika. Yew Australians air dead slow.”—
Habitual Yankee Visitor.
“Such examples as those of Egypt and the United
States show the vast possibilities of irrigation.
Australia was obviously intended to be a land of
primary industries, but comprehensive schemes of
irrigation are necessary for the development of its
boundless natural resources.” —Habitual Australian
Tory paper.
A candidate may be a city man by birth,
a chronic town-dweller by habit, a product
of breathless suburban back-streets, an
adventurous tram-rider, a plodding product
of the pavement, a Cockney -of Cockneys—
he may be all these and he often is. But
if he talks largely and strenuously about
the need for roads and railways (built with
expensive loan money) to open up a country
which has already twice as much railway
as it c«n make pay and twice as much road
as it cares to keep in repair, he has the ear-
marks of a good, stodgy, honest applicant
for office. And if he is a strenuous howler
about the advantages of irrigation for de-
veloping our heritage in the wonderful
interior, and about the -example of countries
which have waded in regardless of expense
and made the desert blossom like the ineb-
riate’s nose, he is understood to be a highly
enlightened and progressive applicant for
office. Works of the sort described supply
employment which can be paid for out of
loans at five times its commercial value—
when a public work is built with money
that costs 5 per cent, and yields only 1 per
cent, there is a great suspicion that it has
been paid for at five times its value—and
the candidate buys votes for himself with
the money. It is time this large talk was
measured up in cold reason..
In the United States, which is the example
that is quoted ad nauseam, a spoonful of
sand is called a desert, even if there are
big rivers running across it. If Uncle Sam
rescues a scrap of this from neglect w.
water from the big nvers, the feat is con-
sidered one to be marvelled at, and the Aus-
tralian press urges the community to waste
its life and its loan money and pile debt on
Posterity in attempting the same sort of
performance. The United States region
which is marked white on the rain-
fall map to indicate that it has less than
lOin. of rainfall is about one-tenth the size
of the similar area in Australia, and it is
a comparatively cool little desert straddled
by the 40th degree of latitude, while Aus-
tralia’s is a fairly warm, big one traversed
by latitude 30. Yet Australia and the U.S.
are much of a size. There is nothing in
the U.S. to correspond with the Riverless
District and the Lake nwre Basin which fill
up two-thirds of Australia—the second a
huge region where all there is to show for
all the rivers is a group of small briny
lagoons at the bottom of a hole, and the
first a huge locality where there is a lack
of briny lagoons because there is no water
to make them. The u.S.A. has very little
that is so bad even as a great part of the
Murray-Darling Basin. If the Republic went
in seriously for irrigation it would be a case
of about 90 per cent, of the country sparing
water to irrigate the other 10 per cent., and
the 90 per cent, includes the biggest river
in the world. In Australia it would be
rather a case of 10 or 20 per cent, of the
country finding water to moisten the other
80 or 90 per cent., and in the list of the
world’s 20 great rivers our Big Trickle isn’t
considered worth a mention. The American
area which would be the better for artificial
watering begins about 1500 miles west of
New York. The Australian area begins more
like 100 miles west of Sydney. Yet there
is nothing so very dazzling about the suc-
cess that the United States people have
made of their comparatively small iob—
nothing to induce Australia to pour millions
borrowed at nearly 6 per cent, into one a
thousand times the size, though the spend-
ing of tax money with no interest liability
on such a contract might be justified. Arizona
(Arid Zone) and New Mexico are two States
whicn are largely quoted as reclaimed
deserts and flowery examples. They are not
exactly like the 1200 utterlv riverless, flat
miles traversed by the Australian transcon-
tinental railway. They possess real moun-
tains —there is winter snow on the peaks
of northern New Mexico, and that State is
traversed from one end to the other by the
Rio Grande, which is No. 15 on the list of
the world’s great streams. Arizona next
door nas a big range right across it, and is
traversed by two big riverso Both places are
heavily mineralised, and they have artesian
water. Compared with, say, South Aus-
tralia, which doesn’t grow one river and has
neither gold nor silver nor coal to speak of and
less than lOin. of annual rainfall over five-
sixths of its area, this pair oi American deserts
are lands flowing with mnk and honey. In-
cidentally, they are traversed by three great
lines of railway. Yet nothing extraordinary
has been done with them despite irrigation
1 trumpet-blowinsr. In Arizona
aidßof) square miles, or equal to Victoria
and lasmama combined), last census showed
that the population had increased by 163 914
m 30 years and ran to less than two per-
sons per square mile. New* Mexico (122 634
square miles) grew 207,736 new people in
30 years. Nevada is a third rather dry
Btate. It is blessed with mountains, min-
erais, more water than South Australia, two
transcontinental railways and some irriga-
tion. It is also almost as large as Vic-
toria and Tasmania combined. And with all
these advantages the struggle against Nature
such Nature as there is in Nevada—was
so unsuccessful that the 1910 census showed
an increase of 19.609 peonle in 30 years.
•5 v? va^a lost most of its hills, its lakes and
its Humboldt River, it would be the duplicate
of two-thirds of Australia, and it might have
been hoped that water conservation would
do more for it.
* * * *
Egypt is, of course, a standing example of
how irrigation can make a new earth if not
a new heaven. But Egypt is traversed down
its centre from end to end by the Nile, third
best among the world’s rivers, and 100 miles
from the sea it branches by the gift of Nature
into a score of Niies and does marvels of
natural irrigation. Australia isn’t traversed
down its centre by anything except the over-
land telegraph line and rabbits. Then irri-
rnon the accumulated result of
oUUU or 10,000 or more years of cheap labor
or slave labor—certainly not trades-union
labor backed by expensive loan money. And
with ail this toil and all the recent improve-
ments the area capable of milrivation is offi-i-
-ally estimated at about 12.500 square miles
out of a total area of 363,000 miles. Every-
thing beyond a range of a mile or two from
the gigantic river, the like of which Aus-
tralia doesn’t possess, is given up as hopeless,
lhe desert crawls into the streets of Port
Ba’d and it lies within a penn’orth of tram-
ride of Cairo and Alexandria. And if the cul-
tivation of irrigated land even under the
most favorable conditions is a sure road to
wealth, the appearance of the Egyptian
farmer, whose farm isn’t propped up with
Government money, belies him. For that mat-
ter the irrigated Hindu is no capitalist either.
* * * *
Irrigation, in short, seems to be a failure
except where there is water to irrigate with
7 rea l water, not a skimpy brackish mineral-
ised supply from a bore, and water out of
real rivers, not trickles. There is no irriga-
tion. in the world on the scale that Aus-
tralia’s new school of borrowing politicians
rave about, now that raving about loan rail-
ways has ceased to be sufficient excuse for all
the borrowing proposed. India certainly has
put water on 70,000 square miles of country
m a few thousand ages, but half of it is
laborious hand-work done from tanks and
wells, and produces a wage that the most
poorly-paid artisan in Australia would mock
at even if it was doubled. Nobodv has done
anything very large in the way of irrigation
except in a land of b’ : g rivers, or done it
very far from a big and fairly rel'able river
wherefore the valleys of the Nile and the
Euphrates and the Ganges are celebrated and
the valley of the Cooper isn’t. Nobody has
ever irrigated, except for isolated pocket-
handkerchief allotments, a country like 95
per cent, of Australia. Moreover, the success-
ful irrigation works of the world were not
loaded with a i> per cent, mortgage on their
full value, said value being the price of
nearly the highest-paid white labor in the
world. Even the boasted enterprises of the
U.S.A. were largely done in the South with
five-or-six-shillings-per-day toil brought over
the border from Mexico, and in the North by
cheap Polish, Bohemian and Slav labor fresh
from Europe—men of a type that is vanish-
ing—Avhile in the furthest West much of, the
pioneering was done by the Chinese, who are
also vanishing. Irrigation is a busi-
ness to be pursued rationally by
people who understand it. It doesn’t require
long speeches, AA T ild perorations about the
illimitable resources of the most ivonderful
country on earth, and appeals to the ashes
of our fathers and the manifest destiny of
unborn generations. Above all, it wants to
be kept out of the hands of the non-agricul-
tural, back-street tOAvn politicians Avlio show
signs of starting a biggest-dam-on-earth com-
petition even if they have no Nile to put in
the dam. And meanAvhile Australia might get
busy making its own clothes for a start. The
wool is here, and the sheep struggles along
without much irrigation.
REVOLUTION.
P. J. Minahan, Labor candidate, informed
a Sydney audience the other day that if
the people, with their one-adult-one-vote suf-
frage, had given a majority for compulsory
service on Referendum day, “arrangements
had been made by a section of the people”
to overwhelm the majority by force, and to
upset the people’s Government and replace
it by a republic. The republic, being the
work of a mere section of the people, would,
of course, have to disqualify and terrorise
the majority, else it couldn’t last a day.
Being born by violence it would have to
endure by violence. And as it wouldn’t rest
on the popular will it wouldn’t be a republic
at all, but a mere collection of oligarchs or
usurpers or Bashi-bazouks of a sort, backed
probably by German money. Candidate
Minahan offered no estimate of the amount
of slaying that would have to be done before
the majority parted with its self-governing
rights—the streets that would have to be
cleared with machine-guns, the improvised
defences that would have to be stormed, the
miscellaneous killing in miscellaneous places
not only by the fanatics and miscreants who
wanted to usurp authority but by the
criminals and irresponsibles who always run
riot in the interval when one Government is
gone and another hasn’t arrived. Bloodless
revolutions may have happened now and then
in some little city State where every member
of the Government could be arrested and
every prominent supporter of the Govern-
ment captured and disarmed between mid-
night and dawn. But they don’t happen
anywhere else. Even the little British Isles
are too big for them, and the blessed and
peaceful upheaval of Dutch William in
1688, though it was a most respectable thing
of its kind, didn’t quite finish bloodshedding
for 58 years. In a country like Australia,
where towns scattered over nearly 3,000,000
square miles would have to be fought for, and
where the people have the most liberal
Constitution on earth to fight for, the
position would be partly horror and partly
helL
* * * *
An urgent question is whether there is
any fitting place in this world save a mad-
house or a gaol (with a life-sentence) for
the men who, according to Mtnahan’s
assurance, deliberately planned this mon-
strous crime. (For treason against the
liberties and self-governing rights of the
people the usual penalty is death, but there
is a prejudice, though not in Bolshevik
circles, against capital punishment.) The
stupendous wickedness which deliberately
proposed to let loose the horrors of civil war,
with all its regular concomitants of pillage,
arson and rape, on a peaceful nation, merely
because it voted at a crisis for a defensive
policy which almost every other country re-
garded as urgently necessary, suggests gaol.
The gigantic and d'seased egotism and lack
of moral sense which causes men to boast of
such things suggests the madhouse. Cer-
tainly Parliament is the last place for
them. If a member of Parliament and a law-
maker has schemes in reserve for calling in
his armed friends and upsetting both the law
and the Parliament when things don’t go his
way, or if he can even look complacently on
such schemes for destroying the will and the
Government of the majority, he is a person
with too many strings to his bow. A man
of peace, being a citizen of such a coun-
try, shouldn’t be mixed up with devices
for civil war or know the secrets of those who
could contemplate it without denouncing them.
And a man of blood and violence and usurpa-
tion should be outside, herding with the wild
beasts. The remarks that Cicero made about
Catiline apply in his case.
THERE WAS A TIME.
The prophet forgets half his mission when
he looks only to the future; for though the
human proposition XXI may be directly
built upon the results of theorem XX, it is
just possible that its essential key is to be
found in problem XIII. There is scarcely
a system—or form of development lacking
system—which has not its parallel some-
where in the strata of history; and a fossil
that once had life of a high order may
easily be more interesting and valuable than
, a living organism of a lower type. The
Golden Age is always ahead, and the New
Jerusalem always remains to be built; but
Hell and Chaos and the ruins of Babylon
are also among the possibilities of the
future; and the alchemist of social and
political dreams must be a fool who wouid
ignore any ancient recipe which nearly pro-
duced the desired brew of world-wide or
nation-wide happiness. Therefore, consider
that all these things happened in one age
of English story:
(1) An English prince at the head of 4000
grumbling brigahds rode borne through the
forests of Aquitaine after a plundering raid into
French territory, and suddenly found-himself-at the
apparent mercy of a gallant French army of 40,000
which had been specially sent out to destroy him
He took the odds of 10 to one, turned round and
sooled his brigands on to the glittering foe; and
so well did he conduct the fight that the result was
a knock-out in about the third round. Then this
prince went home to England ; and when the terrible
Great Plague began to hit harder than any steel-
clad enemy he gave himself up to nursing the sick
until he caught the horrible thing and died.
(2) A little earlier, the Scottish king, observing
that none of the men were at home in the royal
palace in England, came across the border to see
what he could steal. The mother of that prince' who
could knock over continental armies l.ke ninepin>
and give his life for the hope of saving a trades-
man’s child went up to look at the Scottish person,
put his army out of action and brought the King
himself down to add to a collection of captured royal
persons then on exhibition in London.
(3) A quiet parish priest began a great religious
reformation, translated the New Testament into
English speech and said plain things about shames
and crimes of begging friars and other sacred but
abominable persons. He blew no trumpets, asked for
no notoriety, put up no advertising posters, had no
quarrel at all with the church as a church or with
Rome as its headquarters; yet in all the things
that mattered he ante-dated Luther by a century
and a half and avoided all Luther’s mistakes. His
zeal and success were a sore point with the big
churchmen, who knew that they should have done as
he had done and who now felt themselves small and
unfaithful in the light of his growing influence.
They considered the time had come to put him to
death; and a great council was called at Lambeth
before which he was ordered to explain himself. The
quiet parish priest came in all humility; he entered
the great hall of council; but he entered it leaning
on the arm of John of Gaunt, the strongest man
in England. John didn’t understand what it was
all about; but there was to be no killing for
conscience sake while he was at hand. And the
priest went home to Lutterworth without his
martyr’s crown.
(4) The Comptroller of Customs of the Port of
London, who had started life by acting as page
boy to a great lady of the Court, had a fine knack
of making rhymes. The business of verse-writing
was new in England—in fact, the language itself
was quite new, having made itself out of a mixture
of Norman-French and Anglo-Saxon. The Comptroller
of Customs didn't worry whether it was old or new,
but just wrote for the joy of words and the delight
of saying the thing he saw'. And with his job to
attend to and many dreams and some disappoint-
ments and practically no readers, he produced a
body of poetry that marches and sings and laughs
and weeps and tells of a merrier England than
any later poet has known.
(5) While these things were happening Mart
Smith was at her wits’ end to know what to do
to empty the household purse. The very choicest
of food was so cheap and so good, the best of
clothing could be got so easily, the demand for
labor was so great and the wages were so enormous
in proportion to the cost of living, that the only
way to get even at all was to make nearly all
the Saints’ days in the calendar into real holidays,
and have as much simple festivity as could be
crowded into the year. The village Maypole wore
out its spindle with astonishing rapidity; the
village games were as constant as they were gay;
the village ale-house was full of singirg. To waste
the private wealth merry pilgrimages to the shrines
of local saints were useful in the summer; a
Christmastide of extravagant jollity partly accom-
plished the same end in the winter. Visitors from
France and Italy and the Low Countries came and
saw and wondered. Why, the poor of England had
roast capon at one end of the table and roast
beef at the other, and great jugs of ale foamed
between! No wonder English soldiers could fight
at odds of one to ten!
Some recent_ historians have tried to find
the foil for this picture, to show how dark
the shadows were between the lights. The
effort has not been very successful. There
was leprosy; but there was not one leper
to 20 who suffer from cancer to-day.
There was famine, due to bad roads cut-
ting off villages in the fen districts from
their bases of supply ; but only two or three
such instances can be cited. There was
plague; but plague is close enough to us
still, and the Black Death came out of China
and ravaged all Europe before it hit Eng-
land. There were over-reaching lords of the
soil w’hose pride was intolerable; but those
lords seem to have been pretty good fellows
who set a kindly eye on the village sports:
and, anyhow, in the dearth of labor, they
had to go cap in hand to the village car-
penter when they wanted him to repair the
hole in the floor where the draught let in the
smell of the stable. The houses of the poor
were of clay; but judging by one or two that
have somehow been partly preserved, thev
were very clean, comfortable places for all
that, and not nearly as crowded or small as
the homes of the worker to-day. Besides, the
greatest in the land lived in castles that
were a standing exposition of discomfort in
all its most showy forms. No; the blackest
S’de of the picture is only a shade of pale
grey. It was an age of great men, of
great deeds, of great plenty, of great honesty,
of great laughter.
All this mass of fourteenth-century life
that was lived and enjoyed for good or
evd is buried under the dust and rust of
Tudors and Stuarts, and under rising com-
merce and growing democracy and discoverv
and adventure and chemistry and mechanica'l
progress ; but it should not be buried from
the eye of the man who would beat a drum
in the march to the New Jerusalem. It all
has a meaning and a very clear one. That
fourteenth century marks the very top of
the wave of individualism and of individual
responsibility. There never was an age
in any country when so many men stood
forth to do things off their own bat. The
restrictions were few; the word of the
Parliament did- not carry far. Some of
those very high wages, far from being en-
forced by Arbitration Courts, were actually
illegal; but the employer paid them
cheerfully enough because it paid him well
to do so. It was the age of the creat under-
standing between Saxon and Norman, an
understanding that arose first on continental
battlefields, and afterwards spread to the
village green. Every man stood on his
feet and within very wide limits could
do as he pleased; and the tlrnvs that
pleased him best were good things, be-
cause with his independence came a whole-
some sense of responsibility. Perhaps he
might be a very wise man who would devise
a system that would reconstruct and make
permanent some of the conditions which
came by accident in that fourteenth century.
P. O. M.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Anti-Railway League.
Dear Bulletin,— The League need not be
absolutely and uncompromisingly Anti-
Railway, but it should be so in 19 eases out
of 20, and while present conditions last at
should regard the twentieth case as an un-
avoidable misfortune and a thing to be
regretted, like a suicide in the family. >' hen
a vast and almost unbelievable change is
made in conditions the League may possibly
withdraw its opposition, or, again, conditions
may develop to make it more opposed than
ever. There is very little joy, or no joy at
all. in the owning of public utilities by
Private Enterprise, and Australian State
railways have the Private Enterprise curse
on them in a way that most other countries
are strangers to. In fact, there is hardly a
brick or stone or splinter of this country s
alleged public properties that don’t belong
to Private Enterprise, and sometimes it
belongs twice over. The trail of the prefer-
ence shareholder is over everything. Now,
the preference shareholder is fairly common
in company-managed concerns, but not in
this form. Some of the banks have him, and
one big institution, the Commercial of Aus-
tralia, has rather specialised in him. But
its £2,100.000-odd of pref. capital carries
dividend at a maximum of 4 p.c., while
Governments are issuing pref. shares to
build railways with at nearly 6 p.c. The
bank’s pref. shareholders can’t raise their
demands and insist on getting their money
back if their exactions aren’t complied with,
while the railway pref. shareholders can
and do. The N. S. Wales Government is
now issuing 5f or 6 p.c. pref. stock (called
a loan) to build lines. If it made the divi-
dends depend on the earnings, it wouldn’t get
the money at i>6 p.c. The idea of seizing the
Condobolin-Trida railway for their debts
would make preference shareholders die of
laughter. So the State throws in all public
and private property and all the property its
people may acquire for evermore as security.
One plain reason for the Anti-Railway League
is that the bulk of new lines are being built
at a cost which is from twice to 12 times
as much as they are worth. That is to say,
the line built with the money of private
preference shareholders at about 6 p.c. varies
from paying only half the interest to losing
all the interest and also an equal sum in
working expenses. As under the, congestion
policy the bulk of them do not make any
permanent, increase of population, agricul-
ture or manufactures in the districts
“opened up,” they can only be judged by
their earnings. Furthermore, there is a
demand for the largest possible suspension
of railway building till Australia acquires
a uniform railway gauge. Every additional
mile built (with preference shareholders’
money) adds to the inevitable, incredible bill
for reconstruction which all the States must
share. Until this matter is dealt with the
fewer miles built the less bill there will be
to pay. Premier Holman, stepping out of
the Smith car at Cootamundra, said that
aviation was “the mode of transit of the
future.” In other words, he said that rail-
ways in a large general way. and especially
for long distances, such as he had just
covered, are on the verge of being a back
number. The air-craft, though still in its
infancy, is getting ahead of the railway, be-
cause it requires no road-bed, rails, bridges,
embankments or tunnels; it knows no break
of gauge, and it is the kind of railway
which, if it proves unpayable between
Griffith and liillston, can be shifted at an
hour’s notice and made a line between
Ivyogle and Beaudesert. Also at a push it
can be made a ship. This is another reason
for the Anti-Railway League. And there
are still more. Even with the present
awful roads a big motor-lorry recently
humped a load of goods from Sydney to
Melbourne, and both in speed and cheap-
ness it beat the broken-gauged, preference-
shareholder-loaded line; and it was only a
pioneer. In any case, Australia has not
the labor to spare for a vast programme of
railways. Tube railways may still be
wanted in cities, where the airship won’t
serve. And in the very rare case of a
line nearing completion, in some locality
which has a rainfall and where there is
some place of importance to connect with,
it might be advisable to complete it. But
in a general way the labor scarcity must
be considered. TJiis country wants men to
grow cotton and flax, to man its cotton and
woollen mills and shipyards and foundries.
In fact, it wants them to do a thousand
things if we are to get clear of the foreign
profiteer, who is but of our jurisdiction and
jeers at our price-fixing, and is impervious
to our un ; ons and strikes, and whose
exactions have made the cost of living
ruinous and promise to make it twice as
had as it is. Further, Australia wants
labor to sufficiently man the industries it
has. When the building trade, for instance,
reduces its work from 44 hours per week to
40, one-eleventh more men are required
even to prevent the house famine becoming
worse, and a great many more to give it
a chance of being a little better. To waste
bone and sinew and intelligence in con-
structing ruinous w T orks and superstitions
for private preference shareholders at such
a time is the last word in madness. There-
fore the Anti-Railway League is hereby
launched in the Ma State with the expec-
tation that it will spread. Yours.—
James Edmond.
Bloated Cities.
Sydney’s retiring traffic-superintendent is
going abroad, and has been commissioned to
report how people are run over in other great
cities and gather hints for the improvement
of street-suicide here. London, of course,
will be on his itinerarv, and judging by very
recent reports he will find that London is
just about giving up the traffic problem as
a bad job. It is supposed to be still the
biggest city in the world, though Greater
New York is only a hair behind it. Also it
is supposed to be the greatest city the world
ever saw, though the world may have had
wild times that we. don’t know of. • Cer-
tainly it is about eight times as copious
in population as it was 120 years ago, and
unless the plug is inserted in its “pro-
gress” it is likely to have 50,000.000 people
by the end of this century. A very present
trouble is that at the principal underground
railway station the howling, nerve-racked
multitude can’t get into and out of the trams
fast enough—the trains that run every few
seconds and stop only a few seconds, eo
official hustlers and draggers have been
appointed to do the work for them. Ihe
woman who looks as if she was coming out
is .snatched out by the clothes and other-
wise, and the man w-ho looks as if be was
going in is catapulted in by the scruff of
the pants and otherwise. The megaphone
blows to the second, whether they are half-
out or half-in, and the train starts with a
leap and attains full speed in 10 yards. This
doesn’t seem exactly like civilisation, but it
is progress. London has 18 termini for ordi-
nary railways and eight separate under-
ground systems link them up, and in addi-
tion it has its tramways and its motor-’bus
services, yet events are getting ahead of it.
The underground railways alone try to
shift 4,500,000 people per day (or try to shift
the same person 4,500,000 times a day),
which is much the same as shifting the whole
army that Britain sent to the war several
miles every day at headlong speed in a
rabbit burrow. The most remarkable of the
burrows cost £BOO,OOO per mile, and the
whole rabbitry cost almost as much as all the
N. S. Wales railways put together. They were
mostly built when both labor and money
were much cheaper than they are now, yet
they don’t pay. A typical one has yielded
the shareholders 12 per cent, in nine years,
or £1 6s. Bd. per annum. They expect to
do worse now with increased wages. What
would happen to them if they were built
with Holman’s loan money at 5| per cent,
or Theodore’s at 6J or 61 everybody is
afraid to ask. The fares, which the lady
with torn clothes declares are too high, are
to be raised, but the utter insufficiency of
the service seems past, remedy. Even if
the lines were burrowed down till there Were
eight of them one below the other the pas-
sengers would still have to come up to the
streets sooner or later, to be run over by
motor-’buses. One thing thnt can be said
for London is that its condition appears a
shade less awful than that of New York,
where there are wild jests about 144 peonle
habitually travelling in a street car that
has seats for 24. When Sydney’s ex-supgrin-
tendent of traffic visits London ar>d sees
what kind of an impossible deadlock Syd-
ney’s Millions Club is aiming a,t, he may
possibly dec'de that the obvious remedy lms
in not having bloated cities if they can be
avoided. No one has yet discovered anv
other remedy. As the population of all
England is now more than one per acre,
John Bull nrobably can’t help his rabbit-
burrow problem, but Australia, with about
one inhabitant to 400 acres, needn’t rush in
search of it. Sydney is now almost the
size that London was at Waterloo time, but
it is struggling harder to draw all the popu-
lation to itself and pile up difficulties than
London ever did- . And it is a poor ambi-
tion to have the women of this bright young
country mauled and dragged about by
strangers in a hole that cost £BOO,OOO a mile.
The Burial of Lloyd George.
The biggest funeral in Britain, exceeding
that of Victoria or Wellington and making
the Burial of Sir John Moore a poor back
number, is expected to be tnat of Lloyd
George’s reputation when it dies of his new
Irish Bill. Doubtless it would take a very
big man to devise an Irish settlement, but
it was generally supposed that the bustling
little George was a bigger man than this.
The marvel of complication which he has
produced has these leading features unless
the cablegrammer blunders more than usual :
(1) Ireland, which asked by a tremendous majo-
rity for one Parliament, is to have two —it is to be
partitioned like Poland. One Parliament is to stand
for six of tlie nine Ulster counties and for the two
boroughs of Belfast and Derry. The other is to
represent the remaining 26 counties.
(2) The dividing line is supposed to separate
Catholics from Protestants, or Nationalists and Sinn
Feiners from Unionists, or something of the sort.
Yet the Unionist-Protestant bit is to include Fer-
managh County, which is 661 per cent. Catholic;
Tyrone County, which is 61J per cent. Catholic;
and Londonderry city, which is over 56 per cent.
Catholic. The balance are Jews, Unitarians, Metho-
dists, Baptists, Anglicans, Spiritualists, Presby-
terians, Unbelievers, people, who dsa’t take the
trouble to believe or unbelieve, and maybe an odd
Mormon. Fermanagh returns one Unionist and one
Sinn Feiner, though the Sinn Fein vote predominates
enormously; Tyrone one Unionist and two Home
Rulers (a Nationalist and a Sinn Feiner) ; and
Londonderry city’s solitary member is a Sinn Feiner.
Of the' other divisions Armagh, Down and Belfast
city each returns one Nationalist among its mem-
bers. So there is room for a very brisk civil war
inside the North itself.
(3) Cussing each other copiously across their
artificial border, the two divisions are to return 20
members to each local Parliament of one House,
with a President appointed by the King. The
President’s casting vote in a petty assembly should
count for a good deal.
(4) Still cussing each other abundantly over the
artificial boundary, the two divisions are to return
42 members to the House of Commons, so there
will be 40 Irish members in Ireland and 42 in
England. The British Parliament will still control
the Army, Navy, tariff, etc. —in fact, the big things
—and Ireland will have 42 votes on its own big
things, whereas now it has 105.
(6) An appeal may lie from the North Ireland
or the South Ireland Supreme Court to the All-
Ireland Supreme Court, and from that to the House
of Lords. So Bun, has the last word. If he
appoints the All-Ireland Court- he will have both
last words.
(6) There will, of course, be the usual royal veto
on Irish legislation. Whether it will be used
lavishly or otherwise will presumably depend on the
advice the King receives from his British Ministers
in London.
(7) Ireland is to contribute £18,000,000 a year
to the Treasury in London to begin with.
The microscopic legislatures with their fixed
numbers aren’t at all like Home Rule as
Canada or Australia understands it, for
these countries fix their own Parliamentary
numerousness. The idea of a Speaker
appointed by the King (and possibly sent
over from England, though the cable says
nothing about that) isn’t Australian Home
Rule either. The one-House idea is good,
but J. Bull has his own rooted objections
to the one-House system, and its introduc-
tion suggests that he regards the two Irish
Houses of Commons as mere municipal
councils. As a rule when a section of a
State breaks off and starts Home Ruling it
takes with it a share of the common debt
and ceases financial relations with the old
capital. The idea that the debt shall still be
managed at the old capital and the new
Home-Ruled provinces shall contribute or
pay rent is the old heavy-father or central-
ising idea. The rage of Fermanagh, Tyrone
and Londonderry city, with their Catholic
majorities and Nationalist or Siiin Fein tra-
ditions, at being put under the domination
of a petty Parliament with a BeLast and
Orange Lodge majority, will probably be
much greater than if they had been left in
their old condition of attachment to London.
The Orange Lodgers of Belfast, descendants
of the Presbyterian intruders, are even more
foreign to the Gaels of Tyrone than is the
old ei-owd at London. There will be, of
course, some sort of appeal to the Big Legis-
lature in England, but there will be only 42
votes there to support that appeal, whereas
there have hitherto been 105. A side-issue
is that the Irish contribution of £18,000,000
a year to the Treasury at London is only
fixed “in the first instance,” so presumably it
may be altered and increased —by the
authority in London —after a term of years.
In fact, the old gang in London, like that in
Sydney, is willing to make any concession
under the sun in the way of decentralisation
provided the authority of the old gang at the
old centre is in no way diminished.
The New Political Diocese of Grafton
and Armidale.
The movement for separation and the estab-
lishment of a new State in what is now the
northern part of N. S. Wales has become
so definite that it can no longer be ignored.
The .extreme north of the State is 875 miles
from Sydney as the letter or postcard goes,
or something less than 400 as the ship goes,
provided the ship doesn’t call in anywhere or
wobble on its course. The district thinks it
is too far from the One Big City for the
rulers there to see its requirements through
a telescope. Also, after due consideration
of purely city-bred rulers or prospective
rulers like Holman, Garland, Fitzgerald,
James, Oakes, Hall, Storey and the rest,
there is an impression that they couldn’t
see much or understand much even
if they had a telescope. The North
regards the purely City Premier and
the "ui*ely suburban leader of the Opposition
as two men of street instincts who have
gone mad on the borrowing game, and it
wants to get. away and leave them to be
mad all by themselves. It especially wants
to leave before the mad old debt, of which
it -will have to carry away a share, is too
tremendous The spectacle of two crazed
amateur financiei’s both from the Big City
pawning the whole State at the pace wliicn
has now been attained, and at the still more
appalling rate that is pi’omised, is calculated
to make the South and the West secede as
well as the North, even as Lot seceded from
Sodom just before the great bankruptcy.
It is calculated to make them retire and
leave the overgrown metropolis which sup-
plies nearly all the Ministers and nearly all
the rackety finance to be a State by itself
and its own self-contained lunatic-asylum.
At tire same time the northern secessionists
need not hope to get away by any existing
constitutional means. As a matter of fact,
there are no constitutional means. Tas-
mania, Victoria and Queensland obtained
separation through the British Government,
but the British Government has given up
the claim to interpose in such matters,
though it would doubtless find a way if
serious trouble threatened. The Federal
Paidiament has no defined power except that
it might get a mandate from the people to
temporarily suspend all State Legislatures
and reconstruct the Commonwealth at its
discretion. The disastrous Constitution
merely says that the North or any other
Diace which is hopelesslv dissatisfied with
the rule of the big capital and the eanital-
oossed Legislature may have its break-away
fully recognised if these two institutions con-
sent, which is just the satisfaction that
Poland and Armenia used to get and
which Ireland enjoys to-day—though the
enjoyment in Ireland isn’t glaringly in evi-
dence. The North’s only present visible
chance of self-determination, like the chance
of North Queensland or Western Victoi-ia,
lies in the strike. When thei’e is no pi-o-
vision for arbitration by a neutral and
unbiased tribunal the strike is the logical
weapon and the only one. As there is no
racial or l’eligious question involved, and as
the State Government controls neither ports,
telegi-aphs, telephones, army, navy nor banks,
there is evei’y reason to suppose that the
Secession Strike, with anything like capable
management, would be free from bruises and
other violence. After the formal demand for
Separation and the formal refusal it would
be time to elect a Noi’thern Rivers Parlia-
ment and create a Government and Consti-
tution. The Federal authority can’t “in-
ci’ease, diminish or otherwise alter” the area
of N. S. Wales without the consent of the
Parliament at Sydney and of a referendum
majority, which is Sydney and its environs.
Yet there is nothing in the Constitution to
say that if a party in the State “increases,
diminishes or alters” the boundaries or ai’ea
off its own bat, the Federal Parliament must
prevent it. According to law it may just
look on helplessly. True, it is specified in
Clause 124 that “a new State may be
formed by separation of territory from a
State, but only with the consent of the Par-
liament thereof,” which looks deadly. Still
the place that had broken away might con-
sent to be called a Territory or Possession
and have its revenue collected by Federal
officials and its deficit charged to the Com-
monwealth at large until the politicians at
Sydney were tired of having a section of the
Sydney-Brisbane railway under Federal con-
trol, and agreed to call the place a State.
The Secession Government will obviously
require a robust Attoimey-Genei’al to see it
through its early troubles; nevertheless the
troubles don’t seem insuiunountable.
♦
Archbishop Mannix.
Archbishop Mannix is reported to have
•said at Warwick (Q.) that he would create
all the trouble he could, not only at home.
but also in Australia, until they got self-
government for Ireland. In other words,
while professing affection for Australia, this
prelate is going to make it suffer for some-
thing over which it has no control whatever
—for which it is no more responsible than
Mannix is himself. Apart from the gross
unfairness of this—this paper says nothing
of the decency of it—the question arises
whether Australia is going to permit any-
body, archbishop or bootblack, to come to
and continue in this country with the delib-
erate purpose of “creating trouble” until
something is done which it can neither do
nor undo. The Commonwealth will naturally
hesitate to take steps to deport one of the
heads of a great Church. It will assume
that that great Church has means of its own
of dealing with prelates who announce that
they will make a convenience of the country
they have been sent to, to “create trouble”
within it in order to compel .somebody else
to do something. If, however, the Church
will not discipline its servants, then the
Commonwealth must protect itself.
Immigration.
Randolph Bedford in reply:—
“Mehe European” (B. 19/2/’2O) and “Biologist"
(B. 26/2/’2O) apparently have nothing more to say
than that my belief in the average Australian's
superiority over the average Englishman is all wrong.
“Mere European” says: “Immigration has appa
rentlv been so well administered by Australian Govern-
ments that Mr. Bedpord believes in more Government
management or mismanagement.” Well, good Gov-
ernment or bad Government, what other control
would this inconsequential person give to immigra-
tion? Nobody should have the right of bringing
anyone into Australia, even a brother or sister, from
the U.K. or Europe, if the brother or sister be a
loafer or a lunatic or a consumptive; and at present
practically anybody can come in. I would not
“exclude the English from Australia,” and never said
I desired to. I said that there are hundreds of
thousands of English and Europeans not good enough
for Australian citizenship, and I asked for rigorous
examination and discrimination of these. All the
world over the Australian immigrant is found making
good, while in Australia the immigrant gets the big-
job—as in the Territory. We are soon to close our
doors against inferior goods, I hope, and to maintain
our standard we must close our doors also against
cheap humans, while combing the white races for
the best they have.
“Biologist” is too full of generalisation to be
true to label. There is wo objection to the German
coming here if his goods are allowed to enter, and
shiploads of German goods are already on the way.
It will be better to have the German making goods
in Australia than making goods in Germany for Aus-
tralia. And the Armistice is 15 months old, and
peace has been declared, and dear old Freetrade Eng-
land has been importing German goods for months,
and the Freak of Nations has kissed itself all over,
and a German is not a German if he’s named Milner
and was horn in Prussia and is Secretary of State
for the Colonies. “Biologist’s” statement that
“Italy is without a virile manhood” is manifestly a
lie, dictated by the quaint belief that all Italians
are peanut vendors or organ-grinders, as all China-
men are eabbage-johns; and the idea that my
appraisement of the French is that the sole reason
for encouraging their immigration is to learn of
them love of country is merely stupidity’s way of
ignoring the spirit of a belief to carp on the letter
of it. And what greater proof of general foolishness
than this? —“There is no conclusive evidence that
the quality of children in the mass is improved by
the better treatment of the mothers. Modern
humanitarian science by preserving the weaklings
preserves the unfit who live to reproduce their kind,
and they are often prolific.” So to discount the
fecundity of the unfit you shall not give “better
treatment to mothers”! The fact is these two wild
critics of mine object most to the statement which
I here reprint—“ There are hundreds of thousands of
English and Europeans who are not good enough for
Australian citizenship.” That statement needs en-
largement. For “hundreds of thousands” read
“millions.”
The European situation, which is to a
great extent the world situation, doesn’t
visibly improve. The Hun is supposed to
maintain a force of only 100,000, but he
has a “State Defence” force of 400,000 and
a “Safety Police” force of 100,000. This
last is made up mainly of former officers
and non-commissioned officers, so that when
the army is suddenly recalled from private
life its leaders will be all ready to drop
into their places. The privates are em-
bodied everywhere into “athletic culture
societies” and such like peaceful organisa-
tions. It is reckoned that an army of
4,000,000 could appear at short notice, and
that it would be no ill-armed force either,
for camouflaged munition works are sus-
pected everywhere. The Hun may have lost
his colonies, his big ships and most of his
mercantile marine. But in the last war the
colonies were only a burden, the big ships
d'd little, and the mercantile marine was
laid up in harbor, so they don’t make much
difference in ' the country’s fighting power.
As for submarines and airships, it is
believed that these small deer are being
manufactured in parts ready to be rapidly
put together—manufactured wholesale. The
indemnity, barring some early instalments
paid in a time of panic, shows few signs
of turning up, and there is a very strong
suspicion that Fritz has ideas of having
another gamble for it. His strong point is
that his mines and wheat paddocks are
intact, while those of the districts he occu-
pied and ravaged have hardly begun to
recover. So the day of complete peace, con-
fidence and disarmament is postponed again.
In fact, the world is far better armed to-day
than it was in 1914. It left a lot of obso-
lete weapons and furniture on the battle-
field. but it carried off millions of pounds’
worth of very modern implements.
Maloney, M.H.R., of Melbourne, never had
a practical idea in his life on finance or
industry: but he has probably given away
more money, old clo* and well-meant advice
to deserving and undeserving people than
any other man of bis means and size in I ic-
toria. His repute as a legislator rests on
that, and be may become Prime Minister
some day through lavishly parting with
second-hand boots that he could i l ' spare.
The little doctor’s latest on finance (his pre-
vious one was the abolition of railway tares)
is that all the land in Australia should be
valued, and 10 years hence valued again, and
that all unearned increment that has grown
up in the interval should be taxed off and
used to pay the war debts. If Australia
raised loans like the very Devil till 1930 the
rise would be tremendous; for unearned mere*
i ment is the hectic flush caused by abund-


wm:
’IZZZ'P^
mil
f
3
on
11
Sill
• I»l»
%iwri
WALNU
ImxbirL oxls Stains
TaUbmans Extra Hard Floor Varnish
Stains give floors a subdued gloss finish in
Oak, Walnut, and Mahogany, that endures
hard wear, is heel-proof and non-slipping.
These Stains are designed to give floors just
the correct finish, and their special qualities
ensures them against wear and may be freely
washed. Easy to apply and easily kept clean.
TAUBMAN S FLOOR VARNISH STAINS have become, by virtue of their unfailing
wearing qualities, the foremost floor finish of the present day.
YOUR STOREKEEPER WILL SUPPLY YOU
siiDuxqraj
WHOLES A!/E ONLY AT
Sydney. Varnish Maxvuicictiirex’S.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 492 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Q’LAND AGENT • Cha,. W. R.Uj, CHARLOTTE ST., BRISBANE
S. AUS. AGENT: L G. Abbott 6> Co., CHESSER ST., ADELAIDE
N.Z. AGENT : Wilton & Sba-w ■ HARRIS ST,WELLINGTON
ance of money earned, cadged or stolen.
Then the workman whose suburban cottage-
allotment is now worth £3OO would find it
worth £6OO, though it wouldn’t be a bit more
use to live on tnan if it was worth £lOO,
and he would have to borrow £3OO on his
house to pay the tax, and it would be at
very high intei'est, because there would be
a tremendous rush for money. That is,
unless he sold half the land and pigged it
in the rest. Then, if the bottom fell out
of the loan razzle in 1931, the bit of land
on which the owner had been compelled to
borrow £3OO might not be worth £250, and
Maloney’s reputation would be wortn less.
It would be the slump of 1893 over again,
only worse, and the only thing around then
was decrement. In any event the tax could
only be collected in paper unless this country
got to work buying less and selling more
abroad and thus accumulated gold, and none
of our foreign creditors want paper. There
is a big hole in all these schemes devised by
fuzzy-headed old benevolents as substitutes
for work.
«
“Rio”: Heaven only knows how it started;
but it seems to be generallv supposed that
Australian officers of the Permanent Force
are far better paid than those of the British
Army. Here, actually, is how the matter
stands (and if we went higher the discrep-
ancy would be greater) :
, British t Australian
Rank. Pay. Pension. Pay. Pension.
Colonel .. £B5O £5OO £650 to £725 Nil
Lieut.-Col. . 750 450 575 to 625 Nil
Major .. 550 300 475 to 550 Nil
Captaiu .. 400 200 375 to 450 Nil
Lieut. . . 300 200 250 to 350 Nil
Many concessions also—as to leave, travelling,
servants, quarters, messing, etc. —are enjoyed
by the British officer which are almost or
entirely unknown in Australia; and should
he die, his widow and children have at all
times many funds to help them. Again, the
Australian permanent officer is under many
disadvantages affecting his pocket. He is
bound to serve for a term, and can only
resign under a penaltv. He is retired at
from 48 to 62, according to rank, and at any
time if his health falls below active-service
standai’d. A home of his own is not for
him, for he is liable to be transferred to
another station at any time. Even for his
temporary domicile he is limited to his own
military area, where rents may be high.
There is no limit to his hours of employ-
ment, and he cannot claim overtime even
if he is on duty seven days of 24 hours each
per week, and he regularly does a lot of
night, Saturday afternoon and Sunday
work. His uniform as well as plain clothes
are bought by himself. Socially, the junior
has latelv lost a lot of “privileges” accorded
him in less democratic days, but the senior
still has to attend many functions, with con-
sequent expenditure in clothes and trans-
port. Strikes or even public arbitration pro-
ceedings are unthinkable in the military ser-
vice, and the poor wav its members are paid
is a fair example of what happens to the
loyal, non-sti*iking employee. With only two
salaries above £lOOO and four or five more
above £750 in the whole permanent service,
and promotion earned on active service not
counting for pay at home, it is long odds-
on that a brainy boy would do far better in
any other profession.
A military man raises a point:—
Australia twice by referendum at a critical time
refused to compel men to serve outside Australia.
The Defence Act (Sec. 49) says: “Members of the
Military Forces shall not be required, unless they
voluntarily agree to do so, to serve beyond the limits
of the Commonwealth.” Why, then, should an
officer who declines to go abroad but is doing his
duty efficiently in Australia (which is all he con-
tracted to do) be penalised ? And if an officer is
punished, why not a sergeant or a private who
similarly refuses? If it is right to compel an
officer to fight abroad, it is right to compel the
whole force; and in that case the present military
policy is wrong. Of course it is. To await the
enemy in your own country is to court defeat.
He is given the initiative, can choose his own
time and place to strike, and has all the moral
advantages of an attacking and invading army.
Even if we drive him into the sea we have not won
the war: we have only incurred losses, damage and
expense to get reparation, for which we will have
to invade the hostile territory. There is not the
least doubt that if the people were better educated
in military history and strategic principles generally
they would see that to confine one’s army to its own
territory invites defeat, with its consequent loss of
life and treasure. Whether it be. compulsory or
voluntary we must have a military force ready to
go abroad immediately on the declaration of war.
To raise our whole striking force after hostilities
have commenced, as we do at present, is lunacy, and
would mean disaster in any war in which we were
not supported by friends with a force ready for
immediate foreign service.
“Staff Batman” : I agree with “Digger”
(B. 22/l/’2O) that it pained Haig not to
be able to shoot Australians on active ser-
vice. He gave one the impression that he
thought we were the kind of birds who ought
to be shot frequently; but we were never
quite sure whether he hated us on general
principles or merely despised us for our
alleged lack of discipline. Of all British
officers of high rank he was about the only
one who never came near us. Even in his
official despatches from the rear about our
work up forward he was grudging in his
praise. Rawlinson, Allenby, Plumer and
others did the fair, thing by us. When we
first went to France we used to have par-
ticulars of British Army executions read to
us on parade by Haig's general orders. We
never quite knew why this misery was in-
flicted on us, unless it was to put the wind
up us as newly-arrived Australians, or to
show what complete control the prognathous-
jawed Field-Marshal had over life and death.
About every second morning for several
weeks w T e had these vivid descriptions thrust
upon us. It didn’t interest us in the least
to know that they were shooting British and
Canadian soldiers behind the lines pretty
well every morning, since capital punish-
ment in the field did not apply to Austra-
lians. One morning they shot five Cana-
dians in a row, and Haig must have turned
on his best descriptive writer for our special
edification. The details were most realistic
and sickening. This sort of thing didn’t put
the wind up an Australian worth a row of
pins. It merely filled him with disgust and
loathing, and did a lot to turn the Digger
vote against conscription. When llaig
noticed this effect he knocked off having
these harrowing details of executions read
to us. I have heard of only one Australian
THE KIND PROFITEERS.
“Ton promised my daddy before he went and was killed that you’d always look after
us, didn’t you, sir?"
who was shot by order while on active ser-
vice. He was passed out by the English
authorities by mistake. When they dis-
covered their error they notified the victim’s
parents that the boy had been killed in
battle. That was the kindliest action I have
ever known the Provost Corps to do.
Secretary Garden, of the N.S.W. Trades
and .Labor Council, and two of his friends
were allowed to address the Methodist Con-
ference at Sydney and told the rather shaken-
up men with black coats that the Christian
faith had turned the people into “veneered
savages,” and was merely “a form of ances-
tor worship.” Still, it might be something
worse, for an ancestor being dead has at least
ceased to borrow money. During a lull in
the cyclone Mr. Garden was asked to define
“labor,” and he said that it included both
manual and mental workers. But does it
among Garden’s followers? They appear
to regard the organiser and manager of a
great industry as a mere animated money-
bag, and propose to “take over” all sorts of
intricate and elaborate industries quite
casually and have them managed by any
aggregation of manual lanorers that happen
to be around, proof of mental capacity being
quite superfluous. Yet most industries have
been founded with very little money, and
many are ru.n much more with brains than
with capital. On the other hand nothing
great is done without brains, even though
there mav be both hard work and capital in
it. New Australia in Paraguay started with
more money than the A.M.P. Society and
the Bank of N. S. Wales and the Common-
wealth Bank put together, for no one was
admitted unless he was at least a small
capitalist, and it began also with a hand-
some unencumbered landed estate and with
a lot of carefully-selected, able-bodied labor.
Yet the three institutions enumerated are
great and prosperous, Avhile Rue Australia
became in a few months a thing of tatters.
Even labor became practically worthless. Of
course, the Garden kind of man in office can
float loans and charge his losses to posterity
and make a sort of success that way. But
New Australia, not being a sovereign State,
couldn’t put its bonds on the market and
hide its failure.
“R.S.V.P.”: Yet another indication of the
need for adequate air-travelling regulations
has been given in Melbourne. ’Planes begin
to fly over the suburbs with large-lettered
ads. for soaps and so on painted on their
chest. For such advertising to be effective
the ’plane must fly low ; and low flying is,
of course, dangerous flying. Nobody will
blame the enterprising airman who adds a
bit to his earnings by advertising soap while
he is toting a two-guinea passenger on a
five-minute fly; but the increased risk to the
public—a risk for which neither airman nor
advertiser takes any financial responsibility
—is obvious.
John Storey says the N. S. Wales Labor
party inaugurated a great •‘developmental
and decentralising policy” when it attained
office in 1910, carried it on till 1916, and
is prepared to resume it again at the shortest
notice. Alas, though starting out with the
best intentions, it didn’t decentralise any-
thing. It didn’t open up a single new port—
at Twofold Bay, Port Stephens, Jervis Bay,
Goff’s Harbor or anywhere else —by giving
the place railway communication with the
interior. It didn’t shift one bureau or one
bureaucrat from Sydney or give one out-
lying district a fraction more local control
over its affairs than it had before. If any
one had suggested radical decentralisation
by cutting the State into three States, or
even moderate decentralisation by shifting
the political metropolis to an inland town,
so that there might be a political capital as
distinct from *he commercial one, the Labor
Government -aid have fallen down as dead
as any other Government. As centralisers
Labor leaders are no worse than the average.
But it is hypocrisy to pretend that they
are any better. Aobodv is any better—
with the positively dreadful result that last
year the population of Sydney increased
more than the population of all the rest of
the State put together.
Though the engineers’ strike is over and
coal is again on the way to Victorian brick-
yards, there is no likelihood of bricks being
sold at anything like reasonable rates for
a long time to come. An indication of pro-
bable future values was given at the sale of
St. John’s College, at East St. Ivilda. for
breaking-up purposes. A mass of 800,000
bricks, standing in the walls, was sold for
£2 10s. per 1000. Adding £2 per 1000 for
taking down, cleaning and carting, the price
for these second-hand bricks will amount to
50 p.c. over the pre-strike rate for new
ones. “Each for all; all for each” is the
official motto of Australian labor; but it
doesn’t apply to the provision of dwelling-
houses for the worker.
The expensive people whose job it is to
find out the cost of living and fix the mini-
mum wage accordingly go blundering along
in the same old unscientific fashion. At the
best they call in witness after witness, who
explain their figures, one by saying that he
needs 40 pairs of socks a year and a dozen
new ties, and another by mentioning that he
has to buy chocolates for his best girl. Of
course these things have no place in such
an inquiry. The proper basis of payment
is what a. person earns. If he earns enough
to buy 50 new ties a year, he ought to get
it. But whether he buys- ties or socks or
Polar-bears with the money is no business
of these Courts and Boards. Their one
concern, apart from finding out what a man
or group of men earn, is what a man and his
family can live on in decent comfort.
And then if a man earns less than he
can live on in decent comfort the amount
has got to be made up and charged against
the industry. What a man and his family
can live on is not to be ascertained by
bringing in inexpert witnesses. It is a mat-
ter for a scientific social survey ; and the
first part of the job is the preparation of
schedules, especially of food, showing what
rations a man and his family need to main-
tain health and strength.
Having observed the result of the recent
Federal election, when only three Labor
candidates were returned for Hi vacancies
in Queensland, the party in that State is
feeling uncomfortable; wherefore the fol-
lowing devices are proposed in order to
defeat the majority that is too obviously
opposed to the so-called Labor Party:—
(1) To give the franchise to irresponsible children
of 18.
(2) To allow anyone to vote whether his or her
name is on the roll or not, the Government-appointed
official in charge accepting a bare assurance, pro-
vided the voter looks reliable.
(3) The suspension of all elections till 1920 (in the
ordinary course one is due in 1921). That is to say.
the present members might re-elect themselves for
another five years, and if they liked the sensation
might later declare themselves life members and fill
vacancies by appointing new men of their own party.
All these matters are, however, to be held
over till Premier Theodore returns from
England. Theodore’s mission to England is
for the purpose of borrowing money. If he
arrived there as the leader of a party which
had just abolished general elections, he might
be asked some awkward questions.
A British Parliamentary Committee, out
bloodhounding, has found that the rise of
Atlantic freights from 18s. to fll a ton.
of Persian Gulf freights from £2 6s. Gd. to
£2O 10s., and other lines in proportion, is
over the odds. But after all, what has
Bull to complain of? If freights are high
they are spent in his own country, for he
owns the. ships. The reason why our War
Profits Tax yields only about Od. per
inhabitant where his yields £1 is that this
country is too tired or too inefficient or
too much obsessed by the guff of I.W.W.
orators to do big steals. Profiteering re-
quires energy, hard work and brains, and
Australia missed the chance. The profiteer
is a fine person to have inside the country,
for you can put a special tax of
£300,000,000 a year on him and pay for a
war with it. But a place which pays with-
out protest £l7 for an imported sewing-
machine that cost 655., just because it pre-
fers digging dam noles at Yanco or Mitta
to manufacturing, hasn’t that advantage. It
is profiteered sure enough, but it hasn’t the
profiteer. The biggest single article Aus-
tralia manufactured last year was the
Broken Hill strike. It has been valued at
over £2,000,000, and nobody stole it, though
it was left lying about quite loose.
General Gough, who met with some
troubles in the B.g War. has turned apologist
for the Hun and says that the peace treaty
is “thoroughly un-English” and is equal to
“hitting a man when he is down.” Well,
how did England acquire Wales, Ireland,
Canada, all the South African territories,
India, Malta, Gibraltar, Egypt, the Soudan.
Mauritius, Jamaica or even its own country?
And how did it prevent the secession of Scot-
land? The previous owners didn’t surrender
these places when they were up. England
is named after the Angles, a movable tribe
like the Turks, who shifted their quarters
to a strange land and without the least pro-
vocation hit the much more civilised Briton
when he was up and when he was down
and every other way. And Gough’s ances-
tors did the final infamy of abolishing Chris-
tianity and depriving the man who was
down of decent burial. The Englishman’s
exploits in the way of dictating profitable
terms to the person who was horizontal
extended from about 429 to 1900 or later,
so it is rather late to strike attitudes.
A Sydney daily paper item: —
When an Australian steamer is sold to Eastern
buyers her Australian crew generally is paid oil and
an Eastern crew substituted. As there are not any
steamers replacing those sold the unemployed crews
find it difficult to get other work afloat. The Feder-
ated Seamen’s Union.... has written.... claiming
that it constitutes a breach of the White Australia
policy.
Yes, and so do a lot of other things. Direct
Action, for instance. The father who for-
bids his daughter to marry Smith, the well-
to-do young man who offers her plenty of
food and glad rags and a good time, might
reasonably ask himself how much he’s to
blame for the subsequent wedding if he
starves the girl and makes her go bare-
foot. In the seamen’s case it isn’t the sale
of s.s. Lazarus that matters: it is the fact
that Australia won’t get to work earnestly
to replace this and other ancients that are
sold to foreign buyers.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
who would earn over
£5.000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australia has received a firm demand from
rhe British Government for £8.750,000, part
>f the £41,750,000 which the Commonwealth
>wes on a casual lOU. Lloyd George wants
lie oft-promised instalment by March 31,
leeause J. Bull’s financial year ends then,
lie was driven to floating short-distance
nans himself during the war. and he has
E 198.000.000 of his own falling due. Of
•ourse, Australia hasn’t the money—a coun-
ty which imports almost all its manufac-
;ured goods has enough to do supporting
’oreign profiteers. And it is gold that is
.vanted. our notes being waste paper in
Mnarland. Treasurer Watt leaves for Eng-
and in haste to apologise; but he can’t get
:here in time even with his apology.
Tenders were recently called for a big
deel building about to be erected in Sydney.
The contract price was £43 per ton erected
—material from the Newcastle Steel Works.
The lowest foreign quotation was £5l per
on f.o.b. London. If we hadn’t got the local
vorks, what would be the importer’s price
after adding freight and cost of erection?
The public hasn’t yet begun to realise what
;he Australian steel works have meant and
ire going to mean to Australia. Yet the
aoneheads composing a Labor Conference
lassed a vote of censure on Griffith
vhen he was Minister for Works
n N. S. Wales because he smoothed
:he way for the establishment of the industry
—an industry which rescued Newcastle from
something approaching ruin when the coal
:rade went to Maitland, and saved Australia
Tom industrial stagnation when iron and
steel wei’e unprocurable during the war.
Labor-candidate ,P. J. Minahan to a
referendums on Conscription lie
could Tow safely tell them a secret. Arrangements
h-id been made by a section of the people to defeat
the enforcement of conscription bad the referendum
been carried. Those in charge of the movement weie
reining chiefly on Queensland. Had the conscription
proposals been carried there would probably have
been a republic in Australia to-day.
More likely there would be some defeated
revolutionists doing a life sentence and some
more mouldering in the grave like John
Brown’s famous Body. But the main
question is—why did Minahan or anybody
else of N. S. Wales “rely chiefly on Queens-
land”? The people of that State werent
strenuously anti-conscription. At the fust
vote three States were anti —N.S.W. by
117 739 • S.A. by 31,312; Queensland by a
mere 13,851. If it was Australian citizens
that were to revolt and not an organised
gang of foreign revolutionists (Queensland
is the State with far the biggest proportion of
alien population), why not rely on N. S.
Wales, where the big anti-defence vote was
always located? Again, why can Minahan
only speak “safely” now? Was he in
terror of his skin until the falling into dis-
uetude of the War Precautions made it less
risky for bashful conspirators to take their
walks abroad?
Frank . Tudor was rambling in the Reps,
about bis scheme for annexing all business
profits above a fixed percentage on capital,
when he Avas asked if any allowance would
he made in years when there was a loss.
Whereupon that stern, hard Roman Blakeley
said there should be no such occasions.
“They should be compelled to run their busi-
nesses properly.” But whether the farmer
who had beeii afflicted with drought and
showed a loss should be flogged at the end of
the year or only fined and imprisoned the
stern Roman didn’t say.
Professor Osborne, physiologist at Mel-
bourne University, and formerly Assistant
Prof, of the same science at University CM-
lege, London, told the Basic Wage Commis-
sion :—•
The average type of Englishman is underfed. He
is of a thin type, with projecting upper teeth and
weedy moustache.
Presumably the teeth got that way through
reaching out for the tucker that wasn’t
there —largely owing to his Lordship’s deer
and Cobden’s cheapness.
PREPARING FOR THE PRINCE.
“Preparations to receive the Prince are receiving
attention in all parts of the country, and some shire
councils are asking the Government for loans in order
to tidy up their roads.” — Melbourne news item.
CADGER: “Could you spare me a shillin’,
mister?"
City Person: "What do. you want it for?
Drink. I suppose!”
CADGER : “No, mister, on me honor, I don't.
I want to get me whiskers trimmed
afore the Prince arrives.”
Labor-leader Storey says he doesn’t think
Labor-follower Minahan meant it when he
told his story of an organised plan to usurp
the authority of the people, upset the people’s
Parliament, drive out the people's Govern-
ment and put a minority in power by brute
force, which involves the usual concomitants
of bloodshed, murder, civil war, pillage, rape,
women-killing and baby-killing. lie thought
candidate M i n a h a n
was only a liar or a
lunatic or something
of the sort. But the
fact remains that if
Louis Napoleon Mina-
han wins his election
he will be part of the
caucus that Storey
must obe v. and if
there are 13 of Louis
Napoleon Min a-
ban’s sort in a
party of 25 it will rule
the 25. Storey’s assur-
ance that Minahan is
only a sort of penny
dreadful makes things
very little better.
“Sol. M.”: It is
formally announced
that when the present
stocks of imported
boots are exhausted —
say in about a month
—prices will go up
again, in some cases
50 per cent. At such
a time I can imagine
nothing more beautiful
than the spectacle of
a dramatic and elocu-
tionary Premier doing
a song and dance at
the inauguration of a
dam which will take
12 years to build, and
cost £8,000,000 of 6
per cent, loan money,
and employ 7000 men
(all requiring high pay
on account of the
price of imported
boots), and create an-
other Sydney harbor
among the hills, with
good boating, fishing and drowning.
The shrieking absurdity of the present
method of arriving at costs of living and a
basic wage was illustrated again in Mel-
bourne last week. On behalf of the em-
ployees various wit-
nesses had poured in
to say they had paid
so-and-so for such-
and-such ; and then
the employers put up
a returned nurse to
say she had gone the
rounds and had bought
such-and-such for so-
and-so. W hen the
Basic Wage Commis-
sion went home its
wife probably told it
that both sets of
figures were absurd.
Next time the Rail-
wa y Commissioners
want to find out what
to charge for carrying
passengers from Sun-
down t o Have-a-nip
they will call in the
probable passengers,
who will swear that
7d. is a fair thing;
then Hoggins, who has
a motor-car that he
wants passengers for,
will assure the Com-
missioners that 18s.
sd. is the proper
figure, and that they’ll
lose money if they fix
it at less. The Com-
missioners will next
add 7d. and 18s. 5d.,
and, after allowing (id.
off because it was a
wet day or the flies
were troublesome or
something, they, will
divide the result by
two, and reckon
thev’ve arrived at the
right fare. At least,
they will if they proceed as madly as -Aus-
tralia does when it wants to ascertain a
living wage.
In the endeavor to make it appear that
the Codlins of the Country wing of the
Liberal party are the real friends of the pro-
ducers and not the Shorts of the Farmers’
Union, the former have passed numerous
resolutions. Pools with Governments as
managerial partners were condemned, bulk-
handling of wheat and silos advocated, spark-
distributing locomotives which start tires in
farmers’ paddocks anathematised, compensa-
tion for stock destroyed to arrest disease
urged, railway goods-traffic administration
trounced, and' the wiping out of the Mines
Department objected to. As a general elec-
tion is to be held this year—perhaps earlier
than some members think —Premier Lawson
is expected to play up to the wing a bit.
And so the game goes on.
Holman, usually the most courteous of
opponents, broke loose the other day and
denounced as a hoodlum a man who had
asked him to explain the appointment of
George Fuller’s early friend and relation-by-
marriage Marks to the very well-paid job
HOW TO TULL MUSHROOMS.
PUZZLED ELECTOR: "Now Jet me see. Y’
(jotter eat them first. If y’ die they're
poisonous—and if y’ don't they're not.”
of Chairman of the Public Service Board.
Yet it was a very proper question about a
very doubtful appointment. Marks wasn’t
an applicant; and, though well advanced in
years, he has to be paid a pension when he
retires, lie had been general manager for
a few months of the bank which of all the
banks in N. S. Wales had made the least
progress, and has now been absorbed by
another. He might have got the job, even
though he wasn’t an applicant, if he hadn’t
been connected in any way with George
Fuller; but there is so much doubt about
it that Holman has no right to complain
when an elector asks for information on
the subject.
Query for State candidates: N. S. Wales
State taxation (peace taxation) was 12s.
6d. per head in 1911 and 425. 3d. per head
in 1919. Now if the profits of £55,000,000
or £00,000,000 worth of new “reproductive”
loali expenditure run the people into an
annual burden of over £3,000,000 a year,
how reproductive must the State be before
it bursts?
The High Court has done the right thing
again and decided that George Swinburne
must pay Federal Income Tax on the thous-
and pounds he gave to the Swinburne Tech,
in his suburban Hawthorn. He claimed that
it was a “charitable” gift. The Court cut
down the “charity” mentioned in the exemp-
tions to give it the narrowest possible con-
struction. It might well be cut out alto--
getlier. A man who spends his money in
giving his sons a solid education and a good
start in life deserves better of his country
than another who lives a bachelor’s life and
gives thousands to charity. And probably
the man who makes a thousand a year out
of his little manufacturing business, and puts
£750 of it back to extend the industry is a
better citizen than either.
“Walpole was probably the most corrupt
politician of the most corrupt period in Bri-
tish history. He openly gave peerages and
pensions in exchange for political support.
But even he respected the Judiciary. It
has been reserved for Holman to create a
record in political infamy by bartering posi-
tions on the Judicial Bench in exchange for
political support.”— Holman's long-time col-
league Arthur Griffith at Balmain.
The Federated Trades Unions have fur-
nished the Basic Wage Commission with an
estimate of the victualling of a family:
(man, wife and three children —presumably
aged between one hour and 14 years). It
ran to 1421 b. 13^0z.; also 10f quarts, two
dozen (eggs), one tin, one bunch, four bottles
and four packets. If everything was reduced
to plain, figures this looks like 51b. per day
for baby. Apparently it is either a new
sort of joke or an attempt to explode the
hope and joy of the family.
THE AGGRIEVED DEBTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Imperial authorities are pressing for early
repayment of £8,750,000 for various war disburse-
ments made by them on Australia’s behalf. I* l
present condition of the world’s money market it is
not easy to meet their wishes. If Australia eould
furnish its Government with substantial loans the
solution would not be hard, but unfortunately this
cannot be done. The situation is urgent, and Mr.
Watt, the Treasurer, will go to England and endeavor
to deal with it. There is also a further sum of
£33,000,000, for which no bonds have been issued
owing to the War Office.” — I. O. Ughes.
Tra-la, tra-la-la, there's the devil to pay!
So Treasurer Watt he is sailing away
To interview Mother and ask her to wait,
Or chalk up anuzzer- — hie —loan on the slate j
For Ma has grown restive and asks for some cash !
Tra-la, tra-la-la —but we don’t care a dash!
it really is not very nice of Mamma
To make such a sudden demand.
Although we at times may have been a bit wild,
It is apt to embarrass a filial child,
Who’s not got the money on hand,
To be asked in this stand-offish, business-like way,
Just as though we were strangers, to pay!
We’ve dealt with her now for a number of years,
Have had from her loans by the score ;
And always have paid her the interest due
On old ones (as right-thinking children should do!)
Ere putting it on her for more.
And what are eight millions that Ala, for the sake
Of this sum, should a show of us make?
At times absent-minded, perhaps, we have seemed ;
But when you consider our vast
Resources, on which we may draw as we will,
.The fact that we have not the cash in the till
Should not be permitted to cast
A doubt on our solvency. Wealth we may win
Whenever we care to bog in!
Remember we’re young, and the follies of youth
In time we will doubtless outgrow.
We find it more pleasant to bring o’er the foam
The goods that we might manufacture at home,
For work is a fag, don’t yotf know !
But this is no reason why Mother should make
Us appear like a casual rake!
Instead of exposing us thus to the risk
Of misunderstanding abroad,
A course more maternal and fitting ’twould lie
For Ma to provide us with more £ s. d.
From out of her plentiful hoard !
If she will but listen to reason, we will
With an lOU settle the bill!
Tra-la, tra-la-la, it is not at all nice!
We hope such a thing won’t occur to us twice.
We’ll keep out the bailiffs at least for a year,
If Willie can manage to bite Mother’s ear!
Put, still, we are pained and surprised at dear Ma
Attempting to dun us! Tra-la, tra-la-la!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWE.


THE
COIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a museum case I saw to-day
A coin of Claudius, lately brought to light—
As our Australian gold it shone as bright—
I bent me down to hear what it might say:
“My sleep was long within the ancient mould;
Like Sakhr I, a spirit of exchange
That engineered transactions passing strange,
A magic figured disc of Roman gold.
“I well remember grieving at the use
To which men put me in a former day—
The purchase of some weapon wrought to slay,
Some engine for the human shell’s abuse.
“But that is oast; the world is saner now.
Our seers foretold it. Logic holds its own.
It struggled through its birth of bronze and stone
At last to wear calm wisdom on its brow.
“By me a captain once acquired his sword,
And bought a dainty trinket for his spouse;
A profligate once spent me in carouse;
One tipped me to a lictor, like a lord.
“And long with me a gentle dame forbore
To part, as vexed with which was best to buy—
Something to make her comelier to the eye,
Or something needful to the household store.
“I paid the schooling of Valerius’ son,
And paved the entry to a Bacchic feast
To help a sot become a beastlier beast;
And passed again to stay a pestering dun.
“Yea, once I bought the vellum for a scribe,
And purchased Ovid’s ‘Fasti’ for a seer;
With me the young Tibullus gained a steer;
With me old Antoninus paid a bribe.
“Stolen at last by some poor scullion maid,
Who feared to take me from my hiding-place,
Slow ruin heaped its dust upon my face,
And under crumbled walls my disc was laid.
“So here am I, my work in vast arrears,
Since pick and spade unearthed me to the sun;
With all my rights of currency outrun,
After a lapse of nigh two thousand years.”
Down to its golden ear I bent to say:
“Sleep on! For yet to some remoter date
Fulfilment of your prophets’ dreams must wait—
Just where you left it stands the world to-day.”
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <J3HAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter, 4
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Rearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc,,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, EC. 2
A. .T. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIIIIv (AgrerA'.
ADELAIDE OFFICE: G 2 BROOKMANS BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of Aew South Wales
uh?n seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. S.B
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
■ •w
Pelaco, Ltd., formerly Pearson, Law,
Ltd., Melbourne, manufacturers of shirts,
collars and men’s wear :
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
f A- N Writ- reckoned
Pref. ten as an
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Assset).
1912. .£1,325 £706 Nil £194 £7,099
1913.. 4,494 1486 Nil 473 4,564
Reserves.
1914.. 7,874 1487 7 p.c. = £991 567 265
1915.. 6,248 1487 10 „ „ 1,416 918 2,692
1916.. 8,269 1783 10 „,, 1,699 961 6,518
Transferred to capital, £5664.. .. 854
Deficit.
Co. re-formed and re-named; £18,486
added to goodwill items .. •• 17,632
Written
Profit. Dividends. Off.
1917.. 10,416 10,071 958 18,245
Further goodwill items, £133 . . 18,378
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
7 p.c. 9 p.c. 121 p.c.
1918.. 15,131 2082 1406 5000 1053 12,788
15 p.c.
1919.. 26,181 2082 2812 7718 1284 503
This co.’s very rapid expansion during the
past few years makes evident the fact that
the Commonwealth is quite capable of pro-
viding many of its own clothing necessities,
even though the Australian manufacturer may
have to go abroad for much of his raw
material. Just after the war began the co.’s
paid capital was only £35,400, and its chances
did not look over-bright. But war troubles
cut off many of the importers’ sources of
supply and gave Pelaco its opportunity, with
the result that now, despite all labor and
other troubles which are supposed to retard
local industrial effort, it finds profitable use
for £122,236 of capital. A comparison of
gross profits gives even more striking evi-
dence of progress:—
1914 .. £20,530 1 1917 .. £34,777
1915 . . 21,591 ; 1918 . . 16,337
1916 . . 28,956 | 1919 . . 67,662
Apart from the wages the co. has paid to
Australian workpeople, and the employment
it has indirectly provided for those in other
businesses who perform services for its
factory, Pelaco has in five years saved for
the Commonwealth practically £200.000 of
manufacturing profit which would otherwise
have gone into the pockets of people who
don’t spend a penny in Australia and do
not contribute to its taxes.
The latest advance in profits is the more
satisfactory because it was made in a period
during which the importer had things more
his way than during the war period, for
earlier in the year a heavy flood of stocks
came into the Commonwealth. For the
year ended June last £334,671 worth of
shirts, collars and ties were imported, com-
pared with £201,957 for 1918 and £187,955
for 1917. That Pelaco was able to make
considerable progress in the face of this
competition says much for the quality and
prices at which it has been able to turn out
its goods. It did so well last year that
results were handsome enough to he em-
barrassing. During the 12 months £12.500
of new 9 p.c. pref. capital was got in, and
30.000 further 10s. ordinaries were issued,
paid capital now being made up in this
way:—
29,736 “A” £1 7 p.c. prefs. . . . . £29,736
50,000 “B” £1 9 p.c.-prefs. paid to 155.. 37,500
110,000 10s. ordinaries . . .. . . 55,000
After paying the pref. divs. and providing
for depreciation, there remained just over
£20.000 for the £55,000 of ordinary capital
to feast upon. It got a 15 p.c. div.,
leaving £12.285 available for reserves. Of
this £7051 has been used to write goodwill
down to £lO,OOO and £l7OO to wipe off the
balance of underwriting exes, incurred by
the reconstruction three years ago. Since
that event the balance-sheet figures have
moved as follows :
1917. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities . . . . £22,662 £49,421 £46;371
Premises . . . . 11,814 16,454 16,454
Plant, etc 9,577 10,529 12,837
Book debts . . . . 23,301 31,204 56,418
Stock 42,735 78,260 85,863
Cash, etc. . . . . 5,186 509 4,669
Paid capital is now almost half as large
again as it was two years ago; meantime
liabilities have more than doubled. But
while these two items have together in-
creased by £64,209, more or less liquid
assets have expanded by £75,728, and the
book value of premises and plant lias been
built up by £7900. So the latest balance-
sheet shows an improvement over that of
, „„„ £l9 419 and meantime
•mod ~dlvs! have been pa.d to shareholders.
One point which must not be overlooked co *
cerniug the ordinaries, however, is tna l
the co is financed by a lot of expensive 9
n c pref capital, this and the < P- c \ l •
together calling for £5457 p.a., and m dull
times as in good this amount must be found
before the ordinaries get a taste.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery. Ltd. (Fre-
mantle, W.A.) • Nominal
Dividend WrittenToße- Re-
Prnfits and Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dee.,’12..£5420' 10p.c.««5150 f 8» £ll2l
Si! i?I Ss IS If
&•!*»•• SSI fS« fit ,fj? “:?«
|;;;; 11l B 8 S3S
rw’lfl 40 3 5 1750- 820 14« 20.602
SSGS:: •«! • «f .«• mil
KSU:; Nil 800 2717 1:^72
Dec.’’lB.. 4766 Nil 882 3884 41,856
June’’l9 3027 5 p.c. = 1750* 953 324 42,180
Dec,’’l9.'. 4606 5 ~,, 1750* 953 1903 44,083
•Exclusive of dividend tax.
Owing to higher manufacturing costs and
heavier excise duties, and, perhaps, partly
on account of trading restrictions, this
brewery’s profits have shown a big falling-
off during recent years. Actual results have
been even poorer than the table indicates;
for early in 1914 £lO,OOO of new capital was
got in. These figures for the December
terms show what has happened:—
Profits from Sales. Rents. Expenses.
1913 .. £13,529 £B6l £8,496
1914 . . 14,240 853 8,772
1915 . . 13,013 882 9,369
1916 . . 11,682 1135 8.211
1917 . . 13,679 776 9,984
1918 . . 15,887 1151 11,863
1919 . . 19,008 1443 15,036
For every £lOO of trading profit made in
1913 the co. now shows £l4O. But whereas
six years ago exes, took 63 p.c., the cut is
now 79 p.c. Put another way, in 1913 £37
of net profit came from every £lOO of sales
profits ; now only £2B is made on £l4O. In
pre-war days there was always a comfortable
margin of profit available for reserves
after paying 10 p.c. divs.; but when
difficult times set in the div. rate was
cut down, and for three terms no
distribution at all was made. But
this curtailment was not so much because
of an inability to give a better return, for
during the past five years visible reserves
have been strengthened by £19,000, equal to
27 p.c. of paid capital.
The co.’s management has apparently had
no doubts about the future of beer in West-
ralia, for divs. have suffered to provide the
directors with funds to extend pub interests
and instal additional plant. At Dec. 31,
1914,.the book value of all fixed assets (in-
cluding an unspecified quantity of goodwill)
amounted to £90,261 after deducting the
£17,199 reserve for depreciation and £2467
reserved against leaseholds. At the latest
balance the depreciation account stood at
£25 690 and leasehold redemption fund at
£5440, the net book value of fixed assets
being £115,731, or an increase of £25,470 on
the figures of five years ago. The £19,000
of reserves accumulated during the period
have thus been insufficient to finance these
additions, carry the more expensive stocks
and give further credit to retailers. So, in
place of the small credit balance at the bank
in 1914, there is now an overdraft of
£10,986. This shows the effect of the pro-
perty purchases and plant extensions on the
liquid position:—
1914. 1919.
Liquid assets (inc. stocks) . . £21,285 £25,907
Liabilities .. .. . . 11,110 24,697
Surplus assets .. .. £10,175 £1,210
After payment of the current div. and tax
thereon (together £1859) there was, of
course, an excess of liabilities over more or
less liquid assets. As one consolation for
the smaller divs. the co. now has 4s. 9d. per
£1 share more net assets than it had five
years ago; but that is poor consolation when
these and the other assets purchased with
the £lO,OOO of additional capital (got in
prior to Dec. T 4) cannot earn as much profit
as the assets did before the additions were
made. What effect the investments will
have on future earnings cannot be pro-
phesied with any certainty, for nobody knows
exactly what is going to happen to the beer
industry, though there is apparently little
prospect of the West voting itself dry.
* * *• *
Pyrotan Leather, Ltd., tanners, leather
manufacturers, etc. (Melbourne). The de-
ficit of £28,557 with which the new co. began
was made up of goodwill £27,437, patent
rights £lOOO, and preliminary exes. £l2o:
To Reduce
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£2B 557
1916.. £1062 Nil £1062 27^495
1917.. 2408 Nil 2408 25,087
1918.. 3744 4j p.c.= £1675 2069 23,018
1919.. 6332 9J „ „ 3350 2982 20,036
The div. rate is not quite p,c., but near
enough for all practical purposes. An
interim div. of 10s. per £l2 10s. share paid
to £lO 12s. 6d. has been handed out, and a
further 10s. will be paid out of
the past year’s profits if everything
goes well. These distributions must
be a pleasant shock to those who
were enticed to put up good cash in
1913 by an elaborate prospectus which made
extravagant claims for the Pyrotan leather
process. The co. started off badly: for the
rights of the process a Maoriland co. got 300
fully-paid £lO shares and £3OOO in cash;
promoters collared 1000 fiilly-paids; and a
Melbourne-tannery passed over the whole of
its outfit for 250 fully-paids, £5OOO in cash
and £2500 of 6 p.c. five-year debentures. Old
accounts are not available, but if the public
subscribed all the 1500 shares offered, the
co. could not have started with a working
capital of more than £7OOO, and was faced
with £2500 of liabilities to be met in five
years. The table above covers the period
since the reconstruction ; for when the hope-
lessness of the concern was realised its
shares were bought out at valuation by a
syndicate and the present co. launched. But
it began heavily handicapped, for it had to
carry some of the sins of its disowned parent:
•of the paid capital of £35,594 no less than
£27,422 was represented by goodwill (mostly
mud), while patent rights had a book value
of £I(KX). The new management in-
tended to have a clean-up, but deferred
for a time writing down capital. Perhaps
it now has hopes of shaking off the mud in
other ways; for, despite the magnitude of the
intangible assets, the co. has had a very suc-
cessful year. The Pyrotan process is nowa-
days utilised in minor side-lines only, but
from general tanning and leather-manufac-
turing gross profits have moved ahead in
this way: 1916. £3199; 1917, £4967; 1918.
£7225; 1919, £10,278. The co. did so well
during the past 12 months that it made a
net profit equal to almost 18 p.c. on its paid
capital. The period has. of course, been an
abnormal ■ one; owing chieflv to the opera-
tion of ’Murkan buyers the prices of hides
have soared, each sale surpassing records
established at previous auctionings. So old
stocks and even manufactures from new pur-
chases are commanding prices which have
given handsome profits. Under these circum-
stances leather cos. have simply not been
able to go wrong. The full extent to which
Pyrotan, Ltd., has benefited is, of course,
not visible from the published accounts. But,
though for the moment there is no sign of
the boom market collapsing, there is no
guarantee that present high prices will be
maintained; hence the wise leather-man is
keeping the book value of his stocks well
below that of the market so as to provide
against a slump, and is thus not crediting
his enterprise with the whole of the profits
which have apparently been made recently.
On what basis Pyrotan stocks have been
valued The Bulletin does not know; but
from the profits disclosed, besides paying
unexpectedly good divs., the directors have
been able to reduce the co.’s deficit (i.e.,
the amount of capital not represented by
tangible assets) by £2982. £lOOO being
directly written off goodwill in the books.
Whether the management can continue to
show equally good profits is another matter;
though at nresent a rising market continues
to help. There is certainly a very big field
ahead of Australian tanners and leather-
goods manufacturers if overseas markets can
be organised.
Of course, though much improved, the
Pyrotan balance-sheet is still a s;oklv-look-
ing document. Paid capital is £35.594. and
the co. owes £B6ll. Of the £54.970 of assets
at Nov. 30, £27,452 represented intangible
items, fixed assets were given a book value
of £5686, while more or le«« liouid assets
(including stocks) totalled £21,831.
* * * *
The Sulphipe Corporation, Ltd.: —
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
1906. .£186,364 10 p.c. = £55,000 £41,904 £133,465
1907.. 117,257 10 „ „ 55,000 116,480 79,242
1908.. 39,842 10 ~ ~ 55,000 31,293 32,791
(All Shares.)
1909.. 178,331 10 p.c, = 96,250 24,949 89,923
1910.. 235,495 15 „ ~144,375 53,518 127,525
1911.. 207,959 15 ~ ~ 144,375 48,940 142,169
1912.. 340,938 30 ~ ~ 288,760 63,870 130,487
1913.. 315,442 20 ~ ~ 192,500 66,995 186,434
1914.. 158,875 10 ~ ~ 96,250 16,147 232,912
1915.. 282,551 20 ~ „ 192,500 28,000 294,963
1916.. 376,404 30 „ ~315.000 39.000 317.367
1917.. 413,080 25 „ ~262,500 134,264 333,683
1918.. 367,869 25 ~ ~ 262,500 76,969 362,083
1919.. 319,231 15 ~ ~ 157,500 48,222 475,592
There is a musty smell about that last line
now, for practically nine months have
elapsed since the figures were made up.
Many things have happened meantime,
though not at the co.’s Central mine, where
no productive work has been done since the
accounts closed owing to the long-distance
strike still in progress. Practically during
one-fourth of the period under review strikes
held up production, with the result that
there was a further substantial falling-off
in the tonnage raised. The year’s output
looks very sick when compared with the per-
formance of three years earlier: 1916,
181.992 tons; 1917, 167,210; 1918, 123.330;
1919. 113,457. The mine has now reached
the stage w T hen development can apparently
be no longer relied upon to make extractions
good. While almost 404,000 tons were hauled
during the last three years only 50,930 tons
were developed. During 1918 the bodies at
1400 ft. were tapped, proving a 74ft. forma-
tion containing 40ft. of good sulphides. Last
year’s work, however, shattered hopes of
unearthing further large tonnages below
1400 ft., for 297 ft. of driving and 651 ft. of
drilling “failed to prove any considerable
width of ore underfoot.” Still the manage-
ment had not been sanguine as to possible
results of work at that depth. It now esti-
mates slightly more than a million and a half
tons available —say, 10 years’ extraction,
apart from further considerable tonnages
which are almost certain to be located in
odd corners.
The features of the year’s milling were:
(1) Further increases in costs, partly due
to smaller tonnages:—
- 1917. 1918. 1919.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Lead concentrates (per ton) 8 1 4 9 0 5 9 5 2
Zinc concentrates „ „ 017 3016 11 1 0 6
(2) The slightly better grade of ore handled
and the improved recoveries, which to some
extent offset the heavier costs. The 129,940
tons treated gave 23,655 tons lead concen-
trates direct from the lead mill assaying
43.40 z. silver, compared with 42.80 z. for the
previous year, though there was a decrease
of .3 p.c. in the lead contents and .8 p.c.
more znc was left in the product. A fur-
ther 1791 tons lead concentrates were recov-
ered by the de-leading plant, the troublesome
zinc contents of this secondary lead crop
having been gradually reduced during the
past three years in this way:—
Silver. Lead. Zinc,
oz. p.c. p.c.
1917 39.1 f>9.3 13.fi
1918 36.8 60.5 12. S
1919 39.0 62.1 12.3
Last year’s zinc concentrates also contained
higher values (.6 p.c. more of the metal), and
because of the good work done by the de-
leading plant it is a much cleaner product
than in years gone by, containing, roughly,
an ounce less silver and 3.5 p.c. less lead.
All processes resulted in the recovery of
91.9 p.c. of the silver contents of the ores
treated, 94.6 p.c. of the lead, and 93.5 p.c.
of the zincand though some of it is in
products where it is of little or no value, the
effective recovery is high testimony to the
very capable men the Sulphide Corporation
has gathered around it. To show that the)
have not lost their punch, last year they
introduced another innovation with “emi-
nently satisfactory results.” The ore avail-
able for treatment being much below the
mill capacity, it was decided, after prelim-
inary experiments, to add a quantity of old
slimes to the mill feed. During the last seven
months of the year 9655 tons of this old
bugbearish material were re-treated “with-
out affecting ordinary milling work, the same
high recoveries being maintained and the
slime zinc-concentrates being -readily parted
as a separate product. This operation has
tended not only to improve the grade and
condition of the zinc concentrates from the
crude ore by the rejection of the finer par-
ticles. but has also enhanced the value of
the slime zinc-concentrates, more lead being
removed by this process than was possible
when treating the slimes separately.” At
the Cockle Creek works the recovery of zinc
from slags had further attention, after a
spell during which all hands were busy re-
establishing the co.’s refinery. Investiga-
tions have got far enough to justify the tip
that “indications are that a successful result
will be ultimately attained.” General-
manager Courtney adds that, though “the
operation was quite successful, the present
costs of the treatment required an average
price for spelter higher than could be safely
relied upon, thus proving the necessity of
increasing the tenor of zinc in the slag be-
fore final treatment. This matter is now
receiving attention.” There are hundreds
of thousands of tons of slags available.
The spelter problem is still just about as
knotty as at any time since Billy Hughes
“cut out the German canker.” Of the 36,650
tons zinc concentrates produced at the Cen-
tral mine last year the co. managed to find
shipping space for 11,271 tons; but there
were still 100,807 tons on hand at the bal-
ance. What is going to happen to these
and other accumulations is not at all clear,
despite the British Government’s guarantee
to take the entire output at a- fixed price
(which is still being kept a dark secret) for
a number of years. It looks more doubtful
than ever whether Britain can turn out spel-
ter on a payable basis. The Sulphide Cor-
poration has been a pioneer in modern Brit-
ish zinc-smelting, but things are not by any
means easy at the old Central Zinc works,
at Seaton Carew (Eng.), which J. C. Moul-
den runs for the co. These works in Decem-
ber last were still under Government control,
the output being purchased by the Govern-
ment “ at a price calculated to be sufficient
to protect the co. from actual working loss.”
The smeltery has never done more than just
about keep its head above water; with an
organisation less powerful than the Sulphide
Corporation—which guaranteed the old
shareholders a small dividend —it would pro-
bably have gone under long ago. Only two
years ago Kintore, the co.’s chairman, ex-
pressed the opinion that there was “good


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within Uv- reach
of every motorist. The G.K. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. \ n
overnight boosting charge every few weeks "will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, hut will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Svdnev ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne — \dvt
AH buyers of Copper Wires, Copper Cables, Copper
Busbars, Copper Rods, etc., are notified that, as
agents for Metal Manufactures, Ltd., Port Kernbla,
N.S.W., we are now in a position to fill all orders
for same promptly. Send to-day for particulars,
pVic.es, etc., to Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. |1
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so'that we have to fall hack on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description!
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conieai
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [j
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter received
from G. H. Odling, Parramatta Road, S.vdnev, dated
26th March, 1919: “Dear Sirs, —In reply to your
inquiry we have pleasure in stating that'the wood
pipe -laid down in our smiths’ shop, which cpnvcvs
the blast from the fans to the smiths’ forges,-has
proved in every way satisfactory. We have not had
to renew any part, and the pipe is as good as when
laid down five (5) years ago. (Sgd.) G‘. H. Odling.”
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian
Wood Pipe Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road,
Longueville, N.S.W. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you ar. idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. ( London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causin
more attention to be given to mechanical appliance
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Artlm
Lcplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, wh
maintain a special engineering department for thi
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates c
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pre
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austrs
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. IT. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consul
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advic
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotatic
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pi
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remla
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby &Co
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bor
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melh. — Anv
Gentleman, well known in London Stopk Ex-chan;
and financial circles, leaving shortly for Englan
is open to consider sound Mining - , Copra Plantatio
or Industrial propositions, with the object of forr
ing limited liability companies in London. Wou
also consider placing a block of Debentures
Preference Shares in sound undertaking. Highe
references given and required. Throgmorton, c
The Bulletin, Sydney.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
fix tubh'slted I'.IIO.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\Y. 11. CAVK, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit Mo S 3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract*
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates lie
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
Cl YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
"cun nos w ioiAvoam ‘o •[
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
reason to hope....that the zinc industry
both in England and in Australia would be
placed on a more assured footing.” But
from the tenor of manager Moulden's report,
wherein he states that the main considera-
tion of the Government’s control and pur-
chase of products is to “preserve” the indus-
try “pending the return of more settled
industrial and economic conditions,” the
outlook seems very doubtful. Here is an
illuminating sidelight on the labor difficulties
which confront the co.:—
Tile repatriation of a considerable number of the
most skilful Belgian distillery workers brought about
disorganisation, which has been only partially reme-
died by the subsequent return to Seaton Carew of
some of these men, following on urgent representa-
tions to the Government which had the approval and
support of the local authorities and trades-union
representatives.
The Sulphide Corporation’s paid capital is
£1.000,000—(500,000 profs, of £1 each and a
similar number of ordinaries of 15s. fully
paid. The latter used to be paid to £l, but
os. was written off as lost at one time when
the co. struck heavy weather. What the
past five years have done for the concern can
be measured by weighing the handsome divi-
dends to shareholders with this increase of
net liquid assets: —
1914. 1919.
Liquid assets .. .. £439,591 £1,282,207
Liabilities 89,843 473,539 ‘
Surplus assets . . . . £349,748 £808,608
But that does not show the full extent of
the improvement, for large amounts of
revenue have been spent on capital works
and written off. The present position of the
co. can be summarised in this way: Besides
lo.s. sd. of each £1 of paid capital being
represented by liquid assets, there is the mine
with an assured life of at least 10 years;
the Cockle Creek smelting and refining works,
whose activities are being steadily widened;
the superphosphate and sulphuric-acid plants
in the same neighborhood; and the Seaton
Carew zinc works, which are given a book
value of only a fraction of what has been
spent on them, though their future is pro-
blematical. In addition the co. has an
asset which does not show up in the
accounts: a staff of organisers, engineers
and chemists, who are liable at any time to
introduce new ideas that will pour money
into the co.’s pocket.
Australasian Aerial Transport, Ltd.
—This represents the first effort on a big
•scale to exploit commercial aviation in the
Commonwealth and Maoriland. The pros-
pectus unfolds an ambitious scheme in
which the shipping interests are strongly
represented. The first directors are W. T.
Appleton (Iluddart Parker’s managing-
director), Owen Cox (managing director of
Birt and Co.), Wilfred Blacket, K.C., and
engineers Hector Sleeman (who is to be
managing director) and Lee Murray. The
agents are an equally heavyweight lot:
Birt’s and Huddart Parker’s are to repre-
sent the co. in the eastern States, and Mac-
donald, Hamilton and Co. elsewhere. The
Henry .Tones co..will watch Speck interests,
and the N.Z. Shipping Co. are to be agents
in Maoriland. Nominal capital is. £700,000
—500,000 8 p.c. £l. prefs. and 200,000 £1
ordinaries. The pref. div. is non-cumulative,
but, if profits permit, they will be entitled
to rank equally with the ordinaries up to
12 p.c. For every 10 prefs. subscribed a
bait of one gift ordinary is offered (50,000
ordinaries altogether) ; a further 50,000
ordinaries are earmarked for underwriters;
and the remaining 100,000 go to Aerial
Transport, Ltd., the concern which during
the past year has been surveying Austral-
asian air-routes, selecting aerodrome-sites,
and doing other pioneering work. Granted
that this co.’s reports, options and manu-
facturing rights, etc., are possibly of con-
siderable prospective value, £lOO,OOO (in
shares) looks a stiff price to pay for intan-
gibles. Including brokerage and preliminary
the co. is likely to begin with
£213,500 of a paid capital of £700,000 repre-
sented by goodwill items.
For a start it is proposed to inaugurate
daily services between Melbourne and Sydney
(G+ hours non-stop); Melbourne and
Adelaide (6 hours non-stop) ; and Mel-
bourne and Hobart (7 hours, stopping at
Launceston). Later, there are to be services
between Sydney and Brisbane (6 hours non-
stop) ; Sydney and Adelaide (11 hours,
changing horses at Hay) ; and Adelaide and
Broken Hill (3 hours non-stop). An
Adelaide-Perth service to connect with over-
seas mailboats is also on the programme,
while runs will be made between capital
cities and country towns as traffic warrants.
Arrangements have been made with the
Government to train a number of pilots each
year free of charge. The only omission in
an otherwise comprehensive prospectus is
the non-inclusion of detailed estimates of
expenditure and receipts. These are avail-
able! at the co.’s Melbourne offices. The
management. apparently anticipates an
annual expenditure of £244,000 (including
depreciation) on the early inter-capital ser-
vices. Net profits calculated on the basis of
30 passengers at £8 per single journey are
set. down at £1SS,000; or from carrying 12
passengers at £8 and two tons freight and
mails at Sd. per lb., £197,600; or from .Si-
tons freight alone, £192,800. The promoters
declare that "investigation proves the
demand for passenger and freight space will
exceed the supply.” Since 8 p.c. to both
prefs. and ordinaries would call for only
£56,000 p.a., there is a very wide margin of
estimated surplus profit. But there must
be much guessing in the figures, and during
the first couple of years, at any rate, exes,
are certain to be heavy. An interesting side-
light on the enterprise is this statement:
"Leading insurance cos. have decided that,
in the event of an aerial passenger service
being established, life risk of passengers in
aircraft will be covered by ordinary life
insurance without additional premium.”
“Fifth Avenue” puts the American view :
The United States manufacturer is generally sup-
posed to be waiting on the world’s door-step eager
to jump in for orders. The idea is quite unfounded.
There are, of course, some lines, mostly those depend-
ing a good deal on advertising, which the makers
are anxious to keep on the market: if they don’t
they will lose the benefits of all their past expensive
organising. But so far as the vast bulk of manufac-
tured goods are concerned there is such an abnormal
home demand that foreign trade isn’t wanted. The
Australian representatives of at least two big American
concerns have been told not to book any orders. In
one case what looked like an excellent ,£50,000 order
was turned down a few days ago. As for Australian
drafts on London in payment for American ship-
ments, American bankers don’t want them. They
already, they say, have far too much of their capital
in London. So the bankers don’t want this export
business either. And there is a rapidly growing body
of enlightened public opinion in the States which
says that prices must come down; if they don’t
many of them expect serious revolutionary trouble.
The surest way to bring them down, they hold, is
to put a peg in this export trade—to keep more of
the goods at home. Far-sighted men see grave
danger of food scarcity if present conditions con-
tinue. The industrial boom is taking hundreds of
thousands of men from food-growing into the cities,
where the big money is; and that movement inevi-
tably means trouble. Eighteen months ago, perhaps,
the United States had great notions about an export
trade. But the thing is loaded ; and public opinion
is swinging light round to regard it as a double-
barrelled curse.
“Mainshaft” : “Australian mining man of
much American experience” (B. 12/2/’2O)
gets the right outlook in combating propa-
ganda against the ILS. The U.S. (that
is, the people of the U.S.) are no more
responsible for high, almost penal, exchange
rates than were the British people in 1865
when London pirates, including Coutts and
Smiths and other private banks, gave the
U.S. £100,000,000 for a £300,000,000 loan,
or at the rate of 6s. Bd. in the £l. On top
of that they insisted on the loan being 20
years, so that the U.S., having received a
hundred millions, paid 7 p.c. for 20 years
on three hundred millions, two hundred of
which the Republic never saw. Australia’s
only answer to high rates of exchange, Ameri-
can or other, is the putting of the balance of
trade in our favor by high Protection.
Meantime all propaganda against the U.S.
is pro-Jap.the U.S. being Japan’s natural
enemy, as we are. v
The mining excitement on the Stock Ex-
change of Adelaide is reflected in the price
of seats. Before Christmas one could have
been had for about £3OO. and several—those
of members who had died —were empty. Now
these have all been filled at £5OO or over,
and it is probable that £6OO would be asked
at present.
* * * #
Badak Syndicate is to emerge from a co.
of 400 shares of £lO each into one with a
£750,000 nominal capital, in £1 shares. Scrip-
holders bag 400,000 fully-paids—looo per
syndicate share. This is claimed to be very
modest, seeing that the market values the
mine at well on to £700,000. Working capi-
tal is to come from the issue of another
200.000 shares, which present holders have
the right to take up by paving 4s. per share
for a start. This will provide only £40,000
of funds, which won’t go very far with
material and labor at present high prices.
The next problem is the appointment of a
mining-engineer who will reap the rich har-
vest Orton and Wilson declare is available.
Some Bendigonians who are interested in
the show are anxious to get Moline on the
job again. When Dyason adjourned to Mel-
bourne he called for Moline to run Bendigo
Amalgamated ; but a big inducement may be
offered him to return to his old game of
tin-winning. By the way. Wilson’s boring-
fee was £232, a mere trifle compared with
the half-million his cables added to the
market value of Badak.
* * * *
A year ago Hampton Properties, Ltd.,
which owns Block 48, Hampton Plains,
was almost as poor as Lazarus; now
it has £70,060 obtained from placing
70,000 shares, and probably a further £lO,OOO
from the sale of Celebration town sites and
from option-holders. It holds 14 reserved
blocks of more or less speculative value on
the line of lode, seven of which it is work-
ing. At least one lias prospects. The eo.’s
next-door neighbor, Hampton Uruguay, Ltd.,
now disguised as Hampton Gold Mines
Areas, Ltd., has also been got on to its feet
again by Robinson, (’lark and Co., and in
addition to a substantial bank balance holds
several reserve leases on Block 48. One to
the south of the White Hope has, by its
position, considerable speculative value.
Particulars of- the Hampton Celebration
flotation have arrived from London. Robin-
son and Clark, it appears,; purchased the
property from the vendors for £150,000 (plus
taxation), £50,000 payable in cash and
100,000 in paid £1 shares. They took 25,000
paid shares as their consideration, but sub-
scribed at par for 125,000 further shares.
After various cuts Hampton Celebration
starts with a working capital of £OO,OOO.
* * * *
The Adelaide people who put up their
money to test a venture in the Never Never
country 80 miles south of Kalgoorlie seem
to have struck a dud. It was first reported
that the show possessed a 40ft. formation
going 15dwt. Thereupon an option-hunter
paid a £5OO deposit and later a eo. was
floated. Now a visiting expert declares that
the ground is “unsuitable for a co.’s require-
ments.”
Shaft sinking at the Valla, North Coast
(N.S.W.), has been completed. The new
shaft cut the ore body at 115 ft. and con-
tinued in the lode to 140 ft., where a 80ft.
drive was put in, connecting with the south-
ern drive from the main shaft. The whole
of the driving is in the lode, a greisen
heavily charged with arsenical pyrites which
alone hold gold. The gangue contains large
quantities of mica. At the 140 ft. level a
drive from the main shaft 101 ft. south is
in ore for its entire length. At S 2 feet from
the shaft along this drive a cross drive has
been sent east 52ft., while at 39ft. from the
main shaft a crosscut 32ft. west and 34ft.
east has been put in, all in ore. Exhaustive
tests show that the ore contains 36 p.c.
pyrites crystals, which are easily separated
from the gangue. The gold values vary con-
siderably, but the arsenic contents show a
uniform 40 per cent. A sampling of
the mine at the 140 ft. level gave 15dwt.
gold to the ton and 40 p.c. arsenic. The
main shaft is 248 ft. deep and still in ore.
At the 190 ft. level a drive or crosscut was
put in by the old co. many years ago, and
stoping from this level produced a quantity
of high-grade ore. Ore worth less than 3oz.
to the ton was no good to the crowd 85
years ago, recovery methods then being
inefficient. The present syndicate lias .erected
a 51id. mill and is installing a Curvilinear
concentrating table. The residue from the
roasted concentrates is a high-grade oxide
suitable for paints and ironite pavements.
Present market prices of arsenic give the
property a much better chance. With
Bdndigo buyers paying approximately £l5 per
ton for the concentrates, and cost of railage
under £2 per ton, the syndicate appears to
be on a fairly comfortable wicket. So for
the present it does not intend to instal its
own furnaces. The mine is 14 miles from
railhead at Macksville. The partially-con-
structed North Coast railway runs through
the property.
Hit by the drought. Elsmore tin (N.S.W.)
has been drifting to leeward. No. 1 plant
kicked off in the new paddock in October
last, but had to go slow because the only
water available was the drop conserved in
No. 1 dam. With the 7220 cub. yds.
handled by the .surface plants, altogether
00,650yd5. were treated for 144 tons oxide—
practically a lb. average. But, with costs
at just over 14d., operations did not pay,
working account showing a loss of £382.
On the new site the plant has 12 months’
work ahead, and since the Mclntvre River
has commenced to flow again, with present
market prices there should be a profitable
run ahead.
* * *
Daylesford (Vic.) mines mostly keep in
mixture formations. North Ajax squeezes
out a dividend now and again after long
snells, and .so revives hopes. Even with its
share of the gold premiur . the field has
lately been sick. Ajax closes a dreary vear
with a record of Is. 3d. paid in calls to
cover costs, for the battery won only 95Soz.
Sold f rom 30G3 tons. Phil Lewis is striking
out at No. 9 level in hard slate and sand-
stone country, with only an occasional vein
as his reward. At No. 7 the Victory lode
is being tested opposite the run of country
from which the Ajax and McMillan lodes
gave profitable stone. Some poking about
also goes on near the surface, but the tally
all round is a poor one. Developments
occasionally show up in the Central and the
Star, but so far the patches of gold-bearing
stone sighted have been small. Meantime
Daylesford is losing miners, and finding it
harder than ever to coax in calls.
* * *
. “Old Miner”: Glowing reports concern-
ing certain tin shows in the Kangaroo Hills
(jyl j.) are appearing in various newspapers,
evidentlv with the object of preparing the
public for a boom. The mnch-talked-of Sar-
dine is undoubtedly rich, but so far it is
only a surface show. And apart from the
Sardine there is not even a decent-looking
sprat in sight to justify a boom. The dis-
trict has long been worked • but jthere never
has been a co. in operation there that re-
mained solvent.


“SLEEP, BOBBY, SLEEP!”


v» A\t
—V >
J •#+'
93e 93repare<9-
ABBOTS
LAGER
9)rinl<? l/our 9/ues'fs
%3j‘// 59lppreciat<2
brewed rnon
PURE HALTS* HOPS' ONLy
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
i
l
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mears* Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Everv day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happv people -who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund vour money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not daie make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughlv convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves its Bonafides.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building:. 387 Gnnrom <?t eit. SvHney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS-
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKfOSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Mostly sartorial:—
About the only honest feature of .Tames Quinn’s
new portrait of Birdwood in the Sydney Art Gallery
is the victim’s famous collection of war-ribbons. The
General is represented as a dapper person. He never
was. His top-boots had a loose, concertina-like effect
and he never bothered about the cut of his breeches.
In Quinn’s picture he is wearing a collar which
would have rendered him liable to arrest in England
at any time before the Armistice. The same applies
to Longstaff’s picture of Monash. Under the regula-
tions nothing but dark khaki neckwear was per-
mitted, and officers were continually being lined up
for appearing in collars which had faded in the
wash. Monash also appears to be carrying a hunt-
ing crop. Their use was forbidden by successive
Army Orders beginning as early as 1916. He is
furthermore portrayed on a battlefield—a resort he
never visited after he became a General. He made
all his dispositions by means of a contour-map at
his headquarters.
Having undertaken to lay the foundation
stone of Melbourne’s new Scotch College,
General Monash kept his engagement. His
bereaA 7 ement, he held, was no justification
MAJOR-GENERAL
ANDREW
RUSSELL, who
commanded the
Maoriland Division
in France.
for postponement
of the ceremony, as
had been suggested
to him. The
friends of the Col-
lege must not be
disappointed or in-
convenienced b e-
cause the “old boy”
who had been given
a place of honor
on the great day
had the misfortune
to lose his wife
after accepting an
invitation. “I n
the fell clutch of
circumstance” the
General is not one
“to wince or cry
aloud.”
It is just seven years since Watt was in
England. He was then Vic. Premier and
Treasurer, and the main purpose of his
visit was the floating of a six-million loan-
four for conversion and two for works. He
made a first-rate impression, and with the
added prestige that he has won since he
ought to do even better this time. The P.O.
will come in handy, after all.
Minahan’s introduction to N. S. Wales
political life cost him some money. Although
his utterances are wild, he is a inild-looking
little man in spectacles, who, although a
boot-manufacturer, got a standing in the
Labor movement as a representative of the
Musicians’ Union; but he never cut any ice
until he mysteriously became President of
the P.L.L. The jealousy of two powerful
factions, which each regarded him as harm-
less, may have had something to do with
his election. Later the selection of Jack
English as Labor candidate for Belmore was
set aside by the P.L.L. executive which
Minahan bossed, and Minahan was hastily
selected as the duly endorsed candidate.
About that time several prominent Labor
men developed a violent enthusiasm for the
little man with the lucrative boot business
and the glasses, and were able to spend a lot
of time advocating his cause. Naturally he
was elected; for the seat which the death of
E. W. O’Sullivan left vacant was a “dead
cert.” for Labor.
The massive Harold P. Williams, who is
directing the N.S.W. Progressive party’s
campaign with the brand of the Farmers
and Settlers’ Assoc, on it, is busy loading
his guns, and hopes to bring down about 20
gold passes for his little lot. But this is
not all he does. Recently, acting for the
F. and S., he toured Canada and U.S.A.
looking for markets for a few odd lines that
II. P. WILLIAMS, Campaign Director,
N.S.W. Fanners and Settlers' Association.
are produced here ’tween strikes, and also
brought home a lot of new publicity methods.
Before the F. and S. got him he was editor
of the Bathurst Advocate, and before that
of its reptile contemporary the Times.
Later the staff of Brisbane Daily Mail
knew him, and now he writes for the Land
about spur-geared strippers and things like
that.
T. F. Hyland, just dead, was the man who
turned the amateur wine-making of Dr.
Penfold, at Magill, on the hill-slopes behind
Adelaide, into a scientific industry. He
married the doctor’s only daughter soon after
coming from Ireland 60 years ago. A daugh-
ter of the marriage, Inez Hyland, who died
very young, was possibly the finest poet
South Aus. has yet produced. Two Penfold
Hyland sons, one in Sydney, the other in
Adelaide, control the business, which is to-
day a very big thing, with branches in all
the States and in London. The Magill vine-
yard is still known as Penfold’s, and in
N. S. Wales the Minchinbury sparkling
wines have made an all-Australian name.
One of Sydney High School’s prize
exhibits, Stephen Drummond Chalmers, has
died in London, aged only 42. Chalmers
was the earliest product of the bursary sys-
tem, and coming up to the High School from
Woonona soon had his name on its honor-
board. He graduated M.A. at Sydney at
20. and that established another record.
With a travelling scholarship he went to
Cambridge, distinguished himself there in
mathematics, and then specialised in optics.
During the war there was an urgent and
continuous call upon his services—he had
been the specialist at the Naval College,
Greenwich, for many years—and his poor
physique collapsed under the strain.
Tom Fitzpatrick, buried at Junee
(N.S.W.) last week at 86, was one of the
gof'd old roads-and-bridges members of the
Dibbs days. He arrived first by defeating
Arthur Rae for the Murrumbidgee by eight
votes. A number of Rae’s supporters were
out on a road contract near Junee, and did
not bother to come in, reckoning that “little
Arthur” was “home and dry.” Many years
later Tom paid the same penalty at Wagga
when Pat McGarry defeated him. When
Federation was only being talked about Fitz-
patrick, speaking from the balcony of a
pub at Junee. was asked what the Braddon
Blot was. Of course, old Fitz. didn’t know;
but looking very wise he replied with crush-
ing emphasis: “The Braddon Blot is the
Braddon Blot.”
w. J. McWilliams, leader of the Federal
Country party, is one of the few politicians
who have been genuine, whole-time journal-
ists ; but he has been out of the game for
years. He was born in the ba'ckblocks of the
Speck, at Bream Creek, where his father
was the State-school teacher over 60 years
ago. Seven years after he got on the Inky
Way young McWilliams was editing the
Daily Telegraph at Launceston. For many
years past he has been dug in solidly in
Franklin, the electorate in which he was
born. His spare, time he spends on a farm
at Saltwater River, on Tasman’s Penin-
sula, where he has a bit of sheep country.
The Defence Department has its good
moments. When Ross Smith and his A.I.F.
mates told A.I.F. Headquarters, London,
that they were going to fly back to Australia,
headquarters very handsomely handed over
to them the cash that their passage would
have cost if they had gone by transport.
Passed away in Brisbane recently, Agnes
Gillies, editor of the Atherton (Q.)
Examiner, She took over the job so that
her brother, who was then in the chair, might
be free to enlist. The plucky woman stuck
it till he returned: but she was already too
far gone in illness to be saved by the opera-
tion that followed.
With Wellington, Birdwood believes that
when it’s time to turn over it’s time to turn
out. In Melbourne the rising sun saw him
galloping along St. Ivilda-road on the way
to the baths, and after his dip he was back
in time for breakfast.
One of the many candidates for Sydney in
the Assembly election is “Professor” Sydney,
a portly and discoursive herbalist, who occa-
sionally holds forth at the “tree of know-
ledge” in Hyde Park. He is a much-travelled
man and speaks most of the languages of
Asia, and was for a time master of an
Anglo-Chinese school on the Rocks. He’s a
good, solid talker, and sounds like one of
the disintegrated atoms of the Labor move-
ment. A couple of books on “Flowers of
Medicine” bear nis name.
S. Australia’s garden-town of Clare went
the other day to the funeral of its oldest
inhabitant and the mother of two useful
moa—Peter Paul Gillen, Minister for Lands
in Kingston’s first and biggest Cabinet, and
F. J. Gillen, the colleague of Baldwin Spen-
cer in his study of Centralian aborigines.
The mother outlived her sons, both of whom
died much too young.
Two ex-Speakers whom the N.S.W. As-
sembly hasn’t seen lately are giving propor-
tional representation a chance to return
them to their old haunts: R. D. Meagher as
an Independent and Henry Willis as a Labor
man. Willis has a forlorn hope in North
Shore, where there are 21 candidates for
five seats. Other members of other days
who are looking forward to a glorious resur-
rection include Arthur Griffith, J. L. Fegan,
Frank Farnell, Harry Levien. E. S. Carr
and E. M. Clark. But the “only Jones”
has at last given the battle best.
From H. Martin Doyle, M.L.C., of New-
castle :
H. H. Champion, writing fB. 22/l/’2O) in eulogy
of his friend Tom Mann, said:—
“I have known Tom Mann.... very intimately
since 1882.... (I) won the Great London Dock
Strike of 1889 with his aid.”
To me this is a new rendering of history. I was
a student at the London Hospital, Mile End-road,
from ’B2 to ’B9, and I knew the East End of
London as I know my pocket. I was right through
the dock strike of ’B9 from start to finish, and
when I left London in the winter of ’B9 there was
no mention of H. H. Champion’s feat. Certainly
neither publicly nor privately was he credited with
having won the dock strike. There was at that
„time a discussion in the press as to how the magni-
ficent sum of £30,000 sent to the strikers from
Australia was being spent, and I was asked to
explain matters in the Australian papers. My creden-
tial letter was signed by John Burns. The acknow-
ledged leaders were John Bums, Ben Tillett and
Cardinal Manning. I was in London again in
August, 1890, and was present at the great demon-
stration in Hyde Park on Sunday, August 17, under
the auspices of the London Trades Council, to cele-
brate the • first anniversary of the strike. Tom
Mann was chief marshal, and there were six plat-
forms from which speeches were made. There were
36 speakers, including Burns, Tillett, Quelch, Clem
Edwards, Will Thorne, W. C. Steadman, Tom Mann,
George Shipton and others; but 11. H. Champion
was not one of the 36. Cardinal Manning is dead,
but John Burns and Ben Tillett are still flourishing’,
and it will be interesting to hear what they say
about H. H. Champion’s claim that he “won the
great London dock strike of 1889.”
Jacob Knopp, recently retired from the
S. Wales Education Department, had a
record. For 39 years he rang the “fall-in”
bell at the North Goulburn Public School,
and didn’t miss a morning.
Died the other day at Albany (W.A.),
John Arthur Wright, aged 78. Wright was
a member of the W.A. Leg. Council in the
Crown colony days, and Director of Works
when that period ended. Born at Dover, he
started his career as an engineer in Wales,
and in 1885 was appointed by the British
Government Director of Public Works,
Lngineer-in-Chief and Commissioner of Rail-
ways in Westralia. A seat in the Executive
Council was thrown in. He retained the job
until 89, -when he retired to become manager
of the W.A. Land Co. In 1890, when Respon-
sible Government arrived, Wright entered
the Upper House, and was one of the State’s
reps, at the Sydney Federal Convention in
1891. He was in his day one of the most
brilliant men in the service of the State.
Like his old friend John Gavan Duffv.
AUCKLAND
GEDDES , the new
British Ambassador to
the U.S.A.
Paddv Glynn does not
mind joking at kis own
expense. W hen in-
vited by Ewing, J.,
to sit down while giv-
ing eyidence before
the Northern Terri-
tory Commission,
Glynn, noting that
there w r as no chair in
the witness-box and
not .wishing to give
any trouble, remarked
that he had lost his
seat last election. One
of Duffy's yarns was
that while he was
waiting for Hugh
Raw’son t o convince
an obstinate Dalhousie
elector in a farmhouse,
a big. raw-boned,
seven-foot man came
along the road, called
him a blank swell,
and compelled him,
under threat of chas-
tisement, to stand up
in the buggy and give
three cheers for Duffy
—himself.
Henry Bull Templar Strangways, recently
reported dead in England, sat in the first S.
Aus. Parliament, though not in its first ses-
sion. He helped to inaugurate the State’s
railway system, and seems to have been the
first to suggest the Adelaide-to-Darwin
telegraph line. Strangways was a member
of seven S. Aus. Cabinets, and in two of
them was both Premier and Attorney-
General. A couple of years ago—nearly half
a century after his return to England—he
sent his portrait to the Speaker of the
Assembly, and it now hangs in the Chamber.
While waiting for a safe constituency in
the Federal or State Parliament, J. F.
Hannan, who threw up the Albert Park
seat to go for Fawkner (which he didn’t
get), is marking time as assistant-secro-
tary to Melbourne Trades Hall Council.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Frank Anstey, who made St. Paul’s chapter house
creep the other day when he spoke a Lenten address,
wound up by washing his hands of the awful mess
the world had got into. That is Frank Anstey’s
way. Nature never intended him for a practical
reformer. It gave him a bitter start in life —not
in Australia—and then sent him out with an eloquent
tongue and a sharp wit. But he has his use. He
wakes others up. So he wasn’t fair to himself the
other day. Higgs had said that Anstey came into
the House and made an eloquent speech—“and that’s
the last you ever hear of it,” Anstey chipped in.
That is Anstey’s way, too. If he jests at other’s
expense he is quite as ready to jest at his own;
and there is no man in the House less disposed to
obtrude his opinions. He is a good actor in the
wrong place.
Stepdaughters score sometimes. The
widow of the late George Rolfe, Melbourne’s
biggest wholesale-grocer for many years,
used to be the widow Lake, and Rolfe took
over her family when he married her. Two
married stepdaughters and a stepson each
get the income from £23,000; and two
spinster stepdaughters are to share Lyndoch,
a country property, and receive the balance
of income from the remainder of the estate
after legacies are paid. The Vic. assets are
just on a quarter-million, and there are
others in Queensland.
Earl Brassey, son of the ponderous old
chap who was formerly Governor of Vic.,
left £845,000, mostly inherited from dad —
the dad who, although a millionaire, d ; d not
disdain to apply for leave on half-pay for
six months after actually quitting his job
at Melbourne Government House.
The old law firms of Baker and Glynn
in Adelaide have amalgamated. The original
Baker and Barlow’ have been dead for some
years. The senior partner was Richard
Chaffey Baker, who spent half his time in
politics, like his father before him; Dr.
Barlow, on the other hand, had no interests
outside the office, except that he was Vice-
Chancellor of Adelaide University. John
Baker has carried on the business latterly
with O’Halloran Giles, who now retires.
The other firm wms made up of Glynn, the
Federal politician* and Angas Parsons, both
K.C., with McEwen and Napier as junior
members. The amalgamation will be know’ll
as Baker, Glynn, Parsons and Co.
THE COLD COQUETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I pray and plead in vain,
I make oblation meek,
You will not ease my pain.
The boon I nightly seek
You impishly deny,
Until I faint with stress
Of longing, and would die
Of bitter weariness.
Was ever beauty wooed
With passion half as true?
Was ever maid pursued
As longingly as you ?
Complaisant and most kind
To men who make no plea,
New pangs you ever find
For suppliants like me.
With ache of long duress,
With deep, heart-lifting sighs.
Could I have begged for less—
Your kisses on my eyes,
Your touch as soft as love,
Your breath so honey dear
About me and above,
Your whisper at my ear!
Yet must I plead again:
My tears may not abate.
Alone this fevered pain
You can alleviate.
Last night I cried to you—
No favor won I yet.
God help all lovers who
Woo Sleep, the cold coquette!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Go wing Bros. for
Easter Suits.
TO be sure of your clothes, give your order to a house
which knows just what is needed to express your
own individuality.
In Gowing Bros.’ 'Austral” Suits-to-Measure there is
always that air of refinement and good form which
pleases the man of taste the instant he sees it.
Notwithstanding the great difficulties which lately both
manufacturer and retailer have had to deal with the
world over, our supplies have been well maintained.
The result is that we can now give a measure of
value which, considered in relation to the prices ruling
at the present time, maintains Gowing Bros.’ reputation
for supplying good clothes at a fair price.
The widening of our circle of customers, the constant
increase in the volume of our business, prove that the
public realises, as perhaps never before, that Gowing
Bros.’ ‘‘Austral” To-Measure Suits stand unrivalled
for value at the prices asked.
Read the following prices. Come in and see the patterns
we display. You will be able to appreciate fully the type
of Stylish Suit which “Austral” Tailoring Produces.
“Austral” Sac Suits
TO MEASURE
9 51-, 105|-, 115/-, £6/6/-, £6/15/-, £7/7-, £B/8/-,
£B/15/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-, £lO/15/-
C o untry Customers write for Patterns .
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns with
tape-measure and forms for self-measurement free on request.
And not only do we pay the carriage, but guarantee the
customer absolute satisfaction.
Carriage Paid on all Country Orders.
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
486-490 George St., 3-17 Royal Arcade,
Branch Store at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
■ i
mi
J
'
. m
• -:•- w. i-,
Sr?.
If I !
F.y -••
Hr- '•-V'M
~, . %/i, ■>
9
*
■■■■
jBSBs
1 ¥ i 1 I
... 7 i
mm,
m
1
S
/ J
' i V ■ ■ '
jk&BS
«
gfe. j- pWWBI
|K>'
; . .; ; :
■HI
,
/ / /
:7:
|
mJm
HR
Silit
H
- .-38
1»BH
WE . |
31
,
v
•: - f
, ../J
■M
.
Tip:
gV
'■
1
'" ; : :: II 1 I
' i,.
'
a 1
ISs
:
■
>
■7
Li
M
: w' :••
■
WSmm
.
I , :


An Easter-Outing Suit.
IDEAL FOR HOLIDAYS & WEEK-ENDS
To spare your better clothes the stress of holiday wear, take
a “No Veste” Sports Suit with you on your Easter journey.
YoU will be appropriately and comfortably dressed —for the
Sports Suit is the ideal holiday style.
A distinctive suit is quoted: “No Veste” Sports Suit made of
Grey Diagonal “Warrigal” Tweed. An All-Australian produc-
tion. Coat: 3 buttons, 3 patch pockets outside, half-belt at
back. Trousers: Side, hip and fob pockets and permanent turn up.
Ready to wear .... 95/-
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i •
ri
teltoman
KAi
IV 1 HIGH-CLASS
/SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTP
Barrack St, Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN ©> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
df
Bisurated Magnesia Gives Quick Relief
from Indigestion.
When you have eaten too much or too
fast, when you feel so full and distended
that it’s hard to breathe, and your heart
pounds because of the pressure against it.
just take two or three little tablets of
Bisurated Magnesia with a sip of hot
water. You will get relief at once, and the
trouble will entirely disappear in a few
minutes. What else could give such quick
relief from indigestion, gastritis and
dyspepsia caused by the presence of an
excess acid in the stomach? Now, when
Bisurated Magnesia comes into contact with
acid, whether in the stomach or elsewhere,
there is only one thing that can possibly
happen—the acid is neutralised, nullified,
counteracted. The component elements of
Bisurated Magnesia are as violently opposed
to acid as are light to dark, heat to cold,
death to life. And that is why you obtain
relief, and that is also a very potent
reason why, if you are suffering from ail-
ments arising from acidity, you should
obtain a package of Bisurated Tablets
from your nearest chemist to-day. Then
you can eat a hearty meal composed of
foods which previously have disagreed with
you in the full knowledge that your sour-
stomach troubles are over, and you will
soon be able to say to your friends. “You
can eat what you like if you take Bisurated
Magnesia.”— Advt.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A MATTER OF FORM.
MILDRED: "Do you ever go out as far as the
sharks?"
MAYSE : "Heavens, no! I never even go out
as far as the water.”
“Patrian”: Met Teddy Woodbine one Sun-
day morning ’way back in ’l6 at Ferry Post
in Egypt. At the last moment our bathing
parade had been cancelled, and we had spent
hours on “spit and polish” getting ready
for inspection by H.R.H. Then came an
interminable wait for us of the Anzac
Mounted Division, formed up in more or less
serried ranks beneath a sweltering sun,,:
pestered with flies, and sweating and swear-
ing in the oven-like atmosphere. Horses
grew restive and men sulky, whilst frantic
and oerspiring officers made vain appeals to
“Keep your dressing there!” Just as our
patience was at the last gasp Teddy appeared
at the gallop, followed by a retinue of brass-
hats with flaunting pennants. He was rid-
ing in the exaggerated Tod Sloan style that
we had come to regard es typically and
laughably English. As he drew near we all
’shuned. Then suddenly the silence was
broken by a loud, fed-up voice : “Gaw blime,
Vs only a Pommy, after all!” It
took about 10 minutes after that to knock
the grin off the boys’ faces and reduce them
to a solemnity befitting the occasion.
“Gallery”: If the House of Reps, splits
up any more the new sections will have to
hold their meetings on the roof —if they
must hold meetings. Higgs, who is no longer
a member of the official Labor party, lias
been unable to get a room to think in, and
now sits in secret caucus at the end of a
disused passage that was formerly a tip
for odds and ends. The legionless leader
is boarded off from the gaze of the curious,
but lie is not out of earshot when he dis-
cusses his policy with himself and tries to
separate himself into five different identi-
ties to play the roles of leader, deputy,
whip, secretary and party. But he remains
cheerful in his isolation, though, like some
other private members, lie greatly covets
the apartment that has been loaned to
Arthur Rodgers and has apparently become
the official headquarters of that pervasive
young man.
* * * *
Fate has double-crossed a man in Victoria
in a simply heartless way. After breaking
into a house with the best of burglarious
intentions, lie was disturbed by a servant
who recognised him. She was his long-
before deserted wife ! Making a hasty retreat
from the place, he ran into the arms of
a policeman who was his wife’s cousin, and
knew that he was “wanted” for old offences.
If his own dog, remembering kicks of the
past, had grabbed him as he bolted through
the garden he might have fairly reckoned
that it was his unlucky d°v.
* * * *
“Filament”: Marconi isn’t responsible for
all the modern improvements in wireless,
though the claim is fostered by the world-
wide Marconi concerns. Thus a cablegram
announcing that Marconi has an instrument
in his study which will transmit and receive
speech by wireless, and that it will super-
sede all the existing telephone systems,
needs some qualifying. The apparatus re-
ferred to is evidently the valve receiver, for
which, in its present form, credit goes to two
Americans, De Forest and Armstrong. The
American General Electric Co. has for years
been developing the valve for use as a wire-
less telephone transmitter and receiver, and
long ago conducted a conversation between
its head office and Paris. Wireless telephony
cannot possibly come into general use. how-
ever, until absolute directive control of
atmospheric waves is attained, and, judging
by the success met with up to the present,
it never will be attained. Imagine what it
would be like if wireless telephony (as far as
we have got with it) replaced' a big city
telephone system. No matter what hour
of the day a receiver was picked up, the
conversation of every person using a ’phone
would be heard. I say conversation, but
obviously real conversation would be im-
possible in such a babel.
“L.E.IL” : It is remarkable to note that
in 1864 —56 years ago—when the Vic.
Supreme Court Bench consisted of Stawell,
C.J., Barry. Williams and Molesworth, J.J.,
the Counsel admitted to practise in the
State exceeded the number now practising.
Of these old-timers John Hubert Plunkett.
Q.C., was the earliest qualified barrister.
He belonged to Queen’s Inn, Dublin, was
called to the Bar in January, 1820, and
was admitted in Victoria in June, 1861.
Edward Jones Brewster was admitted at
the remote date of April,. 1841. When
Stawell and his colleagues were presiding in
Victoria. Stephen, C.J., Mitford and Wise.
.T.J.. occupied the Supreme Court Bench of
N. S. Wales. The list of counsel admitted
to practise before them numbered but
59, or just about half the number
admitted to practise in Victoria. The
volume of work which now occupies the
N. S. Wales Courts accounts for a vast
increase of admissions. For an articled
clerk to obtain admission as an attorney
in N. S. Wales in those early davs it was
necessary under the regulations for him to
file with the examiners a certificate signed
by the minister of the church or chapel
at which he attended, answering, amongst
other, the following questions:—
How long have you known A.B. ?
What has been his attendance on Divine Worship
during that period?
What, as far as came under your notice, has been
his moral conduct?
If these questions were still persisted in,
and what one might term “satisfactory
answers” were required thereto, it is doubt-
ful whether many articled clerks would be
eligible to secure certificates of admission.
* * * *
“Buzzy” : “Broker’s” experience of the way
they execute orders in Japan (B. 4/3/’2O)
doesn’t beat that of a Sydney indent house
which placed an order for cotton underpants.
It forwarded a sample of the goods required,
with a request for a quote, and. following
the usual procedure, retained half the sample
for future reference. The ouotation received
being satisfactory, an order was placed, the
shipment made, the draft met and the goods
taken delivery of in due course; but 011
plain sailing.
"Is there anything between Betty and Jack?”
"Only Betty's husband, and he hasn't been demobilised yet.”
opening up it was discovered that each
article was minus one leg. Naturally cables
were despatched demanding adjustment and
explanations, but the latter only were forth-
coming. In subsequent correspondence
Nippon insisted (1) that the shipment was
exactly according to sample; (2) that the
manufacturers were entitled to assume from
the sample sent that the goods were for use
by wounded soldiers who had lost a leg.
NONE BUT THE BRAVE DESERVE
THE FARE.
WOULDN'TGO : "I'm going to France this
year to view the battlefields, y’know.”
COULDN'TGO: "How interesting! But isn't
it dreadful how the cost of travelling has
gone up? You ought to have gone three
or four years ago."
The worker bggins to realise that strikes
of the old sort don’t pay at the present
11.C.L. The motormen on the Hawthorn
(Melb.) electric tramline have an idea that
the hand-brakes should be replaced by
“power” brakes; the Tramway Board says
it would like to ease its employees’ burden,
but, having just got control of the whole
metropolitan systems, it isn’t prepared just
yet to scrap the existing brakes and face
the expense of new ones, especially on a
line that doesn’t pay. ,So, the parties being
unable to reach a reasonable compromise,
the men are indulging in another sort of
strike. They carry out all regulations meti-
culously ; and if one passenger over the regu-
lation number crowds in, the procession is
stopped till he crowds off again. It is very
amusing—to persons who drive their own
cars.
“IV’: If copra doesn’t mind it. will be
getting a bad name. It has already been
blamed as a fiamenwerfer: now it has
started poison-gassing. While the sa'l'ne-
ship King Cyrus was loading the stuff at
Levuka Captain liosendal went into the
hold to get some wire. lie was promptly
knocked out by fumes. Of the seven men
of the crew of 10 who tried to rescue 11...1
three, are dead, and it. was touch and go
with the others. Probably all would have
died but for the arrival from ashore of
Rosendal’s father (he was temporarily outed
himself), who began salvage with an impro-
vised mask, and was followed by help he
had summonedj
“Hamer - ’: The War Chest Club, the
Anzac Buffet, Australian Y.M.C.A. head-
quarters at the Aldwycl) Theatre, Peel
House, Ciro’s and other soldiers’ (lugouts
in London have been advertised in Australia,
but the best Y-Emma of the lot has not been
given the word it deserves. This was the
little branch of the Australian Y.M.C.A.
which had its quarters under the old church
in Horseferry-road, opposite the War Chest
Club, and at the side of A.I.F. Headquarters.
There “the best meal in London” could be
had; and few members of the A.I.F. who
know the place will quarrel with the state-
ment. It was missed by numbers of men
who were only in London on leave; but
those who were any time in the Big Smoke
got to know it, and clung to it.
* * * *
“Crabtree” : Sydney’s cheap lodging-houses
are rapidly vanishing. The last to go is
Ellis’s Coffee Palace in King-street, which
has housed tens of thousands of visitors and
wayfarers who did not feel up to paying
hotel prices. With a good frontage to King-
street the premises went for £24.000; and
a “first-class residential hotel” containing
150 rooms is going up. Then the wanderer
who. returning after many years with
eighteenpence in his hand, turns into King-
street to engage a bed at the old address
will receive the shock of his life.
APOLOGIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The body of a man was found in some scrub to-day.
lfo had been shot through the head. Deceased was
wearing brown boots and a green hat. His height
is sft. Bin. Two back teeth are missing.” —Extract
from any daily paper almost any day.
I often think, when everything goes wrong
And troubles drop like shrapnel on my head,
That life is so dashed dull and grey and long,
One possibly were rather better dead.
What does Earth offer ? Much more work than fun:
A lot of gloom and very little sun.
The act of dying is a trivial thing:
A sudden bullet ploughing l through the brain,
A draught of poison—and Death’s lightning sting
Provides Nepenthe in exchange for pain.
Why, then, recoil with dread from that release
Which all must know until this world shall cease?
I do not fear the mystery of Death,
Nor the Creator’s anger at my sins ;
But I do loathe the thought that as the breath
Dies in my bosom, and decay begins,
Reporters will rush up and measure me,
And take a tally of my teeth, maybe.
In fancy I can see my poor remains
Lying defenceless, immobile and flat,
While frowsy strangers count the dark, red stains
Upon the ruin which was once my hat;
And scrawl descriptions of each staring eye. . . .
Is it so odd that I should hate to die?
N.S.W,
J. B. D.


The Magnificent Pianola Piano
7a
>33
sSC.
r
Ja
7
n
<
kY
V*
L<T-'
Vt
ft
*
w
\
z
A
«5
2^
IJpx.V
A Truly
Munificent Gift
MUSIC —Good Music—PIANOLA MUSIC carries
always with it such unlimited pleasure that
the happiest choice of all, fully worthy of
every festive occasion, is the giving of the marvell-
ous PIANOLA PIANO. In value, in service, in
construction —in every way it establishes an un-
assailable standard so often sought in imitations
but never attained. It is an Exquisite PERMANENT
Present, offering lifetime gratification.
an extremely small initial
PAYMENT and very little monthly
amounts make it convenient to pay for the
PIANOLA at your leisure. A glance at
the booklet that is forwarded on request will
tell you much of the PIANOLA merits; but
to call and hear, as well as play yourself, some
favoured melodies, will soon fascinate you
with the simplicity and beauty of this highly
esteemed instrument.
PIANOLA is only obtainable from
PIANOLA CO.ViPANY, and in
the following Pianos : The Steinway,
Aeolian Steck, Aeolian Stroud, and the
Eng'ish-made Aeolian Weber. See that
the Instrument you buy bears the name
44 PIANOLA,” the Registered Trade Mark
of the Pianola Company. This is to safeguard
you when offered elsewhere a Pianola Piano
that is not a Pianola.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
Please send me the Pianola Piano
Catalog
Name
Address
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PTY. LTD.
“ 77j 6 Centre of the World's Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments ”
384 George Street,
Sydney


Become a
Qualified Accountant
Our splendid course of lessons and expert coaching service will make
you a competent accountant rapidly yet thoroughly, and at small
expense.
Qualification is essential to success in the business world. No good
position can be yours if you remain unqualified.
Write or call for “GUIDE TO ACCOUNTANCY.”
Explains clearly “how to qualify” and how 5000 have already
qualified under our methods.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Ban\ Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Building
Caxton Street.
FIRST IN 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Dialsight” ; Judging by the experience of
a few Diggers who accepted commissions in
the Indian Army, the service isn’t likely to
appeal to the best brand of Aussie. A fine
sample of my acquaintance, who had
acquired three stars and an M.C. with the
A.1.F., was lured into accepting one of these
commissions when in France. He recently
returned thankful that he was able to
escape from the life of inaction and the risk
of being dumped at some lonely station-for
years. Being adjutant to his regiment his
daily routine consisted of two hours’ office
detail work and about one hour on the
parade-ground. The rest of the day was
divided between the card-table, the polo-
ground and whisking off multitudinous flies.
His chief diversion lay in squelching the
sneering Pommy officahs who have never
recovered from the praise the world g ve to
the beastly “undisciplined” Australian.,.
“Dolphin”: Dr. J. L. Cope hopes to have
his “South African” Antarctic expedition
ready in six or seven mouths, and expects to
drop down to Macquarie Island in October;
then, after a geological survey of the island,
to push down to Antarctica. In the course
of the five years to be spent there Dr. Cope
proposes not only to circumnavigate the
Antarctic continent and take a run to the
South Pole, but also to work out the
economic possibilities of land and sea, and
to .study the meteorological and magnetic
conditions in the Ross Sea and Enderby
Land regions, and their influence on Austral-
asia and South Africa. That such a study
would have great economic value is, he
thinks, proved by the meteorological station
maintained by Argentina in the South Ork-
neys. Coal, manganese, rubies, marble and
granite have already been found in Antarctica,
and Professor David thinks there is more
than a possibility of gold. As to working
these things Cope reckons that the climate
A CASE FOR ANOTHER WAGES
BOARD.
"Here, Willie, take this broom and sweep
up the yard, and I'll give you a
penny."
"All right, Sis; but, I sag, don't you know
the cost of living's gone up?”
is easier to endure and the natural forces
more easily fought than in the Ivlondyke or
Siberia. He wants to see, too, what can be
done with whales, which are now yielding
products to the value of about £3,000,000 a
year in the sub-Antarctic regions south of
the Falkland Islands. He does not at
present propose to have a wireless station
on Macquarie Island, but thinks he can trust
to one on Scott Island, away to the south.
“Wealsman”: This is the season of the
year when scores of Hobart families com-
mend the fowls to a neighbor’s care, nail up
the windows, double lock the front door and
THE MALE CAT.
THE WOMAN : “Poor old Flo —so she's lost
her husband!”
THE BRUTE: “Yes, not a bad idea of hers,
was it?”
troop off up the Derwent Valley among the
hop-fields and apple-orchards. If the family
is large and industrious and the hop-crop
good, a quite respectable cheque may be
made in a few weeks. Even the toddlers
can help to fill the family bin, and the work
and surroundings are generally pleasant
enough to impart a picnieky flavor to the
toil. Of course, the folks who “go ’oppin' ”
are not regular guests at Government
House, but it would be an error to
class them all as poverty-liners. At
any rate, here is an advt. from the
Mercury: “Wanted by Two Ladies, to go
hop-picking with other ladies.” Of late years
an agitation has been growing for better
housing for the pickers, and this season the
A.W.U. is taking a hand. As a result of
conferences between Union rep. Dave Dicker,
M.H.A., and the growers, better huts and 7s.
per 1001 b. seem likely. The old rate was
about ss. per 1001 b., and the old huts were
more picturesque than weather-proof. So
it would seem that the days when romantic
young men and maidens went hop-picking for
the fun of the thing are departing. Still, no
doubt, the seasonal translation from mean
streets to the groves of hop-Arcady will
continue to set youthful hearts aglow and
incidentally fill the plate of the Rev. Palfrey-
man (the Nat. Kinsman of Hobart). A
sentimenial bloke of my acquaintance once
voiced this phase of the picnic in triolet
form-
“Cygnet”: _ The wine industry is not
usually associated with Westralia, but the
other day De Garis, of Rehmark and Mil-
dura, announced that in his opinion
Westralia has the best vineyard in the Com-
monwealth. It is near Guildford, on the
banks of the Upper Swan, and has been in
the possession of the Barrett-Lennards for
decades. The father of the present owner
visited Spain and Portugal to get his valu-
able knowledge concerning vine cultivation.
On coming back to Westralia he brought
with him cuttings of the choicest vines avail-
able, and they have flourished in the local
soil. The Bridgetown district, on a pro-
perty owned by the Hesters, has the largest
vine in the Commonwealth and one of the
biggest in the world. In 1829 a cutting
was brought from the Cape by Captain
Hester on the ship Lotus. It has had a
busy time since then, and the plant now
covers over an acre of ground. By frequent
graftings it supplies practically every
variety of grape known.
* * * *
“Spare Corporal”: The Perth soldiers’
stand against the firing of gun-salutes may
serve to limit a silly and expensive practice,
but it seems rather like a pose, all the
same. There are heaps of things more
likely to upset the neurasthenic ex-soldier
than the firing of guns. The guns the sol-
ui e l mostly heard
were his own, and
they had a comforting
sound usually: but
all sorts of noises in
any city are apt to
remind him of the
arrival of shells, and
that was not at all
comforting. For in-
stance, the noise of a
motor-car travelling-
on a steep downgrade:
cutting in on a.
moment of abstrac-
t i o n, this has
filled me with a sud-
de n inclination t o
duck under the sofa.
Trams, trains, the
milkman in the morn-
ing, and a score of
other things make
noises more upsetting
than a volley of guns.
And the aeroplane has
brought a new nerve-
tingler. When Fritz
was up and wander-
ing overhead at night
we would listen to the
purr of his engines;
when they stopped we
would grip ourselves
till we heard the
bombs explode—a n d
then we knew they
were not dropping on
us. Although I told
mys e 1 f beforehand
that a friendly ’plane
was going to p 1 a y
overhead, when one the other day shut off
its engines, I felt the grip of that old appre-
hension.
*■ * * *
The cattleboat that waddles between Port
Albert. Flinders Island and Tasmania did
a roaring trade with biped passengers in
the days when it was nearly as easy to enter
the Kingdom of Heaven as get across Bass
Straits. On her last trip she had 30 pas-
sengers at £5 a head single fare. There
are only a dozen bunks aboard, but, any-
way, those who wanted to sleep could go
ashore on Flinders Island for a “doss,” as
the steamer puts in a night there.
“D.F.”: The Government of the Speck has
at last aroused itself to some sense of the
value of the very fine col-
lection of historical records
preserved in Hobart. It
has put them in decent fire-
proof storerooms, and now is
having them indexed. Be-
fore long,, therefore, students
should he able to get a fair
go at them. There is a
great mass of material about
the “system” and the old
days of Van Diemen’s Land.
For instance, the Governor’s
despatches in the days when
the officials ran pretty well
everything give a fairly com-
plete record of the life and
activities of the time.
Amongst the very early
records of the Speck is
James Meehan’s field-book
of his surveys at Pittwater,
the Coal River, along the
Derwent and thereabouts at the end of 1803,
which was before Collins founded Hobart.
“H. 0.” discourses on ladies frail and fair:
“Lex” considers (B. 19/2/’2O) that Divorce Jus-
tice McCardie’s recent pronouncement in regard to
the damages (if any) due to a man whose wife has
been flighty ignores “the human-nature factor.”
McCardie laid it down that if the wife was of a
wanton disposition it lessened her value, and there-
fore reduced the amount of damages to which hubby
was entitled. “Lex” states that “there is no neces-
sary relation between virtue and affection,” since
“some of the most-prized women in history have
been wantons,” and he mentions Cleopatra, Helen,
Lady Hamilton, Mrs. Atherton and others in sup-
port. The weakness of this is that all of “Lex’s”
examples are drawn from the well-to-do classes.
Menelaus, in selecting a wife, had no need to con-
sider whether she could make dresses for the
youngsters, and it did not matter tuppence to
Colonel Atherton if his spouse were unable to grill
a chop. With folk of this class (which represents
only a very small percentage of the population) a
woman’s value may be estimated from a more or
less aesthetic standpoint; but among the vast army
of people with small incomes more utilitarian stan-
dards prevail. The suburban butcher whose unallur-
ing wife flies to the arms of the grocer in the next
street may lose a cook, dressmaker and housekeeper
who was possessed for him of a definite cash value.
Generally speaking, fair wantons are prized onlv by
those belonging to the two extremes of society—the
super-civilised and the primitive. The Sir William
Ilamiltons of the world are content to remain cuck-
olds rather than lose beautiful wives, and Billo of
Little Lon., frequently takes back Myrtle even
after she has been giddy with a Chow, simply be-
cause his physical appetite (which is the only sort
he knows) demands Myrtle. There is the further
fact that in these two classes marital giddiness does
not imply social ostracism. After a dozen “affairs”
.Mrs. Atherton can be one of the belles of the
Peace Ball, and Myrtle still has the entree to the
most exclusive sly-groggeries. But let the suburban
butcher take back a similarly-erring spouse, and
see what sort of a chance he or his wife have of
obtaining an invitation to the next mayoral “hop.”
It is a sad though incontrovertible fact that the
world is mostly made up of butchers, bakers, candle-
stick-makers and their wives, and it was doubtless
this very numerous class that Justice McCardie
had in mind. His view, therefore, is the common-
sensible one likely to fit the majority of cases.
The suggestion that the Flagstaff Gardens
West Melbourne, should be used for market
purposes instead of the old cemetery is not
likely to he adopted. The dead don’t mind
being shifted, and to abolish a fine reserve
in that portion of the city where it is most
needed in order to preserve the ancient
burial-ground intact is enough to make old
Fitz Gibbon kick his way up from the grave
in protest. Before the Act was passed
authorising the conversion of the old ceme-
tery into a market site it was the most
neglected spot in \ r ic. Nobody gave it even
the shadow of a ghost of an attention. It
was only when it was proposed to put the
litter and the untidiness to public use that
somebody discovered how sacred the spot
was and what sentiment attached to it
* * * *
“Gouger’s” battery:—•.
The armory of the Arabs was often infernally
interesting. Some of tlieir old guns fired a bullet
the size of a small shell, and were dreaded on
account of the ghastly mess they made of a man.
The British rifles they had were, of course, looted;
and Turkish and German weapons were supplied to
wanderers friendly to those nations. The rest of
their guns represented nearly every make on earth,
from the muzzle-loader firing broken-up chains and
bolt-heads to the latest Winchester repeating-rifle.
The very ancient weapons had their stocks bar-
barically carved, and in many cases were inlaid
with silver. But the horse-pistols were the souvenir-
hunters’ joy. Many of these, hundreds of years old,
had butts of pure silver. Some were fired by the
THE VERY THING.
ALGERNON: “’ Struth , Percy, here's a rabbitin'
bloke what made 70 quid in one night!
How about movin' up that way and
puttin' in half an hour or so a couple of
times a month?"
unpowder-in-the-pan method; others by the percus-
sion cap. Numbers of the very old Turkish and
Greek pistols were inlaid with precious metals, but
I wouldn’t have fired one of them for a thousand-
piastre note. Most of the tribes had six-chambered
American revolvers, and one surly-looking camelman
whom I searched surprised me by drawing an auto-
matic “Star.” The cutlery was also very ancient
and assorted. One splendid blade a chief possessed
was a relic of the Crusades. The hilt was in the
shape of a cross, and was heavily inlaid with gold.
The blade was ornamented with scroll work, and
Crusader’s motto in Latin had been etched into
the steel. The blade was so pliable that when
bent the point would just touch the hilt. Double-
edged swords were numerous and cavalry sabres were
in almost every mud hut. The ancient curved
scimitars particularly took our eye. They were
nearly always decorated with silver, and sometimes
the hilt was inlaid with gold and precious stones.
SEE WEI AT HE MISSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Don went from Twofoot when he heard
The talk of awful war,
And his contingent was the third.
He stormed the Turkish shore,
And battled there, or thereabout,
Until the Allied men pulled out.
Don went then to the Western front,
The cause of right to shield,
And helped to bear the battle’s brunt
By trench and hill and field;
And three times in the smokeraek dim
Hun bullets chipped small bits off him.
He took a taste of gas, and then
A bullet through his back,
Rejoined the muddy, fighting men,
And saw the Germans track
Due east, and helped to chase “the swine’
All helter-skelter to the Rhine.
Then Don came home. At Twofoot they
Were glad to see him, too,
And old Dunbar limped up to say:
“’Elio, boy! How de do?
We’ve had,” said he, reproaching Don,
“A frightful war while you’ve bin gone!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
Up the Derwent pickin’ ’ops,
’Ad a bin atween us;
She ’ad lips like rarsb’ry drops.
Up the Derwent pickin’ ’ops.
I ter Sue a queschin pops—-
We don’t care who seen us.
Up the Derwent pickin’ ’ops—
’Ad a bin atween us!


'
1
1
Ef*
mm
1 1
1 \ ■■■■ i
'*\ '' V 1 ' %
*3
. -
im
■-■m
...
M—
= ■ -■
f
/ ***** r ‘ ;
% .
N
■:. ■
'v
..SW
: ;
X/.MiS
v ' - ;' 3K
V. ,'L
o
s'"- ' "" \
u#*d
.
LZLJ2
mx
v-*;- ... >
SKFw
mi
in
7f
1... I 1 1J
JJ
1 I
ii
w
.
V
?«•»
Roomy, Economical, Reliable
C~~"-IT weight is a most excellent feature in a car —
just so long as there is no sacrifice of strength or
endurance. In the Series 19 Studebaker “Light
Six” there is, however, a marked sturdiness of construc-
tion. Its lightness in weight helps to explain the great
economy of this car in petrol consumption and tyre-
mileage. Its structural strength insures a long life and
a low cost of upkeep.
Ample room in a car is indispensable to comfort
—particularly in touring. The feature is stressed in
“The Light Six.” The elegance of body-design and
fittings is as marked as in all Studebaker models. . The
powerful, responsive engine is of the type used on the
best European cars.
Its mechanical advantages include a 'per-
fected intermediate transmission and flexible
coupling, giving wonderful balance and
eliminating all driving shocks; and an almost
total absence of vibration is the result,
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis, Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 39 8 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C C & M. A.. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Limited, Macquarie Street, Hobau't.
Sew Sand: Adams. Limited, Christchurch, Palmerston North,
Timaru. Wanganui.


fflG EWO%
“extra HIGH GRADE.”
GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2]
df
deaf?
You can HEAR,
and we prove it
by posting you an
easy-to-wear
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS*
FREE TRIAL
IiJKSsS: S
* he Ac PUsticon ’ for more than five years?
Umsoni fco , re Co 102l 02 “aWngr House. SYDNEY
vumouii ServU)e vO oiderfleet, Collins St., MELB
N.Z.: John Procter, M Iligh St., Chrkie’h.
W.A.: B. Little & Co., Sol Hag Street, Perth.
fee TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
ONE FOR THE VISITOR.
THE VISITOR: “My late ’usband, Mrs. Jones,
was a most refined person.”
MR. JONES (whose husband isn’t): “Fes,
poor dear, I ’are always said those
unequal marriages teas a mistake.”
Leo Lear : How is this for endurance?
Last Christmas, while mustering cattle out of scrubby
country, I missed a calf about two weeks old. Four-
teen days later we found the poor beast very thin,
but alive and with a run in him. There was no
water handy and it was warm, dry weather. On
bringing him in his mother wouldn’t look at him, so
he went on the bucket and is now as good as the
best. Hereford was the breed—the toughest of the
lot.
“L.A.8.” ; “Riverina” on the chants of
abos. (B. 22/l/’2O) reminds me of the Gyppo’s habit
of singing to his own tune about the happenings of
the moment. I was on escort to a camel transport
train when we were marching to Bir el Salmana to
leave our card on a Jacko outpost. I understood
sufficient Arabic to get the gist of the chant of one
hardened conglomeration of blue-rags: it expressed
wonder at what the soldiers in the column were
thinking of as they rode along. Were they think-
ing of their homes, since they didn’t appear to be
thinking of what was going to happen? Every dis-
colored mother’s son of them was running a grand
opera of his own. Occasionally they would change
the subject and chant their hopes that their camels’
loads wouldn’t fall (they generally cried when
that happened), or crooned the news that there was
another hill in front of them.
* * * *
. “Copabella”: Geelong (Vic.), after a
“battle of the sites’’ which changed nearly the whole
of the Council personnel and broke up friendship*
of 50 years, now has a City Hall of Athenian design
of which it is proud with a pride that approaches
idolatry. The building stands upon a main street
leading to the wharves; in front of it is a broad
piazza, around the half-circle sweep of which the
motors of city, councillors, wool-brokers, profiteers
and other aristocrats roll up to the tier of steps
and lead-light doors of the civic headquarters. A
Backblocks cocky entered the town the other da\
driving a four-horse waggon loaded with wood. He
had a horse to be shod and needed a temporary
camp for his team. The lawns, the lonic pillars,
the medieval lanterns and the carven arms on
the facade meant nothing to the Man from Further
Out: he saw only the smooth plaza, a sheltered safe
recess only a thought away from the street he was
traversing, and he pulled in there. He hung wheat-
sack feeders on the noses of the leaders and a
shatter of the team, just as he would do at Tony-
pandy or Gelantipy. He left the removed shatter
with a near-by smith and strolled happily away to
see if old Bill Whosit still kept the pub. It is
said four civic officials, chancing to look up from
their arduous toil inside the building, fainted at
the sight. The cocky, it is understood, is 'to be
boiled in oil.
* * « *
“Hopski”: “U.P.” (B. 12/2/’2O) says
that canaries in captivity will cross with the spar-
row, and fears that warblers liberated owing to the
scarcity of birdseed may become a pest in time.
du f., to . ln . form “U.P.” that canaries will cross
niy with finches, which are seed-eating birds and
partly digest the seed in their own crops before
tceding it to their young. Further, the liberated
canary is not likely to become a pest, as after
thousand of years of captivity it is useless at forag-
ing for itself, and usually tries to sign on for
lurther captivity in the first cage it meets If it,
'jThZt 6 TT J ;t attendß its own within
, - urs a t the most. Canaries came in the first
place from the islands off the coast of Greece*
and were bred in captivity for donkey’s years n c
■ pr( T I nt time they are nowhere to be found
an their wild state.
* » *
“W.vndham”: The queerest of all the ant
family is the honey-ant which, flourishes on a strip
of country in the far north-west of S. Aus., near the
borders of Westralia and the Territory. It collects
Hie sweetish exudation from the leaves of the honey
and f ores in the distended stomachs of
certain selected members of the colony. These
hving honey-jars become pretty well all stomach
. nd quite incapable of moving when they are full
Liwv 6 TIT the entrance their underground
gallery and the workers come down and fill them
up with the stuff. Presumably they cough it nn
again when the community needs it, but no one
has seen the process. The ant seems to be confined
the country on which the honey-mulga grows
Mhen Black Brother comes on a nest he digs it un
and eats ants, honey, clay and all
*
: A couple of months after the
cyclone had wrecked Mackay the country was fairly
alive with quail. Reports from all over the Com.
monwealth told the same tale. Where did thev
come from? To-day you would travel miles and
no see one. As about one hundred yards is the
mit ei a single flight of a quail, it is difficult to
understand where they go or whence they come
svw7 n e n ° ticed tfaat there are plagues of
email the ‘ sar v ne time as there are many
juai! and this may be accounted for by scarcity
d “,°" f ,ands i» the Pacific. Distance is no
fjeat obstacle to flying-foxes: I have seen them fly
• " ” ldes " ,ght and morning between camp and feed-
ground.
* *• *.
S Hff?M r 'l : r Nine young platypuses had
■ t luck last time th‘e Roaring Meg River (N.Q.)
was in flood. They were washed down from their
mountain pools and swept into the Lode Hill Tin
o f, Ce ‘ , S ' Virled a,ong for thre€ miles, the
w w 7 dreW them into the hydraulic pipe
line. M ith a pressure of about 2001 b. to the sq.
‘u ey Were shot through the giant
nozzle high into the air, and hurled against the
hard stone face. ’ Then water again claimed them
and they were rushed down the ground race in
company with forking stones and tons of muddy
earth. When the men in the box-race finally grabbed
them all the furry little adventurers had gone west.
* * , *■
Melos ; Tes, a brew of wild-hops is a
cure for indigestion (B. 22/l/’2O). Dyspeptics are
advised to prepare the flowers— not the leaves as
suggested by “Widgee’s” friend—by putting them
m a cool dry place and subjecting them to pressure
for about two weeks.
BY i . Mimosa ’ talks nonsense when
he says that the Australian horses on the way to
the South African War were mostly fed on com-
pressed fodder. Compressed fodder is a rich, heat-
ing food ; nags on board ship get a very light
ration about a third of the normal. I never saw
A CHANGE OF COLOR WANTED.
JACKY: "Boss, you gib it time off to get nat'ralised?"
BOSS: “What do you want to get naturalised for? You're not a Hun!"
JACKY: “Mine think ti better be white pheller—plurry shearers gib black pheller
too much Up."
compressed fodder fed on board ship then or later.
“Mimosa’s” assertion that oats and chaff could
not be got in S. Africa, and that the horses lived
on poor Argentine maize is equally ridiculous. Oats
and chaff were the regulation ration, and even in
the starvation days of the occupation of Bloemfon-
tein we had both. The maize was South African,
and no finer is grown. Argentine maize came over
with the big shipments of mules and alleged horses
from that place. . Perhaps “Mimosa” met it at
Stellenbosch, the big Oape remount depot. Writers
on the comparative wastage of horseflesh in S.
Africa and the Sinai-Palcstine campaign have over-
looked the. two deadly diseases which afflicted horses
m S.A., pink-eye and horse sickness. The first laid
a horse up for weeks; and the other laid him out
cold in 10 minutes. Writer knew a bushman regi-
ment which lost over 300 horses in a week On Oli-
phant’s River, in the Bushveldt.
* * * *
Paul C.”: Recently I came across an
old-age pensioner dropping a baited spring rabbit-
trap into the river. He explained: “Y’ see, mister,
beef is too dear, an’ when the fish won’t bite th’
on way t’ do is t’ bite them. Oh, yes,” he went
on, “I ketch a couple or three a night, an’ some-
times I get a heel. Worst of it is if I leave th’
trap all night an’ a fish gets in, them blinkin’ water-
rats eats it all but th’ bones:”
* * *
Tramp N.Q.”: “Nabo’s” account (B.
22/1/ 20) of the death of a horse, caused by the shoe
becoming caught in his own bell strap-ring, recalls a
day. when engineering a buggy across the blacksoil
plains of Wrotham Park cattle station, Mitchell
River (N.Q.), I came upon a quaint death-bed. Over-
hanging a gully was a tree with a forked trunk about
three feet from the ground. Suspended from the
junction, and dangling over the rift, was a big lump
of a roan bullock. Evidently his horns had caught as
he was rubbing against the fork, and then he had
shied round and gone overboard.
u** * *
“Mrs. Lance Rawson” : One never hears
of scab as a disease among sheep nowadays. Yet
more big sheepmen were ruined by it in the ’sixties
than by any other disease before or since. The
one and only remedy known in those days was boil
mg down, and lots of squatters who counted their
flocks by thousands and even hundreds of thousands
had to send the lot to the digesters. In N. S.
Wales the disease was never quite so bad as it was
m 'Victoria or South Aus. But everywhere it was
so insidious and so quick that a small scrap of
wool from diseased sheep if dropped among a clean
flock would infect them in 24 hours. It was said
to be a common thing for men who had been re-
fused rations to drop scabby wool on a “pinch-
gut” run.
TV.S.B. : A.C.S. ’ (B. 25/12/10 ) asked
whether a human being has ever been killed b
kan g a ro °. I can give a personal experience. : ir
1884 several of us were making tracks from Add
aide to Pooiamacca shearing-shed, about 25 miles
north of Broken Hill. Near Menindie the dogs
bailed an old-man ’roo, and he defied all attempts
to approach him until one member of the party
threw a stone which struck the old fellow on the
head and made him shaky. Then, thinking to over-
power the ’roo, the dead-shot rushed to close quar-
ters'. The animal simply grasped him with his fore-
legs and, using the rear leg, gashed him from
throat to groin. The unfortunate but foolhardy
chap lived for about three minutes.
“Timo” : Billy, abo. rouseabout on a nearby
cattle-run, came to town only to find that his
beloved gin had, whilst he had been knocking up
a cheque to tide them over the honeymoon, allowed
a rival to cut him out. This catastrophe was too
much for Billy. Seizing a razor he swore to end
his days, and invited us to witness his suicide. We
thought he was joking, but nevertheless followed,
and got out just in time to see him draw the razor
not too vigorously across his throat. Still clutching
the blade he lay down on the grass whining: “Me
finis now. Oh, me die soon now'.” We bound the
wound and sent for a doctor. While waiting for
RESERVING HIS OPINION.
FIRST PAYING GUREST: “Well, what do you
think of the new cook?”
SECOND DITTO (of somewhat frisky reputa-
tion): “ Dunno . Haven't seen her yet!”
the medico my mate remarked •' “You been make
a mess of it, Billy. No cut deep enough die.”
At this Billy stopped groaning and opened his eves
wide in surprise. “That true?” he asked. Then
handing- my mate the razor, “Here, see you can
do any better.”
(Continued on page 22.)
CAVE AND TENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
The world is flushed with fever,
And life limps ill at ease,
And I all day am yearning
For flowers and melodies— ,
A cave beside the waters,
A tent among the trees.
Though wealth reward the seeker,
And fame the strong and swift,
To be at home with Nature
Is Nature's rarest gift;
While hourly many waters
Their song of welcome lift.
All day I have been thinking
Of places cool and green,
Of oak and pine and ti-tree
With bracken in between,
W here Care, forbidden, lurks not,
A skulker on the scene.
Beyond the fret and hurry
Of street and mart I see
The splendor of the mountain,
The glory of the tree;
The all-enthralling beauty
Of moonshine on the sea.
Too much in wall-less prisons,
While youth and joyance wane,
With tinsel lures to cheat ns
We move ’twixt toil and pain—
Too much, while Freedom calls us
To give our spirits rein.
Too long therein we languish
While grief and care betide,
And when the gates swing open
And show us Death outside
Our souls sigh for the freedom
That they have been denied.
The things we shape, and cherish
Are brittle as thin glass;
Man fashions towers and cities,
And towers and cities pass;
Yet passes not the glory
Of tree and flower and grass.
The world is flushed with fever,
And life limps ill at ease;
And I all day am yearning
For flowers and melodies—
A cave beside the waters,
A tent among the trees.
RODERIC QUINN.


SOME GOOD NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
Is. each ALL ONE PRICE Is. l£d. posted
BUSHRANGING.
“DAN KELLY—OUTLAW,” by Ambrose Pratt.
A gi’eat story of the Kelly Gang.
OUTBACK ADVENTURE.
“YELLOW SILVER,” by Edward Meryon.
With gold prospectors in the wilds of Western Australia.
IN CORAL SEAS.
“THE SKIPPER OF ‘THE ROARING MEG,’ ”
by Jack McLaren.
Thrilling adventures interwoven with an unusual love story.
MURDER MYSTERY.
“THE MT. MARUNGA MYSTERY,” by Harrison Owen.
The best story Of its kind ever published in Australia.
HISTORICAL ROMANCE.
“SALLY,” by J. H. M. Abbott.
The tale of a “currency” lass and the days of Governor Macquarie.
SPORTING.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,” by Con Drew.
The humorous adventures of some “crooks” who are not always successful in
their enterprises. A series of exciting incidents exposing many of the tricks
attempted on the unsuspecting.
BUY “BOOKSTALL” NOVELS.
The best value now offering on the bookstalls.
Sold everywhere.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
Whq do I uso PLUME?
“Because it enables me to get more
and better service out of my car.
Because it ensures easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.”
That is the answer thousands of
motorists would give to the ques-
tion, “Why do you use Plume?”
Plume users speak highly of the
results obtained, and our files con-
tain very flattering testimony of its
efficiency under varied conditions.
Plume users have been remarkably
successful in recent Reliability Con-
tests in several States. Full partic-
ulars can be obtained free upon
request to our nearest Branch.
Try Plume next time.
When ordering just ask for Plume
don’t say Benzine
P 23
<Zr.
\\
-■'u,,.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
The Bank of Queensland Limited
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
For the Third Year ended 31st January, 1920, presented at the Sixth Ordinary
General Meeting of Shareholders held on Wednesday, 25th February, 1920.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Report, Balance-
sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the twelve months to the 31st January, 1920.
The Net Profits for the year, after deducting Rebate
on Bills Current, Interest on Deposits, Land Taxes, Income
Taxes, paying all Expenses aud providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, amount to .. .. •• •• ..£40,239 16 10
To which is to be added:
Balance from last Year . . . . . . .. 13.019 5 9
£53,259 2 7
An Interim Dividend out of the taxable income was
paid in August last which amounted to.. .. 13,500 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. . . .. £39,750 2 7
The Directors recommend the following appropriations:—•
To Dividend out of taxable income for six months
to the 31st January, 1920, at the rate of 6 per
cent, pf" n”num. .. .. . .fit! 500 0 0
„ Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . . . 25,000 0 0
„ Balance carried forward. . . . . . . . 1,259 2 7
£39,759 a 7
For and on behalf of the Board,
A. S. COWLEY,
Brisbane, 14th February, 1920. Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK OF QUEENSLAND, LIMITED.
For the Year Ended 31st January, 1920.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits . . . . • • • • £3,096.157 7 0
Bills Payable and other Liabili-
ties. 'including provision ; for
Contingencies . . .. .. 196,604 1 10
£3,292,061 8 10
Capital .. ..£450,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 39,759 2 7
—— 489,759 2 7
£3,781,820 11 5
Contingent Liabilities: —
Outstanding Credits, as per contra 86,177 1 5
£3,867,997 12 10
ASSETS.
£3,567,997 12 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries; Rents, Rates and Taxes,
and other expenses at Head Office
and forty-two branches "..
„ Interim Dividend paid 22nd
August, 1919
~ Balance
£95,593 5 5
13,500 0 0
39,759 2 7
By Balance from last year ..
~ Gross Profit for year (after
deducting Interest on Deposits,
Rebate on Bills Current and
making provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts) ..
£13,019 5 9
135,833 2 8
£148,852 8 0
Audited and found correct.
GEO. FRED SCOTT )
F. M. HART, F.C.P.A. }
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
BRITISH-MADE
(8/C ZN>
Hava
-/ c
aaais
318000
|QMJUi
d
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/8)
Some Splendid All-British Regal Records
at 3/« Each, Double-sided.
G6558
j The Coster’s Christening, Part 1
{ The Coster’s Christening, Part :!
Duncan and Godfrey
Duncan arid Godfrey
G6927
Violin and Piano Duets
Violin and Piano Duets
j Fiddle Fun, Part 1
Fiddle Fun, Part 8
G6984
j Buster Brown (Aocordeon Solo)
j Modesta Barn Dance (Accordeon)
Peter Wyper
Peter Wyper
07002
j The Darkies’ Holiday (Concertina Solo)
} Silver Heels
Alexander Prince
Alexander Prince
G7004
S Woodland Flowers
( Henry’s Barn Dance
Alexander Prince
Alexander Prince
G7013
S Medley—War Songs
\ Medley—Harry Lauder’s Songs
Alexander Prince
Alexander Prince
G7316
, J Till the Bo.vs Come Home
} l Australia Will be There .
Alexander Prince
Alexander Prince
G7435
( Destiny Waltz ..
( Lynwood March
Alexander Prince
Alexander Prince
G 7445
j Every Little While Alexander Prince
( Down Where the Swanse Kiver 1 lows Alexander Punce
G7406
s Fancy You Fancying Me
1 Ireland Must be Heaven
William Thomas, tenor
William Thomas, tenor
G7412
, j Kate Muldoon
' \ Macushla
William Thomas, tenor
William Thomas, tenor
GW33
Robert Carr
Robert Carr
\ Five For To-day
( A Bachelor Gay
G7289
(Bonnie Bouche Polka Alexander Prince, concertina
1 Bes Folies Polka Alexander Prince, concertina
G7312
j If You Were the Only Girl in the World Grey and Kirkby
l Another Little Drink Trevor and Cooper
G732G
j Merry Old Man
l My Mistake
Charles Jolly, comedian
Charles Jolly, comedian
G7337
(There’s Silver in Your Hair Miss Gertie Gitana
{ My Heart is Calling You William Thomas and Quartet
G7353
J Eove’s Garden of Koses ...
\ My Sweetheart When a Boy
Eric Randolph, tenor
Eric Randolph, tenor
G7377
Will Oakland
Will Oakland
j Lass from Counts - Maso
i You Can’t Make Me Stop Loving
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dalting House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 113 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. AV.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND. N.Z. —Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannat.vne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may ba
obtained.


WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
*
©
*7h •V*V*'
o
s
•V.
ft
O
“.IS
ART METAL SHOP FRONTS AND SHOW CASES.
ARCHITECTURAL ENRICHMENTS AND ART METAL CEILINGS
Stamping and Spinning done for the Trade. Stamping for Sheet Metal Motor Bodies and Parts a Specialty.
When planning buildings or extensions to Factory or Office consult us in the
matter of CEILINGS, WALLING and ROOFING. We Specialise in STEEL CEILINGS,
“DURABESTOS,” “CEILYTE” & ROOFING TILES.
SHOWROOMS:— '
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“Talifarta” : In common , with all the hill
tribes of pougainville (Solomon Islands) the natives
inhabiting the slopes of Balbi volcano depend on
the coastal tribes for their salt supplies. The salt is
extracted by evaporating over a lire successive
charges of sea-water in bamboo tubes containing
chopped taro tops or other edible leaves, which
become heavily impregnated. The finished article
is known as kumu and is, to European tastes,
most unpalatable. The same people are food pre-
servers in a primitive way. Raw pig flesh and taro
are pounded and rammed tightly into bamboo tubes,
the open ends of which are stopped with leaves.
The contents are then cooked by placing the tubes
in a slow fire, are reputed to keep well, ar.d are
much used on journeys.
“Jack L.”: The Queensland March-fly,
which becomes more numerous as you make north,
leaves behind a stinging pain in payment for the
blood it extracts. There are two kinds: one a big
grey about the size of a bee; the other a blue, a
little bigger than a blowfly. The bite of the
smaller variety leaves the sensation of a hot needle
having been stuck into one’s body; it is much
worse than the worst the bigger insect can do. In
gorges where there is long green grass and about
streams they are both very savage. Workers in
corn- or sugar-cane fields find it advisable to have
their smoko up the rows, as the pests are not so
plentiful there as at the ends of the drills. I have
seen horses come into a township in the Gulf to
dodge the pest. Smoke keeps them away, and I’ve
often kept a fire burning all day so that the spare
horses could stand in the lee of it.
“Harry J.”: We were camped on a little
point of land at the junction of two creeks that
noisily stumbled over the feet of a pair of old-
man mountains almost barren of timber and per-
petually shedding a scale of loose, chippy slate.
It was a calm night, and the moonlight among the
stunted pines was worth half a crown a pound.
Just as we were going to turn in and my mate
had passed the remark that we hadn’t heard the
dingo chorus yet, we picked up the sounds of a
chase away along the mountain to the east. Right
along the steep slope it came, a yelping, growling
scramble, leaving behind small avalanches of loosened
slate and starting fresh ones at every yard. The
rabble stopped right opposite our camp but a good
way above it, where the old-man Too, caught at a
disadvantage in some way or other and driven out
on to the barren slope, was commencing the last
round. The dogs were hungry and daring, but the
old Too kept them painfully clamoring for an
hour and a half. There was a continual yapping
and snarling from the dogs, and now and again
we could catch the peculiar hissing growl of the
Too. Whenever he got one home the moonlight
was shattered with a blood-curdling yelp from the
ripped pup. Once a member of the pack came
tumbling fully a hundred feet in a stream of slate
before he could pull himself together and lick his
wound. Judging orally honors seemed to be fairly
THE YOUNG IDEA.
TEACHER: “Now, Tom, hold your head up and
your shoulders back — you'd like to have
a fine carriage when you're a man,
wouldn't you?"
TOM( doubtfully ): “Well, I'd rather have
an aeroplane."
even when the crash came. Once off his feet, the old
’roo hadn’t a hope, and the mad, hungry pack bit,
snapped and scrambled downhill with him and 500
tons of loose slate until they sorted him out on
a bit of a plateau about 300 feet below. Here the
murder gradually settled down into a quarrelsome
gorge of warm, tough meat. That old ’roo must
have been a great fighter, and I always reckoned
the dogs won on a foul by ringing in five or six
fresh Bolsheviks towards the finish.
“Buzz”: Anybody know the record dis-
tance inland for a seagull to be found? On the fresh-
water Lake Cooper, near Rochester (Vic.), gulls and
pelicans are plentiful, although it is 140 miles from
the sea. This five-mile stretch of water is also a
favorite haunt of the black swan. Thousands at a
time can be seen at any period during the spring
or summer.
EVIDENTLY WHAT THEY MEAN BY
“THE THIN RED LINE."
JONES: “Hullo, old man, I can see you're
hack front the Front!"
BILLJIM: “Good Heavens, I didn't think I
was as thin as that!"
“D.F.”: Certain coast tribes of the
Northern Territory do not seem disposed to die. out
as the inland tribes do, and that is doubtless the
effect of the Malay blood that is in them. As the
Malays' have probably been visiting those coasts for
centuries, it would be very strange if .there had not
been considerable fusion. The strength of . the in-
fluence is shown by the fact that the
coast natives for hundreds of miles east
of Port Essington speak the Macassar
1 dialect of Malay, or did a few years
ago. The Malays from Macassar and
elsewhere in the Celebes seem to have
had pretty much of a monopoly on these
coasts till the white men shut them out.
It was Macassar men who manned the
six proas which Flinders found at anchor
in Malay Road, the English Company’s
Islands, in 1802. Flinders had a Maiay
cook on the Investigator, and through
him Robert Brown, the botanist, learnt
something about the Malays’ voyage-
information preserved in a letter to
Banks. These proas were part of a fleet
of 60 which had come trepanging. Each
proa had a crew of from 20 to 40. The
trepang were got by diving, mostly in
from three to 10 fathoms. It was pre-
pared much in the present-day fashion,
by parboiling it, drying it in the sun
and finally smoke-drying it. There were
two kinds, the black and the white, the
former worth 40 dollars a picul (not
quite 800 dollars a ton) and the latter
20. Probably the blackfellows used to
work for the Malays at trepanging then as they
certainly did later, when they were paid mostly in
rice and arrack. Even a few years ago it was not
unusual to find abos. on the coast, especially women,
who had made a trip to Macassar with the proas.
* * * *
“Cape Pork”: Binghi believes that trees
have the same senses as himself. Whilst felling
timber with me in the Evelyn Scrub a “boy” was
about to give the coup de grace to a large yellow
walnut. As it took the last strokes of the axe the
tree gave out a peculiar squark and began its
descent. Binghi turned to me with a pained expres-
sion. “My word, that phella no like die. Plenty
hurt’em, me tink. No good him sing out, sing out
all time.” When the first timber was felled in this
scrub, which is a continuation of the Atherton, the
nigs put in a very forcible protest, and a few met
an untimely end for defending their kai-kai trees
from being slaughtered.
“Eddyson”: Gilmore, of Sweetwater, had
five daughters, two of them twins, and only four
years divided the others. They were all fair, all
plump and blue-eyed, and not distinguishable from
each other at more than 12 paces, while the twins
were not distinguishable at all to strangers. De-
spite the extent of his family, John Gilmore did his
best to discourage suitors, and
the eldest girl had reached 25
without succeeding in holding
a boy long enough to secure
a definite proposal, mainly the
result of her papa’s reluctance
to limit his supply of cheap,
efficient agricultural labor.
Then came Handbury. Hand-
bury was a sturdy settler from
over Gridiron Hill, and he had
met the Misses Gilmore at
Litchfield’s and made up his
mind right away that one of
them was to be his. He did
not seem in a hurry to decide
which, and meanwhile offered
his attentions to the handiest,
with old Gilmore always hover-
ing in the immediate back-
ground, at first with a loathly
expression, but later with a
plain hoe or an axe-handle.
Will Handbury narrowed his
choice down to the twins, and
was a persistent caller in de-
fiance of the stern father’s
vigorous opposition. Then
came the elopement. Hand-
bury chanced along with a
two-in-hand in the early even-
ing, grabbed Lucy in the dusk,
loaded her in the trap, and
made off. Gilmore followed
in a buggy, wild with rage
and bent on blocking the wed-
ding, Lucy being still under
age. He came up with Hand-
bury at Paisley just before
midnight, young Lochinvar’s
wheel having shed a tyre, and
there was a fierce hand-to-hand
encounter, the ardent lover
seeing no reason why he should
not beat the hide off his pros-
pective father-in-law if he were
able. Handbury licked the
elder man after a hard fight,
turned his buggy turtle in
the gutter, and resumed his
flight. Gilmore was still at Paisley when Handbury
drove back an hour later. The young man drew up
beside Gilmore, and handed out the weeping girl. “1
suppose we’ll have to have it all over again, Gil-
more,” he said “B—d if I didn’t get the wrong
twin !”
* * * *
“U.P.”: I don’t know whether the fox
turns up his nose at crowmeat or not, but this I
do know —he has a greater variety of tastes than
any other animal in these parts. He’s a glutton
for fruit, he’s keen on mice and even frogs, and
beetles he considers a fine appetiser. Fish are a
favorite dish, but being a blundering sort of fisher-
man he doesn’t often get a fill of that delicacy.
Rabbits, ’possums and nearly every kind of bird are
included on his menu, and honey is anpther specialty
of liis. He works on the beehives at night, overturn-
ing them and lapping up the contents.
Marie Pitt finds the Brocken: —
I met it in the Tasmanian West Coast mountains.
It was a world of strange happenings, that land
above the clouds: a world where, to the newchum
at least, any impossible thing might happen at any
time—and usually the unexpected .did happen. A
distinctly uncomfortable place from more points' of
view than the merely physical one; for even the
winds among the glacier-torn spurs talked with
strange tongues, and the silence shrieked at one
like a v'hole Inferno-ful of • lost souls. Birds there
were none save blaok jays and, once in a while, a
screeching pack of funereal cockatoos. Animals
except the hyena and big tiger-cat kept well away.
It was an extra-bad place to get the jim-jams in*
yet one couldn’t help a feeling of understanding
sympathy with certain desperate souls who on
occasions sought variety in their fantods by going
on a wild burst at Bardy’s pub.
I was just beginning to plume myself on being
acclimatised to the district —had got over the worst
of my attacks of “jumps” when the off-shift fired
somewhere down in the gut of the mountain, and
everything movable in the humpy danced and
rattled in protest—and had even got on friendly
terms with an uncertain sluggish rumble that used
to Wander round the ribs of the range like an un-
canny echo, when I saw it —and had a relapse.
There was bronchitis at home and the linseed gave
out; nearest supply was at the pub-store already
mentioned —half a mile, and the creek to cross, and
take it or leave it. I didn’t care too much about the
trip at that hour of the night, but one takes things,
as they come in that country, or else one keeps away
from it; hysterics are considered bad form. So, oil-
skin buttoned up, cap pulled down, lantern burning
a bit smokily, I kicked the light snow from the steps
and plunged down the deeper drifts to the track.
The bushes on either hand were ramps of snow that
showed queer shifting shapes and shadows in the
lantern light, and overhead was a weird combination
of black snow-sky and slowly drifting fog-bank. The
store seemed an infernally long way off, and more
desirable than much fine gold was the fire on one
hearthstone and the light in one humpy window.
Hut needs must; there was a sick man behind and
the linseed had to be fetched.
I tried to think of great things, brave things
don’t-care-a-hang things. Then I thought of a savin-
we had “If you feel bad, whistle!” I whistled—veiv
badly, it is true, but I did whistle, till a soft slide
on a tilted grasstree cord, a scramble, a futile
attempt to recover, and I was down and the lantern
out. 1 lighted the lantern again quick-time (even
a lantern light was company there), snapped the
catch close and involuntarily looked up to see what
black thing was coming down on me. I didn’t move
any more ; I just stared, every nerve pricking, even-
vein a thread of ice, at a gigantic shadowy hand
hovering, cupped, over my head, a great shoulder
heaved high against the hillside and a mighty head
towering up to the zenith.
One age-long moment of sick terror; then the
blood tore back to my heart and my brain raced,
seeking a sane solution. The fingers of the great
hand were tremulous. I could only die, and I didn’t
mean to die unnecessarily. I waved the lantern
desperately in experiment. It was a bow at a
venture, but it hit the mark. Formula: One black
snow-sky, one moving fog-bank, one human shadow;
to these add one common lantern. Result: One out-
sized Brocken and a memory that will last a life-
time.
‘‘Leo Lear” : No one can accuse me of
being out of sympathy with our native birds, so
I want a word on the rabbit-poison question. For
three weeks 1 have been using strychnine and apples
in South-West Victoria, laying out the bunnies in
hundreds. I have not seen one dead bird near the
poison furrows, and this is a district extra-rich in
feathered life, both water-fowl and land-birds. By
the way, can any professor tell me the why and
wherefore of cutting an animal’s car to cure strych-
nine poisoning? Lately, we poisoned four sheep.
Two died; the ears of the other two we cut, and
they recovered.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: Badu Island, Torres
Strait, is noted for its cats. A Persian puss that
strayed from a ship years ago apparently mated with
the local wild feline, the result being the distinct
type of to-day. The male is a black and white, not
unlike artist Souter’s cat. The female, in whom
alone the Persian strain shows, has a thin black-head,
reddish body and a heavy red fox-brush tail. They
are very affectionate animals, but they die of cold if
brought further south than the Barrier Reef.
“Riverina”: Given a fair chance, the
average juvenile Binghis assimilate knowledge almost
as readily as their white contemporaries. At the
bush school I attended several black kiddies were
on the roll, and they were far from being the dullest
scholars. A station book-keeper offered to teach the
elder blacks reading and writing. The crowd enthu-
siastically agreed to learn and alphabets and school-
books were procured. In a few weeks progress was
so rapid that those abos. were taking papers—
mostly illustrated weeklies.' Some of those scholars
were over 50!
EARLIER STILL.
LIZ: “Wot a long time we’ve known one
another, Bill! We learned to read out
of the same book at school."
BILLS “Why, we learned to milk the same
cow!”
“Gagi”: “Jim Carew” (B. 29/l/ ! 20)
quotes a Centralian native burial custom of seeking
animal spoors on the grave of a dead warrior.
Northern abos. have something similar. When a
big abo. dies a dingo is caught, tied to the
grave and deeply gashed about the rump.
If by the morning the victim’s friends and
relations have smelled the blood and demolished
him, the dead man’s evil spirit is disposed of for
good. As the Northern dingo is always ready for
a feed, not many abos. miss the ’bus to a neaceful
eternity.


V
/
y
-<y j
,yr
r
\ i
v
s>-
y 3
V/
\
t
\
»//
1
as:
>.>•*
HERE’S what you see! A brown riband of road ahead—a swirl of dust behind.
Being a passenger and free for observation, your attention is quickly drawn to
the violent chattering movements of the front axle and steering rods, which, as
the road inequalities are pounded over by the front tyres, rock about at all sorts of
angles. The flexing of the front springs is so rapid that you marvel that steel was
ever wrought to withstand such stresses. A glance backwards intensifies your admira-
tion for the handiwork of man. A mass of metal is rushing forward, borne by a set
of tyres—created of cotton and rubber. The chassis frame is comparatively steady,
but not so the springs, wheels, axle and differential casing, for they are alive with move-
ment, doing their work of damping down the vibration before it reaches the frame.
How the light strips of steel in the springs can stand up to such terrific work is
astounding. The solid-looking differential casing and axle covering is jumping tip
and down* in a startling manner, with one wheel often off the ground, but, notwith-
standing all this barbarous treatment, the driving shaft—flexing in its universal joints—
transmits the engine power with a slight purring noise through to the Australian-made
DUNLOP TYR
on the driving wheels. That cotton and rubber can withstand such action—carry a
heavy load, and then transmit to the road surface, through a 9 or 10 inch section of the
covers, the necessary propelling force to drive over a ton weight at high speed up hill
and down dale for thousands of miles over varying road surfaces—is well-nigh incred-
ible ; in fact imagination can hardly grasp the tremendous forces at work to rend the
tyres to pieces at point of road contact. What an object lesson such a drive is, and
what a demonstration of the brutal treatment that the tyres are subjected to! You
may think this an exaggerated account of a run, but it’s not so, for while you are flying
along the road in comparative quietness and comfort, the mudguards and running boards
mask all the violent movements that are so essential to pleasant motoring. To-day
there are tens of thousands of Dunlop Covers and Tubes demonstrating to their owners
that these dependable Tyres stand up to many thousands of miles of the treatment
described—giving remarkable service at an economical figure, and running month
after month, without the slightest trouble. It’s their quality and workmanship that
makes this possible, and—taken in conjunction with their reasonable price—accounts for
their great popularity amongst motorists. When you desire such tyre satisfaction, with
economy, you can secure it at any Agents per medium of our “Railroad ” or “Grooved”
covers, and Dunlop heavy-weight laminated tubes - all obtainable in popular sizes.
* * ¥
NOTICE TO CAR OWNERS.
If you have not received a copy of the Dunlop Motor Tyre Price
List, issued February 16th, 1920, we shall be pleased to mail
you same upon receipt of your name and address.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne
27-33 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney
268-274 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
103-105 Flinders Street, Adelaide
67 King Street, Perth
53 Cameron Street, Launceston
69 Liverpool Street, Hobart
Also at Wellington, Christchurch
and Auckland, N.Z.


S 7/ /
-
WkwMzXbv ,;?
jft<JV!l!jyio^
CORSETS
Health the
First
Requisite of
Beauty
That elusive charm we call
“style” is simply a correctly
poised body induced by a
correctly designed and fitted
corset.
Every Gossard Corset is
hygienically correct. If pro-
perly fitted to the figure for
which it was designed, and
carefully adjusted each time
it is worn, it will mould that
figure to the ideal propor-
tions of its type. It will give
a priceless all-day comfort.
It will safeguard the wearer
against those bodily ail-
ments that are often the
result of improper corsetry.
It will render a wearing serv-
ice that alone is worth the
price paid for the garment.
Gossard Corsets are easy to buy because of the exact
science with which they are designed for the needs of
the various figure types. Their proper purchase merely
means that thoughtful care you always give to matters
of importance.
Adjusting a Gossard is simplicity itself. It is so simple
as to admit of no excuse for neglecting that daily adjust-
ment by which alone the full benefits and service of the
corset may be realized.
Every Gossard Corset represents complete corset
economy regardless of its price. No woman is so poor
she cannot afford a Gossard. No woman is so rich
she cannot afford to practice true corset economy.
You can be fitted with a Gossard especially designed
for your type of figure at anv of the leading stores listed
below.
AUSTRALIA.
Farmer & Company, Ltd., Sydney.
\V. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. G. Robertson, Ltd., Lismore.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd, Melbourne.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat.
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane.
•L W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Kockbamp
ton.
Crammond & Stark. Toowoomba.
Carroll’s. Townsville.
James Marshall & Co., Ltd., Adel
aide.
NKW ZEALAND.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd., Auckland.
J. liallantyne & Co., Christchurch.
I). I. Christchurch.
I). 1. C., Wellington.
George & Kersley, Ltd., Wanganui.
Lewis’ Ltd., Invercargill.
Herbert, Haynes & Co., Ltd.,
Dunedin.
J. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
TASMANIA.
Brownell Bros., Ltd., Unhurt. Ludbrooks, Launceston.
The H. W. Gossard Co., Inc.
TORONTO
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
CHICAGO NEW YORK
BUENOS AIRES
Made in the
United States and Canada
/7 K'efl/’ 7
(jossara
CORNETS
r/iqyLace In Front
Worn with Health and Comfort
by JVomen the World Over
interpreter when Ah Hop is fined for run-
ning a fan-tan “joint.” The yellow gentle-
man speaks better English than the prose-
cuting attorney. He bears himself like one
of the knuts. He lives like any ordinary
Australian who is fairly well-to-do. But
does he think like an Australian? Or like
a Chinaman? The answer is easy. Up to
a certain point all peoples think alike —as,
for instance, within that region where cere-
bral activity is the result of physical stimuli.
The difference between staying out in the
wet and keeping dry is as clear to Henare
as to Augustus Plantagenet or the Rajah
of Bhong. But a man can no more shift
himself down from the culture stage of his
race, or leap suddenly up from the cultural
cellar to the roof-garden, than could an
individual born of aboriginal parents in the
Gulf country become an Eskimo by merely
changing his address. The presumption is
all against such a physical feat, just as
psychological facts are in opposition to the
fundamental inversions of type with which
Will Lawson imagines himself familiar.
How does be know a man “thinks Maori,”
anyhow? That would only be possible in
the case of a pakeha if he (1) forgot how
to think like a pale-face and (U > could
exterminate the influence of centuries of
heredity, for the cultural stage of the Maori
when he made contact with the European
was a long way behind that of the Britons
when J. Caesar called in. Take Kimbell
Bent, who lived like a Maori among Maoris
for over half a century. That old hard-case
knew what Maoris thought about some things
and learned to agree. His safety depended
on adaptation to an aboriginal environment.
But he thought like a pakeha, because his
mental horizon was wider, bis grey matter
more responsive. 1 suppose Elsdon Best and
Alfred Grace are the two most accomplished
Maori scholars among pakehas. But it
would be as wildly absurd to say either of
them “think Maori” as to allege that Stig-
gins thinks like Paul of Tarsus.
Incidentally. Will Lawson ought to get
Jimmy Carroll to check over the list of his
acquaintances who “speak Maori.” 1 know
hundreds who can talk English translated
into a sort of Maori, but that is not talking
Maori or anything like it. As a matter of
fact, the Maoris are forgetting their own
tongue and talk a lingo- that is Maorified
English, reflecting the penetration of new,
alien ideas and with it changed thinking—
of advance towards a cultural stage that is
not Maori, whatever it may be.
Lawson is right, about slang. A
man or woman who speaks slang thinks
that way. But this does not mean that the
diction of “The Sentimental Bloke” is that
of the rabbit-oh. Dennis’s slang is an arti-
fice a translation of literary English into
terms foreign to the ideas of those whose
mouths he puts them through. Apart alto-
gether from the merit of the performance,
would it not be as legitimate to make Bill
Smith, butcher, philosophise in hexameters
over the porker he w r as tearing the entrails
from?
WAHINI-NUI
What Are Thoughts Made Of?
“Nathan F. SpielvogeJ” (Red Page
2b/2/’2O) says we visualise the object of
our thoughts in a given instance, and not
the word used in a language to describe
the object." I am convinced that when I
think of a dog the actual word is focussed
• m eye as well as the animal
itseit. But with this reservation, that the
word conveys to me any dog (unless you
name the variety). You can get a very
sound idea of my contention if you happen
to be bi-lingual. When- you are speaking
m, say, English, you think in English.
But suppose you are speaking in French,
then if you are speaking naturally you
must of necessity think in French also.
There is no other possible way of speak-
ing a language fluently. Surely this must
prove that the word is visualised.
OWEN MORGAN.
Maeterlinck
It looks as if the fading of Yeats into the
metaphysic mists with the wraith of Tagore
had resurrected a subconscious literary habit.
Here is Maeterlinck, in Mountain Paths,
writing of spiritualism, the purposes and
hopes of the dead, and the activities of
Tibetan contemplatives as the keepers of
the soul-destinies of all and sundry bodies,
whether in Redfern or in Singapore. The
world is divided into initiate and uninitiate.
Reincarnation and the bypaths of wanderers
awaiting reincarnation, their messages and
advice to us, their direction of the “incom-
mensurable sidereal force” and other eclectic
matters, are the pre-occupations of the ini-
tiates. And flesh and blood are apparently
still those of the uninitiate.
As a science, labelled and solemn, I don’t
think much of it. It looks to me like a
thing with a name and nothing else. Men-
tal telepathy and auto-suggestion are parts
of it out of which quite a number of vaud-
eville artists and chemists make a wood
living. I don’t know that they call them-
selves initiate by reason of tlieir industry or
their talents; perhaps if they were as well-
educated as Maeterlinck they would do so.
But .1 do know that the initiate cult is
rubbish. The nature and mind (or the
soul) of one man are different from those
of another, much as one man is a bottle-o
and another Henri Bergson. A noticeable
external difference is the better manners of
the bottle-o; he doesn’t try to force the
whole earth into membership of his initiate
craft. No man knows better than the nrac-
tised literary artist that most of his telling
expression “gets over” by auto-suggestion of
the reader, as much of his dramatic power
comes from essential mental telepathy. That
doesn’t make him initiate and his audience
uninitiate; it only makes one man Novalis
and another an indent agent. For its
existence it presupposes something of Novalis
in the indent man : which disrupts and dis-
organises the classification ultimately.
Mrs. Patrick Campbell, with a good
“Second Mrs. Tanqueray” to her credit and
a bad Juliet in the other column, says that
her favorite part is Mdlisande, which is con-
sistent : Mdlisande combines the Mrs. Pat
qualities of Juliet and Mrs. Tanqueray. It
is most skilful work. In a frail setting of
medieval, pre-Rapkaelite ornament, modern
problems are stood up in flesh and blood for
modern audiences; and in complete freedom
from the pre-Raphaelite religious chains, con-
ventionality of thought and lifelessness of
diction. \ou get in consequence a fairy
play, written by a consummate literary
artist in net simplicity of style, full of a
modern neurotic color of half-felt desires,
inexpressible thoughts, miseries and joys all
as background for the exciting triangle.
The same combination of skill and sincerity
presents “The Blue Bird.” It is direct
work, conceived, perhaps, in fantastic
allegory ; but the truth of it is so real that the
fantastic is forced into its proper place of
ornament only. Even the occasional self-
conscious ingenuousness of Tyltyl, which is
literaril.v the falsest of false notes, makes a
consistent place for itself in the slightly
self-conscious play.
Literarily speaking, I expect Maeterlinck
is an essayist and not a dramatist. In the
essay lie brings, in translation and original
a clear poetry to his reader, not thin or
self-conscious or in the least fantastic. “Wis-
dom and Destiny,” “The Treasure of the
Humble” and this last Mountain Paths all
contain poetic essay-work of full imagina-
tion, fascinating style and a charm, both
for the critic and the general reader, a charm
that will not for many years be silent.
Maeterlinck has the priceless gift of tin-
ability summarily to force his atmosphere on
his reader by the sincerity of his three open-
ing sentences; his subject is never thin or
stale before the reader grasps it fully ; and
the reader is never tricked by a colorful
opening into reading matter interesting only
to Maeterlinck. The criticism that he is a
dealer in semi-tones is as unfair as the critics'
early pet name of “the Belgian Shakspeare.”
The semi-tones apparent in the work are the
common loss of translations, however well
they are done; a French phrase or colloquial-
ism almost always loses some life in trans-
position into English. “Grace” is the word
most often in the critic’s mind in the first
reading of the Maeterlinck essays; grace of
thought and presentment; essential grace of
the author’s mind which writes, as impor-
tant, the graceful thoughts; and grace of
the utterly facile style. By grace of sin-
cerity he can make “The Life of the Bee”
as absorbing as a best seller, as easy and
companionable as an interesting, cheery
essay on Death.
In 1911 lie got the Nobel Literary Prize;
in 1914 he went further and got put “on the
Index,” which, as he said, was “semething
quite unimportant.” There was no cult in
his sparring matches with Carpentier at
Ghent, and there is no cult that I can see in
any of his work up to now. There are
snirits and ghosts, of course, and all the
props of romantic tragedy; but I think thev
are only props. Anyway, it is a sickening
thing if he. too, falls from grace. No-
body is initiate (I can’t think that Maeter-
linck wants me to tell him this), and no-
body is uninitiate. We follow different oaths
leadmg to the same end, and we are all blind
until the end. The travellers on one path
call out their warning or encouragement,
their greetings or curses, to those on the
others, who are different, but just as blind.
FRANCIS BRIEA.
The Inky Way
Charles Thackeray, amongst the best
known of Sydney pressmen, is getting away
from the metropolis to run a paper in
Wagga. As “Wobbegong” he has for years
chronicled the big snapper and the curious
shark, and how many fish Messrs Drink-
whisky and Waterwithit caught at Cowan
Creek, and is generally known as the fish
expert amongst pressmen.
“Yal" : I cannot here in India get any
Australian papers except a certain red-
covered weekly', and, in consequence, most
of my news comes from the London Times.
I have six copies before me now and the
only references to my homeland are:—-
One about Australian troops throwing a man
overboard.
One about Ryan’s unemployment bill.
Three about strikes in various parts.
One about Broken Hill men being on strike for
six months.
Three about a severe drought and stock dying
and stations abandoned.
One about a “revolution” at Port Darwin.
One about blacks murdering settlers.
Two about riotous crowds of soldiers at Billy
Hughes’s meetings.
Not one good word about anything! Can
you wonder at a distorted notion of things
Australian being prevalent in this country?
It is a pretty hopeless task trying to cor-
rect the trend, of opinion, there being never
a presentable item in the cables about which
I can expatiate to the Commonwealth’s
advantage.*
. “Country Ped”: Edward S. Ellis, men-
tioned (B. 22/l/’2O) as the writer of 61
American boys’ books, was born in 1840. and
was for some years a school teacher. Later
he held a position similar to that of an
Australian inspector of schools. While hold-
ing the latter job he wrote various school
histories. In 1876 he resigned, and having
made a study of boys’ and girls’ literary
tastes, began writing adventure stories. He
uses liis books as a medium for imnrovinsr
his readers’ knowledge of the ereogranhy and
history of W ilsonland. The Vic. Education
Department selected for its sunplementarv
readers abridgements of two of his books.
?. R. Lysaght, an Englishman who has
written, poems, and novels and is remembered
as having sojourned in Sydney years ago.
gives London Times a long letter on his
visit to Stevenson at Vailima not long before
ILL.S.’s death. Incidentally, lie say’s :
We had had much discussion about rhythm,
especially as to a tendency towards subtler and less
regular rhythmical effects. He was disposed to
think that in English verse the career of the regular
and well-marked metres was almost conrdev, and
that the poetry of the future would find expression
in more complex harmonies. He cited the work of
Mr. W. B. Yeats (whose poem “The Lake Isle of
Innesfree” was then a notable instance of the case
in point) as an achievement in this direction,
and he admitted that he had been attempt-
ing to tread the same path in some of his own later
verse. Such were the second of the poems entitled
“Youth and Love”—“To the heart of youth the world
is a highway' side”—and' that beginning “In tin
highlands in the country places,” and perhaps also
that most beautiful of all his poems, “Home no more
home to me,” where the music depends no less on
the actual rhythm than the right emphasis and
sympathetic pause. Indeed, I believe that if I
had not heard him read it I should have missed much
of its rhythmical beauty. His aim was towards a
greater subtlety of rhythm, a very different thing
from the abandonment of metrical restriction which
marks so many horrible productions in vers libre.


<9
%
O
A
%
*
6
Aft
Do You Want to
Save Some Money ?
Re-insulating a battery is about the
most expensive repair there is.
And there’s only one kind of battery in
general use that isn’t practically certain to
be re-insulated or junked—within the next
year or two.
That one exception is the Willard
Battery with Threaded Rubber Insulation.
df
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
df
STORAGE
BATTERY


mn
v'V
peictt/f
You will find fhe besf possible
advice fo SKeepowaers.
" CuteOKf&l.
jd^dttUpM / $&PW&4isP'.
BURNS AIR
df
g
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90*Air 10* Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wlclt I No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anvwliere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogtie No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
m
B.S.A.
rv.
a#n
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR ECONOMY
The money you spend daily on trams,
trains, and other conveyances, the
small items you are tempted to pur-
chase when walking, reckoned up for
the year, will give you some idea of
the economy practised when you decide
to purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings.
With a little attention and care, de-
preciation is practically unknown, and
long service has become one of the
outstanding merits of B.S.A. quality.
It will pay you to purchase a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings in preference to
a so-called cheaper bicycle, because
the reputation of years is upheld in
the quality of each individual fitting
produced.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR B.S.A. HANDBOOK FREE.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co., Ltd. I
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
mmmm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Svdne.v Agent:
K. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
“THE PLUG
THAT FLEW
TO AUSTRALIA.”
df
SEEKING SAFETY IN FLIGHT.
The day of individual ownership of aeroplanes is dawn-
ing for Australia. Already many private owners are
learning to fly. Take an important step towards
securing safety in the air by insisting that K.L.G. Plugs
are fitted to the engines.
K.L.G.
Plugs are made for every size and make of motor
engine. In the Car or the Aeroplane or the Motor
Launch they give unfailing and dependable service.
SIR ROSS SMITH
wired to us shortly after his arrival in Australia: —
“K.I.G. Plugs Used Throughout. Excellent Results.’ 5
We know of no higher testimony than this to their
durability and capacity for faithful performance under
heavy strain.
ASK YOUR GARAGE.
WHOLESALE ONLY:—
S. SMITH & SONS (M.A.) LTD.,
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. 109 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
ulll.'j?
Williams
Powder
The delicate fragrance,
cleanly comfort and
silken touch of—
William’s
Baby Talc Powder
must appeal to every
mother who takes pride in
the care of her baby. They
will appreciate the thrift of
the extra large package,
whilst the convenient hin-
ged cover prevents waste and loss
of fragrance, q Sold by Chemists
and Drapers everywhere. w 11
mi
Williams
8a by Talc
NET 0Z
l^aSsi E : ..".j&w-
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour 3lill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
HUB
23
.at 1 ?
■ , -J
S/xe F 4.
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Faint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Boiler Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. &
SPORTING NOTIONS.
George Giffen, still of Adelaide, continues
to interest himself iu the game that made him
famous. Three mornings a week during the cricket
season the veteran is up at six, coach-
ing- lads on the parklands south of the city. The
oldest pupil is the son of Walter, the brother whom
George once got included in an Australian eleven.
This lad, Boh, played for Prince Alfred College in
the last intercollegiate match. George bowls at
them and, if a faulty stroke is made, demonstrates
the right method by taking the bat himself. After
showing them how to make the stroke he bowls
similar balls until the idea is grasped. They are
also taught to pick out the weak points in the
field. The boys use old bats and other cricketing
gear which the veteran accumulated during his
many years’ association with the game. He is
now 60.
How well the old 'uns wear at cricket!
During the past English season Rhodes, now 42,
was the best all-rounder, making 1237 runs (aver-
age 34.36) and securing 164 wickets (14.42).
As far back as 1900 the same player headed the
averages. Woolley and Douglas, also well known
to Australians, were the next best all-rounders
and the only, two others to secure 1000 runs and
100 wickets. Hobbs had the best batting perform-
ance. He made 2594 runs and topped the century
eight times. Jack Crawford, who assisted S. Aus.
for some years and was the State’s mainstay when
it won the shield on the last occasion, is still
among England s best. He finished with a batting
average of 61 and took 20 wickets (average, 30).
Old .1. W. Hearne and Tyldesley have also been
doing wonders with the bat, and there are few
new names showing prominently in the averages.
* * * *
“Splinter”: Enter McConchies Cricket
Club for the family championship of Australia. It
is composed entirely of McConchies, all either de-
scendants or members of one family of eight brothers
which came from Scotland and settled in Victoria
in 1871. At present the membership is over 200,
and the representative eleven, which has been in action
since 1908, looks likely to carry off the Southern
Cross competition in Melbourne, an honor which
it achieved in 1911-12 and in ’l3-14.
* * * *
Boxing “fans” got a lot for their money
in old Van Diemen’s' Land. One of the earliest
regular punching matches at Hobart Town, a fight
between William Daniels and Robert Lee, in 1817,
for a stake of 60 ewes, is said by the sporting scribe
of the Ho baht Town Gazette to have gone for 84
rounds before Daniels, the favorite, threw up the
sponge. The go is described as the “hardest milling
ever witnessed in any part of New South Wales.”
The Sydney yacht Awanui 111., which won
the Northcote Cup in Melbourne, was sailed by
Saxton, her owner, an old and keen hand who
has always been skipper of his yachts. One of his
crew, Stan Stevens, also a fine yachtsman, was
credited from Port Phillip with having been in
charge of the Awanui when she got awav with the
big prize, but that was an error in dead-reckoning
and is hereby cleared up.
* * * *
“Camera”: At Bundaberg (Q.) a day or
two ago Geo. Buss, a local sport and sugar-mill
owner, made a bet that it was impossible for a man
to carry a 701 b. bag of sugar from the East End
Hotel to the post office, a distance of 14 mile. He’d
give the sugar to anybody who did it. Ten
started. The conditions were that no man might
lower the weight below his hips. In less than 20
minutes the winner landed home. Nine others
followed. One of them wanted to carry the lpad back
to the starting-place for a quid. There were no
takers.
* * * *
G.H.” : Two high-class London weeklies—-
the Nation and the New Statesman —hired G. B.
Pshaw and Arnold Bennett to “do” the Carpentier-
Beckett fight. Neither had any difficulty in explain-
ing that they. picked the winner as soon as the men
entered the ring; and Bennett especially wrote with
the air of a man who had followed the "game all his
life. Shaw’s - account of the brief disturbance was
the most entertaining. He reckoned that Carpen-
tier’s superiority was at once obvious; to the artistic
eye. “Genius,” he wrote, “could not be more un-
mistakable. Being in that line myself, I was under
no illusion as to genius being invincible After
the knock-out of Beckett the usual orgy followed.
Pugilists are a sentimental feminine species, much
given to kissing and crying. Carpentier was hoisted
up to be chaired, dragged down to be kissed, hung
out by the heels from the ring to be fondled by a
lady, and in every possible way given reason to
envy Beckett. As to the brutality of the affair,
Beckett was chatting to his friends over the ropes
without a mark on his face, and with £3OOO in his
pockets, before they had stopped kissing Carpentier.
There are many industrial pursuits more painful
and more dangerous than boxing. Many women would
let Carpentier knock them about for 20 rounds for
a pension of £l5O a year. The valid objection is the
old Puritan objection—‘lt is not the pain to the
pugilist, but the pleasure to the spectator, that
matters.’ ”
“D.” : God forbid that “one of the favorite
pastimes of the Light Horsemen on furlough in
England” should have been, as stated by “H.S.H.”
(B. 5/2/’2O), to “line the rails in Hyde Park and
exhort passing cavaliers to ‘Get off his neck’ and
the like”! Rotten Row is not and was never meant
to be a place for equestrian exhibitions. It is
i llegal to go out of a slow canter there; and no
one but Cockneys on liverv-stable screws and
foreigners so much as canter. The tan is laid thinly
on an iron macadam surface which is ruinous to the
easily-affected legs of the local horses. Exclusive of
those on hirelings, the Row is frequented chiefly by
elderly gentlemen (the Liver Brigade) who bump
round at a slow trot in quest of exercise; by children
who are learning to ride ; and by Society people who
go there to chat. Many of the men in the third
category are crack cross-country riders. Reginald
Ward, who rode Cathal at Aintree, was a habitue,
and I recently saw Percy Woodland, Hastings and
other famous jocks there. Anyone who had attempted
to give these men’s seats “a good reception” would
have been rightly regarded as an intrusive ass. But,
of course, “lI.S.H.’s” yarn is a lie and a gross libel
on the manners of the Light Horsemen, who were
anything but the blatant picture-show larrikins
that he makes them out to be.
* * It- *
“M.”: “We spent the day,” cabled Pro-
fessor Mitchell last week, “hunting jackals in the
desert.” (He is flying a Vickers-Vimy to the Cape
and was not far from Cairo at the time of his
enforced descent.) Jackal-hunting as staged for the
benefit of Europeans is about the biggest of Egypt’s
many crude swindles. The guide claims to know
where there are thousands. He leads the way to a
standing crop. The nearest village turns out and
follows behind. There is no jackal. Another village
joins the concourse. The noise is deafening. The
owner of the crop appears and demands 10s. as
damages. An advance is made on another crop. A
third village joins the throng. Suddenly a howl
goes up. A small yellow animal is seen creeping
through the sorghum or whatever it may be. There
is a fusillade. The fugitive drops. Yells and
screams of approval rend the atmosphere; men lexp
feet in the air, and women ;ttrd children sob. The
owner of the land presses forward and demands 10s.
as damages and £1 for the jackal. The guide
demands £1 for having found the beast, failing
which it is implied that he will suspend operations.
A fourth village appears over the edge of an adjacent
sandhill and a fifth is seen advancing in the distance.
At about this stage, usually, one of the villagers is
accidentally shot. This may mean anything from
£5 to £5O. Money does not always avail, by the
way. One sportsman winged a villager of some
standing in mistake for a jackal shortly after the
war began; and the self-invited audience set on
him and his friends and beat them to death.
(Continued on page 38.)


m
u
/X !•
I
i in I'li
5%
I
1,
l
9
l
'
/IS
5 m,.;
urss
sasi
|||IHH
The
DELCO-LIGHT
/S r dv^s r & JLaJbo**
P)ELCO-LIGHT is the LIGHT and POWER plant
you should install. It is endorsed by more than
80,000 satisfied users (1300 in AUSTRALIA and NEW
ZEALAND alone). The verdict of users is: —“IT
PAYS FOR ITSELF” in TIME and Labor saved.
DELCO-LIGHT pumps water for house and
stock. It runs the machines usually turned by hand.
It operates a vacuum cleaner or an electric iron.
It will run over 200 useful electrical appliances.
These are some of the ways in which DELCO-
LIGHT saves time and labor —pays for itself.
In addition to all of this DELCO-LIGHT gives you
plenty of bright, clean, safe electric light for HOUSE,
STORE or HOTEL. It brings city conveniences to the
country—increases efficiency —betters conditions —and
Makes the Home or
Business More Attractive.
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE.
SOLE AGENTS:
New South Wales WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd., 309 Kent Street, Sydney.
Victoria and Tasmania . . WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd., 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland SMELLIE & CO., Ltd., Brisbane.
South Australia PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
West Australia GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth.
New Zealand A. D. RILEY & CO., Ltd., Wellington.
FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
DELCO -LIGHT
MULTIPLIES MAN POWEiR
PAYS FOR ITSELF


df
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought be
millions of people foj
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
°’ ik and fine lisle.
df
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you.
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
ALTER
ATH R O
PTY. LTD.
■ 0 Yopk <?t.
SYDNEY.
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading Hotel.
ggSMM
a Starved
Skin That Gets
Dry and Rough
that gives you lines and
wrinkles before you
know it
CREME ELCAYA isthe ideal
treatment for your skin during
the day. Itisnon-greasy—just
a harmless cream that the
hungry skin absorbs.
Follow this simple formula —
*’A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all."
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non*greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skir like velvet.
Price 2/0 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Eleaya Face Powder, 4/0-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/0-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
264 Cl-trence Street, Sydney.
>'f/V
wMk
iff
m
w\
m
f|
Iff *s a&l
10 Hi* i
a®
m
m
sssoii
-
IW/^I^JV^
\ N
a
tVi
\\\%m
fWH
W
Vo.
0 » * l i
Your
Furniture
Is it smoky, finger
stained and dust-
catching? Has youi
gramophone, piano
and mahogany furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance?
It can be easily restored to its original charm and
beauty with
ft cleans and polishes in one operation—protects and
preserves the varnish—covers up mars and small surface
scratches—prevents checking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is a DUST PROOF POLISH.
It contains absolutely no oil and imparts a hard glass-like
surface which does not collect or hold the dust. It never
becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather. Apart from
polishing furniture, it keeps like new:
Floor*
Pianos
Woodwork
Motor Cars
Linoleum
Leather Goods
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is sold by all
good dealers. Go to your dealer today.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers. 379 Kent Street Sydney, N.S.W.
Ifc
H C
onnawo
-
- teiuSTRAUAN N»w6E®3
m jr~-
m
V
t»OAKM ntlBCVWif^Z
, flirt
Table Watery
CLEAR, COOL,
SPARKLING.
Contains Lime,
Soda, Lithia and
Magnesia.
Agents:
E. ROWLANDS
PROPTY. LTD.
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Killingworth Estate, the riverside squat-
tage wliich has landlocked Yea and pre-
vented its progress, has been acquired by
the Vic. Closer Settlement Board for soldier
settlement. Bent and Swinburne proposed
to submerge Yea by establishing an enor-
mous dam beginning at Trawool. While
kept in suspense the town languished, but
it is now reviving and the subdivision of
Killingworth will give it a fillip.
*** * "
“Lou” : The poor smiths who fix our teeth
must be feeling the high cost of living. As
a dealer in second-hand things I used to buy
a lot of “sets” for the platinum pins that
fasten the front teeth to the plate. Recently,
finding the precious metal up in price, I
hunted up this line again, but found that
many of them are now nailed on to the
plates with common black-iron rivets. Others
are fastened on with a mixed metal, very
much like the real thing, but not it.
* * * *
There threatens to be a slump in hop-
picking, a job which gives a good many
Hobart citizens a paid-for country holiday
every autumn. The Tas. Hop Growers’
Association has this season imported a
couple of hop-picking machines from Cali-
fornia, the first to be used in any country
outside U.S.A. The vines are cut down
and run through the machine, which takes
the “fruit” off. It is reckoned that one unit
with 30 or 40 men to run it will easily
take off 25,0001 b. a day, while it is a good
hand-picker that pulls off 2001 b. In fact,
it is alleged that in California a big double
machine has stripped 122,0001 b. in eight
hours.
* * * *
“Gleniris”: Four seasons ago the “spotted
wilt” began to take its toll of Vic. tomato-
crops: and the Government pest-experts still
confess themselves baffled. These things
being so, it seems strange that the same
Government should permit private vendors
to market alleged specifics for the bliarht.
The only remedies offering- any satisfaction
are: (1). pulling uo and burning the stricken
plant; (Z) spraying with a salt solution
(two teaspoons to a kerosene-tin of water) ;
<3y sprinkling dry sulphur around the roots
and applying sulphur to leaves. So far no
actual preventive has been found. The salt
and sulphur remedies leave the plant stun-
ted and the crops small., The best discovery
of the lot seems to have been that of the
grower who found that plants set out after
the middle of December were much less
likely to suffer from blight than those
planted to catch the market before Christ-
mas.
* * •» *
From the Consul for the Netherlands:—
In The Bulletin of February 19 a contributor
accuses Dutch planters in Java of “swindling” the
Australian importers “wholesale” by putting in com-
mon stuff in the “fine season’s” supply, and further
says that when one would be expecting first-rate tea
“rotten stuff” is being received. That these state-
ments are made by a person who will not disclose
his name makes one doubt their correctness, and I
think, therefore, that I should quote the opinions
of the leading tea importers in Sydney, firms of
high repute who do by far the bulk of the Java
tea trade, and who do not mind signing their names
to a record of their experience
(1) We do not for one moment agree with the
letter in question, as very excellent deliveries have
been coming forward.
(2) The paragraph is ridiculous in its assertions.
We thank you for your offer to help us to obtain
redress for any dissatisfaction which we may have
■in our trading with Java, but we have perfect con-
fidence in our Batavia agents, and are always able
to obtain full satisfaction for any complaints that
rise.
(3) As far as our business in tea with Batavia is
concerned, we have no complaints to make. There
have been adjustments regarding weights, but these
have always been settled in a friendly and business-
like way.
Of all the big houses I have written to there is only
one that has mentioned unsatisfactory methods, and
that only relative to packing and weights, the
“wholesale swindling” and “rotten stuff” element
being conspicuously absent. Incidentally, the
appreciation of the guilder does not benefit our
planters in the slightest, as in the Netherlands-
East Indies everything is being quoted and paid for
in guilders.
THE BAILIFFS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bailiffs who in parlous days
On t.p. couches sit
Are beaten in a hundred ways,
Or cheated when we flit.
Apologetic lips they own,
And shifting, beery eyes;
In humbie words they make it known
Their duty they despise.
They almost sob as all our goods
They note down carefully....
But Life rough warrant-men intrudes
Who lack apology.
The world is full of bailiffs grim;
Each day has got its “hum”;
And scarcely have we done with him
Before some others come.
The princedom of the babe they seize,
Distrain each childhood’s toy,
And sell for Life’s Realities
The joyance of the boy.
While yet the warmth of youthful years
Love's glamor holds supreme,
The bailiff of Dull Facts appears
To sell the lover’s dream.
And when man strives from life to win
An empire safe and stout,
Mean Old Age sends its agent in
To sell ambition out.
Full many bailiffs, too, has Death:
Mean fiends, with base intent,
To make distraint upon the breath
To pay the final rent.
1 know all these and cannot hate
The man my landlords give
The right to seize on my estate:
Like me he strives to live.
To mightier bailiffs he is prey';
And one may soon appear,
And, that he life's last debt should pay,
Distrain his taste for beer.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


NY" 1
InHil
J u
m.'
m mini
mm
imiiiimiiiiiHiniimmiimituimuimmi]
1)11 nli 1H If)
UUIM
i jk , ' / 'V ;- f ,
•'^v■"'■■'•"■■■' ' ' V ' ' ~.
rV//;/.Y/#vV.v7^
u V‘ ■■.;* ',
f /• . •■!
'' '
, '* |
:
MMMi
m.
m
mm
;*w
'
WiM
m
wm
m
rWtsil
■ m mm
mkm
mm
fs/M W/M
! i tm
v m
m
m m
m
m
m
m
m
f '
o^oo^ooo^
Wv.Y-Vr.’J wfcfcffwtif&rffc&iffh'. 1
iiSHp
JASCHA HEIFETZ-
His Master’s Voice
Some remarkable records
from the March List.
The new records by Jascha Heifetz bring
vivid realisation of the amazing virtuosity of
this youthful magician of the violin.
JASCHA HEIFETZ RECORDS
(VIOLIN).
2-07902—Dance of the Goblins (Scherzo fantis-
tique), Bazzini.
2-07961—Scherzo-Tarantelle Wieniavski
4-7938—Valse Bluette (Air tie Ballet).
Among other records in the March list:
02820—Somebody’s Waiting For Me,
Harry Lauder.
03651—Aloha Oe. (Farewell to Thee),
Alma Gluck and Orpheus Quartet.
02807—Lend Me Your Aid (La Reine de Saba),
John Harrison.
7-52095—11 Balen (II Trovatore),
De Luca (Baritone).
Ask for the com-
plete March List,
obtainable from all
accredited dealers.
The Gramophone
Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt St., Sydney
\
mm
' :
“CHAMPION” Road Machines
Are Cheapest in Cost per Year of Service !
On what basis are you going to buy your Road
Machine—by the pounds of cost or by the years
of service ?
In “Champion” Road Machines the manufacturers
insist on putting quality first. By quality, we mean
rugged, dependable construction, real operating
economy and all-round service.
A Road Machine must stand heavy strains, and the
ability of the “Champion” Road Machine to keep
on doing good work year after year counts strongly
in increasing your profits
All Spare Parts are Interchangeable
and are Always Available.
Write to-day for copy of our free list No. 13. It is a well-
illustrated 20-page Booklet which tells in detail all the points in
which the “Champion” Road Machine excels.
Among the features of importance are included
1. An all-steel frame of great
strength.
2. —All Castings under strain are of
special high quality, malleable,
to avoid breakages.
3. —A simple and very powerful
Blade-Lifting Device, for easily
lifting and lowering the Blade
without the use of catch, latch
or spring. Hand Wheels are self-
locking.
4. —A Front and Rear Side Blade
Shifting Adjustment, by which
the Blade can be shifted laterally
from 18in. to 24in. outside of the
line of the wheel.
5. —An improved Reversing device
for the Blade, operated by hand
wheel, in a convenient position.
6. —A Shifting Rear Axle, which
enables the operator to effectu-
ally overcome side-slipping.
—A Scraper Bar and Cutting Edge
of special high-grade Crucible
Steel, tough and heavy. The
Bar is hung from the ends in-
stead of from near the middle,
and a smooth, steady motion is
thus secured, ensuring an even
ditch. The edge is furnished
either in one full length piece,
or in three sections.
—An improved Front Coupling or
Fifth Wheel, which relieves
strain on the horses’ necks, and
is ideal for tractor haulage.
-An ,8-foot Blade, which enables
the machine to do more work in
a given time than any other Road
Machine. (Most other machines
have 7-foot Blades.)
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.,
Union House, 247 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.'
Collins House,
MELBOURNE, VIC
Union Bank Chambers,
BRISBANE, Q’LAND.


Mr. William Power
Tells How Cntictnra
Healed Rash
“A rash came on my legs and it
gradually worked up into my back and
w
neck and then to my face and
head until I v/as nearly crazy
with the itch and heat of it.
It came out in blotches and
the skin was very much in-
flamed. I could not keep from
scratching it; even in my
sleep I used to tear the parts
affected and my clothes used to stick
to my back.
“I then sent for a free sample of
Cuticura and after the first week I
noticed an improvement so I bought
some more Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment which healed me.” (Signed)
William Power, Ballieston, via Rush-
worth, Vic., June 22, 1917.
Clear the pores of impurities by daily
use of Cuticura Soap and occasional
touches of Cuticura Ointmentas needed
to soothe and heal. They are ideal for
every toilet and nursery purpose.
Soaptodeanse&nd Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
df
(Jke largest setting!
quality pencil in
ihevyorld
VENUS
V PENCILS
df
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
df
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you
GET THE GENUINE
PARIS GARTERS
EVERY TIME YOU BUY.
Imitations at any price cost you too
much.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers., A Stein & Co v Chicago.
USE
For
rkiftg
All Ilne/i
TO ENSURE PROTECTION
AND INDIVIDUALITY . .
CASH'S WOVEN NAMES are in
World-wide favour, through Quality and
Utility. Any name is woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Colour. Easily
sewn to any article or garment whatever
Fabric.
Be Sure and Ask for Cash’s Names
Prices —12doz. 4/6.6d0z. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
w«
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote yojj price for it.
& *
%
fw
3V-E
h
a
X
m:
%
a-.
<3
•3?
Mar®
s-v 7(9
Shipfs
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
COME Shirtmakers sacrifice qual-
ity for style,others style for quality
and still others comfort for both
style and quality.
C But the makers of THISTLE SHIRTS
sacrifice nothing. They make THISTLE
SHIRTS as Good as Shirts should be made
Ask for THISTLE SHIRTS
and learn what Good Shirts
really are.
Sold by all Leading
Shirt Departments
Ask also for
THISTLE pyjamas
Alexander Stewart & Sons
Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney
A.S. 6
■y*£2
r:
fl
Vi
YALE-
Home
Protection
When the natural protec-
tor is absent a mechanical
contrivance must take his
place.
For real home protection a
Yale Cylinder Night Latch can
not be surpassed.
There is only one way to un-
lock a Yale Cylinder Night
Latch and that is with the key
that was made for it.
The pin-tumbler mechanism is
the secret of its security and
there is no case on record of a
burglar having ever picked one
under conditions of actual use.
With a Yale Cylinder Night Latch on
your door malicious intruders are
barred out.
You can make certain by seeing the
trademark ‘Yale” on the product you
buy. It’s on every Yale Night Latch,
Padlock, Door Closer, Bank Lock, Chain
Block or piece of Yale Builders’
Hardware.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
Established 1868
New York
U. S. A.
;-y e *
CyaET) triplex blocks
Special features: —
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Smith, one of the recent appointees in
Queensland Upper House, ought to know
something about the tart-shop. For many
years he was a pieman. Now he is publican.
“8.1. D.”: At last Melbourne can get at
least some wild rabbits in something better
than the old filthy style. A benefactor has
conceived the idea of sending them to our
suburb in paper wraps. They cost a penny
or two more, but are worth it.
“Ox”: Lighting becomes increasingly
important for stage purposes. In a recent
production these words occurred in the
script
Slit Bhuce ( turning pale—this can be done by proper
lighting effect —and rising from his seat): ‘‘Bid
Inin enter and come to me here.”
The electrician did it, too.
Hobart Mercury has discovered another
“first white child born in Tasmania.” —
George Alomes, who has just been keeping-
up his 95th birthday. As a matter of tact,
when he arrived at Sorell in 1825 there were
white native-born youngsters coming of age.
Alomes has put in 72 years on the one farm
at South Arm and intends to go on living
there for some time.
Apropos the Yellow Pup's yelp that the
Scarlet Woman is insidiously collaring the
Legislatures, a count lias been made in Vic.
Of 18 Labor members in the Assembly and
four in the Council seven are said to be
Catholics, and only one of the lot is ever
heard of in connection with church functions ;
while among the Liberals in both Houses the
' tally is one, and he is the most unobtrusive
member of the Chamber of lied Plush.
Joseph Harris, who must be an octogena-
rian, thinks it’s time he relinquished some
of his work in Melbourne, and has asked the
Australasian to get somebody else to fill
its horticultural page. Harris was in the
Vic. Legislative Assembly from ISBO till
1904 except for a break of three years when
Foster Rogers beat him. As a side-line he
helps to run the coffee-palace next the Town
Hall, and his other hobbies are parks and
gardens.
Brander Matthews, writing on freak per-
formances of 8 links pea re, gives the bun for
lack of artistic perception to an early show
by George liignold. Taking a benefit at
Booth’s Theatre, New York, in 1877, he ap-
peared as Romeo, and had seven different
Juliets in the one performance. (Adelaide
Neilson, who did the balcony scene, is the
best remembered of them.) A “sorry
spectacle,” comments Matthews; “they were
false to their art. The performance was dis-
creditable to all who were concerned in it.”
It costs a passenger 2s. 6d. head-money to
land at Launceston when strikes do let him
get across Bass Straits to the Speck’s “front
door.” And now the citizens to whom the
Hobart Bumbles have leased their market
claim that by the terms of the lease they
have the right to collect a shilling on every
cartload of foodstuffs that comes into the
Speck’s capital whether it is sold in the
market or not! The Council doesn’t seem
to have meant to revive the octroi when it
had the brain wave about a market, but the
lessees say that the right is theirs under the
terms agreed on.
Judging from the proud report of chief-
constructor Curehin, Australia has now
either three or four steamships built in its
own Government docks and nine or ten are in
various stages of construction and contem-
plation. The I*, and O. runs 427 steamers
of about 2,500,000 tons, and Australia has
to get used to figures like that if it is going
to be independent of the foreign shipowning
profiteer. In a very ordinary year 10,000
tons of shipping is wrecked on the Austra-
lian shores alone, and probably three times
that much drops out through old age. This
suggests that after Australia has got its
fleet the building of 40,000 tons a year may
enable it to keep its fleet. If it wants to
improve its fleet more will be required. For
heaven’s sake let us postpone that railway
from Blanky Mountain to Boiling Downs,
”’”ch isn’t urgent, and build ships, which
are!
Taper shortage has reduced Hobart
World from eight pages to four. The
World’s burden on five days of the week
consists in trying to make 14 columns of
advts. pay for 42 columns of expensively
acquired reading matter; and unless the
paper secures an abnormal price for its
advertising, it is obvious that the Tas.
“comrades” who get the World for three-
ha’pence are on a much better wicket than
the mainland unionists who own the show.
Certainly there is the propaganda value; but
as Tas. had a dozen Labor members in the
Assembly 10 years ago, when there was only
a small weekly paper to barrack for them,
and the number at present is 13, it
cannot be said that the political achieve-
ment of the Labor daily is stupendous so
far. In fact, somehow or other a Labor
daily doesn’t seem to make much difference
to Labor’s political progress in any State of
the Commonwealth.
“Ancient Prompter”: Star mummers’
salaries have jumped upwards of late years
and no mistake! Just before Charles
Warner visited Australia he was being paid
£4O per week. It was considered a big
screw in those days. Performers of his
calibre would think nothing of asking five
times as much these times. Warner’s salary
became known because of the publicity
George R. Sims gave the star at that
period. Warner was leading man and
stage-director at the London Adelphi, and a
drama by Sims called “His Last Chance”
was put up. Warner did not care for the
piece, hated his part in it and took little
interest ih the production. It failed badly.
Sims accused him of killing the play and
in a piece he wrote soon afterwards (“Jack-
in-the-Box”) he had an incident in which
a travelling showman apologises to the
prowd for the indifferent entertainment it
>.as witnessed. “This ’ere ’igh an’ mighty
leading man, ladies and gents,” he explains,
“gets £4O a week and then walks through
’is part.” It was in “His Last Chance,”
by the way, that Warner went on in the
garret scene —-a starving docker, contem-
plating suicide—wearing a diamond ring.
“What is before me! Where can I obtain
the wherewithal to buy food? What—
what can I do?” he despairingly wailed.
Came an encouraging voice from the gods:
“Pawn your ring, Charlie.”


11 I
Hi
% :■ U
•:• '-liywMS?;
*!
*•»■*» '• c.’ lU3
:: -
jkmaM
■ ■
■wMI ai 11
’1"
t;
ib
■' > /. ....
■gw
-
‘'lfcur.-
■
> Wf
■p
: *
Ip®
3/;/
>; 1 *
■ *
v ! :
■
Great Emotions released by Perfect Technique
Fingers grown cramped from long disuse
find new skill in the Beale Player Piano.
Old favorites —abandoned for years on
account of technical difficulties—again make
their intellectual appeal. For the Beale
affords infinite capacity for intelligent
interpretation. It provides a perfect tech-
nique in a piano of unusual mellowness
but the actual result rests with you. Yours
is the interpretation- —as varied in character
as the number of times you may wish to
play it.
The better musician you are the more you ivill appreciate the Beale.
SHOWROOMS .
3 53 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
ililmiiMiHinffliHiwiiiiiiniiiiiroiM
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
FACTORY:
4‘-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
AN NAN DALE
BRANCHES N.S.W. Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle.
Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland: Queen
Street, Brisbane; Maryborough; Townsville; Rockhampton;
Mackay; Cairns. West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.


A. Saunders' solid silver ouue hook, tail auu urove nook,
complete in Velvet-lined Case, 85/-
iSSSiS
A. Saunders’ Fish Eaters, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, In
Velvet-lined Oak Case, Xylonite Handles, £5/15/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork,
Serviette Ring:, mire Silver-plated,
in Silk-lined Case, 30/■
Spoon and
A 1 quality,
CASED GOODS
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 8 pieces, plain design,
finest-quality Instruments, Velvet and Silk-lined Case, £6/10/-
bik
®as
.? ■
10
A, Saunders’ Cotnlination Case, comprising half-doz. Afternoon
Teaspoons, half-doz. Cake Forks, 1 pair Sugar Tongs, A 1 quality,
pure Silver-plated. 60/ -
SAU
j
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street ( ° p & a "?iBr y Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoons, in Case, pure Silver-plated
A 1 quality, 15/6.
Jam and Butter to match, 15/6,
ri,ii
• iY ;
I
1 .
r. io
3
a
f .V
SAY
*
A. Saunders’ Combination Case Teaspoons and Tongs, Butter
Knife and Jam Spoon, pure Silver-plated, 30/.
A. Saunders’ half-doz. Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver
plated, A 1 quality, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 42 /
Condensed
MILK
MAot m ’ AUSTBAUA ' !^*‘^cl
, S»j-P SWISS CONDENSED
0 M B«^ p .
~2ofiwji
K/
f o
enter
Nestles
Condensed
Milk


Missing Friends.
JOHN GAMBLE, born near
Londonderry, Ireland, lived, in Bruns-
wick, Victoria, about IS9O, worked at Day ,
Dawn, W.A., about IS!to. Information as
to the above, if dead or alive, required.
MARSHALL LYLE (Solicitor),
422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, '> ic.
' NOTICE.
\\7ILL MRS. MINNIE MeDOUGALL.
» » Wife of Frederick McDougall of
Collinsville, Tasmania, and a daughter of
Dickinson Grice, late of Richmond, Tas-
mania, deceased, or any person knowing of
Mrs. McDougall’s whereabouts, please com-
municate at once with
W. F. STEPHENS SMITH and IFE,
Solicitors, 140 Collins Street, Hobart.
Situation Wanted.
STEADY, sober man, 39, married, desires
change. 4Veil up in oils, fats, etc.,
including analysis. Splitting, distillation,
pressing, etc., also erection of any plant used.
At present assistant manager eight years of
large distillery in England. Best references.
Box 2521 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Situation Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the
position of GENERAL MANAGER of
a leading GENERAL ENGINEERING
FIRM in New South Wales, stating age,
qualification and salary required.
Applications by letter received until
Wednesday, April 14, 1920, addressed to
“PERSONALITY,”
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.
Government Notice.
NOTICE TnDER REA L DIM H’HRTY
ACT.
APPLICATION having been made to
bring the land hereunder described
under the provisions of the Real Property
Act, a Certificate of Indefeasible Title will
issue, unless Caveat be lodged in accordance
with the Third Schedule to the said Act on
ou or before the 20th August, 1920:-
No. 21,275 —APPLICANT: James Wil-
liam Forge, Burramine, Victoria. LAND:
Shire Coreen, parish Muhvala, county
Denison, 49 acres 2 roods, situate on Pad-
dock Lagoon, near Muhvala, being suburban
portions 1,2, granted to James Souther-,
wood, Janies Mcßae and William O’Bryan,
respectively.
Diagrams delineating these lands may be
inspected at the Land Titles (>ifiee, Sydney.
The Solicitors for the applicant are
Messrs. Hargrave and Lowers, Benalla, Vic-
toria, whose Sydney Agents are Messrs.
Vindin and Littlejohn, Solicitors, 14 Castlc-
reagh Street, Sydney.
W. G. 11. WILLIAMS,
Registrar-General.
20th February. 1920. 11(1221
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... IIUGII D. McINTOSH.
yIV O L I THEATBK, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 2.30.
THE REVUE OE SURPRISES,
BUZZ BUZZ.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
*|“l YOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
“AS YOU WERE.”
Prices as usual.
CK ITE IC IO N TII EA T IC K, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST NIGHTS. EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTMW
A Comedy Drama by Wiueliell Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
U E IC M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y II N K Y.
11 Direction J. G. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE REVUE OF A THOUSAND AND ONE
DELIGHTS,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. and N. TAIT
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
EMELIE POLINI
and All-Star Cast in
KINDLING.
A DRAMA OF TENSE INTEREST.
Box Plans Nicholson’s.
UNION I* ICTU It E TIIISAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
BRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continupus Sessions.
Amusements.
JlKiiliU l
Direction J. C.” WILLIAMSON LTD.
*|“'ll |C ATK 14 UO I A *'•
NEXT SATURDAY, mARCH 13.
j C WILLIAMSON LTD. present London’s Most
Successful Corned v,
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
Prices as ostial.
Plan at Allan’s.
7nG\S TII MAT It 14. MKLItO <u It N 14.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan's,
H
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOU RISE.
- . Also SYDNEY.
UK LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM FALX I'M in
THE MAN HUNTER.
SARA ALLGOOD in
JUST PEGGY.
Prices as usual.
Town hall, m e lboubn e.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 13,
also TUESDAY, 16th, THURSDAY, 18th (Matinee),
SATURDAY, 20th, mat TUESDAY, 23rd.
J. and N. TAIT present the celebrated
AI STIIA LT A N VIOLINIST,
DAISY KENNEDY.
Prices: 0/-, 5/-, 4/-, 3,'- anil 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
TH E N ,T 4 IT M 11 AI. L, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 13,
J. and N. TAIT PRESENT THE RENOWNED
BIG-GAME HUNTER,
HARRY IvAIGII EFSTICE in
MOVING PICTURES OF THE
AFRICAN JUNGLE.
Popular Prices. , Plan at Allen’s.
-|“HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIINDLE WAIvES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SUE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
WELLINGTON MARCH C TO 20.
gECOND TOUR OF THE DOMINION.
THE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY, including Miss
Frediswyde Hunter-Watts, in
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY
(Bv arrangement with Messrs. J. & N. Tait).
A TEMPORARY GENTLEMAN.
THE ROTTERS. THE RIVALS. HAMLET.
Artists desiring an engagement in Mr. Wilkie’s
No. 2 Company, which is now being formed for the
small thwns of New Zealand, are requested to apply
to the Grand Opera House, Wellington.
QLACI A 1U t M. MEL B O U K N K.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERYEV E N I N G,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON'S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/*
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
IYJA.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
in
THE ROAD THROUGH THE DARK.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD and SEI.ZNICK.
u
%
V,
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
!
iRROCKsTs'HORKOtKSES HORROCK.SES MORBOCWSfbl
%
<2P
&
Lonqclctfv>
THE. WORLDS
df
BEST VALUE
<0
SAee&nga
%
&
df
tS
Consult Us!
On Water Supply
and Irrigation.
We have a Large & Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Some Specialities of our own make are: —
Hercules Windmills. 1.8. C. Walking: Beam Pumping
Plants.
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.1i.C. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Beep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Bods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Trougliiugj and Water-raising.
Appliances of all kinds.
df
We have also good stocks of Ball Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
Black, Galvanised and Steam; “National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
Standard).
amt
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors, '
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street,
(Trams pass Petrie’s Bight.
near bv).
Works: Yeerongrpilly.
z
ROSS’ Celebrated
Racing and Field Glasses
are again procurable at the leading jewellers in each
large city throughout the Commonwealth. For years
past the British Government took the entire output
of the great Boss factories for Army and Navy uses.
“Boss” Binoculars proved in extensive tests against
all other makes of glasses to be the BEST, and so
were adopted, for the British Army and Navy
authorities.
They are retailed throughout Australia at Boss’
Catalogue English prices plus only duty and importing
expenses.
FAIRFAX g ROBERTS LTD
PLAIN FIGCBES—CASH ONLY.
Australian Agents for Ross Ltd.,
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Music Through d
Didmond
Mr Edison's
Secret
o
Most wonderful of instruments—
The NEW EDISON.
Mr. Edison achieved a wonderful success when he made
music’s reproduction possible—and achieved a still
more wonderful success in The NEW EDISON —which
has made Re-creation possible. Mr. Edison’s New Art
makes it absolutely impossible to distinguish the artist s
voice or playing from the Re-creation of it. This has
been PROVED by comparison to hundreds of thousands
of music-loving people.
Do not be satisfied
with mere reproduction.
With such a remarkable instrument available, you should not be
satisfied with an ordinary talking machine whose foreign noises and
harsh sounds will only prove a source of annoyance to you. With
the New Edison every overtone and shade of music is given its correct
value —nothing is added by the machine.
Write NOW for details of this unique instrument, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards ot lantr
and all Particulars posted on application
The Manager.
Wanted to Buy.
LD SILVER.— We wish to BUY any quantities oi
Silver for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney,
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the Br itish Empii
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every v 1 '
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alonej/c&
Cash Bonus Distributed for/1915 000 000
exceeded Jj y ’
Yielding Reversionary Auditions tc £i 7 q oi ooo
Policies of about • • •• ” £39’000,000
Accumulated Funds exceed •• " £5’500,000
Annual Income over /• '' n ,rtitiarv
The Society Transacts Every Class o O y
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEULY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Public Notice.
fp MKKYIN TREVOR wishes to com-
|_ in union to with me ray.Rddiess is
, VT i , \NIA CLUB IK) J EL,
Oxide Street, Broken Hill


(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management,
te or cull for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CABTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. '
e*
0OORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DI
Swift
t Ltd..
Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It js genuinely
welted—all ‘EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47 16 PAIR.
"EMBASSY” Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Passing Show of 1&*20.”
Criterion “Lisrhtnin’”
Palace “Kindling”
Tivoli “Buzz Buzz”
Hoyt’s .Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COM T NG WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
Royal “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
King’s “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt's Dk Luxe & Lyceum At-ving Pictures
Majestic M oving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Athenasum Moving Pictures
Town Hall Daisy Kennedy
Glaciariuai Dancing
—-—
Possibly it’s all a matter of practice. A
population that can knit socks for five
years, or become enthusiastic over six-day
bike races, or put up with Federal election-
eering .speeches for three months and State
dittoes for another three can pass any
endurance test. Hence a packed house at
Sydney Majesty’s on Saturday night waited
from 7.45 till 8.20 for “The Passing Show
of 1920” to begin the procession. And then
the show passed, except when it stood still,
until 11.45. Some of the house was for-
tunate, and had to leave early for
boats and trains. Also it took 22 scenes to
do what could have been done equally as
well in 12. Twenty-two scenes mean 20
intervals, which mean about 16 applications
of that gentle form of torture, the blacking-
out of lights over the orchestra.
* * * *
“The Passing Slow of 1920” is a
song-and-dance collection. Plot in it is
as plentiful as bones in blanc-mange.
Donalda-Ayer, the blackest-headliner, owns
a pleasing voice and some wonderful dresses.
In something that calls for acting she should
be a big success. But so far as this show
is concerned the house became more en-
thusiastic over Jennie Hartley, a vivacious
lady with a knack of knowing how to win
applause; and applause is second only to
salary. Phil Smith bobbed up in numerous
places and bobbed with success, though his
interpretation of Jones in “Taken Back”
was poor after George Robey’s similar turn
in London. The lighting and scenery, more
particularly in the dance items, were excel-
lent, and the dancing (the two Wards and
Maie Baird) very nearly approached first-
class. It is a gaudy show, with plenty of
music and bewitching costumes. It will be
a box-office winner.
“Lightnin’,” the Yankee comedy which has
been Sydney’s dearest theatrical lozenge for
months past, is - coming to its end at the
Criterion. “Last nights” are advertised, and
while there is nothing definite about that,
it’s a warning to dilatory citizens, amongst
them the Methodist Conference now sitting,
to go and spend a night with the good-
natured boozey Bill Jones while Bill’s at
the old address.
"MOTHER HUBBARD .” AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
Colin Crane in “Pipes of Pan."
“The Little Damozel” has to pack and go
from Sydney Palace on Friday. She was
an alluring wench, but there was never an
a.w. that didn’t come to the end of her
stock-in-trade sooner or later. On Satur-
day Emelie Polini will make a fresh start
in “Kindling,” which the Taits secured in
America. “Kindling” is billed as “a play
with a message,” and as Australia is, to
her cost, being given lessons every day from
America, this one may be worth studying.
“Buzz Buzz,” where the best girls are, and
which probably has the most showy stage
dressings that have been seen in Sydney, is
drawing good money to the Tivoli. Like
every other revue, it could be improved; but,
then, so could most other things.
Judging from the rally “Ginger Mick” has
been getting on the screens at the Sydney
New Lyceum and the Lyric this week, the
success of “The Sentimental Bloke” will be
eclipsed, and C. J. Dennis and those who
had the nous to screen the Bloke, Doreen
and the mob will not faint when the h.c.l.
wolf howls at the door. Raymond Long-
ford, the producer of “Ginger Mick” (as he
was of “The Sentimental Bloke”), has set
a main for Australian production; and Aus-
tralian production will give all competitors
something to think about before long. Other
prominent moving pictures of the week were
“The Isles of Conquest,” at the Crystal
Palace and the Strand, “The Firing Line”
at the Globe and Haymarket (an adaptation,
this, of R. W. Chambers’s story) ; and
“Almost Married” at Hoyt’s and the Picca-
dilly.
* * * *
Motionless pictures in Sydney:—
A show of 30 oils by W. Beckwith Mclnnes is
being held at the rooms of Gayfield Shaw. Mclnnes
has a confident way of handling his brush; his can-
vases are dexterous, almost complete athletic per-
formances in paint. Many are lacking in poetry and
inner vision, but their frank masculinity appeals to
one. One feels that
this artist realises the
joy of paint; and, up
to the present, any-
way, he is content to
let himself go with not
much reserve. His is
the work of a young
man, and it is good
to see him boldly and
vigorously attacking
and mastering his prob-
lems. One would like
to see a more patient
observation of fore-
grounds and a new out-
look in skies; but this
will come with
maturity. In the
present critic’s judg-
ment Gruner and
Mclnnes are our two
most promising paint-
ers ; both should go
far. Gruner is a poet;
Mclnnes a realist.
Gruner does not paint
—he feels; Mclnnes
paints like the Devil.
That’s the difference.
“Through a Silver
Sheen” is the largest
canvas in this show,
and if it were ex-
hibited in Australia
“The Passing Show
of 1920,” at Sydney
Majesty's.
Phil Smith in the
throes of seasickness.
House it would attract more immigrants (nice ones,
too) than all the talk the office could manage. “The
Silo’’ and No. 24, “Lucerne Farm,” are excellent
landscapes—strong and powerfully painted and
mellow in tone; also distinctive and quite different
in outlook from the other canvases. There are also
a number of small panels—finished performances in
paint with the true spirit of Australia. The sugges-
tion of blue hills and smoking bush fires is excel-
lently done, and the grey tone that permeates our
landscape is all correctly recorded. Melnnes’s eye
is unfailing.
* * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s “The Sleeping
-Beauty will have completed her last slum-
ber before this week’s Bulletin bursts upon
a grateful world. The Firm’s panto, is off
to Adelaide, and “Kissing Time,” from the
Royal, takes the place where fictitious paper-
hangers used to slosh whitewash around. The
change of stage will suit “Kissing Time,”
provided the musical conductor insists upon
the orchestra playing soft and low.
Melbourne Royal is to be occupied for a term
by “Tilly of Bloomsbury,” a comedy by lan
Hay, wherein a few newly-imported people
will be associated with many who are already
honorably known. Among these Mrs. Brough
is conspicuously mentioned on the bill.
A A Melbourne King’s the panto, that calls
itself Mother Hubbard,” and has only a
fragile connection with the Dawg that didn’t
get a Bone, will stay another week or two
before going on tour. These are the last
nights of Barry Lupino’s untender refer-
to Hubbard deceased. Next Monday
will be the 100th night, and souvenirs to
commemorate the occasion will be distributed
free of charge. Needless to say, they will
be handsome.”
* s£ & $
“As You Were,” with Vera Pearce restored
to the royal robes of a moderately Good
Queen Bess, continues to mark the flight of
Tune at Melbourne Tivoli. There is a moral
to ‘ As You Were”—a somewhat mixed and
muddled sort of moral, but it’s there. More-
over, it is soothing to womenkind. Australia’s
six Most Beautiful Girls can find comfort in
it, if they be built that way; yet they have
cause to complain of the advertisement which
offers a bonus of £25 to any warrior who
induces the loveliest girl in Melbourne to
come and challenge their pretensions.
Violinist Daisy Kennedy starts a series of
recitals at Melbourne Town Hall on Satur-
day. Also Harry Kaigh Eustace, the man
from Africa, makes his first appearance in
Melbourne. His story of the jungle, and the
carnivorous beasts that roam there, is illus-
trated by moving pictures of thrilling in-
terest. He will talk about them at the
Athenaeum Hall.
Another Melbourne picture show :
Charles Wheeler’s exhibition at Melbourne
Athenaeum shows a brighter promise in the landscape
section, but no corresponding brilliancy in figure
work. His least satisfying canvas reveals a conven-
tionally pretty woman sitting on a couch with one
lovely white hand posed theatrically at her throat.
The picture is entitled “Memories,” presumably be-
cause the lady is thinking of the numberless other
females who have been sat up similarly. “The
Cigarette” is a demonstration of the Bernard Hall
style of robbing a semi-nude of her importance by
over-painting her surroundings. “Clothilde” is
better, and “The Blue Gown,” affording further par-
ticulars of the same divinity, is a more refreshing
catalogue of feminine charms. The heavy portrait
of a soldier (No. 3) would be a masterpiece if
portraiture went by weight, whilst in the studies of
Turkish dancers- their flesh looks much weaker than
their spirit. Wheeler is more impressive in his
survey of scenery, architecture, crazes and customs
in England and half a dozen European countries. Some
of his London sketches, in which he presents the
changing wonders of an early Thames-side morning,
are greater in atmospheric delicacy than some of his
Cockney twilights. His tramps through the English
counties have also repaid him with some colorful
notes on the four seasons. The overworked simplici-
ties of Dutch canal life are repeated in several slick
little canvases, and snapshots of street scenes in
Toledo, Barcelona, Paris and London are evidence of
his dexterity in chalk. Opinions will vary over his
vociferant “Printemps” (exhibited in the Paris
Salon) and two or three other admittedly striking
canvases wherein his palette wins the high jump in
chromatic gymnastics. The most pleasing of them
is “Golden Hours,” but they are all infected with
French impressionism.
Bill Farnum, as “The Man Hunter,’’ has
doubled the queue at Hoyt’s paybox in Mel-
bourne this week. Bluffed into buying worth-
less oil stock, he sheds his boiled shirt and
civilisation, and, slipping into the uniform
of a Yankee “bad man,” starts trailing his
deceiver over two continents. The chase
ends in a lonely island, where Bill is robbed
of his r-r-revcnge through the schemer step-
ping into a chasm, but incidentally William
wins the gilded hand of an oil-lcin'g’s daugh-
ter. Dorothy Ashley shows up nobly in
another strong subject, “Forest Rivals,” and
Sara Allgood skips into view in the agreeable
part of “Pretty Peggy.” The Melba and
Britannia are both engaged in illustrating
the humanity of the Hun and the Turk. The
Melba gives Abdul his worst advertisement
in an Armenian atrocity subject, “The
Auction of Souls,” said to have been founded
on the story of one of the sufferers who plays
the leading part. The Britannia screens a
harrowing vision of the Hun submariners’
courtesy towards the crews of sunken
steamers. The film is alleged to be part of
the official history of the late U 35.
* # * *
The Eroni circus has dropped in at the
old Exhibition Grounds to enliven Adelaide,
which has been busy, in a dull way, with the
Agricultural Show and the sundries attend-
ing it. Also the Royal announces that it
will shortly drop pictures and get on to
pantomime. Frank Gorman continues to
sing at the Majestic, and on Sunday he
preached there for a change. The rest of
the bill —not on Sundays—is varied and
amusing. At West’s Mary Pickford shows in
“Heart o’ the World” ; at Wondergraph old
“Witness for the Defence” is finely filmed,
with Elsie Ferguson in it; and at the Pav.
Emmy Wehlen pla.va with “Fools and Their
Money.”
Adelaide dailies of 5/3/‘2O: —
Wanted, a Man or Woman, age no object, to sleep
all night in a graveyard. High pay given. Apply
Manager, Box .—, G.P.O.
The Bulletin tenders Moses. He has
slept thousands of nights in a graveyard
without any company whatever.
“0.L.”: Hosie’s ancient four-square pub
at the corner of Flinders and Elizabeth
streets in Melbourne has been sold to
James Richardson, who runs the Exchange
Hotel and Caf6 Frangais, and is chiefly
remarkable for the fact that he has always
excluded barmaids from his business. A
section of the community holds him in high
regard because he is the one city beennan
who kept the prices down, to the rage of
his fellow-Bungs, when they began to soar
early in war-time. The original Hosie made
his financial start with the Old Scotch
Shop, in the days when tea-rooms and light-
luneheries were few and far between in
Melbourne. A second-generation Bruce
married a Hosie daughter and went to keep
a shop in Kyneton, whence he presently
emerged to take a share in what is now the
mammoth firm of Paterson, Laing and
Bruce.
A parade of the new company:—
Some of the new hands in the Reps, show a deva-
tating fluency. Lavelle, a partially-bald Laborite who
displaced Pigott for Calare, has an enormous flow
»f language and delivers it in the manner of an
ecstatic parson. Last week he poured forth a long,
effortless discourse that seemed to drip lubricating
oil. Labor has acquired a couple of Methodist
preachers in Gabb and Makin. and both of them
talk with their minds on the plate. Makin has the
face of a choir-boy, and his affability soothes thr-
"MOTHER HUS SARD." at MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
Jack Cannot sings “Signora."
savage beast whom he addresses as “Brother.” Laz-
zarini, who unseated the agreeable Jack Lynch for
Werriwa, is a passionate little brunette who, lack-
ing a thrilling top-note, employs a falsetto to shrill
at Capital. He is practised in rant, and sometimes
his face is lit up by a suspicion of his own infalli-
bility. Dr. Earl Page, who speaks for Cowper.
appears about the most vocal of the II ay whiskers
division. He is broad-shouldered and fair, with a
genial manner that apologises for his rugged jaw-
line. lie pretends to have made a hobby of common-
sense and will become a terror if his independent
tone is backed up by an independent vote. Arnold
Wienholt, M.H.R. for Moreton, who has joined the
Hayseed caucus, will never be a nuisance to the
Hansard staff; but Prowse, Country member for
Swan, is likely to try hard for the Speaker's eye
if only for practice in dogmatic asseveration. None
of the new Nationalists have yet spoken much, hut
there are two or three, like Francis, the assertive
estate-agent from Henty, who seem to be bursting
with pent-up orations.
“Smike”: Interesting to note that while
baritone Claude Flemming was being called
by cable to a big post in London, Mclntosh
was telegraphing the Fog for a similar
songster for bis “Pink Domino” show. Flem-
ming’s perspicacious boss apparently didn’t
recognise that he had the requisite voice on
the premises.
Barrier Daily Truth
Edward Harris, officer in charge of the hulk hand-
ling of wheat, gave evidence as to the forming of
the Wheat Pool. Witness admitted that complaints
liad been made re damage to wheat in the stacks by
music. The committee intend holding a waltzing
competition next Wednesday.
That makes the whole thing plain. Tim
Pied Piper was employed to entice the mice
from the stacks and the wheat became
saturated with B flats.
“The Dud’s” tale :
Over the hill swung the sth Emma Gees, along
that old, old road the Diggers know so well, past
the last house with four walls standing—the one
about which they tell the tale of Fritz and the
padre’s daughter. They, were on their way to the
hell that was once Villers-Bret. A bunch of Yank?
were camped there, just beyond the guns. I don’t
suppose they could bring them any further up for
fear they’d get caught in our barrage. They had
a pretty wholesome respect for the Diggers then
and a pretty considerable contempt for the Tommies,
whom they’d never seen in action, and yarns had
come back about the Tommies. As the sth came up
to the Americans one of the Yankees started the old
refrain: —
Oh, the Aussies are ’avin’ an ’elliva time, parlez-
vous!
The Aussies are ’avin’ an ’elliva time, parlez-vous!
The Aussies are ’avin an ’elliva time,
Keeping the Tommies in the line.
Inky, pinky, parlez-vous!
Lord knows, we weren’t over-fond of the English,
but it was hard to hear any other crowd throwing
off at your own kin. So one of our mob carried on
the song and we all came in:—
Oh, the Sammies are ’avin’ an ’elliva time, parlez-
vous !
The Yanks stood up, pleased at being honored, as
they thought, by the Diggers, as we swung past—
until it came to the point:—
The Sammies are ’avin’ an ’elliva time,
Winning the war behind the line.
Inky, pinky, parlez-vous!
You should have seen their faces !


STYLE AND VALUE
IN HATS
AT MURDOCH’S.
Panamas
Genuine South American Panamas, cool and light,
all width brims, Sizes to 7f.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
Straw Boaters.
Murdoch’s Straw Boaters, 3}-inch crown, St-
inch brims, side and elbow bows. Sizes Of to 71.
5/6, 6/6, 6/11.
Pedal Boaters, newest shapes, and best value in
Australia. Sizes to 7£.
12/6, 18/6, 21/-
IF UNABLE TO CALL WRITE
DESK R.
WHEN you meet a friend first you look at
his face—and then at his hat. Isn’t that /
so? Therefore the style and quality of
your hat is of the utmost importance to your
appearance. Of course you want to wear a good
hat, but on the other hand, in these days of high
prices, you want to pay as little as a GOOD Hat
can possibly be bought for, so your best plan is
to come to Murdoch’s, “where the good hats are
moderately priced.
Smart New
Season’s Soft Felts
Just-opened lire of felt hats with St-inch brims,
flat-set, in Slate, Fawn, Cuba and Black. Black
bands. Also new Olive Shade, self band, loose
side bows. Sizes 6| to 7{. Murdoch’s Special
Price —
16/6.
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.**
Diamond-set 18ct. Gold Watch, on Uold Expanding Bracelet, £5O.
18ct. Gold Watch, on 15ct. Gold Expanding; Bracelet, £22/10/-
9ct. Gold Watch, on 9ct. Gold Bracelet, £l5/15/-, £lO/10/-.
BRACELET WATCHES.
THE Firm’s Gold Expanding Bracelet Watches
represent the manufacture of the finest makers in
<sx> the world. The selection is a large one and offers
a very wide variety of designs and prices. Each watch
is thoroughly tested and regulated before leaving the
premises, and carries the Firm’s highest guarantee.
ILLUSTRATED WATCH CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. '
SSIm. ®rummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
METROPOLITAN-VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO. LTD,
Electric Motors
There is a Metropolitan-Vicars Motor for every power application
purpose- They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and
direct current. They are built to withstand severe service and to
give maximum efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,750,000 h.p. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterised by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A Metropolitan-Vicars motor is Ihe one that will enable you to
realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES: —
84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
TURNBULL & JONES, LIMITED,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Works— Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
MAXWELL TRUCKS.
THE Maxwell 30cwt. Truck combines every feature that
gives the operator most ton miles per gallon of petrol used.
It i» equipped with the reliable Maxwell motor —proven
reliable over and over again in long-time and long-distance tests.
Its chassis stands up under the severest strains and road
conditions.
Its ignition and lubrication systems are as nearly perfect as
science affords.
It has the same worm drive as is heralded in the most expensive
Trucks.
A Maxwell 30cwt. Motor Truck does more work at less cost
than any other 30cwt. Truck made. Magneto, Worm Drive,
10-foot loading space, Electric Lights and Generator. Right or
Left Hand Drive optional.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.
OF DETROIT, MICH.
Jolm D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —New York.'
More miles per .gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


ALKALI CAUSES SOAP
TO INJURE HAIR.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
even tlie most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces lasts you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through— thoroughly. _ One
or two teaspoonsful is plenty to create a big
i man tit v of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out
mm,,, linir dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, ' va J y a, ' d
daisy, looking much thicket than it actually
iS Rest of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
Jtes'tbe hair as easy to <l«« *•
though you hadn’t washed it at all. Ana ye
it lofsens and carries off every bit of excess
oiiiness, dust, dirt or dandiuff scu .
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
n
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes. —
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
Frozol-Ice, and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice, cost-
ing but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and .soon the whole corn, “lock,
stock and barrel,” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
Frozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy ! No pain ! No soreness !
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice, nor
afterwards. Wake a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Boon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods yon like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just make a practice of
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any . well-stocked
chemist’s shop (in powder or compressed tab-
lets form). Be sure to get Salix Magnesia. Do
not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Old Pot”: Gone west, Flo Graupner,
one of the bright lights of the Royal Comics
in their palmiest days. She began young,
and was one of the clever kids whom Mrs.
G. B. W. Lewis handled in the ’eighties.
Others in that co. were Vi Varley (the late
Mrs. Joseph Tapley), Mary Weir (Mrs.
J. C. Williamson), Clirissie Peachey (Mrs.
George Darrell) and one of Flo’s sisters.
Flo went into grand opera with Martin
Simonsen, and was associated with such
fine artistes as Emilia Ciuti and Alice
Rebotaro. Her excellent work in small
parts led the Firm to give her a show in
comic opera, and she made good. Perhaps
she will be best remembered as Tessa in
“The Gondoliers.” In that she was asso-
ciated with dainty Vi Varley. She was also
fine as Elsie Maynard in “The Yeoman of
the Guard.” Flo had not been seen in
public for many years, and came to her
release at a private hospital in Leichhardt.
Sydney,
“Stargazer”; The Evelyn Nesbit series of
film-dramas are ineffably touching. Evelyn
was the heroine of the Thaw tragedy in New
“The Passing Show
of 1920,” at Sydney
Majesty’s.
Jennie Hartley sings
of Verdi and a
hurdy-gurdy.
lor k, wherein
Thaw killed White
all for love of a
lady, Mrs. Th a w
being the lady.
Mr s. Thaw is
n o w Evelyn
Ne s bit of the
movies, an d he r
plays drift round
the old domestic
difficulty. It was
too big a thing to
be lost, and Evelyn
is. still being torn
with remorse,
plunged i n grief,
racked with de-
spair, o r exalted
with the sweet con-
sciousness of hav-
ing forgiven—at so
much a time. Her
titles are wells of
pathos - “Repent-
ance,” “A Woman
Suffers,” “I Want
t o Forget.” Th e
last is the latest, and
again Evelyn is de-
picted as the good
woman whom dis-
tressing circu in-
stances divert from
her natural procli-
vities. But I can’t
believe she really wants to forget. At any
rate. I am quite certain she is not going to
let the world forget.
“Ex-Ex” : I am fed up of listening to pan-
tomime dames talking about their husbands.
All dames in all pantos refer to their first,
second, third and fourth “good men.” _ Every
dame has the same kind of partner for life
from whom she always collects a “slosh on
the jaw,” or words to that effect. I don’t
want to ever again hear what their hus-
bands said when their beer was spilt, and I
don’t want to know why they got married
or what they said before they were married,
or why they died, or how they died, or how
much they were loved by their red-nosed
gin-drinking partners. 1 have heard it all
so often. Pantomime dames should give up
having husbands. Their family life has
become monotonous. I move that they talk
of something fresh.
“Norbell” : I think Augustus Neville, now
with Allan Wilkie in Maoriland, was
virtuous in more plays consecutively than
any other Australian mummer. Charles
King put up a fresh-off-the-ice bellow-
drama every week in Brisbane for four
years on end,, and, with only one or two
slight breaks through illness, Gus Neville
was the beauteous hero all the time. It must
have been a strain to be aggressively virtuous
in 200 consecutive plays. Everything was
perpetrated, from “East Lynne” to “Silver
King.” In the tremendous list of “Bad
Girls,” “Good Girls” and shandygaff
maidens the record shows “Message from
Mars,” “Trilbv,” “Lady Godiva,” “Allah’s
Orchard.” “Face at the Window,” “Little
Lord Fauntleroy,” “Struck Oil,” “Camille”
and “Fun on the Bristol.” For months after
the season closed Neville couldn’t ask you to
ON THE CONTRARY,
“Molly says her frock in the new show is
absolutely shocking!”
“Why doesn't she object to the manager?”
“ Object! Why, she’s delighted!”
have one without casting his eyes up to
Heaven and mentioning his dear old mother.
By way of variety he was King Charles in
Nellie Stewart’s picturisation of “Sweet
Nell.”
“Hamer”: Dave Drayton has hopes of
seeing three plays of his produced during
the year. (Drayton, who has alternated
between the stage and journalism, has been
appearing lately in “Liglitnin’ ” at Mel-
bourne and Sydney.) These are not his
first attempts at play-writing, but until
recently Australian efforts had little oppor-
tunity. Only one of those which are likely
to appear, “The Call of the Bush,” is Aus-
tralian in color.
“M.r.” : “The Southern Maid,” in which
Claude Flemming is to sfcig a part in Lon-
don, was produced by Oscar Asche at the
Prince’s Theatre, Manchester, on Christmas
Eve, 1917. It played there for six weeks, and
after a short tour of the provinces was
put in pickle for London. Claude Flemming
was in the original cast, playing the part
of Sir Willoughby Itawdon, and his per-
formance was highly commended by th;e
Manchester Guardian. Miss Jose Collins
was the Dolores : she will play the same part
at Daly’s, where the show will be produced
on May 1. The music of “Southern Maid”
was written by H. Fraser-Simson, who
composed “The Maid of the Mountains,”
which has been playing for the past three
years—ever since it was produced at the
Prince’s Theatre, Manchester, at Christmas,
1916. The only reason why “Southern
Maid” has not been given its London pro-
duction is because of the lasting success of
the other. Friends in Manchester tell me
that its music is much the better of the
two lots, and it is to stay at Daly’s
for the best part of the next three years. The
plot recalls “Florodora.”
“Bunder”: A story about Harrington Rey-
nolds, who died off stage in Christ-
church (M.L.). We were touring the
“smalls” with Denniston’s show, play-
ing “The Rosary.” In Albury (N.S.W.)
we had to make a dash to catch
the train to Murrumburrah. To save time
the mechanist cleared the flies while the
play was proceeding. Reynolds had just
pronounced his priestly absolution for the
villain’s sins with the line, "It comes from
above, my son,” when there was a horrible
crash. The mechanist "above” had slipped,
and a block crashed to the stage. We finished
“The Rosary” to screams of laughter for
the first time in its history.
“J.F.11.” (London) : The revival of the
Gilbert and Sullivan operas at the Prince’s
is a most pronounced success. In this matter
the provincial cities have been better served
than the metropolis. Excellent touring cos.
have been constantly keeping G. and
S. to the fore, while London has
been avoided and neglected. High
rents, difficulty of securing a suitable
theatre, and a suspicion of faded popularity
are among the alleged causes. The packed
houses of the present season and the enthu-
siastic reception of each successive opera
prove that judgment to have been entirely
unfounded. “Pinafore,” the latest revival,
evoked quite a furore.
The ’Murkan variety stage has devised
something new in the combined dance line.
The bounding brothers call themselves “Sing-
Sing Boys,” and, of course, do their dance in
handcuffs and leg-irons.
Charles Iteade’s old “Peg Woffington”
novel is a stayer on the dramatic course.
The best-known version is “Masks and
Faces,” in which Tom Taylor collaborated
with Reader but there have been
several others, and latterly a fresh
batch of filmed versions. The
story is now to go the way of most
other Victorian comedy successes,
and becomes a comic opera, as
“Our Peg.” with Jose Collins in
the name-part.
“Ike Paglia c c i” : Charles
Weatherly, well-known entertainer
in Australia at one time, has taken
his musical family home after 14
years’ world-wandering, chiefly
in the black and yellow countries.
He gave his show on the stalls of
the fisli market at Jolo, in the
Philippines, and entertained troops
in a church at Khanspur in
Afghanistan, although lie didn’t
know it until someone pulled a
curtain aside and revealed the
altar. In Colombo he showed to
three people, but the wealthy
native who arranged the enter-
tainment paid for all the vacant
seats and sat his mother and sister
at the extreme rear of the hall.
Weatherly has always kept a little
ahead of trouble. He got out of
Foo Chow the day before the
.Taps began to pour troops in, and
he was a few hours in advance of
the native rebellion in Aniaritsar. One of
his kiddies had the honor of being run over
by the late King of Siam, who had just
started on his evening drive, followed by his
(jo children, mostly on bikes.
“Giovanni” (London) : The Gilbert and
Sullivan revivals at the Prince’s are one-
man shows, and the one man is Henry Lyt-
ton, who is playing the original Grossmith
parts. He owes much of his popularity to
his clear enunciation, which allows every
word he sings, even in the rapid patter songs,
to be heard easily in the back seats of the
gallery. This has surprised and delighted
audiences, which of late years have become
resigned to hearing only one word out of
three sung on the stage. The Lorcl Chan-
cellor in “lolanthe” is Lytton’s best perform-
ance. In most of the other operas, particu-
larly “The Mikado” and “The Yeoman of
the Guard,” he is, I think, inferior to C.
H. Workman, for years the chief prop, of
the D’Oyly Carte Company.
“G. 8.”: Shakspeare is being put in his
place at last. The Board of Education of
Newark recently decided to bar “The Mer-
chant of Venice” from the city schools on
the ground that Shylock is a libel on the
Jew. This decision caused the Jocks to sit
up-and take notice, and the members of the
League of Scottish Veterans of the World
War met in New York and demanded that
“Macbeth” be removed from the curriculum
of English literature studies in American
schools. It seems that the feelings of the
whole Scottish race have been wounded by
the misrepresentations of Shakspeare in
presenting Macbeth as a murderer and a
traitor, and if the Jewish gaberdine is to be
cleaned by the American Boards of Educa-
tion the stain must be removed from the
Scottish kilt, too.
“John J.” mostly apropos Dennis:—
By writing- of the Woolloomooloo variety of
citizen, Australians are putting themselves into
competition with the Americans, who have already
oversupplied the demand for the unholy joy result-
ing from the baffling of the wily bobby by the
saintly crook. Not only this, but they give
foreigners the idea that Australians are a nation
of professional bottle-ohs who carry on the business
of being crooks as a side-line. Through the medium
of its pictures, books and drama America has given
the impression that one-half of its people are
crooks, who carry on a constant and national game
of bobbies and bushies with the other half, who
are johns. Australian writers are setting up a
Similar idea with regard to ourselves. It is only
natural that Englishmen still persist in saying we
are a race descended from convicts when our
national writers portray us as a nation of "slangy
“bobby-swatters.”
“ LIGHTNIN ’,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION
Arthur Cornell
as Everett
Hammond,
a bad man.
“J.F.H.”: Re-
cently the house
of Clarkson, which
is the universal
provider of all
sorts of “ proper-
ties” for London
a n d provincial
pantos., prepared a
lion for a subur-
ban show, and des-
patched in on a
lorry. It was a
windy morning,
and the covering
blew away, revealing the king of beasts un-
caged and unguarded, and just about to
spring 40ft. Pedestrians, without waiting
to investigate, scattered in. all directions.
That jehu had the day of his life.
“5.N.0.”: For spreading knowledge of
Australia coinmend me to the moving-picture
man when he lets himself go. In Dublin,
early last year, I saw two visions of our
great national resources. The first had been
photographed in Ilyde Park, Sydney, and
depicted the ease and luxury of the many
whole-time draughts-players who decorate
the lawns there. This visibly impressed the
audience. , The other picture showed scenes
in Ilobart, particularly a lot of Diggers
boarding a tram-car. It was .styled “Aus-
tralian ‘Tommies’ in Tasmania.” I groaned
aloud.
“Peter”: Melbourne is to hear a new local
opera at the Playhouse next month. The
score is by Claude Heydon, of Melbourne
Uni.,, and the libretto is the old yarn of
Paolo and Francesca adapted from Edward
Vidler’s view of the tragedy in “The Rose of
Ravenna.” Yidler published the play in
blank verse in Melbourne a while back, but
it failed to break the late Mr. Garvice’s
record on the bookstalls.
“Hamer”: Apropos “M.P.A»’s” par on
fighting bears (B. 26/2/’2O), Australia
missed a season of the best all-in mauling
when a man who wanted to introduce the
sport of rajahs to the Commonwealth was
frozen out. The sport the rajahs delighted
in before they ceased to be Indians was an
encounter between a tiger and a “must”
stallion. The mad stallion is a splendid
fighter, and the man who was prepared to
lay odds against him would be a heavy loser.
The tiger, being specially starved for the
event, went in for pure beef-steak reasons,
and the stallion from sheer wickedness and
a desire to hurt something. Rogers was the
name of the man who proposed bringing a
caravan of tigers and fighting stallions to
Australia, but the people to whom he applied
for financial support were doubtful whether
the exhibitions would be allowed, and
decided not to risk their money.
“S. Snell’s” story of “the smalls” :
When Compton’s All-Star Dramatic Co. went to
Baldchin, for the lack of a better theatre it en-
gaged Radcliffe’s big barn. The full strength of the
company got to work and rigged a stage and a
certain amount of sitting accommodation, and played
“East Lynne” before a series of pack cloths repre-
senting interiors, sumptuous and otherwise, and a
couple of samples of English scenery. The play
went satisfactorily up to that period when the evil-
liver began to get in his good work with Lady
Isabel. Then Radcliffe’s fowls awakened to the fact
that something unusual was going on next door,
and began to interject. The henhouse was only
semi-detached, and every remark of every interro-
gatory hen or expostulatory rooster could be dis-
tinctly heard. Presently a large, hoarse rooster —
a Brahmapootra and Leghorn blend, the worst cross
on earth for crowing—took the matter up in the
interests of the settlement of which he was the
head, and started in the most insulting fashion.
Archibald couldn’t get a word in edgeways. Every
time he opened up for speech, the lordly brute next
door dug his spurs in and split the welkin. This
went on till everybody was disgusted with Rad-
cliffe’s poultry. Then Quine got up and went out.
He returned presently, while Archibald was endea-
voring to take Lady Isabel to his breast in a con-
ciliatory spirit, and flung to the stage a large rooster
whose neck had recently been 'Wrung. “There you
are!” he said. “Now get on with the play.”
“T. D. Erndee” : George 0. Miln’s “Ham-
let” (B. 12/2/’2O) was adversely criticised
because he committed the fatal error of play-
ing the Prince as a madman.
A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The air is still, the evening's kind,
The cats do not combine
In chorus emulous. 1 find
A gentle peace is mine.
The neighbors’ joy abroad is sent,
For on the zephyr goes
A common sigh in which is blent
Expressions of sublime content
And absolute repose.
The dogs no longer rend the night
With melancholy bowls,
And still and slumbrous on the right
Are all Maloney’s fowls; 1
No longer ’gainst rebounding walls
The challenge fierce is hurled,
No answer any suburb bawls,
There come not back incessant calls
From underneath the world.
Now rents are going up again,
And property will rise,
And from the flats that face the lane
Black curses thick as flies .
No more the shocked empyrean greet,
And one may take one’s choice.
And sleep or lie in musing sweet—
At No. 16 in our street
The tenor's lost his voice!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


I
■ XV..
:
:
mm
Pi g
S:" *'
n
mm
■■ V
N S
11’
if
5:
m
ms
:
1
■
< i
A
i :
Basal
mm
: • ;
Baiil
; .. 7;
Illustrating a Section of Our High-class Tailoring Showroom.
THE LEVIATHAN“QCALITY”SWT
Evidenced in Rich Textures,
Handsome Patterns —Masterly Tailoring,
and Distinctive Style.
Write for Patterns of Our Superior Indigo-dyed Navy Serge, or Black Twill. Here you will find the Best of
% Australian Tweeds, in the latest shades of Grey and Brown.
The “Quality ” Suit
Tailored in any of the
above Materials.
£77
Home-measurement Chart
and Tape FREE on application.
Made to Measure.
REMEMBER —The Leviathan is noted for its stylish cut and exceptionally fine tailoring. The High-grade
linings and trimmings used in our “Quality” Suits ensure efficient service and absolute satisfaction.
We are showing patterns for —
Sfte SUPER-QUALITY SUIT
Best Imported
Materials.
Made to Measure
Super-Quality
Cut.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
d
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston (SL BourKe Streets, MELBOURNE.
PLEASE NOTE—WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLQARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LifllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR INFLUENZA. OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANEMIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating,
A.B
14 UlL
SISTERE
(Registered.)
A.B
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 334-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queenslan .
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston. Agents for Tawnan .
DISTILLERS CO., LTD. 7 Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Ai
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Tra e
clmrjre a little more.
The finish fur the Australian Cup was
what had been expected from the betting at the last
moment. Seven of the 14 starters were still fairly in
it as they entered the straight. There never had
been anything in the nature of a certainty among the
lot of flatteringly handicapped second- or third-raters
that lined up for this longest handicap journey of
the year. The trouble was to tell which of them
hadn’t a chance if it could only be assured of
capable jockeyship, most of the starters being bound
to carry a mere bit of a boy. Probably It was the
boy (Mahoney) on Macadam who settled the question
in favor of that respectable animal. He had kept
the son of Wallace always in a fairly promising posi-
tion, whilst McLachlan was allowing Eastcourt to
make the running, and it was only in the last few
strides that Macadam had the lead. Kilflinn,
Teleeles, Tenterfield and Colbert were others that
threatened to beat Eastcourt after they had made
the turn for home, but only Tenterfield and Macadam
were left in the argument with the Sydney horse
by the time they got to the distance post. Tenter-
field, a rather mean looking lightish chestnut, with
a lighter mane (he would appeal to the eye of a
circus ringmaster), seemed to make his final effort
a little too soon. Anyhow, Macadam’s timely run
was too fast for the smaller horse and he won by
a neck, with Eastcourt only a head behind the second
and three or four other battlers not far away. Of
course there were grumblers who complained that
Mac. had made too much use of Eastcourt in the
first two miles, but the experienced pilot was pre-
sumably riding the sort of race he thought best
suited to the somewhat unreliable nag. Eastcourt,
although he appeared to struggle gamely enough
when the pinch came, might have objected to being
mobbed in the earlier stages of the journey, where-
fore it was as well to give him a clear run. He out-
stayed all except the lightweights to whom lie was
giving 101 b. and 181 b. respectively.
The fact that he got into a scrimmage and nearly
tame to grief at the outset of the race was the only
possible excuse for Menin’s poor showing in the Aus-
tralian Cup. All things considered it wasn’t much
of an excuse, seeing that the disappointing beast was
running prominently a minute later. Evidently
Menin must be bracketed with half-brother Chryso-
laus (a much handsomer horse) as a nervous, cranky
son of an erratic parent. All the offspring of Roi
Herode are said to take after father, so it is to he
hoped that no further members of the family will be
imported from England. The two greys that started
favorites for the two big autumn handicaps at Hem-
ington have been most expensive animals for punters
to follow, and no reasonable punter will ever again
take a short price about either of them.
Cbrysolaus, to he sure, did make a somewhat
brilliant attempt to win the Bourke Handicap, on
Australian Cup day, after being blocked at a critical
point of the race. But, granting that the grey might
have won but for the interference, it has to be
remembered that Eusebius, the uncertain, was also
making a brilliant run under a 121 b. heavier burden,
and Chrysolaus couldn’t outpace him at the finish.
On his comparatively quiet days the rampageous Eng-
lish horse can do well over short courses; but he
will never be capable of a long-sustained effort, under
high pressure, unless he grows philosophical and
puts on more muscle. Eusebius performed very
badly in the w.f.a. mile race, where Sir Ibex beat
Cetigne, having sweated profusely before the event;
nevertheless he proved not less trustworthy than the
flashy sprinter from Britain. Chrysolaus had only
himself to blame for the rotten show he put up in
the Newmarket, whereas the son of Eudorus was
suffering the numbing effects of a mighty kick which
he received at the barrier.
Sir Ibex, recovered from the effects of being
trained to run beyond his distance, re-asserted his
pretensions to greatness as a miler when he smothered
Cetigne in the run home for the C. M. Lloyd Stakes,
and repeated his victory of last year. Cetigne may
have been a trifle the worse for the two races he
ran on the preceding Saturday, but the manner of
Sir Ibex’s easy triumph was apparently brilliant,
anyhow. No sprinter, with a mile range, has per-
formed more consistently than he. In 30 out of 45
starts he has finished first or second, and seeing that
he never saw a racecourse till he was a four-year-old,
and had run onlv 14 races prior to his “aged” period,
the opponents of early racing for thoroughbreds can
quote Sir Ibex as a lovely example in support of
their theory. On the other hand, he may be in-
stanced as' another example of the fact that the
average racing life of geldings exceeds that of their
more emotional brethren.
After all, it is admitted that the three chief events
of the Autumn carnhal in Melbourne —Futurity
Stakes, Newmarket and Australian Cup —were more
governed by luck than the two Cups which came in
the Spring. Lucknow and Artilleryman were “good
things” for their respective races. Given a reason-
ably fair run each time, they might have won the
same handicaps again and again. But it now seems
that Gold Tie was luckily circumstanced in the
Futurity, that Red Dome was only one of several
nags likely to win the same Newmarket if the sprint
had been repeated, and that the Australian Cup
finish was, as regards five or six of them, largely a
matter of how they were ridden. The field was too
poor and the jockeys mostly too weak for the form
to be very trustworthy. Besides, the finish was so
close that a lot of people thought the third horse
had won.
* * * *
Two notable incidents on the fourth day
of the V.R.C. meeting were the beautiful gallop of
Artilleryman as soon as he was given his head in
the King’s Plate, and the Autumn Steeplechase
fiasco. The two miles w.f.a. race gave the cham-
pion his fourth easy victory within three weeks,
whereas the Steeple was presumably the first that
had ever fallen to the lot of Cotswold. At all
events, Cotswold was bottom weight, and in a poor
field of five he was on offer at any price from 12
to 20 to 1. But being allowed to get away with
a long lead, and not coming to grief as was ex-
pected, the outsider finished the three miles one
furlong journey with 20 or 30 lengths to
spare. The two others that stood up were too weary
to overtake the also-weary leader in the last half-
mile. Had he fallen by the way everybody would
have taken it for granted that he was bound to
have “come back” to the field, anyhow. The
victory of Cotswold, as it happened, was a useful
reminder for the public of the fact that when a
pacemaker in any sort of race is allowed to get a
lead ot 20 lengths in the latter half of the journey,
the other joekevs are practically asking for defeat.
• * # *
J. Mahoney was a profitable hoy to follow
during the V.R.C. meeting. As against not more
than three or four losing mounts (one of them
a second) Mahoney rode a winner at 83 to
one, two at eight to one, and one at seven to one.
Bobby Lewis rode five winners in the four days,
but three of them were practically valueless for
puntirg purposes, whilst the other two were eight
to one and five to one chances. He also rode 10
losers, so nobody grew very rich by backing his
mounts.
* # * *
Gerald Buckley’s horse Cape Sky is the
exception that proves the rule re want of stamina
among the Welkins. Cape Sky’s victory in the
Northcote Handicap last Saturday was nothing to
write home about, but it proved that in second-
rate company he can stay 12 furlongs quite as well
as the rest of them.
» * * *
Weights for the Doncaster transpired
during the week, the handicapper kicking off with
Cetigne at 9st 101 b. and Lucknow 9st. 81b. The
winner is probably lower down the list. Wedding
Day, who won over six furlongs on a Sydney
suburban course a fortnight ago, hasn’t much to
complain of at Bst. 21b. Nor has Gambler’s Gold,
on the same mark. This nag is now owned by
Anthony Hordern. Incidentally, brother Sam’s im-
ported Emblematic, who won last week at Flemington,
has no reason to object to getting 7st. 21b. Nor
has W. J. Watt’s All Aboard, who gave a certain
amount of cheek in last Epsom, anything to
grumble at with 7st. Warspite, a Fortafix mare
that showed a lot of pace at Randwick last year,
reappeared aftor a long rest on Saturday at
Warwick Farm and unexpectedly helped lierself to
the Pace Welter at 20 to 1. She carried Bst. 41b.
In the Doncaster she has 6st. 101 b., which on
paper gives her as good a chance as anything in
the race. But Done asters are not won on paper—
or McShortodds would be wheeling bricks.
* * * #
For Sydney Cup Poitrel is handed 9st. 91b.
and Artilleryman 9st. 21b., which, as neither of
them is likely to start, doesn’t matter. The
genuine stayers among the 87 nags handi-
capped scarcely number a dozen, and of these
Kennaquhair with 9st. 61b. looks as promising as
anything. Some of the others have been vainly
struggling for a long time to get away with the
Park Stakes or something of that sort. Pah King
on his running in the Summer Cup is certainly
entitled to soulful consideration, for in that he
was moving as if the longer the trip the better
he liked it. At Bst. 71b. he is well handicapped.
The same remark applies to Ard-na-ree 7st. 131 b. and
would apply to lan’or, winner of the last Cup, if that
uncertain animal had done better in the mean-
time. He had an airing at Warwick Farm in a
sprint on Saturday, and is evidently training on
well enough.
* * W #
Lingle’s young brother Erasmus showed
his tail to a score of two-year-olds at Warwick
Farm (Sydney) on Saturday. Though drawn on
the outside he was backed down to nearly level
money, and from the distance gave nothing a chance.
This colt has been leniently treated in the matter
of work up to date, and may do something big
later. He cost a thousand.
# * * #
The equivalent for swelled-head seems to
have taken Bayard, the S.A. mount selected for the
Prince of Wales to ride while in Australia. He
attracted much attention in the ring at Adelaide
Show, in the lady’s-haek class, and is accustomed
to romp through such tests there and in Melbourne.
But this time the judge—Ball, of Victoria —would
not have him at all. “Far too much condition on
him,” he said.
* * * *
Not one of the expensive Sydney year-
lings of last season has done any good at two years
old. For Gossir.e Hatan, winner of the Sires’
Produce Stakes at Flemington, the best bid Barney
Allen could get was llOgns. He kept the lady and
has won that much multiplied many times.
* * * *
In the S.A.-Vic. match, the best thing on
the home side, after the batting of the late A.I.F.
man, was that of his young brother, L. V. Pellew, who
made a lot of runs by stylish cricket and treated
very casually the tricky ones of Armstrong, who
had some of the others scratching. Armstrong, by
the way, kept one end going himself for hours, and
old-timers recalled the memory of George
Giffen, who, as captain and howler, was always
going to get a wicket next over..
This year’s Sheffield Shield has again
been decided on averages:—
N. S. Wales.
For .. .. 54 wickets for 2432 —average 45.03
Against .. 80 wickets for 2129 —average 26.61
Credit average ox 18.42
Victoria.
For .. .. 64 wickets for 2583 —average 40.35
Against .. 70 wickets for 2551—average 36.44
Credit average of 3.91
The Sheffield Shield has been the bone of
contention for 24 seasons; N. S. Wales won 14,
Vic. seven and -South Aus. three. N. S. Wales
won 64 matches and lost 30, Vic. won 45 and lost
48, and S. Aus. won 30 and lost 01.
* * * *
Western Suburbs appear to have a mort-
gage on Sydney’s Grade Premiership. The team beat
Balmain on Saturday by 111 runs on the first in-
nings. It was Pratten’s day out, and his 141 clinched
the win. Northern Suburbs deserved to lose against
Gordon. Gleie wagged a vigorous tail against
’Varsity, but the fight was lost by 21 runs. Kelleway
(48 not out) might have pulled Glebe through if
another stayer had given a hand. Paddington beat
Sydney by 44 runs on the first innings. A queer
side-line was that no analysis was kept of the Sydney
bowlers’ efforts. This is unfortunate for Asher, as
his six wickets won’t help him when the season’s
analysis is being made up. Central Cumberland
went down to Middle Harbor by 105 on the first
innings. Carter s wise generalship gave Waverley
an outright win against Petersham. Hendry’s off
theory put an end to six of them for 49.
• * » *
“G.W.Y.”: Cricket in Sydney has had
some peculiar features this season. No douot grade
form and inter-State ditto are very different things;
still the contrast has been extraordinary, and I doubt
if ever inter-State team men did so little for their
clubs. Western Suburbs, the top team and pro-
spective premiers, boast a solitary rep., bowler
Docker. (By the way, the regularity with which
Ward Prentice has got into double figures has been
only less remarkable than the persistency with which
the rep, team selectors have- failed to see him.)
E. E. BEAN, hon.
sec. of the Vic-
torian Cricket
Association, and
one of the selectors.
Wests are pursued by
Uni. and North Sydney.
The former have one
outstanding rep. figure
in batsman Bogle,
though Trenerry was
given a chance at the
eleventh hour against
the A.I.F. team.
Norths can only show
colt Austin Punch,
who likewise scraped
in against the A.I.F.
Obrdon are next on
the list and, outside
Macartney, who is
there ? Ditto Balmain,
save for Andy Rat-
cliffe. On the other
hand. Petersham, Pad-
dington and Waverley,
running sixth, seventh
and eighth respectively,
have supplied between
them Andrews. O’Keefe,
Norman, Carter, Hen-
dry, Kippax, McCloy
and Ives, seven of
whom played in the
last match against
South Aus. And of
the lart rlubs on the
list Middle Harbor
supplied Mailev and
Glebe Berry (who was
selected but did not. go
south) and Kelleway.
Marylebone C.C.’s scheme to brighten up
the game by limiting play to two days has been
dropped, and next season matches will be played
out as in pre-war days.
* * * *
Norman Ross —who is describing Austra-
lians as “poor sports”—had a dip in Auckland
(M.L.) baths on Saturday, and further clipped the
world’s 500-metres record down to 6min. 44 2-5-ec.
Ross did the distance the previous week at Sydney
in 6min. 60 2-6 sec.
* * * *
The same day that Norman Ross broke
the 600 metres record in M.L., Frank Beaurepaire,
at Melbourne, was also wound up for speed. He
easily won the mile championship of the State in
24min. 57 4-ssee.
* * * *
Keith Kirkland captured another title at
Sydney on Saturday by winning the Sydney
’Varsity 220yds. championship from F. S.
Cotton in 2min. 3 3-i see. Another splash
at Sydney was the 220yds. championship of
Eastern Suburbs, in which Billy Longworth
(Rose Bay) defeated Jack Dexter (Randwick
and Coogee) in 2min. 42sec. At the latter meeting
N. Longworth (Bsec.) was first in the lOOyds. first-
class handicap in 60 l-ssec. The previous week N.
Longworth won the Eastern Suburbs lOOyds. cham-
pionship from Dexter in 61 2-ssec.
N.S.W. Swimming League’s professional
championships last week changed the ownership of the
titles. E. G. Finlay (who recently seceded from the
amateurs) won the lOOyds. in 62 4-ssee„ and M. Rus-
sell was first in the 440yds. in 6min. lOsee. The
times were much slower than the efforts of the
N.S.W. amateurs.
* * * *
The annual swim-through-Adelaide is a
short affair of 1 mile 200yds., from the weir up-
stream —if there were any stream —to the back of the
Exhibition, where the river gets too narrow to
continue. There was a record entry of 141, in-
cluding a boy of eight and several women. Fastest
time, 29m. 285., was made by the veteran Moon,
but, as usual, the starts were too long. Doyle,
of Gawler till lately but now of Glenelg, had 7min.,
and came in alone.
♦ * ‘ * t*
Fanny Durack is a modest young lady
who makes no excuses for herself. It transpires that
previous to the Australian lOOyds. swimming cham-
pionship, when she was defeated by Mina Wylie, she
was suuering from a strained back, But she said
nothing about that, She has since wiped out the
deieat, and to-night (Thursday) at the Eastern
Suburbs carnival (Sydney) should make still better
times than she lias done so far this season.
At the eleventh hour Holland challenged
for the Mavis Cup. Then, a couple of days lati
Canada sent along a challenge, and further per-
plexed the Australasian Lawn Tennis Assoc. Last
year, when S’Africa blew in with a belated chal-
lenge, the other nations, on being appealed to, let
them in; but, as Canada’s entry will mean an extra
round, the question is now different. Instead ot
dealing with the matter according to rules, the
A.L.T.A. is asking the other nations what about it
* * * *
The finals of the M.C.C. Autumn Tennis
Championships afforded proof of the calibre ot
O’Hara Wood, who got home in the singles, doubles
and mixed doubles by superiority in every depart-
ment of the game. In the mixed doubles he had
the ladies singles winner, Miss Schlesinger, to help
him against his doubles partner, Thomas, associated
with Miss Addison, and captured the best two of
three sets by fast volleying ai.d cross-court shots
which Thomas often repeated with interest. The two
international partners easily settled the pretensions
of Ilawkes and Wertheim in the doubles. The
finish between Wood and Thomas in the singles
provided the best tussle of the meeting. Wood
had a fairly easy passage to the concluding match
and greatly improved his reputation bV walloping
the international Koel Heath in three straight sets!
Thomas had a more troubled journey. T. lv. titehett!
a comparative babv, forced him to travel the full
five sets, and it needed four sets to convince
Wertheim that he was beaten. Thomas, notwith-
standing all this, is a very tenacious player, and
his court-craft is impressive.
In the Ladies’ Doubles Handicap, Mrs.
Chapman and Miss Stevenson got the decision over
Mrs. Pigdon and Miss Hinde after a neck-and-neck
finish. But the closest go of the day was the
mixed doubles handicap between Sewell and Miss
Bray and Sandral and Miss Boyd, the former pair
grabbing the trophy in the third set after an
exciting battle lasting 22 games.
* * * »
Sid Godfrey and Harry Holmes smote
each other and the atmosphere through 20 dreary
rounds at Svdney Stadium on Saturday. The\
subdued unpleasantness arose allegedly over the
featherweight championship, a not unhumorous idea
in view of the much more vimful lash transpiring
any night in Sydney streets. Godfrey gained the
verdict, but lie is gettiig no better at the trade.
Likewise Holmes is no conqueror of champions.
Some of the preliminary boxers who get
a show at the temple in Rushcutter s Bav are wild
and woolly citizens. When one of them found him-
self getting dealt with on Saturday night he
promptly dived for the other fellow’s feet, up-
ended him on the canvas and well and truly put
in the boot. The frenzied battler was dragged
from his prey with the crowd wildly yelling lor
an encore.
* » * *
Racing in S. Ans. was affected by the
maritime strike in an indirect but almost vital
way, the scarcity of coal making the Government
disinclined to allow special trains from the city
for country meetings. On a previous occasion
Gawler simply moved to the city for one afternoon,
and of course wot an unusually big totalisator
investment. Last week far-away Martindale talked
of doing the same thing, but the Commissioner of
Police refused to allow a tote-license transfer; and
just at that moment the railways found they could
stand a special.
* » * •
Queenslanders made merry in the Austral-
asian amateur cycling championships at Brisbane
on Saturday. In the mile the northerners filled the
places when A. Oastagnola defeated S. C. Ashby
by inches in a fine finish in 2min. 31 l-ssee., witn
L. Smith in tlxird place. Gerald Ilalpin (N.S.W.)
defeated by Smith in the third heat in 2min:
Msec. The five miles (marred by a fall of hve
riders) saw S. C. Ashby (Q.) flash over the mark
Sin. ahead of A, McDonald (Vic.) and J. Humphries
(().). The solitary success among N.S.W. riders was
.T. Peddie s win ffrom 20yds.) in the half-mile senior
handicap in 62 l-6sec.
Easily the best motor-car speed-perform-
ance known in Maoriland was put up by a Chandler
six the other day; it threw 465 miles behind in
14 hours’ running-time. Tire machine left Auck-
land at 3 a.m., and, despite rough roadways,
arrived at Wellington at 7.8 pan.
Champion Yankee pugs appear to be
particularly without honor in their own country.
Jack Johnson was received with icy reserve after
he beat Tommy Burns. The U.S. papers said that
there were dozens of gunmen round the ring at
Reno ready to fill him with lead during his fight
with Jeffries. Tire only thing that saved him was
the deplorable exhibition given by the Caucasian.
After the fight Johnson was proceeded against for
“white slavery”—which in America may mean
almost anything—and, as popular feeling appeared
to favor a life-sentence, the eminent savage pru-
dently fled to Europe. Jatk Dempsey has now
surrendered to a warrant charging him with
evading war-service. It is a .matter of 12 months’
gaol, and possibly the forfeiture of certain citizen
right®. On the other hand, the championship title
should not, in equity, be involved. Jess Willard
also evaded his duty in this respect. In fact,
there is a fairly strong case against the entire
American nation.
* * * *
“Wessel”: When the natives at Anson
Bay (N.T.) wapt barramundi they ground bait for
them by chewing up crabs and spitting the result-
ing mess into the water. This bring 3 the barra
mundi round, and a short rod and line do the
rest. The barramundi sometimes runs up to 601 b.,
but is very small fry compared with the Territorj
rock-cod, of which a specimen weighing 3001 b. is
alleged to have been snared in a fish-trap near
Darwin.
* * * *
Rugby Union football looks like having a
harder fight than ever this season to get a crust.
In N. S. Wales Svdney Uni. is conferring over the
amateur status before shifting to the League; and
in Queensland last year’s premier club is among the
likely defections.
GETTING FIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s Mr. Bills who lives next door-
A fat, round, ruddy citizen.
I note him now when work is o’er
At exercise like hefty men
Who strive for great endurance, thus
To shine in sports most strenuous.
But Bills has got a city job,
And he is fifty if a day.
Why he should with such vigor rob
Himself of ease I could not say.
lie punched the ball, and ran a while
And sweated pints in half a mile.
I caught him pulling Sandow’s springs,
As red as beet his poor bald head.
Said I; “Why do these foolish things?”
“The awful cost of clothes,” he said,
“Compels me to train down a lot
To wear some old suits I have got.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


flow’d You Like to bet a
Thrashing'
from a man smaller than yourself. ?
It would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience—an experience that many
a man has gone through, to his
sorrow. Make no mistake about it,
size does not protect a man when he
Is called upon to defend himself.
The man who KNOWS the art of
scientific boxing has it “all over” his
opponent.
I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach it in a thoroughly scientific and practical
manner. Now, don’t get the idea that I teach you
only the theory, because that’s not so. Under my
guidance you will learn how to make all the “hits,’
“stops” and “moves” of the world’s most scientific
boxers.
“SNOWY BAKER K. 0." BOXING
GLOVES.
In two grades, 16/6 and 22/6 per set of four
Gloves, Post Free. Every • pair personally
selected and guaranteed.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and I will send you my
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about my methods, terms,
etc. Please send three stamps for postage.
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction at my Institute
are invited to call and have a chat with me and see a demonstration.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
218 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cor. Crown Street), SYDNEY.
'
mm
??
Hell
aifflii
'*’355385
-i tiiii-lfj, ■:■ :?V?'. &
m
Be particular
about the spirit yo 11 use.
You’ll GET THE BEST it
you ask for—
Obtainable Everywhere.
::.;T
m.
.
I®
l&ti.
Bfi
■mm
-
The Secret of Easy Shaving
e©
CO
o©
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimples, in-
growing hairs or cuts?
Then Set your Razor on'
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same —a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
If il doesn't make your razor shave to
your satisfaction, return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 6/0 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 123 Sussex Street,Sydney.
[7
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAi't ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 1i.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND,
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
1
m
RSsLj
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
, Limestone
Coal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing Machinery
Stone Breakers, Portable Road Plants,
Elevators, Screens, Conveyors.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Fluid
Magnesia
for lndigestton.
*5?
d
The “High Cost of Clothes
Need Not Worry
YOU.
Yon need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since. you can,
in actual fact, still obtain GOOD
Clothes to Order at Moderate Cost.
‘‘Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED—at prices
to suit any pocket.
Featured in our present Display of
Suitings for Autumn is a Splendid
Selection of
All-Wool
Australian
Tweeds.
These Textures in Quality and Design
have nothing to lose by comparison
with materials made abroad, and it is
only by reason of the fact that they
Have been made in Australia that we
are able to quote them in Honestly-
made Suits to order at prices from
£4,10/- to £8(15/-
At these Figures they represent truth-
fully the Best-Suit Investment in Aus-
tralia to-day. Don’t place that new-
suit order till you’ve seen samples of
our ALL-WOOL, AUSTRALIAN-
MADE Materials.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln,
Stuart 8 Co.
LTD.,
" Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St, Melbourne.


1
F
ROYAL DOULTON
PLAQUES
A SMALL consignment of Royal Doulton
hand-painted plaques, recently received
by Farmer’s, affords to lovers of rare and beau-
tiful art treasures a unique opportunity of
adding to their colle&ions. The arrival of
these plaques is an event of special signi-
ficance, bringing as it does, the art of the old
world within easy reach of the Australian
connoisseur. The subje&s are nature studies
and English rural scenes —the works of
Misses H. B. and F. E. Barlow.
1. Size 6 ins. x 6 ins 50/-
2. Size, 10 ins. x 71 ins 77/6
3. Size 10 ins. x 7 ins. ... 105/-, 130/-
4. Size 10 ins. x 7 ins. ... 130/-
5. Size 12 ins. x 8 ins 150 -
6. Size 16 ins. xlO ins. (illustrated) 170/-
FARMER'S
BOX 407, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE.
<\oNal
■ ■
-t
-r <+
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated, the Colonial Hank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED
1858
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£‘*,ooo,ooo
1.140,000
£3,140.000
838,000
£3.068.000
Directors :■ —-SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman'.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. 11. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Drmitn Chief Manar/er: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, GO Pitt St. Manager; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager : E. J. OSBORNE.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: j. a. g. hadley.
Branches in Victoria, south Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE! 7 Loth bury, E.C. 2.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
'"The Women’s Automobile Club went gay
last Thursday. Two hundred of them, some
with escorts, had dinner at the Grand. The
supper-room was told off f«>r the flowery occa-
sion. After dining for about two hours
they followed a piano into the grill-room and
jazzed there. Then, when the moon got up,
the whole crowd went off for a moonlight
joy-ride. The sedate front of Parliament
House opposite frowned. llow was il to
know that the party had bung a placard of
respectability on its chest by opening: the
show with lancers? The stolid dance of the
Middle Ages was arranged and M.C.’d
with srent decorum.
Mayoress Stein shone out in jade-green
trappings, with a big jade-”Tce.n comb hold-
ing up her auburn chignon. .Mrs. Russell
Gabb, who drives her own limousine, bright-
ened the party with a flame-colored velvet
gown and ivory slippers fitted on to flame-
colored stockings. Dr. Lambert bung clmn-
delier-er.vstal fringe on her gown. Mrs.
(Dr.) Thompson wore a Red Indian head-
dress and some brief tulle skirts. One jazz-
ing flapper put on a jet cap with a chin-
strap and a dress which bad definitely begun
at the waist. Some languid youths lolled
against the lintels and looked blase through
the lancers, but were galvanised by foxtrots.
The Mayor gave a civic, reception’ to the
Aerosmitbs on Friday. The affair was
skied in the upper supper-room, where there
was a dais at one end for the lions and an
orchestra at the other for interval music.
Tables were spread all about, and there
Avere corks that popped among the tea things.
Ross Smith told everybody how sorry be
was not to be at Flemington on False
Alarm Tuesday; debonair Keith put in a
few words; Bennett, the Victorian mechanic
of the party, said he was glad to be home,
and Sergeant Skiers introduced himself as
the “poor married man.” It was a brief
reception ; then the Mayor piloted the lions
out, and a guard kept the crowd on the
portico steps from tearing them to pieces.
Hughes isn’t going to be outdone by Hol-
man. They are busy building a sort of
limousine ’plane down at Point Cook, and
they call it the Hughes car. More comfy
than flying in a walnut-shell!
The Princeling will have an extensive
entourage. In addition to Vice-Admiral
Halsey, who is to be chief of staff, there will
be a secretary, a personal secretary, three
equerries (one of them a lord ling), a sec-
retary to the chief of staff and a flag-
lieutenant (another lordling), nine servants,
five clerks, two detective officers, and four
orderlies. The way in which the clerks and
detectives are sandwiched in between the
“servants” and the orderlies has aroused
Australian officials’ curiosity as to the order
of precedence on a Prince’s staff after the
“somebodies” have been counted.
New royal-blue trimmings are being tacked
into the carriage in which the Prince of
Wiles is to jounce through Melbourne, the
linings the shay had in the day of George’s
progress having long since been moth-eaten.
The huge circular springs at front and rear
make the old carriage a sweet thing to sit in,
and the Prince should have a pleasant drive
if the management will but keep him to the
tram-tracks.
Flemington was thronged on Australian
Cup day. Sam Maekay won the big race
with Macadam, and the black and white lace
veil on Fan Dango Mackay’s best hat
thrilled with excitement. She took her con-
gratulations in a navy blue suit with the
fashionable braidings. Sam wore his best
smile and his most comfortable tweeds.
There were crowds of inter-State visitors.
Ruby Madden Osborne, still dimpled, wore
Dutch blue. Tony Hordern’s wife was out
in pale fawn tailorings. Mrs. Hugh Deni-
son’s frock was bluey-green and exquisite.
Mrs. Claude Healy plumped for all-grey
from feather-tip to shoes. Mrs. Leigh Fal-
kiner found it cool enough to air her new
seal-brown and fur costume. Hilary Rolls
in Venetian red came out with mother —the
family is OA’er from Perth.
A big tea-party of about 200 guests was
spread by the McKellars, of Kyneton. Sister
Anne Gumming was just back from Eng-
land and was welcomed home. Two visiting
nieces—the Keats from N. S. Wales —were
at the party; also the Walter Bayles. and
the Mount Violet Cummings, and Afflecks,
and Blacks, and the Mount Gambier Clarkes.
This party bagged the two Knights of the
Air, and were happy for the rest of the day.
General Chauvel and his lady were out.
She wore scalloped flounces to her black
dress. Mrs. Murray (Brie Brie) hit up
the landscape Avith a vivid sea-blue hat and
a suit of cream cloth. Mrs. Maudsley chose
black with a muffling of fur. Mrs. Beau
Fairbairn wore a jaunty, sporty suit of blue
serge. Joan, of the Fred Fairbairns, was
a lacy vision in filmy black. Airs. Agar
Wynne matched a ripe fig in her purple and
bronze. A touch of cold brought out many
furs. And extravagant colors were every-
where—tomato and plum, and purple and
Venetian red; even startling washing-day
blue. They need real icy- winter cold to
make them look cosy. , Girls who could not
resist wearing their new frocks sometimes
matched tomato-red with Portsea nose-burn.
The effect was only moderate.
If you must swank you can do it now
for £2 10s. per day at our most expensive
hostelry. You can be made fairly comfort-
able elsewhere at 255. per dav. The coming
of the Princeling is said to be to blame.
When he is actually here, everything will go
higher still.
Dead at Heidelberg. Airs. Duncan Fraser.
86. widow of an oarly-day pillar of the
kirk in Victoria, whose memory is still
green among the survivors of the generation
which knew him as a power in the estab-
lishment of Scotch worship in these parts.
Daughter Fanny Fraser, with a worthy
record as a longtime preceptor at the Pres-
byterian Ladies’ College, acquired something
of a reputation as a persistent writer of
short sketches, mostly in the Australasian.
Alajor Raymond Synott, M.G., came home
by the Tofua. lie put aside his business of
designing bungalows and cosy corners for
the years of war, and was in the sth
Brigade. Some strenuous work at Ypres
gained him tin* Military Cross. Since the
Armistice lie has added to his military
achievements an honor certificate of the
London School of Architecture and some
New York credentials.
At the State luncheon party given to
Ross Smith, Premier Lawson said he
regretted he had not also a cheque for
£lO.OOO to hand to the airman. “The regret
is mutual,” replied the perfectly frank bird.
The Friendly Union of Soldiers’ Wives
and Mothers* sponsored by Lady Helen, dal
great work through the war. Now it lias
set out afresh, this time to help the wives
of incapacitated soldiers, and also to edu-
cate the daughters and sisters of soldiers
killed in the war. There are secondary
colleges in and around the metropolitan
area which are available. The Friendly
Union is busy placing pupils for the new
terms of 1926.
Mrs. Victor Sellheim, pictured here by
Alice Mills, is vice-president. She is the
wife of the briga-
dier who is occu-
pied now with the
enrolling of returned
soldiers in the Per-
manent Army or
Reserve Forces.
Mrs. Sellheim is one
of the most energetic
and capable women
among our war and
after-the-war work-
ers, Welsh by
birth, she has lived
in Bananaland, of
which State her hus-
band is a native.
General Monash’s
wife was on the
committee of the
Union; and Mrs.
Tivey is one of its hard workers.
Some sassiety girls had a smart dance
in the St. Ivilda Town Hall on Friday night.
Roma Clarke and young Mrs. (Major) Rus-
sell were the ringleaders. They gave the
precious man-partner free rope as to dress,
hut the girls all togged out in fancy cos-
tume. Which meant a leg-show. There
were endless lamp-shade dresses —brief
skirts crinolined hip-lugh above pantalettes
that were bound to the ankles. An Army-
tage girl had hers rainbow-hued. Mrs. Rus-
sell Avore her Avhite lamp-shade around her
waist, with an Aladdin lamp tottering in her
hair Jean Fairbairn had mad cats fight-
ing all over black glace pyjamas, her hair
hound in swathings of cloth of gold. She
was a capriciously lovely vision. One ill-
advised plump maiden wore harem balloons of
bright cherry color. Another showed long
thin legs below a regulation ballet-skirt.
Mrs. Burton, the bride of a flying-man. fizzed
about as a champagne bottle —tight black
skirt and brief gold top. A Baillieu girl,
just back from abroad, gloomed out darkly
from an Elizabethan collar embroidered
with blue-green stones. Frankie Peterson
had bis pantaloons of cretonne and a cap
tied under bis chin with a bow of black
velvet. >A big Baillieu brigand took up a
lot of room. Several men showed their
vanity in Toreador black-velvet. Ross Siftitli
came as a crow—evening-dress with not a
sign of a decoration. He has an imperturbable
Scawtch air to match his Wellingtonian
nose. Mrs. Fred Fairbairn makes a hobby
of black-and-white. Her magnificent frock
was embroidered all over in white-silk
threads on black brocade. Roma Clarke
stood in vivid scarlet. Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side got into lavender and lace; and Mrs.
Grimwade looked chaperony in pale lemon.
Jazzing paused at 11 for lancers to show
off the sets: and then there was a parade
for prizes. Supper followed that; then jazz-
ing until daylight. The ’’invitations” cost
a guinea, and the profits go to the Children’s
I lospital.
Admiral Grant gives a party at Cliveden
next Friday, and the boys of the Australia
will be there. The war-boat is in port for
a precious ten days.
Barring the Speaker and staff, the most
assiduous attendant at the Reps, is Mrs.
Ryan, who sits, plump and personable,
through hours of tepid talk, watching her
hero glower in the baekgt. und of his party.
Mrs. Ryan is a good-looking, smart little
lady, with a preference for fiapperish bats.
Tomjo seems to have become stouter since
tile Federal campaign, and his fat, rounded
cheeks help the impression that his voice
has to shoulder its way through a mouthful
of pudding.
Here is Sergeant W. 11. Downing, M.M.,
author of "Digger Dialects,” who will
shortly publish through the Australian
Authors’ Agency a close-up view of battle
entitled “To the Last Ridge.” Downing.
who is a n old
Scotch Collegian,
was rejected six
times before he got
into khaki; he fin-
ally went away
with the 57th Bat-
talion, and won his
decoration at Lag-
nioourt in March.
1917. The young
man is an ardent
scribbler, and first
sustained inkstains
as A.D.C. to the
editor of the Mel-
bourne Uni. maga-
zine. which, since
liis return, has come
under bis control.
On his way to the
Front he ruined
the gravity of his C.O. with a bright trans-
port journal, and later made a hit with
a graphic story of what happened at
Fleurbaix in 1916.
The George Landales and C. L. Baillieus
were among the arrivals by the Osterley.
There were large-sized groups to meet them.
W. E. Baillieu left off making millions for
a, week or two to go to Fremantle and meet
bis son, who was on active service for five
years.
It would be against Scotchbyterian nature
to resist such a chance to improve the
occasion; so when General Monash had
trowelled the foundation-stone of the new
Scotch College at Hawthorn Glen, and
Deputy-Viceroy Irvine had said his little
word, and the Moderator-General had made
a long prayer, the hat went round. After
which tea, provided by the Littlejohns, was
scrambled for.
Captain Fred A. Maclean, the new
manager of the Grand, is to be married any
minute to Vi Knight, youngest daughter (if
the Archd. Knights of Hawthorn. Maclean
has been O.C. of the Red Cross Rest Home
since his return from New Guinea, where
be was A.D.C. to Colonel Pethebridge.
The ejjistle of St. Adelaide:—
Unless the Princelet says the programme is all
wrong, his entertainment here will include a civic
and a returned-soldiers’ reception, Government and
vicorregal dinners, a levee, a “people’s reception,”
and two balls—one given bv : Mayor Moulden in honor
of H-.-R.H.; the other by the Mayoress, with the officers
of the Renown and the Australian squadron as the
guests. The overflow of the staff is to be billeted
at Lordello, the Mouldens’ house in North Adelaide.
Mrs. Ernest Good, who organised heaven-knows-
how-many button days for war funds, has totted up
the total result of her committee’s work. The sales
brought in over £230,000.
Prince Alfred College is outgrowing its present
quarters, and has decided to spend £lO,OOO on a
new building as a memorial to “old Princes” who
fell in the war. The committee also aims at an
endowment fund of £20,000.
Last year the coal shortage and the influenza
epidemic combined to cancel the Agricultural Society’s
Show, so last week’s fixture brought Air. AVayback
and his female belongings to town in force, and
in hotels and boarding-houses there’s not a vacant
inch. But the country cousin (feminine) is not as
easily picked as she used to be ; drapers’ catalogues
and fashion journals have done their work, and in
nine cases out of 10 her dress is as up to date as
any townswoman’s, and no less amazing.
A cheque for £lOOO has come to the Uni. from
Chancellor and Chief Justice Murray. It is to head
the list of a new building fund.
Airs. J. E. Cornish, who won the friendship of
Diggers innumerable in Alexandria, has spent the
week here, and her popularity let her in for a
strenuous time. Another passing guest has been
Airs. Corbould-Ellis, the English miniaturist, who
numbers among her possessions a diamond brooch
nresented by the ex-Kaiser when she miniatured him
in 1911. She plain to come back here when she
Has finished her Melbourne commissions.
Car-lien Jurs and Ivy Phillips, bound for Europe
and America, scored a triumph at the former’s fare-
well concert in the Queen’s Hall. There was a good
house, tremendously appreciative. If Miss Phillips’^ -
voice proes ou developing in power and sympathy
this village will find it has another musical star to
blink at.
The late J. 11. Ilowe’s estate has been sworn at
£38,000.
Birdwood set the seal on our affection for him by
bringing the rain for which this parched country
has been longing for months. It began soon after
his train crossed the border, and continued steadih
while he drove through moist and enthusiastic crowds
to Government House. At the station the Diggers
took possession of him, and whisked him shoulder-
high past the bemused officials to the crowd outside,
but he escaped and doubled back to the platform, to
be formally received. His speech at the Town
Hall was a plea for patience with those who are
apparently failing to make good. “You don’t know
what they’ve been through,” said Birdie, and indeed
we don’t. Lady Birdwood, who arrived from the
AVe-t on Wednesday and has been putting in a few
quiet days with the Murrays at Marble Hill, shared
her husband’s welcome.
After 80 years’ residence in S. Aus. Miss Lydia
Darnbrough has died at North Adelaide. The Daru-
broughs arrived in 1839, when Lydia was two. Her
mother, the first poet of the province, started Adel-
aide’s first school for girls, and Lydia was one of
the pupils she began with.
Colonel Tunbridge, who is a D.S.Oldier of
the Boer War and collected half-a-scort*
additional -letters during the Kaiser’s botch-
on-the-Rhine, is back in Australia bv the
Friedrichsruh. He looked after the A.I.F.
mechanical transport from the very begin-
nings of that vital service.
The worthy tenantry at The Manor, the
Pu'rsey Chirnsides’ ancestral shack at Wer-
ribee, have just subsided from the excitement
of welcoming home their squiress from dear
old Lunnon. Mrs. I’ursey came back by
the Osterley and declares that there is no
place like Australia, after all. It has been
said before, of* course.
Prettv Betty Moule, the Arthur Moules’
tallest chick, is engaged to a son of Dr.
Davenport.
The Commercial Travellers’ Association
has justly honored its ex-president D. (J.
Paterson, who did great work during the
Avar. At a pleasant club function D.(J.
and his wife were presented with a gold
watch, two travelling-bags and a grand
piano made in Noo Yawk. Is there any-
thing wrong with the tone of an Australian-
made piano? Or did the C.T.A. in looking
for a bargain overlook its loyalty?
Although the arguments were not all on
the Judge’s side, many people were not sorry
for Malcolm Shepherd, official secretary to
Hughes, when Ewing, ,T.. gave him a wig-
ging for not answering his communications
about funds for the N.T. Commission,
Shepherd left in England, or dropped over-
board when lie was coming back, most of
the courtesy and charm of manner he used
to have in the days of Deakin and Fisher,
and has replaced those qualities with others
that have thinned the circle of his cham-
pions. Strangely enough, the other Mel-
bourne man who occupies a similar post.
Short, secretary to the Premier, is a man
of similar disposition, but gout may be
pleaded in extenuation.
The very naicest Anglicans are hoping
that Archgaiters Clarke’s successor will be
a personality as well as a church leader,
and will put some of the very aggressive
Nonconformists in their place. They think
that the C. of E. has been walking behind
the militant bishopless sects quite long
enough, and they want conditions re-estab-
lished as they are, or think they are, in
England. But little they knoAv of England
who only England knew before 1914.
Esther Paterson has created another
happy band of flappers who will be pressed
between two bright covers and sold at a
ridiculous price. It is said that the artist
has put a lot of herself into the drawings,
but though she has their good looks she
isn’t quite as saucy as they pretend to be.
Jack Cussen. son of the Judge, has become
associate to Hood, J., in place of brother
Maurice, who proposes to begin practice
himself after having watched for months
how cases are won and lost.
Fashionable Portsea is divided into two
sections —the giddy sojourners at hotels,
boarding-houses and rented cottages, and the
staider residents who have summer homes
of their own. The latter are in rebellion
against the frivols of the hard-goers, and
flock into family groups. One house-owner
of years’ standing has decided to .sell the
seaside seat this year. He has a daughter
verging on flapperhood.
A sweet young thing was roaming round
Point Cook with a flying-man. She
wanted to get the pronunciation of the
hangars that house the ’planes. “llow do
you spell the name of these buildings?” she
ventured. “S-h-e-d,” was the bored stiff
answer.
Mayor Lathlain, of Perth, and his wife
are in Melbourne. They are at the Grand.


Born 1820
—still going strong
s.
//
1
w,
•Mr'*}/*
r'iSi—
VT4
fj
"t
U
m
\V
no o c-
!
S=»
IU
r?rr v/Vvv vv av _
yw
isi\
N
Y/gg f
7L
w
\
w
K.
*W j
«
lr
?>
c»
<8
r
M
:
«0
IS
r»
r
/ w
V.
. I
•_ •/
\
•y/*
1
y.
&
*-»
r*
*J
5^
rtf'.
:
3
7a
a
c.
>er-r
•'/S
r?
1
&
r.*
•V
II
//
I
/V
2
r >y i
w-
y
A
< *4l
I
/?/»
M
/ <5
A “ 2*
V XiTA
, w' /?»
w #
»«&*% 4^ ■
& '* <>c
Is;
fs^.
! /**/Ull*
<<
“ ‘ Look before you leap/ ”
Yes! Always look for the ‘ Johnnie Walker’ label
on the bottle before you leap to the conclusion
that you have got the best whisky.”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
k 9
CHAMPAGNE,
Reims
s*™**-*?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Garage Equipment
for re-boring
Ford Cylinders.
As a business man, your decision to invest in
some particular Reboring Machine naturally
will be based on the experience of other users.
The many Garage Proprietors who have in-
stalled the “HEISER” have nothing but
praise for its utility.
Reboring and fitting over-size Pistons is the
most important repair that can be given to
a car, and in so far as Pistons and Cylinders
are concerned, the “HEISER” will make a
Ford as tight, true and new as the day it
left the factory.
“HEISER” IMPROVED CYLINDER
REBORING MACHINE FOR FORD
CYLINDERS.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS
Bennett SBarkeil Limited
“The Traders’ Service House.”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
(MiJKfEES
Women who arc
critical in the matter
of Gloves—who want
their hand to ook slender,
to stiike at first glance the
keynote of correct f shion,
insist on Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves—not only becau-e
they are so dainty and
durable, but because
they're "double-tipped
for double wear,” with,
a guarantee with
every pair. .
For real E: n my, ~
insist on Vanity zxc
Fair S.lk G.oves.
V.F. 18
©
u
Beautiful, Original
Exclusive.
Shave Gowns and Tailor
Suits are always recog-
nised ly those who appre-
ciate the best. They are
invariably chosen for their
ready adaptability, correct-
ness of style and genuine
charm. Such is the height
of perfection attained by
the Shave craftsmen that
Dame Fashion’s very latest
whims are catered for, and
gowns and costumes pro-
duced that enhance every
figure, without the trials
of fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladles’ Tailors, Dressmakers
CENTREWAY, MHLB3URN3.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Nobody but such as the F. G. Waleys,
who were so generous as to make the gift,
could have made the official handing-over of
Mowbray Park to the Red Cross such a
delightful function for their guests. From
the moment when the Captain and his wife,
she very trig and smart in her Red
Cross uniform, received the large party of
Sydney visitors at the train until they
said good-night to them at Central Railway
again, the day was marked by a succession
of thoughtful courtesies.
From Picton station it is a six-mile drive
to Mowbray Park, a road that goes uphill all
the way between smiling, hummocky green-
ness, just pleasantly wooded. Peppercorn
grow gracefully here, just now flushed with
clusters of pinky seed, and a creek wanders
through paddocks where cattle chew in lazy
content. Mowbray Park, now to be called the
Waley Home, is in a shallow cup, surrounded
by lawn and flowering plot, by kitchen
garden and shady trees —truly a ’ delightful
home for the 25 shell-shock patients it
will hold, 16 of whom are already in
possession, under care of Matron Graney,
Sister Gregg and the Picton V.A.D.
At half-past two Sir Ronald and Lady
Helen crossed from Camden Park with Miss
Onslow, for Picton is very close to the
feudal estate of the Big Family. Lady Helen,
in grey, unbent to the tiny maid who pre-
sented the usual bouquet (this time it was all
pin-blooms and lilac ribbons) ; then Captain
Waley offered the home to the Red Cross
from Mrs. Waley and himself as simply as
though it were a cheque for £2 12s. 6d.
The G.-G. uttered the official sesame; James
Ashton spoke on behalf of the Red Cross,
and threatened us with another war. Then
everybody cheered Captain and Mrs. Waley ;
and Sir Ronald and his lady.
The house is two-storey, with rooms old-
fashioned enough to be thoroughly comfort-
able. Well-filled bookcases are everywhere ;
even in the hall, where a set of the “Ency-
clopaedia Britannica” sits enthroned. Car-
pets and easy chairs and backgrounds of
charming wallpapers, notably one of prim-
rose yellow which makes the room look like
spring in Southern Maoriland. The billiard-
room boasts a ceiling panelled in pine tnat
is almost black.
Miss Eadith Walker brought a green para-
sol and much kindliness to the party. Miss
Egan, tall and straight and correctly
tailored, and Mrs. Shepherd Laidley, in
softest black, were among the Sydney
visitors. Miss Owen, uniformed and ex-
tremely neat; Mrs. Alfred Lee, Mrs. Earp
and Mrs. Aronson were among the visiting
Red Crossers. Two young Waley girls had
a day from school and were there in white.
Mr. Helsham, grey hat in hand, paid court
to Mrs. Hort Brown, the 84-vear-old
belle of Picton, who wore a black silk dress
and the prettiest lavender bonnet in the
world.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan sits throned at Anthony
Horderns’ Art Gallery in the midst of surely
the most wonderful exhibition of industry
the world could know. At the opening of
the httle lady’s show the other day Lady
Davidson veiled her soft black satin dress
in Chantilly lace, and clutched a presenta-
tion bouquet of pink carnations. Mrs. Rowan
herself might have been some little soft-
plumed grey bird. She wore a dress of grey
georgette whose waist-line was no larger
than an ordinary woman’s collar-band. Her
quest for the color of bird-wing and butterfly-
bloom took her to the furthest-back mission-
ary station of New Guinea, where the natives
named her “the white Mary of the Flowers.”
“ was while she was painting one of her
birds of paradise that the native servants
at the mission told some of the wild cannibal
natives of the sacred lady who made birds
grow on mats. Tills proved too much for
Outback brother. He determined to come
m and see for himself. First a stray scout
or two from the tribe arrived and glanced
from afar at the work ; then one week the
vmitors numbered 200. The collection is
under offer to the Government.
Mrs. Rowan has over 20 gold and silver
medals won at exhibitions for her water-
color flower studies. Quite enough precious
metal to make a corselet for her slender
little figure. She is a sister of “Plevna”
Ryan, of Melbourne, and widaw of Captain
Rowan, who fought in the Maori War and
was Chief of Police in Victoria in the late
’eighties and early ’nineties. Quite a lot of
American botanical work as well as Aus-
tralian stands to her credit.
Knight Arthur Whitton Brown spread the
shadow of his wings over Sydney last week
and perched for a meal with the Aero Club
at the Elizabeth-street Voluntary Workers’
Cafe. S’Arthur, who flew across the Atlantic,
is as modest over his achievement as the
Boss boys over theirs. Under the pale and
dark-blue aeroplane that swung in mid-air,
president Oswald Watt arose to propose
' Our Guest,” and our guest in reply threw
compliments at Australia on the ground that
it had produced inventor Hargraves. But
it was plain to see that he lives in the clouds.
He actually spoke of the joy of hard work!
At this luncheon there must have been a
square acre of decorations. Every member
ol the Aero Club seems to have brought at
least two back to Australia. Then, of course,
Hugh J. W ard was listed under his Belgian
title of Chevalier.
. Verbrugghen is evidently bent upon show-
ing just what we will lose if we don’t bid up.
Orchestra and conductor scored heavily at
Saturday’s popular concert. The “Tann-
hauser” overture'caused the heavens to weep
with joy (and most umbrellas were at home,
too) and Wagner’s spirit to murmur “Well
done! ’ Even the anti-Wags. hardly stifled
a cheer. The Negro melodies and accom-
panying embellishments of “The New World”
Symphony (Dvorak) flowed as enehant-
mgly. Laurence Godfrey Smith’s nimble
lingers sped through Liszt’s Hungarian Fan-
tasia to a great orchestral accompaniment;
and Philip Newbury sang “Angels Guard
Thee” so appealingly that the whole Nine
Choirs took on the job till dawn.
Clad in saxe-blue draperies mezzo Wini-
fred Jenner sang her farewell to a Sydney
audience, in a group of Roger Quilter’s‘melo-
dies, the children’s songs of the Russian
Arensky, and a few numbers by Britishers
of the modern school. Miss Jenner goes to
London to further train her big, even voice,
which has intelligence behind it. Composer
Roy Agnew assisted the singer with piano-
forte pieces of Cyril Scott, vague and pur-
poseless; some Macdqwell, and two of his
own compositions—one a mad jazz; the
other told musically of a butterfly ‘that went
wooing a rose.
Wednesday evening of last week saw St.
Andrew’s crowded for the tying (if Isma
Amor, daughter of the Amors of Potts Point,
and A. O. Maephillamy, third son of the
“Warroo” Macphillamys. The service was
choral, but as it was washing-day (or it
may have been Lent) the choristers sang
‘lhe Voice” unsurpliced. A veil of old
Brussels lace enhanced the simple beauty of
the white satin wedding-gown, and the two
bridesmaids, sisters of the principals, were
in deep apricot-toned frocks, with Dutch
caps of the same tone and bouquets
of yellow roses. Brett Allport and Shaw
Strickland supported the ’groom. A detach-
ment of V.A.’s formed a guard of honor, and
the Australia was the scene of the after-
ceremony festivities.
The Maephillamy family came in for an-
other wedding this week, when Dorothy
Snape of Manly married Fred Lawes, only
son of F. W. Lawes, of Cockatoo Island.
Another pretty daughter of the Snape house-
hold married lately into the Maephillamy
family. The bride of the week was given
a tea-party by the “Warroo” folk at the
Mary Elizabeth tea-rooms on Thursday.
This is Mrs. W. J. White, one of our
war-workers; and now she can’t
stop. She stitched
and knitted for
numerous comforts
depots, and for two
years she daily gave
her services to assist
those who sent their
cakes, jams and such
to be disposed of at
the Women’s Horti-
cultural Society tea-
room. Since the sud-
den death of her hus-
band the little lady
is to be found three
days a w'eek working
in the tea-room
which has been set
up at Prince Alfred
Hospital for the
comfort of nurses,
students and visitors and the benefit of the
institution. Easter will find her out at the
Show Ground, among the plates and tea-cups
in the refreshment tent which is being run
by the committee of the R.P.A. refreshment-
room, with Mrs. Tower as president and a
host of voluntary workers.
Old St. Stephen’s supplied the setting for
the marriage of Nurse Christina Nicholson
(of Charlemont and Jenner Hospitals),
daughter of J. A. Nicholson, of Macleay-
street. and Harold Cowlishaw, son of the
late Tom Cowlishaw of these parts. Bride
wore white georgette and a filmy lace veil
which served also as train. She was accom-
panied by her sister, Nurse Mary, of St.
Ivilda Hospital, frocked in hydrangea tones
of georgette, with a black lace hat. The
Mary Elizabeth, with pink and silver in its
bonnet, was the rendezvous of the wedding
tea-party.
Miss Milner Stephen, a grand-daughter of
the old-time Chief Justice, is engaged to
the Lamb that follows Mary Davidson and
her consort. (It’s Margaret, but that can’t
be helped.)
Another of the younger Strathfield set,
Marjorie Poynter Keep, married George
Wharton, of Birralee station, Bowen (Q.),
last w r eek. The aisle of St. Anne’s, Home-
bush, was caressed by the train of cloth-of-
silver embroidered in water-lilies that the
bride added to the white Duchesse satin and
the Brussels lace of her wedding-dress. To
supply the proper background she had three
attendants dressed like Watteau maids, in
pink taffeta with black tulle hats, and one
train-bearer, also in pale pink. But just to
show there was no reason to stick strictly
to period, she wore a Juliet cap over her
locks. The bridegroom, not to be outdone,
had two groomsmen in addition to best-man
John Keep. Two hundred guests were pro-
vided with wedding meats by bride’s mother
and father at Wynola, the family stronghold,
where mother sustained palest-grey draperies,
with cherry-and-silver embroideries. The
new T Mrs. Wharton was a member of the
Strathfield Y.A.D. and a chauffeuse between
homecoming transports and the Anzac Buffet.
If you want an exhibition organised, ask
Grace Burrow's! For the last 15 years or
more she’s been successfully setting them
on their feet. We’re to have a “Baby Week”
campaign from
March 29 to April
3, and Grace will
organise a three-
days’ exhibition in
the Town Hall
showing just what
we are doing for
Digger Junior. The
Red Cross finds that
the work falls with-
in clause 4 of its
new constitution, so
some of the Y.A.D.’s
will divert their
attention from the
soldier to the baby,
and assist. We’ve
borrowed the idea
from the Cold
Country, where
Royalty and peeresses ran the show, and
the Queen was much photoed as nursemaid.
Here, however, it’s mostly being pushed by
men, some of them, poor dears, having to
stay back in the office to perform their
honorary duties after hours! But they say
it’s worth it if the campaign will induce a
V.A.D. here and there to help an overworked
missus with the kids. Miss Burrows has
been up at Kosciusko collecting energy for
her part of the job.
Barbara Gordon, who arrived at the
mature age of 21 the other week and had
the event duly celebrated by intending sister-
in-law Mrs. Macneil Simpson, is marrying
her ex-soldier, Lionel Jaques, almost imme-
diately. Sister Jeanette is to be bridesmaid.
Bathurst’s popular C. F. Kendall made a
second plunge on Wednesday with Letitia E.
Nicholson, of a well-known pasturing family,
late of Melbourne. Ceremony took place at
St. James’s, and Bishop Long came down
to tie the knot for his Diocesan Treasurer.
Barbara Goode, the journalist daughter
of a late prominent Sydney doctor, said she
would to Harley Mathews last week. After
the very quiet ceremony the pair went off
to Fairfield, and return this week to take
their departure for America, where two
years will be spent in pursuit of “copy.”
Rhoda Wager, whose craft-work in jewel-
lery is such a feature at Sydney art shows,
quietly dropped her old name the other day
and became Mrs. Percy Ashton. He is a
returned warrior, a marine surveyor when in
civvies, and son of Julian.
Departed for France by the Mantua last
week the Count and Countess Erick de
Catalano. They lived very modestly in a
little Mosman villa since the Count Captain
left the command of the Pacifique. He was
half disguised in a black beard. She is so
beautiful that it’s not quite fair to give so
much to one girl. *
Mrs. Adrian Knox, with daughters Eliza-
beth and Margaret, left by the crowded
Mantua. Their Elizabeth Bay home has
been bought by Arthur Allen, and that enter-
prising man is turning it into flats. Green-
knowe, too, where Mrs. Toohey has been at
home of late years, has become Mr. Allen’s
property, and his intentions towards it are
exactly the same.
Also by the Mantua go the pretty Anmng
twins, Ella and Evelyn, two of Strathfield’s
best of the younger set; and their suburb
bought and pa’d for tons of cake and ice-
cream in its determination to give the girls
a suitable send-off.
Mrs. Edgeworth David is taking a Dickens
set to the Bush Book Club Ball; while the
Idylls of the King will be illustrated by
Isabel Garland’s set. Mrs. Greatorex takes
two sub-sections of a Persian Garden; but
there’s to be only one Trilby set—feet that
can appear undressed are so rare. Mrs.
Aubrey Withers, who, as all the world knows
founded the club, takes a set, but its ingre-
dients are a deep secret.
Off to London to see sister Madge Tither-
adge in her orime. pretty little Mrs. Her-
rick Knowles, of Rose Bay. Her passaep
is booked for May 1.
The Voluntary Workers’ Cafe, Elizabeth-
street, issues a cheerful bulletin telling of
four additional soldiers’ homes being built
out of tne dinners served in the cafe live
days a week. These will make a very hand-
some total of 18 homes built in 31 years.
Miss Eadith Walker was one of those to
receive a letter by the aerial mail that
arrived in Australia with the Smiths. The
letter bore a large stamp with Great Britain
in one corner and Australia in the other
with a flaming torch between. But why
not a winged kangaroo?
Bored with dancing, Mrs. Bertie Sheldon
is hiring out her prettily-ringed hands to
play the jazz and the one-step for the other
girl. Mrs. Bertie did a lot of soldier-enter-
tainment work in London, and at first she
contemplated something of the Margaret
Cooper order of songs at the piano, but
found Sydney more anxious to pay for the
tickletoe than the musical sketch.
Father and mother Hugh Ward did not
seem at all disappointed with the reception
Hugh junior got at his debut at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday evening. They viewed
their two offspring (Melbourne is the other
one) from their usual box, and seemed to
thoroughly enjoy the show. But of course
thev were actors once, and may still be. Flo
Young, resting after her motor smash, sat
in the front stalls and had an uninterrupted
view of the purple glare between the numer-
ous scenes and the big drum at other times.
And Matron O’Connor, of the South Sydney
Hospital, who 17 years ago helped Hugh
junior to make his first ddbut. sat in the
dress-circle to watch over his second. Little
Hugh seemed quite satisfied, although his
motor-boat engine did refuse to gee in the
afternoon just when it should have won
thb'Albert Cup.
The Old Girls of Normanhurst held their
annual meeting on Saturday. Since last year
tnese former pupils have launched a dramatic
society, and in "Their New Paying Guest”
gave the school an idea of their talent. With
the assistance of a few male amateurs thev
are going to present a couple of plays for
the public’s approval at the Repertory
Theatre.
The Housewives’ Association loses its
organiser, Portia Geacli, this week. The
clever little lady takes her paint-brushes
across to America, and leaves her friends to
tackle the problem of potato-profiteering and
cheap fruit for the masses. A farewell cup
of tea was poured by the ‘‘Housewives' ”
officers on Friday.
Marie van Brakkel, the Sydney hair-
dresser, has written a novel named “Two
Loves.” If Thomas Hardy had attempted to
make a wig or Joseph Conrad to dye a head
of hair he would not have done as well.
Middy Wines (the Pussyfooters won’t like
that name), one of the young Australians
selected to voyage in the Renown with the
visiting Prince, is a nephew of Captain Pil-
cher, of the St. Albans. The champion
swimmer of Sydney boy scouts of under 14
is son and heir of the St. Albans’ “old man.”
One of the clever Mack girls is his mother.
Miss Badham is back at the Girls’ Gram-
mar School. Her first public appearance after
months of hospital was at the annual prize
distribution, and she there suggested the
building of a chapel as a memorial to the
late W. L. Docker, whom the school loved
much. A chapel has long been her dream
and that of many of the Old Girls. Despite
the fact that woman is the chief part of
every church congregation her schools re-
main chapelless. And it is equally astonish-
ing that nearly all endowments go to the
schools for boys.
The late Tom Fitzpatrick, ex-M.LIA., who
passed last week from his old pastures at
Erinvale to fields of asphodel, is father of
Jack Fitzpatrick, the Farmers’ selection
against the Flying Premier in the coming
election. The Fitzpatrick home at Tilberoo.
near Junee, was formerly owned by the
Whittinghams, w T ho, however, seldom camped
there.
Gladys Gole, who comes from Springwood.
has the promise . of many dollars in her
voice, and an invitation recital at the Town
Hall on March 23 will give a favored few
thousand of Government House patrons a
chance of hearing the soprano’s notes. Mrs.
Hugh Ward claims the honor of presenting
her to the public, and John Lemmone will
see to the satisfactory seating of the invited
and supervise the concert arrangements.
The platform floral decorations are to be
worthy of the voice and the family’s pocket,
and when the singer calls a halt Laurence
Godfrey Smith’s fingers will lightly skim
the pianoforte keys in numbers by the
Moderns.


*3
asfemsysßS
jiaaßiagg a
kfi-jss
ass
£&W
- SWSsi *4®
§s
!!' »
sss
Ilf
fi Hi
asm
m
m
m
§M
m
m
m
%0
nhs.
■
&
*&
m
&SL
111
l
k%
sa
V>'V
m
t&tfa
m
m
w
tM
fiS
f^t
&&
fv
1
•---
K>
sS"**
„„^. i /a'-as*i , ~a !r .:
-.—»»•- • sr-C.
m
m
s@s
‘irrvy^S
SgTOs
~
S|;
>s-t
am
Hfog
»?.
jNfi
fefll
aasiw
«?*>»
'■fe’Sirri'’ o .
V
s>«
I- y?< J.-« r*« #.>.r\\V» *T<*.*
(SS
m
111
8&&I
■>•:’■ -
IS
.%; f-l
S» <? -xN Iwfesr'wJ <*
| J %j53# 7
**w*> ««?¥ - ~«
%BB£3h-
■ I i>,jm
«r*3-
13s
{§ if SgSffit 5? •---•jjsj.-
i»®^£
if* 3
r@ ?
¥ Si
.^>y~
■
5«36
S&
!||
l^pUl»L
m&>&.
■X, x
a?
sa
. ,\ .•.«fi-' c<• *A»*».r ijSWraiW#
‘ *■“ * "■*■■'■ ■ -
s«v£2?«
is®?
M
fa&s£K£<o *£*i‘ &
mmmt
s&s
ifi
H
V*
mills
l&r
as?
«13V?
8&S
:
fl | IRf i
i i jfi
;'> S& i 5^5 ;
I
4.| S(t»r<*z ,
Wiiif"?:.';".-—' _ .*
C
y I
W?jiviieSSfteg
4ai
aK :■
;■ I ,y
SK?
#a;-s.'i!
v4<'j@!ga
-;r: J ~ | I
• i «?,i ®
/ , 4 i -f,' >'y,f
5. If#
■;. v
J?SK
w f
'* I
Jp-Hriw
m
imsum
’it**
* ,-
X-.v'rili
5 S*s
Ilf
s
H
» (
SR
es;->
f-i v> > ••
k
i
Jv’.v;
?•. ■'jj s^-fT : -\. vi -/• y% *
\\r% x
%yV\\v' \Jt*
w.m§
m
rJ ;
S vs
It /?
i h
Vi
£fe?’jP 3‘V /f' | ;
mfi? Mm i
'Si
ft s s ■
H $ Wi
«f- i?
II
t X\ p
// Sifl
// 1 :
-V / * ' ,
# - ** •. ■ " V- *' .*4
WSCTJ?
»*>•
u
liS;
#&**C!hliS
SKf teS33
•^i-srx
Sisi
aft
To the Electors of New South Wales
Ask Every
Candidate
this: —
1. —Are you in favour of
Building Good Roads ?
2. have you ever
done towards improving
the Roads in this State ?
'Pr : , .. .
- '' .■ • ; ..a ..
3. Will you support an
ADEQUATE Vote
for Good Roads ?
When a candidate gives you his
reply send it on to us.
We will undertake to see that
he carries out his promise.
THE NATIONAL ROADS AS-
SOCIATION has been formed for
the purpose of ensuring the establishment of better
roads. Membership List now opened. Annual
Subscription One Guinea.
Why don’t YOU join ?
FRANK B. SMITH
Sec. National Roads Association (N.S.W.I
4 Bridge St., Sydney
Phone: City 9148


“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN”
The above
is the titled
of our book-
let. which
tells about
tiie possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by MAIUtV J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
I
L£f
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
188 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number oi
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suiter from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purohase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold b.v all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
AMERICA’S
PIOMEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Clover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A,
Postage to United
States. 3d.
EE
%
'FtesK
//*
m
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
cf various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN IIAIGII, General Manager.
Wanted to Buy.
lAMONDS, PEARLS and OTHER FINE GEMS.—
We wish to BUY in any quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
7 £
OHSBBRK
Texas Saddle
No. 90.
This illustrates a Texas type
of Saddle sve are making in
our own Workrooms. It is
a Saddle giving Satisfaction
wherever we send it
It is made in Heavy Brown Leather, and the Horn
is forged Steel The Seat and Cantle are in one
piece of heavy leather, and the Skirts are lined with
Felt. The Stirrup Leathers are 2in. wide and
have broad Fenders. It is fitted with 2 cord Girths
or Cinchas, and Wooden Stirrups.
£9/17/6
WE
Freight Free for Cash with Order
t 0 an N y S N w S ’^if° rt °J statio " on
N.S.W. Railway System.
STOCK AMERICAN-MADE TEXAS
SADDLES—Write for Particulars.
K’BURRA
Stockwhips.
Bft., 12-plait.. 19/6
Bft., 10-plait.. 22/-
9ft., 12-plait.. 21 Hi
9ft., 16-plait.. 24/6
r-
*- -■>
00-KOO-KOO- KBURRA
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE. 130
PAGES OF INTEREST TO EVERY
HORSEOWNER. SPECIAL FREIGHT
TERMS TO OTHER STATES.
Handles for Bft. thongs, 15/6 and 17 /« r or 9f( .
thongs, 17/. and 19/-. POST FREE FOR CASH.’
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers. 393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Noxious Weeds
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
m
VAI
LO
BRAND
..weed, scrub
% TREE HUU®
[poison]
Prices: 56 lbs., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3;
7 lbs., 10/6; lib., 2/-; Jib., 1/3
Every square foot of land is valuable
now-a-days—far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Manufactured, by
A. VICTOR LEGGO 8c CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
3L
$
H§= 4
All HOTELS AND
LICENSED GROCERS
WHISKY
MELLOWED with age
and primed with all the zest -
giving qualities that only expert
_ distillation can pro- _
duce.
the SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Seif-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for ail Pens— ble Everywhere
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedand no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.P.D.: True, perhaps; but how much
do you think it would be worth to Fitzpatrick if
we couldn’t prove every word of it ?... . Working
Girl: Sorry, but can’t get the hang of it Jack
A.W.: If “The Fatal Confession” is really your last,
we’ll let you go with our blessing Oxo: “The
Aeroplane” is not well enough- built Isobel C.:
You consider them to be “quite Kiplingesque.” Don’t
tell Kipling. .. .S. Esmond : Neither. .. .Baree: Too
enigmatical. What are you driving at?... .L.P.J.:
Nothing like what we want Anna C.: Both under
the mark... .N.L.P.: Too weak. Nobody would cock
an ear to that plaint, anyhow E.P.0.: Write to
the director of the Technical College D.L.S.: New
to this country, apparently? Well, come in:—
“So out for bad or good.
And earn our livelihood.
For, my lad, we’ve done it before.
And we'll do again what’s more.”
“Just so,” says Jack, “and if we cannot
Earn enough to boil the billy and the pot.
We 11 pack and off to Aussie scrub,
And there we’ll surely earn our grub.”
R.M.O.: The basket got it C.S. (Geelong):
Your Pegasus falls at the second hurdle Aloha-oe:
Bit too crude... .Marlecsh: No g00d.... Faro : Don’t
like it A.F.J.: Not up M.8.P.: “Summer in
Grey” wants lubricating Bonhomme: Doesn’t it
strike you that the compensation of Heaven is a
bit too remote? AV.D.O.: Not for us Joke A.:
Find a place of your own; that one belongs to
“Den.” J.R.M.: Good verse, but the theme is
on its uppers S.C. (Inverell): Not bright
enough H.C.S.: Reply published at the time.
Don’t remember now Bob D.: “Don’t, Bill” has
some probability but no beauty Gamalgi: Must
be a long way better than that... .Sutton: It’s all
ibout nothing, and the verse-herdsman would run it
in for wandering Ronald H.: No use to us
C. 0.11.: Verse like that Won’t help much to “make
mankind sublime” Damaris: We note that birds
are found in bushes, grubs in the ground and fishes
in the sea; also that man will grow to perfection.
The statements seem a poor excuse for verse as
bad as that B.T. (Launceston): So the picture-
show lured the girl away. Cheer up! Love that
Isn’t stronger than the lure of Charlie Chaplin
wouldn’t cook much of a breakfast Mary B.: Not
up 1.F.: “Grief” moves like a literary elephant
on a treadmill.... Peter F.: One stanza:—
I often wish that I was dead
And well down in my grave;
when , 1 see the stars a-winking o’erhead.
They make me curse and rave.
Sorry. Try sleeping on your stomach Francis
P. C.: Not enough descriptive skill R.F.S.: Misses.
....Guy Rope: Can’t see what you’re driving at.
T,.c,r. : N ot enough marrow in the bones
Heldar: Returned Hermia Simon: No.,..Beech-
wood : Why did you pick on us? McMuckle: Tco
ragged... . Hicks: Ce tainly. There’s always a mar-
ket for things we don’t know about people we do
know.... Nell E.: “The Call” isn’t fresh enough....
Elonera: Verse is lame in all its feet Limber:
He gave the man a horse and the man took it.
That’s all the yarn amounts to as you tell it....
Crown Lands: Hans doesn’t read mirthfully... .D.C.:
The verses are commonplace in phrasing and poor
in construction, but the chief fault is that you
want for something to say E.M.L.: Fourth line
goes flop M.R. (Armadale): Says nothing new
and doesn’t say it well Vin Revor: Crude....
0.H.L.: “Artistic Temperament” doesn’t score
Hugh S.: Don’t like “Rags and Dirt”.., .A.L.N.:
Not up... .K.N, (Geelong): “The Whaler” won’t do.
Bessie P.: “Coincidence” isn’t what we are
hungry for... .R.S.Y.S.: Don’t like “Church and
Stage” L.C.R.: No grip in “Public Library”....
Bellerive: “The Dying Circus Clown” moves us:—
. ...Wpka: Launceston, not Hobart. Thk Bttllettn ,, s
Oldest Inhabitant will browse in that field presently.
.... Dave B.: This is a paper, not a sewer....
M.C.M.: No; it's not Ifkely that you would get the
whole thing from there Back L.: Put a direct
case and we’ll inquire into it E.D.T.: No value.
. ...M.J.8.: Try again... .Remus: Figures of little
use in that bald way Vitam: Write to the Com-
missioner for Railways. Doesn’t read right. ..
Digger: Sent your letter to the Under-Sec. 'or
Lands. Better write to him yourself... .W.T.H.:
There should have been a good par there. It’s not
too late... .W.D.0.: It reads like sweet 16....
Mid C.: Well, he’s pulled your leg all right.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.: Keep going; of the latest lot the worst draw-
ing is hitched to the best smile A.O’R.: Mere
scratches Paula: Not nearly N.C.S.: It was a
good joke; but it has lost its flavor with age....
Yvonne: You won’t “master art” in a century by
copying.... R. McG.: Looks like a page from a
spring catalogue; try something bolder and without
frills.... J.C.: Will do as a suggestion... .Lyn : Some
humor; but it lacks everything else N.F.: Pro-
mising J.McG.: An also-ran... .E.McG.: Dis-
charged with a caution....F.S.H.S.: Your hopes
won t materialise if you cannot do better than that.
( t> /3/’2O) SydDey D ' T -’ 3 leading article
The fact i 3 Australia is a continent.
The benefits of free and compulsory educa-
tion are more apparent every day.
“W.G.C.”: “Bromide” (B. 26/2/’2O)
mentioned some close shaves during the late
difference of opinion. How’s this? A bullet
whizzed through a Digger’s left lung, missed
the heart by a quarter of an inch, and came
out of the back clear of the spine by about
the nothingth of an inch. The Digger was
two months in hospital, never off his back,
and finally was shipped back to Australia
marked C 2. This is dinkum. I was the
Digger.
We seen good days with the circus, Jim,
And travelled through many a town.
You as the st#r of the acrobats
And I as a humorous clown.
In fancy I picture the sawdust ring.
And Wilton upon he’s grey horse.
Game Nellie Doraine upon the wire,
And the balancing feats of Will Cross.
Dan Batty died in the West, I heard,
From the internal effects of a fall,
And a piteous slave to the flowing bowl
( Is the once-daring rider McCall.
I’m firm in the grip of wrestling fate,
I’m down for my last on the mat.
My final exit will be a relief,
I’m tortured like a mouse by a cat.
My reign as a circus jester is o’er.
The curtain’s descending, old chum.
Dust to dust, for my soul I trust
To the Judge of the Kingdom Come.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cubities-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIF.NT S.N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 17,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Banking:. Public Companies, &c.
I'HK
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,.000,00Q.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES: E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G.; lion. A. .T. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS AT.L USUAL RANKING IHJSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. -- .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .- •• 770 127 10 0
Reserve Funo .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stuck 3.091,009 4 a
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love. Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
lIK.AI* OFFICE ... BRISBANE
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
t)i rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the Eaat.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up :.. £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT It. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and- King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager; G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. . • 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. • • 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224.
CHANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
_ land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Bankin;
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 18G5.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Svdney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
. . £5O
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund . •
Uncalled Capital ••
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
. £600,000
. 570,000
£1,070.000
. 125,000
■ 625,000
£1.820.000
Head Ofpicei ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSIRALIA*
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
Drafts "anlf' Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills, from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. ANtT BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND iHE AMERICAN CON HNLi\ A.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. MAKURA, end March.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Koelcl®»—l* •» ‘fce
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New Fork can all be visiteu.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
V.-V
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
m)
Directors:
- £4,639460
3,200,000
4,630,160
£12,478,320
The Hon. Sir Cnarles K. Macltellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.. President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Hubert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
E. B. S. Falkiner. Esq
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; AV. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Ilend Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. _
Cable remittances made to., and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and eolleeted. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
W J>/ l*-r
Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 G
v
u
MB
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. liater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
«btnninsr.
huddart Parker Li^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
SAILINGS RESUMED.
See Daily Papers.
HUDDART PARKER, LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne;
George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FILE TWIN-SCREW steamer
“LEVUKA,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 2G
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by b.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
o Tt.Sydney.
Ttic Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Picturesque Route to Brisbane.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class vail and saloon on
steamer, £li 13s. Gd.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. Gd. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island. Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PillLP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
munis
m
George hotel.
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
RUPTURE
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this opmplaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feed-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we sta e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE pasted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
3*9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian linitetf Steam Navigation On., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaekheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messegenes Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens*
land Ports). , , x .
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide. Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
i ■
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
NEW COLOR BOOK.
Persian Tales. First written down in
the Original Kermani and Bakhtiari,
and translated by D. L. R. LORI-
MER and E. O. LORIMER. W r ith
16 Plates in Color and Illustrations
in Black and White by HILDA
ROBERTS. 20s. net.
Profit anti Sport in British East
Africa, being a Second Edition, Re-
vised and Enlarged, of “A Colony in
the Making.” By CAPTAIN THE
LORD CRANWORTH, M.C. With
Maps and Illustrations. 21s. net.
Economic Consequences of the
Peace. By JOHN MAYNARD
KEYNES, C.D. Bs. 6d.-net.
French Ways and Their Meaning.
By EDITH WHARTON. 6s. net.
The Daily Telegraph. —“ Whether her
readers agree with her conclusions or net,
there is no doubt that they will be deeply
interested in her arguments, and will find
them quite agreeable reading. The book Is
one which is well worth consulting.”
The Spirit. God and His Relation to
Man considered from the Standpoint
of Philosophy, Psychology and Art.
By various writers. Edited by
Canon BURNETT 11. STREETER.
10s. 6d. net.
Pathways to Christian Unity. A
Free Church View. By ARTHUR
BLACK, G. E. DARLASTON, W.
E. ORCHARD. WILLIAM BATON,
J. 11. SQUIRE, MALCOLM SPEN-
CER. 6s. net.
Pan-Islam. By G. Wyman Bury,
author of “The Land of Uz” and
“Arabia Infelix.: or the Turks in
Yamen.” With Map. 6s. net.
Science and Frijit Growing. Being
an account of t'jm Results obtained at
the Woburn Ex perimental Fruit Farm
since its foundation in 1894. By the
DUKE OF BE pFORD, K.G., F.R.S.,
and SPENCER PICKERING,
M.A., F.R.S. J2s. 6d. net.
ROUND TABLES PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price 2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per
annum, post fm* to any address within
the Empire.
The Problem, of the Common-
wealth. L. ‘CURTIS. The after-
war relations? between Great Britain
and the Don finions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.;
cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing,
fis.
Our Guard fan Fleets in 1805. By
H. W. HOUSEHOLD, Author of
Our Sea; Power,” etc. Illustrated.
3s. net.
Maciiiillan’s 5/- Library
NEW VOLS.
Eliza ’aetii and her German Garden.
3s. net.
Tb» Solitary Summer. By the author
of “Elizabeth and her German Gar-
den.” 3s. net.
To b$ Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
C*h
SPORTS COATS
Golf, Tennis. Fishing and
Shootin O',
Donegal and Connemara hand-woven IRISH
AND SCOTCH. TWEEDS, with. Leather
Buttons.
£5/5/- to £6/6/-
Also Burberry Waterproof
Norfoiks, £7/15/-
White and Grey Flannel
Trousers, Loose Fitting.
White Wool Tennis Socks.
Leather Belts.
JUST LANDED—NEW GOLF-COAT
SWEATER,
latest shades, extra light weight.
Jlitliarii 3)imt «v(£ij
314 (ieorge Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
I
ABBEY
SHOES
Possess Distinction that appeals to good
taste, combined with Lone*-wearing
Qualities sought by those who demand
long service.
We illustrate a Choice Patent Oxford Bal.
with Dull Calf Legs .. .. 657-
All Patent.. .. 67/6
Tan Calf .. .. . . 60/-
In Half-sizes and Narrow, Medium and
Wide Fittings. .
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
PLATINUM
1 BUY in
FAIRFAX &
Wanted to Buy,
AT £3O AN OUNCE.—We desire to
any quantities.
ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong:.
Price 2/» post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
m
<3
83. Harrington anti Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 16-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, cafe-hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke;
weight about Freight paid,
£5/1 0-
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman's
Mecum.
“SURE
Guide.
Vade
df
inch barrels, both choke
patent fore-ends, highly
525:S 25 : Altemdorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
’ top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding loek3, ,
engraved, matted rib, weight about 7 Jib, Freight paid, £lo/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Ttham Vield
I** 2 - “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
A Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
depse Progan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high flle-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b. » , . , .
Tested for Nito Powders Flight paid, aLI 4/*4/“
e can also supply the “Ithaca” Gun, similar description to No. 12 but «, ~ .
higher grade 12-gauge at Freight paid, aLIO/10/*
:
■Hi
sSa
833. Winchester Automatic Repeat
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate.
Weight 7 Jib Freight paid,
ing Shot-Gun,
grip, nickel-steel
for 2Jin. shells.
£l2/12/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
DUPONT’S Smokeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S Smokeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
df
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, « m ,
beautifully engraved, weight about 731 b Freight paid,
SUNOL TOBACCO
High-grade Virginia—Natural Aroma.
SEND FOR 2oz. SAMPLE PACKET TO-DAY.
Dark 1/2, Post Free; Bright 1/4, Post Free.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge,
df
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or S2in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
87 Auto-Ejector, 47/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-Statfi-
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POBT FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
1C
■J
aVSTRALms GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
arm tobacconists
df
City Sports Depot
S 9 King SC also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


The Real Remedy for Backache
and Kidney Troubles
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Mrs. J. S. WOODSIDE (from a photo by Kentlm, Stump).
Many times when I have
read what other women
think of your “Gin
Pills” I thought of
writing to tell you my
opinion of them, which
is that there is nothing-
in the world like them
for women. I have been
a constant user of them
for many years, and con-
sider that my present fine
health and strength is
due to their beneficial
effects. They clear the
head and the kidneys,
and are invaluable for
the many ills women are
prone to suffer. I sent
you my photograph, and
give you my full per-
mission to make public
what I say about. Gin
Pills. My advice to all
women is, take a Gin
Pill now and then —
there is nothing so good;
they prove all a woman can look for. This sounds a big thing to say,
but it’s true.
I remain, yours faithfully,
Craigielee, (Sgd.) JESSIE S. WOODSIDE.
Craigend Street, Darlinghurst.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you feel that your kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your run-down
feeling-, begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble,
because as soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble relieve the worst cases,
because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the kidneys, and make them filter out all ihe poisonous waste matters and uric
acids that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing rheumatism. They sooctpe and
heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique remedy entirely different
from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else to compare with them. No
matter how old you are, or how long you have suffered, the very principle of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible to take them into the
human system without obtaining results. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, price 1/6 and 2/6.
fMWMMi
pin,
BANISHES
BACKACHE.KIDNEY.B
AND ÜBINARYTRq
11l
ml
ill w»« illc Wvl II
c
□
□
3H:
aps
X
}7 (
X
\ V'/ .
'*. .'. <-fi
"t
•.v®s*S®
vms
TEXACO
Skjßm
X'iP&jr
imr
: s w
yVij^ir.
■J^^B&a»^S&isix«®risS»«k»A A^
tram mark
THERE is a vital reason for
the ever-growing demand
for TEXACO Motor Oils
in every part of the world.
TEXACO Motor Oils are non-
carbonizing a tremendous
money saving feature—and one
test will quickly prove it to you.
It’s an easy matter to get the right oil
for your car or motor truck by using
TEXACO. If you re having carbon
trouble, TEXACO will quickly stop it.
Ask for TEXACO every time.
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, PFRTH, LAUNCESTON
And HARRIS SCARFE & CO. LTD. ADELAIDE.
Petrol Motor Oils, Greases, I tdustri 1 Lubricants, Marine Oils, Kerosene
Roofing and Road Asphalt, etc.
The Red Gum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S the tree I love:
Green leaves muttering
In the hot sun above
To the wind’s fitful fluttering;
And a thin shadow dancing
Over gold and brown,
With the bright birds glancing
Where the bloom blows down.
Orange boughs in the sun,
But red in the glooming
Of great clouds that gather and run
To the thunder’s booming,
While the rain-jewels glitter and shower
Till the light growing bold
Lifts the cloud on its shoulders of power
And the world fills with gold.
A gold world, a black tree;
And the little winds hasten to clamber
Down the branches from round knee to knee,
With the leaves dripping amber;
Dripping amber all scented with wonder
And spices of dream,
For the merry, sweet heart of the thunder
Stays on in the gleam.
Here’s the tree I love:
Grey leaves muttering,
And a shy moon above,
Through thin' clouds fluttering ;
And all the here and hereafter.
Like the feather-sigh of a bird,
Set in the night laughter
Of a small, shy word.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Aim at the Pigeon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JAMES CHARLTON walked briskly
from Flinders-street to his chambers in
Temple Court, then, away back in the
’seventies, the place of lawyermen ; of little
legal offices in two tiers, strangely sug-
gestive of a modern gaol; with a long stone-
Hagged court, broken by a fountain out of
commission. He had been at the
Bar for two years with never a
brief big enough for him—merely the
defence of little thieves, appearances
for publicans before the Licensing Courts
and County Coiirt actions for little causes
of debt. He knew he was big enough for
greater things; and, unknown to himself,
he had been noticed. The Melbourne
agents of an important Riverina firm had
sent him the brief to defend in the cause
of the Queen against Phyllis Railton,
charged with attempted murder.
Charlton, in the first joy of the mark on
the brief which had made a new standard
of fees for him, had discounted all its
difficulties. Now, with a right to think
it over, he was as glad as ever, but with a
new anxiety at back of it. The evidence
for the Crown was conclusive; defence
seemed impossible, and yet he knew that he
must succeed, not for the client’s sake any
more than for his own.
Charlton put down his bag and newspaper,
hung up his hat on the portable stand
which supported his gown, and sat at his
paper-littered table, thinking deeply. He
already knew that his defence must be
absolutely new and audacious ; that only the
element of surprise—the essence of tactics —
could break down the web his client had
spun around hei’self. All the old w fl y s °f
answering a charge, from destroying the
credulity of the Crown witnesses to old
Sam Weller’s alibi, were impossible; to
succeed in this impossible case, conventions
must be destroyed, audacity must answer
and out-stare the truth. Feeling helpless
seated, he arose and paced the room, acting
his thoughts aloud to himself with that
histrionic ability which is at the base of all
greatness of a preacher, advocate, statesman.
“Phyllis Railton is twenty or so. I hope
she is* good looking, or at least that she
looks good and innocent. She is engaged
to Mark Cobham; he suddenly jilts her
and marries another woman. If the other
woman is ugly and has money, so much the
better. I’ll get that in about the money,
anyhow. Find her religion; and what’s
the prevailing religion of the jury panel.
Get the strength of the majority, and
challenge the minority. On the day Cobham
married the other woman my client openly
buys a shot-gun and practises openly with
it just outside the town ; and three or four
weeks later, as Cobham is mounting his
horse in the main street of the town, she
shoots him. Nearly kills him; he is three
months in hospital. She’s charged with
attempted murder. Capital charge. I’ll
scare her for a start, if .necessary ; tell her
they still hang women in New South Wales.
No possibility of mistaken identity, and the
girl has lived in that town all her life; and
it was market day. and three or four
hundred people saw r the shooting. So I’ve
got to get the jury. How? A fool would
get flurried over tins, and try to souare that
country jury with money. I’ll souare
them by getting at their sympathies. How,
again ? I can do no more here; I’ll go up
to New South Wales to-morrow. That
coach drive will give me all the time I want
to think.”
In the wine-like air of Riverina Jim
Charlton’s thoughts were, clearer, and the
new optimism of the region came to ease
his way. Near to the sun-setting, and in the
perfect late afternoon only to be known
in the Central Plain of Australia or on the
plains back of the Nile, five horses pulled
the swaying coach as if it were a feather
at their tails —over the wooden bridge that
spanned the Murray: and then north to the
town where Phvllis Railton lay in her cell
in the red-bricked gaol, waiting trial for her
life “for that she did attempt to feloniously
kill and slay one Mark Cobham against
the peace of our Sovereign Lady the Queen,”
and all the rest of the jargon.
The solicitors next day introduced him
to ilrs. Barton, the elder and married sister
of Phyllis Railton. Mrs. Barton was the
pretty mother of two small girls—a woman
tense and haggard from the suspense of
these long weeks that un-nerved Phvllis
Railton while Mark Cobham slowly mended
in hospital. And Mrs. Barton gave Charl-
ton a new fear; she told him that her
sister Phyllis was careless of the future-
refused to defend herself, and prayed only
that she might die.
Charlton, finding that he had his own
client as well as the Crown to fight, felt
his burden grow heavier; but that did not
destroy his method. He searched the local
directory, and found a fact, to cheer him.
Phyllis Railton was of Irish extraction;
and most of the names in the directory
ended with lone or egan and began with O
or Mac. And the list of the jury panel had
sampled the local directory fairly and at an
average. That much done, he took counsel
with the prisoner’s solicitors, and found
that Phyllis Railton had been known to
the townspeople from childhood —a good
daughter, a good friend; all that is com-
prised in the term “a good girl.” Further,
her solicitors added, she was now a
suicidal girl; strangely calm, uninterested
in the proceedings, refusing to help herself,
and craving only to be forgotten.
With such unpromising material Charl-
ton fared forth to his duty to his client
and himself. The solicitor took him to the
girl, and they found her in her cell, which
had known her for two months, and she
gave the bare walls distinction. Being on
remand, the gaol rules as to clothes did not
apply to her. Charlton’s hazel-eyed, brown-
haired client, in a pink dress of the princess-
robe fashion of the period, was like a flower
in a cave. Charlton, used to appraise
beauty and character with some correctness
at a glance, saw that she was more thau
pretty though etiolated by imprisonment;
for the pallor was clear like marble, not
waxy like lard.
The solicitor introduced him and with-
drew by design; he had already found
a difficulty in getting her to talk before
one man, and knew the impossibility of mak-
ing her speak before two.
“Now, Miss Railton,” said Charlton, “I
am here as yourself, with your own interest
in your life and welfare.”
The girl sat down on her bed, her atti-
tude that of calm despair. “I don’t care for
either my life or my welfare, Mr. Charlton.”
“Now,” said Charlton, trying to brighten
her, “if you won’t help me for your own
sake, help me for mine—the most promising
young advocate in Australia, if I may say
it without immodesty.”
But she did not smile —merely sat there,
straight-backed and immovable, and let him
talk.
“You see, my dear girl, the position
w T e are in. It’s useless to talk of mistaken
identity; it’s farcical to say that somebody
else shot him.”
That moved her. She rose from the bed,
indignant as if she were being robbed of the
reward of merit.
“Nobody else shot him. I did it. I won’t
have it said that I didn’t. I shot him. I
glory in it.”
“Then tve’ve got to take another line —the
line of justifiable provocation.”
“What!”
“We must say he seduced and jilted you.”
Then she raved, but raved coherently; her
words coming in a stream, full of white-hot
indignation of Charlton's proposition and
hatred of the man she had tried to kill.
“How dare you ? That fellow! How
dare you say that to me? Any medical
man can disprove it. Oh, how dare you say
that!”
“My dear young lady, I didn’t say it. I
said ‘Let us pretend it.’ It’s our only hope
—the only defence that can hold.”
“It shan’t be said. It shan’t be said.”
“Attempted murder is still a capital crime
here; and they still hang women in this
country.”
“Let them! I’d rather die of a rope than
die of shame —and that’s what you are ask-
ing me to do!”
“And if you were reprieved it would be
worse. _ Fifteen years with the scum of
civilisation —it would be worse than death !”
“Death or forgetfulness, I don’t care.
Now I’ll ask you to go. This is my private
room, even if it is a gaol.”
Charlton went away defeated; but the
sight of the wardress in the corridor gave
him an idea. In pursuance of it he re-
turned to speak a commonplace, merely with
an eye to future arrangements, and so left
the gaol to seek Phyllis Railton’s married!
sister. On the road he made his plan. He
found the piquant little woman not with
the strong character of Phyllis, and there-
fore more dismayed at the thought of the
procession-to-be—prisoners, judges, police-
men and the shadow of the rope. Her two
dainty little girls played at her feet.
“Yes, I saw her,” said Charlton. “What
pretty little girls! Both yours?”
“Yes, Mr. Charlton. My sister”
“What age is this one?”
“Three, Mr. Charlton. Myra is five. But
Phyllis?”
“I can do nothing with her. She refuses
to help herself.”
“Oh, what can we do?”
“Mrs. Barton, suppose when your little
girls grow up their happiness was wrecked
through your sister’s obstinacy? Just a
minute! Suppose your sister were hanged?”
“Oh. oh, Mr. Charlton!”
“Suppose she got 15 years. In 15 years
your daughters will be marriageable.
Imagine their lives being smashed because
some cruel gossip goes to their lovers and
says ‘Don’t marry her —her aunt killed a
man’ —or ‘Don’t marry Myra—her aunt
was a lifer’?”
“Oh. Mr. Charlton—anything !”
“Well, first—now attend. You’ll have
trouble with your sister, but she must be
brought to do as I say. I’ve noticed that
most of the names of the directory and the
panel are Irish. Now get a big green shawl,
with a big harp of Erin on the corner of
it, and give the wardress a couple of pounds
to throw the harp-end of the shawl over the
spikes as soon as Phyllis gets into the dock.”
“I will —anything.”
“It must be well stage-managed. Make
the wardress rehearse it half a dozen times,
so that she throws the shawl over the dock-
rail with the nroper amount of carelessness.”
“Yes —yes!”
“And now we come to a more delicate
part of it. The green shawl is onlv for the
first good impression of the jury. ' It can’t
affect the evidence. Now, we’ve got to
manufacture evidence.”
“Perjury!”
“No ! Only the perjury of a pfllow or so
and the. Law doesn’t prosecute bed-furniture
(Continued on newt puye.)


TRY DOANS FOR
THAT BAD BACK!
Don’t worry and complain about a bad back. Get rid of it! Your
back doesn t ache without a cause, and often the cause is weak kidneys.
Perhaps hard work has put your kidneys a little out of order, or a cold has
settled there. In that case a medicine is needed to help the weakened
kidneys, and if it s kidney backache the chances are you’ll soon be over it.
The lameness, stiffness, dull, tired feeling, nervousness, dizziness, rheumatic
pains and urinary trouble should go too. Use DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS. You can have faith in this medicine, as it is publicly
recommended by Sydney people.
"Every Picture
Tells a Story/’
1
1
m
m
m
m
m
v/'
m
*w.
m
Mrs. E. H. O’Brien, 3 Ashmore Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says: “I was a martyr
to kidney trouble for awhile, the symptoms
being backache, dizzy attacks and a constant
tiredness. My back used to ache fearfully,
especially if I moved about much, and I
could not get proper rest at night, not being
able to lie in one position for any length of
time. The different remedies I tried failed
to do me any good, and I was at a loss to
know how to get rid of the troublesome com-
plaint. Seeing an advertisement in the paper
for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the
thought occurred to me to take a course of
these pills, and it was a good thing that I
did. Three bottles fixed me up completely,
and made _me feel a different woman. I
cannot praise Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
sufficiently for the good they have done me,
and shall never lose an opportunity of recom-
mending them to my friends.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mr. F. N. Stark, Alice Street, Sans Souci,
Sydney, says: “Some years ago a sudden,
knife-like pain struck me across the back and
sides, which got so bad that I had to call in
a doctor. He did not cure me, and I went
on suffering until I heard about Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. As soon as I com-
menced using these pills I felt easier, and it
only took three bottles to cure me. 1 am
glad to be free of the terrible pain, and can
thank Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills alone
for my cure.”
Twelve years later Mr. Stark says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills permanently
cured me—for I have had no return of back-
ache for the past twelve years. There is no
doubt about it, Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are thoroughly good, and I can strongly
recommend them to other sufferers.”
pr
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
df
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
I told Phyllis the only possible line of de-
fence was that Cobham had seduced her.”
“Oh, Mr. Chariton, she’s a good girl!”
“I know she is. We’ve got to save the
good girl’s life and liberty. That’s my de-
fence that Cobliam seduced and deserted
her, and that, crazy with the insult, she shot
nun. Now —it’s up to you !”
“She’ll never forgive me, she’s so proud.”
’lou’ll never forgive yourself if once you
see the black cap, or hear tne long sen-
tence.”
“I’ll do anything you say—anything.”
“Ever read about the French lie volution?”
"Very little, sir.”
“Well, owing to revolution and wars the
male population dwindled very low and new
population w r as urgently wanted. To be
about to become a mother was then thought
even more honorable than maternity should
always be. So fashionable was motherhood
that ladies counterfeited pregnancy.”
“Oh, Mr. Charlton !”
“ ‘With mere pillows and stuffing some-
times,’ says Montgaillard. Will you do it’
It’s her life.”
“Anything— anything!”
* * * •
When the case of the Queen against
Phyllis Railton was called, a great crowd
resented the encroachment on the body of
the court by the solicitors and solicitors’
clerks, who had overflowed from the bar-
risters’ table—overcrowders of the Bar and
ulleged lawyers, curious to hear this new,
young man from Melbourne attempting to
tray the rope already spun for his client.
Charlton glanced at the dock, and saw
that Phyllis Railton looked as if she hated
him for his part in the farce she had been
forced to play. She held her head high as
she looked at him, her eyes full of scorn;
the red patch of rage burned in her pale
cheeks. She gestured impatience, and then
dull resignation, as the wardress lifted the
right-hand corner of the green shawl the
prisoner wore and threw it over the dock,
so exposing a harp of Erin worked in yellow
silk.
Charlton for all his anxieties smiled to
himself. “The wardress has had her forty
bob all right, and the harp is big enough to
play on. What’s the wardress doing now?”
The wardress had had other instructions.
She pulled the shawl aside from the pri-
soner’s body; and the prisoner replaced it
impatiently.
“H’m,” said Charlton—“instructions car-
ried out, but overdone. It’s the bolster
instead of the pillow.”
And then the jury came; and Charlton,
hearing the long string of names—“ Nolan,
I itzpatrick, Clooney, O’Regan”—challenged
not at all. It pleased him to see that the
jury, looking at the dock, saw the shawl,
and were fascinated.
Charlton was almost light-hearted. “It’s
the harp that once through Tara’s halls has
got ’em. Here Igo to make history and pre-
cedent!*,”
His cross-examination of the arresting
constable and of the storekeeper who sold
the gun to the prisoner was so soft and
aimless that it shocked the old stagers at
the barristers’ table.
“Did they have any doubt that it was the
prisoner who bought the gun and fired the
shot?”
“Unfortunately, no.”
“Why unfortunately?”
Because sue was a good girl. One of the
best. They had known her tor many years.
And they had no doubt that it was she
who tired the shot?
They had none.
“Thank you.”
The old stagers buzzed one to the other.
“What’s he mean by it? lie’s putting the
rope around his client’s neck.”
Mark Cobham entered the box. He gave
his evidence haltingly and reluctantly. He
had been engaged to Phyllis, had jilted her,
had married the other woman and then
Phyllis shot him.
Charlton arose to cross-examine, hitching
up the gown that always slipped low on
the left shoulder, slapping his wig where
the perspiration tickled him. He had Cob-
ham’s measure quickly—a mean, slant-eyed
fellow, thick-lipped and flat-footed. He had
seen him padding to the box as if he had
no heels, walking like a cat, and immediately
recognised him as one of those mean,
treacherous, sneaking egoists to whom really
fine women of character beeome plastic;
maybe to equilibrise quality, as the pony
woman equilibrises size by marrying a
Clydesdale man. Charlton looked him
squarely in the eye. and saw the sneak,
aided by his rudimentary conscience, become
all a coward, beaten by glances before enter-
ing the ring. To complete the nervousness
of the witness Charlton delayed to turn over
some papers as if searching for something;
took up the book nearest him, opened it im-
pressively, looked accusingly at Cobham:
and so completed the rout. Charlton paused
again, and Cobham’s nervous hands showed
the barrister the utter demoralisation of the
man. Then Charlton looked at the prisoner.
Her brown hair, disarranged in the last
friendly struggle to prepare her for Chari-
ton’s dramatic situation, shone like powdered
gold in the sunlight that touched the dock.
In the stony quietness of her face, with the
red flags of shame half-masted in her cheeks,
she seemed to that jury, won by her beauty
and the harp of Erin on the green shawl,
to be not accused, but accuser; and the
finger of her counsel pointed at the real
criminal, in the witness-box.
“You have known the prisoner for some
time?”
Cobham wetted his dry lips, moved his
red. nervous hands and replied. “Ye-es, sir.”
“You went to school with her?”
“Ye-es, sir.”
“But that gave you no chivalry to her —
no sense of duty?”
Silence.
“You became engaged to her six months
ago ?”
“Yes. sir.”
“And three months ago you suddenly
deserted her and married another girl?”
“Yes. sir.”
“Why did you desert her?”
—because I liked the other girl more.”
Because the other girl had more money—
even if she had not a fraction of her beauty?”
Sdence.
“You didn’t want to prosecute her?”
“No —no, sir.”
At that moment the prisoner, who had
leaned forward over the door, blazing all
her hatred at the witness, let the shawl slip
from her shoulders, and it hung from the
dock-rail. She recovered it instantly, but all
had seen. Compassion came to tne lired eyes
of the Judge, weary of hearing all the sins
and transgression of the world.
“The police made you prosecute her?”
“Yes, sir.”
“I say nothing against the police—they
have done their delicate duty like gentle-
men —the Law gives them no option; but
they feel all the pity due to that girl. Par-
don the digression, your Honor ; the feelings
of a man sometimes overcome respect for the
forms of law. Now, witness, again—you
didn’t want to prosecute?”
“No, sir.”
“After you married the other girl Miss
Railton bought a gun and practised with it
ijuite openly?”
"I believe so, sir.”
“Practised with it for your benefit?”
“Ye-es, sir.”
“And then, a month after your marriage,
the prisoner came out into the open street
on a market day ; came there mad, with four
hundred witnesses of what is merely a tech-
nical crime—pardon me, your Honor—and
as you mounted your horse shot you?”
“Ye-es, sir.”
“Shot you in the buttocks?”
And then ridicule came to take the last
shred of sympathy from the man and hand
it to the woman. The jury felt a personal
grudge against Cobham, and the hunter
became the hunted.
“If any unseemly levity is indulged in the
court will be cleared.”
“Yes —shot you in the buttocks?”
“Ye-es, sir.”
“The only place you’re ever likely to be
shot in, as you seem to be in a "chronic
condition of running away !”
Silence.
“Shall I tell you why you didn’t want to
prosecute? Because you know that poor
girl bears the result of your cruel gratifica-
tion, and even a scoundrel such as you hesi-
tates at sending his unborn child to the living
death of a prison or the infamy of the scaf-
fold. Get out of the box !”
* * *
Years later, down in that tavern which
looks like a boy-monastery that was dwarfed
in youth and lias never grown up, Charlton,
K.C., told me the end of the story.
“After that trial anybody would think I
had sentenced my client to death instead of
opening the gaol-door for her to go out. All
the boys congratulated me; the jury, once it
was discharged, wanted to kiss me and kill
the man Phyllis shot, and, taking everything
by and large, I would rather have been killed
than kissed. And then I went round to see
my client and have her weep tears of grati-
tude on my neck for working up that emo-
tional jury to acquit her without leaving the
box. I found her in the witnesses’ room—
normal again as far as appearances went.
She’d thrown the shawl under the table, and
all the rest of it ; and she was as mad as
a Polar bear in a menagerie in summer.
“ ‘Congratulations, Miss Railton,’ I said ;
and then she opened out.
“She had been insulted—deeply, horribly
traduced, and she’d rather have d ; ed by the
hangman than have the Court believe she'd
been weak to the chap she shot. She gave
me pepper. At last she said :
“ ‘My reputation’s gone.’
“And I said, ‘But your life is saved.'
“ ‘What do I care!’ says she. ‘My char-
acter is wrecked ; and I must go away and
take another name.’
‘‘l was getting tired of this ungratefni
unreasonableness, and I said in self-defence,
‘I needn’t change my name—it’s made for
life.’
“So with that I went away, and she heaped
scorn and more ingratitude on me as I
left her. But I laughed, and went back to
Melbourne; and after that the briefs came
like leaves in the Fitzroy Gardens.”
"I suppose she was honest in saying she
preferred death, Jim?”
“She was—quite. But to show you how
a man builds better than he knows—five
months later she became the mother of a
child the exact likeness of the gentleman she
shot before four hundred witnesses. A man
builds better than he knows.”
My friend Charlton was not the first man
who made a great reputation by aiming at
a pigeon and shooting a crow.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The First-born.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL night, all night, I lay in agony.
Awaiting that which Life had pro-
mised me.
Death came and whispered me—“ Sweet is
my peace
To those who seek from pain a swift
release!”
But, love of life grown stronger than the
gods,
I fenced with him at long and fearful odds.
While night’s slow laggard hours with heavy
tread
Passed in procession by my pain-racked bed.
Closer he pressed me, and with heart afraid.
And tortured head upon my pillow laid.
I watched and met his parries ceaselessly,
Haunted by one insistent memory.
Did I not dream my arms should round him
close.
My little son with lips of myrrh and rose?
That I should feel his fingers on my breast.
The crowning glory of my life possessed:
Mine and not mine, a being of the sky.
Born of a woman, and that woman I!'
Then in a sudden darkness I went blind;
Oblivion touched my eyes and sealed my
mind.
I felt my strength—the strength of tempered
steel—
Slip from me slowly and my senses reel.
But with the coming of the pale new morn
I heard them say my little child was born.
While he who was its father, at my side,
Knelt with bowed head unlifted when 1
cried :
“Ah, dearest one, that you should have to
wait
While I went forth alone to brave Death's
gate!’’
And even as I spoke upon my hand
There fell a tear I could not understand.
“Give me my son—how sweetly he has
slept!”
“Our little son i.s dead.” ho said, and wept!
N.s/vr.
LOLA GORNALL.


. X
v
St
i \
li-Y
■ SKr: If!
ir
■ s
V
iMs#'
*-
vC
. r ■r :
m
- W'
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency. ,
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIRGHOUSi BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— S 9 Queen Street, Melbourne-
CONCORD
N. S. WALES.
OR LICKS
MALTED
-MILK
Tho Ideal Food-' 1
| Drink(Milk,Wheat, 1
' and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable ;
qualities. It is made f
in a moment, any»j
where. Only water/
i* needed. In hot climates it
invaluable.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
G
|p*V-"**
A*.
to keep our end up.
Think or
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offioe-
-44 Bridge
df
Used the
World Over
WO.
<3.
MOTOR
... CARS
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches
and Melancholy assail
you,resulting in lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pill* touch
the liver and cure
all liver ills. Try them to-day and sec how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever.fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
CARTER'S
■f ITTLE
■VER
RILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
df
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wa Supply—
JAI?II AH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68j PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worW.
She- Standard Remedy which has outlived the GenturJM,
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Bools
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALUNC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,,
&. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, England
insist on H Singleton's’’—refuse all substitutes.
»
N j^N
STV«I » 0, «- v »e 4 <#
Wf «OO'J*IM«
-aFT-
X
_I ' .--Tvirß
MOTORJLiORRIES
Motive Power to the Rescue of
Crippled Man Power
BUSINESS men everywhere are speedily replacing horse-
drawn vehicles with motor lorries. Man power is
the all-absorbing problem. When the wits of the
world are struggling for industrial supremacy, can you afford
to carelessly wave aside this certain means of increased profit?
And be sure YOUR lorry is a Denby, because it will
mean less time out for repairs, less money for petrol and
spares.
Load capacities: 1,2, 3L 3 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A®
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
Uose No Tims
in dealing with disorders of the digestive system. Decision in procuring
the proper remedy and taking it in good time will well repay you. The
probability is that you will be saved no end of trouble as the result of
prompt action. There is no better medicine for disorders of the stomach,
liver and bowels than Beecham’s Pills.
fa TaWng
this medicine your confidence in the result will be confirmed by the
fact that Beecham’s Pills have been affording the greatest assistance to
dyspeptic sufferers for many years. Bfeecham’s Pills are one of the
oldest and best medicines. They are highly recommended by multitudes
of people who are proving their value at the present time. At the first
warning of stomach trouble—lose no time—act promptly—take
BEECHAM'S
ptus
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), I/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Auto-loading
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
2^s3 as
Wt
2 2
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4-}lb. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
4 MARCUS CLARK, LTD.
& DUNN.
GRACE T TD.
ANTHONY HORDEft'tt i*. T,r T>
J. 1\ KNIGHT.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ANDERSON’S, ltd.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD.
T. B. HOOPER & CO., Brisbane. Q.
J. P. KNIGHT.
NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL k GRAY, LTD., Brisbane, Q
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers: —
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.*
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST
Melbourne.
SI
■*'' ■ s*.
DO YOURSELF
A GOOD TURN
In a “Swan” Fountpen you have a pen
that will give no trouble whatsoever; you
have, too, a pen which for smoothness of
nib, ink capacity and strength of the various
parts, is beyond comparison with any other
make. As for enduring qualities, well, 20
to 25 years service is a common record.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Jewellers
and
Importers.
GET A
Self-fllling’
Safety, and
Standard.
SWAN
X
HSi
v r/' v:.
m
■ '
Always Use
Swan Ink.
Catalogue free on request
M4BIE, TODD & CO.,
“Swan" House. 133 Oxford Street,
AUB trala/tian H ranch
( Wholesale only) ;
London, W.I.
J. A. BURKE,
255 a George Street,
SYDNEY.
safeguard you* health
qY J.CoHis Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE gfOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anti ia the Cough of IiItONCHITIS aaU
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cut* short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains ot GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACT 9 LIKE A CIIAIIM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
01 all Che
es in England, US, SI-, 5/-.
in England.
ramer
Post Free
in Use
(Patented)
r*s
1
each
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
*’« 6
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Nor man by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
SUPPLIERS OF
GARAGE EQUIPMENT
mm.
>r,, v .
■
nBBol
6-inch Centres. Admit 40
inches between centres.
Swing in Gap 18in. dia-
meter. Width of Gap
62-in. Hole through
Spindle 1 3-16 inches.
Lead Screw 4 threads per
inch.
Self-acting Sliding, Surfacing
and Screw-cutting Lathes,
built to guaranteed limits of
error.
Equipment includes S-inch
4-jaw Independent Chuck
(fitted). Two-speed
Countershaft. Full Set of
20 Machine-cut Change
Wheels. Driver Plate.
Steady and Follower
Rests, Spanners, etc.
1
st s
.
■
>';: ■■
m
a*?**
—,..m^
*
'
I
K- . J
a
xsv Uj , ,-jv r - • f -_j s£&
--^SSPI
-
IK
. -
BENSON BROTHERS
-* , r
Machinery Merchants and Engineers’ Suppliers,
76-78 Liverpool St., Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne. 138 Currie St., Adelaide
