

THE
CHANDLER
SIX
.
lee
. ■
A Real Lady herself, the CHANDLER SIX is pre-eminently the Lady’s Car.
Her graceful body lines make her at once the envy and admiration of
owners of other makes of Cars; but she has so many admirable qualities
that commend her to the fair sex that she holds undisputed sway as the Queen
of the Road.
For Example:-
The (‘HANDLER SIX has electric lighting and
starter; you just press a button and away she
goes; no heavy cranking or hard labor is
involved.
The CHANDLER SIX is the acme of
RELIABILITY. She will see you through
every time, and you can swear by her—not
“at” her, as the owners of many other makes
of cars are justified in doing
The * HANDLER SIX is easily controlled, has
a tender “mouth,” and answers instantaneously
to the helm.
The CHANDLER SIX. is the smoothest-running
car yet built; a trip in her is the “poetry of
motion.”
Tiie CHANDLER SIX has the most beautifully
balanced engines yet installed in a car. It is
no exaggeration to assert that they CANNOT
be improved upon.
The CHANDLER SIX lias the smartest “get-
away” of any ear made —a vital point in
threading busy traffic in narrow streets.
The CHANDLER SIX will take you to a
funeral or bring you home from the races on the
same gear. ,
If YOU know the CHANDLER you will know this;
if you do not know this car, Ring City 2567 and let
us give you a demonstration.
We can supply FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY a Standard Seven-passenger
Chandler Six Touring Car for
£845.
MARCUS CLARK US;
GARAGE c SHOWROOMS,,
147-51 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne, Agents for Victoria.
T. KENNEDY, Launceston, Agent for Tasmania.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., LTD., Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
Ss
>2
&
r-
..
'
•; ■' ••;
:mi.
m
Q
iimimiii
in
i
7
m
D
iiiiiiini
R.IR WILLIAMS
THE CAR THAT KEEPS FAITH.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2152
Thursday, May 12, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new librarv
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
Ink Capacity
Because of the complete
absence of unnecessary inner
fittings, because of the liberal
space allotted to the ink-
well, and because the makers
heard the demand of penmen
for more ink capacity in self-
filling pens
C J&-
p
fount- Pen
writes more words to the
pen-full than any other self-
riller
17/6
EVERYWHERE
Al!-ltritisii and Guaranteed
THE Pan of Pons-
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company. Ltd.,
218-226 Clarence St., Sydney.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio. Barcelona, Spain.
V.',.
c<s
!sW
m
m
m
m
m
m
e
1
i
H
#
m
m
\V//:
M/'R
P
*m
P'A>
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
■ s * Food-Drink which maintains
health and strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICKS daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., J.td.. 2«
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.SiW.
HORUCKS MALTED MILK CO.
SUOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
In 3 sizes ; Of all
Chemists an d
Stores.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
(I
TOOTH
PASTE
If not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
<
Free sample will be posted to you.
wares
SBRSB
*,L
i
P
pi
MANGBOVITE BELTING CONSERVES POWER.
| ftje power transmitted, not the power generated', that
t,uuis the factory wheels. Power lost between motor and
machine represents lost profits.
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
is absolutely-efficient—the process of its manufacture having
been standardised, from the special tanning treatment which
lendcis tlie selected hides thorogghly tough, flexible and
übrasum resisting, to the last treatment of the finished
belling, with its strong frictional grip on the pulleys,
-langiovite Belting has been considerably reduced in price,
and attorns a, capital investment for the manufacturer. Our
engineers are maintained for your convenience, and will
gladly advise you in all your transmission troubles
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
' iio v LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Western Austral ia: Cibbs. Bright &Co Ltd., Fremantle.
Equalising a strain on Braces must
either be done by the wearers oi
built in by the manufacturers.
Shirley President Braces are famous
for this: that the equalising of the
strain has been built into every
pair—therefore the brace to buy.
No strain on the wearer.
Millions of satisfied wearers the
world over.
Look for the name “Shirley Presi-
dent” on the buckles—this is your
guarantee.
m
aui
■/
For Sale by Good Dealers
S <JL
: 1
<u
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A.
Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTP.,
50 York Street.. Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, 'Wellington, N.Z.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic -Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove, helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price I|6. l 6
m
9
A. The Larynx or
• Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
The Sonnet
1-he. English sonnet is the result of an
Italian search for the exquisite. It bears
the same relation to an epic poem as a cut
gem bears to a. Gothic cathedral. The
broken inarch of sound that best tells the
heroic story would be not merely coarse
but /often ridiculous within the delicate
chasing of its 14 lines. For this reason
many modern sonnets are thoroughly bad.
\\ liters of verse have chosen the wrong
medium for the expression of a rude, half-
formed thought, and have made a thing of
jagged edges and obscured lustre which has
no worth. The rude, half-formed thought may
be worthy of expression, just as a great
granite crag on a mountain-side may be
arresting and worthy of a painter's skill,
but to fashion the diamond setting of a ring-
in imitation of that rugged mass of stone
would be. the last thing in futility. Unless
the gem-like nature of the poem 'be remem-
bered the. cramping of a thought or two into
14 lines with a definite arrangement of
rhymes has no virtue. For the sonnet is
not an arbitrary thing fixed in its shape by
rules that have no meaning. It is a result
of many experiments, tested and tried and
approved by something far stronger than cus-
tom, both in its parent language and in the
English tongue. An additional line, a
false rhyme scheme, a neglect of any of its
vital principles or of the underlying idea
of its nature will not give as good results
either to the mind or to the ear. Meredith
wrote alleged sonnets in 30 lines and lost
much by the extension ; Kirke White wrote
little poems in 14 blank verse lines and failed
to get anything of the spirit of the sonnet;
scores of modern writers have bungled the
rhyme scheme through professed contempt
for it, and have sung flat in consequence.
Ihe sonnet is as much a fact in language
as metre or rhyme: it was not a literary
invention but a lingual discovery.
Remembering that delicacy is the soul of
the sonnet, its first principle is that it must
be true to its name. A sonnet is a little
song; and a sonnet that does not sing is
false. This at one sweep of the sponge
wipes the slate clean of at least two-thirds
of the verse put forward in something resem-
bling the sonnet form. You may -have all
the lines in correct scansion, all the rhymes
in their place, follow out a plan of thought
with clarity and skill, and still the lines may
not sing. True, the song of the sonnet is
tor the finer ear. It is no obvious kind
of strumming that it makes, but its music
is real and haunting. It may strike a
trumpet note, like
Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bones
Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold,
or it may breathe softly a reed-music that
tails to a sigh, as in
Dear (Jodi the very houses seem asleep
And all that mighty heart is lying still.
The nature of the song is as variable as the
mind of man; but the song itself is essen-
tial.
The Italian sonnet, which is still the chief
form, consists of an octave and a sestet. In
the octave, in which there should be oulv
mTV r ty mes » a complete idea is expressed.
Xh is idea • may be a little diffuse, include
some description, or even tell a small tale.
Ilie closeness of the recurring rhymes is
thus maintained where the liberty of expres-
sion is greatest; aud, if the first and last
hues of the octave are its most striking and
memorable, the sonnet is the richer for it.
Gut the octave should be subsidiary to the
sestet at least in thought: and if"the last
lines of the octave in any way obtrude them-
selves they destroy half the sestet’s effectivc-
nass-- , rho rhyme arrangement of the sestet
should depend on the nature of the thing to
be said. If only two rhymes are used, and
the rhym<?s are strong ones, the effect is to
rather quicken the tune and give sh&rpness
and definition to the finish; but if t hree
rhymes are used there is a graceful falling
away of the music just as the thought
gathers to its supreme expression. For the
purpose of the sestet is to gather up to a
finer, fqcus all that was said in the octave •
and in a still more particular way to gather
it up in the final phrases. This may re-
quire the quicker and more sparkling" tune
or the gentler, languorous movement ob-
tained by the distant rhymes.
The Shakspearean sonnet is different in
its nature and its music. It consists of
three quatrains and a couplet. The quat-
rains are alternately rhymed and the whole
sonnet is thus allowed seven rhymes. The
music and general effect is secured by a
graceful turning of the thought beyond the
final lines of the ouatrains and the gathering
of the thought into something like an epi-
giam in the closing couplet. The couplet
is inclined to be loud; only very skilful
handling can save it from being harsh. The
, Shakspearean sonnet is, in fact, a snare and
a delusion to writers who like to take the
easy way. With its abundance of rhymes
it looks a thing of simple manufacture. So
it is; but genuine expression of thought is
far more difficult in the Shakspearean than
m the Italian form.
When all the rules and ideas governing the
sonnet are set down very little has been said
about it: for the chief qualities of the deli-
cate and elusive thing are exactly those
which cannot be expressed. Once in a way
the rules themselves niay be relaxed with
effect to allow of the caprice of a delicious
line; at any time a faint irregularity in
fusion may give ease to the movement.
YViiere a stressed syllable might jar a gentle
elision may give grace. Within the bounds
ot law there is a fine lawlessness, a thing
that cannot be cultivated, something that is
first cousin to inspiration.
One thing that every maker of the sonnet
should remember is that there is no particular
skill required for the mere stringing together
ot lines and rhymes in the prescribed wav.
lo make something that looks like a sonnet
is no more difficult than to construct any of
the other more or less elaborate stanzas with
which our literature abounds. To get the
lines and rhymes into place is not one-
fiftietli part of the sonnet-writer’s task. To
make a true sonnet, and to make it sing
something that is worth Avhile, is the achieve-
ment to be desired. Many of our most
famous sonnets are not great. They live
because of one or two lines which stand up
from a tangled mass of words. Perfection
of form, perfection of song, perfection of
thought expression—these are the things to
be desired. The making of sonnets is a
delicate and graceful game human minds
play with the gods, and with a possible future
possessed of a liner ear. They are not popu-
lar with the general reader—mostly because
the too-general reader cannot read.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Chinese the Primitive Language
Students of Chinese will be interested in
learning that the language they are acquir-
ing with so much tribulation was the primi-
tive tongue spoken by all mankind before
the confusion of tongues that followed the
building of the Tower of Babel. Such, at
least, was the opinion of John Webb of But-
leigli in the County of Somerset Esquire,
who published “An Historical Essay endea-
voring a Probability that The Language of
the Empire of China is the Primitive Lan-
guage.'’ llis book of 212 pages was printed,
“Licensed by Authority, in London for Nath.
Brook at the Angel in Gresham Colledge
1 (>(»t),” and is dedicated to “the Most Sacred
Majesty of Charles The Second,” the dedica-
tion being dated May 2!), IGOS. He sums
up his argument as follows :
Scripture teacheth that the whole Earth was ot' one
Language until the Conspiiacv at Babel: History in-
forms that China was peopled whilst the Earth was
so of one Language, and before that Conspiracy.
Scripture teacheth that the Judgment of Confusion
of Tongues fell upon tiiose onlv that were at Babel:
History informs, that the Chinois being fully settled
before, were not there; And moreover that the same
Language and Character which long preceding that
Confusion they used, are in use with them at this
very Day; whether the Hebrew or Creek Chronology
be consulted. The Scripture is infallible, my prin-
cipal authors, fide aaeerdotnm data, profess Integrity,
as having of very late Daies, by long study compiled
:he History of China, from the Antient Records
thereof, ever since the time of Noah. The Founda-
tion then not failing, my, superstructure most probably
stands, so much the firmer ; as that how valid soever
transient \\ ords are, written Records be of far more
certain credit, as Your Serene Majestv right well
knows..
No attempt has been made here to reproduce
the diverting mixture of types; but the
eccentricity of punctuation has been faith-
fully followed.
Turning to the essay, we have first an
interesting dissertation on the state of man-
kind before the Hood, chiefly based upon the
authority of Josephus and the Bible. We
learn that some dwelt in tents and others in
cities, that they were, a very rowdy lot and
idolaters, with a knowledge of Musique, the
use of iron and letters, and .had an acquaint-
ance with theology, prophecy, astronomy,
and weights arid measures. They are under-
stood to have been vegetarians until the
descent cl Noah from the ark, when, pro-
bably because the Hood had infirmed the
nature of vegetables, they were permitted to
eat flesh. It is quite plain that the
whole world must have been peopled before
the flood by the offspring of Adam, because
IGSG years had elapsed since the creation,
whereas it required less than 300 years after
the deluge to produce the many millions led
by Ninus, Zoroaster, Semiramis and Iftauro-
bates, besides the populations ofj Asia,
Greece, Egypt, Mauretania and Lydid; and
it is also recorded that Spain, Italy and
France were populated within 140 years of
the flood. This rapid increase of population
was quite possible' among men of such long
lives and perfect health.
In this our Age we have known a woman, the wife
of one Edward Jones by name, a Waterman yet living
in Westminster, to have brought him forth eight
children within the coinpasse of two years, at the
first birth two, at the second as many, and at the last
four. And when within this last Century from Robert
llonywood of Charing in the County of Kent Esquire,
and Mary his wife, she, that is so famous for balanc-
ing her salvation with the breaking of a glass, law-
fully proceeded three hundred sixty seven persons
within less than the space ot eighty years.
The argument regarding the rapid increase
of population is supported by other con-
siderations until the writer considers himself
justified in concluding that “it is most clear,
most certain,” that the world was become
overpopulated at the time of the flood. That
it was fully populated he is quite sure.
There must have been dispersion before the.
flood, but “we may certainly conclude that
Noah carried the Primitive Language into
the Arlc with him, arid that it continued pure
and uncorrupted amongst his succeeding
generations until the Confusion of Tongues
at Babel, till when, the whole Earth was of
one Language and one Lip, as Gen. II vi.,
clearly manifestpth.”
According to Josephus, “Noah having
warning of the flood given him from God,
seeing his perswasions to repentance and
amendment of life, could work no effect on
the Corruption of the Age, and fearing by
the violence of the times to perish for his
zeal, departed from his native soil, and with
his wife and children travelled into another
Country.” This country was China: arid
the author certainly has the support of
Chinese traditions, which record a flood at
the very same period as the biblical deluge.
He identifies Noah with the Emperor Yaus;
that is, the great Yao, who regulated the
waterways of China, doubtless considerably
damaged by the deluge. During the flood
there was no wind to move the ark, which
must have come to rest in the vicinity of
the place where it was fashioned. This is
clear from the text, “God made a wind to
pass upon the Earth, and the waters ceased.”
Now, there is no place so convenient for
building the . ark of gopher wood, which is
pine, as China, where also the necessary
pitch is found in abundance. Moreover,
Chinese history not only records the flood,
but also tells of the survival of certain per-
sons upon a mountain.
A description of China and the Chinese
is designed to show how much the thought,
morals and philosophy of that people owe
to. the teachings of Noah. The language is
fairly well described. The author says:
“That the primitive language was not a
studied or artificial speech, nor taught our
I* irst Parents by Art and by degrees as their
(Continued on page 25.)


JL
a
Ns.:
LOSB
LosB.—Men’s Genuine Box Calf
Cut Lace Boots, stout welted soles.
Being leather lined, long wear
is assured. PRICE 25/-
Anthony Horderns’
Unequalled Footwear Values.
Purchasers of Anthony Horderns’ Foot-
wear are created to a great extent on the
recommendation of satisfied customers.
This satisfaction is the outcome of proven
experience of the Comfort, Quality and
Economy in Footwear purchased at The
House of Economy, which has no com-
petitor for values.
itr.
LOl6
Lol6.—Supreme Value in Men’s
Box Yearling Lace Boots, genuine
welted soles, leather lined.
All sizes, sto 10. PRICE: 19/11
J
l
s *
:vr-
asss m
vU-jX
m
w
&561
&561.—Women’s Glace Kid, 1-Bar
Shoes, smart, pointed last, sewn
soles and leather Cuban heels. Per-
fect fitting. All sizes, 2 to 7.
PRICE 15/6
&544
&491
a 471
%Al\. —-Women’s Glace Kid Lace
Shoes, plain fronts, broad toes and
low heels, sewn soles. All
sizes, 2 to 8. price 14/9
'■ ■
&412
&412.—Maids* Fine Grade Black
Box Calf Lace Shoes, comfortable
broad toes and low heels. Sewn
soles. All sizes, 2 to 6.
PRICE 16/6
&492
&592
&544. —W om e n’s All
Patent Lace Shoes, plain
fronts, sewn soles, leather
Cuban heels Very service-
able shoes. Sizes 2 01 /
to 7. PRICE. . .
&492.—Women’s Glace
Kid Court Shoes,
smart shape, sewn soles and
leather Cuban heels. Non-
slip Suede lining.
All sizes, 2to 7. 1 Q/C
PRICE 157/0
&491.—W oin e n’s All
Patent Court Shoes, per-
fect fitting, non-slip Suede
lining, sewn soles and
leather Cuban heels.
Sizes, 2 to 7. IQ/1 1
PRICE. IV/ 1 1
«&592.-—W om e n’s All
Patent Court Shoes, neat
tab and buckle, setvn soles,
leather Cuban heels, smart
medium toes, non-slip Suede
linings, Sizes, 2 IQ/1 1
to 7. PRICE. 12,7 11
’li.
LOW
EO!S
n *
a 504
&504.—Maids’ Box Yearling
Shoes, broad toes and low heels,
sewn soles, non-slip heels.
Sizes, 2 to 6. PRICE .... 14/9
I c\
k
a 438
&438.—Maids’ All Patent Lace
Shoes, comfortable fitting and neat
appearance, “college last," low
leather heels, sewn soles.
Sizes, 2to 6. PRICE .. . 19/9
L 026
Lo26.—Men’s Soft Glace Kid Shoes,
plain fronts, broad toes and welted
soles. A comfortable and roomy
shoe for tender feet. All
sizes, sto 10. price ... 24/6
* :vv->:
m
mi
LOIB
Lols.—Men’s Genuine Box Calf Lace
Shoes, welted soles and smart medium
toes. All sizes, sto 10. Excellent
business shoes. PRICE . . 22/6
LOlB. Men’s Bovine
Calf Lace Boots, plain
fronts, full fitting, broad
toes, sewn soles, leather
lined. All sizes.'
PRICE 19/6
Carriage Paid on
Footwear to any
part of the
Commonwealth.
Lol4.—Men’s Dark Tan Calf Lace Shoes,
genuine welted soles, medium toed last,
serviceable and smart.
5 to 10. PRICE
All
sizes,
Lo7.—Boys’ Tan Calf
Lace Boots, solid leather
throughout, sewn soles,
leather-lined. Sizes,
2 to 5. PRICE: 18/11
ids'
&
L 07
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD
Telephone: City 9440


LINSEED OIL AND
MEALS.
rs
%
y*
r
L
m
/~ v -
>
tro
o
A
n
0
>:
7
ill p
e
□
figggzvggj
■■■ tiwiiron** 'Zmmj'J&±XU££m&~+**. <•>•• » » milrmmMM
*:awmmn t
•sSSSSi.
jj ■ MB r -r
WinS- ‘
K.v:
zgsssaem
\J\\J
K
Sk.
low
A Handful of
Australian
Industry
Worthy
of Your
Support.
MEGGITT
LIMITED
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
The three fundamentals essen-
tial to the manufacture of
perfect Linseed Oil are:—
Seed—
Rich and Unadulterated.
Efficient Manufacture—
Most Modern Plant and
Laboratories.
Maturity—
Guaranteed.
These three are combined in
Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil,
and have established it as
“The Best in the World,”
vide “ARCHITECTURE,” the
official organ of the Institute of
Architects. They say: “There
is no better Linseed Oil in the
world than that produced at
Parramatta.”
We can supply Linseed
Oil (raw and boiled)
in any quantity.
If your dealer says
“No,” write us.
Insist on being supplied
with an Australian
product.
“The Standard of
Quality.”
UHSEffIOIIMGH
EGG ITT L TO
PARRAMATTA
yonthebag
guarantees quality ”
jCUmUecL
MANUFACTURERS OF LINSEED OIL, CAKE, MEAL AND STOCK FOODS.
JJNSEnJtHUwCU
/nECGITT L ro
RftPRAMATTA
°/Ae hoy on the hag
guarantees quality


PINKETTIS
FOR CONSTIPATION
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do ; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Haiti Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST, AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
oO
v*
*o*
WRITE FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY'S, Brisbane
m
$
m
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure—you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure —four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure—no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
, Elastic
kJTruss
DENVER’S
Elastic Truss
offers ruptured persons the greatest measure of Truss
satisfaction possible. It is comfortable and a
perfect safeguard, supporting the ruptured part
efficiently under all circumstances. Get particulars
of this super-safeguard and you will he in touch
with the most modern Truss obtainable.
SINGLE, 35/-; DOUBLE, 47/6
Send for a copy of our free Truss Pamphlet mailed
to your address in plain, sealed envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
TRUSS SPECIALISTS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.
CORRESPON DENCE invited from MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY houses desirous of representation
in South Australia. Live selling . organisation.
Specialty lines preferred.
T. W. KIMBER & 00., LTD.,
Royal Exchange, King William Street, Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
>
l,‘E MARIA KELLY, late of Ireland Street, Bright,
Victoria, widow, deceased. Let EDWARD
KELLY, a son of the abovenarned deacesed, at once
communicate with the undersigned and he will hear
of something to his advantage.
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
m
iumwimi
lunmiuumuKMimU'utui
mtmiuiuiihmmtt
M i It ••»•*>** i 1 H\ ttVMS
wnpifluff
«(
MtttlN
a*
*
1
ItMM H
Wfffl
[IIISM
mm
t
Announcing—
TINTEX
TOILET SOAP
In a few weeks’ time the public will have the privilege of
using the soap that marks a new era—
Tintex Toilet Soap
It possesses properties that will at once commend it to
those who take pride in having a beautiful complexion.
Tintex Toilet soap is the only soap on the market which acts
as an astringent.
It Removes Face Lines
The special process of manufacture, besides providing all
the cleansing properties of other soaps, gives Tintex Toilet
Soap exceptional astringent qualities. The tissues of the
skin are made firm by its action, the facial muscles are
invigorated, and deep lines and irregularities removed.
The complexion soon takes on the clear unblemished
appearance and smoothness that denote a perfect skin.
One application of Tintex Toilet Soap is
Better than a Face Massage
Being superfatted with finest lanoline, its constant use
obliterates blackheads and pimples.
Absolutely Pure ... Without Colour .. Without Perfume
As good a soap as Tintex is a Dye !
PRICE 1/- PER TABLET
TINTEX
THE ORIGINAL COLD WATER DYE,
is now obtainable in 22 delicate pastel shades.
THE NEW SHADE—HENNA
the most fashionable colour procurable, is on sale. Also i
lovely shade of Nut Brown.
The ideal dye for all dainty fabrics.
Will not run; will not stain the hands.
“The Tintex way is the Easy way.”
For soft tints use cold water; for heavy fast colours use hot
or boiling water.
PRICE 9d. PER PACKET
DYTEX— the all-British fast boiling Dye, does for heavy
materials what Tintex does for lighter fabrics.
Price 10£d per Packet.
Manufactured and controlled by Maas & Maas Ltd., Sydney.
NEVER SAY DYE, SAY
“TINTEX”
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Upward Song.
I walked in quiet down a leafy way
Green with late rains;
And as Amergin thought in his old day
Of lofty strains , ,
And musical faint rhythms that drooping
chimed
With leuf-lisp and with dew,
I also thought and every footstep rhymed
With some still thing that grew.
The gentle ways are full of little songs
Breezily blown;
One spirit in the green forever longs
Up to its own — iU .. , .
Its high sweet own in places of the light
And clean, delicious wind;
Godward or starward, dreams outreaching
“ height .
And song outsinging mind.
The world is like a tower from stair to stair;
Each age builds on.
The world is like a tree that lifts in air
Leaves to the dawn.
There is a singer on the topmost stone,
Song in the topmost spray;
And all the ages tremble to the blown
High voice of climbing clay.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Moonlit Hour.
When silken winds are blowing
And Autumn moonlight shines,
Give me an hour of music
Beneath tall Norfolk pines.
Last night, what time I listened,
I thought of all delights,
For laughing seemed the waters.
And dreaming all the heights.
To rippling music moving
The white sands seemed to creep,
And round me lay a glamor
Like noontide gone to sleep.
As glossy waves, enchanted,
Swayed softly to the land,
A silver cornet, calling,
Awoke far Fairyland.
Its notes -were lovely colors
And subtle, sweet perfumes,
And as it called a sea-wind
Danced through the piny plumes.
A thousand moon-sprites, rising.
Flashed through and through the sea.
As though from slumber wakened
By its rich melody.
Along the beach the surges,
Pearl-pallid, gleamed and glanced;
Upon the earth before me
The plume-like shadows danced.
Far splendor plashed and glimmered
On reef and shoal and bar :
That silver cornet, calling.
Drew beauty from afar.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Vision.
Oh, was it made of rings of foam and
feathers of the spray?
Or shattered ambers of a wave where russet
seaweeds sway ?
Moulded of moonshine water-locked, or stars
that lost their way?
Oh, was it emerald cowls of fern, and fans of
maiden hair,
The opal tint of evening skies, the lemon
green of air?
I only know I could not hold a thing so slignt
and fair.
I seek it in the piny wood, I hear the sough-
ing bough;
I see the mellow moss unmarked by any
movement now,
I cannot catch its silver stir above the wood-
dove’s vow!
As ever, from my saddle bow I eagerly bend
down, .
For in the grass stems I might see a surge or
green and brown.
Among the gloss of buttercups a chased and
golden crown.
All delicate with lance I prick the hedges bv
. the trail, , .
And here and there I touch a rose of pearly
pink and pale;
The fleetest butterfly can prove no more than
does the snail!
I cannot bide the cobbled streets, the carre-
four of stone;
If I ride for the fairy folk I ride my quest
alone, , ~, ,
Though it be through the haunted dell where
blinded things make moan.
For once within a castle high, beside a silken
bed, , .
I saw a hinge’s chink that glowed with dawn
and sunset’s red —
My dear love kept the magic key and my dear
love is dead.
And through the door the vision vrent. a
laughing, mystic thing,
With burning bronze of Autumn’s arms and
peachy puffs of Spring.
The minor rustle of a leaf, the major of a
wing.
And so I go where no men walk, and ride
by twilights grey,
Because some moon may slide the key upon a
shining ray . , e , .
That I may set it in the door, and nnd at
last the day!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


m
:
:
w
m&m
M iw
A
V
urir
■
till
•1
l<- ' :
The Largest
Unit Turbo-Generator
in the World.
45> 000 k.w. General Electric Curtis
Turbo-Generator installed at the
Detroit Edison Cols Power House
The General Electric Co. and the
British Thomson-Houston Co. Ltd.,
with their Curtis design of Turbo-Generators,
have always been the pioneers in the pro-
duction of the largest size units.
Sole Australian Representatives:
K
ill
'Juts
35*45 WENTWORTH .AVENUE
\ avrxNTEry-
SI
the Commonwealth


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2152.
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 1921.
Pkice 9d.
SUSPENSE.
"I wonder what will happen to me when they’ve settled that!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
< 0., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 16s. per annum you can have The
bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, to aNy address in Australasia, post paid.
J o any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ret used.
'lbe contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
-jhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
l ohtical, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. s.ay,
3000 -words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will, return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and Wiiite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash ,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon llousp, Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
F. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasia’n,” 51 High
Holborn, London, IF.CM.
South Africa.—The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
V.C.; G. S. Forsyth and-Co., l t f,l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevards, Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., Vi I Vest Madison Street. Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency,7ll) Market Street, Chicago ;
Clark Street Reading Club, HI N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle; Liberty
News Co.. Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Schultz News Agency, Bryant Park; Schultz News
Agency, 102 West IfZnd Street, New York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square News Stand,
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central News Stand,
1.03 East sth Street, Los Angeles. Quaker Neivs Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn <fc Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Iyong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Sura.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., Hd. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet- — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Hloz. to 10oz.,
3d.; 10oz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 1921.
THE DAY OF DUPES.
There are occasions which call, or arc sup-
posed to call, for celebration, but about
which a difficulty exists for want of a clear-
cut date and a clear-cut issue. Anzac Day
is definite enough, but Christmas Day is a
shot at h hopelessly lost date, and Empire
Day is all mist and obscurity. It celebrates
the foundation of the Empire, or the cul-
mination of the Empire, or something about
the Empire, or nothing at all about the
Empire, so most people compromise by not
celebrating at all. Now, there is need for
a new entry on the calendar —something akin
to a Day of Dupes or All Fools’ Day. It
should mark as nearly as possible the time
when the bottom fell out of Australia’s big-
gest sham or complication of shams; there-
fore it should be planted about the middle
of the Awakening. April may be a good
month to select from, for all through April,
1921, bad news kept dropping in and good news
was absent as absence could be. But as
the realisation of the worst may be spread
over months there is no need of haste in
fixing Dupe Day.
The duping has included (as regards two
of the States especially, and these two in-
clude more than half the population) a
course of government by noisy boy-politi-
cians—some of them boys in years, and some
boys because they never grew up. In addi-
tion there is the increasing power of organ-
isations outside Parliament in which irre-
sponsible youths, not old enough to be citi-
zens, have full voting power, and the partial
eclipse by them of grown-up Legislatures.
These organisations make and unmake Min-
istries, and issue impossible orders because
they are under no liability to show how the
orders can be carried out. There is, further,
the increase of machine-politics and the ten-
dency to exclude from office all save people
who have been failures in other occupations
because failures are humble and amenable.
Pile incredible increase of borrowing is the
natural result of the passing of control into
the hands of machine-politicians and Tam-
many bosses, and this has led to a corres-
ponding increase in unprofitable public works
and enterprises. These increase in turn the
host of dependents and clients on whose
votes the rulers, as paymasters, have some
sort of claim. All this has accelerated the
growth of a huge unskilled class, born to
and brought up on unskilled Government
jobs, and for these, work of an unintelligent
sort has to be invented. It has also accel-
erated the growth of the already overgrown
cities, for people, especially the unskilled,
congregate there to be near the fount of
honor and alms. There has been no corres-
ponding increase of self-supporting industries
in at least the Labor-ruled cities, it being
the Government policy to denounce the
“bourgeoisie” and discourage them with a
myriad ot new laws, taxes, lines and regula-
tions. The idea is, or was, to put all indus-
tries under State control, but the new school
of fluent self-sufficient young failures can’t
establish or run industries, though they may
retard them. As something must be done
to supply the place of wages, there is an
ever-growing system of doles and pensions,
the shoddy new office-holders handing out
bread to their clients in return for grati-
tude and support. And by reason of the
decline in manufacturing production, there
has been an immense expansion of imports,
which the country must have unless it re-
sumes skilled work, yet which it can’t pay
for.
Side by side with the pampering of the
cities there has been, in proportion to popu-
lation, the biggest recorded artificial settle-
ment of people on the land—often unsuitable
people on unsuitable land. Unsuitable land
is plentiful in Australia. They got loan
money, and consequently a big loan liability,
to start with, and sustenance money to go
on with, and their collapse isn’t made evident
until the first crop doesn’t come up or won’t
sell for enough to live on when it does.
Something had to be done to prevent every-
body being in Sydney or Melbourne or
Adelaide —that would have made the pending
smash too obvious. Also something had to
be done to provide the excuses for
building the far-too-numerous railways.
Other features have been (1) the using
up of most of the note reserve to pro-
vide loans for State Governments; (2) the
scandalous inflation of the issue by the pub-
lication of about £23,000,000 of £IIXIO notes
which the banks are compelled to hold out
of use as an act of confiscation or highway
robbery; (3) the utterly reckless manufac-
ture of new departments and salaried jobs,
which are distributed, not. by merit, but as
a rule to friends and clients; (4) the fact
that owing to these and other causes people
would almost like the war back again for
the sake of economy; also (5) imported and
carefully cultivated class-hatred and class-
strife, sectarianism, insectarianism, racial
■fends and the progressive disappearance of
Parliamentary control over the finances, the
tendency now being simply to register that
the money has been spent and there is no-
thing to be done about it.
One of the outstanding reasons for holding
a formal Day of Dupes is that th,e sudden
fall in the capital value of the pastoral indus-
try is set down at £350,000,000, equal to
nearly £7O per inhabitant. This is the fall
in the value of freehold land, improvements,
goodwill, cattle and sheep on hand, meat,
hides, sheepskins and accumulated wool—
especially wool. Of the sheep’s covering
there are about 2,000,000 bales unsold in
England, of which Australia owns 800,000
bales, and a new crop is on the way to
market. A great deal of the inferior sorts
probably won’t pay land and sea carriage
and will be abandoned. All through the war
the world wore its old clo’es by compulsion,
and a great part is wearing them yet. It
is doubtful if there were ever half so many
decayed garments in circulation since gar-
ments were invented. The average age of
pants has probably doubled. The United
States, which has enough unsold wool of its
own to last it two years, has practically
decided to shut out the Australian product.
It would have done so already but for
Wilson’s presidential veto—and Wilson
is gone. That, will remove the one
big solvent buyer from the market.
Places like Italy, Germany, Serbia and
liussia are willing to buy if the price
is low and payment is accepted in
long-dated p.u. or lOTJ, or, at the worst,
in depreciated paper money, such as roubles.
A great deal will probably be sold that way
for lack of any other way, but the. proceeds
will be poor stuff to pay wages with. Even
when the Wheat Board recently sold a quan-
tity of Australian wheat to the Hun at far
below the Australian price, after allowing
for freight and charges, it had to take his
lOTJ at six months. The Commercial Bank
of Tasmania closed the other day an honor-
able career of 89 years by selling out bodily
to the E., S. and A. (London), whereby its
business is put as far as possible beyond Aus-
tralian control. The high price paid showed
that it was no cheap wreck, but a sound,
going concern ; but the manager said briefly
at the funeral that really bad times are
ahead, and that it was better to quit. When
the price of hides drops, as it has done in
some places, from 2s. to 2d. per lb. it looks
as if the bad times weren’t so very far ahead.
* -* * *
Prime Minister Hughes stated, by way
of a valedictory, that, barring wheat, every-
thing Australia has to sell abroad in any
quantity has now to be sold at less than
cost of production, including freight. Which
means that unless cost of production comes
down, business is likely to stop, for, despite
the fall, prices in many lines are not yet
down to pre-war level, and are quite as
likely to drop further as to rise early. As
regards wheat, Australia has sold a lot of
the last crop as high as 10s. or 11s. per
bushel. The prospect of next crop may
perhaps be gauged by the fact that the
United States’ next crop (falling due in
July, instead of January, as with us) was
lately selling in advance at 4s. Id. per
bushel. Australia had a heroic spasm of wheat-
growing last year, though it didn't anything
like get back to the acreage of 1915-10, or
1916-17, or even quite back to the much-
reduced one of 1917-IS. .Part of this re-
vival was due to the luring of people on the
land with big aids in loan money, big mort-
gages and sustenance allowances. Part was
due to Government guarantees, of which the
lowest was ss. and the highest Ss. per bushel.
Considering the Yankee quotation of 4s. Id.
the chance of anything like that in the
future is poor enough. Yet in this land
of many closed ports, long distances, broken
railway gauges and complete lack of inland
industrial towns to supply a market, wheat-
growing on a big scale is now impossible
without it. The other day a stock and
station agent from Harden (N.S.W.), a
pretty good district on the Melbourne line,
230 miles from Sydney, told a Parliamentary
committee that “there were no farmers
left in his district; the young men had sold
their places and had sought jobs on the rail-
way.” Almost the same day a deputation
of new soldier settlers from Young, in the
same locality, and 251 miles from Sydney,
met the Minister for Lands with a worse
tale. The settlers numbered 108, put on
the land__ with much trumpet-blowing, and
with £025 of loan money apiece and a sus-
tenance allowance of 475. per week for
married and 325. for single men, all repay-
able with interest at the first blue moon.
Their simple verdict was that the whole
scheme had collapsed. “We haven’t got a
bean among us.”
* * * *
One way and another there is hardly a
ray of light shining on the "great, natural
resources” to brighten the Day of Dupes.
The most violent of the boy politicians, or
boy-minded politicians, whom the machine
lias put in charge in N. S. Wales, where the
trouble looks worst, proposes to meet the
case with more loans; more unskilled rail-
way work to attract the young farmer off
the land ; a furious persecution of the “big
landlord,”' whose existence, so far as he
does exist, provides almost the only buyer
when the young man is driven to sell out;
further restrictions on the manufacturing
“capitalist,” who supplies some work when
the “great natural resources” are asleep,
and who, under better auspices, might create
inland industrial centres and markets; and
refusal to allow new States and new ports
to spring up to reduce the impossible dis-
tances. Yet in the eight months from July
to February £100,000,000 worth of reliable
local work was sent out of Australia, or at
the rate of £15O,(X)0,O()O per annum. That
was the value of tbe manufactured goods
brought from abroad, and which might be
made here. There are many reasons why
this work isn’t done here, so that there may
be two jobs waiting for every man—long
mileages, lack of accessible ports, broken
railway gauges, perpetual strikes, short-hour
movements, go-slow movements, threats of
confiscation, lack of skilled labor (for the
professional loan-railway-builder is of little
service) the accumulation of inspectors and
official informers, the extra taxation levied
on companies (companies are necessary for
big enterprises, unless we raise solitary mil-
lionaires instead), lack of money in a market
which is stripped bare to furnish Govern-
ment loans, and, perhaps worst of all, uncer-
tainty about the future. Dr. Duhig, R.C.
Archbishop of Brisbane, broke into politics
the other day. He said that “Labor legis-
lation had gone too far,” and “things had
come to breaking point.” “He longed to see
stability, but nothing seemed to have stability
in Queensland at present.” It was a fair
commentary on some of the causes which are
bringing the Day of Dupes to pass.
COMPULSORY TRAINEES AND
PENAL SERVITUDE.
In face of the storm which blew up in the
Senate last week, the Hughes Government
dropped its attempt to impose the Army Act
on the Australian Citizen Forces —for the
present. But only for the present. The mili-
tarists who are behind the Government have
no intention of letting the Act go, nor has
the Government. The present idea is that,
pending the return of Prime Minister
Hughes and the imposition of the 70 days’
training scheme by regulation, the public
must be educated in the harmlessness of the
dreaded measure. In this connection the
recent activities of the S. M. Herald are
instructive. An anonymous lawyer-contribu-
tor observed, preparatory to an exposition of
what he termed “the superficial terrors of the
Act”:—
Since the Army Act will apply in war-time, the
obvious course is to adopt the Army Act (with any
local modifications desired) for peace-time adminis-
tration. That is the substance of comment by
draughtsmen of the Defence Acts, by men experi-
enced in military law, and by soldiers who have
administered both Defence and Army Acts in the
past. The only criticism comes from people who
have not studied those Acts.
And a leading article, after mentioning that
there was no difference between the Defence
Act and the other, “save that the Defence
Act has provided for imprisonment in lieu
of penal servitude in peace-time,” went on:
The change from military government in peace-
time under the Defence Act and the regulations it
authorises to government under the modified Army
Act is one of no real difference at all. Such differ-
ence as there may be is purely one of form, the
method of doing certain things.
As these arguments are apparently to form
the basis of the militarist campaign for
which the stage is already set in Australia,
it is worth considering them in some detail.
Take, in the first place, the disingenuous
assertion that “the only criticism [of the
Army Act as a fit measure for a freedom-
loving race] comes from people who have
not studied,” and that “such difference as
there may be [between the Defence Act and
the Army Act] is purely one of form.” The
objection to the Army Act, or any cqloi--
able imitation of it, in conjunction
with a scheme to train citizens of 18 for
■7O days in a continuous camp, and more or
less intensively for the next three years, js
the good old English objection to a standin
army which is familiar to every boy wh
has had history lessons. Under the existin
system our young men do eight days annu
ally in camp and eight days’ home trainin
for seven years. As the Herald notes, the
cannot, at present, be given penal servitut
for breaches of military discipline, sue
an “leaving guard,” “causing sedition
“creating false alarms” or "offering violent
to an officer”-—which offences the paper
lawyer-humorist, who coined the phrase abot
the Act's “superficial terrors,” admits i
passing "are punishable by death” unde
the British measure. But though our youtl
can only be imprisoned, and though th
powers of their (J.O.’s lapse at the end
each brief training period, yet their discip
line hitherto has been good where the officei
have been good. It has not been Guards di
cipline—-Army Act discipline. Call it Austr
lian discipline. The thousands of Digger
who from the beginning to the end of the lat
war were trained in Australia also workec
under the Defence Act. There was a ce
tain amount of desertion and a ce
tain amount of disorderliness, as in a
armies since the beginning of warfare, bi
no more, probably, than if penal servituc
had been the penalty for such acts; no mor
certainly, than went on in, say, Cairo ii
1915 when the Army Act applied in fu
force. So that Australian soldiers, proper!
handled, whether conscript or volunteer, hav
shown and probably will continue to show
the same results under the Defence Act a
under the Army Act. Yet this is not t
say that the two measures are the same
The gag about the necessity for Imperia
uniformity may be dismissed as too thi
altogether. It will carry weight only whe
the rest of tin? Empire conforms to compu
sory training. To get down to bedrock, th
proposed change for which such a willin
tight has been put,up by the militarist sec
tion of the community and certainly wi
be again is either meaningless and uu
necessary, and hence not worth a row
or it stands for a big principle and a ver
definite purpose. All the evidence point
to the second conclusion.
* * * #
The militarists who are at the back of th
scheme indulge neither in fatuous wore
spinning nor in cant. They are quite clea
ns to their reasons for wanting to substi
tute the iron hand which they learned t
use abroad for the velvet glove of pre-wa
dftys. They say that sotne of the trainee
have been showing an insubordinate spirit
especially towards officers and n.c.o.’s with
out war service. In the natural order o
things, the returned-soldier element will dis
appear altogether, and with it the prestig
which, in the case of a man who knows how
to exploit it, often acts as a substitute fo
penal powers. Friction and discontent ar
bound to arise in a 10-weeks’ camp devotee
to hard soldiering which might not show
themselves in a seven-days’ semi-picnic
affair. To meet the altered conditions, anc
make their own lives easier and cover their
own weaknesses, the officers demand tha
trainees shall, in the words of the origina
Act, “be brought to a more exemplary ant
speedy punishment than the usual form o
law will allow.” Which is perfectly natura
and reasonable —from an officer’s standpoint
To understand the Pearce-llughes attitude
it is necessary to take into consideration
the remarkable change the character of these
politicians has undergone as a result of six
years’ practically unrestricted power. They
were Australian Labor men: they have be
come English Tories. There is not a single
fundamental, from its War Precautions legis-
lation downwards, in which the Hughes
Government has failed to follow the lead of
the Welsh turncoat, who, after some con-
temptuous allusions to “reformed poachers,’
was formally received into the British Con-
servative fokl the other day; and in severa!
adventures in repression the Australian copy
has outclassed the British model. If it is
assumed that the Hughes Government is
anxious for an instrument which will
strengthen its hands in any future domestic
step it feels* disposed to take, then it has
but its gasconading leader to blame. And
if that is its idea the proposed changes in
the training and disciplinary methods of the
C.M.F. will provide the very article re-
quired. In Australia. 18,000 cadets reach
the age of 18 every year. They will be
transformed into fairly efficient soldiers—
more efficient, certainly, than many who
were rushed to the Somme in 1918—within
12 months. For five years after their three
years’ intensive training they will be called
on to register annually; and during any
part of that period they may be mobilised
if the Government decides that a national
crisis demands it. On embodiment, unless
Parliament is extremely watchful, they will
come, under the Army Act, or something so
like it that the difference will not matter.
That is to say, 'they may be used for. any
repressive purposes to which the Govern-
ment of the day may feel disposed to put
them. In short, from being citizen trainees
they will be transformed into full conscripts
of the Continental type.
* * * *
There is no need to question the lona
fides of the military men who want such
changes introduced. The soldier’s trade is
force, and he understands no other method of
control. The Hughes Government, in
addition to being well and truly infected
with the virus of I’russianism, has always
been accustomed to rely largely on the
advice of the nearest officer on army ques-
tions. However, there remains a third party
to the dispute-—-the taxpayer: a drab, rather
inarticulate individual who on the one hand
wants an efficient army for the defence of
his country, and on the other is reluctant to
have his son made liable to penal servitude
for such offences as “leaving guard.” The
average Australian of this class is far too
deeply attached to the system which justified
itself so well in the late war to want to see
it imperilled at the whim of any military
or political experimentalist. The' 10-weeks’
training scheme, if it materialises, will
make a big demand on the patriotism
of this class of citizen by itself. It
will mean that thousands of youths—
-90 per cent, of them of the wage-
earning class—must be withdrawn from pro-
ductive work every year, and at an age when
they are just beeinning to-fit themselves for
life s struggle. It will mean a bigger estab-


lisbment, an enormous staff of officers, ami
hciu'e increased taxation. And ivith it all
every sane Australian knows that an army
never can be the Commonwealths hist line
of defence. In the circumstances a Uv-
of c ': rit which is unbalanced enough to
= Si UU» Bli , tisl ! A !‘ my
\et in any form acceptable to the local oi
imperial military authorities must at tin
!.,me time put an axe to the roots of com-
mdsorvism. The first conscript trainee who
L es to penal servitude for one of these
military crimes, which are not even misde-
meanors in civil law, will serve as, a per-
petual text for sermons that will unpenl
the whole fabric of Australian defence.
THE PASSES OF THE NORTH.
“A further direction in which it is very desirable
that Australia should become independent ol outside
distance is that of mine-sweeping. The simplest,
and by far the cheapest, method of obtaining in wai
the services of efficient mine-sweeping vessels is by
the encouragement of a trawler fishery service during
ne-ice This matter is dealt With m \ olume 111.
Chanter 3, and is of sucli importance, on economic
grounds, that I beg to draw special attention to it.
Official nummary of Admiral Jemucoe s report on
Australian Naval Defence.
The public lias not been given an oppor-
tunity of reading what Admiral Jeliacoe
recommended upon this point. If be merely
dealt with the subject “on economic grounds”
there is no necessity for secrecy ; but if. as
is certain, be made reference to foreign coun-
tries, the suppression of this part of his
report may be justified. We trail, neverthe-
less, guess a good deal of what he said, for
the facts are patent to far less observant
persons than the victor of Jutland.
So far the Commonwealth has done no-
thing to give effect to the general advice
that we should establish a trawler fishery
service. The newly-formed Immigration De-
partment is busying itself with the job of
persuading workers and land settlers to
leave their homes and come to this country,
while, according to Justice FOWERS, whole
families of new arrivals hardly unpack then-
bags before they start to re-label them for
the return journey. Is the Immigration De-
partment getting out all the facts about
Australian fisheries? Is anything being done
to extend those fisheries —for distance, by
interesting the trawling companies in Great
Britain? China takes every year about
£SO,(XX) worth of dried beche-de-mer from
.Northern Australia; but the trade does not
grow, and what there is of it is entirely in
the hands of aliens. The pearl-shell indus-
try, with an annual catch worth about
£250,000, is mostly in the hands of aliens
also. It employs some 3000 to 4000 men,
and the Japanese have such a hold upon
employment in it that not so long ago they
struck at Thursday Island and rioted at
Broome in their efforts to drive out the
Malays and be the only nationality employed
on the luggers. Every lugger carries some
eight men —a Japanese diver and tender,
and six of a crew. Theoretically, the latter
should be Malays, on the “divide and con-
quer” principle; but if the Japanese succeed
in ousting all but their own nationals the
last pretence that the fishing fleets are of
any use for defence disappears, and they be-
come a positive danger. It may be safely
hazarded that this fact did not escape the
notice of Jellicoe, and prbbably lie had
something very straight to say in Chap. HI,
Yol. 3.
With the demobilisation of the North Sea.
Fleet there have been thrown idle thousands
of divers, and even the gigantic salvage opera-
tions to be undertaken this summer along
the south and east coasts of England cannot
employ them all, nor will the work last for
more than a year or two. There are over
a thousand ships lying in those waters, and
their tonnage varies from 200 to 10,000. They
lie up to 150 ft. deep, and it is expected that
the British divers will salvage the greater
number of them. In Australian waters,
which are a placid millpond compared with
the Channel and the North Sea, pearl-shell
is picked up from depths of 20 to 120 feet,
and consequently we can dismiss once for
all the assertion that the water is too deep
for white men. There are overwhelming
reasons why at least the divers and tenders
on the luggers should be people of our own
nationality. Our northern and north-eastern
coastline is our frontier, in every respect as
much to be guarded as would a land frontier
marked, say, by a range of mountains. If
Australia has such a frontier, we should
take particular care that no foreigner came
through the passes and made his home imme-
diately on our side so as to command them.
Yet with our sea frontier, with its intricate
passages, havens for submarines and possible
bases for mine-layers, the Government
placidly permits the passes to be occu-
pied most of the year by foreigners.
What is more, the waters along this vulner-
able frontier are practically unchartered
by us, though doubtless the alien has
traversed them and charted them for the
information of himself and. incidentally, his
own country. The present pilots of our
coastal tropical waters outside the ordinary
steamer paths are the sworn subjects of
foreign nations, and it is not difficult to
visualise the possibility of an outbreak of
war and the sudden sailing away of _ the
whole of the fishing fleets to destinations
unknown. The answer to these dangers is to
employ white men, and if the industry is
put upon a proper footing suc-h employment
is quite possible.
At present such white men as are avail-
able for the work are, with the exception
of a few bosses, the derelicts of the marine
world. The reason is obvious. The fleets
are born, live and die in the extreme tropics.
When they lay up for the monsoonal season
their crews go ashore, are paid off and re-
turn to Japan and Malaya, or remain and
gamble and fight through the slack season.
If there are white men amongst them there
is nothing for them but the orgies of the
worst nlaces in the world—tropical outposts
swarming with the riff-raff of all nationali-
ties. So they pass their time, and if they
survive they can go to sea again for another
bout of hard work. To charge the white
man with failure in such circumstances is
merely to state the inevitable. One may
ask himself, why should the crews he
marooned away from all comforts and
decency? What is to prevent their being
sent south after the fishing season so that
thev may take money to their wives and
families,'possibly get temporary employment
ashore, and in any case have some sort ot
civilised distraction? To bring them as tar
south as Townsville and Perth would be a
mere trifle. The French fishing fleets thought
nothing of two or three trips a season right
across the Atlantic for the fishing on the
Banks. The Japanese and Malays now em-
ployed for the most part go back to their
homes when the-fishing is over. hen I
ders travelled westward to Darwin In-
sighted very considerable fleets of vessels
filled with Malays which had made—pro-
bablv for centuries— the few days trip to the
Australian coast every year. Let The crews
be recruited in, say, Perth and Townsville
and carried to the fleets by properly -fitted
steamers. These last could be used on the
grounds as store, hospital and recreation
ships, and when the fleets must be laid up
for the monsoons the crews could be brought
south again, and returned to their homes.
Such a system would, attract the better class
of white men, and would establish along the
frontier men of British nationality, as cei*
tainly as the improved conditions in the eane-
ftelds have attracted white men right up
into the agricultural tropics. Then Australia
would know that her passes were gtiarded,
that her own people knew the secrets of the
northern coastline —placed by Knibbs at
some 2000 miles—and that, in the event of
war, her fleets were in safe hand's.
T. D. CHATAWAY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Leaving the Whole Responsibility to
God.
The above is no allusion to the orthodox
deity spelled with a capital letter, but. refers
to any tin god, joss or fetich which man
makes for himself, endows with supernatural
attributes, and then blames if tile clouds
don’t rain or things go otherwise amiss.
The reflections arise from the decision of
the miners at Mount Morgan (Q.) not to
resume work save at the oid wage—the
inflated wage which came to them in the
piping paper-money days of war, when cop-
per leaped gaily from £<il 10s. to £124 19s.
The situation was investigated by Justice
McCawley, whose appointment by the
Ryan Government was bitterly criticised,
many saying that he was a brilliant man,
but a partisan, with a strong Labor_bias.
He said that a reduction of nearly 25 per-
cent. in wages would mean that the miners
were receiving the full value of the output,
and had the use of hundreds of thousands of
pounds’ worth of plant free while the
owners got nothing. The co., in spite of
this judgment, made a sporting offer to
resume work if the wages were dropped 20
per cent., and try its luck, but the offer was
turned down with emphasis. Many such
offers have been turned down, and possibly
many more will be unless the rank and file
of the unions realise that the object of their
largely-foreign and wholly non-productive ad-
visers is to stop industry and bring about
that universal and utter misery which some-
times paves the way for revolution. The
deluded individuals who don’t really want to
ruin Australian industry and Australia it-
self simply took up the attitude that they
put their unshakable trust in god. Their
god, though they may not realise it, is the
capitalist, or the employer, even if, like
many employers, he isn't a capitalist. He
is supposed to be the omnipotent, the source
of all sorts of miracles if he only chooses
to work them, the giver of all good things if
he doesn’t turn mean and refuse to give
them, the dropper of manna from Heaven
and the Moses who can strike any rock and
produce any amount of water. He can
sell at Bd. or 9d. per lb. wool that costs
ltd., and grow rich on the difference, or
pay £OB per' ton to produce copper that
I u ells at £75, and put the discrepancy in the
iank. For 18 months an endeavor was
nade at Broken Hill to show him that, no
natter how much expenses were ahead of
he earnings, he, being a god, could make a
success of things somehow. No strike
eader ever shows how ; his attitude is that
heir self-created deity, being a deity, must
enow, and if he doesn’t show the way dashed
juick it is time something was done to
lim. This is the embarrassing attitude
vhen times are bad. At other times the
ispect is one of fierce hostility and bitter
contempt. So there are two Tom WaISHeS
md two Gardens and a pair of Willises.
jne alleges that the employer is a useless ex-
crescence who ought to be abolished, and the
ither says that he is a rock of s defence in
time of trouble, and that if he doesn’t be-
have as a rock should he ought to be blown
up. In his first capacity he is a loafing
burden 1 who produces nothing, and in his
second he is a beneficent being who produces
24 per cent, more wages than the employees’
own Court alleges to be possible, or at
least who could do it but for the unheavenly
nature of his disposition. In Scripture,
when a haughty king of Syria wrote to a
rather humble king of Israel and told him
to work a miraculous cure, with a hint that
it would be a casus belli if he didn’t, the
Israelite naturally tore his slop suit and
cried, “Am I Gop, to kill and to make
alive?” It was an appeal to reason which
might not be amiss at Mount Madman, near
Rockhampton, in Queensland.
The Passing of a Vision.
If the Diggers were agreed about any one
thing during the war, it was that they would
not let themselves be divided after it. They
realised that interested parties would try to
drive -wedges between them —cold-footers
anxious for their jobs ; politicians anxious for
their votes. If only in the interests of the help-
less w T ho were likely to need their backing,
they resolved to remain solid. There were
to be no classes, no sects and no parties
where those men who had fought with the
A.I.F. were concerned. For a few months
after the men began to pour home it seemed
as if the great ideal had a chance of realisa-
tion. So impressed was the Hughes Gov-
ernment with the strength of the feeling that
it instituted the Reserve —a fake organisa-
tion which was allowed to die as soon as it
had fulfilled its dishonest purpose. The Re-
turned Soldiers’ Leagues filled up with Dig-
gers of all classes and creeds. The different
State branches promised to wield so much
power of a defensive nature that the
thousands who were engaged taking the sol-
diers down within the law, the other
thousands who resented the Digger’s good
name in the community as a reflection on
themselves, and the professional politicians
all grew apprehensive. Collectively the sol-
dier began to be regarded as an embarrass-
ment where he was not a peril; but indi-
vidually his vote was alwavs worth having.
The Red Flag politicians began talking of
“hired assassins’’; the Tory politicals of "dis-
loyal Irish” and “socialistic working-men.” At
a casual glance it may seem an odd way of
attracting the support of such sections. But
it was good mob-psychology. Because some
members of the proletariat abused the soldiers
an impression was easily and quickly created
in black-coated circles that the proletariat
itself was hostile to the A.I.F. This was
absurd, of course, in view of the fact that
about 90 per cent, of the A.I.F. were workers ;
but cold reason does not enter into issues of
the sort. An inevitable reaction was that
those who heard their class and its ideals
assailed by Diggers of a more affluent class
—as presently happened—ranged themselves
in opposition to the hated capitalist, Digger
or no Digger. And the Red Flag gang
scored a win. The sectarian-mongers got to
work —the O’Bkannigans from Cork on the
one side; the llenleys and their fellow-
Pommies on the other. The Catholics were
accused of disloyaltj to the Empire by per-
sons like Henley (though some 60,(MX)
R.C.’s were risking their all in the line while
Henley sat in a. London Comforts Fund
boudoir i ; and the Protestants were damned
by the O’Bhannigans as enemies of the
Irish, though most Irish-Australians have
good Protestant friends. Further rifts
were thus produced, and those who
were interested in dividing the Diggers
in order to conquer them —employers with a
prejudice in favor of non-starters; execu-
tives eager to dodge their financial obligations
to the men and their dependants wholly or in
part; swindlers busily engaged in taking un-
educated Diggers down —looked on with
approval. In some parts of the Common-
wealth the campaign has been so successful
that there is no longer any pretence at unity
among the soldiers. The Returned Soldiers’
League is being firmly collared by the forces
of anti-Labor; and by way of protest or
reprisals or something there lias arisen the
Returned Soldiers and Sailors’ Political
League. The. vision has passed. The dream
is over. The comradeship which stood the.
test of five years under arms has been
destroyed by a few third-rate politicians,
aided by a garbage-raking press.
Substitutes for C.O.D.
*
Since 1919 the biggest city in the Common-
wealth has been run by 13 Labor aldermen
remarkable for their strength of jaw, their
capacity for getting maudlin about Ireland
and Russia, and their massive ignorance of
finance and the science of local government.
Their regime has been distinguished by hard
borrowing, high rating and a persistent de-
cline in the quality of the municipal services
for which the citizens pay so heavily.
Though desperately hard up, the City Coun-
cil, under their guidance, has dallied with
fancy schemes for the purchase of sawmills,
quarries and coal-mines (it was proposed
to pay £75,000 in one lump for ari alleged
coal-property), and the resumption of an
immensely valuable block of city property,
from which a firm of architects was to get
a fee of £40,000. It has raised wages and
shortened hours in all departments, the
Labor aldermen reckoning it a crime to
work more than five days a week. It has
reduced the wild syndicalistic notions of the
Newcastle coalies to a working principle:
the municipality for the municipal laborer.
In the new municipal Utopia no one works
more than 234 days a year, even though he
be paid for ,312. Every employee is en-
titled to three weeks’ holiday per annum,
plus 11 public holidays and sick leave on
full pay. Block-boys of 15 get £1 18s. 6d.
a week with annual increments; youths of
21 receive £4 14s. lOd. And when a man
on wages or salary is absent from toil (and
six per cent, or thereabouts are' always
away) his locum tenCns on the grade below
is paid on the higher scale. These are sub-
stantial favors, and as favors they have un-
blushingly been conferred. The beneficiaries
were recentlv notified (at least, the agon-
ised manual-laborer majority was) that they
were expected to show their gratitude by
contributing to the Labor fighting fund.
They haven’t been asked to signify their
appreciation by giving the ratepayers the
worth of the increased money, nor has any
improvement been forthcoming in quantity
or quality of output. On the contrary, the
lighting department is even more violently
unsatisfactory than it used to be, the streets,
as one of the Labor aldermen admits, are
“in a scandalous condition” (which means
that they are too abominable for words),
and there has been an unusually heavy
infantile death-roll from dirt diseases, due,
it is only too probable, to the clouds of
filth blown up from ill-swept or unswept
roads. And the financial result of paying
the maximum of wages for the minimum of
toil grows depressing. In 1917, two years
before the municipality-for-the-municipal-
laborer policy arrived, the city rate was 3|d.
in the £, unimprdved value, and there was
a surplus of £59,078. In 1920 the rate was
44d. in the £, and the deficit (the inevitable
Labor deficit) was £42,523. For 1921 a
debit balance of £60,000 is anticipated, even
though the Labor Caucus has put another
halfpenny on the rate. And these figures
refer only to the general account; the light-
ing department is separate. That enter-
nrise is being run at a loss of £15,000 a
month. It has been kept going after a
fashion by a Commonwealth Bank overdraft,
but the debit has reached £670,000 and the
Bank is becoming quite uncivil about it.
Other creditors are beginning to remind the
Council that their loans will mature pre-
sently. And when the distracted body hunts
round for temporary accommodation it
is coldly informed that it can get a long-
term loan for a small amount at 7 per cent.,
or about li per cent, more than is quoted
to Victoria. Hence the suspicion which has
arisen that the Council is approaching the
point where something will burst. Its bright
young Labor reformers are only just learn-
ing that finance is local government, and
that the wrongs of Ireland, the beauties of
Bolshevism, the oorporation-for-the-Porpora-
tion-laborer policy and preference to non-
soldiers are poor substitutes for the c.o.d.
system in jnatters of finance.
—♦
Wanted: More Logic and Less V.D.
One of the motions agreed to at the
W.C.T.U. Convention in Melbourne last
week was:—
That we affirm our conviction that only by the
recognition of an equal moral standard for men and
women can venereal diseases be effectively checked;
That we carefully watch the administration of the
Health Acts and follow any amendments or alterations
of these Acts in order that we may, prevent girls and
women being penalised for an act in which the
man who is a partner in the act is not affected; and
That we reaffirm our opposition to compulsory noti-
fication.
Such appeals to sex-antagonism are like
the appeals made by the lied Flaggers to
class-antagonism: where responded to they
do most damage to the section influenced.
There ( is one crime with which women are
never .charged : there is one profession which
men do not follow. When such a revolution
in physiology occurs as to end that state
of affairs it will be time to begin talking
seriously' of abandoning sex-penalisation.
Meanwhile the world has to deal with facts
as they exist. In Australia under peace
conditions about 75 p.c. of male V.D.
infections arc acquired from professional
prostitutes. What this represents in lunacy
and nervous disorders to the men originally
infected, in miscarriages to the women they
may marry, arid in blindness and malforma-
tion to their children, if they are unfortunate
enough to have any, cannot be estimated.
How is it to be stopped ? The W.C.T.U.
says “only by the recognition o£ an equal
moral standard for men and women,” which
is neither more nor less practical than the
Communists’ dream of an equal financial
standard for all. There arc some principles
to which any Feminist will subscribe. If
one of these ladies knew that a man suffer-
ing from small-pox was in the house with
her children, or was even in the neighbor-
hood, she would see that the Health authori-
ties were notified in short order. Why,
then, object to the notification of a veu-
ereally-diseased man or woman, either of
whom is capable of doing more harm to
the innocent than any small-pox subject V A
Queensland delegate to the Convention said :
I have seen placards on railway stations and in
streets that I would have been ashamed to be seen
reading.
Many will recognise the placards to which
she refers; they warn members of the public
against risking infection, and instruct them
in those methods of disinfection which Lord
Burnham told the House of Ix>rds last year
■•“ brought the incidence of venereal disease in
the American army in the closing stage of
the war down to one case in a thousand.”
Now, the delegate who not only objected to
disinfection where v.d. was concerned, but
considered it infamous that persons should
be told how to disinfect, was a doctor!
What would the B.M.A. have to say to her
if she performed a major operation without
disinfecting before and afterwards? But, it
is sometimes argued, though it has little to
do with the question, venereal disease is con-
tracted through deliberate sin. So is septi-
emmia following an abortion, and yet the
doctor who failed to disinfect there would be
regarded as a •ftmatic or a criminal. The
attitude taken up by these Feminists may be
fairly summed up in this way. In the in-
terests of women they will not allow prosti-
tutes to be interfered with in any way ; and
they will not have venereally-diseased persons
of either sex embarrassed by segregation as
if they were typhus or . diphtheria sufferers.
Superficially this has a fine egalitarian and
humanist sound —in which respect it re-
sembles the windy theories of the Brethren
of Man. In practice- it is anarchy and the
deadliest of wrongs to the millions of women
who ai*e not prostitutes and to their children
to the nth generation.
“Mental” Cases and Their Treatment.
Fr6m the precincts of a Sydney court: —
After living in mental asylums for eight years,
attending a week’s inquiry as to whether she was
sane or insane, and waiting another week for the
verdict, it might be reasonable to expect a woman
to show some curiosity or apprehension about the
finding. Mrs. Farr showed neither—nor nervous-
ness, nor disappointment, nor self-pity. Seated on
a front seat in the crowded court she listened
to Street’s long judgment as impassively as though
she, had heard it a score of times before, her pretty,
childish face quite expressionless. The phrases
in which Street expressed contempt for the judg-
ment and conduct of the medical man who had made
declaration of her sanity, the sentences in which he
expressed belief in her continued insanity—these
might as well have been framed in the language of
Cleopatra, so far as this wisp of womankind seemed
to care. It was either as wonderful an exhibition of
self-control as she had given in the witness-box, or
corroborative evidence of one of the specialists’
declaration that she regarded these proceedings with
a sort of pleasurable detachment.
Street’s judgment that the .evidence did not sat-
isfy him of Mrs. Farr’s sanity was the only one
open to him. The weight of testimony, that she
is a victim of the disease known as foli circulaire
—alternating periods of exaltation and depression,
with weeks and even months of almost complete
rationality in between- —was overwhelming. Hail
the Judge been called upon to determine whether
at the moment of inquiry Mrs. Farr was sane, he
would have had the hardest job he ever tackled
since he commenced wearing a wig. But that is
not the issue raised when a N. S. Wales Court
proceeds to investigate the question of whether a
citizen is improperly detained. The issue then
becomes the more complicated one of whether the
individual is, by reason of established sanity, en-
titled to unconditional release. If the forecast of
specialists is sufficiently unanimous that there may
be a lapse next week or next year—that mental
stability swing's on the balance, so to speak—then
the Courts Says additional detention is legal.
;The proceedings constitute an urgent appeal
for expedition by Sydney University in appoint-
ing a competent occupant for the Chair of
Psychiatry provided for by the will of J. F. Archi-
bald. lii this direction every Australian State is
horribly behind in the modern procession of thought


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL -
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS
ASSETS EXCEED
Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
£500,000
£250,000
£500,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
_ __ SELBY P. WOOD, Managing Director.
hull Time, Part Time, and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
laud idea; Relatively to France, the United States
and Germany in the handling ox a certain type of
mental disturbance, we are living in the Backblocks.
In the circumstances, it is enough to sav that
evidence in the Farr case had, from this point
view, a special and pathetic significance. Whet
the ease of this unfortunate woman has been ac
rately diagnosed does not so much matter as tha;,
whatever the truth may be on that point, the inqu: •
proved the existence of a scandal in connection w i
the treatment of the insane in N. S. Wales. The’e
may be justification for the N.S.W. Lunacy
partment rejecting as unworthy of attention 1 le
employment of modfern methods of re-education usee
with such conspicuous success by psycho-analysts
other countries. On the other hand, it mav be d
to sheer ignorance. But that there should be
place for the insane convalescent, no establishment
for “borderland” cases, nowhere a person sufferi
from recurring mental disease may be sent duri
periods of normality or semi-normality— nowhe
except the asylum that shelters her when active
insane—is monstrous. Street put it as a genera,
imposition that in the case of « woman like Mr
'Amt continued residence in an asylum for the insa i
vas the least intelligent way of dealing with he
md suggested that during the quiescent period o
ler mental cycle a more suitable residence tha
•ladesville, with its hundreds of patients and mo i
reatment, might be found, tfhis was right enougl
f course. Mrs. Farr is a woman of means. He
tmiJy is well - to-do. But what of the great majorii r
f men and women who pass into these asylums to
oor to be provided with expensive individua
ttention during partial sanity? Even in respect t
Irs. Farr the difficulties connected with release o
robation seem to have been enormous. At on■
age, a couple of years ago, she was considered wel
lough to go out thus. She was taken by a nurs
i spend the probationary period—where ? On
lultry farm in a remote part of the Blue Moun
.ins! When, after a month or two, she becam
stive and discontented and asked for change o !
ene, the circumstance was regarded as an indi
tion of relapse. Possibly it was. Possibly, too
y other woman, cut oil from her family and with
e means to gratify a yearning for .change of scene
ter several years’ incarceration, would get restive
pinned down to an egg-raising enterprise in the
ish.
he Job for which Knowledge Doesn’t
Count.
sdebal ex-Treasurer Watt, having a fit of
e blues, held a meeting at St. Ivilda (Vic.)
cently and bewailed the fact that the iu-
lectual standard of Parliamentary mem-
rs isn t what it was. It isn’t reported
at he offered any suggestion for improve-
mt, though he urged the people to select
tter men. It is a lamentable fact that
less something definite is done to preserve
indards or to raise standards the tendency
standards is downward. The general
el of parsons once got so low that naif of
im couldn’t read, and in much more recent
les things were so bad that anybody with
good flogging capacity could be a school-
stex or the keeper of a lunatic asylum,
e Australian sheep has raised its tone, but
didn’t raise itself. The dog, left to itself,
lomes a very mixed animal, and at one
ie a feature of part of the Darling country
isisted of wild hogs which had escaped and
a standard for themselves, with the result
it they were as varied in shape as jimjams,
l some of them were blue, though green
’ s w Z e ra rj- '7 att mi % ht til'd a hint in
s. lhe Ala otate now requires such
nble persons as municipal clerks and shire
qneers to pass an examination. The same
lone there and in other States with soli-
>rs, barristers, chartered accountants,
panes, doctors of medicine, doctors of
lnity, chemists, dentists and a few other
pie, including civil servants on promotion,
ess there is a certain sort of Government
office and they have a pull. It was held
t the clerks and engineers above mentioned
e getting worse either because they were
lg backward or were stationary while the
es went forward. So it is no longer
icient for the shire clerk of Boggy Flat to
a fluent speaker, a fierce denounder of
ital or labor or of the oppressors of Ire-
1, a supporter of big loans, solid with
e sect or society, and a good wire-puller,
ret these things are sufficient for the rulers
ot the State and, among the people who
count, for them alone. The men who admin-
ister the law, even down to a regulation about
drains, must knoiv. The men who make the
law may not even be able to read and write
decently. There are great possibilities about
compulsory examination of candidates, the
test to be in general subjects, but especially
in history, finance, political economy and
the rudiments of Australian law. It need
not be excessively severe, but it should be ex-
tensive. Doubtless thousands of men and
women would pass for the candidate’s pro-
fession and never practise it. but that would
be no loss. The mere academic distinction
would be a help in almost any profession.
In tact, a time might come when it would be
a, mark of inferiority not to possess it. And
the need to pass in order to be above the ruck
would turn the thoughts of many capable
people to polities when they might otherwise
leave them alone. It may be said that there
is a sort of examination now—that con-
ducted by the selection committees. But i !
is secret, and, judged by results, it is a]
about the wrong things.
♦- ■
The Dizzy Art of Explanation.
Like many another institution, the presen
Sydney Government might do much good foi
itself if it would learn to trust to the short-
ness of the public memory and wrap its
noble figure in the garment of reticence.
A case which gave opportunity for a bril-
liant silence was the matter of the Large
Holdings Bill. Premier Stokey, before he could
fStPromise in London of a paltry
±b,oO(j,OuO, which at this Ministry’s usual rate
of loan-spending will last six months, had
to promise the abandonment of all the out-
standing features of that measure. Seeing
that the State Parliament isn’t sitting and
he can’t he questioned, a wise man would
have saul nothing and let the matter fade
out. He might even have started a lottery
or a ghost to divert attention. But Minister
Lougiixin, not being wise, rushed into print
to soiy that he was glad to be kicked down-
stairs, for he was going down anyhow, and
that, he had gained by it, for the atmosphere
at the bottom was much better than at the
top. For a start-
.debenture proposal was only inserted because
there was no means of paying cash for estates when
"DEAD? O’ COURSE YOU AIN’T DEAD , ARE YOU, DEARIE?”
the Bill was drafted. If Mr. Storey knows that cash
will be more plentiful now, there would be nothing
significant in a statement that payment by cash
would be provided for in the Bill when reintroduced,
that might, indeed, be taken as a matter of course.
John Storey has really found that money is
very tight in London. Only on condition
that he abandoned the most sensational item
in.liis policy has he been promised, in two
driblets, the second a good way ahead, enough
money to keep his public works policy going
for half a year, and not a cent for his re-
sumption policy. Interest will presumably
be the same old 6i per cent. It wasn’t
for that paltry concession that the Govern-
ment gave up the prospect of buying half
the State for a song with 4-i per cent, de-
bentures, payable well on towards the 21st
centuiy, and selling the land on short terms
at a long profit. But the climb-down was
probably the only price at which some big
loans soon falling duej would be renewed.
±hen the Explainer went on to sav that he
would really gain and the person whose land
it was proposed to confiscate would lose, by
the latter getting full value at the date of
resumption:—
The situation lias had time to clear somewhat and
many virulent critics may appreciate better than
they did before my effort to be fair to the owners
while insisting on subdivision.... I certainly did
not anticipate the slump setting in so earlv "and I
feel somewhat relieved to think that the opposition
to the Bill prevented my acquiring land at last
year's terms.
And no doubt Lotjgiujn would have a
right to feel relieved if his scheme hac
pledged him to pay actual 1920 values. Bu
it did nothing of the sort It provided tha
he could resume land, say in 1940 or later
at the 1920 valuation, his own two repre-
sentatives in a court of three deciding
what was the 1920 value at their own sweei;
will. Or he could take it at any other
figure. According to clause 17 “Valuations
shall not exceed the value of such land
as at the 31st day of December, 1920.’
According to that clause the payment miglV
be current value if there had been a subse-
quent fall, and 1920 value, or alleged 3920
value, if there had been a subsequent rise.
If Peter French Loughlin hopes to per-
suade people that the loss of that power has
taken a load off his mind he has his work
cut out.
Revising the Constitution.
The one contribution of Federal Labor-
leader Tudor to the economy debate was the
suggestion that, in order to save a trifle, there
should be no Convention elected directly
by the nation to draft an amended Federal
Constitution, but that Parliament should
take on the job as a side-line. Parliament
is the product of political machines, party
leagues, pre-selection committees and con-
ferences from which the press is excluded.
For the supremely big question of the new
Constitution it is hoped to get, by open
election, and open debate, a number of men
whom the machines wouldn’t look at, and
who wouldn’t touch the machines with a
disinfected telegraph-pole. The Federal Con-
vention should be chosen for one purnose
only, and not get its Constitution-making
powers because it has promised railwavs,
.lobs, roads, loans, billets or doles in the
right quarter, because it has insectarian
views or Irish views or Hun views or even
Bolshevik views, or any views at all except
Federal ones. It should be the product of
a political campaign in which there is no
need to mention one of the subiects which
constitute the stock ammunition of Parlia-
mentary electoral campaigns. In short, the
idea, or at least the hope, is to get a Federal
Convention from which .nine-tenths of the
regular politicians will be missing. That is
the . true referendum idea—to secure a
straight-out statement of the popular will
on questions, one at a time. The Tudok
idea is anti-referendum— to entrust the
work to a legislature elected on a muddle
and mixture of almost every question under
the sun, the new Constitution being one of
the least of them, because no one supposed
Parliament would take on that particular
work.
*.
The Restoration in Russia.
The L uited States and various other coun-
tries never broke off trade with Russia.
Italy resumed dealings long ago and a num-
ber of nations followed. The results are
disappointing. In fact, they are almost nil
Ihe great Bear country, presumably, has food
to sell, but the world isn’t very short of
rood just now. And, anyhow, the peasant
farmers don’t much want to sell to a Gov-
ernment department which can only pay in
paper, especially now that paper has gone
so low that a man may almost starve with
u “ lon roubles about him. Then it is
cufhcult to get heavy goods to a port. Russia
has so far ceased to be a manufacturing
country, that it can’t keep its rolling stock
m repair, or even its roads, and want pre-
vails within a few miles of large stocks of
provender. Before the war the Empire had
got to the point of being an exporter of some
kinds ot manufactured goods, woollens among
the rest; but it has nothing of that sort
to sell now, and at last advices the Govern-
ment gold reserve (it owns all the gold
except what little may be buried) was down
to a few millions, which, as the disgusted
xankeo press remarks, would make no trade
worth mentioning. The Bolshevik authority
wants to get imports of manufactured goods
on credit—the Governments of other coun-
tries to pay their own people for what they
sell to .Russia and take the Lenin-Trotsky
bonds in return Arrangements of the sort
were common during the war. Argentina
and Canada especially pushed trade that
way, the Treasuries financing their producers
and taking cart-loads of securities in pay-
ment. But though they took some question-
able paper m their hunger for trade, and
though they still hunger for it with an
appetite that has grown by what it fed upon
the Lenin-Trotsky bonds are outside the
uinit. The great repudiation is too recent
i«iL P Tn lat f , of perhaps 100,000,000 or
150,000,000, which was once a great buyer
and seller, has become almost as poor a
customer as so many Australian aborigines.
In these circumstances it is no wonder
that Benin should feel his rocky wav
with a suggestion that Russia must go
back to capitalism.” That means that it
will again have privately-owned mines fac-
tories ships, banks and a lot of other
useful things. The exploiters will be largely
foreigners—such foreigners as care to take
big risks for large profits—the native capi-
talist being almost extinct Besides, out-
siders may trust them the more for being
foreign, as their effects should have a better
chance to escape seizure should the Com-
rnunist volcrdo rumble again. Whatever
happens it seems hopeless for the Govern-
ment to attempt to be the universal trader
much longer, as nobody, or hardly anybodv
outside will negotiate its hills. In the first
flush of the “restoration of trade” it scat-
-1 oen AAfl 3r °*? e and America orders for
±1... >00,000,000. of manufactured goods re-
quired to repair the wreck it had made. This
was done m the ordinary way of the solvent
merchant who expects to get the shipments
without question and be drawn upon at sight
or at so many days for the money. But
there was so little faith in the Bolshevik
Commissary for Foreign Trade that hardlv
a brown-paper parcel came back. Nobodv
carod to trust, a merchant who had remidi-
ated all previous debts, had thousands of
millions of bad paper in circulation, had few
pprtabb' assets, and was a Jaw unto him-
sejf. Ibere was a universal demand for
cash with order.” So the necessity arises
tor encouraging the rise of new firms in all
manner of lines--firms which can get their
orders treated ■ with respect.
■— r —— —*—
So far as N. S. Wales is concerned the
necessity for living in Sydney and nowhere
else grows daily more obvious. A deputa-
tion. of unemployed recently rushed a Min-
ister s office. It was promised well-paid work
at. road-mending around the city to be done
with loan money chargeable to the whole
State. The crowd that came immediately
after was so ill-advised as to throw a brick
through the Ministerial window and assault
the police guards, so it didn’t get such imme-
diate concessions. A third party,v however,
was promised road-and-loan work imme-
diately. There will be mighty little employ-
ment except in Sydney this winter if the
A.W.U. demands are persisted in; so it
behoves every man to get to the city early
and be outside the Treasury. Treasurer
Lang “points out” in the press that his road-
reDairs-out-or-loans policy is “solving” the
unemployed problem. It'might do so if he
was starting factories which would pay for
themselves and, under good management, go
on for ever and grow as they went. But
when the roads and the loans are finished the
old crowd will be back on Lang’s doorstep
and bring seven new crowds along with it.
A more brilliant man would move the seat
of government to (say) Tamworth, after the
U.S. fashion of having the State capital in
a minor town.


Efficiency
PEEBLES
Reliability
All sizes, classes and types of A C and D C Generators and Motors, Balancers
Generators, Rotary Converters, etc., etc.
Speciality: THE PEEBLES LA-COUR MOTOR CONVERTER.
Motor
GUTHRIDGE,
DENNY BROS
FULL PARTICULARS FROM THE FOLLOWING AGENTS:
LIMITED, 10-12 George Street Camperdown (City),
~ LTD., St. George’s House, PERTH
SYDNEY
f Other than\
l Western. /
ALSO
Gardner, Wsern & Co., 384 City Road, Melbourne.
Parsons & Robertson Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Edison Swan Electric Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
FISCAL.
SHORTUN: “Believe me, son, under Free-
trade the pubs could offer any Gawd's
quantity of beer at threepence a pot.
LONGUN : “Yairs. But would anyone be
able to offer us the tray bits t' get it
with ?”
There is a well-authenticated story of a
union organiser who yearned to start a
strike and called a union meeting for that
purpose. For an hour or more he rocked it
into Flute and the Flute Press, and then
somebody timidly suggested a ballot. It s
a ballot ye want,” said the organiser dis-
gustedly \ *‘then yc shall have it heie an
now. Scabs to the right; industrialists to
the left.” One is reminded of it by what
occurred at Mt. Morgan (Q.) last week.
The question at issue was whether the
miners would accept the company’s offer to
re-ooen the mine on the basis of a 20 p.c.
wage reduction. At a preliminary meeting
of bOO employees there were thrilling speech s
in that organiser's vein, and the result was
an apparently unanimous decision to vote
“No” at the ballot which had been previously
decided upon. But when the ballot was
taken three days later the majority for
refusal was only seven to five—actually <oU
to 527. Probably 300 of the o2< were at the
meeting, but were afraid to declare them-
selves in public. It is a suggestive incide.
and helps to explain many strikes.
The Aug us is steadfastly pointing out to
its readers the effect of the Tariff on the
things they need. The other day the old
lady made an appeal to the poor house-
wife to consider the iniquity of 40 per cent.
(British) and 55 per cent, (general) on
jewellery, and wept dreadfully over the
penalising of our brave Ally, I ranee, to the
tune of 10 per cent, on fashion-plates. Those
are two examples of the Argus s bene-
volence. Though pretending to weep for the
housewife, the dear old thing is really adver-
tising the sad case of her rich female sup-
porters whom the brutal Tariff will cut oft
from the latest styles in rags and probably
compel to make shift with last season s
tiaras.
Westralia’s first local option poll was an
unsatisfactory business. Nowhere did the
prohibition vote reach the necessary W
per cent, of voters and 30 p.c. of electors,
but in 10 or 11 districts it was strong enough,
added to the small direct vote for reduc-
tion, to carry that issue. The paradox is
that in most of the reduction districts there
are comparatively few hotels —in hamlets
like Wagin, Wickepin and Beverley the
local inn is the only place where a stranger
can get accommodation —whereas decaying
goldfields townships, such as ‘Kanowna and
Ooolgardie, where there is a seedy ljnupr-
shop at nearly every street-corner, will re-
main sinfully over-pubbed, having declared
for continuance. Another poll is due m lb-4,
but long before that things will have hap-
pened. It is more than likely that the Mit-
chell Government will repeal the lull
Licensing Act and introduce the reduction-
board system.
For two homestead farms near Guyra
(N S.W.) there were recently 118 appli-
cants. This is the sort of thing which is
put forward as proof that it is time to do
a gigantic confiscation, so that the unem-
ployed, whom the Government says can t
I be chased out of the city with an axe, may
satisfy their craving for the open sky and
the great spaces and the great bounding
kangaroo. But the test isn t really honest.
The value of the Guyra land was fixed at
£3 per acre, and the rental is 2 \ p.c., or Is.
Gel. per acre, which is about the
current interest rate. Even this needn’t be
paid for the first five years. The title is an
eternal lease, and the rent is less than many
a freeholder pays in taxes. If people wouldn t
rush for that kind of lease near Guyra
(Guyra is a pretty place on the. main North-
road between Arm id lie and Glen Innes, and
the rainfall is 37 inches > they wouldn t rush
for the Crown jewels.
From the S. M. Herald:—
The Army Act governs, to the satisfaction of all
save the “bad hats.”
General (Senator) Elliott, C. 8., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., D.C.M., says:—
There are to my mind very grave objections to the
measure now submitted to us. One of the gravest
is the attempt to import into our Defence legislation
the whole of the Army Act.
Problem for the Herald: Is Elliott a “bad
hat” ?
Joe Cook, asked to explain why the Com-
monwealth Government, taxes Tatt. -sweep
prizes while the Postal Department refuses
to carry letters to Tattersall, had no word of
excuse to offer. He said, “M c want all the
revenue we can get.” But that was no
defence. A burglar wants all the revenue
he can get. The sin of the Government is
in deriving income from what it has officially
denounced as an unlawful gamble. It
charges itself with lack of principle and con-
fesses itself a partaker of ill-gotten gams.
A Sydney paper devoted to Irish affairs
published this gem last week: —
If Irish culture and the Irish tradition are not
to be submerged in Australia in the near future, we
must be up and doing. Of the thousands ot inimi-
grants now being brought to this country, there is
not one of Irish blood.
For about seven centuries the distressful
emigrant has been one of Erin’s chief griev-
ances. He represented a real grievance, too.
Before the War of Independence Ireland was
forbidden to export anything to the American
plantations but linen and provisions. I here
was no great surplus supply of either, so
that the Yankee ships trading to Ireland were
impelled to make what they could on their
return voyages by offering cheap rates to
passengers. That was the beginning of the
Irish movement to America, which grew and
grew as rotten land laws and the selfishness
of the London merchants made Ireland more
and more uninhabitable. During the last de-
cade Ireland has been transformed— chiefly
with money loaned by the hated Sassenach —
into a nation of small farmers. Manufac-
tures are booming. The prosperity is so
great that the place which used to export
little but men is getting ready to face an
immigration problem. The Irish exile —the
interesting individual who used to stand on
the ship’s deck, his eyes hot with unshed
tears as Erin faded in the mists of the sea—
is no more. He is finding his own country
a good place to stay in. And the first thing
his compatriots in this part ,of the world
do is to raise a wail of grief on the subject.
In effect, to deplore the old sod’s abounding
prosperity !
According to Sydney Telegraph :
“Fancy trying to govern the Territory and Papua
from that drab little building in Spring-street, Mel-
bourne/’ said a much-travelled Australian the other
day.
It is profoundly absurd; still the folly is
only temporary. But fancy trying to govern
the' Territory permanently from
Canberra, which is about' 30
miles further from the south-
eastern or nearest corner of the
Territory than Melbourne is. and
.about 125 miles further from the
south-western corner, and several
miles further from Darwin —the
centre of such business as the
N.T. possesses! Canberra is quite
as much a corner town as Mel-
bourne is, though to some people
any place between Sydney and Mel-
bourne is “central.”
Some of the price-fixing boards
and fair-profit commissions are be-
ginning to sing in a minor key.
They are finding out that traders
have to provide for something be-
sides wages, rent, fire insurance,
cartage and the destruction of rats.
If a man who looks
like having a thousand
pounds to spend shows
up in Flinders lane or
York-street these days
he is rushed: and if
he looked as though
he would pay what he
was asked, as he did
two years ago, he
would be torn to pieces
by salesmen. There
are stationery lines
also on which the
traders are losing
from 20 to 30 per
per cent.: and if some
firms didn’t put by
tens of thousands of
pounds made out of
buying on a* rising
market, they would
inevitably go broke
now when they have to sell on a falling
market. A good many of them will go broke
anyhow.
A recent death at the Ivew (Vic.) Mental
Hospital should stiffen Australia’s policy of
I'efusing admittance to citizens who can’t
produce, a clean bill of health. This patient
had been an inmate of asylums practically
ever since his arrival in Australia ; and as
he was admitted in 1857 to Yarra Bend —
he was 'transferred to Ivew in 1872 —he has
been a charge on the State for 64 years. He
was a foreigner and never learnt a word of
English.
The May Day uproar in Sydney had the
usual finish :—•
There were several other speakers, including a girl
of 10 or 12 years of age, who spoke of her training in
the Socialistic Sunday-school and of her determina-
tion to stand to the red flag and solidarity.
Poor, perverted, prematurely-aged, prema-
turely-hardened little kid! Someone has
caught her young, as Fagin caught his
pupils, with the intent that she shall grow
up on a diet of husks and malignity and
garbled st: tistics, and attain a strident
womanhood and a witch-like old age. The
early May Dayers were disgruntled Germans
who met ip London about 1847, but they
only got properly organised for “the
complete emancipation of Labor- from the
tyranny of Capital” in the ’sixties. In 1871
they controlled Paris under the name of the
Commune, and the girls who had learned red-
flaggery appeared as bare-headed and often
bare-footed shriekers who went about with
torches, firing the city in a hundred places.
The N. S. Wales Government intends; to
take the business of railway construction out
of the hands of the Chief Commissioner, who
is at least a railway expert, though it is
proposed to make the next one a political
hanger-on like the Agent-General, and put
it and all the attached patronage in the
hands of the Works Minister. The present
Works Minister is a coal-miner, and previous
Ministers have included a patent agent, a
compositor, a farmer, a grazier and a bar-
rister. Not one was chosen for his know-
ledge of railway-building. Minister Esteli
defends himself on the plea that he is going
back te an old system—going back, in fact,
to the corrupt system which the Labor party
was brought into being to end.
For no other apparent reason than that
he is member for East Melbourne, and that
the man he replaces (Weedon) used to re-
present the same constituency, Farthing,
M.L.A., has been placed on the Public Library
Trust bv the Lawson Government. Famili-
arity with art, books and other parapher-
nalia stocked in a national museum is the
last thing of which any of his acquaintances
would have accused Farthing. But that s
how things are done while party rules in
politics.
The Camberwell (Vic.) Municipal Coun-
cil, annoyed by the stock-wandering nuis-
ance, has prohibited the keeping of cows
within its boundaries; and 21 dairies will
have to close. This driving of the cows
away from the population, and especially the
baby population, is all wrong. Nowhere else
has so much attention been given to the
subject of milk;supply as in the U.S.A., and
A STUDY IX SOAP-BOX PSYCHOLOGY.
“I unhesitatingly affirm, without fear of
contradiction, and make no apology for
doing so, that the sum of two and two
added together is in the aggregate FIVE."
(Thunderous applause.)
N’Yofk has been the leader on the question.
And in the small State of N’York, with more
people in it than in all Australasia, there
are more milch cows than in any other State
in the Union bar one (Wisconsin) —three
times more milch cows in that one small
area than there are cattle in the whole of
our cattle-raisin g Northern Territory.
Wherever the subject has been closely in-
vestigated there is a struggle to get the
cow and her customer close together, even
though specially-refrigerated milk-trains are
provided to whisk in supplies from a dis-
tance.
Randolph Bedford writes :
Re the “story from the inside” about No. 37
Queensland Hansard (the alleged “sedition” num-
ber), here’s some more “inside.” When Hughes
visited Ryan (at the time when Hughes threatened
Ryan’s and Theodore’s arrest) the little 'Welshman
said, speaking of No. 37, “I know you’re all right.
but those blighters down South are pushing me
on.” In gratitude, no doubt, for getting Billy’s
consent to be pushed far enough to threaten arrest,
the “blanky blighters down South” later gave him
£25,000.
Hughes has evidently transferred to Joe
Cook his little propensity for barking at
Justice Higgins, of the Arbitration Court.
Months back Higgins advised the world that
he would resign his job as soon as certain
cases had been finished, and, in response to
some testy words from Hughes, the Judge
formally advised him on the matter in
January .last. Despite this official intimation,
Joseph alleged the other day that Higgins
had been “proposing” to resign for six months
past. As a matter of fact, he had used the
more contemptuous “threatening” instead of
“proposing” in his original statement to the
press, and apparently only withdrew it when
Higgins talked back with a lot more urbanity
than the acting-head of the Government
deserved.
THE TRAITORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When the Empire was at war it was traitorous
to speak of peace; now that the'Empire is at peace
it traitorous to think of war ."-Prime Munster
“Sooner or later war in the Pacific is ceitain.
prime Minister Massey.
I would not as a traitor rest
Condemned by every patriot’s eye;
1 always do my level best
To back my country, wet or dry.
Hut in the war I spoke of peace,
As everyone around me did,
And hoped the slaughter soon would cease
And all its red remains be hid.
And since they say that peace has come,
I cannot help it now and then
If in my dreams I hear a drum
That calls again to angry men.
So, double-dyed in traitorous ways,
J. beat upon my breast and weep ;
Must 1 be blamed if every day’s
Last cables try to murder sleep?
And that is not the worst by half.
For all my neighbors are the same;
In peace they talk of war and laugh.
In war they mentioned peace’s name.
All traitors, every blessed one!
And yet they try to air their views!
I can’t see what is to be done
About it any more than Hughes.
Suppose the Empire kicks us out
For general treason all the time ;
Such punishment, without a doubt,
Would very aptly fit our crime.
But thank the Lord for Massey’s word ;
He thinks like Bill and Jim and mo—
To call him traitor is absurd ;
He stands for Empire constantly!
And so the puzzle still remains,
A tender legacy from Hughes;
And every traitor-patriot strains
His tangled brain to unconfuse.
Like ravelled string the conscience twists,
While reason tumbles from the shelf;
The Empire, it appears, consists
Wholly of traitors to itself.
X.SrW.
GEORGE STREET.


THE LION AND THE MOUSE.
A combine, known as Bawra, controls the marketing of the vast stocks of wool accumulated by the British Government. The Commonwealth Government has now prohibited the export of Australian wool except under certain conditions,
and has taken other steps to give Bawra, greater freedom.”


STEELS.
'LARGE SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
CHROME NICKEL STEELS for AXLES and other highly
stressed parts.
CRANK SHAFT FORGINGS of CHROME NICKEL STEEL
IN STANDARD TYPES.
CHROME NICKEL AND NICKEL STEELS in Bars and Discs
for GEARS and similar parts.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE POSTED ON APPLICATION.
THE POLDI STEEL WORKS,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Cos., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life
Association with the M.L.A. and the Aus-
tralian Widows’ Fund grafted on to it: —
Okdinauy Life Department. Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Oil. Funds.
1907. . £299,001 £83,803 £24,190 £12,925 £178,083
(Amalgamation with M.L.A. took place at this point.)
1908.. 667,435 274,307 74,674 157,004 161,400
1909.. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 < 2,524 373,303
1911. . 1,047,150 534,801 95,864 5,275 411,210
1912. . 1,098,748 593,820 100,391 2,631 401,906
1913. . 1,127,198 595.487 92,604 15,320 423,787
1914. . 1,162,249 004,258 102,274 1,541 454,176
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,095 6,980 402,245
1916. . 1.191,225 670,011 82,324 6,837 420,053
1917. . 1,219,490 770,218 88,888 16,673 337,711
1918. . 1,273,085 805,623 95,304 147 372,011
1919.. 1,316,118 911,069 105,065 299,984
1920. . 1,383,575 789,720 131,286 10,245 452,318
“The year 15)20 was one of the ibost success-
ful and profitable in the co.’s career,’’ is
the summing-up by managing-director John
J. Garvan, who succeeded his father in the
office, of which Frank Coffee claims to
the founder. The term was the first
normal once since war casualties began
to make inroads: claims by death last year
were £131,268 less than for ’flu-stricken
1915). The £452,318 addition to funds is
not the M.L.C.’s best; it was bettered in
1914, when income was £120,000 smaller.
But note that in the pre-war year only £1541
of insurance surplus was employed to write
down securities, whereas in the past year
£10,245 was thus utilised, so heavy was the
depreciation of the market value of War
Loans. Still, most of the amounts so writ-
ten off —at least that portion set against the
fall in values of public securities—might
be treated as actual profit; for there is only
a remote possibility of a big, stable life
office like the M.L.C. having to put its
securities on the market before they mature.
On the other hand, there is the possibility
that some Government some day may itself
write down its own securities; and though
the possibility is remote it is one that must
be provided for.
The introductory table does not state the
position as precisely as it might. The
M.L.C. is a proprietary office; there .are
shareholders who get a cut out of profits.
Twelve months ago actuary Miller recom-
mended the distribution of the £306,990
which he estimated had been the profit
earned during the year ended Dec., 1919, and
in the past term £268,111 of it was passed
on as bonuses to policy-holders and £38,879
was handed to shareholders. In the table
the amounts voted to shareholders (in 1919
they got £35,158, and in the previous year
£32,156) are included with claims for the
sake of uniformity; at one time the manage-
ment did not disclose the extent of divs.
Shareholders are entitled to 20 p.c. of the
profits made by the Ordinary dept., but_ last
year they got only 12.6 p.c. of the distri-
butable surplus. Though the proprietors thus
lately took only 63 p.c. of what they are
justly entitled to under the constitution .of
the office, the question arises whether the in-
surer would not be better off in a mutual
concern wherein all profits automatically
revert to policy-holders. The M.L.C. co-op.
policy, however, differs from the mutual type
in several respects. The mutual office when
it accepts a proposal merely undertakes to
do the best it can —and that best depends
on the personnel of its management. The
M.L.C. gives a definite contract: it guar-
antees payment of both the sum assured and
bonuses declared, at least to the extent of
the capital subscribed by its proprietors.
Also, it undertakes that expenses in its
Ordinary dept, will not exceed 15 p.c. of
iucome. In return, the people who make
these guarantees ask the right to take one-
fifth of the profits. It is all a question of
management; and as to the quality of the
management the M.L.C. has some striking
evidence. Kntries in the introductory table
show that two mutual concerns threw in
their lot with the old co-op. Citizens Co-
s interests of both the M.L.A. and
Widows’ Fund policy-holders are still
watched by trustees, and this is what the
latter crowd have to say in their latest
report: —•
The percentage of cash surplus to premiums received
in the A. W.F. Section was over 72 p.c. In other words,
the cash surplus allotted to the A.W.F. policy-holdeis,
for the year just closed, represents more than seven-
tenths of the total premiums received. The trustees
have made careful search through the records of other
life offices throughout the world, and have failed to
find a single office which has made anything like
such a splendid return to its policy-holders.
The old M.L.A. policy-holders have benefited
in the same way. The Citizens’ manage-
ment has put these two old mutual concerns
on a footing they probably never could have
attained on their own account. ,
The explanation of these performances is
the very efficient organisation which the
M.L.C. has created. This is evidenced by
the co.’s expense-rate. In 11)14 exes, took
8.8 p.c. of total income; in 1919, 7.5 p.c.,
and last year 8.95 p.c.. The increase last
year was, no doubt, primarily due to the
record volume of new business written:
No. of New Average Amount
Policies. Assuring. Assured.
1914.. 10,619 £2,003,040 £lB9
1915.. 7,219 1,307,236 181
1916.. 5,839 1,315,471 225
1917.. 6,534 1,538,725 236
1918.. 8,103 2,048,870 253
1919.. 10,407 2,513,795 242
1920.. 12,476 3,023,848 242
New business is always expensive; and
though it is impossible to ascertain actual
costs of new policies, Tins Bulletin’s prac-
tice (applied to all offices) of regarding
renewal business as costing 7 p.c. of renewal
premiums, and charging the balance of the
year’s expenses to new business, is near
enough for comparative purposes. Calculated
on that basis 1914’s new business was won
at a cost of 88 p.c. of first-year premiums.
Last year’s record crop was harvested for
under 70 p.c.
At a result of the improved loss rate and
the maintenance of low costs, the actuary
is now in a position to recommend bonuses
equal to the pre-war scale. The assurance
fund at Dec. 31 last amounted to
£10,201,788; actuary Miller, estimating lia-
bilities. under policies on the conservative
basis that invested funds will in future earn
only 3 p.c. (last year they actually returned
£4 16s 3d.), declared that that was £384,804
more than was required. So he has recom-
mended the distribution of surplus providing-
reversionary bonuses of up to £3 per £IOO
of assurance, an Bs. p.c. increase compared
with recent years.
Experience in the Industrial branch has
been as follows :
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1908. . £217,371 £98,068 £84,268 £1734 £33,301
1909.. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1911.. 264,235 65,606 108,077 3916 86,636
1912. . 281,597 63,186 111,978 6196 100,237
1913.. 298,526 93,365 115,794 6594 82,773
1914.. 322,017 66,240 134,643 121,134
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1916.. 354,568 68,702 153,102 802 131,962
1917.. 382,807 88,527 165,190 159 128.931
1918-• 409,949 160,209 176,638 2128 70,974
1919.. 430,803 183,019 195,605 1470 50,709
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
Assurance funds at Dec. 31 last amounted
to £1,749,428, and the actuarial liability was
estimated at £1,683,161, leaving a surplus
of £66,267. It is the Industrial branch
which provides most of the feast for share-
holders. For 1919 a £64,906 surplus was
disclosed, and of that shareholders during
the past year got £64,871. The eo. issues a
definite contract, and, in return for support-
ing that contract with shareholders’ capital,
whatever is garnered as the result of a low
cost-rate or favorable claims experience
assists the return to proprietors. The
M.L.C. does handle its Industrial business
cheaply: including divs. with exes., last
year’s total outgo, apart from claims, repre-
sented 45 p.c. of income, a half-point better
than for the previous year, but heavier than
in pre-war days: the 1914 cost was 41.8 p.c.
But though that is considerably better than
the usual Industrial experience, the £45 p.c.
of income which goes in exes, compared with
under £9 p.c. in the Ordinary branch is very
clear evidence of the poorer deal the policy-
holder can get under an Industrial policy.
The security afforded the policy-holder
throughout all branches of the M.L.C. is,
of course,- unquestionable. Besides the sur-
plus in the assurance funds disclosed by the
actuary, there is shareholders’ capital of
£200,000, general and bonus reserves exceed-
ing £86,000, a considerable inner reserve re-
sulting from the writing-down of securities,
and a further huge internal reserve created
by valuing liabilities on a conservative basis.
Though the various reserves and share-
holders’ capital combined amounted to less
than 121 millions at Dec. 31, the balance-
sheet shows no less than £16,423,702 of
assets. Allow the directors to explain :
In our balance-sheet you will see that we have
sundry creditors to the amount of £4,005,747. This
is the amount we owe in connection with our sub-
scription of over £12,000,000 to War and Peace
Loans. We made an agreement with the Common-
wealth Bank to finance us conditionally upon the
Bank agreeing to accept in repayment all our accumu-
lations in Australia. We gave our all to the Gov-
ernment. but could not hind ourselves to any speci-
fied date for lepayment. We took the coubse of
lending all our money to the Government at lower
rates of interest than were being offered for mort-
gages, feeling that such a course was not only in the
interests of the country but also in the Company s
interests. With so much of our funds lent to the
Government we can say we are as sound as Australia
itself, and no security in Australia can be sounder
than Australia itself.
This shows the changes in the disposition of
funds resulting from this policy: —
1914. p.c. 1920. p.c.
Public securities £3,996,386 42.6 £13,611,361 83.0
Mortgages . . 4,165,349 44.4 1,576,548 9.6
Loan on Policies.. 751,366 8.0 813,037 4.8
Cash, book debts,
etc 372,598 4.0 300,799 1.8
Property .. .. 47,988 .5 98,733 .6
Other assets . . 42,683 .5 23,224 .2
£9,376,370 £16,423,702
Liabilities .. 105,952 4,156,547
Net assets . . £9,270,418 £12,267,155
Shareholders’ paid capital is £200,000. Last
year they got divs. and bonuses as follows:
Ordinary dept., £38,879 ; Industrial, £64,871;
employers’ liability branch, £1250 —a total
of £105,000, equal to 524 p.c. on capital.
Finney, Isles & Cos., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
To
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £19,863 8 p.c. = £6,815 £13,048 £34,985
Premiums on new shares. . 4,062 39,047
1912.. 16,856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3,799 42,846
1913.. 14,617 8 ~,, 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914.. 20,475 8 ~ ~12,944 7,531 62,133
1915. . 17,744 8 „ „ 13,019 4,725 56,858
Jan.,
1916.. 9,269 8 „ „ 6,547 2,722 59,580
Transferred to capital, £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 . ■ 25,244
1917.. 21,014 8 p.c. = 14,923 6,091 31,335
Premiums on new shares. . 1,752 33,087
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43,32*5
1919.. 29,833 8 „ „ 17,977 11,856 55,181
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,466
Premiums on new shares, £1,509 45,975
1920.. 33,098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 30,520 10 ~ ~25,781 4,739 59,811
Transferred to capital, £12,500 .. 47,311
The profit now disclosed is not quite so
handsome as that of a year ago, though
the directors report that trade was “fully
maintained” and that “the business has made
satisfactory progress.” When the latest
accounts were made up, though, the soft-
goods trade was in a cold sweat: nobody
knew how prices would behave or what would
happen- to the large and expensive stocks
on hand. Finney Isles’s management con-
sidered it advisable to make provision against
a possible slump in prices, and accordingly
took stock “at conservative values.” Which
may mean that some thousands of the past
year’s net earnings went in writing-down
the book value of unsold goods as a protec-
tion against loss should the price-cutting
tendency experienced in Brisbane develop
into anything serious. Nevertheless, there re-
mained a good margin of profit after paying
10 p.c. on the quarter-million of paid capi-
tal, £42,000-odd of which represents the capi-
talisation of reserves accumulated during the
years when only 8 p.c. divs. were passed out.
Now a further £12,500 of reserves is being
tapoed to provide anew bonus issue (one
in 20). Also nominal capital has been
doubled, and for a start 50,000 new £1
shares are offered at par to present holders.
At Jan. 31 stocks of a book value almost
double that of five years ago were held;
and the accumulation was so much larger
than only 12 months before, and the credit
to customers so much greater, that liabilities
bounded to within £35,000 of paid capital.
Here is a detailed comparison of balance-
sheet movements over a number of years
1905. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital. . . . £29,462 £155,293 £250,000 £250.000
Liabilities .. 103,666 114,557 126,794 215,787
Stocks . . . . 60,878 123,408 165,306 242,847
Property . . 3,657 99,235 138,311 138,327
Plant, etc. . . 4.008 27,877 24,530 23,571
Book debts, etc. 24,912 68,876 100,122 111,418
Cash & investments 14,404 16,334 18,597 21,934
Other assets .-. 11,882
The volume of stocks is now steadily declin-
ing, and, in turn, liabilities are shrinking.
Within six months managing-director Coakes
expects to see the old business on something
like a normal footing again, but whether the
unloading can be made as profitable as the
trading of recent years is another matter
altogether. “The violent disparity in the
quotations from various sources of supply”
and other factors, he admits, make it “quite
evident that trading concerns have commenced
upon a period during which the margin of
profit will in all probability be temporarily on
a reduced scale.” If that is the worst which
is to happen during coming months traders
will consider themselves very fortunate; for
many wholesalers, loaded to the ceilings with
top-priced goods, and their clients standing
off in anticipation of a tumble, the prospects
are not nearly so cheerful. The direet-im-
norting retailery concerns of the Finney
Isles class are, doubtless, somewhat more
comfortably placed than the big Flinders-
lane and York-street middlemen.
Anyhow, nothing very serious could happen
to Finney Isles if things do not work out
so smoothly as its management anticipates:
stocks, as previously remarked, have been
conservatively valued, and the large book
debts are protected by a reserve of unspeci-
fied dimensions. But the £354,265 total of
these two items is also protected by reserves
of £47,311, after providing for the new bonus-
share issue. In other words, 2s. Bd. in the
£ of the present book value of stocks and
customers’ accounts would go before share-
holders’ capital (cash paid and bonus) be-
came imperilled. Put another way: to re-
present each of the 262,500 £1 shares on
the register after distribution of the latest
bonus lot there were net assets with a book
value of 235. 7d.
* * * *
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Cos.
(Adelaide) :
Mar., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £468 Nil £468 £lO
1912.. 425 Nil 425 435
1913.. 1722 Nil 1722 2,157
1914.. 2435 6 p.c. =£l2oo 1235 3,392
1915.. 1883 6 „ „ 1200 683 4,075
1916.. 2045 6 „ ~ 1200 845 4,920
1917.. 2855 8 ~ „ 1600 1255 6,175
1918.. 3165 8 „ ~ 1600 1565 7,740
1919.. ' 3541 TO ~ „ 2000 1541 9,281
1920.. 5059 10 ~ „ 2000 8059 12,340
1921.. 5411 10 ~ ~ 4000 1411 13,751
Paid capital was doubled during the year,
and 10 p.c. lias been paid on the full £40,000
with ease. That is easily a record for a
young trustee concern. Elder’s began under
very favorable auspices, and it has had dear-
money times to assist it. With S. Aus. s old
Elder-Smith influences behind it, business
was easily got, and after only 11 years it
has over four millions of trusts in its care.
This shows the rapid progress made: —
1911.. £53,562 1919.. £3,217,709
1915.. 1,405,146 1920.. 3.553,763
.1918.. 2,779,039 1921.. 4,078,224
Business continues to roll in from the fields
in which the big parent concern operates,
and prospects of further connections in the
Wentworth and Broken llill districts are so
bright that during the past year Elder's in-
duced the N.S.W. Parliament to pass a pri-
vate Act to facilitate its operations in the
Ma State. That necessitated the investment
of £20,000 in N. S. Wales securities, and the
whole of the new capital got in has gone in
that direction, the co. having acquired 5$
p.c. stock which will fall due in 1930. In
October last the £20,000 planked down with
the S. Aus. Government matured, and the co.
benefits by having the interest on that lot
iifted from 3J p.c. to p.c. The co. is
thus now in the comfortable position of
having an amount equal to its paid
capital earning 54 p.c. To help divs.
tliere is the interest from the investment of
the reserve fund of £12,000, besides the net
earnings from trustee operations. Last year
£14,345 of commissions were earned, while
management expenses, taxes, etc., took
£12,464, leaving a balance of £lBBl, or nearly
4| p.c. on paid capital.
The new share issue has considerably
strengthened Elder’s position from the view-
point of its clients, twelve months ago the
co. had £32,340 of funds and £BO,OOO .of
uncalled capital available as a protection
against losses by blundering or worse. The
latest accounts show £53,751 of funds and
£160,000 of capital callable. The funds are
almost wholly in Government securities and
cash. # *
Victoria Malay Rubber Plantation
Go., Ltd., office in Melbourne, vegetables at
Seremban, Eederated Malay States: —
Outlay Total De-
Divi- on Devel- velopment De-
SeDt . Profit. dends. opment. Account. ficit-
?9Xo!.
1911. . —• —. 1432 3,179 689
1912 , 1996 5,175 1003
1913 —, —■ 2195 7,370 1711
1914!! —' 3485 10,855 2011
Preliminary expenses (net) £1550 ) 405 451
transferred to development account j ’
1915. . £l6O 3262 1a,667 301
1916.. 1130 5 p.c. =£loso 3054 18,721 221
Reserves.
1917.. 2820 5 „ „ 1250 3239 21,960 1349
Loss.
1918 677 5169 27,3 29 672
1919;; 51 3423 30,552 621
Deficit.
1920.. 781 2581 33,133 160
Had the accounts been presented immedi-
ately after the financial year closed on
Sept. 30 that last line would, no doubt, have
looked very different. But seven months
passed before the Melbourne office com-
pleted its figuring, and meantime the rubber
market had collapsed, and it continues very
sick. In the 1919 term’s accounts the value
of the 59,1841 b. rubber on hand and in
transit was estimated on the basis of rubber
at 2s. 2d. Actually that was the average
price realised on all sales during the latest
financial yeat, though apparently sales were
not extensive. The term opened with a
carry-forward of 59,1841 b., and the 1920
crop gave 163,3311 b. —a total of 222,5151 b.
In the latest accounts rubber on hand and
in transit is given a value of £6786, on the
basis of rubber at Is, per lb., apparently
representing an unsold stock of 135,7241 b,
It thus appears that only 86,7911 b.
were disposed of. Had the price of rubber
been maintained at the average of last
year’s realisations, and had stocks been
taken on that basis, then the period could
have been credited with another £BOOO, and


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
bavin" trouble with your door-hell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Hinging Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets.
Melbourne.—Advt. [4
* » * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
•*■***
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe as a conduit for pure water,
in fact for any kind of liquid, from brine to dredge
refuse, and for irrigation purposes, “Pioneer” Wood
Pipe Iras been proved entirely satisfactory-. It is
cheap and easy to lay, either above or beneath the
ground surface, and its maintenance coStsf* practi-
cally nothing. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.. Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* * * «
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
• * * *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants : sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants :
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s k OerUing's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv k Co..
Ltd.. 265 George Street (hetween Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.—Advt.
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * #
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydi?°v.— Advt.
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting.
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 185 S.
*
A.W. TAPS and CHASERS
CftlNE AND HANDWORKING,
VARIOUS THREADS.
SLIDE AND HAND REST.
INTERNAL, EXTERNAL.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD., Manchester, England.
Sole Australian Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE
115 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
STOCKS CARRIED IN ALL STATES.
Try
0
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY,
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation.
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane. ./
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN' ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTER TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, Geney'! Manager.
a book profit of over 20 p.c. on the £30,000
of paid capital would have shown up. But
so badly rattled is the rubber market because
of surplus, stocks, that it is questionable
whether \ ictoria Malay will find a market
for its accumulations at the Is. per lb. at
which they have been valued. Some Eng-
lish cos. are valuing their stocks at as low
as 6d. . Though seven months had passed
since Victoria Malay’s accounts closed, its
directors are silent about sales effected since
that date. Concerning the current output they
merely remark that it “is not being fully
maintained, because it is found more
economical to tap those areas only in which
all the trees are producing.” The curtailed
tapping is not so much a matter of economy
as a desperate expedient. Mouths ago the
Rubber Planters’ Association unanimously
decided to curtail tappings 25 p.c., but
now, so wretched is the outlook, some of the
big, cheaply-run estates are contemplating
total suspension.
Very few of the world’s rubber cos. can pro-
duce at under present market prices; ail-in
costs of a few are around 9d. per lb., but the
majority are over the Is. mark. East year
\ ictoria Malay got its costs down nearly
Id., to Is. 8.2Jx1.; and, though the “rigid
economy” the directors talk of may effect
a further reduction, its chances of keeping
its current accounts square are desperate
—unless, of course, the unexpected happens
and the commodity market revives. Alcan-
time, Victoria Malay has other troubles: at
Sept. 30 laist it bad incurred liabilities
of £31,900 over and above what was owed to
it. Since the banks would not entertain an
overdraft, the co. had to squeeze an £11,600
loan from the Malayan Government, and
lately the directors decided to increase capi-
tal from £30,000 to £40,000 by issuing
10,000 £1 20 p.c. cumulative participating
prefs. The future, of course, depends en-
tirely on the commodity market. When old-
world financial troubles ease a recovery is
certain, but to what extent cannot be gauged.
The world must have rubber, but there are
now very many more producers—infants of
the boom of 10 years ago whose plantings
are maturing—and that will be a big factor
in future market prices. The prospects for
producers whose costs are high are jet black.
» * * *
The Australian Linen Cos., Ltd.-—This
effort to establish anew industry has this
paper’s blessings. A co. of 150,000 £1 shares,
of which 100,000 are offered to begin with,
is to be established, and at Ballarat it is pro-
posed to set-up (1) a flax-spinning mill;
(2) a linen-weaving factory; (3) bleaching
works. The concern is to be in the/hands of
men who know the industry: 11. 11. Hendry,
for many years part-proprietor and manager
of a Scotish mill, is to control, and A. C.
Downs, who was a member of the Common-
wealth Flax Industry Committee, is a first
director. Hendry estimates that the necessary
works —including full bleaching and weav-
ing plant and 2940 spindles—can be laid
down for £90,000, leaving £IO,OOO for work-
ing capital if the issue is fully subscribed.
Thus equipped, output is estimated at nearly
13-million pounds’ weight of yarn per annum,
giving 2,483,000-odd yards material of all
descriptions, worth at present market value
between 4s. and 6s. per yd. Hendry, how-
ever, figures on only Is. sd. per yd., giving a
gross return of £175,928. Sales of seed and
waste he calculates should bring in a further
£14,572, a total of £190,500. Total costs,
including 7000 tons straw at £2O per ton,
are set down at £139,500, leaving a net
£51,000 on the capital outlay of £IOO,OOO.
The promoters get no cash from the float,
but 10,000 fully-paids are to be given them
when a 74 p.c. div. has been distributed. It
is not proposed to purchase new plant, but,
instead, to take advantage of the depressed
condition of the industry in the Old World
and make an effort to acquire an up-to-date
Scottish mill. For a start the co. proposes
to restrict its work to ordinary grades, such
as canvas, towellings, etc., and Government
requirements alone exceed the output of a
mill of the size proposed.
* * * *
Wickham & Bullock Island Coal Cos.
(N.S.W.), from the time arrears of pref.
divs. were met and divs. on ordinaries re-
commenced :
, Dividends N
Prefs. Nominal
(121 Writ- Re-
Mar., Profit, p.c.). Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
1913. . £26,020 £2500 10 p.c. = £8,878 £6421 £3,959
1914.. 23,098 2500 121,, ~11,234 6499 6,824
1915.. 8,812 2500 Nil 6468 6,668
1916.. 18,793 2500 10 p.c. = 9,000 6389 7,572
1917.. 16,759 2500 10 ~ „ 9,000 5865 6,966
1918.. 15,649 2500 71 „ „ 6,750 5749 7,616
1919.. 13,478 2500 8 „ ~ 7,200 3778 7,616
1920.. 19,014 2500 9 „ „ 8,100 8213 7,817
Net To Re-
Profit. serves.
1921.. 21,217 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 9717 17,534
Wickham and Bullock Island now balances
only once each year, so in the introductory
table old half-yearly performances have been
grouped for purposes of comparison. But
note that profits are now given “net”: the
co., like most others in the business, no
longer discloses what provision it is making
for depreciation, in respect either of its
plant, railway, etc., or of its big, wasting
assets —the mines. That the management
is making ample provision to protect capital
against the shrinking value of its belongings
is pretty certain: the co. was caught once
before and has learnt its lesson. In fact,
its affairs got into such a pickle at one
time that there was a move on the part of
some of the pref. holders to force liquidation.
The old Carrington properties had been
worked out, and the management found that
to represent most of the capital only a hole
in the ground remained, for while large divs.
had been distributed nothing had been accu-
mulated to assure that capital would be
intact when the source of profits dried up
altogether. More by good luck than by good
management it acquired a cheap property
on the Maitland field, and while that was
being developed and the plant transferred
from the old pits the co. leased its trucks.
The table above goes back to the time when
the profits from this Neath colliery enabled
the concern to wipe off .11 years’ arrears pf
divs. on the expensive prefs. and allowed
the ordinaries to have a bite again.
Another view of the progress made over
nine years is afforded by this comparison of
balance-sheet figures :—•
1912. 1916. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets .. £23,785 £40,797 £67,334 £88,121
Liabilities (iik*.divs.) 21,530 8,815 13,355 15,256
£2,205 £31,982 £53,979 £72,805
Properties, railways
and plant £101,730 £85,590 £69,615 £62,685
The only capital got in over that period was
the £1752 balance of calls in 1012. But so
handsomely has the co. done that its net
liquid position has been improved by more
than £70,000 during the nine years. Even
that does not reveal the full extent of the
recovery. During the past five years two
new properties have been acquired and de-
veloped—the Cessnock and, more recently, the
Kalingo. So in addition to the remarkable
cash improvement the co. now has three
collieries instead of one, though the books set
down fixed assets as being worth nearly
£23,000 less than live years ago. The coal
trade has had a very prosperous 12 months,
and Wickham and Bullock Island has probably
had its best year since it shifted camp to the
Maitland field. The suspicion that the net
profit shown was after making substantial
allowances for depreciation is supported by
a further examination of the liquid position.
Twelve months ago, after payment of 1920’s
divs., there was a liquid surplus of £53,979;
disregarding the past year’s divs., the liquid
surplus was increased to £84,365, revealing a
cash-assets improvement of £30,386 after
financing (1) anv additions to plant, (2) the
cost of the dam at the Kalingo, and (8) fur-
ther development of that property. Wickham
and Bullock Island has thus been got into
a very comfortable position. After payment of
latest divs. no less than £72,865 of its paid
capital of £IIO,OOO was represented by the
surplus of liquid assets (almost wholly gilt-
edged investments) over and above liabilities.
Besides which are three mines and plant
thereon.
* * * «
Kalgurli (W.A.) has exhausted its ore
reserves, and, if shareholders are willing, the
Board will -wind-up right away. At one time
this mine was bracketed with the Lake View,
Golden Horseshoe and Brownhill as the
richest on the Kalgoorlie field. In the first
two levels there was a lot of good ore. but
below that the shoot converged into a mere
pipe, and down to where it cut out at 1800 ft.
from the surface it was rarely more than
100 ft. long. Unlike some of its neighbors,
the Kalgurli was well managed almost from
the start, and shareholders got all that it
was possible to give them.
* * * *
It would take very little to start another
boom in Kalgoorlie—this time over the pos-
sibilities of the Hannan’s Lake country.
Diamond drilling is in progress there, and
so far a couple of thousand acres, mostlv
under water in the winter, have been pegged,
and already deposits running into thousands
are being asked by shepherders. But no
work has been done on any of the areas.
* * * *
Grut’s report on Pernatty Central (W.A.)
practically endorses what was said about this
show on this page a few weeks ago. Like
practically all others that have been opened
up at Hampton Plains to date, the Pernatty
is, as Grut points out, not good enough for
a co. It is very doubtful, indeed, if the
Celebration or White Hope will prove to be
good enough.
* * * *
Golden Hope South left Hampton Plains
some months ago to try its luck at Marvel
Loch. It now reports that the option acquired
there has been extended and that prepara-
tions are being made to install a small mill,
though apparently there is so far very little
to crush. It’s the old way of landing in
bankruptcy.
* * * *
Last year Associated Northern Blocks
(W.A.) made a profit of £13.756. Including
£21,997 brought forward the P. and L.
account was in credit £35,753. A shilling
div. absorbed £17,500, and £3140 was written
off on account of development, depreciation,
etc., leaving £14,834 to carry forward. The
co.’s old mine at Kalgoorlie is still yielding a
little gold, but operations on its show at
Ora Banda are at a standstill. For years
the co.’s property in Mexico could not be
worked or even approached by anybody con-
nected with it, but conditions have become
more settled gnd a mill is in course of erec-
tion. The search for anew mine in Aus-
tralia has so far proved unsuccessful.
Warburton Ranges, in the back o’ beyond,
east of Laverton (W.A.), is about to be
prospected by a Westrolian party. Several
attempts to find payable gold there have been
made during the past 20 years, but all failed.
There are, however, a few optimists, led by
Carr Boyd and others, who still believe that
another Kalgoorlie will some day be found
in that quarter.
The verdict given by the Privy Council
the other day against the Moore Filter Cos.
of U.S.A. finally disposes of a long-winded
legal battle against the big gold-mining cos.
of the West. The Moore co. claimed heavy
damages from the Gt. Boulder, as nominal
defendant, for an alleged infringement of
patent rights of what is known as the
vacuum-filter.
# # * *
‘‘0.8.”: Minister for Mines Scaddau hav-
ing put the public wise (B. 21/4/’2l) about
the known oil prospects of the southern por-
tion of Westralia, “discoverers” and pro-
moters are now turning their attention to
the northern portion of the State. The
latest alleged find is in East Kimberley.
Samples said to have been obtained in the
locality have been found by the Mines De-
partment to contain traces of petroleum. A
Government geologist is being sent to sample
the find.
* # * ■#
The Queensland Minister for Mines stated
last week that an effort would be made at
the end of May to restart the lead furnaces
at Chillagoe as a result of development work
at the Mungana mines. This group includes
the Lady Jane, Griffiths and Girona, but as
the first two are copper the Girofla is evi-
dently to be drawn on. The workings in this
mine were recently de-watered to the 200 ft.
level, although the ore so far treated has all
come from above 120 ft. The ore fissure
below this varies up to 12ft. wide, and pros-
pects are rather promising, although the
values in the deeper levels have not yet been
systematically proved. Still, on past returns,
they will probably be on the low side, and
the Ministerial pronouncement may be taken
as a decision to partially relieve the acute
depression in mining in the North, rather
than as an effort to make operations pay
in the present low market.
* * * *
The closing of mines at Blair Athol and at
Mt. Morgan has induced a large influx of
miners to the sapphire fields around Anakie,
but buying - has eased off. The returns are
normal, however, but there was an accumu-
lation of three months’ stock to get rid of
during January and February. 'Water is
plentiful on the field at present, and some
of the new men have struck payable drift.
It is a pity the parti-colored and fancy colors
are not more in fashion, for they are beauti-
ful stones, ranging through the whole gamut
of shades of yellows and greens. There is,
of course, a fair amount of trafficking in these
stones, but Continental buyers are taking
only good blues.
Golden Hill, Ltd., Ravenswood (N.Q.),
has been going ahead lately with soriie little
encouragement. The latest work is a cross-
cut put in to the ore body at the shaft,
which proves it to be 26ft. thick there. The
first 13ft. was sampled for*an average of
54dwt. per ton. As the Oaks on another
northern field can make 3dwt. stuff pay it
ought to be possible to operate Golden Hill
profitably by open-cut mining, especially as
the outcrop is up to 50ft. wide in places. In
the sampling 2ft. of the 13ft. averaged
an ounce, so probably the higher values
run with the oxidised veins, in which case
discreet sorting might eliminate the more
hungry material with profit to the returns
from crushing. The co. deserves success,
and if it achieves it Ravenswood, which has
been dead for many years, may be resus-
citated. It was a bright little spot before
Charters Towers, its neighbor, was thought
of.
* * * *
Sardine North, the co. formed in Charters
Towers some months ago to look for the con-
tinuation of the Sardine lode at Kangaroo
Hills (N.Q ), has done a fair amount of work
with little to show for it. The drive from
the shaft to meet the tunnel is in a broken
formation carrying patches and veins of tin-
stone, with a small lens on the footwall, but
there is nothing in this to quicken the nulses
of the shareholders. There is still 50ft. to
go before the connection of the drives is
made, with prospects not looking too good.
A small paddock of hand-picked ore at the
surface goes about 10 p.c. tin, but this will
barely pay for incidental expenses.
A little work has been done by prospec-
tors on the more promising of the silver-
lead shows recently discovered at Cania, in
the Gladstone (Q.) hinterland, but several
small parcels sent away to southern works
for treatment have not paid. Values are
not expectations; they range from
fb to £7 a ton, but this leaves little margin
owing to heavy freight and treatment
charges. The field needs the Upper Burnett
railway badly; with railway communica-
tion and improved metal prices it would
be a busy spot. The indications are good,
but only a bonanza would pay under pre-
sent conditions.
* * * *
.The lit. Jackson mines, Georgetown dis-
trict (N.Q.), are to be reopened if the present
sampling of the ore offers any encourage-
ment. Parcels were recently forwarded
to the Bamford State battery to deter-
mine values and suitability for concentrating.
The ore is a mixed sulphide carrying galena,
zinc and copper, with gold and silver. Pros-
pects entirely depend on the values of
gold and silver, and the results should be
known shortly.
* ' * # #
Coorong Oil Cos. (nominal capital,
£150,000) is the latest Adelaide venture
which threatens to find a gusher in S. Aus/s
south-eastern corner. Boring is to be done
in five districts east from the Murray mouth.
Clarence Wood, of Sydney, gives his benedic-
tion and becomes "consulting geologist and
analyst” to the co, for two years. The
public is invited to subscribe for 50,000
shares: vendors and promoters collar 30,000
fully-paids.
(Continued on page 22.)


General to -Minister ojF Defence •
"See ‘ere • Them E>umS 1 ordered
lars’ week didnt turn up at the camp"
AdmiraL to Minister of the Navy *.
"A ! The cot-k must er come out o/ the w
/lagship or Something. Anyway she’s sunk*
U Volunteers /of
ttie Air Service,
Two paces , 11 ff
For-r*R' •"
That. -Military Police,
rnake &n arrest.
A- private to jaluta •
WHEN TOMMY RULES THE ROOST.
“The youngsters of to-day should realise that the defence of Australia is in their Davidson at the commemoration of the 15th annnersaey of
Captain Cook’s landing at Botany Bay.


m mm
A TWO=PURPOSE
OVERCOAT.
One that serves as a raincoat or an overcoat. Made
of Olive Green Waterproof Egyptian Cotton Gabar-
dine, with Raglan shoulders, button-to-neck front
with turn-over collar, vent at back, and full roomy
skirt. Belt around body with buckle at front, not
half-belt as illustration
Lined throughout with strong check material. Ex-
cellent for wear and warmth. Peapes’
competitive price
Peapes pay postage.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
95/=
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd.
S 3
m
J
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star. 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
SIS GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
‘‘Ex-Dig.”: When the Senate was discus-
sing the Army Act it was alleged by an
apologist that Field Punishment No. 1 had
never been used in the A.I.F. If it wasn’t
used, several attempts were certainly made to
apply it, and they got a lot of people trouble
before the fear of mutiny caused the mon-
strous punishment to be dropped. One
incident occurred with the 19th Battalion,
a scaffolding in this case being used instead
of the wheel of a gun or limber. To dis-
tribute the odium equally, the entire guard
was called upon to do the job, each one his
little bit. Refusing in a body, they were
disarmed and placed under arrest. No
further attempt was made to enforce the
penalty, but each man of the guard was ‘‘let
off lightly” with 90 days. That meant in
pay, excluding the 90s. from the deferred
pay and gratuity money, a tine of £22 105.,'-
or £4 ss. more than a married man, allowing
his wife a full 4s. per day allotment,/would
draw in a year. When one of these men—
a married man—tried, bv appealing to
Hughes, to have the punishment remitted,
officialdom responded : “As these men, acting
in concert, took an action that amounted
to mutiny, they can be regarded as having
been very leniently treated.” And that, is
just one thing that may happen as a result
of having in the regulations a power which
“has never been used and is never likely to
be used in an Australian force.”
“Dix”: “Gregor” (B. 28/4/’2l) says the
present Melbourne medical course is “notori-
ously inadequate.” Well, it has turned put
some very excellent doctors. Such names as
Embley and Colin MacKenzie need no com-
ment. In England after the Armistice many
Melbourne graduates remained doing post-
graduate work. On one occasion three sat
for the Royal College Surgeons’ exam.
(Bond.). All obtained their F.R.C.S.
On another occasion five sat in Edinburgh.
Three got their F.R.C.S. (Ediu.). After
one or two Melbourne graduates had
obtained residentships in English hospitals,
headquarters was besieged with requests
for more, and the demand exceeded the
supply. Writing in a recent Speculum
(the Melbourne medical students’ paper),
under the heading, “In an English Hospi-
tal,” a graduate says: “The surgeons were
all F.R.C.S. Candidly, their surgery whs
disappointing, remembering that, though a
provincial hospital, it catered for a popula-
tion quite that of Melbourne. One felt,
therefore, an added appreciation of our own
Melbourne Hospital”—which in the main is
staffed with Melbourne graduates.
* * * »
“Sixenate”: A man whose wife intro-
duced her first family by instalments inter-
viewed Justice James at his usual business
address in Sydney the other day. The poor chap
thought he was marrying a widow with one
child, a daughter, but a month after the wed-
ding they went visiting some friends, and
there he met a boy whom his wife said was
her son. Eighteen months later another
boy came to the house, and proclaimed that
he also was her son; and then still another
of her progeny appeared. The husband de-
veloped a feeling of weird expectancy, and
the footfall of the butcher’s boy o’ morn-
ings was beginning to give him the jumps,
when he found that his wife was as numer-
ous in her loves as in her children. Where-
fore the divorce.
* * * *
“Certificated Shark”: Mrs. Farr’s case
should draw attention to the N.S.W. Lunacy
Act, which was passed in 1898, not as an
up-to-date statute embodying all the latest
knowledge re the mentally afflicted, but
merely “to consolidate the Law respecting
the Insane.” The moss of Bedlam is on it.
Thus the way of getting a person locked up,
provided it is worth while to lock him or
her up, is the familiar one described in the
shockers of a century ago. First you
lay an information with two doctors against
your patient. They come to see him or her.
They are forbidden to go in together, for the
examinations must be separate and un-
biassed. But they may discuss the matter
together first; they may approach the house
together, and one may wait outside on the
step while the other is in. or he may look
through the window or the keyhole. When
No. 1 comes out he may tell his views to
No. 2 before No. 2 goes in, or he may wait
till No. 2 comes out, and they may go away
together. The consolidated law specifies
that one doctor shall not be “father, brother,
son, partner or assistant” to another. But
one may be mother, wife, daughter, sister,
father-in-law, husband, uncle or aunt to the
other. The lady doctor wasn’t considered
in 1898. It isn’t even suggested that the
lunatic or prospective lunatic should know
that the visitors are coming, so as to be
represented by counsel in the shape of a
solicitor, doctor, friend, illative or bulldog.
It doesn’t appear to be required that they
should explain their business. In fact, they
may seemingly depart leaving the impression
that one is a book-eanvasser and the other a
philanthropist. When the certificate is fixed
up the patient must be arrested within a
certain time, or the document lapses. After
capture he may be released provided the per-
son who sooled the doctors on to him is
willing to call them off. Apart from that
he has two chances under clause 99. One
is that a Judge may become suspicious, though
why a Judge should become suspicious any
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING.
"How about calling our engagement off for
a while, Jack?”
“What on earth for?”
“Oh, just so’s we can have a bit o' fun
instead of saving up to get married."
more than a diver or a produce-dealer isn’t
explained. The other is that some philan-
thropist, crank, busybody or sincere Chris-
tain may hear of the case, and take it up,
and be called a fool for his pains.
“Mirza”: Bulletin stories of absent-
minded celebrities remind me of a famous Mel-
bourne surgeon who was a hopeless wool-
gatherer. During one of his operations the
anaesthetist looked up and made a remark
that startled the whole theatre. “Oh, dear,
dear —how very sad !” said the surgeon ab-
stractedly, and went on with his work. In
about half an hour the great man stopped
for a moment and said to the amesthetist,
“I’ve nearly finished; how’s the patient?’’
“Oh, dead, sir—as I told you half an hour
ago,” was the reply.
» * * •
“Wallaby”: Re the article on the “Dar-
win Dossers” (B. 28/4/’2l). The same
gentlemen show similar speed and expertness
in loading and unloading the steamer that
calls monthly. On the last trip of the
Mataram she arrived at Darwin at 11 a.m.
with 20 tons of cargo over-carried on the up
trip. Sixteen of Darwin’s expert lumpers
commenced to unload, and at o p.m. portion
of the 20 tons was still in the steamer. As
the captain had to get away by 6 o’clock to
clear the dangerous passage of the Vernons,
he stopped unloading, and also left on the
wharf 30 tons of outgoing cargo for Sydney
—the only export visible for the month—
and it must remain there until the arrival of
another steamer next month. And for this
yeoman service these men are paid os. per
hour. In southern ports 10 tons per hour
per hatch is considered fair work ; in Dar-
win it averages about two tons per hour per
hatch. But all good Australians will con-
sider this nothing alongside the trick played
on those gallant aviators Parer and Mc-
Intosh on their arrival at Darwin. The
aerodrome is 2i miles from the town, and
camped near where the aeroplane tied
up was one Shirley Miles, then unemployed.
He undertook to watch the ‘’plane for the
few days the pair were in Darwin for £5.
But A.W.U. Secretary Nelson took a hand.
He heard of the arrangement and insisted
on Miles charging double-time after 5 o’clock
at night and for Sundays, etc. The ulti-
mate result was that Parer and Mclntosh
bad to pay £45 for the caretaking of their
“ ’bus,” Miles, of course, presumably work-
ing 24 hours out of every 24. In the face of
this story, the £5OO for the two banyan-trees
pales into insignificance.
* * * *
“S.E.N.”: In F ranee a relieving party
used to be met by an n.c.o. from the front
lines to guide them to their new position.
One night the officer
in charge of the relief
was warned by the
guide in a hoarse but
impressive whisper to
“Come this way.” The
O.C, whispered in
turn to his sergeant,
and the sergeant to
the men. A little
later the guide again,
in the same voice,
adjured the O.C. to
“Be careful ’ere —
mind the duekboards,
they’re a bit rotten !”
The O.C. faithfully
whispered the warning
to the sergeant, and
the latter to the rank
and file. This sotto
voce business went on
for quite a while, and
worked every man of
the relief into a state
of high tension, till
each found himself
taking the utmost pre-
caution against noise
an d visibility. A t
last, upon the guide
whispering even more
huskily than ever,
“Round the traverse
to the left,” the O.C.
breathed back, “How
far to go?” “About a
mile,” whispered the
guide. “Then what in
the name of God,”
roared the officer, “are
you whispering
about?” “I lost me
voice through a cold,” came the reply.
* * * *
“Deco”: YY r e had reached the poultry stage
at our first dinner on the Narkunda when a
dear little thing perusing the menu came to
the item “Roast Capon.” Turning to a
military chap on her right she inquired,
“What is capon?” Nonplussed for the
moment he hesitated and then, with the
strategy of war-time experience, replied,
“Perhaps the steward will tell you.” Miss
Sydney, anxious for knowledge, did so and
got an answer that fully met the case. “A
capon, Miss, is an old bird that never laid
an egg.”
* * * *
“Insider”: “Rio” (B. 5/5/'2l) says he
was surprised to learn that the executive
of the Red Cross Society (N.S.YV.) lately
gave £lO,OOO to the Rush Nursing Fund.
I should be very surprised to learn it, too.
The fact is this money was given out of
the surplus funds of the British Red Cross
Society. All that the Red Cross here does
is to co-operate with the Bush Nursing
THE NEWLY-WED BRAND.
“I’ve just been reading about a concern that’s
advertising a shirt without buttons"
“Why, darling, I have been wearing them
ever since ice were married.”
Society to the extent of contributing to main-
tain bush nurses in soldiers’ settlements
where no local hospitals or other nursing
facilities exist; and “Rio” will, I'm sure,
agree that that is as proper Red Cross work
as the maintenance of hospitals in the
suburbs. By the way, hospital beds are still
available for suitable cases.
LOVERS’ LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You drugged yourself with wedded life, but did the
drugging quell
The memories of that sweet land where once wo
used to dwell?
You walk the ways of rectitude—the ways with
angles square
And finger-posts, not needed now when life’s a staid
affair!
You walk those ways with head held high, disdain-
ful of disdain ;
But don’t you sometimes long to walk the ways
we walked again?
Yes, Creed and Custom hem you in, as Creed and
Custom do ;
But don’t you sometimes think the walls are worth
while breaking through?
Convention doles your destiny, domestic are your
days;
But do you ever recollect our crazy-quilted maze—
The maze in which no clock could count, no notice
shriek “Beware!”
Or if they did at times, dear one, how little did
we cai e!
You keep the credos orthodox, the programmes sanc-
tified
By dull Respectability that will not be denied;
But dees your memory go back—as mine forever
wends—
To that old love-land where we burnt the candle
at both ends?
Your days are now machine-cut days, each tagged
with date and name;
But do you recollect when we just spent them as
they came?
Do you recall their rainbow-tints—could such tints
ever fade?—
The thousand tints that on our lives With incense-
fragrance played?
HE KNEW MORE THAN
SHAKSPEARE.
COP: “Came, come, sir, pull yourself together
your wife's calling you."
CONVIVIAL ONE: “Wha’sh she ca-calling me
Tom or Thomas?”
COP : “Thomas, sir."
CONVIVIAL ONE: “Tha'sh enough—hic—I'm
not going home.”
Your nights are drab prosaic nights—the nights of
ruJe-and rote;
But do you sometimes recollect a river, and a boat,
ith stars that showered their silver down through
willows drooping low ?
A million years away, it seems—a million years ago!
You go to church (of course you do), your prayer-
book opened wide;
But do you mird the Sundays when we drifted on
the tide,
Or plucked the blooms amongst the hills—the blos-
soms color-schemed
To suit the solitudes through which we drifted,
dared and dreamed?
You deeply drink the drugging draught, the drug
of wedded bliss;
But do you ever sparkle it with one thought such
as this:
The primrose paths which twain we trod as sweet-
hearts. hand in hand;
Does Memory re-tread them, dear —the lanes of
Lovers’ Land?
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


No. 158.—A1l Diamonds, £l3/10/-
No. 144. All dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131.
Exquisite design,
Diamond set,
£l7/10/-
No. 157. —Single Diamond, £7/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
i
m
Stewart Dawson &(qow )Ltd.
£fwo Sydneyr Ssfablisments :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR KING ST.,
STRAND CORNER 4-12 GEORGE ST..^
iWm
bm
No. 151—3 Diamonds. £l7/10/-
No. 140.—Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 148.—A1l
Diamonds,
£l6/10/-
No. 156.—Single Diamond. WlO/-
“Sol M.”: George Augustus Rocake
(aged 58 and so past his skittish youth)
has been fined 40s. in Sydney for “offensive
conduct” because he had a habit of making
up as a presentable and very inoffensive-
looking woman and going about in female
society. It wasn’t alleged that he made
any profit out of it, so possibly he just felt
that way. His portrait in the papers sug-
gests the middle-aged Queen Elizabeth. A
legend has it that she was a man. Her
mother died by axe-bite when Lizzie was aged
and as the old man married again next
day the infant was baby-farmed. One story
runs this way. Her father came storming
in after dark on his one and only visit to
the farm just after she had died, and as he
was a dangerous man to cross, the few who
know of the circumstances put the only
available substitute, a boy infant, into the
bed. He passed muster in the candle-light,
and Henry raged home again, unsuspicious.
The fraud was kept up because the person
who lent the new baby threatened things if
the royalty was taken out of the family
and for other reasons. This would account
for the gentleman being a virgin queen all
his days. Anyway, he (or she) kept her
clothes on in her last illness, and died fully
dressed on the floor. Once addressing her
troops at Tilbury she said she had “the
stomach of a man,” but pulled herself or
himself—both of them, in fact —up before
the rest of the show was given away.
“Audio”: Smugg was full fledged and I
had still a year’s articles to serve. “Come
into my office,” said Smugg, “you’ll have
plenty of time to read law there.” He spoke
the truth. Then one day, after I’d had a
month’s solitary
confinement,
a knock sounded
on my outer office
door and a sweet
and timid young
thing entere d.
“He’ll be back in
fi v e minutes,” I
lied, and proceeded
t o conversation
which I directed
into neutral chan-
nels. My learned
friend and princi-
pal arrived 20
minutes later.
“W ell, no w,” I
heard him say
through the half-
open door, “let me
have particulars of
your troubl e.”
“Well, I—er—just
wan t” she
stammered. “Don’t
be afraid,” broke
in Smugg. Then
she brought it out
in one breath. “I
want five shillings on Red Cardinal, she
said. Smugg was speechless when I con-
ducted our visitor to the bookmaker she was
looking for on the next floor.
” * * *
“Copabella”: You’ve often heard, when
blood is hot: “Here, hold my hat —my coat —
my pipe—my watch !” but a Digger working
among the 40 or 50 returned men upon the
Ocean-road in South Vic. goes one better. He
lost an eye in France, but still is one of
the most willing fighters in the camp. “Hold
me blanky eye,” he will yell, “and I’ll show
the” etc. etc.! Next thing the nearest by-
stander finds thrust into his hand the rather
gruesome trifle the Dig. has swept with a
practised motion from his eye-socket, and
the fight is on. #
“Kismet”: In the report of Red Cross
activities I read that £2OOO has been pre-
sented to the Queen Mary’s Hostel for Eng-
lish nurses in London —this in return for
hospitality extended to Australian nurses
during the war. lam one of the many Aus-
tralian nurses who cannot remember any
hospitality given or offered. Had the Red
Cross authorities the right to hand away
£2OOO whilst there are soldiers and soldiers
widows and orphans here in Australia in
want? And several homes for soldiers them-
selves have lately been shut down fi'om
motives of economy ! In the particular part
A QUESTION OF VALUES.
THE BORE ( discussing another mam): “Oh, he’s all right. Why, I’d trust him with
my life.”
THE SUFFERER: “ M’yes—but would you trust him with anything really valuable?”?”
of Australia where I was stationed when
Peace was celebrated there were only two
soldiers’ widows in the community, and both
had little children. The Red Cross com-
mittee (local) was asked to grant the money
remaining in hand to those two poor women,
both of whom needed it. The reply came
that they had promised the money—some
hundreds of pounds—to dear Lady Helen for
a hostel she was interested in. The hostel,
we found in course of time, was the one in
London now spoken of. And rumor in the
shape of a returned sister said our hundreds
went in black-satin cushions and steel en-
A POINT IN PRECEDENCE.
MR. MARMADUKE-JONES : “Society nowadays
seems to he made up of such a lot of
people we don’t know.”
MRS. MARMADUKE-JONES: “Oh, don’t put it
that way, my dear; say, rather, that
society nowadays is made up of such a
lot of people who don’t know us.”
gravings. The orphans of the soldiers whose
bodies lie in France are still rather hungry
and still very shabby. But I suppose some-
body will get a knighthood.
“Rio” on a strange visitor: —
The writer, who, as The Bulletin knows, is no
bigot or sectarian, can vouch for this.
One day late last year a well-bred young Irishman
of the Esmonde type arrived at a small Red Cross
Home in the country. He had no luggage, was pale
and amemic, and his teeth needed a dentist badly ;
which facts harmonised with his later statements
that he had got out of an English prison by hunger-
striking and had fled because a warrant was out for
his arrest. His claim on the Red Cross w r as that he
was a B.E.F. officer —an Irish Guardsman, in fact—
with three years’ war service. To his surprised A. 1.1.
fellow-patients he unburdened himself.
He was a Sinn Feiner and an officer of the I.R.A.
He had been through Sandhurst and was nominated
to the Irish Guards so that he could be officer of the
guard at Buckingham Palace should Sinn Fein
require it; his sponsors were British generals who
were also secretly Irish Republicans. Getting leave
from France he had fought in the 1916 rebellion on
the Irish side and shot Tommies himself. When he
returned to France it had really been as a spy.
There was a branch of the I.R.A. in Australia to
which he was attached; he could have 100 men
mustered anywhere in a few hours.
These and many other allegations were mostly
made in argument with his fellow patients, and
were repeated many times. Australians, the Guards-
man had been told, were aU Republicans, and, find-
ing that his fellow-patients were not, he seemed to
think he had encountered a party of bigoted excep-
tions. The Diggers at first thought the Irishman’s
utterances so much hot-air; but as the B.E.F. officer
day after day gloated aloud over the murders of
British officers and police, naturally quarrels and
arguments arose, to the detriment of everybody’s
health, and the former happy tone of the place was
utterly destroyed.
Whatever one may think of his utterances the
man was a young Irishman of birth and education,
newly arrived and a.i ex-B.E.F. officer. Mr. Esmonde
was also an ex-E E.F. officer. Taking these facts
into consideration with the I.R.A. orders seized in
Melbourne on St. Patrick’s Day—well, what can you
make of it all ?
* * * *
“Biltong”: “H.H.” (B. 5/5/’2l) asks
“who goes to the hospital in a humorous
condition?” Dozens. Here’s one. A
mass of blood-stained bandages lurched up to
a Westralian casualty-room one night and
leaned against the doorpost. The young doc.
seemed to detect in it a likeness to a well-
known sporting scribe. “Good God, Herb.,”
he gasned, “what happened?” Then from out
the bandages came a beery gurgle: “He—
called —me —the —missing—link !”
“Z 651”: There is nothing of the crafty
Machiavel about David Morrisson, a Mel-
bourne jeweller. Given the glad eye by a
strange girl in his shop, he agreed not only
to take her out in his car at night, but to
alight from it at the unfrequented part of
Brighton beach which she suggested. Some-
times in such circumstances a so-called hus-
band turns up; sometimes the young woman
screams and an alleged brother bursts
through the undergrowth: sometimes parley
is dispensed with, and the affluent philan-
derer is outed and “gone through” while
unconscious or while simulating that state
in the cause of safety. Morrisson experi-
enced the third method. W.C.T.U. Conven-
tions and the like wax sympathetic over the
wiles of the licentious monster in the motor-
car and the danger he represents to the inno-
cent flapper, but the police know better.
Innocent flappers rarely respond to the
advances of strange motorists. On the other
hand, there is a type that makes a comfort-
able living out of the practice. It is safe
in proportion as men are reluctant to own
up publicly to having been made fools of
in this way, and more especially when they
are married. Where a would-be Don Juan
takes a strange girl for a drive by night and
she is insistent about going to a particular
spot, the counsel of the Force is that he
should regard her steadfastly and announce
his intention of steering in the opposite direc-
tion. If she. then looks as though she had
lost a bet it usually means she does not
really love her new admirer, and that an
old one is in for several profitless hours ot
vigil in the scrub.
“C. Coral” : The beacon at Bramble Cay,
right up at Australia’s topmost point in
Torres Strait, has been down for many
months, and is still lying flat. There have
been any number of wrecks in that locality ;
and no doubt when another ship comes to
grief the authorities will wake up and erect
something of a permanent character in con-
crete and steel. Island boys diving round
the Cay, in search of marine produce and
also of such grist as may come to the mill in
the way of copper fittings, etc., from wrecked
vessels, report that a couple of old hulls
below the surface are now several fathoms
higher than they were, and that “ground
underneath he come up long way no . all
same like before.” There are also indica-
tions of alterations elsewhere in. the straits,
reefs and sandbanks being well above low
water which before were not. visible. New
Guinea and Northern Australia were at one
time linked up, and possibly this is a gradual
reversion to former conditions.
* * * *
“J.R.M.”: At a recent distribution of
food tickets to the men formerly employed
in the Mount Morgan mine, the acting
P.M. said to one applicant: “Here, you
can’t get a .food ticket —you own a house.
“Yes,” came the reply, “I own a house all
right; but I ain’t a blanky white-ant.” He
got the ticket. #
“R.R.L.” : My twins were very interested
in the recent eclipse of the moon, and were
stationed in the backyard to see it, but owing
to the clouded sky got a very imperfect view.
They were disappointed, but on turning
away the optimist remarked hopefully: “Oh,
well, perhaps they’ll have it again.”
* * * *
“The Barber”: The other morning a
stranger blew into the shop (it’s in Queens-
land) —tall, well-set-up chap with squatter
writ all over him. Going up to the cus-
tomer who was about to get into the chair,
he said : “Look here, old man, do you mind
giving me your turn ? lam going to be mar-
ried this morning and forgot all about it
until I saw the little bride on her way to
the church. There’ll be a hell of a row if
I’m late.” As he settled in the chair he
pulled out a roll of notes and part of
a jeweller’s ring-card, and, handing the card
and some of the money to the man who had
made way for him, said : “You look a good
sort; get me a diamond and platinum wed-
ding-ring, will you? That’s the size on the
card. Better take a car.” Then another
stranger charged in, looking a bit annoyed.
“I say, Jim,” he said, “What the deuce are you
doing? You ought to be at the church by this.”
Before he had given an answer two
lads from the hotel down the street arrived
with the latest thing in wedding-clothes and
started to dress him. By the time I had
THE CANDID CRITIC .
THE PAINTER: “I tell you I’ve got to paint
fearfully hard fust to live these times.”
AND HIS FRIEND: “Well, I wouldn’t do it,
old man — it’s not worth it.”
finished with him and the ring had arrived,
all the bridegroom had to do was to put on
his coat. He tossed the boys a pound each,
and he and his friend hopped into a car and
disappeared. He was a bit forgetful. He
forgot to pay me.
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
If we are of such stuff as dreams are made
Life goes for little, though ’its dusks and dawns
Brighten to day or into darkness fade;
For dreams are often prawns.
I think perhaps some men are made of prawns,
The ghosts of prawns that blush a scarlet wish
In countenances red as stormy dawns,
While some are made of fish.
Cold, slimy fish with pale, unwinking eyes :
Gaze through a countenance devoid of hope.
Perhaps fish have their dreams; but I surmise
Some men are made of soap.
Slippery and soft and very white and dull,
With very solid stuff beneath the hat—
Reason goes hardly wheh they fill a skull
With alkali and fat.
If dreams are of such stuff', fill full the pipe,
The old clay pipe, and blow the bubbles high ;
Better have bubble-dreams than dreams of tripe
Or fish or prawn or pie.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner. James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair, John
Mair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng:.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
.^y-yv.y^y
z
a
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Svdney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 Hij?h St.. Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little £r Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS.—Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES.—Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGINES. —Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR.—S team-driven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGlNE.—Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL,
sfl GMtfy
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] K. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Last w r eek W. M. Hughes put up another
record—that of being the only Prime Min-
ister in the history of the Empire who
has been sued in a petty sessions court for
wages by his gardener. The amount at
issue was 30 bob, and plaintiff told the
Kew (Vic.) magistrate that he had asked
the statesman for it “about 15 times.” Judg-
ment was given for the full sum claimed,
with £2 12s. costs. Shortly before B. R.
Wise went to England Hughes got into
similar trouble with an employee on his
Gore Hill (Sydney) place. He hadn’t a
leg to stand on, either in law or on the
merits, and the K.C. implored him to pay
up. He declined furiously, and of course
went down with a thud in a District Court,
amidst the derision of every Loyalist in N.
S. Wales. Hughes is a Loyalist himself
now, but he retains his old abhorrence of
paying the gardener.
J. G. Latham, who is the president of the
Vic. branch of the League of Nations Union,
used to lecture on
philosophy and
logic at the Mel-
bourne ’V arsity,
und in his spare
time play lacrosse
with the Tic. team.
H e attended the
Peace Conference
a t Versailles a s
naval staff-officer to
Jocook, and came
aw a y impressed
with the earnest-
ness of those who
fell in behind the
League movement.
The athletic young
lawyer’s optimism •
makes him believe
that half a million
Australians will
ihelp him push the
Idea along.
H. I. COHEN,
K.C., the new
M.L.C. (Vic.).
H. I. Cohen, a newly-fledged K.C., had an
•easy victory for Melbourne Province seat in
the Dreary House. In a 31 per cent, poll he
beat Pearson, the Labor man, by 2274 votes.
He came into the field late, after Swinburne
had had an option on the seat for several
days. As he is the only practising barrister
in the Chambah he should have a first-rate
■chance of becoming Attorney-General or
Solicitor-General -when Lawson’s team is
tipped out —that is, if the crowd coming in
will suit his book. Manifold and Drysdale
Brown, who have not practised, and Arthur
Robinson, the Attorney-General, who is a
solicitor, are the other three lawyers who
have places on the red plush benches. The
“father” of the House (Sternberg) and the
newest recruit are the only two Chosen.
Joe Darling, the old-time skipper of Aus-
tralian Nl’s, who is now T a squatter in the
Tas. Midlands, has just been elected to the
Speck’s Upper House, as successor to the
late C. E. Davies. Darling beat his two
opponents very easily—one of them just
managed to get the exact minimum of votes
required to save his deposit. Although his
politics are of the steady and cautious
variety, Darling’s denunciations of Labor
agitators are as vigorous as his batting used
to be 20 years ago. II is elder brother, John,
was formerly leader of the Conservative
party in S. Aus.; and their father was for
many years in that State’s Leg. Council.
Uncommonly industrious for an ex-poli-
tician is P. J. Turvey, who used to be Labor
member for Swan (W.A.). In addition to
running a Perth
house agency and
auctioneering busi-
ness, Tu rv e y
teaches in th e
technical schools
and writes bro-
chures on commer-
cial training, two
of which have been
adopted a s te x t-
boo'ks in three
States—Westralia,
Victoria an d S.
Aus. Turve.v re-
cently visited the
Ma State, in the
hope that To m
Mutch’s Education
Department might
give a mere Aus-
tralian compiler of
school manuals a
chance. M utch
was favorable
enoug h b ut
referred the author
to Peter Board, and
Peter scandal-
ised at the thought
of it —said “No.”
CAPTAIN NIGEL
SOMERSET,
D.S.O., M.C., son
of Lord Raglan .
and Aide to
Governor Weigall,
of S. Aus.
rebuke to “Pompey” Elliott for
attacking Lieut.-Col. Margolin in the Senate
(he was “an illiterate Polish Jew,’ - among
other things) was as dignified as it was
direct. The General must have felt that
Elliott’s backdown when Drake-Brockman
admonished him was incomplete, or he would
not have intervened. The .general effect has
been that Elliott has discounted the good
impression he 'was making in the House at
a time when that good impression Was most
needed ; and Margolin—now C.O. of the 38th
Bat. of the Royal Fusiliers —has been given
a better place in public estimation than he
ever held before.
Just-dead Joseph Nicholson was one of a
group of parsons who quarter of a century
and more ago made the Methodist Conference
the strongest body in S. Aus. outside Parlia-
ment, and Parliament mostly recorded its
decisions. It was the power which made
the middle State give the rest a lead with
women’s franchise, and which ruled out the
bookmaker. But the ruling out of the book-
maker meant the introduction of the totalisa-
tor; and when racing flourished along with
the machine Joe Nicholson, now transferred
to Tic., became the tote’s bitterest opponent
and McShortodds’ best friend. For the rest,
giving up regular “circuit” work, for which
he was never well fitted, he was the paid
organiser of the Bible-in-State-schools fac-
tion, and wrote a million letters on the sub-
ject. He was tireless, but not magnetic—a
hard, implacable, irrepressible little man who
loved controversy as well at 76 as at 40, and
made the mistake of his life when he first
put on a parson’s coat.
“Toreador”: Passed out at Wellington
East (River Murray, S.A.), on April 22,
Louisa, Queen of The Lakes blacks, at the
age of 110. It is generally claimed that
she negotiated 118 summers; but the writer,
after exhaustive inquiries, is unable to
debit Louisa with more than five-score years
and ten. Two daughters are still living,
one 81 and the other 72. The going west
of the old abo. means the passing of the best
authority on a fierce scrap that took place
between natives from Kingston and a tribe
from up-river as far as Swan Reach. The
scene of the conflict was on the banks of
the Murray, a mile and a quarter from
where Tailem Bend now stands. At this
place the different tribes used to meet each
year and exchange their women folk, for
matrimonial purposes, as inter-marrying in
a tribe was strictly forbidden. The fight was
a deadly one, and very few survived. The
dead were buried in a sandhill close by, and
complete skeletons may still be dug out. Ap-
parently the bodies were buried in a sitting
position.
The late C. E. Davies, M.L.C., managing
director of the Hobart Mercury, who went
west in February, left £50,000. A widow and
two young children take the major portion,
and there are a few small gifts to employees
who have been with the firm for more than
20 years. An odd one or two of the staff
are as old as “C.E.” was, and have never
worked anywhere else.
Adelaide Uni. has offered the new Profes-
sorship of English Literature to Charles
Jury, son of the founder. He published a
volume of good verse before he left St.
Peter’s College; since then he has been
badly wounded in France and taken a bril-
liant first-class in literature at Oxford.
Father Walter Curran, recently shepherd-
ing in the Trangie (N.S.W.) district, and just
dead, arrived in Australia in 1881 and was
the .first priest to celebrate mass in Broken
Hill. He was attached to the Western dio-
cese, which at that time stretched almost
from Bathurst to the Barrier and included
Wilcannia and Wentworth.
Gone on his last voyage, from Port Adel-
aide, Captain Alexander Inglis, the veteran
harbor-master. He came from Scotland to
Sydney in the early ’sixties, sailing the old
paddle-steamer Prince Alfred; then he traded
with MX. and the west coast of America
for some years, and finally settled at Port
Adelaide in command of the Governor Mus-
grave, the Marine Board’s steamer. Astron-
omy was his chief recreation, and he became
the absolute local authority on the subject
of tides.
The obloquy which the author of “Arrah-
na-Pogue” cast on the name of Feeney has
to some extent been wiped away by the dis-
regard of self shown by another bearer of it
—a shooting-gallery man in Melbourne, who
died from a pearifle-bullet wound in the back.
He refused to say anything about the occur-
rence because he didn’t like dragging anybody
into trouble when no harm was meant, and
because also he was afraid the Eastern
Market shooting galleries might get a bad
name. While Andy Feeney was fixing the
targets lie, contrary to custom, left a pea-
rifle loaded on the firing board. A kiddie
came along, took French leave, fired, and the
mischief was done. The urchin scampered,
and Feeney’s widow is weeping for her 40-
year-old husband. A good-natured chap like
that deserved to live longer.
A strong committee, headed by Planner
Harwell, Chief Justice Murray, Mayor Moul-
den and editors Bonython and Sowden,
With Fred Johns as hon. sec., has been formed
in Adelaide to get a Flinders statue for the
city. The present idea is to buy a replica
of the Colton statue now being done for the
Mitchell Library in Sydney. Flinders, of
course, never dreamed of Adelaide, but Mount
Lofty, just behind the city, was seen and
named by him from Kangaroo Island. A
trig.-survev obelisk on the summit of the
Mount, a prominent landmark all over the
city, plains and gulf, has already been eon-
verted into a Flinders memorial, and there
is another on the Bluff at Encounter Bay,
near the Murray mouth, where his ship
met that of the French explorer Baudiu.
Price Weir, the quiet Adelaide civil ser-
vant and Y.M.C.A. man who commanded
the 10th at Gallipoli, has been given the com-
plimentary rank of brigadier-general on going
on the retired list. He started as a private
in 1885. Since the war he has been Public
Service Commissioner for South Aus.
Vic. Government has made John MeWhae,
honorary Minister, a keeper of the great
seals—those at the Aquarium. Officially
he is called an Exhibition trustee, but the
Trust has little to do except look after the
Aquarium. MeWhae, who is one of the in-
fluential members of the Cabinet, and, like
Baillieu, in the Watt Government, will not
take a salaried portfolio, will help to block
the new sports-ground project.
“Orwell”: We ran into some, true cosmo-
politans in Egypt. I made the acquaint-
ance of Nicholas in Alexandria. He was in
an English warehouse and spoke the lan-
guage with a Cockney accent. I suspected
him of Greek nationality, but he seemed
equally at home in any tongue or company.
We were lunching one day when a coal-black
negro approached and made barbaric sounds
in my friend’s ear. The manner of the
stranger was most obsequious, and he had
evidently come to prepare the way for a
more important person of the same color
who arrived towards the end of the meal.
As the conference promised to be lengthy
I excused myself. The next day I asked
Nicholas about his visitors. “Oh, they’re
from Abyssinia,” he said. “I was a sort
of Prime Minister there for three years.”
"Pat Lander”: Still going strong, Sydney
Davis, Australia’s oldest working commercial
traveller. Passing north recently I met him
in Port Moresby (Papua), and coming south
1 bumped him again in Samarai, heading
for Thursday Island, en route to Burketown.
Normanton, Croydon and Darwin. He is
76 years young, and has been over 50 years
on the track, most of
the time on his pre-
sent run—the Gulf
Country, Northern
Territory and Ne w
Guinea. In the long
ago, for a wager of
£5O, he played a bil-
liard-match at Rock-
hampton, the object
being not the score but
to see who could last
the longer. After 81
hours’ play his oppo-
uent collapsed, and
Syd was declared the
winner. His opponent
challenged him again
for a similar stake,
and at the second
meeting Davis won in
59 hours. To-day he
looks younger and is
more active than most
men of 00 —another
example of what the
A w f u 1 Northern
Climate does to a
youngster.
ALEXANDER
WATSON, the
elocutionist.
“Agr”: Re appropriate names, what about
William Shakespeare, of North Fitzroy
(Vie.), seller of tripe and other forms of
dead meat? Or is this blasphemy?
“Karee”: Appropriate names? The Bris-
bane Commonwealth Bank accountant is
called Ledger. Also, here’s rn.v old A.I.F.
cobber’s address: lienry Drinkwater Bar,
Brandy Creek, Dryunder, Queensland. By
the way, one of our two star artists in
France answered to the suggestive family
name of Bastard, though he pronounced it
“Berstahrd,” don’t you know.
Jenkins, who used to be sec. of the Closer
Settlement Board (Vic.) till he became a
sexagenarian, is now running the Tallyho
Boys’ training farm, just beyond Burwood,
for the Methodies. As he was a chief scout
or something of the kind in his departmental
days, the not-too-wiliing juvenile farmers
tolerate him better than they would the
average parson. He has persuaded one man
to give him £lOOO for a school building, and
the Education Department will provide the
pedagogue ; and cockies whom he helped to
establish when he was on the Board have
been pelting him with spuds and onions for
his 70 charges.
From the Federal Gallery :—•
A recent suggestion that Willie Watt contemplated
retiring trom politics has been exploded by his
regular attendance in Parliament since Hughes de-
parted. He has, moreover, broken his silence on
one or two occasions, and last week delivered an hour
and a half's discourse on the wool tanglV. that was
heard by nearly a full Cabinet and an unusual
muster of private members. It was one of Watt’s
best-phrased efforts, and it disposed early of the idea
that he was in hearty accord with the Government.
For one thing, he hammered the cherished illusion
O! Jowett find his kind that the pastoralist is the
backbone of the continent. He also exposed some
ancient history regarding Hughes’s interference with
a proposed wool scheme that promised the growers
13)d. a lb. over a period extending to June, 1925.
Watt described the autocrat’s intervention as a
“blunder,” and as the word went forth the line of
heads along the Treasury benches suddenly stuck out
and looked at the speaker with incredulous surprise.
No doubt, some personal feeling vinegared the allu-
sions to his rival, but on the whole he was scrupu-
lously fair and criticised the wool arrangement from
a non-party view. It was obvious from the “Hear,
hears” that lie made many good points. In fact,
the uneasy interjections from two or three Ministers
showed that the whole speech bristled like a porcu-
pine.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE ISLAND OF THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old convict town of Port Arthur in Tasmania
is beside a littile bay. A mile across the waters is
Dead Island, where, in an area of about an acre.
2000 bodies are buried. Not only were convicts
interred there, but all who died in the settlement.
Heavy with memories of ancient pains
The old town drowses through the summer day ;
The English trees are green along the lanes,
The wind scarce stirs across the little bay.
The ivy climbs dark walls of crumbling ;stone,
Dark prison walls, thick-set and iron barred,
And darker cells, where tortured men would moan
The dirge of broken souls and manhood maned.
What matter now ? In slumber long and deep
On yonder quiet isle they softly sleep.
Within these old-world houses, low and long.
Once dwelt the lords of tragic circumstance,
The masters of the whip and bitter thong,
The cruel despots of a dark romance ;
And women, too who practised softer ways,
Amid these rooms would watch their children's
game,
Or walk among the trees on summer days
Dreaming of that far land from which they came ;
But now, forgotten, by the waters deep,
Still as the island’s quietness they sleep.
So life in mingled ways moves down to death.
And one is lord, and ope is cowering slave ;
So bright-eyed children play with panting breath
Where dull-eyed agony asks but a grave:
And hand in hand dark anguish walks with pride,
Bed hatred lives where summer wakes to bless—
Yet still in olden bays by waters wide
Death’s islands keep for all a. quietness.
Laughter and tears, folly and sorrow deep
Come there forgetting all, and softly sleep.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.
SWEET ARE THE HUGHESES OF PERVERSITY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“And then Mr. Hughes interjected: ‘What have
I to thank the newspapers for?’ ”
Now Mr. Hughes is “going Home” —
At least, he’s on the brink of it;
And William wouldn’t tell a lie:
He simply couldn’t think of it!
He asks his fellow members “What
Have I to thank the papers for?”
He quite forgets the splendid ads.
He cuts so many capers for.
He hates the press, he slates the press,
He damns and he abuses it;
But everyone knows all the time
How cleverly he Hugheses it!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


m
hhhh
.
. :
■ :
■
**w:
m
.
■ : . ■
y-' yy:
m
iJI
\jt I
• 4
m
% >■
V
HHMiIMP |pH| 3
:
V /< % (B&
HriHMMMiHHi
,
■ ■
;■- -?: ■ ':■ ■ : ■
. .' ; ■■ ■
-
V^ : *
' : '->'V.
HHi
H
■
1
11
HI
I
n
Mi
M
.Jf
■
! • V
■4, 1 "
■.;,vr- ;
ft
ißKfll
11 bf J
■
fc^Si
Hi
111PW8B
in
. ■ ■■,,
1
m®
■ -/'T*
Hyni
*
H,
?J ?' jyfe*
' Ji
.: mi
,
K
i
HH
w
: - i
■ l '’;A : v ; :
™*S .
te
./V' y:
■■
m
H
■ gy
©
.
:
-. (M
Pk ?£- imm
■
Hi ■
A. 1
, ' ''■< >r
■ :
■
• «. '' ;
.
- - ''* < '
-.y-• -■ '
«r -
■ .
. *
* ' :
mm
I;-':-”
-
3 fr:,
'km
:
**
66
mm
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
obtainable
OF ALL
TOBACCONISTS.
THE PIPE THAT HAS
NO FADS OR FANCIES
BUT IS PERFECTLY MADE
IN EVERY DETAIL,


Australian-made
Implements and Engines.
m
SUNDIESEL SIX.
Starts from cold on Kerosene. No Lamp.
No Magneto. No Plug. Unrivalled for Low
Fuel Consumption in Chaffcutting, Pump-
ing, Sawing, etc. Water Cooled.
Stationary or Portable.
Ask for Illustrated Catalogues (free and post free) of
SUNSHINE ENGINES and FARM IMPLEMENTS.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS,
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
MELBOURNE
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
Canon W. J. Dunstan (C. of E.), whose
service ended at Mudgee (N.S.W.) recently,
was a Hawkesbury native, and one of four
sons who entered the church. The Dunstans
settled at Wilberforce a century ago and the
name is still prominent there.
Orwell House, Darlinghurst (N.S.W.),
which changed hands the other day, has
some historic interest. Its ground -was
originally an 11-acre grant made in 1831
to Justice Stephen, first of the long line of
horse-haired Stephens in N. S. Wales, and
first Puisne Judge after the Charter of Jus-
tice. He built the house, and it was occu-
pied at various times by Mrs. Grose, James
Raymond (then P.M.G.), Colonel H. C.
Wilson (P.M.) and Justice Milford. In the
’forties G. R. Griffiths and F. I’arbury lived
there, and later William Manning got it.
The original house still stands.
“Moe” : A kindly old soul was Sam Pethe-
bridge, who from 1915 until his death in
1918 was Administrator of German New
Guinea. He had no love for military pomp,
and conducted the business of the Govern-
ment clad principally in pyjama trousers
and a singlet; and almost the only duty of
his A.D.C. was to take care that he did
not run out of cigarettes, Sam’s favorite
brand being a nauseating Japanese smoke.
Once Bill, the garrison bootmaker in Rabaul,
considered lie had a grievance, and demanded
to be paraded before the Governor. He
then requested that his complaint, being of
a personal nature, should be heard in pri-
vate, whereupon the secretaries, A.D.C.’s and
things were instructed to withdraw. Half
an hour later, when there was no sign of
Bill emerging from the the vice-regal sanc-
tum, an A.D.C. timidly opened the door and
looked in. He was just in time to hear Bill
reach the climax of one of the bluest of
smoke-room stories, which he was telling the
Governor as he sat well back in the spare
chair, with one of Sam’s cigarettes in his
mouth. His Ex.’s explanation, offered later,
was that he took a liking to Bill as soon as
he saw him, and, having dealt with his griev-
ance, invited him to stay and have a yarn.
“Bill O’C.”: Oswald Pryor’s illustrated
jest (B. 14/4/’2l) about the candidate and
the lady interjector who talked of “figgers”
loses no point in S.A. from the fact that
the candidate is obviously bluff old ex-Pre-
mier John Verran. John, who was bounced
off the official Labor platform by the fire-
brands for supporting conscription, has just
given that party’s candidates a close run
for their Wallaroo stronghold without the
help of any party nomination or money
backing. The picture recalls an out-back
shivoo attended by Verran when Premier,
whereat the local grass-seed humor took the
form of a competition for the benefit of the
local hospital: “Guess the weight of the
Premier.” John good-naturedly scaled his
two hundredweight or more of brawn to let
them identify the winner.
CENSUS-TAKING.
COLLECTOR: “Are you quite sure you've put
everything in?"
BROWN: “ Letmme see — wait a moment. I
rather think I've dean left out that there
bailiff."
“Roseau”: Fifty years at sea haven’t
dimmed the early-Victorian courtesy of Capt.
Reid, of the Torres Strait pilot service. He
is the best-read skipper on the coast. Like
most successful sailors who know the hard-
ships of life “on deck,” he saw that none
of his sons trod the navigating bridge. One
tried banana-planting in a large way oppo-
site Banfield’s tropic isle until a devastating
cyclone arrived; a second, Harry, left a
promising ’Varsity career to perish on Gal-
lipoli ; the third, Charles, was engineer-in-
chief in H.M.A.S. Mourilyan during the
war—the only reserve engineer-officer to be
given a “charge” job in the R. A. Navy.
Frank Green, the Speck’s Assembly Clerk-
Assistant, was the successful applicant among
the 60-odd who offered themselves for the job
of Clerk of Papers in the House of Reps. In
making the move he was looking ahead. In
the Federal House there are not many active
lives between him and £lOOO p.a., whereas
in Tas., with only one higher place in the
Assembly’s gift, promotion was too far off
to be seen, even with the eye of prophecy.
“S. Antonio”: I know of only one name
shorter than those quoted by “Longshanks”
(B. 21/4/’2l), and that is E, the cognomen
of a Japanese. The word means bay or sea.
There is a family—l think they are Koreans
—in Melbourne called Ng. The name is a
puzzle to all who meet it. It is pronounced
Enjee. “On” seems to be quite a common
appellation in LiT Bourke. One man I know
is called Hang On—probably because in a
previous incarnation, about 15 centuries back,
he was a conductor on a Melbourne cable-
car.
Veteran J. M. Chanter, now Chairman of
Committees in the Reps., has been both
Nationalist and Laborite, and there is no
reason why he shouldn’t join the Farmers if
he is spared for another election. Apart
from the fact that he represents a large
rural constituency, he has always had a
warm regard for the Cockies, founded on
his experience as a young farmer at Roches-
ter. Chanter wrung a hard living from the
soil in those days, but with all his strenu-
ous work he found time to organise the first
Farmers’ Union Id Victoria.
“C.R.8.” sheds black-and-white tears: —
The strange growth in the regularity of political
faces is making the cartoonist’s job an unhappy one.
Years ago black-and-whiters had men like Reid,
Turner and Lyne to libel and make delirious with a
few flicks of the pen, but, however base the carica-
turist’s intention, nowadays he hasn’t one really good
subject to work upon. Practically there are only
Hughes and Ryan who offer anything to the artist,
and even they can’t be made ridiculous without
exercising such license in the obliteration of their
beauty that there is danger of losing the likeness
altogether. It has further to be remembered that
Hughes cannot last for ever, and, failing the ability
of Ryan to require the defamation of the artist's
pencil, the outlook for the cartoonist, is blue. Gaz-
ing round the House of Reps, the lack of squints, ,
twisted noses and thick ears fills one with despair.
There is a fair range of tummies, but their deplor- i
able likeness to one another leaves the artist no :
chance for an original libel. As to the faces now
demanding publicity, the position is appalling. Take <
the Federal Cabinet and there is nothing caricatur-
able unless it is the Punch-like visage of Wise or
Poynton’s sumptuous air of dignity. In the Country •
party a man with a horribly unprofitable counten- ’
ance from any angle has been replaced by a young i
and smiling doctor whose uniform featuri« have
been kept trim and presentable by the practice of
a perfect bedside expression. Altogether the case
is so hopeless for the artist that he will be compelled
to beg the Creator to keep Billy in power until
some leader with a dial like a tram accident gets
into the House.
"Bill Bowyang” locates some old warriors :
When the war finished several A.I.F. officers
reckoned Palestine a fine place to settle down in.
David Fulton, well-known in Adelaide before he
went to argue the point with At*lul, is now farming
in a big way at Ramleh. Like the good Aussie he
is he recently imported £4OOO worth of agricul-
tural machinery from Vic. The chief crops are
oranges and Australian wheat, and Bedouins work
the land, with ex-Diggers as overseers. Major
Jarman, late of A.I.F. Headquarters at Cairo, is a
partner in the venture. Major Goldenstedt, well-
known in Sydney before
the war, is now political
officer at Beersheba, and
Captain Stubbs is on the
Land Registry at the same
place. Captain Phillips
is. Traffic Superintendent at
Ludd, and Major Love is
fanning at Haifa: Cap-
tain Masson is in the
Agricultural Department,
and has charge of the
Haifa area. A letter from
Dave Fulton the other day
said that Palestine is
settling down under the
new administration, but
very grudgingly.
ANGAS PARSONS ,
the new Judge in
S. Aus.
“Billstown’’: Forty-one years ago a little
crowd of sea-bathing enthusiasts met on the
Back Beach at Williamstown (Vic.) and
solemnly agreed to an every-morning swim.
Two of them, Albert Hughes and Walter
Patterson, sole survivors of the original
band, still take the before-breakfast dip,
and have done so regularly since the start,
excepting during the nippiest winter months,
when they indulge bi-weekly.
Concerning the V.C. in civil life:—
Westralia prides itself on the fact that it col-
lected 10 of the 66 Victoria Crosses issued to the
A.1.F., more than double its proportion on a popu-
lation basis. Only two of the winners were townies —
Pope, an insurance canvasser who sleeps at Lagni-
court, and Sadlier, a commercial traveller. But
not all the countrymen have returned to their old
callings. McCarthy is helping to run a “costume
comedy company” in Perth. Murray is on the land
in Tasmania. Throssell is assisting the Mitchell
Government to administer its soldier-settlement
policy. Carroll is on the pay sheet of the Kurra-
wang Firewood Co. Woods is an embryo orchardist;
Oxford toils about the Golden Mile, and O'Mara—
poor chap—is still in the doctor’s hands. The
tenth man, Gaby, who fell at Villers-Bretonneux,
was a farmer. A list of all the Digger V.C.’s,
with the occupations they have been following since
the hosts came home, would be interesting.
THE TIRELESS THRENODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Within the city’s busy heart,
Where’er I go, at night or morn,
Men stop me, and at once impart
In accents hushed a tale forlorn.
It differs in its details, but
The theme’s the same, a chronic sob —
My ears all day I try to shut
To “ ’Owsitforacouplabob ?”
If I explain, with pained surprise,
Things are not as they were of old,
They view me with beer-moistened eyes
That indicate suspicion cold.
1 have to battle for a crust,
Yet when my lack of cash I vow,
They say in accents of distrust:
“ Youvegotadeeneranyow.’ ’
One seized me by my coat’s lapel,
And backed me up against a wall.
Sincerely wishing him in—well,
I gave him tuppence, half‘my all.
I did not dally there for choice,
And as I tore myself away
He shouted in a ribald voice:
“Gorblimeaintyergotatray ?”
N.S.W.
H.. C. HALLORAN.


"rtUUhe Comforts.
mMM&Q
mill!
mm
5*
«t 4
ffIUDL
u
I
,mt)
/
insszzii^
Lk
r WTVr^JJ^
=7
>7
II
M
i vn,
I
li v
9Z0!llllll||Kt
3
FF
«X<
LLLI
[xyfJi y'/A\V///
«X
o
1
«*
£ .
2WK
•vs
■
Billllllllllllll
yi
>k
3
<5
Q)
3
§>
r>
Q)
*3
Just as your favorite armchair offers you
comfort and rest in its caressing depths
so it is with the Lincoln Car.
The upholstery, the springing, the roomy
seating accommodation and the vibration-
free movement combine to give Lincoln
passengers 4 all the comforts of home
on its four wheels.
You would not deny yourself any little
luxury that would add to your personal
comfort at home —then why be content
with anything less in a car?
CHOOSE A LINCOLN.
READ THESE TESTIMONIALS FROM SATISFIED USERS AND BE CONVINCED
OF ITS SUPERIORITY AND CLAIM AS AUSTRALIA’S PERFECT CAR, AT
£725
Dear Sirs, —
We are writing to express our satisfaction of the
“Lincoln” Motor Car, which we purchased from your
firm last year, having completed over 10,000 miles,
which comprised trips to Melbourne and Queensland
and return, also trips to the South Coast, Jenolan
Caves and around the Nelligen Mountains, we are
in a position to speak of the worth of the “Lincoln.”
We have had no expense or any engine trouble what-
ever, and might state that we are still running the
machine on the first set of tyres purchased with the
car, which fact alone speaks for itself. The first
“Lincoln” Car which we purchased from you proved
so satisfactory that we did not hesitate to purchase
a second one, which has proved as satisfactory, if
not more so, than the first one. To anyone desiring
to purchase a motor-car, we shall be only too pleased
to give a personal recommendation, also a trial spin
in our car, so as to convince them that the first,
foremost and only car on the market is the “Lincoln.”
Wishing your'Firm every,/success,
Yours faithfully,
ELLSMORE LIMITED,
Per D. H. ELLSMORE,
Managing Director.
JJCdI Oil )
It will interest you to know that after 18 months
U9e our “Lincoln” Car is still giving every satisfac-
tion. I have now covered over 6000 miles and have
not had the slightest engine or other mechanical
trouble. I have recently completed a 2300 miles’
trip to Melbourne and back via Gippsland and the
Princes’ Highway, taking in Mount Kosciusko, and
during the whole trip did not have to look at the
engine, and beyond a few punctures and the fracture
of two leaves of a spring due to bad roads, had no
trouble at all. I also wish to state that considering
the power of the car, etc., its petrol consumption is
verv satisfactory.
Wishing the “Lincoln” every future success,
I am vours faithfully,
FRfiD. P. J. GRAY,
President Pharmacy Board of N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —
Having now had the “Lincoln” Oar purchased
from you from you nearly twelve month, am writing
my opinioji of same for you to use in any way
you may think fit. So far I have nothing but
praise to say about the car, she has proved reliable
in every way, and economical for a car of her
horsepower, also I find her most accessible, and
as wearproof as a car can be. Having had experience
with other cars I appreciate this advantage. Another
feature that offers itself is the exceptional mileage
obtained from the tyres—five to seven thousand being
quite the order of the day, due, no doubt, to the
springing. I would like to mention that I had a
trip some months ago in one of these cars purchased
to go to Bombala. We went by the South Coast
route. On arrival at Bega we were informed that the
mountain road to Cathcart was out of the question
owing to heavy rains, other cars having that day
turned back. Nevertheless we put on chains and
carried on; result, got through without mishap.
The going was certainly bad. I would also like to
mention that we averaged twenty-five miles an hour
as far as Bega. which is -fairly consistent running.
In conclusion, I would like to say that I have no
hesitation in recommending the “Lincoln” Car to
intending purchasers of a car of this class.
Yours faithfully,
GEO. H. SANSELLE,
Beanbah, 235 Macquarie Street.
1/vdl oil f
I am pleased to say that the “Lincoln” Car that T
obtained from vou over twelve months ago is still
as good as the day I drove it away from your factory.
The engine is running as good to-day as at
the start, and is pulling just as well. I
have been over all sorts of roads, both in the wet
and dry, and have got through everything without
anv trouble. What other car of any make or price
will do more? Anybody wanting a good, sweet-run-
ning engine, and encouraging local industry, cannot
do better than invest in a “Lincoln” Car.
Wishing you every success,
Yours faithfully,
b. P.
WHEREAT.
Dear Sir, —
Yes, I might say my “Lincoln” is going splen-
didly. I have not had a bit of trouble and I have
done just on 6000 miles, and I have not had a punc-
ture or blow-out. The same tyres are on the car
as when I purchased, and they look good for another
2900 miles. It shows they are light on tyres. I
have given the car several petrol tests, and I am
petting about 20 miles to the galon. The above are
facts. ANTHONY KIDMAN,
1 Yarco Buildings, North Terrace, Adelaide.
JJk;cLi ijil )
I am satisfied that the “Lincoln” Six stands alone.
The engine runs as well as the day I purchased
the car—averages 20 miles to the gallon—is light on
tvres, about 8000 miles. W. P. CONRAD,
Union Motor Garage,
40 King Street, Newtown.
Dear Mr. Innes, —
In answer to your letter of the 7tli inst. re mv
opinion of the car, I am quite satisfied that it is
quite equal to, if not better than, the majority of
American cars selling in the city to-day £lOO above
the cost of the “Lincoln.” It is extraordinary how-
light the car is on tyres and petrol. An average of
20.5 miles to the gallon was obtained during a 600-
mile tour, and an average of 6700 miles on the
first set of ordinary-size Dunlops. Can say no more
than I am .very well pleased.
Yours faithfuly,
R. A. PREVOST.
Clarmore Private Hospital,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —•
In reply to your letter dated 7th March, the “Lin-
coln” has given me every satisfaction, and in my
opinion is one of the best cars on the market for
the money. It is certainly very light -on tyres, as I
have done 10,000 miles on a set of Dunlop Tyres,
carrying one spare, and expect to get two or three
thousand* more out of the same set.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. HENDERSON, LIMITED.
(R. C. Hexbersox, Managing Director).
ALL INQUIRIES:—
LINCOLN MOTOR CAR CO., Offices and Works: George Street, Redfern, Sydney.
Victorian Agents: HICKS MOTORS, City Garage, Armstrong St., Melbourne.
19
SYDNEY
*
Lincoln
Australia-,


DqdgeErothers
MOTOR. CAR
Dodge Brothers’ own wide business
experience is reflected in the
thorough and practical design and
construction of their car.
It is so efficient, so strikingly free
from need of repair, and so econo-
mical to run, that it constitutes a
real asset to business men.
)
r-\
m
b
y<3s
-v ■ ■
V-'
\v ' U
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., JUd..,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland)
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor CoLtd.,
Perth.
lotor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
SHEFFIELD.
EDGAR ALLEN LTD.
MAKER
EDGAR ALLEN C 9 LT.9
SHEFFIELD.
CRUSHING and GRINDING
Machinery for every purpose
WE will be pleased to receive inquiries for Crushing and Grinding equipment made by-
Edgar Allen & Co., Ltd., for the reduction of any class of material, both wet or
dry. We cannot enumerate the all-embracing list of material which can be
profitably reduced or pulverised by Edgar Allen machines, but if you are interested in the
preparation of any material for any purpose our advice and experience are at your
service. Ask us for prices and particulars of
Tube and Ball Mills, Combination Mills, Rotary Kilns, Ore and Stone Crushers, Coke
and Coal Crushing Rolls, Cubing Rolls, Truck Tipplers, Pulverisers, Disintegrating and
Dressing Machines, Air Separators, Elevators, Screens, and every requirement for every
need of industry.
A Special Book, telling all about Edgar Allen Equipment, will be forwarded to you
on request. Write for it to-day.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney, and Fitzroy Buildings, 125 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Darling
Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth.
The Bend of the Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OL T of the driving rain of the midnight
his voice quavered on the verandah:
“Anybody about?” I was the only
body about, so I went out to him. A wisp
of a man, soaked and shining with rain ; an
Irish face, nut-brown and wistful under a
shapeless shining hat; no overcoat; no swag;
canvas shoes on his feet—canvas shoes!
“Is there some place I could lie to-night
out o the wet, please? An outhouse or
somethin’. It’s rained four days an’ nights.”
I asked him to wait a moment, and went
in and explained myself to the bodies who
were not about. I got my instructions, a
couple of blankets and some overcoats and
came again to the waiting shadow. The din-
ing-room is at the far end of the verandah,
and fortunately the fire was still just in. I
made tea and got some cold meat and bread
and butter, the shadow staring silently and
listlessly at nothing while I was doing it—
I had to speak twice before he got silently
out of his chair and sat at the table. I
piled up the fire, pulled the sofa to it and
left him. At the door I said, “(food night”;
he looked up from his plate, but made no
reply.
In the morning against the background of
the ceaseless rain I found him waiting for
me on the verandah again, sodden and dis-
consolate.
"If there was somethin’ I c’d do so’s to
stay a bit-get a bit o’ wood in or some-
thin’?’’ llis blue eyes, not quite so list-
less to-day, looked a question at me and
turned to the grey storm behind. I had
already my instructions in this event, so
between us we cleared out a little room
whose stored apples had been eaten, took
the sofa into it and the overcoats, etc., and
made it at least more habitable than the
bush. lie was stunned and dazed from the
four days’ and nights’ buffeting—apt to fall
into a trance in the middle of a little job
or of one of his sparse replies to instruc-
tions ; only a very little of him was alive.
1 put an old pair of trousers and a discarded
coat on the sofa, and told him to change his
clothes. He said, “Yes” absent-mindedly, and
looked up with the first gleam I had seen
in his eyes.
“<'d I get. a broom an’ give it a bit of a
sweep?” He looked possessively round the
bare room. I got him the broom, and for
hours I seemed to hear swishing. He
shuffled past my window with the dustpan
at last and silence fell. At tea I was told
that he had put in the afternoon sweeping
the laundry to a degree of spotlessness
hitherto unknown. He spoke to no onp* —
just kept a firm hold of his broom and cleaned
up those parts of the place he could get at
without disturbing anyone. When I took
him his tea and the paper, the broom was
standing in a corner of his immaculate
room, a token of his efficient citizenship, so
to speak.
From his own room and the laundry he
graduated to the verandah, the hall, and
finally the children’s room, which he had to
pass on the way to his. These he kept for
tlie time he was here so rigidly clean and
tidy that I think they can never get tumbled
again. For the two more days of rain his
broom was swishing at sunrise, keeping on
steadily t ill breakfast-time, when it was
stood up in the corner of his room, into
which he had imported a bush-table and an
old verandah-chair he had found in the shed
lie had transformed. He still kept his silence
coming and going .about the work he founc
to do without reference to anybody and with
out comment; his passion for tidiness ant
order was the only sign of life in him.
saw him stop his shuffle once to grin at
fat baby who.inhabits the dining-room wher
the weather is bad. And once passing the
Wood-shed I heard him filing an edge on the
axe and whistling softly to himself—softly
and tentatively, as if he were trying himself
out.
In the third night the rain ceased. His
sweeping done, he shouldered the axe and
went, out for wood. That done he set to
work on the front-garden beds and paths,
trimming and weeding them to a geometrical
exactness and neatness. For a week he took
the garden and the yard, the sheds, the
laundry and the verandahs under his wing,
and srentl.v and easily he coaxed them into
a trim, spotless precision from which he
gave them no chance to slip. Sometimes
from my window I saw him stand back to
admire his squared and weeded beds, and
sometimes his eyes would travel up the road
and stare for a moment at the bend by the
gully; but, as a rule, his axe was going in
the yard or his back was bent over the bed
or the path he was working on.
On the last day I took him liis dinner
and put it on the bush-table. As I was going
he looked up.
“I’ll be gettin’ on to-day,” he said.
I was surprised and sorry: he had become
part of the place. T told him that the job
was here still if he cared to keep it.
“Thank vou,” he said, looking round the
room, his folded rugs and blankets on the
sofa, his candlestick on the bracket he had
made, his dustless, stainless floor; “thank-
you, but I’ll he gettin’ on, I think. I’ll cut
enough wood this afternoon to get ahead of
the kitchen, an’ then I’ll get on.”
I said no more. I remembered the few
consecutive sentences in which he had told
me that he had nothing and nobody, no rela-
tions, no ties: that he was “on the road—
just gettin’ on.” So I said no more.
Late in the afternoon I heard his step on
the verandah and went out to him and down
to the gate. He looked at his beds and
paths as we walked down. At the opened
gate he paused in silence, looking up the
road. A battlemented sunset was piling up.
red and fiery, behind the bend : ramparts of
pink clouds shone north and south to the
edge of the falling dusk; over all the sky
a glow spread to the horizons, feathery anil
hazy and limitless. Under it the ribbon of
the road stretched to the bend, where the
tawny light dipped behind the black trees.
All the world was round the bend. He took
his staring eyes from the sunset’s heart at
last and turned to me, holding out his hand.
“Well, I’ll faje gettin’ on.” he said.
HILARY LOFTING.


Learn To Draw!
(1) Anticipation
o
O
(2) Singing.
(3) Pain.
o
(4) Simplicity
A
(5) Impudence
O I-
o
SIMPLE, RAPID, EFFICIENT!
THE WESTON METHOD OF DRAWING.
Wouldn't you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of the people and scenes that surround you every day?
Wouldn't you like to properly develop your natural talent for black-and-white wor ? , illustration
Wouldn't you be pleased and proud to know that the money jingling in your pocket was paym
accepted, by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT. YOU CAN, TOO!
5
*
A
vs
(2) Singing.
A “progress” sketch of example No. 2,
showing how a simple design can he
built upon.
The simple Weston Postal Course of Drawing will enable you
to rapidly realise your ambition, without any tedious drudgery.
It shows you clearly and concisely all the principles of
drawing, in the simplest and most effective manner.
IT TEACHES YOU THOROUGHLY
because it has been prepared thoroughly by the man who is
recognised all over Australasia to-day as the leading poster
artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist
and each student has the helpful stimulus of
MR. WESTON’S PERSONAL CRITICISM.
By taking up this enjoyable study you open up a vista of
wide possibilities for making money in the field of commercial
art Those who can draw successfully need never lack an
eager market for their designs and many students are now
finding a pleasant and profitable result of their studies.
It’s simply a matter of correct training in how to place the
lines to gain the desired effect.
os
r
(6) Importance.
A “progress” sketch of example No. «,
showing the effect of a few alterations
to the simple design.
THE FASCINATION OF DRAWING
is very real. Apart from commercial considerations you can provide endless ple-re and amusement for 7°- f»ends
by bright, snappy sketches, and there is no more delightful souvenir of the happy hours ot vacation y
ThTweston Course takes you on by easy stages from the rudiments of art to the point where you can with confidence
make finished pictures. Remember the simple fact—
“lF YOU CAN WRITE YOU CAN DRAW!”
A Course that will Interest.
A Course that will help you.
A Course that cuts out Drudgery.
A Course that teaches thoroughly.
A Course of personal tuition.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
This Pupil’s Letter Proves
that what the Course has
done for others it can do for you:—
“I am forwarding my studies on
lesson 10. You will be pleased to
know that 1 am getting plenty of
work to do, and I am sure I shall
work up quite a good connection.
Several advertising agents have
given me orders, and quite a
number of advts. of mine are being
shown on the moving-picture
screens.”
WE TEACH TO DRAW—
NOT TO COPY.
Every lesson is personally criticised
and corrected by Mr. Harry J.
Weston.
Send three stamps to cover postage
and we will forward Mr. Weston s
enjoyable and interesting booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen,” which
tells all about the course, gives
examples of the lessons, and speci-
mens of students work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL of DRAWING,
50 Union House, SYDNEY.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."


I
- ' '
m
3 - S
irmrn
m
ORIGINAL
BALATA
DICKS
BRITISH
BELTING
The Manufacturer has so many uses for his money these
days that he is buying with his eyes wide open. Looking
for value—and value in belting means both Quality and
Stamina. J
And so the Plant-owner comes finally to us for DTCK’S
ORIGINAL BALATA BELTING-with its quahty attested
by do years of proven efficiency as the world’s premier and
Original Balata Belt.
Dick’s Original Balata Belting is not made to meet one
specific need, but to meet the combined needs of power-
transmission , to take the punishment of gruelling main drives
without flinching; to withstand all conditions of dust acid
fumes, excessive cold, dampness and moisture. Operating under
such conditions, we do not know of one Dick Belt that is not
giving faithful service, transmitting its full quota of power,
and reducing power costs. p ’
Before buying,, consult one of our practical engineers. who are
2fV e Ti, in a , nd year . ou * in solving power-transmission
pioblems. The only cost involved is your goodwill.
WRITE for FREE COPY of the BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE 8 COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
York and Wynyard 581-3 Little Collins 30 Currie Street.
Streets. Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
MULT/GRAPff
Saves
Two forms, exactly similar —but a 50% differ-
ence in cost. The Multigraph saves from 25% to 75%
on printing bills.
And there are other savings just as big.
A big saving of time by
getting what you want in hours,
instead of days. A big saving of sales
effort and expense. Timely Multigraph
letters, bulletins, announcements, sales
helps of different kinds make it easier
for your sales force to hold old customers
and get new business —new profits.
A big saving of advertising
expense—with better results.
Talk direct to your prospective customer
with the Multigraph. A big saving of op-
portunity—with the Multigraph you can
act immediately— every time
Save time by getting full information
—without cost.
Stott & Underwood
70 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
ii
1
Persiewan, Wright and Cos Itd
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere':’
1910 Reserves. Reserves.
1911 " °P’ c - = £2 oOO £1032 £4.159
1912 ‘ ' =’=oi r” ” 3000 2562 6.721
1913 " HU r” ” 3000 2594 9,315
1914 ” q’"?o «” ” 3000 4689 14,004
1915 ” ?” » 4000 5340 19,344
1916 " f’soi 7” ” fr°° 2010 21,354
1917 " 3 099 li” ” 3 59 9 304 21 658
1918 " !’«?! » 27 50 272 21,930
1919 ” lo’o~3 in ” ” 99°° 2114 24,044
1919 .. 10,9,3 10 „ 0000 5973 30,017
199 0 199,1 'Tn* 6 ' 1 Up '• 7008 37,020
19-0 .. 12,261 10 p.c. = 5000 7261 44 281
1921 if.-f/o de A 0 f taxatio i* •• 2500 41,781
19-1 .. 14,049 1-24 p.c. = 7000 7049 48,830
jwfnm th * yea f , thera was au issue of
iSr-i, f capital , aad a spring-cleaning,
and Sydney cartage plants
. rxi, aa i d tllese aud the stables, etc.,
brought £10(4 more than book value. This
amount and a trifle added to the insurance
fund are included with the profit shown
above. Probably £2330 set aside for taxa-
also to be added; anyway, the
. 0 . taut was se t aside a year ago is still
in existence. Provision has also been made
tor depreciation in addition to the sums actu-
ally spent on repairs and renewals. The
increased capital has allowed of some changes
that make the balance-sheet look better:—
T• v 1908 - 1914. 1920. 1921.
Assets— 6S ' ’ £34,8a4 £ 40,184 £79,212 £40,044
Plant & property .. 37,297 49,683 47,193 44,990
Book debts .. 40,985 41,413 90.50$ 82.927
Merchandise .. 10,356 17,828 32,883 35 939
Cash, etc. _ .. 3,045 3,106 5,834 6,267
co. is in business as a back-country
carrier, and incidentally handles back-coun-
try stores and does a commission-agency
business in Melbourne and Sydney. That
explains the size of the book-debts: pro-
bably they are a good deal less in March,
when the wheat and wool men have handled
their cheques. Of course, there are risks
in it; but the firm that has a country pro-
ducer for a debtor loses less sleep than if
he were a city person. If the latter is so
far in debt that he can’t see how he can
get clear for three or four years—well,
what’s the Bankruptcy Court for? The cocky,
large and small, is, on the other hand, so
often unable to pay this year’s debts this
year that he does not think it at all strange
that he should pay them next year or the
year after. Barely does it occur to him not
to pay at all; and the debt that is doubt-
ful only becomes really bad when he dies or
throws up the land and drifts to the city.
Bven when, for some reason or other, he is
forced to make an assignment to his credi-
tors he doesn’t think he is doing anything
out of the way when he subsequently pays
his creditors in full. In N. S. Wales, at
any rate, most people know of the big wool
and wheat farmer who had to assign his
estate five or six years ago, after a meteoric
career. Things have gone his way again
since then, and he has been hunting up
his creditors to pay them not merely the
balance of the principal, but also interest
in full. It’s a tine thing, this; it justifies
men on whom the cocky has to lean in giv-
ing accommodation which would be quite
irregular in other circumstances. And it
makes the path of such firms as P. W. and
Cos. easier, and has an important bearing
on their large “sundry debtors’’ item. Inci-
dentally, the “plant and property’’ item in
the comparison above includes £IB,OOO, the
co.’s interest in Murray Shipping, Ltd.—
the concern to which it sold its river outfit
a couple of years ago. Probably that pup
co. is over-capitalised ; at any rate, this co.
drew only £6OO from it last year, and that
isn’t 4 p.c.
* * ft / *
Bon Marche, Ltd. —This is a drapery tail
to the Marcus Clark business, and, after
being run independently for many years, it
P® sse d over to a separate co. early in
1.L.0. The public is directly interested only
in the 74 p.c. cum. prefs., of which £BO,OOO
worth was offered and fully subscribed ; the
parent concern took all the ordinaries. The
prospectus declared that Bon Marche net
profits had averaged £13,300 p.a. over the
three years preceding the float. The boom
resulting from loan spendings was maintained
so well during the 12 months to the end of
January (when the first Bon Marche ac-
counts closed) that, with the assistance of
the new capital, sales were more than £50,000
greater than in any previous term. Net
profits bounded to £18,760. The 74 p.c.
(£6000) required for the prefs. was’thus
covered three times over. A similar rate
of div, Jias been paid to the ordinaries, absorb-
mg £7500, and leaving £5260 for reserves.
That 7} p.c. to the ordinaries (which is
Marcus Clark’s) looks mild, but since no
less than £60,000 of the £IOO,OOO holding
represents the amount paid for goodwill, the
return is very handsome, particularly in
view of the amount of undivided profit.
#••••..♦
The £BO,OOO of cash put into the co. by
the prefs. did not all go towards expanding
Bon Marche. Prior to the public co. tak-
ing over, that concern showed £OO,OOO of
tangible assets, in exchange for which the
parent concern took 100,000 £1 fully-paid ordi-
naries and £50,000 cash, the difference of
£60,000 representing the amount at which
goodwill was assessed by the vendor. Actu-
ally, then, Only £30,000 of new money was
put into the business, while the parent con-
cern, in effect, raised £50,000 of new capital
through the float to assist its own growing
business. Notwithstanding that Marcus
Clark’s withdrew so much cash and plastered
the balance-sheet of its subsidiary with a
formidable goodwill item, the security for
the prefs. is good. At the balance there were
tangible assets with a book value of £149,274,
including stock, £34,618; book debts, £99,519
(the co. does a lot of t.-p. business) ; cash
and Covernment securities, £11.688; plant,
etc., £3449. Deduct the £13,515 of liabili-
ties and £10,500 paid away in divs. since the
balance, and you cot net assets with a book
value of £125,259 to protect £BO,OOO of pref.
capital. To Marcus Clark’s as holder of
the ordinaries it does not matter much what
there is to represent its share interests. Ex-
cept that in depressed and cheap-money times
74 p.c. prefs. will be a load to carry (and the
day of low-priced money is apparently a long
way off), the parent has done well out of the
infant with the £50,000 of cash and the hand-
some profits the one-year-old is earning.
Bpeck Geologist Reid has contributed some
valuable information in a departmental bulle-
tin, “Osmiridium in Tasmania,” in which he
covers origin and deposition, as well as past,
present and future of the industry. lie is
convinced that osmiridium is associated and
owes its origin to the serpentinised period
only; all other serpentines, such as those
derived from pyroxenites apd gabbros, are
entirely barren. That the metal occurs in situ
is beyond doubt. The gangue rock, occurring in
the form of schlieren, while of a highly irregu-
lar and pockety nature, carries in places ex-
tremely high-grade ore. The chief attrac-
tion for the Speck product lies in the so-
called “point” metal, consisting of well-
formed crystals of the association, the
approximate composition of which is:—
Iridium .. .. 33 to 46 p.c.
(Minium . . .. 16 „ 67 ~
Ruthenium .. .. 7 ~ i) ~
Rhodium .. .. A,, 4 ~
Palladium .. .. Trace ~ £,,
Platinum .. . . Trace ~ i,,
Gold iron and copper are' present as impuri-
ties in small varying percentages. All the
members of the platinoid group are thus
represented. A vast amount of useless pros-
pecting has been done on the barren serpen-
tines, and on and under outcrops of limonite.
Reid considers the present-day primitive
methods must give way to a systematic search
and working of the ore deposits, and the
operating in a big way of the fairly extensive,
comparatively poor (10 grains to the yard)
river terraces, some exposed and others over-
lain by the basalt flows. The use of effici-
ent modern equipment is a pressing necessity.
The production figures since the Speck woke
up to the fact that it. had an alluvial osmi-
ridimn industry, and which show a striking
connection between output and price, ar/e: —
Quantity. Average price
oz- per oz. Value.
1910.. 120.00 i:4.42 £530
1911.. 271.88 4.37 1,188
1912.. 778.77 7.37 5,742
1913.. 1261.65 9.52 12,016
1914.. 1018.83 9.89 10,076
1915.. 247.05 6.40 1,581
1916.. 222.15 8.55 1,699
1917.. 332.08 14.75 4,898
1918.. 1606.74 27.90 44.833
1919.. 1669.72 23.73 39,614
.Tan to July,
1920.. 1093.12 38.09 41,642
Total.. 8621.99 19.02 £164,019
Tlie present price of £3O per oz. on a falling
market is not satisfactory to the diggers,
whose numbers have lately been increased to
about 500 by miners from the island’s now
almost-extinct base metal industry. In this
one respect the bulletin is misleading, and
Geologist Reid's optimism falls wide of
reality. Fortunate diggers are holding their
metal, hoping by this means to boost the
price back again to the £4O mark, but the
absence of buyers for the metal suggests that
the bottom price has not yet been reached.
The directors of the Oro Bay Plantation
Cos., Ltd., a little Charters Towers (Q.)
concern which has a nut and rubber estate
in Papua, are making efforts to ascertain
why tlieir dreams have not come true. The
co. paid £2500 for the property, and has spent
£14,111 on development and gone £3411 to
the bad in its I*, and L. account to get 1190
acres under cocoa nuts and 25 acres under
rubber. The copra crop has been so disap-
pointing that the British New Guinea De-
velopment people have been called in to re-
port. There are 20,550 trees live years or
more old, and the Towers thinks it should
be harvesting at least 100 tons copra each
year. Last half it got only £4O from nuts.
Having only £7 in the savings bank, and
owing £349 in addition to a debenture debt
of £2450, the Towers’ plantation venture is
a sick affair.
* * * *
Blair Athol coalfield (Q.) is in a bad
way. It has lost its local market, owing
to competition from fields nearer the sea-
board and the lack of exporting facilities
at Central Queensland ports. “Rocky” now
gets its coal from the near-by Styx field;
Mt. Morgan, if it resumes, will use its
own colliery at Baralaba; and the State
mine at the same place is producing 800
tons a week for the railways, which Blair
Athol was supplying. Its coal is a splendid
export article, being hard and non-friable,
with a low ash content, but it has had to
let orders go by, such as 150,000 tons for
M.L. recently, because there were no load-
ing facilities at Port Alma. In any case,
Port Alma means 278 miles’ rail freight,
and, what is worse, the gradients do not
permit of loads exceeding 200 tons; so even
the preferential railway rate which the cos.
have been offered are not much good to them.
The field will not come into its own till it
gets a railway connection with the Broadsound
deepwater port, 130 miles away, preferably
with gradients permitting loads of 400 tons
or mojo, and it could then compete in the
export: trade. Blair Athol probably has the
biggest reserves of any field in Queensland ;
engineer J. I’. Hall recently estimated them
at 260,000,000 tons in an area of four square
miles. Incidentally, it has the thickest seam
of bituminous coal in the Commonwealth—a
maximum of 91ft. and an average somewhere
around 00ft. In recent years it has been
producing about 150,000 tons p.a., but this
year only half-time has been worked, and
many of the miners have left the field.
Several of the cos. are handing their mines
over to tributors.
Ivoorboora Mines (Q.), after closing down
the Two Jacks completely, has now put in
a few miners on development work with
rock-boring machines. This is significant
of the co.'s intentions to stand by the
mine, which is likely to turn out a big, but
low-grade, proposition.
The end of Mararoa as a dividend-payer
is apparently in sight. Its old stand-by at
Norseman has been worked out, and all it
has now to rely upon is the Light of Asia, at
Cue, And when the co. bought this mine
it merely acquired worry and expense. Dia-
mond-drilling is to be tried as a last resource.


NJ
f > Jsf it ‘ ,
iliwH
;'i4vkT/J-y <
Mar;
:
2 '•»
v;f
«&1
oM
!<’ IM ify ii
1
Pp
FA!
M 3 %
6R*T ISH '4?>' !
K.'.V.
Hu.i
“ >y-* «•
wm
&
l
pfe
SS!W
■■>M
it
ea
iis
•*/l
feSfc-'.'
fcWßfe
.
v '.
■■
£
'
HI
m
wm
*•*
• 8»&H# &
mm,
'ji
■■> r
. i (
l «**,
I
• PA TON
tszssfe .'•'
S .Ml' -
: ■ '
• TOSSS - \
.-~v . ■ ■ , - - V
S «J
•<
U-A;
■■ ■ •
fiMRH
COSMOS LAMPS
Do not break easily.
They give a flood of pure white
light that is kind to the eyes.
They are British-made —
That is why you should use only
COSMOS Lamps for all your
lighting purposes.
PERFECLITE
FITTINGS
Are beautiful —hut more—they
are also wonderfully efficient; they
save 25 to 35 % of your lighting
cost, because, by means of reflect-
ing mirrors in each fitting, they
increase the flood of light from
your COSMOS Lamps, and throw'
it where it is most needed —that is
downward. The bowls are egg-
shell glass, that turn the light rays
almost into daylight.
Before you instal electric
light in your Home, Office,
Shop or Factory, consult our
lighting experts.
iSfW
Ackers
electrical*
CO- LTDL
TRAFFORD PARK.
MANCHESTER.
Supply Depots:
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
304 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE mark
of Efficiency.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COIXINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Brewed at Home
TF*
If
A Tin of “13EVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Halt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Au*-
traiia. 0R POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
it
Its Better
King George IV
WHISKY
w
TH E TOPNOTCH "scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Eddyson”: The bush has its social
tragedies, too. Carr had been wooing Mrs. Nedding
for eight or ten months. He had pleaded with the
lady, who had been in the locality about 15 months,
and had not been denied; but her declaration was
ever the same—“ Bide a wee.” Possibly she would
say “Yes” sometime in the following April, say the
21st. There was comfort in this for the impetuous
soul of Timon Carr; but he did not let up—he con-
tinued an ardent wooer, offering service, ever at the
beck and call of his mistress. He was assiduous in
all things; he chopped Mrs. Nedding’s wood with
quite the ardor an old-time, tin-coated knight put
into more romantic deeds. He dug in her garden,
weeded her onions, and, when a man was missing
did some ploughing in the back paddock. Mrs
Nedding was running a small farm at Moonrise Hill
and handling it well, but the labor problem troublec
her, and, inspired by a repetition of her assuranc
that she would in all probability say “Yes” on th
following day, the 21st of April, Timon went up
to Millwell to engage for her an efficient farm-hand
He secured a man almost under compulsion, ant
returned with the not-too-promising specimen, whon
he deposited on Mrs. Nedding's kitchen-step, leavini
her to complete negotiations. Timon called for the
good word early next day. “Well, Hannah, its to
be 'Yes’ this morning,” said he confidently. Mrs
Nedding shook her head. “I have been waiting al
this time,” she explained, “to get a divorce frorr
my husband on the ground of desertion. The three
years would have been up on the 21st.” “Well,”
demanded Carr, “isn’t it the 21st?” “Yes, it is.
But my husband is home. He is the fellow you
dragged in yesterday.”
* * * *
“G.R.”: ‘‘Bill Bowyang’s” par (B
21/4/ 21) about water in roots of trees reminds me
of a man who was lost in the scrub in the South
Bui nett (Q.), and after three days was found lying
exhausted and suffering greatly from thirst. Round
about him was a vine running from tree to tree.
An old bushman in the search-party immediately
cut sections of this vine into foot lengths and from
them drained crystal-clear water into a pint-pot. In
no time half a pint of water was obtained and given
to the almost dead man, who revived sufficiently to
walk with help. “Fancy a man dying with water
all around him I” was the old bushman’s comment.
This vine abounds in practically all of the soft-
wood scrubs of Queensland, and is known as the
water vine. It has a soft, porous, spongy centre,
with brown bark, and has a diameter of from an
inch to about six inches. Unless cut in short lengths
the water will not run from it. In drought time it
will take quite a|lot of cuttings to afford a drink;
but in a good season the vine is very full of water.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”; Re the cure of gonorrhoea
by a gin, reported by “Dale” (ft. 17/3/’2l). The
blacks of the Bogan, Lachlan and Paroo rivers all
swear by a scrub called emu-bush. They boil the
leaves and drink the liquor. Many men coming
from Sydney at shearing-time, and suffering from the
complaint, have told me they have been cured in
three weeks. It maj' not be a permanent cure. I
don’t know. By the way, “A.M.G.” (B. 14/4/’2l)
errs in saying 50 per cent, of the blacks suffer from
gonorrhoea. Their trouble, as a rule, is syphilis.
* * * *
“Aneb”: I’m afraid “T.V.T.” (B.
21/4/’2l) hasn’t lost much sweat among timber in
Gippsland. Blue and white gum and messmate are
like cheese after a menu of red-gum and box. So-
callcd “stringy woolly messmate” splits easier than
any timber I know, barring blackwood or stringy-
bark, and the latter is of the messmate family. I’ve
knocked out rails, stringers and stays with the axe
alone; and 2ft. messmate should split with the breeze.
“Jim Carew”: “Dingohanna” (B.
21/'4/’2l) nominates a man who sank 11 pints of beer
straight off the reel as
the long-distance cham-
pion. He was only a
beginner. I was in a
Bathurst hotel when a
beer-sparrer, three
sheets in the wind,
butted in, and asked
for a drink. A well-
known local man
offered to buy beer for
him as long as he
could keep on empty-
ing pint mugs without
stopping to take breath.
The beer-sparrerr had
emptied 17 and didn’t
even look like stopping
when the licensee
arrived and sensibly
put an end to the disgusting performance. I saw
the man the next day and he was all right.
* * * *
“Dogsbody” : As a matter of brutal fact
the full moon does affect some things. At McKenzie
Island (Q.) I’ve experimented with fish on more than
one occasion. Four newly-caught dew fish were hung
under the verandah of the house in such a position
that the one nearest the end was in the light of the
moon all night; the next to it received about four
hours’ light and the third about two hours’ ; the
last was not exposed to the moon at all. Result in
the morning: No. 1 fish was decomposed and when
cooked disintegrated into small pieces like bread-
crumbs. No. 2 was in a like condition and absolutely
unfit for even dog consumption. No. 3 was eatable.
No. i when cooked would have delighted the palate
of a connoisseur.
“Itellu”: It’s no longer fashionable for
enterprising females to masquerade as men, like
Bill Edwards, who was Marion, and the notorious
Amy Bock; but I remember a queer case in West
Queensland, where a sturdy young woman rigged
herself out as a boy and travelled for some time as
offsider to a carrier who had no idea as to her real
sex. She was well able to run up the horses and
act as plain cook. It is the custom in the Far
AVest to sling a wire mattress under the waggon, and
there it remains till the end of the trip, and at
night the tired driver and his offsider open up
their swags, throw them on the mattress and doss
in the altogether—trousers, shirt, coat; all except
socks. Of course that helped.
’Gregor”: Anybody familiar with the
native pharmacopoeia of New Guinea and the adjacent
islands will regard with suspicion the statement of
Ellenbee” (B. 21/4/’2l) that sterility is produced
in native women by the use of drugs. In the first
place, it is doubtful whether such a condition can
be brought about by drugs, and, in the second, Brown
GROWN SINCE.
DELIBERATE OLD LADY ( who has been taking a “lot" of time in selecting her pur-
chase) : “But I don't think this is lamb. It looks to me like mutton."
EXASPERATED BUTCHER: “It was lamb when first I showed it to you, mum."
Brother’s medicinal agents are greatly overrated.
Most of their value seems to lie not in wliat they
are made of or from, but in the manner of their
making. Further, the assertion that the nig. will
not give any information concerning his remedies is
not strictly true. Generally, somebody may be
found who, in return for a tin of “bullamacow” or a
couple of sticks of “tabac,” will supply all the
information desired, and accurate information, too.
In the Markham River district the natives are reputed
to possess a vegetable preparation which has astonish-
ing powers in the direction of making old men
young and frisky again. Without much difficulty I
obtained from three natives, each one independently
of the other, samples of the plant. A careful chemi-
cal examination failed to reveal the presence of any
active principle to which its powers might be due.
But some time afterwards I learned that its true
value lay in the fact that it was prepared at full-
nioon.
* * * #
“Ellenbee”: A young man of the Koiari
tribe, in Papua, having in view a damsel
whom he desires to marry, goes to the
bush for a certain bark which has
a strong smell of aniseed. He takes
a smooth chip of this, about an
inch in length, and pays to have pourri-
pourri made on it by a sorcerer. Then,
at night, he creeps into the house where
the girl is sleeping, places this chip in
her mouth and hurriedly departs. When
the girl awakes and finds the chip in her
mouth she knows that some man desires
her. She comes from the house rather
late in the morning, when all in the vil-
lage are astir. So great is the power of
the charm with which the sorcerer has
imbued the chip that, without hesitation
or the possibility of a mistake, she picks
out her man, announces the engagement,
and the marriage is forthwith arranged.
It would be awkward if a girl was to pick on the
wrong man; but it is said that such a thing has
never been known.
* * * *
“8.3.8.”: I ran into some queer' dope used
for malingering in the A.I.F. Some Diggers had
gi eat faith in fags dipped in iodine. Another sure
“No Duty” catch was sugar rolled into a cigarette
and smoked just before sick parade. Could any
abo. medico tell me the effect of eating washing-
soda (say a lump as big as a shilling) every day
for a week ? The user of that remedy, swears it
got him a trip to Aussie. I rather like the under-
taker’s chance on it myself.
“Bull Frog”: Will some abo. snake
authority pass out the common or garden name for
Acrochordus javanicus, a snake found in Papua, Java
and on the Malayan peninsula ? These crawlers are
viviparous, and have as many as 27 young at a birth.
They are almost vegetarian, living chiefly on wild
iruits and berries. The heavy, underhung jaw
suggests something of the bulldog type, and their
poison-fangs are long. They grow to about 6ft.
and are inclined to be round and thick in the
body, with a short but prehensile tail. They are
seldom found far inland, generally keeping within
a mile or so of the. sea, though they have been known
to follow the streams and rivers up for a considerable
distance. This is the only fruit-eating snake that
has come under my notice, though I was told by a
snake specialist awhile back that there are two of
the mischief-makers living in Australia who are
strictly vegetarian.
* * * *
"Te Pana” : I once saw a young native girl
in Tonga pass out as the result of a scratch from
the nofu, or poison fish. She had been punctured
in the left hand by a spine, and within an hour
the arm had swollen frightfully and the numbing
pain extended down the side to the feet. Next day
swelling and pain had affected the right side, and
30 hours after contact she died of tetanus. The fish
rarely exceeds 15in. in length, and is mostly head
MISTIMED.
"The dear man seems
very worried these
days."
"No wonder. His housekeeper tells me he
made a dreadful mistake—gave a sermon
on economy before the sidesman took
round the plate."
and mouth. Long poison spines run the length of
the back, and when the horror buries itself in the
mud on a reef only the venom-tipped spikes protrude
a constant menace to brown brother’s bare feet. The
nofu is best when short of his skin, and spikes and
served on a clean plate. A flounder can’t beat him
for flavor.
(Continued on page 26).
THE WEST WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I bring you, news of the world ii) the West,”
The West Wind said —
“Of cattle lowing
And grasses growing,
And spacious plains in the sunset glowing,
Where Freedom walks like a golden guest.
“I bring you news of the realms apart—
The routes and roads
Where drovers droving,
And rovers roving,
And wild-fowl under the far skies moving,
Call loud, call low, to the gypsy heart.
“I bring you news of the sons of toil,”
The West Wind said—
“Of men that battle
’Mid pine and wattle,
With fire and flood, for their sheep and cattle,
Rude vigor reaping from sun and soil.
“Brave news I bring of the open ways,”
The West Wind said—
“Of horsemen riding
On track and siding,
One star their way through the darkness guiding,
One wondrous star in the skies ablaze.
“Weird news I bring of the wayside camps,”
The West Wind said—
“Of smoke-wreaths blowing,
And red logs glowing,
And shadows coming and shadows going,
And curlews calling from'reedy swamps.
“Blithe news I bring of the sliprail gates,”
The West Wind said—
“ Where two together
Make Care a feather,
And life a season of golden weather
M here youth with love in the springtide mates.
THE EXPLAN ATION.
THE DILIGENT SHE: “A woman's iconic is
never done.”
THE BRUTAL HE: “No, it's always scamped .”
“Bright news I bring of the goodly grain,”
The West Wind said—
In tones enthralling—-
“Of harvests falling,
And teamsters over the long roads hauling
The precious gifts of the sun and rain.
“I tell of orchard and field and vine,”
The West Wind said.
“I sing forever
Of brave endeavor,
Of riders riding by -route and . river—
And what wind else has a tale like mine ?”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“THE iMj2WUJIb
PATENTED VACUUM SYSTEM
IS THE TRIED, PROVEN AND ONLY
SATISFACTORY METHOD OF INSURING A
CONSTANT SUPPLY OF FUEL TO THE
CARBURETTOR UNDER ALL CONDITIONS!”
On the level, over roughest roads, and up and down the steepest grades
the Stewart Vacuum System is ’‘always on the job.” No other system
has ever been introduced into motordom that has met w.th such
immediate and unanimous approval.
It permits installing the fuel reservoir at the rear of the car, where
it belongs— makes possible a more beautiful car design with clean-
cut graceful lines— eliminates the need of pressure systems.
OVER 90 PER CENT. OF CARS MANUFACTURED
HAVE THIS NEW, SIMPLE AND WONDERFULLY
EFFICIENT FEED SYSTEM. HAS YOURS?
AIR VENT-
FROM MAIM ”
GASOLINE. TANK
PLUG
FROM
INTAKE
MANIFOLD
TO
CARBU*
RETOM
virinlM TANKS SPEEDOMETERS, WARNING SIGNALS, SEARCHLIGHTS etc,, are obtainable
“" J ™ ,h - LTD
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., PM S, LTO.f Ad.bL’ Std!
Swanrton Soat Melbourne. ™ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Hay
K“p«rth 0 W &G L GENDERS, LTD., Hobart and Launch®.
BOURKE or KOSCIUSKO
IT IS ALL THE SAME TO A
VICTOR
PIANO.
You naturally expect the instrument you purchase
to stand up to its requirements, no matter what
part of the country you take it to.
The VICTOR PIANO is constructed of the very
best materials specially to our own design, and it
has stood the test of time in all parts of Australia.
For durability, keeping in tune and permanent
tonal quality you cannot possibly get a better piano
at the price.
(T
b
w.
y *
VICTOR PIANOS
built to last
are
m
s
ST
-05
mxm
AHD
8 R ISBflflfc, nt.WCfl.mX,
TOOWOOMBA
a^ROCKHanpr og^gg
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE,
PRICE LIST AND DETAILS
OF OUR EASY TERMS.


FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
Keep your nerves and blood in good order by taking
CLEMENTS TONIC
Build up your system now to withstand winter colds, chills and similar
epidemics. CLEMENTS TONIC will help you; keep a bottle handy and take
an occasional dose when you’re feeling off color.
AN IDEAL MARRIAGE.
No. 1: “I hear Ettie married Bert while I
was away. How's she getting on?”
No. 2: “Oh, fine! She’s got Bert scared out
uv his blanky life!”
“MacGregor” (New Britain) : When a
native dies at Arrowi, his “mary” (wife) is killed.
Her arms are pinioned by two other marys, who sit
on her legs. A strong rope made from plaited
fibres is placed round her neck and drawn taut by
four men, two on each side, until the blood oozes
from the nose and mouth. At this juncture a man
places one hand underneath the victim’s chin, and
the other on the top of her head, and twists the
head until the neck is broken. The belief is held
that unless the wife is killed the man will not reach
the Arrowi equivalent for Heaven, but if both die
they immediately go there.
“Aneb”: If “O’Kell B.” fB. 21/4/’2I)
is only half as wise about horse-breaking as he
wishes readers to believe, he knows that “riding on
the rein is the correct method for either a colt or
an educated horse. In competitions it is invariably
on a noseband that the reins are fastened, but this
is solely for public entertainment and gain, and not
equine education. A monkey-strap is an excellent
aid to an inferior rider —many an excellent breaker
is not a star rider—or even to a good rider who is
THE ENTREPRENEUR.
"Splendish music! Most wonderful! Say (hic), will yon conshider (hie) offer to play
jazz music at a ickle midnight supper?"
at it all day tor a living ; and a colt who throws his
rider first time up is doubly hard to quieten. The
advantage of “riding on the reins’’ is that when a
colt gives up his head, having had his ding (and
\!vhat knowledgeable horseman denies him that?), his
rider picks up his slack rein without any apparent
movement. It is a different matter to release the
right hand from the monkey-strap and gather up
the steering lines. A monkey-strap is an aid even
to a good rider for mounting; it is a more comfort-
able and safer hold than the pommel, though it is
absolutely unnecessary to a good horseman when
aboard. Outlaws are rarely, if ever, made by heavy
hands, but by bad handling or with inferior gear—•
which is the same thing. Of course, heavy hands
make that dangerous abomination, a hard-mouthed
horse. A “balance” rein rider will last far longer
than one who relies solely on strength of grip, and
is less fatigued at the end of a day’s work. Through-
out I refer to men who' earn their crust by breaking
skilfully and intellectually, not to freak showmen.
* * * *
“Boon Tim”: My old man, a cow-cocky
of sorts, says he runs goats with the cows to keep the
pleuro away from the herd, effluvia doing the trick.
* * * *
“Steve Hart” : It’s nearly time the lie
about the kangaroo throwing her joey to the dogs
when hard pressed, in order to save her own life, was
squashed. The facts are these. The ’roo when chased
immediately starts to look for some cover to throw
her joey into. As soon as she sees a suitable spot
out he goes, and she turns right or left to lead
the dogs from it. Should she escape she comes back
for her baby as soon as possible.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : The fox is not going to have
it all liis own way with every ground-nesting bird.
More and more cases are being reported of lyre-birds
nesting on cliff ledges and other inaccessible places.
It began to look as though our prince of mockers
was doomed; but —here’s luck to his initiative, and
may it be well crammed into his youngsters!
“Ellenbee”: A new era seems to have
begun in Papua. Recently the Governor and his
Council suspended business to come out and view
the strange sight of two white men humping their
blueys. It looked very queer, in a land where all
the carrying is done by. native “boys.” Events will
now be dated from the time when “those two blokes
with swags went through.”
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: When Wirths’ circus came
to our town a butcher’s cart was driven up and left
standing near the tent. Presently a flap of the can-
vas was raised to allow an elephant to pass through,
and the horse, after shuddering violently a couple of
seconds, collapsed in the shafts. It was a minute
or two before he “came to,” and then he just
crawled away down the street, too sick to raise even
a trot.
* * * «
“Jimsey”: The parrot is the cleanest of
our bush birds, yet in about half of those I have
shot I have found a small insect, about the size of
a lady-bird, among the breast feathers. Know any-
thing about it? Is it an insect which feeds on the
vermin that infests nearly every bird, and is it
peculiar to parrots?
* * * *
“Steve Hart” : How many young does the
bandicoot carry in her pouch? I got one the other
night with four. I’d never found more than two
before.
“Snell”: “That dorg ain’t got his livin’
equal,” White told me. “One day when I was
workin’ fer Parker, up near the hills, back o’ Bar-
ton, this here feller comes up to me waggin’ his
tail and gapin’ in my face, full of silent conversa-
tion. I knows at once he’s got somethink on his
mind, and when he takes a fistful of me pants in
his mouth and tugs me, I toilers him at a good
bat, thinkin’ one of Parker’s kids has got in the
crick. But no, he leads me over the crick and along
the foot of the ridge. If I slacks off he comes back
whinin’ and gathers up another faceful iv me trousis,
so I keeps goin’. Well, we covers three mile ufore'
he lands me beside a holler stump, where there’s a
bit iv a collie slut with seven pups. There ain’t
nothin’ wrong with the slut, and the pups is all
(loin well. What’s that dorg dragged me there for,
d ycr think ? Fer nothin’ but sheer, stinkin’ paternal
pride!”
* * » *
< ..R. . Re “Mullygrub’s” variable spring
u 2 1/ 3 /’ 2l )- 1 kn ow one that rises and falls with
he phases of the moon. At new moon it has about
six inches of water in it, then it rises daily to over
two feet and overflows at full moon. It falls at the
same rate with the decline of the moon. The spring
s 200yds. up a hill, and over 50ft. above the Water-
°f Blaekf ellow’s Creek, Fossilbrook (N.Q.).
Whats the explanation of the milk in the eocoarmt?
* * *
.G.I. : The other day, about six miles
out of Stanthorpe (Q.), ray
dog chased a bunny
down a gully, and a few
seconds after I heard SOS
signals. Rushing down 1
found three dingoes pre-
paring my mong. for a
Solomon Island feast. I
scattered them and then
examined the intended pic-
nic. He bore several
wounds, but the worst was
on the tongue, which was
badly lacerated, and pierced
right through. I conclude
that he arrived on the
scene panting, and with his
tongue out, and that it
was grabbed, and I sup-
pose he only saved it by
closing his teeth on the
dingo’s snout.
Momokeni’ (who owns some medical
initials) : I would like to warn any sufferer from
tuberculosis who might read “Friday Island’s” par
(B. 17/3/ 21) that t.b. is far from being non-exist-
ent in the Dry Zone of Papua. In three native
villages near Port Moresby there have been at least
18 deaths from it in the last three years. Whole
families are affected. The gentle zephyrs of the
south-east trades are oftener roaring gales day and
night, and to perspiring consumptives they spell
chills and death. A Papuan house, whether European-
or native-built, is a home of draughts, and is
designed to get the maximum of breeze; yet even
healthy people are in a constant bath of perspiration.
Generally speaking, the Tropics are not suitable
places for sick Europeans.. If “Friday Island” came
to the Dry Zone expecting to eat the ordinary foods
to which he had been accustomed, he would be
enlightened at his first meal in Port Moresby. Fresh
meat and butter may be had occasionally, i.e., when
the steamer leaves the local hotel-keeper sufficient
for his guests, and a little, though often none, for
the town residents. Poultry is obtainable if you
rear it yourself, eggs ditto, and then only after
the village dogs and natives have taken their toll.
Turtle and dugong may be plentiful in Thursday
Island but are never seen in the Dry Zone. His
diet would be tin, tin and again tin. His cookboy's
query would come with irritating persistency : “Tau-
hada” flourishing a tin of bulamacow or tossis
(sausage)—“shall I cook him hot, cook him cold?”
The health-giving juice of green cocoanuts (pur-
chased from the natives at Is. each) would quickly
search out any weak spots in his kidneys, and if his
digestion were at all weak he would wish ho had
died before imbibing the nectar. The luscious fruits
of the Dry Zone consist of apples (imported fron
South at a cost of 2s. 6d. per doz.) or maybe a
occasional pineapple, a gift from a kindly skipper
I dare say if one questioned thoj man in the stree
in Port Moresby he would say he had taken mor
drugs since his arrival in Papua than he had eve
swallowed in his life before. To “Friday Island”
would like to repeat the advice given by his bisho
to a globe-trotting parson who was sighing for new
worlds to visit. “Why not try your own parish, Mr
Blank?” Surely there are places in Australia which
rival Davos or St. Moritz as sanitaria where a con
sumptive could obtain, not only the necessities of lif
untinned, but also what are to residents in Papua
luxuries, such as milk (not cocoanut), cream, fruit
green vegetables, and, last but not least, ice.
“Melos”: I can support “Dean’s” state
ment (B. 21 /4 /‘ 21) with regard to the potency of
bullrout-poison, as 1 have had several servings, ai
exquisitely painful. There is a wide-spread belief
that a person stung by a rout will suffer agonies
until the “turn of the tide” ; but that’s bunkum.
* * * »
“Jim Ourew”: “Claroyamo” (B. 21/4/’2l)
asks if my friend’s prolific cow (B. 24/S/’2l) has
been made a grandmother by any of her four
daughters. She has, by three of them; the fourth
is too young. Also, one of her sons is extending the
family tree in a very satisfactory manner.
* * * *
Ted Colles tolls the yarn:—
We were seated in the bar of Moody’s hotel when
the thirsty stranger who’d been haunting the town-
ship for a week or more entered in a very agitated
manner. With his face showing dirty-pallid through
a wilderness of whiskers, he dropped down on the
bench and wrung his hands distractedly.
“Name er Gawd, w’at’s wrong with yer?” cried
Moody from behind the bar.
The hairy one ceased his noise and simply dropped
hack against the wall witli his eyes rolling horriblv
in a heavenly direction.
“Give th’ poor a drop er braVidy,” suggested
Charlie 1 fay lies—-“he's gotter snakebite or dyin’ or
somethin’.”
The mob crowded round, and old Moodv with a
suspicion of hesitation, half-filled a glass' with his
poison and pushed it over to lluynes, who proceeded
to administer it. “Gawd blimey, ’e won’t take it
through his teeth 1” exclaimed Charlie after a brief
tussle with his patient. “It all went down ’is
whiskers. Someone ’old th’ ’s ’ands while I
give ’im another.”
He turned towards Moody expectantly, and the
latter, now with a very perturbed expression on his
face and an unashamed deliberateness of movement
pushed over another glass of his an,■esthetic.
I liis time the dose was administered more suceess-
fully But it had so little effect upon the patient
that the boys thought it advisable to lay him on
his back on the floor and have his clothing loosened
while someone made efforts at resuscitation. “It’s
a nepperlectrie fit, that’s wot it is!” shouted fld
NO COMPLAINTS.
MRS. THEGIGGINS: “Poor sawl! An’ ’im so
well-off! What was the complaint,
Maister Tregear?”
MR. TREGEAR : “ Don’t hear tell o’ none,
missus. Everybody’s satisfied, I do
belave.”
Possum Hanson as Charlie crossed over to the bar
for another glass of brandy. “Stand aside, stand
aside, an give th’ man some hair space!” he
exclaimed, dancing round the victim.
After the fifth dose of brandy Moody began to
express his impatience in vigorous words. “Not
another drop will I give ’im! ” he shouted. “Get
_ doctor, y ■ — fools. Th’ man’s dyin’, I tell
yeh . But public opinion prevailed, and after the
administration of the sixth glass—a full one—the
stranger was seen to open one eye wearily.
. ee l better now, mate?” half-a-dozen voices
inquired. And Moody came forward and placed his
arm under the stranger’s shoulder.
J' 1 , reply, the sick man gazed dazedly around,
patted, his chest and hiccoughed gently.
lere sure ye’re quite alright?” asked Moody
after a pause. “Can I do anything more t’ help
yer. Tell us w’at’s wrong with yeh,” he urged
in a sudden burst of altruism.
. le stranger looked up with a soft, sad eye and
inclined his head towards the good Samaritan. “I
wuz too hupset ter tell yeh before,” he
whispered thickly—“but I bin....an’ burnt dowD
yer fowl-’ouse an’ hie milkin’-shed !”
SEEDIN’ TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes, there’s something new beneath the sun sine
first I put in crops ;
harms are now like engineerin’ sheds, an’ iron
mongers’ shops,
Filled with patent cranky implements, with whee
an’ belt an’ band,
Doin’ everything but smoke an’ swear to work th
same old land.
We had each one mare, old shanks’s, in our staunch
an’ steady yoke
As we drove along the furrows with an easy swinging
stroke,
Trustin’ Providence to pay us for our honest sweat
an toil
By supplyin’ rain an’ sunshine in due season to the
soil.
We ne er thought of callin' doctors to prescribe for
weakly land
As a yet. would mix a drench for stock that’s bad
with worms or sand ;
All the chemistry of farmin’ that we knew when 1
was young
Had a name that now is seldom said, an’ never has
been sung.
Kow we talk of superphosphates an’ of “chimical
manoor,”
An’ we stimulate with nitrates when the" circula-
tion’s poor,
We administer a tonic, not in teaspoons but in tons,
Makin’ lean years fat an’ dopin’ them to put up
record runs.
Good folks used to say that failures in our crops
were judgments just,
Makin’ farmers pay for public sins through drought
an’ smut an’ rust;
But we seldom now humiliate or supplicate for
rain—■
We place deeper faith in dams than prayers, an’
disinfect the grain.
Then there’s books for double-entry, wheat schemes,
State control, an’ pools
With their new red-tape entanglements an’ silly
barb-wire rules;
There are sums to spoil our beauty-sleep, an’ make
us sit up late—•
I remember when our high finance was worked out
on a slate.
I live more an’ more in memories of the days of
youth an’ hope,
As the settin’ sun smiles eastward w’hen it’s on the
downward slope;
Each new season takes me back among the sickles,
scythes, an’ hooks,
An’ the hand-made sheaves that’s only seen to-day
in picture-books.
But my boys are all for new machines with fine
new-fangled gear,
Things that rush as if we only had one season in
the year;
An’ I try my best to keep the pace with youth an’
strength an’ brains,
Feelin’ thankful that, though most things change,
the slow old earth remains.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


ClCv
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
. Under New Tariff.
*
• • •
) \
c
c
Ab
*O/
S&fc
-9
O
axH
'V
OS'.
o?
CVO
o_s>
a,
e>
u mmmb ww mm
m tmi wm


TKe
Purest
Spirit
tntke
Übrld.
Fife's schnaP^
PI
4
5
hx
m
\, V V 4 '
i-.96.5v i
V ,
W.ii M////
\
x
Ct i£s r
Tf>o
r=-
m
3 ”
/sr
ec>v»
V
CROUP
w.
iCr&L SK-
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
S Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
I Generations have been, but concreated with
them, is certain. For we read that God no
sooner questioned Adam, then Adam
answered Him.” “Seeing that the History
which the Chinois esteem as authentique
commenceth 30 years before the dispersion
of Babel” and is in the language at present
in use, and that before the confusion ot
tongues all the world spoke the same lan-
guage, the author declares with a defiant
ring: “I will now at last take leave to be
positive, that more, and with more certainty
cannot for the speech of whatever other
Nation under Heaven, be said ; and that there
is so great consent already both of Sacred
Scripture and unquestionable Authors, that
we may well conclude, until as full consent,
and as great certainty be produced for any
other, the Language of the Empire of China
is the Primitive Language.”
Implicit acceptance of Biblical chronology
and a childlike faith in the historicity of
Semitic myths lead a man to quaint cer-
tainties ; but while there are many things
in the book that excite a smile, the simple
earnestness of the pious writer and his
scholarship and wide reading, which seem
extraordinary considering the scarcity of
books and the difficulties of travel, make
the reader feel an honest admiration. and
respect for John Webb of Butleigh in the
County of Somerset Esquire.
F. E. TAYLOR.
Program; also Catalog
Uhief Justice Adrian Knox made some
called-for and well-selected remarks the other
day, when a document came before him
decorated with United States spellings of
the “program” and “catalog” order. He
even went so far as to remark that Uncle
Sam doesn’t own Australia. One objection
to the U.S: spellings is that so much need-
less fuss is made over them. Another is
that tney are only a drop in the ocean and
aren t worth while. The British people
need either a new language that will fit
their wholly insufficient alphabet, or a new
phonetic set of letters of the Pitman sort
which will express the language. It being
easier to take the ship to sea than to carry
the sea to the ship, the phonetic alphabet is
the obv;ous device. When tlie Yankee
writes “catalog” with seven letters and a
proud expression, the “c” is a lie, while the
double “a” and the “o” represent three
I sounds that aren’t in the alphabet at a
Such small words as “gag,” “chew,” “gush
gig and “which” are wholly made
sounds that the alphabet never heard o
hen a language is so bad that every wore
has to be acquired separately, it might
well have no letters or spelling at all. T 1
present uncouth system adds years of waster
biam-fag to the period required for learnin
our tongue, and not even the oldest Methu
selah ever quite gets the noises right. O
the other hand, it would only be necessar
m mei ? lo £ise & sane collection of betwee
40 and 50 signs, and every word in th
vocabulary would be pronounceable.
A frequent plea is that the present upside
'own method gives a hint as to where th
word came from, but it really doesn’t matte
'' here it came from. The important matte
, s where it is going. After all, we rarel;
lo know where a word came from, despit
ill research. We only know where it cam
rom just before we had it—the last inn
>r possibly the last two or three inns i
topped at on the road from the beginnini
d the monkey to the end of Time. “Charm
ng (only the “r” and the “m” have any
lung to do with the sound) and “chain
aigne ’ both arrived from France or via
ia . l ?£ e ' hhe fact that one preliminary hiss
3 different from another, though neither is
V )UI Al>, s ’ shows that they reached us at
indent times. Neither seems to mattei
nough to be worth the inconvenience
here may be Some satisfaction in knowing
iio were, our ancestors, but if we don’t
acre is compensation in knowing that we
'ill be ancestors ourselves, provided we hap-
en to have descendants.
A reformed alphabet and spelling would
►ok grotesque till people were used to it.
fter that it wouldn’t. Things looked
ipremely, outrageously comic when first
eophe ceased adding together XXXIII and
and XVII and making the result C, but
ie storm subsided. Three things should
■ done, among others, for tin' next genera-
_>n and for the DCLXXXIII or more that
dl come after it. They should be taught
../he ambidextrous, even though their new
lciency may make the old man look a
ummocky back number. They should be
ipplied with a decimal system of money
eights and measures, even though the old
an may get confused in his tram-fares and
ink-money. And they should have a new
trace oi letters, even if the old man is wild
having to go to school again. The old
in won t live for ever—at least, he never
s done so yet.
J.E.
Wanted, Several Biographers
Australia is without any adequate bio-
graphies of her typically national figures; not
merely statesmen, but men in almost every
walk of life. Where is there a decent life of
liarpur or Kendall among the poets, of
Kurke and Wills among explorers, or of Mar-
graves as representing not the least of the
national benefactors? At the present
tune there is a field open for the right man in
at least three unique eases on the political
I side—Kingston, Barton and Griffith. If the
would-be biographer has any doubts about his
qualifications—well, let him drop his pen. The
coastline is already too thickly strewn with
the wrecks of biographies. In those three
cases can be treated an epoch of our national
development that should no longer be neg-
lected. But it is not only the politician who
should be dealt with. Some are apt ro
think Australia breeds only such people.
With all their faults (and lleaven knows
they are not few), the wool kings are more
deserving of remembrance and gratitude at
the hands of Australia. If that shrewd old
Jew known to history as Beaeonsfield is
right when he advises “read no history, none
but biography, for Mhat is life without
theory,” then we make a great error if we
confine ourselves to the atmosphere of poli-
ticians. Yet first let us have a life of Barton,
the most gifted son Australia has yet given
to the world.
DERWENTSIDE.
The Biographer’s Job
Alfred Buchanan in reply to “D Mae-
Ulladh”:—
What on earth has my biography, or his, got to
do with the question whether great men should be
described after their death as they really were, or
in some other way? I said, and repeat, that modern
biography gives no adequate or life-like picture of
the man, and that for these and other reasons it is
passed over by the general public. In reply “D.
MueUUadh” writes about “garbage,” “unclean gos-
sip” and “secret vices,” and seems to suggest that
I want to deal in them. What type of mind is it
that associates a request for fairness in biography
—the same kind of fairness that you expect in
history and in portrait-painting—with a liking for
garbage or anything remotely akin to it? And
wliy, when you ask for a likeness of a very great
poet, should you be met by “MaeUlladh” wanting to
talk about Oscar Wilde ?
The point of view I was combating was that
put forward by Edmund Gosse, the typical bio-
giapher, in his passage from the Life of Swinburne
that 1 quoted: “Little can be said of this period of
his life, and less that is agreeable.” There is the
conventional argument in a nutshell. It is the one
that has reduced biography to the level of dead
timber. In presenting Swinburne to the world,
Gosse deems it advisable to dress him out, not in
the colors that he wore in life, but in those that
near relatives would consider agreeable. I say that
this kind of writing is an insult to the living, as
well as a travesty of the dead. No really great,
man ever wanted a sickly, white-washed portrait to
perpetuate his memory. Tin* great Cromwell told
the artist to paint him warts and all. What would
Napoleon have thought if he had read a biography
of himself in which he was depicted as a model of
the domestic virtues? Or Byron if he had been
drawn as a good churchgoer? Yet this is the kind
of biography that “MaeUlladh” seems to want of
Swinburne, whose “irregularities” (Gosse’s word)
were as much a part of him as his genius.
In most minds that have got beyond the childish
stage the romance of history and biography is far
more enthralling, as it is more informative, than
that of any imaginary person or persons. But there
would he no romance in biography, and no biography
worth reading, if everything not voted “agreeable”
were ruled out. No great literature could be written
that way, and there is no reason why biography
should not be as great as any.
If you are to learn anything from a man's life
(and biography is supposed to teach you)
you must know both sides. To say this is not
to ask for petty or sordid details,, and the word
garbage is a gratuitous insult in this connection.
Anything may be worth relating if it illustrates the
essential character of the man or woman, and
it is the essentials that really matter. It is the
defects and temperamental weaknesses of a man
when allied to genius or great achievement—and
only then—that make the study really valuable. For
without the defects there would be no sympathy
for the struggle, no gratification in the success. And
there would be no inspiration in the example, because,
being depicted without the failings of other men. lie
would be 100 unlike them to arouse interest or emu-
lation. When a famous man has been some time
dead, a glimmering of his real self does appear; hut
in 90 per cent, of our modern biographies the white-
wash brush is still the chief ingredient, and the
result is the pallid and lifeless thing we know
A Satchel of Books
Dodo Wonders , by E. F. Benson (Hutchinson).
Another Dodo hook. As usual it hasn’t much plo :
hut it ripples with bright talk and delightful humo
rhis time Dodo is a war-hospital worker • and tl
sort of war-work some of Dodo’s “society" friem
did makes the best pages in a very entertaining boo
Connie Morgan in the Lumber Camps, by Jam
B. Hendry x (Putnam’s). Most readers of th
Shooting Iron brand of fiction have met Conni
Morgan. Generally it has been in Alaska; but no
the young man has crossed the Canadian border ant
got into a lumber camp in Minnesota to put a pirat
syndicate in its place. Of course he does it in th
most astonishing fashion ; and Hendryx in the tel
ing of “the Kid’s” amazing adventures paints goo
pictures of the great timber industry. Nobody wh
goes to the films to gloat over Bill' Hart will wan
his money back after lie has read the yarn.
Eyes of Vigilance: Divine and Moral Songs; an
Ways and Means: A Poem and an Argument, b
Furnley Maurice (Sydney J. Endacott. Melbourne)
Two books of rather barren verse. Here and there i
a glimmer of something better, but never the write
at his best. For instance:—
Strove ye for right or for' a cool content
In stolen valleys under stolen trees?
Chose ye to serve essence or accident?
Fought ye for right or for man’s madnesses?
If ye detest the tragedy of wrong,
Ye by that wrong are purified at last,
As many poets, charmed by sweets of song,
By those same sweets are to damnation cast
On his performance here Furnley Maurice is safe
from damnation on that score. There is no sweet-
ness in these books whatever of intellectual force
there may be.
Australian Songs in Northern Lands, bv Captain
Lionel G. Short, M.C. (Erskine MacDonald,' London).
The verse is often pleasing, but frequently stumbles
and never rises to any remarkable height. This,
“To the Builders of Wells Cathedral,” is above the
average:—
You gazed upon the face of God: the veil
That shrouds all future from our earthly sight
Was rent by you, who saw His sovereign might
Enshrined in beauty ; and you did not quail.
W r e feel your courage as it were a flail
To whip our sinking courage in the fight;
Striving to learn th’ immortal dream aright,
Y r ou show in living stonework, softly pale:
The petty ways pf life, laughter and tears,
Hunger and pain, the humble deeds of man,
You saw them all,-- unharassed bv our fears
Caught up in wonder exquisite; the fan
Of glory round God’s resting place, which bears
The visioned truth of His eternal plan.
In form that is a fair sonnet, except for the very
bad rhyme in the thirteenth line; but it should be
regarded rather as a feeling after something
as an achievement. B
At Jr?XZ eil $,P Ucret ? on ’ by C< L Dick (Alexan
McCubbm, Melbourne). A very pleasing little T
manian tale of a demure little mouse of a girl w
won her way to a man’s heart bv her love for
children. The characters are well drawn and ■
writer has a lot of charm. A number of pages hi
been misplaced by the binder in this reader’s cod
which is not the sort of thing that should happen
an attractive Australian publication.
S * ar ** x ,h e Window, by Olive Higgins Pron
' R w Y® , brou £ ht l| P a New Engla
atmosphere but broke away at twenty-five B anc
plunged into very sober gaiety in Boston. ' There s
married a sailor, who was going away for three yea
—married him m order to be able to claim an ind
Jill I ,'! 0 !'? °- a , ction e ranted to married women b
denied to single. The book is well written and co
vincing jind the characters live. The breaking doc
dealt U with Urltan stlftlless b - v the war is interesting
Poitro An , U ! olo 'JU of Uumanitari
Unwin 1 A d , by f ertn P" Lloy(1 (George Allen a
)- i h . and , somely turned-out collection
from Prnnnl, a, n mals: U includes a few translatio
tiom rrench, German and Italian writers. Such
volume does not contain much poetry ; but lovers o
anthologies will be glad to have many favorites th
together. Shakspeare, Milton, Keats, Browning a,
renn.vson don’t contribute anything; but Burn
Coieridge Wordsworth, Mrs. Browning and Swinburr
do. Modern writers are well to the fore.
• Pw ty> ‘! magazine of verse, comment and crit
WnT f£° n i 1!Sh ’ Hlrmil «h>im). The issue of the mag,
/iiic foi January contains an article by S. Towle
Wright on the poetry of Australasia. The autho
does not know Ins subject particularly well. He hi
apparently never heard of Kendall, Daley, ltoder
?r M’/on^rMcCrae, Jessie Macka
° r , M ' Fonebt, but he knows Bupert Atkinson quit
ell and gives him two pages as against somethin
less than a page for Lawson. Such remarks as h
makes on the work he has seen are too non-committa
to have much critical value.
I K, M n m0rl & by Elizabeth Fairfax (Mel
Mile and Mullen Pty., Melbourne). The short
stones in this volume are modest little things which
no4hl , r « to surprise or question. #he eolo"
is slight and there is scarcely any atmosphere.
yarns and Town Sketches, by W. H Pliinn
(Railway Bookstall Co., Melbourne). Some fair tall
° eal '] y Goplgardie and other primitive spots, witl
a good deal of prattle that hardly deserved reimb
lieation. A kindly introduction by Randolph Bed
ion is responsible for the widest smile in the book
And George Benson’s black-and-white drawings are
worth coining to.
The Peace of Pouring River, by George Van
Schaiek (Hurst and Blackett). A story of tlie cold
country of Canada, with a plot as much off the
beufeu track as the stage it is plaved on. Add
some good writing that is all the better for seeming
to be easy, and you have a novel that it is a plea-
sure to recommend.
the Burthen Vessel, by Pamela Glenconner, with a
preface by .Sir Oliver Lodge (John Lane). A book
ot alleged spiritualistic manifestations through what
are called “book-tests.” None of the stuff is very
convincing; but such as it is its accuracy is vouched
tor by persons connected with the peerage.
The M„ m tchank, by W. J. Locke (John Lane).
Brigadier-General Andrew Lackaday was born in a
circus-tent somewhere in Australia, llis father and
mother died in France, and the boy was brought up
Gy an LngHsh clown in a big French show. He
did not succeed at circus-clowning; but owing to his
ungainly shape and clever juggling got a minor
fame in French vaudeville. Then the war came, and
be enlisted as an English private, llis success was
immediate. From rank to rank he rose, until, as
a lingadier-General, he made the acquaintance of
Eacly Aunol, a fine hospital-organiser and hard-
swearer. connected with ah English family that looked
down on royalty as upstart. When the war ended
Andrew had to go hack to his mountebank work or
take the permanent rank of major. His struggles
with the changed music-hall audiences are ; pitiful;
but in the end be is off to the Solomon Islands with
Lady Aunol. A lot of the old Locke charm has been
found again ; both matter and manner are an improve-
ment on iiis recent work.
The Samuai Butler Collection, by Henry Festi
Jones and A. T. Bartholomew (Heifer. Cambridge
ihe tremendous amount of attention recently i
voted to the author of “Erewhon” has led to tie
formation of a museum of relics at Cambridge K s
paintmgs sketches, music, books, kettle-holder. t\
■ll , s ’ snu ff-box, watch and match-box are a
included, in addition to every line written abo
nun and his work in magazines and newspapers,
seems a pity they haven’t added a pair of his o
trousers to make the thing complete.
Further .E, h. Means, by E. K. Means (Putman .
Ibis is the third of the E. K. Means books (
nigger yarns—yarns about Little Bit, and th
Revun Vinegar Attsi and Skeeter Butts of the He
scratch saloon and their friends of Tickfall,
Loozianny. Means knows his nigger and gets vo
acquainted with him in a series of knock-abou ;
larces turned into short stories. It is crude stu
but there is a lot of rough humor in it, and mo
of the truth about the nigger than in most lieav
weight volumes that set out deliberately to discu
u ncle Sam’s greatest problem.
Pat the Pedlar, by Rita (Hutchinson). If you kno
“Kitty the Rag” and “Peg the Rake” you kno
the fashion of this latest of Mrs. Desmond Hum
phrey’s limpid tales. Pat is u clergyman’s daughte
who, run down by her newspaper job, is orderec
six months in the open-air, and fills in the tim
and supplies herself with pocket-money by peddlin
from London to Land’s End. She is an engagin
youngster, and, of course, meets the only man i
the world on the road, and marries him in the las
chapter. But she has enough adventures in betwee
to keep you guessing.
llalj-Caste, by Holloway Horn (Collins). Olive
is the son of a successful Englishman in Hanehow
his grandfather is an old, wise Chinaman. The boy
develops a taste for art, studies in Japan and goe
to Europe. There he discovers that art is universa
and that woman has racial boundaries. On the eve
of a great success it comes to him that Margare;
who loves him will never marry him. He goes back
to China with his broken heart, hack to Sansi, hi
little Chinese mother. His first great picture is
portrait of the lost Margaret. A well-written book
that touches a problem.
•
A last word from Randolph Bedford:—
My objections to the critic are to the critic as a
cult—the G. C. Dixon kind of critic; the sham enthu-
siasts who discovered new merits in Oscar Wilde
after his conviction; the critics, who deified Wagner
until July, 1914, and then discovered that his music
was mere noise. Despite Mr. Dixon, Barrie and Ben-
nett are not big men. If Mr. Dixon wants an Aus-
tralian the equal of Bennett he can find him in Arthur
Adams—as facile as Bennett and as pleasant, although
Bennett looks bigger because of his wider stage. Mr.
Dixon asks where his perversions of fact are. I
answer with the quotation of his statement that I
referred to “admirers of English fiction as fools.”
I did,'not. I styled as fools the people who admire
contemporary English serial fiction —a very different
matter. As to “Silver Star,” Mr. Dixon is almost
just. It is the work of a boy, and the man who
succeeded him is heartily ashamed of it. Now, Mr.
Dixon has nothing to be ashamed of, because he never
did anything. And bad as “Silver Star” is it is not
so bad as the things Mr. Dixon didn't do. But the
coach-driver —a man true to label —-didn’t wear a
bowie-knife. Tic wore the ordinary sheath-knife-
most bush in en use. And he did drive as well at
night as by day, because by driving an unlighted
coacli his eves for all a driver’s purposes were as good
for the light of midnight as of noonday. Of course,
a precious English critic such as Mr. Dixon could
not be expected to know these things. He makee
up for that by having the insolence to talk of my
“ignorance.” How English 1 llow very truly Eng-
lish !


DELGO-LIGHT
Electricity for Anyone Anywhere
The first Cost of
DELCO-LIGHT
is only temporary
while the benefits
are perpetual.
u
ERO
r\->
fir
• L -
■
80 CANDLE POWER
c pr
iaiiitisgf -'cm'
mmMSKMftii B
v vj
ftsi
s:
J>ELCO-LIGHT
■
M^HMI
' ■
WKtmm ' wmmKm
. ■
A Quart of Kerosene used in DELCO-LIGHT will gi*
four times as much light as when burned in an oil lamp.
e
DELCO-LIGHT will furnish
plenty of clear, bright electric
light for any part of your home
or outhouses. It will also pro-
vide power for operating all
yoUr small machinery.
7 hours saved turning cream separator
3 „ „ churning
3 „ „ ironing
3 „ „ washing
2 „ „ caringfor lamp and tanks
18 horns per week
There is a trained DELCO-LIGHT man near you who can figure
your requirements and advise you as to the size plant you need.
N.S.W.—WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD., Kent Street, SYDNEY.
VIC.—WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,Bourke St., MELBOURNE.
Q’LAND—SMELLIE & CO., LTD., BRISBANE,
S. A -PARSONS S’ ROBERTSON LTD. Grenfell St., ADELAIDE.
W.A.--GEO. WILLS & CO., PERTH.
TAS.—W. F. E. A. STEWART, Cameron Street, LAUNCESTON.
N.Z.--A. D. RILEY & CO., Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.
FARMERS’CO-OP ASSOCIATION, CHRISTCHURCH.
W.A.CROWLE LTD., 161-163, Casttereagh Street, SYDNEY, Distributors.
ON
U
ROS
M
©
"i ' •
■ ; ’
m


I~i ti ro liT6
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
For Interior and Exterior
Walls and Ceilings.
IXI
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are con-
siderably cheaper than wood, steel, lath and
plaster, or other materials for Interior Walls
and Ceilings .arid cheaper and more durable
than weatherboard for Exterior Walls. “Fib-
rolite” is fire-retardant, white-ant-proof and
improves with age.
Write for Free Catalogue “R.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier Bdgs., Queen St., Brisbane.
Note the
Label
on this
Bag.
SKIN-GETTERS! It pays to consign Rabbit, Fox,
Kangaroo and other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane. LTD.
Salesmen Only, Regular auctions. Prompt Returns.
'3
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
aanim
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
J ■. U --v;
cfp
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or foodor cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOT 3 are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
last a lifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
M
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
Built by a firm with the highest
possible reputation, the supreme
Sunbeam is a “quality” car. It is
built to last and give continuously
good service under all conditions,
and therefore is eminently
suitable for overseas markets.
SUNBEAM-COATALEN AIRCRAFT-ENGINES.
.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD,
Export Department: 12 Princes Street, Hanover
Square, London, England.
Cable Address :
“Subeamoeo, London.’’
Head Office:
Wolverhampton, England.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WIELSFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.O-, Melbourne.
GOSSARD
f font Lac inf
CORSETS
WORN BY WOMEN OF DISTINCTION
THE WORLD OVER
H. W. Gossard Co.
Chicago Nrwiort London Toronto Sydney BuenoAiru
A Perfect Drilling Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
Description.
Greatest height of drill ..
Greatest distance from spindle to base
Greatest distance from table to spindle
Distance, column to centre of spindle
Diameter of column
Vertical feed of spindle ..
Diameter of table.. .. .«
Spindle fitted for Morse taper ..
Size of largest cone pulley
Size of smallest cone pulley
Tight and loose pulleys . .
Revoftitiow* of driving pulleys..
Floor space ..
69in.
394 in.
24in.
101 in.
9|in.
15 fin.
No. 3
9in. x 2in.
4in. x 2in.
Sin. x 2|in.
250 R.P.M.
46 in. x 16in.
Call or write for further particulars .
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
SGRUTTONS LIMITED,
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
'Tfe
HOPE AND HASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the boarders are suddenly cheery,
Who erstwhile were gloomy and glum:
Glad tidings have spread through the hash-house —
“A new cook has come!”
The pessimist boarder —-a fixture—
On the drawing-room grand starts to strum;
Billy Hughes as a topic is outed—■
A new cook has come!
Fat, chronic dyspeptics, who daily
Exchange notes concerning their turn,
Get together and gleefully murmur:
“A new cook has come!”
The “star” boarders, stingy by nature,
’Phone the grocer: “A magnum of Mumm” ;
And the hash-lady “dresses” for dinner —•
A new’ cook has come!
But, alas! gloom returns on the morrow,
And the verdict, you bet your last thrum,
Is: “The old, old, uneatable menu,
Though a new cook has come!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
Adelaide thieves seem mud ou blue serge,
which is easy to sell aud dithcult to identify.
The Criminal Court lately handed out eight
years for stealing and three for receiving
after which someone broke into a Gawler-
place tailor’s, disregarded the open cash
drawer and all the other stock, and eloped
with every yard of blue serge in sight.
“Murkah”: If Sydney’s new trams are to
be modelled on the pattern now in use, then,
instead of being the best in the world, as the
tramway heads claim, they will be the very
worst. They are the highest from street to
floor that I know of, and to see old people
struggling to clamber into them makes ope
rage at the ignorance that designs them. In-
stead of being perched on top of the motors,
which are on the axles, the floor under the
seats should be hollowed out a foot more than
at present, thus making room for the motors.
The floors could then be lowered that fool to
the benefit of everybody, bar the street-corner
connoisseur in calves.
“Copy Boy” (London) : W. M. Hughes’s
publicity spruikers are already getting in
their work here, in anticipation of his descent
upon London for the Imperial Conference.
When a cable was received announcing that,
owing to the shrinkage of his majority, the
Great Man might not be able to come, the
Daily Despatch, in a column open to out-
side contributions, expressed itself greatly
shocked at such a tragic possibility, and de-
scribed Hughes as “the only great Imperialist
in Australia that possesses the gift of
tongues; his fellows being stolid men who
periodically delight the country by violent
collisions with the King’s English.” W on-
derful how quickly those associated with the
Dominating Personality succeed in acquiring
a share of his.well-known tact!
A girl arrived from England the other day
to marry an ex-soldier who was not on the
wharf to meet her. She produced a photo-
graph which the faithless swain had told her
was of his ancestral home in St. Kilda-road.
It was a view of Federal Government House.
The Diggers who ran to this sort of cruel
swank caused some queer delusions. The brass-
hats know of one woman who, searching for
the man who had failed to meet her, called
at Ormonde House —a home for children
under the N. S. Wales State Children’s; Re-
lief Department—-which he had given her as
his Australian address. Yet another girl was
disillusioned when she discovered that Taronga
Park was a zoo and not one of Sydney's
most stylish mansions. But all the delusions
were not on the wrong side. One Pommy
bride who had come out to share a life of
hardships with a man who let her believe he
was a struggling farmer found that he was a
wealthy station-owner.
“Pongo”: Nearly 20 years ago J. W.
Browne, of Woy Woy (N.S.W.), discovered
a formula for preserving ferns indefinitely
and a dye to give them a natural.appearance.
All his efforts to find a local market proved
fruitless, for nobody wanted preserved Austra-
lian ferns, palms, etc.; so he sounded Europe
—and the ferns were rushed. Germany
became a big customer, and hundreds of
bales were shipped to Fritz annually. But
the wily Hun didn’t want the ferns dyed—
he wanted that little job for himself. Then
the ferns (maidenhair, etc.), began to come
back from Germany to Australia, and they
sold like hot cakes, at from ss. to 10s.
per pot, to the identical shopkeepers who
refused to purchase them from Browne pre-
viously. The war knocked the bottom out
of the industry, but Browne still survives.
One of his fern investments, Patonga Park
estate, Woy Woy, was lately subdivided and
sold. There are not many men who have
made as much out of Australian vegetables.
A log rolled from Kalgoorlie :—•
J. BoyMnd, who defeated “Texas” Green for Kal-
goorlie (B. 24/3/’2l), was not the National Labor
candidate. Walter Close was selected by the
National Labor party for that honor; he lost not
only the election, but his deposit. The position is
that a number of workers split away from the Labor
movement on the Conscription issue. In 1921 this
section showed its disapproval of “colorless National-
ist Governments” by not voting for their candidates.
In Leonora Foley sensed the impending debacle, as
far as National Labor is concerned, and resigned.
Labor candidate Heron now holds the seat. In
Menzies National Labor man Mullaney had the run
of his life, and only won over a raw campaigner by
23 votes. If it had not been for the closing of the
Lancefield mine “Mulga” Taylor, who has been in
polities for 19 years or so, was “gone to the pack”
as far as Mt. Margaret is concerned. What killed
Green at Kalgoorlie was the -fight Mahon had had
only three months before. Mahon lost by 545 votes
in the Kalgoorlie sub-division, which is practically
coterminous with Green’s old electorate. Green
gained on Mahon’s minority by 340 votes. Green is
no “red-ragger.” His slogan was “Australia First.”
Which reminds The Bulletin of those play-
ful remarks in the late Assembly about the
gentleman’s business relations with Chinese.
The fact remains that Boyland has been a
National Labor man from the beginning and
will sit with that party in Parliament. His
victory in Kalgoorlie is much more signifi-
cant than the loss of Leonora, in which there
is only a handful of electors. Together with
Davies’s decisive defeat of W. D. Johnson
in Swan and the hard run Opposition-leader
Collier had in Boulder, it demonstrates that
the National Labor group is keeping its
end up.


.
r lll1 1 *
fW
<2
■
O
o
■
0
o
a
o
oinio
o
o
o
• VK'/;;
u.*r. 3
. *■ *
11 1 1 11 11 1 11 1 n 1 1 1 1 m» a n 11 n i m 11 n 11 11 n 1 11 1 11%
v.
as
'
I
F the front wall of an “Ideal’-warmed home was removed,
and the house tilted up as shown in the diagram, you
would see in a flash the effectiveness, comfort, health
and economy of the "Ideal” heating system.
|OEAL & JDEAI
Radiators
Boilers
You would note one central hot-water boiler, heated by
wood, coal or coke; a simple system of pipes conveying hot
water from the boiler to the radiator in each room; a Spring-
like, healthful warmth free from draughts diffused by the
radiator there; a commendable absence of soot and grit from
decorations, carpets and curtains; and learn with satisfaction
that the cost of heating an average-sized room ranged from
one half-penny to one penny for 24 hours; and that the
expense and fatigue of cleaning were also reduced in the
same proportion.
For new or old buildings. Expert information gratis. Call
or write.
324-330
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
IS
- Piy. Lid^=
391-403
Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
hDEACBOIItfiL
IDEAL RADLATOK
Mz
There is genuine comfort in the thought that your Hupmobile
by making every gallon go farther. Owners demonstrate that
gives 25 miles per gallon in actual running on the road.
conserves fuel
the Hupmobile
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types—Five-seater touring car, two-seater roadster.
Wheelbase—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.)
Cylinders—Four, cast, en bloc, removable head, 3-}in. x sJin.
stroke, 82 x 140 mm.
Starting and Lighting—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition—High-tension Magneto.
Carburettor—Adjustable.
Fuel System —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication —Pressure system, with pump.
Clutch —Dry-disc type —7 plates.
Tyres —Bls x 105 mm. clincher. Demountable rims.
Wheels —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color —Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
457 Adelaide St., Petries Bight, Brisbane, Q’land.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
Hobart.
N.Z. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
H immobile


THE HALLMARK
OF THE
SMART WOMAN.
By MIMOSA.
be really smart a woman must con-
vey the impression of being daintily
fastidious regarding her personal
belonging and appearance. Her hair and
skin must look as though they retained the
appearance of youthfulness as a result of
cleanliness and care. This is impossible
where the skin is spasmodically subjected
to experiments with all sorts of preparations.
The really smart woman will know what
she is using, and those who follow this
advice will use only simple, pure ingredients
that can be procured in original packages.
If the chemist does not have what you want
he can easily obtain it for you, if you insist.
Clammy Hands —After washing your
hands, rub over them a little fuller’s earth
mixed with Orris, powdered. I think you
will find that this will help.
Beauty’s Cheeks —Some face-creams
have a tendency to induce a growth of down
on the face. You can be on the safe side
by avoiding make-up creams, using instead
Mercolised Wax. It will protect your face
in motoring, and holds the powder perfectly.
It is the last word in smart, effective toilet
luxury.
Beautiful Lashes —The character of
the eyebrows and lashes certainly has much
to do with the beauty of the face. (let a
package of Mennaline and apply a little at
night, brushing gently in the morning. This
will bring about a decided improvement in
the texture of your eyebrows and lashes.
Washing I-lair Brushes —Scrupulous
cleanliness of the brushes is necessary if you
wish to keep your hair in good condition. The
best way is to use Curd Soap and a little
household ammonia in warm water. Let
the brushes soak for a short time, then
wash them thoroughly. Rub as dry as pos-
able and air in the sun.
Velvet Skin —Instead of several layers
of face-cream and powder try a solution of
Cleminite. Get a package, dissolve it in
four ounces of water, and bathe the face
with the solution, patting it until it is quite
dry. ' You will have a “skin-like-velvet”
effect that will last.for hours.
Scanty Locks —Thick glossy coils of your
own hair means devoting time to brushing
and sea ip nassage, also an occasional use
of hair tonic to keep the hair healthy. The
best and simplest tonic is Bay Rum and
Boranium. Get a package of Boranium
and mix it with a tr-pint of Bay Rum. This
will clear off any dandruff, and materially
aid in producing the desired result.
Large Pores and Blackheads —This is
the formula: Obtain a package of Stymol
tablets from the chemist's and dissolve one
in a cup of hot water; after the effervescence
has subsided dab the face, using a small
sponge. The result is quite startling. This
is an excellent astringent. Used every day
will close the enlarged pores and prevent
wrinkles.
Bloom of Health —The use of rouge 'f
obvious is rather vulgar. You can get over
the difficulty and still have nice, rosy cheeks
by using Powdered Colliandum. Get a small
tin and apply a little with the tips of the
fingers. It is quite harmless, and its natural
color blends with the tint of the skin, so its
use can never be. detected if it is applied
properly.
In Bad Odor —I do not know of any safe
way to check excessive perspiration, but you
can instantly kill the odor, which is not
only unpleasant to you but to those about
you, by applying a little powdered Pergol.
Cupid’s Bow —The best thing to use for
your lips is just a stick of soft Prolaetum.
Rub this over the lips, and it will give them
the desired color and keep them soft and
fresh.
Superfluous Hair —You can remove that
undesirable down on your face wdth Phemi-
nol. Get a package and apply a little to the
hair, which can soon be rubbed off, leaving
the skin quite clear. It is also useful for
removing hair from the under-arm.
Lack-Lustre Hair —If your hair is dull
and lustreless after a shampoo, you are
using something that is too soapy. Try just
plain Stallax. Get an original package, as
it is more economical. A teaspoonful in a
cup of hot water for each shampoo is suf-
ficient, as it foams tremendously and rinses
off easily, leaving the hair lustrous and
fluffy, with a dainty suggestion of perfume.
Premature Greyness —This trouble may
be easily overcome and the hair restored
to its natural color by using concentrate of
Tammalite. Mix it with about the same
quantity of Bay Rum and apply with a small
sponge.— Apvt.
Rheumatism tears you
like a wolfs jaws, but—
KRUSCHEN SALTS will certainly
relieve rheumatism by treating
its cause. But the sensible man takes
a little KRUSCHEN SALTS—“half-
a-teaspoonful" in hot water in the
morning and does not have any
rheumatism to cure.
Many sufferers from Lumbago, Sciatica, Gout,
Rheumatism and Constipation, waste time and
money treating them. A mistake! They are
only “effects.” Go straight to the cause! Take
KRUSCHEN SALTS—keep your liver right
You’ll be healthy enough, never fear.
"Half-a-
teaspoonful
( KruscheiiSatt^
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists 2/6 per bottle
Enough for two months
Kruschen Salts not only cleanse and regulate the liver. They supply
those salines —necessary to life—which are usually “refined” out of
modern foods.
Kruschen Salts are now sold in the New Dry Powder form. This is a
great improvement on the Crystals. The new style allows the dosage
to be measured better. This means greater exactness, better results
and—the Salts go farther.
Australia: Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H. & W. Grear, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, also at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct Indents executed by the
manufacturers through London Buying Houses.
New Zealand: Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
Fairbaim Wright & Co., Christchurch, Wellington, Auckland
and Dunedin.
«
NOTEKruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes Ltd., established 1756, in the reign of
George the Second.
703 a
CRUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“From 1913 there has been a steady fall in the
crude birth-rate.” —Daily paper.
“Crude [Latin, crudus], raw, uncooked.” —Any die.
Great mothers of the days gone by
Who bore your little children raw,
What dreams were yours beneath the sky
That blessed the tender life it saw
While promise of the fruitful years
Sang softly in its uncooked ears.
The men that were Australia’s pride
Who broke the paths from sea to sea,
The men who fought and bravely died
For honor at Gallipoli,
All these were born as nature willed,
Unbaked, unboiled, unstewed, ungrilled.
Sadly we change. The wool grows long
On flocks beyond the Darling stream;
But in Australia’s inarching song
Faints the long music of a dream
That raw men dreamt who saw afar
The rising of a brave white star.
Children are born. But doubtful mirth
Attends the welcome that they get.
Dad murmurs they are cooked from birth,
Cooked in a swirling stew of debt;
And Mum, whose feelings still are crude,
Thinks of the cost of baby food.
Ah, give us back the great raw days!
The cry is loud across the land.
These cooks of ours that baste and braize
The baby for disaster stand.
Unhook the spit, let down the fire
And the crude birthrate may get higher.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
“Ego Lex Sum” : The modern typist some-
times gets nearer the truth than she knows.
One of her addressed a letter the other day
to “The Customs and Excuse Office.”
This time it is from an Australian with
a job in Japan :
Why don’t the Australian merchants wake up?
There is an Immense field for our produce in Asia ;
but the jam is often leaking from the lids, the
preserved fruit is done up badly, and the cases are
in a filthy condition. And there is a casualness
about deliveries which is simply exasperating.
W. F. Gates, Assistant Chief Inspector of
Vic. State Schools, who was put in the ring
by the Education Department to have a
round with Adrian Knox, C.J., on spelling,
is one of the mildest-mannered men in the
service. He takes off his hat to Knox as
a Judge, but when ’s 'Onor sets up as a philo-
logist and talks of the “good old style,”
Gates has no reverence for him, and much
prefers Murray. If the C.J. won’t have
"center” and “program” in a court docu-
ment, why, asks Gates, doesn’t he insist on
“telegramme,” or, better still, why doesn’t
he go the whole hog and have “ytte” instead
of “it” V However, this is probably the one
subject on which it is no use arguing with
the Chief. In matters of education the
whole Knox family is thoroughly conserva-
tive. Adrian’s brother, E.W., head of the
Colonial Sugar Co. —the great concern which
their father founded —would rather have a
young clerk w r ith a classical than a so-called
commercial education any day.
From a woman in London: —
Hugh 'Ward has a fine suite of offices in Dewar
House, in the Haymarket, and a constant stream of
visitors. He is being entertained in quite a big way
Just before U.S.A. Ambassador Davis left he gave a
dinner-party for Mr. Ward and there were some very
prominent people at it. Then the Belgian Prime
Minister left the conference at Lancaster House to
call upon him, and arrangements have been made for
him to meet the King of the Belgians when he
comes on his State visit. At the Pilgrims’ dinner
the other night Sir Lionel Halsey crossed over to
Mr. Ward and brought him to the Prince of Wales,
and they had a long talk —in the course of which
the little showman managed to get in some enthusi-
astic words about John Storey. Few people know
the ropes where publicity is concerned better than
Hugh Ward, and John Storey has been the gainer by
it. The queerly-unlike pair had an evening off at
‘‘A Night Out” at the Winter Garden Theatre last
week.
A suburban town clerk has decided not
to read to the council any more letters
from Government departments without first
glancing over them. The council was in
debt to a Government department, and was
sent a reminder. But just before this
arrived the cheque had been posted, and
the town clerk sent on a scorching note
about the hob-nailed habits of Government
officials. The head of the department replied
in this strain: “Would you permit me to
thank you for your letter of iust., and
to say that it is pleasant to note how the
tine, old-fashioned courtesy which our fathers,
the pioneers, brought to this country is
treasured and preserved. The jolts of life
are thereby eased wonderfully.” Naturally
councillors wanted to know the text of the
“outward” letter which drew this reply, and
—well, things were only middling for the
rest of the meeting.
“Quarry Hill”: “J.F.IL” (B. 28/4/’2l),
writing from London as to the origin, of
place names, is mistaken in thinking that no
systematic search has been made amongst the
early archives and records of Bendigo to find
out how the goldfields got the name of the
old British prizefighter. George Mackay,
for many years editor of the Bendigo Adveb-
tisek, has compiled two histories, using the
files of the oaper from its first issue for
his work. He had the advantage of being
trained by his father, Angus Mackay, the
owner and editor of the Advertiser, who
reached Bendigo in 1852. Further, R. R.
Haverfield, George Mackay’s predecessor as
editor, was an authority on the early history
of Bendigo, and Haverfield declared that the
name was the soubriquet of a shepherd work-
ing on the Eavenswood station when gold
was first found on it, near Bendigo Creek.
It seems certain that this shepherd gave that
name to the creek, and it was adopted by
the first arrivals as a good name for the
wonderful Eldorado. Gold was first found
at the junction of Golden Gully and Ben-
digo Creek in September, 1851; but though a
man nam'ed Frencham claimed a reward from
the Government, it is not positively known
who was the discoverer. In the four months
to Dee. 31, 1851, 200,0000 z. were literally
picked up at Bendigo by a mere handful of
people misnamed diggers.


m
STILL YOUNG-
but your mouth is
g'rowing' old.
The pretty lips are losing their youthful
contour. They are taking on the look of
withered age.
“Pyorrhea,” says your dentist. “A long-
neglected case. The gums are shrunken
and receding—the teeth loosening and decay-
ing fast.”
Pyorrhea is a preventable disease. Take
proper care of your gums and teeth and
you will not have it.
Forhan’s for the Gums will prevent
Pyorrhea—or check its progress, if used in
time, and used consistently. Ordinary tooth
pastes and powders cannot do this.
If you have tender, bleeding gums (the first symptom of Pyorrhea) start to use
FORHAN’S immediately. Then watch that bleeding stop, and the tenderness disappear.
A Dangerous Warning'—
BLEEDING GUMS.
Are your gums tender? Do they bleed when brushed? If so, watch out for Pyorrhea.
This disease of the gums which afflicts four out of five people over forty, not only destroys
the teeth, but often wrecks the health. In Pyorrhea the gums become spongy, then recede;
the teeth decay, loosen and fall out —or must be extracted to rid the system of the infecting
Pyorrhea germs which breed in pockets about them. These germs lower the body’s vitality
and cause many diseases. You can keep Pyorrhea away. Visit your dentist often for tooth
and gum inspection, and use FORHAN’S for the Gums. FORHAN’S for the Gums prevents
Pyorrhea—or checks its progress, if used in time and used consistently. Ordinary dentifrices
cannot do this. FORHAN’S keeps the gums firm and healthy—the teeth white and clean. Start
using it to-day. If your gums have receded use FORHAN’S according to directions, and
consult a dentist immediately for special treatment.
KEEP YOUR HOLD on YOUTH
Into the noonday of life carry the glory of your youth. The leaping pulse of perfect
health, the beauty of yesteryear can still be yours.
Pyorrhea, which afflicts so many over forty, will pass you by. In its blighting touch
Pyorrhea is akin to age. Its infecting germs deplete vitality. They cause the gums to
recede and the teeth to loosen.
Take care that this enemy of health and beauty does not become established in YOUR
mouth. Watch for it. Visit your dentist often for tooth and gum inspection.
If you have tender or bleeding gums (the first symptom of Pyorrhea) use FORHAN’S
for the Gums.
FORHAN’S for the Gums will prevent Pyorrhea—or check its progress if used in
time and used consistently. FORHAN’S keeps the gums firm and healthy—the teeth white
and clean. * wit a i,‘ > 8
Hew to Use FORHAN’S
Use it twice daily, year in and year out. Wet your
brush in cold water, place a half-inch of the refreshing,
healing paste on it, then brush your teeth UP AND
DOWN. Use a rolling motion to clean the crevices.
Brush the grinding and back surfaces of the teeth.
Massage your gums with your Forhan-coated brush
gently at first until the gums harden, then more vigor-
ously. If the gums are very tender, massage with the
finger, instead of the brush. If gum-shrinkage has
already set in, use Forhan’s according to directions and
consult a dentist immediately for special treatment.
Price: Small size, 2/-; Large size, which is the most
economical, 3/6. Obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores, or will be sent post free on receipt of the price
by the Australasian Agents
SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.,
131-135 Clarence Street, Sydney.
.kfgocc 5
<■.
««**£
»f
as
cc .
o*
*
w
«/tor
cc
5.
It
£&
«5i
•• —~-« v ; '
FOR THE GUMS
Checks Pyorrhea


Give Cuticura the Care
Of Your Skin
And watch that troublesome erup-
tion disappear. Bathe with Cuti-
cura Soap, dry and apply Cuticura
Ointment. For eczemas, rashes,
pimples, irritations, itchings and
dandruff on scalp, they are wonder-
ful. Nothingso insures acl ear skin
and good hair as making Cuticura
your every-day toilet preparations.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
SMfr Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap. 1/-; Ointment. 1/- & 2/-
=3?.
n
4 *v
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the. homeland.
ZENOBB>
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock—
sweet as the perfume
of ah old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K, BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
0*
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
“Don’t try your stale old tricks on me,
Cough up the dinkum goods!
That label’s just plain piracy
Without the name of Woods.
No, sir, that ‘just-as-good’ won’t do,
’Tis imposition pure!
I want no sauce from such as you,
Gimme Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!”
—Advt.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TFsed since 1596. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES WEAK SIGHT.
Sl GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist oa “Sinfflotoa’s”—refuse all substitutes.
a
T
—*o
*
DBG
Men who discriminate
in the choice of a pipe
: —invariably choose a GBD. No need to ask
why, when you realise that every pipe which
bears the GBD trade-mark is the work of an
expert.
Made in London from selected French Briar-
wood, thoroughly matured and neatly finished.
With your favorite tobacco and a GBD—
a regal smoke is within reach at all times.
Many popular
shapes.
GBD
. .
On sale
everywhere.
nisiiiiiiiiiniHuiiiiiuniiiiiijHiiiii
tjwßy um\vji,gny
' all ‘K33HQ ’3 A33NVXS
iirniiiinmiiimiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiili
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
uiiuiiiMuiimiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiwiiimii!
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOdRAPH
Full, rich tone, clear reproduction
Ready to play immediately opened.
Carried as easily as a handbag.
During the war tens of thousands
of Deccas played, sang and
amused scores of thousands of
soldiers —in trenches, dugouts,
camps and hospitals.
To-day the Decca is even more
popular, providing its owners,
1 amongst whom are many Diggers,’
I with musical entertainment wher-
ever they may be.
3 Models:
Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. .. 11 10 0
Cowhide .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
FROM ALL
_ MUSIC-DEALERS.
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
An Ideal Treatment for
INDIGESTION GASTRITIS
and
ALL STOMACH AILMENTS
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2 6 and 4/6. [a
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2J& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £3B/10/-
Correspondenee invited.
D.g W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
“In the course of a few years all our
motor, motor-cycle and aeroplane engines
will be driven by alcohol, and Australia will
produce every drop she needs,’’ says a scien-
tific paper.
The chauffeur stood before the court,
Inebriated.
The fat P.M., a decent sort,
The fellow slated,
And sent him straightway to the cells
For but an hour.
The verdict, as the paper tells,
Was “Drunk with power!”
victoria. p.
“Malthus”: Poor Bill’s in the last ditch,
as witness this advt. in Adelaide Advek-
tisek (8/3/’2l) :
£3l buys small Pony Dogcart and Harness, chil-
dren, and Half Tank, in good condition. Apply
“Hilly,” this office.
“Narrum”: When verbose individuals
solicit my vote for this, that or the other
reason, my mind goes back to the simple and
lucid speech of a candidate on the South
Coast (N.S.W.) years ago. “Ladies and
genelmen,” he said, “you see before yen to-
night the man wot interduced the first blood-
stallion inter this distriek.” lie romped
home.
“D. Fish” : Bay whaling goes back almost
to the beginning of settlement in the Speck.
In 1805 William Collins, a master-mariner'
who had come with David Collins to Port
Phillip and then gone on to the Derwent,
applied for leave, and in the following winter
set up the first nay-whaling station at the
entrance to Ralph’s Bay, a few miles from
Hobart, on a point known to the old hands
as Tryway Point (from the pots used for try-
ing out the blubber), but now calleu Droughty
Point. After that the business grew rapidly.
Ilori Grey died in 1898, aged 86, and was
entombed in St. Paul’s, London. He had
served in S’Africa and Maoriland and had
in his time accumulated MSS. and books
beyond .price. On leaving Cape Town he
presented the S’African Public Library with
a vast collection, and, later, on leaving
Maoriland for good, he gave a second col-
lection to the Auckland Library. Now the
S’African Government is passing an Act to
enable the trustees to hand over to the
M.L. Government such works as relate to
the Dominion in exchange for such as relate
to South Africa. It is just the sort of Act
old Ilori would have sanctioned.
“Teffle”: Some time before ,T. A. Gilruth
was unloaded on the Territory he was in
charge of the M.L. Stock Department, and
gave information and advice to the man on
the land. An Auckland poultry-farmer
sent him some eggs with shells of a peculiar
coloring, and asked what was the matter
with them. In- overdue course he received a
reply stating that the trouble was caused
by “abnormal melanotic pigmentation,” and
that Gilruth had the honor to be his obedient -
servant. Whereupon the chicken-merchant
leant against his fowl-house and wept be-
cause in his stupidity he had not discovered
this simple explanation for himself.
“Ex-Banker”: Combination and not com-
petition is the aim of modern business. The
natural corollary of banking amalgamation
is the closing of unnecessary branches and
agencies. Otherwise the banks are so jealous
of each other that it is difficult to get them
to confer as to closure. Particularly are
the British banks envious of the Australian,
and they continue to open branches along-
side local banks already well established.
The policy is suicidal. Look at Ballarat and
Bendigo, and even Geelong. Two banks
in each city could comfortably do all the
business, especially now the Commonwealth
Bank has opened" in these places. And it
will of course establish itself in other centres.
The Associated Banks strictly agree as to
rates, and they ought to confer about useless
branch competition.
The Anglican Church at Cobbitty
(N.S.W.), built in 1840 when Thomas Has-
sa.ll was incumbent and resided on his pas-
ture farm at Denbigh, has a quaint little
cemetery adjoining. Many notable pioneers,
like the Cowpers, Hassalls and Wilds, are
there under imposing monuments; and there’s
one modest little headstone inscribed: —
In memory of a stranger and sojourner, Thomas
Hollins. Died 7 Aug., 1853, aged 35 years. “Blessed
are the dead who die in the Lord.”
Parson llassail met this man in George-
street, Sydney, and saw how ill he was. He
said he had no home, that he was a stranger
and sojourner in a strange land, had no
prospects and hoped the close of the day
would find-him dead. The big-hearted cleric
took him to Cobbitty, got a room for him
near the church and engaged a woman to
wait on him, but two or three days later the
Reaper called.
“Blaekfish”: Nothing but vague tradition
seems to have survived about the internal
economy of the old bay-whaling stations
which were so common a century ago on the
Tas. coast, and were later established on
the mainland from Twofold Bay to En-
counter Bay, not to speak of Westralia.
But the log of a Maoriland station for 1836-
1844 has been in part preserved. It was
Captain Hempelmau’s station at Piraki, on
Banks Peninsula. The season ran from May
till September, much the same as on the Tas.
coast, and the best catch recorded was 29
whales, in 1839. This is not quite up to
the Tas. record, for tradition says that in
one season 334 whales were taken at Gar-
diner’s Bay station on Forestier’s Peninsula
(Tas.). The half-whale was one that had
to be shared with Watson’s party, which
worked from the next bay. The two boats
struck the whale at the same time, and to
save trouble it was divided. To judge by
Hempelman’s account bay-whaling was not
very profitable, and after several years he
was badly in debt. But by that time the
price of oil and bone had tumbled a good
deal, partly owing to the competition of the
deep-sea whalers, largely Yankee and French,
who swarmed in the Southern Seas. In any
case, Hempelman’s men don’t seem to have
been much of a crowd.


%
>2
K-V>.
BUSINESS MEN,
You who are always so correct in your analysis
of a store, its service and its merchandise--we
invite you to pass judgment upon DAVID JONES* as
a MAN'S STORE.
From the standpoint of GOOD Clothea at
MODERATE PRICES, have we not built up a reputation
for selling merchandise that is the best at the
price?
Let us take HATS as an example. Do we not
successfully cater for the diverse tastes of the
entire community?
Can you get better hats for the same prices
as our new shapes in Pure Fur Felts at 22/6 and
25/6? We think not.
And in the higher-priced headwear--Stetson 9
Knox, Woodrow, Christie and Borsalino makes--the
values are equally keen.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Weaning time
for baby is
“Benger time.”
IbeScers fcw4
ill®l§
Weaning time need not
check development nor render
baby fretful. The transition
stage from the breast to
normal food is the stage when
Benger’s should be given to a
breast-fed baby.
Food
is always prepared with fresh
new milk. It does more than
enrich the milk with valuable
food elements; it adjusts the
milk itself to the delicate
digestion of a child. Baby
takes the change happily and
without check.
THE BOOK OF BENGER’S FOOD
is a medically approved guide to
the rearing of Infants and the
care of Invalids. Every household
should possess a copy. Write for
it to-day post free.
•
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd., 117. Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd., MANGHEBTEK, England.
A. 12.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BUFFALO FORGE COMPANY
FORGES, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS
THE BUFFALO AGRICULTURAL FORGE
is indispensable on the station, farm, etc.
It enables repairs to implements to be done
on the spot—prevents little breakages from
developing into serious delay. At the low
price it pays for itself in no time. Strongly
built, with powerful, easy-running blower.
Complete with windshield or half hood.
A , PM''
J (.1 W /)
%
_iD -n, l
"“Tt ,'• A V ;
BUFFALO BLACKSMITHS’ FORGE means
quicker, better work, and a clean, cool shop.
Has down draft hood which keeps the shop
free of smoke and fumes—making work
easier and healthier. A perfect substitute for
the old forge. Has heavy cast iron bed,
cooling tank and is equipped with famous
Buffalo all-geared Blower for rapid heating.
\
The Reputation of
BUFFALO PRODUCTS
is World-wide.
The continued use of Buffalo Equipment in
practically every country in the world speaks
for its ability to satisfy users in both efficiency
and durability. Each Buffalo Forge, Blower
or Exhauster is unique in its suitability to the
purpose for which it is designed.
Large Stocks of
BUFFALO FORGES
BLOWERS, EXHAUST
FANS & DRILLING MACHINES
Ask for Catalogue (Post Free) describing
Buffalo Forges, Blowers Exhaust Fans and
Drilling Machines, or call and inspect.
AGENTS:
BUFFALO RIVET FORGE—probably the best
known of all forges. Used the world over by
shipbuilding yards, railways, constructional
engineers and workshops. Popular because
of its compactness and ability to stand hard
usage. Blower has high-speed helical gears,
is dust and weather-proof, and gives a
powerful blast.
m
£
«
BUFFALO VOLUME BLOWERS AND
EXHAUSTERS. —There is a Buffalo Volume
Blower or Exhauster for every service.
BLOWERS for general industrial work, to
supply draft to forges and furnaces, etc.
EXHAUSTERS for removing foul air, dust,
smoke and steam from workshops, for general
ventilation, removing shavings and refuse
from woodworking machines and grinding
equipment, etc.
PARKE fi-LACY C 9 UP
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERy MERCHANTS.
60 Clarence Sf Sudneu.
»(7ai/Aov{ey


THE BUSY HOUSEWIFE
is Apt to Neglect Herself.
In these strenuous times the
hundred and one little duties
around the house keep the house-
wife busy from early morn
to late at night. In fact so
busy that she frequently neglects herself.
This neglect although apparently trivial at
first gradually develops into Chronic
Constipation with all its attendant suffer-
ings such as Indigestion, Headaches,
Biliousness, etc. When such a condition
as this occurs a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found most
beneficial. It is important, however, to bear in
mind that the bowels should operate at least once
every day. At the first sign of irregularity take a
dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to save a
great deal of discomfort and prevent more serious
troubles developing.
A
COMMON
COLD.
Winter is now approaching and
colds are becoming the order
of the day, and it is of the
greatest importance that the
Liver and Bowels are kept in
proper working order. By so
doing the risk of catching cold
will be considerably reduced.
If a cold is felt to be approach-
ing take Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills nightly when retir-
ing until the symptoms dis-
appear, or if this necessary
precaution has been neglected
and the cold develops, a
similar course of treatment
will minimise the distress.
Vs
mmxji
D
R
Morses
m
%
%
i
FOR TrlE-
m
m
Y 7777,
*777//SZ7,
They Make You Feel Brighter.


rw^SSsssS'
i
i'M^r
I
I
7
-
>
m
u*r*
•V
3^5
1:
5^
s*-,
m
k*>
' : y ; :
«f
:■
m
V,
£5
:vfcw»‘
S'
m
BE WISE BUY EARLY.
Buy your winter medicine early. Many a cold and
serious sickness has been warded off by having just the
needed remedy on your medicine shelf at the beginning
of winter. No need for coughs, colds, croup, influenza
and many other minor afflictions if you will only
keep handy Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
%
<yuXs
Granny Chamberlain
COPYB-ICHTED
Power is
Expensive—Save It
But not by reducing production.
By the use of ball bearings you can largely increase produc-
tion and consume no more power than formerly, for, in the
average plant, friction destroys at least 25 per cent, of all
the power produced or bought.
High-grade ball bearings, such as
BALL BEARINGS
are almost frictionless. Not only is less power required, but
belting life is lengthened, wear is practically eliminated, bear-
ing renewals are postponed almost indefinitely, frequent
tying up of equipment is avoided, oil costs are lower, and hot
boxes are unknown.
SICF* Ball Bearings, by conserving the energy
formerly wasted, benefit the whole power
line from the machines back
to the boilers.
An expert direct from the home factory is now located in Australia, and his advice is at your disposal.
Write for the pamphlet, “Save Money—-Turn Friction Into Power.”
Gardner, Wasrn & Co.
HEAD OFFICE-384 CITY ROAD, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres: MELBOURNE—369 Flinders Street;
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street; BRISBANE —329 Adelaide Street;
ADELAIDE —122 Currie Street; PERTH —Unbehaun fc Johnstone.
37 King Street; HOBART —The Medhurst Electrical Works and
.Telephone Co., Ltd., 15 Argyle Street.
The Freeing of Mary Reid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE Donovan boys found Peter Reid
crumpled up in tbe white dust of
the road. Death had been waiting
for him at the corner by the river, and his
horse had shied at the terror his rider could
not see. Peter Reid’s head had struck the
big brown stone, and his horse had fled from
the unseen thing that killed its master. And
the Donovan boys, as they made a stretcher
of a bag and two saplings, wondered how
they would break the news to Mrs. Reid.
But the horse did that. When the Dono-
van boys plodded mournfully across the
paddock to Peter Reid s home, Mary Reid
was standing on the clay verandah, studying
their black silhouette against the setting
sun. Young Harry Reid was sitting beside
her plaiting the lash for a whip.
Because they thought it would be kinder,
the Donovan boys laid down the body of
Peter Reid in his own home paddock and
clustered about it. while Sam went on ahead.
Sam knew Mary Reid almost as well as his
own mother; yet now he grew red and
uncomfortable.
‘‘Bad news, ru’ni,” he said ; “your husband
has gone and got hurt!’’ He shuffled from
one foot to the other and twisted his
freckles into a look of warning and a mes-
sage of woe. Mary Reid stood gaunt and
gnarled before him, and he had an impres-
sion of many little Reids hovering in the
background like disturbed magpies. She was
a fierce, sad woman, whose life had held
more pain than even Sam Donovan knew.
She was looking through and round him
now at the little black knot of his brothers
and the thing they were grouped about. .
“Hurt?” she asked.
“Badly, m’m,” said Sam, and then, as
she made no answer and no movement, he
turned and they walked through the dry
grass which swished beneath their feet in
a sad little song. Mary Reid’s heart was
chilled: she had borne with so much, and
now to have him a helpless invalid —perhaps
for years!
The Donovans drew away from the
stretcher and ran their fingers round their
hats.
“What happened’?” asked the woman as
they neared the group.
“Horse threw ’im,” said Sam, and paused
then, for it did not seem necessary to add
that since he was returning from the town-
ship, Peter Reid had undoubtedly been drunk.
Sam saved his breath. Mrs. Reid would
know that, and, anyway, he was dead now.
One glance sufficed to make it clear to
his wife.
“Oh, why didn’t you say so?” she cried,
looking accusingly at Sam, and the Donovan
boys drew their toes through the dust and
waited to see how she would take it. Their
expectations were not fulfilled. Mary Reid
did not weep, nor did she throw herself
upon the body—she looked into the red of
the sunset and she laughed loud and clear,
so that you wondered where such laughter
had lain hidden in that brown, knotty throat.
At that the Donovan boys glanced anxiously
at each other. But Mary Reid paid no heed
to them. She looked into the western sky
and laughed again, and her head was held
high as though she was a queen who had
come to her crown. Standing there in the
burnt paddock, in her old brown working
dress and with her greying hair silvered
by the level sunlight, the wife of Peter
Reid laughed royalty, so that the Donovan
boys were afraid.
She signed to them, and. much bewildered,
the bearers picked up the stretcher and
marched across to the little dwelling’. Be-
fore them went Mary Reid, looking to
neither right nor left, but with her eyes
fixed on the crest of the big bill before her,
where the reflection of the sunset peeped
through the comb of trees which bristled
against the sky.
The Donovan boys knew all the* Reids,
but they seemed as strange as their mother
now. They stood on one side and watched
with wide eyes, and even Harry, nearing
manhood, hovered uncertainly on the out-
skirts. The Donovan boys and the young
Reids were very frightened as they carried
the body into the small living room and laid
it down upon the bare board table beneath
the bunch of ferns which was supposed to
catch flies in the summertime. Then they
left Mary Reid alone with the dead, and ,out
on the verandah they whispered together.
But Mary Reid did not hear them. She
stood in that little low room, and she looked
at the face of Peter Reid, bloated despite
the calm of death. Then she shook herself
as though to be sure that she was awake,
and a little smile crept round her face.
“Free!” her lips said although they made
no sound.
She put out her hand and touched the cold
forehead wonderingly. It had been a long,
long time, but now it was over. Peter Reid
had gone away, and there would be no more
to be suffered from him; she was free with
her children and the farm, with only the
world to fight. She did not fear the world.
Outside a jackass laughed farewell to the
sun’s rim, a mouse flickered from one corner
to another, the hush of evening softened the
hush of death. And Peter Reid lay still and
cold on his own table and would never come
back. lie had ridden away to the township
and had stayed there. This was not Peter
Reid, but only his powerless corpse.
With the gesture of one who throws off
chains, Mary walked to the door and opened
it to the peace of the evening. A cow bel-
lowed near at hand.
“Strawberry wants milking, Harry,” she
said.
Her son. tall and bony, smiled at her as.
he rose to obey, as if he understood some-
thing of her feelings now. The Donovan boys
felt move at home.
“S’pose you’ll get on just as well. Mrs.
Reid?” said Sam. trying to voice the feeling
that was upon them all.
And suddenly, she knew not why, Mary
Reid found that she was crying. She closed
the door sharply, and through the twilight
spoke to her husband.
“Thank you, Peter,” she said to the shadow
on the table.
DALE COLLINS.


WORKS - - - -
HEAD OFFICE. -
- - - NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
- 8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Galvanized Corrugated Iron,
Galvanized Plain Iron,
Black Sheets.
LOCAL AGENTS:-
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
AND AT
24 Queen Street - - MELBOURNE
436-444 • Ann Street - BRISBANE
Grenfell Buildings - - ADELAIDE
21 Mouatt Street- - FREMANTLE
Business, Robbery, etc.
*
Red Robe”: Apropos of Time’s little joke
(R. 21/4/’2l) with the estate of Edmund
Webb at Bathurst (N.S.W.), a parallel case
was the purchase, for a convent and school
tor the Sisters of Charity, of Dr. Cairns’s old
Scotchbyterian kirk and grounds in East
Melbourne, next door to Scotch College. The
stone from the kirk was used in the building
ol the residential portion of the convent
Cairns had no love' for Catholics. The rec-
tress tactfully presented the historic pulpit
to a Scotch woman friend of hers, who had it
shifted to a town in the north-east, where a
meenister felt proud to occupy it.
“First Old Man”: Seems that every trade
has its risks. Things being slack in the
grease-paint line, I had an idea of becoming
a bottle-o —there’s never a slump in dead
marines. But a recent tragedy connected
with that industry has “given me pause.”
A bottle-gatherer was following his calling
in Carlton (Vic.) the other day, and, as
any man might, took a swig at a half-full
beer-bottle. It was his last drink; he died
half Jin hour later on his way to Melbourne
Hospital. Some of the beer brewed in Mel-
bourne is deadly ; but this particular bottle
happened to contain disinfectant. I’m still
in the theatrical business.
* * # •
“Hamer”: In a letter produced at a recent
inquest in Sydney, a passage that obtruded
itself was: “The palmist’s prophecy is ful-
filled.” And it was not very long ago that
a man \vho had attempted suicide by drown-
ing explained that a fortune-teller had prophe-
sied that end, and, coming to a spot which
he had recognised as the one described in her
vision, he thought his finish had arrived, aud
went to it. If fortune-tellers were only a
cheap, harmless amusement, they might be
allowed to rake in their half-crowns from
people who wanted to spend them that way;
but they are not. With many people sugges-
tion is a moving force; and it seems to gain
strength when that force receives its first
impulse from a sloppy, ignorant woman who
surrounds herself with the trappings of cheap
mysticism and delivers words of cryptic
aitchlessness.
* * * *
“Croson” : Though people are making a fuss
over carrying out a contract to buy wheat
at 9s, while Germany is paying but 7s. Iod.,
and though at. the start they got it for 9s.
when the true price was much higher, nobody
has so far made an outcry about the in-
decent way we are being taken down over
the butchers’ counters. While beef is being
sold at Newmarket (Vic.) yards at fid. per
lb. on the hoof and mutton at sd. and
one can get little of either at the butchers’
for less than three times the price. And a
big butcher told me long ago that he could
afford to sell at the price he bought at—
the by-products gave him his profit. But
in the meat case the middleman gets the oof,
in the wheat case the grower ; and apparently
the producer must not be allowed to get fat,
else he wouldn’t produce enough.
“Percy Pawnticket”: While the Angli-
can Synod was talking to itself at Bathurst
(N.S.YV.) about the fees of the poor par-
son, one cleric made his brothers gasp by
declaring he had never received less than
five guineas for a marriage. There are
districts in Sydney where the parson has
never received more than a pound, and many
have had to take less. , One shepherd told
me that more than once he had accepted
half-a-crown for doing the dreadful deed;
and I was talking to him on a night when
he took less. It was a woman who
approached to make arrangements, the man
hanging bashfully in the background—she
said that he was shv. “There is .the fee,
of course,” said the cleric. The" woman
went back to the bashful one, and a discus-
sion and a chinking of money ensued. Then
the man came forward awkwardly. “I’ve
only got eight bob,” he said, “an’ .we’ll w r ant
seven for bed and breakfast: can yer do it
for a bob ?” Reasons being given, the
parson “did it” for nothing.
* * * *
“Her Bx-oke Bloke”: The ring simply
must be diamonds. She says the correct
thing is three diamonds. Mama thinks two
ought to be enough. Ma-in-law favors five.
And sister Susie, who follows all the modern
political movements, believes in One Big
Diamond. But not on any consideration
could it be anything but diamonds. Result,
the jewellers don't know what to do with
the colored gems they have in stock, and if
it were not for the lueky-birthday-stone
superstition they would not sell a single
ruby, emerald or aquamarine. Common-
wealth jewellers, at their annual inter-State
conference at Melbourne, bewailed the un-
precedented popularity of the diamond. “For
the last few years,” said retiring President
Smith, “it has been almost impossible to
sell colored stones, with the exception of
rare sapphires of yellow, blue or green and
the finer opals. Personally, I have had to
take out of stock and re-set all colored
stones.” The jewellers put it down to
fashion. Most of us try to get it put down
to father’s account.
# * * #
“Bail”: The pure-bred cow tests by N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture have sent
coekeydom into deliriums. In 273 days the
production by the three leading animals
showed:—•
Milk Butter
_ . Yield. Fat. Test.
Fairy of Fairfield (Illawarra) 18,8601 b. 049.91 b. 3.5
Hope (Guernsey) .. 11,2141 b. 6551 b. 5.8
Fussy 111. (Shorthorn) .. 11,1331 b. 438.291 b. 3.9
Fairy of Fairfield’s yield is an Australian
record. But she has a longish way to go
before she catches up to the famous
Holstein, Tilly. This is her record as set
out by Dr. Russell Smith in “Food Resources
of the World”:—
Age at Calving. Milk. Butter.
2 years 5 months .. 14,837.2 556.20
3 » 3 .. .. 21,421.3 841.22
5 >. 1 .. 80,451.4 1189.03
3 » r > .. • . 29,826.6 1190.40
7 » 7 „ .. 26,814.8 1042.20
3 >» 2 .. 33,424.8 1323.00
Total (0 years).. 156,776.1 6142.11
In a test-year Tilly averaged 251 b. of butter
per week.
* * # *
“Type Tickler”: Despite what “Doodit”
(B. 14/4/’2l) says—and it is perfectly true
about the failure o>f the £12,000 mail-carry-
ing device between the Sydney G.P.O. and
the Exchange, the Post Office has at times
made some profitable investments, F’rinstance
About 12 years ago a machine was installed
which it was claimed would cut out the
hand-stamping of letters, etc. The machine
cost £l4O, was a winner from the jump,
stamped over 1300 letters per minute and
thus paid for itself in seven weeks, and shows
a profit of over £12,000 to date. It was in-
vented by a Scot named Burns who at one
time was employed at Mori’s Dock as an
engineer. He first formed a syndicate to
place the invention upon the market, but the
venture, was not a success. Then he took the
matter in hand personally and worked to such
good purpose that his machine is now uni-
versally adopted. He is still turning them
°i lt a u etone . (M.L.). Burns’s son Bobby
also has an inventive streak, for while
on active service with an English regiment
during the recent disturbance he patented and
passed, over to the nation no less than 47
inventions, among them the Burns bomb and
the eye-angle gun. The lad—he was only about
-4—was ottered a seat on the Inventions
Board, and later rose to a big job in the air
service.
* * # #
‘‘Jonah” (Darwin) : Birtles’s expensive
trip across country at this time of the year
makes one wonder what Billy Hughes’s idea
is, as all the information that the Government
wants is already in the pigeon-holes of the
old External Affairs Department. And if
anything further is wanted, why not apply
to the Postal Department? Take f’rinstanoe
old George Hunter, who has looked after the
Overland Telegraph Line on and off since he
joined the Department in 1882. George can’t
count on the fingers of his hands the number
of trips he has made. He recently arrived in
Darwin after being two years out from Adel-
aide. Ilis particular job this time was mostly
“butting” the iron poles put up just on 50
years ago. The poles were rusting through
badly at the ground and George had to cut
them off at the surface, put in new east butts
and wedge in the shortened poles.
* * * *
“Billiken” : The old dame looked a pathetic
figure when she crumpled up in a faint on the
pavement outside the corner pub. A curious
crowd quickly gathered, and a little first-aid
expert pushed in and assumed control. “Give
her fresh air, and more fresh air,” he ex-
horted the jostling crowd. He caught sight
of a helmet. “Constable,” he shouted, “push
these people back. All she reuuires is fresh
air.” The old girl made a remarkably quick
recovery, got on her feet and glared at the
first-aid expert. “Fresh air,” she snarled;
“what’s the good of fresh air? That stuff’s
only fit for aeryplanes to fly in.” The John
Hop grinned as she toddled off. “She has
worked that scheme three times to-day,” he
explained, “and scored a nip of brandy every
time.”
* * * *
“Dido”: The tattered, shuffling mendicant
seesawed his way up the garden path and
encountered the lady of my establishment in
the hall. He was pale and perspiring, and
seemed much moved. “What sorter woman's
that you got next door?” he asked petu-
lantly, as if holding us in some measure
responsible for our neighbors’ peculiarities.
“Has she any ’uman feelinks at all? I goes
to her where she’s knittin’ on the v’rander,
and I says: ‘Lady, how would you like it if
a pore feller died here at your feet?’ And
she jest, looks up at me, and says she, bright
as a bird: ‘That all depends. Have you
the price of a burial about you? My ’usban’
is a undertaker.’ ”
THE TRANSLATION OF A HOLY HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind came up and would not stop.
It took my oldest, kindest hat.
I saw the grey brim wildly flop
Beyond the bed where pumpkins fat
Sit ripening in a heavy calm
Unbroken by the house-door’s slam.
My hat went up by zig-zag ways
As though it climbed a crystal stair.
It saw above the cloudy haze
And longed and panted to be there;
And as the wind refused to stop
The felt was very soon on top,
A naked wind that wears a hat
Might move derision in the trees
If it should walk across a flat
Or pause beside a house to sneeze;
But in the mountain places wild
The gentle red-gums merely smiled.
Away, away beyond the rim
Of forests linking height to height
J saw that happy hat grow dim
'Beyond my farthest reach of sight;
Most utterly it passed from view
And where it went 1 never knew.
Mb lar above this tossing world
Where leaves and simple mortals blow
Tliat hat of mine was gaily hurled
Through spaces 1 could never know:
But upward, upward, upward still
it flew to touch Heaven’s topmost hill.
Above the moon, beyond the stars
1 see it gaily mount and sail;
The Milky Way has never bars
To make its purpose thin and pale.
1 see it reach the very top
And greet St. Peter with a flop.
“Whose hat?” he cries, and views it well.
He turns it over in his hand.
Its simple tale the band can tell;
He n °ds and seems to understand.
“So old, so frail, so worn,” he says,
“Only true saints wear such these days.”
He takes a halo number seven
And puts it gently round the crown;
Then hangs it on a hook in Heaven
And sighs arid smooths his whiskers down.
And there my hat that did no wrong
Listens to angel gusts of song.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
WJ
.y.
r
3
I
B.S.A. FITTINGS arc
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don't be put off with
"pattern fittings," but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


THE
rf\o NAL a 4/v
m,
'em
ggfc»‘ "5
-Ssi-V:
-r 1 ?
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
head oßStft&firtSK* * A ' M HB£gi&> „ 58 ,
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ot
Proprietors
£5,000
£2,000,000
1,200,000
£3,200,000
828,000
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Devuty Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St* Manager ;R. S. GREGSON. Sub-Manager : li. C. McGONNA-N.
George St* City Office, 350 George St* Manager; j. a. g. hadley.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales
LONDON OFFICE; 7 Lotbbury, E.C,2,
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - - -
WITHDRAWALS
INTEREST
Accepted from 1A upwards.
Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
-JPersonai, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
The Story of Dotty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
night after Previous Convictions
I and Dotty turned up at my place at
Leeton they camped on a vacant
block along the irrigation channel. There
was nothing missing in Leeton next morning ;
no one had anything to miss, except perhaps
the Commission, and not even a hope-
less kleptomaniac like Dotty would attempt
to thieve anything from that. Nobody ever
got anything out of a Royal Commission.
In the afternoon Previous Convictions turned
up again; or, rather, I found the faded
little man waiting vaguely in the shade on
the lower steps of my front verandah.
“I promised to come round again before
we went on,” lie said. “I waited till I seen
the Little Landlady go up town. I knowed
she was out here housekeeping for you. I
useter know her when she kept the big
refreshment rooms in North Sydney. I never
thieved anything off of 7<er—except perhaps
a few cigarettes—an I’ll make that up to
her some day. No, not from her —she was
kind to us young larrikins.”
“And you promised to tell me something
about your life. Previous,” I said.
And so I will. I told you I was born at
a livery stables. At least that’s where I
come to meself. My father—well, never
min'd who he was. He was what they called
a gentleman in them days. They used to
say that it broke out in me sometimes; but
that was a long time ago. Me mother was
—well, she’s dead.”
Previous dropped the vernacular occasion-
ally, and then you’d know he felt things.
Perhaps it was his father “breaking out” in
him —there are many like him in the city and
Outback.
“\ou know what those livery stables are
like,” Previous went on ; “you can see it in
most country towns. There’s a sort of a
sullen, unhealthy, resentful —what-d’yer-call-
it?—atmosphere about them. And the me
who go out with stallions are often the same
They seem to get all the bad qualities of th
horses and none of the good ones. Anyway
I went crook —but only on thievin’. Pei
Imps we get broodin’ about what peopl
Ihink we are, and end up by gettin’ to think
that we might as well he it. But I learnec
to ride and I learned to swim. (The stables
were close to a swimming baths.) I can
do a lot of things that nobody would ever
dream of me doing.”
The voice went on now as though it were
altogether detached from Previous. I lis-
tened, and thought of the days when 7
could ride.
“Why didn’t you go in the Light Horse or
something, in 1915, Previous? It would
have straightened you up,” I said.
“The Light Horse are all about six feet
and weigh half a ton each,” said Previous—
“at least all I’ve seen of ’em.”
“But you might have gone in the artil-
lery, or army medical, or somethiiig, as
driver?”
“An’ what good would that do me?”
“It would have built you up. And you
might have got a medal, or even a Victoria
Cross.”
“No good—it would only have made my
previous convictions come out worse Be-
sides, there was me shoulder that went crook
gittin’ that kid from under, the tram.”
I begged pardon.
“Where's Dotty?” I asked, to end an
awkward pause.
“I’ll show you by-and-bye. An’ about
Dotty. After he got the knock on the head
savin that kid when he was a shunter in
the Goulburn railway yards, he was never
quite right; and, after his wife gaoled him
for maintenance in Sydney, they had to put
him in the Receiving House for loonies. His
missus pretended to be sorry, an’ she used
to come and visit him there, an’ bring him
fruit an’ stuff—be very lovin’ an’ kiss
him when she came an’ kiss him when she
went away. Now, there was a little window
in that rat-joint that looked out into the
strget opposite the old jug” (Previous meant
the Darlinghurst Gaol) “and she’d tell him
to look out of that window after she’d gone
and she’d wave her hand to him. And when
he looked out she’d be walking- up and
down with the other man. And she'd wave
hei hand to Dotty s window, and kiss it, too.
“You see she wanted to drive him into a
real mad-house, and get rid of him for good.
He’d rave about it. but the attendants and
doctors only thought it was delusions'* (A
good many delusions are the real thing; but
the real things have to be cured as well as
the delusions.) “One day, two of the attend-
ants —the head one and a probationer—lis-
tened to Dotty, and watched that window,
and caught her at it. After that they shut
that window—and shut her out of the place,
too, for good and all. But they saved Dotty
from the mad-house.
“They keep patients at the Receiving
House for a week or two —keep ’em to
lind out whether it’s the mad horrors they’ve
got or only the drink horrors: to separ-
ate the impostors from the genuine loonies,
so to speak. They claim to save 60 or 70
per cent, in the Receiving House—that is,
save ’em from the lunatic asylums, and I
reckon they’re about right. But they like
to have some friend or relation to take
charge of doubtful cases before they let them
go. So I took Dotty an’ looked after him
as well as I could. I’d got a job in a
stables on the Shore then, and had a room
there with a spare bunk in it. Dotty was
clean dotty then ; he’d quite forgotten every-
thing, right back to the time he was a shun-
ter —wife, daughters and all. But he showed
a great affection for me. Just like a dog—
which was another proof that he was hope-
less. Fancy anyone taking to me! —unless
he was mad or wanted something!
“An’ now I’ll tell you the truth. All
Dotty’s mad thievin’ was done for me. At
least at first. Why, the first thing he done
was to slip out one night and thieve a door-
mat and a garden chair, and bring ’em to me at
the stables. What would / want with a
doormat and a garden-chair in a milk-cart
stables? I took him out again the same
night and made him show me the verandah
and the lawn he thieved ’em from, an’ put
cm back again, lie was just as pleased
to show me the places as he was pleased
to do anything else for me.
"I'd noticed a new young policeman come
nosin’ round the stables, and tryin’ to look
as if he was only dodging his sergeant and
waiting for six o’clock and off-dutv time.
But I knowed better. He was one of those
newchum wasters, sent out to a rich aunt,
and had got into the force by influence
while other police was away at the war;
an’ he’d overheard some of the decent old
police talkin’, and wanted a case. All me
old previous convictions come back on me
with a rush, an’ I went off me feed. And,
to make matters worse, a few nights later
poor old Dotty slipped out—just before
daylight when I’d got to sleep at last—and
thieved that blessed old rustic-chair and
doormat again. He put the chair alongside
my bunk with the mat on it, and sat on his
own bunk looking like a poor idiot son, and
waited for me to wake up and be glad,
lied noticed I wasn’t too cheerful the last
few days. I suppose he expected me to
hug him and kiss him on both cheeks—or
something like that.
I had a bad day of it, because I seen
that new policeman saunterleeryin’ round
agon. There was an old retired senior-
sergeant about, too; he had a house of his
own close handy and a pension of three or
four pounds a week. He’d arrested me a
few times in the old days—twice for arrears
of maintenance and once for thievin’ to
pay it-f-but I didn’t take much notice of
him. You see he was drinking himself to
death and couldn’t sleep, and he used to
go ghosting round at all hours haunting
himself and all the young police on night
duty.
“He called into the office during the day to
pay his milk and ice and butter bill, which
was in arrears on account of his wife’s ali-
mony havin’ got in arrears first—she’d
divorced him as soon’s he’d got his pension.
He passed out through the stables, an’ while
he was goin’ through he nodded to me. I
read something at once in that nod, and the
sudden thought of that young policeman
give me the cold horrers; but I nodded back,
an’ he went out, an’ neither of us said no-
ting.
“1 couldn’t sleep that night, but walked
up and down in the stables, and so Dotty
couldn’t get out. I knew he was awake wait-
ing for a chance to go and steal the founda-
tion-stone of a Hoddfellows’ Hall they’d laid
that day—or something just as usefui to me.
He did thieve the new-laid foundation-stone
of a hall or institute or something for me
once—or, at least, the plate on it. Must have
got it off with a crowbar the workmen had
left out of the tool-shed. The inscription
said it was laid by Lady Abeceedy, a sort
of an aunt of mine ; or, rather, a relation of
my father’s. We always knowed she was
an old hen,” reflected Previous, “but I never
thought she could lay a stone like that.’’
I looked very hard at Previous: the voice
was his and the face was his. but neither in
voic;e nor in face was there the ghost of the
shadow of a sign of a smile. And I’ve seen
a Chinaman show some emotion at something
that struck both of us as being humorous.
“No. I-Ie didn’t thieve the coins from
under the foundation-stone. Money’s about
the only thing that Dotty wouldn’t
thieve, not even for me—except perhaps a
polotician’s reputation; he’s not so mad as
that —at least not yet. I don’t believe he
knows what money is, or what it’s good for.
“Anyway,” Previous went on, “Dotty
dropped off that morning just before day-
light. It was during the time of the day-
light-saving rat that some of the fresh, young
poloticians had got. Some of ’em will save
daylight themselves yet. So I fed the horses
and made up my mind. I broke up that
chair and stuck it, and the mat with it, well
in under the boiler we used to hot the water
for scalding the milk-cans. I put the coal
and kindling-wood in front, an’ when the
proper time came I lit up. I never felt so
criminal in all me life. 1 don’t suppose any
decent young crook committing his first
offence ever did. It was just like the old
time w r hen I embezzled the five quid to save
myself from going to gaol and going mad
again for arrears of maintenance. The flue
was damp, and the smell of the burning green
paint off that garden-chair came out from
under the copper at first. I can smell
it yet. This was worse’n thievin’ or
receivin’,” said Previous; “it was also
aiding and abetting and destroying evi-
dence and property. I looked out, and
there was the old senior-sergeant going
down towards the water like a sleep-
walker. ‘He’ll go in to it some night,’ I
said to myself; and I felt that way, too,
just then. And I wondered if he smelled
that burning paint.
“I thought to myself that if Dotty got
loose again he’d bring all my previous con-
victions out worse than the plague we had
round there just then. But he steadied down
the next few days and seemed quieter and —
and more ‘rational,’ as you'd say,” added
Previous apologetically. “Or less restless.
I’d told them at the stables that he was my
step-brother lookin’ for a job. He didn't
look enough like me to be a brother. He
used to help groom the horses, and by-and-
bye the head stableman took him on permin-
ent. He’d work hard and sleep at nights: but
just when things was lookin’ a bit brighter
for me, he went off again. That time he goes
up the bill to a church they were putting a
new wing to and thieved a new stained-glass
window, crate and all. It was that young
policeman caught him with it—bringing it
home to me.
“It was Sunday at midnight when Dotty
was caught thievin’ that angel window from
the church. My previous convictions wasn’t
known on the North Shore much, except to
the senior-sergeant and one or two; so
Monday morning at 10 o’clock I chanced it
and went up to the police-court. The old
senior-sergeant, had ghosted down and
gimme the nod early. There was a grand
old magistrate on the Bench —he retired, too,
the other day. So I told him all about poor
Dotty, even to the step-brother lie, and I
could see that he believed it. I didn’t tell
him about the chair and mat, though.
“ ‘But what about the stained-glass win-
der, yer Worship?’ asked the young arresting
constable.
“ ‘lt’s only another proof that Dotty’s
mad. your Worship,’ I said. ‘He’s a harmless
lunatic. What did I want with a stained-
glass window? I’m camping in a stable, not
in the ruins of the Reems Cathedral. I wish
I was.'
“Somebody offered bail —and I had a queer
fancy that the old senior-sergeant was be-
hind it. Old felons like rneseif get instincts
sometimes—like women. But Mr. Aarons—-
that was the magistrate—said he couldn’t
allow bail; he said he was building a new
private residence across the bay. as they all
knew, and it was nearly finished, with a
stained-glass hall door; besides, he’d sent his
prize sow with her litter across there already,
so he couldn’t afford to take any risks. But
he’d pos’pone the case till after dinner.
“I was to come back at two o'clock sharp.
The court was very quiet when I was called
in—by my own name, of course, and I hardly
knew it again. It was the only case for the
afternoon. I noticed the church contractor
and the old minister sort of hovering in the
background—like stained-glass windows with-
out the stain.
“Mr. Aarons asked me if I knew anvone
who would asoom charge of Dotty, and take
him away : and I said I knew of a daughter
who was fond of him once, but I didn’t
know where she was. And, anyway, her hus-
band wouldn’t have him. But I said I'd take
him away and do the best I could for him.
Then Mr. Aarons dipped his pen twice out-
side the inkpot and once into it. and looked
down at his book and said ‘Case dismissed.’
“I was still puzzled when I got Dotty-
round the corner, till I saw the old senior-
sergeant beckon to me from the side-
entrance of a pub. He took us into the bottle-
department. all amongst the Sarah Gamps
and Betsy Prigs, and Dotty and I had two
ginger-ales and the senior-sergeant had a
brandy and soda. After that he led me
aside, behind the screen. ‘Look here. Pre-
vious,’ he said, ‘you go West, you’ll do well
now; and take Dotty with you. And I’ll
give you a hint about him. He was a good
amateur boxer once, when he was younger—
get him interested in that. I know all about
it, and I told Mr. Aarons and the constable-
ln-cnarge all about Dotty—never mind when’
(be says)—‘except the part non left out to-
day. And we've had our eyes on you ever
«nce you’ve been here. I was Dotty’s boss
when he was a young shunter in the Goul-
burn railway yards; and the child he saved
was my niece, the daughter of my favorite
sister. Keep clear of the new police, and
especially of the younger ones, till you get
away. Some of them are fond of hunting
up old records. They’re all budding detec-
tives, and he opened my coat and slipped
six notes and a half into me inner pocket,
and buttoned me coat up again—like
a warder gettin’ a criminal lunatic ready to
send to the Parramatta Asylum. ‘I got up
a little collection this morning.’ he said —
thieved it or pinched it, or what you
like 1’ And then he said: ‘I say, Previous,
what god was you burning incense to the
other morning? I smelt it. It was just like
burnt paint on an old garden chair !’
“And so I say,” concluded Previous, “once
a policeman alw r ays a policeman.”
HENRY LAWSON.
The Man Who Made the First
Wheelbarrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OTR letter A is a particularly bat
drawing of a standing bird. Egyptia
hieroglyphics grew out of a languag
of signs; and for a long time some so
of drawing of the thing represented
a word went with the signs whic
stood for phonetic values. From mod
fied hieroglyphics to a regular alphab
the gradation is easy. Nobody actually i
vented the writing we use; it is.a long ev
lution. Similarly we may say with abs
lute confidence that nobody invented the a
of the painter, sculptor, poet or musicia
All these things arrived by gradual stage
A real invention here and there may ha\
hastened their development, but no on
suddenly sprang a fully painted picture
completely rhythmic poem on a world tha
was unprepared for it. The father (
painting was a man who scratched a ligui
in the dust with his finger; the father
poetry a man who became excited am
found that his speech took on a regula
sway and beat. In each case many thoi
sands of years elapsed between the origina
impulse and anything that even the rnos
primitive man could regard as out of th
common.
But some human devices of enormous ad
vantage to the race must have had a mor
definite beginning. The original ship rua
have been a floating log; but the hoistin
of the first sail must have been in th
nature of a real invention. The ancien
world regarded it as such and had a plac
for it in mythology. Simple as the thin 0
seems, it was not by any means so easy to
hit upon the idea of making use of the wine
as a driving force. Considering that i
took Europe to the time of Henry VIII. to
think of so obvious an adjunct of (the
dinner-table as an ordinary fork, we can
well understand that the plough, the shears
the saw and the needle were all tremendous
innovations, as important in their way as
wireless or the aeroplane.
But there is one man to whom the modern
world should put up a statue. He is as
unknown as the soldier recently buried in
Westminster Abbey; even his race and
color can only be guessed at. Not one
among all the inventors of the ages de-
serves higher honor than the man who made
the first wheelbarrow. Mankind discovered
round stones would roll down a
hill and that rounded portions of a tree-
trunk could be moved more easily than
branching ones; but it was a far cry from
such knowledge to the actual making of a
wheel and attaching it to an axle. Some-
body must have actually done this; and the
doing of it must forever stand in first place
among inventions. Modern development is
near Y ah development of the wheel. The
wheel has taken the place of the slave and
more and more gives power into the hands
ot man. It can be used and has been used to
grind the faces of the poor; but in the main
it works towards liberty. Because the
wheel removes a crushing burden from
man s shoulders he is able to stand upright •
and so knowledge both of the world and of
human rights follows in its track. The man
who made the first wheelbarrow stands far
above the kings—the greatest of inventors
the greatest benefactor of the race the
greatest liberator.
D. M. W.


&
M
Cultivate the Gillette habit; twenty
million other men have it.
To use the Gillette once is to become
confirmed in this method of quick,
comfortable and clean shaving.
No stropping, no honing.
Standard Set in neat leather case, 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OP CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
tu both
CANADA.
rum
would ovn
Always Reliable !
' 5» :
Ns-.
:,^recTio N , ,
AI.U'-
ffeo. AUsrßAUfi\j
“Perfection”
Dental Alloy
A High-grade Alloy
for Amalgam Fillings.
Comparative tests place it on a level with
the very best Alloy that European or
American manufacturers have produced.
Samples on application.
Read what a Client says:
“I exclusively use ‘Perfection’ Alloy and find it
equal, if not better, than any other I’ve used during
iny 20 years’ practice. I’ve been using it now for
a few years, and all Fillings I’ve examined since
are in perfect order.”
Manufacturers of
DENTAL GOLDS
SOLDERS
PLATINUM and Its ALLOYS
PLATINISED WIRES, etc,
REDISTILLED MERCURY
Specialists in the economic and scientific treat-
ment of
DENTAL RESIDUES.
c 7UWt#n&fo7Z4
“THE DENTAL
METALLURGISTS”
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Laboratories and Works : ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the States and New Zealand.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set Pearls, 15/-
15ct., 25/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Links, 20/-;
heavier, 25/-, 30/-.
15ct. Gold, £2,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarine, £2/10/-
*
/
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade,
open-face Keyless Lever, £2.
Higher grades, £2/10/-, £3.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond King, 18ct.
Gold, £lO. Garger
Dia!mond. £l5,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
King. 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond
King. 18ct. Go; i.
£2/10/-, £4, £»•
A. SAUNDERS,
m.
%
*4
A. Saunders' Lady's solid Gold. Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement,
compensation balance. £B/10/-. Others £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders' Oct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap
and Joint Bracelet. £3. Heavier. £3/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
-•’vr
-----
A. Saunders’ Lady's solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £l3/10/-. 15et. Gold, extra
jewelled, £l7/10/-, £3O. Guaranteed three years.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls, £3.
A. Saunders'
fine Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders'
Diamond Cross-
over Ring. 18et.
Gold, £l/10/-.
£7.
A. Saunders'
Diamond Ring.
18er. Gold,
£4/10/-, £7/10/-
A Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set Aquamarine,
20/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, extra heavy plain
design. 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2, £2/10/-
lyAvfflSjsSpwi
:W
SsSSSs
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled
Waltham Lever. 10-year case,
£5/10/-; 20-year. £7/10/-; extra
jewelled. £B/10/-. £lO. £l2/10/-, £l5.
ia
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Rubies, 12/6.
A. Saunders' 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 25/-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
We send all Orders, per Registered Post, Free
throughout Australia.
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine or Yellow Sapphire, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 25/-


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
J-M C
/
L
!
in
‘ltighioff the Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
, Uhe Boer
Without a Rival"
BREWED FROM PURE MALT & HOPS ONLY
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4y% Guineas per w y eek.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Firefly”
Criterion “The Sign on the Door”
Palace “Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
Tivoli Moving Pictures and Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Cnion Theatrics Moving Pictures
Town Hall (12th and 14th) Jascha Heifetz
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Irene”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
Kino's “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
—.—.—
Jascha Heifetz, the fiddling youngster,
has cut the ground from under the critics’
feet and left them nothing to do but form
themselves into a chorus of loud admi-
ration. His fame having gone abroad, Thurs-
day’s concert saw all grades of Sydney
drawn into the Town llall net, and from the
opening passages of the Vitali "Chaconne”
the young man demonstrated the truth
VIOLINIST JASCHA HEIFETZ.
of all that had been said concerning him.
Jascha walks on the platform about ten
minutes after scheduled time, bends un-
smilingly to his audience, draws his bow across
the strings and settles down unassumingly
and without any posing to the evening’s
work, and that is so dose to perfection that
it will take a lot of beating by the
heavenly choir. His bow is on the tenderest
terms with the strings. It flutters about
them Hke the beat of a bird’s wing, coaxes
them into the tenderest expression of feeling,
or makes them dance as airily and brilliantly
as a fascinating coquette with all her dia-
monds on. Stateliness and a golden fulness
characterised the Handel “Sonata in D
Major” in Saturday’s programme. This was
followed by the famous Mendelssohn “Con-
certo in E Minor,” played with such grace
and brilliancy and purity of tone that the
house went quite mad, and stamped and clap-
ped its applause till the player came back
four times in acknowledgment. He had con-
quered his Sydney even more completely than
by his playing of the Schubert “Ave Maria”
on Thursday night. Brilliancy in a posi-
tively dazzling degree marked the Paganini
“Caprices” and Bazzini’s “Ronde des Lutins”
on Saturday night, just as this quality was
breath-taking in “The Dance of the Der-
vishes” and a Turkish March in Thursday’s
programme. _ There was delicacy and poetic
wistfulness in the Tschaikowsky “Melodie”
and the Ghopin-Auer "Nocturne in E Minor,”
while the Mozart Minuet and a fascinating
encore, “La Chasse,” will live in the memory
of those who heard. What else can be said
of this youngster, who has light and shade,
heart and brain for the strings of his fiddle
and an enchanted bow to caress them with?
* * *
About an epidemic of red spots, mistaken
in Melbourne for smallpox :
Even in her best work, “Vanity and Wisdom”
(No. 13), Miss Cumbrae Stewart remains decidedly
superficial. Judged by both pastels and oils shown
at Gayfleld Shaw’s (Sydney) _ she early abandoned
careful observation for a pretty “tittivating.” That
she has ability there can be no question, but neither
can there be any that in the pastel nudes she is
abusing it. There is a fairly steady demand for her
pastel work, and she, like many of our more promi-
nent artists, endowed with the ability to do some-
thing that might count, is content to merely supply
the goods. In her oils, which are all landscapes, her
attitude is better, for the reason that they are not
so obviously “worked up.” They are, on the whole,
however, very carelessly painted. Her best is “Wool
Teams, Lake Cowal” (No. 33) ; but it might have
been better had it been more studiously observed
and painted more methodically and less feverishly.
Miss Cumbrae Stewart has worked in both pastels
and oils long enough now to realise that she could
carry her favorite female nude subject much further
with oils. \\ hether she continues with pastel because
of a fancy for the medium, or merely because the
demand for her work stipulates “pastel nudes,” she
is certainly' making something of a sacrifice of her
art; for this exhibition demonstrates how much
greater is the range of the oils.
* * * *
A notable collection of pictures is that of George
Coates, now at Horderns’ Gallery (Sydney). The
artist s wife (Dora Meeson) also exhibits many, but
does not assist in the matter of standard. She
appears to have no decided outlook in art, is weak
in tone and color, and leaves the impression that she
is over-fond of what looks like a borrowed manner-
ism in the painting of close-up wavelets with weak
backgrounds. Coates’s work, which at times reaches
a high standard and is something much better than
Sydney has been generally used to in one-man show's,
never quite arrives at the stage where all parts
obviously careless and irrelevant have been elimi-
nated. Sometimes, as in “London Waif” (No. 27),
wdth its false black patch under the hat, it is a
small, irritating thing that could have corrected
in a few moments. Sometimes, on the other hand,
it is a big, irritating thing tliat covers the whole
canvas and could only be repaired by weeks of solid
re-painting, as in the perhaps brilliant but super-
ficial “Portrait Group” (No. 12). This picture lacks
so much of Coates’s usual sincerity and is so cheaply
technical as to suggest that he painted it in this
manner to please his sitters, all artists. The logic
of light has been ignored, for, ns regards tone, no
part of the picture lias any relation to another.
Generally, Coates in his important work appears to
give equal value to tone, color and form, and is seen
at his best in “A London Waif” (No. 27), “Gin’s
Head” (No. 13), and (except for some more or less
careless work, and color exaggeration in the stock-
man’s face) in “The Stockman and His Horse” (No.
12). The Gallery Trustees purchased two pictures
from the show—a portrait of a Polish Lady and
another of Will Dyson. Both are dull and somewhat
poor examples of his work; for while the Polish
lady, although unnecessarily limited in its range
from light to dark, has some good qualities of tone,
the Dyson head is too slight and careless. The
Trustees have treated Coates unfairly in choosing
to represent him by a poor picture simply, as it
would seem, because the subject happened to be a
well-known artist. An Art Gallery is for the best
art, not the best subject.
* * » *
This year’s exhibition by Max Meldrum and disciples
at the Melbourne Athemcum is given a cheerful aspect
by the still-life department. Close-ups of apples,
lemons, oranges, brilliant dahlias and sweet-pea
(the last a clever study by Meldrum) have an
almost academical) gaudiness in comparison with the
dark wintry weather that has absorbed the landscape
crowd. Several of the latter have responded to the
master’s precepts by simplifying their palettes until
even the tree foliage is depicted in an uninspiring
monotone, whilst their enthusiasm in the choice of
subjects has run to lamp-posts and solitary gum-butts.
Some of Meldrum’s older students, however, are
responsible for more pleasing performances. Colin
Colahan, for instance, gets atmosphere and depth
into two landscapes (Nos. 62 and 65), and he has a
portrait of a black-bearded man that is strong in
its drawing and shadow values. A. Cornehls has a
good try at a study of a ballerina, but there is no
suggestion that the lady would be light on her toes.
Also her arms are unpleasing, and her stiff skirt;
is painted to look like iron. A. Gallagher reveals
improvement in his work, and Miss Hurry hangs an
impression of a dark young man that can be num-
bered among the successes of the exhibition. D.
Hardingham is commended for a couple of well-
handled gums, and W. Rowell’s and Arnold Shore’s
collection of canvases all express an individual point
of view. Meldruni’s latest is a self-portrait marked
by a furrowed brow and deep speculative eyes.
Though not the most illuminating of his efforts, it
is still soulful and arresting. An elderly lady
preaches her sweet amiability in a frame near by,
and there is a more challenging exposition of the
Meldrum naturalism in a portrait of a well-known
Polish violinist.
Norman Lloyd, whose art is making its first
appearance at the Decoration Gallery (Melbourne), is
a promising Sydney painter whose color will probably
cool down when he gets a bigger grip of his medium.
Just now he paints cheerfully and broadly with a
very full brush, securing effects that are somewhat
floridly impressionistic, but still show evidence of
solid talent and training. Most people will love his
Harbor views, and he scores well in canvases with
the distant buildings of the city purpling behind. He
hangs a charming example of this in “Looking Across
Cremorne Point,” and the strain of mauve in “Wintry
Evening, Circular Quay,” makes another successful
appeal to the eye. “Summer Moonrise” is move
conventional, and a couple of nocturnes are rather
hard and uninteresting, but his performance is more
gratifying in his series of boatsheds, notably “Green
and Grey,” wherein he says good-bye to his usual
palette and depicts a scene of simple beauty. How-
ever, he revels most in sunlit scenery, and the warmth
of his coloring is demonstrated with prodigal blobs
of pigments in several well-selected subjects. “Sum-
mer Day” is one of these enthusiastic canvases that
seems almost daring for its swirl of yellow cloud on
a pale greenish sky.
** * *
“Firefly” is doing well at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, where the singing deludes the audi-
ences into the belief that grand opera is in
progress, until the humor proclaims that no-
thing so dull is under way.
“The Sign on the Door” is still to be
scrutinised at Sydney Cri., and thousands
are doing it weekly and going home better
men and women for the experience. That is
the management’s chief aim in displaying the
legend— tnat and box-office considerations.
* *
The current attraction at Sydney Tivoli
is Lionel Barrymore with “‘The' Master
Mind” ; also it has Conway Tearle, the Selz-
mek star, who travels “The Road of Ambi-
tion.” Good fortune raises him from mill-
hand to millionaire, and though lie is awk-
ward with an afternoon tea-cup the “straight-
left” is in trim for the evildoer. ’Cellist
Adelina Leon is the variety draw.
In “The Frontier Of the Stars,” at Sydney
Globe, Thomas Meighan foregoes crookery to
study astronomy with a cripple girl on the>
housetops. Dorothy Dalton confesses at the
same show to be “Guilty of Love.” She is
a governess who makes a slip and forces her
pupils’ uncle to marry her. From then on-
wards the story is as cheerful as a pauper’s
funeral on a cold Sunday. Thackeray’s
unity Fair” is said to have no hero. “The
Street Called Straight” at the Lyceum has
really no villain—merely two gallants aching
for one girl. The triangle is reversed for
“Forbidden” under the same roof; here a
cabaret vamp and 'a hall-marked girl tussle
for the man. airs. Humphry Ward’s “Mar-
riage of William Ashe” is at the Crystal
Palace, with May Allison as the irresponsible
miss. Husbands are keeping their wives
away from the Lyric, where “The Woman
Lntamed’ rules a kingdom of cannibals and
puts courtiers to sleep with a club. George
Walsh is “Dynamite Allen” at the Empress,
and Earle Williams is "The Romance
Promoter” at the Strand.
*
The lines of Alexander Watson, at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall, were mostly cast in
“The Maid of the
Mountainsat
Melbourne Royal.
Gladys Moncrieff
as Teresa.
Dickens; Kipling
an d Shakspeare
pieces during last
week, when full
houses invariably
came to the con-
clusion that' the
tall, gaunt master
of his business was
good as ever, if not
better. Without
forgetting Wat-
son’s remarkable
presentation of the
“Twelfth Night”
kitchen scene,
whig h reeks o f
cakes and ale, song
and hiccups, mirth
and Malvolio, one
may say that in
Dickens items this
untheatrical actor
excels. “Doctor
Marigold,” a new
recitation as far
as Watson is con-
cerned, kept him
thinking two niglits
last week, the
second performance
being pruned o f
some superfluities
which unduly pro-
longed the first.
“Marigold,” as the
monologue was de-
livered on Satur-
day, is a most
forcible combination of humor and' pathos.
The fact is that, although Watson’s
personality never suggests the Cockney cheap-
jack who tells the tale, the reciter extracts
every ounce of Dickens literary effect from
the text. All the warm feeling for melo-
dramatic color is there. The audience gets
from Alexander Watson more of the Dickens
art of heart-grip, more of the flattering
unction which the author’s idealisation of
human nature lays to the public soul, than
can be got from the story in print. The
spoken word picture is in many places poig-
nantly appealing. Watson’s Melbourne sea-
son will last until Saturday afternoon.
# -k :Jc
The Mermaid Players (Melb.) wandered
up to the remote and chilly Melba Hall to
give “Much Ado About Nothing” last Friday
night. It was rather a dispiriting perform-
ance, in which the prompter had the principal
part; yet some or the acting commanded
approval. Carrie as Beatrice, did
well in a conscientious elocutionary style, but
the poor acoustics of the hall mangled the
diction by the time it reached the back seats.
Norman Simpson (Benedick) scored more in
his demeanor than in his dialogue, which at
times telescoped in its hurry to get off his
tongue. Mary Curtain (Hero) showed
again that she is a grade above the amateur
standard, and Allan Murray (Balthazar and
Verges), Bernard Bradley (Leonato) and
W. G. Southwell (Claudio) all treated
their parts with gentlemanly forbearance.
Arthur Greenaway’s Shakspearean Players
had an afternoon and evening at Melbourne
Playhouse last week, dealing with “The Mer-
0n ea( ?h occasion. No invidious com-
parisons need be made between the two
Fortms, Norma Campbell and Adele Inman
anyhow, they needn’t be made aloud—and
r*Ll r ? ing u ther pe °P le who Peeved their
S ‘, Ve characters twice, a good deal of
merciful silence is called for. The most
fer C «fr Ul w i ls £ dward Landor, the charae-
“L,, Lan . c f lot Cobbo being a soft thing for
J capable (?omedian. Fred Patev as
gratia no had another grateful job, ‘ and
i _ that Oscar Asehe’s red-haired,
dunipj-nosed Jew was not. Up to a point,
indeed, Greenaway was a noble type of Chosen
1 arson, but before he had gone so far as to
sharpen his knife on his boot the character
seemed too noisy for him, and at the finish
he was almost as much to blame as Antonio.
At Melbourne Town Hall the shades of
c eceased musical folk are just now discussing
lhe Hide of the Valkyries” and other things
which will keep the memory of Verbrugghen
and Ins orchestra green until they return for
two more concerts on Friday and Saturday
next week. The Hide of the unfeminine
ladies aforesaid has never previously been so
impressively played in Melbourne. glapoff-
ski used to do great things with it long years
ago, but Slap, had only a theatre orchestra,
well disciplined but comparatively small.
i>ow, to <lo W agner justice no orchestra was
ever quite large enough. When his overture
to the Last Judgment comes to he performed
' . wchesCfca will hardly come up to his re-
quirements.
“Irene,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, .still tells
the story of her life to Mr. Marshall, with
profitable results. Next Saturday the pro-
gramme will be strengthened by a cinemato-
ffiapn picture of a boat-race, conveyed (d.v 1
by aeroplane from Geelong. '
Melbourne Royal remains under the spell
o a slim, melodious vixen known as “Maid
of the Mountains.”
.** * *
l he bill at Melbourne King’s nltereth not.
Jules Jordan wanders casually into a town-
ship without a notion of where he is going
to do piznoss, and' when Lizette Parkes like-
wise wanders thither, with no notion of what
she means by it, they form a society of out-
casts under the presidency of Old Clem, after
winch the Lord makes it Ilis piznoss to see
that they prosper.
** * *
< (instance Talmadge is sprinting through
another bio-comedy, “(Jood References,” at
Melbourne Majestic this week. The yarn
isn t striking, and Connie’s tricks are so well
known that an experienced movie audience
gets rather bored by them. The Majestic's
second feature is “The Lamb and The Lion.”
In this Billie Rhodes, described as a “female
Oliver Twist,” propels herself into Sassietv
and causes a recovery in the chiffon trade.
At the Britannia Blanche Sweet is empha-
msing the power of “The Deadlier Sex” by
givuig a dud financier a terrible heartache
At the Melba Wallace Ileid is head of “The
. liar,n School,” and his pupils seem to have
just leaped from a musical comedy chorus.
J hotoplays for the simple-minded are all the
rage at Hoyt’s.
* * * :!:
At Melbourne Tivoli the honors are divided
between Ivy Shilling on the stage and Connie
lalmadge on the screen. The grace of Ivv,
n Tov ITiT* by William dentine, is
a in different movements or there-
abouts, whilst the story told by Miss Tal-
madge and three or four other excellent
“THE SION ON
THE DOOR,” AT
SYDNEY
CRITERION.
John De Lacy as
Callahan and
Henry Carlton as
Bates.
dumb-show comedians is simply coherent
from • start to finish, a rare virtue in
picture-plays. Also a Sennett comedy—
Her Screen Idol” —has ingenuitv in its
joke, and the orchestra and Reginald
Roberts are doing their best.


R
;
I
SDlt
H
ttm
m
s
•>
>*«&
m
ste<
m
w
19k
ir,
»
M
&
m
i
&
SHIRTS
&
7
1
\
O
v
b
A SURE way to identify a good
Shirt is to look for the name
PELACO on it.
When you find THAT mark
of quality your shirt-troubles
are over.
Ash at your Mercer’s for Pelaco Shirts ,
Collars and Pyjamas
A
Tit#!
11l 17 111


A Copy of the Full Prospectus hag been Filed for Registration with the Registrar-General.
Abridged Prospectus of THE AUSTRALIAN LINEN COMPANY LIMITED.
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £150,000, in 150,000 shares of £1 each.
100,000 Shares are offered for subscription, payable 2/- per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, 2/6 per share at the expiration of three months from date of
allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than 5/- at intervals of not less than three months.
10,000 Shares are reserved for the founders of the company, Messrs. H. H. Hendry aiul F. Harman, not to be issued until the company has paid a dividend of at least "A
per- cent., and then only up to 10 per cent, of shares subscribed,
40,000 Shares are held in reserve for issue as and when required.
150,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
CHARLES LLOYD BRIND. Brind’s Proprietary Limited, Ballarat.
ALLAN CAVANAGH DOWNS, Samson Cordage 'Works, Brunswick, Member of the Commonwealth
Flax Committee.
HORACE HOWARD HENDRY. Grand Hotel, Melbourne, Flax Spinner.
M cK ENz 1 E- Chairman Gippsland and Northern Co-operative Company Limited, Melbourne.
COLONEL CHARLES EDWARD MERRETT, President Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria,
Melbourne.
WALTER JAMES PULLUM. Stock and Station Agent, Ballarat.
EMIL THONEMANN, 395 Collins Street. Melbourne. Sharebroker.
BANKERS—THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Melbourne and Ballarat.
BROKERS—H. P. HAM & WATKIN, 409 Collins Street, Melbourne: THOMAS ANTCLIFFE,
Ballarat.
??- I K I £ I ™ R ' S T lIEI)r)EIIWICK '’ FOOKES & ALSTON, Melbourne; BAIRD & BAIRD, Ballarat.
AUDITOR—ANDREW KELLY MILLER, Ballarat. '
GENERAL MANAGER—HORACE HOWARD HENDRY.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE (Pro Tern.) —FRANCIS HARMAN, 509 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
The company is to be formed for the purpose of establishing a Flax Spinning Mill, a Linen
Weaving Factory and Bleaching Works, at Ballarat or elsewhere, and of promoting flax
cultivation throughout the State. . .
The initial requirements of a mill and factory are 700 tons of flax per annum, requiring the
cultivation of 3500 acres. It is estimated that 3000 to 4000 acres will be sown this season. An
average return should be obtained of 2 tons of straw, producing 4cwt. fibre per acre, at £lO
per ton of straw, showing a return of £2O per acre.
Supplies of the raw material are assured, and a home market is at hand, consuming
£1,800,000 worth of linen goods per annum. The company, by buying flax straw from the
producer and converting it into linen goods, will effect a great saving in overhead charges,
freights, intermediate profits, etc., as compared with foreign manufactures, which are the product
of several distinct industries. It is therefore assured of good profits.
The present crisis in the textile trade in Europe is Australia’s opportunity to purchase a well-
equipped mill and factory at much less than the cost of new machinery.
First class management is guaranteed. Mr. Hendry's long experience and thorough knowledge
of all branches of the trade will enable him to establish the industry on sound lines.
The minimum subscription on which the directors may proceed to allotment is 40.000 shares.
Applications for shares will only be received on the forms attached to printed copies oi the
full prospectus, containing the full statutory requirements, which may be obtained from tne
company’s Bankers, Brokers, Solicitors and Secretary.
POVERTY
POINT
Thoet 7 Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Ike Pagliaeci” : Say an rcvoir to the old
Vic. at Newcastle (N.S.W.), which strong-
doses of vaudeville are now keeping on its
last legs, while a brigade of hungry «le-
molisliers await the word from lessee Reuben
Baker. The Victoria has for long been the
only house in Newcastle able to accommodate
a stage show adequately. Percy It. Dix and
R. S. Baker found vaudeville so profitable
that they might reasonably have allowed the
town to starve for other attractions, but, like
good showmen, they let the other fellow in
when his goods were right; and when Dix
died some years ago Baker carried on the
good work. Now Baker will reconstruct
the theatre throughout, and, although the
new building will have accommodation for ;
sorts, of shows, the writing on the wall is
that the movies have given the “legit.”
another kick in the thorax.
“Old Pot”: Next to Stannis Leslie, the
best-remembered J. C. Williamson choristers
are Fred England and Pat Behan. I recol-
lect England singing the baritone roles in
“Marita.ua” and “The Bohemian Girl” in a
manner that put in the shade more preten-
tious importations from the Coldland. It
is recorded by Behan himself, a droll fellow
on the stage (and guilty, the principals have
“CHU CHIN CHOW,” AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Maggie Moore as Zanim, a slave-dealer.
said, of introducing business as a chorister
that might have queered them), that he sang
for a travelling Cheap Jack at the old
Sydney Belmore Markets in the days when
they were intersected by the steam tram.
Pat’s job was to drown the whistle of the
engine, and he claimed that he succeeded.
“Rienzi": The late Stannis Leslie never
had any illusions about his appearance, and
when the wrenched expression of his coun-
tenance was aptly caught by Harry Julius
in the only caricature of a chorister that 1
have seen in The Bulletin, Stannis’s friends
commiserated with him. But the elderly
super was very proud of the drawing, since
it lifted him out of the nameless background
and gave him a standing he had never hoped
to reach. He used to cart the paper about
with him, and showing it one night to a Dew
acquaintance was told that the caricature
did him bare justice. “Bare justice,” he
said, “was just what I wanted. Mercy
would have robbed me of my individuality.”
“Biobox”: The Carrolls put Rudd’s “New
Selection” on the flicks with a different Dad.
Percy Walshe played the old chap in the
first Selection story; now the whiskers
are draped round veteran Johnny O’Neil.
John comes to the movies fairly late in life,
for lie must be 120 at least. Private screen-
ings, however, show him as a peppery but
lovable old .codger who doesn’t look any-
where near that age. Carroll’s Dave is Tal
< >rdell, who was Dad in Beau. Smith’s profit-
able “Hayseeds” series, and Gilbert Emery
(Ginger Mick) has a comic-parson rule that
endorses the opinion long held by experts
that he has the best picture face in Aus-
tralia. Emery, by the way, if a little benefit
now being organised shows a decent balance,
will move to Los Angeles.
"Soleve”: “O.K.’s” par. (B. 28/4/’2l) re
J. K. llackett does not mention the famous
Australian actress and authoress Elizabeth
\\ instanley i .Mbs. Eliza O’Flaherty), who
was one of the main popularisers of Shaks-
pearean comedies in Britain in llackett’s
time. She and Haekett and Mrs. Fitz-
william were all in the same company.
Elizabeth Winstanley, after appearing in
Britain and on the Continent, and as star
actress with
Charles Kean in
his American
tours, returned to
Sydney in 1880.
She died two years
later and is buried
at Waverley Ceme-
tery, where a head-
stone is erected to
her memory. Be-
fore going abroad
she was for many
years on the Aus-
tralian stage, and
to find out what a
favorite she was
one has only to
turn to the files of
the Sydney Gaz-
ette from 1837 till
18 5 1 or t h e r e-
abouts. She wrote
about 32 novels,
and was for some
ti m e editress o f
Bow Belts
(Lond.), in the
columns of which
most of her Aus-
tralian stories
appeared. lle r
father, William
Winstanley, wh o
married a Mi s s
Finch, was scene-
painter at the
Theatre Royal of
‘The Maid of the
Mountains" at
Melbourne Royal.
Phil Smith, the miss-
ing husband, fails to
recognise his own
photograph.
the late ’thirties, and of the old Victoria
Theatre, Sydney, and at one time kept the
Naff’s Head, near the present site of the
School of Arts, Pitt-street, and also the
Currency Lass, at the corner of Pitt and
Bridge streets.
“Skyrider” : It is the cheerful custom in
a certain southern N.S.W. town for the good
people of the various churches to give con-
certs at the gaol. The last one was by the
R.C. choir, and Father Blank left it to his
troupe to select their own songs. He wishes
now that he had censored two of them. The
soprano’s selections were “When You Come
Home” and “Some Day Waiting Will End.”
“It.ILL.”: lie old-time comic-song catch-
phrases. Both “E.T.” and “0.1 v.” neglected
to mention “And her golden hair was hang-
ing down her back,” which was written up
off-handedly at a picnic party of the old
Gaiety co. After a bathe one lass had spread
out her golden hair to dry, and there and
then the song was written. And what about
“Just a little bit off the top”?
“O.Iv.”: Already I have drawn a good
many additions to my brief list of popular
catch-phrases which originated on the
stage. Some of the additions are illegi-
timate, I fancy, inasmuch as they were in
common use before they acquired their stage
significance. For instance, “Where do I
come in?” which the Insect is always asking
of his tall companion in “Paul Jones.”
Surely that was a popular American query
before “Paul Jones” was thought oi*? But
there are any number of old gags waiting
to be called to mind. Among the immortals
is “Of course, you can never be like us,
but be as like us as you’re able to be,” which
certainly ox-iginated in “The Belle of New
York.” On the other hand, “Always merry
and bright” and “A short life but a gay one”
did not originate in “The Ai-cadians.” They
were merely embodied conspicuously. An-
other of the immortals is “Are there many
more at home like you?” from “Florodora,”
and I doubt whether “Run ’em in” would
ever have come trippingly from the public
tongue had it not been familiarised by the
refrain of the Gendarmes’ duet in “Gene-
vieve de Brabant” half a century ago.
“Mikado”: “E.F.” is wrong in saying (B.
—l/4/’2l) that James Hay of the Gilbert and
Sullivan operas, is a Victorian. The tenor was
born at Clare (S.A.), and in his early days
sang in a village choir, afterwards going \o
Westralia and then abroad to study. An-
other artist S. Aus. is proud of is Vera
Pearce, who is often misleadingly billed as
a Sydneyite.
Eille Norwood; well known on the Austra-
lian jstage 30 years back, is the hero of a
new Sherlock Holmes film series lately "re-
leased” in London.
“Old Pot”: Pete Hughes (B. 28/4/’2l t
was originally a dresser, and accompanied
the late John P. Sherida.n in that capacity
to Manchester. He came- to Australia to
represent Sheridan purely as the result of
accident. Sheridan had engaged Keogh, but
at the last moment the latter took an engage-
ment with Mrs. Langtry. As the steamer
was to sail in a few hours, and he had no
time to make other arrangements, “The
Widow” said to his dresser, “Pete, you’ve
got to go to Australia as my agent.” “But,”
replied Pete, "I know nothin' about agents.
I can’t go.” John F. persuaded him to try
it, and it was the turning-point of Pete’s
career. I never knew of Pete’s lack of edu-
cation until, like a once-great pugilist, he
handed me something upside-down and asked
me to read it.
“Hamfat” : Australia has produced another
rival to the famous “Gippsland sisters.” She
was on exhibition at the Orange (N.S.W.)
show recently. Only 16 years of age, she
weighs 245 t., and runs 22in. round the neck
and sft. round the chest. With all her years
in front of her, 'Heaven alone knows what
atmosphere she may yet displace.
“Deco”: Leo Dryden, actor-vocalist and
one-time bill-topper, has gone west. His
most popular song was “The Miner’s Dream
of Home,” which brought him in hundreds in
royalties. But money slipped through his
lingers and he died in bitter poverty. It,
used to be said that Leo was the husband of
Ada Colley, the Australian soprano.
“Fax”: A theatrical curio revived at a
matinee performance in London recently was
Fielding’s “The Virgin Unmasked.” It is
the thinnest of musical farces, with occa-
sional songs and duets woven info the dia-
logue, the plot consisting of a simple old
father’s offer of a choice of husbands to a
daughter who is already married to a foot-
man. Kitty Clive had the name part in
the original production (1734), and one of
the suitors was played by a Mr. Macklin, a
member of the family which has figured on
English playbills for more than two cen-
turies. Critically considered, “The Virgin
Unmasked” is amazingly crude in construc-
tion. The wonder is that early 18th-cen-
tury comedies could have been so artless in
form (and in many cases so depraved in
morals) after the sophisticated poetic drama
of Shakspeare’s age, when the stage still
suffered from the disadvantage of female
impersonators in place of actresses. Drama-
tists never had but the one ruling idea in
their heads. The titles of their comedies
spoke for themselves —for instance, “The
Universal Gallant, or the I>ifferent Hus-
bands,” another of Fielding’s. And in the
same author’s sequel to “The Virgin Un-
masked” the story opens with a discussion
between two courtesans, one of whom com-
plains that “virtuous women and gentle-
men’s wives come so cheap that no man will
go the price of a lady of the town,” whilst
the other comes to the conclusion that the
one thing necessary to do them a real ser-
vice is “an Act of Parliament to put us
down.” Apparently the Puritanism of
Cromwell’s time accounted for the revulsion
of public feeling that found expression in
plays of the Congreve-Fielding period. Then
came a reaction to the wholesome comedy of
Goldsmith and Sheridan.
“C. Orkney”: Howard Carr, well remem-
bered here in the conductor's chair at many
a musical show, is waving his baton for
Robert Courtneidge’s production of “The
Rebel Maid,” at the London Empire. The
new light opera, much approved by the
critics, looks as though it is in for a long
run. Two names in the cast were once well
known on Australian play-bills—Daisy
Revette (Mrs. Andrew Higginson) and Wil-
liam Cromwell.
“Stargazer” : The man who was managing
Clara Butt when last the large contralto
was in Australia had planned a concert at
a Vic. provincial centre. The landlord of
the local hotel, when he saw the hefty song-
stress, approached her manager and drew
him aside. “That the lady you’re showing
here?” he said. “You won’t make twopence.
We’ve got ope worth a dozen of her. and
she’s just walking about the place.” “Worth
a dozen of Clara Butt!” ejaculated the
manager. “I’d like to see her.” “Very well,
you shall.” was the reply; "I'll bring her
here.” That afternoon the landlord knocked
on the manager’s door, opened it, and
ushered in a young woman 6ft. siin. in her
stockings, and ISst. in her native state.
“There you are!” exclaimed Bung, trium-
phantly. "She makes your giantess look a
kid, don’t she?”
“CHU CHIN
CHOW," AT
SYDNEY
OPERA
HOUSE.
villiers Arnold as the old singing cobbler.
“8.C.”: Octave was the pianist with our
vaudeville show round the smalls, and Octave
was mostly squiffy. Sometimes he’d get emo-
tionally drunk, as he did one night when a
bumper house awaited us in the Mallee. He
bore up well until our “descriptive vocalist"
sang her pathetic song about an innocent
girl in a pitiless city. She had reached the
middle of the refrain and already the sniffing
of the feminine portion of the audience was
audible, when Octave suddenly stopped play-
ing, staggered to his feet, and with tears
running down his cheeks faced the audience.
“Ladisli an’ gensh,” he cried in anguish, “I
can’t. I can’t. It’s too blank.v sad !”
“O. Blin”: The shortest dramatic criti-
cism? The regular critic was probably drunk
and the golf expert was called in when
“Julius Caesar” was given in a Vic. country
town. The notice ran: “We have seen
‘Julius Caesar’ at the Mechanics. lie came,
he saw, he bunkered.’’
“Billy T.’’: The escape of a lion borrowed
from the Zoo by Fa shod a, a fakir then show-
ing at Melbourne Opera House, now the
Tiv., is still well remembered, but there is
an unrecorded incident connected therewith.
A typist then employed in the building on
the corner of Lit. Collins and Swanston
streets' went jauntily downstairs and pre-
sently returned in a flying leap to the up-
stairs office, fell in, shut the door after her,
collapsed and lay gasping: “A lion! A
lion !” A well-known politician, a client of
the firm, was present. “A lion!" he said.
“Here in the c-ity? Absurd!” He opened
the door and went downstairs, lie dkl not
return, but in about ton and a half seconds
a telephone call sounded.- “Mr. Blank says
I am to warn you. There is a lion loose
in your building.” “And where is Mr. Blank
now?” was asked. “As far up the Town
Hall tower as he can go," was the reply,
“and still trying to climb.” Mr. Blank was
the late Thomas Bent.
HIS LAST RESORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a tali and shapely man,
With lofty mien and gracious gesture,
A deep, dark eye your soul to scan,
And rather meagre, shabby vesture.
His boots, though burst and minus heel,
Mo kind of stocking did reveul.
’Twas at the Zoo before the gate
Said lie: “1 wish to gain admittance.”
The keeper answered: ‘‘Righto, mate!”
And held a paw out for the pittance.
The actor put it by. “Nay. nay,
My friend, we actors never pay.
“i’ll make myself quite clear to you.
To meet my wish it is essential
I have niv keep within the Zoo,
And privileges residential,
in short, friend, 1 am here to-day
With one desire—that is, to stay.
“Impossible? Absurd? Why so?
You grant the boon to mules and donkeys,
To camels, even to a crow,
And sundry unimportant monkeys.
The actor, then, a cage you’ll find—
The very last, sir, of his kind.”
VICTOItIA.
STARGAZER.
MELODRAMA AND THE SHORT SKIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Melodrama belongs to the age of long- drag
skirts.”
Convention must be studied,
Tradition be respected ;
And drama that’s full-blooded
Can never be deflected
From courses called “old-fashioned” ;
The house would be diverted
At all their scenes impassioned
Were heroines short-skirted.
When in the limelight creepy
Entered the ruined maiden,
Instead of being weepy
They'd roar at the betrayed 'un
If she indulged in frocking
Worn nowadays, and flirted
And flashed a length of stocking.
Xo' She must be drag-skirted.
And e'en the fond old mater:
To ribaldry ’twould goad ’em
(Which much would agitate her)
If hosiery she showed ’em.
True melodrama’s setting
Must ever be asserted ;
The Tragic Muse, I’m betting,
Was never seen short-skirted.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


A REVOLUTION in
REFRIGERATION
for
Country Homes
and Businesses.
Mag
«**" '■*& &
.
dP
The need for a perfect system of refrigeration in places where ice is
unobtainable is apparent to everyone handling perishable foodstuffs.
Realising this, the British Refrigerating Co. Ltd. (associated with
Vickers Ltd.) have now placed on the market an ideal plant for
this purpose.
Its principle of operation is a new and simple one —by the process of ammonia
absorption —and the only power required can be derived from gas, kerosene oil or steam.
An important feature of the system is the entire elimination of motive power—the
uses of engine, motor, compressor plant, shafting, belting, pumps and expensive
foundations are all avoided.
The apparatus is simplicity itself, and the cost for
attendance and maintenance practically nil.
The “BRITISH” System (as it is known) is manufactured in many sizes and is
suitable for country station-owners, farms, provision stores, restaurants, hospitals
fruitgrowers, dairies and manufacturers of perishable goods.
The illustration above shows the No. 1 apparatus operating: 1. An ordinary domestic
ice safe for the storage of food, cooling milk, liquids, etc. 2, An ice-making chest
making a block of 281 b. of ice. 3. A freezing machine for icecream-making. Installa-
tions have been in successful operation all over the British Isles, ana have given the
maximum of efficiency at the minimum of cost.
Write To-day for full particulars to
WM. ADAMS 8 CO. LTD., 171-175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE 521-523 Collins Street; BRISBANE —Edward & Mary Streets; PERTH—33-35 King Street;
ADELAIDE —96-98 Currie Street; NEWCASTLE—Watt Street,


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHJXP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder -Soap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
■5
,' \ „-_
\ - ■ >•>.:».•• viX\ s N \3pCL<®fc
With the crowd or away into
the wilds by yourself ?
However you arrange to spend your week-
ends and holidays, see that you make the
most of it by cycling in comfort. Fit a
Choose
your
Saddle
carefully.
SADDLE.
Write
for a
Brooks
Catalogue.
J. B. BROOKS &• CO.. LTD., 134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
SIMMONS NOTIONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Newcastle Cup, run on Saturday,’ was
Partly a swimming match. As usual there, was a big
field of moderates, and as usual a rough ’un pre-
vailed. It was mainly on account of a rotten per-
formance at ffloorfield a week before that Dan Sea-
ton’s mare Sandbee, though provided with an accom-
plished rider like Toohev, was a drug on the market
at 20’s. Yet Sandbee was the best-proved in the race,
and being in that poor, ragged condition in which
she gallops best had substantial claims to considera-
tion. Sandbee first came into the limelight when as
a three-year-old she registered four wins and a second
on Sydney suburban courses in five starts.
“D.”: D. U. Seaton started a new fashion
when Sandbee won the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Oup on
Saturday. He divided the £lOOO which the drawer
of his horse in Tatt.’s sweep sent him between the
jockey and stable ( £250 each) and charities. An
even more admirable move would have been to send
the thousand back. A winning owner has no moral
Tight to a farthing of sweep-money, which is the
fruit of a total stranger’s investment—no more than
he has to a percentage of the winnings of those who
have backed his prad. The chief differences in the
two positions are that the sweep-winner’s name is
known and that he stands to lose more than 99
punters out of a hundred in the event of his chance
being scratched. A third is. of course, that gambl-
ing with Tatt.’s is illegal; with a bookie it is onlv
illegal here and there. One cannot call to mind, in
recent years, a case in which a hot thing for a big
race was scratched because the delivery of the
required percentage of sweep-money was not arranged
for, and it would be interesting to see the result if
such a thing occurred. Whenever an owner has
scratched a favorite on account of being anticipated
in the market by the public or, as happened in at
least one Melbourne Cup, by the stable, the uproar has
been so tremendous as to scotch the habit for vears
afterwards.
» * * •
Old Fortune Hunter’s lialf-brotlier Calid
failed two or three times recently on Sydney subur-
ban tracks, but at Rosehill on Saturday unwound a
long, finishing run which showed that the only thing
he had been short of in previous efforts was" condi-
tion. After a bumping passage to the straight in
the Granville Stakes, the little chap started for
the line about 10 lengths astern. Tommy O’Bryan
set him a big task, but the colt stuck the mile out
with conspicuous pace and courage. There isn’t
much of him, but what there is seems to be all
stayer.
* * » *
“O.Iv.”: Lionel Attwill, the two-year-old,
calls to mind the actor of that name who will
always be remembered by the sporting world of
10 years ago because of the circs, under which he
backed a horse to win a fortune. “The Whip” was
the best-informed racing drama the English stage
had seen. Even in Bland Holt’s time the hero was
apt to back the favorite with the leading villain
to win half a million, at 2 to 1 on, or thereabouts.
As for “The .Flying Scud,” and the sort of horsev
melodrama that flourished in the Dion Boucieault
period, rvhat shall be said of authors who wrote
jockey parts for popular soubrette actresses, and
thought of the Derby as a race for nags of all ages?
Now, the backing of The Whip was adroitly managed.
The young lord w’hom Attwill played was on the
verge of bankruptcy. A nice girl, daughter of a
shrewd old raeing earl, expostulates with the young
man, and, thinking he deserves one more chance to
put himself in funds and reform, tells him that The
Whip, an unperformed three-year-old, astonished the
stable by running clean away from the fancied can-
didates in a private trial that very morning. Does
Attwill rush off to the villain and ask him to lay
200 to 1 in thousands, or millions, against the rank
outsider, and thus give the tip away? No! He
strolls off to Tatter-all's and meets the “leviathan”
bookmaker, who happens to have had a glass. Asks
him what he will lay to big money, “bar three.”
Bookmaker names his wager after a bit of haggling,
and naturally assumes that Attwill’s fancy will prove
to be one of tcvo or three horses which he mentions.
When the lordly punter tells him to book the big
bet against The Whip the situation is at once
evident. The mug plunger of previous investments
has taken him down. “By God, the dark horse!”
says bookie. In one bet he has committed himself
to a large amount against the chosen representative
of a powerful stable. The rest is melodramatic
endeavor to nobble The Whip.
* * * *
The best-known horse Clark and Robinson
ever owned (the latter being the city speculator at
whose country place the Australian XI played last
week) was The Grafter. The Grafter won a City and
Suburban (Epsom) amongst other big events', but
his fame chiefly arose from his hideous appear-
ance. With unusually big feet and an enormous
fiddle head he was short of a rib, if not two, the
combination making him about .the plainest great
thoroughbred on record. His stock inherited his
looks, his beautiful flat legs, and his gameness.
Saxon Girl paid £OO 13s. Gd. for 10s. in the
tote'•when she finished second in the Trotters’ Un-
hoppled Handicap (2ni.) at Victoria Park (Sydney)
on Saturday. An Australian record. With the books
she was “any price” a win, and only one ticket was
taken oil her in the machine.
* * » *
Golden Cock, with Dempsey up, ran only-
fifth to Peace' Day in the Goodwood I land i clip on the
first day of the S.A.J.C. Meeting. The winner is a
four-year-old by St. Anton (imp.)—Penducous, and
never gave the others a show. Another of (lie same
age, Crusader, with Meddick in the saddle, easily
won the nine-furlong w.f.a. Elder Stakes. The live-
glass Ally Lady Nallen shared the S.A. Stakes for
two-year-olds with a St. Anton flapper named Aloeosis,
and tiie St. Leger Stakes for three-year-bids witnessed
the flying Hesso well beaten at a milv-and-a-quartev,
and Socrates withstand, by a head, a fine finish by
Dempsey on Hands Up.
Two fliers, in Muguet by Lily veil (imp.)
ami the consistent Pieasia by Piedmont (imp.), upset,
calculations in the Plate and Purse at Albion Park
(D-) on Saturday, and the Maorjland-brcd Black
Mask added to the Wallingfordians* sorrow's by beat-
ing Baralynd, another punter-forsaken coot in the
Third Division Handicap. The only bright spots in
a dismal afternoon were Crown Peach and Running
Star.
EVERYTHING’S HIG TIT.
THE ELDER: “Aye, Pm afraid Australia's
present position is Verra, verra serious."
THE YOUNGER: “Aw, what's biting yeh? Ell
lay yeh twenty t' two we win the
ashes!"
Harry Stone, the Yankee Yid who holds
Australia’s lightweight championship, was much
too elusive for Ned Fitzgerald at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. Ned has come'back
from America with a formidable punch, and on this
occasion but one problem faced him—that of attach-
ing it to Stone’s chin. Once he nearly brought the
stroke off. It Was in the fourth round, and, though
little more than fanned by the rocket-like weapon of
the Hibernian, Stone cast his eyes upwards and
sagged at the knees. Then the spirit of Judas Mac-
cabeus shouted warning and encouragement through
the mouth of a compatriot in the bookmakers’ seats,
and Harry gave an exhibition of dodging, ducking
and claiming which entranced h.s supporters. After
that the younger gladiator had no real hope, though
he battled determinedly on to the end. Stone does
not hit as hard as he did in the years that have fled,
as was evidenced by the fact that Fitzgerald, who
copped it on every allowable portion of his anatomy,
survived the 20 rounds. However, as a low comedian
the Hebrew freak has, if anything, come on a bit.
* * * *
Australasian Lawn Tennis Association has
launched a new tourney among Australian States and
M.L., for the Anthony Wilding Cup, It will be
played on similar lines to the Davis Cup.
* * * *
There will be balm in Gilead for Aus-
tralia if its Davis Cup colts are defeated by Britain.
Randolph Lycett, who is to partner Woosnam in the
doubles, learned his tennis with the Albert Park
(Melb.) Club 20 years ago. He could have repre-
sented Australasia in the Davis Cup meeting in 1911,
and has oniy just fulfilled his English residential
qualifications. He appeared at the Vic. State cham-
pionshin in 1919, when from a tennis standpoint he
was still an Australian.
On Saturday, in a Sydney Cricket Ground
game chiefly remarkable for rough-house tactics,
Eastern Suburbs beat Newtown by 30 points (ft
tries 6 goals) to 5 points (X try 1 goal) in the third
round of the N.S.W. Rugby League Premiership. The
Blue forwards dominated the scrums throughout,
J. Knight persistently defeating Sandy Pearce for the
ball. They broke up smartly and repeatedly
smothered Caples and Kaufman, the surfers’ halves,
but they got no for’arder, for they played the man
instead of the ball. Easts were the first to score.
Hobo Cubitt (who was always great) gave the final
transfer to Thumbling Wright, and Rex Norman con-
verted. Easts s—o. After Ray Norman and J. Man-
sted had been handed a well-earned pair of walking-
Spectacular JOE
SYMONDS, ex-
flyweight cham-
pion of the world,
just outed by
Dencio.
tickets, Bluey Watkins (Basts) and G. Olambaek
(Newtown) were pulled out to assist their respective
backs and the sanguinary struggle recommenced.
Newtown came at the surfers time after time, but the
defence was impenetrable. Then the tricolors were
penalised and Bolewski lobbed the leather over.
Masts, though beaten in the downs, succeeded in
notching another try (the lathy Cameron was re-
sponsible), and Hex Norman again added the extras.
In the second spasm the surfers with the wind at
then-, backs totted up 20 points (4 tries 4 goals) to
the blues’ three. An unconverted try, this last, by
the, erstwhile junior Dudley Seddon' who was the
only Newtown back to shine. The best man on the
field was IJobo Cubitt, who repeatedly made hacks
of the opposition by his elusive side-stepping and
heady tactics. Copies at stand-off half did many
good things, whilst Norman was excellent both in
attack and defence and hoisted six goals but of nine
attempts). Cameron, Ives and Holmes stood out in
Masts outweighted six. Townsend, Ryarr and Knight
were the pick of the blue vanguard, whilst Watkins
■ (Mast) and Olambaek (Newtown) played finely as
emergency three-quarters. The other games resulted
in Norths obliterating ’Varsity by 37 points (7 tries
8 goals) to 5 points (1 try 1 goal) ; the dockers,
heading the rabbitos by TO points (2 tries 2 goals)
to 9 points (1 try 3 goals) ; while Wests outed the
infant. St. George, by 16 points (4 tries 2 goals) to
13 points (1 try 5 goals). Glebe had the bye.
*** * ‘
The downfall of ’Varsity on Saturday
under Sydney Rugby Union rules at the feet o(
Eastern Suburbs, following on their defeat the pre-
vious Saturday by Glebe-Balmain, is. a hopeful sign. It
means that the amateur gaino is booming in the
dubs which this year have attracted many ex-school
boys. ’Varsity looked like making a draw of it when
“Slip” Oarr, close on time, used his pace and scored
a try that made all the difference. Manly ran up 16
points against Glebe-Balmain in the first half and
then stopped dead, and in the second spell G.-B. drew
level. Mingay was the star player of the match,
both in attack and defence. Old Bovs made a
game of it with Norths, hut they still lack combina-
tion in the forwards. Their backs, especially Mc-
Manamey and Tindale, were very nippy. Norths, a
purely forward aggregation, repeatedly scored from
the ruck, the heroes of the occasion being Loudon
and Oatley, the ex-Mosmanite. Newtown’s forwards'
iearly won them the game against Wests, hut the
tatter’s backs were too fast. Scott played a heady
defensive game for the losers and his kicking was
fine. For the winners Lane, Prentice and Shute
shone brightest, the former being especially tricky.
Judging by Saturday’s crowds at the open-
ing Melbourne football matches, and provided nothing
untoward occurs, the Vie. League will have the pain-
ful experience of turning away gate money from its
finals. Into the enlarged Richmond ground some
25,000 crowded to watch last year’s premiers down
Carlton, and mostly went away satisfied with a good,
clean, fast game though disappointed at the result.
The Old Blues were a shade less systematic than the
Tigers, hut surer in handling and marking, and at
the end they boasted 62 points to Richmond’s 53.
At Victoria Park ’Wood and ’Roy, old rivals, argued
in friendly fashion, the Mag-pies mostly holding the
thicker end of the waddy and running out with 73
points to ’Roy’s 57. The monotony of the half-time
wait here was enlivened by -a couple of even and
well-sustained scraps between enthusiastic supporters.
South collided with re-organised St. Kilda, which
weren’t worth a row of pins last season but have
captured some new, good men. South had to bog
in hard to win by a point—67 to Saints’ 66. Essen-
don had a fairish team last season, and with five new
“stars” rather fancied their chance against Mel-
bourne ; hut the Fuchsias put in nine new-comers—
half the team —captained and coached by an ex-mag-
pie, expert in systematic play. The result steadied
the ’Dons and in the end left the auestion of
superiority undecided, the game ending 78 all. Gee-
long had the' bye.
* # * •
In Sydney last week, under Australian
Rules, Newtown gave Paddington (last year’s pre-
miers) their second big walloping this season by
84 points to 55. Newtown worked like a well-oiled
machine, but their goal-kicking was poor. Easts
downed Sydney by 82 to 42, Richards booting six
and Knott three. Railway (just back from
the Southern States) ran over Balmain, trampling
them down by 78 to 17.
* * * *
In the second round of Sydney Soccer
premiership on Saturday Granville trampled down
Gladesville (the junior recruits) by 5 goals to 1.
Simmonds, on the right wing, scored for GlUdesville,
after which Granville put five into the net in suc-
cession. In the Canterbury-Pyrmont tussle the scores
were one all at half-time. Just on the final whistle
A. Forbes shot a penalty goal for Canterbury, leaving
them winners bv 2—l Annandale led Balmain Fern-
leigh I—o at half-time. On the change round
Moore booted four goals for Balmain against Bur-
cham’s one for Annandale. Eastern Suburbs made
short work of Campaie Thistle by 6—l, Ralph’s goal-
keeping alone saving Campsie from a cricket score.
* * * *
A. Aitken, of Sydenham (M.L.), who died
in his jersey from a blow above the heart in a Rugby
match at Christchurch the other day, represented
Canterbury v. South Canterbury in 1907 and v.
Wellington in 1908. lie was coach of Sydenham
President team, and only played on the day of his
death to make up the XV.
* * * *
S. Geo. Ball and Billy Cann, who will
be managers of the Australasian Rugby League team
to tour England a couple of months hence, pioneered
the S. Sydney Club in 1907, and have watched the
League game grow up. Geo. Bail, besides being
Secretary of Souths since 1908, has been chairman
oi the League Management Committee. Cann visited
England with the Kangaroo combinations of 1908-09
and 1911-12. He has also taken the field for N.S.W.
against Queensland and M.L., and has toured both
places with rep. teams. At present he is a vice-
president of the N.S.W. head bodv.
* * *" *
When Fender led the pros, and amateurs
of the Surrey team out of the same gate on Satur-
day he made cricket history more definitely even
than he did by means of the cable service during
the Englishmen’s last tour of Australia. Cricket is
the only game at which this degrading and idiotic
convention prevails. Obviously cricket pros, and
amateurs should either be altogether debarred from
competing, as they are in the prize-ring, or they
should be on an equality, as they are on golf links
and steeplechase tracks. Surrey, which with its
classic Oval is the premier county for prestige, has
set an example that the rest of England is bound to
follow.
It rim easily be understood that a wet day
in the early part, of May would put the Australians
off their game. A drizzling English day at this
time of the year, with a northerly breeze blowing,
suggests the pack-ice over which the zephyr has
blown. The dead-slow wicket at Buckenhain Hall,
where the tourists met what was practically an all-
England side, under the above conditions, might have
been expected to handicap the few members of the
team who had never struck such a phenomenon be-
fore, but it does not explain Rardsley, who, according
to the cables, “missed many times” and was evi-
dently never at home. No one seems to have faced
Douglas and Gibson with relish, barring, of course
Armstrong, who collected 51 n.o. A feature of the
unfinished match was Archie Maclaren’s sparkling 27
n.o. On the form he showed he never should have
taken his newspaper critic’s advice and put himself
in last. Hobbs had to retire hurt, unfortunately
when he had made 85, and was incapacitated frou
coming out for Surrey on the following day.' He
has torn the same muscle he hurt in Australia.
With Hobbs Surrey is one of the hottest
county teams in England. Without his peerless
fielding, ami the practical certainty that, whoever
else fails with the bat, be won’t, it is not nearh
so formidable. Australia met the Cockney teaii
under the second set of conditions on Saturday, and
a painfully unequal game resulted. Collins ‘ (162)
and Macartney (87) supplied most of the runs in
the visitors’ first innings, and in a style that seems
to have been admired. Taylor and Andrews again
failed. Surrey’s collapse for 79 before Armstrong
(six for 38) and McDonald (four for 29) was sen-
sational. Neither Mailey nor Gregory were trier!
in the county’s first innings. It is 'evident that,
bar miracles, they are to be reserved for dry days
and hard wickets. The pitch at Kennjngton was
like a mush and it dries with notorious slowness.
Fast-bowler McDonald’s 12 wickets for
104 on his first appearance in England is a good
performance, but, old Bill Howell's maiden effort was
better. Against Surrey, with the 1899 team, he cap-
tured the whole 10 wickets in the first innings at a
cost of. 28 runs (eight clean bowled), and bagged
five for 29 in the second innings, a total of 15
wickets for 57 runs. On the way back to the
pavilion after the first innings Bill remarked to
the rest of the team, “I reckon I won’t want all
you fellows in the field next innings.”
* * * *
Beaurepaire and Steadman are on their
way to Honolulu to represent Australia in the
Hawaiian championships at the end of the month.
Witli Kahanamoku, the Kealohas, Langer, Kruger,
Kahele and perhaps Norman Ross competing, the
meeting will have quite an Olympic flavor.
* * * *
Lndy Langer has just swam 440yds. (his
pet distance) at Wellington (M.L.) in smin. 33
4-ssec., thus obliterating Harold Hardwick’s seven-
year-old record by 1 l-ssec. At the same time and
place he cut out the 220yds. in 2min. 32see., which
is ssec. faster than the previous Dominion best.
Danger’s best Australian effort over the furlong is
2min. 27 4-osec., put up when Beaurepaire headed
him bv 2ft. in 2min. 27sec. for the Australian fur-
long title on Feb. 22 last.
* * * *
The Australian Golf Club beat the
Suburbanites at Kensington on Saturday by 10 matches
to six. Tom Howard (Sub.) defeated Eric Apperlv
(3 up and 2), and W. C. Sturrock (Sub.) had a simi-
lar card over Ivo Whitton. On the other hand F. G.
Murdoch downed J. lv. Harrison by 7 up and 5 to
play.
* * * *
Australians score sporting successes in
unexpected quarters. O’Halloran Giles, of Adelaide,
won the Curzon Cup for tobogganing this year at
St. Moritz, in Switzerland —the most important event
of a keenly-contested season. There is a big Calcutta
sweep on the event, and Lambert’s chance (he was
favorite) was sold for 800 francs, while Giles’s went
for 2000 to Curzon, the Cup donor. The pair fought
out the finish.
ASYLUM INTERLUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If I see or hear anyone burn a flag it will be
bis last few minutes on earth.”—-S. M. Herald cor-
respondent.
“I never knew a better day,” Fitzloon observed,
“for sport.
The light is good. The game is thick, according
to report.
The Editor is ready: he was ever one for fun.
The K.B.E. is in the shed attending 7 to his gun.
'‘The Burners and the Suspects have been hunted to
their lairs,
And now await our onslaught—some alone and some
in pairs.
What brand of shot is best, you ask. Why, Number
4, I say,
Though Dotty here thinks Number 1 is better in a
way.
“Yes, ballistite for me: I’ve used it nearly all my
life.
(This dashed ejector's stuck. Could you oblige me
with a knife?)
And, by the way, bring something like a hammer
or an axe.
Some sportsmen in such little things are criminally
lax.
“Now, get a move on, boys! The car came half-
an-hour ago.
The dogs are on ahead: they’ll be the better for
the blow.
One last small spot? A gin for me. The best of
luck, my lad!
And if I’m any judge the shooting- shouldn’t be too
bad.
“What’S that you say? The King of England’s
waiting in the hall,
And says the season’s just been closed! Why, that
is what I call
A decent thing of him to do—to let us know that
way.
Here, Dot, get out the ping-pong board. We ll shoot
another day.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


WOULD YOU FIGHT OR RUN ?
If you can’t fight you must run away,
with consequent loss of self-respect
and the shameful after-thoughts that
will haunt you like a nightmare.
Lack of confidence more than lack of
courage might be the real cause.
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
We can give you that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which will enable
you to act a man’s part shpuld the
necessity arise.
Learn Boxing by Post
We teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet. “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it to us with three stamps
to cover postage.
mg
jffew
mm
k
■S«W
m
We specialise In high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BKOTHEKS,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
479 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
aw
vm\.
fiSS
uaids adiow
WAR GRATUITY BOARD.
NOTICE.
CLAIM has been lodged by dependant
for War Gratuity in respect of the
service of the following soldier. Claim must
be lodged by the soldier concerned himself
with the District Finance Officer, 6th Mili-
tary District, Anglesea Barracks, Hobart,
on'or before May 2G, failing which it will
not be considered.
No. 2283 L/Corporal Edgar William
RUSSELL, 40th Battalion.
(Sgd.) W. W. ALDERMAN, Lt. Colonel,
Agent for the Prescribed Authority, War
Gratuity Board, Hobart.
Missing' Friends.
~W/ ANTED. —Any person knowing the
▼ » whereabouts of CHARLES CLARKE,
who left Taroom, Queensland, about the year
1000, to communicate with the PUBLIC
CURATOR, Brisbane
F. W. MOLE,
Public Curatoi’,
170 Elizabeth Street, City.
Use
Power
IT is recognized that the throttling governor type of engine
is the most desirable, especially for operating on kerosene.
The FULLER & JOHNSON Throttling Governor Petrol
Kerosene Engine is of the most approved design. In this
engine complete combustion of the fuel is obtained, and a
steady uniform engine speed maintained, at the same time
the automatic regulation of the fuel is always in proportion
to the load.
Characteristic of all FULLER & JOHNSON Engines, this
engine is “easy to start,’’picks up speed quickly, runs smoothly
and quietly, and can be depended upon to deliver its full rated
Brake Horse Power with a liberal margin.
It is the engine with the Big Steady Pull.
These engines are handsomely finished and can be fur-
nished either stationary or portable in the following sizes—
3, 5,7, 9,12,15, 20 and 25 B. H. P.
A post card addressed to the nearest distributor named below
will bring you full information on FULLER & JOHNSON
Engines.
I
in sizes 3,5, 7, 9> 12, 15, 20, 25 B. H. P. Stationary and Portable
DISTRIBUTORS
The S. A. Farmers* Co-operative Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
EASY TO START
h
I
t
The “Foster” Spot Welder
supersedes the old riveting: method
in connection with sheet metal-work of every description,
being simpler, cheaper and
considerably more efficient.
The two parts to be joined are pressed
together between two copper tips. The
work is raised to a welding heat by electric
current, and the joint completed by pressure
through the copper tips. The welding time
approximates one second per l-16th inch
thickness. The "'Foster” Spot Welder is con-
structed to stand rough usage, and shocks are
impossible. Five different strengths of weld-
ing current may be secured.
Further Particulars concerning
this and Butt Welders
from Sole Agents :
Homewood 8 O’Neill
Pty.
Ltd.,
Head Offices and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melb.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
Manufacturers :
FOSTER ENGINEERING CO.. 1,T1>.,
Wimbledon, London.
Hard Drawn Spring Wire.
Springs that are subjected to heavy wear should be made
of our Hard Drawn Spring Wire.
Guaranteed
to Coil Cold
It is especially suitable wherever a strong
spring is required to retain its set.
It can be had in any quantity and in any
gauge from 4 to 24.
If you telephone, ring City 9863 or 7819.
If you are writing, address Department “A.”
°Le o»^ 6
THE EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co, Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
266 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Boad, KALGOORLIE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE,
Paul & Gray, Ltd.. NEWCASTLE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
R. L. Milligan, llolmrt, TASMANIA.
The THORNLEY Lathe
(Australian=made).
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
Price £125.
THORNLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, and
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
6in. centres x 6ft. bed; liin. Hollow Spindle; Swing in Gap,
20in. dia. x 7Hn. -wide in front of Face Plate. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground ; All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding; Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw'; Lead Screw cut 'on Thread Miller —■
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for specifications and complete particulars to
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


Farmer’s New SMotor bonnet.
THIS is an entirely new style that will at once appeal on account of its simplicity
and smartness. It is close fitting and comfortable and will retain its position
=== no matter at what speed one may be travelling. Made of soft chenille-finish
Moufflon Straw, with a brim that can be turned down at side, if required. Of navy
shade trimmed with band of henna ribbon and ornamented with bow at back;
finished with a long, flowing veil of navy ninon. May also be had in shades
of putty, lemon, vieux rose, saxe blue, and black. Price
52/6
We Pay Carriage.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
Box 497, G.P.O.
Bond’s Australian
Triple
Wear
Hose
is definitely
Guaranteed
not to ladder,
hole or tear.
Made in
heavy Plated
Artificial Silk
1
and 4 times the Weight and 4 times
the Strength of any Silk Hose money
can buy. Triple
easily your Best Hosiery
Investment at.
12/11
PER PAIR
. A. Bond & Co.—All States & N.Z.
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
*
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
NOW
OPEN
The Countess of Stradbroke is getting her
daughter, Lady Helena Rous, into harness,
and the quiet, dignified young woman has
had a job or two lately, opening bazaars,
etc. The popular Countess is so rushed with
such engagements that she must have help.
Sassiety, with the Governor and his
Countess in the lead, motored down to Warr-
nambool for the races. This Ex. is cheerful
enough, but he is not likely to be so exuber-
ant as one-time Governor Fuller who, in a
dinner speech at the seaside city, referred
to the place as “Warraeknambool.” Ilis
previous peregrinations had been round the
Mai lee.
Their Exes, had a good time in the rich
south-west. They met some of the pure
merinoes, and formed their own opinion on
A iscount Bryce’s assertion in his latest book
that wo have “no sort of so-called aristocracy
....and hardly even a plutocracy.” Owing
to the rainfall, which was local rather than
general, the itinerary had to be curtailed,
otherwise Stradbroke might have felt called
upon to cable to Bryce about it by now.
As a statue doesn’t seem to be within the
realm of possibility at present, a few heads
are being put together with a view of arrang-
ing for a bust of George Iliginbotham to be
placed in the National Gallery. Web Gil-
bert has a mask of the head of the great
•Judge and statesman, and it is suggested
that he should be given the order before he
goes back to the Cold Country. A modest
£ooo shouldn’t require a terrible effort to
raise.
A sweetly-pretty young Australian actress
retired into private life the other Friday
when Beryl Bryant signed an engagement
with Albert Edward Mayor, of Svdney. The
bride, as everybody doesn’t know,'is a daugh-
ter of the George Bryants, and mamma,
although almost as young and good-looking as
daughter Beryl, has been an invalid of late;
so the ceremony was performed at the
Bryant residence on South Yarra hill.
From an Australian stage point of view it
will, be a sad pity if the bride is to quit
the drama for ever. She showed much
promise in the series of unthankful, catty
parts she played, and the remark was often
made that her strangely-appealing voice was
only waiting for a fair chance to assert
itself in an appealing character.
Lady Stradbroke seems to find something
to interest her in politics. She and the
Eart went up quietly into the listeners’ gal-
lery of the Federal House one night lately,
and the Countess liked it so much that she
went along later for more. That time an
official conducted her on a sort of Cook’s
tour all over the House.
General Griffiths, who was Administrator
at Rabaul during the military regime, has
been seriously ill in Melbourne during the
last three weeks; but he is now believed to
be well out of danger. He came to Mel-
bourne on furlough before taking up his
new job of Administrator of Nauru, where
the phosphates come from, and his illness
prevented his leaving by the boat that was
to have taken him off in the first week of May.
Pneumonia following on a severe attack of
malaria was the trouble.
Premier Lawson’s trip to Cudgewa to open
the last section of the 424-mile line from Tal-
langatta recalls Tummas Bent’s pilgrimage
to the same locality 15 years ago when the
settlers were supplicating for the line. Bent
was Railway Minister as well as Premier,
and the most he was able to do then was to
raise hopes. The party was approaching
Granya when a horseman met the drag (or
hearse as Tommy called it) and told him
that a notice was posted up at the pub
heralding his arrival which wasn’t spelt
properly. “It says,” he explained, “ ‘The
Minstrel party will arrive to-night.’ ” “That’ll
do,” remarked Bent; and he whispered to
Craven, M.L.A., that he’d “even been called
a clown before to-day.”
Dr. Stan Argyle, Toorakia’s member in
the Assembly, has told the Malvern A.W.N.L.
that Australia is not getting 10 per cent, of
value out of the baby bonus. -If he had his
way he would substitute intermediate
maternity hospitals where women could be
attended by their own family doctors on
their own terms, but where the nursing and
maintenance exes, would by the
Commonwealth. The problem of finding home-
helpers (as they are called in Yankeeland)
would then have to be faced. Feeling that
•home department” matters were suitable for
a women’s political association the doctor
gave them this item to chew over. But
will they?
W alter Kirby has been sowing seeds of
kindness before departing abroad. He organ-
ised an entertainment at the Rest Home,
llealesville, recently, with Maude Grantham
to help and a local song-bird, Dorothy Starr,
to add her wonderful voice. He is now
hard at work selling songs for the Blind
Appeal, and between whiles he has sung at
Fasoli’s eafd to help Mrs. Maggia’s appeal
on behalf of a widow who was burnt out
of her home. Kirby recently went on tour
in the country, and at Ballarat the town
turned out red carpets and a brass band.
The Mayor gave a civic reception to the
company, and the Coghlans, a well-known
Ballarat family, entertained them at a motor-
picnic. Kirby made his first appearance as
a tenor in Ballarat 26 years ago, and it
was the present Mayor who acted as sec-
retary for that event.
While musical enthusiasts were fiddling
about a State guarantee against loss on a
Victorian orchestra, Mayor Hitchcock, the
Geelong Hordern, cut in with a suggestion
that a group of private folk should give the
backing needed. He offered to beat up one-
fourth of the. guarantee if £4O(X) was the
limit. As a fact, only the difference between
what the orchestra makes and £4OOO is the
amount that would have to be supplied by
guarantors. Interest in the orchestra, which
had grown cold, has become a trifle warm
again since there is supposed to be still a
chance of capturing Verbrugghen.
Clifton Springs Hotel, near Drysdale and
Geelong, was burnt down the other day.
This place was beloved of Billy Hughes, who
used to rush down there when Melbourne be-
came too much of a whirlpool, shut himself
in a quiet room and work on mysterious
documents. The hotel was owned by Henry
Holden, for years the popular manager of the
Grand Hotel, Melbourne. He added an ex-
tensive farm to the pub, and he and his
handsome wife settled there in rural comfort.
Only recently they made great improvements
to the hotel itself —and now it is completely
gutted, the only part left being the quarters
for the staff. Sassiety is feeling the loss very
badly, as a houseful of parties was booked up
for May 18 and 14, when the Head of the
River is to be rowed on the Barwon.
Strange that the hotel should be burnt
down so soon after the big furniture ware-
house in Swanston-street. The Nunan family
went to the Springs after leaving that ware-
house 22 years ago, and managed it until
Holden’s arrival. It looks as if Fate desired
to blot out the places where the Nunans
made friends if they did not make fortunes.
More than once the R.C. clergy engaged the
whole of the extensive building at the Springs
for a religious retreat.
Herewith Monteath’s latest of Leonard
Slade, who has just finished 45 years with
Mullen’s, and hopes to reach his jubilee.
As a nipper of 16 he was hand_ed a job by
Samuel Mullen, who
landed in Melbourne
from the same clipper
that brought George
Robertson, destined
to be another im-
posing figure in the
bookselling b u s i-
ness. It is a remark-
able coincidence that
on the same day that
Mullen and Robert-
son stepped ashore a
belated vessel from
South America ar-
rived with the subse-
fluent founder of
Cole’s Book Arcade.
Slade, who eventu-
ally became a pHtt-
ner in Mullen’s, was
born at Clunes, where he rambled as a youth
with artist John Longstaff and Dr. William
Hewitson, head of Dunedin’s Presbyterian
College. Incidentally, he was one of the
nrst members of Melbourne’s Shakspeare
Society, and is a grandson of the Rev. P.
Durham, who chaplained at Port Arthur
(Tas.) in Sir John Franklin’s time.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart gave a little lunch
party a few days ago as a farewell to her
neighbor, Mrs. Purbrick, who, with her 17-
year-old sou as an escort, is off on a six
months’ holiday, leaving dad at home to
look after his younger sons. Two squat-
teress sisters of the hostess were there. The
husband of the departing one has arranged
for a new Rolls Royce to meet her in Eng-
land, to compensate her for leaving behind a
haughty limousine. Really, money is tight
in Melbourne. One shivers at the every-day
proofs one gets of it.
Mrs. Arthur Harper, who divorced hus-
band No. 1, made a second plunge the other
day. She married Jack Rutty, a widower,
whose first wife was Mrs. Leslie Stuart’s
little sister.
The Mordialloc Golf Club, a young but
swaggah association, opened the season on
May 2 with a great fanfare. A long snake
of motors hissed down from the city, and
the motorists squandered themselves over the
links in mixed foursomes and putting com-
petitions and other items of the kind that
make deliberate golfers tear their haih The
officials of the club sacrificed their long,
precious golf-day (that Monday was a
holiday) to the entertainment of their
guests, and the invaders had a great time.
Retiring-president Rogers was feted, and
new-president A. O. Westley and his lady
gave a party. They had a pretty pink anil
green marquee erected, and caterer Greville
spread lashings of food and drink. At two
o’clock Gaud Mayor Swanson drove the first
ball. President Westley had offered a
trophy for golfers, and Mrs. Westley one
for the best woman putter. She proved to
be Mrs. Wilson, with Mrs. Rogers a close
second. Mrs. Westley herself putted, but
didn’t compete. She was adorably clad in
navy blue, with embroidered stitehery in
henna shade, and a cute little henna-tinted
hat and veil added to the effect. There were
140 entries for the foursomes —quite a record
for a frivolous day.
Irritation has been caused by an attempt
of the Consul for Sweden to block tin* de-
parture of Captain Garrett O'Brien for Eng-
land to rejoin the Royal Air Force. The
( ■ mnonwealth Government declined to de-
lay a vis 6 for the passport for a fortnight,
feeling that it had virtually been asked to
act as a court of review in a matter in
which the Supreme Court had already given
judgment. Mann, ,T., would not order the
detention of O’Brien when Carrie Lundgren
had obtained her £.300 verdict in the breaeh-
of-promise case, and O’Brien had under-
taken to pay up in instalments when he got
back to military air service. The plaintiff
did not establish herself sufficiently well in
public favor during the case to get much
sympathy, and the consular interference has
discounted what little there was.
Whether he despised the trappings of
mourning usually associated with his trade
or whether he had acquired humility by his
business visits to the gateway of eternity
isn’t quite clear; all that is certain is that
John Allison, the undertaker, who shuffled
off last week, would not have any grand
obsequies. He left directions that the trip
to the cemetery should be private, but that
it should be open to his friends, if they chose,
to follow his coffin from Melbourne Cemetery
gates to the grave.
David Clyne, one of the oldest inhabitants
of Carlton, lately celebrated his diamond-
wedding. Formerly manager of an insurance
co., he has latterly confined his activities to
heading the Wednesday bench at Carlton
Court and continuing in his part of Grand
Treasurer of the Order of Oddfellows in
Victoria, a post he has held for 35 years.
Clyne, who comes from the Speck, where he
met his bride, is a benevolent old citizen who
still finds life agreeable at 83.
At Max Meldrum’s exhibition in Melbourne
the other day the little man was talking to
an acquaintance, when in stalked George
Lambert and Arthur Streeton, both looking-
like gods disguised as Old Masters. Mel-
drum stared at them for one dazzled moment:
then, gathering up his belongings, he stalked
haughtily forth. Too chivalrous to convert
them to his way of painting when he was
practically on his own ground, he waited out-
side to advise them that they were artistically
Lost: but somehow he missed them in the
crowd that was surging into his show. Still,
he has not given up hope of bringing the
two great men to their senses.
The comely usher-girls at the Tivoli have
shed the eccentric garb in which the new
management disguised them wheii the season
started, and are now looking attractive in
skirts. That other costume was really a bit
over the odds, as the boys say. The girls
couldn’t think what to take themselves for.
They might have been Dutch pierrots, ap-
prenticed to the gentleman-jockey business,
or circus clowns engaged in female imper-
sonation. They went about with a sort of
spare-my-blushes expression, and, whether
doorkeeping, or flashing a light in the dark-
ness, or taking round afternoon-tea at the
interval, they never seemed quite happy.
But in saucy skirt and apron Gwendoline is
herself again.
The Dental Students’ Ball, annually a
bewildering whirl, is billed for June 21 at
the St. Ivilda Town Hall.
The C. M. Lloyd widow and Millie Carter,
who are on a three months’ visit to their
native Aussie, farewelled Toorak the other
day at a tea-an’-cake frivol at the Alexandra
Club. They were reinforced by a Carter
cousin, Olive Clarke, and her mother, an ex-
Melbourne girl, Amy Teale, who is now the
wife of a Blighty medico. The Teales ran a
ladies’ seminary for some years at Kyneton
with such success that the family tracked
off to the Cold Country to spend the profits.
That was over 30 years ago. One Teale sister,
Mrs. Bob Govett, and her youngest son went
down in the mysterious Waratah.
Mellis Falconer, who did her war-bit as
assistant hon.-sec. of the Australian Com-
forts Fund, has now agreed to confine her
attentions to one particular soldier—Captain
Ronald McDonald, of the Staff Corps. He
is the elder son of the late 11. H. McDonald,
of Queensland, whose widow now resides in
this State.
Big Fred Thiel, the popular “Dewar's”
man of Victoria, is in Miss Garlick’s hospi-
tal, recuperating after a sudden appearance
in the operating-theatre.
G. W. Lambert, pictured here by the Stir-
ling Studio people, ceased booming as a big
gun in the London
art world to go out
a s a n Australian
o fli ci a 1 artist i n
Palestine when the
Diggers were chas-
ing Abdul. Now he
has come, after a
long spell abroad, to
see his own Austra-
lia again, and inci-
dentally to let Aus-
tralia se'e some of
his pictures'. His
brushes we r e not
long idle after his
Ian(1 i n g. General
Johnston introduced
him to the Mel-
bourne Hunt Club,
and now he is busy
at Oakloigh painting a large canvas of a
group of well-known lninting-men and their
horses against a background of decorative
peppermint-gum trees. The picture will
probably be shown at an exhibition of Lam-
bert’s paintings at the Fine Arts Society’s
rooms sometime this month.
Ice-skating this season is likely to work
up to fever-pitch. The Glaci. has already
opened, and our Countess and co. have pro-
mised to come along when they return from
Wurrnambool, the family being keen on
the spbrt. Acres of wool-clad lasses are
rushing the floor. The craze for the woollen
jumper will prevent much pneumonia this
season. Our collective girl finds that her
Sister Susie practice is having its reward,
and her knitting-needles are busy with
bright wools. She not only knits jerseys,
caps and scarves, but now and then gets
busy on a complete one-piece dress. There
is even an edging like fur made from pulled
and brushed wool. The Glaciarium has
found it advisable to rope off a section of
the floor for dancing. Jazzing has been so
popular there through the summer that
patrons insist on it.
Many of our ice-champions lie under
wooden crosses in Gallipoli and France; but
on the opening day some of the old brigade
in the middle of the floor seemed to push
the years backwards. Among them a Frank
Madden, Doris Armytage, the John Grices’
younger girl, Mrs. Dudley Trenchard, Cyril
Magillicuddy and Jack Goodall pirouetted
showily. The Harry Paynes’ only miss slid
slowly round the beginners’ edge on the
arm of an instructor. She is preparing for
Continental ice, as she goes acrosfs-seas under
mother’s wing a few weeks hence.
Adelaide passes on some gossip:—
At Christchurch, North Adelaide, the other day.
Dorothy, eldest daughter of W. G. Hawkes, of
Koonoona, Burra, said “I will” to Captain Peter C.
A. Head, eldest son of Lieut.-Col. H. F. Head, of
Kent (Eng.). Canon Jose tied the knot. The bride
was attended by Dove Power in forget-me-not blue,
and G. E. Jose supported the bridegroom. The wed-
ding-cake was cut at the Frank Making* home,
Keynedon, Palmer Place. Dorothy is the third of the
Hawkes girls to cut cake and be toasted at Keynedon.
The newly-weds motored to their future home at
Woodside. .
The annual Uni. Ball, to come off on June 10, is
the only dance nowadays that follows the old-fashioned
system of advertising for debutantes, though cynics
protest that the real deb. is now one with the dodo.
The committee includes fo\ir professors, the Mayoress
and a most imposing list of the “salt.”
The other day his Ex., Lady Weigall, the juvenile
Priscilla, Dr. C. J. Williams and private sec. Legh
Winser paid a flying visit to Port Pirie—there
one day and back in town enjoying “lolanthe” the
next. But they managed to look in at the Y.M.C.A.
rooms (where his Ex. presented some swimming
medals), attend the Ladies’ Rowing Club ball, and
pay visits to the schools.
The late Ernest Ayers left £ 90,000-odd. About
£3OOO of it is to be distributed among various
Adelaide charities.
R. H. Mann, who has managed the E., S. and A.
Bank in Adelaide for the last five years, has gone to
Melbourne to take over the manager’s desk at the
head office. He was entertained by senior officers from
city and branch banks prior to his departure, and
presented with a lounge chair.
Uncle Sam has his eye on Adelaide, which used to
have any local man as consular agent. For the past
three years Starrett has been full consul. Since he
was promoted recently to Java, his work has been
done by Gilson Blake, from Newcastle, who, inci-
dentally, proved able to teach Adelaide some new jazz
steps. H. H. Balch has now taken up the work, and
for the first time Adelaide gets a vice-consul too,
J- W. Caldwell. They say that the city of wide
streets and open flower-decked spaces reminds them of
Washington.


ohe
99
99
\
/
POST-WAR
FIFTEEN
>1
n
i
n
A
nu
Ulb.
Ml
i
Sm
m
i m
m
—^m
s
£
~ iTi
F¥=?F / J;
w
«. -k «
,r.
.-J'+t* lf-i <; f
MiMliiiiii
I
■■-
nee
A “Great” Car
To ride in a Wolseley Fifteen is to
experience those thrilling delights that
only a “great” car can impart to the
fullest degree.
As an undoubted triumph of the best British engineering
practice, it instantly draws forth the highest praise from
the motor expert. As a thing of beauty, it appeals to
the finest artistic sense, and its multitude of modern
travel-in-comfort devices provide luxury in abundance.
*N.
The purchaser of a Wolseley Fifteen naturally expects
“great” things of it, and in no case is he disappointed..
The Wolseley Fifteen is equippted with the most modern
system of suspension springing yet devised; only the
best grade materials and the finest Vickers steels are
used in its construction. This assures the smallest pos-
sible expenditure for repairs.
Complete weight is under 23cwt.; taken from the
stripped chassis weight of 1 6cwt. and brake-horse-power
of 45h.p'., the power-weight ratio equals 3h.p. to the cwt.
The equipment, includes—Patent Canvas Hood, Adjustable
Windscreen, Upholstered Best Leather, Buttoned Cushions,
Electric Starting and Lighting Equipment (full set of lamps),
Spare Wheel and Tyre on Carrier, Electric Horn, Speedometer,
8-day Clock, Bulb Horn, Dashboard Lamp, Folding Luggage
Carrier, and Number Plate with painted number at rear.
FULL INFORMATION ON REQUEST
Representatives:—
VICTORTA— DALGETY & 00., LTD., 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO., LTD. Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., 64 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LTD., 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA—
THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR k CYCLE AGENCY LTD.. Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—
G. W. SPRAuG, Auckland.
INGLIS BROS., Wellington. ,
BETT & BAYLY, Palmerston North.
TODD BROS., LTD., Christchurch.
TODD BROS., LTD., Dunedin.
WINTRINGHAM & MITCHELL, Blenheim.
WOLSELEY MOTORS, LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia, 125
William Street, Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.).
Works: Adderlcy Park,
Birmingham, England.


CIMRLES
HtIDSIECKS
Vintage 1911
(M*
nE PLUS ULTRA
I :
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
xM-
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
nnininmm
BARE FLOORS ARE SANITARY
MAKE THEM BEAUTIFUL.
USE
wm
m
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Musical -.Sydney has been crowding to
the Town Hall to hear Jascha Heifetz, of
the singing bow. Jascha is a tall, slim
youth, with a sensitive, unsmiling mouth,
eyes that utterly forget his audience, and
a legerdemain left hand' that doesn’t allow
his right hand to see what it is doing, llis
music is as delightful as sunlight flashing
through a lacework of green leaves, or the
wind blowing through summer grasses. It
is all the earth-sounds woven into a “Te
Deum.” When he played the Mendelssohn
concerto on Saturday night it was as though
he led the way into a rainbow-land where
dreams come true, and the pot of gold at
the end of the rainbow wasn’t worth a dried
fig so long as the vision of the glistening
arch continued. Difficulties simply don’t
exist for this fortunate youth, and the most
intricate and brilliant passages fall as natu-
rally as a shower of dewdrops from a sud-
denly-plucked flower. He’s a generous kid,
too; at the close of his first concert he gave
four encores, and Saturday night saw a
clamorous audience gorged with six extras,
although the sensitive mouth and eyes had
developed a look of utter tiredness.
Dike the admiral in “Pinafore,”, Jascha
is a family mpn, and, although he cuts out
lus cousins and bis aunts, he travels with
his mother and father, two sisters and a
secretary. The sisters are brown-eyed, mag-
nolia-shinned flappers, who don’t flap because
their hair is cut short. The G.-G.’s party
had the red rag laid down for it on Satur-
day night, though on Thursday night Lady
Forster, Mrs. Pitt Rivers and the Digby
lady slipped in unaided, abetted only at the
last moment by manager Gravestoek, who
found them three seats in the midst of the
multitude.
Of course, the musical Cohens were
among the front-seaters, and Ruby Rich, m
a wonderful greeu cloak, with her brother.
Little Mrs. Gordon brought her Judge to show
him that there really is some harmony in the
world. Topsie Doenau wrapped , her sparkle
in a red cloak, and the Cairos Rego lass was
more Ilian ever suggestive of a lady out of
a picture. Arthur Benjamin in the bosom
of his family, Ramsay Pennycuick, Roy
Agnew, Dean Talbot and his flame-headed
wife were among the eager listeners, and
silver-haired Mrs. Toohey took a deep
draught from the foaming tankard of sound.
Last week nearly GOO people, among them
the unassuming Forster lady, left the dust
of the Camperdown highroad and slipped
down a side street into the Children’s Hos-
pital to hear the results of the year’s work.
It was a wonderful record; even president
Dr. Clubbe might feel proud, although not
satisfied, of course, for there isn’t room yet for
all the sick kiddies, and so far only £27,000
out of the £60,000 required for extensions
has been thrown into the collection-box.
Hilda Caro will have to start another cake
competition, and in the interval vice-presi-
dent Eaditli Walker can always be depended
on to be a fairy godmother.
There was a flutter at the Hospital before
the arrival of Lady Forster. A high official,
who is very particular about having the
correct garb for every occasion, had carried
out his festive garments in the usual hand-
bag. llalf-an-hour before the arrival of the
guests he retired to array himself, but alas!
although the “nutty” vest and the long black
coat were present, the silver-grey trousers,
the pride of the outfit, were missing. He
cried aloud in anguish and a junior official
dashed to his aid to find him in horror and
underpants. The position being explained,
junior official suggested taking a taxi and
dashing off for the garment. But no, that
wouldn’t do. “Send for the typist!” Then,
remembering his undress: “No, no; don’t
send for her; send her, and tell her to
hurry.” A flustered young woman hopped
into a taxi, and then occurred a chase that
made John Gilpin’s appear like a tuppenny
tram-ride. The chariot-driver and his fare
and the silver-grey trousers dashed into the
hospital gates just ahead of the vice-regal
car.
The Apollos turned an unflinching face
to a Conservatorium audience once more
last week, and dared anybody to dispute
their right to the title. Nobody taking the
dare, they proceeded to discourse on “The
Three Fishers,” the Barcarolle and “Land
of Hope and Glory,” with soprano and
’cello interruptions supplied by Lina Treves
and Adelina Leon. Adelina, with dying side-
levers of dame-color satin, turned on a sen-
sational bow that affected lookers-on mostly
in the mid-ribs. She started out with “Drink
to Me Only with Thine Eyes,” but even her
soulful rendering failed to make the sugary
concoction very agreeable. In “The Coun-
try Dance” and the encore, “Orientale,” she
managed to pour some of her right-arm im-
petuosity iuto the proceedings. Fred Col-
lier was in huge voice, and “rang up the cur-
tain” in the "JPagliacci” prologue as impera-
tively as if lie were the last trump, and the
plump little Italian soprano discovered to
the audience the palpitating bird she
keeps in the smooth folds of her throat, and
the neat ankle she did not keep in the folds
of a very abbreviated blue-silk frock.
Cumbrae Stewart has made many of her
pretty ladies turn their faces from the
wall at her latest show in Oayfield Shaw’s
rooms. Usually her young women present
a graceful head and a charmingly upholstered
spinal column. But there are still the al-
luring flesh tones, sunflecked hair and sense
of unquenchable youth. One young per-
son has apparently dashed out in such a
hurry to collect an armful of autumn leaves
that she has neglected to slip on even a
kimono, and she is quite the belle of the
show. Another golden-haired girl is at the
same time reminiscent of Lady Helen Munro
Ferguson, mainly by reason of the length of
red-aud-gold tapestry she has turned into
a gown. Then there’s “The Lady in Black,”
with the nose of a Highland chieftain’s
daughter, who looks as though she considers
herself the salt of the earth, and has valued
herself higher than any of the unclothed
females —perhaps she’s charging for the
dress.
George Coates and Dora Meeson’s pictures
fill the big gallery of Anthony Horderns’
with light and grace, in spite of the tall
Philistine at the opening who called “The
Polish Lady” a “sad-faced brute.” The
show, being the good wine that needs no
bush, hadn’t any introductory speech-making,
but opened itself as unassumingly us does the
oyster when the pearl is set like a poached
egg within. Dora herself wore a silk dress
that was a cunning mixture of blue and
green tones, and she carried a yellow bouquet
when she didn’t absent-mindedly place it on
top of some of the furniture. All the artists
called in, and Fullwood, looking like a coun-
try squire in his Norfolk suit, stood lost in
admiration before his own portrait. Gruner
came and went unobtrusively, and Mrs. Rix
Nicholas wore a flat, straight-brimmed hat.
Gwen Nelson is dancing in shadow in her
own home town. It’s in “Heliotrope,” and
Gwen is a cabaret statuette that music wakes
to life. She is also in “Why Girls Leave
Home” and “The Four Husbands.” The
Sydney girl says that Broadway is a blaze
of color. Oriental embroideries are grouped
somewhere or other on every frock, and
every self-respecting N’York garment is built
on the straight-line, simple-silhouette design.
The vests of the Spring and Summer walk-
ing models are glittering and gorgeous affairs,
mostly of red and black and silver, or red
and amber. Red and amber are the domi-
nant notes in the color scheme, Every hat
boasts a black or brown Chantilly lace veil.
Then there are the bird bags. Every smart
New York woman carries her favorite bird,
from beak to tail, made into a handbag, till
Broadway looks like a taxidermist’s shop
turned loose. The Sydney girl saw two
women, one with an entire peacock, the other
with a bird-of-paradise perched on her arm,
taking the air together.
This is Agnes Gressier, from Bathurst way,
who did some singing in Sydney, and then
was allowed to go to
the Great Smoke un-
noticed till Dame
Melba discovered that
she was a candidate
for stardom. At
present the soprano
is studying in Lon-
don under a Miss
Rowe, a personal
friend of the Diva,
recommended by the
Ro.val Academy. To
help the girl’s studies
along Mrs. Trefle
and a committee will
run a iazz at Sar-
gent’s next Wednes-
day night—the first
of a series of enter-
tainments. Last let-
ters from the singer announced that she was
battling with an attack of ’flu, which means
a hold-up of studies for a time. The cabling
of a good cheque looks as though it might
greatly assist her recovery.
W. P. Wellwood Ker, managing-director
of Patterson, Simon and Co., in Singapore,
and chairman of that city’s Chamber of
Commerce, comes to Sydney in the Montoro
to claim Reta Haines for better, for worse.
Reta and the young man met when she and
her mother were seeing his part of Asia.
From a woman at Rotorua (M.L.) :
Our boarding-house buzzed the other morning with
the news that a middle-aged pair of well-known
folk were getting married in the little Catholic
chapel that hides near the Maori Church. When
cameras had been got out the parties proved to be
Billy Kane. Clerk of the House in Wellington, and
Mrs. Rosetta Baume, a Jewess who had ’verted —a
very brainy woman, who has (or, anyway, has had)
Parliamentary aspirations. For Ins part, Billy was
a hard-case bachelor—and looks it. Bride’s son, of
20 or so, gave mother away, and seemed to think he
would never know such a joke again.
Canon Charlton did the tying at St. John’s,
Darlinghurst for Enid Matthews,- of Lindfield,
and Ronald Morlev, M.C., of the same North
Shore suburb and Fiji. The wedding was
accompanied by all the usual bridal trim-
mings of ivory satin and lace. Phyllis
Lambert Brown and Nancy Segaert attended
Enid, while Ronald’s soldier chums, Redder
Scrivener and Keith Forrest, supported him.
The party, which was strictly a family affair,
refreshed itself at Petty’s.
Sydney’s favorite contralto, Ella Caspers,
became Mrs. A. A.
Maloney, of Taree, on
Saturday afternoon,
at St. Joseph’s on
the hill at Neutral
Kay. Ella faced
the music in a cream
costume and a small
turban h at, an d
sister Agnes and
brother Will
escorted her to the
altar. The bride-
gro o m has been
Ella’s admirer since
she was in her
’teens, and ha s
white d, if not
patiently, at least
consistently, for his
blessedness.
Some families have matrimony thrust upon
them, and of such are the Wheelers of New-
stead, Neutral Bay. Late last year one
handsome daughter flitted off to Shanghai
and wedded bliss, and the other day second
daughter Clare became Mrs. Charlie llidg-
cock, of Pevensey station. St. Clement's,
Mosman, registered the exchange of name.
The graceful bride wore heavy white satin
cut in severe, almost mediaeval style, bound
with a girdle of Oriental workmanship, sent
by sister Mrs. Boyd. (Sftp has been ill, and
hopes to come south to recuperate.) The
bridesmaids were the bride’s sister Inga and
Miss Graeme, in pink silk and tulle, broad
gold-and-purple scarves and black picture-
hats, and they were balanced by two grooms-
men. The subsequent frivol was held at
Newstead.
Another girl to accept a plain gold band
and another name last week was Millie Mur-
nn, of Strathfield, one of the cleverest of
Grace Stafford’s “Strollers.” Millie did a
great deal of patriotic work during the war,
and helped to raise funds for the soldiers by
elocuting. She became Mrs. Harry Wishart
at St. Philip’s.
Jill Anderson is one of the latest to sport
an engagement-ring. She’s the slim, fair
sister of Mrs. Leonard Dangar, and her near-
young man is Norman Gibson, one of the
Tirana Gibson clan.
The musicianly Colleen Cohen’s matri-
monial duet with Dr. Rich is to start off
with the Wedding March in .Tune.
Talking of weddings, here’s a notice that
appeared the other day in our Family
Herald :
Traill—Lloyd.—April 20, 1921, at St. Philip’s,
by the Rev. Mr. Bryant, assisted by Canon Belling-
ham. Dr. Roy Caddell Traill, fifth son of the late
Dr. Traill, of Bunvood, to Dorothy Edith Owen, eldest
daughter of the late Capt. A. F. Lloyd and Mrs.
Lloyd, of Samares, Kent-road, Rose Bay, grand-
daughter of the late Capt. Henry Lloyd, R.N.,
K.L.H., of Belvidere, Jersey, England, and the late
William C. Uhr, Esq., of Beckleigh Vale, Five Dock:
great granddaughter of the late Capt. John Uhr,
R.N., and great-great-granddaughter of Lieut.-General
Sir James Innes Ker (Earl Innes, English Peerage),
Marquess of Beaumont and Cess,ord.
What responsibilities for a poor bridegroom
to shoulder!
Lady Grey-Egerton, who was Rupert
Clarke’s first wife, has been in Sydney, but
has returned to Melbourne, where she is
visiting her daughter, Mrs. Reggie Power.
The present dame of the Clarke baronet and
the two beautiful baby boys have been stay-
ing at the Shack, their Newport home.
The Grey-Egerton lady’s reappearance has
recalled a story of her Lady Clarke days.
She had just returned from Vienna, and
was airing a wonderful and exclusive model,
and the first person she met on the lawn at
Flemington was a striking-looking woman
with wonderful red hair wearing an exact
replica of her own creation. The second
wearer had just returned from Paris, where
the “special” model had been built for her.
Ruth Beale, looking very capable and
smart, and just back from America, was one
of the guests at the Queen Victoria Club the
other morning when Mrs. Rose Soley and
Mrs. Aubrey Withers, on behalf of the
Lyceum Club, extended the freedom of in-
tel leetual Sydney to travelling penwoman
Airs. Charlotte Cameron and the Bamado’s
Home Miss Cameron—same name but no
connection.
The Be Garis Publishing Co. is bringing
Mrs. Felloe’s book on Westraiian
wild-nowers. The delicate blooms are to live
between handsome covers in eight colored
plates and innumerable black and white illus-
trJ*tions. Mrs. Felloe is the soft-eyed lady
who has won fame (and nearly fortune) by
riding at Monty Somer’s Show. Once she
rode all the way from Mildura to let Sydney
see how the jumps should be taken.
St. John’s College has timed its annual
ball to take place on July 5.
Apropos the Farr lunacy case, the lady's
father was named Joseph and her mother
Alary. A pious joke, unearthed during the
proceedings, about the lady referring to her-
self as being of divine origin, was more
heavily loaded than the court-loungers
thought.
If any friend of hers has daughters she
wants to sec married there’s a woman in Syd-
ney vvlio will advise her to get them fixed up
as bridesmaids at somebody else’s wedding.
She had three marriageable daughters when
this year started, and was beginning to feel
doubtful about their matrimonial chances,
when one of them acted as bridesmaid at the
wedding of a friend. A month later she
married the best man. At her wedding a
sister made the acquaintance of another best
man, and an engagement ended in another
wedding in four weeks. At this ceremony the
unique record repeated itself, and now the
Voice has Breathed over the last daughter.
There was no display of housemaid’s knee
at Sargent’s the other night when the House-
wives’ Association got really warmed up to
the jazz steps. Nobody was too old to dance,
and the feather-duster made from the can-
aries’ wings that one lady had tucked into
her hair waved coquettishly through the en-
tire programme. Untiring housewife Mrs.
Ashley Thompson, who had organised the
revels, was too ill to take part in the fun,
but a pretty, dark-haired daughter came
under dad’s wing and the motherly eye of
Mrs. Street, of the Ohatswood branch. Slim
Mrs. Jessica Lee, in green, with gold lace
flutings, saw to everything, from jazz de-
monstrations to supper partners. The Rix
Nicholas lady and Sylvia Walker let their
artistic instincts loose among early-Victorian
trimmings. With some sparkling black-and-
white pierrotS they represented the fancy
part of the costumes. Secretary Mrs.
Mathieson was clothed in black and gold and
a happy expression.
Ripples of the house-shortage extend afar.
Penwoman Beatrice Grimshaw is advertis-
ing in a recent Papuan Courier (Port
Moresby) that she’ll give a bonus to any
person finding her a suitable bungalow.
The fhte at Rancliffe in aid of the Ash-
fields Infants’ Home did not pass without
its unexpected meetings. One of the organ-
isers had asked a woman-friend for a pattern
of those funny little Teddy Bear pants the
baby-boy wears when he is beginning to
toddle. The woman-friend hadn’t a pattern,
but applied to the mother of a small boy.
Mother hadn’t the pattern, but handed over
a tiny pair of the required article. “Baby
has worn them once and they’re a bit dusty,
but they’ll do to cut the pattern from.”
Woman-friend sent the parcel to Mrs.
Organiser by the gardener, and Mrs. Organ-
iser interpreted the message to mean that
the parcel was a donation. And the first
thing that the mother met face to face at
the Rancliffe fete were her baby’s cream
pants, still slightly dusty, but holding pride
of place on the line above the kiddies’ stall!
Swiftly, jealously she bought her own back ;
but the unexpected meeting nearly proved too
much for her.
Prince Alfred Hospital has gone into the
cosmetic business, and the dab of powder
and the touch of pink which make or mar
a complexion—it’s according to the artistic
touch of the operator—can now be bought
at a wee shop in Moore-street conducted
by Mrs. Alphen, lately of the Flag depot.
Chocolates and flowers may be added to the
stock, and the proceeds, of course, go to the
institution.
Waterfall Sanatorium was descended upon
the other Saturday afternoon by over 100
boy scouts from the Northern Suburbs, the
idea being to cheer up an old scoutmaster
of Chatswood who is trying to climb back
to health. The boys gave a splendid display
of scouting on the lawns, to the intense in-
terest of the onlookers and the great in-
crease. of their own appetites, which could
only be stayed by a large tea topped off by
a whole watermelon apiece.
Agnes Murphy, at present in Melbourne,
whose genius for concert-managing no ill-
health can affect, has had a finger in the
Heifetz pie. The Wolfsohn Bureau of New
York, which has world control of Jascha’s
services, wrote and cabled her for prelimin-
ary inquiries regarding an Australian tour,
and in spite of an illness with which she has
been struggling for the past six months,
Agnes responded to the old batle-cry.


FINE CHINA.
•a
o*#
m
H<»*#v6Re
M
'
pmm
w-
-9t
*
Set of six Royal Doulton Teacups and Saucers, with six Silver
Teaspoons, iri Case,
Prom £l2 10 0
Inspection is invited of the Company’s exclusive
stock of Tea and Coffee-cups in Royal Doulton,
Royal Worcester, Crown Derby, Copenhagen and
Coalport Chinas, in many dainty patterns.
Illustrated Catalogues are posted free on request, and selections are
sent on approval to any address in the Commonwealth at the
Company’s risk.
HARDY BROTHERS - LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St,,
Melbourne.
XShirts,
m
$
%
<3
1
P
%
1
K
$
x\
8
2^s=.
A
iHI
e
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns—a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary —all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory Wear and
Service.
▲8 Cl
Hi is
, brand on
each shlrl
Scotch Tweed Overcoats
BUCKLEY’S
Melbourne’s Leading Clothiers
SPECIAL BARGAIN OFFER
GENUINE SCOTCH TWEED RAIN-
PROOF OVERCOATS, USUALLY
15 AND 16 GUINEAS.
SPECIAL OFFER
m
C A
A
9*
GUINEAS
MAN’S OVERCOATS OF SCOTCH
TWEED are undoubtedly the Fashion
for the coming Winter.
Buckley’s have imported a collection
of these smart and comfortable Over-
coats, the material of which is GENUINE
M ADE-IN-SCOTLAND TVVEEI >S,
woven in the mills of GEORGE LEES
& CO., of GALASHIELS, and bearing
the trade-mark of the SCOTTISH
WOOLLEN ASSOCIATION.
The finished garments are fashioned
and completed by the best English
Tailors, perfect in fit and design, and are
lined with rich satin.
AN OVERCOAT OF SCOTCH
TWEED is not only comfortable but
smart, the patterns and colorings are
right, and individuality of material shows
in the “Hang” and “Sit” of the garment.
These Overcoats, usually sold at 15
and 10 guineas, are now
SPECIALLY PRICED
9h GUINEAS.
The CLARENDON.—RagIan shape, medium
length, with raised seams and deep, perfect-sitting
collar, lined with rich satin, eminently a coat for
all-round wear.
We Pay Carriage on All Clothing.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & IMUNN LTD.
Bourke St. Melbourne
&
m
m
: ■• \
: \
f
*hss>~
©
I
tv.
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
made to-day and
Sold to-day
All “Hillier’s” Chocolates
are packed in red boxes,
but all red boxes are not
“Hillier’s.”
NO OTHERS JUST AS
GOOD, NO OTHERS
ANYWHERE NEAR
EQUAL.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
Ernest Hillier
162 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
"daddy's,,
home C


te
tm
'hosiery
Iv.vX
V':\
"V'OUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Thinfe of
Luxite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and -withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose-* such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silh, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. * 50 York Street.
Sydney
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
ifciTWH MADE
Perfection
pmpt RUBBER
All-British Fountain Pen.
IN YOUR POCKET
A SEALED TUBE.
Dozens of Onoto Pens are sent every day
through the post full of ink, often in silk-
lined cases. Thev get shaken and tossed
about in the mail bags. But it is perfectly
safe to send them in this way.
For the British made Onoto cannot leak.
When you close it, with a turn of the
finger and thumb, it becomes a sealed
tube. Not a drop of ink can possibly
escape.
When you open it again, you find the
finger hold dry though the ink in the nib
remains fresh and moist, so that you can
start writing at once.
And when you want more ink the Onoto
fills itself instantly from any ink supply.
It is the simplest pen to use.
THOMAS DE LA RUE £ Co. Ltd.
Bunhill Row, London.
& I
Australasian Representatives •
NORMAN BAKER S LONGBDRST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
THE
ASK FOR ONOTO INK
BEST FOR ALL PENS
Just careless fraternity! fresh and free.
Never embarrassed wherever you be.
A jest when you meet, perhaps a parting pot,
Whether you know the bloke or not!
It all seems “kosher” whatever you do,
For he’s just plain Aussie, and so are you.
Tho' creeds may differ, ’tis certain and sure
You both take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT.
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
cj
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives. Norman Raker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
are FREE FROM MINERAL OILS.' They are of the highest
possible quality, and keep the uppers of shoewear soft and
pliable, thus preventing cracks and prolonging the life of the
leather.
COLORS—BIack, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
In Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
Auction Sale.
FRIDAY, 27th MAY,
at the Corinthian North Mine, W.A.
near Southern Cross,
at 10,15 a.m.
Unreserved Clearing Sale
of Valuable
MINING MACHINERY.
A/T ESSRS. 11. D. PELL & CO., of Kalgoorlie, AV.A.,
XV ' L have received instructions from VV. Mont-
gomery, Esq., Attorney for the Corinthian North
Gold Mining Co,, to sell their MINING PLANT,
BUILDINGS, etc., comprising:—
1 Winding Engine, “Phoenix” Duplex Cylin-
der 12in., stroke, 30in., complete.
1 Pouch Condenser, 5 units.
1 Norwalk Compressor and Receiver, 1200
Cubic Feet.
1 No. 3 Gates Rockbreaker.
2 Rldgvvay Vacuum Slime Filters.
1 10-Head Sandycroft Mattery, 12701 b. Stamp,
complete. Grinding Pans, Mild Steel Vats,
Mechanical Thickeners, Pumps, and a great
quantity of sundries, making up a complete
Extraction Plant, IN DOTS TO SPIT
PURCHASERS.
NO RESERVE.
L,egal Notice.
rn 0 FREDEIMOK THOMAS LILLIE late
_L of Glenelg in the State of South Aus-
tralia Insurance Agent
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you* in the Supreme
Court of South Australia No. 16 of 1921 by
MARGARET LILLIE of Glenelg Married
Woman in which the Plaintiff’s claim is for
£316 for money payable under an order of the
Police Court Adelaide made on the 19th day
of December 1914.
And that it has been ordered that service
of the writ in the said action on you be
effected by this advertisement. If you desire
to defend the said action you must within 21
days from the publication of this advertise-
ment inclusive of the day of such publication
enter an appearance at the Master’s Office
Supreme Court House Adelaide. In default
of such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.
Dated this 25th day of February 1921.
W. J. DENNY & DALY,
Currie Street Adelaide,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
If PotYE/K /s
WHAT YoU WANT-
XjsePlum&
If you want to feel the exhilara°
tion of driving a car, which, day
by day, is fairly tugging with
power, use Plume Motor Spirit.
You will feel this power the
moment you open the throttle.
Motorists speak highly of «the
power developed by Plume Motor
Spirit. They say Plume doesn’t
jib on the hills, that steep hills only
serve to show how powerful it is—
and it doesn’t let them down when
they are in a hurry.
Plume is all power—it gives the
pull and the qu'ck acceleration that
are so essential to satisfactory
motoring.
Plume also gives that extra wile-
age that mak s such a difference
to the petrol l 11.
Fill up with Plume next time,
end experience the pleasure of
driving a car that is alive with
power.
P 4 A
%
Y////U
i“W\\\
mm
i.«
PLUME
MO^OR
SPIRIT
VACUUM OIL CO.PTY. LTD-
LUME
m
motor srißrr
One of the finest blended Cipars
ever produced in Australia.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
•£~
If unable to
secure from your
Tobacconist, send for a
Trial Box.
Box of 25 12/6
Box of 50 23/9
Box of 100 467-
Post Free all over Australia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENT.
No notice (except of a hostile character} will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.R.W.: There is no question about the
meaning of ‘‘Bendigo.*’ What is being discussed is
how the Vic. goldfield came to get the uame....
M.R.T.W.: The point is simply this —Who is likely
to be the better judge, you or Street?... .Nepos:
Hardly enough interest. After all, things written
about Australia in 1860 were pretty numerous and
still easily come by Magpie: No new thought in
it.... Clothes Prop: Well, if that’s all you have
seen it isn’t much to make a song about Oliver
B.: Even the sympathetic handling of Joey is
eclipsed by the almost magical setting:—
For years and years Joey kept on the wallaby,
Never happy without his matilda;
He’d cadge from station to station for flour and tea,
For he could never forget his Hilda.
As time went on Joey was getting old,
Thinking of giving up the track;
For the winter was getting too severe and cold,
So “Good-bye, Matilda, I’m giving you the sack.’’
It was then up on the Darling River,
Where Joey Wednt pitched his tent;
Happy was Joey when frying live .
Trouble! He never cared a oen i
For miles und miles around all km Joey,
The old identical, the old sun-do\ ner;
His only mate was a kang., reared her from a joey.
There was a little trouble when he couldn’t find
her!
When a thrill whistle he would bit v.
Then came the bounding ’roo;
As much to say, “What do you ws it,
Can’.t I go for a jaunt too?’’
....Revlin: He didn’t say Nellie Stewart and Mer*
vale were the first to play “Trilby” in Australia. All
he said was that those two played the just-dead
Potter’s version.... Reuben: Certainly you get paid.
It’s the idea that most matters, and the idea was
yours... .M.T.S.: The right of republishing is ex-
pressly reserved to the author R.G. (Casino):
You can’t let those lines just go wandering on till
they find a rhyme.... Y.D. (St. Hilda): Not suffici-
ent in these, but they’re in the right direction
Wenna: “Rills” not up Rex B.: “Desire” doesn’t
strike us hard enough lI.N.R*: Horrible
Beryl L. : Haven’t the slightest idea and don’t know
anybody who has W.J. (Surry Hills): Mostly
print-worn ideas P. 8.5.: Some of the lines creak,
and the thought doesn’t amount to much Geo. P.;
Cultivate a sense of rhythm... .Neville S.: You too.
Hilda S.: Quite creditable if written by a child
of ten....M.A.T.: Not up.,. .H.A.P.: Have no recol-
lection of that “Cow Eyelet: Not enough in
“Poet.” Try a little punctuation next time....
F. (Chatswood): The intention is better than the
verse... .Mary Jane : Has a sporting chance... .Steve
H.: “The Suicide” is the making of a yarn, but it’s
a bit raw in its present form Bellerive: “The Soil
Worm” wriggles sadly in:—
Greedily devoured fey ducks and fowls,
By anglers used for bait,
Fiercely rent by the magpie’s beak,
Such is the poor worm’s fate.
From under filth and clods of mud
The worm will wriggle and strain,
Twist, and crawl in the gutter slime
After a peltering shower of rain.
K.K.: Too thin ahd flimsy L.T.W.: You don’t
niake much of it. Try again... .M.8.P.: “Anni-
versary” is a good enough idea, but it flutters out in
an inconsequential sort of way without getting to
any head Harry N.: Verse doesn’t get near....
E.G.A.G.: Smooth verse which says nothing that has
not been said many times in the same way Alf
W.. It can’t push in.... J.L.J.: We did not publish
the book, though the matter had previously appeared
here. Now out of print.... Rangitoto: The manner
is better than the matter. Mere stringing together
of words is not worth while... .C.A.M.: Futile little
jingle with lumpy spots... .A.McL.: It flutters
weakly. . . .T.E.P.: Doesn’t amount to anything... .
Wilfred D.: No good Allan B.: Better worked
before A.R.S.: Take it away and disinfect it
A. Very poor verse... .W.E.8.: All that to say
a man swore at his dog! F.A.R.: Not nearly
B. : “Wowsleigh” has too many print-worn
phrases and far too many words of all sorts. ...
W. 8.: Can’t be sure what “A Great Light” is about.
Olive L.: Well enough done, but we don’t want
it Bam: Won’t do....Gipsy E.: We don’t pub-
lish novels. And before you submit “The Scarlet
Heart elsewhere get somebody to overhaul it for
you. You’ll be handicapped if you don’t Tan-
talus. Theodolite’ misses... .C.F.M.: Not much of
a yarn and dragged out to far too great length
Steven S.: It is made on an old pattern C. Bloke:
No use to u 5.... Marie V.: Why don’t you write of
the little things you know about? They are the
ones you can make live F.W.S.: Nothing there...
Frank P.: Handwriting is no bar; but decent copy
helps the reader... .E.G.8.: Doesn’t strike u 5....
A.S.L.: Not up Mary R.: Can’t find the alleged
mirth P.W.0.: Makes a nice little picture:—
’Twas on the hills of Tumber during a cold winter’s
night,
Was damp and chilly, but the fire was burning
bright; *
We were on the wallaby and the talk was of Tumber.
Arguments and songs were high, for around the fire
were quite a number.
We were a mixed lot, us swaggie mob,
Free and cheap was the talk, except from an old
chap by the name of Sandy Bob
Some were singing of Erin’s Isle, England and Scot-
land, too,
Others talking if they had money what they’d do—
One would drift to U.S.A. and there he’d settle
down.
The others were singing more or less of their native
town.
Joe: “Admiral G.” doesn’t stir a pulse Meta
M.: Rule lis “Get something real to say” Dorothea
T.: Alas, there is no thought in it that isn’t old and
threadbare. .. .H.C.H.: “Darlinghurst” won’t d 0....
E.P.L.: Nothing there K.G.H.: It almost shakes
the teeth out of a man to rattle through it....
G.N.M.: “Lizzie” neither shocks nor amuses....
J.J.L.: Conditions are stated in every issue.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORUKSI'ON DENTS.
G. : Camels interesting only as zoological curi-
osities M. 8.: Nothing in them F.H.T.: Weak
drawing and very old gag N.S.: The worst treat-
ment Hughes has received so far W.A.H.: Sil-
houettes must be very distinctive to have any value.
.. ..A.S.P.: Not up....J.K.: Those kookas wouldn’t
laugh if they saw that F.P.: There’s a special
corner in Tophet for those who draw in blue ink on
ruled notepaper...E.R.H.: If he’s built like that he
must have won the championship by a miracle....
R.W.C.: Misses... .A. S.: Drawing very rocky....
D.H.: Shows promise; but light pencil sketches of
no use except as suggestions... .F.H.W.: Rather cruel
gag and drawing not up to mark.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, o 4 6 Spring Street.
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days.
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
tfosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great. Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE I,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
. BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONCBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen onlv), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars' appiv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE. "
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 258 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 3SI Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victbria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863,
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. . . 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since 189$ specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; .James Love, Esq. ;
TV. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEX.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chie/ Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided. Profits 1’521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
cn Australia, New Zea-
. . land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc..
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE, 11 a.in.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z)„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States. Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
TAHITI, 31st MAY.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 2Gth .May.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE.
For illustrated pnmplilets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
!
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC : 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Clas9 Steamers on the Route,
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,230 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,230 tons
"SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
"DIOGENES 12,500 tons
"Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND, VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Minnie. Esn. ,
uuoert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
'l’he Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Heginald J. Black, M.L.C,
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTUECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collet.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
OonimomvealtbifcJank° f Hißtralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a % intereston Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Jan. Ist# 1921# Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.;
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLT
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and othei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
i Sails from i Sails from |
Sydney, j Melbourne. ]
Steamer.
’ZEAtASBU.
(Melb. only)
JWYANDRA
(Melb. only)
Sydney Agents.
Sat.,
May 14,
noon.
Sat.,
May 14,
2 p.m.
Tues.,
May 17.
3 p.m.
Sat..
May 21,
noon.
f VV ed.,
| May IS,
| 4 p.m.
! Wed..
1 May 25,
4 p.m.
tCOOMA. . .
(Melb. only)
JWODONGA
(Melb. only)
JDIMBOOLA
Sat.,
May 21,
noon.
Tues.,
May 24,
3 p.m.
Fri.,
May 27,
5 p.m.
Tues.,
May 31,
4 p.m.
j Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge
I St. (Tel. 9568).
1 Howard Smith,
j Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. C 221)
IA.U'.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Mcll’tvraith,
MeEacharu’s Line
Ptv., Ltd.. 61 Pitt
St. (Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith.
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
I (Tel. 10684)
I Melbourne Steam-
| ship Co., Ltd.,
I 44 Pitt St.
! (Tel. 8212)
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
*Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers,
fCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
JCarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON 4 YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, applv
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address. 1
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND-
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
I'itzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritirnes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Port 3).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about . . .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income £6,876,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell S Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKIMS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
FIREFLY.
CRITERION.
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
GItAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. O. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
■Evenings at 7.45. Matinees Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD.
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
UNI O N PIC TUIt E XIIISAT It 15 S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
Town hale, Sydney.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
THURSDAY, MAY 12, and SATURDAY, MAY 14.
JASCHA HEIFETZ,
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINIST.
“His playing is simply final —there is nothing more
to be said.” —London Times.
PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
Aluan wilkie siiakspeakean
PRODUCTIONS.
OPENING CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND,
25th MAY.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
■ C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical play with an intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
U On’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 * Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
. CARMEL MYERS in
THE GILDED DREAMS.
Also
SIRENS OF THE SEA,
A UNIVERSAL JEWEL PRODUCTION.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
TOWN H A 1 l] JIELBOC R N E.
* Direction J. and N. TAIT.
Messrs. J. & N. TAIT announce the return visit of
the N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA and their distin-
guished conductor HENRI VERBRUGGHEN'.
FRIDAY, SATURDAY,
20th MAY'. 21st May (Matinee).
Season Tickets (transferable), £2/2/-
Reserved Seats, 7/6 ; Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-.
Plan at Allan’s.
Vt ING'iS THEATRE, MEI,It« U K N E.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS.
WITH ALL-STAR CAST.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
"J“ O W N HAUL, ADELAIDE.
BEGINNING SATURDAY, MAY 21.
“THE INCOMPARABLE ALEXANDER WATSON.”
ALEXANDER WATSON’S
DRAMATIC RECITALS.
i>/-> 2/-, 1/- (Plus Tax). Plan at Marshall’s.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
QLACIA li It M, MELBOURNE.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
OIUI’ANMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Our
Customs
Duties.
The Customs De-
partment is the
greatest profiteer
i« Australia.
Erratic, too. An
importer knows
not from hour to
hour what the De-
partment’s ruling
will be. And all
without Parlia-
ment's sanction.
Oent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx and H” fully
jewelled LeVer 84/-
Just imagine a working man having to pay
48 per cent, (just on half the cost price) on a
watch.
Yet ’tis the Customs’ charge. This, too, on
an article that cannot be made in Australia.
No wonder prices of Watches are soaring.
Fortunately, we carry grosses of the leading
lines, and so have large numbers that we landed
prior to the imposition (expressive word) of
the present monstrous duty, and these we are
selling at the old prices.
Hence our present quotations are fully 20
per cent, less than they must be when present
stocks are sold.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
WOTWril/i
iUi
□D^DOM
THe New
Edison
“ The Phonograph
with a sou/.”
If you love music there is but one
instrument for you to buy—-the
New Edison. If you like good
furniture that is an additional
reason for purchasing one as all
New Edisons are encased in
Authentic Period Cabinets.
The New Edison is the instrument that
Re-Creates music. Its performance cannot
be detected from the living artist whose art
it is Re-Creating.
You’ll enjoy a New Edison in your home. Let
us send you literature that tells you all about
it, post free. Write to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Try Us First for All Sport Equipment
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match 8/6
M.S. National 15/6
Service 27/6
C. 8.8. Quad Centre 25/-
C. 8.8. Double Strung 27/6
Haymarket 20/-. 40/-
Haymarket Special ...... 40/-. 45/-
llaymarket Selected 45/-, 50/-
Haymarket Extra Special 63/-
Spalding’s Tournament 48/6
Spalding’s Continental 55/-
■Spalding’s Cold Medal 07/6
Slazengtu-'s Renshaw 45/-
Slazenger’s Demon 55/-
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 63/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 85/-
Slazenger’s Doherty 87 /6
Slazenger’s Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 95/_
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-
11. C. Lee’s Church 90/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation /(} 5/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Ounlop’s Champion, 1921 2/7 30/-
A.yre’s Champion, 1921 3/. 30/-
Slnzenger’s Champion, 1921 3/- 36/.
Ilaymarket Champion, 1921 2/4 27/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other
States, 1/8.)
r
Specialists
in ali kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
(Kindly add
SUNDRIES.
sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 00/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 35/.
Tennis Tapes 22/0
Cut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/.
Each.
Racket Covers 2/0, 0/0
Tannin ltntrliet 7/6
'J'hi' "Grip" Itnekct. I’nntsi 3/0, A/(\
ltflcliot Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/0
Scoring* Hooks j/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coil* 2/., 6/6
1 tucket. Gut. -il ft. colls .. 0/0, 8/0, 15/-
All Prices subject to market fluctuations, without notice.
fOOTBAj^
SEASON 19215*
Special Quotation to Clubs for Quantities.
As usual we are to the front with an unequalled
display of new season’s requisites.
‘‘Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls Fitted with Best Quality Bladders.
RUGBY MATCH.
Nicholson’s Royal 7/6
Nicholson’s Royal, hand sewn,
9/6, 10/6
Nicholson’s Royal, selected. . 1.5/6
Nicholson’s Royal, special. . . 16/6
Nicholson’s International ... 17/6
Nicholson’s A.N.A., special . . 21/-
Nicliolson’s Sample, special.. 22/6
Nicholson’s Chrome, special. 25/-
Ford’s Interstate 20/-
Gilbert’s Best English 32/6
(Postage: N.S.W., 6d.; other States, Bd.)
SOCCER MATCH-
special 8/6, 10/6
Rival, buttonless . . . . 12/6
Albion, buttonless 15/6
Haymarket, w’proof, 8-piece. 22/6
Ford’s Interstate 25/-
M.S. Special Capless 27/6
Cert, English Chrome 35/-
Cert Chrome, w’proof, 13-piece 35/-
Offieiai League, 13-piece. .. . 25/-
Sykes’ Swift Tuphine, 12-piece 42/6
(Postage: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
MEN S ENGLISH COTTON JERSEYS
Extra Heavy Make—All Colors.
Postage 6d. extra.
Price 13/9 each
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly Add Sufficient to Cover Cost of Carriage.)
Pair.
Shin Guards, no straps .... 2/-, 3/3
Shin Guards, continuous straps,
2/6, 3/-, 3/3
Shin Guards, gold cape,
3/9, 6/6, 7/6
Ankle Guards, blocked leather, 3/6
Ear Caps each 2/3, 3/6, 3/9
M.S. Rugger Boots, special.. 17/6
M.S. Soccer Boots, spec., 18/6, 25/-
Dally M. Rugby Boots 21/6
Elastic Bandages, knee & ankle, 13/6
Each.
Best Bladders, Match 11., No. 5 2/-
Football Inflators, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Football Pump Adaptors -/9
Referees’ Whistles, 1/3, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6
Lacing Awls -/9
Books on Football 1/6
Bladder Solution, tube -/9
Stout Web Belts 3/6
Euseptol Training Oil, bottle. . 1/6
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
Specialty
JYffcfc cSijmnons
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers,
Headquarters: 7208 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


2footballerr>
by
Uu Tlafiid
ffealer
«'.--
.. :>.:. :■'■ ; >.;•; :<•>» ••' :.V., v *:r'''" •:
r*-'r v// '.%^v
.-■■■■ >-. ■••'■
Football
Time
is
Rexona
Time.
Boys! Just think
if you were picked
to play in the match
on Saturday and
then had to drop out
on account of a
damaged finger that
had festered and got
sore through lack of
care! Wouldn’t you
be furious? And if
you had just had a
tin of Rexona in
your locker it would
be quite healed
again. If you make
a bad mistake at
practice or the
match, if you fumble
a pass, if you kick
carelessly, you deter-
mine at once that it
shall never oc.cur
again.
You do not neglect anything that will make your form better, so
when you get badly bruised and knocked about at football you should
never fail to make yourself fit again by using Rexona Ointment. Rub it
in well after your shower, and from bad cuts and bruises no ill effects
will follow.
Boys, use Rexona and keep fit.
PRICE 1/6 and 3/-
o
O
0
THE RAPID HEALER
3T
3££2
V I
•ml' 1
ft
ttEX'
vm—s-HUCTH
T *
M
f
\
NEW TASTES
FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES
Give the kiddies these wholesome
meats on their Sandwiches—
“REX” HAM PATE and “REX”
VEAL AND TONGUE PATE
They spread readily and are so appetising
that everyone enjoys them. They are all
pure meat, prepared and packed by the
most hygienic methods. You can have
nothing more wholesome. “Rex” Pates are
great for suppers, parties, picnics, lunches, etc.
Your grocer can supply.
Packed by—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1096
jE-qgv~
My Faerie Clock.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rfIHE fairies gave a clock to me,
' I 1 With round and comelj face,
JL Its chained black weights hang
cunningly
With ne’er a carven case ;
The pendulum swings easily
A sentinel, as all may see.
The bright moon-face holds half a smile.
And daisies round the hours
Are scattered, set there to beguile
Old Time himself with flowers;
And soft its tick, and sweet its chime,
The moments sing in steady rhj me,
And bring back scenes of youth and joy
Stretching from morn to noon.
When gold of earth held no alloy—
Years but an added boon.
The fairies paint them all day long;
I see the movement, hear the song.
Five strikes! An English morn in bpring,
A church bell calls to toil;
I surely heard the summons ring ,
Grieving my wings to soil,
’Twas over Wicksop Wood I came
From Chatsworth, with the sun aflame.
They laughed when I recounted this,
And said I dreamt it all.
My father’s love, my mothers kiss,
The hills so green and tall
Were not more real; the children knew
We talked about it as I grew.
Six! Waking on a Christmas morn,
Moonlit and cold, to hear
Sweet singers carol “Christ is born,
The stars are very near.
A chintz-hung tent-bed groped about -
I find my stocking, turn it out.
Seven chimes! I climb the belfry tower,
Stone steps so worn and steep;
On the church leads I hear a shower,
And hope the gargoyles sleep;
The stairs wind ever, loopholes high
Show pale blue stripes of far-off sky.
Qh, daffodils in orchard grass,
Prifnroses in the lane.
At eight o’clock they nod and pass
And blow a kiss again;
White violets beneath a hedge
And yellow iris in the sedge.
Dear High Peak dales, dear Wye and Dove,
Where hawthorn trees are white.
Sweet mossy woods the pheasants love,
With blue-bells all bediglit;
Wide purple moors, with gorse agilt
Nine strikes, with note of lark alilt.
A tropic island, and the sea,
A large and busy ship,
And down the gangway prettily
Two small Jap ladies trip.
’Tis ten ! I heard it ring afar,
A ghost-bell on a distant bar.
Eleven! And tumbling memories crowd
Of sun and sea and sky;
My faerie clock shows ne’er a cloud.
Nor ever taught a sigh ;
Red lilies swing where cowslips blew
And orchids where the wild-rose grew.
High noon strikes shrill, still daisies wreathe
Descending noon and night
Building up pictures while 7r breathe
Of dreams with love alight
To cheer me when the western wav
Has swallowed my last glimpse of day.
The weights creep up the polished wall
And down, then up again;
All steady swings, the shining, ball,
Ticking with might and main.
Laughing, the clock-face whispers me;
“Day goes, but comes eternally.”
QUEEN STRAND.
BLACK BONNET.
The Rose Tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STEPHEN MASTERFORD had always
been a man of almost maniacal tem-
per; but he had, by hard and con-
stant striving, learned largely to control it.
Up to a point; but once that point was
passed it still swept everything before it
like a storm-fed torrent, and went swirling
onwards in resistless fury. He hjd served
in France throughout the last three years
of the war, and had been returned to Eng-
land shortly before the Armistice suffering
from shell-shock. The rank of sergeant, to
which he had attained, he subsequently lost
as the result of brutality towards a private
in a clearing camp on Salisbury Plain.
Neither this catastrophe, nor his illness, had
tended to improve his temper, while his
power of self-control had been almost en-
tirely destroyed, and he had returned at last
to his holding in South-Western Riverina, a
violent and embittered man. He had, how-
ever, still- one great redeeming feature —a
love for animals and flowers. His small
homestead, Prospect, built on a low emin-
ence overlooking a red-soil plain, was in
spring and autumn a bower. Even through-
out the heat of summer he managed some-
how to keep the shrubs and flowers alive and
green. Here also w T ere his family—three
dogs, two cats, a wallaby, and Juliet, his
wife. It may throw light upon the state of
his domestic relations if I state that I have
placed the “family” in the order of pre-
cedence in his esteem.
Juliet Masterford was an English girl
whom Masterford had met in a little Wilt-
shire village—a friendless, orphaned drudge
in the home of a gaunt, ill-natured relative.
Spurred by a quick pity for her helplessness,
he had married her out of hand. Now,
transplated to a strange land, all the condi-
tion of life literally worlds away from any-
thing she had previously experienced, Juliet’s
original moroseness was stirred into a surly
glow. Never can there have been a more
unfortunate marriage, nor a more ill-mated
couple. Their only common characteristic
was perversity of temper. And even here
there was diversity; for, whereas his was
quick and explosive, hers was ever smoulder-
ing and smoking, without bursting into flame.
Her original gratitude to him had long since
petered out; and, as his pity for her had
diminished before the irritation of the bond
which chafed him, so his pity for lmnselt
had grown. And the isolation of their home
added immeasurably to the trouble. ho
other residence was there within -0 miles ;
the nearest township reared its tiny collec-
tion of tin-roofed shanties 50 miles away.
The road that passed their residence was
seldom used, a solitary swagman or an occa-
sional team relieving its monotony only at
long intervals. So visitors were rare and
visits even rarer.
The result of all this was that the rela-
tions between husband and wife had be-
come at the best an armed neutrality, broken
by furious wrangles, from which the pair
retired in mutual disorder to seek relief, the
one in sullen silence, the other in a gust of
work. The one link that might have bound
them, their common love of flowers, had
served only to add fuel to their fire. Juliet
in her hard youth had found her only soften-
ing influence in the hollyhocks and pansies
of her aunt’s garden, and when she left at
last her greatest grief was at the parting
from a crimson rose that grew beneath her
window and whose buds had tapped so often
in a friendly way against the pane. It was
the homeliest and vulgarest of roses—it any
rose can be either homely or vulgar—but
she had, in her silent way, loved it with a
rich though expressionless regard, and a slip
of it she had potted and brought with her
on her own large transplantation. This
“theft,” as the ill-favored aunt had termed
it, seemed to place the coping-stone on the
latter’s' anger. Already heated to malig-
nancy by the “desertion” of her niece, she
had turned furiously upon the girl when
she found her with the rose. “May it bring
bad luck to ye both,” she screamed, ‘ and
have the curse of blood in every flower of
it”; and she anathematised the pair until
Masterford had to carry off his weeping
bride. Nevertheless, Juliet had retained the
rose, and now, planted in the centre bed ot
the little garden, it gave promise by a pleni-
tude of shoots of blooming freely.
Despite his wife’s affection for the plant
—or, perhaps, because of it —and notwith-
standing his love for flowers in geneial,
Masterford exhibited a growing resentment
towards the rose-bush. On one occasion
he had, whilst hoeing the bed, scratched his
hand against the thorns, and, in a frenzy
had almost torn the bush out by the roots;
but the appearance of his wife and the look
that crossed her face had sobered him.
Ever since then the resentment of the one
and the regard of the other for the rose had
grown, until it came at last to stand as the
symbol of ’ their antagonism. Daily she
watered and tended it; while he, though
most regular in his attention to the other
beds, as studiously avoided that small
centre one in which it stood. From day
to day the tension grew; and with its growth
his hatred of the tree and her affection for
it entered into every relation of their daily
life.
A long, dry winter had been followed by
a hot and drier spring, and Masterford
stood in his garden, gazing gloomily at a
young rose-tree that stood in the bed beside
the paling fence. It would have been
almost indistinguishable from Juliet’s, both
being as yet almost naked of foliage, and
but single, straight young grafts, had
it not been for the florist’s label still tied
around its stem. It was the one white rose
in the garden, and on its successful rearing
its owner’s hopes were greatly fixed. He had
tried for long to grow a pure white rose; but
so far without success. All shades of yellow
and of red were there, but not a white bloom
showed amidst the odorous profusion. And
now this plant, after giving good promise of
bursting into leaf, was showing signals of
distress. Masterford recognised that the
spot in which he had planted it was not
congenial, and was debating with himself
as to where he should remove it, when the
plash of water roused him. Glancing round
he saw his wife refreshing her red-rose tree
from a watering-pot. With a scowl he
turned upon her. . ,
“What the devil are you doing?” he de-
manded roughly. “Here’s my rose bone-dry
and dying, and yours, in the best plate in
the garden, getting all that water. Cut it
out!” , ,
Juliet said nothing—she rarely did say
anything to him these latter days—but,
glancing up and down again indifferently,
she watered on as though he had not
spoken. , ,
“I’ve had enough of this, he growled,
and then, as a malicious idea crossed' his
mind he picked up the spade. Without a
word he pushed his wife aside and furi-
ously dug the ground around her rose-bush.
Clenching her hands Juliet watched him
silently but with a stony hatred in her
eyes. ' Masterford went on without a second
glance at her until the rootlets of the tree
were loosened. Then he levered lip the
plant and threw it out beside him. With
the same silent intensity he turned to the.
white rose near the fence and digging round
it —but now with care —he lifted it with
a spade-load of the earth and placed it in
the centre space whence he had just torn
the other. He filled in the earth and
smoothed and pressed it down and then
arose at last and confronted his wife.
“There!” he said. “That’ll teach you,
my girl! I’ll guarantee you don’t go wast-
ing any more good water. I’ll do all the
watering here that’s needed for the future.”
Still silent, with the same gleam in her
dark eyes, Juliet stooped, picked up her
rose and walked swiftly to the house. He
saw no more of her until the evening meal,
of which thev both partook in an apparent
apathy which merely masked the fires
within.
Juliet lay awake, wide-eyed amid the dark-
ness, struggling with God-knows-what black
thoughts, until at last, from his deep breath-
ing, she felt assured her husband slept.
Then, as though a sudden resolution had
put a period to her doubts, she arose and
in her bare feet crept from the room. As
she gained the verandah she Dicked up,
together with the spade, the red rose from a
hiding place, and stole to the centre bed.
(Continued on next page.)


HOW ZAM-BUK
Uproots Skin Disease
Does your skin get rough and irritable? Are you
distressed by slightly reddened patches on which
appear tiny watery heads that burst and form sores?
Do your arms or face feel sore, inflamed and itchy?
If so, a coarse, fatty ointment will have little effect.
You need Zam-Ruk, whose refined herbal extracts
penetrate to the underlying tissue and drive disease
out. Being powerfully antiseptic, Zam-Buk purifies
the skin. It soothes raw angry surfaces, stops
intolerable burning, itchy irritation, and clears away
sores and eruptions.
“Some time ago my husband was injured by a fall, in which his spine was affected, the
injury being in the small of the back,” writes Mrs. E. .J. Taylor, of 55 Egan Street.
Newtown, Sydney. “The flesh broke out into ulcers, first in the shape of small blisters.
He had to lay up for three months.
‘The doctor said he had a diseased bone. He went into two hospitals, but they could
do nothing for him. The ulcer grew larger and larger, and the pain was awful.
“I then decided to take the case in my own hands, and treat him with Zam-Buk. I
bathed the wound with hot water, and then applied Zam-Buk. After using Zam-Buk for
but one month, the wound was healing up nicely, and at the end of three months he was
perfectly cured.”
-Btik
am
Of all Chemists and Stores.
2
a
&
/a
/
r,
WHAT TO USE
ZAM-BUK FOR:
Zam-Buk is the reliable healer for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Sores, Ulcers, Abrasions, Pimples, Blisters,
Children's Sores, Abscesses, Ringworm, Barber’s
Rash, Scratches, Scalp Diseases, Rheumatism, Sore
Feet, Boils, Festering Sores, Piles, Sprains- Black-
heads, Chafings, Insect Stings, Eczema, Poisoned
Wounds, Stiffness, and Injured or Diseased Condi-
tions of the Skin generally.
SOOTHING, HEALING,
ANTISEPTIC.
There, untying the label from the white
rose, she affixed it to the rose-bush in her
hand, and proceeded to dig up the white
rose once again. With hasty hands she
plucked it out at last, replaced her own
within the open space and filled the earth
around it. Then with a smile of malicious
triumph on her lips she turned—to meet
her husband’s angry face. He had heard
and followed her and seen her final action.
He could not speak for passion. The veins
swelled out upon his forehead and Juliet
shrank back in fear. It was the face of
a madman. Without a word he rushed at
her and grasped her by the throat.
“What have you done, you hound?’’ he
cried at last. “What have you done?”
As he spoke he flung her from him, and
she fell backwards at the very foot of the
little tree. The spade was lying there, and,
as she fell, it cut deeply into her head,
lhere was a gasping cry, a moan, and then
a tragic silence.
Masterford, still strung with fury, knelt
beside the tree to wrench it out, when sud-
denly he saw the label on its stem.
“Good God!” lie cried, “she didn’t have
the time to change' it back !”
He spoke aloud, almost with elation, and
regardless of the woman lying beside him.
Hut slowly the reaction came, and as he
looked at her he shuddered. He raised her
head and saw, with horror-stricken eyes, the
blood upon it, and upon the ground, and on
the very rose-tree at her side. For hours,
it seemed to him, he held her there and
tried by every means to bring her back to
iite. And when at last he realised his
e vain an agony of fear swept over him.
vyhat was lie to do? And how was he to
do it? Some lines he once had heard came
vaguely to him. How did they run? “If it
must be done ’twere well done if done
quickly.” It did not sound ciuite right some-
how—he tried to get the exact hang of the
words, but failed. lie puzzled over the
matter for a moment, with that strange in-
consequence so frequent in great mental
crises, and then once more his mind came
swiftly back. He must get rid of —of that!
He must get away. They were not known
nor would she be likely to be missed if he
was careful. And then suggestion after
suggestion swept across his brain, and with
extraordinary clarity of reasoning lie pieced
the matter out. He rose at last and took
the spade and dug once more beside the rose
tree a narrow trench ,of sinister appear-
ance.
# it * #
Three days later the mail delivered to
Jack Grant, some twenty miles away, a
letter which disturbed him not a little.
“Dear Grant,” it ran. “My wife has got
a letter which makes it urgent for her and
me to zo to Sydney at once. She may have
to go back to England and I will not be
back for a week or two myself. Will you
give an eye to my place now and then if you
can get across and give my roses a bit of
water? There is a new one I have planted
m the centre bed, which is all dug up.
Please look after that once specially if you
go across. _ I think everything else will be
all right till I get back. In a hurry, yours
Stephen Masterford.”
Jack Grant swore a ljttle to himself as
ne read. It was a bally nuisance; but being
an Australian and consequently, a goot
neighbor, he did as he was asked. And the
rose-tree in the centre-bed was not forgotten
and, responding nobly to the attention, was
soon a mass of verdant leaf and bursting
bud. Gut it was many weeks before Steve
Masterford came back: to sde it in its
. It was late autumn, and a cloudless even
ing when he arrived, a solitary figure, grev
with dust. But not with dust alone. There
was a greyness about the man himself—
about Ins face, about his hair, about his
' kow he had suffered
ol the hell that he had lived in; of the
hopelessness that clad him as a garment
-Mechanically he stabled his horse, taking
tune with all the details as if he desired to
postpone to the last moment that visit to
the garden which none-the-less he knew lit
had to make. With a curious hesitancy he
walked from the stable to the back porch
and thence by the path beside the house to-
wards the front. As lie gained the garden-
edge Ins eyes involuntarily sought the tree,
t here it stood in full leaf with a luxuriance
ot buds. And on the topmost branch, and
waving in the breeze as though derisively to
welcome him, were two large open blooms.
But God help him! —both buds and blooms
were red: red as the blood which not so
Jong ago had splashed the tree!
Something seemed to break in Masterford’s
brain, and with a scream he rushed at the
rose-bush, wrenching off the flowers and
buds, throwing them to the ground and
trampling them as if he thus could rid his
sight of them for ever. The blood flowed
rom the thorn-wounds on his arms and
hands; but he did not abate his savage on-
slaught until a score of blooms lay trodden
underfoot. Then with a cry he fell upon
the ground unconscious.
There, the next day, Grant found him,
rambling, > incoherent in a dangerous fever,
and carried him into the house and laid
him on the bed wherefrom he had arisen last
upon, that dreadful night.
Within a week they carried Masterford
again along the garden path, and as the slow
procession passed the rose-tree in the centre
bed, the buds that he had left, uoon it. now
bursting into radiant bloom, waved their red
hands once more above him. Exultantly they
wavpd as though in triumph over a well*
accomplished task.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
Old Maudie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS the door in Snide-lane swung back-
ward, an atmosphere of tragedy in
the house seemed to leap at me even
before I saw the face of the landlady, Mrs.
Ryan. Obviously she was deeply dis-
turbed ; and equally obviously she had been
doing what she invariably does in moments of
emotion —drinking.
“Come in, Mister,” she said, remembering
me. “Come on into the kitchen. Old
Maudie’s dead. Dead in ’er bed this mornin’.
No, don’t go away: stay ’ere ’while. An’ you
migiit send for some more beer.”
She had led the way into the old, tumble-
down kitchen—-the only sitting-room in the
house —where on the rough table stood two
empty bottles, and a glass and some cups.
She handed the money I gave her to another
woman, who, twisting her apron round ner
waist, went on her errand of beer.
“Poor Old Man die!” said Mrs. Ryan,
maudlinly. "I found ’er meself this morn-
ing, lying ’alf out of bed, lookin’ ’orrible. It
was the meth. that done it: she’s taken to
methulated spirit; an’ you know she drank
tierce. The cops ’ave been, and tiie doctor,
an’ the undertaker’s men. An’ there she is,
lying upstairs, waiting for the coffin. I ’ad
to lay ’er out meself. Oh, fer Gawd’s sake
give me a drink!”
The beer having arrived. I complied.
“You remember poor Old Maudie?”
I did. At a time when I had a craze for
investigating such places as Snide-lane, I had
struck what one is alwavs likely to strike
in such places, trouble; and, just i.j things
seemed likely to go badlv with me, the door
of No. 10 had opened, and Mrs. Ryan had
half-urged, half-pulled me into security. Then
I had encountered Old Maudie—a withered
virago who, in her drunken fury, wanted to
go out and attack my assailants. Old Maudie,
1 found, was a character in the district. The
wreck of a woman who had probably been
handsome, who in sentimental, half-drunken
moments insisted that she still had a voice,
she was a terror when fully drunk. The
police feared her, and feared her with reason.
And she was often fully drunk; she seemed
to make getting fully drunk a hobby,
xet her voice was cultivated, and there were
signs of an old refinement about her.
Now an idle moment and a whim had
brought me again to No. 10 Snide-lane, on
the day of Old Maudie’s death.
“When I saw ’er lying there, 1 gave a
scream, an’ 1 don't know what 'appened till
I was talkin’ to a John ur< in Bourke-street.
R came back; an’ then ’e went away to ring
up a doctor. The two of them came down
ere with a little old ’andbag full of papers—
all poor Old Maudie ’ad in the world. The
doctor wanted to know ’oo she was, an’ ’er
®5, e * I couldn’t tell ’em—only knew ’er as
Old Maudie, poor Old Maudie, an’ the Smiths
and Browns she used ter call ’erself to the
police didn’t signify. I’ve known ’er six
years, an’ she’s always been only Old Maudie.
“The first thing they finds is pawntickets—
years-old pawntickets. ‘Good God, she must
ave ’ad good jew’lry,’ says the doctor; so 1
looks over, curious. Thev was for 15 and
-Impounds, some of ’em: rings, an’ bracelets,
an furs an’ things—an’ you know what the
pawnbrokers give yer. Then there was photy-
graphs. There was one of an ’andsoitie-
looking man with a curious smile on ’is face.
It ’ad been torn in four pieces, an’ then
pasted together again; an’ another was a
little girl cuddling up between the knees of
a man, most likely ’er father, an’ another u
girl on a pony, laughing, in a garden. An’
then they found a birth certificate, or some-
thing, wrapped up in paper.
“Thirty-three! That’s all she was! An’
we called ’er Old Maudie 1 But she looked
old. She never took no care of ’erself; an’
she drank ‘tierce. Thirty-three! An’ I’ve
known ’er six years, and she’s always been
Old Maudie.”
■And,what was her name?” I asked.
“Don t know,” hiccupped Mrs: Ityan. “The
doctor and the policeman seemed surprised;
an’ they looked at the paper together; an’
then the John folds up all the things and puts
them inside his tunic. ‘Must be told,’ says
the doctor: and the John nodded; and out
they goes together, after askin’ me about the
layin’-out. I laid ’er out meself. Oh, fer
Gawd’s sake give me some mpre beer !”
There was a rap at the front door —the
knocker had long disappeared —and, Mrs.
Ryan being by this time nearly incapable,
and, moreover, dissolved in maudlin tears, I
opened it. A policeman pressed into the
house, followed by an elderly, dignified gentle-
man with a drawn white face which seemed
familiar— which teas familiar. Behind him
came an elderly, well-dressed woman, who
appeared to enter the house reluctantly.
"The woman who died this morning?” said
the man.
“In the back room,” called Mrs. Ryan’s
voice from the kitchen.
‘‘l ’ll wait here,” said the policeman.
So, forced to it, I commenced to lead the
way up the stairs.
‘‘l’ll stay here, too,” said the woman.
’You come up,” said the man, his voice
having a note of sternness and strain.
Death was not beautiful with Old Maudie.
Perhaps Mrs. Ryan’s laying-out was not too
successful. The scanty greying hair was dis-
hevelled, Thirty-three years old ! Old Maudie
looked sixty ; yet there was —something,
1 stood awkwardly in the tiny room,
because I could not leave it: it was a room
so small that I was thrust into a corner.
The old man stood looking at tlid dead for
a moment with twitching lips, then stooped
suddenly and kissed her forehead. He stood
back again expectantly, waiting; then turned
to J lie woman with him.
“Kiss her,” he said imperatively.
The woman drew back.
“To think she should have brought herself
to this!” she whispered, coldly. “Think
what it means if this comes out.”
“It need not come,” he retorted in strained
tones, “but she is still your daughter.”
“It ■would have been better.” she said, “if
we had never known of this. She kept away
from us when she might have come back.”
“She was very proud, poor Maudie,” he
said.
“She was very spoilt. You spoilt her. You
made more of her than all the children. She
was just wilful.”
“She was high-spirited and proud. You
were hard. To me she is just—Maudie. Are
you not going to kiss her?”
Her face was averted.
“Then go!”
I took the opportunity of going too; but
as I went I saw the old man fall on his
knees beside the tawdry bed, and throw his
arms around the poor remains.
It did not surprise me shortly afterwards
to read about a large benefaction to a
charity which aims at saving feminine
wrecks, from a benefactor “who desires to
remain anonymous.”
HAMER.


■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from ths first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we si
WE OFFER TO SEND FT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to beep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation,
and Melancholy assail
you,resulting in lackof,
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pill# touch
the liver and
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small PlH—Small Dose—Small Price.
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
/SfS
SAFEGUARD your HEALTH
0f J.Cbiws Browne's
The Origin a! and Only Genuine
anu
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
hs, Colds, Asthma,
tlie Con si' of ISKO-NCHIIIS uiitl
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVUKISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
SPASMS and
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES."
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and S/-.
Made in ■ England.
* ■ '<• -
, t. ■ 1 - :&•
• , *'• • ' • ; .. .• , *. ,•> -i: ' - . ,
GARAGES, are you able to display the above sign?
If not, about fitting your establishment with the
necessary equipment?
Such a sign is surely going to bring you more business
these strenuous times, especially if you have the right
outfit. ,»
What do you think of this specification?
MAYO FREE AIR OUTFIT
Comprising Compressor, Air Tank, Triple Tank Fitting and Check Valve.
Details of the COMPRESSOR. Bore 3in. Strode 4in.
Guaranteed to work to a pressure 2001 b. per sq. in. « ;
Speed to run 350 to 400 revs, per min.
Fast and Loose Pulleys 13in. Dia.
Fly Wheel 14m. Dia.
Power to drive 1 % h.p.
Details of AIR TANK. 48in. x 16in. Electrically Welded.
Filled to 1501 b. pressure, will inflate 20 ordinary-sized tyres
to 801 b.
THE TRIPLE TANK FITTING consists of
1 Adjustable Safety Pop Valve.
1 2%in. 1501 b. Pressure Gauge.
1 Air-tight Needle Valve.
PRICE FOR WHOLE OUTFIT,
£42
OR
COMPRESSOR ONLY, £22.
TRIPLE TANK FITTING, £3/7/-
AIR-CHECK VALVE, £l/4/-
GARAGE JACKS, as illustrated, with Ball-bearing Castor Wheels:
3 Wheel with 4in. Dia. Wheels, £5/15/-
3 Wheel with sin. Dia. Wheels, £6/15 -
4 Wheel with 4in. Dia. Wheels, £5/15/-
latclSc
r
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
MAKE
A NOTE
OF IT
z
pxmo
ARE WORTH
MAKING
Tffrm
WEI
m
e
3##
■ Ml
mr,
EORGE HOTELi
St, Kilda, Melbourne
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
11 1 1 ‘ 1 - / '; n '
YVb Supply— !’ -
1 ARK AH and Tasmanian Hard-
J wood Piles, Reams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Bui 1 <l er s’
Scantling, Seasoned/ Flooring, and
Weatherboards, etc!
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, EC.
iiORD ST£¥ET, PERTH; W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.$.W. >
Branches in all parts of the world. ; ,■ ...V
s
Oemin&oti
UMZ
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent ah advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
J^einlngtotti
for Shooting Righi
UMC
Ask your dealer to show you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25,30,32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request.
C-5
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Kepresentative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
v r
-
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER So YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
u
Craig & Aitken are Sole Agents for the
“Plum” Razor, and being practical trades-
. men they know just the kind of edo-e
required for ah easy shave. PRICE 12/6 POST F«£E.
We /guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.:
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 3Q/_
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6


• ~
* '
■'■v'A'
ATC
<■: ■'• V
VS.
S*
■» —-
,v.' ■' \. V*- ‘V-
'
;■
* -ir's'?
SSff
-
; .SS
~,... <;■ /
E&l
««LA;n
PASS
a':
•vM 4
li Ml
‘
as
;
isSS
a;,v
SJe&as
j*”""
. y
W.V !*.>
. ‘. . /“
m
J
f ■ ...
IB
H
» '■'■.'i-r/' \
■ c
}J
oA
vm
'~'\4
m
I
■
'SA.T 'W
&
i
■
<V"
<3
m
9 : ¥4
-r
SSRi'i
m
axj£
7» .- '
■.
iaL 1
SS-i
4 i
;
v> '• •i* V'-\ ■: • '\l •-•
w*.
DEWARS
In the case of Whisky the
General Verdict is in favour
of Dewar’s on three counts,
MELLOWNESS —PURITY
RELIABILITY
Mellowness. That alluring perfection
of flavour that begets the happy smile of
appreciation. Dewar’s never robs one of
pleasure —be the anticipation never so great.
Its charm of flavour is elusive and exclusive
—soft, rich and yet crisp.
Purity. The safeguard Of health and the
rock on which the reputation of Dewar’s
stands. It is this domination of Purity in
all the stages of preparation that makes
Dewar’s the Aristocrat of Whiskies whose
companionship is ever a source of unceasing
delight and happiness.
Reliability is the crowning virtue of
Dewar’s. All its merits in Distillation,
Blending, Purity, Age and Flavour contribute
to this one great end: —that no matter when
or where you buy Dewar’s you can, without
any fear of disillusionment, rely on an unvary-
ing measure of rarest pleasure that makes
Dewar’s a perfect treasure.
