

nun
IF.
a
e_
z%
a
'jjjvn
m
%
'llll
m
hiuu/jiiim
Q,
m
U
m
im
k&Ss&IHIIIIItI. "-onlTfi
iiiiiiiittiiniiiiiii iiiii liiniiiiiiUH\lli
THE CAR THAT
MOTOR,
lANDLI
"cars
KEEPS FAITH.
VISITORS TO
THE ROYAL SHOW
—to be held in Moore Park from MARCH 21 to 30— '
are invited to call in at our MOTOR PAVILION-
at the intersection of Machinery Avenue and Burgundy Street —where a
VERY FINE EXHIBIT of these HIGH-GRADE AMERICAN SIX-
CYLINDER CARS will be staged, various models being represented, as
well as Commercial Vehicles.
In addition we shall have an
ESTA CARBON ELIMINATOR
in action. This is an invaluable adjunct to a motorist’s
outfit, and will save its cost many times over.
THE CAR WITH A
THE
CLEVELAND
SIX
CONSCIENCE.
.
■
m
mm m i
m
m
11 w
w>~-
m
vmmm
m
m
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
GARAGE AND SHOWROOM, 147-51 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, Agents for New South Wales.
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne, Agents for Victoria. T. KENNEDY, Launceston, Agent for Tasmania.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., LTD., Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2143
Thursday, March 10, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be posted free to any
address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
C~fC.
/bunt -Pen
Economical of effort, time and
ink; possessing the simplest
lever self-filling action, and un-
rrecedented ink capacity; per-
fectly finished, attractive in
appearance, correctly balanced,
The Whytwarth Fount Pen
merits the distinction—THE Pen
of Pens.
14 ct. iridium tipped gold nib; all points;
Entirely British and guaranteed.
17/G Everywhere.
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company, Ltd.,
218-226 Clarence St., Sydney.
WHY IS
Euthyraol
tooth/paste:
THE BEST DENTIFRICE?
Because it combines the Frictional Qualities of a Toe in Powder with
the Penetrating Qualities of a Liquid Dentifrice, plus a Practical
Germicidal Power.
Watel
{ldeal
Fbdnfapilfeii
This Self-Filling Type
has a most ingenious little lever which fits
flush on the barrel and enables you to fill the
World’s best Fountain Pen instantly. It’s a
wonderful invention which you must see.
Everybody wants one.
Three Types—“ Self-Filling,” ' Safety” and ‘Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands* Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L.G. Sloan, Ltd., Cbepett Comer
Kingsway, London, England,
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney,
**N
Waterman’s
Ideal
mm
mm
ilHA.NGRovrri-1
LEATHER
:lti3
THE, BIG WASTAGES OF POWER.
due to inefficient transmission is entirely avoided if yon instal MANGROVITE LEATHER or
RAWHIDE BELTING in your power plant. Mangrovite Beltings are scientifically prepared and
tanned by a special process, so that they grip the pulleys snugly and convey every ounce of
power generated, They are also strong, durable and up new records at a.
minimum outlay. Mangrovite Beltings resist abrasion, and give magnificent service under the
most trying circumstances.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
. CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney. South Australia: John Reid & S'ois Ltd., Adelaide.
W. Australia: Cibbs, Bright & Go. Ltd., Fremantle. Victoria & Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Melbourne.
‘dutr^Lc
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
An Ideal Treatment for
INDIGESTION GASTRITIS
and
ALL STOMACH AILMENTS
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6. [2
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
11
» ♦
I
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES.
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
faffa
faf
srommi
The Red Page
Looking for a Public
According to Joseph Parker, the most in-
spired and least logical of modern preachers,
“one man is an audience fit for an apostle.”
It is possible to go farther and declare that
one man is audience enough fot Socrates—if
the one man happens to be Plato. Marlowe
might have been willing enough to see a
solitary lad in the pit on the first night of
“Edward if.’’ if he had known that; the lad
was William Shakspeare and could have had
prevision of his greatness. A writer in an Eng-
lish magazine claims that the public must be
judge of letters and poetry; and that the
absence to-day of great singers is due to the
fact that they do not try to sing to the
public. According to his theory, Shelley and
Keats matter nothing; Kipling matters a
great deal; and the writers of alleged vers
libre are trying to matter still more. The
measure of a writer’s value is simply his
appeal to the public.
The first answer to the question raised
must take the form of another question.
What is meant by the public? If the great
mass of those who contrive to convey their
meaning to one another by some use or
abuse of the English tongue is meant, then it
may be said with mathematical certainty that
to such a public Kipling is just as much a
sealed book as Keats; and if the business of
the writer is to come down to such a public the
way is certainly neither by “Barrack Room
Ballads” nor by vers libre. “Tommy Make
Boom for . your Uncle,” which once roused
English music-halls to enthusiasm, is nearer
the mark ; and such a brand of literature has
only to be mentioned to reduce the whole
argument of public appeal to an absurdity.
AS Kipling has been mentioned, and as
Kipling has a real appeal to a very wide
public, it is interesting to know that lie him-
self has shown very clearly the depth of his
own of Keats. WTiatevet the quality
of Kipling’s public, it is clear that Keats
commands the man who commands that audi-
ence. There is no such thing as reaching the
whole mass of those who read or spell out
English books. The very fact that Nat Gould
reached a circle of readers which on a count
ot heads was greater than any other is itself
a guarantee that Nat Gould could not reach
c;her circles of more fastidious and selective
readers. The poet who with vers libre or
anything else could reach Nat Gould’s
audience would find that lie had almost en-
tirely missed' Kipling’s, and that he was a
standing jest to those who can appreciate
Wordsworth.
So the poet’s public becomes on examina-
tion a sectional thing of grades and strata,
not a universal ear open to catch a song that
may be loved by all. Every writer wants an
audience. There is no such thing as finding
self-expression in mental 'solitude. The audi-
ence may not be present when the song is
made ; but the singer must imagine an audi-
ence, whether of gods or men, or the effort
will be a poor one. The thing that really
matters most of all is the quality of the
audience to whom the appeal is made. In
the cheap attics of the llouse / of Song there
are strange little cults, curious little noisy
circles of people who imagine they are near
the stars because they have high windows to
look through. An appeal to these is always
comparatively easy and comparatively futile.
On the ground floor there are great throngs of
well-taught readers who mouth over and over
the praises of the “standard” writers. No-
body can define a “standard” writer; but.
these people are in general agreement that
cei tain works and workers are good enough
B) talk about. They will still discuss Collins,
Cowper and Hemans; but they do no-t
realise or admit that there are very much
better poets than Collins, Cowper and He-
mans writing for every decent magazine. Yet
on that lower floor an occasional modern is
spoken of —a modern well attested by the
critics and decently unread in the public
libraries. But the intermediate chambers of
the great building hold those who love song
for its own sake, the readers of open heart
find catholic taste, those who despise nothing
of the past and nothing that is honest of the
present. Of course, the people on the ground
floor come upstairs occasionally; those in the
garrets also occasionally come down; those
on the second and third floors wander every-
where ; but outside the building there are
countless thousands who never come in at all
To whom shall the poet make his appeal?
Where shall he,seek the audience that he
must have if he would sing at all ? The man
who talks about writing vers Hire for the
public” is really one of those at a small top
garret window; lie believes that he is at the
crown and summit of things because he rents
a cheaper room. The crowd outside does not
even know that he exists.
But there is a force of gravity in litera-
ture as in nature; and poetry, like water,
finds its own level. The mere froth and
cheapness on the surface has no gravity, and
in the end blows quite away; but the strong,
earnest effort, which is appreciated by the
comparatively few, while the song is being
made, settles down to “standard” level where
it is more widely if not more deeply appre-
ciated. This process is continuallv going
on, and there are no short-cuts. The song
that reaches one understanding ear to-day
will reach a dozen next year, a thousand in
10 years’ time, perhaps a million a centurv
hence. i But “Tommy Make Room for Your
Uncle’ in vers libre will not displace one
genuine thought nor disturb one musical
cadence ; nor wiil the crowd outside ever dis-
cover that the insane thing found print in
a half-crown magazine.
D. M. W.
A Daniel without Judgment
Few people care to be as dogmatic about
anything as Mr. Randolph Bedford is
about everything, but there’s no great risk
in venturing the opinion that if English
literature is to perish it will not be because
of his latest onslaught (B. 17/2/’2l). “I
notice a number of fools objecting that Aus-
tralian fiction is crude in comparison with
the English stuff,” he says; and to show
how stupid these petty souls really are, he
seizes on a copy of an English magazine and
dissects a few of the stories. One doesn’t
know which to admire more —the urbanity
of his opening phrase or the logic with which
he crushes his opponents. His method is
precisely the .same as that of the critic who
damns all English painters, and proves his
case by laboriously demonstrating the artistic
defects of three hoardings and a jam label.
“The English novel,” Mr. Bedford modestly
continues, “is mostly dull and heavy, and
the English short story doesn’t exist.” After
picking out a few banalities from the
slushiest magazine that he could find, he
adds: “And the truth of their magazine fic-
tion is the truth of their book literature.
Excepting Wells and Maurice Hewlett, and
maybe Neil Lyons, there are no living Eng-
lish fietionists worth a second thought.”
When you get half-way through that last
•sentence, and find Neil Lyons bracketed with
Wells and Hewlett, you have strong doubts
about Mr. Bedford’s critical faculty. When
you come to the end your doubts vanish : you
know that he has no critical faculty. You
can’t help wondering, though, whether he has
ever heard of Hardy or Kipling, or Barrie
or Bennett, or Masefield or Galsworthy, or
Compton Mackenzie. If he hasn’t, he is
scarcely in a position to speak with
authority; if he has, he is, on his own
admission, insensible to the beauty of some
of. the finest work in the language. I’m not
going to analyse “Kim” or “Tess” or
“Sinister Street” for Mr. Bedford’s benefit:
one might as well take a blind man to view
a panorama or a deaf mute to “Bohbme.”
For the same reason it would be futile to
reply to his assertion that “the English
short story doesn’t exist” by pointing to
the work of Kipling, Hardy, Wells, Dun-
sany, Algernon Blackwood and W. W.
Jacobs —the Jacobs of “The Brown Man’s
Servant” and “The Monkey’s Paw.”
Mr. Bedford has not a monopoly of
patriotism: he is not the only man who
wants to see Australian literature flourish.
But the .young man climbing the ladder is
not helped up by petulantly shaking his fist
at the people at the top. In the same way
Australian writers have nothing to gain,
•unless it be a reputation for critical insanity,
by allegations about the extinction of Eng-
lish fiction and sweeping generalisations like :
“The Australian inability to produce that
kind of stuff is merely a proof that most
Australians have a sense of humor., as most
English have not,” and “Of course we live
closer up to life.” This country has had,
and has now, several novelists of distinction,
and in time it will have more. But it is
still suffering from the same complaint as
America: it is young. In literature youth
nearly always means crudity, and this, de-
spite the assertions of Mr. Bedford, has been,
and still is, the chief defect of the greater-
part of Australia’s fiction. We have
material in plenty, and we have men and
women with unmistakable talent. But so
far few of them have adequately studied
technique, and until they do Australian
literature will never reach the summits.
When an Australian painter wishes to learn
his ’ craft lie does not sit down in Woop-
Woop or Little Bourke-street and expect the
thing to grow on him : he goes to London or
Paris and studies the methods of the mas-
ters. In the same way it is not enough for
a soprano to have a glorious throat: she has
to learn art from a Marchesi. It is not
necessary that a writer should go abroad,
but .study he must. That is why Mr. Bed-
ford is doing his country the worst possible
service when he alleges that only three -Eng-
lish novelists are worth a second thought,
and implies that the Australian has nothing
to learn.
G. C. DIXON.
Music and Interpretation
None of us can speak of music without
prejudice. There are too many changing
stages, too many influences, between the
sounded note and our delivered judgment.
Even if we hear a new composition unclouded
by traditional criticism, it has to make its way
through our complicated consciousness. By
the time it has travelled from impression to
expression it is thoroughly colored by our
own individuality. The vibrations it sets
up in our auditory nerves have to be trans-
lated to our understanding through thought,
through words, through varied metaphors
and analogies; and in each translation some-
thing is lost.
We perform the mechanism of thought in
different ways. A man born blind thinks in
terms of touch and hearing. Most people
think in words; a great number in pictures.
And, even so, each hears differently from his
fellows. Some lucky 'ones with the gift of
pitch hear in pure tones. At the" other
extreme are those who could only squeeze
out the Lewis Carroll verdict: “Well, some
of. the notes are the same, and some are dif-
ferent.” In between, the great mass of lis-
teners take their music in a confused jumble
of impulses, thoughts, suggestions, memories,
vague wishes. Some see pictured sounds,
more or less rainbowed : for a few in evefy
thousand have what Havelock Ellis calls
‘‘the abnormal sixth sense of colored hear-
ing,” and catch something of the mysterious
affinity between the ether waves of sound
and light.
And not one of us comes to listen with a
mind at once ripe for judgment and clear
of tangling associations. For instance: A
child is taken out on the rocks to peep round
at an inaccessible sea-cave. The Southern
Ocean beats furiously on Thunder Point, and
the adventurer must wait for the ninth wave,
rush out after its backwash, and peer round
the spray-drenched cape, with his heart in
his mouth. He sees, running deeply back
into the cliff, a cave lofty and narrow and
gothic-arched, full of strange emerald lights,
and with a floor of green sea-water. One
brief glimpse is all he has before the tenth
wave is upon him, and he scrambles peril-
ously back to safety, one brief glimpse of
wild, unearthly beauty set in a turmoil of
great surges.
Shortly after he hears for the first time
the Appassionata Sonata. The chords crash
like breakers, and when they suddenly give
way to. the melody of the second subject he
thinks it is like his eerie sea-cave, a thing of
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk
xtae
STYLES
for Autumn-Winter
at ANTHONY HORDERNS
An inspection of Anthony Horderns’ Display of Autumn
Winter Styles for 1921 reveals the fact that every anticipa-
tion in dress. charm for this new season has been realised.
This distinguished collection of smart authentic fashions is
extremely moderately priced. Examples of new arrivals in our
Fashion Salons, illustrated and featured here, are representative
of our diversified selections of new fashionable apparel, and
their values offer an inducement to choose now.
D. 129
rv
«r >
;
# >
D. 799
D. 793
DI29.—THIS STYLISH FROCK IS DEVELOPED IN
GEORGETTE, and Milk Beads are successfully used to
trim bodice and sleeves. The straight “Severe” but
smart effect is relieved by three rows of cording on the
skirt. Colors: Black, Navy, Nigger, Putty.
PRICE £6/19/6
Dl2s.—’A SMARTLY DESIGNED FROCK, carried out in
Crepe de Chine, fashioned with magyar bodice, which
is laced in front. Skirt is designed with two flounces,
open at sides, effectively trimmed with cable stitchings
of contrasting shades. Colors: Black, Navy, Putty.
PRICE £5/19/6
Dl2 3.—-A CHARMING ROBE IN TAFFETA, pretty bodice
forming loose effect, butterfly bow at back, enhancing
smartness of design. Skirt has panel back and front
with two pleated frills on side imparting distinctive
finishing touch. Colors: Black, Navy, Nigger.
PRICE ... £ll/11A
D 7 93 ~ an A i TRACTIVE AND SERVICEABLE FROCK
IN SERGE, designed with Jumper effect. The putty-
colored collar is trimmed with military braid. Two
rows of bone buttons are successfully used to enrich this
useful frock. Colors: Black, Navy.
PRICE £6/19/6
D799 —- THIS SMARTLY-CUT FROCK OF SERGE is
fashioned to give a Jumper effect. Russia braid is utilised
to adorn the bodice. Inset sleeves, collar and cuffs.
Ihe skirt is pleated from hips. Colors: Navy Black
PRICE £5/19/6
Autumn and Winter Fashion Catalogue.
The Season’s Smartest Styles, unfolded in a becoming appro-
priate manner, are contained in our Fashion Catalogue. Send
for one. It is posted free.
MAIL YOUR ORDER. You can order by
post with the knowledge that your every require-
ment is attended to as expertly and efficiently as
though you were shopping in person.
We Pay Carriage on Fashion Goods and Family
Drapery to any part of N.S.W., and to the nearest
port on inter-State and Island Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN * Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Make your pleasures
last forever in
KODAK pictures
Happiness comes and goes. To-day may be
the brightest day of your life, and to-morrow
the dullest and most monotonous.
But if you make Kodak pictures of the happy
incidents of the present you will be able
to enjoy them and the jolly thoughts they
bring back in your future.
Make up your mind not to waste an oppor-
tunity of securing a happy picture in the days
to come.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior will enable you to make
splendid pictures. It is compact and most efficient. For
pictures 2£ x3£ inches. Price 587-
Other Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-. Brownies from 14/6
to £5/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen
Street;, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart;
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
.
1
, lilHili
I HHIM 11 ■
'
.
■
* .
m
• \
J
:■ ..
mat!
1
M&
-
i.! , ,
'
m
ilil
New styles of music come and
go—twinkling ragtime, the merry
jazz—but the popularity of the
ballad is perennial.
It has a fascination for young and
old. It is, above all other music,
that of which one never tires.
When sung by such artists as those enum-
erated here, it takes on a wealth of beauty,
a glowing color that entrances.
Hear the wistful* heart-reaching quality of
these gems which possess all that exquisite
tone so characteristic of
a
-
99
Single-sided “His Master’s Voice” Records.
04249 —O Lively Night. .Itosina Bachman & Walter Hyde
4-2378—Genevieve John McCormack
02268 —I’ll Sing Thee Songs of Araby Evan Williams
03415 —Carry Me Back to Old Virginny Alma Gluck
03255—A Summer Night Kirkby Lunn
03155—Believe Me if All Those Endearing Young Charms
Clara Butt
02348 —An Old Garden Stewart Gardner
4-2086 —Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes .... John Harrison
02198—Three for Jack Kennerley Kumford
Double-sided “His Master’s Voice” Records.
C. 790 [ I’m a Roamer
(The Bos’n, the Gunner and Me...
8.799 |
Until
So Fair a Flower
Peter Dawson
Hubert Eisdell
8.610
8.305
B.
C.
fO Flower of Memory Herbert Teale
( The Sleep of Even s)
| Three for Jack Remald Werrenrath
( The Ringers „ }>
(East Year Percy Whitehead
i Where My Caravan Has Rested.. Charles Harrison
f Old Folks at Home Elsie Baker
( Home, Sweet Home s) M
Instrument Catalogue,
Lists and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Ills Master's Voice'*
Eegd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Rcgd. Trade-mark.
. ''V
t mm


PINKETTES
FOR CONSTIPATION
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered .and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Standard
Jv-
/y
//*>*
A#
aaM Si- - '
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker <& Co., Ltd., Sydney
a
im
n
Age depends
more on ap-
pearance than
aught else!
Let your age-
ing GREY
HAIR be
changed to
the deep wal-
nut color of
youth. The
difference is
r e markable,
and the bur-
den of many years disappears.
Harmless! Permanent! Water-
proof ! All Chemists.
I
yyt
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
faf
Tooth Paste
FRAGRANT
& REFRESHING
Eudenta Tooth Paste contains ingredi-
ents that penetrate into every nook
and cranny of the teeth, thus retard-
ing decay and leaving the mouth
fresh and sweet.
Furthermore, it is locally
made. That is why it can
be sold at the
nominal figure of
V-
BUY A TUBE
TO-DAY!
a
m
a
: '; )■ • ■
■ K
■■■•• V -
.
Invest in Reliability
Sti-ength, Simplicity and Reliability are of vital importance in an Oil-
Engine for marine use.
The “AMIS” was designed with these points' in view, and is the
outcome of years of experience in the manufacture of reliable, light-
weight engines.
Illustrated above is the Single-Cylinder type suitable for Launches,
Fishing Boats, etc.
Will burn Crude Oil—Kerosene or Benzine —at remarkably low running
cost.
In stock, 6-, 10-, 15-, 20- and 35-h.p.
We shall be pleased to send further particulars and
complete specification on application to
NELSON <& ROBERTSON,
Oil Engine Department, 15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Careless of calling “Tails!”
Certain of victory, he
Knows he can keep on the
bails,
Till it’s time for his
Sold
Everywhere.
Many Popular
Shapes.
GBD
faf
PERFECT PIPC
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Charm.
If I were a princess loved of old,
I'd sit all day on a chair of gold,
Where u magical fountain lightly played
And spill white pearls on a floor of jade;
Till up from her cave by the jasper sea
I should lure the witch of the deep to me
To whisper her through the falling clink,
Through the delicate, dancing, pearly chink,
“Charm them ! Charm them ! Each little
seed
Fill with a piece of my heart and speed
Out of my fingers over the floor,
With ‘Love, come in at the open door.’
The guards are drugged and the palace still
And never a king can thwart my will.
Come in! Come in! and my kisses take
As over the floor the waters shake
Their ruby and beryl and turquoise dew
And the white little pearls sing ‘You, you,
you.’ ”
If I were a princess loved of old
And you the knight in a plume of gold. . .:
O Beloved, I am but a dreaming girl
With neither ruby nor shining pearl
Nor magical fountain of falling dew
Nor a palace jasper and jade and blue.
But if you’ll come to an isle I know
Where the elves of desire their trumpets
blow —•
Mortals know not. No. Only me,
Red little isle in a snowy sea—
Dearest, my dear, I’ll lure you away
A laugh, a kiss and a wooing lay
To one sweet place where the Care-folk
drown
Nor ever a trouble stoops to frown;
And there with Love in my young, young
heart
As dreams of the Dawn their rapture dart
We’ll live like a beautiful story told
Of a knight and a princess loved of old.
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
We Two.
We met when the world was young, mj
heart,
On a lonely tropic sea.
You were a sea king, btave and bold,
And I was a sea nymph free.
We loved and we laughed on our moonlit
ship
As we sailed on that ocean old.
The breeze and the silver seas were sweet
When the days were gold.
We met when the world was sad, dear heart,
On another sea one day.
You were a viking of the North,
And you had been far away.
But once again we laughed for joy,
Though between us flowed the tears,
The sad, salt tears I had shed alone
Throughout the parting years.
Again we met when the world was dark,
The storms rag’d, lightnings flashed ;
Still we laughed in the storm on our reeling
ship
While the whirling waters dashed
With a sweet salt sting on our lips and eyes,
And the thunders loudly sang
Of the doom of Fate and the strength of
Hate—
We had Love, and the joybells rang.
And still once more we met, dear love,
On a shining southern sea.
You were a sea king, kind and true,
And I was a sea maid free.
We danced and wl sang in the storm or
shine
To that love-song now so old.
We forgot the years, we forgot the tears —
We had Love, and the days were gold.
The world is old, but our love still lives
Throughout the age-long years.
You may be sailing age-old seas
And I may be home in tears.
On a moonlit ship we will meet again
On a scented shore maybe.
Dear love of old. dear heart of me.
Come back to the warm, sweet sea.
VICTORIA.
GERTRUDE MOORE.
Stuffed Birds.
Satin of wing and sheeny grace of back !
How clever were the .fingers working
here!
No “natural” mountings do the victims lack ;
Embroidered are the trappings of the bier.
“Almost alive!” the passers-by exclaim.
(The ashes are less ragged than the flame!)
Did you, dumb puppet, ever ruffle wing,
Dipping among the pebbles in a tide
So shallow that you trod the sand to fling
The rainbow waters from you far and wide,
Dreaming a swaying nest grey boughs along,
Until your happy throat conceived a song?
Yow knew no cage, you pert and dappled
thing!
This crystal coffin seals you, corpse con-
test !
Despite the perfect way he poised the wing,
Despite the modish stuffing of the breast,
The craftsman was ingenious and wise
To fit your sockets with such staring eyes!
He could not let you slip away to die
As birds think best. Some deep and
muffled glade,
Some silent hilltop feeling for the sky,
A tiny mat of mould above you laid,
Your duty done, your right at last to rest —
In the green lap of earth your final nest.
“Almost alive!” How very still it is
Except for rustling silks and feet that
pass—
You used to feel the green leaves curl and
kiss,
You used to find October in the grass,
The see-saw of a branch! Unblinking eyes.
Hoto weary you must be. . . .of men... .and
lies !
Queensland.
M. FORREST.


OF THE BRITISH CABLE MAKERS
t
dJ*
AERIAL WIRES
AND CABLES-
Bare or Braided
m
TELEPHONE WIRES
v AND CABLES
PAPER
PINIONS
Electric Insulated
Wires and Cables.
Flexible Wires, Lead=covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables,
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures limited,
PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Bare Copper Wires & Cables
Hard or Soft Drawn ; Copper Rods and
Strips, Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
INSTRUMENT WIRES
CoMon Covered
Silk Covered
Enamelled
A
FLEXIBLE
WIRES
I n
m
TROLLEY WIRES FOR
TRAMWAYS x,
FUSE BOXES
W‘ lnuj ““iUUUl
INSULATED WIRES
is. AND CABLES x
William Adams & Company Limited
SYDNEY:
171 Clarence SI
PHONE, CITY 912, 9180.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Marij Si s .
’PHONE 160.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2143.
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN GAMBLE.
THE COLORED MEN: “Here, let us into this game—you’re putting all your money on one end of the board.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mo'sman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 mu. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any addiiess in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drajts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
( The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all. contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Ferae. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two Columns in length, or, say,
dpOO words,' arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
. The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS, is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be Understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that, it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction-— i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Crotch, Ludgate Circus ; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 8 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
liolborn, London, W. 0.1.
South Africa., —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesbufg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street.
Vancouver, B.O.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., iO9A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., 71/7
Howard Street, San Francisco ; J. lioland Kay Co., 181'.)
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., Vf West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington. U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York :
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, I t 2nd Street and
tlth Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu., —Fisher News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Paw a.—Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid,; Sloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
'2/ielßiylldfori.
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 1921.
LIONS INFLAMED BY ASSES.
When the militants at the recent All Aus-
tralia Trades Union Conference secured a
decision in favor of a general strike they
tacked on to it the imbecile stipulation that
the event '‘should not be a fiasco like the
1917 strike.” The idea was that success de-
pended on the choice of the right moment.
But every general strike has been a fiasco,
and the more civilised a community be-
comes, the higher its standard of comfort
rises, the greater cultural and recreational
needs it develops; the further it recedes from,
primitive conditions, the more hopeless the
policy of the strike-breeder must become. No
class is sufficient unto itself nowadays—a
fact which was demonstrated yet again in
N. S. Wales even as the stop-work apostles
were leaving Melbourne for their homes.
Visionaries of the Garden-Willis type had
hardly done prattling of some unspecified
scheme, when the big strike should arrive, “to
regulate the food necessary for the working-
class to live” before the dairy-farmers
showed them that the most necessary food
of all could not be so regulated. The milk
supply on which the children of worker and
plutocrat alike depend for their lives de-
pends primarily on the goodwill of a most
difficult class to Coerce. A farmer is made,
not born, and he is not to be improvised in
the .throes of an upheaval originated by
wharf-lumpers or ship-stewards. Even a
steward, the somewhat contemned toiler who
produces nothing whatever, his working life
being devoted to hurrying about with food,
basins and the like—even this menial char-
acter can. through his organisation, bring
loss, disease and perhaps death on thousands
at a moment’s notice. Tne late shipping
strike caused the closing down of hunareas
of industries whose employees had not pre-
viously realised that tue sea-transport ques-
tion meant anything to them personally.
Destitution gave them their first lesson in
economics.
But the whole of the Australian working
classes, it will be argued, whose members
represent the best-educated industrialists in
the world to-day, are not oblivious to the
disastrous effect on their welfare of the
methods advocated by a majority of their
leaders. That is so, and the proletariat
revolutionary would be in a bad way as a
propagandist if he were not helped all along
the line by the equally truculent and muddy-
minded capitalist revolutionary. When tne
N. S. Wales dairy-farmers, many of whom
are extremely rich men, condoned the down-
tools movement by themselves illegally strik-
ing against Judge Beeby’s award, their
action was excused by an anti-Labor M.L.A.
who is one of the biggest landlords in the
State, and who has always denounced the
use of the strike weapon by the working
classes. The dairy-farmers, in their fight
against the law of the land, have the sym-
pathy of most of the loud-mouthed, moneyed
agitators of the ultra-Conservative camp, and
the workers know it. Labor here, as in other
parts of the world, has been looking to the
courts for some time past to mitigate the
disabilities the fixed-wage man and the low-
wage man fell under as an outcome of post-
war conditions. Such aspirations may be
vague and formless; but at least the holders
of them expect the more fortunately circum-
stanced to play the game to the extent of
making some pretence at a spirit of help-
fulness in the matter. They were promised
the moon when they were shedding their
blood to make the world safe for democracy ;
what they now ask is that they shall not
be baulked in their blundering efforts to get
hold of an occasional piece of green cheese;
Lowered prices for essential foodstuffs repre-
sent one of the cherished aims of the poor
of the cities, and anyone who defies the Law
in its efforts, right or wrong, in this direc-
tion does good work for the fomenters of
the one big strike. And the more hatred,
noise and venom the obstructors put into
the business the better the men behind the
revolution are served.
It is a natural phenomenon that the army
of chaos should swell in proportion as the
discontented are made to understand that
not even the law of the land can help them
against certain forces. There is no logic
in such matters; only emotionalism and pre-
judice. Direct action may be said to have
been born, so far as the British Empire is
concerned, of a decision which looked no
more far-reaching than Judge Beeby’s when
it was made. The Osbokne judgment, on
appeal from the London Chancery Court,
decided that a trades union could not levy
on its members or pay out money to support
a Parliamentary Labor party. Payment of
members was introduced, and the working-
class Parliamentarians acquired an indepen-
dence which made many of them a good
deal less intransigent than before. The
effect was to create an outside school of
critics who took Sorel’s view that a social-
ist M.P. was like “a Marquis of the old
regime.” These men argued that nothing
was to be expected from constitutional re-
form : that the advanced democrat degen-
erated into a bourgeois as soon as he began
to live on the Treasury ; and that the only
cure was revolt. All England’s attempts at
general strikes date from shortly after 1911,
when the House of Lords confirmed the
Appeal Court’s view as to the validity of the
attitude taken up by the insurrectionists in
the trades unions. In Australia the revolu-
tionary propagandist is able to point to a
number of factors which are equally vitalis-
ing to his disastrous cause:—
In all the country’s 14 Legislatures there are
scores of members who got where they are on the
understanding that they would do something definite ;
and who, in consideration of office or a job or the
promise of one, have broken their words. Every
Labor M.L.A. in the Commonwealth is more or less
strongly committed to the abolition of State Gov-
ernors and Legislative Councils. Nothing is done
to these useless and costly institutions because most
Labor members, on election, start going to Govern-
ment House and intriguing to get friends and rela-
tives made M’s.L.C. So vastly is the democratic
point of view altered by the assumption of the
M’s.L.A. free railway pass that the man who last
year damned the capitalist as an enemy of the
sovereign people may this year be discovered bolting
for his motor-ear while the same sovereign people
batter in his office door.
Contemporaneously with the omission of the
people’s representatives to carry out their promises
there is a tendency, bred of the -war. to check the
very sort of comment on them which acts as a safety-
valve in the interests of law and order. The Federal
Government’s miscalled War Precautions Act Repeal
Act is an instance —a measure which makes it an
offence not merely to adversely criticise the Hughes
Government, but any Government. It is immaterial
that the Hughes party rarely dares to use the tre-
mendous powers which it has given itself in defiance
of the expressed wishes of the electors. The fact,
that a measure authorising them should be on the
Statute Book is irritant enough.
For some 20 years Arbitration and other industrial
Courts have been trying to square matters between
Capital and Labor. Their efforts have been frus-
trated eight times out of ten by considered wrong-
headedness on the part of agitators representing
one side or the other —always to the detriment of the
people as a whole. In one crisis the workers imagine
they have Capital by the throat (it is the
Christmas season, perhaps, and Capital has much
to sell) ; in another Capital decides that the time
has come to teach Labor a lesson. In either case
the consumer crashes, and the poorer he is the
further he falls. Always in such circumstances, he
looks round for someone on whom to vent his exas-
peration ; and at this juncture the fool-plutocrat
never disappoints the fool-anarchy-monger. The
former is always there to bray approval of a rich
award-breaker or denunciation of a poor one.
Such are a few of the conditions which
bring the scheme endorsed by the All-Union
Conference on to the fringe if not within tile
bounds of practical politics. The considera-
tion hostile to anything of the sort is simi-
lar in principle to that which precludes a
man from cutting his throat because his
collar is too tight. If a State Government with
a docile police force and its own railways
is only able during a time of profound peace
to supply the city on whom its ParLamen-
tary majority depends with 10 per cent, of
its "normal milk supply after a week’s strike
in the dairying industry, how much milk
would a provisional Government of park
orators be able to offer at the end of the
same period with the whole of the transport
workers idle? When that question has been
answered the city consumer—who stands for
about 90 per cent, of those on whom the
One Big Strike enthusiast relies for support
—can ask himself what, in a country of vast
distances like Australia, he would do for his
meat and his bread after the great work
stoppage had endured for a day or so. Where
he possesses a reasonable amount of sense
and honesty he will admit: —
(1) That the general strike must quickly, here, be
followed by general starvation —not so much amongst
those with vehicles capable of taking them to the
food-districts and ready cash to buy what they need,
as amongst the anchored poor.
(2) That in the looting and bloodshed which are
inseparable from food-shortages it is again the poor
and the weak who will suffer.
(3) That when the needless tragedy ends it will
not bring better governmental conditions. Russia,
which stumbled into its present agony in 1917
through what was virtually a general strike (against
the war) is struggling painfully upwards to the
constitutional pinnacle from which our reformers
are trying to tear us down.
Sensible people know that these are truths
as old as industrialism. But the inflamma-
tory strike leader and his ally the inflam-
matory man of means aim their shafts at a
less sophisticated section, and between them
they begin to look like getting results.
A PROPOSAL TO TREAT POLICEMEN
AS GODS.
At the N. S. Wales Police Association’s
annual conference in Sydney last week a
motion was carried urging the Government
to gaol anybody who publicly criticises the
force:—
The president, Mr. Paulino, said that the police
should be allowed to put the law into force and arrest
these speakers.
Mr. Curtois (Goulburn): That is what we do with
them in the country; we put them in.
The country police no doubt do “put them
in” occasionally, just as country J’s.P. have
been known to sentence drunks to penal
servitude; but neither practice is in accord-
ance with the spirit or the intention of the
laws of England, which are ours. An ex-
tremely unpleasant aftermath of the war is
a growing assertiveness on the part of every
sort of bureaucrat. Prussianism, scotched
in its country of origin, seems to be Imposing
itself on the very nations which the Pots-
dam disciplinarians used to despise for their
unworthy love of freedom. Before the war
the whole Empire knew where it stood in
regard to freedom of speech in parks and
elsewhere. So long as its humble CiCEBOS re-
frained from preaching treason, riot or
other offences against the criminal law of
the land, they were only bounded in their
oratory by the civil laws controlling libel
and slander. In thousands of open spaces
men gathered on the long, dull Sabbath
afternoons that the Briton bears with him
to the far places of the earth, and denounced
capitalists, Christians, atheists, Imperialists,
monarchy, bimetallism, war, peace, the
police and a hundred other things, each
according to his habit of thought. The
assailed didn’t object, having been taught in
early youth that hard words break no bones.
Administrations, where they were wise, rather
approved. The value of free cursing as a
political safety-valve has always been recog-
nised by the rulers of a race which pos-
sesses a peculiar genius for the arts of
governing and being governed. The business
of a good policeman, on such occasions, was
to behave as little like a Roman Emperor as
possible. Not for him the joy and limelight
of battle culminating in the fierce satisfac-
tion of “putting them in.” His mission was
to save trouble, not to make it: to prevent
blood being spilt, rather than to shed it
himself.
The track leading backward to tyranny
has been blazed, of course, for officialdom
in the mass by W. M. Hughes. The War
Precautions Act and its outrageous succes-
sor, the Government’s deportations, exclu-
sions and threats to those not yet disciplined
were the signs that 'the old lax order had
passed. Disaffected persons and sea-lawyers
might prattle about Magna Charta and
their rights as free British subjects. They
would be convinced that these rights
amounted to no more than a patriotic army of
public servants, burning to save the Empire
from disruption, was prepared to admit. In
all such cases it is merely a matter of divert-
ing an apparently innocuous piece of legis-
lation from its original intention. Provided
there is a semblance of official unanimity—
and there nearly always is—nobody is safe.
The N. S. Wales Vagrancy Act looked a
harmless, necessary measure when it was
passed. Of late years it has been used to
defeat every safeguard erected by Parliament
against the frivolous or malicious gaoling of
innocent citizens. The practice of “putting
them in” under this Act is so common that
a new verb has been coined to express it.
When the Prince of Wales arrived in Syd-
ney dozens of persons who had committed no
crime and were not suspected of having done
so, or of meaning to, were “vagged” and held
during the period of the young man’s visit.
The police act similarly when any eminent
visitor arrives. Also, at other times. Last
week in Sydney a Melbourne man was
“vagged.” He had plenty of money, was
neither “idle” nor “disorderly” (in other
words, he no more came within the legal
definition of “vagrant” than the nearest
bank manager), and lie was accused of no
crime. After he had been held in gaol for
several days his solicitor njanagcd to get
him out. Had he not had good legal advice
and an unusually sympathetic magistrate he
would presumably be there yet.
* * * *
Everybody knows the justification for arbi-
trary police action of this description. It
is claimed that the police are fine fellows,
and that they would not deal harshly with
anyone unless they felt themselves to be in
the right. This is doubtless so in the case
of most of them. But in the first place a
policeman’s idea of what is right is liable to
diner irom that of the average plain citizen.
ALany of our policemen hold witn the "third
degree” methods (copied by America from
Prussia) as a means of extracting confes-
sions and securing information generally
about dimes. Charge after charge has been
made against the Australian police of late
of using violence to suspects in the privacy
ot the cells, ihe end—that of causing jus-
tice to be done may be admirable but it
doesn t excuse the means. Of course there
are those who would scorn to knock their
captives about, or “vag” innocent men, or
misuse the rest of the tremendous powers
e . f^ ce has gathered to itself of late years
13ut the community has to take this class of
public servant as lie is found in the aggre-
gate. been from that angle the oolieencn
does not disclose the possession of a judicial
mind, or anything like one, being dSn
more for brawn than brain; for courage
flm war* tb D CU t, tm '-;- In E,l " land during
the war the authorities often had difficulty
a"s-!u’]ivH i! IS onsei eutious objectors being
assail 1 led by the very police who harl
rescued them from the mob. 4n eoMd™
tious objectors known to history have been
exasperating, wrote Gilbert Murray, and
the English policeman reacted to the ancient
sentiment just like his brother in a different-
colored uniform or in none. And that is
his way the world over. In short, the police-
man is a very ordinary sort of human being
when undressed or in
mufti from a large-sized politician or actor
or alderman or bookmaker. None of these
classes claims immunity from criticism or
even abuse; and most of them get both full
measure and brimming over. It is the lot
of every public character or institution, and
there are good reasons why it should be
so. Eor the police to set themselves up as
a class apart, a remote little band of stipen-
diary gods who must not be rudely assailed
tor fear of endangering the State—for them
to adopt such a posture suggests not merely
German arrogance but a more than German'
humorlessness.
THE IRISH IN BATTLE.
Latterly James Edmond has developed a
rare gift for leaping on his altars and demol-
ishing his idols. His supremacy in this
strange art is as unquestionable as his skill
in adapting history to the requirements of
his new lot of fixed ideas. In the latest of
these paroxysms of reaction (B. 24/2/’2l)
Mr. Edmond demonstrates to his own satis-
faction that the Celtic Irishman can’t tight.
As witnesses he quotes Ormonde, Montrose
Strafeoßd, Rupert of the Rhine and several
other worthies who have been a long time
dead.
He also quotes Saßseield, which is aston-
ishing, considering that Sahseield was tiie
Irish General who said to one of the vic-
torious English, “Change kings with us and
we 11 fight it out again.’ Under Sars-
eield’s command the sheep-like Irish sol-
diery beat King William’s army back from
Limerick, in the defence of which Lauzun’s
h ranch had refused to assist on the ground
that “The English could batter the ramparts
down with rotten apples.” Afterwards
10,000 of Sarseield’s soldiers accompanied
him to France, and a brigade of them broke
Marlborough’s line at a critical moment
of the Battle of Blenheim. Forty-one years
later another and more famous Irish bri-
gade smashed Cumberland’s line at Fon-
tenoy, but Marlborough, being a far abler
General, had better luck than Cumberland.
The employment of these hare-hearted Irish
in the French Army, then, as now, reckoned
about the finest in the world, points to a
singular degree of obtuseness on the part
of the French.
"The claim that the Celtic Irishman is a
natural fighter is said [by Mr. Edmond] to
‘be quite recent, and to have sprung up
within the last 100 years or so. It is said
[by Mr. Edmond again] that the Irishman
sprung it himself, single handed.” No;
Napier, Kipling, Eepington, Gibbs and a
swarm of other non-Irish military writers
helped. Wellington’s army on the Penin-
sula, the finest; he ever commanded, was
largely composed of Celtic Irishmen. They
were doubtless sad dogs, but until Mr.
Edmond came along nobody ever suggested
that they couldn’t fight. Kipling is out of
sympathy with the Irish national movement,
but as a youngster writing his Anglo-
Indian military stories, and as the banjo-
bard of Empire, he has done more than any
of his contemporaries to spread the legend—
Mr. Edmond would call it that—of Irish
gallantry in battle. Only three years ago
he wrote that
M here there are Irish there’s sure to he fighting,
And when there’s no fighting ’tis Erin no more;
Erin no more!
Repington, too. deplored the fatal policy
which, after 1916, killed recruiting in Ire-
land, saying that the Celtic Irish w T ere ideal
storm troops—the very thing Mr. Edmond
says they are not. As storm troops they
have distinguished themselves in a hundred
fights, from Badajos to Seddul Bahr. Of
the heroism of the Irish regiments, at Gal-
lipoli, Ginchy and Guillemont, Mi-/Edmond
seems not to have heard. He is also
strangely silent about the large proportion
of Irish-Australians in the A.I.F. and their
extra large proportion of Victoria Crosses.
He is more concerned with Roderick'
O'Connor than with McCarthy, V.C.; he
remembers the Boyne and forgets the River
Clyde.
According to Mr. Edmond Ireland was con-
quered. at least “realistically.” in Queen
Elizabeth’s time. In his disingenuous way
he points out that the Serbs, Greeks, Dutch
and Swiss have achieved their deliverance
and the Irish haven’t, whence he argues that
the Irishman must he inferior as a fighting-
man to Swiss, Hollander, Greek and Serb.
He forgets that since Elizabeth’s time Ire-
land has been held down by an enormous
garrison in the North and a smaller hut still
formidable one in the South, and that the
dominant Power lias had command of the
sea. He omits to state, also, that Serbs and
Greeks, Dutch and Swiss (of the Napoleonic
period, anyhow) were freed by foreign in-
tervention, and still owe their independence
to the strong arms of friendly nations, where-
as the Celtic Irish have had no assistance


from abroad, except for some fitful and half-
hearted efforts of the French.
The position of Ireland, militarily speak-
ing, is analogous to that of Bohemia. That
nation was conquered by the Germans not
long after Elizabeth’s time. For 300 years
it remained an unwilling partner in the
Empire of the llapsburgs. surrounded by a
mountain barrier which the Germans held
as securely as Britain holds the barrier of
the sea. Two years ago this long-submerged
people was rescued from the Hapsburgs by
effective foreign intervention, such as Ireland
has never had. Without this factor deliver-
ance would have been impossible, even though
there are 2,500,000 more Bohemians than
Irish (not counting the 6,000,000 Moravians,
Silesians, Slovaks and Ruthenians included in
Czecho-Slovakia), and the Czechs proved
themselves one of the finest fighting races
of the war.
Opinions differ as to the merits or de-
merits of Sinn Fein, but a “conquered”
nation that has stubbornly refused adown
the centuries to admit the conquest deserves
something better than the taunt of cowar-
dice. When James Edmond asserts that
the Celtic Irish can’t fight the spirits of
myriads of Irish soldiers, dead in Britain’s
service, rise from their graves on foreign
battlefields and give him the lie.
J. E. W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Shearing the German Samson.
When the representatives of defeated
Austria went to Rome the other day they
were received not only with civility but with
sympathy. At the Spa conference Lloyd
George, for Britain, readily shook hands
with the German delegates. Millerand
refused to do so. In that strange gesture
of bitterness, so alien to the conventional
attitude towards a beaten enemy, was con-
tained all that France feels about the Peace
Treaty. It is a dangerous thing to frighten
a nation, and Germany is being made to
pay now in every way that French ingenu-
ity can devise for its half-century of scorn
and sabre-rattling. Germany’s offer last
week of about a fifth of the sum demanded
by way of reparations was no doubt an
impudent bluff. When the war began it
could afford to withdraw from productive
work a peace army of 900,000 and a navy
of 80,000 officers and men. Iron is the
basis of all industry, and in 1913 Germany
produced 19,292,000 tons of the stuff, as
against England’s 10,260,000. None of
Germany’s 71,000 miles of railways has
been injured, and its matchless waterways
are intact. Not a factory has been dis-
mantled, not a field injured. Its Navy esti-
mates alone for the financial year 1913-14
totalled £23,039,194, and there is no navy
to support now. It is not strange that
France, the country which has most excuse
for suspicion, should regard the hereditary
enemy’s sturdy beggar pose with cynicism.
The agitation of the Republic has been
added to of late by the miserable showing
of Poland as a buffer State in the East.
If the Russians had given no signs of coher-
ing on Nationalist lines, if Leninism had
quickly been replaced by Koltchakism,
or Denikinism or anything else favorable
to the world-settlement sought by the Allies,
the. outlook might have been brighter. As
it is the two great outcast nations appear
to have the fullest opportunities as well
as every incentive to come together. In
the year the South African War was begun
the Boers, for the purposes of the official
reference books, had a standing army of
32 officers, 79 n.c.o’s and 259 men. The
Empire has cause to remember the fight they
put up, and one of the effects of their effort
was to produce in the threatened nations,
such as France, a profound distrust of the
value of foreign defence statistics. Take it
for all in all our late allies do well to be
But so also do the Germans. Their
former hopes that revolution would come in
France, or Britain, or both, and that in
any event the workers of those countries
would refuse to serve against their Teuton
brethren, have faded away. The French sol-
diers have been yearning for months to get
into the Rhine towns; and by way of rub-
bing the horror in, if occupation is resorted
to, nearly half the 30 regiments detailed for
duty are to be black. Germany, by seizing
the coal, iron and oil of France and Rou-
mania, created ample precedent for all that
France would like to do in Silesia, as well
as the Ruhr district. The aim was to make
shorn Samsons of these lands, and that is
precisely what France would be pleased to
make of the German States. Meanwhile it
is an ironical circumstance that all that
stands between the trembling Hun and the
same sort of ruin and enslavement as he
dealt out to the vanouished in his hour of
triumph should be England—England the
once-hated subject of the only piece of
German war-literature which is likely to
survive.
' +
The Westralian Elections.
The Westralian Assembly that is to be
chosen on Saturday will be a mockery of the
one-vote-one-value principle ; a worse mockery
than the Victorian example; more glaring,
even, than that of Queensland. It will be
the third Parliament elected under the 1911
Redistribution of Seats Act, the framers of
which, Wilson and Nanson, have been dead
for years. That distribution was so rotten
in the first place that it was largely the
cause of the Wilson Government’s down-
fall, and the Labor party undertook to repeal
it without delay. But the Scaddan Gov-
ernment slept on its promise until it dis-
covered that a rearrangement of electoral
boundaries would have wiped out several
safe Labor electorates on the goldfields, from
which there had been a persistent exodus,
whereupon Scaddan dropped the subject
for good and all. After Scaddan disap-
peared the war gave his successors an excuse
for not interfering with Wilson’s botched
job, and the fact that at least five represen-
tatives of rotten boroughs have transferred
' their support from Labor to Nationalism has
chilled any reforming zeal that the Mitchell
Government may have spasmodically felt.
Meantime .the ten-year-old distribution has
become an unspeakable atrocity, and since
the electoral rolls fail to record a recent
movement of population from stagnant min-
ing camps, it is really more ghastly than it
looks. For example, there are as many elec-
tors in one metropolitan constituency, North
Perth, as there are in nine more or less
moribund mining electorates, Menzies,
Leonora, Mount Margaret, Ivanowna, Yil-
garn, Pilbarra, Cue. Magnet and Murchison.
A rigid application of the one-vote-one-value
rule is impossible in Westralia, but for an
elector in busted Menzies or Day Dawn (and
probably meditating flight at that) to have
nine times the voting power of an elector in
North Perth is out of all reason. _ The
Attorney-General alleges that his Govern-
ment will alter these shrieking anomalies if
the people send it back. For going to the coun-
try without altering them it doesn’t deserve
to be sent back. If it were judged by its
financial policy, or lack of one, it would be
disqualified for life. Last year Premier
Mitchell, who is his own Treasurer,
calmly achieved a deficit of £688,000, or £-
per head of population, which sum he airily
added to the public debt. For the present
year he forecasted a debit balance of
£390,000 (up to date it is nearly £300,000
more), and this also he intends to fund, at
‘54 per cent, interest, or as much more as
the public creditor will compel him to ( pay.
Mitchell calls this amazing process wip-
ing out the deficit.” It is the very dementia
of finance, but the Westralian public doesn t
object, and the entente cordialc of which
Mitchell is the easy-going chief will win
the election, although the Government will
probably have to be reconstructed to give
the Country Party more representation,
especially as one or two of Mitchell s col-
leagues may lose their seats. No Australian
State ever dismisses a Ministry, however
inept, for being a “good spender.” It is the
careful sort of Government, the kind that
strives to balance the ledger and exact full
value for every pound it lays out. that gets
it in the neck. Collier, the Labor leader,
is a much clearer-headed man and a far
abler administrator than Mitchell. But
the Hugh Maiion business wrecked what-
ever chance he had —and at best it wasnt
bright—of reuniting his war-split party and
leading it to victory on March 12. _ There
is always a possibility of the Nationalist
alliance going to pieces, but even so it looks
as if the Labor party is fated to be in oppo-
sition till 1924. However, it is sure to
gain seats on Saturday at the expense of
both Liberal and Labor Nationalists—any-
thing from three to half-a-dozen.
Micawber in All His Glory.
Tales of the slump in England come thick
and fast. The United Kingdom isn’t bor-
rowing at the rate of £7 per inhabitant per
annum as N.S.W. is doing (which would
mean over £300,000,000 there), so that it
may drink the proceeds and damn the credi-
tor and the consequences. Rather, it is
facing a sea of troubles and trying to pay
a trifle off its overwhelming debt. Tim un-
employed are very many, and as the State
doesn’t invent work for them repairing roads
at £6OOO a mile with other people’s funds,
or building railways to the moon on the
same sort of finance, wages are coming down
with a run. Nobody complains much, for in
the absence of the artificial lOU boom with
which things are camouflaged here, it is a
case of more production and much cheaper
production or starvation. In the West End
of London, according to the Sydney Tele-
graph’s representative, the suit that cost
£lB a year ago may now sometimes be
picked up at £3 10s., and when accidents
like that are happening a fall in wages is
inevitable. To quote the same observer: —
The public never realised until now how hard up
the nation is But when they get a pound’s worth
of change at the grocer’s and find that it consists of a
flimsy, shabby, tattered 10s. note with a strip of
gummed stamp-paper stuck across the back to keep
it from falling to pieces, a couple pt bilious half-
crowns, one florin with a bold, hard brassy stare
and three criminal-looking shillings, they are apt
to mutter “Strath.”.... I can see anybody attempt-
ing to pass .a specimen of the new British coinage
in Sydney being handed over to the police.
There is much more in the story, mostly
about beggars and organ-grinders and closed
factories and half-time factories and indus-
trial agitation, but little about real strikes.
These are luxuries the Briton can no longer
afford, though in Australia a whole town
lately left off toil for 18 months. It all helps
to explain a certain coolness about the
applause when an Australian statesman
visits the Motherland these days. On the
landscape of the haggard and overworked
and hard-pressed lender who can’t get a penny
of his money back, there enters the fatted
borrower who scorns the idea of repaying
anything, and, as in Theodore’s case, bursts
into shouts of rage if he isn’t lent a lot
more. The visitor, if he is a Storey or a
Theodore, is probably loaded up with a
scheme devised in Sydney or Brisbane, for
the partial and polite confiscation of British
investments, and he expects it to be admired
as a brilliant sample of progressive legisla-
tion. He rather poses—does the self-satis-
fied, more-than-semi-bankrupt on a big scale
—as a person who can give the Old World
points in the art of administration. While
taking it for granted that Australia can’t
pay a cent when a debt falls due and
shouldn’t be asked to pay, and should be lent
more money on fading security, it may be
that the visitor has just put up his own
salary to about £2500 a year for being a
subordinate figurehead over a couple of mil-
lion people, which amount is the wage of a
U.S. Federal Minister with the supreme
control of 100,000,000 citizens. Also, it
may be that he has helped to raise his 12
colleagues (there are 13 portfolio-holders for
N.S.W.’s 2.000.000 people) to twice the pay
of a Swiss President, and has lifted the
salaries of private members to more than
twice as much (with railway pass added)
as Britain says it is able to pay its own
members (with no railway pass). The con-
stant dropping in of Premiers (there are
liable to be three of them in London simul-
taneously any day of the week) draws at-
tention to the number of these, garish crea-
tures who batten directly or indirectly on
the loan money that goes out faster than
ever, yet never comes back, and, naturally
in these hard times, the British financier’s
joy at seeing them is not a growing emotion.
When Micawber is vastly better dressed and
more radiant than the man who holds heaps
of Micawber’s unpaid p.n.’s, it doesn’t
necessarily inspire confidence. It often tends
rather to inspire rage.
■— ♦-
The Case for Emergency Hospitals.
From “Macquarie Street”: —
General hospitals should not exist in cities at all.
They should be in the country, with spacious
grounds supplying the maximum of fresh air and
elbow room. It is exactly the reverse with emer-
gency or accident hospitals. From the very nature
of the cases catered for by them, they must be
within easy distance of the various wharves, fac-
tories, engineering and other establishments where
accidents are common. Sydney, for instance, which
has developed great industrial undertakings, and is
rapidly striding towards the million mark, urgently
needs an emergency hospital, at once, and the pre-
sent Sydney Hospital, which is antiquated and hemmed
in and obviously much too small for the rush of
general and operation cases that besiege its doors,
would, with certain alterations, fill the bill exactly.
That the authorities are hard pressed for room is
well known, one of the latest instances of this being
the conversion of the ancient Nightingale Wing,
dear to the nursing staff and hallowed by a thou-
sand associations, into unpoetic but very necessary
venereal wards.
Accidents tend to dislocate the working of a great
general hospital, as they have a habit of turning up
at all hours. Sometimes there is not a bed vacant
in the whole building, and yet in some way or other
the case must be provided for. Another patient, per-
haps comfortably asleep at the time,' has to be un-
ceremoniously turned out, and this occasions delay
which might be disastrous to the patient if he were
badly hurt. When a man is suffering from shock
and blood-loss, what he requires, and that immedi-
ately, is a comfortable bed, hot bottles to the body,
an injection of strychnine or morphia, and medical
and nursing attention—not an inspection in the
street, while waiting in an ambulance for admission.
In an up-to-date emergency hospital it would be
easy for the ambulance, or other vehicle, to approach
quite close to the casualty ward reserved and ready
at all hours of the night and day for the reception
of bad accidents. There would be no carrying the
injured man from the ambulance along the street,
into the hospital building and along corridors and,
perhaps, up in a lift, in addition, until the bed
prepared for him was reached. Also, in an emer-
gency hospital, drunks, in whom there are often
peculiar symptoms suggestive of an injury to the
skull, would, in cases where there was the slightest
doubt, be admitted to a special ward until a final
diagnosis was made. As it is, these unfortunates are
often passed out as alcoholics, and either sent home
or to the police cell. Later they are brought back,
and die from a fractured base of the skull. The
cause of their non-admission is generally the over-
crowding of the general hospital.
Accident cases, as a rule, are not very interesting
surgically, and are not looked upon with favor by
the majority of rising surgeons. This is another
reason for the separation of these cases from the
general run of hospital patients who have some
obscure disease to be diagnosed, or present interest-
ing material for the knife. A surgeon taking an
honorary job in an emergency hospital would know
the kind of case he was likely to meet with, so he
would take care to maintain his enthusiasm at the
proper temperature. If he wanted a wider field
there could be no objection to him joining the staff
of a general hospital, in addition. Delay in the
admission of a patient is fatal to the success of a
hospital, and students should have this principle
instilled into their minds during the medical course.
In a well-equipped emergency hospital this factor
would be eliminated, and the public, being the suf-
ferer in case of irregularities, would take care that
the hospital people lived up to their reputation.
“John Smith (30), Laborer.”
Lately a section of thfc Sydney unemployed
have taken to the free and compulsory food
habit. It is a degraded business, for it has
to be practised on the poorer class of
restaurant where the appearance of the cus-
tomers excites no comment until, being full
of victuals, they order the irrecoverable pro-
perty to be “charged up to Dooley.” The
loss of perhaps 30 free meals added to the
probable shutting out of solvent guests is a
serious matter to the only kind of person
who is open to the imposition. At times
language is added to the other annoyance
and occasionally violence, as in a recent case
where the proprietor’s daughter was some-
what battered. And always on the charge
sheet at the police court next day, appear
the words, “John Smith (30), laborer,”
or, anyhow, if the “Smith” is wanting the
“laborer” isn’t. In Australia skilled indus-
tries are few, imports of manufactured goods
are consequently enormous, and loan jobs of
the coarser sort are as abundant as the loan
funds will allow, the object being to support
the laborer and, incidentally, to keep him a
laborer and encourage the growth of more
laborers. It has been for years the union
policy to restrict the number of learners in
every trade, and thus keep down skilled pro-
duction, increase the national dependence on
imports, and cause the unskilled person
described as “John Smith (30), laborer,” to
multiply out of all reason. Theoretically he
is as good a citizen as anybody else. In
reality the average laborer is far below the
average moral and intellectual standard. It
is impossible that he should be otherwise.
He ranks with the illiterate, and no
one regards the illiterate section of the
community, when it is large enough to be
conspicuous, as other than undesirable and
a possible danger. If he has voluntarily
become what he is, a creature with no single
saleable acquirement, then he started life as
an ambitionless person and something
approaching a degenerate whatever his mus-
cular development may be. If evil circum-
stances were responsible, then circum-
stances set him on the road that leads to
degeneracy. To a man with a skilled occu-
pation of any .sort the globe offers some
chance of promotion, but to the mere drudge
of muscle it offers none. The skilled man
may become more skilled as he grows older.
The drudge only grows older. Wherefore
as a man to whom the world is a blank wall,
he is more liable than others to promote
himself by the seizure of other people’s goods,
and he is apt to seize them so clumsily and
crudely that 75 per cent, of the plunder is
spilt and destroyed in the taking, and the
loss to the community is absurdly large,
while the gain to the individual is ridicu-
lously small. When present in large num-
bers “John Smith (30), laborer,” is the
material out of which most revolutions are
made. But he never gets -the occasionally
profitable job of leading the upheaval. He
is simply an unskilled toiler in the ranks,
and remains the same uncons-'dered John
Smith to the end, carrying a gm instead of
a sack of wheat until some other John
Smith slays him. The man with no indus-
trial asset save his muscle lives in a smaller
world than other men and among more
brutalising conditions, and is, in a sense, a
person who was never finished. These cir-
cumstances are combined with frequent
poverty (he isn’t so poor in Australia as
in some countries, but he will be when the
loans give out) and uncertainty of employ-
ment. All incline to mark him as an asset
for revolutionary cranks who do everything
in their power to retard steady industry so
that “John Smith (30), laborer,” as de-
scribed in the charge-sheet, may increase
greatly and multiply in the land.
Australian Problems through British
Glasses.
One of those rich men who do their bit* as
opportunity offers, to prove what the
Creator thinks of money, arrived in
Australia from Hull (England) last week.
In a few well-chosen sentences he
disclosed pretty well all the characteristics
of a type that has been dealt with by Eng-
list satirists in every age. His name is
Sir Henry Samman, Bart., and he is
aggressively cocksure. “We are going to
see the greatest slump in shipping the
world has ever known,” he told an inter-
viewer not without a certain note of exfilt-
ancy. But -he is shrewd, devilish shrewd.
“I saw this coming over two years ago, and
I got rid /of ship after ship at nearly the
top of the market. It was plain as daylight
to me.” He had only been in Australia a few
minutes, and yet its problems were crystal-
clear to him. “This,” he said, “is a black-
man’s country. All those white men work-
ing on the wharf could be gentlemen if this
country was run right. Instead of which—
why in Adelaide I had to practically go on
my knees in a hotel for a meal because it
was after six o’clock.” There was more, but
the hard, vain, narrow and unimaginative
old Yorkshire business man has been suffi-
ciently indicated. To him a gentleman is
someone who is waited on, however shaky
his grammar may be. A person who works
with his hands is outside the pale. A nation
has only one mission—to make money. It
will be estimated in the last resort by sen-
sible people in terms of the number of Sir
Henry Samman sit possesses. The recoil
from miscegenation is sentimental and im-
practical rot, like poetry and art. Has Eng-
land ever worried on the subject? Certainly
not. The race riots last year at ’Cardiff,
Liverpool and elsewhere in which black men
were killed for consorting with white women
were the work of thoughtless members of the
proletariat. It is true that in Australia the
introduction of black labor must force down
wages and lower the working-class standard
of living. But when England led the world
in wealth, when Germany and America were
not regarded as serious rivals and “The Song
of the Shirt” was being written—in that
golden era few troubled about the troubles
of the working man. A White Australia may
be gratifying to racial pride, but it doesn’t,
provide a speedy dividend. Away with it
therefore! Such are the views of thousands
of business Englishmen. To their class, which
puts the acid of commercialism on every
ideal, Australia’s aspiration to hold at least
one continent for the white race for all time
is sheer midsummer madness. But there is
another class, a class which sees deeper
and has more culture and imagination, a
class which hitherto has been with us; and
that too is becoming restive. Admiral Adair.
who is an Imperialist of the London Morn-
ing Post school, said in the House of Com-
mons last week: —
The Dominions had not done half enough to keep
up.the Imperial Navy. They should contribute two-
fifths of the cost. Australia was crying for a White
Australia, which meant a navy in Australian waters
comparable with that of Japan, and she ought to
consider her responsibilities.
As things are shaping in the United King-
dom it seems as though Australians will pre-
sently be offered two choices. They may be-
come gentlemen on the lines indicated by
Sir Henry Samman, or they can stay as
they are by paying for the privilege. The
economical old middle course is evidently be-
ginning to be viewed with disfavor by all
parties.
♦
The Parliament of Shem.
Griffith Moses writes: —
J. Bull's bestowal of Parliamentary Government
on Shem in India looks like the worst of his many
fiascos in the capacity of heavy father to the poor.
For many years it has been written in Dr. Podsnap’s
“History of England for Use Li Schools,” and such-
like volumes, that the English are in India for the
purpose of training the people to self-government, as
if India hadn’t governed itself in the past with vary-
ing degrees of success, and been at the job before
the Normans began to rule England. It was always
understood that Indian self-government was far off,
and that the pious aspiration wouldn’t come to pass
in our time nor in anybody’s time; but somehow it
has happened. To begin with, the British conferred
the blessings of a sort of British education on a
number of the natives, and very little European
education makes a man learned in Asia. There a
babu puts on his card that he is “Bam Bht;x,
failed entrance Dogpore University,” and takes a
sort of place among the literati because he didn’t
even matriculate. So the rulers of the land pre-
sently had 10 brown philosophers on their hands for
every single civil servant, and the other nine natu-
rally wanted the white man’s billet to alleviate the
scarcity. They agitated for Parliamentary Govern-
ment, because, to be a paid M.P. is a billet, and for
other reasons. Within limits this kind of agitation
was safe, “loyal,” a sign of admiration for British
institutions and of a desire to follow in the master’s
footsteps, and it was in strict conformity with the
principles laid down in Dr. Blimber’s “History of
England for Use in Schools.”
A number of the unlearned clamored also, just as
certain Russian regiments at the time of the acces-
sion of Nicholas I. shouted for a Constitution, under
the impression that that was the name of the Czar’s
wife. Parliaments in Asia have always been about
as rare as pterodactyls are now in Sydney, and the
“immemorial East” being just as immemorial as
ever, there isn’t the slightest reason to suppose that
the misfit institution will ever take root. The
Turkish seraglio is far more likely to take root in
London.
The position apparently is that the vast humble
majority which never counted for much and doesn’t
expect to, would be fairly well satisfied with things


T h i Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ stralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
ns they are, save for temporary causes, plus the
teachings of that increasing quantity Ram Bhux,
who “failed entrance Dogpore University,” and who
has the same need for a career as J. S. Garden, in
Sydney. The superciliousness of the British official
doesn’t really gall the majority, for somebody has
been supercilious to them from the beginning of
time. But the crowd at the other end of the scheme
of things is galled. It doesn’t want the supercilious,
pallid person to grant it a Parliament which he
may take back again if he is dissatisfied with the
experiment. The mere granting is an act of lordly
condescension. It doesn’t very much value a shadow
of power for w'hich it must curry favor with the
herd below and the old white gods in the high
places above. A Parliament is probably better
than nothing as a stepping-stone to independence.
But there would be a great deal more satisfaction if
the British would clear out now and let India again
become the India of old —a place where there were
plenty of thrones waiting for strong adventurous
men like Sivaji and Hyder Am and Raoanath Rao,
and big careers for generals and statesmen, and
where the world was always wide and the ambitious
weren’t cribbed, cabined, confined and regulated by
official sahibs in blatant white pith hats. The chance
to be a member under alien supervision and with
strictly limited powers for whatever is the Indian
equivalent of Cow Flat isn’t much of an opening
in a country where the founding of dynasties used to
be the occupation of gentlemen.
Between the agitation of war, the high cost of
living, the unsettlenient caused by the news that
something strange—a constitution or an iguanodon or
a new comet —might be coming, and the study , and
propagation of the new Bolshevik doctrines by
that disappointed man Ram Bhux, the Indian masses
have been more excited than usual, though in an
aimless sort of way. Probably Ram Bhux was
rather aimless, also torn between a desire to be
in one of the nine Parliaments, in which case it
was well to advertise himself to his constituents,
and a desire to be a Lenin in a Soviet regime and
be a whole Parliament himself. A good deal of
promiscuous shooting by heated men in authority,
also a good deal of hanging and flogging, followed
on the agitation and made things worse. And
there is no reason to believe that the magnates whose
ancestors hunted for kingdoms instead of constitu-
encies used much of their influence to improve the
situation. So when Britain sent a royal duke
to hand over the inestimable boon so long fore-
shadowed in Dr. Feeder’s “History of England for
Use in Schools” he could hardly find a soul to
hand it to. In fact, the most unanimous-looking
multitude that India has got together since the
Mutiny urged him to take the beastly thing away,
and when this crowd was shifted lest it should slay
tbje royal duke the streets were empty. When the
same sort of cold reception is met four months hence
on the opening of two Parliaments at Belfast
and Kilkenny, or whatever the places may be, J.
Bull may begin to suspect that, as regards the
handing out of boons, he has either begun the
business too soon or postponed it too long.
-4
The Pointing Cane.
When Australia decided to stand no more
indentured colored labor it was freely fore-
told that the cane-sugar industry would
cease to exist in the high tropical latitudes,
though it might struggle along at Mackay,
would survive in Buudaberg, and quite pos-
sibly, with Customs protection, flourish as
far south as the northern rivers of New
South Wales. In brief, it was assumed that
the. climate would decide the whereabouts
of the white man, and the vegetable would
follow him. It was not then realised that
the worse the climate for the vegetable the
more necessary cheap labor becomes. It is
the old story of a bad crop being more costly
to grow than a good one. Dr. Maxwell,
the £3OOO expert imported by the Queens-
land Government from Hawaii, reported to
the date Edmund Barton, when Prime Min-
ister, and set forth the co-efficients of white
and Polynesian labor in the various sugar
districts. He advanced the view that the
more tropical the area the lower the quality
of the white man’s work and the higher the
wages he required. Conversely in the tem-
perate climate the Polynesian became less
competent, and wanted more pay in conse-
quence. Benjamin Kidd, the social writer,
declared: “The attempt to acclimatise
the white man in the tropics must
be recognised to be a blunder of the
first magnitude. All experiments based upon
the idea are mere idle and empty enterprises
foredoomed to failure.” The obvious co-
rollary, if these typical theories were right,
was that Australia must acclimatise the
vegetable to meet the requirements of the
man. The attempt was made, and it has
worked out curiously. In 1895-6 the total
area under sugar-cane in New South Wales
was 32,927 acres, but in 1918-19 it had
fallen to 10,490. In New South Wales it
takes fully two years to grow a crop of
cane, and this means that for practically
two and a half years the farmer has to work
for nothing, except what he can borrow on
his prospects. The average production
per acre during the last 10 years was
26.79 tons, whereas in Queensland, where the
bulk of the crop is grown in from
12 to 14 months, the average is 17.53
tons, or considerably more than half
the amount the New South Welshman gets
in nearly double the time. In 1909 Southern
Queensland, that is the districts lying south
of Mackay, accounted for about 50 per cent,
of the total area under cane. In 1915 the
southern proportion had fallen to 40 per
cent., in 1918 to only a trifle above 25 per
cent., while last year the southern areas
crushed only 13.6 per cent, of the whole,
The crop in the second half of the present
year is expected to be sufficient for all Aus-
tralia’s requirements, and nearly the whole
G f it will come from Mackav northwards,
During the 10 years ending 1908 the average
production of cane to the acre in Queensland
W as 14.76 tons. In the next 10 years,
corresponding with the movement of the in-
cOTjtjy into the tropical North, the average
ro.se to 17.37 tons, with less labor and time
to produce a crop. So the vegetable is
winning. The theories of MAXWELL, Kidd
!nif ] the rest are proving all astray. The
disappearance of colored labor is wiping out
cane-sugar production in the plimate least
su ited to the plant, but the industry is boom-
j U g w here the plant thrives, and the white
man j s making it his business to share in
the boom. And the evident lesson is that
so long as the climate and the vegetable
agree there is no need to worry about the
w hite man’s capacity to do tile work of
cultivation.
, .
A Ul ace with a Thil'St.
*
The latest news from Darwin, in the Terri-
tory, suggests that the one steady industry
there is drinking and even that doesn’t pay.
The liquor returns from the three dusty,
faded, Government hotels, run by unin-
forested civil servants on it-doesn’t-matter
principles, indicate that the year’s consump-
tion of liquor equalled £27 per head, counting
THE INVALID.
GERMANIA (to the Allies ): “Have you no hearts? You must see how weak and frail
the poor fellow is!”
everybody within 100 miles of the beer, which
seems a fair drinking radius. Incidentally,
the year’s loss on the concerns was £l3l.
It cost nearly £5 per inhabitant to pay the
wages at the three hotels, and many a
country runs its whole Government on much
less than that. Searching for explanations
the peering eye is hit by the fact that the
Territory’s one big industry, Vestey’s meat-
works, which cost a million and paid wages
up to £22 a week to some high-grade workers,
has just departed. The already small popula-
tion of tile town is fast diminishing.
Owing to high wages, low value of metals
and lack of railway communication with any
other State mining is not in a progressive
mood. Even something so sordid as, a land
boom might bring people to the Territory, and
having arrived they might start industries
to push values up. But land booms are pro-
hibited. A Federal Parliamentary majority
of city book theorists, soaked in Karl Marx
and Henry George, enacted that no more
freeholds should be sold in the Territory.
By means of a number of regulations govern-
ing residence and rent-revision agriculture
has been made a mild form of life imprison-
ment, with the only gamble that a lone
settler can hope for—a flutter in land values
—cut out and existence flattened to the level
of a perpetual Sunday. Conditions are very
different in other parts of the Common-
wealth. On race days in Victoria and N. S.
Wales almost the only place to make sure of
finding a Victorian or N. S. Wales Labor
member is Flemington, Caulfield or Rand-
wick. Most of the other members are. there
also. Tatt.’s sweep flourishes exceedingly;
also the Eight Hours Art Union and the
Queensland Golden Casket lottery under
Government patronage, and the N. S. Wales
Labor Cabinet talks of starting a record
lottery. There are dashing land speculators
on every hand in all the great eastern cities.
On Saturdays in Sydney’s biggest daily, pro-
perty sale advertisements run to as much as
40 columns, IS of them headed, “Real Estate
Auction Sales.” And there are numerous
other diversions. But the Territory settler,
according to Labor Government ordinances,
has to be a serious-minded Puritan tenant
all his days and abjure games of chance.
It isn’t even possible to buy or sell a pub
at Darwin (though a sly-groggery offers
possibilities), while picture-shows, theatres,
race-meetings, holiday excursions and the like
are as scarce as dog’s feathers. It is no won-
der that the place drinks a fair amount.
♦
“COPABELLA” :
The experiment of Geelong (Vic.) in rating on unim-
proved values is creating some local opposition, not to
say heat. As is usual, the change is due to one man
—the borough clerk, a student of and enthusiast for
the system. The borough councillors are the average
Vic. municipal councillors —worthy and well-meaning
gentlemen ever ready to O.K. the work of the official
with more expert knowledge than they possess them-
selves. As is also usual, ratepayers took no notice
of what their elected rulers were doing until it had
been done very thoroughly and established for three
years at least. Now that the rate notices are out
they are kicking hard. At a recent meeting called by
petition so that the new system might be “explained”
to victims of the change, the audience refused to
hear the explainer—a protagonist of the Rating
Reform League imported from Melbourne—and car-
ried with hardly a dissentient a motion condemning
unimproved-value rating, councillors and all change.
This in Newtown, which is the Toorak of Geelong, is
as astonishing as though Cliveden Mansions had held
a Red Flag soiree and declared for a soviet. The
change has excited suspicion in that big manufac-
turers who selected for mill sites land of little
or no unimproved value on the banks of the Barwon
River, but who require miles of metalled roads over
which to drag heavy products from their remote
locations, find their rates reduced from about
£l2O to £l2 ; whereas the small holder who has
a cabbage-patch on a vacant lot alongside his cottage
is hit with a demand which would have sufficed
almost for a mansion under the old rental valuing.
What actuated the Council to experiment and pioneer
was a wish to see more factories on the Barwon
River and to force homes to grow upon the borough’s
vacant lots; but circumstances were badly against
the change, and the Council’s generalship was at
fault in its choice of the time to make it. The
municipality has long been under-valued for rating
purposes: it also was up against a need for more
revenue. It was faced this year with revaluation—
upward and a certain increase of its rate to the
Local Government limit of half-a-crown. Having to
do this much, it thought it would go a little fur-
ther and change method as well as amount of taxing.
Ratepayers, of course, blame the change of method
for all their worries; whereas' in strict fact only
£54 more in grand aggregate is being raised under
u.l.v. rating than would have been done under revalu-
ation, and a 2s. 6d. annual-value rate. Also, in
2064 assessments where 338 are higher no less than
1236 are lower—some of the latter so lowly that
grateful ratepayers were not quite sure the trifle was
not a supercharge on their old annual-value tax.
Chilwell, half the old municipality which is experi-
menting, and the Richmond-Footscray of Geelong,
has still to speak; but borough officials are wearing
a rather worried look, and the facetious person who
ventures to mention “U.L.V.” is apt to be received
with little respect.
»... -
Judge Beeby of N. S. Wales presided re-
cently over a meeting which considered the
question of apprenticeship. The delegate of
the Carpenters’ Union spoke in mild dis-
paragement of reckless industrial education:
The unions wanted to be sure that each trade
would be able to absorb apprentices after their train-
ing. j
Thousands of Australian boys have grown
up to be unskilled drudges or unemployables
while the unions were making no haste to
assure themselves that work could be found
for them if they were trained—work in this
community which is so short of production
that it depends more on foreign goods than
any other twice its size. Children are
taught to read though there is no guarantee
that they will always, be able to get books,
and to write though no one assures them of
a lifelong supply of stationery. Some are
even taught their duty to their country,
though enemies may take it and leave them
without a country. The idea of leaving boys
in lifelong ignorance and helplessness for
fear they shouldn’t get work isn’t fatherly
—it isn’t even logical. It would be quite as
reasonable to blind or cripple those youths
for whom the unions aren’t prepared to
guarantee work as to make them defectives
through deprivation of knowledge. The
trouble about the community being “able to
absorb” the unapprenticed without training
is a vast deal more urgent than that of being
able to absorb the apprenticed after training.
There is one line above all others which re-
quires a strict limitation of membership and
that is the laborer’s line. Men who have
more or less failed at trades will always
supply laborers. There is no need £o recruit
the ranks with people who never had a
trade to fail at. The odd-jobbers, casual-
workers, the half-witted and the people with
wooden legs will always be with us.
“H. Horsecollar” on the Celtic Tempera-
ment -
It isn’t easy to decide what makes the Celt so
casual in money matters. The race is now supposed
to be represented chiefly by the Bretons in France,
the Scottish Highlanders (such of them as still have
a leaning towards the kilt), the Irish (those who are
not imported or too much mixed with Scottish, Eng-
lish, French, Norman or Spanish blood) and the
people of the Isle of Man, where the cats have no
tails and there are three legs on the coat-of-arms.
The happy frame of mind may be due to the old
habit of burying their dead in barrows (not wheel-
harrows), or again the custom of celebrating Beltane
may have something to do with it. The Druids, who
seem to have been an unfinaneial lot wearing night-
shirts, were doubtless another demoralising influence.
Anyhow W. M. Hughes, the Welshman, has a way of
doing things that few other men would dream. of,
and the variation always means more expense.
A while ago he conceived the idea of sending
F. Birtles, the cyclist, to inspect the proposed
route of the South-to-North railway—a route which
has been traversed and inspected for sears by a
diversity of observers. The remarkable Prime Minister
bought for the wanderer’s use a motor-car which
will cost the taxpayers £1172, of course without
any Parliamentary authority, for Parliament isn’t
sitting. In any event Parliamentary authority is
somewhat out of date now.
Following on this act of generosity a big Parlia-
mentary party has been organised to start in April
pursuing Birtles. It will require three motor-cars
at least, also complete camping outfit, snowshoes,
alpenstocks, Eskimo dogs, ice-axes, ice-cream freezer,
portable canoes and signalling apparatus. Eighty
days are to be spent in viewing for the millionth
time the route of the line agreed upon in partial
payment for the 523,620 square miles which S.A.
handed over, also the Queensland route which may
be adopted if it is decided that S.A. should be more
or less bilked. There is no Parliamentary authority
for the cost of this outing either, and if a few more
Politicians decide to join it may be a very big
outing. The wanderers will see the North in one of
its moods—it has 12 moods in the year—and those
who are strangers will return and report to the
fevered, fervid Welshman at Melbourne with no more
knowledge than that. It almost makes one wish that
the ancient Druids in their white night-shirts had


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
_ : ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. r
I'RSWMONT dePIETE -n
I c<?r LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney.
CAPITAL 5,200,000 ‘Fhone City 9325
Sra/icAesat- 29 King St.. Newcastle. N-S-W- 2lb\7 SwanstohSt Mei^Sc.
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. I 97 A Castlereagh $1,159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Mill, General nans,gen.
aqESSMLS
THE “AUSTRALIAN
EihiEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is exce” -u. and although
the n y-lcnder is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is suggestive of the same old indus-
trial paralysis that Maoriland has arranged
to import during the present year I'D,OOO
tons of coal from England at £4 10s. per
ton. Of this £1 10s. is freight, but as
British shipowners will collect that as well as
the price it is all money—not paper but gold
money or gold value —gone out of the coun-
try. Maoriland has large coal deposits and
less than 1,200,000 people to supply, but its
production has been rather on the down-
grade of late, and the State coal-mines have
been held up a little more vigorously than
private ones. A certain amount of coal
has always been brought from Newcastle,
1200 miles away, but when the Dominion is
driven to supplement this with supplies
bought at practically £d. per lb., and dragged
12,000 miles, it looks like jest or tragedy or
something.
Mainly to provide timber at a cheap rate
for soldiers’ homes, the Vic. Government
authorised the Forests Commission to
acquire a sawmilling plant at Nayook. But
the Commission charges the same rates as
any other mill, and the Closer Settlement
Board is annoyed, and has said so. The
Commission argues that it has to show a
balance-sheet as well as the Board. So Lawson
has had to step in and tell chairman Jones
and chairman Mclver that they must com-
promise. It is only the Railway Depart-
ment that is privileged to decide how much
it, as a black-coal mineowner (at Won-
thaggi), shall charge itself as a carrier for
coal. The carrier has up to the present
beat the mineowner badly.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Tariff discussion, which is expected to last
seven months at least, is bound to cause a lot of
bitterness, inasmuch as the Freetectionists among
the Nationalists will get string support from various
unvarnished Freetraders in the Country party.
Almost to a man the Cockies worship the ghost of
Cobden, and there should be some interesting scenes
when they are asked to help some flourishing industry in
their electorates, or else maintain their lifelong con-
vietions and lose Protectionist votes at the next
elections. Probably when they have to consider a
case of this sort, the most conscientious among them
will be missing and will turn up afterwards with
some yarn about not hearing the division bell—a
little incident that happened on one important
occasion last year. Anyhow, Cocky will be faced with
some- striking dilemmas. McWilliams, the present
leader, will be asked to consider a substantial duty
In the interests of the Electrolytic Zinc 00., which
inhabits his constituency and is developing one of
the most important industries in the Commonwealth.
What McWilliams will do in this emergency can only
be guessed at. It is hard to prophesy the behavior
of a man who is a sort of a fiscal agnostic with
spasmodic leanings to Freetection and Protrade.
“Rex”: A remarkable change of opinion
regarding proportional representation has
taken place in N. S. Wales Labor caucus.
Before last year’s A.L.P. conference the
party, in the absence of John Storey, de-
cided with only 10 dissentients to recommend
conference to revert to the first-past-the-post
system and single seats. Despite the Pre-
mier’s appeal that P.R. should be given a
further trial, conference condemned Hol-
man’s Act to take the count. But the pio-
portionalists in caucus quietly w r ent to work
and won the majority over to their
view that reversion to the old order of things
would mean the loss of many seats, so
Dooley's bill incorporating the decision of
conference went overboard. By 26 votes
to 15 caucus has recommended conference
to reverse its 1920 decision, and a pretty
fight is expected. Cabinet is divided on
something like these lines: —For P.R.:
THE FORERUNNER.
SHADE OF EARLY PIONÈR OF LABOR: "Surely these are not the men we once fought
for!"
Storey, Cann, Lang, Dunn, McGirr, McTier-
nan and Loughlin. Against: Dooley, Mutch,
McKell and Estell.
Decentralisation is more or less in the
air. That is to say, the rulers in the five
bloated cities are willing to give to outlying
districts such self-government as is possible
without parting with any of their own cen-
tralised authority. Thus Melbourne has
decided to let the export wheat of the
Western District be shipped in moderation
from Portland, instead of being dragged at
great cost along congested lines to Port
Phillip, which is further from Europe. Of
course, owing to the treasured and carefully
preserved gap between Cavendish and Bal-
moral on the line north from Portland, most
of the western wheat can’t reach that town,
and the gap isn’t likely to be filled until
the West secedes and sets up for itself. And
the shipping concession, such as it is, will
be withdrawn by degrees if the separation
movement simmers down. Owing to the
clamor set up by the Riverina most of the
N.S.W. Ministry and half the party lately
rushed there with railways and other con-
cessions in both hands, just as they had
previously rushed to the north. The verdict
is that the southern part of N. S. Wales,
like the northern part, can have (on paper)
anything under the sun except the only things
that are of the slightest value—a railway to
carry the trade of the district to one of its
own handy ports and local control of that
railway to make sure that bad service and
differential rates won’t force the trade to
far-away Sydney after all.
The Federal Government of Job-Makers
is accused of a scheme to make the High
Commissionership in London worth £6OUO
or £7OOO a year, and is said to be still han-
kering after a sort of embassy at Washing-
ton. with £5OOO per annum for the brassy
incumbent. Andrew Fisher admitted, after
he had drawn the last copper of his un-
earned salary, that his High billet was quite
useless. He told the truth, and under the
Profiteering law he should be fined part of
his savings for not telling it earlier. By his
own showing he was an outrageous over-
charge. Official announcement is also made
about the creation of “a service of trade
commissioners linked up” (almost every-
thing in Australia is “linked up” nowadays)
“with the Bureau of Commerce and Indus-
try.” So, apparently, there is to be a drove
of the commissioner animals. There are
five cities in the world, and no more, where
trade commissioners are wanted, provided
the'-appointees are worth their salt. They
are Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Ferth. The size of the opportunity to
sell our products in these places where
foreign goods are everywhere and ours
hardly anywhere is—well Mount Kosciusko
is an antheap by comparison, and Bogong
is lower than that. In fact, Bogong is a
hollow.
On the habit of appointing Commifoloners:
Moving in its usual mysterious vray the Federal
Government has appointed one W. H. Little, a
visitor from Shanghai, as Australian Trade Com-
missioner in China. The appointment is for 12
months, if Parliament objects, for five years if it
doesn’t object, and the salary has not been announced.
Being without knowledge of the trade of the country
he is to represent the Commissioner is gathering such
information as can be acquired by a lightning tour
cf the six capitals. Meantime the usual uncivil
persons are asking who made the Prime Minister’s
Department aware of Mr. Little’s existence. That
brisk young Australian, A. N. Bishop, might know.
Admittedly Bishop has done a lot for the China-
Australia trade. He spends more than half his time
in China, and pays frequent visits to Australian
factories. By a strange coincidence Bishop and
Little left Shanghai together in October and on
arrival in the Commonwealth both were interviewed
by the great dailies on the position in East Asia.
The Melbourne Herald devoted a whole column to
Bishop and recorded him as having said that “Aus-
tralia should have a prominent Eastern business man
to look after her interests.” So far so good. A week
later it was announced that “two gentlemen interested
in the Eastern trade are spending the week-end at
Sassafras with W. M. Hughes.” Another week and
Australia wakes up to find that it has acquired an-
other Commissioner. Apparently Hughes appoints
Commissioners ih his sleep.
Salaried Victorian Ministers, the appro-
priation for whom is now £lO,OOO, instead
of £B4OO (as it was until December last),
are making up allowances for Honorary
Minister Angus and Livingston as well as
for Pennington, the whip. McWhae (who
would scorn ”to take anything) and Hicks
(who is far from rich) are the tw’o unpaid
Uppnh House honoraries. If Livingston and
Angus receive £4OO each they will be as
well off almost as their colleagues, as they
are entitled to be paid as members of Par-
liament at the rate of £5OO a year. Port-
folio holders receive only Ministerial screws.
In the old days few, if any, honoraries were
“tipped” by their colleagues. Men like
Winter Cooke, Baillieu, M dekey, Robin-
son, Mackinnon, Adamson, Robert Ramsay,
J. G. Francis, J. G. Duffy, James Mcßain,
Nathan Thornley, James Balfour, C. J.
Ham. Wm. McCulloch, Allan McLean, Sam
Gillott, Alec Peacock, Donald McLeod,
Thomas Payne, and a few more that could
be named got nothing when they were
honoraries.
“Sunk”: N. S. Wales is past its infancy,
and even its minor towns are holding cen-
tenary shows nowadays. Still the recent
slushy weather reminded it again that there
is no road between its two biggest cities —
only a track, and a circuitous one at that.
It is almost impossible to hire a vehicle
except in good weather for any trip that in-
cludes a certain long stretch north of Wise-
man’s Ferry on the Sydney-Gosford-New-
eastle way, and the weather mustn’t be too
good, else sand swallows the outfit instead
of mud. Reckless bogged people were sleep-
ing in their ears after the recent moisture,
dotted along at intervals like Arabs. Affairs
have been so muddled to a breakdown that it
may cost, as in the Parramatta-road case,
£6OOO a mile to repair one of the lost high-
ways in the County of Cumberland, for as
soon as the thing is mentioned the road ques-
tion is forgotten in the matter of making an
excuse for the employment of the biggest
number of the workless for the longest time.
In fact, it is more a distressed folks’ home
than a plain folks’ highway. At present
rates one loan-money road-repair bill on the
Parramatta-road basis means about £4OO a
year per mile (4s. 7d. per yard) to be paid
in interest for ever. Only rich people can
afford to use roads in these circumstances.
Said the impassioned Austin Chapman,
M.H.R. for Eden-Monaro, clamoring at Yass
for a Federal capital in his own electorate:
The Federal capital would have to be pushed on
or something would burst. Before long they would
see a sign at Yass railway station reading: “Change
here for Canberra.”
Yes, at Yass (population 2243) there is to
be a sign reading “Take the By-Line for the
Only All-Continental Metropolis in the
World.” And at Queanbeyan (population
2000) will be two signs: “Take the By-Line
West to One-half of the Only All-Continental
Capital in the World” and “Take the Side-
Track East to the other Half,” These are
the only ways to Canberra in the Backwash
of Things. It suggests quitting the big ex-
press at Little reddlington by Gobbleham-
bury to get the mixed train for London.
Australia is indeed the Land of Downside-
Up.
“O.K.’s” theory:—
More and more I am persuaded that “the prevail-
ing unrest” is largely the product of daily news-
papers, which report the tempestuous utterances of
professional agitators without having attempted to
corner the utterers and force them to some explana-
tion of the meaning of their words. Consider the
balderdash of A. C. Willis, of the Coal and Shale
Employees’ Federation: “A general strike, except for
definite revolutionary purposes, would be the essence
of stupidity, though it would certainly hasten the
present chaotic condition of workers to a chaotic
crisis.” Now, what would Willis have to say if he
were called upon to explain what the h —l he
means by chaotic condition of workers in the present,
as compared with some visionary condition
of orderliness which he may profess to have in
view? To begin with, uhat workers is Willis worry-
ing about? Are newspaper office workers (who give
wide publicity to his vaporings), in a chaotic con-
dition, and if so, where does the chaos come in? Are
capable and sober factory-hands, who never need be
out of a job, or the Musicians’ Union, or the nimble
army of breadcarters, or State railway employees,
or the shearers, farm-laborers and vegetable-growers
—are all these people, or any of them, struggling
against conditions of chaos? Called upon to be
explicit about the statements which he provides for
a mischievous press, Willis couldn’t begin to talk
reasonably. He blathers Bolshevism for mere sur-
face effect. Stick the pin of inquiry into his blather
and it shrivels up. Sydney Domain and Yarra-bank
bellowers would be as dangerous as Willis if the
press gave them audiences as big.
THE CASE FOR ABDUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“London papers politely remind the Turkish delega-
tion that Turkey did not win the war.”— Cable.
Abdul, well and truly licked
Through the last five hundred years,
Europe’s boot at last has kicked
With the weight of long arrears.
Red with blood your crescent rose,
Called the vultures to the feast;
Now you turn your faithful nose
Backward to the smellful East
Abdul, by the Prophet’s beard
You’ve a record all your own.
Once the little peoples feared
When your murder-call was blown.
Once they feared, but one by one
Each has put you to the test.
Count the wars that you have won;
Your defeats deserve a rest.
Austrian, Magyar, Russian, Greek,
Bulgar, Montenegrin, Serb
Smote you hard upon the cheek.
Bumped your head upon the kerb.
Count the battles you have won,
Then on Allah meekly call—
Abdul, you have had to run
From the terror of them all.
In the recent bout with Fate
You were hammered hard and well;
One would not exaggerate
Who declared we gave you hell.
Though you held Gallipoli
Through the folly of your foes,
Even that slow victory
Was not quite what some suppose.
For the rest, the record scan,
Read it with a faith sublime:
Gallant Turkey also ran;
And kept running all the time.
. You were licked from first to last
In the old unchanging way;
Worthy of your faded past
Is the place you hold to-day.
Abdul, you’re a faded brute,
Stained with cowardice and crime.
You defied great Europe’s boot,
Dodged it well from time to time.
Ask yourself the question plain
What your whining claims are worth.
You were licked. Should you remain
Anywhere at all on earth ?
K.S.w.
MARY McC.


THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX.
"Politieal conditions have superficially changed since the Houses separated, and it is a question of serious moment what' is going to happen, not to the tariff, but to the parties in the House. It is unfortunate for the Prime Minister that he
has never mese himself more than the distant acquaintance of those even who support him. He does not attend in the House. He is unfamiliar with the acts of members outside —with their temperaments, their oddities, their individual reputation as
intriguers. if he needs knowledge he has to obtain it second-hand. That might be sufficient if his majority was assured and immovable. But it is not.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph’s Melbourne Corespondent.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS OP
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
ZINC DUST.
Also of LITHARGE —(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SIFVER-FEAD ORES, READ DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COEEINS HOUSE. COFFINS STREET, MEFBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL. Manager.
T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKAfAN BITTLDINGS.
0. S. STOKES, Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
REGISTERED
“AUSTRAL”
BHAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dy
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
PIONEER
faf
leather
faffaffaf
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions, and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 Tone St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder. Flinders Lane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co.. Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W.A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John McKell,
Timpson Street, Fort
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1909.. £6,152 6 p.c. = £6,000 £152 £11,668
1910.. 7,239 6 „„ 6,000 1,239 12,907
1911.. 5,837 6 „„ 6,000 12,744
1912.. 8,969 7 „„ 7,000 1,969 14,713
1913.. 10,027 7 „„ 7,000 3,027 17,740
An “adjustment” of values of assets made in 1919
claimed that at June, 1914. the co. had £98,108 of
reserves instead of £18,153 disclosed by the pub-
lished accounts.
1914.. £12,753 7 p.c. = £7,000 £5,753 £103,448
1915. . 14,933 8 „ „ 8,000 6,933 110,381
1916.. 24,652 9 „„ 9,000 15,652 126,033
1917.. 9,948 9 „„ 9,000 948 120,981
1918.. 14,530 10 ~,,10,000 4,530 131,511
1919. . 10,012 10 ~,, 10,000 12 lin 098
Written off, £17,495. }
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64,028
+ 29,210 10p.c.= 15,000 ( 13 £)62 77990
Written off contingencies, j ’
When the accounts of a year ago for the
first time displayed reserves split into two
sections —those accumulated prior to June,
1914, and the amount stored since —it was
obvious that directors were hatching a bonus-
capital egg. The chick arrived during the
past year, £50,000 having been extracted
from old reserves (and not subject to Fed-
eral tax), and paid capital has gone from
£lOO,OOO to £150,000. On the enlarged capi-
tal 10 p.c. has been paid, equivalent to 15
p.c. on the former scrip register. Accord-
ing to the declared net profits there was a
margin of only £93 over and above the
£15,U00 required for dividends. As usual
with shipping accounts, in this instance con-
siderably more profit was made than the
directors disclosed. Afte;r issuing the bonus
shares there was £03,374 in the reserve fund ;
but during the year a further £501.8 was
added without comment, and £B5OO was
dropped into an insurance reserve, altogether
£14,118 which was not included with dis-
closed net profits. In other words, instead
of the slender margin over and above divi-
dend requirements of £93, a comparison of
the balance-sheets shows a margin of
£13,902 after writing a couple of hundred
off the contingencies account. From this
it is very clear that despite the complaint
of 12 months ago that the “largely increased
cost of material and labor had placed a
heavy burden on trade generally,” the New-
castle and Hunter River S.S. has not car-
ried any of the load. Instead, it has experi-
enced a record year. Even the figures given
above may not represent the full extent of
the net earnings, for no inkling is given
of the amount provided for depreciation. The
record profits have, no doubt, been mostly
due to the good season'lately experienced in
the Hunter valley, which had had three
years of drought, though the profits shown
in the first table do not indicate that this
co. was suffering much as a result of the dry
spell. The growing importance of the coal
city since the B. H. Prop, and others sank
millions into new industries there must also
have assisted this shipping co. considerably.
In a few years it has developed from a con-
cern paying only mild divs. into one which
has had to juggle with its capital account
so that the fatness of its distributions to
shareholders might not become too apparent
to the public.
But on the directors’ own admission, the
co. had been doing mheh better in pre-war
days than its accounts and the six and seven
p.c. divs. distributed indicated. When,
as a preliminary to the recent capitalisation
scheme, the management set about unearth-
ing some old profits, it declared that instead
of the £18,153 which stood to the credit of
reserves as at June, 1914, there should have
been £98,108 showing. The introductory,
table has been remodelled to show this
“adjustment.” In this comparison of the
balance-sheet figures, the June, 1914, assets
are shown as they appeared in the published
accounts: —
June,’l4. Dec.,’3 9. Dec., ’2O.
Liabilities .. .. £9,543 £23,557 £17,361
Ship property . . 46,475 89,759 95,963
Freeholds & leaseholds 1,357 16,309 16,309
Plant, stores, etc. . . 3,296 6,040 4,576
Book debts . . . . 11,058 17,350 20,013
Cash, etc 67,507 108,332 116,300
This co., like others, was no doubt put to
some expense in making structural altera-
tions to its fleet to conform with the
amended Navigation Act, but notwithstand-
ing any outlay in this direction and the
final payments on the s.s. Paterson, the
book value of the fleet has increased only
£6200. The surplus of cash assets over and
above liabilities has meantime grown from
£102,125 to £118,952. Taking the final div.
for 1919 and the past year's interim distri-
bution into consideration, trading for the
past 12 months put £29,327 cash into the
co.’s coffers. Adding to that £29,000-odd
the value of net additions to the fleet, plant,
etc., and deducting whatever was a fair
allowance for depreciation, would give the
year’s actual results. These particulars are,
of course, not ascertainable; still it is very
obvious from an examination of the cash
position alone that the co. has had a
royal time. Another view of the progress
made during recent years can be got by com-
paring the present lot of assets with those
of 1914, taking the latter at their book
values as disclosed by the subsequent
“adjustment”:— .
June,’l4. Dee., 19. Dec., 20.
Fixed assets . . £127,784 £106,068 £112,272
Surplus liquid assets 72,318 108,165 123,528
During the 6J years there has been a visible
improvement of £35,698 after paying
£53,500 in divs. on £lOO,OOO put up by share-
holders. #
The Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd. (Fre-
mantle, W.A.) :
Nominal
Dividend Written To Re- Re-
Profits. and Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June,’l3. £6131 10 p.c.= £3150 £B§4 £2127 £21,489
Dec.,’l3.. 6224 10 „ „ 3150 904 2170 23,659
June,’l4.. 4954 10 „ „ 3675 873 406 24.065
Dec.,’l4.. 6476 10 „ „ 3676 855 946 25,011
June,’ls.. 4748 7*,,,, 2756 845 1147 26,158
Dec.,’ls.. 4525 6 „ „ 1837 846 1842 28,000
June,’l6. . 3737 5 „„ 1750* 825 1162 29,162
Dec.,’l6.. 4015 5 „ „ 1750* 826 1440 30,602
June,’l7.. 3448 5 „ „ 1750* 772 926 31,528
Dec.,’l7.. 4472 Nil 745 3727 35,255
June, 18. . 3586 Nil 869 2717 37,972
Dec.,’lB.. 4766 Nil 882 3884 41,856
June,’l9.. 3027 5 p.c. = 1750* 953 324 42,180
Dec., ’19.. 4462 5 „ ~ 1750* 953 1759 43,939
.tune,'2o. . 5716 74,, „ 2625* 1064 2027 45,966
Dec.,’2o. . 4333 7* „ ~ 2625* 1064 644 46,610
*Exclusive of dividend-tax.
The profits for the June half were the best
which had shown up since 1918 and on the
strength of that improvement the div. rate
was elevated to 7i p.c. As a rule the latter
half'of each year has panned out better than
the earlier six months, but on this occasion
there has been a slump, due, no doubt, to
increased costs, though the directors are
silent on the subject. If the £1064 set aside
for depreciation was no more than should
have been allowed, then there was a very
slender margin between net earnings and
the 7i p.c. div. which was dately repeated.
The co. is not doing nearly so well as it
used to: 1913 net profits were £10,587 com-
pared with £7921 for the past year. Yet
there is £lO,OOO more capital and £23,000
more reserves at work than seven years ago,
more than £lO,OOO of the reserves, by the
way, having been accumulated during the 18
months for which no divs. at all were distri-
buted. Though net earnings have fallen off.
gross profits have steadily moved ahead until
they are 80 p.c. larger than in 1913, but
that to some extent has been due to the pass-
ing on of additional excise duties, which are
also shown with expenses" now almost 4$
times the outgoings of seven years ago. This
comparison of the figures on both sides of
the revenue account for Dec. half-years gives
further details of what has happened :
Profits from Sales. Rents. Expenses.
1913 .. £13,529 £B6l £8,496
1914 . . 14,240 853 8,772
1915 .. 33,013 882 9,369
1916 . . 11,682 1135 8,211
1917 . . 13,679 776 9,984
1918 . . 15,887 1151 11,863
1919 .. 19,008 1443 15,036
1920 . . 24,445 1782 21,154
In pre-war days every £lOO of gross profit
provided £39-odd for shareholders’ divs. and
extensions of interests; nowadays each £lOO
is making available only slightly more than
£l3.
Notwithstanding that the beer industry has
grown more difficult and less remunerative
for its backers, Fremantle Castlemaine has
not been perturbed about the future. The
management, apparently, has not been at
all concerned about the risks of the Gold
Tea party plugging the beer pumps, and
even in the days when nobody knew for
certain what effect early-closing would have
on brewery profits they continued to instal
additional plant and buy into hotels. These
extensions were primarily responsible for the
dividend-dry period in 1917-18. Besides
sinking new capital and accumulated profits
into beery assets, the co. has also gone out-
side for assistance to finance its new hotels
and additional plant. Deducting the depre-
ciation reserve, five years ago all fixed assets
had a book value of £92,159; it is now
£128,661. This change in the liquid position
has accompanied that movement: —
1915. 1919. 1920.
Liquid assets .. .. £24,168 £25,908 £29,162
Liabilities .. .. 14,024 24,697 32,892
Surplus assets ..£10,144 £1,211
Excess liabilities .. £3,730
So the liquid position has slipped £13,874 in
five years to assist accumulated profits to add
£36,502 to properties, plant, etc. The out-
standing feature of all these comparisons is
that, notwithstanding all the outlay on the
brewery and retaileries, which, presumably,
has increased the turnover of beer, profit-
winning opportunities are not nearly so good.
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) : •
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1909 £13,190 6 p.c. = £2729 £6530 £3,931
1910 21 101 8 ~ 3641 60o< 11,403 09,107
mi*. iaMSS 8 ” :. 3642 8128 10,823 69,930
£22,761 of reserves transferred to capital 41,10 a
1912.. 15,444 8 p.c. = 5463 7913 2,068 49,237
1913.. 11,236 8 „ ,» 5463 8054
1914 12 424 8 ~ 5463 6432 529 47,485
’ ” To-Re-
Xet. Dividends. serves. Reserves
1915.-24,382 10 p.c. =£6828 £17,554 60,039
1917' '2o l? 5 10 ” 6828 1M37 94:652
iSifeSm » r.: ,«» “■ !4S ,04 ’ 900
srs, viva; **.»« 001
1919.-76,136 8 p.c. = 9083 67,053 llMO*
1920.. 17.818 8 ~ „ 9083 8,705 116,-82
Recent entries in that table do not link up
as they should, but the profits as shown are
those presented by the accounts after pro-
viding for “depreciation, taxation and sun-
dry contingencies,” and the reserves m the
last column give the position correctly at the
balancing dates. Reserves have apparently
been tapped to accommodate the allotment Of
bonus shares not applied tor m 191 J but
since taken up, and as a result seveial minor
movements of the balance-sheet figures have
been somewhat obscured. Iwo years ago
there were three classes of shares, and paid
capital -was made up in this way
6,454 “A” ordinaries of £3
5,232 “B” prefs of £5
45,522 ,f C” ordinaries of 10s. each— --V6l
£68,283
It was a cumbersome register, particularly
since all shares had ranked alike for divs.
for 11 years previously. When, in 194*,
the 00. did so well that the year s disclosed
profits exceeded paid capital by some thou-
sands, the directors set about straightening
out the share account. lor a start all
scrip was re-arranged on the basis of £1
shares fully paid. Then they proceeded to
capitalise some of the reserves. Holders
of both prefsl and ordinaries got one new £1
bonus share paid to 10s. for each share held
(absorbing £34.141 of reserves) and
the old contributing ordinaries got a fm
ther bonus* capital concession of ill,3bU. to
compensate the prefs. and A -ordinaries
(the latter now rank with the C shares or
anv other ordinaries which may be issued)
they got a 10s. (50 p.c.) cash bonus. These
shuffles should have taken paid capital to
£ll3 805, but that account now stands at
£113,539, a few of the bonus shares still
apparently not having been applied fpr.
From this maze of figures some idea can
be got of the wonderful time this Southland
frozen meat co. has had during the war and
since. No new capital has been got m for
some years. Prior to the capitalisation of
reserves in 1912 paid capital stood at
£45 522; the disclosed net profit for 1919
alone was £76,136! But things have not
always gone well at Invercargill: in the
’nineties this co. experienced a bad buffeting,
and some capital was written offgas lost.
Divs. were poor for many years: 15 years
ago, or 10 years after the set-back, the
ordinaries were getting only 2i p.c. on their
written-down capital. .The extent of the
gorgeous run since the British Government
meat contracts is also visible in this com-
parison of the balance-sheet figures over the
past five years:—-
1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . . • £35,832 £92,366 £97,634
Works -• •• 123,845 137,624 153,915
Stocks • - - 11,601 24,878 32,467
Book debts, cash in- .-Aire
vestments, etc. . . 43,350 160,027 100.1j6
The surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
has expanded, from £19,209 in 1915 to
£84,989 at the latest balance,; meantime the
book value of works has g r °wn £30,067. That
shows an improvement of £95,847 in nve
years. During that period by way of divs.
and cash bonuses £59,156 was passed out to
shareholders. In other words the co. has
since 1915 made over £150,000 of profit, or
about £20,000 more than total capital and
reserves at the beginning of the wonderful
run. #
Mockbell’s, Ltd. —While Sargents, Ltd.,
has been developing its tea-and-pie and cater-
ing business in Sydney, Kabell Mockbell has
attracted a growing circle of light-lunchers
round his Tee-pots and finding a good sale
for his Mocha beans. Mockbell’s has been
more than an eatery; for some old gentle-
men the little shops were more like clubs
where chess battles were fought to a finish.
During recent years, however, the business
has developed so rapidly that six branches
have been necessary to accommodate cus-
tomers. Last year the old proprietor decided
to pass the concern over to the public, partly
with the object of securing funds for further
extensions, and with a particular eye on
possibilities in Melbourne. The profits for
the three previous years were declared to
have averaged £2057, and the purchase price
asked was £15.000 —£8306 for plant and
furniture, £3900 for stock and the balance
of £2744 being the value placed upon leases
and goodwill. The vendor’s consideration
was £lO,OOO in fully paid £1 shares together
with £5OOO cash. The public was invited to
subscribe 10,000 shares of £1 each, thus
giving the co. a working capital of £5OOO
after the vendor had taken his £5OOO of cash.
To express his confidence in the business
Mockbell waived all rights to dividends on
his 10,000 shares for four yeaa's should net
profits fall short of the amount necessary to
pay 10 p.c. on the £20,000 capital, thus giving
the new shares preference rights up to 10
p.c. for the first four years. The co. has
published its first balance-sheet —for the six
months to December 31 —mid therein the
10,000 shares, which were fully subscribed,
but on which at the balancing date only 15s.
had been paid, are labelled as “10 p.c. pre-
ference.” The fact that all preference rights
expire in 1924 nvyst not be overlooked,
though.
Gross profits for the six months were
£Bll7, compared with £10,237 for the 12
months of the previous year. But there was
also a heavy increase of exes., ' and after
allowing £396 for depreciation there re-
mained a net profit of £IS99, of which £240
was devoted to writing down leases and good-
will and £317 to expelling preliminary
expenses from the accounts. This left a
balance of £1342, all but £39 of which was
absorbed by a dividend at the rate of 15 p.c.
In view of the directors’ statement that
“there will be heavy taxation payable,” and
that “there is a further increase of wages,
the effect of which has not yet been felt,”
15 p.c. as a first dividend appears to be
over-liberal. At December 31 paid capital
was £17,500, and sundry creditors totted up
only £2372. Leases, plant, etc., and good-
will had a book value of £10,966 and there
was a surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
of £6573.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which
began with a deficit of £2930, representing
preliminary expenses:—
To Reduce
Dec., Loss. Dividends. . Deficit'. Deficit.
£ 2930
1910.. £496 3426
Further preliminary expenses, £64 3480
1911.. 874 4354
Profit.
1912.. 43 -- £43 4311
1913.. 104 -- 104 4207
1914.. 2782 —■ 2782 1425
1915.. 3076 5 p.c. = £1750 ,1326 99
Loss.
1916.. 1092 1191
Profit. Reserves.
1917.. 2072 —* 2072 881
To Reserves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. * 2450 349 1230
1919.. 3561 8 „ „ 2800 761 1991
1920.. 4538 10 „ „ 3500 1038 3029
This is the co. which 11 years ago pur-
chased a few ancient buildings on Manly’s
ocean front and proceeded to erect a modern
hotel. Owing to the war, early-closing and
increased costs, profits have been a mere
shadow of what the promoters anticipated:
they reckoned on bagging £7400 p.a. after
providing £lOOO for depreciation, etc. The
past year’s £4538 is the best to date, and
for the first time a div. of 10 p.c. has been
paid. Since the hotel was completed over
nine years ago shareholders have had only
£10.500 (30 p.c.) in divs., an average of
only ‘Sh p.c. p.a.,. and meantime only £6OOO
of profits have been put aside, wiping out
the deficit with w T hich the co. started and
giving the reserves of £3029 shown in the
table. The position from another point of
view has altered in this way:—
1912. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. .. £30,330 £23,917 £27,126
Liquid assets .. 3,340 6,505 7,782
Excess liabilities .. £26,990 £17,412 £19,344
Buildings, etc. .. £57,678 £56,153 £59,124
During the past year further additions were
apparently made to the hotel, and the man-
agement had to go outside for further funds.
So, besides the original blister __of £20,000
there is now an overdraft of £2859, “secured
by the issue of £BOOO 6 p.c. mortgage deben-
tures.”
* * * *
James Hurll and Co., Ltd., gas-engineers,
etc., of Sydney, having reached “the limit of
expansion with present available capital,”
are inviting the public to assist with £lO,OOO.
The co. was established 15 years ago, and
by 1913 apparently had only the seven share-
holders necessary to retain registration, and
its issued capital was a mere £3034. Be-
sides its increased meter-repair business the
co. has lately been doing general trading,
and now manufactures supplies which it
formerly imported. Hence the need for addi-
tional funds. The public is invited to take
up 20,000 10s. shares, which will carry 10
p.c. cumulative divs. for five years, with
rights of conversion into ordinaries within
that period. The prospectus accompanying
the invitation, however, is not a convincing
document. Paid capital is £B5OO, in 17,000
10s. ordinaries. No balance-sheet or state-
ment is presented to show what assets there
are to represent this capital. As to the
earnings cf the business, it is declared that
“the net profit for 1920 was equal to the
total net profit for 1918 and 1919 combined,”
and that in each of the three years 10 p.c.
divs. were paid, with a bonus of 5 p.c. for
the past year—but on what capital each of


Dalgety S Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M,L.C."
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DDTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
6hould assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
, Managing Director.
If your house is wired for electricity, and jou are
having trouble with your door-bell because ex-
hausted batteries, you are being qnnovcd needlessly
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same cur dent that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in ai*l see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is dbtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos coverirg prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos coveiing saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less etoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
Pure water is life itself and as vital to our wel-
fare as the air we breathe.. An abundant and reliable
supply is absolutely necessary to the health of every
town and city. “Pioneer” Wood Pipe has been proved
to supply pure water for homes and factories at
remarkably low installation and maintenance costs.
All inquiries to The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Clove.— Advt.
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
Aork and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
Inventors, —Have yon am idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt,
Acstuauan Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, l inks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office , tel-. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained, COm.isOn & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirtv years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling f s
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers. Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv kCo
Etd.. 205 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Borirbe Street. Melh.— Advt
To Investors. —We offer you an exceptional
opportunity that will never come again; 10 per
cent for first four years; 15 per cent, for fifth year ;
20 per cent, right on. Write and we will prove it.
A. E. Maxwell Pty., Ltd., 237 Collins Street,
Melbourne.— Advt.
Empire Eddy Current Controllers.
Principally for lifts, plate-edge planers or
rolls.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
’Phone, Central 4031. Box 1303 G.P.0., Melb.
0W
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift i
iC«i..|»k|i> Aiisi rala-iun Ajrents. >6 So Clarem-e sw isytihey
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
C-5
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
these divs. was paid is not stated. There
may be, as the directors declare, "no doubt
that the co. can continuously earn good pro-
fits and pay satisfactory and regular divi-
dends,” but the subscriber to the five-year
prefs. is first entitled to know precisely
what he is buying.
Co-operative Film Exchange, Ltd., head
office in Melbourne and branches in other
States, which began with a deficit of £5430.
comprising preliminary expenses £439, and
flotation loading £5000:
Feb., Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
£5439
1914.. £1504 Nil £1504 3935
1915.. 3128 9 p.o. =£93o 2198 1737
1916.. 2773 10 „ „ 1165 1608 129
r®®-’ Reserves.
1916.. 632 632 603
Loss.
1917.. 51 452
Transferred from bad debts reserve, £llOO 1652
Loss.
1918.. 887 665
Deficit.
1919.. 3595 2930
1920.. 939 3369
This has been a co. of good intentions and
poor performances. A co-op. film exchange
tor showmen looked a promising move, but
the promoters did not anticipate the extent
to which the movie industry would come
under the influence of big combines. This
co. started off so well that, though almost half
of its initial paid capital represented tne
promoters’ cut, two goods divs. were paid
and within a few years sufficient reserves
were accumulated to cover the whole of the
paid capital by tangible assets. Then the
tide began to run out. Fierce local com-
petition, grabbing ’Murkan producers, strike's
and other difficulties were experienced. A
year ago a heavy loss was disclosed, chiefly
a ? a re . su lt of the ’flu ; this year exchange
difficulties with Charlie Chaplin’s country
are blamed for another set-back. This shows
the drift in another way:—
Gross Profit. Expenses(inc. duty).
1914 .. £11,448 £6,673
1916 • • 13,867 10,439
1916 . . 28,031 27,189
1917 . . 33,675 33,517
1918 . . 23,399 23,876
1919 . . 14,049 15,639
1920 . . 13,297 13,336
Capital is £11,645, and at Dec. 61 £7354
was owing to sundry creditors and £5015
to the bank; so the concern has thus had
to lean heavily on outsiders. Plant,
machinery, furniture and odds and ends
account for only slightly over £lOOO of the
bis items are stock-in-trade
£2615; book debts, £3865 (no less than one-
third of paid capital) ; £4402 paid in ad-
vance on films; and £7552 “estimated value
of unexpired lease of hired films.”
* * * *
T ke directors of the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney find they can do with more
capital, and shareholders are to be asked to
agree to the raising of an additional half-
million at an early date. This will take
paid capital to three millions.
An extraordinary financial deal has just
been put through in Melbourne. The Metro-
PolitjMt Gas Co., whose £5 shares stand at
£7 10s. on ’Change, and on which the regular
div. is 13s. a year, or nearly 7 p.c. p.a., has
just borrowed £500,000 at 8 p.c. interest and
paid for underwriting !
‘‘D.F/’: The S. Aus. salt cos. have had a
bad buffeting by the recent floods. Tons of
salt scraped up during the summer and
stacked have melted away in the rain. S.
Australia’s salt harvest reached its top so far,
fl uantit y and in value, in 1918, when
88,519 tons, valued at £177,038, were pro-
duced. In 1919 the quantity was 69,174
tons. After copper, salt is now S. Aus.’s
most important mineral, and it was the first
worked in the State. A century ago the
sealing vessels which knocked round Kan-
garoo Island used to take a few tons from
the lagoons to Sydney or Launceston. In
a bulletin on salt It. Lockhart Jack, Deputy
Government Geologist, estimates the visible
supplies of salt in the chief districts now
at 6,030,000 tons, apart from
12,000,000 tons at Lake Hart, on the
East-West line, most of which was in
solution when the lake was seen. Then
there are big salt areas, like Lake Gairdner,
which are not accessible at present. Jack
points out that if we were a little more civi-
lised and self-reliant we would make our
own alkalis and other by-products from our
own salt. Taking only five derivatives of
salt—-sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate,
caustic soda, sodium silicate and sodium sul-
phide—Australia imported in 1919 32,840
tons of them, valued at £544,546.
* * * *
The record of the Newcastle-Maitland coal-
field for the first two months of the current
year was 83 strikes. None of them was
about any big matter of wages—in fact,
there hasn’t been a serious trouble about
wages for several years. One was because
a boy-wheeler had a dispute concerning a
horse, and another because one man was
told there was too much stone mixed with
the coal he sent up, whereupon he became
huffed and the rest of the staff had to huff
with him on a point of honor. This casual
abandonment of work was merely a sign
that the employees were iit a light and airy
humor and could afford to leave off. Earn-
ings are high, and if a man has no craze to
buy mansions or pictures or rare editions or
harems or gems, or to travel or to be a mil-
lionaire, the only way he can sign-fy ins satis-
faction with life is to leave off. Protest
against the ordinary humdrum track of things
does not necessarily mean that the plaintiff
hasn’t his fair share of this world’s goods,
for Vanderbilt and Astor were in a hungry
state to their last days, and Alexander the
Great is said to have felt so much more de-
prived and ill-used than even a Newcastle
coalminer that he wept bitterly.
A big advancement has been made with
the low-temperature carbonisation of coal in
England recently, and the success or the
process is now definitely established, accord-
ing to chairman Goold-Adams, of Low, Tem-
perature Carbonisation, Ltd. That co. now
has 20 retorts with a capacity of 21,000 tons
of coal per annum, and when the by-product
section is completed it anticipates being able
to handle four times as much fuel. Goold-
Adams says:—
'ine plant is working smoothly and smokelessly,
and the results obiaiueu from me crude coal, wuiuh
takes an average of eigut hours to carbonise, are in
every respect satisfactory, the solid resultant fuel is
good in every respect; it contains a minimum of
"breeze,” is sufficiently haid to be cas.ly transport-
able, and is absolutely smokeless, while, so lar as it
is at present possible to ascertain definitely, the gas
we are getting is rich in quality and high m volume,
and the oils and ammoiu are all we have ever
claimed alike as to quality and quantity.
We have no doubt that the figures will be
sufficiently convincing to determine every colliery of
importance, as well as the leading towns in the
country, to adopt our method and arrange with us
for the installation of plants for the treatment of
the raw coal that is now so largely burnt to waste.
Nothing indeed is more obvious, in the light of the
experience we have gained, than that the burning of
raw coal is a criminal waste of the nation s greatest
asset, and now that our process may be regarded as
proved, I cannot doubt that the Government itself
will not remain bl.nd to the economic necessity
for compulsorily carbonising all coal before use.
No longer need a dense smoke-ball hang over all
our engineering and manufacturing districts and
large towns, ai.d no longer should we be almost
entirely dependent upon foreign countries for our
supplies of motor spirit, while in addition to the
heavy oils required for such purposes as Diesel
engines and lubrication, or for distillation into
dyestuffs, we sho. Id be producing, for every ton of
coal carbonised, something Ike 7000 cubic ft. of
rich gas and some 201 b. of the fertilising agent
known as sulphate of ammonia.
* * # «
Nawng Pet, formed last year in Malayia
and Sydney, has shipped portion of its plant
to its area at Ronpibon (Siam), and the
staff follows in a fortnight. Tin-winning is
to be done by a new process invented by
G. M. Powell, who has been handling Maori-
land West Coast alluvial gold deposits very
successfully with his plant. Powell and a
staff trained by him have been engaged by
Nawng Pet directors to operate their show.
Mr. Powell claims to have revolutionised the
working of ground where an elevator is
necessary. Instead of the usual method of
sluicing the debris from the face to the
sump, as in the old style of elevating, a
horizontal suction-pipe draws the dirt as it
falls to the elevator, which in turn delivers
it to the metal saving tables. Thus the pro-
blem of fall is eliminated, and labor in the
face is reduced to a minimum. Handling
large quantities, working costs in M.L.
were less than Id. per cub. yd., and
ground worth only 3d. per yd. has given
highly payable results. In free ground the
suction has proved effective for a rad us of
35 chains, and a sustained delivery of more
than 100 c. yd. ner hour has been registered
for each unit. It is anticipated that sluicing
operations will commence at Nawng Pet in
a few months.
* # * «
“Oof Bird”: Adelaide is attempting to
float a £lOO.OOO co. to search for oil in
the Commonwealth, and among the induce-
ments offered to the nuMie is the statement
that “flow-oil from S.-W. Westralia may
be seen at the promoters’ office.” Having
on several occasions searched in vain for
alleged flows of oil, gas seepages and other
indications of petroleum in that part of the
West, I would like to know the spot where
the sample of flow-oil in the promoters’ pos-
session came from. “Some day,” as the
prospectus, cheerfully remarks, “a strong
basin of oil may be discovered in the Com-
monwealth” ; but if the opinion of the West-
ralian Government Geological Department
is worth anything it will not be in the
south-eastern or western portion of that
State.
* « * *
Almost ruined at Hampton Plains,
Slavin’s Daisy last year moved to Lawlers,
where it optioned and has since acquired
the Queen mine. Satisfactory values along
the level at 190 ft. and elsewhere are
reported, and as other shows in the district,
now defunct, were good producers to a
depth of several hundred feet, there seems
to be some hope for the Daisy. Like most
Perth-Adelaide concerns it is poorly financed,
and this may hamper or cripple it before
the mine has had a chance of showing its
real worth.
* * * #
Fremantle Trading Co., which owns lead-
mines at Northampton and smelting works at
£ remantie, showed a net profit last year of
£23 1 8. Preleren.e shareholders were paiu
their 10 p.c., leaving £289 balance of P. and
L. to cany forward. 'lue eo. s iead produc-
tion for tne year totalled 580 tons, which
realised an average price of £4O 10s.
Attempts are being made to revive inter-
est in- itiverina South (W.A.) on the
strength of a new shoot of ore. A market-
making crowd has acquired a big wad of for-
feited scrip, but instead of unloading on
the public at a profit it will probably be left
with the shares and have to pay calls.
Mararoa has its eyes on Warriedar
(W.A.) and following some talk of the
directors taking an option there the snares
were put to 2s. for a moment. Warriedar
has been tried by both English and Austra-
lian cos., and has been given up as hopeless
by aIL
* * * *
Notwithstanding that the Tas. Govern-
memc guaranteed the tj p.c. interest on the
£150,000 proposed to be raised by the Hydro-
Electnc Co., it appears that the co. has not
succeeded, in prising open the pockets of
British investors. This means that the
carbide works at Electrona are stiil
idle. What will happen to the show no-
body can predict, but there is a whisper to
the effect that a small crowd of well-gilded
Australians are considering details with a
view to planking down the necessary coin
to see Electrona through its teething period.
On paper the project looks all right. The
assets include (1) the fact that the pre-
sent co. with its comparatively primitive
machinery can and does make excellent
carbide; (2) limestone of unsurpassable
quality in practically unlimited quantities
is available contiguous to the works; and
(3) a contract with the Tas. Hydro-Electric
Dept, for 10.000 electric h.-p. a year for
30 years at a price (£B) which makes it
the cheapest power-supply on earth or there-
abouts. In addition, the co. has mastered
the ticklish job of making electrodes, and can
now produce them on a scale and of a qual-
ity that leaves, the import trade in electrodes
without any visible means of support. That
such assets will be allowed to perish for the
want of £lOO,OOO or so is unlikely. The
power contract itself ought to be worth all
the money required to place the carbide co.
on a sure footing, for there are many highly
profitable uses to which this very cheap
energy could be put, quite apart from that
of carbide production.
* * * *
A proposal is on foot to drive a new level
in the South Bischoff (Tas.) to cut the bot-
tom of the winze off the No. 1 level and
settle for all time the extent of the ore-
shoot and its potentialities. The deposit is
a lense-iike foi matron of aplite alteration
in granite massif, and Tasmanian opinion
is not favorable. This time Melbourne capi-
tal is to be employed.
* * » # .
From the beginning of this year the
Charters Towers. School of Mines has been
abolished, and the buildings and apparatus
have gone oyer to the Technical College,
although arrangements have been made to
allow diploma courses to be completed this
year. 1 ounded in 1901, it had barely com-
peted its majority. In its early days
Charters Towers was next to Kalgoorlie in
gold-production in Australia, and its 28,000
population supplied a big students’ roll,
which was augmented from oiher Queens-
land centres. From over 100 students the
attendance dwindled to 30 last year, and
it was decided to put up the shutters, as
little hope is entertained of the Towers
making a healthy recovery.
* * * *
Normanby goldfield (N.Q.) is getting a
move on. The Meredith Syndicate waited
on Mines-Mjnister Jones at i’roserpme
recently and laid their troubles before him.
The Minister, with an eye on a possible
new golufie,d, practically promised to supply
them with a small battery. It is proposed
to put it up on Grant’s Creek, which is
not far from the B.Ly Hughes group. The
Billy Hugaes averages about Ift. of 2oz.
stone down to 100 ft., and with the other
reefs around should supply enough ore to
keep 10-hd. of stampers going. The field is
remarkably like Charters Towers geologi-
cally. The reefs are in hard granite and
diorite, and cut across two series of diorite
bars identical with the two series that are
so common in the Brilliant and Day Dawn
country at the Towers. While Normanby
may never be another Charters Towers it
worth noting that the North Australian
St. Patrick’s and other reefs worked for
the first five years there were little, if any
bigger than the Billy Hughes, Two Blues
and Venture. The Brilliant reef was not
uatll a Prospecting shaft cut it at
iboft. Considering the similarity of geo-
logical conditions on the two fields, it would
not be surprising if Normanby turns out
trumps.
* * * »
ttm, ll sp * te tte metal slump, Kangaroo
Hills is about the only North Queens-
land field that is more than holding
its own. Last year, which was practically
its first since the new discoveries, the field
turned out over 300 tons metal, of which
the bar dine and Titanic supplied the greater
part. The old Brilliant Extended Go., of
Chaiteis lowers, appears to have bacjked a
winner in the 'Titanic, after losing on the
Salmon. Ihe Shrimp is a big low-grade
body, but is managing to keep its five-hd.
battery in action while the market slump
continues.
* * * *
W hat is claimed to be a large low-grade
silver-lead show is being prospected at Cania,
near Many Peaks (Q.). The country is moun-
tainous, and the prospectors were attracted
by boulders carrying lead-carbonate and sul-
phide ore. A shaft put down near the top
of the mountain struck a lode 3ft. to 4ft
wide, and a parcel from 30ft. down sent to
Cockle Creek was w'orth £ll4 for five tons
of ore. This return has put ginger into
the search for further lodes, and a big yel-
low-stained blow was located a couple of
miles awmy assaying 20t>z. of silver. The
prospectors state that' there are thousands
of tons of low-grade stuff lying on the sur-
face. It cost £l7 to send the trial five tons
from Cania to Cockle Crqek, and that is not
encouraging. What is needed is enough ore
developed to warrant the'erection locally of
a concentrator and small reducing plant.
* * * *
A promising tin show hgis been unearthed
at Stanhills, in the Croydon district (N.Q.).
McClelland and party, when sinking a
prospecting shaft, cut a go|od shoot at 80ft.,
the first 10 tons obtained gfoing about 15 p.c.
tin. The returns from the Irvinebank
State smelter were worth '£2s a ton, and on
the strength of that the piarty is forming a
syndicate to raise capital for further pros-
pecting.


Thx, Emhajr*kaiion.
One inevitable result of ihe
announcement i - a divided
England and the Australian,
team With a*. larg?e and
Sympathetic /allowing? •
AYi' warring blue ribbons my /rrend,
So you h».ve sworn off at last ? *
" Sworn off 1! wotter yer mean 1
-them are Ibc Australian. Colors . n
rh<J Outcast : v Ona whtskey and - er-
/©urteen lemonades for my 5 •
TW outcast dying? as the result of
a gallant desperate attempt to keep Up
tke average for the team..
THE BAND OP HOPE.
"The Rev. Thos. Davies stated at the Methodist social and morals demonstration at the Lyceum Hall in Sydney that he had It on very reliable authority
that of the 15 Australian cricketers selected to go to England, 14 were total abstainers.’ —Sexes item.


Good to the
Last Drop
in
&
M
M
ABBOTS
LAGER
FAeßppr m/fiou/aftm/.
73r<?h?pcf from Pureffa/t iHopr On/y
*De
faf
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PHOTOPLAY WRITING,
THE NEW ART.
THE department of education of the
Palmer Photoplay Corporation pro-
vides a practical course of instruction in the
art of photoplay writing. This course is
given by correspondence.
In addition to the instruction, the students
receive helpful constructive criticisms of
their work, unlimited consultation privileges,
and personal representaton in the California
studios.
The creation of a popular picture is a sure
source of wealth to both Author and 1 ro-
ducer.
The demand for scenarios is an ever-increas-
ing one, and a ready market is available in
America for the right kind.
Men and women of creative impulse who
are interested in the opportunities offered by
the motion-picture industry may obtain our
illustrated booklets, “The Secret of Success-
ful Photoplay Writing,’’ and “Proof losi-
tive,” which explain fully the Palmer I lan
of Photoplay Writing, by addressing
WIDDER & MITCHELL, Dept. B, Lmon
House, George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
% When in ’99 the M.L. Government put
James Prendergast, then Chief Justice, on
the pension list, no one guessed that the old
man would continue absorbing a cheque
every jponth for an additional 22. years. He
was then 71 and had already commenced to
totter. But, perhaps because he lived nearly
all his long life on a breezy hill next to a
cemetery, he lasted till last week, and went
over the top at 93, hairless and emaciated
for many years, but mentally clear and very
rich. James had been on the public pay-
sheet for 56 years. He was Attorney-General
from ’65 to ’75, then C.J. till, in the last lap
of the century, he slipped off the Bench to
accept £l2OO per annum. He lived a quiet,
secluded life with no interests beyond invest-
ing his cash in land, which he sold to great
advantage. As a Judge he was conspicuous
for his frigid silence; as a lawyer for astute-
ness rather than ftir profundity. He had no
family.
Assistant-Minister for Defence RYRIE,
“the Old Brig.'”
An adventurous career ended when
Charles Key, of the South Aus. corps of
veterans, died at 62. As a young man, he
was in the mounted police of M.L. and had
a hand in some of the last fighting with the
Maoris. He went to the Soudan in 1884-85
with the N.S.W. contingent, and to South
Africa in 1900 with the Mounted Rifles of
the same State. Invalided to England, he
got back to Pretoria with the Scottish Horse
and saw the trouble out, staying on after
and fighting for Natal in a Zulu rebellion.
When the big war came on Key was a quiet
Adelaide photographer, and his offer of ser-
vice was rejected on account of age,
but he succeeded in getting as far as Egypt
with the Remount Service. He had earned
a wonderful collection of medals, crosses
and stars.
“Wealsman”: Hobart finds itself with
three aldermanic resignations on its door-
step, the trio having come to the conclusion
that the City Council is no place for men
who are not millionaires. So
Ernest Webster, of the big stock
and produce firm; Nat Oldham,
who bosses the piano-selling branch
of Walch’s; and Arthur Davis, till
recently manager of the Palace
Theatre, have ruthlessly sacrificed
their chance of attaining to the
mayoral rabbit-skin. The fact is
that municipal work in all Austra-
lian cities has quite outgrown the
“honorary” or amateur stage, for
it involves more time than can be
spared by men who have their liv-
ing to get. The only visible alter-
native to the payment of aldermen
seems to be the total abolition of
City Councils. City fathers are
mostly unnatural parents, anyhow,
and would be better dead.
“Biltong”: Lady Chelmsford’s
exciting experience with an ele-
phant must have called up vivid
memories to a Maoriland solicitor.
Years ago, while practising in the
Wairarapa, he took a young
nephew to a travelling menagerie
and amused him by tantalising
Jumbo with a biscuit, which he
kept withdrawing just as the ani-
mal’s trunk touched it Jumbo
eventually gave it up and they
turned to pass on; and the next
thing uncle knew he was picking
grass-seeds from his whiskers out-
side the tent. The instant his
back was turned Jumbo had seized him
round the waist and shot him clean through
the canvas. He ivas sport enough to admit
frankly that “it served him r i '°ht.”
“Gallery”: The two inseparables of the
Federal Parliament are Charlton and West.
M’s.H.R. Though Ma State politicians,
they have a lot of week-ends in Melbourne,
spending most of their hours at the House
in rumination and reading until it is time to
go to bed. West is a plump, shortish old
gentleman, who is often voluble to the extent
of wrecking kis language in his whiskers.
Some people say he has a sense of humor,
and it might be audible in the gallery if he
would shave off his foliage. Charlton, on
the other hand, is a tall, sphinx-like person
who prefers poring over tomes and news-
paners to conversing with his fellow-
creatures. On that account his preference
for West, or anybody, seems unaccountable.
Yet he is plainly depressed when John is
away, whilst if the latter has to get through
a Melbourne Sunday alone, the absence of his
pal doubles the horror of the day.
“T. 0.1.”: It. D. Meagher is prospering
these days. He has purchased at Lawson,
Blue Mountains, the line property formerly
owned by Watkin Wynne, of the Temc-
qKapit. The new proprietor has changed
the name from Wendouree to Durham Lodge,
and, with a delicate symbolism, has had the
lettering painted on a* ground the color of
Durham mustard.
“M.D.” on a distant case:—
Short as they were, the formalities attendant
upon the relinquishment of the Presidential chair
by Woodrow Wilson must have been terribly trying
to the distinguished patient. As here forecasted at
the outset of the illness, the paralysis persisted and
prevented the ex-President from any very active
participation in the affairs of the nation. The
paralysis of the left arm and leg was probably due
to a haemorrhage, though thrombosis was suggested
as a cause in the official bulletins. Following the
usual course of such lesions there has been a partial
recovery of function in the muscles of the leg, so
that Dr. Wilson is able to walk, but with a
peculiar, shuffling gait. The affected leg swings
round, and the foot drags. The arm, as a rule,
owing to a secondary degeneration in the motor
path, becomes bent at the elbow, and remains quite
useless. This is so in Dr. Wilson’s ease. Although
enfeebled bodily he retains full possession of his
intellectual gifts, and many' years of usefulness as
a writer may be in front of him.
Angas Parsons received the customai’y
welcome from the Bar on taking his seat
as a South Aus. Judge, and responded with
some of the eloquence inherited from his
father, a politician of the last generation,
and. incidentally, Goveimment Resident in
Darwin when the N.T. was administered
by S.A. Parsons has private means, like
Murray, his C.J., and he would pi’obabl.v
have gone to London as Agent-General if
the retirement of Buchanan had not thrown
the Judgeship open at the moment.
“B.”: Sometimes it doesn’t pay to be
studious and ambitious. Dr. A. A. Brown
(B. 3/2/’2l) had high hopes of making a
name for himself when he scorned delights
and lived laborious days to pass his. med.
exams so that he might get out of the ruck
of clerical work in the State service. Yet
the highest position he rose to was a mere
£lO-a-week job, and he would conceivably
have done better as a clerk. Things might
have been different had he become a family
physician, but he chose to remain in the
service, and died a disappointed man.
“O. Blin”: In my youth I tried my hand
as a cartoonist, and one of the first I asked
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“What makes you say that women’s dress
must be designed by the Devil himself?”
“ Well, I know you’ve got to pay the Devil’s
own price for it.”
for a job was the late John Norton. For
some reason Norton’s then Melbourne editor
rather fancied my awful drawings, and
through his connivance I was rewarded with
an interview with the Great Man himself.
I had heard much of Norton’s skill in allitera-
tive profanity, but I wasn’t prepared for his
taste in black and white. He ran hurriedly
through my cartoons with a series of criti-
cisms that could better be painted than
described. I was boiling with suppressed
language, but I never said a word —just
boiled and boiled. No doubt John felt my
heat or my silence, for he turned on me sud-
denly with the violent challenge: “Well, you
fathead, why don’t you say something?”
Doubtless my simmering countenance con-
veyed that I couldn’t say anything, where-
upon he thundered: “By God, Blin, you are a
cantankerous -!” With that he threw
my masterpieces on the floor and hurled him-
self down his dingy stairs, lighting the dark-
ness with his crimson English. Yet, with all
his anger, I got the billet, and lasted for a
fortnight, when my imagination gave out.
Of some imperial-minded women:—
In a great daily recently I read what was meant
to be a tribute to Mrs. Zahel, of Torres Strait. But
it was pitifully inadequate. The wife of a solicitor
in Thursday Island, she was left desolate 12 years
ago by his sudden death in the office chair. A little
girl, Laurel, was her only solace. To keep the home
fires burning Mrs. Zahel accepted the position of
teacher under the Queensland Government at Yam
Island, a hundred miles from “Thursday.” One day
the doctor rang us up at the hospital. “My God,”
he said, “they’ve brought Laurel Zahel in, dead, in
a lugger.”
She was just 12 years old, beautiful and more
than usually talented. Fever took her right away
out there, remote from doctors or any white folk.
A pearling lugger manned by a Japanese crew put
in for water. Mrs. Zahel went down to the beach
and asked the diver to take her and her sick child
to Thursday Island, and the doctor. For three
days she lay unconscious in the dreadful little cabin
with her dead child clasped in her arms.
The indomitable spirit of the highly-cultured
woman drew her again to her Empire-building, and
this thousands of miles from any limelight and
almost unknown.
Mrs. Mahoney, of Papua, is another oustanding per-
sonality. Sixty years young and of unconquerable soul,
she holds Sudest —that used to be a “rogue” island —
in the hollow of her splendid old hand. Nowhere in
the Empire is justice, as administered by her, held in
such complete and unquestioning respect and accept-
ance. Her career should be written in history.
The Northern Territory has its heroines, too,
amongst them Mrs. Bert Brown, who owns and runs
a wolfram-mine hundreds of miles from Pine Creek;
and Mrs. Warrington Rodgers, who rides' 500 miles to
her nearest neighbor.
K. J. Gwynne, who went out suddenly
at Hamilton (M.L.) the other day at 53,
was a widely-known inky wayfarer. He
began with the Waikato Times, but shifted
to the Argus in the same town in 1892.
When both papers folded their troubles in
the same kitbag in 1914 and called them
selves the Times, Gwynne took the editorial
chair, and remained there till his death H
was a fine all-round sportsman.
, r Th ® Lab i )r movement has lost W. F
tS^’HoP 1 se ?r tai 7 of Melbourne
Hades Hall Council. A solid, modernte
-V /| Ulte a d , i * er( ? Ilt type from the shriek’
tdeas and Smiths, Murphy did a heap
to better industrial conditions when it was
much harder to get anything done than at
present. He tried several times to secure a
ailiamentaiy seat, but never succeeded. He
was one of the chieftains in control of affairs
when the maritime strike occurred in 1890
and received the cheque that Iliginbothaim
Y.J., sent as a protest against the refusal of
the employers to meet the men in conference.
The tale of Francois :
Francois enlisted in Queensland. Born in France
50 years before, he came of seven generations of
chefs, but conveniently forgot the date and place
of his birth and became a dinkum Aussie. He
had been toiling as a railway-man out Longreach
way. Arrived at Bell’s Paddock in the early days
of the war, Francois, now Francis, told a tenf-mate
of his culinary ancestors, and a few days later he
was told off to No. 4 galley. He hated it, but
he was a splendid success. Then he was sent down
to the V.D. camp at Lytton in command of the
galley there, and 300 patients rose and called him
blessed. But Francis loathed the job. “I desire
to fight,” he complained, ‘‘and thev make of me
cook.”
Whenever Francis' got a day’s leave he came back
to camp slightly elevated, and demanded to be
arrested. The guard-tent at Lytton was nearly a
mile from the camp, and the guard naturally re-
sented making the trip up the hill with a semi-
sozzled cook. They implored him to go home quietly
like a decent soldier. No good to Francis. He
insisted on an armed escort. The O.C. invariably
reprimanded him and sent him back to his galley.
Then Francis struck, and went fishing in the Bris-
bane River instead of getting dinner ready. He
did this so persistently that he was drafted back
to Enoggera—as cook to a L.H. section.
He got away at last, and in Egypt was fined in
all 40 days’ pay for refusing duty—-as cook. The
last time they carpeted him was for declining to
cook for the officers’ mess. He was fined seven
days. As soon as he got outside he demanded to
be paraded back to the O.C. The big chief looked
surprised. What’s up now, Francis V” he queried.
I desiie to volunteer as cook to the officers’ mess,”
said Francis mildly. ‘‘But—but,” spluttered the
0.C., “you refused just now. Why this sudden
change?” Then Francis smiled sweetly. “I desire to
be cook, said he, “so that I can poison all you
blanky blankers!”
Francis wasn’t asked to cook any more. He is
back on his railway job at Longreach now, badly
smashed up, but perfectly happy. He says (very
unjustly) that the cooking at the pub is “r-r-ottang.”
“T. 0.1.” : Deputy-Adjutant-General Mundv.
on a tour over the Blue Mountains in 1846
wi t h his cousin
Governor Fitzroy, put
up at the Welcome
Inn, at the place now
kno w n as Valley
Heights, where rail-
way engines take in
w a ter. The house
still stands, though
not now licensed. It
was built in 1830 by
Alexander Fraser,
who was postmaster
at Penrith. Mundy
has left it on record
that the house was
“kept by an old sol-
dier who boasted a
Waterloo medal, a
very pretty daughter.,
and some good bottled
ale at 3s. per bottle.”
The old soldier was
named James; the
pretty daughter be-
ca m e Mr s. Wilson
(she passed out not so
long ago) ; the Water-
loo medal is still an
heirloom in the family.
Old Geoffrey Eager,
one-time Colonial
Treasurer and later
Minister for Trade
and Finance, owned
the old house and
many acres and lived
there for some years.
STRADBROKE,
Victoria’s new
Governor.
The new secretary of the Y.M.C.A. in
Adelaide is John Massey, who has been
assistant secretary in Melbourne. He is
just back from six months in Canada and
the U.S.A., looking into the bustling Ameri-
can methods of getting at young men for
their good. Massey learned business origin-
ally with Paterson, Laing and Bruce, and
after being rejected for active service did
a lot of Y.M.C.A. work in France.
THE BLIND MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Wilson cut a pathetic figure in the inaugura-
tion ceremonies of his successor, President Harding.
.Secret service men helped him to lift his feet on to
the step of his motor-car. Dr. Wilson leaned
heavily on a stick carried in his right hand: his left
arm was bene close against his side. Everyone in
the crowd except 30 blind soldiers stood to watch
him.”— Cable.
They do not see the old and broken man
W T ith twisted mouth and restless, troubled eyes ;
The shaking valetudinarian
At whose approach the quizzing gossips rise.
To them he still is king of all the world,
The god inspired who, ere the daylight sped,
A glowing flag of faith and hope unfurled
And held it high above his splendid head.
Just so Another brought a scornful age
Tidings that burned in humble hearts like fire,
And won the agonising. heritage
That all who dare to touch the stars acquire.
The peering crowd that throngs Gethsemane
Views but a failure who has earned his fall:
The blind, to whom he still is Christ, maybe
See him in truer colors after all.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


TY PLATE
■" ”
m
-PH
M l
S®
1
Y
ItSl
v iV J
\
ihhhi
■
■
1
mm
.i;,-AYSV
■
.
A. ..
■ A'"'-
ssn
i§ Mil
MWi a\\k s i
. €l#
fiiis
ss
~■ ' < ■
■ ■
K--
tiltiS
■ ■ v . v?> :
■ ov
/■.
■t : ' : v
Mmm
■• ?!
»i^swppp
gaii#
■ a :
■ :■
.
'mmsHm
:■
■■- "Y v V
-
A
- ■ J
Y-:
IlillSSSi
. A
ttSVSS**
S9„UW*
H 8
Pride of possession
rpHE woman who is primarily concerned
JL with appearances feels pride of possession
in the elegance and beautiful modelling of her
Community Plate.
The housewife who is governed by considerations of
economy feels no less pride of possession. Community
Plate assures her a guaranteed thrice-daily wear tor
fifty years.
Choice of four delightful styles is offered Adam. Patrician, Sheraton
and Hepplewhite.
Makers also of
ONEIDA COMMUNITY RELIANCE PLATE (Guaranteed for 25 years)
ONEIDA COMMUNITY PAR PLATE (Guaranteed for 10 years)
On Exhibition and Sale at leading Jewellers and Shops
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
Established 1848.
The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney


A New Hat for Easter
This fine English-made hat, featured by
Peapes’, is of that excellent quality which
retains its good appearance under severe usage
and continual exposure to the weather.
It is in smooth-finish felt, and has medium
crown, 3-inch flat-set brim, with unbound
edge, lf-inch band with bow at side.
Obtainable in Grey or Fawn. Its adjustable
shape makes it most comfortable.
A hat for long and staunch service. Peapes’
competitive price 57/6.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state size and color required.
.
PEAPES <& CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREEET, SYDNEY.
X
$
Have it Ready.
Keep Sal Hepatica ready for first
thing in the morning. Just a spoon-
ful of this renowned saline prepara-
tion in a glass of water is wonderful
f or _ health. It provides a bubbling
artificial mineral water similar in
laxative and tonic properties to the
well-known Bitter Waters of Europe.
Wherever there is headache, bilious-
ness. indigestion, liver trouble or
constipation, Sal Hepatica is splen-
did. Get it for your health’s sake.
Price 2/-, 4/-. All Chemists.
u
FI
E PATIC A
faf
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Yarra Ben”: One recent bright and
sunny Sabbath morn the statue of Captain
Cook adorning St. Kilda Esplanade pre-
sented a weird spectacle. Overnight some
humorless wight had placed a battered topper
on the Captain’s head, painted the face a
bilious green, stuck a cotton-wool beard on
the chin and left a bottle in the mariner’s
extended hand. It is surmised that the drunk
who committed the act of vandalism mixed
up the Cooks and thought the Captain was
Joe! But why?
* * # »
The precocity of the Australian bid!
Willie Burns, of Port Melbourne, went miss-
ing at half-past eight one Saturday morning
(Willie is not yet four). At noon on the
same day the police received a notification
from the Melbourne gasworks: “Small boy
about four here asking for a job.” It was
Willie.
The teat-puller’s story :
The sewing-machine canvasser seemed to like our
district, though the Lord knows nobody ever bought
anything from him. At last he gave it up as a bad
job and we missed his handsome face and taking
manner.
About this time Adolph, who milked the cows and
fed the pigs, was invited to spend his few minutes
between knock-off and bedtime with the boss and his
family. Next thing he knew, he was spliced to one of
the girls.
A few months passed in peace and harmony and
then Adolph’s wife presented him with a fine boy.
For some days it was noticed that the new father
had a puzzled look, but the climax came when the
boss discovered him ticking off months on an
almanac.
“Well, of all the suspicious cows you are the
worst,” said the boss severely as he hurled the
almanac into the fire. “Them darn things aren't re-
liable anyhow.”
* * # , #
“Orwell”: My window overlooks a side
street, and I am the unwilling auditor of
d surprising variety of conversations. A
thing that astonishes me is the number of
people who talk to themselves when they
think they are unobserved. The other day
I encountered a man who seemed to be in
the worst of bad tempers. “Got a mind ter
knock yer bloomin’ ’ead orf,” lie was saying.
“Don’t yer come domineerin’ over me,
Anna.” At first I couldn’t see anyone else
in the street. Then I noticed a little fox-
terrier trotting along at the heels of the
monologuist. He looked up. “What are
you abusing the poor dog for?” I asked as
his eyes met mine. Then he explained that
the female dog was called Anna after his
wife. When the tongue of the original
Anna made things too hot for him he took
the dog for a walk and eased his mind by
saying to it all the things he hadn’t dared
to utter in the hearing of the other Anna.
“She’s a real bitch,” he said, by which I
presume he meant the dog. “But it ain’t
the satisfaction it used to be,” he concluded.
“Anna here seems ter ’ave dropped to the
game and don’t take much notice now.”
“Doctor lodine”: “Cocaine poisoning” is
a popular and often effective plea amongst
the inebriated in the Navy; it is based on
the scientific fact that alcohol, even in small
doses, produces extraordinary effects after
the administration
of cocaine. The con-
verse being true, it
is not uncommon
to see Able-Seaman
Shicker returning
blithered to his ship
being forcibly
dragged by kindly
shipmates into a
snide dentistry,
where, after a per-
fectly healthy tooth
and fee have been
extracted, a certifi-
cate of “Cocaine
administration” is
given for produc-
tion to the Master-
a t-A rm s when
Shicker is arrested
on the quarter-deck.
The ship’s surgeon
cannot definitely
swear that it isn’t the cocaine; Shicker,
A. 8., swears that it isn’t the booze,
so the impartial officer of the watch has no
alternative but to dismiss the case.
* * » *
“Bohong”: We were a queer crowd on the
Penang (Straits Settlements) to Prai ferry.
It was the night of the Penang races, and in
addition to the usual cargo of young planters
and Government officials on board was a
number of the “heads”—Aussies to a man.
Presently one hard-faced Digger started to
sing, and was instantly joined by his pals.
It wasn’t exactly melodious singing, but no-
body could complain of the volume, and
appreciative grins and 1 cries applauded it
from the Malays and Chinese on the second-
class deck. The young planters, of course,
looked disgusted, and the Government
officials continued to look as usual—as if
they were quite unaware that there was a
single person on board with the exception of
themselves. There was one exception how-
ever—a “typical” Englishman, faultlessly
dressed and a credit to his boy. He fol-
lowed the proceedings with the greatest in-
terest, and in fancy I could hear him at his
club next day telling the tale of the “socially
impossible Australians.” Presently the ferry
reached Prai and in moving to the gangway
I found myself next the interested stranger.
Recognition was instant, although the last
time we had seen each other was on oppo-
site beds in the C.C.S. at .Corbie. “Say,
Digger,” he said, as we gripped ; “puts one
m mind of the last Manly boat, doesn’t it?”
1 Eddyson”: Clare was once a policeman,
but having got a team together he became
a carter on the Oldham-road. and delivered
the goods to nile-getters. sleeper-cutters and
prospecting parties in the Dillv Hills. But
something of the John Hop’s instinct re-
mained with him. and this served to heighten
his curiosity when he saw the quaint figure
plodding along under a newchum’s bundle,
through the saplings edging the track be-
yond Filers’, early on that bright March
morning. A second glance satisfied Clare
that he was beholding a woman in the habili-
WHEN TIME FLIES.
“When you say a time I do wish you’d try
and keep to it."
"So I do — half-un-hour ago I told you I’d
be ready in five minutes .”
ments of a male, and the promptings of the
sleuth got to work. The woman whs plain
enough to be any old thing. She had a frail
scrub of whisker, a cock eye and a nose
that looked as if it had Doked itself into
much trouble. “A feller stole me skirt and
blouse and me ’at,” the lady admitted, sprink-
ling her confession with violent adjectives,
“and chucked me these things. It was back
there by Fish Creek. He came out of the
bush with a pistol at me 'ead. I’ll stake
me life he’s the one wanted fer that robbery
at Pike’s station on Sunday. Pike’s offered
a reward of 50. You might go halves with
a body if you get him. I’ll be at Moody’s
in the township.” Clare did get him. He
camped for lunch at Fish Creek, and by
chance discovered a man in woman’s cloth-
ing. lurking in the scrub. He gave chase,
knocked his quarry head over tip with a
stick, trussed him without ceremony, and
delivered a vociferous and appealing wretch
POOR SPORT.
“How did you enjoy your bathe, dear?"
“Oh, there wasn’t a soul there worth seeing
me."
to Mounted-constable McGrath at Dunn’s
Trouble. “He’s wanted for the robbery at
Pike’s,” said Clare. “I believe there’s a
reward of 50.” McGrath scratched his
head. “Yer wrong in a few thriflin’ details,”
said he. “There's no reward at all, and
the thief from Pike’s is a twoman —'the
woman that stole this man’s clothes.” Clare
has since confined himself exclusively to
carting.
* * * «
“Dido”: The other day Jinks, the father
of an Eaßt Melbourne family, returned to
his home to find a swank-
ing biscuit-colored Rolls-
Royce panting at his
door. Indoors he came
upon an imposing dame
in black satin and £5OO
worth of ermine weep-
ing dolorously by the
kitchen stove, while a
tall, grey, grave gentle-
man wearing a monocle
and a IG-guinea suit ad-
dressed impassioned ap-
peals to the servant, a
girl who had been in the
service of the Jinks
family for eight days.
Mrs. Jinks stood apart
surveying the scene in
blank perplexity. “What
does this mean?” de-
manded Jinks. The
duchess in fur disre-
garded him, and the duke
with the cut-back whis-
kers went on with his
emotional address, urg-
ing the girl to go with
him right away. Jinks
grew more assertive.
“Here,” said he aggres-
sively, “don’t you think
you have an infernal
cheek coming here to
drag off our servant
under our very noses?”
The ducal person screwed
in his monocle, and
looked Jinks hard in the
right eye. “Your ser-
vant, sir! Your servant!
Dammitail, she is our
daughter!” Mary Ann
went away with the
duchess in the swanking car, and left Jinks
and Mrs. J. to piece out the romance as best
they could with the aid of a series of
American films.
* * * *
“Lingua Franca”: No country of any-
thing like its size has had so little of the
of the Tower of Babel as Aus-
tralia. Various foreign tongues have been
introduced to make up for the swift decay
of Binghi’s multitudinous dialects, but they
have never flourished. In the very early
days a lot of the Irish exiles sent out in
the troubles of '9B and the following years
had not the English, and spoke nothing but
Erse. Interpreters had to be found for men
from parts of Ireland where Erse has long
been a dead language. But that didn't last
long. From. first to last a fair number of
Gaelic-speaking Scottish Highlanders and
Cymric-speaking Welshmen came to Aus-
tralia, but as a rule they soon learnt Eng-
lish. In the 'forties and early 'fifties man?
Highlanders settled in the Clarence River
country, and it is recorded that as late as
the 'seventies Gaelic was the prevailing lan-
guage in several districts up that way, as
it used to be a few years ago in some up-
country parts of Otago (M.L.). The most
persistent foreign language which has ever
taken root in Australia is the German,
brought in by the German settlers w T ho came
to S. Australia about 1840. Even to-day
there are whole districts in S. Aus. where
German is more commonly spoken than Eng-
lish, and German settlers have carried their
unlovely tongue into the western parts of
v ictoria. But it is in process of disappear-
ing. 4 here are places round Kalgoorlie
where nearly all the inhabitants speak
Italian or some brand of Slav, as the case
may be, but the population there is a float-
ing one. The Italian districts in North
Queensland have more promise of perma-
nency. Then, of course, there is a good
deal of Chinese, Greek (in the fish-shops
and at Darwin). Spanish (by the Manila-
men), Malay, Beluehi and Indian and near-
indian languages spoken up and down Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Eddyson” looks at the world:—
Don t expect to get to Heaven because you never
had a chance of breaking the seventh commandment.
Whoever heard of the fallen woman realising on
her accident assurance r t
The thief dreads a touch lees than does the father
of seven daughters.
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor
his man-servant, nor his maid-servant.” How cheer-
fully we Christians subscribe to two-thirds of that:
By far the largest and most insistent mendicant
class never begs—it borrows.
Are we to assume that High Heaven, answering
our prayers for daily bread, delivers short weight?
Knowing many parents I appreciate the necessity
of disobedient children.
At 18 the world is a garden, at 80 a graveyard.
The briefest summary of woman in grammatical
terminology—“ Active voice, present tense.”
(Continued on page 18.)
SPARK AND FLAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Leashed at the bidding of doom
Deep in the darkness we lay,
I and my mistress of bloom,
Fretting the ages away.
Lo, in a dream had I seen
Wind blowing wild in her hair,
She, the world’s ultimate queen,
Sharing the throne of the air.
Footsteps draw near and depart....
Weary and pulseless and dumb
Wait we, cold heart pressed to heart,
Dreaming of glory to come,
Shall the stone cry to the stone,
Death but of death be the sire?
Sweetheart, I thrill to your tone.
Speak. We have found our desire.
Life ! I have seen ! It is true !
Whispers the air with my name.
Word of the wonder that grew,
Song of the spark and the flame.
Dance! The brown pathways are spread,
Leagues that are dry for our bliss—•
Love of my heart, make them red,
Give them delight of our kiss!
Up to the smoke turrets high!
Leap ! Let our coming be known!
Not on these hills shall we lie,
Mountains our splendor shall throne.
NO PLEASING HIM.
EDITOR: “Really this is of no use. Jokes
about dogs biting tramps were popular
in Noah’s time."
ARTIST: “Well, what did you mean when
you said you wanted jokes with a snap
in ’em?"
On to the ultimate light I
What though the pathway be blind,
Ours is the fulness of sight,
Ours is the glory of mind....
Thus did I dream in the dark,
I that of darkness began,
I that in pride of the spark
Am what I know not —a man.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


The Magnificent Pianola Piano
n
♦
s>>
.s
V
k/
V
Wi
r
r
>t
4
2
I V
kvVl^
■V
lv?
is??
'i
fc
A
*
*3.
A Truly
Munificent Gift
MUSIC— Good Music—PIANOLA MUSIC carries
always with it such unlimited pleasure that
the happiest choice of all, fully worthy of
every festive occasion, is the giving of the marvell-
ous PIANOLA PIANO. In value, in service, in
construction —in every way it establishes an un-
assailable standard so often sought in imitations
but never attained. It is an Exquisite PERMANENT
Present, offering lifetime gratification.
an extremely small initial
PAYMENT and very little monthly
amounts make it convenient to pay for the
PIANOLA at your leisure. A glance at
the booklet that is forwarded on request will
tell you much of the PIANOLA merits; but
to call and hear, as well as play yourself, some
favoured melodies, will soon fascinate you
with the simplicity and beauty of this highly
esteemed instrument.
'THE PIANOLA is only obtainable from
1 the PIANOLA COMPANY, and in
the following Pianos : The Steinway,
Aeolian Steck, Aeolian Stroud, and the
English-made Aeolian Weber. See that
the Instrument you buy bears the name
“ PIANOLA,” the Registered Trade Mark
of the Pianola Company. This is to safeguard
you when offered elsewhere a Pianola Piano
that is not a Pianola.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
Please send me the Pianola Piano
Catalog
Name
Address
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PTY. LTD.
“ The Centre of the World's Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments ”
252 Collins Street, Melbourne
384 George Street, Sydney
436 Queen Street, Brisbane
Cr. Rundle Street & Gawler Place, Adelaide


BOSTOGK’S DRY GLEANERS
maintain Suede Leathers in their original freshness and pliability, A
perfect dressing - J
rf
!i
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
—
For White, Black and Colored Suede Shoeware.
Colors: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey, Champagne,
Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
STA<a
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY,
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Spare Corp.”: Sometimes the officials
who deal with ex-soldiers’ affairs strike amaz-
ing matrimonial complications. For in-
stance, application for special benefits was
made on behalf of three children, two of
them named Blank, and the third Blink. The
woman who claimed as mother called herself
Dash, and the soldier described as father
was one Asterisk, dead on active service. It
seemed a baffling puzzle, but it transpired
that the lady had had two children by her
first husband, Blank, before she married
Asterisk and became jointly responsible for
the child of his first wife’s first marriage—
Blink. After Asterisk had died at the
Front his widow married Dash. Another
woman submitting a claim mentioned that
she had 13 children of her own, and had
adopted a fourteenth, the orphan of a
soldier. The lady who lightly adds a four-
teenth child to a large and hungry family
must be inspired by a pure enthusiasm for
children.
*** ' *
“Eve” : Bobbed hair, the origin of which
has been intriguing Bulletin contributors,
has its advantages as well as its difficulties.
A short-haired artist, whose work has been
highly praised, acquired the habit of doing
Suburbia minus a hat and dressed in severe
tailor-mades. She liked the idea until she
found herself in the hands of the Law. An
enterprising member of the Force had been
shadowing her for days. When all was ready
for action he accused the horrified miss
of masquerading as a woman, and mentioned
the terrible word “arrest.” The lady
screamed, referred the implacable peeler to
a genial P.M., who is her god-father, and
finally proved her sex by having hysterics.
However, as the policeman had “met her sort
before,” he was not to be beguiled, and
marched the sobbing maiden to the lockup.
Miss Palette is now growing more hair.
“Toe”: Re “Hairpin Roads’s” beer issue
(B. 17/2/’2.1) that had to be sawn off on
the Somme, I swear this by the 1914 Star
that I haven’t received. Our firewater was
conveyed to the line in earthenware jars, one
of which was a man’s load and was gener-
ally carried by a “shrewd head.” One frosty
night—it had snowed all day——Fritz dropped
a few 5.9’s for luck in the neighborhood
TWO OF A KIND.
BARMAN : “Yours gin?"
GLADYS: “No, sir, the other lady!"
of my dugout. The ration party passing at
the time sustained some casualties, including
Battler, who was in charge of the rum
department. Battler, badly damaged, was
assisted to an aid-post, animadverting bit-
terly on his crimson “stiffness” en route.
I retired for a sleep, but was awakened
at daylight by the excited chattering out-
side of some Tommy O.P.’s. Crawling out
to investigate, I saw that Battler’s fall had
broken the jar, the contents of which had
trickled into a frozen crevice. The O.P.’s
were engaged in bailing out such of the
brown ambrosia as hadn’t frozen. P.S. —I
helped them.
BACKING BIS FANCY.
“What are you putting your money on for the races, old man?"
" Well , the tell you the truth, I'm Putting most of it on my wife. She's ordered two new
dresses."
Sir Spen” : Bill McCafferty, who had been
out of work for months, got a job at the
Newcastle steel works. When Mrs. O’Brien
dropped in for the usual morning chat she
found her neighbor in a state of distraction.
“Phwat’s the matter wid ye?” asked Mrs.
O’Brien. “Shure it’s rejoicin’ Oi thot ye’d
be aft her Bill gettin’ on at the stheel wurks.”
Aw, thira stheei wurks, to be shure,” moaned
Mrs. Mac., “look here ” and she thrust
into the visitor’s hands a newspaper article
concerning the works. Among other things,
it mentioned how steel and iron objects
could be lifted to kingdom come with the use
of magnets. “It’s the Lord himself knows
pwhat’ll become of poor Bill if he gets near
thim there magnets,” she went on. “For
pwhy ?” asked Mrs. O’Brien. “God be good
to the poor mahn,” came the reply, “for just
a few days back, when Bill was giftin''his
loife inshured, the dochtor told him that he
had a constitution o’ carsht oirun.”
* * * *
From a Melbourne surgery:—-
A few cases of infantile paralysis with one death
have put the Melbourne health authorities on the
gui vive, and they have resolved to deal most dras-
tically with the disease, should Sydney’s “mild”
epidemic migrate southwards. One medical opinion
is that the complaint is infinitely more infectious
than diphtheria, and requires more radical measures
for its Suppression, but as nothing can be done
towards eradicating the scourge, except notifying
the cases and quarantining the contacts, precisely
what is meanf by “more radical measures” is not
very clear. The health authorities in New York
were pretty powerless in 1913, when 1400 cases
occurred in that city, with a mortality of 25 per-
cent. Infantile paralysis is always present in New
York, and in the 1913 epidemic stringent regulations
were adopted, no person under the age of 16 being
allowed to travel. By this means the outbreak was
gradually got under.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I made the acquaintance of
Blue Peter on a field near Cassilis, (Vic.).
Peter had once absorbed a charge of blasting-
powder, with his face mainly, hence his
cerulean complexion and his sobriquet. A
mining “hatter,” he lived in a neat slab hut,
and worked the small quartz leaders for
what they were worth. I found his re-
sidence very small, but trim and cosy, and
papered throughout with sections of the
illustrated papers, conspicuously The
Bulletin. He told me he had been there
for seven years. “Don’t you find it un-
bearably lonely?” I asked. “Whatever do
you do with your evenings?” “I read.” said
he. I sought for the bookcase. “Read
what?” I asked. “Oh, the walls,” Pete
explained. “I’ve read this north wall and
the ceiling.” He indicated the interior of
his humble home. “But you will soon get
through all this, won't you?” I said. He
nodded. “Yes, but then I buy a new pile
of papers, second-hand, down at Power’s, and
paper her all over again.” When I next
I>d in on Blue Peter it was a Sunday,
and he was busy renewing his library.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Cabled that Edward Abrahams,
Ar i wealthy ew > has left all his money to
Melbourns alms-houses and orphanages, “to
provide Edward Abrahams wings.” Well, if
charity really does mean a first-class ticket
for Heaven, it will have that precise effect.
“Centurion”: That yarn of the old Lon-
doner who shoved up his gingham when the
Hun bombs began dropping (B. 24/2/’2l),
lecalls a Gallipoli incident. Hostile aero-
planes were fairly rare then, and when the
second in Command of the Ump-
teenth Light Horse saw his first
Taube coming over, he roared to
his batman to bring his rifle from
the nearby dugout. After a shot
or two the excited Major realised
he wasn’t getting the range or
something. Another summons to
the “bat” brought that minion out
with a biscuit-box. Hastily climb-
ing on this, to get a bit nearer
his target, some thousands of feet
above him, the Major emptied his
magazine at his foe. Then, satis-
fied that he had done everything in his
power to abate the nuisance, he retired from
the contest, followed by the “bat” carrying
rifle and box.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket”: The growing habit of
chaining portable property for safety is an
odd sign of the times. At a house in Surry
Hills (N.S.W.) the doormat is held by two
stout iron clamps connected with a chain
which passes through a grating and is pad-
locked in the area beneath. When night
comes the mat is turned into the area and
the grating securely fastened. It doesn’t
look worth the trouble, now, but it might
have been a good mat Once. A Surry Hills
grocer, who has brooms in his doorway has
chained the handles of the exhibits to frus-
trate the casual pillager. But Surry Hills runs
more to chaining that most suburbs. The
police discovered not long ago that a jealous
husband, who rented a small, tumbledown
domicile in the poorer quarter, was addicted
to chaining up his missus. Having seen that
the ingredients of her lunch and his dinner
were on the kitchen table he would care-
fully padlock his partner before going to
work, giving her just that amount of room
that would enable her to prepare the even-
ing meal. The lady had long passed her
period or attractiveness, if she ever had one,
but she evidently regarded the chaining as a
subtle compliment—a tribute to her fatal
beauty. One night, however, she rebelled,
and bolted; but when the police interfered
she wept copiously and returned to chains
and matrimony.
* * * *
_‘‘Non s tri pe ”: “Pip’s” remarks (B.
17/2/ 21) on the British Army returning to
swords show that he has studied only
one side of the question. I was among the
unfortunate Light Horsemen armed with the
cumbersome rifle and bayonet during the
earlier part of the campaign in Palestine.
This short-sightedness of “Pips” in high
places was the cause of many of our lads
remaining behind for their long sleep. To-
wards the end of the campaign we were
armed with cavalry swords, given a few
weeks training, and sent out to the front
line, and we fo_und them handy and effective
in a charge. To my mind, the ideal
weapons for mounted men are the automatic
revolver and the long cavalry sword, the
revolver to be after the German automatic
pattern a wonderful bit of workmanship,
which may be attached to a dummy butt and
used as a rifle. Had our men carried revol-
vers equal to the German automatic, which
is sighted to 800 yards, a mate of mine
would not be lying in a desert grave. He
was one of a party detached from the regi-
ment with orders to search Bedouins for
arms. With rifle and bayonet fixed he gal-
loped up to a group of Bedouins and ordered
them to disrobe, suspecting that arms were
concealed beneath their voluminous draperies.
The leader refused, and in a thoughtless
moment the trooper thrust the point of bis
bayonet under the robe in search of the hidden
armory. _ Instantly the weapon was twisted
out of his hand, and before we could inter-
fere, the unfortunate fellow was run through.
There were fewer Bedouins in that part of
Palestine after the next few minutes. But
the revolver that the trooper didn’t have
would prevented all the trouble.
“0.K.”: To me this is a deeply interesting
outcome of the shipping strike: —
Repently the Trades Hall Relief Committee asked
the Victorian _ Government to provide monetary
assistance to relieve . distress among women and child-
ren, due to the trouble in the shipping industry.
Cabinet declined to comply with the request, but
agreed to find the necessary money to afford relief
through the usual channel, viz., the Ladies’ Benevo-
lent Society. The wives and children of unionists
are not likely to avail themselves of such assistance.
“They would,” said a member of the committee,
“suffer in silence unto the extent of starvation, as
some are doing now, rather than accept public
charity.”
The cant of the Trades Hall Relief Com-
mitteeman, cadging for Government assist-
ance, and the cant of Custom, as expressed
by the legendary impecunious Briton, who
would die rather than go into the work-
house, jostle one another in this connection.
A Government grant to relieve distress
among the wives and children of men work-
less from their own choice—what is it but
public charity? All charity is public if it
not private, and there is nothing degrad-
ing in the acceptance of it by anyone in
actual want. Government doles to needy
people are charity in the same way that a
workhouse feed in Britain is charity. The per-
son who “suffers in silehce unto the extent
of starvation rather than accept such
charity,” is an unmitigated ass, seeing that
everyone has a right to the means of life.
The truth should be publicly proclaimed and
generally understood by trades unionists.
ENCOURAGING CIRCUMSTANCES.
MABEL: "These seaside lovers are very em-
barrassing.”
PERCY: “Not at all. It only shows what
little need there is for any reticence on
our part.”
But in the name of sweet reasonableness let
Labor clear its mind of the notion that
strikers or their victims have any sort of
right to ask publicly for cash assistance in
any sort of form but charity, or can pos-
sibly beg money from a Government in their
hour of need without begging for charity.
GENTLEMEN LIKE ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All these white men on the wharf could be gentle-
men if this country was run right. Instead of that
1 !fi e t rn l ?- d( ? inB ' H'S'Ror’s work and doing it darned
badly, this is a black-man’s country.” —Sir Henry
Samman, Bart.
ou can all be gentlemen, gentlemen like me,
Ordering the nigger round with a motion free
Of a large and splendid jaw—
Gentlemen a trifle raw,
Gentlemen like me.
You can all be gentlemen. What is this I see?
Vi hite men doing honest work ? Simple infamy !
Let the nigger fill your place;
Grow in idleness and grace
Gentlemen like me,
Let the nigger and the Chow man your ships at sea;
Swell your waistcoats, lift your chins, feel that
you are free!
Throw your idle dreams away!
Black Australia yet might pay
Gentlemen like me.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820, Still going strongs
r.> $«,
/i
WHBf
*>:v
Tfft
I !
////
ihSi
Mi
11*1 «
a
t lilJrAil
1
flfJ
r \
1
5Z
/ 4
&l
fffirT,
a
'M
m
mu
,7
tJs
Jl j*
U-ffi
111
n
a
•i
HU
m
M>/
Va
Q
7'
®1
a
4*A&***t+*
m
t
\
M\ Bl
I
I
k
&
j*y
te
m
/ a>>
\
if
h
C«eie
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. No. IO.—CHINA?
Johnnie Walker: “It is not difficult to understand the calm philosophy
of the East.”
Tourist: “No, like you, it is well matured and of ancient standing
»
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTT AND.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
w,
K
K. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney, Agents.
faf
Hefe's the certain way of
overcoming’ the suffering of
ECZEMA and ALL SKIN
TROUBLES! Numbers are
constantly testifying to its
miraculous powers. Recom-
mended by eminent doctors.
Send NOW for sample (as
below) to LIGMOLLIENE CO..
Malyons, Sturt St., Ballarat.
faf
CUT OUT THIS
& SEND WITH 16
For special sampue
A Signal
WHISKS’
Kie TOP-NOTCMScofch.
33
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“T.D.”: Dudley le Souef, director of the
Melbourne Zoo, has a unique specimen of a newly-
born kangaroo, taken just as the mother had put
it into the pouch. It is the tiniest little creature,
naked and blind, and not as big as a mouse, though
it belongs to a large Species of kangaroo. The
specimen came from the Broken Hill country, and,
in spite of very tempting offers, its owner has no
intention of parting with it. Incidentally, it
disproves the theory, which is as old as Governor
Phillip s time, that marsupials are born in the
pouch.
A MATTER OF NATIONALITY.
FIRST BUNNY: “So Long ears is dead—
another good Australian gone.”
SECOND BUNNY: “His tombstone said he was
French; he appeared as a ‘French
Special ? on the menu.”
11.E.P. : Allow me to add another crime
to the already lengthy list against the wedge-tailed
eagle. On my selection I had a flock of turkeys
and they would wander away a couple of miles from
the house to feed. Riding about 300 yards from the
flock one day, I saw a lamb-ldller swoop
and seize an almost fully-grown turkey in its claws
and light out for the horizon.
* * * *
“Bright”: “Ino” (B. 17/2/’2l) cites some
queer doings of the moon. Know a young chap who
went to sleep in the 'moonlight and woke up the
next morning to find his face distressfully distorted.
The rays caused the whole of the skin on the lower
part of his features to contract and move around
about half an inch to one side, drawing the skin
very tight and pulling his mouth out of plumb.
This happened about 10 years ago; and though the
misplacement can still be seen the features are now
almost back to normal.
* * * *
“Taurama”: An old-time celebrity of
Papua, Mou, the murderess of George Hunter, the
first Government Agent at Rigp (the eastern sub-
district of the Central Division), recently took the
long trail at Moresby. She was “housekeeper” for
Hunter, and, like so many other native women, soon
lost whatever affection she had had for her foreign
master; so, while he lay delirious with malaria, she
and three other natives smothered him with a pillow.
The tragedy happened ’way back in ’B9, the year
after the arrival of Macgregor and settled govern-
ment in British New Guinea. Two of the killers
met the rope at Rigo and Moresby, respectively,
while the woman, whose health was delicate at the
time, was sentenced to imprisonment for life. She
served over 10 years, and then the ladies of Ela
(Moresby) took pity on her, and on the Government
being petitioned her case was reviewed and she was
pardoned. For many years .the old woman conducted
a laundry near Moresby, and in benevolence to her
poorer native relations she spent all the coin. The
old girl was a staunch supporter of the Catholic
Mission.
* * ■* *
“Jonah”: How’s this? With one gun
between us, brother and I shot 2000 kangaroos in
three weeks. Early in the first week we had an
accident, and lost the hammer off the gun, so I
used to sight it, and brother fired it by hitting
the pin with a tack-hammer.
•**<>*
“H.V.E.”: The gaily-upholstered red
rock-cod - (purely a marine species) has a dingy
first cousin, known as the bullrout, which penetrates
far into the fresh waters of eastern (N.S.W.) coastal
rivers. It has two sharp spines jutting out from
the forehead, one short and fairly thick, the other
long and attenuated. With either dagger or lance,
which can be erected at will, the bullrout can inflict
painful stabs; but I don’t think the wounds are
poisoned, like those caused by his little dark-brown
brother, the noted fortescue fish. I’ve seen an arm
horribly swelled from a fortescue stab. A bullrout
turned up recently 10 miles from the mouth of Bega
River in very shallow water, and an uninitiated
native would have attempted to catch the spiny
fellow by hand had not a wily abo. fisherman yelled
a warning.
* * * *
“Animbra”: Re “Euro’s” account of an
Englishman’s death on a Territory mining field (B.
26/8/’2O). “Euro” has either a most vivid imagina-
tion or a very bad memory. Would “Euro” like to
know the strength of the man’s death?
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: Everybody who has lived for
some length of time in the vicinity of a battery
knows the disturbing effect of a
cessation of crushing at night. I
visited Lefroy for the second time
shortly after the Native Youth
had closed down. The Native
Youth used to run about 50 head
of stamps, and the roar of the
battery lent the township a dis-
tinctive atmosphere. I noticed on
the first night of my stay a
peculiar grinding and rumbling
sound coming from the room next
to mine, which was occupied by
the proprietor of the hotel. After
two nights of it I put in my com-
plaint. “That’s my battery,” Yates
explained. “I constructed it out of
a kerosene-tin and the workings
of an old clock. When the Youth
battery stopped I couldn’t sleep
for the infernal noise, so I con-
structed this thing to take its
place. It fills my room with a
rumbling, and now I sleep
as well as ever I did.” “You
couldn’t sleep for the infernal
noise ?” I ejaculated. “You mean
for the lack of it.” “Oh, no, I
don’t,” replied Yates. “I mean
what I said. When a battery is
going you hear nothing; when it
stops you hear every dog howl,
cat yowl and cock crow in crea-
tion. No, sir, for absolute silence
at night there’s nothing like a
big battery.”
“Yoyang”: Peter Mitchell in his will
emphasised the danger of in-breeding in the human
l’ace, and this brings to mind the curious variation
of first-cousin marriages as practised by the Melan-
esian tribes of Viti Levu, Fiji. There first cousins
who are the children of a brother and sister are
marriageable, but first cousins who are the children
of two brothers or of two sisters are absolutely for-
bidden to marry. Basil Thomson shows that a
marriage census was taken about 25 years ago to
ascertain what first-cousin marriages had taken place
since the breaking down of the old tribal customs
and what the effect was upon the offspring. It
was found that about one-third of the married
couples were first cousins (children of brothers and
sisters), and they had larger and healthier children
than those whQ were quite unrelated. Some couples
were the wrong sort of cousins (children of two
brothers or of two sisters), and, strange as it may
seem, not one of their children was left alive. Have
the Fijians hit on a new physiological truth not yet
known to Europeans—that the children of a brother
and sister are not so closely related as the children
of two brothers or of two sisters? Can Bulletin
readers find any confirmation of this Fijian law
among the families of their acquaintance?
* * * *
“Mandi”: A greater egg-stealer than the
crow is the brush-pheasant, a sneaky, swift-running
bird whose saucy “qwisheuw” is familiar along the
CLASS-CONSCIOUS.
MISTRESS: "Mary , I have corrected you repeatedly; you really must do as I tell you."
MARY: Don 't you talk to me like that! I’m not one of your old-time blacks!"
edges of brushes and about tussocky swamps. It
roams through the rank growth in which the unregu-
lated hen loves to plant her treasures, and no matter
how well a nest of eggs may be hidden in such locali-
ties, this diligent fossicker will find them. Conse-
quently, whenever one is seen near the house there
is an urgent demand for a loaded gun. It is a
pity, though, for the bird does not go into sheds
and is useful.
*'* * •
“P. Plain”: These water-diviners are up-
to-date birds. Away back in the days when Aris-
totle, Agricola and others wrote of them, they
ascribed the movements of their forked sticks to
some “subtle principle” in the earth; each succeed-
ing generation of dowsers has gi.ven a fresh explana-
tion, more in keeping with the scientific catchwords
of the time, and now we have them in the most
solemn manner giving it forth that the divining-
rod is influenced by radio-activity or ultra-violet
rays! But the dowsers in dry U.S.A. have gone
one better, though along another line. The early
diviners from Moses onwards seem to have special-
ised in finding water. Then they turned their atten-
tion to the discovery of ores. Hidden treasure
was a natural sequent. They made quite a boom—
in a petrol-driven age—of finding hidden oil-wells.
Now they blossom forth in Yankeeland with the
claim to “divine” the i r vate whisky still! There
is, by the way, quite a ! etentious ore-divining co.
now being floated in Australia (100,000 shares at
£1), and its progress will be watched with curious
interest by the aged and cynical.
* * * •*
•“Mab”: When “Ino” (B. 10/2/’2l) was
watching for 20 minutes while four eagles slew a
calf on Bathurst Plains, was he afraid that if he
interfered the eagles would not distinguish between
the two-legged and four-legged species of calf?
* * &
“Chev”: After two or three years’ fruit-
less search by departmental experts in the Tweed
and Brunswick districts (N.S.W.) for a cure of
“bunchy-top” in banana growth, a Tweed Heads
grower, T. Brooks, seems to have solved the
problem, and already hi 3 fellow banana-eulturists
are rising up and calling him blessed. The remedy
is just plain sulphur, applied to the diseased roots
of the young trees —if old trees are affected the only
cure is to dig them out. Bunchy-top is caused by a
white fungus that attacks the roots and eats away
the covering thereof, leaving only a dried and dead
fibre, which, of course, fails to transmit the neces-
sary food to the bulb of the plant—hence the
dwarfed and unhealthy leaves, which “bunch”
together instead of spreading out, and so prevent the
bknanas from growing to fruition. The sulphur
cleans up the fungus, the roots recover, and in
three weeks the growth is normal. If time proves
it a complete cure, then Brooks’s discovery will save
thousands of acres of rich land at present threatened
with ruin. All experiments up to date have been
successful, and even one of the Dept, of Agriculture’s
experts is impressed by the results.
*■***.
“Machete”: “Manu Manu” asks how long
sharks live. The record of Port Royal Jack is about
the best I’ve heard of. This eminent member of
H.M. Naval Forces is credited with having served
for close on 40 years as custodian of the guard ship
in Port Royal, Jamaica, from 1800-1840, or there-
abouts. Even the vigorous cat of good King George’s
glorious days could not prevent the seamen waiting
for their ships from deserting or going A.W.L. by
swimming. As Jack showed a tendency to haunt
the moored ship, this was confirmed by a daily
ration of beef bones, Jack being duly put on the
ratings. He had, of course, any perquisites he
might acquire, and his unswerving attention to duty
brought him quite a lot of these—at first. Later,
he found extras scarce, except when a new draft
had come on board. Like many another disciplinarian
Jack was not popular with the lower deck, and
many attempts were made to destroy him. There
is nothing on the records to show how or when he
was struck off the books.
NO NEW EXPERIENCE.
ABE : “Go on, get your money on. It’s the
best of good things. Haven’t I put you
on your feet many a time?”
IKE : On me feet, yeth—an' you made me
walk home many a time.”
“Fanuela”: This is the real oil from a
genuine bushman. If out without a gun and the
dog raises a ’possum which seeks refuge in a high
tree, tap the trunk of the tree firmly with an axe
or large stone. His “furship” will descend at the
double.
(Continued on page 22.)
BALLADE OF COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see thee, meditative dame,
In creamy velvet dressed.
Thine eye’s profundity to name
Calls for a poet blessed
With power that never I possessed.
To thee fat statesmen bow;
For their delight is here expressed,
The ballade of the cow.
What is thy purpose and thy aim,
Thy highest and thy best? s
Is it to stand in wooden frame
While udders cutely pressed
Thy productivity attest ?
Behind thy spacious brow
Is thought • that might with depth invest
The ballade of the cow ?
When graceless poddies run to claim
Thy motherly bequest,
No warmth of kind, maternal flame
Thine actions manifest.
When by their lordly sire caressed,
Thou dreamest much as now.
Chill apathy it must suggest—•
This ballade of the cow.
Envoy.
Immune to heat, serenely blessed,
For ever chewest thou.
’Tis sheer “demnition grind” confessed—
The ballade of the cow.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Australian Novels
By the Commonwealth’s Best Authors.
1/3 each—All One Price—l/44 posted.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA” by Norman Lindsay
“FOR TURON GOLD” - - by Don Delaney
“SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS,” by J. H. M. Abbott
“RED MOUNTAIN” - - by Jack McLaren
“HACK’S BRAT” by A. lan McLeod
“BASE BRANDS” by H. M. Somer
“SOUTH SEA SINNERS” by Arthur Crocker
“ÜBIQUE” by C. W. Martin
“WOLAROI’S CUP” by Ambrose Pratt
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL” - - -by Jack North
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” by Ralph Stock
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE” -------- by E. J. Brady
“THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION” by H. K. Bloxham
“THE SHANTY-KEEPER’S DAUGHTER” - - by Vance Palmer
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO” by Ambrose Pratt
“GENTLEMAN JACK” by Don Delaney
“SILVER STAR” by Randolph Bedford
“IN RACING SILK” by Gerald R. Baldwin
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF” - - by Bob Allen
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-LAUNCH,” by Arthur H. Adams
“THE MYSTERY OF THE BOXING CONTEST,” by Bert James
“THE DAWSONS’ UNCLE GEORGE” - - - by Sumner Locke
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE” by Roy Bridges
“THE WHITE CHAMPION” by Don Delaney
“EROS! EROS WINS!” by F. Agar
“THE TRADER” - -- -- -- - by Cecil Ross-Johnson
“BILLY PAjGAN” - -- -- -- - by Randolph Bedford
“ALADDIN AND THE BOSS COCKIE” - by Randolph Bedford
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE” by Con Drew
“THE MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY” - by Harrison Owen
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ROARIN’ MEG’ ” - by Jack McLaren
“YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
“THE SELECTOR GIRL” ------ by Broda Reynolds
“THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR,” by Jack McLaren
“THE BULLETIN” BOOK OF HUMOROUS
VERSE AND RECITATIONS.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or Direct from Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George St,,
SYDNEY.
SSf
m
m
Gillette
Most men prefer the Gillette for its
quickness—no stropping, no honing,
a keen, sharp blade constantly ready.
They know, too, that the Gillette
always gives a cool, clean, close shave.
It cannot scrape, scratch or irritate the
most tender skin. Note the curved
blade, adjustable to the needs of the
individual user.
The Gillette is daily employed by
forty million men the world over.
Standard Set in neat leather case, 28/6
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Agents—S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide.
MADE IN
faf
«*<9WN THE
•TCITKYD
"world over
YOUR EASTER SUIT
LEVIATHAN TAILORED.
Just nice time to have Your
suit smartly tailored and ready
for Easter.
BE MEASURED TO-DAY.
Returned Soldiers allowed
10 per cent discount.
&he
Quality Suit
Tailored-to=measure
£BlB6
Men who know the value of
well-tailored clothes will ap-
preciate the distinctive cut
and fit of the Leviathan
“Quality” Suit. Materials
are All-wool, Indigo-dyed
Cheviot Serge, and All-wool
Australian Tweeds in Smart
Grey and Brown Patterns.
WHITE FOR PATTERNS, SELF-
MEASUREMENT CHART AND
TAPE—TO-DAY.
RETURNED SOLDIERS.
The Leviathan will tailor
material . received from the
Repatriation Department, and
supply all linings, trimmings,
buttons, etc.
Special Price,
Strictly Net.
£4/10/-
u
• -SJv,
\ ,-j
?V
J
1
m
Vh
? i
ft
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
15he
faEVIATHAf!
PTY.
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
«i
m
in
&
%
r\''
P
m
&
m
f,
4
VA
m
vVN^V
fa.
UK i
/I
**/««
H
2rw
B
b
X
%
3>
SH
SL
£
&
g
K
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them—in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
’T KCt33: 7irfVbr an d
See.l'his
on eacK 51111


Brewed at Home
* Iff Better
A Tin of “BE VAR A” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
traiia. 0R POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS, Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia
II
DEAFNESS
iv N
w
Perfect hearing is now
being restored in every
condition of deafness
or defective hearing
from causes such as
Catarrhal Deafness,
Relaxed or Sunken
Drum s, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and
Hissing Sounds. Per-
forated, Wholly or
, Partially Destroyed
Drums, Discharge from Ears, etc
WILSON COMMON-SENSE EAR DRUMS
“Little Wireless ’Phones for the Ears,” re-
quire no medicine, but effectively replace
what is lacking or defective in the natural
ear drums. They are simple devices, which
the wearer easily fits into the ears, where
they are invisible. Soft, safe and comfort-
able. Write to-day for booklet, or order now
The price is 21/-
H. WILKINSON (Wilson Ear Drum Co.)
Ist Floor, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Mention this pacer.)
HIS TURN TO EXPLAIN.
HUBBY: “Didn't I telegraph you not to bring
your mother with you?”
WIFEY: “Yes, I know; that’s what mother
wants to see you about —she read the
telegram.”
“T. D. Emdee”: It is frequently stated
that the flesh of the pawpaw is good for indiges-
tion, and that meat, if placed in close proximity
to the pawpaw will be tendered. A limb of the
law, who has been in Fiji, recently told me that
this is all a mistake, and that the seeds of the
pawpaw, which we throw away, are the only por-
tion of any use for digestive purposes. He added
that in Fiji the seeds are carried about in small
bottles and chewed as needed. In my case the paw-
paw is indigestible except when I have chewed the
seeds, whose hot and biting flavor appeal to my
palate; so there may be a good deal in what the
traveller from Fiji savs.
*
“Topo”: An ornament of the Ma State, as
truthful as a New South Welshman can be without
breaking anything, tells me, an innocent and trusting
Victorian, that on his selection in a time of
devastating locust-plague, ■ the pest devoured every
vestige of herbage, including a set of green Holland
blinds. Now was George Washington his ancestor,
or does he hark farther back, through the ages to
Ananias ?
* * * *
“Gagi”: A burrow in our back paddock
stretches six inches in diameter through two or three
branches to at least 40ft. Not a cupful of dirt
adorns any of its three entrances. Same with every
other burrow I have been introduced to. What does
bunny do with the dirt he digs? He can’t embed
it in the walls of the burrow (that would mean
beating-in the first foot or so before he had any
hole to embed it in) ; I don’t think he eats it, and
I’m pretty certain he doesn’t carry it off to build
molehills with. Can any Abo. who has been a
rabbit in a former existence oblige without levity?
REASON FOR NXIETY.
"My goodness, I wish he would come down soon.”
“Why? Are you frightened your husband will be killed?”
“Oh, no; but I have to pay the dressmaker’s bill, and he forgot to leave the money at
home.”
“Zanthus”: When they go snapper-
fishing on Dirk Hartog Island (W.A:) the local cor-
morants supply the bait. F. L.- Whitlock, an ornitho-
logist who spent some time on the island, found
the easiest way to get bait was to fire a gun near
a party of well-grown young cormorants. In their
fright they at once threw up their last fish-supper,
mostly in very sound condition.
***■*■
“Jim Carew”: “Scrub-dasher” (B.
3/2/’2l) writes about the superiority of spurwood
as a timber for use in mauls. Well, I don’t want
to start a controversy, but will guarantee that, used
under equal conditions, a maul made from a good
piece of woolly-butt will outlast any two made from
spurwood. I have used both.
“Ragar”: Black Brother in ex-German
New Guinea is no worse off as regards sickness
than the black races elsewhere. Take any island in
the Pacific and you’ll find the same state of things,
though some places are worse than others, and the
same conditions exist in India, East
and West Indies and in Africa. The
Zulus at one time would have no
diseased person among them, and any-
one showing signs of leprosy, ele-
phantiasis, beri-beri, syphilis or mal-
formation was promptly knocked on
the head for the good of the race.
This, by the way, was the reason that
the Zulu was the finest man physically
and the greatest fighter on the Dark
Continent. A similar custom was
observed among most colored races till
the missionary got busy among them.
With his coming Black Brother’s
troubles really commenced. The mish.
not only stopped the primitive but
effective clearing-up system, but intro-
troduced new forms of sickness and
disease through the agency of second-
hand clothing, which he imported for
the poor savage. But for the inter-
ference of missionaries generally there
would be little to complain of from
a health point of view on many of the islands
where the natives are now fast dying out.
* * * .
“Kerango” : Believe the New Guinea and
Fijian medicine-men have some good remedies in
their repertoire; but a couple of years’ experience of
Peninsula natives (N.Q.) makes me think their
medicine-men are quacks. Whenever natives suffered
from cuts, staked feet or syphilis they begged a
supply of bluestone, and, according to my con-
fidential houseboy, they used it to rub on the
affected parts—poor devils! Periodically, generally
about wongi time, the tribes suffered more or less
from “Oon-amatouree” (severe diarrhoea) or “Oona-
ma-tuit” (cholera), and they would then approach
us for white-man medicine, usually oil. I admit
they know something about snakebite and cures,
but their knowledge of snakes and the Varying
severity of the venoms of the different' species
stands them in good stead. The Cape York abos.
placed the brown snake and death-adder at the head
of the danger list, and the black snake with the
sharply-pointed head (red under neck and tail) next.
They were not very much alarmed at a bite from the
black snake with the mullet-shaped head. While
horse-hunting in the vicinity of Lockerbie, a disused
homestead, Cape York, one day I came across a tribe
of Bed Island natives, one of whom, a gin named
Spider, had been bitten on the leg by a snake of the
last-mentioned variety. She had scarified the punc-
tures with a piece of glass, and though seemingly a
bit dopey was not alarmed. She sat chewing some
green vine leaves, the juice of which she swallowed
and the residue she placed on the bite. One native
told me that as a result of the medicine “Spider
bimeby go alonga sleep close up two days, then wake
up more better.” About 10 feet from the bitten gin
I noticed the evildoer alive, but safely pinned down
with two saplings, one across the neck and the
other across the tail. Upon my suggestion that he
be killed, Spider screamed out: “No more killem
boss! S’pose you killem, Spider been gettem too
much pain; s’pose you no killem longa two days,
shnake been gettem plenty pain, my word —then
makem good kai-kai Tonga that pfeller Spider.”
henever the pinned-down reptile struggled to free
itself the natives would laugh at its plight, believ-
ing it was suffering the tortures of the damned in
lieu of Spider. My boy afterwards confided to me
that snake was “eeunma” (choice) kai-kai for the old
men only; but in the event of a gin being bitten
she was then permitted to partake of the cause of
Adam’s downfall.
* * V *
“D.F.”: A shearing-shed picture in the
Sydney Art Gallery shows one shearer with bare feet.
I used to think the habit of shearing that way
was purely a family failing, but apparently it isn’t.
tV hen I was about the shearing-shed as a nipper,
and afterwards, we all went barefooted, but shearers
that I have seen elsewhere wore slippers or old
light boots or something of that kind. There’s a
lot to be said for bare feet. They give a grip of
even the greasiest floor, and bare toes are good
and safe to dabble in the wool with. And, any-
way, shearing is a game at which you want as
little on as possible; though I have known men
who always worked in their hats.
* * * *
“J.G.”: “45” (B. 6/l/’2l) asks for a
recipe for making a gully dam. Here is mine, based
on a long experience of country where rapid and
large bodies of water tear off down the gullies now
and then: Dig a trench on the side of the dam,
about 2ft. wide; cut down through
the surface soil and well into the clay,
and carry the trench a few feet into
each side of the gully-bank. The sur-
face soil should be thrown aside, but
the dug-up clay should be well
soaked with water and put back into
the trench, and other clay should be
obtained from somewhere and treated
the same way until the trench is
full. Puddle the clay well in the
trench. Now scoop up the ground
inside where the dam is to be. This
scooped-up earth is to be used to
carry up the dam bank, and as the
bank is built the 2ft. “trench” of
puddled clay is also to be carried up.
This clay trench is the core of the
bank, and if well puddled will be
thoroughly waterproof. If there was
no core of puddled clay in the dam
bank, the chances are that the water
would soak through the earth and
escape. It is essential to start the
clay core below the surface, other-
wise the. water soaks through the sur-
face soil beneath it. The dam bank
should be a good 2ft. or 3ft. higher
than the by-wash, which should be
pretty wide and cut out of one side
of the gully. The bank should have
a good slope towards the dam,
otherwise the frequent floods will undermine
it in time. When “45” has finished he will find that
if he can coax a grass like couch-grass to grow on
the bank it will resist a flood like that of the late
Noah.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: It is most unusual to see a
snake in this part of the world (Pilcanyen, not far
from Lake Nahuel-Huapi, in the Andes). But my
brother has killed two, with an interval of eight
years between. Certainly the war intervened, and
he was out of the country for four or five years.
The snakes were killed in places 30 miles apart, and
are spoken of as being the only ones ever seen here.
They were about four feet long, a pale yellow color
underneath, and a dirty grey-brown above, the top
color being of two different shades and marked in
cheeks. They were hideous-looking beasts. Can
“H.V.E.” place them for us?
Iwa : Once saw a scrap between a
yellow-belly snake and a leather-head —an N.Q.
slate-colored bird a trifle bigger than the dove,
with a top-knot of hard, leathery skin (hence its
name), which affords it great protection. The
leathery was protecting the nest while his missus
was away when he caught sight of the snake crawl-
ing along the thin branch that held the nest and
chicks. Several vicious pecks in the middle of
the back, and the snake fell to the ground, where
the bird went for him again, hammer and tongs,
and in the long run killed him.
* * * ♦
D-F. ’: Kerguelen Land, in which H. de
Vere Stacpoole laid the scene of his “Beach of
Dreams, was well known to many of the old-time
Hobart flown whalers. The island which Cook very
appropriately called the Island of Desolation—a
name under which it figures in some of the whalers’
logs -has a climate much like that of Macquarie
Island, gales and rain in summer and gales and
snow in winter. The calm way Stacpoole’s heroine
goes sea-bathing in this sort of climate would tickle
some of the old-timers.
‘ T.Y .T.” : The Java dove, so common in
the gardens round Melbourne, is following on the
heels—or the wings—of his cobber the Indian
rnina, and is rapidly becoming an Outbacker. He
may now be seen and heard in the mornings in the
ti-tree scrub out back o’ Bunyip, Gippsland. Dunno
whether it’s “the lure of the bush” or the effects
of the strike that caused him to start out as an
advocate of decentralisation.
* * * *
“Bersaglieri”: My experience has shown
me that the tailless kangaroo is as active on his
pins as his full-membered brother. A week before
Christmas I caught a flier with two and three-
quarter inches of measured tail, while about six
months ago I took part in the capture of one buck
with less than four inches of stump. Both of
these -especially the former —shifted across the
scenery fast enough to make lightning look silly.
It struck me that the loss of the appendage was due
to collision with a fence or something of the kind.
“Gee Bung”: “Toe” (B. 13/1/’2l) sug-
gests an altogether too-costly remedy for foul pipes.
Scrape out the offensive bowl and fill with ordinary
washing-soda. Pour boiling water over the soda,
holding the pipe so that the solution will run
through the stem. Bepeat two or three times, then
wipe thoroughly and put aside for 24 hours. Being
well-seasoned, the pipe will be sweeter than when
brand-new. y
* * '*■ *
“Zanthus”: There is, or used to be, a
legend that the silver-tree of South Africa —on the
leaves of which tourists touching at Capetown write
messages to annoy friends .who can’t afford to trip it
overseas—refuses to grow anywhere except in certain
spots on the slopes of Table Mountain. But, like
yarns of the same kind about the Tasmanian waratah
and other plants, it’s all moonshine. For instance
there are plenty of healthy young silver-trees not
far from Sassafras (Vie.), where Billy Hughes has his
farm.
A MAN OF WEALTH.
“That bloke has let millions pass through his
hands”
“What! Was he a millionaire once?"
“No a bank-teller."
“Strush”: Bought a mild-eyed Anedah
terrier with a pedigree like the tail of a peacock
for four quid from a benevolent-looking old pot
who breeds ’em. His record up to date is the
slaughter of five innocent seagulls, one less virtuous
but all too-confiding magpie, and a muscovy duck
whose maternal instincts made her a valuable addi-
tion to our ranch. Thrashing’s useless ; so will some
kindly Abo. advise me of a *cure— or, better still
relieve me of the dam’ thing.-
SUNDAY IN THE MALLEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t claim that we’re religious in a preachin’,
prayin’ sense,
Or that farmers in their dealin’s never jump the
moral fence.
Haloes ain’t much good wfth horses, but we always
pass one test —
We keep Sunday in the Mallee as a dinkum day
of rest.
We get up before the poultry other mornin’s in
the week,
Scrateliin’ bard for early worms to feed the nation’s
gapin’ beak,
Graftin’ hours before the city gets its mornin’ paper
read—•
But on Sunday we leave sinful ways an’ take a
spell in bed.
There’s a restful feelin’ everywhere: the horses seem
to know,
An’ you’d swear that there’s a difference in the
way the roosters crow.
Winds an’ clouds an’ trees an’ sunshine moves as
quiet as they can—
Nature always keeps the Sabbath when she’s not
disturbed by man.
Hear that whinny from the stables. Gripes I It’s
nearly seven o’clock !
Restin' may be quite religious, but we mustn’t starve
the stock.
There s the cow to milk an’ pigs to feed, an’ water-
troughs to fill;
An’ before we have our bath we’ll oil an’ grease the
creakin’ mill.
Then comes Sunday mornin’ brekky. Free from
thoughts of toil an’ care,
Al e are gentlemen of leisure, an’ we eat the table
bare.
Cleanly folk are near to godly, sin is always next
to dirt,
So the batchers choose this solemn hour to wash their
socks an’ shirt.
There’s no worldly work to tire us, but there’s odd
jobs without end,
Such as fixin’ gates an’ harness, an’ there always
boots to mend.
So we saunter through the Sunday, restin’ just as
Christians should,
Meditatin’ on our neighbors’ faults an’ tryin’ to
feel good.
Peace on earth —if you would find it you must seek
it on the land.
Every Sunday in the Mallee, when the world comes
to a stand.
There is rest for mind and body, time to loaf an’
yarn an’ smoke,
An’ to practise the religion of a simple country
bloke.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


at the Sale Yards
one realizes the growing popularity and utility
of the motor car. Whether it be in city or
country town one invariably notes a group of
cars at hand. In the old days saddle horses,
buggies, and all descriptions of traps congre-
gated at the weekly sales, but now-a-days the
ever-ready, never-tiring motor car holds sway.
And no wonder! Journeys that took hours are
now condensed into a fourth of the time, and
with double the comfort. As an annihilator of
miles the modern car accomplishes wonders,
and at an economical running cost. One of the
main factors in getting absolutely the best out
of a car is to use Australian made “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYRES
for they have by test-in the hands of tens of
thousands of Australasian motorists proved
themselves absolutely the most dependable and
most serviceable for use on all descriptions of
roads or tracks. For quality and value they are
a far more economical proposition than buying
imported covers and tubes. When you fit
“ Railroads” you can be sure of many thousands
of miles of trouble-free motoring, and at the
minimum cost of tyre upkeep. The nearest
garage can supply in beaded edge or straight-
sided types.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AND N.Z.
ALL STATES
:
■;': f "■:< £
■:
: ;
mm
wmm
? j®
. ..
Y ;
* i
X'
; I .
S- '
N> s'
m
liSliil
' s ,*0
.
msi
i* '
■111!
* IW^»M
Si
nMiiK'
.. aiegSt:
' '< / • WJ V < ' S.-3
l? -.. sLv.
' ■s- -/
tplj|i|||
gf
WM
II IS
r£v?
ss
isi
T||3 '; s s. r^v
P$S ipr r
>r -.vJa. ->v-fei
■ "'
fig
'
f
. s-
mm l
■.:- - --
■ :
i a
* v
m
SWM
: 4
I
, ,
" ■ ’
-w
t <
% 9
« V
1 ■
»,-. ■


It SAVES in Every Way.
£75
First of all, the original
cost of the Auster
represents a saving, for
it is much less than
that of other systems
which are not nearly so
efficient.
Then, it saves on labor.
It does all the hardest
work on the farm, thus
saving the cost of hired
help.
AUSTER
Farm and Utility and
Marine Type Engines
The Auster consumes only -J-pint of kerosene per b.h.p. per hour.
It wih chop wood, drive any kind of farm machinery within its
powei, pump water from well, dam, creek or bore, or drive a motor-
boat.
Two Sizes: Single-cylinder (3| horse-power), £75.
Twin-cylinder (6-8 horse-power), £135.
Let us send you particulars of this strong and reliable Australian-
built Engine. It is fitted with best British Magneto.
All details on request.
WG WATSON&C°L™
279 Clarence St Sydney
Electrical Suppliers and Engineers.
Telephones: 9967-8-9. Telegrams: “SWITCHON.”
w^ A
“ Advance
a toast from the Motherland in
Australia !
I
SCOTCH
By eareful husbanding of stocks we hope to maintain regular (if
,ndu “ - “
&
m
4^
w
OX6
Dawson
JHSCIAI SCOTCH
Funded Whisky
P.D.' the Scotch Whisky
lsto ** c Lineage and
World - wide popularity.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
uiiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin
r tW t "
1
BOAne
nr
W
1
k
/fft
'/A
7a
%
mm
Building for Permanence
In building your home make the walls and ceil-
ings permanent, too. Beaver Board will last
as long as the building itself the knotless,
flawless panels cannot crack, chip or fall.
Beaver Board may be used equally well in any
type of building construction. The result will
always be pleasing and permanent.
Beaver Board is stocked by Timber Merchants
and Builders’ Furnishers.
THE
BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada; London, England;
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Write for Sample and Booklet to
Australasian Representative, O. D. GORDON
G. P. O. Box 2408,
Sydney, N. S. W.
faf
for Better
Walls and
Ceilings;
BEAVER
BOARD
PURE WOOD FIBRE
.il
faf
faf


Tke
Purest
Spirit
tke
World
7<r.
(. . wolfe's schnap? 6
Three Glorious
Grand Pianos
PALING’S
Christman
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for those who
appreciate artistic excellence of tone
and responsiveness of touch. Emi-
nently suited for the home where
space is limited.
V
The Durability
' of the Christman
is Undoubted.
Your present piano will be taken
in exchange and a liberal method of
purchase for the balance is offered.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
Mason and Hamlin
Moiseiwitsch, the famous pianist, used the Mason and
Hamlin exclusively during his Australasian tour. He
writes:—
.... New and Exqusite Effects as to Tonal Color,
Quality and Dynamics are made possible for
Composer and Interpreter. . . .The Mason and
Hamlin Pianos are incomparable among the
instruments of their kind.
SOLE AGENTS:
338 George Street, Sydney
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Rockhampton! and Lismore.
BEHNING
Drawing-room Grand
An exquisite instrument with the
stamp of quality in every detail.
In brilliancy, resonance and volume
of tone the Behning represents the
highest achievement of this type of
piano construction.
The Tonal Beauty
of the Behning
Lingers with the
Memory.
You are cordially invited to examine
their remarkable instruments at our
showrooms.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
wild, unearthly beauty set in a turmoil of
great surges. Always the impression per-
sists, but he does not mention it till, 20
years later, a friend remarks: “There is one
part of the first movement of the Appassion-
ata that means, the sea —it is the sea itself.”
Then he wonders: “Can it be really so?”
and speaks, only to find that they are think-
ing of two different passages and disagree
about them utterly.
A student is asked what Chopin’s B minor
mazurka conveys to her. She cannot say,
but, strongly pressed, murmurs shyly of dust
on the roses, of memory and regret and rebel-
lion recurring in a hopeless circle. Where-
upon she is told. that one in authority has
interpreted this mazurka as a drunken man
being scolded by his wife, fitting colloquial
words to certain phrases, and that this ver-
is actually taught in music schools.
We are apt to call Chopin’s music erotic,
exotic; with his life-story, in the back of our
minds. Would we say the same if his works
were absolutely nameless, nothing known of
the composer? Take the F minor nocturne,
which has been called a musical counterpart
of Swinburne’s “In the Orchard.” Set a few
lines ending in “baby coon” and “silber
moon” to the opening melody, and we have
a “typical” nigger lullaby. Or arrange the
same melody as a chant for one of the peni-
tential psalms. Imagine a good choir sing-
ing it to the words: “Oh, spare me a little
that I may recover my strength before I go
hence and be no more seen.” We would
swear that it was written for nothing else.
What the ghost of Chopin would swear is
another matter, and probably unprintable.
The gay little dances of Corelli, Scarlatti,
Boccherini and their brethren have a melan-
choly undertone of age to our ears. We know
that they are old, that is why. Sgambati’s
“Minuetto. Vecchio” is a perfect imitation,
but it gives us none of the “chilly and grown
old” feeling that sent cold shivers down
Robert Browning’s back. We know that it
is modern.
To talk of negroid mating songs or harem
dances is not to talk of music, which, free of
the extraneous aid of word and gesture* can
no more be lascivious than it can be reli-
gious.
Doubtless it is a bodily thing to the
“bodily-minded.” Music, Absolute music, is
beautiful —or it is not music. Every other
characteristic ascribed to it is a reflection of
the individual critic’s “make-up.”
Beethoven cannot express in music all
that he thinks about life. What can be
thought can only be expressed in words. But
he gives us in his great symphonies that
which cannot be even thought, but is yet
somehow present—let us be reckless for once
—in our souls. And so the souls of music-
lovers receive it, each one for himself alone.
The charm of absolute music lies in its
intimate appeal to something in each of us
which we may call human loneliness, or
human vanity, as our nature prompts us.
ELSIE COLE.
From Yap to Sleigh Dogs
“Knowledge soon becomes lumber; there-
fore get rid of it” (old Irish fairy maxim).
Mr. Frank Coffee has done so, and the
amount and variety of the knowledge he has
packed into his book, Porty Years on the
Pacific, prove that his eyes and ears have
missed nothing in the nature of sight and
sound, and suggest that every facet of his
brain is equipped with cameras forever regis-
tering snapshots. In his introduction the
author meets possible hyper-criticism with
“I adopt no pose in the world of letters;
what I have written and compiled is largely
a book of my own impressions, not a history
in any sense, and I have told it in my own
way because it was the natural and un-
studied thing to do.” The naturalness has
been well achieved, and the book is “alive”
from its start about the navigation of the
Pacific to its finish with one of the most
informative of indices.
As an old campaigner Mr. Coffee says
he “thinks nothing of taking an 8000-
mile jump.” So he leaps here and there
through the myriad semi-tropical islands of
the Pacific, “bright with bloom and dense
with leaf,” to the Midnight-Sunland of
Alaska. But always his nets are set, or
being hauled in full of lively items, curious,
amusing, informative. He has good words
to say of even missionaries and ships’
stewards. He finds a brass statue of Marco
Polo honored with a place among the Chinese
gods in Canton ; he sees a system of time-
keeping (with drips of water) that was in
use 2000 years before Christ. He finds the
Crimson Rambler rose blooming freely in
Alaska, and whilst steaming through dead
calm water a fellow passenger, a silk manu-
facturer, pointed out that it was from a ves-
sel’s wake through a still sea that the first
idea of designing watered silk was obtained.
The vast fish-manning factories of Alaska
remind the author that halibut live to be 80
years old, and weigh up to 200 pounds.
Salmon are but four-year-oldsters. But to
this sport-loving community of Australia
Mr. Coffee’s description of “the North’s Great
Sporting Event” will make vast appeal. Early
in April, when daylight is good, the annual
All-Alaska Sweepstake is staged. The course
is from Nome to Candle Creek and return, a
distance of 412 miles. It is a thrilling con-
test of strength, speed, endurance, courage
and judgment. For months before the race
the whole popuation, men, women, children
and Esquimaux, talk dog, and a race dog
is the most petted thing in the community.
A few years ago one of him wantonly killed
85 sheep. In the court case that resulted
the jui’y found for the dog’s owner, asserting
that Alaska is a dog country, not a sheep
area. And the verdict carried a hint that
the sheep must have been the aggressors.
Perhaps 12 teams of man-dog-sleigh will
start 15 minutes apart, and the race is run
through and over terrible country by the
frozen shores of Behring Sea, often in the
teeth, of a howling blizzard. For the time —
usually 80 hours —that it is “on” no one
sleeps and the long distance telephone keeps
all informed how the dogs are going. Every
team must return with the same dogs, dead
or alive. The prize is usually 10,000 dollars
in gold and a massive silver cup, and there
is an aggregate of 200.000 dollars in wagers.
Mr. Coffee talks with manufacturers and
statesmen in Japan. He has something to
say of Yap, where the Germans had their
great wireless station and over which valu-
able bone the nations are now growling.
Easter Island, that remnant of lost Atlantis,
comes under his purview, so do Maoriland
and copra, and sugar, and rubber, and the
story of Bully Hayes, and ocean currents,
and there is amongst the maps an ingenious
profile of Panama Canal. The book, which
is profusely illustrated, is dedicated to the
author’s son, the late Lieutenant Frank M.
Coffee, A.1.F., who was killed in action at
Gallipoli in Nov., 1915.
A Satchel of Books
Runaway Jo, by E. M. Webb (Ilodder and Stough-
ton, London). A lively impression of a voyage from
Sydney to Vancouver decorated with an unusual and
not ungentlemanly scrimmage for the damsel who
gives the title to the tale. The girl is undeniably
dazzling, though she would probably disclose in a
sequel an eminent capacity for darning socks. The
incidents, however, are well handled, and the often
sentimental dialogue never burbles into bathos.
Ralph, Earl of Lovelace, by his wife, will be read
with interest by the family. He seems to have been
the average cultivated Englishman of means and posi-
tion whose innocuous hobby it was to put Byron’s
suffering wife right with the world. Half a century
ago Mrs Beecher Stowe made charges against the
poet, allegedly on the authority of Lady Byron—
the latter being by this time dead —and Lord Love-
lace declined to believe that his martyred grand-
mother could have so far lowered herself as to say
such things. The story of the book which he eventu-
ally wrote in refutation of the Yankee novelist’s
allegations is spun out with loving but wearisome
zest. When not mildly tearing a passion to tatters
on a question which, after all, was neither here nor
there, the Earl climbed Swiss mountains and wrote
pawky, waggish little letters home about his experi-
ences, or entertained his friends at his English
county seat. He closed an uneventful career by'
dropping dead on a terrace in his garden. (From
Christopher’s, London.)
The tremendous self-esteem of the modern bruiser
and the seriousness with which many are prepared
to take his gasconadings are both exemplified in
Georges Carpentier’s My Fighting Life —a sumptuous
volume with 11 excellent illustrations. The book
has evidently been done by one of those literary
ghosts who attend to such matters in London for
eminent persons suffering either from illiteracy or
indolence. In this case the interpreter of the
French boxer’s ego has overdone it. This, for example,
is not the Lens pitboy but rather the typical Sun-
day-paper stylist:
“Perhaps not a few French boxers are too much
inclined to ape the ways of the ‘American school’....
I will always have it that Harry Lewis affected the
true American style. He so fashioned his way that
he embraced all the best that is in English boxing,
and by constant practice, by diligence and by high
intelligence gave to it much of his own personal
character.”
In such well-chosen language extending over two or
three hundred pages, the French boxer proclaims his
triumphs and condones his ’reverses. Against Klaus,
who forced him to desist in the L9th round, he was
out of condition; and Papke (who brought the devoted
Descamps into the ring in the 10th) maddened him
with unmanly taunts. In opposition to the remark-
able Wells, on the other hand —a master who must
hold the world’s knock-out record by a handsome
margin—he was consistently Homeric. At present
Carpentier and his manager have but one desire —
to meet Jack Dempsey. Dempsey represents to
them, in more senses than one, the elusive Grail
which was sought to such good financial purpose in
the Middle Ages. As the narrative closes, they are
off breathing defiance against the American champion
to Los Angeles, where the films are manufactured.
Our copy from Cassell and Co., Ltd., London.
The Water Colors of C. J. Holmes, the sixth of a
series of folios published by The Studio, is, like
everything turned out from this house, admirably
produced. Holmes has been editor of the Burling-
ton Magazine, Slade Professor at Oxford and Direc-
tor of the National Portrait Gallery, and is now
Director of the National Gallery, and between times
from lecturing and writing on art he has painted
“industrial landscapes” and bits of the fell country
in the north of England. This collection of eight
reproductions gives a good idea of his peculiar
method, suggestive of colored drawings. The indus-
trial subjects, finely and surely handled, make an
instant appeal; but some other landscapes, in then-
stark solidity of drawing and coloring, will evoke
more curiosity than admiration. “Penmaenmawr”
at least fits its name, though what it’s all about is
a mystery. Michael Sadleir, in an appreciative fore-
word, says “so far, there is no Holmes school in
English art.” We can do without a Penmaenmawr
school yet awhile.
A Rough Y. M. Bloke, by Frank Grose (Specialty
Press, Melbourne). This is a rugged tale of
Y.M.C.A. doings behind the fighting front in the
late war. The author pushed a bike, laden with
cigarettes right up to the guns, and 'sat a horse,
called “Flyblo,” which had a habit of stroking its
ear with its hindleg. There is nothing very new
in the pages; but they paint a side of the big
struggle which may be worth recording. The book
is too unpretentious to challenge criticism, but the
frequent grammatical lapses are a pity.
The Pacific Review (Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.)
has an article in its issue of December last on “The
Poetry of Australia,” by Robert Max Garrett. Many
Australian writers are mentioned, but the reviewer
seems to have very little genuine feeling for their
work. For instance, the longest quotation from
Lawson is “Australian Bards and Bush Reviewers!”
Garrett tells his readers that Australian verse is
like that of the Western United States. It may be
so, but we should like some proof of it; and the
magazines and newspapers of the Pacific Slope very
carefully hide their light if they have any.
The Turned Worm, by Roy Norton (Skefflngton,
London), Two men, one a judge and the other a
commercial traveller, are exactly alike, and both
fall in love with the same girl. The book is well
written and a light vein of humor runs all through.
In the end the commercial person is successful and
.the reader is quite satisfied.
Penny Plain, by O. Douglas (Ilodder and Stough-
ton, London). A book of charming people of whom
the most charming is Jean. From start to finish it
ripples along its pleasant way; its humor is as con-
vincing as its characterisation. A much better yarn
than most of its class and than many that pretend
to be of a higher class.
Laughing Water, by Ethel Turner (Ward, Lock
and Co., London). Ethel Turner’s story-telling vein
wears well. With more than two dozen* books to her
credit she holds the attention as strongly as ever
and continues to exert most of the old charm. A
lot of people who are not very young will like the
very young people and children gathered into this
latest book.


Fats for the Yards!
Cattle, Sheep and Pigs for Homebush
Market, Sydney, or Enoggera Market, Bris-
bane, truck to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Wide-awake Salesmen. Attentive,
capable and successful.
DICKS
faf
TRADE
MARK
More Wear—Less
Worry—Lower Cost
Good belting should give you these three
things-—Dick’s Balata Belting does. The
composition of balata gum and specially-
selected cotton wears longer; lowers your
operating cost; the quality is so good you’d
buy Dick’s Belting for tliat alone.
Write us now for Price List.
SOLE AGENTS:
JAMES HARD IF. & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,’’
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
RIDE A BICYCLE
o
FITTINGS
and start well .
You may as well have the best to
start with and get complete satis-
faction from the beginning, it will
pay you in the end. The un-
equalled popularity of Bicycles
built of genuine B.S.A. Fittings
is due to the absolute reliability
and long service for which
B.S.A. Fittings are world-famous.
Once bought, you are sure of
years of economical service with
little attention, and no trouble.
BUILT OF
GENUINE
All B.S A. Pai'ts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A
V
C.S.A.
%
Send for Illustrated List and
particulars post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
'"" 1 II aW
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
1
m
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
faf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
faf
QNVU9
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZING CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terras of Delivery, add ress—
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the British Board of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
y* R. 3LA3L.TTO
Si
“It’s a STETSON!”
Clothes may make a man but a hat crowns
the effort.
To the thoughtful minded, personal pride
dictates the exercise of extreme care in
the selection of a hat.
Choose a STETSON and by the congratulations
from “ HER” and your other acquaintances, the
excellent fitting qualities, the lasting shapeliness
and unusual durability you will have reason
x to be proud of your decision.
Sole Australasian Agents:
P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE HAT of TO-DAY
WITH CHARACTER, SHAPE and
STYLE.
IT WILL GAIN THE APPROVAL
OF MEN WHO SELECT
CRITICALLY.
GREY, with, light binding,
From r /
\
ml if/
314 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
TAN MILITARY BOOT
ALL SOLID
LEATHER.
Strongly Made from the Best Materials on the Good-fitting
Military Last.
The Three-Decker Soles being Brass Riveted, Sprigged and Sewn
on Edge.
Our Guarantee with Every Pair. Money Refunded if Not Satisfied.
Every Genuine Pair Stamped with Our Name on the Sole.
Add 1/- Exchange on Cheques.
Youths’ Sizes, 2 to 5, 19/- Men’s Size, ll’s . 237-
MEN’S SIZES, 5 to 10, 22/- Men’s Size, 12’s .... 25/6
Visits
SERVICE SHOE CO.,
Queen’s Parade,
Clifton Hill, VIC.
POST
FREE.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Rotastrop
msmm
faf
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
If Dissatisfied.
' LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
~A.H« COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Adelaide”: This is entered for the queer-
receipt championship. I had occasion to
send a man up-country £lOl. and received a
carefully written acknowledgment of “One
hound and one pound.” It has quite a
mediaeval flavor, as of the days when a
tenant might have to pay a rental of a
horse and a silver coin.
“Vic. R.” : Had a couple of weeks’ fishing
recently in the Ovens River (Vic.), which
used to be alive with toothsome native fish,
but it was a wasted fortnight. Drum nets
abound. In one 27 cod and bream, bulking
about a hundredweight, were caught in a
single night. The drums are started early
in Spring, and by the time the season is
legally open there is very little worth hook-
ing.
“Audio” : Am acquainted with several ama-
teur thieves, specialists all. Collectors of
glass tumblers form the most numerous class.
These trophies must be emptied before they
are pocketed, and the contents have the effect
of blunting both conscience and caution.
The rivalry in this pastime is to get the
greatest variety. It is a hobby that can
be pursued in pleasant places. Then there’s
the cutlery expert who eats into his in-
come to indulge his insanity. Among those
who specialise along other lines is Simpkins.
He had a matchless collection of side-combs
and garters, gathered from all sorts of un-
likely places. But one spring-cleaning his
wife discovered them, and that was the end
of Simpkins’s improper hobby.
* * ‘ * *
“P. Pawnticket”: I don’t know to what
extent 11.C.L. is due to face-cream, but it
must be no inconsiderable item. It is com-
forting.. of course, to learn that the stuff is
being manufactured locally, but there seems
to be a good deal of wasted effort about the
business, economically speaking. I person-
ally know half-a-dozen people who are mak-
ing a good living out of complexion-grease.
One of them, a big burly citizen who used
to be a farmer, mixes his decoction on Sun-
day and hawks it round the suburbs the rest
of the week. The manufacturer’s cost in his
case is 3|d. a pot, and he sells at 3s. 6d.
a jar. Another “firm” consists of three
people, the woman who fabricates the mys-
tery and the two men who “distribute” it.
It isn’t in any sense of the term useful work,
and I have been wondering where “face-
cream” occurs in those puzzling lists by
which the Board of Trade is prompted to
decide that the minimum wage upon which
a man and his wife and two children can
live is £4 3s. 2fd. or thereabouts. Perhaps
it is included as “charity”—charity covers a
multitude of skins.
“Fitzroy”: The absorption of 60 Rock-
hampton (Q.) out-of-works in prickly-pear-
elearing at Bajool—the notion is to prepare
the land for cotton-growing—recalls a 16-
year-old experiment of the late Wullie Ivid-
ston’s. Unemployment was acute at the
time, but Kidston wanted to see something
for his money, and one of the projects
embarked on was the planting of an area
of scrub land at Bajool with sisal hemp.
The initial work was well enough done, but
by the time the crop was ready for the rope-
making factory that never saw the light,
things had improved, the men had got work
elsewhere, and the Government had other
things to think about. So the sisal-hemp
plantation was allowed to become a com-
parative wilderness. Later, a private indi-
vidual took it in hand' and has done well.
It is a first-class hemp, and a Maoriland fibre
manufacturer who saw some of it in the
Central Queensland exhibit at the Sydney
Show last year offered to give an order for
a regular supply. But Tom Walsh and Co.
decided otherwise.
* * # «
“J.”: The unemployed who have been
demonstrating in Sydney would demonstrate
twice as often and rave many times as furi-
ously if anybody were to import, say, 200
Japanese to compete in the labor market.
Yet that was really the effect of importing
43,000 cwt. of potatoes from Japan, as the
Ma State did last year, while Victoria, hav-
ing a small surplus over her own needs,
exported 61,S49cwt. to America and Maori-
land. Most Sydney-siders would have pre-
ferred Victorian spuds to Japanese, but their
rulers haven’t sense enough to see that
fellow-Australians get the preference over
Japs. Of course, this humping of Irish
apples to and fro “makes work,” but that
sort of “work” is usually reserved for the
animal that wears a mane and a tail, and
even he has never indicated any keen desire
to indulge in it.
* * •* *
“Looker-on”: A cheerful sort of lunatic
blew into our joint the other day and
announced that he was going to do business.
He told me he had only been going a week
and had already cut the throats of four of
our leading business men. With alacrity
I stared him into the boss’s room and waited
hopefully for the noise of the massacre. But
nothing happened except the emergence of
the homicidal person with a triumphant grin
adorning his mug. He explained that he
was travelling for a new brand of soap, and
had merely been using a trade expression.
“Topo”: The kind of thing that gladdens
the hearts of repatriation workers. H. D.
Heriot, a soldier-settler on the Upper Mur-
ray. has 174 acres all cleared and planted,
and one arm did the lot. The other is in
France.
STOCK-IN-TRADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With twenty-nine good metaphors, twelve rhymes,
Eight ancient words discarded by the years.
Forty-eight phrases suited to the times,
A sense of rhythm to work in average ears
(That here and there goes somewhat out of tune), '
Some useful knowledge of the waves and trees,
Some vague ideas about the sun, the moon,
The lion, tiger, skylark and the bees,
Some yearning towards pale females in the night,
Some chaste desire for perfect nakedness,
A ream of paper whereupon to write,
A few stamps and the editor’s address
Genius, untroubled by a single thought,
May ring the changes till a cheque is caught.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


* * ...
■ »
!. .
-
m
IS
y 5!
a
1*1
m Ts
73X3
B
m
The Dainty, Stylish Hose of
Wonderful Wearing Qualities
Holeproof Hosiery represents the supreme achievement of the
hosiery-making art. Its radiant beauty, lustrous sheen and fine texture
mark it as the style hose; yet with all its daintiness and refinement, it
has the ability to deliver long and satisfactory service.
Wherever worn, whether it be at an important social function
or for everyday wear, the superior quality of Holeproof is evidenced
in its luxurious appearance and perfect, snug fit.
LEADING DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
sell Holeproof Hosiery for men and women. It is obtainable in all
fashionable colors in your favorite material: fine pure silks, fibre silks, silk
over lisle, or fine lisles.
Indents and Wholesale through
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney. 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.


FOOTWEAR and HALF-HOSE
faf
receive the earnest consideration
of the well-dressed man, for well
he knows that, though his suit be
of the finest material and best cut,
its good points are lost by the
wearing of incorrect foot attire.
This Autumn David Jones’ display
of these goods even surpasses
that of previous seasons. When in
town call and inspect—it will be
time well spent.
Men’s Tan Calf Lace Shoes,
fashionable straight last and
light, welted soles. Sizes, 5 to
10 37/6
The boot we illustrate on left
is an All-patent Derby style,
with light, welted soles and
smart extended square last.
Sizes, 5 to 10 507-
In Half-hose—a mixture of
wool and silk, featuring the
best colors and most uncom-
mon designs, range in price
from 14/6 to 21/- per pair.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David c Jones
for Service
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY Tel. City 6336.
mm
ii m
wm
Wwz
vsaxmm
’Mr A
mm s®
KSse
m
Your Tyres
Deserve the Best Tubes
No doubt you are very careful to buy only the
best tyres. Then be just as careful when buy-
ing tubes. A good tyre deserves the best tube.
Much tyre trouble is avoided and greater
mileage assured by using Goodrich Red Inner
Tubes. Thousands of motorists have learned
this by experience. Be sure your next tube is a
red one with the name “Goodrich” on it. That
name stands for economy.
Goodrich ‘Rtd
INNER
TUBES
The B. F. Goodrich Rubber Company
Akron, Okio, U. S. A.
Established 1870
Makers of the Famous Goodrich Tyres
Distributed by DUVAL & COMPANY,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
The S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
E. T. Tu. 13
Dinkum”: At the recent Defence surplus
sales in Vic. a country order was received
asking for “Two pairs of dungaree trousers
to fat a man with a 16|in. collar.”
Ad. from the full heart of a frantic matron
in King Country (M.L.) Chronicle:—
Wanted, as companion for lady with marriageable
daughter, a hunt away dog. Good biter preferred.
Price, etc., XYZ, Aria P.O.
One of the weaknesses of the Federal
Government, Donald Mackinnon told the
Yic. War Council, when it was giving him a
send-off, was the habit of glorifying its own
officers. If those officers would only try to
find a smaller fit in hats the cost of govern-
ment, Donald calculated, would be reduced
considerably. Mac was having a tilt, appa-
rently, at the £2OOO and £1250 a year jobs
that are growing far too numerous, especially
when the calibre of the men filling them is
taken into account.
The voice of India isn’t very articulate,
for it talks in 33 languages and some small
gibberings, and at last census 294,877,650 of
its people (94 per cent.) didn’t read or write
in any of them. But as far as can be
gathered, mostly from the remaining 6 per
cent., if India wants anything definite it
isn’t the nine Parliaments which Britain
is giving it. As the country is obviously
excited and angry it may be that it wants
independence. Reckoning Indians, Egyptians,
Boers, Irish and French-Canadians, the Em-
pire doesn’t seem to gather in many enthusi-
astic friends.
From an Australian prospector in Feder-
ated Malay States:—
Through long association with Cousin Jack miners
1 had learned to accept the dictum with regard to
tin that “Where she be, there she be,” but now I
know that they were all wrong. For days I had
toiled through the jungle under the guidance of
Awang, the most accomplished Malay liar I have
ever met. At last we reached the valley where, as
he had previously told me, “tin ore lies so thick
on the ground that the hills are blacker than a
moonless night.” A few hours’ patient washing up-
stream yielded nothing, and Awang, feeling it was
up to him, volunteered an explanation. Carefully
he explained that once upon a time some Chinese
had worked the valley, but had been foolish enough
to kill a black dog. Immediately the tin let out a
great shout and ran away into the hills. In my
very best Malay I told Awang what I thought of
him, and added a wish that he had been there to
suffer the fate of the dog. “Oh, Tuan,” he replied,
“it would have been of little profit to kill me.
Now had they but slain a white goat, the tin would
have surely hastened to return.” Then he added in
a most contemptuous tone: “But we all know well
that all Chinese are fools and liars, do we not,
Tuan?”
Through “Galleryite’s” spectacles
Lawson’s readjustment of Cabinet portfolios
amounts to this, that Clarke and Pennington have
been disrated and Livingston and Angus moved to
higher pedestals. Clarke, who had already sub-
mitted to the deprivation of Lands, has now handed
over Water Supply, and Public Works, which he
retains, is virtually a sinecure. Lawson is
nominally Minister for Water Supply, as well as
Premier, Minister for Agriculture and Acting
Treasurer, but he has sub-let Agriculture to Liv-
ingston and Water Supply to Angus, who are (quite
unconstitutionally, by the way) styled Assistant
Ministers. McWhae is giving a hand at the
Treasury. Pennington has ceased to be an honorary
Minister, but remains Whip, and will attend
Cabinet meetings to take minutes, which, according
to British tradition, are not supposed to be kept.
How much more of the “revision” process Clarke
will stand will be interesting to watch. Poli-
ticians with claims to long vision foretell that by
August there will be a few more changes, as a
result of which Clarke, Baird, Oman and Barnes
will be private members. But sufficient for the
recess is the present reshuffle, and Lawson looks
better since he did the deed.
*
“Eddyson” : Crawford dashed into the hut
at the Pibroch, where four of the dayshift
men were playing cards, stuttered, “A ghost I”
then slid to the floor. Only after Carver
had dashed cold water over him and Pink
had poured fiery spirits into him did he
recover sufficiently to tell of the ghostly
horse and rider that had trotted down on
him from the little bush cemetery at The
Spring, a fearsome thing that stood over him
a moment in the light of his camp fire where
he lay in his rug below the hill. Horse and
man were glowing white, white as snow,
Crawford said, and the rider was a hideous
faceless monster. “Just a white blob his
head was,” he explained between chattering
teeth. Five men went from the Pibroch to
hunt the ghostly horseman, and Carver
carried a gun. They came into contact with
an excited party from the township. Two
Greens of the Siirings Hotel had seen the
monstrous shape, and the elder Green was
so distracted that he was now indulging in
an apparently endless series of fits. The
Greens encountered the weird spectre on the
Trefoil track, and young Green’s account
coincided with that of Crawford. Horse and
rider were as white as if they had been
rolled in flour; the rider had no face. The
crowd pelted up the track, and scattered
into smaller parties, hunting the hill. Only
Carver. Pink, Oldham and Jones saw the
damned thing. They came upon it suddenly
where horse and rider stood clearly outlined
against a moonlit sky, and Crawford was
right—the ghostly group had a sickly, fun-
goid whiteness, horse and rider alike, and the
rider was a detestable fiend without features.
Pink tried to restrain Carver, but the latter
declared there was no blanky close season
for spooks, and blazed away. At the report
the horse plunged down among the trees, and
by the time the men made their way to the
crest it had gone. Later we heard of the
misfortunes of Biddle. Biddle was the new
owner of Fiddleback who, when riding out
from Byblow, too full of whisky, had gone
astray from the track, and had let his horse
down into the puddle where the lo«g sluice-
boxes from the Shanghai puddlers spilled
their slurry. While Biddle was endeavoring
to get his nag out the puddlers had started,
and deluged horse and man with pipeclay.
Later in the night, lost in the bush, Biddle
had been shot through the shoulder by some
person or persons unknown. On hearing this
Carver left surreptitiously for parts unheard
of. But the legend of the Faceless Rider of
Pibroch still persists.


STORAGE
BATTERY
faf
Is it possible for a battery
to be new after months
in shipment and storage?
Yes —if it is a Still Better
Willard with Threaded
Rubber Insulation be-
tween the plates. The
Still Better Willard is
shipped “bone dry”. It is
the only battery with.
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation between
the plates.
Willard
505
P L


FACE, ARMS IE
IS
Irritated Little Boy Terribly.
Cuticura Heals.
“My little boy suffered with terrible
eruptions on his face, arms, and legs.
faf
The eruptions commenced
with festered blisters, then
they would burst until they
all joined together and they
irritated him terribly at night.
He used to make them bleed
scratching, and they were
very disfiguring.
“I sent for a free sample of Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. I bought more,
and after using for three weeks he was
healed.” (Signed) Mrs. Caroline Irwin.
123 Grafton St., Woollahra, Sydney.
For every purpose of the toilet Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are supreme.
For sample each address: "Rl Towns &.
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
l!MF*Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap. 1/-; Ointment. 1/- St 2/-
f
largest selling
liiy pencil in.
ihe world,
ENU
ga
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS*
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
V
A
* a
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
—a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
M
ffjffff
fvi
V?
%
W
A>*m
ilulilllJiyjJJ.
ay* *
•*s*
h:;
<s*
V)
ZMi'ni ™vi
m
sox'* 3o* }
m
Renew Your Linoleums.
YOU can easily bring dull looking lino
back to the original brightness of
pattern which it had when new. You
need only Johnson’s Prepared Wax and
a cloth. The result will be a dry, dust-
less polish of great beauty and durability.
In less than an hour you can polish the ordinary sized
floor, making it easy to keep clean, and it may be
walked upon immediately.
r$
PREPARE! WAX
Liquid and Paste
should be used in your home in polishing furni-
ture, woodwork and floors. For it protects and
preserves varnished finishes, covering up all
surface scratches. In one operation it cleans
and polishes.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
mm
Mrr
•^SESfct.
Smm
l«*»t**
JOHNSOWI* •
£«»>»««* fa
Sprinkled over any floor will
immediately give a perfect
dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to
supply you with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax and the
many other useful Johnson
products.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The fierce recriminations between N. S.
Wales Minster James Dooley and ex-
Minister George Fuller about* State fish
suggests that it should be called “the brawl-
ing industry.” Trawling is quite a side-
show. Fish is associated with Billingsgate,
also with the kind of female called a fish-
fag, and it attracts flies and Dagoes and
Levantines. As Solomon (being a purely
inland man) didn’t say: “Better is a dinner
of herbs and c 'tentment therewith than a
trawling worn n n a wide house.”
“Bohong” ( :ca Malayia) : Ran across an
original way of computing distance the
other day. I was prospecting on the head-
waters of a stream in Pahang, and had
pushed well beyond the tracks usually fob
lowed by white men. I was anxious to know
the distance to the next branch stream, and
sought information of a Saki sitting under
the shade of a tree watching his wives work-
ing in the padi field. Yes, he knew the next
branch stream and had often been there.
He was really anxious to tell me the dis-
tance, but apparently could not think of a
unit to express it in. At last his face lighted
up and he exclaimed: “The Tuan has heard
a cock crow on a clear morning V Yes? Well
it is a great many times further than one
could hear a great number of cocks crow!”
“Orw r ell” : I have frequently heard the re-
mark passed: “What a pity the Australians
got such a bad name on the other side!” It
amounts to a villainous libel on the A.I.F.
When in London in 1916 I found that
the British Army had room in its
commissioned ranks for as many Diggers
as it could get. A good many accepted the
invitation —to their subsequent regret—and
then the A.I.F. authorities awoke to the
fact that good men were worth keeping, and
stopped further transfers. In the middle of
1917, when on Paris leave, I found myself
cleaned out of cash and visited Cox’s Bank.
There I got the money I required, on a mere
verbal guarantee that I had an account with
the Commonwealth, backed by an Australian
uniform. A couple of nights later I ran
into the Canadian Paymaster at the Folies
Bergeres and told him I was short. The
next morning I got an advance from him.
When billeted near a French town we found
credit easier to obtain than in Sydney; in
fact, I have never known a Digger’s uniform
any drawback when it was a question of
accepting his word. This being so, how could
the Aussies have had “a bad name”?
Editor, Bulletin, —I agree with Mr.
Bedford’s statement that it was the soldiers
who first attacked the civilians at Hughen-
den, not vice versa, as erroneously reported.
I will even go further and attest that it
was the heretics who burned the Inquisition,
and that the Gunpowder Plot was a strenu-
ous attempt by Parliament to blow down G.
Fawkes. I recognise, too, the soundness of
the argument that the Townsville riots must
be to all intents and purposes a myth, be-
cause nothing was done to the rioters save
that one man was sent to gaol and a boy
to a reformatory. Beyond that I am pre-
pared to attest that the alleged persecution
of the Early Christians by Nero couldn’t
have happened, because Nero wasn’t sent to
a reformatory. Even if Mr. Bedford was
found mangled and cruelly slain with an
axe, which Heaven forbid, he would still
be alive and in good healjh, unless his mur-
derer was found and convicted.—Yours sin-
cerely, Paul Dogberry, Professor of Chemical
Logic at the University of Birdsville. P.S.
—I hold that if all law was abolished there
would be no crime at all, for nobody would
be convicted of anything.
Hobarffs veteran librarian, Alfred J.
Taylor, incited thereto by Dr. Morris Miller
(Tas. Uni.). “John Drayman” Woods, State
Statistician Giblin and others, is endeavor-
ing to make the lending branch of the insti-
tution more popular among youthful readers.
To this end all books deemed exciting enough
to compete for juvenile favor with the
numerous “comics” of the Tiger Tim and
Deadwood Dick sort are marked with a
conspicuous white label, which saves the
visiting youngster wasting much valuable
cricket or football time in long and dreary
shelf-searching for a likely book. Until the
librarian comfoleted his “white patch” classi-
fication (and results already show the
veteran’s good judgment) no Hobart young-
ster, and few oldsters, had any adequate
notion of the huge number of rattling good
kid yarns that had accumulated on the
shelves of this 70-year-old bookery. Tas.
Library’s white patch department is of course
a poor substitute for a separate and up-to-
date children’s library, such as Sydney has,
and as every Australian city and town ought
to possess; but as the Speck’s chief P.L. has
to rub along on a total income of far less
than the salary of an ordinary Federal M.P.,
there is very little left, after payment of,
ordinary expenses, even for new books.
Still, Hobart kids of to-day are in literary
lucerne compared to the arid stubble on
which their dads were (mostly unavailingly)
invited to browse.
“Hargo”: Bill Pengilly, on Jim Crow
mining field, put “blank” into use or misuse
long before the Diggers immortalised it (B.
17/2/’2l). Billy was a stranger to the
district and had no luck in his quest for
work. He put his case before a fellow
Cousin Jack. “Tain’t naw good,” said the
latter, “if thee doan’t gaw ’long t’ Wesleyan
Chapel. Do that, an’ then see Tommy Bry-
son, up to th’ Strike-it-Rich. He’ll put ’ee
on purty soon.” Billy did, and the advice
turned out trumps. Within a week Tommy
approached Billy coming off shift. “Glad to
see ’ee to church so reg’lar,” was Tommy’s
greeting; “coom ’long t’ preeyer-meetin’
Wensdee night. Expect to see ’ee.” Afraid
of doing in his job, Billy went —the first
time he had attended such a gathering.
Tommy was master of ceremonies, or, as the
Cousins term it, the leader. Hymn and
prayer alternated for a. while, anil then
Tommy announced: “Brother Pengelly ’ll
now lead us in preeyer!” Billy had never
undertaken a task of the kind in his life,
but his job was at stake, and he held forth,
and there was no doubt about the inflection
in his case : “O Loard ! O Loard ! ! O
Loard !!! Thou do lcnaw ! Thou do knaw!!
Thou do knaw !!! Thou do knaw that I’ve
been a purfict blankard uv a man!” It
broke the meeting up. They didn’t even wait
for the collection. But Billy’s job remained
safe.


Caplton Hotel
Castlepeadi St, Sydney.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEV ADMINISTRATION
In immediate proximity to the
Theatres, Shopping Centres 6
Public Buildings of the City
soncus
/ 0.
iSu
to® As
mu hi, i 1
llld
ip
re
S
P>
‘£y\&^
Jssf
v
XI
L,
t
■j
w
iwwwm.
Win
6ui
M!G
w
m
r
Vn
P
\
<5
1
4
1
.9
n
QC>
U
>Q?
Gb
3*
U
r
I
■k
L=
a
#F
fe
111
w
■vr'
■**
&
JO'
A?
SgHDfguq
M
t
£Y
/
whWmW"
jlllllllllll
*
Tfl
n
film
J
-
3
f
l
m
11 ini,
m
#;
"ni
I
I
4L
■e
3ft
t
SSS»>
STO
H^IWl
M
M
pf
mnfti
*Whrifi
HI?
mill
It
HI
=-<sL
1
mm
m**\i
Wt7J7))ll
ttt
3
Cd
&
d
if
jWIUH
•>n»3*nin
*>
li
m
mn
Vi


A. Saunders’ 9et. Solid
Gold Medal, 25/-
P
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Links, daintily
engraved, 13/6.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’a
Signet Ring, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/-
£
3
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar and Spray Brooch,
set Aquamarine, 25/»
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 12/6.
A. Saunders 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 23/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
15/-
lsct., 25/-
18ct., 30/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Five Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Nickel Wristlet Strap
Watch, lever movement, 40/-; Silver, £3; Gold-
filled, £4/10/-; Extra jewelled, £5, £5/10/-;
9ct. Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Rubies, £3/10/-. Pearls
and Aquamarines, £4.
A. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Lever
Watches, compensation balance, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l3/10/-, Guaranteed,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Pearl Cluster Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 32/6.
A, Saunders’ 15et. Gold Brooch, set Aqua-
marine or Yellow Sapphire, £3.
|i >ll il'liiH ii,mu.mill' in
lil'llliln nil liillliiiinnlllii I"ilf
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Aquamarine, 13/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Cricket Medal, £2.
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Half-hoop Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
King, 18et. Gold,
£5/10/.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-over
Bing, 18ct. Gold,
£4/10/.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Links, 20/-
Heavier, 25/-, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
38
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
9ct. Gold Ring, set
Aquamarine or Tour-
maline, 35/-
loct., £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney (Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Gold Wristlet Strap Watch, full
jewelled, lever movement, £4/10/-, £5, £6/10/-
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
Guaranteed.
Keep down your fuel bill.
Cheap Hot Water
is a necessity for domestic use, for cooking, and for some trade processes. The old systems serve
till volume and promptitude are required, then they become wasteful, extravagant, and often break
down when most required.
“IDEAL” Slow Combustion Boilers
are universally used in Britain, Europe and America. One central boiler and fire, supplying hot
water through pipes ta as many points required, is at once a simple, scientific and cheap system.
“Ideal” Boilers have a big heating area, and burn coke, coal or wood on the slow-combustion
principle. They run from five to eight hours without recharging with fuel, and require no skilled
or certificated attendant. The right temperature is automatically maintained by means of an
adjustable draught. Capacities are from 50 to 2000 gallons per hour, and the boilers are easily
connected with existing pipes.
The owner of a large boiler writes: “Where I used a barrow-load of coke with the old system,
with the ‘ldeal’ Boiler I use a shovelful only.”
“Ideal” Boilers are used in connection with
m
I!
ni
i i
“Ideal” Badiator.
‘ldeal” Hot Water Boiler—burns
wood., coal or coke.
Hot-water Supply.
Fruit and Copra Drying.
Plate Glass Silvering.
Swimming Baths.
Laundry Work.
Heating Buildings with “Ideal”
Radiators.
Cooking Apparatus.
Nurseries and Conservatories.
Skin Drying.
Turkish Baths.
Incubators and Brooders.
Sterilising.
Glue Kettles.
Dairy Work.
"Ideal” Radiators versus Coke or Coal Fires.
The “Ideal” Radiator, used in connection with the “Ideal” Boiler,
will heat an average-sized room at a cost of from one halfpenny to one
penny for 24 hours. These radiators cut down cleaning expenses, save
decorations and furnishings from defilement by soot and smoke, and
reduce the cost of building by eliminating unnecessary fireplaces and
fireside furnishings.
Expert information furnished and a plan for your particular
requirements supplied. Write or call to your nearest house.
“Ideal” Low Pressure Steam Boiler.
324-350 Pitt
Street, Sydney
John Banks 8 SonPty. Ltd.
391-403 Bourke
Street, Melbourne


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY,
* EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
'Phone 9924 for Reserves.
O YDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
T . C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
CRITERION.
HIS LADY FRIENDS.
PALACE.
WELCOME, STRANGER.
JOHN D. O’HARA
and
JULES JORDAN.
Aeean wilkie shakspearian
PRODUCTIONS.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
CHANGE EVERY EVENING, SEE DAILY PRESS.
Plans at Nash’s and the Grand Opera House.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
18 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
RAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Direction J, O. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Commencing
EASTER SATURDAY, MARCH 26,
AT THE MATINEE.
Matinees daily throughout Easter Week.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW,
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,00.0 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Preliminary booking at Nicholson’s.
U NIO N PICTURE THEATRES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Lt,d.
WIRTH BROS. CIRCUS.
Sole Proprietors: WIRTH BROS., LIMITED.
EYERY EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
MatinSes Wednesday, Saturday and all Holidays.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
DOROTPIY BRUNTON in
BABY BUNTING.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TIVOLI THEATRE.
A Short Farewell Season of
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN CO., in
PRINCESS IDA.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present the last nights of
their GIGANTIC FAIRY PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
OLIVE THOMAS in
EVERYBODY’S SWEETHEART.
and
EVA NOVAK in
WANTED AT HEADQUARTERS.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CORINNE GRIFFITHS in
BROADWAY BUBBLE.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8,
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the wwrld’s films. Including
productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD aud SELZNICR
THEATRE, MELIK)
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
motion picTuraES.
Continuous Sessicous,
We Desire
to Buy
ga
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Situation Wanted.
STATION MANAGER. —WANTED
Manager for Station Property in River-
ina of about 10,000 acres, with frontage to
Murray Itiver. The country is heavy-
carrying, rich grass land, with some share-
farming carried on, and a. first-class
Irrigation Plant installed. The successful
applicant must have previous successful
experience in managing such a property.
Good salary to a competent man. Applica-
tions to be made in writing in first instance,
stating age and experience, addressed to
“STATION MANAGER,”
C/o Gillott, Moir & Ahern, Solicitors,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
MARIS KELLY, late of Ireland Street, Bright,
J 1 Victoria, widow, deceased. Let EDWARD
KELLY, a son of the above-named deceased, at once
communicate with the undersigned and he will hear
of*something to his advantage. NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes ot
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soli.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ga
The CLUB BEIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d
m
m
i
If you appreciate a good
Cigar, the “Club Eeil”
is worth a trial.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
TO MINING COMPANIES, CONTRACTORS, ENGINEERS, BOILER
MAKERS, MACHINERY MERCHANTS, DEALERS AND OTHERS.
Auction Sale
of Machinery &, Plant.
Messrs. JUBB, WELLS & CO. have received instructions from the
METROPOLITAN WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE BOARD to sell by
PUBLIC AUCTION, at the Board’s Yards, BRISBANE:—
WATERLOO STREET, NEW STEAD YARD, on TUESDAY. 22nd MARCH,
1921, at 10 a.m.
At PINKENBA YARD, on WEDNESDAY, 23rd MARCH, 1921,
at 10 a.m.,
a quantity of the MACHINERY and PLANT, as recently used by the Board in
the construction of the Local Sewerage, consisting of—
BOlLERS.—Portable, Vertical and Locomotive Types—quite a number anti
of various sizes.
WINCHES.—Steam Winches, Friction Winches, Tangyes and Thompson’s
Double-Cylinder Winches, with Fast and Loose Drums.
ENGlNES.—Standard Gas Engine and Winch, Standard Gas Engines,
Tangyes Gas Engines and Marine Engine.
PUMPS.—Gardner’s, Worthington’s Boiler Feed Pumps, Cornish Lift Pumps,
Gould’s, Dean’s, Centrifugal and other makes.
Priestman Time Grab, Drag Line Excavator, 3-ton Leyland Motor Lorry, Quantity
of Sundries, Pulleys, Shafting Brackets and obsolete materials.
Intending Buyers can inspect at any time prior to sale.
Catalogue and Full Particulars from—
JUBB, WELLS & CO.,
GENERAL AUCTIONEERS,
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
’Phone 1534.
rr
I
Enjoy the
perfect music
of a
NEW
EDISON
At last music can be Re-Created. Not imitated music, as
reproduced by so many "talking machines," but music as
clear and perfect as the original.
The New Edison Re-Creates the greatest vocalists and instru-
mentalists so perfectly that you imagine you are listening to
the living artist.
If you do not like “talking machines" you Will appreciate the
marvellous New Edison. Write for literature* and information
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
g
ABBEY
SHOES
always oil the pinnacle of public favor, be-
cause of their perfect shape and perfect
fit. Abbey Shoes are the choice of Syd-
ney’s smart dressers.
The illustration features
ABBEY’S SPECIAL
Highest grade Tan Willow Bal., which is
stocked in half-sizes, C, D and E fittings
in most modern made-to-order style.
PRICES:
In Tan 57/6
Glace Kid ... .- 52/6
Box Calf .... 45/- and 63/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
The
Great
House
for
Watches
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised
' Steel 16-jewelled Lever
Watch, 84/-
No Jewellery Firm in Australia turns out more
Watches than we do, we have every reason
to believe.
Thousands every year is our record.
WHY?
For over 80 years we have been selling
W T atches. “Fx & R” Watches are known
more than favorably throughout Australasia.
Thousands in the far bush and distant islands
swear by oui Watches. We have sold only
Dependable Watches, and every one is tested
by Experts and guaranteed for 15 years.
Our present stock is just under 4000 Watches.
Ordering in such large quantities enables
bedrock prices and permits the selling at
the lowest possible figures. Then, too, every
watch we sell can be depended on. Inspection
is invited of our latest and daintiest models.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Position Vacant.
STATE TRADE DEPARTMENT,
QUEENSLAND.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
tion of MANAGER, Queensland State
Cannery, Brisbane. The operations at the
Cannery cover the Canning of Pineapples
and other Fruits, Fruit Preserving, and the
Manufacture of Jams, Sauces, etc. Full
particulars, together with copies of testi-
monials and age, to be furnished to the under-
signed not later than the 21st day of March.
1921.
W. H. AUSTIN. Commissioner.
Illegal Notice.
LEONARD JAMES HUTCHINSON formerly of
Qurner Street Paddington in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts unknown TAKE
NOTICE that your wife Hilda Elsie Hutchinson has
instituted Divorce Proceedings against you for Divorce
on the ground of a repeated act of adultery. Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne within one month
from the 3rd March 1921 the case may proceed in
your absence- and you may be ordered to pay costs.
W. G. MANCHESTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Missing Friends.
JAMES SEARLE, DECE VSED.
PERSONS claiming to be next of kin of
JAMES SEARLE, late of Tambo,
Queensland, are requested to communicate
with the undersigned.
E. W. HUGHES, Deputy Public Curator.
Rockhampton, Queensland.


Italian Wines
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor.
Gold Medals,
London and
other
exhibitions.
■ •
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO k
& CO. Limited, k
48 Young Street, %
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ELCAR-SIX.
A BEAUTIFUL CAR AT A MODERATE PRICE.
It is a strictly high-class production, embodying such famous components as Continental
Engine, Borg & Beck Clutch, Muncie Gear Box and Salisbury Axles. Inspection will at once
indicate to you the wonderful value we are offering.
THE NEW BRISCOE.
This is the Lightweight Economy Car, and its design and construction will be a revelation to
you—we have fitted the chasses with most attractive bodies.
You will like the New Briscoe.
Price £595.
BROWN & HELLICAR, LTD.,
74 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
. ELCAR-SIX, BRISCOE, WAVERLEY, A.C., METZ.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Bozelle, Sydney.
IMMEDIATE Delivery
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for OiDis doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. [2
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Humpty Dumpty”
Criterion “His Lady Friends”
rARACE . . “Welcome Stranger”
riVOtl “The Lilac Domino”
jißand Opera House Shakspearean Plays
H°yt s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Baby Bunting”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
Tivoli .. “Princess Ida”
Princess's “Cinderella”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Meuba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Gi.aciarium Dancing
. *
“Humpty Dumpty,” which arrived at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night, dis-
closes, on the first ascent of the curtain, not
the usual forest of female legs, but a small
girl disguised as a small boy and the uncer-
tain child’s mother. A few minutes after
the striking of this somewhat daring note
of originality the Queen of Humptiland
enters through the fireplace, and the show
reverts to normal. Nursery rhyme and
adult reason are flung overboard, and the
producer lets himself go in a riot of gorgeous
scenery, irrelevant interlude, old jokes (and
one or two new ones), sentimental songs by
the principal girl (Edith Drayson), who has
a nice soprano voice and is continually be-
ing locked in a dungeon by the Sorceress so
that she may use it without interruption
from a most engaging idiot who interrupts
everyone else whenever he happens to be on
the stage—these and many other old familiar
friends are featured together with countless
sparsely-clad and beautiful girls. In short,
"Humpty Dumpty” is the same old panto,
which entrances childhood and second-child-
hood alike, year by year.
* * * •
, The comic stuff is supplied by Albert le
Ere (Dame) ; Edwin Brett (Ptolemy,. King
of Humptiland) ; and an idiot egg-collector
(Hector St. Clair), who, owing to a mis-
apprehension on the part of the populace, is
made king, Ptolemy being deposed, which in-
dignity he takes like a sportsman. Beatrice
Allen, as Principal Boy, dashes with just
the same vigor as last year’s boy and the boy
we shall see next year; and Helen Temple
is a dignified sorceress. Sidney Culver
dances with Maie Baird and again with
Maggie Dickinson, who (alas!) is making
her final appearance in Sydney before leav-
ing for England. Apropos of nothing in par-
ticular the brothers Lecardo give an amaz-
ing aerobatic display intituled “The Lazy
Bakers.” By way of confounding those
critics who assert that the affair is, after
all, primarily a leg-show, the management
are adding a harlequinade—at matinees.
* *
Allan Wilkie has been giving Sydney an
honest and capable production of “The
Merry Wives of Windsor,” staged in Aus-
tralia (not very
successfully) by
O s car Ascli e.
Wilkie’s imp e r-
sonation of Falstaff
is a fine piece of
work, and the star
receives capital
support from Miss
Hunter-Watts as
Mrs. Ford. Ixtrna
Forbes as Mrs.
Page, Jessica Dale
(Anne Page),
Chris Olg a r
(Slender), Vin-
cent Scully (Shal-
low), Plumpton
Wilson (Sir Hugh
Evans) and Hoy
Workman (Dr.
Caius), _ the last-
named in particu-
lar. On Saturday
“Julius Csesar”
will arrive and will
nightly expire
until the se as o n
ends.
s|s * sfj *
At Sydney Cri-
terion Joseph
Coyne continues
his presentment of
“The Husband Who
“Princess Ida,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Molly Tyrell as Lady
Blanche
Might Have, But Didn’t. His matrimonial
troubles are a source of pleasure to the
numerous local husbands Who Did But
Bvaded Discovery (not to mention the un-
detected quota Who Are Still Doing It), and
their self-satisfied countenances are discern-
ible in all parts of the house. There are
matinfies of this cheery show on Wednesdays
and Saturdays.
The ‘Bast Nights’’ sign is up at Sydney
I alace, where Ihe Welcome Stranger” has
been paying out quaint American-Hebrew
philosophy for three months. But one of
the ancient maxims of the race is that
“Enough is as good as a feast, and too much
is plenty.”
sH * sfc Hs
“The Lilac Domino” continues to min-
ister to the pleasure of this nation —at least
the fifth or sixth part that hangs out within
an hour’s ride of the Sydney Tivoli.
** * *
Nearly all the Japanese in N. S. Wales
were among the crowd that struggled into
the Hippodro'me on Saturday night to see
Wirth Bros’. Circus, which has dug itself
in for another winter. The Royal Uyeno
troupe of balancers and tumblers was the
magnet that drew Nippon, and an inverted
youth who swayed precariously on a tra-
peze-bar and drank a glass of sake with
his feet pointing roofward, also a solemn
stripling who shinned up a bamboo pole,
supported on the soles of his partner’s feet,
and hung by his toenails, or it may have
been the skin of his teeth, gave their fellow-
countrymen moments of patriotic elation and
the worth of their money. And they are a
frugal race. But the Uyenos’ fine act is»
only one of 26, many of them good, others
middling and none noticeably bad. There
is a dog-and-monkey turn, in which a large
and unpleasant ape varies the monotony of
conventional tricks by attacking the sooners
from the rear. There are trained geese, edu-
cated elephants and performing lions and
bears. There are also pretty ladies,
clowns, jockeys, trapezists, a boneless marvel
and frogs in green tights. Moreover, the
Wonderful Arabs are rather wonderful, even
if they never saw their oppressed homeland,
and the audience gets an impulse of pure
emotion when the Mysterious Lady, carefully
bandaged for the occasion, proclaims that the
initials on the railway ticket her partner is
examining in the back stalls are “two Hells.”
On the whole, an attractive show, and
Master and Miss Sydney won’t be satisfied
unless they see it at least once.
$$ $ $
“Princess Ida, race of Sydney, came to
hand at Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday, the
mantle of the managerial Mclntosh having
passed into the J.C.W. wardrobe. With the
exception of a short revival when Dolly
Castles was in the co., “Ida” had not been
seen in Melbourne since it introduced Leu-
mane and Federici to notice 34 years ago.
Thinner operas w T ith less enduring satire,
like “Patience” and “The Pirates,” have re-
mained in the repertoire whilst the rich ab-
surdity of King Gama, father of one
fair daughter and three tin-plated sons, suf-
fered from neglect. The three sons are a
lovely skit on the legend of Og, Gog and
Magog. The Princess is a sweet, poetic
satire on the highbrow spinster of yore, and
the three young men trespassing in the gar-
dens of Castle Adamant set one thinking of
“The Amazons.” “Princess Ida” is strong in
trustworthy comedy and Sullivan music, with
a deal of the old churchy tang in it, and
nothing is disconcertingly English and out
of date, save the reference to Lewis and
Allenby, an ancient English firm of glad-
raggers. But it seemed on Saturday as
though the audience mostly missed the best
of the humor and was impressed only by the
graceful heroics and dramatic soprano of
Strella Wilson, in the name part, and the
fooling of three men in girl-graduate gowns.
These matters, plus the heavy vocal and pic-
turesque effects of Hobbs, as King Hilde-
brand, were better appreciated than the
humor of Gama (Walenn) and his sons
(Ivinson, Minogue and Fred' England), clad
in mediaeval w r arlike disguises which they
shed, like British Lifeguardsmen, when called
upon to scrap in real earnest. Strella Wil-
son, as Sydney knows, gets the chance of her
young Australian career as Princess Ida.
Her performance would bear .a little refining,
both in song and speech, but in confidence,
strength and repose it shows the rapid im-
provement she has made since she joined the
co. Of the three young men in the garden
the most incisive is Mettam. Play is some-
what too gentle and throaty, and Ralston is
a bit on the broad side. He and Hay, more
than the other tenor, are somewhat sacri-
ficed, in their male capacities, to the wigs
they wear in anticipation of their attempt
to pass for ladies. Hay resembles an early
picture of the long late Widow O’Brien, and
Ralston might sit for a crazy caricature of
Dorothy Brunton. Molly Tyrell is a satis-
factory Lady Blanche in a small unmagnetic
way. and Beryl Walkely plays with more
spirit than Patti Russell, who is amateurish
even in her singing of the Ape song. Slapoffski
and his orchestra are on good terms with the
melodious chorus; also the opera is staged
well enough. If it begins sharp at the ad-
vertised time, and doesn’t lose too many
minutes in two intervals, it should grow on
Melbourne’s taste.
«= * * *
Dorothy Brunton is still inducing three-
quarters of her audience to forgive the weak-
nesses of “Baby Bunting,” at Melbourne
Majesty’s. Even the boredom engendered by
the witless activity of William Greene is dis-
persed by a smile from the Australian fairy.
Likewise Frith’s restless face is forgotten,
and the heavy burbling of Hettie Hartley
seems like a distant lullaby, when the sunny
Dorothy is the counter distraction. The
delight which the little actress arouses, how-
ever, is all on the dramatic side. She can
nestle into the alcove inside Field Fisher’s
arm and sweetly wheedle a cheque for
almost any amount. But let Dorothy put
her wheedle into song, and be she ever so
appealing, much of her allurement is gone.
At Melbourne Royal the return of Leslie
Holland to the cast of “Maid of the Moun-
tains” is noted as being in strict accordance
with the programme which costs threepence.
His name was there when himself was out
of the show. Holland makes a good, firm
sketch of a very conventional type of dod-
derer whose name is Crumpet, and wdiose
only apparent reason for being Crumpet is
that his frivolous vice-regal employer may
call him Muffin by mistake.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, last week the
Fullers celebrated the hundredth perform-
ance of “Cinderella” by handing out a
souvenir picture of the artists who had made
the century possible. But the panto, will
not last much longer. In a few days it will
shove its scenery and dresses into a port-
manteau and hurry over to Adelaide for the
Easter season.
* * Si! *
“Figaro” finished its one week’s run at
Melbourne King’s on Saturday. Next Satur-
day (12th) the Taits’ All Diggers Co. will
reappear with the original warrior who
i-passes himself off as a French flapper.
* * si! :i;
Kennaquhair and Poitrel are the stars
in “Silks and Saddles” at Sydney Strand.
In the second' half Mabel Normand
presents a nice line of bathing suits
under the title of the “Venus Model.” East
and West meet at the Crystal Palace and
Lyric in “Id Ting Lang,” the quintessence
of Chinese honor, who plays a long game
of sacrifice and doesn’t get the girl in the
end. At the Globe and the Ilaymarket Bill
Hart is rocked in the “Cradle of Courage,”
and Robert Chambers’s “Restless Sex” at-
tracts crowds of ’em. Also, Elaine Ham-
merstein settles mother’s debt in “The
Daughter Pays.”
* # *
Olive Thomas, who died with great pub-
licity a while back in Paris, is making a
post-mortem appearance at Hoyt’s, Mel-
bourne, in a Mary Pickford type of story
“HUMPTY DUMPTY ,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
The Prime Minister of Humptiland
(Maurice Dudley ).
called “Everybody’s Sweetheart.” The
yarn concerns two kiddies and a decayed
general, and travels at about the pace of a
Geelong funeral until the festive Olive trips
into the foreground. “Wanted at Head-
quarters,” starring Eva Novak, is a thrilling
intimation that the gentle art of Amurkan
crookery has found a footing in Australia.
“The Woman He Chose,” another Hoyt sub-
ject of Swedish origin, is easier to swallow,
and the Swedish acting is generally pretty
good. The liveliest item on the Majestic
programme is Blanche Sweet in a modern
version of the old draminer, “The Woman of
Pleasure.” “The Saphead,” running also at
Melba this week, is better material, and
the plot takes a turn that is rather rare
in movie fiction. As for the Britannia, it
is dispossessing flappers of their lunch-money.
Gaby Deslys, exquisitely robed and bent
double by ropes of pearls like duck-eggs, is
causing much needless hunger.
* * *
George Coates and his wife (Dora Mee-
son) conspire to give a memorable show at
Melbourne Athenaeum. George’s contribu-
tions are mostly portrait paintings, inter-
spersed with some Thames studies, all
handled with the easy confidence of the first-
class man. Among his portraits is an excel-
lent study of Bill Dyson and a not alto-
gether life-like impression of Louis Esson,
and he pictures in a striking group all the
Australian war-artists, with George Bell
well in front, and Lambert, poised like one
of Dumas’s Musketeers, in the middle dis-
tance. But Coates’s highest quality as a
portrait-painter lies in depicting people who
haven’t the appeal of khaki reinforced by
a couple of lines of blazing ribbons. His
warriors, such as Major-General Tivey, all
look well, but for character and cleverness
his women earn a special prize. His “Rus-
sian Lady,” who gets tremendous emphasis
from a red color scheme, is effective, but
no more so than are the dramatist Cecily
Hamilton and her sister, posed simply in
an engaging scheme of black. In “Early
Victorians,” a beautiful composition, a finely-
drawn lady is ex-
hibited in the fore-
ground, and there
is brilliant paint-
ing in the portrait
of Mrs. Eae.
Coates’s water-
colors are not so
taking. His view
of Brighton (Sus-
sex) seems a trifle
hilarious in such
sober surroundings.
Dora Meeson, for
her part, handles
water-colors with
fair success, though
her touch is a little
hard, except in
the portraits of a
couple of damsels
and a study of
Piccadilly, which is
a close relation to
one by her hybby.
Her largest oil,
“Leaving for the
Front,” is on the
safe lines of
“B reakin g the
News,” with Which
John Longstaff won
the Vic. Travel-
JL in g Scholar-
“Princess Ida,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Charles Walenn as
King Gama.
ship years ago, and consequently the huge
canvas had no difficulty in getting into the
Royal Academy.
jjc jJ: jJ:
A marked feature of “Sinbad” at Adelaide
Royal is the conscientious way in which
songs that would be welcome on their own
account are introduced by a bald line or
two of dialogue. Colin Crane’s fine voice is
a feature of the show, and he carefully drags
Sinbad’s name twice into “Feather your
Nest,” which is made a popular success on
the modern prescription, by being sung very
slowly, very distinctly, and with damnable
iteration. Also, when Jennie Hartley wants
to sing a perfectly good song, she has to get
someone else to mention first the words which
form its refrain. Much local color, from
Frome-road to Moonta, is peppered in by the
comedians, and the humor of Edgley and
Dawe has a quite unusual ring about it. The
pantomime has finished its career at the Tivoli,
while the Royal is being got ready for “C'hu
Chin Chow” and its big effects. At West’s
is Pinero’s drama of the dangers of matri-
mony, “Mid-Channel,” as adapted to suit
Clara Kimball Young; the other attraction
is Frank Keenan in “The Master Man,” a
study of crooked politics as affected by
woman’s influence. At Wondergraph is
Wallace Reid, mostly in bed, as a sham
patient in love with fche nurse, and B£be
Daniels flits in and out of the picture
attractively. A Jeffery Farnol kind of story,
“In Search of Arcady,” serves to fill the
Pav., With Billie Rhodes and an earl
separately masquerading as gipsies, and so
to an obvious finish. But all the houses find
that pictures of the recent tennis tournament
and the swim-tbrough-Adelaide go as well as
anything.
"Old Pot”: At no time in my recollection,
which extends over 40 years, have there been
so many mummers "resting.” When the
banks smashed in the ’nineties, the position
was bad, but that was everybody’s lot.
Dramatic artists are not wanted in these
days of revues and pantos. The drama is
out of joint. ,
The friendship of France for England is
wearing very thin, to judge from the evi-
dence of the Paris stage. In one popular
song, France tells Lloyd George of her vari-
ous sorrows, and he replies each time with
the Parisian slang for “My troubles!” In
another revue the funny man complains that
the eggs are “it l’Bntente Cordiale”; that is
to say, stone-cold.
“0. Ockney”: Sara Allgood, who by latest
advices was still —after five months —playing
in "The Whiteiheaded Boy” at the London
Ambassadors’, lately appeared for a special
Sunday-evening performance given by the
more or less highbrow Stage Society in Ber-
nard Shaw’s one-act piece, “O’Flaherty, Y.C.”
It was the first footlights production of the
Shavian play, though it has been in print
for a couple of years. Shaw being as dead
as mutton in England, the event aroused
none of the old curiosity. But Sara’s char-
acterisation of an old Irish woman who has
a notion that Shakspeare was “born in
Cork” helped the show to a friendly recep-
tion.


I
I3N ZO K
vm m
-
J?
'life _*=H
ill
Never Be Without
A Tin of Each!
Not a day passes but
you find good uses for
“REX” HAM PATE and
“REX” VEAL & TONGUE PATE
Everyone enjoys these appetizing meats
for lunches, picnics, suppers, etc.
They are all pure meat, minced fine,
delicately seasoned —ready for instant
use.
You will revel in their fresh inviting
flavors.
Packed in Australia. Sold Everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
11120
: =
,'Vl®
I
Kwmi
AN»
GUE
PEANUT BRITTLE
s£Cho/cgJVui_ Cw/icfioiL
paeKea in
/lirlighl Tins.
5/e
EACH
POSTAGE 6?EXTRA
Sent to any address in dustra/ia.
.
V
u
■ X:
i
,v W'
m
m
£m
i
am
.
if
a
g-;
: *£.:
. SYDNEY.
a
CONTINUOUSSTAVE-WIRE WOUND
m
is made in diameters from 2
inches to 168 inches. There
are two varieties —continuous
stave, for large diameters (built
on the site), and machine-
banded pipes (built at the fac-
tory).
It is in common use for small,
medium and large supply lines;
distribution systems; primary
and secondary irrigation lines;
hydro-electric and sluicing
operations; drainage systems
and storm sewers; household,
city and farm supply systems.
•‘Pioneer” Wood Pipe is eco-
nomical, reliable and efficient —
conveying constantly an abund-
ant supply absolutely free from
contamination.
Write for our deeply interesting
booklet.
We also manufacture Wood
Tanks.
All inquiries to
I Showing discharge from pipe at end of section.
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
A Perfect
Drilling Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
Description.
Greatest height of drill ..
Greatest distance from spindle to base
Greatest distance from table to spindle
Distance, column to centre of spindle
Diameter of column
Vertical feed of spindle . .
Diameter of table
Spindle fitted for Morse taper
Size of largest cone pulley
Size of smallest cone pulley
Tight and loose pulleys ..
Revolutions of driving pulleys
Floor space ..
69in.
394 in.
24in.
lOfin.
s|in.
91 in.
15fin.
No. 3
9in. x 2in.
4in. x 2in.
Bin. x 2fin.
250 R.P.M.
46 in. x 16in.
In addition to the drill herein illustrated we
can also supply the BIRCH 21 in. BRITISH-
MADE; HOOSIER 20in. AMERICAN.
Call or write for further particulars.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
ag
SCRUTTONS LTD.,
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 Clarence Street,S ydney.
The Drills for Service
Service! That is exactly what every buyer
of drills demands, and that is what he gets
when he purchases
THE FAMOUS
CAPITAL BRAND
These High-speed Drills can be relied upon to
give clean and quick cutting on every kind
of material.
Capital Brand Drills are thinned at the point.
In this way the tendency to split is over-
come and the full life of the drill is assured.
All Drills are Guaranteed and will be re-
placed if defective.
Full particulars regarding prices, etc., on
application to Department “A.”
*a « o t ~VrrT r i S'* ** * J
CAfITM,
w $
'll II
The Eagle (Sl Globe St<eel Go. Ltd
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Sp'eed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 aouider Road, Kalgoonie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nef thews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins J:Co. Ltd., Adelaida.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hdbairt.
a


DUCK
CARTRIDGES
Fresh Loaded.
“Blue Seal,’’ smokeless. Chilled shot,
22/- 100.
“Kilos,” smokeless. Chilled shot, 23/- 100.
“Infallible,” dense smokeless. Gas-tight
cases. Chilled shot, 24/- 100.
“A.P.” “Special,” deep brass. Smokeless.
Gas-tight eases. Chilled shot, 26/- 100.
“Amberite,” “Du Pont,” “Ballis-
tite,” “Smokeless,” 24/- 100.
2?4 Match Cartridges, 30/- ioo.
A reduction of 6d. per 100 on all orders of 500.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Mel bourne
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid. Orchestra.
Management: E. T, CHEESEJIAN.
'ans
*Jczu6m<
EXTRA HA __
FLOOR
STAINS
EASY
TO
} APPLY
DRV
FLINT
HARD
Distinguished for Beauty
of Finish, Free Working,
Hard Wear.
Ask your storekeeper for Taubman’s,
SVOMEY weubwhe
vlaybrnanslfeh
vAr "'“'**., L,,
USIVE LADIES’
LOR-MADES
nd RIDING
BREECHES.
<0
a
<3
P
W. Chorley
and Co. Ltd.,
313 GEORGE STREET, '
SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“O-K.”: The J.C.W. firm has bought “Chu
Lhm Chow” at the right time of the year,
and .may be expected to run the thing for
all it is worth as a winter show. The dark-
ness required for “Chu Chin” puts free
ventilation of the theatre out of the ques-
tion, and Melbourne Tivoli was fearfully
hot and stuffy on some of these hot summer
nights. Fumes of incense added to the
heaviness of the atmosphere, and whatever
interest one took in the profusely-illustrated
story had to be “almost breathless” interest.
No possibility of your blood running cold
when Abu Hasan pronounced a simply awful
doom on Vera Pearce. Comedy or tragedy
alike had the effect of making one sweat.
“Stargazer”: News of Florrie Forde. an
ex-Melbourne girl, who declares that for 27
years she has been airing her graceful pro-
portions as principal boy, reminds me that
in the nineties of last century Florrie
horde was a serio-comic singing for Harry
Rickards in Melbourne, and was then said
to be a consumptive, sadly short of the usual
allowance of lung. A relative assured me
that she was going to England in defiance
ot her family, who believed the climate
would prove fatal. And at 47 (she must
be ail that) Florrie is boosted as the biggest
boy” in the business, but serio-eomics are
notoriously hard to kill.
A DREADFUL
POSSIBILITY.
FIRST CRITIC:
“Mark my
words we'll
hear more of
this fellow."
SECOND CRITIC:
"Not to-night,
I hope."
E.T. : George Titheradge in his latter
days was a somewhat taciturn not to say
grumpy individual. On that account his occa-
sional humorous sallies—grim though they
were—-became all the more acceptable.
Lunching one day at a railway-station re-
freshment-room while on a Maoriland tour,
he amused his fellow-mummers by his loud,
not to say rackety, behavior while eating his
soup. “Tith” could not help noticing the
looks and nudges of the astonished pros.
Suddenly, with a final smack of the lips, he
looked round the table and remarked
affably: “Yes, I suppose our family are
the nois est eaters you could tind anywhere.
Aha ! You should see us with honey!”
“Old Pot”: George Rignold was rather
appaued at the bill he hact to foot for supers
in his production of “Macbeth” (B.
S/3/’2l), and he talked magnificently of
cutting their screw to Is. (id. a mght. Even
at ‘2s. he was paying fid. a night less than
the Firm’s lowest figure. George had a
pretty hot reception one night in the supers’
room at Her Majesty’s, and he was almost
fr-.uric with rage because he couldn't find
out who barracked him when he turned hi 3
massive back. A dark suspicion seizes me
that it was BJly Hughes.
“T.D.M.” : Thlrly-s.x years ago William-
son, Garner and Musg ove ruled ihe theatri-
cal loest, competition being feeble. To-day
we seem to be returning to that posit.on ; at
any rate, the p Ley of swallowing all danger-
ous competitors hasn't changed to any
not ceabie cx ent with yeais or new names.
Effective competition is the om.v safeguard
the playgoing public has. Given a few
speculators ready to erect playhouses, sev-
eral Engl sh managers would take a chance.
Only the difficulty of getting theatres pre-
vented their doing it long ago.
“Fax”: I am told (B. 24/2/’2l). “‘Fax’
mighr have mentioned that at a more mature
age Amy Roselle was Lady Mac to Irving’s
Thane of Gmmis at the London Lyceum.
She had all the tragic intensity necessary
for the part, and the critics gave her high
praise.” No mention of such a performance
was made by me,
for the sufficient
reason that it
never happened.
“Leah” Bateman,
the heavy trage-
dienne of former
days, was the first
woman to play
Lady Macbeth with
Henry Irving, and
Ellen Terry took
up the pare when
“Macbeth” was re-
vived. Amy
Roselle, according
to the “Life of
Henry Irving,”
made only two ap-
pearances at the
Lyceum under his
management. The
first occasion was
a matinee benefit
to an old actor
named Marston,
and the next was
a matinee benefit
of Amy herself,
when Irving, be-
sides lending the
theatre, played
Shyloek in the
Trial Scene from
“T h e Merchant.”
No doubt Mrs.
Daere did play
Lady Macbeth
somewhere, at some
time or other, and
the critics can be
assumed to have
praised her
“Humpty Dumpty," at
Sydney Majesty's .
Humpty Dumpty Pip
chin (Hector St. Clair).
highly (she was a very powerful actress
in her sad middle age), but she had no
engagement with Irving at the Lyceum.
“Stargazer”: Melba was singing in the
Geelong Mechanics’, and the evening was
wearing on when an underling went to the
diva with a white face and an expression
of great awe and said: “There, is a mnn
perched away up there, Madame,” indicating
some beams behind the curtain, “right over
where you stand. If he fell he would spoil
your concert.” “Spoil my concert!” gasped
Melba. “Good Heavens, he’d spoil me!”
The figure could be dimly discerned lying
along a big beam. “Have him down,” Melba
.commanded. A ladder was shifted along
before another song was sung, and the man
descended. He was very stiff, and confessed
he h«d secreted himself there late in the
afternoon in order to hear Melba sing.
“Give him a chair and let him hear it out,”
said Nella. “He is deserving of some con-
sideration as the only man who has risked
his life to hear me sing.” When the show
was over Melba approached the man. “Well,
was it worth it?” she asked. “You’ve got
a good voice, Mrs. Melba,” replied the man.
“I been here in Geelong near 30 years, and
I’ve not heard many better.”
“B.”: Frank, the youngest of the Tait
brethren, has crowned a vigorous career by
becoming a director of the Tait-Williamson
combine. He is the only Tait who didn’t
begin to learn the show business as an usher;
his brothers were fairly well established
when Frank was big enough to join the part-
nership. It was Charlie Tait, now a direc-
tor of Allan’s, who started his brothers on
the job of collecting star musicians for tours
in Australia. Occasionally asked to run
small concerts at the Melbourne Town Hall.
Charles Tait brought in John, Nevin and Ted
to help him in distributing programmes and
suOvvmg uie populace io iue».r sears. By-
and-bie .Julia and Nevrii ia.t became finan-
c.ai enougii to iaunc-n out on their own
account, and the successful Trebeiii venture
enabled them to engage m larger operations,
liow led and £ rank Tait dropped into the
Firm is already well known, but Franks ad-
vent came to pass after some specmhy good
work in landing Harry Lauder for his hrst
Australian season, and in bear-leading the
late Tennyson Dickens through .England on a
lecture tour. Tennyson, previously little
known as a lecturer, and wanting in an im-
pressive platform manner, was amaz.ngiy
successful. The English public devoured his
faltering ta.ks Lke hot rolls on a cold morn-
ing. xennyaon D.caens never returned lo
Australia, lie died in the U.S., richer than
he had expected to be at h.s time of l.fe
* USorbeu:': A recent reference to Augusts
Dargan, tue tragedienne, who played r.adv
macbeth with a marked County Clare accent
~® r . e e a &° an h more, reminds me.
1 ius i orceful actress, who had a line record
of successes in the U.S.A., fell on evil days
in Australia. She married Dr. Piercy, an
American, and settled down to the simple
l te at liaydonton. near Murrurundi, N.S W
lhe doc. d dn’t make a do of it, and filed
ms schedule, and meanwhile the energetic
Augusta toured the Backblocks giving Shaks-
peai can recitals, but that was rather a for-
orn hope at best. However, Augusta struck
Tatt. s for £3300, the ticket being in the
name of E. Drake. When she called at
ii* i Ca j to collect, the manager im-
de.chned to s P a r up on the grounds
(1) that Augusta wasn’t E. Drake, and (2)
even if she were her husband was insolvent.
Noiman F G.bhn, then official assignee,
backed the banker, and the affair resulted
in a Supreme Court action before Manning
L, who found for Augusta and charged the
bank mterest for the time the money had
been withheld, as well as allowing costs.
During the hearing it transpired that
Augusta had scored a previous win from
iatt. sof £ooo-odd. She was a sport, was
Augusta, and when she drew her £3300 she
had a queue of theatrical and other dead-
beats waiting on the mat, and not one went
away hungry.
“Shake”: The mere existence, as business
propositions, of some of the shows in London
these times is evidence of the profits which
the theatrical octopus in Australia must be
making, under present conditions of in-
creased prices, special first-night charges and
early-door extras. At London theatres of
smaller seating capacity than the houses in
Australia, the salaries for principals are much
higher and the rent is fabulous. For theatres
that were let for £9O a week before the war
j p /'°P netors exact as much as £490
and £5OO a week. Think of it! What sort
of pnees would the octopus want to charge
rt it were renting theatres at £5OO a week,
and paying three-figure salaries to “star”
actors? Yet some of the victimised managers
in London contrive to prosper.
Said the Old Pro.
I mayn t have been much of an animal-impersona-
tor, but no man in the line ever got a greater com-
pliment than was paid me by a oat one night when
I was impersonating a tyke in a limited version of
Aladdin,” at the old Gaiety Theatre, Melbourne.
To get an effective make-up I had studied the
domesticated dog to some purpose. One night, early
in Act 1, a big black cat that had been loafing about
the theatre spotted me, and flew at me, with ruffled
fur and a tail like a feather boa. She double-
shuffled all over me, growling and spitting and
kicking fur, and then ran up the scenery out of a
dog’s reach, and continued her complaints. The
moment I looked away, she came at me again, drop-
ping on my back, and kicking the atmosphere full
of hair, using unfit language all the time. Then on
to her perch she shot once more. Four times sire
served me so. It was the most popular animal turn
ever staged in Melbourne. The gifted management,
finding it going big, declined to spoil sport, but by
this the infernal feline had kicked a "hole in mv
hide and got down to the real me, so I rolled over
on top, pinning puss to the floor, declaring noisily
there would be no more pantomime till the black cat
was scratched. So the curtain was reluctantly
lowered. When the rag went up again, the audience
wasted a quarter of an hour clamoring for a further
interpretation of cat-and-dog life. Meanwhile we
had discovered that the disturbed cat had had kittens
in my suit, and there was one blind specimen pawing
about in the looser segments even while the battle
waged.
C. Ockney”: Joe Coyne, now “spread-
ing a little sunshine” at the Criterion, Syd-
ney, is that rara avis an American-born
comedian who is better known on the boards
of West-End London theatres than those of
his native land. He first appeared in Eng-
land m musical pieces nearly 20 years ago.
Two of the song-and-dance plavs. ‘‘The Girl
from Up There” and “Nelly Neil,” had the
beauteous “Belle of New York” heroine
Edna May for star, but Joseph was quite
as popular with the crowd. And his subse-
quent successes in “The Merry Widow ”
Dollar Princess.” “Quaker Girl” and “Danc-
ing Mistress” made him one of Fogtown’s
very first favorites.
“O.lv.’s” recollections of old comedians: —
Modern comment on the eomparativ e’y meagre
salaries paid to old original music-hall “stars’* in-
clines to exaggeration. The London correspondent
of Melbourne Akgus, for instance, says, “George Ley-
bourne thought himself lucky to get £4 a week,
Bessie Belhvood earned £7 or £B, and ‘The Great
Macdermott’ when he was making history by singing
\\q don t want to fight, but, by Jingo, if we do!’
received £l2 a week.” Now, Leybourne, a most
magnetic singer of silly songs, dates back to about
55 years ago, when music-halls were mostly small
buildings, prices of admission very low, and profits
large y dependent on the sale of liquor and cigars
during the performance. A good deal of tall, slim,
WHITES’ CIRCUS, AT SYDNEY
HIPPODROME.
Jaco, the clown, and
Dan Qoslin, the goose-
trainer.
raffish George Leybourne’s patter would be addressed
to the chairman, who sat at a table (one of many)
on the floor of the house, and announced each turn,
with a preliminary knock of his hammer. And Ley-
bourne, in his “Champagne Charlie” days would
appear at four halls a night, for an aggregate
salary of, say, £3O a week. The fee ranged from seven
or eight pounds to a “fiver." Macdermott began to
boom nearly 10 years later, and by that time the
Pavilion was a comparatively tony place whose Jew
proprietor secured first call on the Great Mae. in
consideration of £25 a week. Three other halls
would be worth at least another £35 —say £6O in
all at the height of the London season. It was a
short life and a hard one as well as a hard-drinking
life, but it was not quite so unremunerative as pre-
sent-day historians make out. Harry Rickards, con-
temporary with George Leybourne and “The Great
Vance,” earned the wherewithal to bring himself
and a little co. to Australia fully 40 years ago.
Jolly Nash, another member of the early brigade,
was imported here at a respectable salary in the
’eighties. Probably the fat man, whose name was
identified with laughing songs and nothing else, had
never been so ill paid, after he made his name, as
to “think himself lucky to get £4.” For that
matter poor, broken Leybourne lived to get £l5 or
more.
“Private Boxer”: Hugh D. Mclntosh, in
his speech before the curtain on. the last
night of “Ghu Chin Chow” in Melbourne,
announced that the net profits for the 11
weeks of its run had averaged over £l2OO
a week. Seems a pity to let such a good
thing go, but Mac explained that he was
retiring on account of ill-health and a desire
to devote himself to his newspaper interests.
He will be missed. During his short theat-
rical reign he has staged mostly British-
made pieces and proved that such a policy
—ridiculed in other quarters—pays, and
pays handsomely.
“Boyce Rolls”: Florence Young’s recent
death has made a lot of difference to her
eldest brother Fred and her old friend
Reginald Roberts. Reginald has departed
from the Firm to take up the teaching of
singing in Melbourne, whilst Fred has re-
ceived a gentle note suggesting that after
his 30 years’ service he might take a very
long rest. Both men have given their best
to J.C.W.—Fred gave his 30 years without
one real holiday break—and on their long and
unblemished records they could have safely
counted on Jimmy Williamson keeping them
in work for the rest of their lives. But
Jimmy Williamson is dead, and the senti-
ment be upheld has died with him.
“Rienzi”: When the late Thomas King-
ston was playing Scarpia to Tilda Brune’s
rosea one of the flymen who had taken a
dislike to the curly-headed actor played a
curious joke on him. One night when King-
ston lay stiff, his enemy above planted a
leaking dipper of water just oyer the actor’s
face, aud soon a tiny drop, invisible to the
audience, was lodging regularly in his right
eye. It was the old water-torture trick of
the Chinese, and the corpse blinked and
blinked, and felt ready to yell under the
iiritation whilst ’Tilda Tosca, seemingly
languid that evening, arranged the candles
W}*- “.Particular care. Tommy afterwards
admitted that it was the weirdest experience
he bad ever been through, but he never
learnt the real explanation. The wet night
outside was sufficient to justify the suggestion
that he had merely been the victim of a
small hole in the roof.
COMPULSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is some talk in yiiiuo. me of making
attendance comp. Lory at certain lays to be given
by a company of actors for the benefit of State school-
children in the suburbs.
Here is a question fair to a k
If pupils ail perfuce must see
The Sullen actor at his task
When as soar Hamlet mumbles he,
May kids in good old terms express
Resentment if they feel it then?
If suffering extreme distress,
May they, to win a fair redress,
Obtain assistance of the hen?
There are among existing pros.
A kind who'd outrage all our senses;
Who would apply, at all their shows,
Compulsion to the audiences.
They in would force us helpless cits,
And there our liner feelings Hay:
While tearing passion all to bits,
And throwing histrionic fits,
They would not let us get away.
He who agrees to this accepts
A grave responsibility.
These artists all may be adepts,
But this is how it seems to me:
That they 11 act plays one may enjoy
Is something urchins ought to know
E’er any master may employ
The cane upon the naughty boy
Who plays the wag from “Romeo” !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


4S»S-» v i ♦
sssss
ss
tSSssK
*■ +
mS'
WK
/ «r
m
i
7
m
mt
/j
A dependable
“Safety” at a
Popular Price
7 csSIo ck
M Safety \^llC Sss:g Razor.
The “7 o’clock" is wonderfully simple In its construction
and use —no loose parts, cleaned in an instant, and
stropped without removal of the blade. It is used by
many men who could afford a far more expensive razor
but prefer the efficient simplicity of the "7 o’clock.”
Complete with razor, special strop in hinged parti- 1C /
tion as part of the case, and six lancet steel blades AO/"
Of ail hi, k-class dealers throughout ike Commonwealth.
Sole Agents for Australasia, RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
5 »
Ns
&
I
1
1
e
r | , Hls 3 ton Overseas Type Chassis has been h*nlt
* specially to conform to Australian conditions.
High efficiency radiator; special ventilation to ti c
Bonnet and a I3in clearance ; same size wheels
and tyres throughout; are a few of the exclusive
features of the Overseas type.
LEYLAND LOGIC
The radiator has a 40 per
cent, higher efficiency than any
other radiator of equal a inten-
sions. It consists of a num-
ber of vertical copper lubes
p essed through th n sheets of
into one solid block, it
has top arid bottom tanks de-
ta. habit! and tucessibe for
cieanin . All mod is are fit-
ted with high tension mag-
netos arid Onei seas models are
constructed to haul trailer
loads. Prompt dt It very (turn
Stock.
tBYLANI) MOTORS LTD.,
London Hank Chambers,
Mart.n Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Ft}., Ltd . High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.
wwjrip
Mtioj sjhoiu -pUt>i\rj M(X,
((UK
''A
Vi
No Better Value in Australia
than is offered in
BUCKLEY’S
SPECIAL SUIT
gre
8*
Guineas.
We are pooud of our record
of achievement in the pro-
duction of SPECIAL SUIT
at 83 GUINEAS. The
materials are all wool, made
by the best manufacturers in
Australia, the trimmings—
the inside foundations not
seen by the purchaser—are
in keeping with the high-
grade Materials and hand-
tailoring which goes into
every Special Suit.
Buckley’s Special Suit has
another advantage—that the
materials, being lighter in
weight than most Austra-
lian-made Tweeds, meet the
need for a highly-dependable
Suit at a Moderate Price.
Write for samples and self-
measurement form, sent free
on request, quoting No.
R 125.
BUCKLEY l NUNN UD BOUR.KE ST. MELBOURNE
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OPRCE
RAILWAY STN.OR PORT
IN AUSTRALIA
d
■M
mm
mm
s*s
'■iS
=S2
■
mm
■ ■ .
liiS
sp*
*a
ss
UTLERY CABINETS rank, probably,
amongst the most appreciated of all useful
gifts. The Firm carry a large and varied
selection in finest English manufacture,
containing either half or full dozen
quantities of best stainless cutlery with E.P.N.S.
forks, spoons, etc. Half-dozen sets range in price
from £25; full dozen, from £6O. The excellence
of these Cabinets and the exquisite quality of their
contents make a very pleasing impression. Full
particulars and prices will gladly be furnished to
any address.
®Hm. Brummonti & Co.
Diamond Merchants, Jewellers, Silversmiths,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WhITTY;
MAKERS:
<*6R»CYt
V •> T -y
* . /*
.
t.* ■ ;jf
?&»>s&
SkSS
Hotel de Luxe .
Cliftoa Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: YSOOI, 3003. Apply Manager.
m/t.
mA
UJ
I
Kl
yy
UJ
m
m
m
%
~WoiuDjrbEsr
r KoTo&Q>iwr
> Gisec/
ir\ <3us*tr&jG<a..
ORITISM IMPERIAL On. COY. LTO. AU JTA TtJ 11*4
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
The Newmarket at Flemington is never
a spectacle that average gazers can take intelligent
interest in, except when something ge.ts an unmis-
takable break on the field, and the question is as to
whether the field will catch it. Nothing of that sort
happened this year. Thirty-one starters were lined
aqross the “straight six,” and the trouble was to
discover who hadn’t got a chance until they got near
home. Then it appeared that the leader of the lot
on the outside, nearest the judge’s box, was Blue
Cross, whilst the one in the centre who, from the
stand and hill, looked in front of everything, was a
bay carrying black and yellow colors. “Cetigne
wins!” was the ery—a cry of pain not unmingled with
self-reproof. But the nag in the middle of the course,
with rather more black in the colors than Cetigne
shows, was really Rathillet —the “something in
James Scobie’s stable” which the writer referred to
last week. The Rathlea colt was probably at the
very head’ of affairs for an instant ere the final
pinch came, and then Rostrum, also carrying a yellow
jacket, struggled past Rathillet, whilst old Sir ibex
was putting in an imposing final effort, and Blue
Cross, on the high ground, was winning. Getting
off smartly, and lying mostly in front, he had never
been much further back than second. The aged
gelding had on Jan. 1 won the Standish, over
the same course, for the second year in succession.
The yarn used to be circulated that Blue Cross was
uncertain, whereas he has been one of the most con-
sistent of sprinters, running third in the Oakleigh
Plate two years in succession and winning the Hawks-
burn Handicap on the following Saturday of each
year. All the same, Blue Cross had scored three com-
plete failures in the Newmarket previous to 1921,
hence the assumption that the veteran had nothing
brilliant to beat this time. The starting prices of
the placed horses were 14, 40 and 25 to 1, but the
“place” merchants, on the fringe of the bookmaking
assembly, refused to lay a fourth of tho.se prices.
Punters found consolation in the fact that the books
were not doing much business.
The Leger race suggested that Salitros was none
the better for his recent double journeying between
Sydney and Melbourne, and that Nautical is the
better stayer, anyhow. Indeed, it looks now as
though, but for bad luck in going amiss during the
Spring, this light level-hacked son of Sea Prince
might have gone near to taking both V.R.C. Derby
and Cup. He was sent out to win the Leger by
stamina if possible, and if a similar pacemaking
policy had been applied to beauteous but unripe
Eurythmic in the Essendon Stakes the champion
would probably have been beaten.
Because the Newmarket field was thought to be
not quite up to the average, Coq d’Or had the big-
gest following of backers. What time the English
horse had King Offa and Lucknow for co-mates and
brothers in exile Coq d’Or ranked in rumor as the
speediest animal ever sent to Australia by Clark
and Robinson. Seemingly Dick Bradfield still re-
garded him as second to none when he got going,
but he never got going in the six-furlongs sprint,
nor was there any evidence that he bad been pri-
vately tested to justify so much financial support.
If his doubtful leg holds good, however, Co-de-Or,
as the Ikies call him. may win a nice race. A
seven-vear-old gelding who has run only a dozen
races in his life is not an ancient.
The surprising thing was that none of the eight
mares in the Newmarket lot made any show to
speak of, whilst two aged geldings were in the first
four. A gelding has rarely, if ever, won the race
before. In its 47 years of history only two aged
sprinters had won until Blue Cross got home, and
one of those others, Pendant, was a mare.
Jim Seobie’s stable got consolation for the dis-
appointment with Rathillet in the Newmarket by
the rather astounding victory of Isa in the Kires’
Produce Stakes. The filly—a Welkin in the Ernest
Clarke ownership—was having her first outing, and
even with Lewis aboard she was not backed at a
shorter price than 12 to 1 in a field of eight,
Anturian being an even-money chance, isa seem-
ingly is the fastest and stoutest two-year-old of the
season thus far.
* * * *
A couple of three-year-olds that are going
to improve quite a lot by next season were racing
in the mud at Rosehill on Saturday—one being
Aetes, a big, green half-brother to Pershore; the
other, Prince Almissa. Both are geldings, both won
on the same course a fortnight before, and on
Saturday each registered a second. Aetes, bred and
owned by E. J. Watt, is only commencing his educa-
tion. but, though uncertain yet of his mission when
racing, and disposed to run all over the course, has
shown exceptional pace. Prince Almissa is a well-
grown youngster, and on Saturday, carrying Bst. 10io.,
was only beaten over a mile by the going.
*** V *
The New South Wales Treasury has aver-
aged more than £ 40,000 a month for the past eight
months as the result of putting the acid on ttie
patrons of racing and McShortodds. The exact sum
was .£320,136, and to this huge total the admission
tax, brought in to catch the coins at the last
A.J.C. Spring meeting, contributed £64,261. Ikey
Mo had to disgorge £76,913, a little more than half
the percentage from the tote, which was £176,913.
For five of the eight months the Government
grabbed 9 per cent., so that the machine has
handled about £2,200,000. By the time the
end of the financial year is reached a new
tote record will be established. No wonder the
Storey Government is out to take a hand in the
control of a sport having such mammoth cash-pro-
ducing possibilities. Of course, the catch in the
scheme is that once it is removed from A.J.C.
supervision and turned into a Department for the
friends of the Government to browse in, it will not
be nearly such a reproductive asset as at present.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The new “Racing Advisory
Committee” which Acting-Premier Dooley, of N. S.
Wales called together last week, will provide jobs
for two old Labor hands: J. P. Cochran, ex-M.L.A.
for the “Rocks,” and Dan O’Sullivan, one-time
secretary for the Railway Workers’ Union. Both
know a good deal about racing from the punters’
side, and have been wonderfully successful as back-
ers. Dan, who was working as a navvy when the
R.W.U. was formed, became it's first general secre-
tary, but was eventually beaten for the job. “Jack”
Cochran, robbed of his old safe seat by the com-
pound electorate scheme, had no luck in subsequent
Labor selections.
Foo Chow, a four-year-old gelding by Sol-
ferino—Tea Cup, who won the Peninsula Cup Handi-
cap (II mile) on Saturday at the Akaroa County’s
Annual meeting, held at Riccarton (M.L.), from
Baronet George Clifford’s Royal Stag and C. C.
Dalgety’s Wariove, was looked on as only a moderate
handicap horse until he broke a sequence of seconds
at the recent Dunedin races by winning the Glad-
brook and Warrington Handicaps. At that meeting
Royal Stag and Wariove finished first and second
in the Dunedin Cup (one of the four big Cup races
in the Ricketty Isles), but the Autumnus horse was
considered lucky to have beaten both the second horse
and Eleus (second to Maihoa in the record Welling-
ton Cup), who ran third.
*.* * *
Gloaming won’t be a visitor to Randwick
this Autumn, but will come over early in the Spring.
The gelding has improved out of sight in appear-
ance and has all the sprint and middle distance
w.f.a. races in the Dominion at his mercy, provided
he stands up. Another M.L. smasher who threatens
Australia’s classics is Rational (Absurd —Cowl), who
has started this season in nine races, winning six and
running second in the others. He is under offer
to an American sportsman for £5OOO.
* * * *
“A.W.”: There is little doubt that Gloam-
ing, who won again in M.L. last week, is the most bril-
liant performer Australia has known. Most of the
great ones of the past served an apprenticeship in
the lower grades. Gloaming ran away from good
ones, such as Rebus, at his ,
first attempt, and after
getting an indifferent start
in a big field at that. Only
one of his defeats can be
placed against him,
namely, when Poitrel
caught and wore him down
in the last 100yds. of the
mile and a half Spring
Stakes. He was probably
amiss the day Sasanof beat
him. In other defeats
mishaps—on one occa-
sion a fail—were respon-
sible. Writer would back
the longest-priced one of
the three any time Poitrel.
Eurythmic and Gloaming
met, fit and well, over a
mile and a half; but at
any shorter distance the
odds would be very much
on the M.L. wonder.
A. V. HISKINS, sec.
of the Moonee Vallor
(Vic.) Racing Club.
The English cricketers played their last
match but one in Australia against an Alhurv XV
(11 fielding), on Friday and Saturday, and the locals
made a draw of it. Wilson, who was captain, took
seven wickets for 44 and made 62 runs. Russell
banged up 146, but was held at last. In the
southerners’ second innings Stewart got 42 (not out).
The bucolic umpires, heedless of the cable service,
gave three of the Englishmen (including Wilson) out
l.b.w.
* * * *
Melbourne’s 338 against South was the
heaviest score in Melbourne district cricket on Satur-
day. Onvons cortributed 83, SantKord 56 and
Lemann 54. South have lost 1 for 31. P’ran against
Essendon are now 7 for 253. Willis made 105 by
unenterprising cricket. North, playing against
Northcote, are already licked on the first innings,
in which tbev scored 102—a grievous position that
was brought about by Bailey, who captured 7 for 23.
Northcote have lost 6 for 130, which included 60 from
the ever-reliable G'arroll. East have discovered a
new googly bowler in Rayson. He took 7 for 52
against Carlton, who totalled 145. East have three
good bats out for 56. Fitzroy, facing Richmond,
knocked off with 8 for 238 —which result was due to
the fine stand of McKenzie (77) and Lansdown
(87 n. 0.). The only .streak of brightness in Uni.’s
total of 179 against St. Kilda was Bailey’s confident
89. Jacobson, for Saints, took 6 for 54, and the
seasiders are beginning to mop up arrears with 1
for 78.
ROCKLEY WILSON, of the English XI,
sends a cable.
“S.T.S.” : During the whole period of in-
ternational cricket you can barely make up an
eleven of Australians with names of one syllable.
For England, first, last and all the time, one-syllabled
names have represented about half the side. In the
1882 XI there were six—Grace, Steel, Studd, Read,
Peate and Barnes. A trifle lacer came Shaw, Bligh,
another Read, Gunn, Bates, Peel, Brown, Briggs, Ward
and Mold, with Grace still on top. After them came
at us Fry, Ilearne, Hirst, Haigh, Rhodes, Quaife,
Jones, Braund, Blythe, another Barnes and’ two
more Gunns; and there -are still plenty of others
nameable, of less sustained importance, but inter-
national men in their day. Just now it is not
quite so marked ; but Hobbs, another Hearne, Rhodes
and Hitch still make a fair start. Barnes and
Jupp were invited, too, and Mead, Knight and others
may be heard from in the coming summer. Mean-
while, Australia sends just one to England, and
him a 15th choice; and had another team playing
in Auckland t’other day without a short name in it.
It can’t well be anything but chance; but. 40 years
seems a long time for a mere coincidence to keep
at work.
* * * #
If matches against South Africa are in-
cluded as “Tests,” Mailey’s recent performance in
the fourth has been equalled, and a bit over. In
Christmas week, 1913, Barnes, playing for England
in S Africa, took 9 wickets for 103 in the second
innings; and he had 8 for 56 in the first as well.
* * * *
Patterson stayed on in Adelaide after the
inter-State tennis match for the local champion-
ships, and had a Satisfactory though hard-working
week. Hone, Gumer and especially Rowe (who
had beaten Roy Taylor) gave him bard games, Rowe
winning a set. R. V. Thomas, who had been in
poor health ail the time, met him in the final, and
it was shown once more that tennis is a game
of stamina almost as much as of skill. For an
hour and a half there was absolutely nothing to
choose between them. Then Thomas was done. He
lost the first set, 16 to 18, the second easily, and
scratched for the third. An hour later these two
played together in the final of the doubles; they
had put out after hard games the two Hones, and
Geoff Thomas and Gurner. Rice, of Sydney, who
should have been in Adelaide to partner Taylor, was
unable to make the trip, and Justin O’Dea. took his
place. These two took the first Set from the cham-
pions, and then went down through lack of severity
in overhead work and service. Mrs. Rowe, who is
mother of the player above-named, won all three
of the women’s championships after hard fights with
Mrs. Mather, of Perth, who—playing always at home
hitherto —had not been beaten for years. Mrs.
Rowe’s partner in the mixed was G. M. Hone, a
coming man with enormous reach. The juvenile
event was remarkable for being won by a member
of an inter-State team: Cleland, though he had
played for We-tralia the previous Saturday, being
a boy of only 17.
The M.C.C. Autumn Tennis Champion-
ships transpired in a bleak southerly at the Albert
Ground, Melbourne, on Saturday. Several of the
cracks appeared, but the quality of the opposition
was so poor that they performed like non-triers.
Gerald Patterson, versus C. Watson, played in this
enervating spirit and then only lost three games in
three sets. Thomas, of South Australia, pushed to
7—5 by T. Fitchett in the first go, easily gathered
in the next two. 6—2, 6 —-1. Pat O’Hara Wood,
blithe but merciful to the hardwoiking A. M.
Crowe, slowed down to languid baseline play and
made a prayer-meeting seem joyous by comparison.
Yet he couldn’t lose a game in the three sets. The
struggle will grow more violent as the mugs are
eliminated, and there ought to be a record house for
the finals next Saturday.
* * * *
Seventeen out of the listed 19 boats
faced the starter in Sydney Flying Squadron’s 18ft.
handicap last Saturday. Many ballooners were blown
to ribbons. Britannia’s mast snapped, Hero's rudder
broke, and Kismet emptied her crew into the harbor.
Nine lined up for the final, Mavis leading to the
Shark Beach mark. Here a squall struck her, and
she whipped up to windward, inside the buoy, H.
Rodrick, her skipper, being unable to hold her away.
Mavis eventually hauled a wind fourth boat, after
Mississippi, Desdemona and Arline. Arline (W.
Fisher) was doing best until a woolly one hit her
near the Shark Island light. Mississippi entered on
the final mile a solid first, with Desdemona and
Pastime battling for second money. The latter won
by feet only. The winner is an amateur-built craft,
Fred Newton, of Vaucluse, being responsible.
Dawn (9min.) with Osear Backhouse in
command, landed home first for the fourth time this
season in Sydney Amateurs’ Handicap. N. Hall, in
Adelphi, off the 12min. mark, was 2|min. away
second. Seabird (W. L. Dendy), off the mark of
honor, materialised 20sec. later. Dawn revelled in
the blow, and also profited by the changing of the
course from the Manly to South Reef.
* * * *
The R.S.Y.S. staged its last race this
season on Saturday over the Manly course. There
was a snorting southerly in opposition to a flood
tide. Of the 10 vessels listed to compete only five,
Th’ Thistle, 30min. (G. E. S. Sandeman) ; Oenone.
23min. (J. M. Brunton) ; Scotia, 13min. (Chat.
Brockhofl) ; Aoma, llmin. (J. S. Palmer) ; and
Bona, scratch (L. Patrick), materialised. Oenone
went great guns under small canvas, and headed
Sandeman’s craft off Tragedy Beach, being first to
haul a wind for the thrash back to Shark Island.
Near the Manly mark Aoma’s boom collapsed and
Th’ Thistle lost her head sail. Scotia and Bona,
after punching back to Shark Island, eased away
for Pinchgut, having brought Oenone back 71 and
13 minutes respectively. Oenone was first round
the Fort for the second Canto, and maintained the
lead to the end, staving off Scotia’s challenge by
6sec.
Ludy Danger and Pua Ivealoha, the
Hawanans, made their Queensland debuts at South
Brisbane Baths last Saturday, when Longer lowered
the Bananaland 440yds. record of omin. 37sec. He
cut out the distance in smin. 29sec., conceding S.
Springfield 12sec., J. Laimer and R. Mullins 20sec.
and J. Sousarri 30sec. The time is slow compared with
his smin. 23 2-ssec. recorded in the N.S.W. 440yds.
championship, and his smin. 17 3-ssec. at Hobart.
The South Brisbane enclosure, however, is not an
ideal spot for record-smashing. In the 100yds.
International Handicap Kealoha, after conceding J.
Gillen, the local 100yds. champion, 4sec., and D.
O, Boyle and IV. Moreham ssec. apiece, won from
Boyle with four yards to spare in 55 2-ssec.
Which is only 4-ssec. slower than the time recorded
by Kahanamoku in the same bath in 1915.
* * * *
Sid Beck, by winning the 100yds. cham-
pionship of the Sydney OiuD last Saturday, notched
the fastest time registered for the distance by an
Australian during the past six years, and the
next best to Albert Barry’s 55 4-ssec. put up against
Kahanamoku in the State 100yds. championship of
1915, when “The Duke” took the title in world’s
record time-—53 4-ssec. Beck’s swim equals that
of Kealoha in this year’s 100yds. State champion-
ship. Sid is undoubtedly the best all-round water-
man Australia ever possessed, but he should now
consider the advisability of specialising over the
100yds. and leave back-stroke, breast-stroke, novelty
events and clowning for the divers alone. It is in free
style swimming that his future lies.
* * * *
Adelaide’s only long fresh-water swim,
lm. 200 yds., from the weir of the Torrens Lake
up to the Jubilee Oval, was again handed this year
to a long-starter; Dilliway, a mere boy, came in
all alone. Beaglehole, of Moonta, had the fastest
time., 28min. lsec.; the winner’s was 29min. 56see.,
and he had Bmin. start! A 14-year-old girl, also
from Moonta, made a first appearance in Adelaide
and finished fourth.
At the recent Wellington (M.L.) amateur
athletic championship meeting H- E. Wilson won the
hundred in even time. The Australasian champion also
took the 120yds. hurdles (15 2-ssee.) and the long
jump (21ft. 7in.). Peter Munro (Wellington)
heaved the 161 b. shot 44ft. O^in.—the next best
effort in Australasia to E. R. Caughey’s (America)
record of 4oft. Of in. Munro took the Australasian
championship at Sydney last year with' 42ft. llin.
J. McHolm (Wellington) threw the hammer 126 ft.
6in. He won the Australasian championships in
1914 with 138 ft., and in 1920 with 130 ft. 9in. For
the McVilly Shield, Wellington (82 points) had an
easy victory from Wairarapa (21 points) and Wan-
ganui (15 points), while the four other clubs failed
to get double figures.
Most of the top-notchers were again successful in
the M.L. “open” championships at Auckland on
Saturday. The best efforts were H. E. Wilson’s
120yds.” hurdles (15 3-ssec.), C. H. Taylor’s half-
mile (2min. 1 l-ssec.), and P. Munro’s shot putt
(43ft. 54in.). George Davidson, back from the
Olympic games, won the 220yds. in 22sec., only
i-ssec. behind the Dominion record. Dave Wilson,
who is 45, took both the walks.
* * * *
The R.A.C. couldn’t have chosen a better
day than Saturday for its one-day reliability test
between Sydney and Bulli. Howling wind and rain,
combined with execrable roadways, made the severest
of conditions. Twenty cars started, and only two
failed to get though the 103-mile trip. In the
“private class” Essex cars (both 18.9) filled the
leading places; and in the “open class” Essex
(18.9) won from Buick (25.6). The winner m
the latter section put up a fine performance by-
scoring full points in both reliability (200) ana
consumption (100), and 88 in the hill climb. Boyd
Edkins's Vauxhall (20.1) alone got full points (100)
in the hill climb.
* * * *
In the South Aus. bowling championship
at Adelaide Oval, F. Stapleton outed P. F. Cherry
(one of the State’s top-notchers) by 31-15. At the
fifth head Stapleton (who is a new-comer) had a
two-to-one majority and kept it up to the end.
The newspapers continue to refer dis-
paragingly to the tail of the English cricket team.
When man first arose from the primitive ape,
His tail disappeared and he gained a new shape.
But cricketing man, born to trundle and swipe,
Reversion displays to the earlier type,
For a cricketing team when beginning to fail
Always loses its form and develops a tail.
N.S.W
M. H.
THE SPLENDID EXCEPTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Of the 15 members of the cricket team going
to England 14 are total abstainers.”— Rev. T.
Davies at Sydney Methodist Conference in the Inter-
ests of Pith lie Morality.
“Australia’s greatest cricketer is not a teetotaller.”
—Opening sentence of pending biography.
Oh! Youth is a time of high emprise, but Wisdom
comes with years,
And that which seems great to twenty-one to forty -
odd appears
Not so inevitable quite,
Nor so unquestionably right.
The lads of the team may eschew strong drink
But the seasoned man—well, what do you think?
Oh, good it is to follow a lead and loyally obey;
But who should own the better brain, the led or the
leader, pray ?
Though fourteen rigidly abstain
We cheerful sinners who retrain
From doing so may reflect with pride
The one who doesn’t controls the side.
Where all are in the world-beating class to carp
were out of place,
But this may, anyhow, be remarked with no descent
from grace:
While lesser cracks must whisky flee,
And turn to water, milk or tea,
With the whole team’s weight on his mighty back
The Champion of Champions can take his whack.
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


Your Greatest Asset
*
. i
in business and in social life is good health. The man who is not
physically fit cannot expect to take his right f p B
men who “get there.”
Good health is the keystone of efficiency, and efficiency is the
keystone of successful business to-day.
Get fit and keep fit, by the Baker
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture.
The exercises are simple, enjoyable, and directly beneficial
to the nerves and muscles that control the most important
organs of the body.
This method of individual instruction has benefited thousands,
of sufferers and restored them to perfect, glowing health.
If y OU wish to enjoy the success in life that physical fitness
ensures, write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, cut it out and send it, with three penny stamps to
cover postage, and you will receive a copy of the interesting
book, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture.” which tells
all about this simple system.
Take action to-day!
REG. 1. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
440 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
m
H
ns
Mi
ss
I
S 3
a*
*im
m
■■ ■
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere “Vallo” is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it—and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
«
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY - BRISBANE
;■ -
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES:—
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Sydney; Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe &
Adelaide; West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie; New
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
for Indigestion.
NOBEL’S
ga
SPORTING
Field § Match
g
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
SAVE FOUNDS!
Have Your Easter Suit
ag
“ Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailored —NOW.
You need to order your Easter Suit
at once, not onlv to prevent the dis-
appointment of not having it on time,
but mainly because you can utilise
this striking opportunity to obtain
Complete Suit. Satisfaction at a
saving pounds through
OUR
SPECIAL
OFFER
£615
To obtain Guaranteed materials such
as All-Wool Indigo-dyed English
Cheviot Serge, absolutely unfadeable
and permanently serviceable, All-
Wool Australian Tweeds of highest
grade, and English Worsteds of un-
questionable class —-in a suit “Lincoln-
Stuart” Tailored with that thorough-
ness that ensures Comfort-giving,
Shape-retaining, Style-satisfying
Garments, would in the ordinary
course entail an outlay of guineas in
excess of our charge.
This fact is the all-sufficient reason
why your Easter Suit order should be
placed with the “Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring Service, here and now.
CALL OR WRITE.
Patterns are POST FREE, to-
gether with tapes, self-measure-
ment forms, etc*. Write now.
LINCOLN STUART
& Co. Pty., Ltd.,
“Tailoring Specialists,”
244-64 FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.


Grey or faded hair suggests the
“ Winter of Life. ”
"INECTO”
brings back the “Springtime.”
IS it worth while having an appearance indicating loss of youthful vigor when
complete removal of that libel is easily obtainable. "Inecto,” the world famous
hair coloring, will permanently restore your hair to its original color and lustre.
The method is simple, inexpensive and may be carried out in your own home.
"INECTO” is procurable in the following shades :
THE "INECTO” CASE.
The "IneAo” Case contains
pairs of small bottles ; thus divided,
waste is reduced to a minimum and
deterioration overcome. Full in-
formation with " Inecto * case.
No. 1-Deep Black.
No. H-Black.
No. 2-D’kest Br’n.
No. 3-Darkßrown.
No. 4-Brown.
No. 4i—f ight Brown.
No. 4i~Gold Brown.
No. 5--Dark Auburn.
No. 5 Auburn.
No. 6-Dk. Ash Bl’de.
No. 7-Reddish Blonde
No. 8-Blonde.
No. 84-Golde-n Blonde
No. 9-Light Blonde.
cPrice Complete - - 16/-
the Commonwealth FARMER’S, SYDNEY. Box 497, G.P.O.
Wholesale supplies obtainable from Craig Sr Jlit\en, 654 Qeorge Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TO RICHARD HEATON formerly of Queenstown
and Devonport in the State of Tasmania and of
Port Melbourne in the State of Victoria and who is
believed to have been serving in the month of
September 1918 on His Majesty’s Canadian Transport
No. 2234 the husband of Louisa Amelia Heaton of
Henry Street West Devonport in the State,of Tas-
mania.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
fifteenth day of February one thousand nine hundred
and twenty-one has issued out of the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania in its Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of the said Louisa Amelia Heaton praying for
a dissolution of her marriage with you on the ground
that without just cause or excuse you deserted her
and that without any such cause or excuse you have
left her continuously deserted during two years and
upwards.
In default- of your appearing the Court will proceed
to hear and determine the said charge and you will
not be allowed to address the Court.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within three calendar months from
the date of the publication of this advertisement to
attend in person or by your Proctor at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania and there to enter
an appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
(Sgd.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Finlay, Watchorn and Clark, of No. 32 Murray Street,
Hobart, in the State of Tasmania, Proctors for
the Petitioner.
'3
m
WRITE. FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
The big Autumn meeting at Flemington
will warm up through the week, when dila-
tory inter-State visitors join the carnival
crowd. As it was, the first gathering, for the
Newmarket on Saturday, seemed too good to
be true, for racegoers had become numbed
with the effects of strikes and were pessi-
mistic. There were few visitors from other
States, and many Westralians Were held
prisoner by the floods on the Transconti-
nental. Even the Western District visitors
were few. A thorough old Flemington wind
was so strong and piercing that it even
affected the racing. It certainly worried
the froeky people. Autumn frills are not
ready, three months' heat had knocked
the snap out of enthusiasts, and summer
frocks were wilted. The race coat had a
fine innings; nearly every woman smothered
her dress with one or a big cape. Terra-
cotta color has come back with a rush, after
being dormant for 10 years. There .were
warm glows from it in wool and satin fabrics
and in hats. Mandarin yellow, vivid orange
and paddy-green are other startling colors
fighting for fashionable life. One woman
wore revers and cuffs of emejald green on
black. Another sensational frocker had
lemon-colored wool worked all over a white
wool gown—but it had only a brief airing
before the wind demanded that it should be
covered.
A full supply of Governor folk invaded
the vice-regal pen. The G.-G. and Lady
Forster were out with a bunch of aides.
Mrs. Aide Wheatley and Miss Fergusson
were in the party. They arrived for the first
race, had a luncheon party and then streaked
off early to open the Hawthorn Remembrance
Carnival, which is to help the Soldiers’ Club
fund. The Newdigate-Newdegate lady and
her daughter, who are staying with the
G.-G.’s, arrived too late from Tasmania for
the first day’s racing.
The new Earl-Governor and his Countess
and all the jovial co. made, their first visit
to Flemington on Saturday. They will get
a better idea of the beauties of the course
during the week if the wind stops its philan-
dering. The Gov.’s party also left early to
vislc the Hawthorn high jinks.
When the Lord Mayor staged a reception
for the Earl Governor and his lady last week
the Town Hall did itself proud. The main
hall w'as turned into a lounge full of soft
rugs and divans. Roses rambled all over
the balcony-railings, and a huge rose-bush
in the centre of the hall was full of prickles.
Several filmy scarves got caught during the
promenade. The vice-regal dais w r as camou-
flaged as a casemented cottage with veran-
dahs, and in front of the organ w r as a mossy
fern-trimmed creek. The organ itself got a
delightful surprise. The Earl Governor
asked to be shown its paces, and High-priest
Price called forth its greatest thunder. The
boom quite squashed the most inveterate
chatterer. No one has petted the organ
since the Hennessy lady went aw r ay.
The Countess, in Wedgewood-blue and
much ivory-white back, was illuminated by
her jewels. Her tiara spread fan-shaped
like the tail of a peacock, and was built up
of miraculously large diamonds and rubies.
More diamonds and pigeon-blood rubies like
bantams’ eggs formed an Elaborate collar
round her neck, and the blaze made her big
brown eyes shine like topaz. She looks a
happy young Countess, and the whole
family-and-co. look beaming and glad that
they came to Australia. Only four of the
eight children have come with papa and
mamma, but probably the others will trek
this way later. The two demure daughters
have begun to thaw. They moved about
among the guests looking shyly for congenial
young things, but there were few' young
girls in sight, for mayoral parties are so
packed with the large and well-fed middle-
aged. Lady Helena Rous wmre pale laven-
der pleats of georgette, and was faithful to
the ostrich-feather poodle-collar.
Lord Mayor Swansop looked apoplectic in
vast trappings of cloth and fur and chains.
His lady had her hair pinned up with jetted
combs and w r ore clingy black satin with an
irresponsible snaky train. The Peacock
lady chose apricot color —the skirt correctly
long to the instep. Mrs. Bob Knox dared
black velvet with “trouserette” skirts, and
blazed under a tiara of diamonds. Mrs.
Henry Stead lit up her black gown with her
Titian hair and some amazing black pearls.
The Mitchell lady was in a magnificent in-
tricacy of black and white, with a long
straight train ; Mrs. Woolcott had gold roses
embroidered into her clingy blue gown, and
the Mackey lady’s frock of warm yellows
and amber was puffed crinoline-wise over
the hips. Supper was spread in the corri-
dor rooms and under awnings upstairs over
the portico. There was a great popping of
ehampagne corks in the special upstairs
foodery.
On a recent Sawbath Premier Lawson
dropped into harvest thanksgiving service in
the auld kirk at Dunolly, where, lang syne, he
“thought the thoughts of youth.” His dad
was the meenister of the kirk, and he was
born in the manse adjoining. Lawson may
miss greatness because he has not the wings
to wear up to it, but Dunolly has no reason
to be ashamed of his son of the manse.
There has been a great rush for the
morocco-bound book kept in the ante-room
to the vice-regal offices at the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department. With an earl as Gover-
nor it may be worth the trouble of the
journey to “sign on.” Who knows? The
glories of the spacious times of the Ilope-
touns may be revived.
Neil Smith has started off tactlessly as
private • secretary to Earl Stradbroke.
He has written to an M.L.A. rebuking him
for announcing that the Gov. was going to
a function in his district before his
Ex.’s verbal promise, given to the legislator
personally, had been confirmed by letter
from the private secretary. It may be that
a Governor is in leading strings, and must do
what he is told by his private secretary as
well as by his Ministers, but the private sec-
retary should not put the show away. There
are still left a few members in the Vic. Par-
liament who would have forwarded such a
letter to the Governor and asked him if he
approved of the lecturey style of it? After
all a private secretary is only a private
secretary.
Notwithstanding that the respondent tried
to make it so easy for her, Eunie Chia (for-
merly Russell) didn’t get her divorce; and
if she is still keen on severing the knot with
Chinan’ 0 n Chia she will have to give fur-
ther evu ence on commission in London or
appear personally in the Divorce Court in
Melbourne. Such is the ruling of Mr. Jus-
tice Cussen. ’S’Onor wanted to know what
was in Eunie’s letter to her dead dad. a copy
of which was forwarded to Chia. It was
this letter, evidently. Which caused the rash
but undoubtedly cultured Chinese husband
to write the letter read in court which most
people regard as dignified and chivalrous. In
that he undertook, as she desired it, not to
have any further marital relations with her
and let her do what she pleased to get free.
Applicants for the job of salesman to go
abroad to hawk tinned fruit are not pleased
at the way in which they were compelled to
hang round—“registry-office style,” as one
of them phrased it—-while waiting a turn
to interview the selection committee. The
screw is to be £1250 for one year, with
exes, thrown in, and the State Government
is to find 75 per cent, of the money. Frank
Clarke, Minister for Works, is chairman of
the committee, and the promenade for 17 of
the most likely of the 52 candidates was the
corridor of the Public Works Department.
Little Mione Stewart, who, although only
18 or so, is now playing the part of Phil
Smith’s matured w*T2
in “The Maid of the
Mountains,” should
be steeped in stage
tradition. Her dad,
the brother of Nellie
Stewart, had a pan-
tomime part in the
early ’eighties, when
his future wife, Con-
st an c e Deonvyn,
played principal boy.
Mother’s sister, by
the way, is Beatrice
Holloway Grie g’s
mother. So there you
have it. Mione, who started off at the Tivoli
as a maid in “My Lady ■ Fray'le,” has never
been coached off stage by anyone but mother
-—not eA r en by Aunt Nell. She is a popular
little person. Hef one hobby is garden-
ing, and if she doesn’t get too satisfied with
her early successes Mione should do big
work later oh.
General Wisdom, streaking through, from
the West to pick up a boat at Brisbane for
Rabaul, was one of the- passengers held up
by floods on the Great Western Railway.
The new Administrator wired from Tarcoola
for an aeroplane. The Defence authorities,
maybe thinking of some defence ’planes that
have left bits yf wreckage here and there in
the Commonwealth, tabooed the flight. Rather
a belated Administrator whole than a hurried
one in pieces. The new Administrator is
booked on the 8.-JP. Melusia, which is chock-
ful of officials for Rabaul. Wisdom and his
staff and Boss Lucas of the Expropriation,
with 40 of his men, are travelling by this
boat.
News came through that stranded Western
passengers were playing cricket at Tarcoola,
and Lucas nearly had hysterics on the
Treasury steps. Billy Hughes played cricket
and has been an invalid for weeks." Secretary
Sheppard played tennis and sprained his leg.
G.-G. Forster yachted and bunged his knee
in Tasmania. All this delayed official work
to do with Rabaul, and the special boat
for the North was held up for a man who
might have snapped a tendon playing cricket
at Tarcoola. Lucas in his despair wants a
law made that high officials may not play
anything but pine-pong. The railway people
at the time of writing are going to the help
of Administrator Wisdom with a rail-trolly
and a bathing suit, and possibly he will get
through with his official clothes in a bundle
on his head and reach Brisbane before the
boat is held more than two or three days.
Reg Roberts has seceded from the J.C.W.
combination, and is now arranging to teach
singing at the Fritz Hart Con.
D. J. Coutts has been pushed into the
limelight by his appointment as acting-head
of the Uni. Conservatorium during the
absence of Professor Laver on leave ; and
here is a recent view
of him by Shier.
Coutts comes from
Ballarat, where he
threw up his distant
prospects as a State
school-teacher for the
heavier slavery of
the musical profes-
sion. That he has
uncommon gifts was
shown in his early
composition of the
music for a special
church service at
Maryborough, Vi c.
Later an Ormond
scholarship brought
him closer to Mar-
shall Hall, who put
him into training
for a resident scholarship at Trinity College
and the degree of Mus. Bae., which he eventu-
ally captured with final honors. After that
Coutts joined the teaching staff of the Uni.
Con. and wrote and lectured tremendously
on his favorite art. Also he composed many
songs which are always introduced at high-
class recitals, but are never heard on the
popular concert platform. Coutts’s ability
as a composer has been rather overshadowed
by his success as a teacher, but those who
have heard his songs, which are still in
manuscript, reckon Australia knows little of
his quality.
Melbourne loses and Sydney gains medico
R. C. Mills, a man of repute among intel-
lectuals on both sides of the globe. When
the war-drums sounded he was studying in
the Cold Country, and he dropped his books
and put in a twelvemonth as a Tommy in
the ranks. Then came a mention in
despatches, and finally a bad dose of gas in
1918. While in London he wrote a book
on Australian colonisation, for which he was
emphatically- patted on the back by Prof.
Graham Wallas, of that town, and he made,
many- friends among the Fabian brotherhood.
Between w’hiles he made a charming colleen
Mrs. Mills. Returning to his native heath
he was given a seat on the High Price
Commission, and he also held tutorships at
the University here. With his wife and
chick he has now gone to take un his duties
as Lecturer on Economics at Sydney Uni-
versity.
Just as the daily papers were beginning
to get dull after the cessation of cricket and
strike news and the fading out of other mild
Captain Garrett O’Brien, an im-
pulsive officer of the Royal Air Force, pro-
vided enough table talk for two meals. While
coming out on the Naldera he appears to
have taken a violent fancy to the fascinating
- Carrie Lundgren, a Swedish woman, who
had just divorced her husband in Scan-
dinavia. According to the lady’s story the
youth laid siege to her affections, though she
told him she was on her way to Sydney to
marry a man who owned £15,000. As time
w T as flying and love sighing, the skipper was
asked to marry the pair, so she stated; but
the cap. pleaded that he was within the
three-mile limit. When they reached Mel-
bourne Carrie lingered in the city while the
airman went home to Kerang, where his
dad, Myles O’Brien, a staid family lawyer,
and his mother (who as Rose M'cHarg, of
Emu Flat, was a belle in her day) frowned
on the engagement. Then alleging lack of
funds as his excuse, the airman wrote break-
ing off the engagement. The upshot was an
annlication to prevent Garrett O’Brien flit-
ting back to Britain till a breach-of-promise
action could be tried, and Irvine, C.J.„
ordered the sheriff to arrest the airman and
hold him till he planked down £5OO or an
approved security for that figure.
Chief Justice Irvine, the new President,
did the honors when Earl Strati broke, the
brand new Governor, dined at Melbourne
Club. There was a big muster of the ex-
clusives, who did not have to ballot foY seats
at the festive board as was necessary, owing
to the limited accommodation in the largest
dining-room, when Edward P. *rave the club
his company. Irvine’s speech proposing his
Imported Ex’s, health was rather prosy, and
the tone of it in defining the status of a
Governor as “the King’s deputy” was more
suited to the Tory atmosphere in which he
found himself than to any democratic
assemblage. Times have changed since .1903.
when Irvine as Premier was content' with
the Bohemian Club, which had rooms on the
first floor of a building opposite the Block
Arcade.
Everybody seemed to be flitting hence on
the Narkunda last Saturday. J. M. Niall,
chairman of Goldsbrough-Mort and lots of
other moneyed concerns, is off to Europe for
the rest of the year. He couldn’t even stay
to see his horse Sefton run at Flemington,
but will be kept posted by Norman Falkiner,
who became J.M.N.’s partner in horseflesh
when their friend Dick Casey died. The
‘‘Lane” has two of its notables aboard the
Narkunda. Bates, of the Robert Reid firm,
booked for no further than Colombo, but
Henry Sargood is being taken to London
(at his own suggestion) by the wife and
family, and some of “The Man from To-
ronto” co. have berths on the boat —not Mar-
garet Swallow, who is still in Maoriland;
nor the Tullys, already on their way to
London, via America, accompanied by the
very young man who played “Bobby,” but
the rest of the happy family. Rosaline
Courtneidge is there under the chaperonage
of the Joe Grahams and the humorous Rig-
nold lady. Work awaits Rosaline in Eng-
land, for her father is going to produce a
new comedy in which she and the Graham
daughter will have parts, and Tully will
be leading man. The Narkunda wili be a
bit later than was expected, so the girls
must land at Marseilles and scamper home
to catch rehearsals.
Do you know what dog blitherers are?
They look like intelligent women, but they
are just vacuums on legs. We are threatened
with a return of that vile fashion—the toy-
dog. Two of the clan boarded a tram-car
the other day, each hugging one of the little
brutes. “Does Mummie’s sweetheart want
a 101-lol?” babbled one. She dived into her
handbag and produced a squashy chocolate
which the bundle of ribbon and hair lapped
up. “Isn’t he perfectly divine?” gurgled the
other. _ “Will lovie have one, too?” Then a
repetition of the disgusting performance.
Baby lovers and self-respecting women ought
to have these wreckers of ideals flung behind
bars until they become normal.
The Geachs of Sydney have bought
Mosspennoch, which was a fashionable
hashery, next door to Cliveden, in East Mel-
bourne. The whole place has been re-
modelled for flats—swaggah flats with a
restaurant; also with those rarities, maids,
already captive in the building, to be rented
out to the flattists at so much an hour.
Prof. Archie Strong has already established
his bachelor self in this Elysium before the
workmen have vacated it.
Donald Mackinnon, Mrs. Mackinnon and
their third son left by the Narkunda for the
Cold Country. The president of the V.C.A.
should get a cordial welcome during the
cricket season, and, of course, he will see
the Test matches. On returning he will
start his canvass for one of the new (post-
census) constituencies in the House of Reps.
It is certain to be the division which includes
\ that pdrtion of Corangamite in which his
own broad acres lie. In that case he will
have to try conclusions with Gibson, of the
Cocky party, who now holds Corangamite.
A few items from Adelaide:—
Adelaide’s Mayoress gave another of her very numer-
ous “at homes” oh Tuesday. She evidently believes
in taking the ratepayers medicinally, in small quan-
tities. Conservatorium stars all have a turn at lift-
ing their voice in song.
The scheme of bringing Knowledge by correspon-
dence to the kiddies of Outback settlers—some of
the families being over 100 miles from the
nearest school—>is proving a great success. About
300 children are receiving tuition per the postman,
and Miss S. N. Twiss (head teacher) and her staff
of four are kept busy, One bush mother describes
it as “The Children’s Life’s Romance.”
The overcrowding of the electric trams is becom-
ing serious. Last week there were "two cases of
girls’ dr&ssea catching fire from men’s pipes owing
to the too-close packing. Even the most retiring
man finds “his mouth is full of hair, his arms are
full of girl.” And the cook who does not arrive
home until one in the morning, because there was
no room in the last car, is quite a common happen-
ing.
Dr. Herbert Basedow is going to Melbourne next
month, to talk publicly on his travels through Central
and Northern Australia. As chief medical inspector
and protector of aborigines he has had exceptional
opportunities for studying Binghi.
The Hull baronet Henry Samman was not roman-
cing when he said he “couldn’t get a meil in
Adelaide a few minutes after six o’clock.” Many
Torrens-side folk have bewailed the same lamentable
fact. Because drink is scratched seems no particu-
lar reason why food should be also.
A practical Adelaide business man, who foresees
bad times ahead when only essentials will oount,
although he has an old-established music warehouse,
has started in millinery. He says “A woman may
count a piano a luxury, but she will always consider
a hat a necessity.”
The fascinating Helen Charles, at the Majestic
Theatre, with her smart monologues and clever
mimicry of children, is drawing a class of audience
that never before crossed the giddy portals. Those
who hitherto had ranked a vaudeville show among
the “naughty” things are to be seen sneaking in.


Western Electric
Power a»a Light
Makes the battery last longer
>
.•V-'
1
■■■ ■ ‘ ■•
m
m
Who would imagine that those in the country
could wash and wring the clothes by electriciy.
Yet here it is being done —thanks to Western
Electric Power and Light
This shows the 3% H.P. Western Elpc f ric
Eng ne and 1,500 Watt Generator When
engine is not charging b ittery, you can use
it for regular engine work.
Here you see electric power harnessed
for doing bothersome farm jobs which
most men do by hand, wasting time
and entsgy.
What does an Agricultural Show
do for the man on the land?
YEAR after year you men from
the land come all the way to
Agricultural Shows—to see—to buy
the latest machinery. Yet all the
time the number of men on the land grows
less. Farmers and farm workers continue to
leave primary production and seek the less
rigorous conditions of the city.
Of what use is the latest plough, drill, harrow, or
harvester, if living conditions are such that workers
will not operate them. They realise that life is short,
that rough, comfortless, country life —however healthy
—is not worth while.
The ideal condition is where a healthy country life
combines with city comforts and conveniences, and
this desirable combination is now attainable. Instead
of setting your heart on a new plough, determine to
investigate a plant that is worth more than all the
new implements put together.
m
H
w
H
m
i
i
i
■
&
&
m
1
:•: V- :/
U
m
>
m
'
1H!
IS
■
■
Western Electric Power and Light serves the man, his wife,
children, and t hose who work the farm. It brings a condition
of living that means happiness; which substitutes content-
ment for discontent.
Here, then, is something that is worthy of inspection! Make
it the most prominent leaure of your visit to the Show —
you wih never regret it. Twenty Page Book will be sent
Post Free by your nearest of the agents shown below-
Royal Agricultural Show
SYDNEY, MARCH 21st to 29th
Exhibit No. 11, Park Road
Near Post and Telegraph Office
In addition to providing electric light in the homestead,
barn, dairy, milking shed, etc., “ Western Electric Power
and Light” supplies electric power too. The “Western
Electric ” Battery of 180 Ampere Hours makes this extra
service possible. Thus the country family can dispose of
housework in no time.
A vacuum cleaner sweeps the floors, the dishes are washed
with a dish washer, the laundry done by an e ectric washing
mac ine and wringer, and ironed with an electric iron. All
the family sewing is done by a portable electric sewing
machine, an electric fan cools the house, and you can use
an electric toaster too.
Many regular farm jobs can be done by electric power, and
the 3X HP. Kerosene Engine is available for driving
machinery. The whole outfit is extremely simple, safe and
reliable—because it is “ Western Electric.” Send for the
20 Page Book Now!
Western Electric Company
(Australia)! td.
192 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:—
C. R. FOSTER, 262 Flinders Lane. Melbourne.
T. TONES, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
NEWTON McLaren, LTD., Leigh Street, Adelaide.
WM. ADAMS & CO. LTD., 35 King Street, Perth.
MEDHURST ELECTRIC CO., 11 Argyle Street. Hobart.
A. D. RILEY & CO. LTD., Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Also at Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.


Royal
Warrant
a
To H.M.
Kin£>
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Champagne
OtarlesHeidsiedc
Reims
SSffISEH^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
UHMiriMtll
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE
'laiie in Australia.
AN IDEAI, HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
It is because of its comfort, luxury
and distinction that society enter-
tains so largely at the
Wentworth Cafe
J'-.
A
Dinner Dances
nightly (12/6
per head).
SPECIAL
DINNER
DANCES, Thurs-
days and Satur-
days (21/- per
head.,
Non-diners, 5/-
pius tax every
v night.
Tea Dances every
afternoon, 3.30
to 5.30.
Till further
notice, and for
the convenience
of after-theatre
parties, the Cafe
will be open till
midnight on
Thursdays and
Saturdays.
’Phone:
City 9931.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Daveid
Jones
Ca[?]gue
• When his Ex. and Dame Margaret visited
Glen Innes last week the Mayor and
Mayoress (Dr. and Mrs. Blessing) gave a
garden shivoo in their honor in the park.
The vice-regal party, with Mr. Lamb in
tow, stayed at Stonehenge, where they were
met by Major and Mrs. White, Miss' Lang-
tree and Phyllis Bolin. Manager Gennys
and his wife secured the vice-regals for lun-
cheon at the Experimental Farm.
H.R.H. has been leading the simple life
since his return from his "colonial” experi-
ences. Beyond some hunting and a few
quiet functions, his days are uneventful.
The rest of the gay party has gone its
respective ways. Joey Legh is married to
his American widow with three children and
very little money; Dudley North is in
India with the Duke of Connaught, and
Claude Hamilton is now officially called
Deputy-Master of the King’s Household. He
chose this in preference to a farm in East
Africa or Rhodesia —so see what a dashing
hero Cynthia Stockley has just missed for
her next novel.
Mrs. Arthur Street is preparing for a
notable flutter in Easter week for daughter
Bobs Ricardo’s coming out. And, of course,
there’s the Union Club Ball, booked quite
giddily for the 'first of April, and St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital Ball is to come off on Easter
Tuesday: so the season’s Cinderellas may
find their Princes after all. Only, alas'!
Princes are so uppish these times they
won’t even look at a slipper that’s not
cloth of gold.
This cricket boom seems to have got even
Dr. Stork excited. Within the space of a
few hours the other day he delivered brand-
new sons at the doors of Warwick Gregory
and A. D. Gregory, nephews of Sid anil
Charlie, and brothers of long Jack. What
possible chance will an English team have
20 years from now’:
Last week Violet Louise Maekay brought
her fair-haired self and, they say, an almost
royal settlement to St. Stephen’s to be
Monte Walker’s (Egmont Palmer) till death
do them part. Violet Loui-se swathed herself
in white chiffon velvet, some beautiful lace,
a court train of silver tissue and a pearl
necklet which was Monte’s gift. Sister Alix
was her lonely bridesmaid in rose-pink chif-
fon velvet with relays of taffeta frills.
Monte’s twin brother George saw him
through, and Violet’s 1 married sister, Mrs.
Richard Turnbull, from Melbourne, was
among those who looked on while the fascin-
ating Professor Mclntyre tied the knot. A
monster marquee on the lawn at Redleaf,
the W. H. Maekay home, provided food and
shelter for the wedding guests, whose cars
left a trail of dust like a storm in the desert
from Phillip-street to Double Bay. Bride’s
mother wore black satin and chantilly sur-
mounted by a black velvet hat. The W.
H. Mackays own Annanbah, West Mait-
land, and Monte is the son of the J. T.
Walkers, of Edgecliff, but is alwavs referred
to as the twin nephew of Eadith Walker.
Frank Coffee, who has been 18 times round
the world and 36 times across the Equator,
has a curious little note about clothes aboard
ship in his “Forty Years on the Pacific.”
Frank declares that any man can travel
around the earth and be perfectly well
dressed if his wardrobe contain one dress-
suit, one tweed suit, a couple of white duck
mess-jackets and white vests. A dress-suit,
he declares to be essential. There’s one
English captain trading between Yokohama
and London who insists upon his passengers
wearing conventional garb for the evening
meal. Once Frank was present when a
daring man came to dinner in an ordinary
suit, and the captain sent him a message per
the steward to retire and put on “gentle-
manly attire.” It is not recorded what the
passenger replied to the aristo. skipper.
Women, Frank declares, should arrange their
wardrobe so as to have quick access to their
most ravishing costumes, because the rivalry
is equal to that in the biggest drawing-
rooms or hotels; and he adds a rider that
there is plenty of time going through the
tropics for flirtation.
Margaret Tooth (stockbroker Arthur
Tooth’s daughter and, of course, a descendant
in direct line from the founder of the brewery),
who is lit,tie more than a deb., has annexed
the usual diamond emblem of true love from
Iluch Mac Neil. whose dad exercises hypno-
tic influence over the gold income in York-
street.
Editor Tom Heney’s flapper daughter,
Lucy, made off by the Narkunda towards
England and Education. Lucy, who is said
to be a remarkably clever kiddie, has already
a pile of MS. stories by her, very finished
and up-to-date in style; so perhaps after all
there may be nothing for her to discover
under the altar-stone of Higher Education.
Brother Jack, at about sister Lucy’s present
age, had a burning ambition to write a com-
prehensive “Life of Byron.” This is as yet
unpublished. The gentle Tom and his wife
returned by the Osterley to Brisbane.
David Jones last week showed imported
models at fancy figures, and then their own
copies of the same that can be offered at
a saying of from £l5 to £2O. One little rag
at £35 can be made in Sydney and sold for
£l5 (and you couldn’t tell the difference).
Another wisp of a blouse, imported at £8
10s., can be made on the spot and sold for
a little over £3.
Mrs. D. F. Isles, Commandant of the
Drummoyne V.A.D.. who, among others,
organised the first Blinded Soldiers’ Tea-
room, is off by the Osterley for a holiday in
Scotland and on the Continent. Miss Gar-
rett, the quartermaster of the same detach-
ment, goes with her. The twain were enter-
tained last week by the members at a picnic
and dance at Vaucluse; and Mrs. Isles
subsequently found herself the possessor of
a leather writing-case, and Miss Garrett _of
a leather travelling-cushion.
Here is pretty little Mrs. Pressdee, who
.was Hilda Roberts of Brisbane, where, as a
student of the famous All Hallows Convent,
she won her three
years’ scholarship to
Trinity College, Lon-
don. On concluding
her studies at that
institution she passed
on for a year’s work
with Tobias Matthay
—Frank Hutchens’s
old master. In early
youth, like the kid-
dies playing “Oranges
and Lemons,” Hilda
had to make het
choice between ah
“ivory piano” .and a
“golden harp,” owing
to her equally fine
birth gift for Ire-
land’s national in-
strument. She chose
the piano, hence you will heat her 'flext
concerto Stat 6 ° rchest!fa the GtFg
Everybody is feeling sorry for genial coii-
Hwn a t aSer i Jack T Brownlow ’ whose mother
hi e Iwi Wee f' i Jack , alld his “other were
like two good pals rather than patent and
son; so he is feeling the loss doubly hard.
M ™ e you noticed that there is a sort of
Maonland Conquest extending over Sydnev
musical circles? For months there has
been a running fire of singers from the North
Island and the South at the orchestral con-
ceits. East Thursday another young thing
trom M. 8., in heliotrope georgette, and
With her fair hair braided after the manner
01 Mai garet Anglin in ‘“The Bronze Woman ”
Ti, te r„ up a P leas i Q g voice in “With Verdure
Clad, for which she had six recalls. She
is Clara Hoidgate by name. At the lecture
concert on Wednesday the principal item
was Alfred Hill s new composition, fresh
and original and charmingly delicate, as the
little dark man’s work always is.
The god of Fluff has set up his taber-
nacle in Farmer’s tearoom, and his devotees
will continue until the end of the Week to
pour libations of tea on his altar even
though three shillings is the charge for the
combined privilege of drinking the afternoon
cup and watching the eight graceful manne-
quins seven of them bitterly self-conscious
—parade in creations, wise and otherwise.
Three times these butterflies for an hour
1 mnge their wings. House-dresses and
street dresses, wonderful cloaks and the last
word in sports outfits follow one another
in bewildering array. One cloak from
Michel was of black satin and Kolensky
sable with a lining like beaten gold. This
trifle could be any woman’s for a mere 75
guineas. One tail dark girl wrapped the
blue cloak of the Italian cavalry officer
around her, and just missed suggesting
romance and Roxana by adding an unessential
width of cardinal red satin. The black and
white models were, as always, the most dis-
tinguished, though there was one specially
effective draped affair of peacock-blue satin,
apparently fastened at the side by one clasp,
a cunningly-worked and gorgeously-colored
bead ornament that might have been Balkan
or Gyppo or Indian, but was really made
in Australia. This vivid note was the only
color relief of the frock. There was one
bright red outfit that would be in danger
of having letters posted in it if it stood still
for a minute. All the hats leaped out at
the right-hand side, and nearly all wore a
feather, natural, drenched or glycerined.
Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne, in a French model
of oyster-white satin, several tiers of silver
lace and an epidemic of ermine tails—
there were at least 60 of them—entertained
on the first day a tea-party that included
Mrs. Cumberlege and Mrs. Leslie Friend.
Eyre Kenny, Director of Public Works
in the Federated Malay States, is, with his
missus, down this way on a visit. She was
a Miss Weigall, daughter of the late head-
master of the Sydney Grammar School.
Emma Gee,( of Randwick, made solemn
matrimonial promises to Howard J. Hunter
within the hearing of the Rev. S. J. Fielding
in St. Matthias’s Church. Paddington, the
other day. Howard J. is managing direc-
tor of the Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.,
and appropriately enough the honeymoon
will be. a motor trip through the South
Coast districts where the milk doesn’t come
from.
Monty Somer, looking like a jovial Shep-
herd King of old, is busy counting his beeves
and fatlings, and roping in prize pumpkins
and melons from the farthest end of the
State for his Easter Week show. For
Monty is pr'ettv well the Whole R.A.S, This
year he’s missing his niece Dorothy, who,
small and fair and wand-like, was yet so
qualified that she could have run an agri-
cultural oil her own. But Dorothy’s
in Fiji, and Uncle Monty has to play a lone
hand.
The milk shortage and the cry of the babe
in the land bring to mind the action of
Mayor Luke, of Wellington (Maoriland),
and his brother councillors. When that
city’s milk supply became not only erratic
but so blue in the face that it threatened to
develop permanent chilblains on the family
milk jug, Luke stepped in and made the city
milk supply a municipal affair, and Welling-
ton may now be said to be a city literally
flowing with milk. The only thing that
will turn off the supply with the suddenness
of an earthquake is the neglect to pay the
weekly bill within a given number of hours
then the effect is like to that in a house-
hold run out of coppers when the familv
dinner is being cooked by a penny-in-the-slot
machine.
When sweltering in February humidity
so that the very pores of woman’s flesh
bioke apart and wept for pity, Sydney was
further insulted by a fur eruption in all
the leading fluff showrooms. Eve, clad
only ih a rag of voile and some under-
wisps of georgette, was lured by the promise
01 cash discounts by the cunningly-conveyed
insinuation of getting in before her neighbor
the thought of a possible cold snap
at the Easter races. And Eve bit deep into
the apple and Adam is finding the pip
thereof. In all the swelter of last week large
and small women, tall and short, slipped
like cels in and out of sealskin and mole-
skin, fox, beaver and rabbit—there was one
bunny coat all white, like ermine without
the spots or whitebait without the little
re P r 9 ae hful eyes. One gorgeous coat
ot lasmaman ’possum, treated till the poor
darling looked like chinchilla, became the
loot of Ola Humphrey Broadvvood.
Lute Drummond—surely the most appro-
pi lately-christened girl in Sydney, being as
f} I*, 1 *, music as the unrifted instrument
itself—gave a lecture to the Lyceum Club
during the week on Puccini’s latest opera
(the book of which she translated for
Ricordi for the Covent Garden season).
Singmg-sister Jean supplied the vocal illus-
trations.
Last week the Sydney Repertory Society
gave its house-warming at its first home ik
Sydney— loOa Elizabeth-street. Its first
production this year will be “The Voysev
Inheritance, ’ by Granville Barker, in the
lirst week of April, and plans are laid for
plays later by Ber-
nard Shaw, John
Galsworthy, A. A.
Milne, Ibsen, Arnold
Bennett, and —last
on the list, of
course —some A u s-
tx-alian playwrights.
Let’s hope the
society keeps to
that final intention,
for our writers
should among them
be able to turn out
something literary
enough for even a
Repertory Society
to produce. Gener-
ous Gregan
McMahon, who is
traffic director of all
the highways and byways of the movement,
has loaned his library of over 1000 volumes to
the new clubrooms, where a series of liter-
ary and dramatic lectures will form a giddy
part of the Intellectuals’ abandoned gaiety.
Everybody knows what Gregan did with his
repertory plays in Melbourne, and we saw
what he could do at very short notice when
his players presented Shaw’s “Getting Mar-
ried” just before Christmas. Here’s Monte
Luke’s photo of Australia’s high-priest of
the thinking play.
Ruth Beale bad an interesting half-hour
at a party in New York the other day, where
she met a lady just arrived from Nuremberg,
who painted a queer little picture of upper
middle-class life in that city. She was an
American born, but owned to German parents
and a German husband, and she made the
loudest wail against the taxation, The
Government taxes 50 per cent, of her Ameri-
can property—her dowry—and while she
is away they hold her money and property
till she returns. She is taxed on all she
buys and sells, she is taxed for keeping a
servant, and she is compelled to have five
strangers—Jews—live in her house, In
Nuremberg you can still get every kind of
food, if you can pay the price, but only the
new rich can afford it, The Working-class
is looked after by the Government, but the
small Olerk, the official and the professional
are so badly off that often they break in the
windows of the food shops and snatch. The
Nuremberg lady’s sister-in-law had two
lovely furs which her husband had “sent
home from the war” (French loot), and she
advertised one for sale in the newspapers,
At once she was told to bring the fill- to
the tax-officer to be assessed. Even if a
woman have a dress made up by a dressmaker
of her own silk or linen which had been
“sent home from the war’* the Government
tax is as high as the cost of the material
new. The Government knows to a penny
the war treasures in possession of its people,
and now there is to be a tax on pictures—
so much per foot of canvas. In Nuremberg
they blame all the trouble on defeat, and the
little woman nainted an interesting picture
of German officers drilling and drilling “by
little bits here and there,” to be ready again
soon.
Imagine bowling along in your own car
between Santa Barbara and ’Frisco on paved
roads for hundreds of miles, ho dust at all,
amid scenery like a continuous Centennial
Park. That’S what has happened to a girl
The Bulletin knows, just because she went
to California, where motor-cars can be
snapped up at about two a penny. In Los
Angeles, the kingdom of movie queens, the
wealthy never keep a car longer than one
season—they have an open one for summer,
and a limousine for winter—consequently
“used” cars are sold everywhere, and there
are more showrooms for the second-hand than
for the new. For 50 dollars down and 10
a month, every girl can own her own car.
The Industrial Blind Appeal is already
feeling the impetus of the group of veteran
war workers on its committee, One of the
entertainments arranged by these capable
women is the matinee at King’s Cross on
Monday next. Ivy Shilling, Jamieson
Dodds, Winifred Carter, Cyril Monk and
Torzillb’s orchestra are the big Uttractions
on the musical si<Je, while the Australian,
film. “Silks and Saddles,” in which Kerttta*
quhair stars, will be the lure of the silver
sheet.
All the educational entities of the State
flung their enthusiasm into the one boiling,
and thereby created such an appetite that
it looks as though Australia won’t be satis-
fied until it oWns for itself the Rowan
paintings of birds, beetles, flowers and but-
terflies in the pursuit of whose glory the
little artist devoted her years and her
strength. At the deputation to Joe Cook
there was talk of housing the collection in
Canberra, which sounds rather like a scheme
for the interior decoration of a mausoleum.
’Tanyrate. whatever the Commonwealth
decides to do about it, Mrs. Rowan is asking
only £6OQO in cash for the collection and
a grant of land in Papua, on which it is
the little lady's private intention to train
a few returned soldiers in the art of copra-
growing.
Brisbane has something to say-
After 43 years the committee of the Children's
Hospital has thrown in the towel and resigned,
finding- it impossible to carry on the institution, on
voluntary subscriptions, even when reinforced with
a liberal Government subsidy. H.C.L. and increased
wages are at the bottom of the trouble. The Govern-
ment will appoint a new committee, and if this can-
not make ends meet the local authorities will pro-
bably be asked to dip into their hip .pockets and
help support the hospital.
E. O. Hancock, chief clerk in the Federal Taxation
Department here, has been appointed secretary to
the Federal Commissioner of Taxation, and with his
wife and family will pull out for Melbourne next
week. He will be specially mourned in both musical
and amateur sporting circles.
Hansard chief, John Gilligan, has retired after
many years’ service. A gold-mounted walking-stick
accompanied the good-bye wishes of his staff.
Dr. Lambert and staff are off by the Melusia to
Rabaul, where they will try to trace the hookworm
to its lair and slay it.
Daphne Mayo, who is showing Londoners what
Queensland can do in the w-ay of producing sculptors,
is to have three years’ study over the other side.
The Wattle Day League is so pleased with her that
50, p.c. of this year’s collections are to be put to
her scholarship fund.
Mildred Foxton is going to England by the
Osterley, to join brother Claude, who was Mac-
gregor’sA.D.O.- Claude got an army job in England after
the Fritz hunt, and is in the Cold Country for keeps.
Dr. Elkington has left on an official visit to the
East. He will stroll round Java, Singapore and
Manila and inquire into public-health matters, and
then hand the Federal Quarantine Department a
report. If the document isn’t pigeon-holed and for-
gotten it should be uncommonly useful, as Elkington
is a man who knows his job.


fH 1
■Mi
:
SI
$& «*,- •'*.- «, %
v. ;> ? -
‘
* x-'t ■ :■' ■:..V < ».'.' i'V >■£<■.'- r ■ "r. V-;- \ - 3||p^
■
Ife?' ' '
13 m
■■
B
r*
& 'if* ill
, JP
llliillljll :
■
-.-
MIJ
K
B
WSSIMi
1 . *
r-5
...
Irl
i-;il
11
&*. &
M
I i fe
II A
1 ■ 1
•-> :■-
BB
mM
I- - 1
■ : : : ; l'-i: ;
I?
11
i g^MapiiPi
1 sKS*- 'X l
f 5
« ' ._ ■*
V-.s
■iw
■
1
*? IS
m
; bmp
mm&m
i:
I JWZ'J ?'
'- ' "' '''•'"■
: m
f
wmms*
MF
c v.- .
‘I/
.:
..... *' j
Sii
mm
SK
-
I. - .:■ at!-' j
%mae3BL>~2!z:.\"-■■ ■<
;■• -"-:V
■
w&mm
• - •.
#«?#s$ s
■
Hi
I. ■ < ' 4 „;. V -
I 4 ** p-
t
m
■
J
#
H
.
i
Every Guest Sincerely Enjoyed
the Evening
Those who sang were at their best.
The accompaniments —played the
Beale-Player way-possessed a charm-
ing sympathetic feeling that formed a
perfect background to each guest’s
effort.
Those whose conception of music was fat in
advance of their manual dexterity, experienced
the keenest pleasure in being able to sit down
to an instrument which supplied all they lacked.
In the first half hour everyone was acquainted
and the evening rippled to a swift end—enjoy-
ed by all
It is easy to entertain the -flayer r way
Showrooms
(33 George Street
Sydney
BEALE
COMPANY
LTD
AND
Factory:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulbum,Wagga.
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart;
Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland :
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Maryborough; Townsville; Rockhampton ;
Mackay; Cairns.


W. f
u
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GO O D TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
IN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
, Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street.
Sydney
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
g
YOU CAN"
LEARN
TO DRAW
quickly and cor-
rectly by the Wes-
ton Method. I'-
teaches you, with-
out drudgery, the
essential principles
of commercial art,
and cultivates and
develops latent
talent.
By means of
this simple, self-
explanatory postal
bourse, prepared by
- Australia’s fore-
most commercial
artist, Mr. Harry
J. Weston, you
study under 'his
personal tuition,
and follow the
rules that have
guided him in his
artistic career.
Why not take
up a course that is
INTERESTING,
PROFITABLE
and pleasant ?
t Send to-day
' for , Mr. Wes-
ton’s interest-
ing booklet
“There’S Money
in -the Pen,’’
wjjiich . describes the course in detail, gives
examples of the lessons and many valuable hints.
Tf you forward your name and address, with
three penny stamps to cover postage, we will
send you, this fascinating booklet bv return.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
36 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and'write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
* HQRROCKSES’RORRQCKSFS'HQR ROC KSESHORROC KSfc b
SAFETY
COMFORT
jFiaa/ie/elteA
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
OOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Si
We will be at the
EASTER SHOW
WITH ALL THE BIG FAVORITES.
The Perfect “Winton”
The “Longreach”
The “Boulia”
The “Kemp”
AND MANY OTHERS.
BE SURE AND SEE THEM.
THE “WINTON” is our most success-
ful stock saddle and one that is mak-
ing a big saddle reputation for us,
especially in Queensland, where good
saddles are appreciated. Note how
the flap is sewn direct on to the seat,
doing away with the usual skirt and
giving a narrow, non-chafing grip.
Fitted with folded girth, bevelled
leathers and nickel stirrups.
THE
“WINTON”
£l5/10 1-
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any
Port or Railway Station
in N.S.W.
Write for our Fine Saddlery Catalogue.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
In the Matter of
GREAT COBAR LIMITED.
Sir Arthur F. Whinney, K.8.E., Receiver and Manager, London.
William Horner Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
TENDERS are invited by William Horner Fletcher, the Receiver and Manager in
New South Wales for the Debenture Holders of Great Cobar, Limited, for the
purchase of the following assets, namely
Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery and Plant, Tools,
Stores, Rolling Stock and Sundries, Trade-marks, Goodwill,
Business and Undertaking of Great Cobar Limited as existing at
the date hereof, excluding Live Stock, Book-debts, Cash and Bank
Balances and Records, but including Freeholds and Leaseholds
and Copper, Gold, Silver and Coal Mines and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc.; Offices and Cottages at Cobar, Wrightville and the Peak, County
Robinson, and at Lithgow, County Cook; Leaseholds and Freeholds
at Cobar, Wrightville, The Peak and Lithgow.
Railway Sidings at Cobar and Lithgow.
The Vendors reserve the right to sell any asset by private treaty before tenders
close and to elect whether tenders shall be accepted.
(1) As a whole. (2) By lots.
Tenders are being called for simultaneously in England and Australia. The Lots
are more fully described in the schedule which, with Conditions of Sale and forms of
tender, may be had on application to the undersigned, or to
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building. 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. H. C. Chappie, Great Cobar Limited, Cobar.
Mr. John Evans, Great Cobar Limited, Lithgow.
Tenders endorsed as provided in the Conditions and addressed to the Receiver in
the case of tenders from Great Britain and Ireland, or the Local Receiver for tenders
from elsewhere than Great Britain and Ireland, must be in the hands of the Receiver or
Local Receiver (as the case may be) not later than noon on Fifteenth day of June, 1921.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydney this First- day of February, 1921.
Building, W. H. FleTcheb,
350 George Street, Sydney. Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
The Standard
All=British Fountain Pen
THE
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD., BUNHILL ROW, LONDON,
’
Australasian Representatives : NORMAN BAKER & LONGBUKST, Sydney & Melbournt
ASK FOR ONOTO INK --BEST FOR ALL PENS
"
If
Headac
-
m
TET Mentholatum
soothe and cool
that throbbing,
aching head! Simply
rub Mentholatum
on the ache. You’ll
like its cool, clean
“ ”
reel.
The Little Nurse
for Little Ilk "
Just as widely used for all forms of Skin Diseases.
The First Aid in thousands of homes for over 24 years.
MENTHOLATUM
—a Healing Cream .
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
FASSETT & JOHNSON, LTD., SYDNEY.
[3
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.G.: We want the kind of matter we
print. Cool request for “sample list of acceptable
topics” declined Fuf: Try again, Digger. Not
the stufF... .Kosciusko: Aged ramrod lie rejected.
Ugly Face: Just misses L.F. (and others):
So far 47 of you have re-told that hoary yarn of the
dog retrieving the plug of dynamite.. . .Wampus:
Too wordy Move: On! T.8.K.: Ten pages of
illegibility heaved overboard. . .F.M.C.: Dad’s hair is
painful business Harry J.: No use to us 8.8.
(Hobart): Rugged verse that says nothing.. .0.G.N.:
Pencil scrawl destroyed C.J.W.: Your chief fault
is that you write such sloppy copy in such a vile
hand that it can hardly be read.... BAY. (Rozelle) :
No g00d... .H.G.O’Y.: Brightly enough written, but
the yarn doesn’t amount to anything Arthenice:
Doesn’t work E.C.8.: “Pear Bill” is a bit too
slight A.M.P.T.: Not up Bernie: Tedious
stuff.... H.R.M.: “Catch” out of scansion from the
first line R.A.V.: Not for us Frank Z.:
Very rugged J.A.E.: Doesn’t get near A. J.W.:
Pretentious rubbish.... Doon : Too crude A.S.
(Sassafras): Held for inquest J.M.A.: Goes far
too heavily Mary A.: Feeble little thing fluttered
to death A.N.A. f No X.Y.Z.: The blackfellow
rhyme goes lamely.... W.H.P.: The opening con-
tains a fine thrill:—
In the park, sitting hardly born ;
Out of luck —seems much dejected;
The face it bears a look of scorn ;
A youth—evidently respected.
Said I: “My lad, why look so sad,
Can not be sin to sin you add,
Or be sure ’twill you downward dr'ag.
Oh, is’t much learning drives thee mad?
Some fair lady; perchance silly fad
You’ve ta’en into your foolish* head.”
R.R.P.: It has a sporting chance Maxixe:
“Horror” is a bit of crude melodrama Dorothea
L.: Flimsy little scrap of verse without an idea. . .
Daybreak: Rather too slight Gertrude M.: Not
for us... .A.R.W.: Sheer flat commonplace without a
fresh thought or phrase Frank D.: You call it a
“poem” ; but even a poem should scan, rhyme and
occasionally mean something... Steve H.: “Gohanna”
yarn a bit crude Catherine M.: “Sheep” verse
doesn’t work C.C.F.: Not enough in it.. .C.J.W’.:
“Out of the Rocks” misses.... Maxine N.: Very
thin little yarn.... Mary Ann: “Request” is good
verse on a very old theme, but not good enough to
carry it over A.P.D.: None of them get near
Alexander B.: Neither of them up W.8.H.: Dad’s
house-hunting doesn’t thrill. .. W.C.T.: Doesn’t strike
us Cee Aye: “Social Aspirations” doesn’t work.
Mugwump: “My Ghost” uses up a lot of paper
but gets to nothing... .Incognito: Not up... M.8.8.:
Too small a matter... .0.V.T.: “Coppered Flats”
fails... .W ebfoot: “Pigeon Slayer” is very lumpy
verse L.M.: No matter how well you say that
roses bloom and are fragrant the information is too
old to be of interest. . . .M.A.8.: He seems a very
ordinary dog... .Oliver B.: “The Song for Australia”
sings itself right “into one’s life”:—
Are we to lock our future in despair,
Or to close the gates against all hope ?
Why not all try, and prepare?
For we’re getting near the end of the rope.
In this dear land can’t one understand,
To have all this sorrow and strife ;
Are we to drift away like dust and sand
To think less of life than the knife?
Ah! for what purpose, do one purpose to gain,
When things must change and fall?
No need to strain, but keep out the stain.
In this beautiful land, above all.
Oh! to sing this song into one’s life,
To hear it ringing in one’s ears;
Put on the smiles, do away with strife,
To smell the sweet-scented air.
E.J.R.: Very bad verse George C.: Wobble
and bump of a rather virulent sort. ... Malpardo:
They won’t do Jack M.: Nothing there for us.
The verse lacks all freshness and originality....
J.J.J.: The mere fact that an east wind is blow-
ing doesn’t seem sufficient reason for bursting into
song N.G. (Tweed River): “Ashes” not up
Hugh: Well done, but not enough in the incident. ..
(Ecce: Misses Buff: They don’t get near J.N.
(Coogee): Doesn’t make a yarn.... Glob: No use
to us Helen: No, as you say, you “do not write
for The Bulletin”. .. .E.M.G.: Wild picture-show
screed rejected.. .A.W.W.: “Ratty Joe” too crude.. .
H.R.M.: “Milk Cartin’” won’t do G.D.S.: None
of them up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J.McF.: Idea hopelessly tangled. .. .G.T.A.:
Not a gleam of promise... .J.J.: Could anyone up
there teach you drawing?... .C.C.S.: Pencilled heads
on scraps of notepaper get you nowhere M.G.:
Thundering lot of “improvement” called for yet....
N.M.D.: Outski!.... J.8.F.: W’ire-haired lady ruled
out... .S.T.: Cocky and draper both hopeless. .. ,
8.M.: Is that a cafe or an aeroplane?. .. .P.H.,
N. Mcß. and F.W.: All miss E.S.: Looks uncom-
monly like a bad copy... .F.C.H.: Being your
first offence you are forgiven A.E.: The worst
Irish outrage to date G.C.W.: Not yet F.J.M.:
Don’t let Armstrong see it—-he’s a hefty bloke.
“Billy T.” tells the finish of Ratty Par-
nell:—
His home at Dodd’s Point was a unique affair. It
was constructed of two square iron tanks, discards from
the Pioneer mine. Parnell had cut the bottoms out
of both and riveted the ends together. At the man-
hole at one end he riveted a galvanised-iron chimney
and fireplace, and the manhole at the other end, fitted
w T ith a flat iron door that slid up and down on a
bolt with a circular movement, v»as his back way
out. The place was, of course, a haker’s oven in
the summer, but Parnell rigged a shade of boughs
over it, and nothing could budge him. It was
always the security of his possessions that he con-
sidered, and this gave rise to the impression all
along the river that Ratty was a man of considerable
means. One day it dawned on Asher up at the
shingle mill that he had not seen Ratty for some
time, and on Sunday he strolled across. Parnell’s
iron villa was closed, and hermetically sealed appa-
rently. Asher knocked, and received no reply. He
ttied to slide the door from the manhole and
failed, but finally secured a lever and wrenched the
fireplace away. Crawling in he found Ratty Parnell
at his last gasp, perishing,, a prisoner in his den.
Going in a week before, he had accidentally broken
a half-pint bottle of vinegar that was in his pocket,
and the liquid had poured over his sliding door,
that night he was taken ill, and remained in his
bunk three days. Then, when he tried to swing his
sliding door, he found that it had rusted in places
and could not be moved. The man was too weak to
help himself further. He died on the Sunday night.
The police found 465. in small change, mostly copper,
carefully hidden where a small hole 'in his iron
floor corresponded with a hole in the ground.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de-
L-uxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
lei.— City 4246, .2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. MARCH 30,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking:, Public Compares, Stc.
the 4
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES: E: H
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. •
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. ~. 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Biinning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. :
Duncan Carson. •
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Qu,eensland: J. N. H, Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. /. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places,
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital £625,000
Reserve Fund 600.000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 31st MARCH,
R.M.S. MAKURA, THURSDAY, 28th APRIL.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 26th MAY.
AND EVERY 2S DAYS THEREAFTER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. TAHITI, end March.
And every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seveii Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
f
£1,958,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
£13,266,520
' ~ ~
Directors :
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq. '
Robert L. Faitbfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
. ir „ _ r** T » T-v
M.D.
, ,: ': '
■ \
M.L.C.
v t
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London-,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
-
BANKING
THE
COMPANY
OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up .. £‘2,500,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,220,000
Reserve Capital .. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
Established 1834.
a
Directors :
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry MoSes, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income nearly
£1,207,933
£2,070,000
£41,000,000
£6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
qeorge hotel,
St* Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping.
_
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
As the sailing dates are indefinite,
intending passengers are requested to
keep in touch with the agents of the
various steamers.
Huddart ParkerLl
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVTJKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfbrt of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by 5.5. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.iri., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7, p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Seeond Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY):
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA:
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia, ,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blacklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.' (except at
Sydney) •
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Go. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
• to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaherg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
✓
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
There’s no question that for a Clear, Neat
and Durable Naipe to mark any garment
or Article
CASH'S *® NAMES
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On. v
Be sure and ask for CASH’S Names.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6 —6 doz. 5/- —3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
J. & J. CASH
85 Cubitt St.
Richmond, Vic
WM
(JoTVV'-
ss*
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK


1111 l mill
lIIIIHHIIIIII in i imim
B 5
&
lllllllllllll)
t \ l
<gTANI JARft?
ritisri
The
A 1
S
ra
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Comfort in keeping with its appearance
of quiet elegance are features of the
Standard Light Car that have won the
favour of the Owner-Drivers throughout
:: :: the world. :: ::
2 and 4- Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
Shave w “ h “Plum”
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “Plum” Razor has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years’ satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest
beard. Requires but little stropping.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
SCO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
—....
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIILIAMBTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
- v*J
> ■ ■
■ -
Steam-driven Pumping Set, comprising Triple Expansion Q.R. Forced
Lubricating Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-Stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 651 b. per square inch.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Etd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Eta.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Dcekes, Fenchurch Street.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.Om Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETONS EYE OINTMENT.
used by Army and Navy men.
Tlsed since I5fl6. FOR Writo
MB? ffifajwyg
Insist on “Singleton’s"-refuse all substitute*:
Try Us First for Ail Sport Equipment
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices. 1
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match 7/6
M.S. National 15/6
■£ erv . ice 27/6
Peerless 30/-
Haymarket 30/-, 40/-
Havmarket Ex. Special 60/-
Haymarket Selected 45/-, 50/-
Haymarket Special 40/-, 45/-
Spalding’s Tournament 48/6
Spalding’s Continental 55/-
Spalding’s Gold Medal 67/6
Slazenger’s La Belle 25 /-
Slazenger’s Player 27/6
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-
Slazenger’s Demon 55/-
Slazenger’s Whiteliouse 65 /-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 78/6
Slazenger’s Doherty 85/-
Slazenger’s Stadium’ * * 37 /q
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers ... 90/-
Slazenger’s IZ 93 /6
ii. O. Lee s fjeneca kk /_
H. C. Lee’s Church 99 /_
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Grey Regulation
Dunlop Regulation Grev
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921
Ayre’s Champion, 1921 .4.
Slazenger Champion, 1921
Haymarket Champion, 1921
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W.
States*, 1/8.)
Each. Doz.
-/6 5/6
1/4 15/-
2/9 88/-
8/- 35/-
3/- 35/-
2/4 27/6
1/- ; other
%
•v
• \
V
>1 r...
.
Specialists
in all kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
SUNDRIES.
did sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
r , 35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 55/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 9/7 /g
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Racket Covers 2/6 7/6
Tennis Ratchet ' 7/(j
The “Grip" Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3 1/6
Scoring Books ’ j/g
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils . 2/1 g/g co il
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 15/-
dg
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
„ _ „ , MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
U.K.13., real leather, special value 13/6
Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms 6or 8 0z... 15/6
C.8.R., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 05/
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz. ofi /
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz ............ ... /• qsj /
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker .. . /
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/-
» Tan Leather, „ „ 11/6
„ very superior, „ ~ _ 12/6
» Laced, „ „ 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) 10/«eaeh
JOCK STRAPS, best quaiitv (Post 3d.) . « //t each'
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra li° , h*‘
weight about 3}oz. (Post 6Jd.) ... 15/6 pair.
MYRROHL
MADE IN
AMERICA
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC—-CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
v
p
PUNCHING BALLS.
JVe carry a wide range, including- the famous BEACH
Kails. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 10/6, 12/6, 17/6
ARMY , Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine leather, stayed
seams, very fast 18/6, 2 2/6, 25/-
AIIMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest napa leather,
welted and stayed, very fast and lively 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially
designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and perfect
shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The
finest made j m
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6 and 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABRE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete .... 75/.
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves
Punching Platforms .. .
Ball and Socket Swivels
Double-action Swivels .
, X/£r .j
2/9, 4/9 pr.
50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
l/6, 2/6 „
6/6 and 10/6 „
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
Specialty
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers,
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


The Real Remedy for
Backache and Kidney Troubles,
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Your Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for the back-
ache and kidneys have
given me such good re-
sults that I cannot
hesitate to write and
tell you about their
health-giving proper-
ties. I have taken
only one bottle and
they acted like magic.
I recommend Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills to any-
one suffering from
backache and kidney
trouble, for I am sure
that they will cure
them, and once they
have used them they
will always keep a
bottle in the house
to protect themselves
against backache and
kidney complaints.
Yours very sincerely,
(Mrs.) M. TOOHEY.
Moira,
Grosvenor Street,
Neutral Bay.
:
RBI
Mrs. M. TOOHEY (from a photo).
Gin
Will Help
If you feel that your kidneys are the Cause of your sickness, your run-down
feeling-, begin taking l)r. Sheldon's Gin fills for Backache and Kidney Trouble,
because as soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble relieve the worst cases,
because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root ot the matter,
clean out the kidneys, and make them filter out all the poisonous waste matters
and uric acids that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing rheumatism. They
soothe and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique *«medy,
entirely different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else to compare
with thorn No matter how old you are., or how long: you have suffered,_ the very
principle of Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible to take
them into the human system without obtaining results. Dr. Sheldon s Gin Pills
are obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
///
* BANISHES
BAcKACHE,KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND URINARYTRIOUBLELS
“Metropolitan Razor”
agh
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has ».
world-wide reputation.
jg.GVST £/?*.
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 60 York Street, Sydney^
OB*
Mobiloil
«!»•
A
(Medium body)
'S-f
£
1 PLUM
<\r/- r rssr,rsr.rrrrrrrr
CARACt 11
tH
mm
M OIL COMRUrt
sasas*
I•
l|lg||
MM
“ They always coins back to Your Oil
How marketers of Motor Cars, Tractors
and Trucks seek to protect their Engines
A well known Motor Agent writes :
"We have always carried on a consider-
able amount of experimental work m
connection with lubrication and have
held our specification regarding oil very
closely to Gargoyle Mobiloils.
“We have found that a sample can of
Gargoyle Mobiloils going with the
machine is important, inasmuch as our
customers get excellent service as long
as they use the oil supplied
and are very prompt to
return to your oil as soon
as they have tried some-
thing else, as they usually
do,, and find that they do
not get the results.”
ITKil 0
«s
O
&
Vacuum Oil Co,
Pty. Ltd.
• '
Engine results depend upon scientific
lubrication.
Engine results account for the fact that
you seldom find a motorist who " used
to use Gargoyle Mobiloils.”
Gargoyle Mobiloils are refined from
crude oils specially chosen for lubrica-
ting qualities—for engine results.
Get Engine results. The present cost
of motor cars, spare parts
and repair service warrants
the nse of scientific lubrica-
tion as never before.
Write,our nearest branch
for free booklet " The
Care of Your Car."
Mobiloils
A grade for each type of motor
Throughout Australasia.
M I A
Summer Magic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TO Innisfail the dimpled summer came
In green and gold,
A tender magic, walking without
shame
Through woods as old
\s the grey memory that mossed the stone,
Or the last echo of the silver tone
Of winds that blew
The sail of Danu, when the cordage clear
Made songs so new
That all the heavy mountains shook with tear
Through all their dew.
There is a fear in summer kin to death
When blossoms, blow
Full of the fragrance of the worlds best
breath,
And great moons glow
Over the fields and hedges, making fire
That kindles leaf by leaf the night’s desire
For some sweet thing .
Deep hidden in the shining quietness,
While the stars swing
Over the misty hills, with a caress
That seems to sing.
In Innisfail the dimpled summer played
At hide-and-seek
With all the happy little rains that made
A golden week ;
But Maire went by moonlight fearfully
And plucked three sprigs of hawthorn from
the tree
And breathed three sighs.'
The moon, wind-dipped in cloudy silver veils,
Laughed and was wise—
Oh, little girl of sudden dreams, what ails
Your gazing eyes?
White magic made of summer and of youth
And moonbeams white,
You fold a quiet wing about the truth
In the pale night; ■ ■ •
For all that men through eager days forget
And some sweet thing long thought makes
fairer yet
Came down that hill.
Three sprigs of the white thorn ! Ah, gods
grown small
To match our will!
The little voices came at Maire’s ca 11....
She has them still.
Under the moss of a grey land she lies
Long, long asleep.
Her tall, far children under alien skies
Her secret keep ;
For when the summer moon, goes up the night
And all leaves wear a silver of delight,
Thev hear and know
The little voices close against the heart
That come and go,
Till they walk strangely from the world apart
With eyes aglow.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Brown Seaweed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAR out, just below the horizon, a white
line cut off a blue inch of the sea be-
fore it merged in the lighter blue of
the sky. Eld ridge, watching the immovable
line of foam musing the top of the picture,
stood up and walked to the balcony-rail.
It might be the line of Fate; a mail striv-
ing towards it in the heavy waters ot
despair might be safe beyond it safe even
from Fate. A fairy shadow at the top edge
of the glowing picture, anything might hap-
pen there. The broad band of blue beneath
the line shimmered and glittered happily m
the afternoon sun. Coming lower down to
the froth churned up by the broken tore-
shore of New South Wales, a cloud ot black
figures appeared, disappeared and re-
appeared ; at Eldridge’s distance, the
surfers made a lullaby of peaceful movement
swaying into and out of the foreground ot
his picture —a placid sequence of existence
and non-existence. Coming lower still, Bondi
Beach glared tremulously in the heat, a haze
quivering over the chairs, the strolling men
and women, the children and the horrible
band. - . .
Under the balcony, at the lowest point m
the canvas, the warm red of the huddling
roofs covered a thousand causeless, tragedies,
a million fruitless hopes. From his eyrie on
the cliff-head, the whole picture was silent to
Eldridge—silent and purposeless. There was
no fruition, even of sleep and oblivion, save
in the safety beyond the white line at the top.
He smiled at the childish thought as Mrs.
Eldridge strode out of the door of their room.
“Tea’s been ready half-an-hour. What’s
keeping you?” . ,
He followed her into the room —dining-
room, bedroom, nursery, kitchen—-a cyclo-
paedic room. “There’s only bread and cheese.
Couldn’t you manage to pick up half-a-crown
to-day? You haven’t got some put away for
beer ?”
“No. I couldn’t —they’re all worn out.”
He didn’t answer the second question.
“Did you try for that job in the Herald?”
“No; they're all worn out, too.”
The child woke at his voice, cocked a
friendly eye at his father’s bloated face,
smiled, and slept again.
“Did the Vanguard take that story?”
“No word of it yet.” This was a lie;
half the cheque for.it was in his pocket, be-
tween him and a dry to-morrow.
“Then you’ve done nothing all day but
booze with the riff-raff of Sydney when you
could get them to buy your beer.” The
woman’s eyes snapped. “Aren’t you ever
going to pull yourself together—to think of
me and Ed? Once you were a man, but now
you’re nothing but a loafer—you’ll finish in
gaol.”
Eldridge opened his mouth, but closed
it again—what was the m/e? All that the
gaunt vixen said was true from her point of
view. The storm gatherer! and broke —the
nightly storm. Every mad and vicious thing
her tongue could find it found and said; all
the little secrets of the household —-of every
household —were stripped and laid bare.
She flew round the table and hit Eldridge
in the face, the powerful blow making him
feel sick ; tore back to her place and threw
a plate at him, the crash waking Ed, who
screamed in terror. At the din’s height
Mbs. Burns came in for; the seven weeks’
rent due and to protest against the hellish
row. . Eldridge gave her the usual specious
promises which she knew he had no hone of
fulfilling, but went, glad to get out of the
nervous menace in the boom.
When she had gone Mrs. Eldridge came
over from the cot and sat down beside him,
her hawk’s face close to his, and her shallow,
predatory eyes burning into his withered
heart. He shifted a little in the physical
repulsion he had realised before their honey-
moon was over ; at his movement she came
closer still, brooding over him like a bird of
prey.
"You hate me, Willie, don’t you?”. she
whispered. He made no answer; despising
her, he yet was afraid of the madness he
knew was present but had no money to prove
—the madness which nauseated him physi-
cally, making death a physical sweetness be-
yond all dreams.
“You needn’t answer, damn you,” she said,
still in the vibrant whisper so horrible to
hear; “now that you’re sober for once,, you
can listen. Behind this palaver of writing
you’re a born loafer — alt writing men are.
You make a great talk of the ‘responsibility
of letters’ and ‘directing thought,’ as you
call it, but that’s all damn lies to cover loaf-
ing and drink.”
The whisper faded to an instant’s silence,
and Eldridge’s mind shot back to his first,
accepted story, and the radiant heart he had
brought back with the cheque to this creature
in his home. He had tried to pierce the wall of
stolid indifference —“his words and thoughts
had been judged fit for his fellow-men to
read” —“he must try to keep his work
clean, to do always his best with her
help, that he should always be worthy to be
read” —Oh God! He shuddered as the
whisper crept evilly into the room again.
“When your first tripe was taken, and you
were so proud of yourself and gave up your
job, I thought you could make money—you
got £3 for half-a-day’s work —but I might
have known that it was all talk, and that
your downfall had begun.”
She sighed, and stood up. the whisper just
breaking the silence over his aching head.
“Since then it’s heen nothing but drink
and laziness. I’ve done what I could, borrow-
ing here and there; and you’ve done nothing.
And I think I’m come to the end.”
He looked up in a sudden wild hope; but
her face twisted to a savage sneer.
“Oh, no —I’m not going, Willie; much as
you hate me,. I’m going to stick to you—
because you hate me so. Besides, if I went
you’d get that quiet place to write you’re
always gassing about, and this fool-writing
would cheat me in the end.”
The whisper gave place to the harsh,
metallic voice which heralded another storm ;
liis racing nerves unable to bear it, he walked
out to the balcony, leaving the animal voice
beating and rising in the room. He went to
the far end of the balcony, where the sound
reached him only as a strange muttering in
the night.
There was no way out. A year ago he had
realised his literary gift of expression, and
immediately, with the gift in one hand, Pro-
vidence had stripped him naked with the
other. The realisation had Come its tradi-
tional way of pain and sorrow ; his home had
been a shambles for the two previous stormy
years of his married life. Of good reputation
and position in his bachelor days, he had
descended almost precipitately to penury
when the incentive to greater effort had
proved a deep, unchangeable misery. And
to worse than penury. As the ties of his
old interests had been cut one by one with a
borrowed fiver or a borrowed half-crown, at
first used properly but afterwards improperly,
so his reputation had gone first, then his de-
sire for reputation, and, last and worst, his
honesty. And presently he was alone, with
only the writing between him and starvation
for his hated home —wherein, with . his
mentally deficient wife at its head, no writing
was possible.
Her contempt for his work’s regular money-
making powers, together with her blind
ignorance of it, shut and locked the door of
the necessary help and understanding. So
drink and the cadged shillings at which his
decent memory shuddered in self-contempt
completed the work the tragic folly of his
marriage had begun. And there was Ed and
his mother’s deficiency, crowding responsi-
bilities in every direction.. .. There was no
w r ay out.
Coming back on tiptoe to the door of
their room, he saw that it was in darkness.
Nervously he slipped off his clothes and found
his pyjamas, creeping into bed beside the
snoring figure just visible in the starlight.
His body and mind sagged into the relief of
the black silence, his sigh of utter exhaustion
going up in unconscious praygr.
“What’s the trouble, mate?” he asked. She
laughed at the silly name, the heavy sweet-
ness of the sound filling his ears with con-
tent. The lights of the little mountain-
township gleamed uncertainly in the street,
only the big store at the end making a real
Saturday-night show with its prideful gas-
plant.
“The trouble, Bill Eldridge, is that I want
a new frock —pink.”
“Can’t be done, mate; rent due to-mori’ow
—groceries gone up ss. this week —the
sands of tobacco running very, low —all paid,
there will be one bob towards a gay life.
It can’t be done —and certainly not pink.”
She laughed again and took his arm.
“Come home and see if there’s a cheque
from the V. or from New York. We will
then discuss this important matter further,
dear sir.”
The keenness of the Blue Mountains air
struck sharply in their faces as they turned
up the hill to the little house at the top,
the bush-sounds whispering out of the dark
to their passing footsteps. Overhead the
stars swept across the still beneficence of
the night. The song she was humming sud-
denly ceased.
“You know. Bill, that death-scene in'
‘Veronica’ isn’t quite right yet.”
“I know it isn’t. Tell me what’s wrong.’
“Verofaica —her speech is too long. You’ve
got to get it all in, I know ; but you can do
that in half the words, and do it better.
You will paint everything up so—and half
the force goes in the painting-up. There is
as much expression in the words obviously
left out as in those written.”
“Yes, that’s true.” His voice was grave
and sincere. “Our old friend Condensation,
in fact. All right; I’ll re-write it to-night.
In the letter-box at the gate the Van-
guard envelope looked promising; by the
light of the hall-lamp they found the cheque,
so the pink frock was safe. He put his
(Continued on next page.)


- /V/i *' /
on
"Every Picture
Kells a Story"
r2*
rar
m
VT
f.
m
a
<3!
Your Nerves”?
Are you quick, irritable and easily upset? Do you
continually worry over trifles? Then there’s something
wrong. At the back of it all may be bad kidneys. When
the kidneys are weak they no longer filter all the uric
acid and other poisons from the blood. These poisons
get into the system, irritate and upset the nerves and
vital organs, and you have backache, nerves, dizziness,
despondent spells and an all-worn-out feeling. Try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They are
recommenaei the world over and are perfectly safe
and harmless.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE,
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
An Arncliffe Woman.
*frs. J. Smith, “Bonnie Doon,” Duncan Street, Arncliffe, Sydney, says:—
My kidneys were in a bad way for some time, and I suffered terribly from
backache m consequence. I could not stoop freely ;in fact, all my movements
were handicapped owing to the nagging ache that used to catch me across
the kidneys. My rest at night was broken, and during the day I felt tired
and languid, having no energy for anything. I was advised to try Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, so sent for some at once. They worked wonders in
™ aS T’ f v } n S ™hef almost immediately, and gradually effecting a complete
cure. I took three bottles in all, and my cure is perfect. Six years have
e !?P?fd since I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I have been well
all that time. They are a grand remedy.”
. ~Jf OUr y ear ® later Mrs. Smith says:—“My cure still holds good, no sign
of kidney trouble having returned since I used Doan’s Backache Kidne* Pills
ten years ago.” IUS
A North Sydney Man.
Mr. John Simmons, 7 Bank Street, North Sydney, savs: —“For some
years I suffered dreadfully from serious kidney trouble. The agony I had
to bear was at times awful, and can be better imagined than described. I
was under several doctors, but their treatment did not benefit me very much,
and I would soon be as bad as ever again. A friend of mine heard of a
wonderful cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so urged me to try these
pills, and I decided to do so. After taking one bottle I felt very much better,
and as I kept on with them the improvement was maintained until finally I
was cdmpletely cured, and I have not had a sign of kidney trouble since.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have my hearty recommendation, and I hope
many will benefit by my experience and give them a trial.”
Tfcree years later Mrs. Simmons says“My husband has had no return
of hi& old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him some
time ago.”
P"
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
parcels on the kitchen-table and went to his
desk to re-write Veronica s deatn. Presently,
'"ill" 0 !” came from the kitchen, and he
followed the voice.
She was standing by the table waiting for
him, shaking out her hair. He buried his
face in a handful of it. “Brown seaweed —
sweet, brown seaweed”—he said.
“Seaweed is salt.” She sat down, a child
whose hair was not yet “up.” “And you’re
still too fond of phrases, Bill.”
The meal over, she pushed her plate away
and put her elbows on the table, the brown
cloud of her hair shadowing her vivid eyes.
“Well, how’s the world?”
‘‘The world?”
“Yes—the world you carry about with
you. r ull of Veronicas and dead poets,
kings and battles, hopes and memories—the
Wo ™l where I don’t exist. Is it still happy?”
xes, thank you, mate; but you exist in
it—you made it.”
“Come out into the garden—the smells
of grilled chops and tobacco don’t blend.”
He got up. “But Veronica isn’t dead yet
—•not satisfactorily.”
w fp’ she can die when I’m asleep,
and I 11 tell you if she’s a satisfactory corpse
to-morrow morning.”
Under the line of pines separating the
garden from the bush the needles made a
silent path; he paused at the head of it
to iclight his pipe, the match throwing a
strong light on his keen, thoughtful face.
Ihe thud of a falling apple made him look
up. I must get all the apples in to-morrow
somehow.”
“Yes, you’ll have to strip the trees—l’ll
jam the unripe ones. Come here, Bill; sit
down beside me. That’s better. Bill”...
“Yes?”
“I didn't make the world in your head—
I only discovered it.”
‘‘But”
“Let me finish. If it is a happy world
my discovery will soon be worth while. If
you get too proud of yourself you’ll destroy
its simplicity and happiness. Then you’d
only be clever, which is nothing. And a
very unhappy nothing.”
Some formless memory stabbed into his
mind, a vague memory of passed pain and
sorrow in which he had spoken such words
himself.
“The responsibility of letters is really
only a sort of phrase by now—it will be
safe if the writing-man keeps himself
-humble and happy. That will keep his work
ciean and make it worthy to be read.”
The words came beating back to Eldridge
out of some unearthly memory, some life in
another world. Purely on the background
of a tragic misery they were written in let-
ters of fire. He groped and groped in the
past....
“So—-my discovery made you do all
that, .Bill —you and the world in your head
—while I stand aside, watching,”
_ He lifted a strand of her hair again.
"You are speaking of the writing half of
me, which must be alone. But it is only
half, and the cleanness of its work depends
on the other half —which is Eldridge here
with his brown seaweed in his hands and the
good peace in his heart. He is as much your
business as that writing-man.”
She looked up. “More,” she whispered,
pulling his head to her radiant eyes.
The sea washed rhythmically into his wak-
ing consciousness; to his opening eyes the
cyclopaedic room was grey, grey as the
stretching future, grey as the heavy fingers
of the dawn on the window. He sat up.
There was Ed’s cot, and Mrs. Eldridge
huddled in sane oblivion, the table and the
fragments of the broken plate and her
hair was still brushing his fingers in the
scent of- the pine-needles and the mountain
night. He slipped off the bed and crept out
to the balcony.
He leaned against the corner-post watch-
ing the rocks far below whiten and grow
black again ; at the head of the picture the
white line of safety from Fate still gleamed
in the grey light. So all that strong, fruit-
ful life was ashes, the burnt-out ashes of
a dream. He was lost and adrift in the
waters of despair; shaken to his inmost
being by the weight of the tragic blow of
his waking, he stood weeping the forlorn
tears of a lost child.
Old Burns and the fisherman from the
I oint carried what was left of him up to
™ KMnclffes’ room and laid it on the'bed,
Mrs. Eldridge helping in a stony silence. She
tried hard to get the brown seaweed out of
his hand, but the cold grip still held a
strand of it when the doctor came to certify.
DENIS MAHON.
Garrigan Gets In.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was entirely on their own initiative
that a deputation of Bald Hill Flat
electors waited on Parnell Garrigan,
the local storekeeper, with a request that he
allow himself to be nominated as the people’s
candidate at the coming election.
On hearing the request, Garrigan reached
for his pipe, flicked a fly from the butter,
and informed the deputation that he wouldn’t
have polities on his mind.
The deputation then withdrew (with Gar-
rigan) to the local pub.
Give some people an inch and they will
take a yard. When Garrigan got an inch,
being of an original turn of mind, he invari-
ably took the decanter. Few there were
in the Bald Hill that had not had the privi-
lege of opening Garrigan’s mouth with
whisky, and none that had not been denied
the privilege of closing it with money.
When the deputation succeeded in prising
Garrigan’s mouth wide open another request
was produced, and Garrigan came at it with
a gulp.
Garrigan announced that on turning the
matter over in his whisky he had convinced
himself that he owed a duty to the electors,
and although a large number of the Bald
Hillites owed him a good bit, he would not
allow that to influence him, and he would
“give it a go.”
The news that Garrigan had accepted
nomination as the people’s candidate was
passed on like a rise in wages, and before
election day njany new names were added
to the roll —mostly O’Donnells—and many
more struck off —all McFeersons.
McDougall, the farmers’ candidate, was a
wealthy man. It was rumored, however (by
Gamgan’s supporters), that in the early
days McDougall had gone through the Bank-
ruptcy Court.
Garrigan handled the rumor most judici-
ously. In his opening address he informed
his hearers that honesty was the keynote
of every plank in his policy, it was the
best policy, and he trusted that the people
of Bald Hill Flat would not be gulled by
men who claimed that their policy was just
as good. He confided that he, himself, was
no saint, but if he had followed the golden
rule all his life he would have been better off
to-day.
Garrigan’s open confession was received
with a chorus of approval, interspersed with
hilarious shouts of “So would we” from a
score of Garngan’s customers at the back.
Garrigan’s taste for parochialism at-
tracted a large measure of support, while
McDougall struck a much deeper note, and
aroused the interest of the thinking electors
by his exnosition of the economic phase as
originally outlined by Adam Smith. McDou-
gall advanced the knowledge-is-power theory
in a new setting, and made a solid impres-
sion by his revelation that the one power
to decisively deal with the present economic
situation was a sound knowledge of the
economic past.
Garrigan was quick to spot the influence
of MeDougall’s arguments, and lost no time
in warning the electors against “these new-
fangled ideas.” Garrigan explained that
these economics had already been tried in
other countries, and had proved a rank
failure. He reminded the electors that this
Smith had never even been in the district,
or he would have known that these eco-
nomics were no earthly use as a cure for
the political ailments, of the Bald Hill. Past
history to Garrigan meant dragging up a
man's, past, and the people’s candidate made
it plain that he would retire from the con-
test sooner than stoop to such rotten tactics.
McDougall whizzed around the electorate
in his motor-car, and never missed an oppor-
tunity of advocating a better class of roads
for motorists. Garrigan followed up in
Noonan’s gig and was equally active in
advocating a better class of motorists for the
roads.
Loyal to his party, McDougall never tired
of parading; the farmer’s virtues, and bit-
terly complained that few town people
realised what the farmer had done for them.
Garrigan adjusted the complaint by protest-
ing that the town people were equally in
the dark as to what the farmer had done
them for.
In extolling the farmer’s magnanimity
McDougall asserted that he never let his
left hand know what his right was doing.
Garrigan accepted the cocky’s deaf and dumb
code without question, but insisted that its
main function was in concealing from the
cocky’s right hand whom his left hand was
doing.
McDougall was a strong prohibitionist and
a violent opponent of State control. Gar-
rigan, on the other hand, was a “moderate”
and a strenuous advocate of self-control.
McDougall attributed the heavy drinking
amongst the workers to the high wages. Gar-
rigan ridiculed the idea, blaming the cheap
whisky and the statistician, and when
McDougall coolly asserted that the man who
wouldn’t work shouldn’t eat, Garrigan back-
fired with the charge that the man who
wouldn’t work was usually the man who
didn’t drink.
On election day, owing to a defect in the
licensing law, the front entrance to Noonan’s
pub was closed. When Noonan’s takings by
the back door were sufficiently buoyant to
stand a fine, Noonan released the front door
in the interests of gladness.
On the morning of the election Garrigan
and his committee took up a firm stand at
Noonan’s bar, and it was only when some-
one suggested a friendly call at McDougall's
committee rooms that Garrigan could be
persuaded to shift his ground.
When the rival candidates met at
McDougall’s rooms they shook hands, and
the respective committees adjusted their
loose buttons. McDougall was disposed to
be friendly, but Garrigan’s attitude was one
of open hostility. McDougall was strongly
inclined to discuss general topics, but Garri-
gan’s chief concern was as to whether the
farmers’ candidate “could keep one down” or
not. Garrigan’s persistence resulted in “ale-
cohol” becoming the chief jawbone of con-
tention, and when McDougall referred to
the liquid topic as the curse of the town,
Garrigan denounced the hop and barley
cocky as the curse of the country.
When McDougall pinned the people’s can-
didate down to his own statement with the
logic that two wrongs didn’t make a right,
Garrigan exploded with the great modern
truth that one fancied wrong could produce
a riot, and a riot there was.
An hour later McDougall’s committee-
rooms and the people’s candidate were closed
for repairs. *
It was during the early hours of the fol-
lowing morning that Garrigan got back to
earth.
He was aroused by the sound of rough-
tliroated voices. “It was a great fight, and
we were lucky to get Garrigan in,” he heard
someone saying, and the words brought Gar-
rigau to his feet. He was a little staggered
to find he had company—the sergeant and
the local constable.
The people’s candidate decided to break
the ice. “It was a great fight, sergeant,”
he said, with the air of a man who made a
hobby of winning elections.
“A great fight!” responded the sergeant;
“a great fight!”
“But I beat him,” said Garrigan with a
confident air.
“Beat him!” chipped in the constable.
“You wmuld have strangled him if we hadn’t
got you in.”
Garrigan felt his sangfroid give a bit,
but realising it was his move he stepped up
with. “And the voting was -pretty close, eh?”
“Equal, the voting was equal,” said the
sergeant, “and the returning-officer cast his
vote in favor of McDougall.”
“Equal, the voting was equal,” mused
Garrigan. and then the whole burden of the
responsibility for McDougall’s success
descended on Garrigan with a crash.
In the excitement of the battle Garrigan
had forgotten to vote.
HAKA.


y
A
W
v" v ; s*sir? ®p/*
‘ painty!!' £*&?!'.• ■ ■
~ y.J: v-%; : »ji*.- .y,'. : , ; ~-4lc.
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featiierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grams
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IK
**r3.nt**&:
yunD *****
k fbrHorficlos
No Shortage. Ample Supplies,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
SSi PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly-—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Hdlborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
a
Under four times
the size of this
picture.
The Decca is only 11 inches
square and weighs only 12
lbs., yet it has a more powerful
tone than the largest Cabinet,
Instruments.
It is clear and natural in reproduction,
needs no case, and is ready to play
immediately opened.
Why not buy a Decca and have music
wherever you may be?
3 Models :
Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. .. 11 10 0
Cowhide.. .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
. ■ ' i. . ': - ■ ■:
From All Music Dealers
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.,
Australian Agents
Study the construction of Shirley
President Braces; examine every
part and every principle, from the
webbing and buckles to the tubing
and strong cords that connect up
the design, and you can well under-
stand the message of brace comfort
that made Shirley,
I
m
r
■*-<-
C—»
A
rO:
President Braces worn by millions
of satisfied wearers the world over.
Look for the name “Shirley President” on the buckles for the
genuine. Guaranteed by the makers.
For Sale By Good Dealers Everywhere.
Shirley, Mass., U.S-A. Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives: >
WALTER CATHRO TTY.. LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
BEECHM’S PILLS
the famous digestive medicine, have proved during three generations,
to be an unfailing friend to dyspeptic sufferers. They have brought
relief to men and women in all parts of the world for more than
seventy years. This is so unique a record that due importance should
be attached to its real meaning. This may be expressed in the one
word—Satisfaction. The people who have taken this medicine have
been satisfied with the results which have followed. Only in this way
can the continuous demand be explained. An important point arises
here. A medicine which has given such long-continued satisfaction to
those who have taken it must have properties of remarkable reliability.
And this consideration should prove of the utmost encouragement to
those who have yet to try Beeeham’s HPills for the firs't time.
They have given satisfaction —general satisfaction —after the most
thorough test ; why should they not give the same to you? If then,
you suffer in any way from the distressing troubles arising from
impaired digestion, sluggish liver and irregular action of the bowels —
seek the aid of this great remedy at once. Give Beecham’s Pills a
fair trial. They will not disappoint you. They will relieve and remove
your digestive troubles and abundantly assist you in every way to
MFEGURRD YOUR HERLTH.
Sold in boxes, labelled l<Hd., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled wiifa this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. .This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is- the most scientific appliance yet,
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all,
conditions. To prove what we sty.e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
II l\ o
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
umbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’* Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
g
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose -Small Price.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
GENUINE must
bear signature
s£&
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —-which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their .manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J-
&. SINCLAIR LTD
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt
eet, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Peigitj and Auckland, N.Z.
1 1
A Long Step
Forward
f
Every sportsman knows what it
means to have his day’s hunting
spoiled on account of his car-'
trfdges becoming damp and unfit for use.
For many years cartridge manufacturers
have experimented to perfect a method of
making their shotgun cartridges impervious
to dampness under all conditions.
Remington experts have at last developed a
process—known as “WETPROOF”— which has
been patented and is controlled by this company.
Our factory loaded shotgun cartridges subjected
to the “WETPROOF” treatment —as are all the
Remington UMC brands—will withstand without
damage to their shooting qualities such con-
ditions as rain, dampness, or actual immersion
for a considerable period of time, which are
ruinous to ordinary cartridges, and which are often
encountered in the field
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
’Wire Strainer
2/6
Post Free
( Patented)
f»g I
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
*
Fl 9 a
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOtjTH MELBOURNE .


PETTER JUNIOR OIL ENGINES
•‘VICTORY*’ TYPE.
Reduce Power Costs
to a Minimum.
Awarded 30 Gold
and Silver Medals.
An Entire British Factory
Specialises in the Production
of the Petter Junior Oil Engine.
All Parts are Standardised and
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
FAMOUS THE WORLD OVER.
COOLING SYSTEMS:—
2|h.p. “VA” Model. Tank or Hopper.
sh.p. “VF” Model. Tank only.
Bh.p. “VB” Model. Tank only.
Sizes:
and 8
Horse-power.
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
and
Portable.
No, 1 Set: 25 and 50 volts,
No. 2 Set: 50 volts.
miuniiiiiiiri
2Vz -h.p. Semi-Portable Hopper Cooled Model.
RUNS on KEROSENE.
You cannot afford to run on
Benzine at its present price.
A 5 -Horsepower
Fetter Junior
1
Oil Engine.
will perform any one of the following
duties per hour:—
Crush 15001 b. Oats,
Kibble 2 1 001 b. of Beans,
Cut 400 feet of 9-inch Pine.
Break 42cwt. of Stone,
Churn 200 gallons of Cream.
Thrash 20 bushels of Corn,
Break 2 or 3 tons of Cake,
Cut 20 tons of Roots,
Make 901 b. of Ice,
Maintain 2000 cubic feet of Cold
Storage at 30deg. F.,
Wash 3600 pint Bottles,
Hoist 65 tons, 50 feet vertically,
Cut 36cwt. fin. Chaff,
Grind 7001 b. of Meal,
, Winnow 5 tons of Grain,
Pasteurise and separate unlimited
quantities of Milk,
and in its spare time it will
LIGHT YOUR HOME
or FARM BUILDINGS.
THE PETTER JUNIOR IS MORE
THAN AN ECONOMY—IT IS AN
INVESTMENT YIELDING HIGH
DIVIDENDS.
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF.
“The 5-B.H.P. Engine you supplied me with
is the wonder of the countryside,” writes Mr.
John Grant, Wick.
“I have already fitted up several of these
engines in East Africa and, needless to say,
same are giving absolute satisfaction,” writes
Mr. J. Boulton, of Woove, Cheshire. The
Pet ter Junior is used all over the world, and
IS EFFICIENT IN ANY CLIMATE.
puM£
mm
Manufactured by
FETTERS LIMITED,
Works: YEOVIL, ENGLAND.
PARTICULARS & PRICES FROM AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
THE INTERCOLONIAL BORING CO., LTD., 450-460
Ann Street, BRISBANE.
THE “CRUDO” ENGINEERING CO., 3 Barrack Street,
SYDNEY.
THE “RIDD” MILKING MACHINE CO., 495 Bourke
Street, MELBOURNE.
THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
UNION, LTD., Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
Or
LEE K. MURRAY, A. M.I.Ae.E.,
Australian Superintendent for
PETTERS, LTD., & VICKERS-PETTERS, LTD.,
Eldon Chambers, 92b Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
1
a '.- .i
s
V.
300-h.p. VN4 INDUSTRIAL TYPE.
Manufactured by
VICKERS-PETTERS, LTD.,
Works: IPSWICH. ENGIfIND.
From 10 to 450 Horse-power.
Industrial and Marine.
Starting from Cold within
2 minutes.
Particulars from
LEE K. MURRAY, Eldon Chambers
92b Pitt Street, Sydney; or
Marine Sets only
THE “CRUDO” ENGINEERING CO.,
3 Barrack Street, Sydney.
76-h.p. VE2M MARINE TYPE,
Direct, Reversing.
