

Western
Power. and Light
omes
n g Vcr.
yOU^ciLtet »hcr e .
'2
Clean, bright electric
light for house, gate-
and
way
building
VdK
e
tr—
□
V
KJ%
jv? Cf
Electric Light for
stables, milking
sheds etc.
t )
WZ
r
X
Electric Iron and
■'/)
*W A-
-lew
J,
iXv
a?
v
19ZL
er s ' ?n Qr P-
-s>e£
*42^
l*
111 VA.
m m
mu
A, iv
m
Electric P° wer
forthcSepa^
tor, Churn and
Grindstone
c , tncS ewmg^ achlne -
leElc 1 peda^
sC wmg. n ° v
Western Electric Power & Light
is best to buy, because it’s big and strong
and does everything that is claimed for
it. It g?ves electric light, it gives electric
power, and also engine power.
Far better than a small plant that only
gives light. Send for 20 Page Illustrated
Book to your nearest of the following:—
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY (Australia) LTD.
192 Castlereaeh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: C. R. FOSTER. 262 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE : T. TONKS, Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street,
PERTH: Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd., 33-35 King Street.
HOBART : Medhurst Electric Co, Ltd., U Argyle Street,
NEW ZEALAND: A. D. Riley & Co. Ltd., Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Also at Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin.
Important
for You!
Western Electric Battery
is 288 Ampere Hours,
Capacity (S.A.E. Rating),
Engine y/* h. p. tuns on
kerosene, self-starting.
Stops automatically when
battery is charged.
Compare these points with
other plants.
The Bulletin
Yol. 42.—N0. 2153
Thursday, May 19, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE yon had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt,
A Book for Horsemen.
The Horse
AS COMRADE and FRIEND
by
E. R. CALTHROP.
dfa
The author describes in detail the system of slow and gradual training which he has
personally proved successful m dealing with horses. 8
“ One of the most entertaining books on the horse ever written Argus,” Melbourne.
“Written to appeal to the practical man and the amateur "—“Queenslander,” Brisbane.
Profusely Illustrated. PRICE 21/- (Postage lOd.)
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS or
MELVILLE & MULLEN Pty. Ltd.,
262-4 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
ol
TOOTH
PASTE
If not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
■
Free sample will be posted to you.
KShnS&ks
ssrrss
BUIS
:S3S L !
Sis:
w
on
m
MANGROVITE BELTING
For Severe Service
Its great strength equips Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide
Belting for continuqus service under the most severe con-
ditions. Oil and grit have no effect upon it, and it
functions with perfect reliability under all climatic con-
ditions.
Every stage in the manufacture of Mangrovite is standardised,
rendering it sufficiently elastic to grip the pulleys snugly
and transmit the greatest possible percentage of generated
power to tlie machines. Its installation means increased
profit to the manufacturer.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD,,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing' Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Ltd.. Adelaide.
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright & Co. Ltd, Fremantle.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A
THE PICK
' PEN.”
LIGHT CARA
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The most reliable and ever-
ready Car is the Standard—
that is the opinion of Owner-
Drivers all over the world.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agents:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
108-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
-iw
-.aiminmmi!
nnii
ffiUTTs
os***
«
m
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestipn that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary! Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc
HOSQtiH
Lor
The Red Page
Soviet Russia
Mr. H. G. Wells’s new book, “Russia in
the Shadow.’’ seems to have few friends out
this way. The Intelligentsia, what few
are left, ridicule the idea of anyone, no mat-
ter how talented, getting any more than a
superficial idea of the complex situation in
such a fleeting visit. Their main criticism
is that the British author lays too much
stress upon the collapse of the old regime,
and not enough upon the inefficiency of the
new. The reactionaries and counter-revolu-
tionaries all swear that “the wool was pulled
over 11. (I. Wells’s eytes.” They say that his
with one exception, were, not
merely Be<l7 they were vermilion; that his
closest friend and adviser in I'etrograd,
Maxim Gorky, is an opportunist of oppor-
tunists, who attacks Communism one
minute and the next eulogises heum as a
superman ; and, finally, they are apt to quote
an anecdote which I myself heard while in
Retrograd. Wells was returning to his home
rather late one night, and, noticing that the
city was all in darkness, remarked that
there must lie something wrong with the
power-house. Then* was. And there has been
ever since the Communists assumed office!
But the Communists themselves are the
most disappointed over the book. They
were playing for big stakes when they asked
the British novelist to visit Russia; thejl
knew that Me was a collectivist and a futur-
ist, and they hoped that he would espouse
their cause so fervently as to arouse public
sympathy to such an extent that the trade
treaty with Britain would be brought to a
successful issue. Great therefore was their
chagrin whet* they found that he only waxed
halfhearted over some of their achievements,
threw cold water over others, particularly
their newest and most fantastic scheme of
electrification, and openly ridiculed their
Baku adventure and their beloved Karl
Marx. So, with the Whites thinking him
too red, and the Reds thinking him too white,
Mr. Wells is between the Devil and the deep
sea.
The most important point in Wells's book
is his statement that “Bolshevism is the only
possible Government for Russia at present.”
I have been in the land of the Soviet for
several mouths; I have visited Petrograd,
Moscow and Kiev; I have met and conversed
with Russians of all creeds and classes; I
have had long discussions on Communism
with the Prime Minister's of Esthonia and
Latvia, and with many other well-informed
people of divers views and laics; and I have
been very deeply impressed and as deeply
depressed by the utter absence of concerted
constructive opposition. If the Bolus col-
lapsed to-morrow it would be a case of “out
of the frying-pan.” The smouldering fires
of anarchy would burst into violent, consum-
ing flame; Russia would break up into many
small States, each warring against its neigh-
bor; the railroads and rolling-stock would
deteriorate beyond redemption; the fields
would lie fallow; the mines would flood with
water ; the sources of cheap raw materials,
of which Europe is so desperately in need,
would be inaccessible for years. Rightly or
wrongly, the Communists are the only party
with power and authority to prevent this
cataclysm, and so it is essential that they
stay in office until either they are pushed to
the Right and forced to summon the constitu-
ent- assembly—Lenin favors this now —or
another and better political machine is as-
sembled.
In Lenin's opinipn, John Reid’s “Ten Days
that Shook the World” is the best book yet
written on the revolution. Reid was an
American, a graduate of Harvard University.
After gaining considerable fame as a war
correspondent in Mexico, and later on the
Western Front, he journeyed to Moscow, and
was there not only when the tottering pil-
lars of Absolutism fell with a crash that was
heard the world around, but also through the
hysterical Demosthenic days of Kerensky,
and the blood-red, hell-spewed period of the
Bolshevist coup d'etat and assumption of
office. Always in sympathy with the Left,
Reid seems to have lost control of himself
and been swept off his feet into the clutches
of Lenin by the seething, hissing revolu-
tionary lava. He openly chamnioned the
cause of the Bolsheviks, and took an active
part in the overthrow of the Provisional Gov-
ernment and in the subsequent strengthening
of the soviet machine. In fact, so" radical
were his utterances that, when he attempted
to return to U.K A., he was stopped bv the
Finnish border officials and returned to. Rus-
sia. It was to his death. When the ty-
phus epidemic descended on the Slav he
was among the victims. The Communists
gave him a “solemn Red funeral,” and buried
him with high honors, just outside the Krem-
lin walls.
_ Another author who ha's won the benedic-
tion of tin* Vermilions in Moscow is Raymond
Robins, whose book, edited -by William R.
Hard, has kept the publisher’s printing-
presses running hot. Robins is also an
American. His life has been shot with
romance and adventure. As a miner he “hit
the trail of ’Ninety-eight” to Alaska, and
struck the pay-dirt rich enough to enable
him to return to U.S.A. a multi-millionaire.
When the American representatives of the
World Church movement visited Australia he
was amongst them —a fact to which he never
forgets to refer, to the detriment of Austra-
lia, in his public utterances. When the
Great. War broke out he connected up with
the American Red Cross, and was sent as
second in command, with the rank of colonel..
to Russia, where he did valuable work
under three Governments, Czarist. Provisional
and Bolshevik. He seems to have won his
way into the good graces of Lenin, for he
undoubtedly saw more of the Red Czar than
did all the other Allied representatives put
together. On his return to U.S.A. he was
gagged for several months by the Senate, but
eventually was permitted to both write and
speak. I was present at his first lecture,
and listened spellbound. He almost con-
verted me to Bolshevism. He said that if
ever Bolshevism comes to America he will
fight it, hut while it remains in Russia he
counsels leaving it alone. On being asked
whether he hated Bolshevism or not, he ipade
the naive retort that “he could not very well
hate a _ baby he had sat up with for six
months” —a remark which seems to have ue-
lighted Lenin. His book follows that line.
And there is another who, if there were a
Literary Order of the Iron Cross, should
undoubtedly receive it—Arthur Ransome,
author of a life of Oscar Wilde, fascinating
interpreter of Russian folk-lore and pink-
penned exponent of Communist virtues. I
met him in Iteval, the capital of Esthonia.
I was waiting in the ante-room of the Prime
Minister —the British Consul had arranged
an interview for me—when I chanced to
• hear the click of a typewriter, and turning
around was astonished to see a middle-aged
Englishman diligently copying extracts from
a book marked “Esthonian Myths.” I had
heard that Arthur Ransome was living in
the city, and it didn’t take long to figure
out that he was the only Englishman in
Esthonia, or surely in the world, who would
be interested in Esthonian myths, when
there were so many world-events hap-
pening near by. So “Mr. Arthur Ransome?”
1 said. "Yes,” lie answered ; and soon we
were friends, drawn together most, I think,
by our love of books. lie told me he
was writing an official history of Esthonia,
but would much sooner be on the coast of
California yachting and fishing for tarpon.
I had read his book, “Russia in 1919,” and
was glad to be able to say that American
reviewers considered it one of the very best
contributions to the revolutionary literature.
That night I dined at: his house, and after
the dishes were cleared away we lit the .samo-
var, drew our chairs up to it, and talked
for hours about Soviet Russia. He denied
that he was a Bolshevik, admitted that he
thought more highly of Lenin than of any
other European statesman, and Wound up
by fervently declaring that Communism
would not fail through military intervention,
economic penetration or internal haemor-
rhage. lie believed that it would move to the
Right, and that the world would benefit.
"Bolshevism is on trial now,” he suddenly
declared; “for three years they have been
fighting tlve world, and now they have peace,
and with peace their first chance to re-
build after the desolation of war.” His new
book. "The Crisis in Russia,” is due this
month.
Fima no.
TOM SKEYHILL.
Nora’s Granddaughter
A very poor .opinion of the intelligence of
women must be held by. Messieurs Remain
Holland, Georg Brandes, Henri Barbusse
and Bertrand Bussell, who acclaim as a
revelation the thoughts and ideas of Woman,
by Magdeleine Marx, with an introduction
by Henri Barbusse, English version by A. S.
Seltzer. B. Russell’s testimony, that "here
for the first time is told the truth about
women," is printed with other laudatory re-
marks on the paper jacket, and the fact that
the publishers (Geo. Allen and Unwin) can
afford to give this only hack-cover space
shows that the conspicuous notices are really
choice. Barbusse prefaces the narrative with
the contention that, apart from the subtlety
of its style, its mastery of techuioue and so
forth, the book is valuable because it comes
at “the very time when woman is at last
entering humanity.” This whets curiosity.
The truth about WomanV What forbidden-
fruit trees has Magdeleine Marx-Washington
been chopping down with her little hatchet
and owning up to? It’s, the "owning up”
that usually makes interesting reading.
Well, it’s the same old tale. This anony-
mous heroine of "Woman," supposed to be
the latest product of post-war conditions, just
deals out the eternal sex theme. Her one
idea of life is love and lovers. There is
nothing else “to” it. The newness lies in
the way of putting it. Magdeleine conveys
that women have been brought up in an
atmosphere of lies. She remarks: “I do be-
lieve in miracles.... the miracle is that
woman is free and strives to be sincere in
her freedom our mothers knew not. The
woman in us owes them nothing but our
faults." Yet it is nearly half, a century since
Nora Helmer walked out of her doll’s house
into Ithe broad world of citizenship. The slam
of the door behind Nora has reverberated
pretty loudly ever since. In implying that
Mag. Marx is hearing this slam for the first
time, Henri Barbusse gives to his most casual
reade’r the impression that he regards women
as rather slow in the uptake. Marie Bash-
kirtseff and Nora Helmer, counting by years
elapsed, could have to-day granddaughters of
marriageable age, while Hilda Wangel and
Magda could be mothers of grown women in
1021. These ladies were supposed to have
moved things on a bit in their days. “Some-
thing doing” was ever their motto. Yet here
is the latest exponent of modern femininity
using all the old war-cries of the “tyranny of
man,” "sex war,” “the rebel woman,” and all
the rest of it. Briefly, what she advocates in-
cludes the economic independence of women
(yawn here) : proposals by women (followed
of course by acceptances by men) ; legal mar-
riage (to please mother, you know, who has
been brought up in an atmosphere of lies) : a
baby (perhaps, but just one, so that he can be
written about for a flowery page or two) ;
State adoption, no mother being ever com-
petent to bring up her own child ; a lover (of
course-—what do you take me for?) ; poignant
unhappiness all the time, hating everybody
and everything, the only object worth con-
templation being my own image in the glass,
which I scan with a closeness worthy of a
girl of Mrs. Hungerford or Ethel M. Dell!
The sex-war! Fancy grinding out that
old tune now, when in the vast department
store of life woman is the supercilious cus-
tomer and man the servile shopwalker. She
has only to ask and have. “A vote? Cer-
tainly, madam. Step this way.” “A seat in
Parliament? That will be on the second
floor, madam; please take the elevator.” “A
University career? Sorry, we’re out of a
really superior line, but will re-stock pn
rebuilding.” .“An affinity? With pleasure,
madam : that' is our speciality. The Lonely
Souls Department, if you please. Married
Women’s counter, second on the left. For-
ward. Lovers !” Confidentially rubbing liis
(Continued on page 25.)


k
vae
FURNITURE of QUALITY and ECONOMY
Winter marks the coming of drab, dreary days. It
also signalises the renovation of the home, because,
then, cheery comfortable surroundings are a neces-
sity. Anthony Horderns’ co-operate with home-
lovers in the rejuvenating of their abodes by offering
them the latest in Furniture and Furnishings, all
excellent quality productions, priced much lower
than their quality indicates. This conforms to
Anthony Horderns’
EXCEPTIONAL
VALUE-GIVING
POLICY.
S 3
X
Jn.
7./L UV
k
W
ml
%m
G
RM
37 i m
'iw»w
ft
__■
m
niliniiiililluill
& fSiKyei
n
n*'v<%\
———
m'.'L nt'
7/wA,
' —’BBS &3J
|1 fll
i HI
; IHH
| »M
,Msn
M Mm
li
DD
l-i: J
FOR THE BEDROOM.
Solidly Constructed Oak 4ft. Bin. Bedstead, ornamented
carved panel In foot rail. PRICE *7.
Spring Mattress, raised ends. PRICE 1 * ”
Set Kapok Bedding. PRICE tb/li/-
GClool.—The Munro Bedroom Suite. 1! pieces, in Maple or
Oak. Wardrobe 4ft., dentil mouldings in cornice, carved
enriebment to doors. Toilet Table 3ft. bin.; Bedside Cup-
board. with towel rails, mirror back, oxidised copper
handles. PRICE FOR THE SUITE toi/10/-
Euxurioiis Axminster Carpet. Grey trellis do
sign,. with black border. 10ft. x Oft.
PRICE f-t;, 13 -
Curtains and Valance, plain cream casement
cloth, curtains 7ft. long. 50in. wide. Valance
Oft. wide, ISin. deep. PRICE M/3/-
We offer you an expert
Home Furnishing Service.
Our staff comprises special-
ists, who, by experience and
long practice in devising
and executing decorative
schemes, can solve any fur-
nishing problem that may
perplex you and point the
way to ECONOMY.
FOR THE DINING-ROOM.
VC i'll.—Dining Table, designed witli circular top and frame,
Cabriole legs. Size 3ft. Din. In Cedar or Australian Oak.
PRICE £7/7/-
GCIOS. —Attractive Dining-Room Suite, of 8 pieces, in Oak or
Maple, two armchairs, six small chairs, made with lift-out
spring seats in Pegamoid. PRICE £l9/18/6
GCI32. —Handsome 3ft, Sideboard, featuring charming originality
in design. Enriched bevelled mirror, relief carvings, antique
brass handles. PRICE £3l/10/-
Poplin Curtains and Valance, as illustrated, Tussore Color Cur-
tains, 7ft. long x 50in. wide. Valance 6ft. wide x 18in. deep,
stencilled Briar Rose and . Ribbon design. PRICE .. £5/12/6 set
Well Constructed Tub Palm Stand, in Oak or Cedar, with hoops
of lacquered brass and Japanned tray. PRICE 95/9
XS223s.—Handsome Electric Table Damp, carried out in oxidised
copper, with 12in. square shade of cast metal, open work over
panels of light amber art glass. PRICE £6/5/-
The “Way” Dinner Wagon, in Oak or Maple, size 3ft. wide. 3ft.
high. PRICE £l/5/-
FOR the DRAWING-ROOM
Drawing-Room Suite,, three pieces, a graceful and
comfortable settee and two armchairs designed to
add atmosphere and charm to an apartment. It is
in stuff-over style, upholstered in Shadow Tissue.
PRICE £27/10/-
GC4O6. —“The Cintra’’ Jardiniere Stand, 40ill. high,
in Maple, finished Mahogany color. PRICE 37/6
Handsome Axminster Rug. cream ground with
medallion design in pretty pink colorings, Size
Oft. x 3ft. PRICE £3/12/6
50in. Printed Tissue Curtain Material, cream ground,
with ljin. black stripe all over floral and bird de-
sign. with Olive, Marone and Blue Colorings.
PRICE 9/6 yard
Pouffee Cushion, as illustrated, made of shadow
tissue in any design or self-colors. PRICE, 42/- each
Cushions, as illustrated, 24in. square, in shadow
tissue, filled best kapok. PRICE 21/- each
2565. —Very Handsome Electric Table Damp in
Antique, Gilt or Florentine Relief Finish, with 18iu.
hexagon shade of cast metal open work over panels
of light amber cut glass. PRICE £8
FOR THE STAIRCASE.
Axminster Carpet, 27in. wide, brown ground, with
effective border in black. PRICE .... 22/6 per yard
WILTON PILE
CARPET SQUARES
Included in our stock of Carpets are some very
tine examples of Wilton Pile Squares, in distinctive
1 . * .• I . .wl.iiitutlnllC lit I I I
Extra
Super Quality.
£lB
£2B
£32/10/-
EXTRA HEAVY
PILE CARPETS
The Heavy Pile Axminster Carpets will he found
most attractive. The collection comprises some very
tine specimens of the weaver’s art in distinctive
designs and choice colorings, combined with the
luxuriousness ' of a deep-pile, superb-quality
Axminster.
12ft. x .9ft., £39/10/-. 15ft. x lift. 3in., £59/10/-
TAPESTRY CARPET
SQUARES
The soft colors and delicate shades until recently
only found in the more expensive carpets are now
available in Tap'estry Squares. These well-known
inexpensive, squares are suitable for almost any
room.
Oft. Oin. x 7ft. Gin... £0 12ft. x Oft. Oin... £B/10/-
10ft. Gin. x Oft. Oin... £6/10/- 12ft. x 10ft. Gin... £9/2/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


■
an
mm
wm
%
Simple to use
Brownies make
Splendid Pictures
Bring home your pleasures in a BROWNIE
Happiness is too valuable to waste—yet most people do waste
it. Wise is the man, woman or child who has learned that it
can be saved.
Every Brownie picture, the result of a fascinating hobby, is a
storehouse of memories, and wben it is reviewed in future years
will bring back a flood of happy recollections that will drive
dull care out of mind.
The popular Box Brownies, which give so much enjoyment
to thousands of photographers, young and old, are easy to
use, inexpensive and efficient. Prices: No. 0, for pictures Ifx 2£
inches, 14/6; No. 2, for pictures 2\ x 3\ inches, 18/6; No. 3,
for pictures 2>\ x 4£ inches, 32/-. Folding Autographic Brownies
from 58/- to £5/15/-
Ask for the Kodak and Brownie Catalog!
Of all Kodak dealers, and
ue.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street. Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The exquisite art of Jascha
Heifetz is reproduced ex-
clusively on “His Master’s
Voice’’ Records.
Hear these perfect
re-creations:
JASCHA HEIFETZ
(Violin),
with Pianoforte Accompaniment.
10-inch RED LABEL, 8/6.
4-7938—Valse Bluette (Air de
Ballet). Drigo, arr Auer
4-7939—Chorus of Dervishes.
(“Ruins of Athens”).
Beethoven, arr. Auer
4-7940—Meditation. Glazounov.
4-7941—Turkish March (Scherzo)
Beethoven
12-inch RED LABEL, 12/6.
2-07962—La ronde des lutins
(Dance of the Goblins).
(Scherzo fantastique).
Bazzini
2-07963—M0t0 perpetuo. Paganini
2-07966—Spanish Dance. Sarasate
2- —Hebrew Melody. Achron
(With orchestral accom-
paniment. )
3- —Nocturne in E Flat. Op.
9, No. 2. Chopin
(Speeds 79).
*
\bice
99
asters
S)
&
$9
3,
*SO -
& %
y t
9
Sk
a
9
f
*
is
\
A
**\
S'
' S
y >
n
a
7
y.
/ '
/ ~ ./
Jascha
4
Write for Special Illustrated Heifetz Pamphlet of 15
numbers and name of nearest ‘‘His Master’s Voice” dealer.
“IHs Master’s Voire*'
Read. Trade-mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read, Trade-mark .


PINKETTIS
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
N-
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST, AND
Sen<l a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near liridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
peal
J SMYTHS V
ORIGINAL.
BALBRIGGAN
HOSIERY
ESTABLISHED 1780
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
HALLETT, PATERSON C Co.
"PENPOLD HOUSE”
116 Queen Street Melbourne. f
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
m
1
i
Those grey
hairs that
ever give the
a p p e arance
of old age
need no
longer be en-
dured. Feel
and look
young again
by using this
i n v a 1 uable
stain.
Assuredly harmless —easy to
a PPly —waterproof.
All chemists.
SWS
MEXICAN
(WALNUT STAINS
Tooth Paste
CUDEN
n
f'
FRAGRANT AND
ANTISEPTIC.
The formula of this delightful denti-
frice is the outcome of chemical re-
search based on the eternal war against
causes that make for teeth deterioration.
Buy a tube to-day and test its
effectiveness.
I
Being an Austra-
lian-made p r o-
duct it can be soldi
at a cheaper rate
than the imported
article, 1/ - a tube.
Shave.
'"v* \ ."\ % w\\\m 'll 1 ! "'////'/ //y /// / /
Laurel Kerosene
hi 'ii
■^r////x
\ v
*0
Laurel is shedding its “soft white light” in thousands
of Australasian homes. Laurel gives a splendid light,
and is soothing and restful to the eyes.
Fill your lamps with Laurel next time; you will be
pleased with the excellent service it gives. It is equally
good for cooking and heating.
Don’t say Kerosene—just ask for Laurel
L 3a
/ rr
_ADIHC «N
COMFORT
The Pipe Supreme
Every smoker who appreciates a good pipe
will realise his ideal in a GBD.
Made in London from selected French Briar-
wood, shaped and finished by experts, this
pipe supreme assures a cool, sweet smoke at
all times.
Choose a GBD and put it to the test.
Many
Popular
Shapes
?\PE
&
Tnt V
On
Sale
Everywhere
VARIOUS VERSE
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lady of Jordan.
I will go down to Jordan water
And wash me free of sin ;
For the river that is the mountain's daughter
Has sweet life therein.
Where the thin ripples are lost in rushes
A great shadowing lies;
And a spirit of awe stills and hushes
Words on the lips of the wise.
And there in the cave is a sound of singing—
Melody faint and low —
Where, viewless, out of the silence winging,
White angels come and go.
Low, low in the Jordan water
I looked my soul to save
On the white breast of God's own daughter
In the pool of the Holy Cave.
The thin ripples are lost in dreaming
<hi the desert’s lip of brown;
But I saw her lips and her hair streaming
As I watched my sins drown.
N.B.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Dream Bringer.
An oil-drum was the garden plot,
An oil-drum filled with garnered earth;
A bright geranium’s scarlet face
Looked upward from its sunlit birth ;
And over yards that held no tree
There drifted in a tawny bee!
Three storeys high' above the street;
Below, an asphalt court, a dray
With rolls of paper lumbering in,
And soot-streaked wells, and alleys gray;
It seemed a minor mystery
The visit of that wandering bee’
For out along the river banks
There was an acre packed with sweet;
It might have found a frequent nest
Far from the rattle of the street
Some place where asters gem the slope,
With rose, and hints of heliotrope.
Gold cornucopias filled with scent.
Honey in jasmine, all were there.
And yet the rover spurned the store
To float o’er roofways sharp and bare,
And find its picked alighting place
Upon an attic-dweller’s face!
Green shadows in the dancing grass:
The nodding reflex of a flower;
White butterflies in aisles of palms;
Pink “pride of India” for a bower;
Network of blossom-weavings, free
To any brown adventurous bee!
And yet it came, by creaking signs,
By chimney pots of sullen smoke.
And (threading through the engine’s steam
And printing press) a dream awoke
To hang those iron rails upon,
Gay gardens of old Babylon !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Songs.
Far in the clustering hills 1 grew;
(>ver the uplands the long winds blew;
My arms were drooped on the meadow grass,
As I watched the seasons in pageant pass.
I stood in my solitude lone and high
While the songs of the wide earth drifted by.
To the woodman’s axe I crashed on a day
When the soft lain fell and the sky was gray.
Helpless I hung as my withering leaves
Were scattered over the banded sheaves ;
But my songs were harvested safe within,
Till they wrought from my heart the violin.
I have stolen the song the mermaids sing,
When the moon is girt with a golden ring,
To the plash of the green, alluring waves,
As they lave the shells in the old sea-caves;
And I give you the passion and mystery
Of the strange, inconstant song of the sea.
I have captured a song in the midnight gray
From the dancing elves in the forest way,
And oh their laughter, and oh their mirth,
As they gambolled over the old. brown earth —
There is never a night too drear, too long,
When I sing you again the elfin song!
I have gathered the sweet, elusive strains
Of the light South wind, the rustle of rains.
The voice of the storm-fiend, wild and rude,
Shouting high in the solitude.
And the sound of a thousand mountain rills
As they leap with glee from the sheltering hills.
The ripple of poplars in slim, green lines,
The grateful hush of the whispering pines:
The murmur of elms like a soft Spring rain,
The swish of willows, the voice of the grain
That bends full-eared in the autumn-tide
Till the long, red barns are satisfied.
I have garnered the songs the children sing
When over the meadows their clear notes
ring—
The lilt of laughter, the tremor of tears,
The joy that follows the fleeting fears.
O gay little songs, how sweet, how true,
Are the plaintive notes in the heart of you I
And I give you again, in a tremulous tone.
The sorrow of one who, bereft, alone,
Under my sheltering arms once crept.
Ard deep in the nr d night darkness wept.
While murmuring bough and quivering leaf
Thrilled to the sound of a heart’s wild grief.
Bee-song in the clover at misty dawn.
Blackbirds astir on a dew-drenched lawn:
The minstrelsy that the wildwood knows
When gold and scarlet the sunrise glows—
I have cherished you, guarded you, deep within.
And I speed you again from the violin.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.


*ffa .
1
£*.,
05
18
S
; ,-•
if.
V 'N t .^-.
N •>•■
. —*s-S?
l \
/ /' A '>.
.fi J ..y r
m<
«
¥SS
»<£}:
m
w
*\ _j
5M 7J
?
09
v:
na
>A«
TOW*-''**
Mfi
1
:?i
r -
WB
; •*
, C5l <
RB
--■
■>.!^'^y.- *v \
r <<JX
mmw
;5 VJL
ipM
•.’fi. \
. /a *
m
&
i~*v
miaUS
mt<
>)*;.•••.
4NSMS
I,
a®
£ ■ Ev : '-i : --' •••:;• •:
UtKv
<-«*vL***
W.fsl
less
m
fcayt-N
J
S!
>P^. 1 {AKs&fr! tt-A
wmmrn^m
...
J- :/•*• •
\W
f>R SiiSdSWwfiiS
A 3
•usass*
■^ri'
!'^
Q
«}
il
(CA
TA
Zi*(
'V.V
H-
-4
/
l
SffiS
Tm
■y.m
This is the best period of the year to paint property.
The Autumn air is cool and free from dust and
insects, allowing the paint to dry evenly and cleanly.
n
n
in!
noeis
□
Q
('PRF.PARFD)
applied NOW will form an elastic protective film
impervious to the heaviest winter rains. It will
become an integral part of the walls—a lasting
barrier between your property and deterioration.
Join Mr. Berger’s Brighter Homes movement—make YOURS
a more cheery, attractive place this winter. "8.P.” shuts out the
weather, because it is a pure lead, zinc and linseed oil paint.
Manufactured at Rhodes, Sydney, by
LEWIS BERGER & SONS (Aust.) LTD.
(Established at London, 1760)
BERGER AGENTS EVERYWHERE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2153.
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 1921.
Pkice 9d.
NEVER MIND THE CLOUDS-HITCH THE HORSES TO THE PLOUGH!


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for (he White Man.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For 1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright hy the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Fditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
I olitical. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
tnn n °* exc ceding two columns in length, or, say,
• 1000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
I he Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, ltui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction , or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IP. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi;
F. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, S Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Jlolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jjfil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.B.A. — Chisago: J. Poland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., 77/ West Madison Street. Chicago:
Golden Gate News Agency ,77.9 Market Street, Chicago;
Clark Street Reading Club, 1)1 N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco : Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle: Liberty
News Co.. Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano's, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New York City;
Schultz News Agency, Bryant. Bark; Schultz News
Agency, 102 West Jf2nd Street, New York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square News Stand,
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central News Stand,
103 East sth Street, Los Angeles. Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore,
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
IGoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz. , lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
JST&zzHelfoi.
THURSDAY, MAY 19. 1921.
JINGOISM VERSUS THE COMMON
LAW OF ENGLAND.
The burning of a Union Jack by some
unidentified ass on May Day provided the
Sydney papers with a needed sensation and
the inhabitants with an opportunity to
demonstrate what did not require demonstra-
tion—that -Australians have no use for the
Red Flag and recognise that without the
protection of the Union Jack their national
life would not be worth a month’s purchase.
There is a better proof of Australia’s attach-
ment to the British connection than can be
afforded by any Sunday outing in the Sydney
Domain: it consists of 60,000 volunteer Aus-
tralian soldiers who lie dead in foreign lands.
And their chief inspiration was the identical
principle which local Prussianism is out to
destroy in the name of Loyalty. For up-
wards of three centuries England has been an
asylum for the outlawed as well as the home
of the free. When Alva and his successor
Farnesk were murdering, ‘ravishing and
burning through the Low Countries, Calvin-
ists, Zwinglists and Lutherans flocked to
England and got a warm welcome. When
the Terror arrived in France Catholic emi-
gres got the same welcome. Nationalists like
Mazzini and Garibaldi and International-
ists such as Marx and Kropotkin crossed to
London and were safe when death threatened
them in their own countries. The Red Flag
is hoisted every Sunday in the great city
parks of England, and stout policemen look
on tolerantly while bunkum is spouted by
the gallon. As a British Minister remarked
proudly in the House of Commons the other
day, “it has always been so.” The Empire’s
Tappertits never die, and they are never
taken seriously, except by fools or people
with political axes to grind. The wisdom of
British latitudinarianism is proved by its
fruits. After all these generations of free
public speaking and free writing, the British
worker remains the solidest and the British
monarchy the safest in the world: while
Russia, which for the past half-century
poured refugees into Soho almost as lavishly
as it poured political convicts into Siberia,
has been visited by the very calamity its
proscriptions and Bloody Sundays were de-
signed to avert. Yet in face of such evidence
the following proposals have been ventilated
in the press in the last few days:—
That Reil Flag meetings should he “systematically
broken up by Loyalists if the police refuse to do
their duty.”
That red flags, green flags and green-and-.vellow
flags should be “torn down and destroyed wherever
displayed.”
That “all Socialists and Sinn Feiners should be
deported.”
That as a condition of entering Australia or re-
maining in it “the '■ath of allegiance should be
administered once yearly, or oftener, to everybody.”
In addition the S. M. Herald published a
letter which ran: “If I see or hear anyone
burn a Hag it will be his last few minutes on
earth.”
* * * *
All these sentiments, which would have
been quite in the picture in a bureaucrat’s
office in pre-war Germany or Russia, but
which are opposed to the first principles of
liberty as it is understood by Britishers, were
embodied in a sentence which appeared in a
M. Herald leading article:—
Demonstrations which outrage the dominant public
sentiment, and which invite forceful resentment from
the exasperated majority because that seems to be
the only way, should be prohibited.
The Common Law of England, under which
we are proud to live, takes no account of
“dominant public sentiment” as such. The
forceful resentment of an exasperated
majority impresses it no more than the force-
ful resentment of an exasperated bottle-o.
And similarly with public demonstrations.
The same test is applied to a gathering of
Red Flaggers or of persons in favor of having
the Army Act clamped on citizen trainees as
would be applied in the case of any individual
agitator in the interests of one of those
causes. Is it legal for Brown to spout
Internationalism or Smith PrussianisniV
Then it is legal for 500 or 5000 Browns and
Smiths to do the same. The fact that riots
may result from the misguided rot talked by
people like Garden and Judd has nothing to
do with the case. The well-meant efforts of
an editor who was anxious to have the death-
sentence introduced for the better disciplin-
ing of Australian soldiers might also cause
riots. But so long as Garden, Judd or the
editor, as the ease may be, keeps his re-
marks on the right side of the law, the police
must stand by him. Beatty v. Gillbanks
established the point. In upsetting a magis-
trate’s finding against some Salvationists who
had held a meeting, though warned that it
was to be broken up by a so-called Skeleton
Army (the “corybantic Christianity” of the
Salvation Army was offensive ,:o the “domi-
nant public sentiment” of that period), the
Queen’s Bench observed :
The finding of the Justices amounts to this: that a
man may be convicted for doing a lawful act if he
knows that his doing it may cause another to do an
unlawful act. There is no authority for such a
proposition.
The suggestion that the Government should
"prohibit” unpopular demonstrations is only
one more example of the way the “ verboten ”
habit has grown on a certain class in Aus-
tralia since the freest soldiers that ever took
the field left these shores. It is also idiotic.
Incredibly idiotic. So long as the Statute
Laws of the land or the by-laws framed under
them permit citizens to demonstrate, a Gov-
ernment which stepped in with a prohibition
would make a fool of itself; for the Courts,
which are above the Executive, will stand by
those who disregard it. It requires no deep
thinking to get at the fundamental wisdom of
such principles. If bodies of enthusiasts
could go about interfering with the liberty of
others in the name of “dominant public senti-
ment,” the outcome would be anarchy.
Almost every institution we have, from the
Anglican Church down to Trade Unionism,
Early Closing and the R.A.N., was against
“dominant public sentiment” at one time.
And if Governments were allowed to prohibit
the expression of opinions distasteful to them-
selves or anybody else, on no better grounds
than that they were distasteful, then the rule
of law would cease and that of Kaiserism
begin.
* * * *
If speechifying on behalf of Sinn Feinism,
Cobdenism, Pacifism, Militarism or any
other fad, craze, hobby or ideal is really dis-
tasteful to the majority of Australians, there
is a ready cure. A Parliament elected under
the widest possible franchise can make the
practice illegal. It can make the use of a
red flag, a green flag or any other sort of
flag illegal: it can allot grants to the sec-
tarian-monger or honors to the agent provo-
cateur —though the advisability of doing
things so repugnant to the political ideas of
the rest of the Empire is arguable. In the
meantime— pace the War Precautions Act
Repeal Act —a measure of freedom of speech
and action prevails, and if it is desirable to
limit it the methods of Bolshevism and mob
rule advocated by papers like the Herald
are the last that should be employed for the
purpose. The effect of the incitements to vio-
lence which have already, appeared in the
press was well indicated by the letter quoted
above. The writer apparently imagines that
if he murders someone who burns a flag, or
whom he so much as hears has burnt a flag,
the loftiness of his motives will justify the
crime. And indeed an ignorant man might
be excused for believing what a representative
daily paper would seem to believe. But the
criminal courts do not listen to such defences.
The patriot would go to gaol, and his possibly
innocent victim to the grave, to make an anti-
Labor holiday. For that, when all is said
and done, is what lies at the bottom of the
newspaper efforts to divide the Diggers and
create hatred amongst civilians. A well-
know T n ex-member of the 13th Battalion made
the suggestion of an honest man in the very
issue of the S. M. Herald which starred the
proposals of the potential homicide. It was
that our advertisement-seeking Tappertits
should be left to the obscurity which they
suffer from in Britain, and which must blan-
ket them here the moment the daily papers
cease to act as their publicity agents. What
the ingenuous ex-officer of course overlooked
was that inflammatory stories —true, half-true
or false—about working-class anarchists and
disloyalists, have a way of reacting on the
cause of working-men who stand by consti-
tutional methods of reform, whose war-record
was equal to that of any class, and who are
as loyal now as any class. Before that
urgent necessity of a political party, con-
siderations not only of decency but of the
public welfare, and even of the public safety,
go by the board.
THE FIRST HONEST MINISTRY.
“It is easy to govern a country when one
is honest,” was the memorable saying of
N.S.W. Premier Storey, who, believing that
he could safely be trusted with the petty
cash or the loan of anyone else’s umbrella,
reckoned himself fit to run an empire with-
out further qualifications. But what a
Ministry might be made of honest men! It
could include John the Baptist, with one
suit that only covered his middle, little edu-
cation and wretched food; the Rev. Cotton
Mather, the Boston witch-burner; Peter
the Hermit; Torquemada ; Lord George
Gorgon, whose convictions against Popery
brought him nothing but trouble; Bruce
Smith, who might have had a lot more
portfolios if he hadn’t been true to imported
shoddy; Chidley, of the remarkable cos-
tume; and three Stuart sovereigns— Mary,
who sacrificed her head rather than sur-
render her absurd and hopeless claim to the
•English throne ; her grandson Charles, who
gave his head and kingdom for his “divine
right”; and great-grandson James, who
threw away three kingdoms for a mass.
Then there might be Lenin, who seems
more honest than Trotsky; and mad Wil-
liam, now mouldering in Holland, who in
all probability fully believed in his divine
mission, whereupon he went no trumps on
an insufficient hand, and the flood came and
carried him away; likewise some open-air
preachers of the minor sects, and the person
with 12 convictions for not vaccinating his
children. Brilliant time-servers like Henry
of Navarre, who swapped his faith for a
kingdom and saved it from destruction, and
brilliant shifters and dodgers like Bismarck
and Gladstone would he disqualified. Some
people begin to think, however, either that
the Storey Government’s honesty is a sham
or that the quality of being the reliable
bailee of a stranger’s umbrella is insufficient
qualification for great State affairs. The
N. S. Wales finances seem to suggest some
such thing. These are the records for 10
financial years and five-sixths of a year, and
the name of the Ministry which was respon-
sible :
McGowen Labor.
•lime, Revenue. Deficit.. Surplus.
1911.. £13,882,485 £588,202 ——
1912.. 15,797,136 340,143
1913.. 16,550,521 1,228,379
Holman I.abob.
1914.. 18,438,228 £373,039
1915.. 18.946,227 430,048
1916.. 19,703,518 149,591
Holman Coalition.
1917.. 20,522,097 268,798
1918.. 21,543,742 23,824
1919.. 23,448.166 .214,768
Part Holman and Part Storey.
1920.. 28,650,496 1,559,517
April, Storey Labor.
1921.. 24,627,290 4,592,148
The shame and peril in the last line
may be traced not to the nominal prin-
ciples of present Ministers, which are
good enough—in fact, they are almost too
good for this world —but to a discrepancy
about the Ministers themselves. The central
idea is that the country should be run by
men sprung from the ranks, and not by those
born in the purple. But in practice the
rulers are men who didn’t spring from the
ranks, but stayed there because there was
no spring in them. It is a good and respect-
able thing to be a tailor; in fact, an honest
tailor is among the noblest works of God.
But it is no sign of special aptitude to
manage great and complicated affairs that
a man, with presumably the natural ambi-
tion to be a great and prosperous Snip,
should be only a very ordinary Snip in a
very humble country town. To be a teacher
is a thing of high honor, and ranks the big-
man with Gamaliel, from whom Paul
learned his letters, and with Plato : yet
never to get higher than a teachership in
a country school is no overwhelming recom-
mendation. It may be necessary, whether it
is desirable or not, to be a lawyer,
lor while there is law lawyers are needed;
but one who was fit for large things would
hardly choose to be an obscure lawyer living
chiefly or wholly on the pay of an obscure
official job. lie would prefer to be a tower-
ing patriot lawyer like Isaac Butt, the
magnetic Home Rule leader, than a small
patriot advocate or conveyancer seeking the
bubble reputation in the debating-society
category. Tubal Cain gave the boiler-
maker place among the gods or the myths,
as did Vulcan and other notables, but they
seem to have been more than journeymen.
When a man is wanted to weld a State, and
mould the destinies of its people, and turn it
into the right path, and fit it for a great
future, and launch new enterprises, and ham-
mer in obvious truths, and nail down obvious
lies, it isn’t quite enough that he should have
learned a comparatively simple branch of
ironmongery in his youth, and that middle-
age should find him no for’arder in his own
special business —the one he is supposed to
know best. And in the sordid but unavoid-
able realm of finance the country doesn’t
want a Rothschild, for Rothschilds,
though sons of the people—in fact, of the
very poor—are too far removed, and have
forgotten their fathers and almost forgotten
how to be human. Still the man who has
to handle scores of millions of public money
per annum, and to battle with the cosmo-
politan money-kings of London, should give
better proof of his status in sordid things
than is suggested by suburban house-agenev.
Mr * * *
The rulers of a democratic community
really should be men sprung from the
people, except in the one case out of a million
where a genius appears out of a different
caste. But they should have sprung a little,
.lust to show that there is spring in them.
I. ntortunately any sign of a capacity to rise
is now rather a disqualification than other-
as showing a tendency to move towards
the "capitalistic” class, though a rare excep-
tion may be made in fovor of the more or
less elastic and more or less risen man with
a racial or sectarian pull. When old coal-
mine warrior Estell, with no visible ascend-
mg capacity himself, except when the politi-
cal machine pushes him up, declared it as a
sort of pious aspiration that the next Chief
Railway Commissioner should be "a working
man,” he put the case in few words; for a
working man, in the official acceptation of
the term, doesn’t signify one who, by his
mentality, has got beyond the manual labor
stage, as all desire to do, but one who, usually
by lack of mentality, hasn’t, and has possibly
been soured in consequence. Many things,
financial and assorted, may be explained by
this preference, not for the officer who has
been a private and thus knows both aspects of
life, but for the full private who, sticking to
his profession, would never he anything else.
Even if honesty was the exclusive preroga-
tive of the incurable private, other qualities
are wanted, and some of them are required
a great deal worse.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Malaria.
During the last few weeks three proved
cast's of malaria have been reported in N. S.
Wales, one from the Riverina, one from New
England and one from.the Western District.
Tne great point about these cases is that
none of them has ever been in a malaria
country, and that all of them have been
living within "mosquito-distance’’ of some-
body who is already suffering from imported
malaria. The train of infection has been
worked out beyond the slightest doubt, the
only unknown factor being the actual species
of mosquito which carried the plasmodium
malaria' —the germ of the disease. The in-
fecting mosquito, no doubt, belongs to the
sub-genus anophilinw, but as there are more
than 30 kinds of anopheline mosquitoes it
is impossible to say ns yet which is the
culprit. One of the patients very nearly
died before the disease was recognised, and
probably some people who have been in
reality suffering from malaria have been
supposed to have influenza or other diseases.
It is, however, beyond a shadow of doubt
that possible centres of infection are widely
scattered over N. S. Wales, and that some
N. S. Wales mosquitoes are capable of carry-
ing the germs from one human being to
another. Undoubtedly the spread of irri-
gation will so increase the number of mos-
quitoes in the midst of the country people
that the risk of infection will become greater
every year unless vigorous action be taken
to arrest the spread of "aboriginal” malaria
-—that is, of malaria not imported—before
it becomes firmly established. There is no
such thing as a healthy or an unhealthy
climate. The only reason why the Bight
of Benin is less healthy than N. S. Wales
is because the conditions in the “white man’s
grave” are more favorable to the growth of
parasites than in this country; and we have
no right to flatter ourselves that Australia
is immune to serious malarial and other
infections simply because we have so far
escaped. The plasmodium of malaria has
been for ages one of the greatest enemies
of mankind —at least as great as the tubercle
bacillus, which has slain so many. It pro-
bably had a great deal to do with the fall
of the Roman Empire; for many years it
was one of the chief agents that opposed the
digging of the Panama Canal: and it is the
principal reason why the inhabitants of tro-
pical countries are generally feeble and
anaemic. The great physical development of
the Australian people is mainly due to the
fact that, though we live in a warm country,
we have never had to beat off the plasmo-
dium in our infancy, like the inhabitants of
the United States and other races on our
parallels of latitude. Unfortunately, we can
no longer count on freedom from attacks
by this great enemy, for there are now pre-
sent in Australia numbers of infected soldiers
and of mosquitoes which are proved to be
capable of carrying the plasmodium from
these men to healthy inhabitants.
Stop the Waste!
A Banker’s argument for instant economy,
publ.e and private :
We have had our time of optimism, during which
everything worked for gigantic inflation. We have
had our riot of paper-money issue, with accompany-
ing rising prices, unhealthy activity of trade, enor-
mous expansion of deposit currency, increased
advances by the hanks on the basis of paper-money
reserves replenished almost ad libitum by the Gov-
ernment. We have seen costs rise almost monthly,
labor exact wages before undreamed of. extravagance
rife, efficiency greatly lowered. Under the pool sys-
tem our wool and wheat and meat and butter have
been paid for (again in credit based upon paper
reserves) at prices never before attained.
Let us now look the facts honestly in the face.
Prior to 1914 the Australian pastoral production was
worth about 50 millions. For 1918 it was worth
£98,000,000, and for 1919 probably more. What
will it be worth next year? He would be a bold
man who wagered it at £50,000,000. Our agricul-
tural and dairy produce used to be worth from
60 to 65 millions: for 1918 they were worth over
£90,000,000. With falling prices for wheat and
butter, and the vagaries of the seasons, who would
estimate them in the future at more than
£65,000,000? Our mineral products were worth
before the war £25,000,000. Except coal, there i?
hardly a mineral mined to-day at a profit in the
Commonwealth. With Broken Hill out of action
and copper unpayable, probably £12,000,000 will be
the value of our mineral output next year.
In 1914 the total Australian production wa-
£209,000,000. In 1918 it was £298,000,000. For
1913-14 the Commonwealth expenditure of loan
money was practically nil; for 1919-20 it
£47,000,000. In the early year the States’ loan
expenditure was £18,000,000; in 1919-20 it was
£29,000,000. During the year 1914 the banks
increased their advances by £6,000,000; during
1920 they increased their advances hv £43,000,0'-"-'.
All these factors enormously increased the spending
power of the community.
In the immediate future we have, for certain,
largj reduction in value of Australian production:


mormons decrease in income available for purchase o
goods and payment of wage*. £2 ,,000,000
, ''ear intotal ’’taxation, in 1920 the total rvas
and
•,s™hri’nk n it\vil'l, W 'vhat kind of times are before us
if we have to pay out of that shrunken income
£f>(>,000,000 and more in taxation;
'We have got to realise that the old conditions are
passed. A new standard has to be established. Ihe
longer we attempt to maintain the old the worse
will be our inevitable punishment.
♦- - -
Jeames Rebuking Yellow plush.
At a Sydney Millions Club dinner a few
davs ago the Governor-General reprobated
class distinction. The sentiments weie
admirable. But coming from such a- source
they were strangely anomalous. I or it it is not
the intention of the imitation ( ourts itn
which the Commonwealth is so protuseiy
supplied to perpetuate and emphasise class
distinction, then there is persistent, bung-
ling somewhere or other. Government House
is the fount from which titles spring
other, of course, than those which are
allotted to Generals for services in the held.
At the end of the late war, after the more
or less legitimate demand for knighthoods
had been satisfied, there still remained a
few for distribution amongst tin 1 minor bui-
warks of Empire. In every case the man
whom the King, through his representative,
delighted to honor was (1) an anti-Labor-
ite, (2) well-to-do, if not rich. There were
eases in which the subject chosen for decora-
tion was known to the general public only
as a stirrer-up of strife between classes am
creeds. Thus Thomas llenley, landlord
and politician, who was a Comforts Fund
colonel, got a K.B.E. Colonel ,\l run ay,
V.C., who was splitting fence-rails when the
war began, proved himself from the begin-
ning to the end of it everything that the
world once expected the perfect knight to
be. He would have irradiated the tarnished
British Empire Order had he been admitted
to it. Of course, he was not. The imitation
Court Circulars which appear in the metro-
politan dailies all over Australia reflect the
same policy or idiocy or whatever it may be
called. Certain people are entertained as
officials —Judges, Race Club committee mem-
bers, Generals, prominent Red Cross workers
and so forth. If they are no more than
high officials they approach the shrine but
rarely, and, as it were, on sufferance. But
there is another class which is singled out
for distinction, whose members stand on a far
surer footing. Their names appear over and
over again—they are at every function. Most
of them have carefully avoided serving the
State in any serious capacity. They are pre-
eminent in wealth alone, and they hold the
political prejudices which, as a rule, accom-
pany great wealth. Government Houses
being what they are, it is no doubt inevitable
that this state of affairs should prevail. It
may even be argued that a system of class
distinction based chiefly on bank accounts is
a good one. But it is more than a shade
over the odds when a Governor who must
habitually practise class distinction as part
and parcel of his job, gets up in public and
reprobates the practice elsewhere in the com-
munity.
The Bridge-Openers.
Mr. Hooley (Minister for Huts and Hovels) left
last evening for Brolga, where he will be present at a
sports meeting and carnival in aid of the funds of
the A.L.P.
Mr. Runnioan (Minister for Deficits) leaves to-
night for Mittavale, where he will open a foot-bridge.
At the ensuing banquet he will expound the policy of
the Government. , , .
Mr. Plunk (Minister for Shreds and Patches) is
expected back from the West to-night. In the course
of his brief tour he opened one calf-show, one puppy-
show and a kitten-show. At a snack tendered him
by the people of Smallville he defended the Govern-
ment’s petty-cash system against the calumnies of its
opponents. He also demanded the liberation of Ire-
land. . , „ , . ,
Mr. Briggs (Minister for Odds and Ends) leaves
almost immediately for Dusthurst to open the new-
back room in the local Home for Improbables. At
the same time he will outline the financial, land,
public works, loan, immigration, child pension, law
reform, road repair, industrial, railway-building,
wild-dog abolition, electoral collateral, banking,
insurance, White Australia, Black Australia and Blue
Australia policy of the Ministry for next session.
It was while all these and most of the other
N. S. Wales Ministers were away, as they
always are, opening the new handrail over
the plank bridge at Dry Ponds, that a break-
down affected the wonderful Housing scheme.
Apparently a number of things which
couldn’t be suppressed any longer broke out
simultaneously. Work practically stopped
because monev stopped, and there was a sud-
den tendency *to sack all hands and the cook.
Then there was a blast and blither of con-
demnation about £625 houses that cost over
£1000; about rotten construction and rotten
materials, and bad drains and gaping walls
and leaky roofs and exorbitant rents (neces-
sitated by exorbitant costs), and about book-
keeping methods which suggest Clarence’s
vision of accountancy at the bottom of the
sea. There was one tale of a family which
had been in its Housing Scheme house for
nearly 12 months, and the State is said to
have so completely lost the run of it that no
rent has been demanded. There was another
of a man who timidly approached the Depart-
ment with the first five months’ rent and
was told that he didn’t exist. There were
stories of occupants who couldn’t even find
out what their houses cost. Yet the Depart-
ment hasn’t built so very many houses that
it should thus lose its way among them, and
the stoppage of building operations, bad as it
was, involved the discharge of barely 200 men.
It is a Ministry with 13 people to do the work
that used to give insufficient occupation for
nine, yet with most of the work undone. It
is so casual that its own lawyer, instructed
by its own Law Department, was obliged to
tell the Court that he didn’t know on what
principle the Attorney-General’s own Profit-
eering Act was based. Under its new Stamp
Act it often takes a fortnight to put a shilling
stamp on a document. The Treasurer begins
to break the news that, despite a good season
and a record revenue, there may be a record
deficit of some £2,000,000, solely because the
Cabinet couldn’t keep track of its spendings
any better than it did of its houses.
Acting-Premier James Dooley, who took the
new portfolio of Housing when the Cabinet
was formed, is the most incurable gadder
into the country to open the new handrail
over the plank-bridge at Dry Ponds. At the
same time he is the grandiloquent creature
who recently announced that when John
Storey gets back they (James and John)
will see about “populating Australia.”
Meanwhile, lacking the time or the capacity
or both, he failed to make a reasonable suc-
cess of his own job at populating a few
humpies at Matraville. Considering the early
training of a really up-to-date Labor politi-
cian, nothing more was to be expected. A
restless, youngish man of moderate educa-
tion finds early that he isn't likely to be a
big lawyer, journalist, business man or what
not —that lie is one who “also ran.” Having
lots of time on his hands, which the success-
ful man never has, and possibly being soured
by the idea that his ill-success is. due .to
humanity being in a conspiracy against him,
he takes as a side-line to the only kind of
politics that promise anything to the warned
and dissatisfied. Then he goes through an
apprenticeship in a sort of dream-world
where paper money grows on trees, and de-
struction is better than construction, and suc-
cess except with the jaw is a crime, and
production is a sin, and work is an evil,
and patriotism is an invention of the Devil
and is replaced by “class consciousness.
Finally, if he has luck, he gets a Ministerial
portfolio in a real world that he doesn’t at
all understand. But the habit of irrespon-
sible oratory sticks to him so that he would
travel a hundred miles to expound his
“policy” to an infant school.
Contempt of Parliament.
The Tories responsible for those State Con-
stitutions which provide for an elective
Upper House probably built a good deal bet-
ter than they knew. The provision whereby
the.se elective Councils may sneak before the
electors a. few members at a time, thus dodg-
ing the dangerous publicity of a general elec-
tion, is surely the most effective means ever
invented for paralysing the arm of democracy.
Heaven knows the party system produces
unhappy results, but the party system at its
worst could never so chloroform the elector
into political insensibility. Take Tasmania, for
instance. Its Leg. Councillors are elected
for six years and retire three at a time every
three years. Thus, no matter what outrages
the Council commits as, a body, the electors
have to wait IS years before they can get a
kick at the whole of the IS miserable sinners.
By that time the sufferers are too old to
kick, even if they remembered the original
offence. And the offenders are too old to
be worth kicking, and probably too dead.
In any case, the wrong-doers are enabled to
dodge the first essential to the successful sup-
pression of criminality, prompt punishment,
a condition of affairs which encourages arro-
gance and audacity among elected servants
and utterly demoralises the electors by trien-
nially reminding them of their everlasting
impotence. The electors are so severely handi-
capped by this demoralisation that they are
showing, in all four States that operate an
asinine bi-cameral system, reinforced by a
vicious instalment-plan of election, an ever-
increasing facility for forgetting to go to the
polling-booths on election days. In Tas-
mania the other week, though no fewer than 11
candidates were scrambling for the three
available seats, nearly two-thirds of the
property-qualified voters stayed away from
the polling centres, declining to exercise their
votes, either personally or through the post-
office. Even at Hobart, though both parties
in politics were represented among the four
candidates, and the roll contained 983 more
names than at any previous election (6783
as against 5800), only 3123 electors took
the trouble to vote. That is, though the rise
in rents had enabled nearly 1000 more citi-
zens to qualify for the Council vote than at
the previous election, actually fewer votes
were cast on the present occasion. At Cam-
bridge, three candidates running, but no Labor
nominee, of 1557 voters on the roll only 542
voted. At Russell, four candidates in the
field, only 625 votes were recorded on a "oil
of 310 G. The weather was fine, the candi-
dates were eager, motor-cars were plentiful,
yet 7000 of the 11,000 enrolled electors
ignored polling-day. If this does not amount
to a declaration by property-votes that they
hold their special legislative chamber in en-
thusiastic contempt, somebody else can find a
name for it. The question that ought to
concern every Australian is whether Upper
Chambers that achieve, and doubtless merit,
such contempt, ought not to be decently
buried, without flowers or loss of time.
Capital Punishment and Amateur
Judges.
During the Senate debate on Sec. 44 of
the Defence Bill, Senator Gardiner moved
an amendment which, if carried, would have
banished the death penalty from the mea-
sure. The Minister for Defence, after
explaining to the House that capital pun-
ishment can only be inflicted at present for
a mere half-dozen offences or so, advanced
this remarkably disingenuous argument:—
If murder were to be punished by the civil law
with the death-sentence there should not be a lesser
penalty for the citizen who became a soldier.
The implication here is that front-line courts-
martial are as competent as courts presided
over by civilians who have devoted their
lives to weighing evidence and who, as
judges, are prouder to possess what is called
the “judicial mind” than any other quality.
A court-martial in the field is a notoriously
slap-dash affair, held sometimes under shell-
fire —a condition which does not make for
calm and ordered judgment. A typical court
in the A.I.F. would be constituted as fol-
low's : President, Lt.-Col. Brown (civil occu-
pation, clerk) : members: Major Smith
(newsagent) ; Captain Jones (pastoralist) ;
legal officer, Captain Robinson (solicitor).
Not one of the members would have the
assurance to preside for a day over a metro-
politan police-court with reporters present,
knowing that if he did his inevitable mis-
takes would be pilloried. But no newspapers
are represented at a field general court-
martial, and, though it is theoretically open
to the public, it is not so in practice. War-
ring armies do not allow their soldiers to
pass luxurious days listening to court-mar-
tial trials. In short, there is every reason
why a court-martial in the field should be
inept and irresponsible; and that, of course,
is what most of them were in the late war.
Now, few citizens will be found to say that
a soldier who murders his comrade should
be let down more lightly than a civilian who
murders his mate. But still fewer will
agree that a man, because he volunteers to
fight for his country, should have a brand
of justice meted out to him which is inferior
to that enjoyed by the civilian who stays
at home. It is not the penalties under the
Defence Bill that are so much in question,
though many of them will probably be re-
garded as stupidly barbarous by another
generation. The objection is to the system
under which those penalties are imposed.
Once convince the soldier that his army
judges are as skilled as his army surgeons,
that his name and liberty are taken as seri-
ously by H.Q. as his life and limb, and there
will be little wrangling as to whether or no
he should suffer death for murder.
*-
Black Haters and Red Flaggers.
The red banner which is the cause of some
fuss in Australia these days is the flag of no
nation carried, by men of no nation. The
men profess to be cosmopolitans, which they
are in the sense that no country wants them
though some may tolerate them, and that
every country is equally willing to lose them.
In a general way if they have any national
feeling it is for some foreign land. Thus in
Australia s«me of them go into hysterics
about Ireland, and some are wild with
admiration about Russia, and Tom Walsh
of the Seamen’s Union has a regard for
Chinamen and would gladly admit thousands
of them to his organisation and consequently
into Australia. They answer pretty nearly
to the '‘copperhead” of the U.S. Civil War
time. In an accommodating spirit they are
against anything, and, like the snake, they
bite the just and the unjust. The Federal
Government of Australia belongs to the. people
equally and absolutely, and there is in th.s
country neither established church, heredi-
tary nobility, nor nobility of any kind since
John Forrest died: there are no entailed
estates, no railway kings, no feudal castles,
no millionaires worth speaking of, no property
qualification for electors or members or Min-
isters, and the big properties and the big
flocks and herds are being rapidly subdivided
under the pressure of the Federal graduated
tax. Yet the Rod wild-beast froths at the
Australian Government just as violently as he
did at the Czarist tyranny of Russia in its
worst days. In fact, he froths more violently
because it is safer to froth in this easy-going
land than in most places. It isn’t really cer-
tain that he ever approved of any Government
except perhaps the fool fury which held Paris
for a couple of months in 1871, and burned a
quarter of the city, and conscripted the whole
male population ; also the present desolation
in Russia. In a material way he rarely does
anything; and as rarely does he do anything
for art or science. He is just a black, bleak
hater, with no belief in any next world and
not much in this one. He is often so busy
hating that he forgets to promise any mun-
dane paradise to follow when his passion is
expended and his rage is consummated. The
community is urged to destroy and lose all
the institutions it has, and as often as not
the Flagger, in his tumble of words, omits
to mention any specially blessed reward
which will ensue after the loss. The com-
plete snake is so anxious to bite that he
neglects to explain to his proposed victim
what he will gain by being bitten. He
imagines that being bitten is its own reward.
The Commonwealth’s Timber Deals.
Twelve months ago the War Service Homes
Commission negotiated the purchase of
timber properties and rights in Queensland,
the Brett interests to get £225,000 (plus
£20,000 for pine “tops”) and the Laiiey
interests £245,000. The Federal Government
bought right at the top of the market, but
even at that the deal was an excellent one
for the Commonwealth. It would have pro-
vided timber for all the soldiers’ homes in
Australia at from 30 to 35 p.e. below
the current rates, and, in addition, the Com-
mission could have gone on to the market as
a seller under most favorable conditions. The
properties were finally acquired in June, 1020,
but since then practically nothing has been
done on them. Herein is a tragic waste of
Australia’s money. While the Laiiey pro-
perties are all freehold, the Brett properties
consist partly of freeholds and partly of
timber rights which are fast expiring—and
the bulk of the timber is on these dying
rights. Five valuable sawmills and plant
have been idle for several months, and the
machinery is rapidly depreciating for want of
use. Several of the properties require much
development, being situated in rough country,
and this work, which will call for months of
labor and thousands of pounds before the
timber can be worked, should have been
started long ago. The freehold properties can
be left —they won’t depreciate—but the ex-
piry of the timber rights is a serious matter.
Several will peter out within the next three
years, and the timber simply cannot be re-
moved from these in the time left. Mean-
while the owners of the land to whom the
trees will revert at the expiry of the rights,
are congratulating themselves upon the
amount that will be left them, and are quite
unlikely to grant any extension of time. Haif-
a-million pounds of Australia’s money is in-
vested ; the interest bill is accumulating, for
the vendors are receiving 0 p.c. on 'the unpaid
balance of the purchase money, and the in-
vestment is yielding nothing. The deal can
be made profitable; but that it will result in
a loss is, on present appearances, a dead
certainty.
♦
Giving the Anarchists a Lead.
“Uphold the Union Jack at all costs. Meet armed
guard with armed guard. Arm yourselves, and vic-
tory is yours.”— lialpoorlie ( W.A.) message to W.
Marks, .V.P., published by S. M. Herald.
It was deplorable, of course, that a Union
Jack should have been burned in the Sydney
Domain, and the people and papers that trade
on loyalty eagerly grasped the occurrence to
stir up inter-class and inter-racial venom.
Ninety-one per cent, of those who demon-
strated against the burning of the flag
ail sincerity. Crowds always are sincere. The
odd couple of hundred thought, with the press,
that there was party capital to be made
out of the uproar. What most of them over-
looked was that illegal force and illegal
threats provoke reprisals and win friends
for the people at whom such illegalities are
aimed. The papers which were morally re-
sponsible alike for the recent assault on
Corporal Murphy and Digger Dunn (an
assault which lauded the latter in hospital),
and for Assistant-Minister for Defence
Ryrie’s provocative boast that “No red
flag should pass him,” published this item
on Saturday:—
A proposal is afoot for the formation of a Labor
army throughout Australia, which will be organised
to prevent any future attack on Labor or Communis-
tic speaking platforms in any city in the Common-
wealth. Whether or not this is to be an armed body
the leaders refuse to say.
In other words, anarchy is to be met by
anarchy. The situation is congenial, no
doubt, to .Judd and the rest of the Inter-
nationalist brethren whose cause has been
one of the jokes of the Australian political
world for years; and also, possibly, to
people like General Rosenthal, who are
employed to further the interests of an
Empire League. Advertisement is here the
essence of the contract. But so far as
the remainder of the community are con-
cerned the position is that, during a
burglary-wave, hundreds of policemen must
be demobilised on the very days most people
leave their houses unguarded (450 police
had to be detailed for park duty last Sunday
and 250 the Sunday before) ; that public
affrays on the lines of those waged between
the Guelphs and the Ghibbelines in the
Middle Ages seem likely; and that the flag
which keens this country a nation is liable
to be pitted against the red rag of Bol-
shevism. That is what loyalisrn for party
profit has achieved so far. It is time those
responsible who are not anxious to further
the cause of bloodshed • got back their bal-
ance and stopped playing the revolutionary
game.
Leading the Double Life.
Dxtring the past few years public finance
has settled down to a comfortable amble
which is very pleasant, and is likely to con-
tinue so till the other fellow stops ambling
and becomes, not to put too fine a point on
it, a jibber. Treasurers try to borrow enough
gold money each year in London to pay their
gold liabilities in the same gay metropolis
( said gold liabilities being mostly interest on
the foreign part of our debt), and if possible
they cadge something over. It is explained
to the men in London that the loans are to
be invested in that great, permanent, im-
perishable, national, developmental and repro-
ductive work, the railway from Sunken
Mountain to Hollow Peak via Flat Valley
and Humpy Hole, and in a string of other
progressive enterprises and remunerative
undertakings. They have to be told that
the money will be invested in something with
a name to it, and not merely in meat and
drink and a staving-off of the day of reckoning.
The borrowed sovereigns stay in London, of
course, for no one ever thinks of importing
that kind of money here. At one time the
loans to some extent came out after a fashion
—that is to say, they came in the form of
material for public works, such as rails,
locomotives, etc. Now Australia makes a
good deal of these goods itself, so it may
almost be said that nothing comes out except
the receipt for the interest. If the London
subscriber marked the sovereign he put into
the new loan to build the developing and pro-
mising and non-performing and epoch-making
line to Boggy Crags, he might easily find it
come back to him next day as interest on his
previous investment in the loan to build the
line from Burning Hills to Boiling Downs.
When the line is built it is built with local
paper money, which is always here because,
as it is no use anywhere else, we can’t get
rid of it. If the line pays it pays in local
paper money, which is no more use to cover
interest on the foreign debt which the line
nominally represents than no money at all.
In the war-time Australia became a paper
country, and gold vanished out of use. Then
the real connection between the heap of
sovereigns borrowed in London to build the
line to Boiling Downs and the line itself,
built with paper and productive of paper,
vanished also. The line must be built to
justify and explain the loan that was raised
ito pay interest with, but that doesn’t amount
to a relationship. Theoretically, of course,
railways with gold mortgages on them are
supposed to do more than produce receipts in
paper for fares and freights. They are sup-
posed to lead to a greatly increased produc-
tion of things that can be sent abroad and
sold for hard cash —mostly wheat, flour, meat
and wool (the last in an ordinary year stands
for one-third of Australia’s whole foreign
sales). But they don’t to any notable ex-
tent. They are also supposed to lead to the
increased production of things which will
enable us to do with few r er imports, and thus
have less to pay for. But again they don’t.
Statistician Knibbs made up his railway
figures to .Tune 1019, and 1019 was a fair
year with a OJ-bushel harvest. The amount
of publicly-owned railway w r as over five times
that of 1881, but the wheat crop increased
less than fourfold in the interval and the
w'ool crop didn’t quite double. Cattle in-
creased by only one-half. In fact, each new
mile of line seems to produce less of the
goods which can be sold for sovereigns than
the previous one. Plenty of other countries
have gold debts abroad and nfbstly paper
assets at home, but few have so much paper
in proportion to population at home, and
none owes so much gold per head abroad and
is increasing the debt so fast. When Aus-
tralia’s valuable and useful but fading
reputation as a mine of yellow ore fades a
little more, some awkward questions may be
asked about this double financial life.
The Philosophy of Flogging.
On the state of Private Murphy’s back:—
Nobody has really anything to be surprised about
or annoyed about or violent about in the necessarily
anonymous proclamation with which Queen’s County
(Ireland) has been plastered denouncing the recruit-
ing methods of the Republican Army. Already lead-


H e Farmers & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
i Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
ing Irishmen in Australia: well outside the ’firing-line
—the sensitive kind of folk who see an insult in
every bush and a fresh wrong up every tree—-
denounce it feverishly as an absurd lie and the base
- invention of the enemy. The contention is bathetic
• and no humorous race would trouble about it. Similar
protests and worse ones have been circulated in every
long-continued war, and especially every • long
continued war of rebellion, unless it happened that
the populace couldn't read or write. Also they have
been justified. This is the gist of the complaint, as
published:—
“We understand why the leaders, safely hidden in
tile bedrooms of their female admirers in Dublin,
handling vast sums of Republican money, should
desire the prolongation of this unequal struggle....
Not for these pampered rebels the hunted existence
of brave men, hourly dodging death in the hills and
bogs of Ireland. Many of our best commandants
have fallen ; others are pining in English gaols. The
commander-in-chief in his lady’s apartment in Dub-
lin gaily sends them to their doom. Volunteers
who dare speak their minds are seized by a specially-
paid murder gang and executed as spies and traitors.
Terror rules the Republican Army to-day. Boys are
driven by bullets and the lash to face well-trained
English soldiers. if Irish mothers realised the
brutal floggings and executions whereby these
wretched youths are held in discipline”....
Looking back in history flogging seems to have
arrived as a matter of course. That kind of punish-
ment became common with armies in the field because
it wasn’t possible to hang every offender against
discipline, while to send him to the rear, which
might be 100 or 1000 miles off, there to serve a
year or five years in gaol, meant losing him, losing
two or three men to take him to the rear, and pos-
sibly one man to watch him serve his sentence when
lie got there. And though a rebel army like that of
General Lee had a distinct front and a well-defined
rear, such a force as that of Du Valera, which comes
and goes and is here to-day and gone next minute,
has no rear. It can’t carry a six-storey “jug” round
with it on wheels. “Active service” is liable to
all the crimes of peace except perhaps concealment
of birth, and to many others besides. It is a hurried
business which can’t even wait for the coming round
of the assizes. So if an army, especially an irregular
one, doesn’t expect to be flogged, what does it
expect?
Deadly offences .in war-time include desertion,
slackness, cowardice, disobedience of orders, disaffec-
tion and communicating with the enemy. When a
Government by a stroke of its pen enrolls the whole
male population, as Saxon kings like Alfred and
Harold used to do and as .Teff Davis and Pai l
Kruger and Dz Valera did, then everybody becomes
floggable if he shows signs of lack of earnestness
and demonstrates Ihe possession of cold feet. And
as half-insurrections are no good, the population
must be enrolled. As for communication with the
enemy, it is hard enough to prevent when the com-
municant has to go out in uniform, and cross No-
Man’s Land, and then talk to and allay the sus-
picions of a man in a different uniform talking a
different language. When friends and enemies dress
alike, talk alike, look alike, and eat and drink alike
it is no wonder that the idea of communication with
the enemy becomes an obsession.
The person described as a “moderate Sinn Feiner”
has been a frequent corpse of late. He might have
been a conscript at heart from the first, or he might
simply have been an earnest person who had grown
tired of Sinning and didn’t want to Fein any longer.
A Government with no defensible frontier is scared
of such persons. The Irish rulers call them “spies
and informers.” The Bolsheviks call them “counter
The Church used to call them
“heretics” or “relapsed heretics.” Maoriland law
put them in gaol as “shirkers” or “pacifists,” and
some of them are supposed to be there yet.
One of the most violently ill-treated armies that
Britain ever put in the field was that of Wellington
in the Peninsula, though it didn't compare with that
of Frederick the Great, which lived more on cane
than on anything else. And Wellington’s army
had these inducements to keep it instantly to its job:
(1) It was paid.
(2) It was flogged and sometimes executed.
(3) It got a certain amount of plunder.
(4) It served a recognised Government, so con-
tinuing to fight wasn’t a passport to the gallows,
while not continuing certainly would be.
(5) The war wasn’t making a wreck of its home
but of somebody else’s.
(C) It had a chance to get home again if it
stuck to the colors, while it had none if it left them,
not being able to swim the distance.
(7) It had presumably some instinct of patriot-
ism, or of esprit de corps, which was as good.
Barring No. -2 and No. 7 the Irish Republican
Army has none of these inducements. Even the
Boers enjoyed No. 4, for they were fighting to pre-
serve a form of government which they knew and
loved, while the Irish are struggling for a species of
administration which is quite new to them and they
don’t know how it will turn out. They are battling
for a speculation; the Boers battled for a great
reality. Yet the Boers early divided into the
“handsuppers” and the “bitterenders.” Every crowd
does, in such conditions. The Boer “handsuppers”
may not have dropped into such language as the
proclamation-mongers of Queen’s County; but, then,
the Boer lacks the gift of expression.
Heroic sacrifice for an ideal which has no money
in it is a fleeting emotion with most people. That
is why Crusaders and Covenanters both grew cold.
If the Irish leaders, having no Newgate on wheels to
put shirking conscripts into, has only begun to flog
them now, they have been a long time about it.
Frederick the Great and Wellington started much
earlier. Only frantic, unreasonable, theoretical
patriots far from the fighting line would deny that
such things happen. They always happen, and they
are too ordinary to be worth complaining about.
And if the commander-in-ehief does hang out some-
times in Dublin with one eye on the enemy, one on
the munition factories and a third taking a general
survey of the field, it is hard to see why one set of
Irishmen should call it an' act of cowardice, and
another say the charge is a vile insult and an obvious
invention. A good general-in-chief is the product of
long training and careful selection and. isn’t to be
wasted skirmishing on the morning hills with a cor-
poral's guard of men. Possibly the Irish are a hard
crowd to serve, like “advanced” Laborites in Aus-
tralia. But if a silken insurrection is wanted it
had better be sought for in the fluff merchant's
ribbon department.
♦
How beautiful, also how handy, are phrases!
Thus N.S.W. Attorney-General McTiernan :
When an important service was controlled by the
Government there could not, from the very nature of
the case, be any suspicion of profiteering. It was
not in the interests of the State.
So, apparently, every Government has a
single fixed, pure, un&llish, unblemished eye on
“the interests of the State,” though from the
way the present N. S. Wales or Queensland
Cabinet talks of its predecessors one would
hardly think so. Still one reads of many rail-
ways where the employees get all the tak-
ings and a big subsidy out of the taxes to
boot: of unskilled laborers getting £75 a
month for not much labor at a Government
dock; and of a W.A. State meatworks con-
structed by a Labor Government which had
to close because it cost as much to kill a
bullock as the bull ook was worth. The men
THE SHADOW AND THE SUBSTANCE.
“Most of the metalliferous mines in Australia have shut down owing to reduced prices for metals
and increased cost of production.”
MINER: “Metals are to blazes, the mines have shut down, and we're all out of work —
it's rotten!"
ORGANISER: “But look at the bright side, comrades —your wages are higher than ever
they were!"
who collected these moneys might not be
called profiteers, but seeing that they charged
more than the old profiteers did, it would be
little consolation to the State even if they
were called Unitarians. Under the old Pri-
vate Enterprise iniquity the profits went to
the comparatively small class of people who
paid for the works, and they w T ere some-
times encouraged to provide more works-
Under the newest brand of democracy the
profits go to the comparatively small class
who work on the works, and they provide
good billets for McTiernan and his friends.
The recent ballot at Mount Morgan on the
question whether the men should return to
work on a 20 p.c. reduction, as proposed by
the co„ had several features of interest. It
was well known tnat the A.W.U. heads in Bris-
bane were strongly biassed against any such
acceptance, as they foresaw a long series of
similar disputes throughout Australia in the
next 12 months, and regarded any such com-
promise as a great “letting in of waters”—
waters which might swamp some good
union billets. Accordingly several union re-
presentatives were despatched to Mount
Morgan to counteract the effect of the very
sensible appeal made by Justice McCawley.
These officials, who, of course, are drawing
their salaries all the time the Mount Morgan
toilers are tightening their belts, earnestly
exhorted the men to vote “No” and not be-
tray “the sacred principles of unionism.”
Advice couldn't be much worse. The shut-
ting down of Cobar, Broken Hill, Y\ allaroo,
Lyell, Morgan, etc., is going to flood the
coal-mining districts presently: and in the
few other places where work is carried on
there are going to be two men looking for one
man's job. And then wages will topple.
The union boss who cloesn't know enough to
struggle in these time's to keep his members
at work and off the labor market is either a
fool or a traitor.
*
From a N. 8. Wales sawmiller'- —
In the preparation of the Tariff schedule it is to
be hoped that proper consideration will be given to
the interests of the small country sawmiller, and the
many employees and families dependent upon his
business. Before the war the timbers of N. S. Wales
were regarded as of secondary importance for build-
ing purposes, and there were many failures of saw-
milling ventures. In other States, notably Victoria
and Tasmania, the same conditions applied. During
the war imports of foreign timbers (notably
oregon pine, the chief competitor of N. S. Wales
hardwood) dwindled, and (he local article came into
its own. But owing to the introduction of
(1) payment by the week instead of the
hour, (2) itie 44-hour week, and (3) the basic wage,
together with the enormously-increased prices of all
machinery, saws, etc., the cost of production has
advanced to such an extent that it is doubtful if the
competition can be maintained. Oregon pine has been
steadily falling in price. A recent cable quotation
offers delivery of 10,000,000 super feet spread over
12 months at 355. per 1000,. which at current rate
of exchange means about 17s. 9d. per 100 super c.i.f.
The present tariff duty, wharfage, lighterage and all
landing and handling charges would bring this to
about 245. per 100 in yard Sydney, ready for sale.
"With high-priced logs, high wages, short hours and
generally increased costs, how can the country saw-
miller, relying on the Sydney market for disposal of
his output, expect to live? It would be different
were there a Protective duty of, say, 12s. to 15s. per
100. To adequate Protection the dreary alternative
is widespread closing down and unemployment. Mil-
lions of feet of Oregon are now lying in stack on the
Pacific Coast, and beyond doubt the dumping process
has begun. Where is Australia’s anti-dumping law ?
From the indomitable woman whom the
Diggers knew as Ettif. Rout:—
Information recently published by the National
Birthrate Commission and given in the House of Com-
mons makes it possible to state the comparative
rates of v.d. infection among British and Overseas
Forces on active service abroad under approximately
equal conditions. In the years 1915-16-17, self-
disinfection was not applied extensively, a nd tl-
annual admission rate at times ran up to over 20 ,
per 1000 p.a. anions;, the Australian, MX. and Cana-
dian Forces. In 1918 self-disinfection became if
rule, and the approximate rates were as follow:
Admission
Rate p.a.
Year, per 1000
M.L.E.F. in France . . .. 1918 60
M.L.E.F. in U.K. .. .. 1918 90
A.I.F. in France .. .. 1918 62 5
A.I.F. in U.K 1918 147';,
Canadians, in U.K 1918 81 6
Americans on Rnine. . .. 1920 112
British on Rhine . . . . 1920 10k
The same relative results were obtained in Paris
among leave-men: in other words, the Maorilanders
were the troops least infected with v.d.; the Aus-
tralians came next; then the Canadians; the British
last. The figures were in proportion to the efficiency
with which self-disinfection was practised. From
00 to 80 per cent, of the “Colonial” infections were
contracted in the U.K.
♦
A thick haze of uncertainty hangs over that
£6,500,000 loan which John Storey is said
to have negotiated in England. And no won-
der. Britain is in the middle of a strike
such as it hasn't seen since Pope Innocent
111. stopped business in 1208. With
15,000,000 people (5,000,000 workers and
10,000,000 dependants, or about one-third of
the population) on the hunger list when
John Storey left, and a chance that affairs
might grow worse, it is pretty certain that
John Bull wasn’t handing out definite pro-
mises to his extravagant and well-fed son.
The Old Man has £032,000,000 of his
own short-dated war loans falling due and
wants to convert them into longer-dated debt,
and he isn’t giving away much money till
he is sure about that bit of business. On
top of all he contrived last year to scrape
up £259,500,000 out of revenue to reduce his
own foreign debts and it left him pretty hare.
The Old Man also owes unite a lot to Canada
for iron and steel and other manufactures,
vessels of -various kinds, printing paper,
timber and food of many sorts supplied dur-
ing the war. It was a mad time in Aus-
tralia when the crowd now in possession was
lighting for control of the Labor machine,
and there were strikes and go-slows and con-
ferences at which frothing creatures talked
revolution, repudiation and unlimited paper
money. It was a hard, sordid time in Canada,
for th(‘ dollar-hunter was seizing the oppor-
tunity with both hands. Now the dollar-hunter
is collecting from the Old Man in London,
while Australia had to beguile him the other
day into taking a p.n. for another £92,000,01)1)
to square up many odds and ends that it
owed him. Australia can’t show that it
gained anything by tolerating the noisy
cranks of the Perth Conference days, but
every inhabitant of the Commonwealth owes
at least £2O more by reason of the stagna-
tion which they brought about. Taking one
thing with another, then, chiefly John
Bull’s troubles and Australia’s faded
reputation, no wonder a mist hangs over
Storey’s wonderful loan.
“Spare Corporal” : The full tables of the
enlistments and casualties among the British
and Dominion forces, which puts the enlist-
ments at 9-1 millions and the casualties at
3.266,362, show the proud place the men of
the A.I.F. had as shock troops. Such
troops naturally had the biggest percentage
of casualties. Actually, though there were
413,453 enlistments in Australia, only
320,000 men went overseas; but even taking
the first figure the proportion of men who
found a grave on active service was 14.3
p.c., while the wounded amounted to 36.8
p.e. The other forces showed the following
proportions to total strength :
Killed. Casualties.
British .. .. 12 p.c. 27.1 p.c.
Canadian . . . . 8.3 ~ 21.9 ~
Maoriland . . . . 7.1 ~ 18.0 „
Other Dominions —
(S’Africa, Newfound-
land, etc.) ' .. 3.13„ 5.3
India . . . . 3.6 ~ 4.0 ~
The heavy British casualties were mainly
piled up by their shock troops, with some
of whom the Diggers were proud of being
compared, and M.L. escaped some casualties
owing to the weakness of her forces keeping
them out of a number of big happenings
after they had been shattered by early losses:
but the Indians, brave enough under some
conditions, were a failure in the circum-
stances of modern warfare. As the casual-
ties represent the heaviness of the fighting
encountered, a comparison between the losses
of prisoners and the total loss in killed and
wounded is a fair one. On this basis M.L.’s
record is the best, as its percentage of pri-
soners to casualties was only .9; Canada’s
was 1.8 and Australia’s 1.9. “Other
Dominions” lost 6.1 per cent, prisoners.
British force 7.2, and India 8.4. Probably
there has never been a prolonged war in
which combatants lost such a slight per
ventage of nrisoners as M.L., Canada and
Australia did in this one. It is a proud
record, which speaks not only of the success
of the enterprises of their forces, but of the
will among the members to fight to the death.


sr
X)
Centre
/-liv's Life and r~i
6^
£
©
fa
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
7 mr
&
Pa
71
l \y*?ustralia"
Wfnter Garden
POLITICAL
POINTS
Just on 40 items of the Tariff were rushed
through committee in the Reps, last Friday,
and the Government is so hopeful of a swift
passage for the schedule that it is talking of
going into recess in about six weeks and
staying there until Hughes returns. This
optimism, how-ever, is a hit too early. There
are patches of the Tariff that will produce
violent argument, and, as under the Standing
Orders members can talk on any item as
often and as long as they like, the prospect
of another holiday is more remote than the
Government thinks.
The Federal Government finds some Labor-
ites lining up with the Country party in
opposition to the Tariff. At present the
most vociferous opponent on the Tudor side
is the raucous member for the Barrier. Con-
sidine takes up the absurd stand that Pro-
tection only gives the manufacturer further
power to “exploit” the workers, though he
doesn't mention that Freetrade will leave his
own crowd the victim of “exploited” toilers
abroad. Another man who promises to lean
away from Protection is Frank Brennan,
M.H.R. for Batman. This theatrical young
man represents probably the biggest indus-
trial constituency in Australia, but there is
no boost for Protection in any of his fiscal
utterances to date. Rather he talks con-
temptuously about “setting up factories for
pickling goat-skins, manufacturing knitting-
needles or producing tacks.” That is as far
as Brennan will go, and it is the sort of
flippancy that a good Protectionist electorate
ought to remember him for at the next elec-
tions.
It must stir Joe Cook to his old I ree-
trade soul to hear his young colleague Massy
Greene discoursing without temper on the
local manufacturer and discovering in him
virtues long considered the monopoly of the
importer. Greene’s heresy, lucidly expounded
in unexpected saws and crushing instances,
is like a shower of boiling oil to the Gumleaf
corner. The other night, when the Minister
for Customs made a notable speech, the
Cookies writhed and sneered with all the
fury of the foreign trader who laps up Cobden
with every meal. Prowse, for instance,
sputtered interjections with a pathetic faith
in his own case that brought ribald smiles all
round the House. Young Stewart was
equally spirited in reproof of the Minister,
who answered his artless remarks with the
air of an old pedagogue correcting a
bumptious pupil.
One of Germany’s the trade
struggle which is raging all over the world
is that its armies lost the war. When a
nation or an empire wins a war its workers
who did the fighting expect the spoils of
victory, and if there are any at all they
are bound to be enormously over-rated. At
present the British miners threaten to ruin
themselves and their country because they
can’t forget the promises with which they
were buoyed up in the nation’s time of trial.
The rulers of Germany, on the other hand,
are in a position to tell their workers that
they lost the war, and are now' required to
pnv. It used to be thought that the next
worst thing to a military defeat was a mili-
tary victory. In this commercial age, and
from the commercial point of view, the only
thing worse than a defeat looks like a vic-
tory—so long as you don’t allow yourself
to be defeated too badly.
The German Reichstag has agreed to pay
the indemnity, the vote being 221 to 175.
That is to say, Herr von Dodge, with a
bayonet at his stomach and a cannon at
each ear and a bomb suspended by a hair
over his head, decided by that small majority
to promise to pay. And now the work of
collecting from Herr von Dodge will really
commence.
Ex-Senator Staniforth Smith, who is
rather proud of his record as Administrator
at Darwin, lately addressed a meeting of
Federal members on the subject. He assured
them that political trouble will end if the
Territory is allowed a member in the House
of Reps., even if, like the Territorial mem-
bers in the U.S. Congress, he is only a
speaker to explain the needs of the country
and not a voter. It certainly isn’t much to
ask. Smith, however, didn’t hint that the
arrangement would do any good to the indus-
trial trouble —the eternal strike and hold-up
and go-slow-—w’hich is 99J per cent, of the
matter. Parliamentary representation doesn’t
pacify the Newcastle or Broken Hill miners
or Tom Walsh’s seamen, and it seems only to
madden Garden and Mannix and Judd.
”SAY WHEN, MAN! ”
Theodore’s Unfair Rents Court is hard at
work raising the rents of Queensland pas-
toralists without the least regard for the
terms of their leases. Meanwhile the slump
is striking the pastoral biz like a falling
tower, and many of the increases may never
be collected, though every time the Govem-
ment goes on the loan market it will be re-
minded that its signature is of no value and
its promise of no account, and will either
have to pay extra or get no money. A sort
of Blanky Assize is being held at one west-
ern town after another, and it was probably
of these that Archbishop Duhig was think-
ing when he said that what Queensland re-
quires is stability. Heavy taxation doesn’t
necessarily kill industry, but a capricious
pasha who drops in with his exactions at any
hour of the day, and whose signature on the
receipt is no proof that he won’t call again,
can reduce a rich district to poverty and
still make not much more than a living wage
himself.
AN UNSUCCESS-
FUL WOOING.
MISS PROGRESSIVE :
“I'm sorry, but I
can only be a sister
to you.”
The Darwinian who refused to pay taxes
in the Territory on the ground that “there
can be no taxation without representation”
was duly bumped out last week. Even
though the inhabitants of the distracted
place ought to have some sort of representa-
tion, the Court was right. The principle
at issue can be overdone. Darwin's inhabi-
tants, for one thing, have taken full advant-
age of the Covernment institutions —public-
houses and so forth. Further, some thou-
sands of Australians in Bendigo are not re-
presented by W. M. Hughes; yet if a local
Laborite tried to get out of paying his
Federal income-tax on such a score he would
be treated with derision.
If the Vic. Government, following the
example of the Harwell (S.A.) Cabinet,
adopts the proposal for the amalgamation of
the Commonwealth and State Assembly rolls,
it will also have to accept compulsory enrol-
ment. Ted Cotter, Labor member for Rich-
mond, has been trying for two or three
sessions to have a bill put through the
Assembly to make voting compulsory, but it
has never been reached in time to get a fair
run. He is going to have another try next
session and will cite as a shocking example
the 31 per cent, poll in Melbourne Province
on May 5 for the Leg. Council. But if voting
is made compulsory it ought, at least to be
provided that any pre-election is illegal.
That will give a person a reasonable chance
of exercising his own honest vote instead of
what really amounts to somebody else’s.
The N.S.W. Treasurer, seeing a storm in
the offing, has announced that the Sydney
district (County of Cumberland) road-
repairing loan, or loan for the relief of local
rates, won’t be charged to the whole State.
Special legislation is to he passed making
the people of Cumberland responsible. Now
we might perhaps be given some particulars
of the legislation under which it is proposed
that interest and sinking fund shall be col-
lected from the County of Cumberland. And
meanwhile note might be taken oi the fact
that the Government tacitly admits that the
vast State is in need of subdivision. When
the Parliament of a whole State passes laws
which are to apply to only a quarter of the
State, it begins to look as though that
quarter isn’t really self-governing, after all.
In a dull time one can get humor from
one’s recollections of all the talk we used
to have from Hughes and Pearce and poli-
ticians in general about the iniquity of
trusts, combines and monopolies. Commer-
cial tyranny by capitalists who know their
business was a curse to the community; but
it now seems that commercial tyranny by
politicians who don't know the business is
a blessing. The old railers against mon-
opoly are going mad with the lust of gov-
ernment. We have wool control, butter con-
trol, wheat and meat control, and in I ic-
toria there is a most suspicious-looking coal
control. The only control the bounding auto-
crats will never be capable of is self-control.
“II.H.”: Mrs. Farr was in asylums in
Maoriland, and was apparently discharged
(in some formal or informal way) as sane
so that she could travel to Sydney with a
companion. Immediately on arrival in a
strange land she became officially off her
head, and has been officially so ever since.
Presumably, the doctors who examined her
knew that she was a recent arrival, and
allegedly a deranged person of some stand-
ing. Yet apparently no one regarded the
importation as out of the way. Is it so
easy, then, to unload mentally-deranged per-
sons upon Australia? The matter is cer-
tainly one that needs looking into.
The birth-rate hasn’t been doing badly, ami
it is reckoned that for the year to June 30
the baby bonus will, for the first time, cost
over £700,000 —perhaps £750,000. The bonus
was the first of a long line of useless and
corr up t and vote-
catching charities,
given o n a c conn t
neither of age, of sick-
ness nor of unemploy-
ment. This year will
bring its total cost to
close on £0,000,000.
And it all comes out
of loans. Not osten-
sibly, of course—no-
thing is more osten-
sible than can be
helped. But when a
big new outlay like
that is crowded into
the ordinary expendi-
ture something else is
crowded over into the
loan expenditure, just
as when a fat man
wedges himself into a
full seat the small
man at the end goes
over on to the grass.
Yet it isn't in the
least likely th a t
Joseph Cook w i 1 1
make a name for him-
self by enacting that
next New Year’s Day
will see the end of the demoralising business.
James Dooley, the Sydney statesman, at
a recent banquet:—
Stringent times were ahead, and when Mr. Storey
returned the Government was going to tackle some
of the big problems. One of the problems was the
populating of Australia. Some said that people must
be brought out, but the Government thought that
the safety of the community should go before the
interests of some individuals.
The Bulletin has big problems on hand
itself, and as soon as the office-boy gets
back from lunch it is going to see about
the abolition of poverty and the conversion
of the heathen. It is also half-inclined to
think that people should be brought out, but
at the same time it thinks they should stay
in, as the maintenance of the great perma-
nent structure of our institutions is more
essential than the meretricious shimmer of
the facade or the fleeting efflorescence of
the gargoyle.
The policy of six huge States to a con-
tinent and One Big City to each State has
already made the Australian about the most
“citified” man on earth, though no other
white man on earth has so much open coun-
try to wander in. He is a Cockney in the
wilderness. So much have pony-racing and
street-trotting made axe-whirling a lost art
thet construction has stopped on four N. S.
Wales railwavs for want of sleepers, though
the pay is about 20s. a day. Things have
reached such a point that a school of sleeper-
cutting has been established, with a poor
attendance. Nothing short of the fire of
machine-guns would drive the chronic city
unemployed out to country work ; in fact, it
is hard to get them to Maroubra-on-the-traan-
line.' Where a land is dotted with busy little
towns bushmen can go to them without being
swallowed up, but the solitary huge metropo-
lis does the “Lights of London”- act. Even
the “coo-ee” is becoming a lost sound. It
Dooley would move his State capital out to
Orange tfie unemployed would, of course, fol-
low him for the sake of the doles, and then
perhaps the sleeper-cutting habit would re-
vive in a new atmosphere. .
In Maoriland they are doing things differ-
ently. At Wellington an alleged Swede
named Johnson was hauled up for selling
pamphlets which, said Rhadamanthus, P.M.,
advocated “lawlessness and violence on every
page.” In fact, it was Direct-Action litera-
ture. Johnson said he had got the books
from Sydney, where such stuff was abundant.
It was explained to him that if Maoriland
wanted to change its institutions it would
do so itself, and that it proposed to manage
its own affairs. To illustrate the point John-
son was given three months on each charge,
and there were four of them. Ilis attempt
to address the crowd in court about the slay-
ing of tyrants and the tearing _ down of
thrones was out short with the intimation
that his sentence had already started, and
he had better hurry to his cell and get
aboard.
THE BALLAD OF A CROOKED FINGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is enough latent force in your little finger
to run all the railway trains of Britain for a week.
—Sir Oliver Lodge.
It was the largest kind of strike,
As hard and solid as a stone;
The silence in the land was like
The murmur of a bleaching bone.
The things to eat in large supply
Were gathered by the rusted line;
Yet all the people needs must die
Lacking the wherewithal to dine.
In solemn lines by every stream
Men angled with a crooked pin ;
Wet woods beneath the moonlit gleam
Were full of poachers at their sin.
Archbishops robbed green apple-trees;
And wilder saints with tangled hair
Crept down the silent, hungry breeze
To catch the turnip in its lair.
And some, like simple cattle, strove
To stay their hunger with brown hay,
While others, round an empty stove,
Could merely hold their waists and pray.
The famine was exceeding sore;
In utter lack of all its meals
The nation lingered to deplore
The fact that it was fed on wheels.
But in a seance deep and dread
One sat with lean, forgetful looks,
And all his soul in rapture fed
On raps and humps of elder spooks.
Three months of woe he did not heed ;
The hours went by him chime on chime,
Till suddenly an inner need
Assured him it was dinner-time.
He yawned a scientific yawn,
He looked across the blighted land;
He felt the hunger of the dawn
And seemed at last to understand.
Force was the need, sufficient force
To turn the wheels at every point;
He touched the cosmic inner source
And crooked his little-finger joint.
The whistles all began to blow;
The startled strikers heard the sound.
Without a hint of furnace glow
A million wheels went swiftly round.
Trains and mote trains; and still they came
Laden with breakfast, lunch and tea.
And all the folk with stomachs lame
Began to cheer from sea to sea.
The strike was off. In gravy brown
Old England’s prime imported lamb
Appeared in every street in town
With slabs of foreign veal and ham.
The seaborne eggs began to fry,
The trans-Atlantic beef to grill;
And monumental piles of pie
Were eaten heedless of the bill.
The pounding engines throbbed and shook,
The loud wheels sang in even course
Because one little finger’s crook
Had used its scientific force.
The people were as glad as cats
That bask and languish in the sun;
A million men threw up their hats
And shouted that the strike was done.
Wherefore all Christian men take heed.
If such Should be a finger’s power,
What shall the great world further need
To set its barren fields in flower?
If all shall bend their fingers so,
Also their whiskers, brains and backs,
With what a whir the wheels shall go
To bring the poorest all he lacks!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


TWENTY YEARS AFTER: A STUDY IN PERSPECTIVE.
“The Australian Parliament has .just celebrated its twentieth birthday.”


PORTABLE WARMTH
/
PR?
PATOM
m.
The Electric Radiators sold by Metropolitan
Vickers are strong and efficient. They give a
clean, radiant heat. They can be moved from
room to room, wherever there is a lighting or
power point. They are economical. Get yours
before the rush.
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
104 Kent Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
Setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT,
ADMINISTRATOR OR ATTORNEY.
Established over 34 years, during w hich it has successfully handled almost
every class of asset,
33 TO 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Provincial Assur-
ance Association, Ltd.: — •
Towards
Re-
Oct., Income. Claims. Expenses, serves. Deficit.
1913 ..£10,219 £'2B9 £18,213 £16,343
1914 . . 17,288 866 28,473 28,394
1915 . . 28,615 1,169 29,641 30,589
1910 .. 66,840 4,790 44,088 £7,908 22,021
1917 . . 100,619 10,268 77,771 12,580 10,041
Nominal
Dec., Reserves.
191 S . . 164,925 22,434 121,938 20,553 10,512
Southern Insurance Co.’s
funds transferred . . 5,896 16,408
1919 .. 209,103 33,878 125,378 50,347 66,755
1920 .. 391,102 33,873, 168,575* 188,654 255,409
div. to shareholders, £9359.
That table presents the most astonishing per-
formance of any life co., in the Common-
wealth at least. When the accounts closed
on Dec. 33 last the A.P.A. had been operating
only a little over eight years, and for the
lntest 32 months its premiums from life con
tracts alone totalled £287,631. Still more
extraordinary-looking is the volume of new
business: —
New Life Accident
Assurances. Premiums.
1913 C 251,300 £ 202
1914 . . . . 325,925 818
1915 .. .. 132,060 3,689
1916 .. .. 609,030 11,747
1917 .. 1,268,012 23,290
1918 (14 IUOS.J 1,839,070 33,304
1919 . . . . 1,868,073 43,805
1920 .. .. 3,322,818 54,149
It took the A.M.P. 40 years to net a volume
of new business in any year equal to that
put on the A.P.A.’s books last year. The
A.P.A. wrote more new business during
the 12 months than the M.L.C. Last
year was, of course, an abnormally favorable
one for new-business writing: the arrange-
ment made by the Commonwealth Treasury
which enabled life offices to accept and cash
war-gratuity bonds in payment of assurance
premiums put many new policies on the books
at small cost. The A.P.A. does, not disclose
the extent of business won in this way; still,
even allowing for these war-gratuity assur-
ances, the performance has been remarkable
—and it is the more remarkable because
A.P.A. premium rates are not low.
The display of energy in policy-writing is,
however, only one aspect of a complicated
business. The 34 millions of assurances
garnered last year represented the mere be-
ginnings of contracts which will not be com-
pleted until, perhaps, 40 or 50 years hence.
Unlike other traders, the insurance-seller
does not know precisely when he will
be called upon to deliver the goods his
customers order. Some of tlie latest
34 millions of assurance may be called
for to-morrow, ana so far on that parcel of
business only £125,384 of premiums has been
paid in to the A.P.A. But the insurance
man does know, from very elaborate tables
compiled from previous experience, what his
approximate risks are, and the actuary—the
mathematician who has made the study of
mortality and other tables his life-work—can
tell with some degree of accuracy how much
should be set aside at any particular date
towards meeting claims. The premiums paid
into a life office have a threefold use; they
must (1) cover the cost of writing and
administering policies; (2) assist an accu-
mulation which will permit the amount
assured to be met when it falls due; (3)
give a margin for contingencies, though, if
accidents do not occur, this margin may give
the policy-holder a little more than was con-
tracted for, which means bonuses. If too
large a proportion of income is swallowed by
(3), then, obviously, nothing can he scl
aside for (3), while (2) may also have to
go short. That was what happened during
the first five years of the A.P.A. Every
penny of income and £30,000-odd of other
funds went in establishing the office and in
roping-in policy-holders. But the A.P.A. is
a proprietary office, and its £76,000 of share-
holders’ capital, in 3937, the actuary de-
clared, fully covered estimated liabilities to
policy-holders.
The A.P.A.’s expenses are still so high that
it is impossible for premiums .to do all they
were designed to do. But the expense rate
is being improved rapidly, so that while in-
come for the past year was practically double
that of the previous term, the 32 months’
lay-by (which had been assisted by a favor-
able claims rate) was practically three times
larger than the total of policy-holders’
funds intact at the beginning of the period.
For 1919 exes, rook 60 p.c. of total income;
last year, exclusive of the div. to share-
holders, exes, absorbed nearly 41 p.c. H is
nothing to be proud of, and the rate will have
to be cut to one-fourth of that before the
A.P.A. can hope to compete successfully, in
the matter of divs. to shareholders arid
bonuses to policy-holders, with a co-op. offace
uke the M.L.C. The heavy expense rate
has been due to the large volumes of new
business —the “life-blood” of a young office,
but necessarily a very costly baby-food.
The main consideration, of course, is the
protection which the A.P.A. can offer its
policy-holders. The introductory table shows
more or less what has happened to the cash
paid in by policy-holders, and disregards
entirely the support provided by shareholders
capital. The position in the latter respect
has been considerably strengthened during the
past year. Funds put up by proprietors are
now more than 50 p.c. greater than those
provided by M.L.C. shareholders. Last
year opened with a paid capital of only
£97,846, but, as a result of a strenuous share
canvass, at Dec. 31 last it amounted to
£223,352, and in addition a reserve of
£lOO,OOO had been established, representing
share premiums (the new issue was put out
at a 100 p.c. premium), after deducting
exes, of the campaign. 80, in addition to the
£305.409 of policy-holders’ funds at the
balance, there was also £323,352 of pro-
prietors’ funds, £50,000 of which has gone in
establishment exes., leaving total funds of
£578,761. These are laid out in securities
which are, for the most part, unquestionably,
sound: seven-tenths of all assets are Govern-
ment securities. No actuarial report is due
until after the forthcoming balance, so .a
precise statement of liabilities under policies
is not generally ascertainable. But Actuary
Doyle—the A.P.A. very properly keeps.a full-
time actuary on the premises to guide its
management—recently undertook a more or
less complete valuation, which the A.P.A.
has passed on to the “YS ild Cat.” This
valuation estimates policy liabilities at
£252,478 (as at Dec. 31 last). According to
this reckoning, the protection afforded policy-
holders was very good—thanks to the magni-
tude of shareholders’ funds. It will be noted
that the actuary’s estimate of liabilities is
smaller than the total of policy-holders'
funds: an extraordinary performance con-
sidering the very large proportion of pre-
miums which has been swallowed by exes.
On the other hand, the life business has been
assisted by whatever profits have resulted
from other lines —particularly personal acci-
dent insurance, of which business the A.P.A.
claims to do about one-fourth of the Common-
wealth’s total. The higher premium rates
have also, of course, assisted the “surplus,”
but the most important factor is the rate of
interest assumed in making actuarial cal-
culations. The A.P.A. does not work on so
conservative a basis as other offices, and
adopts 4 p.c. as the interest return which
funds will provide over the course of its con-
tracts. Ou the strength of the surplus so
ascertained, the A.P.A. last year distributed
its first bonuses—providing 30s. addition per
£lOO on whole-life policies and 20s. p..c. on
endowments. The main object of the distri-
bution was, of course, to facilitate policy-
writing, and judging by the latest new busi-
ness figures it proved excellent bait.
What has just been said concerning the
protection for life policy-holders calls for
some qualification. The A.P.A. is now doing
fire and general business, and recently it
inaugurated a marine branch. So far its
operations in these fields are insignificant
(fire premiums last year amounted to only
£1280), but there will probably come a time
when the risks will be considerable. At pre-
sent all operations are covered by one lot of
accounts; and capital and other shareholders’
funds are in one heap to support all con-
tracts. As the hazardous business grows—
John Goodwyn, late State Insurance Com-
missioner in Queensland, has been taken into
the A.P.A. to develop its fire branch—the
greater become the risks to which capital will
be exposed : and sooner or later it will be im-
possible to ascertain the precise extent of
shareholders’ backing to life policies. The
two classes of business —life and hazardous
policies—should be separated without delay,
each branch having its own definitely-stated
resources. Failing such division, a life office
which wants to mix business should be com-
pelled to put its life resexwes in the keeping of
a Public Trustee. After all. this is trustee
business, the only difference between it and
ordinary trustee business being that the life-
insurance co. offers its client various guaran-
tees which the other doesn’t.
The above disposes of the position of the
A.P.A. with respect to policy-holders. But
wliat of shareholders? Their position has
altered a good deal during the past year:
there is now considerably more than double
the capital of 12 months ago to participate in
any profits. Apparently 20s. was got for each
new 10s. share recently offered, and that was
a stiff price for shares in a co. which is still
a. youngster. As already remarked, the
A.P.A.’s paid capital now exceeds that of the
Commonwealth’s largest co-op. life ofiice,
whose steady, cheapiy-got income is nearly
five times tne size ot the A.P.A.’s latest spurt.
Of course, the young concern is also going
after fire, marine and other usually-profitable
business, but unlike the M.L.C. it has so far
no industrial department, though it is
about to establish one. The co. is
still too young to gauge dividend possi-
bilities. It has yet to prove that the
very large volume of business it has
written will stick, that it can at an early
date reduce its costs, and that it will make a
.success of its new enterprises. The people
who took up shares at a 100 p.c. premium
were plunging in anticipation of what they
hope the very energetic management may
eventually earn for them ; certainly perform-
ances to date do not justify such a stiff pre-
mium. Shareholders did get £9359 in divs.
last year; but in the absence of a complete
actuarial report and of a division of reserves
accumulated in each branch, together with a
statement of profits in each section, the pub-
lished accounts do not make clear what justi-
fication there was for it. Of the past year’s
surplus £2022 was written off the “establish-
ment account,’’ and that intangible asset now
stands at £50,000.
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wel-
lington, M.L.) :
Bonus on Re-
Alar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
1910.. 6 p.c. = £1766 £230 £3,785
1911.. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 251 5.680
1912.. 2524 7 „ „ 2060 253 *5,891
1913.. 2500 7' „ „ 2060 222 6.115
1914.. 2456 7 „ „ 2060 230 6,281
1915.. 3198 7 „ ~ 2060 405 7,014
1916.. 3682 7 ~ „ 20(U) 374 8,262
1917.. 3774 8 ~ „ 2354 707 8,975
1918.. 3741 8 „ „ 2354 669 9,693
1919.. 2968 8 „ „ 23!)4 634 9,673
1920.. 4056 8 „ „ 2354 913 10,462
1921.. 4048 8 „ „ 2354 1019 11,137
For many years paid capital has stood at
£29,431, and until lately that and the re-
serves accumulated over a score of years have
been more than ample to finance the business.
Only 12 months ago the co. had cash and in-
vestments of £14,000-odd over and above all
liabilities. But modern premises are being
built and the co. now proposes to widen its
field: during the past year a medical branch
was established. So though only £29,431 of
the £50,000 nominal capital has been sub-
scribed it has been decided to double nominal
capital. Beyond that the directors do not
disclose their intentions, except that they
also propose that the co. should in future
trade under a new name. Maybe, when the
directors unfold their complete scheme it
will be found to provide for some arrange-
ment for the capitalisation of portion of the
substantial reserves in conjunction with a
new share issue. Just prior to the commence-
ment of the table above there had been a
capitalisation of undivided profits, share-
holders having had their holding increased
50 p.c. As a result the mild rates of divs.
over the course of the table haA T e meant con-
siderably more to old holders. The co. is a
co-op. concern and £lOl9 of the past year’s
profits went in a 5 p.c. bonus on purchases
by holders of five or more shares. That
represented only £20,200 of sales, so appa-
rently the co. does a large trade other than
with its own proprietors. Notwithstanding
the outlay to date on new premises the eo.’s
position at March 31 was very comfortable.
Of the £50,312 of assets all but £8428 was
liquid or thereabouts, and as only £0219 was
owing tq outsiders there was a surplus of more
or less liquid assets over and above liabilities
of £35,665. The book value of present stocks
held are considerably less than those of 10
years ago, and movements during recent
years suggest that the management has been
keeping a watchful eye on its show-cases.
The N.Z. Consolidated Dental had a bitter
experience 12 years ago of what, happens
when a slump in values suddenly sets in.
* * * #
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Writ-
ten Re-
ProfiU. Dividends. Off. serves.
Mar., 1915.. £1213 Nil £1194 £2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = £175 566 3203
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = . 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 ) . aq
Written off other Reserves .. 773 ) iOJ
Sept., 1916.. 196 5 p.c. = 175 —• 1210
Mar., 1917... 454 10 „ „ 350 1314
Written off Debenture Reserve 500 814
Written off other Reserves .. 500 314
Sept., 1917.. 373 10 p.c. = 350 337
Mar., 1918.. 859 10 „ „ 350 -- 846
Sept., 1918.. 771 15 „ „ 525 1092
Mar., 1919.. 907 15 „ „ 525 14-4
Sept., 1919.. 1130 25 „ „ 875 1779
Mar., 1920.. 1224 20 „ „ 700 2303
Assets written up, £3500.
Transferred to capital. ££soo.
Sept., 1920.. 1266 20 p.c. = 1040 2524
Mar., 1921.. 1205 20 „ ~ 1050 2679
Last year assets were written up by £3500
and bonus scrip was issued for a similar
amount, the directors thus replacing half of
the capital which was, in 1914, considered to
have been lost. Paris House, Ltd., had
started with a paid capital of £14,000,
£10,500 of which was the purchase price of
the lease, goodwill and equipment of a Syd-
ney restaurant. The co. also went into debt
to secure tlie lease and license ot an adjoin-
ing pub. But things went so badly that,
seven years ago, it was decided to a
clean-up. The directors also came to the con-
clusion that the restaurant business was not
all it was cracked up to be. so they passed
it back, on lease, to the old chef from whom
they had purchased it. Profits improved lor
a time, then fell off again ; but during recent
years the co. has clone very well, and hand-
some divs. have been paid out. The past cai s
distributions showed 15 p.c. on the monej
originally put in, and divs. at that rate are
some compensation for the loss ot capital
and the dry period when no divs. flowed.
The basis on which assets were revalued
last year was not disclosed. After the recon-
struction seven years ago leases, plant, etc.,
were regarded as worth £11,807. The item
was gradually written down until 12 months
ago it stood at £3754. Perhaps the carwng
had been too heavy: anyhow, these assets
are now shown at £6019. All other assets
are liquid: Government securities, £6806;
stock and book debts, £3576; cash, £-•>< ).
These tot up £12,749, against which there
are liabilities of £BB4O. So, at the balance,
£8909 of the paid capital of £10,500 was re-
presented by surplus liquid assets, equal to
almost Bs. 6d. per 10s. share. The latest
div. takes Is. of it. In addition, the directors
declare that'leases, property and plant are
worth another ss. 3d. per share.
# •* * *
Malay Queen is another Australian-owned
rubber-planting concern which is feeling the
weight of a collapsed market. All capital
expenditure has been stopped, except the
outlay necessary to maintain immature rub-
ber areas, and working expenses have been
cut to the bone. In February the manage-
ment had got the all-in cost down to 10.13 d.
per lb. rubber produced. The Malayan Gov-
ernment has been nursing the co., and has
financed it to the extent of the margin
between exes, and the proceeds from rubber.
But, the F.M.S. Government has so many
invalids on its hands that no further assist-
ance can be expected from it, so the Malay
Queen is calling on shareholders to subscribe
10,000 £1 25 p.c. cum. prefs, to tide it over
the slump.
People talk vaguely to each other these
days about firms which may have to suspend
or compound or reconstruct because they
have been hit bv the importing boom, or the
wool slump or the general price slump, and
the banks won’t advance them enough even
on the best security to tide them over. But
the banks would gladly lend a lot of money
to almost anybody on quite moderate secu-
rity and at quite a moderate rate —if they
were allowed. They would lend out a bushel
of the £lOOO notes which they received in
war-time as unusable security for a big
loan without interest, and which remain
with them in the same capacity now that the
war is over. In their own defence it might
not be amiss if they altered the form of their
balance-sheets and distinguished between real
paper money which they can lend and bogus
paper money which they can’t. At March
28 there were £22,757,000 of unusable
£lOOO notes in existence (an increase of
over £3,000,000 in three months, so things
are growing much worse), and the banks
hold them all. It is a matter of specula-
tion what would happen if a big institution
wound up —didn’t sell out to another or amal-
gamate, but just wound up.
* * * *
The East Greta Coat Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Alar., ’13..17,6(51 10 p.c. = 7,500 3205 6,959 49,502
Sept., ’13..18,084 10 ~ „ 7,500 3303 7,281 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 .. 38,033
Afar., ’14..16,032 10 p.c. = 9,207 3500 3,325 41,358
Sept., ’14.. 6,400 5 „ „ 4,997 3500 39,261
Loss.
Mar., ’15.. 713 Nil 3500 35,048
Profit.
Sept., ’15..10,533 5 p.c.= 5,000 3500 2,033 37,081
Alar., ’16.. 9.528 5 „ „ 5.000 3500 1,328 38.409
Sept., ’16..10,254 6 „ „ 6,000 3500 751 39.163
Afar., ’17.. 9,983 6 „ ~ 6,000 3750 233 39.396
Sept., '17.. 9,917 6 ~ „ 6,000 3750 167 39,563
Mar., ’18..14.797 8 „ „ 8,000 3750 3,047 42,610
Sept., ’18..14,756 8 „ „ 8,000 3750 3,006 45.616
Afar., ’19..10.279 8 ~ „ 8,000 1965 314 45,930
Sept., '19.. 2.870 5 „ „ 5,000 —■ 43,800
Mar., ’20.. 8,155 6 „ „ 6,218 1916 21 43,821
Sept., ’20.-12,043 8 ~ „ 8,740 1991 1,312 45,133
Mar., ’21..17,121 10 ~ ~ 11,852 2044 3,225 48,358
Not since pre-war years have profits been so
good as those disclosed for the latest term.
The increased selling prices allowed by the
Federal Government fully compensated the
cos. for the extra wages the unions squeezed,
and in addition trade has been brisk. So, for
the first time for seven years, East Greta’s
div. is elevated to 10 p.c. again. Including
this div., during the past .seven years share-
holders have had an average of only just
more than 6 p.c. p.a., and 6 p.c. from East
Greta means considerably less than the same
rate would in other cos., for this one has not
had any extensive bonus-share issues: of its
present paid capital of £238,097 only £18,750
represents transferred reserves. So there has
not been the same glitter in this co. as in


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
There are many remarkable instances of the length
of life of wood pipe as a water conduit. A case in
point was the recent unearthing of wood pipe that
has been in use for 130 years and was still sound.
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe costs only a fraction of the
price of metal pipe and conveys from 15 to 20 per
cent, more water. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * #
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
* » • •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write f6r particulars. 11. IS. Selby A: Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Ilunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. W T EEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4jd.
1/6,
9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
U.5.A... ..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4-
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, AVest
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
" j/MTLWARf). Manager in the Pacific,
7-- Pitt- -Street.-SYDNEY:
61 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER. Leather Belting'.
J. c.. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
Made and
guaranteed by
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
For Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Mat* jrials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
>fait afacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
m
many other northern colliery concerns, though
in the East Greta and Stanford Merthyr it
has had two good mines. Still the co. may
have been doing considerably better than its
disclosed profits have indicated; apparently
the management has written down the book
value of its mines hard. The latest balance-
sheet gives the book value of mining and
house properties (not including plant and
machinery) at below £20,000, while investi-
gation and development work on two new
properties has in two years alone taken £7700
more than that figure. Such hard writing-
down has, of course, had the effect of curtail-
ing the amount of distributable profit; but,
on the other hand, it has materially strength-
ened the security for capital, and what the
shareholders have not had in the past should
be available for them, with ordinary luck, in
the future. The position of the East Greta
has been considerably improved recently as the
result of the acquisition of two new proper-
ties. Two years ago the co. took an option
over 3672 acres near Cessnock, and this Mill-
field area has been proved by boring to be an
excellent propos/tion. So pleased was East
Greta with its find that last year it took an
option over a considerable adjoining area,
and, three bores put down during the past
six months having '“shown satisfactory re-
sults,” the option is to be exercised. The
co. intends to work this Aellalong property
in conjunction with the Millfield, the directors
enthusing that '“the two together will form
one of the most valuable properties on the
Maitland field.”
To date work on the new properties is
shown in the accounts to have cost £27,713.
The result was that during the year to
March, 1020. inroads were made into the
liquid position, but the increase of capital
from a round £200,000 to £238,097, assisted
by favorable trading, has increased the sur-
plus of more or less liquid assets over lia-
bilities by £ll,BOO, compared with two years
ago:—
1919. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets .. .. £75,537 £158,223 £95,038
Liabilities .. .. 70,190 71.268 77,801
Excess liabilities .. £13,045
Surplus assets .. £5,347 £17,177
There still remains the problem of financing
the development and equipment of the two
new properties. Instead of calling on present
shareholders to find all the cash, the Adelaide
S. S. Co. has been invited to take an in-
terest, and a preliminary agreement has
been arrived at under which toe big steam-
ship co. is to acquire 235,000 £1 shares at
par. Complete details are to be put before
shareholders .shortly. Incidentally, there is
a likelihood of the old East Greta railway,
which this co. used to run, being taken over
by the Government. The co. passed over this
side of the enterprise to the South Maitland
Railways, Ltd., a few years ago, and its in-
terests are now represented by a £149,798
share holding in that concern.
* * * o
Melbourne Metropolitan Gas Co. has made
the lethargic public sit up and take notice by
raising the price of gas again. It is now to be
6s. Sd. per 1000 ft., or 2s. Bd. more than the
Inquiry Board of 1912 said was a fair thing
in those days. There is clamor for an-
other inquiry now, and if Premier Lawson
does not comply there will be a row when
Parliament meets. Whenever legislation is
proposed to regulate the price of gas or to
improve its quality it is remarkable how the
hand of the Vic. Government becomes para-
lysed after a few weeks.
The immediate future of three of the Com-
monwealth’s great copper producers—Lyell,
Wallaroo and Morgan—is still uncertain.
The unions having rejected Lyell’s wage-
reduction proposals, the Board ‘‘with great
reluctance” has ordered a shut-down at
Queenstown as from June 16, and also a
cessation of coke-making at Kembla.
Though the Queensland Arbitration clearly
demonstrated that the 20 p.c. reduction in
wages suggested by Morgan gave the work-
ers more than the market price of copper
warranted, labor there has also decided that
a crust of charity is better than lmlf-a-loaf
of earnings. Labor reoresentatives have since
consulted Premier Theodore and made “cer-
tain suggestions,” one of which, is admitted
to involve “some assistance from the Gov-
ernment to the co.” Along what lines has
not been disclosed, but Cabinet is to be con-
sulted. The only assistance Morgan requires
is an improved copper market, and all the
Theodores in the world can’t influence that
2d. At Wallaroo and Moonta there has been
a procession of conferences. The co. sug-
gested a resumption on the basis that the
agreement under which the employees were
working when the shut-down arrived should
be rescinded, and that they should go back
on the old, expired Commonwealth Court
award. The men would not agree. The
latest from the co. is an offer of a minimum
11s. per day, with other rates on the scale
provided by the Commonwealth award. In
addition Wallaroo and Moonta undertakes
to supply clothing, boots and other neces-
sities at cost price. On this basis the co.
undertakes to maintain operations so long
as copper does not go below £6B. The
unions have not yet decided. While the
long-winded negotiations have been proceed-
ing between the unions and local copper-
producers, who kept their mines and smelters
at work and continued to pay boom wages
until desperation-point was reached (and,
despite it all, Lyell is still operating), it
is interesting to note how labor elsewhere
has fared. At the end of March five U.S.A.
cos., whose combined yearly output is more
than seven times that of the Commonwealth’s
total production, decided, almost at a
moment’s notice, to “close down completely.”
There are a lot worse employers than the
Australian inine-owner. Than some of him
there are not’very many much better. And
the worst of it is the employer with a heart,
who makes proposals in an attempt to keep
the employees going, has far more rocks
flung at him than the bowelless person who
simply shuts down and throws his staff
on the world.
* * * *
Of the crop of oil cos. which have sprung
up to seek gushers in the south-east of S.
Aus., the Associated Oil Corp., Ltd., looks
one of the most businesslike. This is the
co. which is being run by oil-enthusiast Guy
It. Andrew, an Australian with ’Murkan
experience who put down the bore near Pen-
rith (N.S.W.) for a plucky Sydney crowd
last year. Of the 100,000 shares offered the
public by Associated, 20,000 have so far been
subscribed, and on the strength of that the
co. is to go to registration in Adelaide. But
the Associated’s engineer, unlike some of the
oil-seelcers, is under no illusions as to the
amount of funds required for a campaign,
and very properly he does not propose to
start drilling until cash is assured to finance
continuous work. With £25,000 in sight he
reckons on being able to undertake 12 months’
operations. Meantime the co. has been for-
tunate in securing a good boring plant on
very favorable terms: a few years ago a
Maoriland crowd imported a Lucy-Mogul
rotary, but their funds petered out before
they had gone down many feet. Including
alterations, this plant has cost Associated
£4500; a new plant of the same type would
now cost five or six times that figure. It
is capable of 100 ft. per day in good ground,
but to get through hard country Andrew pro-
poses to combine a percussion driller. lie
has a thoroughly experienced crew in readi-
ness for the word go to be given.
But is there oil in S. Aus.? And if so,
will it be in payable quantities? The argu-
ment which has been proceeding for years
and the amateurish drilling efforts to date
(GOOft. in three years at Tantanoola!) pro-
vide no conclusive evidence either to indi-
cate the existence of a payable oilfield or
to condemn the country as non-oil-bearing.
Andrew and others declare that in no other
field in their experience have geological con-
dilions and other factors looked so promis-
ing; on the other hand, there are geologists,
amongst them Government officials, who
pooh-pooh the idea. The potentialities of
no supposed oil-field in the world has ever
been decided by argument on the surface:
only the drill can definitely establish values,
just as development alone can conclusively
prove any other class of mining proposition.
Though Andrew “stakes the last shred of his
professional reputation” that the ground
taken up by Associated “will prove a wonder-
ful oil-field,” the co.’s prospectus states the
position very explicitly : “It must be frankly
stated that any oil venture is more or less a
speculation, but if successful the profits are
so enormous as to thoroughly justify the risk
taken.” At present there is the further in-
ducement of the Commonwealth’s £50,000
and the S. Aus. Government's £5OOO bonuses
to the . first producer of oil in commercial
quantities. For the plucky who are pre-
pared to take risks in the face of the diverse
opinions, the Associated Oil Corporation
offers a chance. No promoters’ cash con-
sideration is demanded : 18,000 £1 shares go
to the vendors (the Bonney Syndicate, which
has been prospecting for years and has spent
over £3OOO cash) for a start, but they are
to get a further 27,000 fully-paids should oil
be struck. Andrew gets 2000 shares in con-
sideration of agreeing to act as engineer for
two years, and a further 3000 fully-paids
as a reward if he finds oil for the co. The
whole of the money subscribed by the public,
except the usual brokerage, will be available
for actual oil-seeking The directors are
to get no fees untiT oil is discovered.
* -X- * *
Having successfully floated off Takuapa
Valley, a Siamese tin-show, in September
last, Malaya Tin Comoration, which has re-
moved its headquarters to F.M.S., has been
hunting round after other properties. Share-
holders are now told that “extensive areas
full of promise,” and well worth proving,
have come within the co.’s grasp in Malaya.
Also, further opportunities are declared to
be awaiting the Corp. in Siam. To finance
its programme the co. is offering its share-
• holders 400 debentures of £25 each, carrying
10 p.c. p.a. A similar number are held in
reserve, apparently in anticipation of the
Bolshie becoming more friendly to Austra-
lian mining enterprise in Siberia. The
M.T.C. has held concessions there (except
when the Bolshie Government said it didn’t)
for some years, but work has been impos-
sible owing to unsettled conditions. How-
ever, the Bolshies have decided that the
foreign capitalist cannot be dispensed with,
and ‘‘there is every promise of a full settle-
ment being reached regarding mining in-
terests as between owners and Government.”
So the M.T.C. is getting its cash-box ready
to complete several options when opportu-
nity otters, for chairman Chas. Kerry regards
Siberia as “probably the most promising
country in the world for mining investment.”
If shareholders in the respective cos. agree,
Star Gully and Station Gully, two Mel-
bourne-run Tingha tin shows, and the Aus-
tral-Siamese Co.’s interests in the same New
England district (N.S.W.) are 'to be amal-
gamated. Tingha Tin, with a nominal capi-
tal of £100,060, is the new concern which
will take over. For a start 68,000 £1 shares
are to be issued as paid to 10s. each and dis-
tributed in purchase of assets as follows:
Star Gully, 32,000 shares; Austral-Siamese,
26,000; Station Gully, 10,000. Then calls of
Is. per share per month are to be made to
finance a water scheme and to “reconstruct
and increase the power of the various
plants 4 ’; but it is considered that 4s. per
share (£13,600) will do the trick. “Under
new management and more economical work-
ing conditions” resulting from the amalga-
mation, R. W. Stringer’s Melbourne ollice
reckons that a profit can be made even in
the present low tin market. F. G. Wilson is
to control the mining.
* * * *
A fair quantity of good milling ore having
been proved, Sandy Falls, Coolac (N.S.W.),
is to have a 10-kd. battery, and crushing
should begin in about three months. This
show is in the Cootamundra-Gundagai dis-
trict, and in the neighborhood of the old Mt.
Hart mine, which showed good values and
then suddenly petered out. Geologist L. F.
Harper, who has just had a look for the
Mines Department, reports the existence of
two types of deposit, one bearing the
appearance of a true fissure lode, the reef
going from Ift. to ft. wide. The syndicate
has put down an underlay shaft 04ft. and
the reef has been driven on for over 200 ft.
Two parcels of ore totalling 24 tons treated
at Cockle Creek have averaged just over
3£oz. per ton. Harper remarks that values
may fall off below water-level or that the
vein may pinch out in a granite bed
rock, but meantime a “considerable tonnage
of easily-won ore should be available.” The
other deposit consists of interbedded quartz
veins associated with slate, but as no ti ue
lode shows up the hunt after ore bodies will
probably not be easy. Two shafts are down
70ft. and are cbnnected by a 40ft. crosscut,
all seemingly in ore of some sort. A con-
siderable amount of development will still
have to be done before the future of Sandy
Falls can be gauged.
* * * *
Ives’ Proprietary (W.A.) is confidently
expected by its directors to furnish payable
crushings in a few months. A trial lot of
10 tons from the cross reef in the Junction
lease is stated to have yielded over the
plates, with the expectation of an additional
4o Z .per ton being won from, the tailings; but
the fact that this reef consists of a veneer of
quartz, only an inch or two thick, showing
free gold on a 2ft. to 3ft. body of worthless
rock, is not generally known. This veneer
is on the hanging wall, and many persons
who visited the Ives field when attempts were
being made to boost it canne away with the
impression that a 10ft. length of the hanging
wall, exposed in a costeen to .a depth of about
Bft., was the width of the shoot.
-K-
Kalgurli (W.A.) is not giving up right
away. At present the sulphide mill is finish-
ing off a few parcels of tributors’ ore, and a
general clean-up of the plant is to follow.
After that a quantity of oxidised stuff lving
around the main shaft, together with ‘any
other ore that the public likds to send ulong,
will be treated. And then the curtain will
probably be rung down. Meantime, the
management refuses to let tributes owing to
the conditions imposed under the recent
amendment of the Mining Act.
Davyhurst (W.A.), where the Golden
lole and other producers lived and died is
now almost deserted. Everything worth ’ re-
moving has been taken away. There still
remain a few prospectors who are battling
along in the hope that their luck will turn.
At one time the field supported over 1000
people; less than a score are*now pottering
there. s
nf R H?« 51 1 n r m Wn T ;i nks ’ a reincarnation
ol «? Golden Crown, at Kanowna
(W.A.) has gone under, aiad tenders are
being called for its remains, consisting mostly
of second-hand plant. Efforts were made a
httie while ago to boom this delusion in
Adelaide and Melbourne, but without avail.
Associated Northern (W.A.) shareholders
get no div. for the past year; the Board
1S to ca , sh assets - which now ex-
tWdwl’oof°~TJ' Ua t 0 2s ‘ m - P er share —in
the hope of picking up a new mine.
Helped by the gold premium, South Kal-
gurli (W.A.) hopes shortly to pay a good
div. For each of the two past financial
years Is. 6d. per share has been distributed
Lake View' Investment Trust is also tipped
to distribute something in a month or two.
* * * *
Bowen Consolidated Coal Mines, Ltd., is
making an effort to get in cash to equip
and develop its big proposition, 58 miles
from Bowen (N.Q.). To date 22,088 of the
100,000 £1 contribs. have been subscribed,
and while the State railway connecting the
field with Bowen has been under construc-
tion (it is now nearly completed) the 12s.
Od. per share paid by the contribs. has
financed preliminary development work.
Operations will now be on a big scale, so
the 07,812 unissued contribs. are being put
out, and are to be called to the same amount
as the present lot. N. S. Wales coal expert
John McGeachie recently reported on the
Consolidated’s seams, and his say-so should
help in the hunt for money. The co. has
two seams to operate: the Garrick, which
offers at least six million tons of excellent
coal; and the Bowen, estimated to contain
841 million tons, after making allowances
for possible losses. On the Garrick a tunnel
is in 2(Joft., and it can be equipped inexpen-
sively to produce 1(X),01X) tons per annum.
When the railway is completed and loading
appliances provided at Port Denison, Bowen
Consolidated will be in a position to com-
pete in the coal trade with a fuel which,
McGeachie says, “may be classed as equal to
the best average from any group of col-
lieries now supplying our Australian mar-
kets.”
* * * *
Mt. Mudlo copper-mines, near Kilkivan
(Q.), are closed down, but the directors are
displaying their optimism in the future by
laying the foundations of a big concentrating
plant and completing dams. A little pros-
pecting work lias also been carried out, and
they are now considering estimates of costs
to work the property on a big scale. The
ore has some .silver to heln the copper along,
and if the latter rises to the vicinity of £BO
the co. should be able to carry on under the
new scheme.


Abraham Lincoln said:— “lf we buy the Shovels in Europe we get the shovels and
they have the dollars; but if we make the: shovels ourselves we have both
the shovels and the dollars too.
BUY AUSTRALIAN GOODS AND KEEP YOUR MONEY IN AUSTRALIA
We have the sole sellmg and m S ROB!NSON, H pHffiNIX DYNAMO WORKS]
With wh X"r r :«nlin D g C to S K YDNEY W lnfs S TtAM TURBINES of over 70,000 HORSE-POWER.
The Commissioners of New South Wales Government Railways and Tramways have
placed with us an order to
MANUFACTURE IN SYDNEY A TURBO-ALTERNATOR UNIT COMPLETE of
25,000 HORSE-POWER
3 -
Twice the size of the largest unit at present working in Australia.
* A
m
m
■A
......
18
m
■ ■.
m-K-
I
I *\
W\-
■Mil
Exhaust End of 25,000-HQRSEPOWER STEAM TURBINE being machined at The English Electric Company's Works.*
We are manufacturers of: —
STEAM TURBINES
CONDENSING PLANTS
PUMPING PLANTS
TRANSFORMERS
ELECTRIC GENERATORS
ELECTRIC MOTORS
ELECTRIC LIFTS & CRANES
SWITCHGEAR OF ALL TYPES
REFRIGERATING MACHINERY
ENGLISH ELECTRIC
AUSTRALIA
Late STANDARD WAYGOOD HERCULES, LTD.,
Head Office: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY. New Works in construction at CLYDE.
Works at
SYDNEY
(Hay Street, City.
I Harris Street, Pyrmont.
| Bulwarra Road, Pyrmont
I Bourke Street, Waterloo.
Works at
MELBOURNE
/ WEYMOUTHS LTD.
\ RICHMOND, VIC.


LAGER,
JTHH BEER WITHOUTA'^TVAL^
ife
i
m*
ll
torn
P|li
K:
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd.
r-i m m
j =
»e=s4 4
-
-3T— -5'
= S£
«W
Vfe3s
3?
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
%)e
0
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot bear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre ami Church-
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept, 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Justice JAMES (N.S.W.) listens to a
co-respondent.
The Reps, will soon be compelled to keep
a permanent hospital staff. Speaker John-
son is in bed with influenza; Tudor, McDon-
ald and Anstey are on the sick-list; Jim
Matthews is still being clawed by neuritis;
and Maxwell is threatened with blindness.
Further, last Saturday night Jack West, who
represents George Reid’s old electorate, was
knocked down by a motor-bike in Spring-
street and suffered a bad shaking and a
sadly scraped nose. Fenton (Maribyrnong)
is also sickly, and like a sensible man is
retiring with the intention of settling down
on a little farm.
Fred Johns, the S. Australian live wire who
is secretary of the new movement for a
Flinders statue in Adelaide, has discovered
three relatives of the navigator, one each in
Adelaide, Melbourne and Perth. The name
is Pilgrim, and the family, which originally
came to Australia in 1849, is descended from
Flinders’ sister Susanna.
The yarn is probably not true, but it ought
to be. Before two of Victoria’s railway
headlights, Clapp and Miseamble. set out to
take soundings of country lines last month,
Clapp sent a wire to a certain village pub:
“Reserve accommodation for Miseamble and
self.” The pub Pwner promptly replied:
“Can’t be done. This is a respectable hotel."
On May 3 the Speck had an election in
three of the IS Leg. Council constituencies.
The return of Murdoch (Hobart), Darling
(Cambridge) and Edwards (Russell) reduces
the aggregate age of the Lords by nearly
a century. A short while ago the combined
years of the 18 was something like 1300;
to-day the whole team would hardly total
more than 1000.
Geovge Maxwell, M.H.R. for Fawkner, is
now almost blind, and has only been held
back from resigning bis seat ,by the strongly-
expressed wish of representative constituents.
As leader of the criminal bar he probably
overworked his eyps. If he had taken to
the kirk instead of to the bar, what a pul-
piteer MaxtVell would have been !
From the Federal Gallery:—
The stress and worry of the Federal Speaker’s life
must be exceptional when the previous occupant,
Charles McDonald, is now a nervous wreck and the
present head of the liouse has become a sick man
who was last week put to bed. As a private member
McDonald was a comparatively robust character with
a fighting speech ready at any moment, but his pro-
motion to the Chair thrust him in the straight-
jacket of an official dignity which broke his spirit
in a few sessions. Elljot .Johnson, a lively talker in
his time, has been similarly forced into an aloofness
by his position, and no doubt the “scenes” he has
settled with sensational suspensions, when his nature
shrank from the job, have taken their toll of his
nervous strength. It is pathetic to think that none
of these men, who have striven for one of the fattest
billets it is in the power of a reigning Government
to bestow, has ever been happy when lie has got it.
fioor old Holder, the equal of his successors in im-
partiality and benevolence, was ever a lonely old man
who lived at the top of Federal Parliament House
and could be found passing through the corridors like
a wraith when he set out on his evening stroll.
Holder’s personal lot was not mitigated by a delicdte
digestion, nor was his job made easy by the bitter
party warfare that often brought his reluctant inter-
vention. During his time he had to maintain decorum
with a very firm hand, and it was only his sudden
and tragic death which demonstrated what the dis-
cipline cost him.
George W. S. Dean went west last week
after a long illness. In his best days he
was easily the finest electioneering agent in
Victoria —for many years he never acted as
secretary for a defeated candidate. He was
friendly with all the leading politicians,
from iiunky Gillies to Billy Angliss. When
only 21 he was Mayor of Port Melbourne,
and doing a noisy trade as auctioneer and
house-agent. He ought to have been presi-
dent of the A.N.A. one year instead of Alick
Peacock, but just missed it by not starting
his canvass early enough. Later on Dean
was secretary to the Bookmakers’ Associa-
tion in Melbourne.
W. C. Juler, who goes to England for fur-
ther specialisation in big-gunnery, is one of
the few lower-deck men to reach naval com-
missioned rank early in life. It seems only
the other day that! Juler left Ballarat as a
boy to join the Tingira. As an A.B. he
staggered his warspip by scoring the highest
possible number of bulls at six-inch gun-play
on moving long-range targets at sea. This
record brought him under the notice of the
Heads, who packed him off to Whale Island
(Eng.) Gunnery School, where the young
Australian surprised Royal Navy examiners.
Rapid promotion followed. An admiral’s
cocked-hat may yet have to be packed in his
cabin trunk.
lvoorman Tomayeff, the Russian who on
March 22 shot at random into a crowd
breakfasting at Riverton (S.A.) railway
station, killing two people and wounding
several others, hqd a very brief trial in
Adelaide. “The Crown” at once admitted
that the prisoner was mad, and Judge Gor-
don directed the jury to accept the unani-
mous opinion of Drs. Downey, Lynch and
Angas Johnson. So South Aus. w r ill have to
keep Tomayeff—as the foolish old term has
it —“in strict custody until the Governor’s
pleasure be known.” Incidentally, Riverton
station has become a place of pilgrimage.
Broken Hill socialists stopping there for
breakfast bare their heads and sing “The
Red Flag” on the spot where Percy Brook-
field was killed.
Twenty vears ago a large party of well-
known public men assembled at Government
House, Sydney, to congratulate Frederick
Darley, Chief Justice, on reaching 70, and
present him with the portrait by Longstaff
which notv hangs in the Supreme Court
buildings. “Birthstain” Beauchamp was in
the chair, and of 22 prominent men in the
gathering, including all the Supreme Court
Judges, but three remain—Beauchamp, T.
A. Dibbs and G. C. Ileydon.
William Henry Jervois, of Unley Park
(S.A.), who went west recently at the age
of 61, was a member of the S.A. Institute of
Architects for 13 years, and designed several
of Adelaide’s public buildings. Born at Con-
stantinople, he was educated in England
and practised a while there; then, after five
years’ work on the Bombay drainage scheme,
he came on to Australia. He claimed direct
descent from Lord St. Vincent.
J. H. Fergus, who is to retire in a few
weeks, has been conductor on the express
between Melbourne and Adelaide ever since
it started running 35 years ago. His memory
carries a host of good stories about old-time
racing men, theatrical people, and the Broken
Hill maguates who had to go to Adelaide to
get to the Hill
from Melbourne:
also he has had
King George, the
Trinee of Wales
and Kitchener as
passengers. After
racking h i s mem-
ory he asserts that
a birth on the
train and an un-
eventful collision
wit.fi. stray horses
arc the worst
things he has met.
TbelT e n r y
Jones jam eo. has
lost its managing
director in South
A us.. , T. A.
Doman. In part-
nership wi t h
Robert McEwin ho
had built up a big
business in East,
Adelaide before
the Tasmanian
control came in.
As a side-line he
wa s a successful
station-owner, and
a northern pas-
toral 00. continues
to bear his name.
RENE TURCK,
Melbourne’s
French Consul.
When Ballarat City and Ballarat East
(town) amalgamate at the end of the month,
W. D. Hill, the present city mayor, will con-
tinue to wear the fur-tipped robe as the
head of the swollen municipality.
“11.L.P.H.”: The reason Coneybeer, late
Speaker of the S.A. Assembly, lost his seat
for a wine-producing district was that he
threw in his lot with the prohibitionists. If
he had stood as an Independent he would
have been returned ; but when he asked the
vignerons to give him a vote so that lie
could uproot their vines, they naturally
thought they would sooner have Wine than
his particular variety of Beer.
Tasmania’s Leg. Council electors in a
couple of constituencies —Hobart in the
south and Russell in the north —dropped a
couple of veterans with considerable, not to
say unnecessary, emphasis on May 3. Frank
Bond, of Hobart, who made his first finan-
cial start as a wattle-bark stripper at Clare-
mont and now juggles with Queensland
sheep-stations, was beaten by Thomas Mur-
doch, merchant and auctioneer; and old-
time Bischoff mining-prospector Charley
Hall, latterly a pretty sick man, was badly
knocked by the younger F. B. Edwards, who
is something in the produce line.
Mrs. Kate Raymond, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), who recently had a 90th birthday,
was a daughter of that Captain Bull, of the
99th Regiment, who in the ’forties was com-
mandant and road engineer between Penrith
and Bathurst. Bull for a time had his camp
and military detachment at “18-mile Hol-
low.” but later shifted his headquarters to
Blackheath. He died at Goulburn in 1900, aged
95, leaving a widow of 92. His three sons
and three daughters, whose ages range from
74 up to 90, are all living. Captain Bull’s
camp and road command was the last of the
kind in N. S. Wales. In ]j)Bsl he went to
Vic. as Commissioner of Crown Lands, Gold
Commissioner, Warden and Magistrate at
Bendigo, where he and some of his old Sand-
hurst schoolfellows —among them “Orion”
Horne, the poet—changed the name of the
goldfields town to Sandhurst.
“Carey”: The writer “who grows family
trees” is wrong in discussing the name of
Sydney’s Lord Mayor (B. 5/5/’2l) when
he says “there has never been an historical
Irishman named Lambert.” Among the
leading Irish families in the early days of
Ireland’s settlement was one of that name
which had a coat-of-arms and this motto: “By
following I acquire.” This fact ought to settle
the statement that ‘‘his Lordship's name is
pure Saxon.” On the contrary, the Saxon
Lambert may have been, and mostly likely
was, the outcome of the emigration of one
of many Irish families to the Continent
during the period of the penal laws framed
by England. On the Continent these exiles
attained the highest distinction, civil and
military, in almost every country from Spain
to Russia, and many were ennobled by the
sovereigns and Governments whom they
served.
Although he is getting on to his nineties
ex-Senior-Sergeant Hugh Abercrombie still
turns up at the rifle-range for his shoot, and
plays the mischief with ducks and quail in
the season. He lives at North Sydney on a
pension granted a quarter of a century ago,
and he sings in one of the local choirs on
Sundays.
”Jeatt” : One of the millions of goats on
Thursday Island died in the main street and
forthwith became more eloquent in death
than it had been in life. The duty of re-
moval lay with the Town Council, but no
move waft made, and even a letter from
Norman Markwell, as Health Officer, drawing
attention to the nuisance produced no result.
Three days elapsed, in which the tropical
sun didn’t add to Lilly’s native sweetness.
On the fourth day the members of the Town
Council had a launch picnic to a neigh-
boring island. In their absence somebody
dragged the bit of hairy gorgonzola down to
the Council Chambers and tied it to the door-
knob with a card attached conveying the
Health Officer’s compliments.
“Starboard Watch”: Newly-appointed
Acting Second Naval Member Captain
J. F. Robins, R.A.N., is one of the
few adipose officers in the fleet. He
will have charge of the "appointments” of
officers who, unlike himself, have seen active
Service iu modern types of ships at close
quarters with the Hun. A previous First
Naval Member (Admiral Oresswell) had no
sea. experience more modern than that
obtained in the 30-year-old gunboat Protector
to guide him in the control of the Australian
fleet during the early part of the war. Naval
promotions go by seniority, and many of the
younger men who made names for themselves
in the big scrap will have a chance to control
the Navy when they have reached their ziff-
dom in the 11)50 war. With the departure
<>f Admiral Percy Grant the Navy Office in
Melbourne seems to have lost its atmosphere
of salt spray and burning cordite which
emanated from that actual sea-fighter and
hater of office-stool sailordom.
“L.8.F.” on a dusky faith-healer: —
Ratana, the Maori “Miracle Man,” is still going
strong. Since the public became aware of his doings
in tile Wanganui district in December last his
actions have been closely watched. Press reporters
have paid him a call and returned satisfied that he
is a genuine “faith-healer.” He has cured well
over 300 people, mostly Maoris, but including some
white people who had been given up by their
doctors. He has a most unassuming manner, is
robust, a heavy smoker, and. as he puts it, “a soldier
of God.” Near his farm he has erected a missionary
building where he conducts services and exhibits a
collection of discarded glasses, crutches and walking-
sticks and an invalid’s chair. So great has become
the number of applications for treatment, which he
Justice McCAWLEY, president of Queens
land Arbitration Court.
gives entirely gratis, that he has started to treat
white people by correspondence. All he asks is
that the patient shall have implicit faith in the
Holy Trinity. A young lady residing at Nelson has
just expressed her gratitude to Ratana in the news-
papers. She had been an invalid almost from infancy
and was never to be seen out of her wheel chair
until, her doctors having pronounced her case abso-
lutely hopeless, she was treated by Ratana. Now
she walks about the streets of Nelson to the wonder-
ment of the city.
BRAIN VERSUS HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 am a lover.
In me the symptoms manifold
You may discover.
On this poor face you may behold
A thin, persistent simper, see
A pale, mild imbecility.
Yet, do l break the common rule—•
Who’s all a lover’s half a fool.
She is my fate.
I bow and worship, but there live
Reserves of hate.
1 Know what little she can give
Can never compensate for half
My long uneasiness. 1 laugh
At my ape-antics, then J sigh;
A large grown man, I sniff and cry.
1 am not fit
To mix sedately with my kind.
For I may sit
To music deaf, to beauty blind,
And think no more of lovely eyes,
And Venus shapes, but, donkey-wise,
Because of one who is not fair,
Of happy living lose my share.
She is not tall,
Nor splendid like a wingfed ship,
Nor neat and Small.
There is no glory on her lip.
Her hair is red and straight; her eye
Is just an eye. I may not spy
One dimple here. Without excuse,
1 still must love her like the deuce.
It’s simple treason
To all good sense. There’s not for me
A single reason
For fine, poetic rhapsody.
Dumped at, her feet while long hours pass
I tell myself f am an ass.
Yet was e'er ass enamored thus.
So faithful and so querulous V
She has my heart.
’Tis not enough—she must enslave
Each other part.
This leg is but a weak-kneed knave.
These arms are bond, but in the brain
There’s lingering a recreant strain.
Dow sadly is that lover split
Who loves, and has no mind for it!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


SYDNEY DOMAIN—GOD BLESS IT!


Correct Wear this Winter.
Among better-dressed men the soft felt is
largely giving place this winter to the hard
black felt. London advices state that the
‘■Bowler” is being worn almost exclusively,
in preference to the negligg headwear of
wartime years.
Peapes’ have lately landed an excellent range
of the newest London shapes. These have
medium crown and 2-inch, smartly-rolled
brim.
Peapes’ competitive price.. 3 5b
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
s
6^
L
pOORD &.SOH|
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian A;
gents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before—
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this bv using Rostock’s
Dressings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. In Bottles and Tubes.
Now Obtainable—Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes.
Nigger Brown Paste, in Tins.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.,
Sydney.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Sixenate”: Justice Gordon had to deal
with a sort of double divorce case in Sydney
recently. A lady had started a suit to which
the co-re. named had entered an appearance;
and judgment was reserved, with things look-
ing bad for the petitioner. Then another
PROOF POSITIVE.
“Reggie’s absolutely down
and out!”
“How do you know?"
“Because now lie pays cash for every thing.”
case, brought by an angry husband, came
along; and the lady who wanted to be
divorced in the first case discovered that her
husband was named as co-re. in this one. So,
on the day that the second petitioner got his
decree, the first one put in an application
and was allowed to abandon her case involv-
ing the co-re. who objected, and to proceed
with a supplementary petition naming the
second petitioner’s wife. Incidentally, the
day this occurred, two parties to different
suits were celebrating their decrees absolute
by getting married to each other. They had
met for the first time in the court, the
woman being the petitioner in one case and
the man the respondent in another. This
is about the only instance on record wherein
romance has b?gun in the Divorce Court.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: The announcement that
H.M.S. Fantome will shortly go on a six-
months’ surveying cruise in Torres Strait
makes good reading. Many of the charts in
use vary little from those of Matthew Flin-
ders, and are none too accurate in detail. At
the entrance to Badu, in Banks Islands, are
galleon, has been
noticed on Stradbroke
Island. It is in one
oi the swamps near
the centre of the is-
land, and the galleon
is 'supposed to have
been lifted there by
some tidal wave. It
can only be seen in
the dry season when
the swamp is low and
the reeds, having 1 dried
up, can be burnt off.
A few timbers forming
a rough hull, sunk in
the mud, are all that
can be noticed, and
the modern Brisbane-
ite refuses to accept
this as good enough
evidence of a stately
galleon. One person,
who can go back onlv
about 30 years, avers
that he saw that hull
used as a cattle punt
carrying beasts across
the Strait. But the
greybeards, who re-
member their fathers
describing it to them,
contend that it was
once a treasure-ship,
and they intend to
settle the argument by making an excursion
to view the remains. Does Australian his-
tory record the wrecking of a Spanish gal-
leon on this coast?
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: A major I know, who before
the war was a solicitor, is running a coal-
yard, and a chap who used to be a Civil
Service clerk has taken to stoking since he
came back. One A.I.F. colonel is timber-
cutting in the country; and there’s an ex-
lieutenant selling fruit from a barrow. It
was this last who said “I wish you hadn’t
noticed me” to a member of his battalion
who recognised him. “Oh, we all have our
ups and down !” returned the Digger, reassur-
ingly. “Damn it, it’s not that,” said the
ex-loot, “it’s because, seeing you belong to
the old batt., I’ll have to give you a deener’s
worth for a sprat!”
“Percy Pawnticket”: I heard from a rela-
tive of hers the story of the model wife. She
had been married many years and had had
no children, when she learned
that her Reginald, in one of
his strayings, had left a
guileless girl with an en-
cumbrance. She promptly
called upon Hagar, and,
finding she was not exces-
sively fond of her offspring - ,
arranged to adopt it. The
youngster is now a petted and spoilt child
for whom nothing is considered too good by
her foster-mother.
* * * *
“Tocsee” : I was attending a class of in-
struction at which military law was one
of the subjects, and in the final examina-
tion-paper appeared: ‘‘Describe briefly sec-
tion 30 of the Army Act, and give an
example of a charge framed thereon.” One
candidate supplied this: “Section 30 allows
the officer, or person criming, unlimited
powers where other sections fail.” His
examule of a charge-sheet read : “Regt. No.:
Nil. Rank : Angel. Name : Gabriel. Charge :
Conduct to the prejudice of good order and
military discipline in that he blew a false
note on his trumpet.” He passed.
* * * »
From a city consulting-room :
Much ill-informed criticism of the N.S.W. Lunacy
Law has resulted from the ventilating of the ex-
tremely sad “Mrs. Farr case.” The medical experts
of the Lunacy Department are not fools, nor is the
law hopelessly obsolete; every possible precaution is
taken, and every safeguard provided, lest some sane
person should be locked up as insane, and one may
say that such a thing is as nearly impossible as any-
thing that can be conceived. But the full facts of
insanity are often such that they cannot be published ;
for even though a woman may go mad she is still
a woman and has a woman’s right to be held in
respect. Thus even a pretty, modest, self-possessed
little woman may at times, without warning, be
seized with an attack of obscene sexuality, which
two above-water rocks about 30ft. high, and
neither appears on the chart. Navigators
sailing smoothly into Batavia River (X.Q.)
feel squeamish when, looking at the chart,
they lind themselves officially two miles
inland! To make matters worse, Torres'
Strait natives, who sail luggers fearlessly
round these parts, are dangerous as local
pilots of bigger craft. Their primitive minds
seem to lack the sense of depth. Their idea
is apparently that the maximal depth of ships
is 7ft.—the draught of luggers to which they
are accustomed—and they will cheerfully try
to take a big ship over a reef which has
that depth of water at low tide.
_ “Science Grad”: Interest has been re-
vived in Brisbane, especially among the
pioneers, by the report that an old wreck,
supposed to be the remains of a Spanish
would at once cause her to be disgraced and arrested.
In her own interests, in the interests of her husband's
peace of mind, and in the interests of public morality*
it is better that such a victim of folie eireulaire
should be protected from her own failing. I am
not referring specially to Mrs. Parr* poor thing! but
I am simply stating the general principles that
govern the treatment of such cases. The woman, her
husband and her relations have a right to be left
alone with their trouble, and it is hardly possible
to speak too severely of any doctor who, knowing
these principles, takes it upon himself to interfere.
THE NEW EDUCATION.
“ Gwendoline, inhere did you learn to make
love like this?”
“ Darling, don’t tell me you’ve never been to
a picture-show!”
Sydney Municipal Council may be poor at
finance (in fact, it is losing £39,000 a month
on its lighting department alone, and owes
nearly three-quarters of a million to the
bank), but it is a stunner at correspondence.
Petersham Council got on its nerves lately
with a decidedly injudicious but brief letter.
The Sydney institution replied in a column
of newspaper print cut into 10 sentences, the
longest running to 103 words, so that it was
almost as protracted as the overdraft. Among
other things the little suburban body was
told that it had
taken up a position which, whilst being false
and meretricious in its premises and consequently is
notorious and unenviable, is nevertheless in every
sense quite unjustifiable.
Suggests the cadaver which whilst being de-
ceased was consequently dead had neverthe-
less passed away.
* * * *
“D.F.”: It is claimed for the old Anglican
Church at Buckland
(Tas.) that it has the
finest stained-glass
window in Australia.
The story runs that
the window originally
belonged to a 14th-
century church in
England, and that to
save it from the fury
of the Puritans in the
Civil Wars a local
family took it and hid
it in the cellar. In
the early days some of
this family’s descen-
dants came to the
Speck and settled at
Buckland, bringing
the window, which
was later given to the
church.
“Sparks”: During a recent Riverina.
(N.S.W.) trip I was struck by the number
of Diggers who, seemingly incapacitated,
nevertheless carried on. At Ganmain one
short of a leg and a hand forked hay to a
chaffcutter and kept it busy, too. He see-
sawed the fork across a hook and, as he cheer-
fully announced, “didn’t give a damn.” At
Forbes another chopped wood with about the
mightiest right arm I ever looked at. He’d
left its mate in France. Some actually turn
the alleged disability to account. A one-
armed man. feeding a chaffcutter at Eumun-
gerie, near Dubbo, had had an extra-long hook
fitted, and used it td rake th'e from the
steamer-lik)litk to the butter feed-box. I ex-
pfected to see him sit down while the
Waggon was being loaded. He merely
adjusted a shorter hook, and the way
a powerful jerk brought those bags to
his shoulder made me glad I hadn’t
mentioned it. Posthole sinking is an
awkward job; yet near the Victorian border
I, saw a one-armed man a good hand at it.
None of these jobs were benevolent asylums;
most of them were contract. And so with
snort. The good man before the war is
the almost equally good man afterwards, in
spite of various seeming disablements. When
is a Digger disabled? Also, when does he
admit it?
* * * *
“Tocsee”: When I went into camp with
the A.M.C. we paraded for the selection of
n.c.o.’s. The adjutant ordered all those con*
nected with the medical profession to take
a pace forward. Bottles* Who Whs next: to
me, stepped up. lb his tlirn the adjutant
asked him in wktlt way he was connected
With the sawbones trade. “Undertaker, sir,”
Bottles answered smartly, lie was made
Washerman.
* * * *
“Aloysius”: The newspaper reports of the
Port Melbourne Council’s decision to burn
certain books in the municipal library were
more or less misleading. When, during the
course of a discussion on library affairs, one
councillor cited “Liza of Lambeth” as a type
of book which should not he on the shelves,
Cr. Page, who himself was responsible for the
inclusion of the book in the catalogue, brought
forward the now famous motion, not in a
transport of indignation, but as one who
should say “Oh, well, burn the damn thing, and
let s talk business.” Another councillor took
Page’s motion seriously and added thereto the
name of another novel—and a humorless
council hereby gave one very ordinary book
and another less than ordinary a glowing
advt.
* * * #
“Gunner” on the English wav !— =
The transport on which my unit left foi 1 Suez W4s
bossed by a flag-enthusiast, Every night the officers;
"hose mess was draped with Union daUks, had to
rise at a signal and sing “God SaVe the King."
livery night— with perfectly loyal and yet derisive
Oiggers peering through the portholes at them!
When there was an entertainment on the boat-deck
the place blazed with Union Jacks and they draped
the table when the C.O. lectured on discipline or
the -V.O. on blind staggers in horses.
We got to Suez. Not a Union Jack was to be
seen. It was the same in the wilderness of camps
which encircled Cairo. The officers dropped singing
“Cod Save” after their evening meal. In England
it was the same. As for the place where men were
giving their lives for all that the flag represents, [
can safely say that from Ypres to Amiens you
couldn’t find as many as would go into Tom ’Enley’s
plug hat. I dined many times in British messes in
1917 and 1918. None of them seemed to possess a
Union Jack. The loyal toast was drunk, if at all,
once a week —on Friday. I often saw it omitted on
that day, and in any case no one sang “God Save
the King,” or hoisted any flag over the billet, tent,
Nissen hut or dugout, as the case might be.
There were I.W.W. men in the A.I.F. (two of the
sternest anti-Prussians I ever knew owed allegiance
to the foolish creed), and of course myriads of
Laborites. In the English regiments during the
black winter of 1917 and afterwards it would haVe
been hard to throw a brick amongst a party of
rankers without hitting a revolutionary, So 'flag-
waving was not considered suitable as a corrective
for disloyalty. Or was it that those to whom the Flag
SOME VIRTUE IN IT, AFTER ALL.
“Your husband must enjoy his home.”
“lie does. Especially when I leant him to
take me out.”
represents so much consider it too sacred to be used
as a bludgeon ? Anyhow, there the fact was, and on
the good old principle that “cabby knows his
fare I think the reticent English methods are
likely to be sounder than the blatant Prussian ones
we have seen in evidence here of late.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE MISSIONED
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Smioriiinemoibalu, a fully-ordained Methodist
minister, arrived in Sydney yesterday afternoon by
tiie steamer Morinda. bootless, he stepped ashore
swinging a hurricane lamp, and shivering, in a heavy
overcoat lent to him by the Rev. G. Hewitt.”—Sun.
Smionimonioibalu,
l)o you stand for something new?
Do your boot-free feet proclaim
Freedom, too, from hatred’s flame?
Ministers whose skins are white
Nag and wrangle, curse and fight:
Maybe you, though dark of face,
Have a nature white with grace.
Can it be that, lamp in hand,
You propose to tour our land,
Searching, like the sage of old,
For true souls and hearts of gold ?
Life, with loving-kindness fraught,
Still, as when your Master taught,
Is the world’s compelling need.
Are you here, by word and deed,
To reform our heathen ways?
If it is so, shouts of praise,
Long and loud and hearty (blent
With, alas! blank wonderment)
Ev’rywhere will follow you,
Smi on i mo moi balu!
N.s.w.
D. J.


Austral Overcoats
WHEN the bitter days and nights arrive, will you be
prepared? If not you will sacrifice your comfort
—maybe your health.
An “Austral” Overcoat will keep you snug and secure.
Men s Austral” Overcoats, with Raglan shoulders,
fly buttoning front or to button through, wind strap
cuffs, and flap pockets. Made from Australian
Tweeds, in Brown, and Medium and Light Grey
shades.
651-
Other Prices: 75/-, 84/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
Men s Austral” Chesterfield Overcoats, as illus-
tration, single-breasted style, with set-in sleeves,
fly front, two buttons on plain cuff, and two patch
pockets. Made in Dark Grey shade of Medium-
weight Overcoatings.
126 1-
Austral All-Wool Rugs
DO you know of anything more useful than a good
rug? For travelling, motoring, driving, or as an
extra blanket it is a great winter companion.
Australian-made All-Wool Rug, “The
measures 60 x 72 inches, and has fringed ends.
Available in several attractive broad-check patterns
and quiet colorings. A very serviceable rug.
25|-
“Nulla Nulla” Rugs 29/6
“Coo-ee” Rugs 31/6
“Bosker” Rugs 50/-
“Canberra” Rugs 63/-
“Marrickville” Rugs 75/-
wm
s
\
' :
*****
as*
*»««,.- ,w
.-<
“ilf 2 ;.:
HH
E3r*r/. . ;
v
* * ' 4
&Si * %Jf ‘
'iBHEaL j
V.
:s>-:
V •• >.
a,
Hi
•;
■
■
1
v.
1
; •■«■*
■■
IP 5
m
.
■ a
a
■
\
WBUm
>
e
;••••'■:• •>
■ ■
I
.
■
Slgfe
i 1
s
■
1
■rk
a
■a- /
*
a;- :
8 ;
a.
m
f •
■
:s:
■
Mgpr>
Mf ■ ■
: ; :; ; :.-
1
H
W4£T'%m\ :
' x "*~*{!aZ
Headquarters Store:—
486-494 George Street,
1 to 17 Royal Arcade,
Branch Store at 304-306 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Orders Delivered Free in City , Suburbs and Con try .
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods.


Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Eoad from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl. 300?. Apply Manager.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and .supply experienced Drillers, and advise
nn matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. 12
STA<a
LA6ER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management <-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Kara*’ : L nabie 10 account for the
showers oi barbed arrows which, with disas-
trous effects, greeted his infantry from every
thicket of the Compiegne Forest in 101-i,
r ritz put it down to the French using Congo
archers. Me little guessed the culprits were
licard long-bow frano-tireura too old for the
line, and doing their bit at their own risk.
A 1 leardy bowman would lick a redskin at
the game, and all the poaching fraternity of
that region use bows and arrows, in prefer-
ence to guns, for obvious reasons. Archery
has been the national sport in the province
since the French kings, profiting by the les-
sons of Cr6cy, etc., launched a Compapnie-
de l arc in every village, with yearly shoots
and prizes. Picardy is the only province
that still keeps it up, and I heard that indi-
viclual Picards in the line lined to fire arrows
at night into Fritz’s trenches, and also
used them with burning straw as impromptu
flares during night attacks.
* » * *
“Dan de Non” asks what’s in a name:—
Through the crowd bustling- trainwards along
Flinders-street the other day cycled u diminutive
man, carrying on his shoulder a length of iron piping.
The straight course was easy. But as he turned
into Klizabeth-street the bicycle swerved; one end
of the pipe struck a portly citizen on the nose, the
other end hit a cab horse, causing it to plunge past
the uplifted hand of the Law. Cabby cursed. John
Hop, barely dodging the pipe, grabbed at the
cyclist. All fell, and the pipe, shooting off spear-
iike, wrought destruction among a bundle of bal-
loons and smote the vendor, causing that swarthy
Dago to collapse on top of a mailboy clearing the
letter pillar. Out of the crowd waddled a Tooraketty
dowager leading a bulldog, which spotted the fallen
forms and strained on the chain. His chaperon
stepped on the pipe, which rolled, and she sat down
hard. The dog testified to careful training by biting
the policeman. When the confusion ceased, the note-
book of the Law was produced. The cyclist's name
was Charles Chaplin !
POOR MAN! POOR
MAN!
“My husband has had
indigestion for the
past month."
Really! I'm so sorry! I had no idea you were without a cook."
“Gagi”: Abolish the death penalty for
desertion even in time of war. A man is
more likely to desert from shell-shock than
anything else. Here’s a padre’s tale. A
middle-aged officer in France, a man tried in
battle and already “mentioned” more than
once, repulsed a Hun attack with the utmost
coolness. After it was all over he turned
suddenly to the padre and said: “Another
minute of that and I’d have bunked.” The
padre laughed at him. But a few minutes
later, and just before relief was due, he heard
a sudden, hysterical yell, and turned just in
time to see his friend spring to the parapet
and rush towards the enemy. He was dropped,
oi course, before he had covered 20 yards, and
his record-book showed “Killed in action.”
"But, ' says the padre, “he might just as
easily have run the other way during the
scrap and had ‘Coward’ put to a record of
death penalty ; for he was mad at the time,
quite mad.”
THE LIMIT.
ONE: "I wish you would introduce me to Mr. Slideaway."
THE OTHER: “ Impossible, my dear. Why, he’s that, scared of women he employs a man
stenographer-secretary."
A talk about wireless from the inside:—
If anything happened to the stray cable tied to
the Australian coast (things can happen to cables
along the thousands of miles of their length) Aus-
tralia would be absolutely isolated. We haven’t
a radio station capable of establishing communica-
tion with any British station overseas. While other
countries, notably U.S.A., are developing wireless to
the limit of engineering knowledge, Australia lags
along with gear that was obsolete in 1905. The two
“defence” stations, Sydney and Perth, are much less
efficient than they were in 1912. Then, using the
now obsolete crystal detectors, Perth and Sydney
could communicate under moderately good condi-
tions with certainty. Similarly, Sydney and Awanui,
at the top end of M.L., could communicate day or
night. To-day their transmitting efficiency has
slipped back so far that in spite of the introduction
of the freakishly-sensitive audion detector the per-
formance of 1912 is an utter impossibility, even
under good conditions. This is the result of the endless
fool experiments and alterations carried out in the
years between by men of no ability. For instance,
the aerials at Sydney and Perth, which were designed,
after considerable experiment, by men who knew
their business (the German engineers in charge of
the erection), were torn down soon after the
calamitous Navy control commenced, and, without
any experiment whatever, Navy-type aerials were
installed. The signal-strength fell three points, which
was put down to the stupidity of the operators.
In the Navy the heads are never wrong. Soon
afterwards Sydney Radio was asked to communi-
oate with Awanui. The test was a failure. The
construction error has never been rectified. Recently
it was decided to send out press messages from Syd-
ney Radio to ships, the messages to be copied by
Perth Radio and broadcasted over the Indian Ocean.
The project was a failure, and the stuff has to be
sent to Perth over the land-lines. Money is being
continually wasted. For example, two years ago
tests were carried out between Sydney and Towns-
ville, using 2Ak.w. arc-sets. On account of insuffi-
cient power the tests were failures. Nevertheless,
shortly afterwards, arc-sets of just that power were
installed in a majority of Australian stations. They
had been ordered, like Hughes’s wooden ships, before
they had been tested. Apart from the uselessness of
such Stations from a defence or daylight-chain point
of view, insufficient power means wholesale repeti-
tions and consequent waste of time and oil.
Ivboat : I was in a Maorilaud transport
bound to Blighty with 1000 Diggers, and the
Old Man rubbed against the grain of
everybody aboard, from the O.C. down. A
tew days out the Diggers complained about
some rancid butter, and his only reply was
that they would have a blanky sight worse
before long. That night about six cases of
it went over the side mysteriously. When
we got to Albany (W.A.) the skipper went
over the side on a rope ladder to go ashore
on ship’s business; but the launch he was
to go in made a mess of coming alongside.
As usual there were hundreds of Diggers
rubber-necking, and one brilliant youth put
his knife through the rope, so that the Old
Man went ker-plunk into the harbor. As
he was passing along the troop-deck, wet
as a shag, all hands grinning, a solicitous
voice chirped: “D'yon see anything of the
butter, captain?”
* * * *
Mr. Ocky ’: The heads soon noticed that
the Orkneys and the Isle of Man were extra-
ordinarily popular among Aussies getting
Blighty leave from France. On account of
the distance and the time lost in travelling
the War Office had granted an extra day
tor such trips, and hundreds of shrewd Aus-
sies, before leaving their units, had the war-
rants made out for Douglas or any other
mnote old place they could find on tile map
Of course, they never tried to get there, but
the odd day was handy in London. Finally
it was decided that nobody could go to these
places unless he had relatives there. But
that didn’t stop 11s. The number of Diggers’
dying grandmas in the Isle of Bloke and the
Orkneys after that was appalling. Many of
them telegraphed pathetic appeals to their
grandsons to come and see them before it
was too late.
* * * *
‘■fsixenate” tells of virtue rewarded :
One man in Sydney will hesitate before he avain
does a good turn for a frail woman. Briggs is a
kindly bachelor, getting on in years, who has always
had a shyness about females; but when he came
across a sensation in a city street, the sensation
being a homeless creature, obviously near childbirth,
his good nature overcame his shyness. He called a
cab and himself rushed the woman to hospital, told
the poor thing that if she needed help in an extrem-
ity to apply to him, and later, having been informed
that the mother had no clothes for the infant, handed
ov.;r money to supply the need. A few weeks later,
jint as he was beginning to forget the incident, he
got the shock of his life. An official, with the care
of neglected infants on his hands, called to see what
he was going to do about it. In spite of his denials,
he was hauled to the Children’s Court, where a
magistrate spoke harshly to him about “heartless
desertion,” and ordered him to pay some accouche-
ment costs and observe a maintenance order. Fran-
tically he appealed to the woman to tell the truth,
but she stonily professed to have already told it in
certifying him as the father. Meantime his life
had been made miserable and furtive by the appear-
ance on the scene of a burly laborer who had turned
his daughter out of doors, and now declared his
intention of doing injury to the cur who had be-
trayed her. Later a parson called to entreat him
as a man to “do the right thing” ; and some women
social-workers made appeals by letter to his “better
nature.” The situation was driving him nearly
mad when the man who was really responsible
appeared looking for the girl ; but when he realised
there was money in it he refused to take the respon-
sibility until Briggs had parted up substantially
to commence the housekeeping. Then he sailed into
Briggs and gave that peaceful citizen a hiding for
“fooling about with his girl.” The woman’s exp.aaa-
tion was that, being desperate and imagining herself
deserted for good, she had grabbed the opportunity
Briggs presented for securing support for herself
and her infant.
“Skyrider”: These things will happen.
Lieut. Crowe has been showing his gallery
of war-pictures in Goulburn (N.S.W.), and
his lectures have been well attended by the
local kids. Ilis last talk was about the plans
tin* Mims had made concerning Australia.
"I suppose you will be surprised to hear that
the Germans had actually appointed a Gov-
ernor-General. Whom do you thing they
selected?” A youngster from the public
school got in first. ‘‘Doctor Mannix!” he
chirped.
* * * #
“Svranx”: The night parades of senior
cadets, under our Defence system, are, so
far as I know them, mere fag-smoking com-
petitions. Area-officers with the backbone
of jelly-fish give orders occasionally, and no
one takes the slightest notice. The Satur-
day parades are funniest (if it weren’t all
so rotten) at the roll-call. Every one
answers “My oath!” or “Goodo, Steve!” or
“Right you are, Archibald!” or anything else
hut the right thing. Then all pinch home in
twos and threes till only the officers are
left, and these, not being inclined to drill
on their own, usually get together about
half-time and formally dismiss themselves.
* * * »
“Copabella”: Intervention by the Stork
was the novel cause of the non-suiting of a
complainant in a petty sessions case in a
'Vic. court recently. The written charge
against defendant was that he was the
father of a child which complainant was
“expected to bear.” Complainant did not
appear, and her counsel explained that at
G o’clock that morning she had made the
charge null and void, thus rendering it
necessary for him to withdraw it and pro-
ceed along other lines. The child was no
longer “expected”: it had arrived. The
father showed none of that emotion which
Miss Ethel Dell and her school say floods a
man when such epic announcements are
made.
IMPATIENT PA.
DAFFODIL: “I told Pa we’d arranged to he
married next month.” ,
HERBERT: "Was he angry?"
DAFFODIL: “Yes—a little bit. He asked
why the Devil you couldn’t have made it
next week."
THE ROSE GARDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
X dreamt of roses on the hill
" hile yet the earth was yellow-brown;
1 saw them lift a crimson frill
And toss to Heaven a golden crown.
Their mingled sweetness seemed to drown
The last pale thought of wrong and ill —
While yet the earth was yellow-brown
I dreamt of roses on the hill.
Deeply the mattock scarred the clay
"hile labor to its dreaming wrought;
And in the yellow fall of May
The broken soil the sunlight caught.
Round graves and cold ! Ah, not for naught
Tou buried Autumn’s sighs away!
\\ hile labor to its dreaming wrought
The mattock deeply scarred the clav.
1 saw low graves upon a hill;
Shall there be roses in some Spring
When men in splendid bloom of will
Rise to their high imagining?
Oh, heart of dreams, make baste to sing
Of life’s last triumph over ill—
There shall be roses in the Spring
For all the graves upon the hill!
X.S.W.
D. M. W.


SUi 1
A
%
%
l i
1
« I t
l r \
3
y/ v i
it
rfhcWonderful
Duo -Art Pianola.
MASTER PIANO OF THE WORLD
A REMARKABLE NEW
ACHIEVEMENT.
IN reading about the performances of famous
pianists like Paderewski, Harold Bauer,
Mark Hambourg, Percy Grainger, and a
host of others, you have probably wished it
were possible to hear these famous artists
more frequently, and for your children who
are studying music to enjoy the same privilege.
The possession of the new Duo - Art
Pianola confers this priceless benefit upon you,
for by means of specially prepared Duo-Art
Rolls, the actual performances of the great
pianists materialise in your own home.
You rub your eyes in amazement ! Can
this be true ? You have only to call at our
Showrooms to have the above statement
conclusively proved to you by demonstration.
Informal Recitals Daily.
The Duo-Art can ONLY be obtained in
the following Pianos—STEINWAY, STECK,
STROUD, and Famous WEBER.
A PIANO OF HIGH
QUALITY.
EACH Duo-Art Pianola Piano is primarily,
and of necessity, a good piano, well
made and of high quality. The reputa-
tion of the greatest music house in the world
rests upon this point. As a piano for hand-
playing, study or accompanying, the instrument
is not in the least changed by the addition
of the Duo-Art.
Every instrument that bears the trade mark
* Duo-Art' Pianola will be found sweet and
clear in tone, perfect in action and voicing,
beautifully up to date in appearance. You
are invited to hear the Duo-Art Pianola Piano
at your first opportunity.
Every person who has the interests of his
or her home at heart will want one of these
instruments. For the Duo-Art can give them
and their loved ones Music of the world’s
best and greatest. More than this, it can
give them music that 710 other instrument
in existence can give.
Your -present instrument accepted in part payment, and moderate
monthly payments arranged.
Informal recitals of the Duo-Art are held at our showrooms daily.
You are cordially invited to call; if not convenient to come in,
fill in coupon below and receive Art Catalog of the Duo-Art.
The Pianola Company
Trade Mark “AEOLIAN"
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 436 Queen Street, BRISBANE,
58 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
Pty.
Ltd.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY !
Please post me Art Catalog of
the Duo-Art Pianola.
Name
Address
1058


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEVft%
EXTRA HIGH GRADE* *
3] K. TOWXS & CO.. Agents.
—I Suffer Eczema L-
No Longer!
Numbers of happy people, now cured, are
testifying to the wonderful curative power of
the marvellous discovery,
LIGMOLLIENE
Eminent members of the medical profession
recommend it, which is yet further evidence
of its great value. Your chemist sells it at
5/6 and 7/6 a tin, but if you cut out this
advt. and send it with 1/6 postal note to
LIGMOLLIENE CO., Malyons, Sturt Street,
Ballarat, a special sample will be sent you.
LIGMOLLIENE SOAP
All ladies who would’ attain a clear, soft,
beautiful skin should always use this care-
fully compounded soap. It improves the
_ complexion.
■1 Price 1/- Ha
A Signal Success
<s
0
WffiHISKSf
IKeTOP-NOTCHScotcli.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Josser” : The medical officer who bluffed
“Ragar’’ (B. 23/12/’2O) into believing that the paw-
paw isn’t a good tree to have about the place didn’t
really fancy that his advice was going to be followed.
The joke was a good one in Thursday Island at the
time; and “Ragar” himself acknowledges what the
power of suggestion will do. That the paw-paw
possesses virtues, however, in addition to those
A FADE OUT.
MARY PICKFORD : “So you turned him down.”
NORMA TALMADGE: “Sure thing! He told
me he teas connected with the movies,
and then I saw him driving a furniture
van.”
enumerated by “Ragar,” has just been discovered
for the people of the Cold Country by the London
Times, which tells us that the milky preparation is
now precipitated and put up on a large scale for
export by growers in Ceylon, Montserrat an 1 Hawaii.
It can be used instead of rennet for curdling milk
(so says the Times), is a most valuable digestive,
is useful in diphtheria and eczema, and is a cure
for freckles, as well as a handy substance for remov-
ing stains from clothes. A tree at Kew Gardens
(Lond.) is now bearing fruit, but it apparently
hasn’t the flavor of the true tropically-grown.
“Murkah”: Contrary to “Ivboat’s” state-
ment (B. 28/4/’2l), the albatross cannot rest
serenely on water that is breaking heavily. He
might as well argue that it could rest •at the
foot of a waterfall. The nights of a four-days’ gale
in one direction were moonlight—when the clouds
that whipped across the sky permitted—and we could
see the wanderers balancing themselves on the blast,
which came from dead ahead. After 70-odd hours of
this wide-eyed watchfulness I was not surprised, on
the fourth day, to see them snatching 40-second
spells, rising in time to escape the tumbling tons of
water as the next wave came over. The night after
the wind fell there wasn’t a bird in sight.
“10.5” : Working with a survey party, we
were doing a pack-trip by gorge and mountain in vile
weather. The hillsides were 100-e and treacherous,
and in rounding a fallen tree a heavily-laden pack-
mare lost her footing, and went hurtling end-over-
end down a steep hillside. We watched her for fully
150 ft. till she disappeared over a perpendicular wall
of -reck",-and-from there to the creek-bed was easily
another 50ft. We had to get the pack, gear and
saddle up. The “(logman” went cautiously to the
and looked down. Expecting to glimpse the
broken and battered remains of the marc, he was
staggered when he saw her standing on her feet in
the bottom. Me climbed down to her and found her
minus the halter and bare of every buckle. A red-
gum tree had grown out near the base of the cliff,
and under the tree was a sand-bed about eight feet
square, the only sand for miles up or down. The
mare had fallen into the tree; it had snapped at the
butt, thus breaking her fall, and the sand made the
final landing easy. She had a three-inch cut under
the shoulder, and minor abrasions about the head.
We. put the halter on and led her down the creek-bed.
Next day she seemed but little the worse for it and
when we last saw her she was “eating like a horse.”
* V * *
“A.M.C.”: “Jim Carew” (B. 2S/4/'2l)
can still rely on his clerical friend’s veracity, as I
have seen a fox-terrier, overturn and kill a por-
cupine. But 1 must confess I have only seen it done
once, and then foxie found the job hard. Also re
“Globe’s” bet that cultivated land has been flooded
before growing a crop of euealypts (B. 28/4/’2l). if
he comes to New England (N.S.w.) 1 can show him
an old cultivation-paddock with a good crop, and it
is on top of the range.
“10.5”: It’s written that a black duck on
the wing can do 90 miles an hour. If so there’s a
large hawk by the Chandler River (N.S.W.) that can
do over'9o. Fishing there recently I heard a strange
commotion in mid-air and saw two black ducks whirr-
ing along on top gear, with the hawk in pursuit. He
was flying a few feet higher than the ducks, and as
he came on his gain in a few yards was plainly visible.
When immediately overhead he charged downward,
striking with his beak, and a duck fell as though shot
through the heart. His neck was broken, and one
wing was bruised by the fall. Otherwise he was a
good duck. I had him for dinner next day.
# * * *
“Scrub-dasher”: Allow me to put a
feather in “Delhi's” cap (B. 17/3/’2l) for favoring
the wedge-tailed eagle as a pest-destroyer. Up here
in far N.Q. Wedgie has made a great name for him-
self by destroying the flying-fox. I have seen a pair
of hawks visit a camp of the fruit pest and watched
them do the slaughtering. The orchard owner should
lift his hat to this gigantic bird every time they
meet.
* * * *
“De Facto”: The senseless slaughter of
black swans in the Speck (B. 28/4/’2l) began very
early. As far back as March 10, 1804, a few months
after the first settlement, Lieut.-Gov. Collins issued a
general order on the subject. He said he understood
that “the number of swans on the upper part of
the Derwent is considerably diminished through their
having been of late much harassed and disturbed” ;
wherefore he directed that no one should molest the
birds, and expressed the hope that they would return
to their usual haunts.
* * » *
“Gregor”: “Dean’s” statement (B.
17/3/’2l) that there are abo. tribes Which have a
sure specific for gonorrhoea, -of a vegetable nature,
may not be so far wide of the mark. Many of our
indigenous plants contain active principles in the
form of chemical bodies, known as glucosides or
alkaloids, and some of these are possessed of distinct
anti-bacterial properties. Thus, an infusion of one
of these plants, provided that the principle is water-
soluble, would if drunk, naturally be excreted from
the body via the kidney route, and a bacteriacidal
glucoside, passing thus would make short work of the
gonococci, the casual organisms of gonorrhoea.
“Bav.”: A recent par. about an absent-
minded cockie mopping up the contents of a rain-
gauge reminds me of another absent-minded chap, a
pommy. He was out fishing with us, and our stories
got him excited. “Bai Jove, how vewy interwesting,”
he bleated. “Last time I was fishing was at Lord
Muckham’s —in Kent, y* know.” Here he took out
a gold cigarette-case an'd offered smokes all round.
“We were fishing for twout, and, do you know. I
actually saw some bally blighter, when he thought
no one was watching, using worms.” He lit the
cigarette, put the dead match into his pocket and
threw the case into 15 fathoms of water.
“Ariel”: Tell “Araguri” (B. 14/4/’2l)
that some dogs will kill death-adders. I saw one do
the trick on Oxley Island, Manning River (N.S.W.).
The dog was a noted snake-killer. One day he came
across an adder and eyed it cautiously for a consider-
able time. After some encouragement he leaped
at it, snapped it across the back, and bounded away.
He repeated this stunt until the adder was settled;
but never once did he shake the wriggler in the
orthodox way. During the performance the adder
did its best half-hoop act, but without avail.
* * * •
“Skyrider”: “Jim Carew’s” hint regard-
ing goanna oil (B. 21/4/’2l) introduces a new ingre-
dient as far as some old hands are concerned. On
the Northern Tablelands (N.S.W.) we used to melt
the fat as per Jim’s instructions, in the sun, but we
took one part of the fat to three of olive oil and
rubbed that in. I don’t say that turps, isn’t as
good—never tried it —but the olive oil and go. fat
will penetrate even the hide of a politician.
“ Yoyang" : Will some Abo. tell me whether
the quail is a Mormon, or does the lady of his heart
leave him to hatch out the eggs while she gets
another mate and lays another batch of eggs? Both
these versions, contrary as they are, find supporters.
Even Leach makes hubby hatch the eggs and bring
ANOTHER CASE FOR CO-OPERATION.
“Oh, you're a reporter—how exciting! You’ll put me in your paper, won't you?"
“Eh y-yes, Miss Gadfly—hut you must help me. You see, Ido the police rounds and
the courts.”
up the young while his spouse walks off with another
mate and founds another family ; but the Rev. J. G.
Wood states that his lordship takes a plurality of
wives and is a polygamist. When authorities such as
these differ what is the mere man-in-the-street to
think about it? We learn from Exodus that the
quail fly by night, and I am told that in their
migrations the male-birds, who are less gaily dressed
than their spouses, fly some days in advance of the
latter, which renders them more liable to attack.
Is it possible that the fact that the males are less
conspicuously marked has given rise to one of the
versions ■ given above ?
“F.F.”: How is this for fidelity 7? A
boundary-rider on v the lower Murray, troubled by
dingoes, set some traps in the mallee about 10 miles
back from the river. When he went out a few
days later he found one trap gone. He picked up the
trail of it being dragged towards the river. When
he had followed it about four miles he came to
where the trapped dingo had been fed by its mate,
there being rabbits’ paws, skin, fur, etc., strewn
about. The tracks showed that the two had camped
for awhile before going on. About four miles
further on the dingo had been fed again by its mate.
Then another two miles brought the river, where the
trap got caught in some driftwood- —and that was
the end of the sheep-killer.
THE NOVICE.
MAGISTRATE: “ Ever been in gool?"
PRISONER: “Yes, sir. Seven years, sir. But
only once.”
"Silas Snell”: James Jarret struck Pea-
field at a dull time. He cast his discriminating eye
oi ei the township and district, and the dullness was
obvious. The need for such wares as he carried in
his t«o strapped handbags was down to minimum.
In these circumstances Jarret did not seek to force
(Continued on page 22.)
his goods upon the housewives of Peafield; he set
about creating a crying need. He started in Crad-
dock s bar, and having got a Home Itule controversy
well going there, crossed to Wiley’s and spent an
hour working up an argument on the excellence or
otherwise of the principles of Orangeism. At Cann’s
boarding-house, where 15 navvies and shearers were
lolling under the wide verandah, Janet introduced the
question of the relative merits of I.W.W. and straight
trades unionism. At each stopping-place the traveller
lingered to give the debate an acute personal interest.
Three fights broke out in Peafield simultaneously, two
of them free, and the third bred five others. Never
had Peafield experienced so inharmonious a night as
raged up till midnight on the 4th March. On the
morning of the fifth, soon after a good breakfast.
Jarret set out on a house-to-house round, selling
Jarret’s celebrated liniment for colds, and Jackson’s
Little Wonder Box of pink ointment, a miraculous
cure for scalds, burns, bumps, bruises, sprains, cuts,
contusions, hurts and aches. Jarret sold out within
five hours, and passed on, and Peafield is still wonder-
ing what hit it.
“John Dee”: “Sir Spen” (B. 31/3/’2l) is
a little astray in his account of the wiping out of a
settler’s family by blacks on the North Coast
(N.S.W.). It occurred on the Bellinger, not the
Nambucca. The house stands in a grove of orange-
trees on the main Bellinger-Dorrigo road near the
eight-mile peg. The baby was saved because the
mother, seeing the blacks approaching, threw it out
of the window. Old Jimmy, the blackfellow who
lives in a bark lean-to not far from the house, told
me all about it.
* * * *
“Lou”: Let me fling a line or two of
thanks to the people who run the “Bushmen’s Homes”
in many outback towns. Biking from Melbourne to
Sydney recently, I pulled into one at Albury, one at
Junee and one at Wagga—and they tell me there’s a
whole lot more all over N. S. Wales. You just
blow in, unroll your own nap on a decent bed, boil
tile ‘ knock-me-sillv” and grill a chop at the com-
munal fire, do your washing and mending, and have
a general clean-up, which is very handy for the
knockabout man who doesn’t own a laundry. All for
a paltry bob a night, *and stay as long as you like.
The Homes are specially acceptable to “ball-bearing
bums’’ on bikes, who thrive on mileage and show
an utter disregard for the recognised stages.
THE OPEN ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clipity-clop, clipity-clop,
The Open Road for me;
The old sun, the gold sun,
Ashine upon the lea.
My light mare, my white mare,
Swinging along so free —
Clipity-clop, clipity-clop,
The Open Road for me!
Clipity-clop, clipity-clop,
The Open Road for me;
The white moon, the bright moon
Abeam upon the sea;
The blue hills, the true hills,
Faint and far and free—
Clipity-clop, clipity-clop,
The Open Road for me.
Clipity-clop, clipity-clop,
Oh, see the dawning breaks;
The grey sky, the May sky,
A crimson flushing takes;
The high road, the by-road,
All roads my road shall be.
For it’s clipity-clop, clipity-clop,
The Open Road for me!
VICTORIA.
E. M.


ADVENTURE NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
Australia’s Foremost Fiction Library.
1/3 each.
1/4
K>H
posted.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers
or direct from the Publishers.
“THE FENCELESS RANGES,” by Roy Bridges
A great story of the Kelly Gang.
“THE MAKER OF PEARLS,” by S. W. Powell
An excellent volume of Island adventure and humor.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,”
by Jack North
Thrilling Sporting Adventure,
“THE CORAL QUEEN,” by Beatrice Grimshaw
“THE SKIPPER OF ‘THE ROARING MEG,’ ”
by Jack McLaren
“YELLOW SILVER,” by Edward Meryon.
“A GAME OF CHANCE,” by Arthur Wright
“FOR TURON GOLD,” by Don Delaney
“THE TRADER,” by Cecil Ross-Johnson.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
470 George Street, Sydney.
“It will do me!”
The Gillette, once used, becomes a man’t
preference for life.
Qillettc
is the Safety Razor that is adjustable to any beard growti
by a simple turn of the handle.
No stropping—no honing.
Standard set in neat leather case, 28/6.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors —S. HOFF.NUNG & CO., LTD.,
Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide.
ki acmf
&NOVVM THU
J®
CANADA.
WORLD OVEfc
TEARING-DOWN PRICE SALE.
OVERCOAT WEEK
at THE LEVIATHAN
Largest Stocks to Select From —
Presenting Extraordinary Values
Popular All-Wool Dark-Grey
Cheviot Overcoat, with velvet col-
lar, belt all round, with buckle,
raised seams, and vertical patch
pockets. Unegualled
for service. JExtra
Special.
Double-Breasted Overcoat, in
Dark-Grey Cheviot, fashioned with
belt all round, large lapels, flap
pockets, raised seams, a serviceable
Winter Coat that will stand any
amount of hard wear.
Usual price, 115/-;
Sale Price . . . ~
The Celebrated Tasmanian
Bluey —ln Dark-Grey Coating,
single-breasted style, with fly front,
gauntlet cuffs, half-belt, deep vent ?
at back, and full skirt. The idealv
coat for travelling and
motoring. Usual price,
112/6 ; Sale Price 1V fa / V
IMPORTED OVERCOATS.
British Manufacture—Specially
Selected for The Leviathan.
New English Model COAT, latest
London style, for walking, motoring
and travelling, features double-
breasted front, and plain or belted
back. Colors: Greys, Browns, and
fancy mixtures. Usual price llfl _
130/-; Sale Price 11 u
Superior Quality, 147/-; Now 126/-
Smart Double-breasted London
in dark grey Coating, styl-
ishly tailored, very dressy. Usual
price, 10 guineas; O fine
Sale Price u
Also in Single-breasted styles;
Sale Price, 8 guineas.
GENUINE BURBERRYS.
The Famous “Slip-on Slimber/’
smartly tailored from best quality
gabardine, of silk-like texture, half
lined with rich shot silk, storm col-
lar. Burberrys are very light, in
weight and efficient weather resis-
ters. Usual price 9 gns. Q fine
Sale Price w V
m
m
li
I
zv
m
1
m
rv
Write for Illustrated Catalogue To-day.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
SHIRTS
and PYJAMAS
These features—Quality
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands—
double seams and gus-
sets which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
it
i
m
r
ass
i
all
on
«?e
4
AS
fV
Ui
mm i


Brewed at Home
S*
3
If it isn't,
Its Better
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Veast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia —BAR NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban ar.d Country Stores in Aus-
tralia.
OR POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria,
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVIULE, VICTORIA.
DEAFNESS
It I™ a . re d . eaf > or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
W ilson’s Ear Drums
are the only device in
the world that will re-
fract and focus waves
of sound upon the
drum-head, and assist
the hearing power
where any sound can
be heard. Thev vi-
brate sound where the
natural ear drums are
entirely or partially
destroyed, perforated,
scarred, relaxed or
. thickened.
The price is £l/1/. f or the Outfit. Use order
full” instructions. ° Ut^t Wlll be at once, with j
v V
WILKINSON & CO., Room 14, 178 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
. P e send complete Outfit containing a pa j r
of Wilson Commonsense Ear-Drums, for which
I enclose £l/1/- ™
Name
Address
Zanthus”: Though it has had a rough
spin the wild turkey or bustard is by no means
extinct in Vic. Mobs of a dozen or two are some-
times seen on the plains out towards the S.A. border.
But the stronghold of these fine birds is the Nullar-
bor Plain, along the East-West line, and there
they ought to have peace for a while yet.
“B. Ill”: “3528” (B. 14/4/’2l) says he
is laughed at by some know-alls who aver that a
goanna eats an egg whole. What about this? An
old go. captured on the fowl run one day by the boys
appeared rather plump; curiosity led to an operation
which revealed five china nest eggs, all in a sound
condition.
* * * •
“Te Pana”: The rhinoceros beetle, which
has played the dickens with cocoanut plantations in
Samoa, has not yet spread to Raratonga, but the
natives of this island have their bit of trouble with
the “ea,” a cocoanut-eating insect. It starts
on the extreme tips of the leaves and works gradually
up to the crowns, and then the palm dies. It is the
most tenacious thing on legs, and nothing short of
a hurricane will shift its grip on the leaves. Pita
makes a hopeless attempt 'to exterminate the pest
with smoke. The dead insect gives off a pong com-
pared with which the smell of a Maori bug is roses.
* * * *
“W. Casey”: “J. Carevv,” in The Bul-
letin some time ago, was in favor of protecting wild
bees. He is off the track. My vote would be for
exterminating them. They are the powerful allies
of careless apiarists in introducing the modern bee-
man’s most dreaded scourge, foul brood.
* * *
“Jimsey”: I recently asked a dairy-farmer
from near Molong (N.S.W.) how much milk he got
each day. He told me about 30 gallons when the boys
did the milking and 32 gallons when the girls did it.
I thought he was stringing me a yarn, but he insists
that cows always give more milk when handled by
girls than they do when bovs go after the juice.
HER HEAD FOR BUSINESS.
FATHER: “This is a very disappointing re-
port from your business college. They
say you have no idea of commercial prin-
ciples at all.”
DAUGHTER: "Oh, how can you say that,
father, when you know that I have re-
fused two poets and an artist already!”
“S.S.S.”: Thursday Island has the most
mixed population in the world for a small community.
At the hospital we prided ourselves that we could
tell a, man’s nationality at a glance. Once we
couldn’t. He stalked into the Outpatient Department
and sat down without speaking. Inquiry for “chit”
(admission order) produced a blank stare. “What
nationality would you say he is?” asked the doctor.
“Anamese,” I thought. “Formosan,” he guessed.
“Where do you come from, Charley?” asked the
HIS LUCKY TIME.
FRANK: “So your brother is hack f rom his
lion-hunting expedition. Did he have
any luck?”
LILIAN: “Lots! He didn't meet a single
lion.”
orderly. “I come along Croydon,” he replied in quite
good “pidgin.” That was his nationality—half-caste
Chinese-Binghi.
* * * #
“Jim Carew”: Can any Abo. name me a
good buckjump rider who followed his occupation
successfully after he had reached middle age, say
45 years? I cannot remember one. Some of the
best rough-riders l have seen have been Binghis
apd half-castes, and they seem to turn the game up
even earlier. One and all admit that it breaks them
up early, and that late in life they r haven’t the nerve
to tackle a likely-looking outlaw.
* * » •
“Nor’-West”: “J.H.P.’s” par (B. 28/4/’2l)
re a little girl being bitten by a death-adder near
Wallangarra brings back memories. I recall that
Incident quite well. Some little time pre-
viously a road worker named O’Connor, while
searching for a horse, was bitten just above
the ankle by a black snake. He tied up his
leg with a bootlace and ran about two miles
in to Wallangarra. Going to a friend’s
place he yarned for some time before casu-
ally asking for the loan of a razor to cut out
the bitten flesh. Shortly afterwards he was
in a bad way, and a Customs officer came
along with a hypodermic syringe. He had
no idea how much strychnine to inject, but
he pumped into O’Connor about enough to
kill a rhinoceros. The patient was thrashed
up and down the station platform to keep
him awake until the train could take him to
Stanthorpe. A couple of residents went in
charge of him. but before they reached the
town the patient had almost completely
recovered. The doctor said it was only the
ignorance of the syringe manipulator and the
huge doses of strychnine that saved his life ;
but O’Cpnnor was never the same man again.
* * *
“Cane Grtjss”: Never use a poisoned
skin to make up a fur, no matter how well
treated. In a few months the hair begins to
fall out. If you want a set of furs for
Ermyntrude, here’s how. First get a fox (by
poison if you like), a slut for preference.
After skinning carefully remove the bladder
and empty contents on a piece of wool or
sheepskin. Place the wool in a likely spot—
the bank of a tank or a large rabbit-warren
will do. Next set three rabbit-traps in a
triangle around the wool, each trap 18 inches from
the other. Don’t use paper when setting. The smell
of the wool will attract foxes from a fair distance
and will last for weeks. Skins caught in this manner
will last like Hughes’s War Precautions Act.
“Sparks” : In a recent Bulletin “Ragar”
submitted a sure thing for fleas. I tried it and
can swear to its efficacy. Can he do anything in the
matter of mosquitoes?
“Wallaby”: “Momokeni” (B. 21/4/’2l)
asks if any abo. knows anything of the carnivorous
tastes of marsupials. I ain’t no abo., but we have
several of these pets and they all eat meat. I often
give them some, just to see them wolfing it—they
go silly over it. A young Binghi told me they all
eat meat.
“Hamer”: The house-cat at a hotel in
Wauchope (N.S.W.) recently gave birth to two
kittens which are cat-like in the
fore part of the body and rabbit
about the hindquarters. Usually
the hybrids of cat and rabbit own
the cat as father, and the feline
attributes are not strongly
marked, except as regards color.
At Forbes (N.S.W.) I shot a
rabbit which was a decided tabby,
but otherwise showed no marks of
cat origin. A station-owner in
the district told me that there
were hundreds of “rabbits” on his
land owing their parentage to u
couple of toms which had sought
for lovers amongst the does, and
chased off the bucks; and he
reckoned that the hybrids, its
Usual, did not breed.
* * *
“T. D. Emdee”: While out
photographing between Lismore
and Rallina (N.S.W.) 1 slipped,
and to save myself a bad fall
clutched the nearest shrub. It
proved to be the stinging-tree of
the North Coast, and in almost a
moment I lost the use of my
hand. When I reached Lismore I
received temporary relief from a
chemist; but it. was fully two
days before my hand and arm
were all right. I was told that
the antidote is the milk of a weed
which grows near the tree. The
weed was later pointed out to me
on the Dorrigo-road, but I was
not game to try its efficacy, my
first experience being too fresh in
my memory. The fronds of the tree are large and
enticing, but woe betide him who touches them.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Warrigals sometimes share
the fate of the domestic tripe-hound, and are found
1' ing in the scrub with their hindquarters paralysed
by tick-bite. Foxes also succumb at times, the fox
(Canis vulpes ) being an animal of the dog kind. Nor
are domestic tabbies immune; but, so far as 1 am
aware, no animal of the marsupial order seems to
suffer from the attentions of the bush tick. When
the tick first appears in summer it is a flattish,
hungry-looking insect, but as the season progresses
it acquires an oval appendage of a deep plum color,
which, as in the baleful mosquito, probably contains
the blood of its latest victim. The effect of tick venom
on man varies with the individual. I have had a
garden party of four ticks assembled on my skull,
but felt no inconvenience, and a drop of turpentine
sent the roysterers to their happy hunting-grounds.
On the other hand, I have seen a woman’s arm greatly
swelled and inflamed from the bite of a single bush
tick. Why don’t the seropathists take bush-tick
venom in hand and evolve a protective or curative
serum ?
* * * *
Trochus”: T heard years ago that be-
heading the male pawpaw would make it produce
fruit at the third time. I tried it repeatedly, but
the second cut always had the same effect as the
beheading of a rooster—the vegetable died. Now 1
plant them thickly and pull out surplus males. One
fine female tree grew a mile from the station, but,
of course, produced no fruit. We used to take a
bunch of male flowers and hang them up on this
tree. Our visits would be a week, a fortnight or a
month apart, and it was peculiar to see the rings
of fruit and spaces, according to the visits.
* *
Devilfish” : The national emblems of Aus-
tralia as they appear on the arms of the Common-
wealth (excepting Fisher’s wattle-blossom) appear
to nave been first used in the Speck. The kangaroo
and the emu, rather well done, appear on the sea!
affixed by Lieut. Edward Lord, then administering
the Government at Hobart Town, to a grant of land
to James Grove, dated May 10, 1810.
* * * *
Ixeturned Dmpty ': I have been ponder-
ing on “Cuzenos’s” indictment (B. 24/3/’2l) of the
earth-hungry Queensland pastoralist, in particular the
assertion that “the quality and quantity of the
pasture could be improved by scarifying" or disc-
harrowing at certain times of the year.” A scarifier,
say 12ft. wide, would require from four to 12 horses
wl 1 * t „ l2 workin = miles P el ' da y over the tussocks
of Mitchell grass, and would scarify about 17 acres.
“Cuzenos” suggests that the job should be done at
least twice a year, and as I shall have to attend to
“water and fodder conservations” in the intervals I
had better not take more than a month each time.
111 try with four horses first and see how it goes. To
keep four horses working steadily I will need two
spare horses and the equivalent of one more for horse-
taihng, etc., and (say) one brood mare and two
youngsters to keep up the strength of the team
That is 10 horses per scarifier. Then, one man, one
scarifier and 10 horses will do 20 acres per dav or
20,000 acres in 1000 days, which, at 250 working
(lays per annum, is just four years. Or, four men
four scarifiers and 40 horses would do it in one year]
or 48 men and 48 scarifiers and 480 horses would do
it in one month, barring strikes. Of course cooks.
woodcutters, horsetailers, saddlers, blacksmiths, etc.,
are mere details. I could pa}' for them out of mv
vast reserves. But there might be a little difficulty
ovei the necessary 5000 gals. of drinking water per
. tor the horses. “Cuzenos’’ says the pasture would
improve, so I need not worry about feed. But it might
take 12 horses to pull a scarifier 12 feet wide. Then
I should want 48 dinky-di horse-drivers, (they are
nearly as scarce as hen’s teeth), 48 scarifiers and
1440 horses (Wellshot station would require 1,048,760
horses, more or less). As there would be a good deal
of difficulty about finding suitable water for the horses,
perhaps I had better try tractors —say 40 Ford
tiactors and an oil bore at Roma. Or, as the Govern-
ment experiments there don’t seem likely to get any-
where, perhaps I had better have my bore in Borneo,
or perhaps But I think that’s enough to show
the value of “Cuzenos’s” opinions.
* * * *
Aragiin’ : Native-bears, which were once
so plentiful, ale now practically extinct on the North
Coast of N. S. Wales. The shooters certainly had a
lot to do In the blatter, but a Tabulam black in-
formed fne that a disease not unlike influenza got
among them in 1912 and killed them out in hundreds.
Most of the school children in that district have
neier seen a bear outside a Norman Lindsay picture.
*»* ' *
Baku ’: The crocodile-skin industry in
New Guinea is beginning to revive by reason of
the European market again becoming active; and
several hunters round about Madang, on the eastern
coast, are figuring on making a good thing out of
it during the coming year. In pre-war days the
collecting and shipping of croc, skins to Europe
and l .S.A. employed a large number of men, but
when the big row started the market dropped dead
and so did the industry. Incidentally, the New
Guinea hunter makes more out of his catch than
does the Australian hunter operating in the Terri-
tory and N.Q. in the latter places the method
of skinning is to cut straight down the median
line of the belly, the soft, white skin underneath
being divided and allowed to remain attached to
the rougher skin. In New Guinea two parallel
incisions are made so as to remove the soft skin
separately, and this is packed by itself and sold
apart from the lest, fetching a far higher price.
w • * • * * •
“Birdie": Here's a new sort of record.
Dining a flood a quantity of I'iibbish got washed
against my new fence, causing every wire to snap
in the middle of the five-chain strain. On going
to repair it latei* t found the two top wires (No. 8)
had stretched 18 feet before breaking.
* * *
Alex. . Has anyone ever seen n cross-
eyed Binghi ? I have met a bos. north, south, east
and west in Queensland, but never saw one with
even a squint. Strange, too, cock-eyes belong to
more people in cold latitudes than in warm ones.
Anyone explain?
* * *
11.R.K. : In a domestic brawl among the
Black Range (W.A.) nigs a gin sustained a frac-
ture of the tibia, which was set by Binghi. The
police, doubting his skill, called the local medico—
a Dublin gold medallist in surgery—who, finding
the nig. bonesetter to be a tradesman, decided not
to interfere. In a few weeks Ruby’s leg WoS O-.k.
“ IT'S AN ILL WIND,” ETC.
CUSTOMER: “What’s he laughing at?”
GROCER: “The price of eggs!”
CUSTOMER: “Lunatic?”
GROCER: “No — actor.”
IYT : Ophis (B. 5/5/’2l) accuses
me of having very out-of-date books on the subject
of Australian snakes. 1 have none. What knowledge
1 have of natural history has been gained at first
hand. However, since “Ophis” likes reference books,
let us see what Raymond Ditmars has to say.
‘Ophis” asserts that all the Australian venomous
snakes are colubrines. Ditmars says most of them
including the death-adder and the coral snakes, are
elapine, a distinct genus. “Ophis” says the majoritv
of Indian snakes, “including the cobra and krait,”
are colubnne. Ditmars says they (the cobra and
krait) are elapine. “Ophis” remarks that “in our
well-known venomous kinds,” “and also in the
cobra and krait of India,” the grooves in the poison-
fangs have “almost closed.” Ditmars says that in
all the elapine snakes the open groove, characteristic
°f the colubrines, has been completely sealed over
and has become a true canal, as in the vipers.
DOUBT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The track that wound down Ararat
Was heavy still with mud
When Noah led the bull and cat
To valleys rich and green and fat
After the passing flood.
The morning light was on the trees.
The world was fresh and fair;
The ducks were happier than the bees,
But every prospect seemed to please
Each liberated pair.
Oft, with a Bible on my knee,
Have I reviewed that scene,
At hen all the long menagerie
Came trooping gladly down to see
AVhat damage there had been.
But this has troubled me in bed
AA T hen dreaming of my sin,
Why Noah, with his wise old head.
Knowing the tale that Adam spread,
Took two death-adders in!
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


r
sa
ft
i
*. .
* ; '
A.'
4
'&k
wm
■
5 ■
***■ „
-i . .
PM
■
-
*3
m.
’
|£>yfB
i
.
'
: • V ' • ■ - ■
,
r-TWW
m? :
8 S gS
.
#
< ~
* > .
“•
fi-vri-, M&&L
:: . .
! '
.: f
>s.,. • T^*t
’v- % • '
filli!
/ab ■ V *•• s*< -
lli<&
■>;■<•» «w
' ■ " ■ v
_ ~ O*M
,1- ,
mu
', ■ " **? «£, O
- .-^S 4 . \V3ir-Vl;;
s@f
•^^srrv'<4
' ■■
'
-;
s.3 : .^rCi
■* : - /'' ' 4 'V v%♦ 4*• t ' ’!li
»*xrv.<
in transmitting
is an important factor in all big
power plants. Continuous service
with economy is to-day essential
to cope with existing conditions.
In this direction our high-grade
rivin
□
have won a great reputation in
Australians leading industries for
staunchness and low running cost
spread over years of service. We
illustrate herewith a few views of
CAIRN S TIMBER Ltd.
one of the largest sawmilling con-
cerns in Australasia. Dunlop,belts ’
are practically used throughout
this big plant. The nature of the
work, coupled with the tropical
climatic conditions is particularly
severe on driving belts, but for
years past Dunlop quality has en-
sured high transmission efficiency
with satisfaction and economy to
the users. Dependability,efficiency
and economy is built into every
Dunlop belt—use them, it pays!
Samples and prices on request.
* # #
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
VIEWS AT CAIRNS, QUEENSLAND


Advance Australia !
a toast from the Motherland in the truest and best Spirit.
z
*
SCOTCH
By careful husbanding of stocks we hope to maintain regular (if
inadequate) supplies. But nothing will induce us to impair the un-
varying quality of ‘ P.D. Whisky.
su:
X. 7
Olb
*U*
Dawson
WINDED WHISKT
1
P-D. —the Scotch Whishv
Historic Lineage and
World - wide popularit'’
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
a
m
. -V ;
WADE
the Original
One-Man Drag-Saw.
The WADE is the only practical one-man machine
that combines wood-sawing and light farm power
work.
It is built throughout like a high-grade automobile.
One man can handle it easily under all conditions.
It requires the barest minimum of care and upkeep
expense.
The WADE develops full four-horsepower— it
works in corners or on the most uneven ground.
It is easy starting, uncomplicated, efficient.
Write and ask us to tell you all about it.
Electrical Suppliers and Engineers
Telephones: City 9967-8-9.
The Comfort
of an
always
sharp
Blade.
'A
rs
t % m'
a
VALET
AutO"S'tLKiTD
Safety Razor
It is easy to shave as closely and cleanly as a barber if
you have a “barber’s edge” on your razor blade. Years
of practice have taught him how to strop his razor to
the highest pitch of keenness. With the “ Valet ” Auto-
Strop you can obtain such an edge every morning,
without serving an apprenticeship.
Built right into the razor is a self-stropping device which
puts the keenest edge on the blade. Half-a-dozen
strokes on its strop is all that is needed. Nothing to
unscrew no separate stropping machine-no constant
expense for new blades.
And the “Valet” Auto Strop is as easy to clean as to
strop - just a rinse and a wipe, without taking to pieces.
THE STANDARD SET (as illus-
trated) consists of heavily silver-plated,
self - stropping “Valet” Auto Strop
Safety Razor, twelve “Valet” blades,
and “Valet ” strop, complete
in handsome case lined 07 /C
velvet and satin l j \J
Of all high-class dealers
throughout A ustralasia.
Wholesale of
RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
&
=E=T=
as?
illllHUliniimmn liimillllll
.ill
The Door to Success
looms up before most people at some
time or another, but many of us can’t
find the key.
Success in Sandwich making depends upon
several things, and Variety is one of them.
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
provides you with the right key.
Its piquant flavour is a joy to every palate. It
makes Sandwiches that are eaten with relish.
Make some for your Afternoon Teas and Suppers,
fill the lunch boxes with them. “Rex” Cheese is
nourishing food—you can’t have too much of it.
Sold Everywhere.
Packed by-FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 866


( schnaP^
The
Purest
Spirit
in the
U-brld.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
C3T-
50k
COLDS
COUCHS
CROUP
J
LUNC
TROUBLES
J
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
0
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
hands: "We are showing a special line in
babies, if you’re wanting anything in the
Infants’ Department. Extra-healthy strain,
sturdy growers. Our Mr. McGirr gives
advice gratis daily, and there’s a to bonus
to every customer.” But the lady only
shakes her head: "Those vulgar little red-
faced things ! No, thank you ; not to-day.”
To be candid, the maternal instinct does
seem to worry the newest women. But they
think it can be trusted to take care of
itself. “It will never cool off,” is the con-
fident assertion. It won’t cool off. But it
may deteriorate. A baby to some moderns
is just a baby, a phenomenon among pheno-
mena, like a tree or a dog or a piece of
furniture. But there must be a travail of
the soul as well as of the body before the
true maternal instinct is satisfied, and there
must be feeling, which is the source of
imagination, pity, understanding of others
(both men and women), endurance,, magnan-
imity, if a woman really would be a human
being first and a woman afterwards. Sex-
consciousness is excusable in the harem, but
if we are ever going to get this poor dis-
tracted world into going order again
sex-consciousness, along with class-conscious-
ness, must be scrapped. The war, which
enters into the life of Nora Helmer’s grand-
daughter, proves a blessing in disguise, be-
cause it kills off both her husband and her
lover, and when the book ends she is sitting
up and taking notice, as Sappho Smith used
to say. “I know a man is on the way. I
shall recognise him,” is the hopeful note
in which she ends.
FLORENCE RAVERSTOCK.
Prose
The reviews have a periodical habit of
writing simultaneously of the same matters.
For a long time I thought that this was a
general critical thought-wave—that sud-
denly all the inmates of Parnassus leapt
to their pads and pens, got down their
opinions of the thoughts in the wave, and
shot them in to the editors. It was to
me only another proof of the divinity of
literature, if so obvious a truth needed
proof—all these great men thought at once
of the same desperately important thing,
said their ineffable say, and sat waiting
for the next brain-wave from the gods.
It was rather like the historical tides of
religious fervor which swept over a couple
of nations at the same time ; only, naturally,
of greater importance than mere religion.
I admired and bowed down before this splen-
did magic of simultaneous thought a few
years ago, but I don’t now. The publica-
tion and criticism of some book generally
starts the row ; or casual gossip in a club or
pub, or some similarly earthly thing. The
divinity of the Parnassians wore a bit thin,
too, in the few years. These in the flesh
become hardworking men, whose productive
ineffableness is balanced by the needs of
themselves and their families. Here and
there one is true to type, and is driven,
wild-eyed and magnificent, to his paper by
an urgent inspiration, pouring out for a
week or an hour the undeniable paradisiacal
words. But, on the whole, they are quiet,
pleasant blokes, a bit anxious financially in
the lower seats, and more than a bit con-
ceited in the safer upper ones. Every one
of them knows everything, but is clever
enough not to say so viva voce, however
firmly he does it in MS.
Which makes it to me remarkable that
in all the contributions to a general talk
of English prose (Pearsall Smith having
edited a “treasury” of it) nobody, upper
or lower, has said the obvious word. For
them prose seems to have only one sort of
duty—that of ornament. The Parnassian
examination of its merits starts from its
self-consciousness as a “literary” medium of
expression—when they speak of “prose” they
mean "eloquence” and sometimes only
"magniloquence.” I see the point in mak-
ing an anthology: only the eloquence can be
effectively detached from its context and pre-
sented in separate jewels. But in the
authoritative articles following the treasury’s
appearance English prose is criticised at
large as an ornamental excrescence on the
English tongue, Pearsall Smith being patted
on the back for his good ear or carpeted
for his bad one. His anthology’s exclu-
sions and inclusions don’t matter twopence:
a representative collection of English prose
can no more be made than one of English
history. Fo*r two reasons: the first, that
the sole duty of prose is the correct expres-
sion of the author’s thought; the second,
that the measure of the prose’s merit is the
correctness and not the eloquence of that
expression. The best English prose-men
have wanted 20,000 to 500,000 words for
their expression, and no anthology could
nope to do it. So Pearsall Smith’s treasury
is a fond collection of his favorite isolated
passages, and no more. And as such it has
nothing whatever to do with “English
arose,” despite all the Parnassian pro-
nouncements ever thundered to the world
below.
Eloquence is a bad mistress. Adjectival,
deciduously adverbial, musical, and horribly
fascinating, she has killed nearly all her
servants. She has drained most of the life
out of Henry James, Walter Pater, Lytton,
' 'all Paine, Alice Meynell—a thousand
whose names should be great or are tem-
porarily greater than they should be. Her
promise of closer exactness of expression is
never i( fulfilled: she has only the “purple
patch” and the empty music to give; and
by these gradually all strength and speed
of expression are whittled and corrected,
halted and qualified away. “A man went
down the hill” is better than “A stranger
»> ere d down thgy sunny mountain-
side, and it always will be. All permanent
prose-writers have proved that whatever
ornament the strict thought has needed has
always come instinctively to help its state-
ment —as all true ornament, it appears only
in rigid subordination to use. A dozen facts
simply stated in a dozen well-shaped sen-
tences are worth all the purple patches in
the treasuries. Furthermore, they are better
prose; and, still furthermore, incomparably
more eloquent.
Take some examples which are not in any
treasuries. The motor-run in Kipling's
“They” through the gaunt, broken Sussex
country; as the car slips along the road the
words grow more and more discordant, rug-
geder and uglier with every mile, until
finally the rough, hopelessly utilitarian de-
scription is a picture of the country-side in
the very shape of the clumsy sentences, in
the very sound of the hammering, ugly
words. There is no sentence which in the
Parnassian view is even good ; but no writer,
living or dead, could hope to put his thought
more strongly and certainly before his reader.
The finish of the same writer’s ghost-story,
“At the End of the Passage” : the sentences
are beastly—wavering, sawn-off, hysterical
—but therein is the hysterical reeling horror
of Kipling’s climax of the unspeakable
photograph. . The thing makes me shudder
now after God knows how many readings.
That being what Kipling meant me to do,
the quaking, feeble sentences are excellent
piose. In another manner Wells writes
some of the loosest and best prose in the
language-—his T.B.D. run down the Thames
in “Tono-Bungay,” for instance. Again,
and quite differently, Galsworthy’s opening
to “The Patrician,” and its delicate descrip-
tion of the gradual change from darkness to
dawn and sunrise. Stephen Crane’s story of
a soldier’s heart in “The Red Badge of
Courage”—looking back I remember hardly
an adjective in the close-knit study of a
man’s thoughts, one of the most, convincing
books I have read. The return of Abel Mag-
witch in “Great Expectations”: straight
description with no engaging Dickens-carica-
ture, no humor, no pathos—straight narrative
as simple and dramatically faultless as the
blinding of (Edipus. The first part of Her-
gesheimer’s “Three Black Penn.vs”: the
pages tinkle with 18th century mockery and
falseness, and yet through the artificial veil
they pulsate with the strong simplicity of
the vivid story—a really wonderful example
of the possibilities of prose. The wise firm-
ness of the peroration to “Vanity Fair”: the
grace and ease of Kenneth Grahame’s pro-
logue to his “Golden Age”: the limpid
beauty of George Moore’s “Resurgam” and
“Spring in Normandy.”
None of these is consciously eloquent,
none of them is “good” prose, in none of
them is there a startling jewel which can be
detached and put into any regalia. But each
to me embodies the author’s thought on
paper. Reading it I have no doubt of the
drama or the story or the description he is
giving me and asking me to judge or enjoy.
And that, as I see it. is the writer’s duty be-
fore he shows me how wonderful he can be
in purple patches.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Khatti
The Emperor of Ivhatti wrote on a clay
tablet to nameses 11. informing him that a
shipment of pure non was being dispatched
to Egypt, and that to prove the value of the
new metal he was also sending a sword
manufactured from it to be tested beside the
bronze weapons of the Egyptians, it was
a time of peace between the two powers.
Four or five hundred years of war had pre-
ceded it; eight or nine hundred years of
alternate doubtful quiet and bitter struggle
were to follow. Then Ivhatti quietly slipped
into the mists, and nobody remembered that
an Imperial council had been held there
or that from the distant overland dominions
of Carchemish and Hamath, as well as from
the little crown colonies of Lake Van, Lydia
and Beersheba, the Prime Ministers and
local Governors had gathered to the “house
of double towers.”
Ivhatti stood a few miles south of the
Halys River, covering a group of low hills
with square-built houses and open streets.
Its double stone walls were strengthened by
innumerable square turrets crowned with
battlements of the exact pattern of those
seen in European castles about 3000 years
later. There was wheeled traffic in the
streets; and this was possibly the first great
city in the world where the milk-cart rattled
in the morning and the drunk came home in
a cab. It was a city of war and commerce
rather than of art and literature: though it
used two writing languages—one of which
has been read —and scribbled information
with a chisel wherever it found suitable
faces of stone. But the big men of Egypt,
Assyria, Babylon, Crete and Mycenae were
in close and very respectful correspondence
with Ivhatti; for Ivhatti ruled the largest
territory of them all and held a hard grey
sword and a flying chariot that made war
dangerous.
So much has yet to be discovered of the
strange people who from this centre linked
Europe with Asia that it is hard to guess
of their race. They had well-curved noses
of the Jewish design ; and it has been con-
jectured that the Hebrew got his leading
feature by intermarriage with them. Ou
the other hand, there are very good reasons
for supposing that the modern Armenian is
their tolerably direct descendant; and even
to-day the Armenian occupies a large por-
tion of their ancient territory. What does
seem fairly certain, however, is that the
people of Ivhatti —.Ivheta, Hittites, sons of
Heth or whatever name you like to give
them —were white men. They are light-
skinned in the Egyptian paintings; their
written script is full of European words;
their early knowledge of the horse, of wheels
and of iron suggests a connection with the
peoples farther north. Ivhatti is a mystery
city dug quite recently out of the world’s
most ancient writings and the rubbish heaps
of Asia Minor; but it was probably a place
that would have been far more familiar to
our eyes than an Oriental city built within
the last century. It once held complete
sway from the -Egean eastward to the neigh-
borhood of the Caspian, and from the Edom
Peninsula in the south over all the territory
that afterwards became known as Canaan,
Phoenicia and Syria. Of pre-Roman em-
pires only the Persian and Selucid monarchs
held as much of the fertile and populous
earth.
It was the Ivhatti empire that exhausted
the fighting strength of Egypt. The battle-
ground was Palestine; and although Ivhatti
kingdoms remained with some power and in-
fluence to the seventh or eighth century
b.c., and Egyptian Pharaohs of some sort
were still going when Assyria and Babylon
were at their zenith, the decline of both
powers had begun seven or eight centuries
earlier. The Ivhatti peoples had prevented
in turn both Asia and Africa from getting
a footing in Europe. They formed the great
buffer state that took the shock of every-
thing and waved an iron sword lustily for at
least a dozen centuries. Ivhatti names can
be traced among the allies of Troy; from
some of their most southern settlers Abra-
ham bought a cave. Homer knew all about
these people, but did not write what he
knew; the Hebrew Scriptures constantly re-
fer to them, but give little information;
Egyptian and Assyrian records are full of
them, but take them for granted without ex-
planation. The fact seems to be that the
Ivhatti were too big and important in the
ancient world to be explained. Everybody
knew too much about them : and so history
simply dropped them out. Yet they them-
selves have written a great deal; and if Asia
Minor is made a free country where an
archaeologist can use a spade without being
in perpetual danger of his life, much of the
story will be restored. Perhaps we shall
find there at last the key to the mystery of
ancient Europe—the explanation of the fact
that Europeans conquered and held India
for a long enough period to impose their
language upon half its people. Ivhatti may
be the real link between east and west.
D. M. W.
Inky Way
“124” : Port Melbourne’s attack on mild and very
ancient “Liza of Lambeth” recalls the provincial
newspaper which, greatly daring and greatly plung-
ing, bought the State rights of Hall Caine’s “The
Woman Thou Gavest Me.” The deal was made on
Caine’s reputation and without synopsis or proofs;
and there was a stern clause that Hall was to be pub-
lished precisely as he Gained. A chapter or two
went well and staid citizens began to fight for the
next issue. Then a landslide set in. Every hour
brought cancellations of subscriptions. Churches
began to ban the paper: one denomination formally
cursed it. The harassed owner began to edit, to
expurgate, to Bowdlerise. Then the agents for the
vendor kicked under Clause xp. The fight was too
unequal; the owner gave in and “The Woman Thou
Gavest” gave out, two-thirds unpublished.
“Yarra Ben”: Our old friend the “perfect lady”
has cropped up again. At the Melbourne County
Court a livery-stable proprietor sued a woman for the
value of a mare killed when in her charge. Prais-
ing the animal in the witness-box, he described it
as “a perfect lady’s hack.” The defendant’s soli-
citor suggested that what was meant was “a hack
for a perfect lady” ; the opposing gent, one was
of the opinion that “a perfect hack for a lady”
was the way of it. The plaintiff remarked that he
meant what he said, “a perfect lady’s hack,” where-
upon Judge Winneke insinuated: “A lady’s perfect
hack, eh?” “That’s it,” acquiesced the livery-
stable proprietor, who was good enough critic to
agree with the Judge—at any rate, until the case
was finished.
“S.T.S.”: There is a story ready for Abbott or
Bridges in the latest volume of the Historical Records
of Australia. While Major Gordon was in command at
Port Dalrymple (Launceston or thereabouts) in 1811,
one Jonathan Burke McHugo arrived from India, and
announced that he was a member of the royal family
travelling incog., with power to supersede such small
fry as Governors. Gordon, who was eccentric as a
result of sunstroke, was completely bluffed, and
actually surrendered the administration to the new
arrival. All that history has handed down is that
McHugo made “a very alarming use” of his new
powers, until Lieut. Lyttelton, of the commissariat
department, had the perception to see that he was
insane, and arrested him and deported him to Sydney.
“The Wanderer” : If anyone should have the hang
of the country it ought to be a Government Tourist
Bureau. Yet The Tourist, issued by the N.S.W.
Bureau, says: “Amidst magnificent forest scenery are
to be seen the famous Ellenborough Falls, said to be
the highest perpendicular falls in the w0r1d.... The
grandeur of the Falls, and the exquisite beauty of
their surroundings, more than compensate for the
sixteen-mile road journey from Taree on the Manning
River/’ Seeing that Wingham is the nearest town
to the Ellenborough Falls, and that it is 26 miles
distant, the Bureau does some weird arithmetic to gefc
Taree ( eight miles farther down the river from
Wingham) within 16 miles of the Falls.
The job which Bert Cook, former president of the
A.J.A., has been holding with the Broken Hill Co.,
has come to a full stop. The big end of the job was
welfare and conciliation work among the employees,
and when either of those things was mentioned the
co. was mostly told to go to .
It has been discovered lately that Shakspeare was
an authority on football as on most other things.
The quotations vary from mutilated ones as “■»
fatal points and ’twixt them rushes” (“Romeo and
Juliet”), to the barrackers’ “Let him not pass, but
kill him rather!” And there are some really appro-
priate comments on the play, as “An excellent
pass!” (“Tempest”), “I’ll catch it ere it come to
ground” (“Macbeth”), “Being down, 1 have the
placing” (“Cymbeline”), and “Well placed!”
(“Henry V.”).
A Satchel of Books
llagar’s Hoard, by George Kibbe Turner (Heine-
mann). The very remarkable tale of a miser, his
daughter and his nephew during a yellow-fever epi-
demic in the southern part of the United States.
The fever comes nearer and nearer ; the white people
rush away to the north ; the old miser will not shift
from his treasure. The material seems slight, but
the interest is splendidly maintained ; and all three
characters stand out clearly.
Heloise and Abelard, by George Moore. Since
George Moore came to his decision a few years ago
not to risk again being placed upon its index expur-
gatorius by John Bull’s humorous circulating-library
censorship, he has printed his books privately. His
latest thus handled is a long novel in two handsome
volumes, price three guineas. The plan is pro-
bably due not alone to the author’s objection to the.
censorship, or his contempt for the mob, but also to
a sound business instinct. Even already, a few weeks
after publication, the book has brought five guineas.
Naturally Moore has made many of his admirers feel
mad, but by his well-advertised exclusiveness he has
attracted many bibliophiles by whom formerly he
was ignored ; not to mention that there are always a
fair number of wealthy connoisseurs who are eager
purchasers of volumes which combine costliness and
naughtiness. Members of this class will be disap-
pointed in “Heloise and Abelard” for, considering
its subject and its author, the book is reticent. In
some ways it is the biggest thing George Moore has
done. In Heloise he has a heroine after his own
heart, and he makes her much more of a flesh and
blood character than Abelard. But this is the way
with Moore ; his women are usually more convincing
than his men. Some of the pictures—such as that of
the first meeting of the lovers —are gorgeously painted.


This Trio
Sheep, Cattle, Pigs at market.
Are you a Winchcombe-Garson sender? If
not try the firm with your next draft.
Consign
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Results provide a profitable proof of
Winchcombe, Carson’s success as selling
agents.
II
if
CYCLONE
ii
faf
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong - (Sears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARD lE. & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., 3YONEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
With your Friends .
Cycling companions are the hap-
piest associations it is possible to
make. The healthy exercise and
pleasure gained make cycling the
one pastime without equal. Relia-
bility and long service are specially
studied in the construction of
B.S.A. Fittings, and the purchase
of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
will ensure care-free cycling for
years. For business purposes the
convenience and economy make a
bicycle built of genuine B.S.A,
Fittings a real necessity. Look
for the world famous Trade Mark,
the “Three Piled Rifles.”
0
All B.S.A. Parti
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A
A Sign ot
Quality.
Sendfor Illustrated
List and particulars
post Ire, to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
vvw.
rvwvi
THE VAUGHAN DRAG SAW
The only Drag Saw made with the jiffy saw holder. It grips or
releases saw instantly. SeVfe two HdUrS a ddy. No holes to drill.
Turn a nut and the SaW id ready. Metal to metal clutch. No
burned liningl. Picks up load at any speed instantly and without
grabbing. Always ready in an emergency. Fitted with safety
angle. Protects against smashed hands and raises, lowers and
guides saw.
Adjustable Pitman head. Takes up all wear on crank pin. Saves
expenses.
Solid crank case ensures long life to bearings.
BACKED BY THE LARGEST MANUFACTURERS IN
THE WORLD.
SaWd l&gd up to eight feet. Simplej reliable and low-priced.
Illustrated pamphlet on application to
SCRUTTONS LIMITED)
The Engineers' Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dept. “G."
Jp
iSS
36in. Continuous Wood Stave Pipe installed in
Java, 1918. for Hydro-Electric Work.
1
'
CONTINUOUS WOUND
is light in weight and low in cost. It gives great volume of flow —15 to 20 per cent,
greater than metal pipe—and as the smooth bore becomes smoother this flow increases—
the co-efficient of friction becoming lower. The interior of wood pipe cannot corrode, and
there is no rough spot for the collection of sediment or algae. This quality is of special
interest to engineers working on GRAVITY FLOW lines.
Send for our deeply interesting booklet, which also describes the manufacture of our
famous WOOD TANKS.
All Inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree)*
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
Draws Out the Poisons.
Impurities in the blood produce many ailments, including boils, ulcers, carbuncle,
bad legs, certain forms of eczema and rheumatism. Albert's Grasshopper
Ointment does not drive these poisons back into the system, where they would
be likely to attack the lungs, heart, liver or other organs. Owing to its
powerful absorptive properties it draws the impurities absolutely out of the
.system. This restores the blood and skin to a pure, healthy state, and causes the
boils, ulcers, pimples, eczema, carbuncle, etc., to heal up and disappear. The
Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment, having perfect confidence in its efficacy,
urge its use in treating all maladies due to poisoned and diseased blood. The
written testimony of a countless number of persons who. during the past half-
century. have used the Ointment with beneficial result, renders it impossible to
doubt its surpassing value in treating all blood and skin diseases. The Ointment
is absolutely harmless and contains no injurious ingredients. PLEASE
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier, and for those who suffer from
headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded to purchase any substitute preparations.
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT AND PILLS are sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
ALBERT & CO., 73 Farringdon Street, London, ENGLAND.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The firs.t civil action in Victoria was the
case of John Joachim Gravey v. John Hart-
ley, heard by a bench of magistrates at Col-
lins's camp, Port Phillip, on Jam 24, 1804.
The magistrates were the chaplain, Bobby
Knopwood, Lieut. Sladden and George
Harris, the surveyor. Gravey claimed a box
of tools and wages from Hartley, a settler,
and the Bench awarded him the tools and
£2 Os. 7d. The camp broke up soon after
that, and the settlement was abandoned.
“Rounds”: Gulled apparently by some
tourist, one Coulter, who describes himself as
a Briton, living in Japan, has asked the
Lands Department if there are any priekly-
pear farms in the vicinity of Melbourne “or
anywhere in the State,” and how he can ac-
quire one. Unlike the missive the Mayor of
Bendigo got from somebody about a certain
£15,000, the typed letter was signed, and the
envelope bore a Japanese stamp and post-
mark. It may be that Coulter has a scheme
for extracting sunbeams from p.-p.; but
it rather looks as if Billjim’s old joke has
wandered east.
* * * *
“A.M.” (Federated Malay States) : I have
just received this chit from our one and
only photographer, a Jap:—
. eilr Sir,- —We beg to state you that we are send-
ing you the films and prints as well which please
kindly find out, but we are regretting to state you
we got some marks on the films which got while we
have been washing them owing hottness of water, of
which we were not aware and there we shall be
much, pleased to beg your pardon for the mistake
we have done on them and on feeling very very sorry,
we beg to say you that we didn’t charge you for
the developing only, but on picture they are hot
come out so badly than we look by films and oblige,
hoping you will and wishing for the further com-
mands of which our best attention will be paid.
* * * *
“Orwell”: I thought it would be pleasant
to work near the big open window of my
first-floor flat. After 03 interruptions I
spent an hour engrossing the bottom of a
cardboard suit-box to this effect:—
I do not want any green peas, bread, toilet
requisites, smoked fish, brooms, tomatoes, sewing-
machines or handkerchiefs.
I buy my liquor in tins, wear my cast-off clothing
myself, and keep newspapers for shaving paper.
In half-an-hour my tranquillity was disturbed
again by a man banging on the door. I
pointed to the notice I had constructed to
save my voice. “Got nothin’ to do with me,”
he remarked smiling. “I’m here to sell the
best boot-polish on the market.”
* * * +
“fc.chard”: As to potash manures (B.
21/4/’2l), there are conditions under which
their use pays, and the only test is experi-
ence. “Super,” which so wonderfully revived
wheat growing in S. Aus., is useless in some
N. S. Wales wheat areas. Middle Europe
starves without artificial nitrates: in much of
our agriculture they give no increased yield. A
citrus grower on the sandstone soils of Cen-
tral Cumberland (N.S.W.), I find sulphate
of potash largely increases the quality and
quantity of fruit and the health of' trees.
Some 12 months ago certain Sydney mer-
chants imported a shipment of muriate of
potash, advertising that the potash famine
was over. If they had inquired they would
have found that this form of the chemical
was unsuited to the local demand, as the
Hun agency discovered years ago, and, unless
the French makers get busy, this trade will
revert to the old supplier. On inquiry of
the two most eminent agricultural chemists
in Sydney, neither had a word to say in
favor of the muriate; vendors failed to give
favorable reference to those who had used
it; and after my trial of muriate, 25 years
ago, I would not have that form of potash
as a gift for my purpose.
* » * *
“H.W.C.”: Some 10 years ago a type-
writer was delivered at my office. Price,
£27 10s. That evening I saw a picture
of the machine in a Yankee periodical.
“Price, 02.5 dollars” (just under £l3). I
began and have continued taking notes, which
show that, on the basis of cost of manufac-
ture, the dearest goods in Australia are con-
tained in the free and lowest-duty lists.
This little, out-of-the-way market does not
attract much notice, and rings amongst those
who do supply—rings of agents as well as
of makers —are regularly constructed. There
is also the fact that attempt to stifle makers
here is by no means limited to the recent
carbide case. The most glaring of all ex-
amples is (or was) a certain sewing-machine.
Pre-war price, f.o.b. New York, to be as-
sembled here, 375. 6d. each; price, retail,
£lO 10s. to £l4. The first twine-binders in
S. Aus. came in free. They were probably
patent-protected then, i.e., in the ’eighties.
An uncle of mine was the importer. He
sold only through country stores. The store-
keeper got 10 per cent, for endorsing cockies’
p.n.’s; the -selling agent got 5 per cent;
uncle got 15 per cent., “including del c-o.
ere >” plus charges. The price was £B5
for a wood-and-cast-iron brute that McKav
would not make; but, if he did, £3O (includ-
ing patent royalties) would be over the fail-
retail value to-day. My claim does not
apply to goods of a large aggregate value,
such as bar-iron, galvanised-iron, bags, wool-
packs, cottons, etc.; but to the thousand and
one articles of daily use —drugs, tools, many
mi-'or cV,thing lines, and side lines, chemi-
cals, etc.
THE CYNIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There came gaunt folk to me last night,”
The Master Cynic said;
“1 filled their hands with broken crusts,
And yet they asked for bread;
Lord knows—’tis hard to know, in truth—
The way to deal with such:
A shame it is, a crying shame,
That Greed should crave so much.”
He said, a smile upon his lips,
In tones that showed no heat:
“Give them a dish of bones to gnaw
And they’ll cry out for meat ;
They cry their woes unto the stars,
And stir the firmament.
A shame it is, a crying shame,
To see such discontent.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


af
fevland
'This is the Leyland 4to 4£ ton Overseas Type
* Lorry for hard, heavy work. Simplicity, strength
and accessibility are its strong points in addition to
Standard Leyland Features. Scientific in its rugged-
ness this Lorry will stand up to any amount of rough
usage. The engine develops ample surplus power
which in conjunction with a special design of rear
axle makes this type of Chassis very suitable for
hauling a trailer.
LEYLAND LOGIC
Leylands “take the rough
with the smooth."
A minimum of time ana labour
is required to thoroughly lubri-
cate the working parts which can
also be inspected without remov-
ing any part of Chassis. It has
ground clearance of 13 inches
and the springs have full plag.
Bolts are not used to secure the
gear wheels which are made from
solid Nickel Chrome Steel Stamp-
ings, therefore no bolts can come
loose to damage the gear box.
Send for full specification.
Prompt delivery from Stock.
liETIjAND MOTORS liTD.,
London Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agent*!--
PRESTON MOTOR PTY. LTD.
high St , Preston, Melbourne
Westclox
fl
10
2
9
3
Efabtnr
7
5
0
Sag
America —
A Dependable Alarm
If ever a clock was
designed to give exacting
service at an economical
price, America is its
name.
It has been in the busi-
ness for over thirty years,
and has been picking up
new tricks every year —
improving its finish, giving
better service, saving on
the price.
It wears a name on its
dial and tag that stands for
quality—VVestclox, and
America has had a full
share in building that
reputation.
Westclox Big Ben, 27/6; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6; America, 12/6;
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/-; Glo-Ben, 22/6;
Boyproof 15/-; Pocket Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
1
v
m
wmmMm
t<f%
mm
mm
m :: %',
mm&)
for @rtSisko(sc?y}rf **
, rome ..
vrr<f >
, - fi- - .
- &/aCtr/,cSO3
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel
Casting's
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— “HEAT-
TREATED.”—For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY,
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


Jhe largest selling
quality pencil in.
theyvovlcl
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CHATEAU
TXNLOSEEA
BJ^NDY
v»>
v .
m
*sv#
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Botastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
\\
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
cvr
&
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
There's no question that for a Clear, Neat
and Durable Name to mark any garment
or Article
CASH'S <® NAMES
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On..
Be sure and ask for CASH'S Names.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6 —6 doz. 5/- —3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
J. & J. CASH
Pty.
Ltd.
85 Cubitt St.
Richmond, Vic.
WHITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
m
(ICTVTI-
Z*7*.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.O.i Melbourne.
£
rr^r
v
IM
m ,
mm
J
i
I
m
<s£)
§s\
2®
(SwSs
«Uli
£
033&9£#>
l
M*K#«l Wwl
C JOMN9OHMO*
*aci«i w«% ..
Ji^MWiONISOWIW
Just
Like New
ANY housewife can easily
XJLkeep her home clean
and bright by devoting a
little attention to her furniture, woodwork, floors and
linoleum. All they need is an occasional application of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. This cleans, polishes and pro-
tects the finish, adding years to its life and beauty.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a hard, dry, glasslike
polish of great beauty and durability. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches —preserves the varnish—and
prevents checking and cracking.
Liquid and Paste
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil consequently it
does not gather or hold the dust and it never becomes soft
or sticky in the hottest weather or from the heat of the
body. It will quickly and permanently remove that bluish,
cloudy appearance from your piano and mahogany furniture.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made in liquid form as well
as paste. Use paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile, lino-
leum, etc. We advise the liquid for polishing furniture,
woodwork, leather goods, etc.
A Dust-Proof Auto Polish
Automobile owners will find Johnson’s Liquid Wax the
most satisfactory polish for their cars. It sheds water and
dust and makes a "wash” last twice as long. Protects and
preserves the varnish. Write for our folder on "Keeping
Your Car Young”— it’s free.
S* C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
"G.M.”: On January, 1021, there were
26,072 motor-cars in Vic. and 13,435 motor-
bicycles. The licenses brought £06,260 to
the revenue last year, or thrice the amount
received in 1014. More than half the cars
—l4,374 —were between 16 and 26 h.-p.
These pay £4 4s. each for registration, and
motor-cyclists ss. a year.
"Z.Z.”: Latest reports state that Kam-
enof, the Bolshevist General who was
alleged to have been removed from office,
had previously been made a knight of the
Bolshevist Order of the Red Star. Is this
a repetition of French history? When he
wanted to substitute an empire for a repub-
lic, the First Consul instituted the Legion of
Honor to familiarise his people with deco-
rations ; and Trotsky and Lenin are quite
as autocratic as Napoleon.
An Adelaide citizen, formerly well-to-do,
taken into the police court by his wife —
they have long been separated—for “wilful
neglect” to provide her with adequate main-
tenance, told another kind of war-story. In
1014 he was an importer, doing nearly all
his business with Germany, and getting also
a private income of £lOOO a year from his
father’s estate there. Both sources of in-
come at once dried up—the business per-
manently. The £lOOO a year may have gone
on accruing, but it cannot be got, and would,
anyway, be worth only about £165 by the
time it reached here. The Court lent a sym-
pathetic ear, and dismissed the case.
Alec Peacock, as Minister of Education,
was lately replying to a Warragul de-
putation. lie promised to put before the
Cabinet a claim for a higher amount than
was previously asked for relinquishing
municipal interest in land proposed to be
handed over to the Agricultural High School.
The best argument* employed, he said, was
the one that the money would be spent in
improving other public land. “There’s
abundant precedent for doing that sort of
thing, isn’t: there?” lie asked, turning to
Peverill, Under-Sec. for Lands, who sat
beside him. "Not in respect of giving
money, but in respect of exchanging land,”
Peverill answered. “But, bless my soul,
I’ve had it done myself—got a bill through
for Clunes,” expostulated Peacock. “That’s
the only case,” said Peverill, as he studied
the pattern of the ceiling decorations. It
took Alec only the fraction of a second to
realise that Clunes would not chide him
for creating a precedent in its favor, and he
beamed on Peverill.
“Lou” tells how it’s done in N. S. Wales:
I’m back on the shovel, on a railway duplica-
tion job, and we are widening a big cutting on
a curve, through which runs a single line. After
I’m "set” and feel like taking some interest in the
outfit, I ask a fellow-slave: “But why are they
shooting down muck and carting it away from a
face that has a fresh and nicely-trimmed batter
on it?” “Oh, that’s a bloomer someone made, and
we have to cut the whole thing back to those pegs,”
he explains. “Then all that beautiful batter-work
will be shot away and have to be put on afresh?”
“Yes,” he says, “but it all makes more work, lad.”
1 measure it up with my eye, make a rough esti-
mate, and bring it out at about £4OO. One of the
many trifles of railway construction no one ever
hears about.
While shovelling the loose earth into the ,
drays we frequently see ends of cotton-bound wire
sticking out. These are the remains of battery-
connections used in blasting. Some of the slaves
pull them out to see what is on the end. But one
old man advises us to “let ’em alone”; so I
question him, and find out that if, say, six holes are
put in and charged with explosive, and “fired” from
the battery, no one really knows whether all have
gone off or not. And on the end of any of these
wires that the chaps pull out, or maybe stab with
their shovels, there might be a big compensation
bill for the Department.
Later on, when the ganger—we don’t call him that
—is not looking, I straighten up and have a look
at the “jumper” men. These are the fellows who
are putting in fresh holes to blow down more of
the face. When you pass in the train you see ’em
standing upright, tediously prodding holes with
long steel rods, and when they get tired of prodding,
they insert a slender rod with a loop on the end,
and fish up about as much muck as would go on
a penny. It is easily the most primitive and
expensive method known.
Presently an unfortunate staggers past with a
canful of drinking water. He’s “the nipper,” and
with only one good leg and a big boot on the
crook foot he carries tools and water. Almost a
cripple, but his job entails more walking than
any other on the works.
There are two gangers on this section, and their
time for starting and knocking off their slaves
differs sometimes by nearly five minutes. Some day
one of the mob will “reckon he robbed us of an
hour this pay,” and then there’ll be trouble. A
comparison of watches by the two gangers is too
simple a solution to think of.
The muck is shifted in drays—about 20 in all.
They cost 225. 6d. a day each. A contractor
would have a line of tip-trucks from cutting to
dump, and he would shift the ends of the line as
the cutting and dump necessitated—and he would
halve the cost. But who wants to halve the cost?
A sort of mild ’flu is getting us all in turn, and
now that it has me I take a day off, fill up with
aspirin, and wander around the job. Four men
are shifting back a mound of freshly-dumped and
levelled muck, that must have taken a couple of
drays and five shovel-hands a fortnight to put
there. “What, has this got to be shifted again ?”
I ask one of the four. “Yes,” he laughs; “the
island platform goes ’ere.” “Good Gawd, they
seem to be doing nothing but dumping muck and
shifting it again!” I venture. “All means work,
boy,” he says. He leans on his banjo, and points
to five men and two drays at a mound further
down. “See that set there? Well, they’re takin’
two-foot-six off that dump—all freshly-tipped muck,
too.” Then he does his bit for a while, and I
make out a rough mental estimate, but he
interrupts me: “See that big gang in the cutting
round the bend? That’s 's gang; he’s the best
ganger on the job. But all that batter-work on his
cutting has to come off again, same as this one up
this end. Reckons he’s got three months’ extra
work on it, and it was finished six months ago.”
I started to cough then, and made towards the
camp, when I struck a man with a horse and cart
cleaning up around the tents. He stood at the door
and talked, principally of the job, and among other
things he informed me that the poles for all the
tents are cut somewhere away down near Sydney
and railed up here. Two men with axes could cut
in one day, in the adjacent bush, more poles than
the camp could ever use.
There’s lots of other things, but I’m too crook
to> write any more just now.


STORAGE
BATTERY
You can be sure of two
things about batteries.
First, that trouble and ex-
pense originate in the wood
separators used between
the plates of the ordinary
battery; and second, that
the surest way of ending
both annoyances is to buy
a Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Battery, in which the
plates are insulated —not
merely separated.
ƒ
af


ITCHING ECZEMA
ON HANDS, ARMS
And Head. Inflamed,Burned
Dreadfully. Hair Fell Out.
Cuticura Heals.
*'l had eczema all over my hands,
arms and in my head and it itched and
burned so dreadfully I could
not sleep at night with the
pain. It was very red and
inflamed and so irritable I
could not help but scratch it.
My hair fell out in handfuls.
“I then saw the Cuticura
advertisement and sent for
a free sample. I bought more Cuticura
Soap and Ointment which healed me.”
(Signed) Mrs. A. W. Costello, Banks
St., Molong, N. S. W.
Cuticura Soap daily and Cuticura
Ointment occasionally prevent pim-
ples or other eruptions. They are a
pleasure to use, not an effort as with
many so-called skin soaps and
ointments.
For sample each address: *'R. Towns A
N. S. W." Sold everywhere.
mPCuticun Soao shaves without mug,
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- A 2/-
TP*
rf/y
JL
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
•Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA. LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire. England
Agent for Australia :
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Ait y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
True economy postulates all that is best,
Imitations are not worth a dime!
“Good goods” are good value for all who invest,
High quality tell'- all ihe time.
Mere cheapness is mostly a waste of good cash
On “cag-mag” which cannot endure,
You can’t cure a. cold with empirical trash,
Send for Woods’ f Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and ■'write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, Barcelona, Spain.
Winter Underwear,
SPECIALLY IMPORTED.
SCOTCH ALL WOOL.
SIwWW
/
r L/vj
Vests.
39in.
28/-
Underpants.
39in. )
23/3 /
Less 5% 1 dozen.
Less 10% j dozen.
ALL SIZES IN STOCK.
Jkto jinjit s,€o.
314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J
E 7
P
/
J
i
m.
x
IILS /n© decided preference of
hat-conscious men for a
STETSON Hat is but
nat ur a I—its1 —its lustrous,
elegant appearance and
smartness of style is proof of
good taste, whilst STETSON
famous wearing quality is
evidence of sound judgment.
Wear a STETSON-
to your personality.
-it will add
Sole Australasian Agents
P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD
Sydney. N.SW.
I? u
Water manlsi Ideal ißuntain Pen
Regular*
iTs?.
Safei;^
Self filling
<T
-A'
When you make notes
make them in ink with Waterman’s Ideal so
that they will be both legible and permanent.
Three Types—“ Self - Filling,” “ Safety ” and
“ Regular." Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., (Tomer
Kingsway, London. England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
s
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use tliis famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
c.j
m^ L
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
It was at the Federal Cockatoo Dock,
where a million or so seems to have been
wasted or otherwise stolen; that an employee
■was recently jogging along with a board,
when a union official held him up and told
him that carrying a board was two men's
work. So two Samsons put their shoulders
under that board and it arrived safely at
its destination.
“Murkah”: Australia being pre-eminently
the land of the horse it is surprising how
slightly that animal figures in our street
names. While Prime Ministers and importers
have streets and even towns named after
them, there isn’t a Carbine-street or a Poitrel-
avenue in the Commonwealth. Allison-road,
Itaudwick, which leads to the racecourse,
should be re-named Punters'-parade. Inci-
dentally, streets should be named so as to
give a searcher some idea where to look for
them. For instance, if suburbs were blocked
out into districts and each district allotted a
typical name finding streets would be an easy
matter. There could be a famous racehorse
section ; pugs might be given a go at immor-
tality in another part and notable inventions
in another. The jumble system has nothing
to recommend it.
“Adelaide” : A first step has been taken by
Adelaide Tramways Trust towards getting
some of the cars out of King William-street.
A short loop on the east side of Victoria-square
links Flinders-street with Wakefield-street,
and the Burnside and Dulwich traffic will
make this its city terminus. It is the
absolute middle of the city, but already
there is much complaining, especially from
women, who are used to being put down at
the Grenfell-Currie intersection, close to res-
taurants, theatres and shops. Goodman, of
the Trust, replies that (1) he has had this
reform in mind for the past eight years; and
(2) to run every car along King William-
street is impossible—as things are, it may
take 10 minutes to cover the congested half-
mile from Victoria-square to Government
House.
“D.”: It seems to me that, as a body,
the most demonstrative loyalists in Sydney
are the Huns. On that Friday when
loyalists were urged by the S. M. Hebajj)
to subscribe to a sort of Test Act by hang-
ing Union Jacks out of their windows, I
counted 12 of the emblems within 100 yards
of the place where I lunch. Five belonged
to persons with names like Huss, Drandt
and Eberthal; a couple were the* property
of Dagoes, and one was over an establish-
ment which, before I went to Egypt in To,
was the property of —well, call him Schles-
wig. It is still the business-place of Schles-
wig, only his name now is Howard. Passing
along the more or less beflagged line of
shops I came upon one that was shame-
lessly bare. The “disloyal” proprietor is a
friend: he lost a foot and won a D.C.M.
at Bullecourt.
“Pongo” climbs a chimney:—
The Mines Museum and Laboratory in George-
street North, Sydney, was built for a power-house
during E. W. O’Sullivan’s reign in the Works
Department. It was intended to supply electric light
to the various Government offices; but afterwards
it was found that it would be cheaper just to con-
nect up with the City Council mains. The place
originally consisted of two storeys, with a great
chimney, so familiar to all ferryboat travellers, rear-
ing itself 196 ft. skyward. Hexagonal in shape, with
a cap of iron consisting of twelve sections, each
11 ton in weight, this stack is remarkable because
no smoke ever passed through it, and also because
it was built without a pudlock ever being placed in
its walls. Whatever else “O’Sullivan’s monument’’
may be it is a credit to the man, Adam Martin, who
supervised its construction.
Did George Washington have a prevision
of the probable ultimate development of
things under unionism, American, Australian
or European V He said in his Farewell
Address:—
All obstructions to the execution of the laws, all
combinations and associations, under whatever plaus-
ible character, with real design to direct, control,
counteract or awe the regular deliberation and action
of the constituted authorities, are destructive of this
fundamental principle and of fatal tendency.... How-
ever combinations or associations of the above descrip-
tion may now and then answer popular ends, they are
likely in the course of time and things to become
potent engines by which cunning, ambitious and
unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the
power of the people, and to usurp for themselves
the reins of government, destroying afterwards the
very engines which have lifted them to unjust
dominion.
Up to a certain point it is a picture of the
career of Labor organisations in Australia.
They have become potent engines whereby
cunning and unprincipled men have sub-
verted popular power and effected a damn-
able and perilous usurpation. And, unless
the members are awake, the time is near at
hand when the unions’ own puppets will
destroy the machine that created them.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” goes to church;—
Apropos St. Mark’s, Darling Point, and its poverty
(B. 5/5/’2l)-. In 1838 there came to Sydney a
Lancashire lad who left his mark upon its commercial
life. This was T. S- Mort, whose bronze statue
stands in front of Sydney Exchange building. He
was the first to establish wool sales in public in
Australia. In 1846 he bought two or three sand
hummocks at Darling Point and on them built Green-
oaks, now tenanted by Archbishop Wright. Then he
set about building a church. In 1847 a temporary
shack was erected, and known as the Chapel of St.
Mark. This was .the joint gift of T. S. Mort, T. W.
year and T. W. Smith—three Toms. In the following
year Mort gave the land on which the present church
stands. On Sept. 5 Bishop Broughton laid the founda-
tion stone. Then followed years of difficulty and
strife. An impetuous Irishman was in charge in
1847, and two years later he quarrelled with his bis-
hop and was suspended. The Rev. Henry Cary, M.A.,
an eminent scholar, filled the vacancy, but soon left
the ministry and became a District Court Judge—
one of the few instances of the barrister and parson
combined. In 1851 Fairfowl Macarthur was rector
and things moved on a bit; but in Nov., 1852, the
gold-fever was at its height, and stopped work on the
new church, though a portion of it was opened for
service in ’52. It was 12 years, though, before the
church was ready for consecration. The bells, first
rung in 1862, were the gift of T. W. Smart. Eleven
years after the consecration the tower and steeple
were completed, these being the gift of William Laid-
ley, M.L.C. Darling Point in those days was a
rich place. On Sundays there used to assemble
the Motts, Smarts, Laidlevs, Whistler Smiths and
Dowlings. Mort was always to be found bright and
early at Greenoaks gate, next the church, and gradu-
ally the neighbors drifted up for their weekly gossip
before service. In those times a microscope wouldn’t
find a traybit on the collection-plate.


VACUUM CUP TYRES
The Tyres You Should Choose for
SAFETY, RELIABILITY, LONG SERVICE
Much more than your money’s worth is the return you receive always from
VACUUM CUP TYRES.
“V.C.,” indeed, for he who motors far and fast, is the royal road to more
miles to the tyre, with Absolute Safety from Skidding, as a Gift—since
you pay for quality only in V.C. Tyres.
Safety is Secured and Assured by the many hundreds of
small cups—see illustrations—each and every one being
a separate unit contributing to your SAFETY. This
wonderfully efficient NON-SKIDDING device wins your
complete confidence immediately by its ability to hold
the road under all conditions of going.
High Quality Guarantees Remarkable
Durability. —V.C. Tyres are made of the
best materials procurable, under ideal
manufacturing conditions; hence the fact
that we have hundreds of thoroughly
satisfied clients who specify
‘‘VACUUM CUP TYRES ONLY.”
i
x •
I
THESE SATISFIED
MOTORISTS RECOM-
MEND VACUUM CUP
TYRES WHEREVER
THEY GO.
Truly a satisfied customer is a splendid
advertisement. Our Mail Order bag
proves that every day, with “repeats”
and new business brought by “recom-
mendations”—not forgetting letters from
clients telling of long mileage and satis-
factory service.
The Reputation Behind the Tyre. —The great Pennsylvania
Rubber Company guarantees its tyres for 3500 mile 3.
Claims, however, are few and far between—and are
promptly met by all Australian agents.
We Solicit a Trial Order. —Only in this way can you personally prove
V.C. Tyres. You will never regret your initial trial order. So Order To-day
while it is in your mind, and remember that after the “cups” have worn
off, the “V.C.” gives you as much running surface as a plain-tread tyre.
WRITE FOR A DETAILED PRICE LIST.
F. LASSETTER 8 CO., LTD.
Sole N. S. Wales Agents,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELIZA TINSLEY PROP. LTD.
Sole Agents for Victoria and Tasmania,
644 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.


A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure silver-plated A]
quality, highly burnished, engraved “Butterfly”
design, 60/*
A. Saunders’ EntrOe Dish, pure silver-plated A 1 quality, highly
burnished, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Cate Basket, pure silver-plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, plain design, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, £O.
A. Saunders’ Fruit and Flower Stand, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, £l2/10/-
Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure silver plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, daintily engraved,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Presentation Inkstand, polished English Oak,
pure silver-plated mounts and fittings, English cut-glass bottles,
complete with drawer, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure silver-
plated A 1 quality, highly burnished, bead edging,
£5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A Powerful Water Raiser
for Farm, Station or Orchard
The
“BILLABONG”
Windmill
is doing service in many parts of the Commonwealth. It is made
in Australia and specially designed to suit Australian conditions.
Smooth and easy-running—substantial in construction—and a Quality
mill through and through, the “Billabong” is without doubt a leader of
its class.
A special feature of the “Billabong” Windmill is the patented Speed
Regulator and Governor that will not allow the wheel to “race” in heavy
winds, while the bearings are so accurately aligned and sensitive that the
lightest breeze is converted to useful power. It is a usual sight to see a
“Billabontg” Mill working when others are idle.
When fitted with the Automatic Tank Supply Regulator, the “Billabong”
stops or starts itself according to the 'level of the water in the tank. This
allows you to go about your other duties without any fear of stock being
left unvyatered, or of any wastage occurring by
overflow from the tank.
If you are looking, not merely for a windmill,
but for real Windmill Service, investigate the merits
of the “Billabong.”
The “Billabong” Book is post free for the
asking—shaAl we send YOU a copy? Write NOW!
-JOHN
r»
6 SON-Pfty.Lid.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
a


“8.E.E.” : Re apposite names. In my young
days I spent a week at the only pub in an
English village, and the landlord’s name was
Goodale. But his beer was sour.
Locked away in his office in Adelaide
among dusty briefs, Paddy Glynn, K.C., has
the material for an intimate history of the
Federal Parliament. It comprises 40
memoranda books containing inside infor-
mation of how the business of which Hughes
is now the principal shareholder deteriorated
into its present unpicturesque condition.
Glynn, who used to write copy before he
began to make it in Parliament, needs time
only to fix the story up in book-form.
‘•Orwell"! She was a pretty little thing
about seven years old and had evidently
been shopping for her mother. As I dame
up she turned a smiling face td me and
said: “Would yob mind Carrying this for
ilih, piehse ?” I took the parcel from her, and
we .Chatted about various things till we
reached her home. As I transferred the
burden to her I said : “Why did you want
me to carry it? It’s not heavy.’’ "I know,”
she replied, “but the blood’s coming through
and I didn’t want to dirty my dress.”
“Silas Snell": Oowden, of our suburb,
divorced his wife about eight months ago.
We wondered how the little man got the
courage to do it, but he managed it somehow.
However, it has been of small advantage lo
him, as his recent wdfe returned two weeks
later, and resumed possession. Cowden feels
it keenly, and is looking terribly depressed.
The other day a mutual friend gained his
confidence. Cowden dolefully explained that
lie could not drop in for a game of billiards
that evening, as his wife objected to his going
out at night. “But, God bless my soul. man.
you're divorced I’’ cried the friend, “Yes,"
Cowden admitted, "I know I am. But where’s
the use? Nellie simply wbn't hear of it!"
Legril jypti ce».
rnd clAffey, brdtbef ofPat-
Mfck Claffy or Claffey, deceased, and
fßrinei'ly of Melbourne, Australia, and all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
22nd day of March, 1921, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send into the undersigned on
or before the Ist day of December, 1921,
your claim to the estate of PATRICK
CLAFFY OR CLAFFEY, who died intestate
on or about the 27th day of February, 1920,
failing which the estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1921.
CL CL ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO MARY CLAEFEY, Sister Of Patrick
Claffy oh Claffey, deceased, add formerly
of Dunedin, New Zealand, and all persons
claiming by, through or under her.
Pursuant to an Order made on the
22nd day of March, 1921, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send into the undersigned on
or before the Ist day of December, 1921,
your claim to the estate of PATRICK
CLAFFY OR CLAFFEY, who died intestate
on or about the 27th day of February, 1920,
failing which the estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO ROBERT ALEXANDER JONES and
ftny children or grandchildren of his
and all persons Claiming by, through or under
any one of them,
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
22hd day of March, 1921, by the Supreme
CoUrt of New Zealand, you are hereby called
Upon to Send into the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of June, 1921, your claim
to the estates of WILLIAM RAMSAY
JONES, ALICIA CATHERINE JONES
and ELEANOR JONES, all late of Aramoho,
New Zealand, deceased, failing which the
estates will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at AVellington this 30th day of
March, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
A Jeweller s
Business
Fine Diamonds and
Sapphire, set in
Platinum, £l5.
A high-class jeweller’s business depends for
growth on its reputation. Few people have
an intimate knowledge of the values of Gems,
or of the thousands of articles of a jeweller’s
stock.
Hence a high-class jewellery business to be
successful must be built on foundations of
absolute reliability.
Reliability on statements of qualities.
Reliability on statements of values.
Reliability of wearing features.
Reliability on the latest fashions.
In short, on CHARACTER. As our business has
shown increases every year for forty years past
(except 1914) we feel that the public accords
us a good reputation for reasonable prices and
reliable goods.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Fisrnres.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Afiiti seme; fits.
SV'UNE Y’S i’ ltEi i'BES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Dirfectidfi.
OFFER:
lIEII MAJESTY’S.
FIREFLY.
CRITERION.
LAST TWO SIGHTS “THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.”
SATURDAY NEXT AT 8.
SCANDAL.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction J. O. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Evenings at 7.45. Mutinies Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd..
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD.
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Live yeals in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300,
Rians iit Nichoisdn's,
yNI O N PICTURE TIIKAT It It
SET THE STANDARD* FOR AUSTRALIA: .
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S HAUL, Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Direction JOHN H. HALL.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), 19th, SATURDAY, 21st,
MONDAY. 23rd May.
NORMAN PEARCE,
Celebrated American Entertainer —Stories. Sketches
and Verses from many lands.
Melb, Age.—At the end of two hours’ entertain-
ment the audience clamored for more.
BOOK EARLY, * 4/- Reserved; 3/- and 2/-
Box Tlah Paling’s. (Plus Tax).
Amusements.
Allan wilkie siiakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
opening Christchurch, new Zealand,
25th HAY,
Australasianßepresentative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Blinking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS,
EVERY EVENING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical play with an intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedv Successes,
THE MAID OP THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
I)R LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Undue).
OLIVE THOMAS in
DARLING MINE,
Also
MISS SIDNEY FAIRBROTHER in
LADDIE.
Prices as usual.
KINO’S 'PMEATHE. MET.IIO U R N E.
Hir&ctidh, ,1. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EtENING AT 8.
JOHN T). O’HARA jind JIJLF.X JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan's,
jyjA.IESTIC THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MAHLON HAMILTON in
HALF A CHANCE.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QIACIAKICM, 31 ELII O U It NE.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
M
ELBA
THEATRE,
.MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CIIAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
»RITANMA THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND REST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Public Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS,
fAORRESPONDENCE invited from MELBOURNE
U and SYDNEY houses desirous of representation
in South Australia. Live selling organisation.
Specialty lines preferred.
T. W. KIMBER & CO., LTD.,
Royal Exchange, King William Street, Adelaide.
With th. Renown Australasia
Edited by LIEUT,- COM. C, H. ROLIESTON, R.N. (Retired).
A CANDID ACCOUNT OP AN HISTORICAL, CRUISE
A number of copies of this book, as well as a similar publication produced on the
conclusion of the Prince of Wales’s tour in Canada, is now available for sale to the public.
It has been written almost entirely by officers and men of the ship, was actually
edited on board H. 31.8. Renown, and has been produced entirely in Australia by the
Australasian Publishing: Company. ,
The price is 10/6 post free in Australasia, 11/3 elsewhere, and copies can be obtained
at the office of the Austral Briton Publishing Company, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
There is no question that this book is one of the most sensational ever published
in Australia, and expresses, probably the most outspoken and candid opinions of places
and people met with during a voyage of 36,736 miles, equivalent to la times round
the world.
The first completed copy was sent to
H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES,
whose Private Secretary on receipt w T rote to the Manager, Austral Briton Publishing
Company:—
“/ have laid it before the Prince of Wales, who is very pleased with it. Would
yon convey to the Editor HR.JI.’s appreciation of the hook, and his gratitude for his
kind thought in sending him the first copy."
The following is an extract from the Sun’s review of the book, which appeared
oil 2nd February, 1921: —
“It is not difficult to imagine that this unconventional record.... will create as
great a flutter in the capitals of Australia... .as Mrs. Asquith’s extraordinary con-
fessions caused in Great Britain... .He would indeed he an incurable pessimist who
did not predict large sales for this unique magazine, which is well illustrated, per-
fectly printed, and has at least the merit (or demerit) of supreme frankness."
CAN YOU AFFORD TO BE WITHOUT IT?
m
mmmm
MM
UlUtiS!
t/
185 Times
—no difference
Betsy Lane' Shepherd, famous con-
cert soprano, compared her voice
1 85 times with the New Edison Re-
Creation of it. Each time before a
different and large audience. Each time the verdict of the
audience was “no difference.’*
The NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a soul”
gives you the same gratification as the performance of the living artist. It Re-Creates
their art in your own home for you to enjoy at will.
You should know all. there.ia to learn about this wonderful musical instrument. We will be
glad to send you Free Descriptive Literature. Write for it.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
County of Kildare, Division of Naas.
Equity Side, Record No. 470. Letter H.
RYDER HUNGERFORD of 20a W entwortb
Place iu the County of the City of Dub-
lin Administrator of CAT lILRINH
HUNGERFORD of Cromwellstown in
the said County Kildare and Division of
Naas Spinster deceased Clerk Plaintiff.
EDWARD HUNGERFORD of Cromwells-
town in the said County and Division
Farmer Defendant.
To JOHN HUNGERFORD (last-known
address Ruthven Street Toowoomba
Queensland Australia). EDWARD
HUNGERFORD or his Descendants (if
any). GEORGE HUNGERFORD or
his Descendants (if any).
HP AKE NOTICE that by an Order of His
JL Honor the County Court Judge for the
County of Kildare dated the 3rd day of
February 1!)21 personal service upon you of
Notice of the Decree in the abovenamed Suit
made on the 28th day of October 1920 was
dispensed with and it was ordered that Two
Publications in the Courier Brisbane Queens-
land in The Bulletin Sydney N.S.W. the
Auckland Weekly News and the Weekly
Press Christchurch and the Otago Witness-
Dunedin New Zealand of the Notice of the
said Decree and of the Memorandum should
be deemed good service on you and that the
time within which you should apply to add to
or vary the said Decree should be the 10th
October 1921 after the Publication of this
Notice.
The said Decree of the County Court
Judge of the County of Kildare made
in this Suit and dated the 28th day of
October 1920 Decreed and Ordered as fol-
lows :
(1) That an account be taken of what is clue to
the Plaintiff and all other the Creditors of the
Deceased.
(2) An inquiry to be made and account taken of
what or what share, if any, the Plaintiff is entitled
to as one of the next-of-kin of the Intestate.
(3) An account of the Funeral and Testamentary
expenses.
(4) An account of the personal estate of the
Deceased come to the hands of the Defendant or to*
the hands of any other person by his order or for
his use.
(5) An inquiry what part, if any, of the personal
estate of the Deceased is outstanding and undis-
posed of.
(6) And it was further ordered that the Defendant
do on or before the Ist day of December, 1920,
account to the Court all sums of money which shall
be found to have come to his hands or to the hands
of any person by his order or for his use.
(7) And it was further ordered that if the personal
estate of the Deceased be found insufficient for carry-
ing out the objects of this suit then the following
further inquiries be made and accounts taken, that
is to sav :
(8) An inquiry be made what real estate the De-
ceased was seised of or entitled to at the time of
her death.
(9) What are the incumbrances, if any, affecting
the real estate of the Deceased or any part thereof.
(10) An account as far as possible of what is
due to the several incumbrancers and to include a
statement of the priorities of such of the incum-
brancers as shall consent to the sale thereinafter
directed.
(11) That the real estate of the Deceased or so
much thereof as shall be necessary to make up the
fund in Court sufficient to carry out the object
of this suit be sold with the approbation of the
Judge free from incumbrances (if any) of such incum-
brancers as shall consent to the sale and subject to
the incumbrances of such of them as shall not
consent. , , . , ~
(12) And it was ordered that W. A. Lanphier shall
have the conduct of the sale of the personal estate
and of the real estate and shall prepare the condi-
tions and contract of sale and the abstract of title
subject to the approval of the Clerk of the Peace
and that in case any doubt or difficulty shall arise
the papers shall with the like approval be sub-
mitted to Mr. Edward Little B.L. Court Council to
settle. ....
(13) And it was further ordered that for the
purpose of the inquiries thereinbefore directed the
Clerk of the Peace shall advertise in such newspapers
as he shall think fit such advertisements to be pre-
pared and the insertions thereof directed by the
Clerk of the Peace as he shall see fit and the Clerk
of the Peace shall make the inquiries thereby
directed in any other way which shall appear to
him to give the most useful publicity to such
inquiries. . . .
(14) And it was ordered that the above inquiries
and accounts be made and taken and that all other
acts ordered to be done be completed before the
20th day of January 1921 and that the Clerk of the
Peace do certify the result .of such inquiries and
accounts and that all other acts ordered are com-
pleted and have his certificate in that behalf ready
for the inspection of the parties on the Ist day of
February 1921.
Dated this sth day of April 1921.
Signed on behalf of the Plaintiff,
W. A. LANPHIER,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, Naas.
Form of Notice under Section 00 of the
Chancery (Ireland) Act 1867.
And take notice that from the time of the
service of this Notice you will in default of
your making such Application as is herein-
after mentioned be bound by the Proceedings
in the above Suit in the same manner as if
you had been originally made a party therein
and that you may attend the proceedings
under the within-mentioned Decree and that
vou may apply to the Court at the next Ses-
sions or by leave of the Court at any subse-
quent Sitting to cancel vary or add to the
within-mentioned Decree.
Dated this sth day of April 1921.
J. W. DANE,
Clerk of the Crown and Peace for County
Kildare Courthouse Naas.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and liavy men.
Used since 1506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
insist on “ 3utgletou*a refuse all substitutes.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London. W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E, T. CHEESEMAN.
The Standard
All-British Fountain Pen
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD BUNHILL ROW, LONDON,
Australasian Representatives : NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, Sydney & Melbourne
ASK FOR ONOTO INK--BEST FOR ALL PENS
Pen
af
BOND’S Australian-Made
m
■■>&
“ Ladder-
Proof”
Hose
In PURE SILK of
Luxuriously Soft
Quality, but possessed
of such remarkable capacity for service that
EVERY PAIR IS GUARANTEED
not to Ladder, Hole, or Tear.
" LADDER-PROOF is undoubtedly
the Hose that YOU ought to Buy
“FOR SPECIAL WEAR.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR DOMING WEEK.
lleh Majesty's “Firefly”
Criterion “Scandal”
I alace "Niifhtie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow ’
IVOL , I Moving Pictures and Vaudeville
ff OYT s Moving Pictures
Union lueatres Moving Pictures
King s Hall Norman Pearce
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOlf COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ••Irene”
Rovalj “The Maid ol' the Mountains”
King s “Welcome Stranger”
Y ’ ‘* ‘i Moving Pictures
Hoi i s De Luxe &i Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mei.iia Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
GlaCiarium Ice grating
The Max Bruch concerto in G minor was
the principal dish of Jascha Heifetz's musi-
cal feast in Sydney Town llall on Saturday
night, and the crowded audience scarcely
breathed, so anxious was it to absorb the
wonderful beauty of this number. The
famous adagio was rendered with a purity
aud sweetness of tone that was the expres-
sion of spirituality. Nothing of the tiesh
remained ; so might a lark at Heaven’s gate
choir the blue ether and the morning dew.
Ihen the house fired to the flame of the bril-
liant and forceful finale, and blazed with
tumultuous enthusiasm. The vigorous and
full-blooded Handel’s Sonata in E major
led the programme, and the almost too-per-
tect player got every throb out of it. (One
is human enough to wish that sometimes
Jascha would give even the smallest hint,
of difficulties that have been overcome, or
smash a string.) A group of Tschaikowsky,
►Smetana and Cesar Cui were followed bv the
Paganini variations on ”1 Palpiti.” This
is such a pulsating tangle of intricacies it
might be likened to an ornamental maze.
However, the young man possesses the key
to the situation, and disentangled himself
to the delight of the listeners, who then sat
ealmly back and waited for the encores,
which included some Kreisler gems and the
fascinating “Turkish March.”
“Firefly” still glows at. Sydney Majesty’s,
careless of the opposition shows (hat have
been staged of late by patriot politicians
with doubtful seats or programmes. One of
its many pulls is the chorus. It is impos-
sible to insert a tuneful and shapely chorus
into a gathering designed to save either
George Fuller or Mister Dooley.
“Scandal” arrives at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday night. Not that there isn’t
plenty in Sydney already; but this is bright,
credible scandal, whereas the usual brand
is merely melancholy and unbelievable.
The extraordinary decorations that are sup-
posed to suggest Oriental atmosphere con-
tinue to decorate the vestibule and the boxes
of Sydney Grand Opera House: and the mar-
vellous stage effects and beautiful scenery of
“Chu Chin Chow” bring to mind the touch-
ing lines of the Psalmist:—
Where every prospect pleases
And only man is vile.
Sydney Globe and Haymarket are going in
for moral uplift, and show Winston Chur-
chill’s “Inside of
the Eup,” which
proves to be mostly
dregs stirred up
by a conscientious
clergyman w h o
considers it hi s
duty to strip hare
the richest-tieeced
of his fold and
show the wolf that
really lives within.
But when the bad
rich man is dying
the clergyman
covers him up
aga i n with th e
clo a k of repen-
tance, so the bal-
ance is restored.
At Crystal Palace
and Lyceum 11. B.
Warner is hypno-
tised into the be-
lief that “O n e
II our Bef o r e
Dawn” he has com-
mitted a ghastly
murder. However,
the detectives get
on to the mystery
and clear it up
before you could
say “Guyra.” With
a nice warm South
Se a background
Doraldina ex-
pounds weird and
"The Sign on the
Door," at Syriaeg
Criterion,
H. R. Roberta ax
"Bud" Whiting, the
District Attorney.
wonderful dancing, supposed to express a
bouth Sea Island girl's innermost feelings.
The outbursts take place under the title
‘Passion Fruit.” At the Strand and Em-
press Tom Mix is “The Texan,” and “The
Breath of the Gods” is breathed at Hort’s
and the Piccadilly.
*U Melbourne Majesty's the triumph of
clothes continues to be achieved under un-
promising conditions, and Irene is mobbed
by the male chorus on the understanding that
she is a dream in expensive garments.
Adoration of the leading Jady is always a
bit overdone in musical comedy. The "men
rush at her when she walks on, or they,
ciov d around when she sits down, or thev
lift her on to a table and dance around it,
singing hymns of praise the while. They
set a shockingly bad example to voung men
in the audience who are already making
moic tuss than they can afford over their
respective Maisies.
Ihe Mind still blows a hurricane through
the broken window of the Welcome Stranger
pub at Melbourne King’s when Jules Jordan
and a lady are dreaming the wintry hours
away in the bleak office. Somehow, the wind
always does blow like that in an American
comedy-drama after night comes on. If a
man is left alone whilst the lights are dim
and low you can bet your bottom dollar that
someone is going to blow in. If it were not
lunette Parkes in this instance it would
hate to be somebody else—a mere man, per-
haps. All things considered, lunette is
thoroughly acceptable. She's absurdlv im-
probable in her character of a fugitive from
false suspicion, but if she were in any way
reasonable and likely to occur, she 'would
sound like sweet hells jangled, and out of
tune with the rest of the play.
At Melbourne Royal the 12-months’
contract that Gladys Monerieff signs with
the Gilbertian brigands continues to expire
every night. After which she sings farewell
to t lie boss and departs in tears, only to
be captured by the myrmidons of the comic
governor who lias a cliarm of manner. The
career of “The Maid of the Mountains” never
varies. Owing to its enormous financial
success it wouldn’t vary if it could.
At Melbourne Tivoli events show a decided
leaning towards vaudeville. The picture-half
of the programme includes “Peaceful Vul-
•a' p H' as ' ng m *W romance of rural life,
with ( haxles Ray in the position of a much-
hugged hero j also, views of college boat-races
that give a satisfactory but unexciting idea
of the attendance on the banks. The vaude-
ville-half is supplied by a party of seaside
show-folk, headed by Charles Zoli. The 10
men and girls are entertaining in an old
familiar way, the arrangement being neat
and the turns for the most part bright and
cheerful for their age.
Last week it was understood that the
\ erbrugghen Orchestra would play its final
at Melbourne Town Hall next Saturday
.•ilternoon, hut business is boorasome, and an
extra concert will happen in the evening.
Of George Lambert’s Melbourne show :
Limited to 15 canvases and a dozen studies in
Pencil, George Lambert’s show at the Fine Art
Society’s gallery has abundant interest to artists on
account of his virile drawing and his unconvention-
al ity in the choice of color schemes. The latter
quality is audaciously evident in his biggest canvas.
“Important People.” Standing apparently on a hill
are a well-built girl, with a baby in a basket, and a
meditative pugilist, while an upended cart and a
bell-toppered gentleman fill in most of the canvas
behind. The sallow face of the girl, the lavender
ti unks of the pug, the staring yellow cart, combined
with the pink-complexioned personage, who might be
a Guards colonel got up for a garden party, complete
a composition so challenging that orthodox critics
shouldn’t face it without a bottle of smelling-salts.
Yet the grouping is excellent, and the baffling idea
of the picture, suggesting satire to some, and to
others the genial ambition of startling the bourgeois,
makes the effort memorable beside smaller studies
remarkable for more sobriety in palette or design.
Of his portraits the most striking in its simplicity
is the attractive profile of Madame Le Clerc in
black pulling on her gloves against a dark blue
background | and lie has another of similar coloring
which presents almost a full face of a sparkling
brunette with a pair of fetching brown eyes. A
gracious blonde in profile is another success. Wear-
ing a colored wrap over a plain black fjroek, with a
beautifully-painted right hand fingering a crystal in
her lap, whilst the other is outspread upon her hip,
she looks worthy of her charming old-rose back-
ground. A self-portrait is a vivid impression of the
bald-headed hero in the singlet and khaki pants of
the A.L.H. Among his other portrait subjects are
Professor Baldwin Spencer (unfinished) and an
A.L.H. sergeant, the latter a vigorous snapshot of
the resourceful fighting face. A couple of impeccable
but unexciting flower studies command less atten-
tion ; and the sombre Cornwall landscapes contrast
with the pink and drab gradations of soil in the
Bara da Gorge above Damascus. The pencil drawings
are skilful, “Gipsy Bess,” “The Coster Belle” and
A Non-Com. of the Light Horse” jostling one
another for the first prize.
“Laddie” is the latest sob at Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne house. It is the tale of a mother
neglected by her successful offspring, and
the pathos of it will make cabmen weep and
dustmen think of holy things. A wet week
is also certain on account of the reappear-
ance of the wraith of the deceased Olive
Thomas in "Darling Mine.” Mary Maclaren
takes a header in to the chorus in ‘‘.Rouge
and Riches.” At the Majestic “The Last
of the Mohicans” is regarded as a triumph,
inasmuch as it was produced by Maurice
Tourneur, who learnt his artistic perception
from Rodin and painted faded pictures with
Puvis de Chavannes. The follow-on is J.
Warren Kerrigan in "The Old Country Lad,”
but this comparatively reasonable story is
hardly noticed beside the Yankee extrava-
ganza built on Fenimore Cooper’s tale. At
the Britannia "Good References” keeps Con-
stance Talmadge earning her vast salary,
and the Melba has Thomas Meighan in “The
Frontier of the Stars.” Thomas is another
sinner brought to repentance by a yearning
female with an unbalanced head and heart.
Adelaide has continued its course of Gil-
bert and Sullivan at the Royal, and has duly
noted the advance in Sullivan’s orchestra-
tion. Also, further experience confirms the
previous view that the principals on the
feminine side of this co. are not equal to
tlie men. But the success of the long sea-
son has been even beyond expectation. Much
money lias been turned away, too, at the
Town Hall, where Yerbrugghen is giving
what is pointedly called a farewell season.
The programmes are on the popular side,
but Sibelius and Tschaikowsky are not neg-
lected. At the Prince of Wales Stiffy and
Mo have passed on after a lengthy season,
and Walter George and his co. now have
charge of half the programme. In pic-
tures, Katherine McDonald, at the Majestic,
tells the sfhange story of the “Thunderbolt”
girl who whs married to make sure that she
should have no descendants. At West’s is
Norma Talmadge, but a more striking pic-
ture is that audaciously named “The Great
Redeemer.” The painter-convict in this is
played by House Peters, now claimed as
South-A us. born. At Wondergraph Bryant
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Moon (or, rather, half-Moon) and Morris
in a simultaneous dance.
W ashburn is abundantly funny by way of
contrast. And pictures of the Adelaide Cup
are everywhere.
Harrisoij O. ’ makes some comparisons:
Of course you liave heard that, owing to tiie
selective processes carried out by the gifted man-
agements, play patrons in my own land see only
the very best of the shows put on in Europe, and
are never called upon to endure the drivelling inani-
ties inflicted upon London audiences. I have always
harbored polite doubts regarding this and similar
statements, and now I have a noble desire to tell
the blessed truth as it appears to me after eight
months of furious theatre-going in London.
As regards musical comedies, revues and so forth, the
Australian (meaning the Sydney and Melbourne)
theatre-goer is fairly well treated; but the frequent
yarn about the standard of production being hjsrher
than, or even as high as, it is here won’t bear exami-
nation. I have never seen in Melbourne or Sydney a
show that could compete with productions such as
“London. Paris and New York” and “The League of
Notions,” now at the Pavilion and New Oxford
respectively. I don t blame Australian managers
for not doing things on a similarly lavish scale, for
T doubt if they could and remain solvent; I merely
wish to make the point that claims to the effect that
they do are extravagant and unnecessary. The two
shows named are unusually expensive (so are seats
at them) ; but even the usual musical-comedy pro-
ductions in the W est-end are more elaborate than
similar productions in Australia. No reasonable
person would consider this a reflection on the Firm,
having regard to the populations catered for and
the difference in the length of time a show can
run; so why the tiresome tarradiddles about the
superiority of the J.CAV. productions ? In the
matter of performers the position is much the
same. All things considered, the Australian casts
apait from the marked absence of outstanding
s ars, are about as good as could reasonably be
demanded. The “stars,” of course, are a loss in
musical shows. »lson Keys, London's most polished
musical comedy jester, is far ahead of any performe
of the kind who has visited Australia since G. P.
Huntley. In his own line Robey stands alone; and
Leslie Henson is better
than most. But per-
formers in the second
grade reveal no marked
superiority over Leslie
Holland, -Jack Cannot
and company; and
Maud Fane is well up
to the average prac-
titioner in her own
line.
When it comes to
straight shows a dif-
ferent tale must be
told. The only Eng-
lish performers who
have visited Australia
in. sav, the last, dozen
years who can be said
to be in the front rank
here are Oscar Asche,
Ethel Irving. Mathe-
son Lang (perhaps),
Marie Tempest, Gra-
ham Browne (not so
much on his English
reputation as on his
Australian perform-
ances) and Cyril Maude.
Of these Marie Tem-
pest admittedly is not
at the height of her
powers, and Cyril
Maude's claims strike
me as doubtful. The
best comedy actress on
the English stage is
Irene Vanbrugh, and
Mrs. Pat Campbell is
“Welcome Et ranger,"
of Melbourne King’s.
Edam Lester thinks
kindly of the stronger
in the last act.
still probably the most convincing emotional actress.
Hut, even if we ignore the “stars,” the plain, mi-
varnished truth is that the general level of the act-
ing here is much above that in Australian shows.
In one production after another it is possible to sec
casts of all-round excellence, and remarkably good
taste usually characterises the staging and dressing.
As for the yarn that Sydney and Melbourne sec
only the best (even if “best” is taken as meaning
'most successful”) of the London productions-
help! Artistically considered, Australia mostly sees
the worst. I can name five remarkably successful
recent London productions—Barrie’s “Mary Rose,”
llalsworthy’s “The Skin Game,” H. M. Harwood’s
“A Grain of Mustard Seed,” A. A. Milne’s “Mr.
Tim Passes By” and Lennox Robinson’s “The
White-Headed Boy”—all plays of literary merit,
and yet with the qualities which made for success;
but not one is included in the list of productions
which Hughie Ward (at present in these parts)
announces that he has secured for Australia. On
the other hand, there is in the list a musical show,
“Sybil,” which was put on at Daly’s only a fort-
night ago and was jeered by the gallery on the
opening night. If questioned the Australian mana-
gerial play-censors declare that big successes such
as I have mentioned “wouldn’t go down out there.”
The painful thing about such statements is that they
are not wholly untrue. This does not mean that
Australian theatre-goers are less intelligent than
those of London, but simply that they are not so
well educated. Their theatrical training has been
neglected. Unless they happen to be readers of
published plays or patrons of occasional repertory
performances they ai’e without opportunity for
acquiring knowledge of decent modern works.
Managers may reply that it is not their job
to educate the public, which merely indicates that
they take a bat-eyed view of their job. The Brough-
Boucicault combination, arid Viter the Brough-
Fleming and Fleming-Dav companies, without the
wealth and resources of the Combine, made a fairly
good shot at it in days gone by ; and any manage-
ment with a vision which saw beyond instantaneous
returns could do so to-day. A long-sustained diet of
tripe has probably v itiated public taste ; but there is
no reason—other than an unpatriotic and unjustifiable
contempt for Australian intelligence—for supposing
that it cannot be restored. And its restoration would
eventually prove an extremely profitable business for
the management that accomplished it; for plays that
can stand on their own merits rarely make heavy
demands upon the stage carpenter or the scene-
painter.
If Melbourne’s Mermaid Players want to
endear themselves to the lover of “literary”
drama, they ought to confine themselves to
the dramas for which they can provide an
adequate east. It is absurd, for instance, to
put up Shakspeare wherein the number of
speaking parts absorbs the Society’s small
stock of comparatively proficient amateurs,
and leaves vacancies for novices whose com-
plete lack of dramatic aptitude is only sur-
passed by their pride in making a first for
perhaps second) appearance. No doubt the
arrangement suits the parents, uncles, aunts
and other relatives who have come to see “our
Mavis” or “our Cyril” make the Bard turn
twice in his coffin, but to the interested out-
sider, who may have travelled far through a
wet night just for a change from the Com-
bine’s frivolities, it isn’t stimulating.


Murdoch- Made
Goat Sweaters
1
Cost Less!
mlii
m
m.
m
Because you buy DIREC T from
the MANUFACTURER! You
avoid all Middlemen’s profits, and
thereby obtain a much better
Sweater at a Lower Price.
There is another reason I
Murdoch’s, as acknowledged leaders in Men’s
Wear Values, must, by virtue of this position,
give you a better Sweater than you can obtain
elsewhere—even at more money.
A SPECIAL BARGAIN
Men’s warm and well-made Coat Sweaters of
excellent quality and protective weave. Made
to the high-grade Murdoch standard, taped
shoulders, neat flat seams, no frayed edges.
Cuffs are double close knitted, everything to
ensure perfect shape and good wear. In Navy
and Mid Grey, V Front or Polo Collars.
S. Men’s
and Men’s
19/11
O.S„ 21/-
Ex. O.S. 22/6
By acting now you may save many Doctor’s Bills. If
unable to call, you can receive one of these comfortable
Sweaters by Return Mail. Be sure* and state Size.
Address your letter to DESK It.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
MURDOCH’S
In Park Street Ltd., Sydney,
“The World’s Largest Men's &. Boys' Wear Store.”
&
m s >
Much needless suffering is caused by Corns
A corn is a needless worry. The pain it
causes need not be suffered. The appli-
cation of “Blue-Jay” brings relief at
once, and, without any feeling on your
part, the corn is subjected to treatment
that ends it forever.
Compare the “Blue-Jay” way with the
old, harsh and uncertain methods.
Thereafter, you will cure your corns
with “Blue-Jay,” and avoid risk and un-
certainty.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific preparation.
The man who produced it had made a
life study of surgical dressings. Note
the illustration below.
The felt pad, marked “A.” removes pres-
sure and stops the pain. The wax,
marked “B,” acts on the corn alone, and
nowhere else. is a rubber-coated,
moisture-proof tape, which adheres
snu giy nnd securely.
B
Blue*jay
The Scierv+i+ic
Erxder .
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6 in Packet
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS, 4 in Packet
All Good Chei,lists will supply
1/6
THREE EXQUISITE
BOUDOIR GRANDS
AT PALING’S.
MASON & HAMLIN
AN ARTIST’S PIANO.
A most excellent Boudoir Model
possessing a distinguished beauty and
richness of tone. These Pianos are
much sought after by the World’s
Greatest Pianists, who require a Piano
of the highest excellence for tone
quality and perfect touch.
Made in the best-equipped factory in
France.
The Gaveau Pianos are justly celebrated
for their excellent Tone Quality and
resonance, the touch is perfect and
case design is most artistic. The
high-grade workmanship ensures great
durability.
BEHNING
Since 1861 the Behning Pianos have
been a delight to the musician who
appreciates good tone quality and
resonance.
The Behning is one of the most popu-
lar Pianos we have ever handled. The
finest, grade of material and work-
manship is used in their construction.
CALL IN AND HEAR THESE LOVELY PIANOS. YOU’LL BE DELIGHTED.
CATALOGUES FREE.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Brisbane, Toowoomba, Rockhampton,
Newcastle and Lismore.


-hhiiiii!iiiiiiiii
iilllllllllltlllUMlmWMHMtWlUliltllllillil
NSW- MONT de PIETE D &> I C9T LIMITED,
74> SL., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
NOISS3SSOJ inoilll
T T IMfl-VTC m
sassvio'nv no
MUton
_ faxc/iesjf 215-17 Mansion Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
- 29 King St Newcastle. l97*Castlereaqh St, a 159 George' St,West, Sydney. __ 0
CAPITAL a 200.000 ‘Phqoe City93Zs
Joseph W.NiII, General rT&na&er.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Etd.”
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“8.J.” (London) : W. S. Percy has signed
a long contract to appear as leading com-
edian with the Firm, and is due to arrive in
Australia in October, lie has had several
decent opportunities in London and has made
good use of them. In any case, before he left
Australia he was a better comedian than
most of those who had been brought overseas
and were handed fatter pay envelopes.
When the Duchess of Plaza Toro remarked,
at Adelaide Royal, that the action of the
Duke’s musical followers in going on strike
was “so like a band,” she was able to put a
little extra bitterness into the sarcasm. Most
of the Royal’s orchestra had objected to
play with a few leaders brought by the man-
agement from Sydney, and for the first few
evenings the music consisted of strings only.
But prompt reference to an Industrial Court
brought a severe admonition from the Judge,
and the strikers, having been assured they
were in the wrong, got back to their .seats
about the fifth evening.
“The Sign on the
Door,” at Sydney
Criterion.
John Bedouin as the
very worried Fer-
guson, and Beg Long
as Alan waiting for a
tennis partner.
‘Old Pot” : Apropos the red wig and beard
of Shylock worn by Oscar Asche (B.
12/5/’2l). Asche simply reverted to the
old custom. The first actor to discard the
red make-up for the Jew was Edmund Kean,
who shocked Raymond, the acting-manager of
Drury Lane, on a miserably wet and slushy
night of 1814 by producing a black wig.
lie had introduced innovations at the morn-
ing’s rehearsal, but to scoff at the deep-
seated belief that Shylock was foxy-haired,
as set out in the epitaph of Burbage,
The red-haired Jew
That sought the bankrupt merchant’s pound of flesh,
was too much. Even Arnold, manager of
Drury Lane, lamented such extraordinary
conduct. Charles Maeklin was the last of the
great English actors to wear the red wig, and
was the first to present “The Merchant” as
tragedy and not comedy. lie was “the Jew
that Shakspeare drew.” Oscar Asche drew
him as one from Petticoat-lane or Hounds-
diteh, and no one is likely to forget his Shy-
lock, with dirty gabardine and bare feet,
encased in slippers, counting money in the
window of his usury shop. Allan Wilkie’s
study was on the refined models of old-man
Irving and Tree.
“Stagefright” : The remarks of “Fax” (B.
32/5/’2l) about “The Virgin Unmasked”
and its recent revival in London recall a
playbill in the Mitchell Library (Sydney).
It is claimed to be the first printed in Aus-
tralia, and advertises that “By permission of
his Excellency, at the Theatre, Sydney,
March 8, 1800, a musical entertainment,
‘The Virgin Unmasked’ ” would be preceded
by “the comedy of “The Recruiting Officer.’ ”
Mrs. Parry took the part of Lucy in “The
Virgin.”
“Stargazer” : There was a regular row in
the house. It was
true that the lead-
ing lady had be-
g u i 1 e d the good-
looking hero from
his allegiance to a
good little woman
in a small subur-
ban villa far from
the foo 11 igh t s’
glare. The sym-
pathies of the com-
pany were all on
the side of injured
innocence and out-
raged virtue in the
shape of Garrick’s
little wife. We
wondered lmw she
could put up with
it, but apparently
she was not yet
unite aware of the
facts. When fully
enlightened she left
nobody lingering in
doubt. She called
at the theatre,
broke up a rehenr-
sa 1, knocked the
misleading 1a d v
about with a sling
shot made of a
potato in a stock-
ing, and standing-
over the prostrate
body delivered her-
self of a diatribe
that is still quoted
as a masterpiece:
BARRA MUSGROVE,
of Melbourne Royal.
“Pretty brute' you are ! Lady you call your-
self. Lady—pooh! Nice lady to take an
honest woman’s husband away and never
offer her a penny!”
From London-
Melodrama has broken loose in several leading
West End theatres. Wyndham’s, the home of the
politest drawing-room comedies, has been invaded by
“Bull-Dog Drummond,” accompanied by an arsenal
of lethal weapons.. Capital acting (Gerald du
Maurier in the name part) and a subtle suggestion
which the author manages to convey that he
possesses a sense of humor and does not take his
puppets too Seriously, make the thing a passable enter-
tainment. The unofficial Australian play censors,
who have ignored a number of recent London suc-
cesses on the ground that they are “above the heads”
of the benighted public for which they cater, are not
likely to overlook this cheerful shocker. “The
Savage and the Woman,” in which the leading parts
are played by six-shooters, is erupting at the Lyceum,
which once upon a time was the shrine of the high-
brows. “Don Q.,” a dramatisation of Hesketh
Pritchard’s brigand stories, has gone on l at the
Apollo, with Dorothy Dix (seen in Australia in
“The Speckled Band” and some Julius Knight
shows) as the unimportant Spanish heroine. Julius,
by the way, can often be seen featuring jazz effects
in male apparel in Regent-street, but his stage ap-
pearances in the West End are few and almost
unnoticed. Sofne new Grand Guignol thrillers have
been put on at the Little Theatre, where “Ghastli-
ness for art’s sake” is the managerial slogan. “Seven
Blind Men” depicts the panic of seven blind brush-
workers, locked in a workroom by a brutal overseer,
who, after one lias burnt himself against a stove,
hear the clanging of a firebell and the noise of
an engine in the street outside, and imagine that
the place is on fire. Another playlet, “The Kill,”
revolves round a Burne-Jones lady who denies her
brutal lord his marital rights and entertains a de-
cadent lover. After various horrors have been pre-
sented, and others suggested, the lady is revealed in
a horribly demented condition, biting her lord and
master in 27 places. Both these playlets were
manufactured in France.
“C. Ockney”: One of the newest musical
pieces acquired for Australia by the Firm is
“A Little Dutch Girl,” now running at Lon-
don Lyric. Old practitioners Seymour Hicks
and Harry Graham are the librettists, but a
new composer, Emmerick Kalman, supplies
the score. In London the star part is
taken by a brilliant recruit from the concert
platform—Maggie Teyte. She is a sister of
J. W. Tate, who composed the “Maid of the
Mountains” interpolated numbers.
“Hang Over”: The big cities may never
see the like of the old amateur comic opera
cos. again, for the reasons cited by “Fax”
(B. 21/4/21) : but Perth and sucli-like
smaller cities have them still. During the
past few years three distinct amateur crowds
have given Perth “The Gondoliers, ’ “The
Mikado,” “The Country Girl,” “Ma Mie
Rosette,” “San Toy” and “Dorothy,” and in
every case a mighty good standard was
reached. The amateur co.’s “Mikado ’ was
not the thickness of notepaper from the
Firm’s very own lately played here, and the
Katisha of that co. is now being hailed in
Paris as a delight and a future star.
“Vaudeville Vet.”: George Edwardes,
whom Australian bills first knew as Harold
Parkes, writing from London, enthuses over
Marie Lloyd's amazing vitality. At 00 she
is as gay as a lark and “going bigger” than
ever. On her last birthday the audience at
the Bedford got up and sang “For She’s a
Jolly Good Fellow.” Marie always was a
good chap, and apparently still retains the
habit of letting bygones be bygones. Not
long ago she took her husband to court for
creating a disturbance. More recently she
took him to court again—as moral support
in her effort to evade jury duty.
This year’s jump, varying from 25 to 50
per cent., in the price of American films
has set English producers appealing to their
own countrymen to meet the demand. Most
of the famous novels have now been adapted,
and there is a curious lack of keenness among
English fiction-writers about turning their
brains to the kind of original work the movie
wants. A. few who show a willingness to do
so have been tempted away to Los Angeles,
American playwrights—the president of the
Exhibitors’ Association in England lately de-
clared —having apparently written them-
selves out.
“Floater” : An old gentleman and his wife,
who hadn’t been to the theatre for years,
were greatly perturbed when, having eaten
up a sovereign for a look at a Melbourne
show, they were buccaneered further for
programmes and cloakroom fees. The old
boy fumed up to a statuesque official and
sarcastically asked if there was anything else
to pay. “No, not yet,” answered the stony
menial. “The proposal to charge a small
sum for wiping your feet on the doormat is
to be considered at the next Board meet-
ing.”
“R.” : How relatives of W. S. Lyster do stick
to Melbourne Tivoli! Lyster’s Co. appeared
there (it was then the Opera House) nearly
half-a-century ago. A generation later his
nephew, George Musgrove, produced at the
same place the tuneful “Olivette,” “Madame
Savant” and the celebrated “Tambour
Major,” wjiich had a record run of 101
nights. Now George’s nephew, Harry, who
is the son of Melbourne Royal’s manager, is
at the old stand keeping the old name aloft
as head of the First National picture-show.
“Plus Tax”: The speakies are getting
some pretty hard wallops from the movies,
and I foresee in the near future a race to
Australia between an American-made spoken
drama and the silent version of it. Oliver
Morosco, for instance, has decided to screen
all his stage shows, and J. D. Williams, who
laid the foundations of the movies in this
country, is to distribute them on behalf of
the First National, represented in Australia
by Harry G. Musgrove. Williamson-Tait
are buyers of Morosco material, but a failure
to register a quick bargain will result in the
movie getting here first. At present . the
speakies hold the lead, as witness “The Sign
on the Door,” later to be played here on the
celluloid by Norma Talmadge.
“Vaudeville Vet” : There is a whale of a
difference between “big time” and “small
time” in Yankee vaudeville, and many an
“act” would rather starve ’twixt engage-
ments than play the latter after once tread-
ing the starry way. Sam and Lou La Mert,
Australians both, recently found themselves
faced with the alternative of temporarily
taking a “small-time” contract or “resting.”
They chose to work, but, having due regard
for their prestige in the profesh, they altered
their billing. On the “small-time” pro-
grammes they became “Ned and Dan Kelly,
the Australian Entertainers.”
“Sir Spen” : Clyde Cook, now paying tri-
bute to Yankee filmdom, always had the
play-acting instinct. Years ago his father
was employed at Hibbard’s sawmill, near
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), and it is remem-
bered that young Cook would twist himself
around the spokes of the timber-waggon
wheels, and cut fantastic figures as the
vehicles were drawn about the vard.
“O. Blin” : Clara Butt’s weight, alluded to
by “Stargazer” (B. 12/5/’2l), was nothing
to that of a songstress who was here with
George Musgrove’s German Opera Co.
Loaded with vast bracelets and necklaces,
she was like a Rajah’s favorite elephant,
and when she sat down she needed two
chairs. However, she had a diplomatic hus-
band whose ready resource saved her many
embarrassing moments. On the Flinders-
street station she had playfully mounted the
weighing-machine. As the copper fell into
the stomach of the instrument, the released
indicator nearly lapped the dial. Vera was
ALL RIGHT NOW.
“I thought hubby objected to your wearing
a bathing costume .”
“He did."
“What, changed his views""
“No, changed my husband .”
astounded. “Mein Gott, Fritz,” she shrieked
in anguish, “look!” “Pooh, pooh, dat is
exaggeration,” answered Fritz soothingly.
“You forget you kaf your boots on.”
“S.T.S.”: Three quite independent pars,
in a recent Bulletin can be read together.
One praises “Irene,” one claims that the
Cinderella legend is always popular in what-
ever form told, and one estimates the pro-
portion of women to men attending theatres
at 4 to 1 for musical comedy and 0 to 1 for
comic opera. Well, “Irene” is just one more
variation on the Cinders theme, and to an
audience mainly composed of women the idea
of a heroine marrying someone of much
higher wealth and rank always will appeal.
The life of every unmarried woman is a
gamble. She is a possible duchess —or any-
thing up to that. She may recognise that the
odds against her drawing a winner (so to
speak) are great. She may even have decided
to “.stand pat” (to vai’y the metaphor) and
be already happily married to a fitting but
unsensational mate. Either way she still
loves to see the theme of what may be —or
what might have been —attractively rendered.
Half the yarns from the U.S.A., where
women are almost the only readers, are little
else.
“E.T.” : Having four pieces running simul-
taneously in London (B. 5/5/’2l) is not the
only play record held by Somerset Maugham.
Twenty years ago—when he was 27—he
w’rote a drama which was produced in Ger-
man at a Berlin theatre.
A new r theatre in N’York, The Klaw, has
some novel features, including n “co-eduea-
tional lounge for men and ivomen,” whatever
that may be. The initial programme con-
sisted of a comedy by Rachel _ Crothers
(known here by her “Old Lady 31”), en-
titled “Nice People,” in which llueL Huntley,
long a useful mummer on Australian stages,
had a prominent part.
“Kaylee”: The screening around Sydney
of Connie Talmadge in “Mamma’s Affair”
recalls that it was a prize comedy turned out
by a student of a play-writing course, and
made in what Harvard University calls its
“workshop.” This is an experimental
theatre, where the process of testing material
is possible to the student. Even the
“dog” is provided in the shape of a
trained audience, from which construc-
tive criticism is demanded. “Mamma’s
Affair” was first produced in the shop, re-
written, and staged again and again, the
procedure continuing for 12 months before
the job was regarded as good enough. Then
it wept out into the wm-ld, won a prize from
Oliver Morosco, a Broadway production, and
eventually an international reputation per
medium of the celluloid.
Somebody diving into Harry Lauder’s early
history declares that his first success in Lon-
don was made with an Irish song, “Call agin,
Calligan.”
THE ARBITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Admirable recreation for the tired bookmaker.” —
“Sundry Shows” critique.
There are four-and-twenty ways, at the least, of
writing plays,
But only one by which you’ll get a winner.
Take the tip—you’ll have success if your drama
you will dress
In a way to please the sportsman after dinner.
The city racing man boasts an influential clan,
With followers in Dubbo, Hungog, Dookie;
So to gladden him you’ll strive and especially con-
trive
To offer recreation to the bookie.
He goes to all the shows, for the best he’s got a nose,
And it pays to watch and note the way he eyes ’em ;
There’s a long run in his “Yeth,” and his “No” means
certain death,
No matter how you boost or advertise ’em.
So the play that is a cert, can be written round a
skirt,
Or round a scamp, revolvery and crooky,
Or anything you like, but there’s not a doubt you’ll
strike
An odds-on chance if you can please the bookie.
So, ye backers of the art theatrical, your start
On first nights much depends upon the layer.
Though approved by all the gods, if he offers you
long odds,
Your greatest new production ain’t a stayer.
And mummers passed away, though good ones in
their day,
Their voices from the grave come plaintive, spooky:
“We pleased the highbrows most and got beaten on
the post,
For others always licked us with the bookie!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


-s' 4
■■
.*> y.,.
— ‘ r«e*f#w? ;rs
*■» •• !SV ss S 1 ' 3
X
\>i Mm Up ‘
■ :'■■■**■>:?
■
ip ' tin _ .
gjlpQ
l iPm
>' ~-y' ../■/
*# I \, , ' < !':'<'
0 * ’ j
IP
; m
Wr*
.
— r
r-; ‘ ' >*■
\
• : f Av;/ As': : .
*.? *s®.«a
: >
IP
■f'i
stf As' ‘
%
'i ■ $ 1 '** **J
%
"<■>, "’s '. J
p|?
%
$ «
fcill
J
1
I
?AsL':wr a
■%-
n
"i
A
' :■: :
*oi ; ;
• : ' :
I
'
II
<p
■
mw itifiiii iiiia
- 's
iv ■
isi
WKSm. |
K*,!? I
y . * ' }/ ?$ Jr
%
'■> '
i.#;
it#p» s?
P - -
IllllalilHß
■I
|M§S V
iilfe
P' -
llllii 1i " I 1 ii Ip-Si!
&V ‘ 'v; . 'v '
■
®' lB ' “ "A*' s '«wSw
-A / >
V...S
Img s f t ■s, *>/*>■
*, : §■§
liiP
; ? ■: -: ? .
... :
JL
Jr
<
r!
II
: ---- ■
m
r&rl
Si
’y%M
V*
in*
: ???
w
w
ii
IS
11
2,000 years ago—and to-night
CLEOPATRA, enslaver of Caesar and of
Antony, regarded Palm and Olive oils
as the most valuable elements of her
toilet. The modern beauty uses the same
magical balms combined in the bland frag-
rance of Palmolive Soap.
But the woman of to-day derives even greater benefit
and completer enjoyment from these famous oils.
Science, while retaining all the healthful and helpful virtues of the
oils, has bettered them. To-day they are purer, more scientifically
blended, more convenient than in the days when they maintained
undiminished the regal beauty of Royal Egypt.
Palmolive
Soap
sells everywhere at
1/3
per
PALMOLIVE
Write direct to G. van Werveke, Sole Agent,
Eldon Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, if you
have difficulty in obtaining Palmolive Soap.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents; BURNS, PHIL.P & CO., ITD., Perth and Geraldton.
'
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
lawtot
LEWIS&WMITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
iHELL
MOTOR WRIT
.303 ROSS RIFLES
Special high-power Sporting Rifles, for big-
game shooting. The most reliable .303 rifle-
obtainable. Price, £6/10/-
9m.m. BROWNING F.N. RIFLE
This high-power Browning Automatic Rifle is
also a splendid big-game firearm. Cal., 9mm.
Price, £l5,
WINCHESTER RIFLES
Oal. .303 high-power Rifle, £l2/10/-
Cal. 25/20, 32, 38, 44 Rifles, full or' half
magazine, £B/10/-. Carbines, £7/17/6.
dunsmiths and Cartridge Makars,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Sydney Sports Ground held 15,000 people
on .Saturday when North Sydney slathered Balmain,
ilie premiers, in one of the most spectacular League
sanies ever witnessed in Australia. Scores 'l7
points (3 tries 4 goals) to 9 points (1 try 3 goals),
and it was Norths fourth successive win this season.
I lie first half saw Norths leading by 4 points
(goals by Dune Thompson and Harold Holder) to
ml. The Dockers had a strong sou’-east breeze
against them. In the second spasm the red-and-
blaclcs —galvanised b.v a lecture from coach Chris Mc-
tvivatt bogged in like piece-workers. They over-
shadowed the black-mid-gold faction in every depart-
ment. George Green, the Norths’ “rake,” snared the
leather with monotonous regularity, and the rear-
guard was always on the move. Norths’ first try
came immediately upon resuming. Thompson from
a scrum whipped the leather to Dallas Hodgins well
within the red-and-black 25 line. Hodgins transferred
to Rule, who made a brilliant gallop down centre
heating three dockers before sending to Pauli, to
Clarrie Ives, again to Hodgins, to Rule (who again
evaded two men), to Jack Baker. Baker, whilst being
torn down by Schultz, the giant docker, whipped
the ball back again to Rule, who scored close
to the uprights. Dime Thompson hoisted both
flags. Norths 9 to 0. The next sensation was
provided by Blinkhorn. He picked up 20vds.
from the Shoremen’s line, and, skirting 'the
touchline shot for the Dockers’ goal, beat
four taeklers (including the redoubtable Jimmy
Craig) and scored near tile corner. Harold Holder
failed to goal. North 12, Balmain 0. Disaster now
overtook the Dockers, Georgie Robinson having to
leave the field with a fractured collarbone. With
only 12 men the black-and-gold crowd played Fraser
at half, with Latta alongside. Fraser hoisted a goal,
and Craig added another from half way. North, 12,
Balmain 4. Dune Thompson again got a move on, and,
after making good progress sent to H. Peters, who
scored a fine try. Holder goaled. North 17, Bal-
main 4. ’Main’s kept the Norths defending for
the rest of the struggle, during which Craig, their
only back man to shine, after Robinson and Pideock
had gained ground, crossed in, and, later, added
another goal. North 17, Balmain 9. The best man
on the grass was Thompson. He started his backs
magnificently, found the line with excellent grubbers
and tackled finely. Blinkhorn provided his finest
effort to date both in attack and defence. Border
played well below form; he was repeatedly beaten,
tackled like a lady, and never went looking- for
openings. Ives, Green and McGrath were the Shore-
men’s best ruckers. For the Dockers Jimmy Craig
performed superbly, notching seven out of their nine
points. Chang Schultz was a giant among the for-
wards. Fraser was not up to the mark, and Robin-
son never got a show among the rearguard. “Webby”
Neill, the international, refereed. In the otlier
games Glebe downed Newtown bv C points to 3 ;
Casts over-rail St. George by 23 points to 11;
South’s (the Rabbitos) notched their initial victory,
’Varsity being extinguished by 4o points to "points;
Wests had the bye, and journeyed to Newcastle,
where they were walloped by 11 "points to 3.
’Varsity went down again in the Sydney
Rugby Union struggle on Saturday—this time to
tV ests. VVogan's ’quarter line was a bit burlier,
although the Uni. forwards had it prettv
much all their own way. Oxenham was the pick
oi the ’Varsity backs. Fowles and Marshall stood
out from the worst set of forwards that have ever
represented the students. Shute played an in-and-
out game for Wests, but Wogan was very heady
and Lane was brilliant at times. Glebe-Balmain
just lost to Easts on time. Mayne had put the
stopper on Carr’s spectacular runs, but the flighty
one was shifted to a position from which lie scored
the convincing try. Erasmus was the pick of the
G.-B.’s backs: he runs straight as an arrow, and
managed to get over twice against great odds. Bond
and Dunn were the best of the forwards—the former
being the pick of both teams. Easts’ backs were all
sound, the two Walkers and Carr showing tip-top
form. The Marrott brothers were the pick of a
fast and heavy lot of forwards. Norths, by combined
play in both departments, ran over Newtown. Hum-
phreys kept his scoring line well fed, and McMana-
mey found no difficulty in fending off Newtown’s
feeble tackle. Loudon is a super-forward. Judd was
sound at full-back for Newtown, and Scott and Mac-
kay gleamed fitfully in their respective positions. Old
Boys held Manly iii the first half but crashed there-
after. The fast Village forwards, led by Wyld and
Eyre, smothered Christie, the 0.8. half, and con-
sequently the machine seldom worked. Murray
sliowed best form among the Manly backs. For
0.8.’s Houston, at full-back, was very safe, and Hall
and Gordoin were always triers in the hard-worked
division.
In the third round of Sydney Soccer pre-
miership on Saturday, Granville defeated Balmain
Fernleigh (last year’s premiers) by 2 goals to 1.
Stoush, which is rare in Soccer, prevailed, and G.
Dane (Granville) and Moore (Balmain’s great goal-
kicker) were sent off. Balmain showed out in the
first half and led by a goal (Dr. Porter’s) to nil;
but the spell rejuvenated Granville and Heyman got
the two goals necessary to win. Canterbury also
kept up their unbeaten record by walloping Eastern
Suburbs (4 —0). Pvrmont had their first win this
season—over Annandale (3 —1). The Campsie
Thistle-Gladcsville argument was deferred owing to
Hie absence of an official whistle-blower.
* ft -X- *
The unexpected occurred in Australian
Rules football at Sydney on Saturday, when Sydney
licked Newtown by 70 points to 61. Railway went
down lo Norths (scores 09 to 51). The winners owe
their .success to the inclusion of several ex-Vic-
torians and flic fine play of Fitzmaurice. Pad-
dington (66) disposed of Balmain (30) in a game
conspicuous for poor kicking.
The hard grounds around Melbourne,
rather than the willing elbows of opponents, are
beginning to tell on Vic.’s half-trained hoofballers,
and Saturday’s casualty list was long. Richmond
and South had the cushiest job, on the grey sand of
Albert Park, where the locals battled hard for vic-
tory over the Tigers, keeping always within coo-ee,
yet never getting there. At the end the Tigers had
S 3 points to South’s 51. ’Wood stepped across to
the M.C.C. Ground, and when the discussion closed
tlie black-and-white barrackers remarked that, while
it, is fairly easy.to push nine new stars into a team,
it doesn’t follow that the newcomers can beat IS
reliable old Magpies. So at bell-ring the board
showed ’Wood 97 points, Melbourne 53. Saints
went to ’Roy and got more satisfaction out of the
encounter than they did the week before, when South
were one point too many for them. In a willing
game the Maroons took a long time to get going,
and when they did it was too late. Saints 63 points,
’Roy’s 53. The ’Dons visited Geelong and found
the seaside ’bailers better stayers than their oarsmen,
inasmuch as, after leading handily throughout, the
Red-and-Blacks were overwhelmed in the last few
minutes and swept to defeat by 85 points to 76.
RIGNEY, full-back for East Sydney, who
has a good chance of getting into the
team for England.
ine public was even more at sea over the
Adelaide Cup than it had been over the Goodwood,
two days earlier. Not one of the placed horses was
in the first dozen in the bet tin?,. George Bennet’s
Sir Marco, winning comfortably from Mrs. Hawker’s
Bon Vue, paid £3l 10, 5., and the second £l2 13s. ;
if Annexit, placed third, had won, she would have
paid about £lOO. Bennet Is known as one of the
pluckiest and hitherto unluekiest of owners. He
bought Sir Marco with others in England, and has
had so little return that the gelding (now six) was
in the Cup at 6st. 121 b.: the other placed horses
carried 7st. 61b. and 6st. 71d. It was a moderate
field, anyway, with Wee Gun top weight; and that
old gentleman, who won last year, has had two busy
seasons at the stud. Hooka 100 was favorite, on the
strength of a tremendous, though unsuccessful, late
run in the Elder Stakes two days earlier. Rosen,
who rode the winner, is a Brisbane boy, who, though
only 21, has a long string of wins to his credit in
Queensland, Westralia and S’Africa. He rode a re-
markable race, never looking to have a hope till well
into the straight. Starters, 22 ; time, for lrn. 6fur.,
2min. 47Jsec., which has been beaten only once, by
Clark and Robinson’s Elsdon in 191 S.
* * * *
Morphettville broke all its own records on
Adelaide Cup Day. The crowd was estimated at
35,060, and the totalisator handled £44,000, which
is just on half as much again as the previous best,
in 1914.
* * * *
There was an odd mistake in paying out
over the South Aus. stakes for two-year-olds at Mor-
phettville. Lady Wallen and Alocosia ran a dead heat,
and their backers divided three-quarters of the avail-
able cash, that being the usual winner’s share. Some-
one remarked when too late that, there being no second,
the other quarter ought to have gone to the dead-
heaters too. The tickets had nearly all been cashed
by this time; but Adelaide is an honest place, and
the Club resolved to accept applications, with affii-
davit attached, from the backers —1000 or more.
* * *
If Adelaide form gave a line to Sydney
and Melbourne (which it doesn’t) there would be
Spring possibilities in Sir Marco, capturer of the
Adelaide Cup. Judged by his running with Bon Vue
and Annexit on the previous Saturday, the English
horse is a pretty good stayer, for whereas all three
of them were placed in both races, Sir Marco re-
versed positions when tiie journey was lengthened.
He had a very easy weight (6st. 121 b.), but lie won
nicely in the second-best time recorded for the race.
The fact remains, however, that no- good horse save
St. Spasa is included among the Adelaide Cup
winners of the past 20 years, and the other imported
nag carried 301 b. more than Sir Marco’s weight.
* * * *
In England Bullock, the Australian jockey,
who has established a reputation for skilfully'pulling
oft big events with horses not credited with it chance,
heads the list of winning flat-race horsemen, with
Brownie Carslake, another Australian, second. And
not so long since every true British racing man
regarded it as axiomatic that Australians were no
better than rough-riders whether on the flat or over
a country 1
\\ inter racing at ltandwick always Ims a
frost on it. By the time the cool weather arrives
practically all the best horses have either knocked
up on’ been given a spell, and as the class of ’chaser
and hurdler that makes winter racing popular in
England and Maoriland—and to some extent in Vic.
" i' s apt developed ill N.S.W., the democracy has to
be satisfied with moderates and the occasional good
horse that survives the stress of summer. Where-
fore at Tatt.’s meeting on Saturday the fields wore
mainly of the order that go battling' every week on
suburban tracks, and the principal events were
captured by two of the three or four starters having
reasonable claims to class distinction. Kelso’s mare.
Gnltee Maid, who will yet do better with the solidity
imparted by another year, took the Flying fairly
easily. Ridden by an apprentice, she had Speciality’s
stable-mate Myamley—who had been very confidently
hacked—in a bad way at the end. Rosewalk won
the \\ inter Stakes in the last stride or two, mainly
through Albert Wood’s prompt seizure of a chance
opening as Julia Grey rolled out from the rails.
Rosewalk started at 10’s. Her previous win was at
25’s.
*■ * •* *
Last season there was a big rush of buyers
for Buckwheat’s first crop and some tall prices were
paid—principally because of the success of Buck-
wheat’s family as early two-year-olds in England.
But he hasn’t imparted either precocity 'or size to
his Australian get, though one or two have turned
out fair. For example, Vodka, a filly trained by Frank
Marsden. This stable has—like Williams’s last year—
been phenomenally lucky with juveniles, and the
luck stuck on Saturday, when Vodka, twice a subur-
ban winner, streamed in ahead of a dozen or so of
her own age at Hardwick. Pagan Chief (a Chi'pelly
colt) and Honey Bee (by Kenilwortlj) had been
backed like certainties. They were well beaten.
Vodka started at 100’s to 7. Talking about Buck-
wheat’s progeny, there is one—perhaps the best grown
of his age—named Buckhurst, trained by F. Williams
with Glenaicre and Co., that may be heard of later.
He has not been hurried.
The Australian Xl’s match against York-
shire at Bradford resulted in another draw, Aus-
tralia’s first innings yielding 268 and Yorkshire’s
224, while the visitors lost 77 for three in the
•second. Andrews came off with a lucky 37 n. 0.,
being missed three times on a drying wicket. Rhodes
top-scored for the county, whose idol he is, with 63.
On Saturday the team travelled clean across
England to meet at Portsmouth a soldier-side, com-
posed entirely of officers. Captain M. B. Burrows
is one of the fastest bowlers in England and is
deadly on his day. However, be troubled neither
Collins nor Bardsley, who opened for Australia, and.
by the freest possible play, bit up 70 and 132
respectively. Macartney collected .31 and Armstrong
44 and the innings closed for 393. Williams, who is
the crack bat of either Service, was run out for 10,
and the only soldier to score freely afterwards was
St. Leger Fowler (65) the Free Forester. The sol-
diers adopted the remarkable plan of declaring their
innings closed when with a wicket to fall they were
135 runs behind, and Collins was stumped for a
single before play ended for the day. Apparently
unless the weather is phenomenally good or a num-
ber of the counties are astonishingly bad, a futile
draw will result in about 70 per cent, of the
matches that have been arraiiged for the tourists.
Harry Musgrove, manager of Melbourne
Royal, who fathered Harry Trott’s team in England
in 1896. considers that tour remarkable for absence
of friction. In those days the cables never sobbed
with complaints regarding umpires. When one
umpire’s decisions greatly harried the team, the
matter was mentioned quietly to Lord Hawke, and
the umpire didn’t appear again. The only trouble
that befell the team was that Gregory had his chin
split by a fast high ball at Bradford, and it cost a
whole 2s. 6d. for medical attention. Musgrove’s
b't consisting of Trott, Darling, Giffen, Graham, Syd
Gregory, Clem Hill, Iredale, Jones, Johns, Kelly,
Trumble, Donnan and McKibbin —cut out most of
the proffered banquets and parties. As a matter
of fact, they attended only four big dinners during
the tour. One of these was given by Ranjitsinjhi.
who electrified the gathering afterwards with some
remarkable conjuring tricks.
* * * *
Little Dencio Cabenela failed in the role
a - against Giant-killer Godfrey at Sydney
stadium on Saturday night. The business of over-
throwing giants requires, amongst other things, solid
training, and the colored lad—over-confident, maybe,
trom his. former victory over the Australian —had
given this item a miss in baulk. He started with
deceptive zest. Finding that Godfrey’s jaw was
hopelessly out of reach, and at the wrong end of
a long left, he set to work on the tall paleface's kid-
neys and bashed them till the Stadium rattled.
Aow and then he liberated one of the mighty swings
which crippled Criqui’s battle-scarred jaw, but on
each occasion Godfrey's countenance was in another
part of the building. Gradually the Filipino’s
attack weakened, while that of Godfrey strengthened.
M ith his left eye half-closed and his mouth bleeding
through a hideous smile, the visitor began to re-
treat in the face of superior weight ana thorough
training. In the 17th he fell before a heavy right.
got up, and then sank
exhausted to his knees
without being seri-
ously punched. The
referee thereupon de-
livered judgment, and
Dencio, still lighting
manfully, was dragged'
by his brigade-major
and a couple of staff
captains to his dress-
ing-room.
DENCIO DOWN TO GODFREY.
ilie veteran Spargo was much too good
for McCarthy, who holds the Southern State's feather
title, at Melbourne stadium on Saturday night.
Contrary to expectation the older man put in his
good work —or most of it—from the half-way mark
onwards, and in the 16th round nearly had Mc-
Carthy out. The contest went 20 rounds and should
be a useful winding-up gallop for Spargo in his big
event with Joe Symonds at Sydney Stadium next
Saturday.
*- * * *
There was no surprise in the result of
Ihe Public Schools boatrace on the Barwon, Geelong,
last Saturday. Scotch had shown superior team and
blade work in the training spins, and their easy win
over Geelong Grammar in the third heat on Friday
hardened suspicion into conviction regarding their
endurance for the final tussle. As it turned out. how-
ever, they needed their last ounce of weight to
keep Melbourne Grammar behind. Although a length
astern soon after the start, Grammar came with a
strong run at the finish and missed the verdict by a
third of a length. Wesley, who had been hard
pushed by the light but tenacious Xavier youths on
the previous day, never looked threatening, though
they had the heaviest crew, with an average weight
of list. 61b. The Old Hoys’ race, which has appa-
rently become a permanent fixture, also fell to
Scotch, who just beat Geelong Grammar by a canvas.
George Parker, Australia’s champion
walker, did 91 miles at Sydney on Saturday in
78min. 31sec. The sealed handicap went to M. J.
McNamara, who did the walk in 79min. 13Asec. The
event was a pipe-opener for the 25-miles champion-
ship next month.
Charlie Clieckett, for 20 years curator of
the Adelaide Oval, and now a hotelkeeper at Bridge-
water (K.A.), promoted, on Anzac Day, a log-chopping
championship of tire Hills districts. He proposes to
make it an annual affair. C. R. Williams won the
professional event, and Frank Jacobs the amateur.
President Noel Webb, of the S. Aus. In-
dustrial Court, has given the soft eye to totalisator
clerks, holding that ordinary conditions don’t apply
to them for various reasons. (1) All their work i's
done on Saturdays or public holidays. They have
to work when others are enjoying themselves. (“1
am told,” says Webb, emulating the aloofness of
English judges, “that a racecourse is a place of pub-
lic amusement, and that a day at the races is an
occasion of pleasure for those who attend them.")
(2) The work requires great speed and perfect
accuracy, and if the rushed worker makes a mistake
in his cash he has to make it good. Thus he may
lose the earnings , of months over a single error.
‘(3) The principle of high pay for racecourse work
has been established, waitresses worth about 20s. a
week having lately been awarded 12s. for the dav.
Considering all things, Webb thinks that the good
type of clerk engaged for the Tote, now worth £4
10s. a week outside, should receive 455. for the
day; change clerks to get 505., pay-out men £3
75., up to a maximum of six guineas for manager
or “receiver. ' The Court thought hard over the
question of extra races, the old standard number of
six events being now generally exceeded. The
employers argued that when they hire a man for the
<l3y his pay covers whatever work may turn up;
but Webb ultimately took seven races as the stan-
dard, and allowed the clerks five bob for each extra
event.
* •* * *
Frank Ilewitt completed his 76th lap in
the common race with Time in Sydney recently.
In former days lie was a specialist in a rarer class.
Born in Limerick, Ireland, the son of an English
army officer, he established running records all over
the world previous to settling in Sydney. Before
the “all fours” start, which gives the modern runner
a springing start, was known, lie did the 50yds. in
£>isec., the half-mile in lmin. 53isec-. and the mile
in 4min. 20Jsec.
FISHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gum-trees arch above us, fairy-folded fronds of
green,
While here and there the sunlight gilds our little
rustic scene;
1’ or 1 am fondly fishing in the river deep and wide,
While with deft and dainty fingers Nellie's knitting
by my side
At the ebbing of the tide. *
Yes, with mazy, magic motions,
Patterned by poetic notions,
Many and diversified,
With her deft and dainty fingers Nellie’s knitting by
my side.
rile wind’s amongst the branches, and the silken-
tasselled reeds
I 10 vide me with the music that a river lover needs.
List, now they sway and rustle ; hear anon the pipes
of Pan,
And the mixed and merry echoes that the river-
voices plan
For the pleasure of a man—
Always tender and appealing
To his every sense and feeling—
And deny it you who can 1
Oh, the mixed and merry echoes that the river-
voices plan 1
I lie fish are slow at biting, so i’ll try another line.
(A ling and kiss from Nellie—Oh, that east was ultra-
tine !)
I bail again, spray-mottled by the falling of the lead,
Ihe ripples, ring-a-rosy, in their silver circles spread.
On my arm rests Nellie’s head.
Ah! I feel a tiny nibble—
And (J do not want to quibble,
Let it once for all be said),
Oct another kiss from Nellie while the silver circles
spread.
I bait again. Those fishes how they like their juiev
fare!
But 1 have baits unnumbered, so what need have
I to care?
Ah. there’s another efiort on some little fish’s part
(bo easy now, dear Nellie, for I’ve baited with my
heart;
So be careful how you start).
See, the float goes down and under.
And there’s something torn asunder-
How the bubbles dance and dart!
"ell, it serves me right, 1 grant you, for 1 baited
with my heart!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


your greatest asset
T
in business and in social life is good health. The man who is
not physically fit cannot expect to take his rightful place among
the men who “get there.”
Good health is the keystone of efficiency, and efficiency is the
keystone of successful business to-day.
Get fit and keep fit, by the Baker
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
The exercises are simple, enjoyable and directly beneficial
to the nerves and muscles that control the most important
organs of the body.
This method of individual instruction has benefited thousands
of sufferers and restored them to perfect, glowing health.
If you wish to enjoy the success in life that physical fitness
ensures, write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, cut it out and send it, with three penny stamps to
cover postage, and you will receive a copy of the interesting
book, “Health and 'strength from Self-Culture,” which tells
all about this simple system.
Take action to-day !
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
483 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
For levelling rough roads.
a
8175
Motor Cycle Saddle,
with double coil rear
springs and spring peak.
fa
CATALOGUES FREE.
d. B BROOKS £r CO., LTD., 134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
Used the
World Over
ESS
MOTOR
...CARS
Missing Heirs.
IF JOHN BROWN, who was born at
Auchertool, Scotland, on the 21st
March, 1830, or anyone claiming through
him, will communicate with the Public Trus-
toe. Wellington, New Zealand, lie or they
will hear of something to their advantage.
The said John Brown is believed to have
settled near Taradale, Victoria, 30 to 35
years ago.
Missing Friends.
t-JE MARIA KELLY, late of Ireland Street, Bright,
Victoria, widow, deceased. Let EDWAHI)
KELLY, a son of the abovenamed deacesed, at once
communicate with the undersigned and he will hear
of something to his advantage.
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
ILL JAMES STITT, last heard of at
Moree about two years ago, or any-
body knowing his whereabouts, communicate
with Messrs. Fraser and Oliver, Solicitors,
Tuirmt, who hold money for him.
W. J. FRASER,
Solicitor, Tumut.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
DOUGLAS
MANUFACTURED BY
DOUGLAS MOTORS LTD., Kingswood, Bristol, England.
EASTER, 1921. —The “DOUGLAS” again proves its excellence, winning the Senior and
Junior Tourist Trophy of Australia Races.
The latest post-war models of the famous British “Douglas” Motor-cycle can now be
delivered immediately.
4-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear, clutch and kick starter, either with or without side-car.
2J-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear (as illustrated above), but with large enclosed mudguards.
2J-H.P. SPECIAL, 2-speed gear Model.
The “patented” horizontally opposed “Douglas” twin-cylinder engine, as fitted to all
“Douglas” Motor-cycles, is so well and favorably know that it needs little explanation.. The
horizontal twin engine is the most suitable for motor-cycle practice. It certainly gives less
vibration than any engine with less than four cylinders. Douglas Motors Ltd. have so perfected
this type of engine that it has become universally popular.
fhe “DOUGLAS” is exceptionally easy to learn to control in congested city traffic, or over
rough, hilly, muddy, sandy or bush roads, or across paddocks. It is very economical, giving-
-90 to 100 miles to the gallon, exceptionally light on transmission, chain, gears, tyres, etc., the
result of the even, steady pull of the engine.
Frame, wheels, etc., are exceptionally strong and reliable.
The new designed front forks are “the last word” in comfort and strength, and being adjust-
able to wear, are almost everlasting.
Ihe “DOUGLAS” has ample power to take you where any motor-cycle will. It will stand
any amount of hard work, and depreciates less in value from hard riding than anv other make.
More “DOUGLASES” were used in the Great War than any other make. They have won
record' ia k'li*y :m< * s P eet * contests than any other British motor-cycles, and hold many world’s
J n justice to yourself you should get full particulars of the “DOUGLAS” before you decide
"mch motor-cycle to buy.
Sole Agepits—
New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd., 213, 213, 217 Elizabeth
Street SYDNEY
Victoria and Tasmania: ACME CYCLE CO., 333-357 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Australia: GUARD BROS., 21-23 Gouscer Street, ADELAIDE.
Queensland: WESTCOTT, HAZELL & COk, LTD., 233-233 Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE.
Sold Everywhere.
A dreary place would be this earth
TFere there no little people in it.
The soay of life would lose its mirth
Were there no children to bey in it.
There’s no mirth in a child stricken with
ill health—chest troubles, for instance.
Treat a delicate child to a course of
HYPOL
and watch for fun and frolics.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Do not delay a single day. Avoid serious illness
by using HYPOL.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
This is the COAT for
Real
Comfort
You need it, too, this weather.
Neither cold, biting wind nor
tYosty air would be in the least
formidable to encounter if you
•were snug and safe within
this warm coat —Our “Winter
Special."
In All-Wool
Textures
75 1-
Smart, Stylish, Correctly Cut
and Thoroughly Tailored —fea-
turing double-Breasted Fronts
—All Round Belt, Deep Collar,
which may be turned cosily up,
to cover throat and neck —com-
modious pockets, with, wind-
guards to Cuffs —this is the
Overcoat that will keep you
smiling in the Worst of Winter
Weather. Unquestionable value,
too, at our Special Price, 75/-.
High-grade
English Coats
Just arrived—latest London
styles. Newest Burberrys, the
popular “Regal” Coat, the
“Aquatite,” the high-class
“Dextile” and a big range of
John Barron’s famous English
Overcoats, all moderately
priced.
CALL—OR WRITE
WE PAY FREIGHT
-ar
S'
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO
PTY. LTD.,
244-254 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


il£k R 1
f- -
.rM f
|Sits
MsSII
WR2
WRl —Morny’s Ba h Crys-
tals, an ideal toiht luxury.
12 different perfumes.
SI; 61; 8/6, 11/3, 15/.
WR2—Morny’s Chiminade
Perfume, with cut glass stop-
per. Prices, 21/- and 35/-
SMorny’s c Perfiwies.
The Favoured of Europe.
FARMER’S have just received a wide range of
Morny Freres’ Perfumes, Soaps, Toile’t Powders,
etc. —favoured in every Court and Capital of Europe.
WR3 —Morny’s fine Dusting WR4--Morny’s Talc Powder
Powder, in large brown kegs. in brown metal sprinkler.
Prices .. .. 9/6 and 10/6 Price, per tin .. .. 3/-
Farmer’s
Sydney.
We Pay Carriage only to
the extent of 5 per cent.
Hox 497, G. <3>. O.
WR4
fa
W-R3
Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace ot Colds
that is borne on every cool breeze.
Keep a bottle of Bonnlng ton’s
Irish Moss handy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
BOXHMGTON’S
A«£CN
IRISH - MOSS
—’jw'JnsjLta? •*
zZs ■ fcci
ceoftct ao«N9«oTOM ,
Jr
IRISH MOSS
L
\w£===B-
M a bottle to-day—
Insist on Bonnington’s,
and take no proffered
substitute.
rf® 3® standard remedy for Coughs,
eompSiJ^ ronChitiB ' wh °°P in » Cough, and
Colds, In-
all Chest
8.A.22.
f
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Faris in the
Heart of
Molbourne.
Than Her Making's Th[?]
Melbourne's Mayor of the moment is a
hearty, sociable sort of man. The alder-
manic quarterly dinner-party is usually a
masculine affair and sometimes the women
have been let in to hear the speeches; but
last week Swanson and his lady invited all
the cbuncillors’ wives to share the meal. The
council room was packed with diners, and
the diners were eventually packed with food,
for it was a real trencher dinner —one of the
most expensive and extensive that could be
ordered. The eating began at seven and
knocked off for an interval at ten. Then
the company sat down heavily in the
Mayoress’s rooms to listen tohnusic, while it
browsed on coffee. Even then preparations
for supper were going on in the large cor-
ridors. Moreover, food that is served with
ice in glasses was on tap all the time in
the Mayor’s rooms, and there was a continu-
ous pilgrimage to that shrine whenever the
music had a few bars’ rest. The very small
Parkes child played his violin, and another
Parkes infant accompanied him on the
piano. Lorna Reid, Jessie McNicol and
Joseph Foster sang, and Isabel Adams was
at the piano. At supper the eating con-
tinued far into the night, and then most of
the guests went on in small cliques to private
.supper parties. It all seemed like the
miracle of the leaves and fishes back to
front.
The Glaci opened up all its glories to
help the Blind Appeal the other night. The
Governor came along with a big party and
looked on ; the Mayor and his lady occupied
a box, and the David Ilennessys another;
and every seat around the rink was sat upon.
The committee which had arranged the affair
perched on an elevated dais like a bandstand.
The boxes were framed in flowers, and the
pen of the Gov. and his Countess had bou-
quets tied to the upper ledge with flaunting
ribbons. Lady Helen Rous pi-otected her
fine eyes from the ice-dust by big goggle
glasses rimmed with tortoiseshell. Sas-
siety came in elaborate undress and
risked pneumonia. Several swanky youths
acted as ushers for the evening, and
one bagged a silvered ha’penny as a tip.
Manager Green, who wox-ked like a hero,
was pink with exhaustion and excitement
by the end of the giddy evening.
_ The latest fashion in skating is of the
high-kicking order —a striking contrast to
the one-time blase gliding. Some hefty
damsels took the ice with their partners in
wild abandonment. Young McGillicuddy
gave a wonderful exhibition of new figure-
skating. _ The jazz section —skied to the top
of the rink-room —held the minority. And
they had to wait on the pleasure of the
skating music; but they made good going
when the chance occurred. Lesly Madden,
an ardent slcatex-, gave up the ice for the
dance, and paraded her brand-new fiance as
a partner.
To witness the Public Schools contest on
the Barwon and to associate themselves
with the diamond jubilee celebrations of
Geelong College, Irvine, C.J., and McArthui%
J., went to the Pivot at the week-end.
Nearly 40 years ago, shortly after his arrival
as an exile fi’orn Erin, Irvine was for a
time a tutor at the college. He was then
a shy young man with progressive views,
and remained at the school only while lie
was waiting for something better to turn
up. McArthur is an old boy, and he was
given the honor of unveiling a memorial
tablet to George Eraest Morrison, whose
name is written in indelible ink in the his-
tory of China.
The Hennessy lady gave a reception at
the Grand Hotel last Thursday, when there
was a huge re-union of her friends after her
explorations in Europe. She wore a wonder-
gown from Paris —mostly a network of
greeny-blue sequins on some transpar-
encies; it was as if the wearer stood
in lattice-shadowed moonlight. David was
a busy host. He was in mere mas-
culine tweeds; but the daughters were
poijgeous. One had fawn woolly em-
brqideries on her navy frock, and another had
cherry blossoms scattered on white silk and
wore red cherries dangling over one ear
from a black hat. There were about 500
guests—all in their very b< tea-party
frocks—and it stretched the ' ■ rge dining-
room to accommodate them all. he Hennessy
lady is keen on music, and L. .: long been
known in Melbourne as a patroness of Aus-
tralian talent. A bulging programme was
wedged in during the tea-taking, but the
hostess had engaged so many popular local
artists that she was heard imploring her hus-
band to prevent encores, or the party would
go on all night.
The Women’s Automobile Club had an im-
promptu jazz supper to follow a committee
meeting at Cariyon’s Hotel last week. The
orchestra downed trombones at 11, whereupon
some of the jazzers almost went on their
knees imploring a continuance—they offered
double money and rides home in automobiles.
But the orchestra, remembering that they
were on licensed premises, had to be obdurate.
The law-makers of this rigidly wowser city
believe in getting the citizens off bedwards
by midnight. A most reluctant crew descended
to the fleet of waiting motors after an obliging
young man had pounded the piano for two
or three extras. Young, old and middle-aged
have all got the dance craze these days. And
the old order has changed. Now it is often
the women-folk who wait, muffled in their
wraps, while their frivolous men-kind have
one last buzz round in a one-step.
To prove that a Governor has some power,
Sir Reginald Talbot, when he wore the
cocked hat in Victoria, produced at a Royal
Show luncheon a proclamation he had signed
declaring box-thorn a thistle. Who would
dare to say after that, he asked, that he
was merely a rubber-stamp? The new Gov-
ernor lias now reached Talbot’s high stand-
ard. He has outlawed Paterson’s curse as
a thistle “within the meaning of the Act.”
To have the privilege of dining with their
right worshipful brother the Earl of Strad-
broke, 150 Masons cheerfully passed out two
guineas apiece as hosts. As they all turned
up in the best craft collars, cuffs, aprons and
glittering jewels, the scene in the large
dining-room of the Oriental at the top of
Collins-street was brilliant. Hickford, the
Grand Master, was not much at ease, and
his speech was not very happy; but the
guest was in good form. Alec Peacock, the
venerable Donald McLeod, and the magni-
ficent R. W. V. McCall (Clerk of the Uppah
Chainbah) kept up the end of the State
Parliament at the function. This time next
year Stradbroke may be the G.M. of the
craft himself.
It was a source of gratification to his
former political associates, his legal friends
and to the Chosen to note that Isaacs, J.,
of the High Court, had been the guest of
the exclusive Benchers of Gray’s Inn. Lon-
don, the other day. Barton and Deakin
were similarly honored when they were in
London on State missions.
The Ilennessy dame and her little brood
will take up quarters shortly in White Lodge,
South Yarra. The house contains a few
sumptuous flats at five guineas the room.
.T. D. Fitzgerald, of N.S.W. Tlnper House,
passed through, the other day, en route for
the Cold Country. He was one of a party
of six travelling by an Italian cargo ship,
and amongst his luggage were a couple of
bulky MSS. for London publishers.
Miss Ethel Godfrey, here pictured in a
Tom Humphrey photo, is bon. sec. of the
Harbor Lights
Guild, which for
years has comforted
and amused Jack
ashore, and helped
to keep him out of
mischief. The
sailors all adore her.
She is in the thick
of several other phil-
anthropic activities,
and is known in
musical as well as
Toorak circles by
reason of a magni-
ficent contralto
voice. Five, years
ago the Godfrey
sisters (daughters
of the late Fred
Godfrey, M.L.C.)
crossed the seas to settle near a medical
brother at Scarborough (Eng.), but a bomb
from a Hun raider crashed through their
front windows and sent the ladies hurrying
back to the wattle.
Bendigo and places up north are mourn-
ing G. W. Kelly, an Anglican parson of the
old-fashioned type, who faded out the other
day after passing the 82nd mile-post. He
was made a shepherd by Bishop Perry in
the days when Vic. was trying valiantly to
find itself.
Charlie Smith, of the Argus, who built up
a reputation in the early part of the war as
a correspondent in Egypt and Gallipoli, and
who has been chief of staff for five years,
has gone to England to keep his eye on
Hughes while the little man shapes the des-
tinies of the world. Dumas is acting-chief
of the Argus, and Bonney, last year’s presi-
dent of the A.J.A., deputy-chief.
The State Treasury will collect a tidy
sum in probate from the estate of Squire
Ivennon, the leather merchant, who left
£240,500. A couple of old employees will
get f 100 each ; the rest goes to widow, sons
and daughters.
The Koss Soden widow crossed to Sydney
■some weeks back, to be with her sister, Mrs.
Forbes, in her illness, but the Reaper came
soon after Mrs. Ross Soden’s arrival.
The William Peterson widow, with her
niece Dolly Willoughby, has steamed off to
the Cold Country. It may be for months
and it may be for ever —it all depends on
the climate. The widow’s Balaclava home
and its park lands are in charge of a care-
taker, as the owner has decided not to sell
until she finds how the air of her native
England suits her now.
Bright and capable Violet Howard has
abandoned her post of personal private sec.
to Oman, Minister for Lands, to become the
bride of George Wallace, Registrar of the
Dookie Agricultural College. At the kirk
at \V attletree-road, Malvern, where the
requisite number of “I wills” were recorded,
the ’groom and his best man, Will Slater,
M.L.A., wore bits of brass denoting service
abroad. Oman turned his back on politics
and Lands administration for the best part
of an afternoon and a whole evening to
plunge into the wedding festivities.
William Moore, photoed herewith by Ruth
Holliek, is still another Australian who is
bringing out his
little book. In it
he will have a lot to
say about our people
abroad and the asso-
ciation of Austra-
lia n an d English
stage matters. At
the beginning of the
war Moore, under
the delusion that he
was still 25, volun-
teered for active ser-
vice, hut the recruit-
ing-office undeceived
him on age matters,
and put him to more
prosaic work. When
he got the red tape
out of his eyes he
found himself on a
shipping job at Bos-
ton (Eng.). lie was a pioneer in Aus-
tralian dramatic work in Melbourne. In his
earliest days he wrote plays and produced
them in Kew and Haw-Hawthorn drawing-
rooms, with local Sassiety making up the
casts. Later, at the old Turn Verein, his
work became more conspicuous; and when
Time called forth the Repertory Theatre he
was still an enthusiast. In England Moore
had three seasons with Granville Barker, and
as he interviewed Australians on the Eng-
lish stage for the RiUTfsii Australasian he
has a heap of yarns about the profesh.
As State Treasurer McPherson will be
handy Buckingham Palace on June 3,
George V.’s birthday, when “honors” are
usually scattered, who knows but that some-
body may not “rise Sir William”? He may
have to stay a little longer than he intended
to finish his loan-floating scheme, which has
been delayed by the big coal strike. There
are occasions, by the way, when even such a
cautious man as the Treasurer takes too
much for granted. For instance, that he
could ride a certain donkey in Egypt. What
happened—well, what do you want to know
for?
David Low, who has been lately sampling
the soring sunshine and dairy produce of
Devon, has renewed his contract with the
Daily News, thereby disappointing some
other editors who were angling for his pencil.
Though Low is committed to a daily cartoon,
he is still finding time for outside work.
Lately he has put his name to a bookful
of pictures bearing the title “Lloyd George
and Co.”
There need be no anxiety about an early
transfer of the Federal Parliament to ’Berra.
Money is being spent lavishly on the present
home at the top of Bourke-street, in erecting
and fitting up a wing to provide rooms for
Ministers. As Tommy Bent said in another
connection, there will be “some grand
funerals” before the Commonwealth head-
quarters are shifted to the rural capital.
On top of this Minister Massy Greene is
planning to settle down in Toorak, where he
is having the foundations of a new humpy
planted. This looks like a little straw in
the wind that is riot ‘blowing towards Can-
berra.
The eighth birthday of the Lost Dogs’
Home was celebrated by a tea-party at the
establishment. Guests stared with amaze-
ment at the size and importance of the
place. The home now handles all the canine
strays of the city and suburbs, and saves the
various councils the trouble of drowning
the animals in the Yarra by ending the lives
of the unfit in the merciful lethal chamber.
Yet the councils not only demand any profit
made on sales, but insist on being paid so
much a head for every dog delivered. The
home helps to keep the streets clean and
free from disease by gathering in sick
canines. These can be sent by rail free to
Macaulay station, to be called for by the
keeper. Barrister Alban Morley is the hon.
sec-., Captain Kendall and Lilian Reid look
after the vet. side, and headmaster Adamson
occupies the presidential chair.
A Public testimonial is certainly due to
Miss iaylor, of Abbotsford, who was removed
to Coode Island in a most scareful manner,
and survived the ordeal. She made quite
a bright and unconcerned recovery from
smallpox, and answered the same purpose as
the batsman who goes in when two or three
wickets have fallen rapidly and stops the
rot. Another girl might have frightened
herself to death and caused a crowd of con-
tacts and suspects to sicken and follow suit,
ihree cheers for Miss Taylor!
Names are not to be relied on. Recently
a constable was drifting unsuspiciously along
Coll ins-street, when a young laay came up
and bit a piece out of him. When she was
disentangled it proved that her front name
was Daphne, which suggests the fluffy, dia-
phanous young thing whose worst sins are
chocs, and being engaged to two boys at
once.
Still more appeal for the Blind ! There
will be a supper dance at the Hotel Espla-
nade, St. Kilda, on May 23 to help. T. S.
Canyon has given his dancing-hall with the
services of the orchestra and staff free. Mrs.
Hewison and Mrs. Cox are chaperoning the
affair. Also, to help the same good cause, the
Best lady, along with secretary 11. P. Ogil-
yie, is arranging a jazz-supper in the Cam-
berwell Town Hall on June 17.
Mrs. Rodney St. John’s excuse for want
ing to wear a fringed apron is this:
Now that women are doing public work and tak-
ing positions of responsibility which until recently
were held exclusively by men, it seems to me that,
they would do that work with more understanding
and stronger co-operation if they had the knowledge
and outlook of life gained through Freemasonry.
Now, who has been tolling the lady things
about the craft?
M hat Adelaide is talking about:—
Ihe dance in the Osborne Hall, to raise funds for
the French village of Dernancourt, was a whirling
success, in which freakish dancing and freakish
frock ing were both featured. One visiting girl
startled the natives in a black satin skirt reaching
only to her knees, about half a yard in width, and
no bodice worth mentioning.
It has been finally decided that a statue is to be
erected in Victoria-square to the memory of Matthew
Minders. The Square is already trimmed with
effigies of S.A.’s early birds, and no two are dressed
alike. Light is garbed as a boundary-rider, Stuart
wears a frock-coat and top-boots, Kingston is re-
splendent in Court suit, and Hercules sports a fig-
leaf. Perhaps Flinders will strike another note in
variety.
A new social club for bachelors and spinsters was
opened by Lady Weigall tile other evening. Its
object is to bring the lonely ones together, and has
been formed by the efforts of Mrs. A. Scott Broad.
An afternoon concert to raise funds for the Girl
Guides movement was given at the Cheer-up Hut a
few days ago. Members of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Opera Co. made music, and a few local stars twinkled.
One lady sang “For the Kiss of Desire I am Yearn-
ing,” and the young A.D.C. blushed.
One of Mount Pleasant’s best-known people, Mrs.
Elizabeth Thompson, wife of Francis Thompson, of
Lilybank, and cousin of R. T. Melrose, died last
week. Much entertaining used to be done at the
Thompsons’ picturesque farmhouse.
A fashionable at-home was given at the Queen
Adelaide Club on Thursday afternoon by Mrs.
Eustace Grundy, to meet Mrs. Hedley Todd, who,
after a long sojourn in England, is here on a visit
to her native land. A sister-in-law, Mrs. F. G.
Masters, daughter of the late Charles Todd, arrived
that morning from Melbourne. Her husband, one-
time rector at All Soul’s, East Adelaide, and now at
Balaclava (Vic.), lias exchanged parishes with the
Rev. IF. \V. Doudney, vicar of St. Luke’s, Bath
(Eng.), and the family leave shortly for the Cold
Country. Mr. Doudney, an Australian anxious to
return, was formerly rector of St. Cuthbert’s, Prospect.
Myra, daughter of William White, of Hatherlev,
Unley Park, said “I will” to Alex., son of Buchanan,
ex-J., at St. Peter’s College Chapel, a day or two
ago. Gladys Rakewell was attendant maid, and
Alex. White, the bride’s brother, best man:
The Adelaide University Boat Club arranged a big
dance at the Palais Royal last week to raise funds
for sending a rowing crew to Brisbane, and the
public responded nobly. '
We’ve just lost our best-known coiffeur. And L.
F. Prevost, just dead at 56, was no usual sort of
hairdresser. Born in Melbourne and educated in
France, he eventually settled down to run the toilet
shop founded by his father and mother. He was a
successful racing cyclist long ago, and a prominent
dog-breeder and yachtsman latterly.
Adelaide ’Varsity has had a record harvest of
donations during the past 12 months. A new
engineering laboratory and £20,000 for general pur-
poses came from the Government; £15,000 arrived
for a new medical school from the family of wheat
king John Darling; £ll,OOO for the support of the
library from the Barr Smiths; £21,000 for an
animal morphology research laboratory from a num-
ber of interested donors; £40,000 for a great hall
has been promised by Langdon Bonython, of the
’Tiser ; £12,000 comes from Mrs. Jury for a chair
o: English literature; and a modest £lOO6 from
George Murray, C.J., the present Chancellor. All
these have arrived since Peter Waite’s endowment of
lands and investments to the value of £lOO,OOO for
an agricultural school.


w
ir^
CSS
Illghest-grade Men’s Watch, with screw case.
Silver. £5/5/-. £8 8 -. £lO/10/-.
Gold, £ll/11/- to £25.
Watches for Men.
HE Watch illustrated is without doubt the most
serviceable and finest-grade watch made for
men’s wrist wear. The movement, by one of
the best-known makers, is of an exceptionally
fine quality, adjusted and compensated for all positions
and climates, yet sufficiently strong to withstand hard
usage and jolts. The screw case renders the watch as
dustproof as human ingenuity can make it, and a
luminous dial adds yet another advantage to this
accurate and reliable timekeeper.
Catalogue will be mailed post free to any address.
<E2Jm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Coloups fhatcappyon
absolute guapantee
SUNDOUR
UNPADABLE
FABRICS
Hie Dyestuffs fopming
fhese pepmanenf coloups
ape made byfheSundoup
fipm, the only fipm in the
vpopld ppoduein£ £oods
fpom Dyestuffs fo finished
Fabnics.
Sundoup Fabrics ape
made in Casement Clofha,
Reps, Damasfes.Chennilles,
Madpas Muslins,Tapesfpies,
Rugs,' etc.
f
1
t
V
V' •
j
M «s?;
'AfeJ
v|; /
/ I V V/ v
: W
Sf / '
.' o*
s..\T> \
VX.Ss.
... r N
X *
war*
X>C
Jt
s >-
rn
X)
1
v\
&x ¥'/
X '
'X
&Yj> f
:a
w
? s
vV $
X?
X/
XX
\f 3
mi
r
: W
tt : : H
&f:
Xx x
'%> v :
•x/
.•—nXi
r j&t 'ww !i, I' -vT |Y . 3L-4- ;tx4«g
"-*' - ’ **- Morton Sundoor fabricsl™ X»
>X' A
sc-
K (rrat/e oy)Car/islc.
Is'.
?V-
S'V
.>x
-SN>'
..' 7* '
»■■ s' Vi
XX K X
>sh * M:
»; *
sf/ .?• «'8
stS
S**i
Lower Prices for
BUCKLEY’S SUITS
By challenging every item of expense in the making, and through om
buying organisation embracing the opportunity of securing woollens foi
cash at a time when markets
were below replacement values,
we are able to offer
14 & 16 Gn. Saits
£9/18/6
Made to Measure
The materials are all im-
ported fabrics, consisting- of
real Scotch Tweeds in un-
limited designs and colorings,
West of England Worsteds
in cheek, diagonal and mixtures,
also Indigo Blue, Saxony and
Cheviot Serges.
Buckley's Suits
are always uni-
form in quality
and price. No
matter where
you live the cost
is the same,
bee a us e we
pay carriage.
If unable to call,
write for Pat-
terns and Self-
m e a s u r ement
Form - posted
free.
*^KS\v
v\^,V
$3
«««^!
i" -.*'-
A.Vfi
XIS
sav*
S5sK
&sjj»N£
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY C NUNN’ LTD BOUHKE ST. MELBOURNE
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OFFICE
RAILWAY STN.OR PORI
IN AUSTRALIA
§a
WAFERS
I
ffl
a
c
pm
m?
HP
: . '-•
■■
l&ssr v t
On/y /fdc(ress
IttM St. SYDNEY.
packed in I*-
</4irlighl Tins,.
5/6 EACH
POSTAGE 6 f EXTRA
Sent to any address in Australia.


Under
Royal
Warrant
af
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHaMPAGN*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy,
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY IJMiTED, Sydney.
She
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
Thone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE
proprietress.
w
sm
Floors that reflect credit
on the Householder!
Modernise your home by
introducing
a
f
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Sold and Recommended by all Leading
Stores
IT’S CARNIVAL ALWAYS AT THE
Wentworth Cate
Dinner Dances nightly 7 to 11.30. Special
Dinner Dances, Thursdays 7 to midnight;
Saturdays 7 to 11.50. Tea Dances every after-
noon 3.30 to 5.30.
City 9931.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
There were nearly wigs on the green over
the Women’s Peace Memorial. Ever so long
ago a group of women under the leadership
of Mrs. Connell and Mrs. Walshe set out
to gather £2OOO to erect a monument. Not
knowing this, a movement blossomed at the
Feminist Club, led by Miss Preston Stanley
and Mrs. Watson Holdship, to collect £lO,OOO
for the same purpose. Naturally, the first
group of women were indignant at seeing,
as it were, their idea snatched from them,
and were quitp prepared to voice their pro-
test at the meeting last week; but Mrs.
Holdship and Miss Preston Stanley met them
on the Town Hall doormat, explained the
misunderstanding, and said that, instead of
starting a counter-movement, they would
like to join the one already under way.
Then the dove of Peace nearly burst herself
cooing over the assembly, and the business
was got through in record time, with a unani-
mous vote in favor of Theo Cowan’s beauti-
ful cenotaph. The finished work will be
36ft. high and be carried out in bronze. Mrs.
Connell is president of the movement, and
Mrs. E. ,T. Walshe and Miss Preston Stan-
ley joint-secretaries.
His Ex and Dame Margaret leave on Sun-
day for a country tour, embracing Lithgow,
Orange, Canowindra and Carcoar. They will
stay with Mrs. John Kerr at Well wood,
Orange, and with Mrs. Whitney at Coombing
Carcoar, returning to Sydney on May
-7. Diana and Daphne are with the Went-
worth Bucknells at Quamboyne, Coonamble.
Kaarlo Naukler, the young fair-haired
giant who was Finland’s Consul in Sydney,
died in a private hospital in Darlinghurst
last week, to the regret of his many friends
here. Naukler was an unusual young man,
with all the deep education of his race added
to an intense love of the cold little country
of his birth. He sang Finland's writers and
poets, her laws and the status of her women
whenever opportunity offered, and his
proudest possession was the Order of the
Finnish White Rose which his Government
handed to him last year. When not engaged
promoting the interests of the land that kept
her independence in spite of the Russian
heel, Kaarlo was hard at work collecting
sports championships. His tall, fair-haired
widow, who has a reputation as-a botan-
ist, lives at Killara.
Jascha Heifetz, the young man who moves
about the earth like a patriarch in the bosom
of his family, has pitched the tribal tent in
a large and expensive suite of the Australia.
In addition to the flapper-sister, mum and
dad, and odds and ends of secretaries and
things, there is beauty-girl Ida Adams. Ida
is the lovely creature with the wonderful
gowns who is always about with the famib-.
She is passionately fond of music, and drains
every drop of Jascha's home brew, in addi-
tion to that handed over the bar in his public
houses.
Saturday saw the Town Hall packed with
admirers, and the management had
placed the rows of chairs so close together
that the shortest person had to be careful
not to bark her knees on the seat in front,
and even the seats on the stage were filled.
The student element was everywhere, and
practically the whole Conservatorium had
dropped in. The Chief Justice Cullens were
among the enthusiasts, and the front seats
looked like a special display of satin and
fur. Ida Adams, in old-rose silk, with her
pink-and-whiteness and her grey hair making
her look like a French marquise, had ex-
changed the ermine cape of other days for a
squirrel coat. \\ ith her was the comfortable-
looking mother of the genius. The house pal-
pitated after the Bruch number, and at the
end of the concert (9.30) became tumultuous
and insistent. Though the lights on the
stage were lowered nobody moved until
Jascha had given four encores.
One rich woman at the Australia says she
is not going to pay half a guinea to go to
the Heifetz concerts while she can hear
him practise for nothing. That recalls a
Mark Hambourg story. Mark, having heard
that the corridor outside his room was
crowded when he was strumming, surprised
the listeners by one day flinging open his
door. “Shoo, shoo!” he spluttered. “You
want to hear me play? Then come to my
concert.” Mark on his trip to the Cdves
was asked at a wayside house to “Give us
a tune.” “And I nearly did,” the pianist
told a friend in town; “for those people
who owned that old piano had respect for
it. When I go into a drawing-room, what
do I find V On top of the instrument there
are photographs, knick-knacks, a cartload of
stuff; but those poor people, they had but
one article on the top of their instrument —a
tin of ins&'ticide!”
The second Cinderella in aid of Havilah,
the children’s home at Wahroonga, was the
gayest frivol of last week. The correct thing
was for dancing mothers and grandmothers
to take along the nearly-grown-up school-
boy or girl, or the just-promoted deb., so
the atmosphere of the Paddington Town Hall
was as effervescent as dry ginger-ale. Rose
Merivale and Mrs. Murray Campbell were
mainly responsible for the success of the
evening, and pretty Kathleen Comerford, the
younger of the Ercildoune Comerfords, car-
ried the prize for the best dancer back to
Moree, Billy Sims being the male support
to her jazz effort.
The Bush Book Club’s at-home to replen-
ish its shelves arrived in the pouring rain
of last week; but books poured, too, till
secretary Beulah Bolton counted nearly
1000. In ones and twos the admirers of the
club came, the G.-G. Forsters dropping in
after the Millions Club lunch with an
autoed book apiece. Dame Davidson came
with her little contribution in time for a
cup of the afternoon brew with the com-
mittee. Founder of the club Mrs. Aubrey
Withers, poetess Dorothea Mackellar and
the soft-voiced, round-vowelled David lady
were other notables.
The ex-Service Women, led by Dr. Mary
Booth, faced the scud and tin* shower anil
the torn banners of cloud last Thursday to
drink a dish of tea in the windy spaces of
Admiralty House. After the storm and the
shower had looked at them for about one
minute, every woman became a sort of boa-
restrictor, otherwise every feather she
possessed would have done a dash out to the
Heads. Music and tea did much to smooth
the ruffled plumage. Adelina Leon played
her ’cello, Mrs. Gordon sang, and sweet
sounds were also produced by Miss Teece
and Mrs. Kingsley Newell.
al Osborne, who died at .Tenner Hospi-
tal on Saturday, had been ailing for a long
time. Ilis tall, bowed figure—he was a
chronic sufferer from rheumatism, and it
sometimes laid him up for months at a time
—was one of Sydney’s familiar sights.
Everybody liked him, and he had a good
word for everybody. He had been living
latterly with his wife and small daughter
in an Elizabeth Bay flat. Ilis father was
Henry Osborne, a Victorian member of the
big squatting family.
Here's how May Moore saw Ada Evans,
the first woman barrister in N. S. Wales,
whom the Full Court
last week admitted
to practice—a short
Act had been passed
to remove the
Court’s doubts as to
the eligibility of
women. After the
ceremony Mi s s
Evans was pursued
by a flight of photo-
g r a p h e r s and
cinema-men to her
flat at King’s Clere,
where they per-
suaded her to climb
to the roof while
they and the wind
snapped together.
Miss Evans, who
comes from an
English family saturated with law, spends
much of her time at Bowral, where
she has a country house and a be-
loved garden and clean green spaces to
breathe in. Her voice, like Annie Laurie’s,
is low and sweet, and she's a Sydney Uni.
product.
- _ Mrs. Dan Kelly, of Kirribilli, has been
dispensing social amenities in honor of Mrs.
Charlotte Cameron. The lady with the
heather-mixture name has covered almost
as much <jf the earth as “Shadow Show”-
man Curie, and does it in khaki knickers
and coat. She will take you by the hand
and race you over Amercia —the South, the
States and Canada ; will describe the build-
ing of the Panama Canal, with a parenthesis
on placer mining; will take you by cannibal
carrier up the West African Coast, where
the chief of the carriers on one occasion
entertained her by describing how nice she
would taste if cooked —her knuckles and
joints would be the most delicate morsels,
and when done to a turn would have the
llavor of roast pork. After your marrow
has reached the sizzling stage, in a tempera-
ture that makes travelling impossible after
nine o’clock in the morning, Mrs. Cameron
turns on the ice-shower of Greenland, where
she became a member of the Estiuimaux Red
Cross. For the Ladies’ Pictorial she was.
at the Indian durbar when the Baroda
potentate in his second-best jewels—his Sun-
day ones are valued at £lOO,OO0 —was rude
to the King. During the war she did propa-
ganda work in America (that is the reason
of hoi- 0.8. E.). When the Armistice was
signed she was on the Pacific Coast, so she
though she might as well slip up to Alaska
and see the KJondyke. Here she spent an
afternoon with Kate Cormack, the half-
breed Indian woman who claims to have been
the first discoverer of gold in the Yukon.
Kate went to fill a dish with water in what
was afterwards Bonanza Creek, and drew it
out half-filled with gold nuggets. When
Mrs. Cameron saw her she was living in a
deserted humpy, her only wealth a weekly
ten-shilling pension from the Government,
all that was left of her former splendor
being a packet of photographs taken when
she and her husband went to ’Frisco in the
first flush of their opulence—that was the
time Katie proudly hitched her skirt and
bodice together with a. belt of gold nuggets,
and blazed her trail from the dining-room to
her bedroom by nicking the banisters. Mrs.
Cameron intends to stay two years in Aus-
tralia and hereabouts and then write a book
about us.
J. H. Curie, by the way, was at Timbuc-
too when he last sent a line; so there may
have to be a second edition of his just-
published “This World of Ours.” Everybody’s
been sent to Timbuctoo .some time or other
-—and if Everybody was a perfect lady she
blushed to find what the name meant when
she got there. But let the wanderer tell
about it: —
Founded about the year 1100, it became the dis-
tributing centre for 3000 miles around. The great
caravans from Morocco, Algeria and Tripoli con-
verged here, while at her back door was the Niger,
a mile wide, 2700 miles long, with fleets of canoes in
waiting. Five hundred years ago Timbuctoo was also
a centre of Mohammedan learning, and resorted to
by students from very distant parts, hut the clos-
ing of the slave trade, and the raids of the Touareg
Bedouins, were the death of the town. To-day the
only caravans are those carrying salt, from vast
deposits out in the desert, and the rich merchants
and slavers of old have taken themselves elsewhere.
So Timbuctoo has fallen from her estate.- She is
to-day a town of 8000 people (a blend of the negro
and the Arab), insignificant, built entirely of mud,
lying in desert country under a broiling sun. She
has passed under French protection. 1 can’t find
that more than 20 British have been here first and
last; the first being Mungo Park, in 1795, fresh
from discovering the source of the Niger.
So perhaps there hasn’t been a great deal of
blushing, after all.
Chief Justice Adrian Knox has at last
bought a house of his own. Though a very
rich man and the husband of a rich woman
(she was a Lawson, sister of Willie Lawson,
who was well known in Sydney 20 years ago,
and grand-daughter of the explorer), the
famous Equity specialist had been content
to lease one place after another. Osterle.v,
I)r. Foreman’s huge Macleay-street mansion,
which the Knoxes have taken over lock, stock
and barrel, was being sought after by some
people anxious to launch out in a flat-build-
ing proposition. It has a wide frontage to
Macleay-street, and stretches back to the
lane that skirts one side of the Fitz Went-
worths’ present abode. Mrs. Foreman died
recently, and when not working at his pro-
fession the doctor spends most of his time at
the Union Club.
Ken Austin, Arthur Allen's son-in-law, has
taken over Colin Stephen’s old job of secre-
tary of the N.S.W. Polo Association. It is
much like the case of the gentleman who
undertook to catch snakes in Ireland for a
living: there is practically no polo in N. S.
Wales'at the present time. However, Mr.
Austin will be there nil ready should the
sport re-awaken. In the old days the pic-
turesque ground in Centennial Park- was
about the pleasantest social meeting-place in
the State.
The modern girl is tending more and more
to go in for serious work whether she needs
the money or not, Beatrice Kelly, the T. H.
Kellys’ brilliant elder daughter, having dis-
covered a talent for drawing and been in-
spired by the Flemish and Italian church
and other buildings encountered during the
family’s European travels, is going in for
architecture. Hazel Hay, the Alex. Hays’
handsome daughter, is studying to be a
doctor. And, of course, the number of afflu-
ent maidens who are becoming professional
nurses is legion.
Ormond P. Wood, A.R.1.8.A., has com-
menced practice ns an architect. Diggers who
were in the artillery will remember him as
Gunner Wood of the fith Brigade and as the
younger brother of “But” Wood, one of the
best-liked officers who ever left Australia for
a grave in France.
The biggest theatrical matinee Australia
has ever seen is being planned to help the
hospitals. Publicity men, artists and the
entire profession have taken to the idea like
a Teddy Bear to a gum-tree. Of course,
everything is in the very beginning, as the
first meeting took place only last week, but
all the beautv and talent of the profesh, under
Westmacott’s direction, have promised their
very best turns.
Pretty and clever Mona McKay, of Maori-
land, who had a flutter in Sydney about
three years ago, •when she was doing Tivoli
publicity work, and went back to her home-
land to run the women's pages of the Christ-
church Press, became Mrs. William Francis
Tracey a week or two ago, wearing her own
color, . Italian blue, for the event. Wm.
Francis, who spent some years at the war,
trades in law.
I nless the family traditions are all wrong
Mrs. Ann Walker, of Lindlield, completed
her JHOth year on May 12. She came from
Surrey (Eng.) when she was 13 years old,
has a family of 12 living, and her grand-
children number a round 50.
The Sydney Hospital Auxiliary is con-
templating a pantomime that will masque-
rade as a ball in the Town llall towards the
end of July. There was a first talk about
the event the other morning at Government
House, when Dame Margaret, Mrs. Tom
Hordern, Mrs. I*. A. Itabett and the
energetic Mrs. Madurcan were among those
lured in by secretary Mrs. Holdship. The
lady has also cast her net about the artists
of Sydney, and every man of them is think-
ing up novelties to catch the public fancy.
The spaces between the columns are to be
filled in by canvases done by art students
depicting different schools of painting. And
there are to be tableaux on the stage, where,
for instance, a pair may pose as “Wedded,”
and then come down and dance off with
other partners.
This is May Moore's photograph of Mrs.
11. M. Scott, the Mayoress of Suva, in Fiji.
Besides a list of good
works to her own
credit, she has a
husband who is a
K.C., a member of
the Executive Coun-
cil and a member of
tlie Legislative
Council. Since he
has been vested with
the only civic robes
in Fiji the roads
have been massaged
as carefully as a
beauty show-girl;
an d through his
efforts electric light
now twinkles in the
palms. Mrs. Scott,
who has been spend-
ing some weeks in
Sydney, is housed at Labrador.
The Feminist Club is to have its own
song of triumph: no longer are members
satisfied to sins “For She’s a .Tolly Good
Fellow.’’ So Ruby Rich has written a sons
for the Club, and it is to be put into rehear-
sal, to be ready for the next Feminist func-
tion.
Manly V.A.D.’s extended the glad hand
one day last week, at their Club, in Jainieson-
street, to three of their number who had been
jaunting abroad. Miss Fossberg has just
come back from Fiji, Miss Cope from America
and Miss Robey from England.
The Shakspeare Society is sending out cards
for a series of lectures. The showmen will be
Sydney Grammar School Jackson. Walter
Bentley, University Librarian H. M. Green,
Secretary of the Society C. W. Salier, R. 11.
Paynter (Adelaide) and Stanley McKay.
On May 24, for a start, Hamlet and his
Father’s Ghost will be held up to the light.
The Hospice for the Dying will gain over
£l.OO from the Playgoers’ performance at the
Playhouse last week, for even the wettest
night of the seven failed to keep the benches
empty. Arthur Weston and Douglas Smith
helped the entertainment, and Mayoress Lam-
bert, to whom a small Weston child presented
a very large bouquet, lent her support.
There’s to be a dinner-dance at the Went-
worth on June 17—an affair of mask and
domino and fancy-dress. Little Mrs. Gore-
Jones, recovered from her long illness, is
helping to secretary the flutter, which is to
help Prince Alfred Hospital, and all the ex-
-1 ijians in Sydney are busy forming parties.
Biddy de Mestre, who is the champion
rider of Moss Vale, had a nasty fall the
other day, and is suffering from concussion.
Mrs. Pauline Deane, looking like 18, is
back in Sydney, and staying at the William
Flats in Darlinghurst. She is starting out
to show Sydney how N’York keeps its smooth
skin and its slim ankles. Masks and ice-
packs are the newest idea, says the little
lady, who has been studying beauty-culture
from the inside. Mrs. Deane’s niece, Mig-
non Seantlebury, is managing one of Cana-
dian beauty-specialist Mary Arden’s
branches.
Fashion notes from London:—
(1) Mothers of girls who have never worn and
have hardly ever seen a long skirt are worrying about
Presentation at Court in the coming season. The
old-fashioned curtsey is purely a leg-action, and said
bv experts to be absolutely ugly- if the machinery
can be seen at work. (2) Babies have been the
fashion of the past winter in high society. They
crop up in the most unexpected places. Lady Agnes
Peel and the senior lioness at the Zoo are two notables
who have surprised their friends in this way after
14 years of inaction.


1
>■?;
■
m
r 4Sr
- : : ; ;
:
>
mm
■
•;;
1 ;
m
i
■•5
■
■
i
5.
m
.
;
'
oA Few Favourite cßolls
H E possession of a player-piano creates one further bond
)n[ \ of interest between friends. It places in their hands the
Jr means to enjoy the masterpieces of the world s tone-poets
as well as the works of the just-as-enjoyable lyrical writers.
It grants the ability to personally inter-
pret and search out for one’s self the
inner beauties of the various compositions
that would for ever be hidden under a
fumbling hand-technique. Best of all,
it grants the means of giving to others a
big measure of this enjoyment —a meas*
ure not possible where one’s manual
proficiency lags far behind individual
knowledge of music.
cA Booklet has been prepared which gives details of
the Nerw Player-Piano. Copies posted free.
Showrooms:
340 George Street
SYDNEY
BEALE IF
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
AN NAN DALE
BRANCHES -NSW.: Bathurst, Orange,
Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, and Wagga.,
Victoria: Maples in ail Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania.: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples,
Launceston. J./4.:John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
IV.A.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE &C COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
Queen Sc., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.'
90-92


5^
/
V !
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
H°IEPR<PF
Ho/lERY
Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
m
is tlie title V
of our Book-
let. which tells
about the possi-
bilities of Drawing
—both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It
points out the pit-
falls to be avoided
by the beginner. It
explains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
THE HARRY J. "WESTON
Postal -School of Drawing,
5l UNION HOUSE, SYDNEY.
With a sense of humor and nothing to do,
And a craving to quiz and pry,
There’s laughter I ween in the wintry scene,
For the rogue with the roving eye!
Gay flappers and flats in their gaiters or spats,
And frumps looking prim and demure,
And “sneezers” in scores swanking into drug stores
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
-A I)VT.
REAL PHOTOS
Pictures of Beauties, etc. Order by post.
A beautiful study, post paid, 3/6, or set of
12, £2. Write to-day.
PASADENA ART CO.,
178 Pitt Street, Sydney.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I
. A- >•-
THE
"WINTON”
SEND YOl'U HEIGHT & WEIGHT.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Far above my
Expectations
THE FOLLOWING IS AN EXTRACT
FROM A LETTER FROM
BARMEDMAN
“The ‘Winton’ Saddle has turned out
far above my expectations, and more
than fulfils anything you claim for
it. It is absolutely the king of stock
saddles, and gives the comfort and
ease of a park saddle, with the added
security of a stock saddle. The nar-
row waist and kip flaps are very
comfortable, and the skirtless seat
cannot be bettered. To my surprise
I am able to ride with longer length
of stirrup than I could with knee-
pads lower down. In two weeks it
has got a seat in it in which l could
ride SO miles or 1000 miles with equal
comfort. No wonder it sells.”
The price of the “Winton.” fitted
with folded girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups
is £l5/10/-, freight free, for cash
with order to any port or rail-
way station in N. S. Wales.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers, “Leather House,” 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
MOTOR OAR STEELS
LARGE SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
CHROME NICKEL STEELS for AXLES and other highly
stressed parts.
CRANK SHAFT FORGINGS of CHROME NICKEL STEEL
IN STANDARD TYPES.
CHROME NICKEL AND NICKEL STEELS in Bars and Discs
for GEARS and similar parts.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE POSTED ON APPLICATION.
THE POLDI STEEL WORKS,
343 Sussex Street. SYDNEY.
We Desire
to Buy
af
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
PARCEL, £5, containing Frocks, Boots,
Blouse, Gloves, Jersey.
Mrs. SMITH, “Ashleigk,”
Leura.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per (lay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Bargains in
SHEFFIELD-MADE CUTLERY
P° n> t Miss THis Opportunity
Finest Nickel Silver
Postage
A 1 Quality
Postage
Finest Nickel Silver
Postage
A 1 Quality
Postage
TEA TABLE
SPOONS. SPOONS,
3/9 8/9
3d. 6d.
12/3 34 3
4|d. 9d.
TABLE FORKS.
8/9
6d.
32 6
6d.
DESSERT
SPOONS.
6/3 per half-doz.
6d. „ „ „
25/3 „ „ „
6d. „ „ „
DESSERT FORKS.
6/3 per half-doz.
6d. „ „ „
25/3 „ „ „
6d. ~ ~ ~
Postage Free.
BEST STAINLESS STEEL KNIVES.
With oval or square handles, made of best xylonite.
TABLE KNIVES
DESSERT or CHEESE KNIVES
Postage
26 /6 per half-doz.
24/9 ~ „ „
ORDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED—ANY QUANTITIES.
W. 0. GILL, 49 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except o’ a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped,
bame and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.S.A.: Of course, Desehanels, not Miller-
ami, fell out of a train in his pyjamas. Millerand belongs
to the great block of French respectability which still
wears a nightshirt, so it couldn't have been him.
....Alan D. Mickie: Too superficial. But the style
is good enough.... Pilot: Thanks. And it’s some-
thing to this country’s credit that all three drafts-
men are Australians.... Relluf: An old Bulletin
picture.... Biol: Regret space unavailable... .H.C.S.:
Much more complete lists have been compiled....
M. L.: Do give ns a bit of space between the type-
written lines. .. .T.G.8.: It would make a good rail-
way pamphlet, but 12,000-word articles are no use
to The B Gunner II.: But then his mother might
have died only the day before yesterday or there-
abouts, if she is dead T.C.S.: Off The Bulletin’s
track... .J.H.F.: None quite up....1i. Ill: That
snake yarn’s almost as old as Eden.. . .L.C.: Puns
ruled out... .T.A.H.: That man who drank a bucket
of beer as a “trialer” seems to have lived all over
Australasia 0.W.H.: Your “Baby” got the old-
age pension years ago Ekatere: Too long for
interest.., .G.Y.11.: The sleep yarn is a veteran.
. ...G.D.: Heartily agree with you. We badly
want a society to protect the Flag—-from its foolish
friends,...P, & R.: The time isn’t ripe for another
ancient post-and-rail fence controversy. But you ian
assure the other party that a 30-year-old i> a mere
infant.... H.U.M.: “Sleuth” is a hit too l.a d to
swallow as lie stands.... A. L.: That man hail recent
attention.... llonbeeby: Thank you, but we couldn’t
help ourselves to jam like that Stonyfell: Didn’t.
What The Bulletin said was that Sydney was “the
biggest British city south of the line.” Paula:
A fairy theme demands a fairy treatment and
measure. This moves too heavily.... Phyllis: Too
slight and obscure. .. .Cleve: No use trying to pass
that stuff as verse. ... H.W.S.: Its only distinction
is found in the recurrence of “when” 16 times and
“the” 18 times ,at the beginning of the lines.
J-K• “Rejected” is. .. .Duncan 0.: The verse is
thin imitation, even to the absurdity of sugge ting
that May is a Spring month and December a
winter one. ... Wiero: Bumpy verse with a very
small point. .. . A.R. (Brisbane): The verse is not
had, but it strikes no new note. Get away from worn
phrases and overworked ideas and make every line
fresh. . .D.D.:. Fair verse, but with little lift in it...
A.M.L.: No earthly use —nor heavenly... Enfios: Can’t
tell whether you’re “hopeless” or not. Put some
real thought into something original and we might
judge better Henry H.: Plenty of papers and
magazines reprint; we don’t Nell G.: The metre
is insane... . T.J.W.: Not up by a long way....
Katingaw: Doesn’t get anywhere near. . . .Jack A. W.:
Nice little thing, if only it were sincere:—
l’U abandon for ever
This literary style,
I’ll write no more
Of these verses vile !
The sinister walls
Of an Editor’s den,
A memory only—
Adieu to the Pen!
I’ll engage a flapper
And drink tea and toast,
While she types my copy,
Which I’ll send through the post.
... . W.E.H.: -Sorry, can’t find any trace of the
ability... .Jack E.: The effort to be smart is too
obvious... .John B.: A bit crude. The theme has
been written to death. .. .Fanuela: “Introspection”
won’t do. “Valor” held for second reading. .. .
W.J.W.: Stiff, obvious sort of verse... .Gipsy E.:
We don’t publish serial stories Nonarne: “Hear
the gate go click” is too ragged Podge: No humor
there. . .Nemo : Rubbish. . .Chaffy : It may be true, but
it's deadly dull. ..Yarragundry: None of them quite. . .
R.G.S.: Not enough there... .W.H.J.: Commonplaces
and imitations with a good deal of not wholly
unattractive verbiage... Talawong: There isn’t enough
in “Rusty”. .. .R.J. (Collingwood) : No yarn there.
. ...J.M.C.: Hull. ... M.C. (Camberwell): Very good
of their kind. Try us with some other kind....
C.M.: Saint Charles” is too wordy and rambling.
. ...J.5.8.: “lady Lottie” is not believable....
Frank P.: No use to us H.R.M.: “The Hat” bowls
along a pretty well-marked track N.E.H.: No
thrill in it. .. .G.E.K.K.: “Blighted Career” is not
for us Arthur R. : “.Samson” well enough told, but
pure Bally: “Light” isn’t a brilliant
affair F.H.: “Intelligence” is too far away. Send
it to something in England W.R.S.: “Greasy”
must go back. Why do you make your copy so
haid to lead ? That sort of thing must prejudice its
chances Lizard: Get at the yarn without waste of
words.... Old Girl: Not well enough done....
R.W.D.: Thin and unattractive N.: The “Maiden”
is an uninteresting person chiefly because her story
has been told so often in exactly the same way....
L.E.8.: Not up.... Red Joe: Very rugged.. .G.P.M.:
Get something of your own to say.... Hood: It
doesn’t come near R.A.S.: “The Trvst” fails....
G.M.V.F. (or initials that look something like that):
You’ll get a reply in due course if anybody can read
your address Aloysius K.: “Harold” won’t d 0...
E.J.R.: Verse not up. . .J.M.S-Y.: That sort of loose,
wordy stuff is no good to a paper that has to cover
a continent once a week \V.D.: Don’t like
“Jupon”. .. .Frank A. D.: Crude, not to say rubbish.
. ...E.V.K.: Not what we hanker after. ... H.H.C.:
So wild and sudden that it is clearly a dream-ending
from the moment the first rivulet of blood descends.
... .Frank Z.: No use... .P.8.P.: A long wav off. . .
E.P. (Trentham): Not badly told, but not much of
a yarn.... W illiam M.: An allegory with labels all
o'er it to show what it means is always hopeless.
Friday I.: Nasty little thing... .June: Doesn’t move
us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.H ; : Overworked idea. .. . A.S.P. (Vic-.): Both
miss... .F.Iv.K.: Drawing too crude Wog: Old. ...
J-J O.: On their way home... .E.H.: Pretty hope-
less. ... A.G.T.: Scratchy drawings and weak gags. .. .
A.McL.: Nothing in it....A.E.: A long way short.
. ...A.G.: Penwork lacks character.... Alec: Not up.
G.D.: Drawing fails badly in spots Serib:
Ancient... .Zoe: You’re the 137th to send in that
joke... .E.E.8.: Too-amateurish yet.... G.A..: Weak.
. ...D.L.M.: Whatever his voice, his figure's hopeless.
. ...K.F., J.E., T.C., A.S.P. (N.Z.) : All unavailable.


ghinping
ORIEN_T LINE
Xew and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cnbines-de-
],uxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIFNT R. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel. —City 4240, 2,4, (5 Spring Street.
Isin! Ssdnej-
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
(heat. Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 1,
VENTURA.
iO.OoO Tons, IT Knots. Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Bunking, Public Companies, ,Vc.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; K. 11.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NHW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 300.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Dcpu.-it Stock 3.091,009 4 a
All new business since JB'J3 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Dunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brunches —T, oil don, Melbourne, Sydney and
throng bout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lvsagmt, Chairman ; George
J. Si.v, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarvvood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New Sonth Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chiej Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. It. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R.'T. Moomn.
LONDON (37 • Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Demos Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,090
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1365.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £025,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . • • 600,000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625.000
£1.850.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Rills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping,
etc.
Can&di&n-Austral&sian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND ItEST- EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
iIKTWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT-
Passengers hooked to Glasgow, Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JUDY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to nn.v part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ran he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara tails, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
TAHITI, 31st MAY.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 26th May.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE.
For Illustrated painphlets regarding tlie above services apply—•
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mm,
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
raid-up Capital
Reserve Fit ml
Reserve Inability
Directors:
- £4,058,200
3.350,000
- 4,958,200
£13,200.520
The ITon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
President.
Thomas BucUland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie. f'.so.
Hubert L. F.'iitlifull, F.sq.,
The 11 on. Janies T. Walker.
Franc 13. S. Falkiner, Ksq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
Auditors - W IT Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: Sir John liussell French, K.B.E.
H ell( l office^—George Street. Sydney. J.ondon Office—2U Thread needle Street. E.C.
35(5 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Calde remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places oTHECr. Foreign Bills
negotiated and eolletied Tetters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
.. £2,500.000
.. £2,220,000
.. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman,
lion. H. E. Hater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— Tlie Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
. 4* ll . | Established
Australian Mutual
8 7 H pTn d s“n., Provide ivt Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Tiife Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year
Yielding Reversionary Additions
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
1920 £1,336,402
to
. . £2,273,000
. . £44,000,000
. . £6,375.000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
L.nrsrest Hotel Acconimndstir.n In An*tralln.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
Sydney Agents.
*Katoojuiia .
tCOOMA...
(Melb. only)
tWODONGA
(Melb. only)
JDIMBOOLA
JBOMBALA
(Melb. only)
IWYREEMA
(Melb. only)
•KAROOLA.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
Pty., Ltd., 61 Pitt
St. (Tel. 7066).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 300 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., Ltd.,
44 Pitt St.
(Tel. 8212)
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 300 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
Pty. (Tel. 7666).
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
*Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
{Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parkci Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney ami Melbourne to New Zealand ports
ami vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
ami vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week,
l or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “I.evuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.'
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
I BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER,
i Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail. £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
: & CO., LTD.
I NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
I Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBF, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthlv Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.'—AII Passengars must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland 31eat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
ISlaeklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
« Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
: Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.


A
*m-'- \
NOTE
Be sure to get
WRIGLEY’S
Get Good Roads
for a £lO Bond.
Now Three Flavours
m
m
m
m
Here is the deli-
cious chewing sweet
that costs so little
and lasts so long.
And the new
“JUICY FRUir
flavour lives up to
the reputation of
the other two.
You just can’t chew
it long enough to
lose the flavour.
6
Big bars in
each packet for
3 d -
Made tn Australasia
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts!
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
ACTUAL SIZE.
SS
If unable to
secure from your
Tobacconist, send for a
Trial Box.
Box of 25 i2/(j
Box of 50 ’ 23/9
Box of 100 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
Hack Saws
af reduced
prices
a
A large
shipment of
Mack Saw Blades
has just come to hand,
and in order to lower our
stocks a big reduction in price has
been decided upon.
Owing to the coal strike in England produc-
tion w ill probably be curtailed, bringing about
A SCARCITY OF STOCKS
'your supple now, when you can get all you need, and at a price so
T , at 18 a grcat inducement to buy. Don’t run the risk of a shortage.
saws Si 1 glv ? - vou entil ' e satisfaction, for thev are made of the
highest quality steel. Full details by telephone (Oitv 9863 or 7819). If
vou write, address Department “A.”
The Eagle $ Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company, ARTHUR BALFOUR & Co. Ltd., Sheffield,
.Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street. SYDNEY; 261 Latrobe Street, MEL-
BOURNE; 46 Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE; Cliff Street,
FREMANTLE. John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE. Charles
Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE. Paul & Gray, Ltd.,
NEWCASTLE. R. L. Milligan. Collins Street. HOBART.
FLES
a
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
f
“J. marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18iu.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26 -
sSm
••Simple and extra strong in construction£
810. Winchester Single-shot liiile, 1004 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish.; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid.
60/-
a
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rif I *, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
x exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight . 33/“*
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/C; other Stales, 2/S.)
mM
Remarkably accurate and hard hittinff.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20iu. round taperecf barrel, take down, weight 6*lb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l4 14
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
•im
“S/toofs ivitli guaranteed accuracy
1113. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1006
Model, IG-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short long or long rifle cartridge; : weight, about Sill). ..
Freight paid,
£6/17/0
fa
f
827. New Savage N.R.A. Kifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with hands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fi\--shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weightabout "lib. Freight paid
£7/10/-
cmzfia
“A cheap and reliable weapon."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, It.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-luirdened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.1
45/-
m.
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hainine r 1 e s s
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s}lb.
Freight paid,
£9/10/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC-
-CLEANSING-
-HEALING.
Destroys pus: whitens, the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
af
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or half
magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Hound Darrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Darrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, 20in.
round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid,
Illustrated f irearms and Sport Equipment List Post Free to any address
. Simmons M
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.
£B/15/-
£9/10/-
£7/17/6


TRADE
MARK
AHgJk
DISCOVERY
IForT
(OUGhS
Colds
Prepared By
sm
131-I3S CLARENCE STREE
SYDNEY, NSW.'
Wind and Rain Brings
Coughs and Colds.
How to rid yourself of a bad
cold in one night.
New Discovery Users the world over
will be glad to hear that the Sheldon
Drug Co., Ltd., has provided for its
patrons a new and pure Aspirin called
SHELPIRIN, to he used in conjunc-
tion with their famous favorite Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs
and Colds.
To utterly break up a cold and quite
get the best of it in one night is their
object, and with Shelpirin to aid the
action of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery, this is now possible. One or
two Shelpirin Tablets taken before ... »
bedtime, a double dose of New Discovery, and the fever
subsides. The throat loses all tenderness and the bodily
symptoms disappear.
In the morning continue the New Discovery in teaspoonful
doses to prevent a recurrence, and to soothe the mem-
branes to their normal state of comfort.
For headache or nervousness use Shelpirin without New
Discovery; for a Child’s Cough omit the Shelpirin, and
continue the use of New r Discovery until quite
relieved.
Shelpirin and New Discovery constitute the modern
and efficient method to quickly rid you of your cold.
i
DB SHELDON S
NEW DISCOVERY
for Coughs & Colds.
si"
0
Hi
Kfc.f
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere “Vallo” is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it—and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
Look for the Trade Mark
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LECGO & CO.
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY . BRISBANE
S 3
m
J
The Plunv R azov
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
Craig & Aitken are Sole Agents for the
“Plum” Razor, and being practical trades-
men they know just the kind of edge
required for an easy shave. PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
S ingle Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10 6
The Little Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HIS beautiful new day is mine to fill
I With dreams and deeds of my tumul-
tuous will.
It is a gift from God, a jewelled chest,
Encrusted with the gems of east and west,
Wherein my soul shall pour for pure
delight
A thousand little things, some wrong, some
right.
And now Night shuts the chest with staiiy
key,
Flinging it back to Time with bits of me
Mixed in its sunshine, vanished with its dew
Into old days that once, like it, were blue,
Bright with gay words of lovers lying still
Under grey shadows on some grassy hill.
Alii once I met, l thought, a vanished day
Wandering alone the Past’s tempestuous way.
It had forgotten its divine old birth
And its glad hours of merriment on earth,
And yet 1 fancied at the sight of me
Its old eyes laughed in sudden memory.
O little day, so dear, that just lias fled!
O happy comrade, now so surely dead!
Will you remember when we meet again,
On tife long road of dreams, my joy, my
pain?
And sing me back for love with tender
tongue
These lines I wrote to you when you were
young?
> T .s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
Timothy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT Smarter’s End—a picturesque vil-
lage in Buckinghamshire, not far
from the silver and green of the
Thames where it flows along its lovely val-
ley a score and a half of miles above Lon-
don—there was a good deal of excitement,
and some sorrow, in the beginning of July,
1834. Big Timothy Catesby, the finest young
man in the village, had been caught red-
handed in the heinous, unforgiveable and
almost sacrilegious act of snaring a rabbit
in Camblay Park, the seat of that very im-
portant personage in the county—lie had
been its High Sheriff —Sir Peter Camblay,
Bart.
It was years since such a fearful and dar-
ing thing had been done in the Camblay pre-
serves —S.r Peter guarded them very care-
fully with a small army of gamekeepers—
and it is little wonder that for no less than
two weeks the grave affair absorbed all the
conversation and speculation of those who
gathered nightly at the King’s Head to quaff
ale out of large earthenware mugs, discuss
the blight in the potato crop and debate upon
the respective merits of turmuts and mangel
wurzels as provender for sheep.
Timothy was about 21 years of age at
this time, stood six feet in his stockings, had
a pleasant red face and a thatch of flaxen
hair and was reputed to be the best wrestler
—in the catch-as-catch-can style—between
Marlow and High Wycombe. Smarter’s.End
was justly proud of his prowess, and when
he got into trouble all Smarter’s End was
troubled likewise. For the trouble was very
serious, and never again, it seemed sorrow-
fully likely, would his friends gather on
the green on summer evenings to admire
the skill and strength which were the glory
of the villagers and Timothy’s great distinc-
tion in all that pleasant country side.
Jarge Smithers, Squire's head-keeper, had
come upon him in the dusk of dawn, just as
he was taking a rabbit from the snare that
had enmeshed it. With Jarge was Bill
Crawley, an under-keeper, and, somewhat in-
advisedly, Jarge and Bill had proceeded to
administer a beating to Timothy before
handing him over to lawful custody on a
charge of poaching. It had been a very rash
proceeding on the part of Jarge and Bill,
for Timothy had thrown Jarge over a hedge
into Sitwell-lane, breaking his collar-bone
and his right arm, and had smitten Bill so
heavily upon the jaw that it was fractured
in two places. Then he had strolled off
wuth the rabbit, leaving the two stricken
gamekeepers to their own painful devices.
Of course, it was merely a very brief
matter of time before Timothy was taken
by the village constable —who was his
horror-stricken uncle—and was haled before
the magistrates at High -Wycombe. He did
not resist old Tommy Nutley, and accom-
panied him quite peaceably on foot for five
miles along the Oxford-road. They had even
sorrowfully shared a quart of ale at the
Old King of Prussia—named after Thomas
Carlyle’s friend—when they rested at mid-
day.
“What for did ’ee go for to do the like
o’ that, Tim, ladV” asked the old man sadly
as they ate their bread and cheese and drank
their brown October.
“Never, no man beats me, Uncle Tom,”
replied Tim, regretfully but firmly—“not so
be as loike I zwings for ’un!”
Sir Peter Camblay was chairman of the
Bench of Magistrates, who, with the excep-
tion of the vicar of Smarter’s End. were all
large landowners of the neighborhood, and
it .was a very unanimous Bench as to the
heinousness of poaching. One gentleman
opined loudly that it should be a capital
offence. So it was not surprising that the
prisoner found himself committed to stand
bis trial for assault and battery—not that
the gamekeepers mattered so much as the
game, but for the reason that this was a
sterner commitment—at the Bucks Assizes
due to be holden some three weeks hence.
Nor, as .Mr. Justice Pliilpot was Sir Peter’s
brother-in-law and a frequent visitor to
( am may Park, was it very surprising that
Timothy Catesby, farm-laborer, was duly
sentenced to transportation for a term of
seven years to his Majesty’s Territory of
hew South Wales.
All this accounts—with a good deal in
between for which there is not room here
for the fact that at the beginning of
1539 Timothy Catesby was head-stockmau
at Mr. Thomas Willoughby's Mutton Creek
station, far away up to the north of the
Hunter River, and almost quite on the bor-
ders of civilisation and beyond the protec-
tion of the law. It was a fortnight's journey
from Sydney in those days, though now you
may reach it in 15 hours. Eighty years ago
the station buildings consisted of three slab
huts with bark roofs; to-day the homestead
is almost a palace, and the name of Mutton
Creek no longer disgraces it. It is Wil-
loughby Park now, though none of the \> il-
loughbys are to be found in neighbor-
hood except in the cemetery at Warialda.
The sun was declining towards the ranges
opposite when Squinny-eyed Ned rode up to
Mutton Creek, unsaddled his horse at the
killing-yards and walked over to the stock-
men’s hut that was the largest of the three
rude structures composing the station build-
ings. The other two were the superinten-
dent’s dwelling and the store. He put his
saddle down outside the door and bellowed
his arrival. At the back of the hut a little
camp of blacks —old men, gins and a few-
piccaninnies—stared anxiously at him and
muttered among themselves.
“Hullo, in there,” he cried —“any one to
home?”
A sandy-haired young man appeared in the
doorway, yawning and rubbing his eyes with
his knuckles. He blinked at the newcomer
for a few moments before he recognised
him. Then he became all attention.
“Aw, Ned,” he said apologetically and with
an awkward and embarrassed air of welcome
that hardly seemed genuine, “I was jest
havin’ a bit of a banje. Come in, won’t ’ee?
They’re all away.”
“Away, is they? Where’s they away to?”
“Th’ super, Mr. Potts, ’e’s a-gone to th’
Rig River. An’ th’ rest on ’em —I dunno
w’ere th’ rest on ’em is. S’elp me, I dunno.
Out on th’ run somew'eres, I s’pose. Stoppin’
th’ night, Ned?”
“ ‘Course I’m stoppin’ t.li’ night, ye
blinkin’ owl. Wake y’self up, an’ put th’
billy on. I’ve rid all day wi’out a bite, an’
I’m mortial ’ungry. We’re’s Tim Catesby?”
“Out wi’ the others. I dunno w’ere they’re
a-gone to, but I’m a-lookin’ for ’em to be
back to-night.”
“A nice hut-keeper, you are,” growled
the traveller. “If ye was on our place, I’d
skin ye alive for loafin’ round a-sleepin’ in
th’ daytime. Wot ye got for supper? You
Johnny-come-latelys wants awakin’, to
my way o’ thin-kin’. Don’t Tim Catesby ever
wake ye up, me young shaver?”
He went into the dark interior of the hut,
and dropped his saddle on the earthen floor
against the wall. A very sinister looking
gentleman was Mr. Edward Kilpatrick, even
apart from the ocular peculiarity that had
gained his nickname. And his reputation
was sinister also. He had been transported
for highway robbery with violence, and had
done a “stretch” at Norfolk Island, where
he had secured himself a pardon by revealing
a plot amongst certain convicts to murder an
overseer. It was supposed that Mr. Kil-
patrick had organised the plot so that he
might reveal it. That may be so or not, but
Mr. Kilpatrick’s conditional pardon had cer-
tainly cost the lives of two men.
Andy Rates, the hut-keeper, was a London
pickpocket, who had been required to make
atonement for his transgressions by a term
of ten years’ exile in New South Wales. He
had done three of them. A furtive, weak,
cowardly, shuffling young scoundrel, his pre-
sent job was the only one on the station that
Mr. Potts held him to be suitable for. and
he did it about as badly as it could be done.
While this unpleasant young man was
engaged in making up the fire preparatory to
procuring refreshment for his visitor, the
latter lounged in the doorway, as if watching
for some expected arrival at the station.
“Ye’d better make enough tea for some
more,” he growled into the hut. “I seems
for to hear ’em a-eomin’ now.”
“Who’s a-comin’, Ned?” asked the hut-
keeper.
“Never you mind who’s a-comin’. Do as
ye’re tol’, an’ ax no questions. Ah, I thought
so—here’s th’ rest o’ th’ lads.”
Squinny-eyed Ned stepped from the door-
way, and went out to meet a cavalcade that
came cantering over the flat from the cross-
ing in the creek beyond the yards, and Mr.
Bates —‘furtively and a little fearfully; —tip-
toed from the fireplace to the open window
to satisfy his curiosity.
There were eight men in the party, and
they were armed to the teeth in a somewhat
motley fashion. Some had flintlock muskets,
some shot-guns, and most of them carried
pistols in their belts. Three of them had
swords hanging to the D’s of their saddles.
“Holy Mother, somethin’s a-goin’ to hap-
pen !” whispered Mr. Bates, as he stole back
to his catering.
“Well, boys, ha’ ye got some o’ th’ war-
mints?” asked Ned of the first who drew up
before the hut.
“We got twenty-two o’ th’ carrion over
beyond th’ crik,” answered a big black-
bearded fellow, who carried a musket with
the butt resting on his thigh—“all tied up an’
ready, an’ now 7 we’ve come for this lot. We’ll
make a clean sweep o’ ’em this time. They
won’t spear no more cattle an’ rob no more
huts, thish’yer tribe won’t anyway. Come,
Ned, lend a hand. We’ll do th’ job afore
dark.”
“Ain’t ye goin’ to have a sup o’ tea an’ a
bite to eat?’
“No, no—time enough arterwards. We 11
fix ’em up first. Bring up that rope, Foley.
We’re out for business this time, I promise
ye.”
The little camp of blacks behind the hut
had had its numbers increased by more than
a dozen men, who had come in from the sur-
rounding bush after the day’s hunting, bear-
ing with them the spoil of their prowess,,
which they cast before the waiting gins. But
the arrival of the band of armed men had
alarmed them. The children were whimper-
ing and the men muttering in feat’, whilst
the gins, quick to scent disaster, began that
low and plaintive wailing characteristic of
them in times of mourning or of deadly fear.
* * * *
Months afterwards, in his very natural
part of King’s evidence, Andy Bates told
his story in the court at Sydney. These ex-
tracts from it outline the terrible tale of
that unhallowed night at Mutton Creek. It
(Continued on next page.)


CLEMENT L. WRAGGE,
F.R.G.S., F.R. MET. SOC.,
F.R.C.1., etc.
SOME REMINISCENCES OF AN
EVENTFUL LIFE.
I am an “only child,” born at Stour-
bridge, England, in 1852, lost both parents
in infancy, and was nurtured by a beloved
grandmother at the family home at Oaka-
moor, in the romantic and lovely Churnet
Valley, North Staffordshire. Granny taught
me the first principles of astronomy, geo-
graphy and the natural sciences: and, being
evidently born that way, long before I was
twelve I revelled in the stars, and wondered
if the Jewish God was really the God of an
endless universe. As to geography, no boy
could touch me, and granny expounded the
mysteries of the “weather glass.” I re-
joiced in Nature, and the surroundings of
the Crystal Palace, near where I went to
school, fostered.my tastes. Evolution pro-
gressed. I finished classics with the Vicar
of Launceston, romantic Cornwall compelling
a love of Nature still more. I studied
navigation at Janet Taylor’s Nautical Acad-
emy in London, and went to sea for ex-
perience. I have travelled in all the six
divisions of the world. I founded the
Wragge Museum of Ethnoghophy, Geology,
and Natural History at Stafford, England,
and gave it to the country; worked three
meteorological stations in North Stafford-
shire, and then founded the Ben Nevis Ob-
servatory, climbing the mountain (4406 ft.)
daily in all weathers. This got me the gold
medal. I joined the South Australian survey
and became devoted to science, with physical
astronomy and meteorology as very special
lines, and started the Torrens Observatory,
Adelaide, and another on Mount Lofty, S.A.,
and later on Mount Wellington, in Tas-
mania. Then I became Government Meteor-
ologist of Queensland, and travelled in duty
all over the State. I attended international
conferences and inaugurated the observa-
tories in the French colony of New Cale-
donia, also the famous observatory on top
of Mount Kosciusko, in New South Wales.
One of my main works was the issue of
weather forecasts for all Australia. Since
3003 my beloved sciences have maintained
me and given me a home in God’s Own
Country. All that time I have lectured on
the marvels of the universe in England, also
all over India, Ceylon, Australia, Fiji, Ta-
hiti, Tonga and New Zealand, doing all 1
could to lift mankind to a nobler concep-
tion of God and what tin* eternal universe
really means. Radium is one of my very
special subjects, and I have splendid speci-
mens. I have published “The Romance of
the South Seas’’ and other works. In con-
stitution I am strong and wiry ,as a steel
rope, but in South Australia a few years
ago I suffered temporarily from an awful
backache and kidney trouble. Somebody
said: “Try Doan’s Pills.” I did so, with
the result that in a little while I was cured,
and have noit been bothered with the agony
since. This is a simple fact. I care not
what the medicine is composed of; suffice it
to say that it is a boon to mankind, and I
very cordially and conscientiously recom-
mend it. And now in my sixty-ninth year
I have my own weather bureau, which serves
all Australasia, and take delight in working
with iron bar, pick and shovel in my beau-
tiful tropical gardens, which I made out of
a desert in my new home at “Waiata,”
Birkenhead, Auckland, N.Z., and which are
open to everybody. So much tor “Doan,”
whoever he may be, and my best thanks to
him.
ITCHING PILES CURED.
Mr. James Higgins, 650 Botany Road.
Beaconsfield, Sydney, says:— “.Some years
ago I suffered a lot from Itching Piles, the
irritation being very trying, particularly so
at night and during the hot weather. A
friend advised me to use Doan’s Ointment,
and knowing how good Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were I got a pot' at once, and
it proved a blessing. After a few applica-
tions I got relief, and as I continued with
the treatment the improvement was main-
tained until finally the Piles disappeared.
Five years have elapsed since I used Doan’s
Ointment, and I have had no return of the
ailment all that time. I cannot speak too
highly of this remedy, and recommend it to
other sufferers.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
tad®
£
J
'■
'
w-
TTY
II
"A
gY^%77
Every
Tells
It Isn’t WorK That
Wears You Out!
Hard work never killed anybody. But hard work, with irregular hours, neglect
of rest, recreation and exercise, does weaken the kidneys and keep one tired, miserable
and out of sorts.
5 If your back aches —if you have headaches, dizziness and urinary disorders —
don’t wait! (let back to simple, sensible habits. Help the weakened kidneys with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. It may save you an attack of dropsy, gravel or serious
kidney disease. Doan’s have helped thousands and are used the world over.
Sydney Man Tells His Story.
Mr. lhomas Duggan. May Villa, Park Street. Canterbury. Sydney,
says: “I am pleased to tell you Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
done me a world of good, and that it will ever be my desire to let
other sufferers know of the wonderful curative powers of this fine
kidney remedy. For a long time I was so ill with backache and
kidney trouble that I was almost a cripple, not being able to move
without enduring positive torture. My back never stopped aching
and I could get no relief from the pain, even at night. My limbs
swelled very much, showing serious signs of dropsy, and this worried
me a good deal. I tried all kinds of remedies, but they did not benefit
me. and I was fast losing hope of a cure. One day I happened to
* Doan s Backache Kidney Pills were a splendid remedy for
all kidney ailments, so I got some at once. After taking them for
about a week I began to feel better. As I persevered a steady im-
provement was noticeable, twelve bottles of these grand Pills fixing
me up completely. The dropsical swellings have gone, my back is free
lrom pain, and I feel a different man. Considering I am seventv-two
years old, I think my recovery is wonderful.”
I)OAX S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILES are sold by all Chemists and
bottle, or post free on receipt of price from Foster McClellan Co., lb
Stores at 2/!> per
Hamilton .Street.
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
is little wonder that old Tom Willoughby
changed the name of the station:—
The blacks were all encamped ready for the night
there were plenty of women' and children
amongst them. The blacks', when they saw the men
coming, ran into our hut, and the men then, all of
them, got off their horses; and Kussel had a rope
which goes round a horse’s neck, and began to undo
it whilst the blacks were in the hut. . . .Russel and
some one or two went in. I remained outside. 1
heard the crying of the blacks for relief or assistance
to me and Kilpatrick—they were moaning the same
as a mother and children would cry. There were
small things that could not walk—there were a good
many small boys and girls. After they were tied 1
saw Kussel bring the end of the rope out they were
tied with, and give it to one of the men on one of
the horses —I cannot say which. The party then
went away with the blacks. The man who
took the rope from Kussel went in front,
and the others behind.... Some of tiie chil-
dren were not tied, others were. They fol-
lowed the rest that were tied ; the small ones, two
or thfee, were not able to walk--the women carried
them on their backs in opossum skins. The. small
children were not tied that followed the mob—they
were crying, in and out of the hut, till they got out
of my hearing. They went up towards the west* from
the hut— the road way.
Mr. Bates explained to His Honor Sir
William Burton and the jury that the rope
referred to was a very long one—a tethering-
iine for horses—and that the men had taken
all the natives away except two boys who
had escaped down the dry creek bed, and two
gins, one of whom had been left because "she
was young and good-looking." When they
had gone on a little distance lie heard a
couple of shots fired, lie also explained that
he was very much afraid. lie went on to
tell of the return of the party—without the
blacks:
It was just before sundown, next night after, the
same men came hack to the hut where they took the
blacks from. They were all together of a lump,
except Kilpatrick, who was left behind —he tame in
about twenty minutes after. They stopped all night
....Next morning three of them, after they had
breakfast, took firesticks out of the hut.. . .and before
they took the firesticks Fleming told Kilpatrick to
bring the leg-rope with him that ropes the cows
....One of the men was left behind, and all the rest;
went with those who had the firesticks—one was left
with me as a guard, named F01ey.... During the
time they were away, 1 asked Foley if any of the
blacks had made their escape. He said none that he
saw; he said all were killed except one black gin.
Before the party came back Foley drew one of the
swords out of the case and showed it to me. It was
all over blood.
It was during the absence. of the party
that Timothy Catesby rode up on his return
to the station, unsaddled his horse, let it go,
and entered the hut, where he found Andy
Bates and Tom Foley.
“Hello, Tom,” lie said, “what are you
doing over this way? What’s your business?
Here you, Andy, get me some breakfast.
I’ve had nothing to eat this morning, an’
I’ve rid a good twenty miles since 4 o’clock.”
Mr. Foley looked a little uneasily at the
big head-stockman of Mutton Creek. lie
was harder and wirier than when he had
stood his trial five years before at High
Wycombe—a man in the prime of life. Tom
Foley was not quite sure of him, but made
shift to inform him of the business that had
been in hand.
“Well, Timothy,” lie said, a little doubt-
fully, “ye’ll not lie troubled wi’ them
niggers no more.”
“How —what’s come o’ th’ blacks? I saw
none about as I rode up.”
“We’ve bin a-musteriu’ of ’em—a proper
round-up.”
“A round-up! What d’ye mean by that,
Tom V”
"I mean we’ve bin an’ took all t'uishyer
tribe, an’ marched' ’em away over yarnder
w’ere ye see th’ smoke arisin’ over th’ trees —
an’ we’ve put their lights out, blarst ’em ! Th’
lads is a-burnin’ of th’ carcases now. This’ll
teach th’ rest of ’em a lesson. Ho, ho, by
God it will!”
Timothy stared at the man for a few
moments in astonishment, a dawning look of
horror coming into his honest countenance.
Then he spoke harshly.
“Come up here, Foley. D’ye mean for to
tell me you an’ the others has done such a
thing as that? -My God!”
Foley rose to his feet and walked over to
the door. He nodded his head, and pointed
over the tree-tops to a column of dull smoke
that eddied up into the clear blue of the
morning, a mile or two away.
“That’s it, Tim. We’ve done ye a sar-
vice—an’ ourselves.”
For a moment the big man did not speak.
Then he swung his list on to Foley’s jaw,
and sent him reeling back into the interior
of the hut.
“My God !” lie roared. “Ye bloody mur-
d’rers! And you, you young devil —1 sup-
pose you was in this too?”
In three strides he was up to Andy
Hates, and when he had finished with lion
Mr. Bates had had all that lie could not for-
give. Timothy picked up his saddle and
bridle, and went out to catch another horse.
“By h 1,” lie muttered. I’ll ride to
the Big Biver, and find Mr. Hobbs. The
hell-hounds —some of ’era’ll swing for this
lot!”
So in his evidence at the trial Andy Bates
made up for his hiding at the hands of
Timothy Catesby:—
I’m certain Catesby was one of those that came to
the station with the others, and took the blacks away.
He was a leader. No, I am not mistaken. ’Twas
Catesby went and drove all the gins and old men
into the hut. 1 told the magistrate, Mr. Denny Day,
this, when he came to Mutton Creek. I could swear
to Catesby before any of the others, by knowing him
so well.
Towards the end of 1839 a visitor of some
importance was tlie guest of the new Gov-
ernor of New South Wales in the old Gov-
ernment House at Sydney. He was Sir
Peter Camblay, Bart., of Camblay Park in
Bucks, and his importance lay in the fact
that he represented a company of English
landholders—-mostly members of tin l House
of Commons —who were desirous of obtain-
ing in Australia some such concession as had
been granted nearly twenty years before to
the Australian Agricultural Company. lie
had letters to Sir George Gipps of such an
influential character that that somewhat
harassed potentate had felt obliged to invite
him. to make the vice-regal mansion his head-
ouarters whilst in Sydney on his way to
Mio re ton. Bay.
“Yes,” his Excellency was saying ns they
sat over their wine on an evening in
November, “there can be nothing said in
extenuation of the brutal crime for which
these eight men are about to suffer, though
very much is being said throughout the
whole colony. Well, I can only do my duty.
Nothing on.earth would move me to grant i
reprieve in the case of these men. A mas-
sacre,' wanton and inexcusable—’twas no-
thing else. Imagine it, my dear Camblay !
I have told you the circumstances of the
affair. Do you really think I could conn-
tenance any other course than that of allow-
ing the law to exact its fullest toll of venge-
anee? I think not—indeed, I think not.”
“Quite so, my dear Governor, quite so,”
assented Sir Peter in his slightly pompous
fashion. He was about to enter upon one
of those disquisitions which had earned for
him in the House the sobriquet of "Didac-
tic Peter,” when the entrance of his Excel-
lency’s butler with a visiting card cut him
short. Sir George glanced at it.
“Mr. Thomas Willoughby,” he read. “Is
bo here uow, Iliggins?”
""“Yes, y’r Ex’lency,” responded the butler.
“I tol’ th’ gennelman y’r Ex’lency was at
dinner, blit lie says he must see y’r Ex’lency.
’Tis a matter of life an’ death, he says,
Them Mutton Creek men, y’r EQlency. TV
gennelman seems to be in a great state o’
mind, y’r Ex’lency. Is he ho wait?”
“Oh, yes—tell him to wait. No, I’ll see
him immediately. Yes—better give him his
answer and let him go. Stay where you
are, Sir Peter. Your presence can make
no difference. Show Mr. Willoughby in,
Higgins.”
A tall, grizzled man. past middle-age, was
ushered into the dining-room, lie bowed to
the Governor and his guest.
"Mr. Willoughby?” asked Sir George.
“Pray be seated, sir. Will you take wine.’ 1
“Thank you, no, your Excellency. May
I beg your permission to come to the busi-
ness that brings me here without delay?”
“Pray do so, sir.”
Mr. Willoughby was agitated and anxi-
ous. Ilis hand shook as he wined his
brow with a silk handkerchief. When he
spoke it was in a deep, earnest voice.
“Your Excellency, I have come to beg
your clemency for one of the men who are to
suffer to-morrow for the unhappy crime
that was committed on my station at Mut-
ton Creek early in the year. I am posi-
tive that the mans life has been sworn away
in a most villainous fashion. Might I lm-
plorc you to reconsider -
The Governor sighed, and held up his
hand to check his petitioner. “ ’Tis too
late,. Mr. \\ illoughby. I have given this
terrible affair my most painful considera-
tion. Those murderers have had two
trials. Nothing can now be allowed to
interfere with the course of justice. I
must beg you to take this answer as final.
I must positively decline to interfere. No,
1 am afraid not, sir. ’
"I came with a hope, your Excellency,
that your distinguished guest, whom I have
been given to understand is Sir Peter Cam-
blay, of Buckinghamshire, might possibly
say a word in this unhappy man’s favor.”
He bowed towards the baronet, who puffed
out his cheeks in surprise.
*‘My dear sir,” be said, “what have I
to do with the business? The man is quite
unknown to me.”
"He was once a tenant of yours, sir.”
“A tenant of mine?”
“Yes, sir. He comes from Smarter’s End,
a village on your estate at home. He has
told me to-day, in the priSoh, that you would
surely say a word for him. Oh, yotlr Ex-
cellency—l but beg a litle time to prove this
poor fellow’s entire innocence. But a' few
days—until my superintendent can reach
Sydney. He has been delayed at Patrick’s
Plains by the flood in the Hunter —or he
would have been here last week. I am sure
that this gentleman will back my request.
Hang him —if he is guilty. But for God s
sake give him a chance. Will you not say
a word for him, Sir Peter Camblay?”
The Governor shook his head sadly.
"Mr. Willoughby-—I have told you that
it is too late. But perhaps”—he turned
to Sir Peter inquiringly. “Perhaps if Sir
Peter Camblay can say a word in his favor,
a respite—mind you, only a respite—’-might
be accorded him. Do you know anything
of him, Sir Peter?”
“Indeed, Sir George, it is possible that I
might, if this gentleman would favor us
with his name. You forget that I am
quite in the dark as to who the man may
be.”
“Oh, I beg your pardon,” said Mr. Wil-
loughby nervously. “Ilis name is Timothy
Ctt tesby.”
“Catesby—Catesby? There is a whole
tribe of Catesbys in Smarter’s End. What
is this one doing here? Let me try to
recall him.”
“He was sent out here, sir, over some
breach of the game laws —some trifling
poaching affair —involving an affray with a
couple of keepers. lie has a most exem-
plary character. One of the best men 1
have had in my employment.”
“He was sent here for poaching, sir!”
Sir Peter’s tone had become stern, and he
glared at Mr. Willoughby.
“Oh, quite a trifling business, I assure
you, sir,” said that gentleman.
Sir Peter exploded. “Trifling! By
heavens, sir! I remember the fellow now.
No, sir—l will not speak for him ! A con-
summate villain, sir. A lawless vagabond,
lie not only purloined my game, but he
also half-killed my servants. I have
nothing of any good to say of this man, Sir
George. He deserves to be in his present
situation.”
Mr. Willoughby rose to his feet, his hat
in his hand, and glared at the baronet.
“By God, sir, you have a damned hard
heart!” he shouted at Sir Peter, as he
strode from the room.
The Governor hastened after him, and
caught him at the hall door.
“Mr. Willoughby—Mr. Willoughby,” he
half whispeerd. “By Heavens, you are
right. I will send my aide down to the
prison with a respite for Catesby. I can-
not stand such callousness. He shall not
hang for a week. I hope you may prove
your words, sir.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


MS
1
£
IT'S
ft
5 ■
: v
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us, and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Ail! CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. ' To prove what we shite
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to , keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wia SuppiiY—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Reams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders*
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.SAV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
r '»’i
' 4
u
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Under four times
the size of this
picture.
The Decca is only 11J inches
square and weighs only 12
lbs., yet it has a more powerful
tone than the largest Cabinet,
Instruments.
It is clear and natural in reproduction,
needs no case, and is ready to play
immediately opened.
Why not buy a Decca and have music
wherever you may be ?
5 Models :
Leather Cloth ... £9 10 0
Fibre .. .. 11 10 0
Cowhide.. .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music Dealers
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.,
Australian Agents
a
4
f
Good Shops Sell
Shirley President
Braces
There is a just pride which
conscientious storekeepers
have in selling goods of
known quality and worth.
When one finds a store-
keeper recommending
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT
BRACES to his customers,
one instantly knows he is a
storekeeper who has an in-
terest in selling to his trade
goods of quality and worth.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS
EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles
and the printed guarantee label:
"SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender
Company
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870
Cable Address: President
Be Wise to Time
Everybody needs a little medicine now and then to keep the stomach right,
the liver active and the bowels in healthy working order. Experience
has proved the wonderful value of Beecham’s Pills as a tonic for the
stomach, a corrective for the liver and a perfect aperient. No remedy
has won a higher place in the public esteem than this old and well-tried
medicine. You will be well advised to
Take The Rational Remedy
Beecham's Pills—when you need a little medicine. A timely dose when
you are feeling “below par" will work wonders. Beecham’s Pills
relieve headache, restore the appetite, remove constipation, purify the
blood and thus conduce to good spirits and a cheerful outlook. The good
effects which follow a course of Beecham’s Pills are unmistakeable and
enduring. They will help you in your work and make your seasons of
recreation- times of real pleasure. For general health purposes at all
times and seasons there is no medicine so useful as
Beecham's Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
BRAIN
If you want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’* Little
Liver Pill** the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands
af
CARTER'S
3
H
IVER
PILLS
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meals. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
GENUINE must
bear signature
,kr K iinmA**
&0
fa
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCKS
MALTED MILK
HORLICKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng
Refrigerating U Ice-making Machinery
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —-which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR. LTD
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, IM.Z.
\
Precision
Fire
m
c-io
fka
In every instance the Remington
Model 51 Automatic Pistol per-
forms its task with precision.
The flat matted sighting rib, mat-
fed to prevent the gleam of re-
flected light, and the low sights
peculiar to this pistol alone, nave
proved a great aid to exact shoot-
ing.
JRemmgtoih
for Shooting Right!
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length,
6 5/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21
ounces unloaded; finish, dull black; magazine
holds seven cartridges, one extra cartridge in chamber.
L Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m Browning Short) rim-
less automatic standard metal cased of
soft pointed, the same cartridge as is
used in other American Automatic
Pistols of this caliber.
,
' A 'y!<•jSf’* l fcex&'f \
@ ‘”'" 1 :—..-&J
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Strainer
12/6
each
Post Free
( Patented )
«*•
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
&
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
v Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820 . Still going strong .
V/YV'
w
%
IU
lit.
IS
«
Ul
1
Bft
K
#
*v*
u
&
V 5
\
4
iS?
0
ss
rv
r?
o
Y\
fcH
)))
Wl
ft
-/.
/ Wl
Y
Y
h
\
s
w
> V
ft/' •
NS
/ 6
' /
I
\
uA,
ft
M
a
m
N
k \
i \! 'A//'/
jEhc*£*£y
-h’ a. *
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SEMES. No. IS. NEW ZEALAND!
Johnnie Walker: “ Well, what do you think of this Maori carving? ”
Tourist: “He looks to me as it it were a pity he did not make your
acquaintance earlier.”
Guaranteed same quality all over tlie world*
TORN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
