

E
TH
JUST A WEEK TO GO.
There is NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT to do anything worth while, and this
applies particularly at the present juncture to the would-be purchaser of a motor-car.
TO-DAY, and for the NEXT WEEK, you can buy the PEERLESS American Car—
THE CHANDLER SIX: The Car That Keeps Faith,
for £845.
On and and after February 1 the price will be INCREASED to £895.
So that you can effect A SHEER SAVING OF £5O by placing your order BEFORE
TUESDAY NEXT.
> REMEMBER, WE CAN SUPPLY
Chandler Clubsters
Chandler Sedans
Chandler Dispatch Cars
Chandler Touring' Cars
with American or Australian bodies, and can give IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
SPECIAL BODIES, made to order, will, of course, take longer.
See our Exhibit (Section 60) at the MOTOR SHOW.
1
1
m
> w\xvvxxx W Avvv X xv WWuuuu , niuMU , Un , lllu(u 1
ituuiiiiiiiiif. &u«)|tiif
jmmM
Bft
sas
iijijjlijjiiiiji!
1
>
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Agents for CHANDLER <SL CLEVELAND SIXES,
Garage and Showrooms: 147-51 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
The Bulletin
Vol. 42 No. 2137.
Thursday, January 27, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


. the new library catalogue
ready ‘ and will be Posted free to anv
address on application. , T 0 an}
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.-Advt
Watermans (IdeKuntemPen
Equip your office staff, your warehouse clerks foremen
and others who use the pen, with Waterman’s Ideal
You get back the cost in the time saved and in the
efficiency attained. A reliable fountain pen makes a
wonderful difference in the day’s work.
Three Types:
“Self-Filling,” “Safety,” and “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. g. sloan, Ltd. Center
London, England.
i 3
say
Au tralia:
Harold D. Dixon
105, Clare.ice St.,
Sydney,
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the British
Commonwealth.
December No.: Special articles on Anglo-Japanese
Alliance; r l he Passing of Woodrow Wilson; Egypt a
n a -V-°£ ’ P robleills of Europe; Reprisals in Ireland ;
British Commonwealth of Nations in 1921 Also
articles from Dominions and India.
nr P /r ice per °°P- V ; 20/- per annum.
Messrs. Macmillan & Co., Ltd., Russell St., Melbourne.
The Staridan] lUnnedy which has outlived the Centurfaa.
S,N ®** ETON ’ S EYE OINTMENT;
llm* Remedy used by Army add Wavy men.
Used since Iftim. CURES fw iw*.
blight, falling eyelashes, weak'sicht!
S - (^QSi^’on^‘Singi?U)Uh”— refute' all^uhstl, u teas* aD<^
The All
\S
rit ish
Sla||iard
LIGHT"" CARA,
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The most reliable and ever-
ready Car is the Standard—
that is the opinion of Owner-
Drivers all over the world.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied .
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agents:
I. PHIZACKEKLEY,
108-171 Elizabeth
fi
„»*luillipTg
■ Jl it II ;p!
v - -.'
.*>• •**»*
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC /S FREE FROM- DRUGS.
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
d
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
“Breadfruit” Bligh
ilt you go to Norfolk Island, and talk with
tue descendants of the gentlemen who pushed
him over the side of H.M.S. Bounty on the
morning of April 28, 1781), you will find
that the late Vice-Admiral William Bligh,
K.N., was a person compared with whom the
Devil was a seraph. And some of the pos-
terity of the officers of lI.M. New . South
Wales Corps, whose names are in the mem-
bers' list of the Pioneers’ Club, of Sydney,
are of opinion that any comparison between
the fourth Governor of N. S. Wales and
Norman Lindsay’s well-known model is very
rough on the latter. It is certainly believed
f not openly expressed by both these very
lfterent sorts of people that ••Breadfruit'’
High- as he used to be known to his contem-
poraries in the Royal Navy— must surely be
lamned in a particular hell of his own. He
vas no good alive, and he is no better dead.
Lven if Lord Nelson, and Captain Cook, and
Sir Joseph Banks, and Matthew Flinders
and some others did think a good deal of
him—well, they were quite wrong in their
estimate of a truly dastardly character.
But Ida Lee (Mrs. Charles Bruce Mar-
riott) apparently does not think as they do,
and her valuable contribution to history—
Captain Bligh' s Second Voyage to the South
itseas (Longmans, Green) —owes much of its
worth to the fact that it goes far in its
vindication of the character, ability and use-
fulness of a very “human” being who has
been maligned and traduced a good deal more
than he deserved. It assists greatly in
bringing Bligh into his true perspective, and,
ike all her writings, bears an impress of
honesty, scholarship and soundness of judg-
ment that is in keeping - with the work of
another woman historian of • Australia—
Marion Phillips, the authoress of “A Colonial
Cutocracy.”
The story of Lieutenant Bligh’s adven-
:ures in his mission to the South Seas to
:ransplant the breadfruit to the West Indies
•eally resolves itself into a kind of joke. He
spent six years of a strenuous life in accorn-
nishmg the purpose which the British Gov-
u-nment had in view when it first sent him
° i 7 ? 7 - 4 nd when tlie breadfruit
nad, after infinite pains, been planted in the
West .Indies, the negro slaves for whose
benefit all this, trouble had been taken would
have none of it. Indomitable perseverance
and great achievement were surely never
rewarded by Fate in so cynical a fashion.
J.he account of this second voyage was
completely lost for many years
“Written in 1791-93,” says Mrs. Marriott,
Bligh s log-books, after being for some time
at the Admiralty, were lent to the Great
Exhibition of 1851. They were not after-
wards returned to Whitehall, but remained
at Bouth Kensington undisturbed and un-
sought for, until Mr. Perrin, the present
Admiralty Librarian, to whom my cordial
thanks are due for permission to transcribe
them, recovered the forgotten volumes and
placed them in the Admiralty Library.”
Those who read this book will feel grateful to
Mr. Perrin for their rescue.
Bligh’s intimate acquaintance with Tahiti
and the south Seas, his powers of observa-
tion and description, and his scientific
accuracy, give his journal a right to be
mentioned in the same catalogue as the
V oyages of Dampier and Cook. He had
?n e ? 77r ei ' e a l ** 1 la T> ttel ' on llis las t voyage
in 1776, and m the Bounty in ’BB, so that
he was able to inquire into the manners,
customs and religious beliefs of the islanders
with good results. His log is as full of care-
. P;- recorded ethnological information as
that of his previous voyage. And an inter-
esting thing about this voyage is that, just as
Lieutenant Bligh had been schooled by Cap-
tain Cook in all the arts of navigating
unknown .seas, so Midshipman Matthew
1 ,n, der ‘ s w as being trained by Bligh
There is a point about the publication of
this long-forgotten MS. which might as well
be emphasised here. There are many just
hf s tor?"fi ble Journals—-from an Australian
histoiical point of view—in the Mitchell
wip ra nrnlfnhl 1S one of BIi £ h ’ s > but they
will probably never see print unless assist-
cost of fw 11 >y t , he ferment towards the
“TonrL| h of Suvgeon Bowes’s
Journal of the Voyage of the Lady Pen-
an? a P d ' SOn . lO of Macquarie’s diaries of
his travels and excursions throughout his
territory—to mention only one or two—
would make useful historical text-books which
3 l d at any rate, of more value to Aus-
tralia than the literature that at present
po ™® °, llt o f Government Printing Offices.
nmiv-nitc° 0k 1S ah p n dantly illustrated with
uV 1( drawings, and contains,
as well as Bligh s story of the vovage the
journal of Lieutenant Nathaniel Portlbck,
the commander of the little brig Assistant
which accompanied H.M.S. Providence- in
the capacity of a tender.
J. H. M. A.
Testing Books
test** US Set th< ' SCene for a good litei 'afy
J he Maoriland valley is 40 miles long,
bvlf^ 6 ’-,? 000 leetI eet high = the hit 6
front W , lth a do,) r and fireplace in
ont, a bunk along one side, a few cooking
utensils and a rough table. There is a
barrel of flour a tub of salt beef, a supply
f tea, sugai, baking-powder, currants and
laisins, and a side of bacon hangs to a
rafter At the door of the hut there is a
pile of firewood. It has been raining for
six monthf on raininf for
six months. . The rivers are all up ansrrv
yeiiow torrents pour down where the folds
should be ; and there is no prospect of anv
mail getting through until a fortnight after
the ram ceases. What single book will yoi
a Jear? y ° m ’ oompanion there for half
The Bible must be eliminated from the
choice, on the ground that it would introduce
elements which are not purely literal-
the test. It will also be well to eliminate all the
poets; for these fellows sing, and it is unite
possible to subsist for months on the refrain
of a song; just as it may be possible to
keep cheerful on a single tune played on a
cracked concertina. Further, a little poem
may say about 10 things and suggest aboS
10,000 a day which it doesn’t say at a]
i S0 ’ on . ground that white mag
added to writing gives it an unfair handica
let all verse go overboard and leave the sele
tion to prose.
. What noVels will stand the six month
test.' 1 Certainly very few. “Vanity Fail
might put in a claim; “Robinson Crusoe
llllve a sporting chance; I can in
think of any volume of Dickens that I won
not burn within a month. Gibbon’s “I)
cline and Fall’’—the greatest of all historica
novels—would certainly last; so woul
Grote s ‘.‘History of Greece.’’ But it
hardly fair to call these books, as it is
piactical impossibility to have them in on
volume. Samuel Pepys would becom
merely an evil smell long before the tim
limit; Carlyle’s “French Revolution” woulc
probably tease you into insanity about th
third month, and cause you to set fire t
the hut. De Quincey’s “Opium Eater
would produce nightmare followed by intens
weariness of the spirit; Boswell’s Johuso
would develop chronic anger and a deep sens
of thirst; Lamb’s “Elia” Avould make th
side of bacon a thing of horror and caus
you to empty the beef-tub into the rain. O
course, individual taste would count for
lot, and each reader must apply the test ii
his own way. The book that would stanc
it for anyone thus marooned in imagination
Should go on the permanent shelf; it has
fairly won its place as a classic.
Personally, I have no doubt about mj
choice'; and I think it would be that of
thousands of others when all the books within
their knowledge had been fairly sifted.
I would have a good English dictionary,
ihere in the most concise form is the raw
material of all fiction, drama, history, poetry
and the rest. The word and its verbal rela-
tions, _ as set forth with examples old and
new, is the key to all things. You can make
a whole volume of Gibbon out of 10 lines of
the dictionary mixed with imagination, re-
construct kingdoms and customs, work out
on the chessboard of Europe the race move-
ments of 3000 years, and do all manner of
things to prevent the ticking of the clock
being heard above the clamor of mental
processes. Then you can turn to simpler
amusements and merely hunt common words
to their lair, or watch old words turning in
their sleep or new words in the process of
manufacture. The diction ary will be just
® s f re.sh and entertaining in the showers of
the 180th day as it was in the downpour of
the first. Often it will hold you far into
the night; and if there is a list of proper
names at the end of it you will quite forget
the fact that you haven’t seen the mailman
since the river rose, because the company of
Ayoub Khan and Simon Bolivar and Cmdinon
and Guinevere and Ninon de Lenclos and
Noah and Regulus and Ximena and Zwingli
has proved so entertaining.
I find more and more lovers of the dic-
tionary as I walk the winding paths of books
and men. Somehow that fact fills me with
a faith in literature. We are only at the
beginning of things: the words are spreading
their fascination more and more widely ;
afterwards some men will reallv learn to
use them.
The rain has ceased. For heaven’s sake
come out and look at the wind.
S.S.Z.
Movies
The Incorporated Society of Authors
(London) is dropping on its members for
accepting cabled lump-sum offers for the
entire and everlasting rights of films-plays. “A
great reason for refusing a cabled offer lies
in the tact that the author merely looks at
the amount offered him without its relation
mal 'ket-price. To get an immediate
he undersells not only his own niarke
but that of his fellow laborers.”
Speaking by andi large, and without pre
judice, that must be heaven. And in tw
places. I should like to see the Australian
ionn or ? carpeting a man for taking
±2o°--ii mmediato or even a little later—-fo
the rights of a film-play; and one passes ove •
m a respectful silence the vision of an Aus
tralian cinema audience not forced to look
at a “play” written (or dictated) by the
operator to the New York staff productions
keen a sketch not written round a famous
vamp ingenue or perfect lady in trousers
would be something to go on with.
Lots of things have been thrown at the
movies. They have been called a means o ’
perpetuating the great actors and .actresses
who in time die, a method of promoting
Christian knowledge and color among the
poor, unlettered savages, an advertising
medium, and scores of other things ; they
have ewen been called a medium of education
-the cinema is all these things, of course * ir
an oider manner half a page of journalese
guff may be all of them, too.
Once the cinema was much more than
these meritorious things; but its promise was
obscured by its sudden ripening. Before the
blossom was clearly visible the fruit had
ripened and rotted. Rotted to the dreadful
tiling- screaming in our midst to-day, to the
get-nch-quick of a thousand Americans with
only their business-craft to direct them in an
art, to the hordes of women whose onlv
stage-qualifications are the big eyes and well-
modelled faces which are easily and tellingly
Lmrrlef e H tO , th ° er <»all.V fatuous
hordes of those male exquisites whose
trousers are so beautifully creased. In fur-
tive alleys of Paris and Port Said, and in
the corners of the unmoral, tumbling cities-
ln-the-making, it has rotted to a putrescence
incredible, to a photographic representation
of degeneracy and artificial sin beside which
the cheery, drmkish brothel is decent These
are carrion-pits; the strained silence is
broken only by the whirring machine the
srTeen ng ° nly . b , y the
scieen The places stink of the outraged
laws of God and man. outraged
I know that this is no more than th<>
abuse to which all the primary and secradarv
arts were subjected as soon as their pornci-
giaphic possibilities were discovered But
the other arts got time to do some work in
the day before they went gay in the evening)
(Continued on page 25.)


z we
Smokers’ Sale Snaps
MANILA CIGARS —LA ROSA
FILIPINA.
Reduced to Ilox of
Redanos 5 for 2/6 25 for 127-
Polos 8 for. 1/- 50 for 15/9
Balmoral 3 for 1/- 50 for 15/9
Perlas 3 for 1/3 25 for 10/-
Castanos Packet of 5 for 1/9
ALIIAMBRAS.
Heavyweight Cheroot —
6 for 2/9 50 for 21/-
Medium Cheroot 4 for 1/5 100 for 35/-
Superbs 3 for 2/6 25 for 18/6
Imperiales, silver foil —
3 for 2/6 25 for 18/6
COMPANY GENERAL.
Perfeetos 4 for 2/2 25 for 13/3
Media Regalia .. 3 for 1/2 25 for 9/3
Lilies, HXIO7 Box of 10 for 5/3
Cheroot, Heavvweight— •
4 for 1/6 100 for 35/-
HAVANA CIGARS.
Partagas, Conchas 3 for 2/6 25 for 18/6
Partagas, Conchas 3 for 2/6 50 for 36/-
Wonderful Values
in Boys’ Suits
THE DURHAM SUIT.
The most popular Suit for school or best weear.
To fit boys 7 to 15 years.
Sitched-down belt at back, with yoke, patch
pockets, plain or band and button knickers.
m
Furnishing Drapery
PRINTED CRETONNES, 31in. wide.
1000 yards well-assorted designs and good-
colorings. Usual Price yd. 2/6.
Reduced to 2/3
3000 yards medium and large designs in soft
and bright colorings. Usual Price yd., 2/11.
Reduced to 2/8
PRINTED TISSUES, 30in. wide.
All-over design, Chrysanthemums and Palm
leaves, cream and black ground. Ilelio,
Pink, Blue colorings. Usual Price, 6/9.
Reduced to 5/9
CASEMENT CLOTH, 50in. wide.
1000 yards 48in. wide, plain centre. Colors:
Cream and Putty, with colored border both
sides. Usual Price yd., 5/9.
Reduced to 4/11
200 yards 48ir.. wide All-over Floral design.
Cream, Blue, Black and Pink ground. Usual
Price vd., 4/6. Reduced to 3/11
CUSHION COVERS.
In Cream Poplin, stencilled design, corded
edge made to button; size 20in. x 25in.
Usual Price, 6/9 each. Reduced to 5/9
48
Anthony Horderns’
Half-
Yearly
Sale
At all times it is advantageous to purchase your needs at Anthony
Horderns’, because their values are never equalled elsewhere; but
during the Sale Period, when prices are reduced and values still more
exceptional your shopping experience at The House of Economy
will be a money-saving one mingled with the satisfaction of having
secured attractive merchandise at prices much below what you had
expected to pay. Write for our Sale Catalogue, and peruse it care-
fully, then if you cannot call you can order from this by post or
telephone.
Gardeners’ Needs
Reduced
Philadelphia Lawn Mower—
lOin. (XT3S), Usual Price, 10/-
Reduced to 67/6
12in. Usual Price, 80/-
Reduced to 77/6
14in. Usual Price, 90/-
Reduced to 85/-
16in. Usual Price, £5.
Reduced to 95/-
Palace Lawn Mowers —
lGin. Usual Price, 50/-
Reduced to 45/-
Disston’s Pruning Saws —
No. 4 x 12in. Usual Price, each 5/-
Reduced to 4/9
No. 4 x 14in. Usual Price, each 5/3.
Reduced to 5/-
No. 4 x 16in. Usual Price, each 5/6.
Reduced to 5/3
No. 40 x 14in. Usual Price, each 4/6.
Reduced to 4/-
No. 40 x 16in. Usual Price, each 5/6.
Reduced to 5/-
Boys’ Footwear Savings
Box Calf Lace Boots, sizes 7’s only. Usual
Price, 8/n. Reduced to 7/11
Tan Lace Boots, size 7’s only. Usual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 9/6
Tan Lace Boots, size 7’s only. Usual Price, 10/6
Reduced to 9/6
Black Calf Lace Boots, size 7’s only. Usual
Price, 12/6. Reduced to 10/6
Box Calf Lace Boots, sizes 11 to 13. Usual
Price, 14/6. Reduced to 13/6
Box Calf Lace Boots, sizes 1 to 5. Usual
Price 16/6. Reduced to 14/6
LB35 —Black Calf Lace Boots, leather lined, Bal-
moral or Blucher cut, solid leather through-
out— •
Sizes 10 to 13. Usual Price, 18/6.
Reduced to 16/9
Sizes 1 to 5. Usual Price, 21/-
Reduced to 19/6
Paints, Varnishes
Reduced
UNIVERSAL PAINT.
Mixed ready for use, effective and economical.
In manv colors.
ORDINARY SHADES.
Reduced to—
-/llVz 1/10 3/6 6/2 11/9 23/3
“BLACKOTE.”
An Elastic Waterproofing and Preserving Paint
“Black,” especially adapted for Water
Tanks, Standpipes, Water Troughs and
Gutters, Iron Roofs and Fences.
“Pabeo” Protective Metal Paint.
For interior or exterior work, especially suitable
for Iron Roofs and all descriptions of Metal
Work.
14 Large tins No. 128, Red —
Usual Price • 18/6
Reduced to 15/-
“SUN” OIL VARNISH STAINS.
By using “Sun” Brand staining and varnishing
is done at one operation. For Floors, Fur-
niture, Ulterior Decorations.
MAIL
ORDERS
RECEIVE
EXPERT
Attention.
QUICK
DESPATCH
F 23
F 29
LAST DAY
OF SALE :
FEB.
12.
Travel Goods Reduced
P 23 KIT BAG, as illustrated, solid leather, side
lock, end clips—
Sizes .. ..14 16 18 20m.
Usual Price . . 26/6 30/- 34/6 37/6
Reduced to 25/- 27/6 31/6 34/6
Manchester Bargains
HORROCKSES’ WHITE CALICO.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
per yd., per doz.
Al, 36 inches 1/16 19/11
81, 36 inches 2/2 22/9
C, 36 inches 2 / 6 26/9
CREWDSON’S INDIA LONGCLOTH.
No. 700, 36 inches 3/8 39/6
No. 900, 36 inches 3/10 41/6
No. 1000, 36 inches 3/11 42/6
LONGCLOTHS, VARIOUS.
All of Reliable Manufaajtures, of exce.lent qual-
ity, and the price is right.
35/36 inches 2/- 21/-
35/36 inches 2/4 23/6
35/36 inches 2/8 27/6
GREY CALICO.
28 inches Wigan 1/7 17/3
31 inches Domestic 1/6 18/6
31 inches Domestic 1/11 19/11
34 inches Domestic 2/2 22/6
34 inches Domestic 2/5 24/6
36 inches Mexican 2/11 31/6
36 inches Heavy Twill 2/9 29/6
40 inches Heavy Twill 3/11 42/-
AUSTRALIAN FLANNELS.
Natural and Grey 2/11, 3/6 2/8, 3/2
SUIT CASES, in Vulcanised Fibre, 8 capped
corners. Metal frame, 2 locks—
Sizes . . 20 22 24 26in.
Usual Price . . 21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6
Reduced to 18/6 20/- 22/6 25/-
Savings in Men’s
Underwear
PYJAMA SUITS.
Made in our workrooms from reliable British
material.
Colored Flannelette, heavy weight. Usual Price,
17/6. Reduced to 15/6
Colored Flannelette, summer weight. Usual
Price, 19/9. Reduced to 17/6
Colored Flannelette, summer weight. Usual
Price, 21/- Reduced to 18/6
Colored Ceylon Flannel, summer weight. Usual
Price, 19/6. Reduced to 16/-
Colored Ceylon Flannel, summer weight. Usual
Price, 27/6. Reduced to 19/11
Best Colored Ceylon Flannel, medium weight.
Usual Price, 32/6. Reduced to 27/6
Colored Crimean Flannel, winter weight. Usual
Price, 21/6. Reduced to 19/6
Colored Crimean Flannel, winter weight. Usual
Price, 28/- Reduced to 25/6
Colored Crimean Flannel, winter weight. Usual
Price, 30/- Reduced to 27/6
UNDERSHIRTS.
Balbriggan Cotton, half-sleeves, all sizes. Usual
Price, ii/- Reduced to 10/3
White India Gauze, half-sleeves, sizes 34 and
36. Usual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 9/9
Savings in Lamps
ANGLE SUSPENSION LAMPS.
Antique Brass Finish. Usual Price, 70/-
Reduced to 63/6
Antique Brass Finish, Etched Globes and Opal-
escent Tops, 284. Usual Price, 85/-
Reduced to 75/-
Oxidised Copper Finish, 294. Usual Price, 85/-
Reduced to 75/-
Oxidised Copper Finish, 3 lights, 392, with
Opalescent Top Globes. Usual Price, 95/-
Reduoed to 85/-
MILLER SUSPENSION- LAMPS.
Nickel Finish No. 1 Juno Fount, 15in. Tin
Reflector, 236. Usual-Price, each 18/6.
Reduced to 16/6
Nickel Finish No. 0 Miller Fount, 15in. Tin
Reflector, 192. Usual Price, each 19/6.
Reduced to 17/6
TABLE LAMPS.
Metal E Victor Burner and Chimney, 139.
Usual Price, 5/3. Reduced to 4/10
All Glass, A Victor Burner and Chimney, 25810.
Usual Price, 5/9. Reduced to 5/-
All Glass, B Victor Burner and Chimney, 2581 B.
Usual Price, 8/3. Reduced, to 7/6
Wall Papers
at Sale Prices
Assorted High-class Satin Finished Wallpapers,
Usual Price, 6/-
Reduced to 5/- roll
Suitable for Drawing-, Sitting- and Bedrooms.
Assorted Light and Dark Floral patterns. Usual
Price, 1/9, 2/6.
Reduced to 1/6, 2/- roll
Figured Oatmeal Ingrains, suitable for halls,
dining-room, library, smoke and breakfast-
rooms. Usual Price, 4/-
Reduced to 3/6 roll
High-class Floral and Tapestry AVallpapers. Usual
Price, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6.
Reduced to 3/-, 4/9, 6/6 roll
Toilet Needs Reduced
8N668 Ivory Pyralin Cloth Brushes, concave
back and shaped sides, length 7sin. 9 rows
of ljin. fine white bristles. Usual Price,
each 61/6. Reduced to 50/-
8X164 Ivory Pyralin Men’s Military Brushes,
solid concave back, length sin. with 11
rows of special bristle lin. deep. Usual
Price, each 50/- Reduced to 42/-
BX2OB Highest-grade Ivory Pyralin Mirrors,
Merry Widow shape, heavy bevelled plate-
glass 75 x sfin., length of mirror over all
15in. Usual Price, each 72/-
Reduced to 60/-
■JUSOarJi
zm.
Wimm
Silverware Reductions
CX277 Dinner Cruet as illustrated, silver-plated
on nickel silver, 4 cut-glass bottles. Usual
Price, 63/- Reduced to 57/6
NICKEL-SILVER SPOONS AND
FORKS.
Table Spoons, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 20/-
Reduced to 17/-
Table Forks, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 20/-
Reduced to 17/-
Dessert Forks, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 17/-
Reduced to 15/-
Dessert Spoons,- old English pattern. Usual
Price, 17/- Reduced to 15/-
Table Forks, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 17/-
Reduced to 13/6
Dessert Forks, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 15/-
Reduced to 12/6
Dessert Spoons, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 15/-
Reduced to 12/6
Table Spoons, Fiddle pattern. Usual Price, 17/-
Reduced to 13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
brickfield
HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


S?l
mm
mmmmM
M
ifraMlSafti
You can learn
to use a Kodak
in half-an-hour
pictures have lasting interest
Every day is full of happenings that give you
pleasure. At home there are visitors and
relatives of whom you would like to retain
photographs, while the children are an end-
less source of interest. Your sports, outings
and holidays, too, offer many opportunities
to make pictures that will be of constant
interest and enjoyment.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is a
splendid instrument of great compactness
and efficiency. It fulfils every need of the
average amateur, and makes pictures 2\ x 3J
inches. Price 98/-. Other Kodaks from
54/6 to £2O/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD
•I
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley ; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth: “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
m
FT
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments
—each one perfect in tonal accu-
racy—range in prices from 11
guineas to 85 guineas.
The Instrument Catalogue shows
many pleasing models.
His Master's Voice
the ever-willing entertainer.
99
“His Master’s Voice,”
Reg. Trade-mark.
ď
fd
In “His Master’s Voice’’ the modern host and
hostess have a sure source of pleasure to them-
selves and their guests.
V ' y .■’'' ' y ; ■ r . -/ ■}■
The innumerable records available provide
many items in keeping with every occasion
—soulful ballads, merry jazzes, the latest
musical-comedy hits, and the best numbers
of the world’s greatest instrumentalists and
operatic stars.
That “His Master’s Voice’’ is the one true
reproductive medium is evidenced by the fact
that the celebrities record exclusively under
its trade-mark. Let this be your reason for
deciding on “His Master’s Voice’’ —the
instrument supreme.
' /
Instrument catalogue, complete record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
u
There is a type of “His Master’s
Voice” Instrument to suit every
home and every furnishing
scheme, but all hear the symbol
of perfection—the familiar “Dog”
Trade-mark. I/ook for it.
Vtesterjj;
“Gramophone,”
Reg. Trade-mark.


PINRETTES
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-headache. Lne
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the .digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. They
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “Bulletin.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
latest
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
576
ď
3716
f
Hand Embroiderer
Sold by DAVID JONES, EXD.
FARMER & CO., LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN &
SONS, LTD.
GRACE BROS., LTD.
HORDERN BROS.
BALL & WELCH.
See daily demonstrations at
W. T. WATERS & CO., LTD.
Free instruction given..
9
Grey hair
can now be
t r ansformed
to the youth-
ful color of
walnut. Per-
m a n ently—
harmlessly I
n
a
fw
n
ALL CHEMISTS.
MEXICAN |
1 WALNUT STAINS
m
m
m.
m
Brocade Bag
Reduced from 32|6
to 251-
A handsome silver brocaded bag, with nickel
frame and silk lining. Suitable for day
or evening use. Ask for A 33 when ordering.
Available to Mail Order Customers at the
reduced price for ONE WEEK ONIA. We
pay postage.
The American Bag Stores Ltd.
Corner King and Pitt Streets;
Strand Corner, Pitt Street;
Sydney Arcade, George Street;
117 Liverpool Street, Sydney;
mm
fr A Dentifrice
par excellence.
An indifferent dentifrice is as injuri-
ous to the teeth as an inferior soap is
harmful to the skin. Eudenta Tooth
Paste has been perfected by skilled
dental authorities, and contains
properties that contribute in
no small degree to the preser-,
vation of the teeth.
Being pf Australian
Manufacture it is
possible to sell
Eudenta at 1/- a
tube.
jC
**The Little Nurse
for Little Ills.”
For
Colds
RUB on plenty of
healing Menthola-
tum to-night on the
throat and inside the
nostrils. It penetrates
and brings instant relief.
And you’il find Mentho-
latiim is just as soothing
and healing for burns,
wounds and headache.
Do prove this for
yourself.
&
In 1/C pots at
all Chemists.
FASSETT & JOHNSON, ETD., SYDNEY*
Over 10 million pots sold lasi year.
‘THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
Draws Out the Poisons,
Impurities in the blood produce many ailments, including boils, ulcers, carbuncle,
bad legs certain forms of eczema and rheumatism. Albert’s Grasshopper
Ointment does not drive these poisons back into the system, where they would
be likely to attack the lungs, heart, liver or other organs. Owing to its
powerful absorptive properties it draws the impurities absolutely out ot the
system This restores the blood and skin to a pure, healthy state, and causes the
boils ulcers, pimples, eczema, carbuncle, etc., to heal up and disappear. ±he
Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment, having perfect confidence in its efficacy,
uro-e its use in treating all maladies due to poisoned and diseased blood. lhe
written testimony of a countless number of persons who, during the past half-
century, have used the Ointment with beneficial result, renders it impossible to
doubt its surpassing value in treating all blood and skin diseases. The Ointment
is absolutely harmless and contains no injurious ingredients. PLEASE
BEWARE ‘OF SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier, and for those who suffer from
headaches, the _„ . _ _
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded to purchase any substitute preparations.
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT AND PILLS are sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
ALBERT & CO., 73 Farringdon Street, London, ENGLAND.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Roads.
Alon<r the vast horizon a summer glory spills
A Si of sweet indolence on blue, enchanted
Rapt U realms of beckoning distance where
sward and sun-kissed air
Weave aureoles and lustres to lure our
longing there.
And thither go the gay roads,
By hedges flowered and tair,
Wild, vagrant, fragrant, stray roads,
Friendly and debonair,
Trodden by shy and wary folk,
And little golden fairy folk,
Who laugh along the gay roads
With roses in their hair.
The loneiy country township, drowsing
dusty in the heat,
The smug and sodden silence of the empty,
staring street; .
Its dulled, time-blunted beauty, its factions
and its bounds, .
And its young hearts tied but longing for
the bigger battle-grounds.
And from it leap the straight roads
As 'swordsmen to the fray,
And voices down the great roads
Are calling “Come away!
Laggard hearts may stay behind—
Who can tell what you may find i
Fare forth upon the great roads
And own the world to-day !”
The swarming of the legions and the drum-
fire rolling wide ,
As the madness of the battle slays the peace
of eventide, . , , , ..
When the rose in mire is trampled, and me
pastures blotched and stark
And the flame of dying villages fork-tongued
against the dark.
And out along the spattered ways
The spectral ruins loom,
Grey mourners on the battered ways
The broken roads of doom;
Poplars bare on stricken stem
Creak and whimper requiem,
As Death along the shattered ways
Rides sombre-robed in gloom.
A touch on shadowed eyelids to Detoken
coming light.
And the vanguard of the morning showers
gold arrows through the night; '
The rising sun emblazoned sets his king-
dom in array
And bids us take the highroad at the sign-
post of To-day.
Life’s dust is whirling redly,
The crowdings, tumults, cries,
The women in the medley
And the glory in their eyes,
Radiant youth and glance of fire,
Ashen age and quenched desire;
Love, fear, sin, rank and deadly,
And over all —God’s skies !
Alone, infinity above, the haggard deeps
below,
Into the sea-rimmed solitudes the great
ships questing go
To open up in storm or shine before them as
they steer
The roaring, sprav-stung, restless leagues
across a hemisphere;
Where the great sea makes melody
And pipes the wanton breeze,
And combers green climb merrily
The lone rock’s rugged knees,'
Torn black nights and phosphor glows,
Witchcraft that by moonlight shows
! The ship in carven ivory
I A’sleep on silver seas.
Behold the saintly lilac light of wistfulness
and yearning,
The fainting day, the waiting night, and all
the great west burning;
A hallowed hand o’er hearts and hills, and
heavens splendor-riven
O’er little clouds like scarlet sins that come
to be forgiven.
Though dim roads westward wander,
And whither none can tell,
And none return from yonder
To whisper what befell,
Jailer Death in death self-slain!
O’er thy grave will come again
All that made love the fonder
At the cross-roads of Farewell.
maoriland.
FRANK HUDSON.
The Pale Mourners.
Far in the forest night entwined,
I hear the wailing mourners go;
I see the pale procession wind
Among the tree-trunks, dim and slow.
Why have I risen from my bed
To watch them threading out and in.'
The fireflies flicker overhead
In webs the watching spiders spin.
Each pointed shoe with gems is set;
All ashen white each ghostly gown.
Each wears a jewelled carcanet.
To match her elderberry crown.
' Why weep they in these woods of green
And fill the running dark with fear?
They chant their melancholy threne
Above the trappings of a bier!
“No more he’ll hunt the bee,’’ they sing,
“No more he’ll hear the fairy horn,
No more the flower-bells will ring
For him along the edge of morn.
“For him no more brown gypsies brush
The fallen leaves of gold and red;
No magic beasts move in the lush, _
Green grass, for lie that played is dead.
Whom mourn they as they onward glide.
With death-flowers blowing to the knee?
I watch them like a rising tide
Among the trunks of ebony.
The moon has left her murky cloud,
The phantom mourners pass me by.
Ah woe! Beneath the lifted shroud
/ see the child that once was I!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


Modem Methods of Construction
ALL REINFORCED CONCRETE STORE
for Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
Flinders Street, Sydney.
w
S :
■ *
W
STORE FOR COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
JOHN and HERWALD KIRKPATRICK, Architects.
ALL WALLS. FLOORS. ROOF constructed throughout
of REINFORCED GONCRETE.
We will; give you Estimates and Designs for All Classes of Reinforced Concrete Construction.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.,
173 Clarence Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42—No. 2137.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE DESCENT OF MAN.


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Australia for the White Man.”
Pr M, ted and Published by William Macleod, of
■R,T r s ?: ave Rnt * McLeod Streets, Moshian, for The
P„ B uu® 1 ™ Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
°-> zl4 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
JZZ/ 1 Z' per annum you can have The
wear n ZZ repularl V to you every week for a
Tn L, J° JZ Y ADDRESS 1N Australasia, post paid,
do any address overseas, £2 per annum.
alllZZZ’, dr Z tS ' etc :> which should be crossed, and
Manager Communications to he addressed to the
Special Notice.
refuse(f lCtently sta J nped otters are liable to be
-nuhZr conten Z of jbis paper are copyright by the
vart h nf S ' th Tke Tt f lt * t 0 r / produce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
erepressty reserved by the publishers. “
nhlo Edltor , w J lll c . are f u Uy read and, where practic-
all conMhVf^ dge T - h Z “Correspondence” column
P liZini Z sub Z ltted ‘ whether in the form of
or tlZl’hl Zl ° r °J h Z Articles, Verse. Short Tales
„„d 'Z h (those dealing with Australian subjects
won t e Z Ceedmg tWO - columns in length, or, say,
3000 words are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
° r Ne w s Paper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
ULL - BTIN Z ll return all unsuitable MS. when
no M’s 1 e fri/7 S l vecifi . ed and stamps are enclosed. But
to MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
withoutZtaZL f Serv ? (L . When MS. w forwarded
IhJVoiJZ f t or jeturn it will be understood that
lanal nLr *?■ be destr oyed if not acceptable. Per-
ZteltZL IZZL f ° r Return of MS. cannot receive
sending MS fn lZ P IB ® ULLETIN desires those
rZvZi-hi) to dwtinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for' same
ora acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.1,;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, S Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
EC.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, B.C. • the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Sari Francisco News Co 71,1
Howard Street, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co ’ 1819
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 71, West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 71!) Market Street, Chicago-
Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington, U.S A ■
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York’-
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, I,2nd Street and
6th Avenue> New York City y George Hussey 3 Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu,— Fisher News Agency, 763 'Richards
street, Honolulu.
Royt.—.Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Rook
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street
Hong Kong. 1
Singapore. John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.- -W G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
FIJI - — A - Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands lOoz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
lboz., Ud. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; B|oz. to lOoz.
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3\d.; elsewhere, loz., lid.,’ and
-}d. each additional 2oz.
'ffite'SSxxZlelz/Ti.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1921.
WHITE-ANTING THE EMPIRE.
There was a good deal of speculation
throughout last year about the meaning of
the British lull in battleship construction.
Some held that the Government was hesitat-,
ing between submarines, capital ships and
a leviathan combination of the two; others
that the League of Nations was going to
result in some real disarmament, after all,
and that Britain had inner knowledge on
the subject; others that a mysterious war-
vessel of the “super-hush-hush” variety was
being evolved on the Clyde, and that when
it took the blue water the Empire’s sea-
supremacy would be as complete as in pre-
war days. They were all the fabric of
which dreams are made, and last week an
awakening cable arrived from London. “The
Council of Imperial Defence,” the message
said, “had decided against the big-ship policy
on the ground that it would involve the coun-
try in a naval expenditure which would be
crushing, and would make all effort to reduce
the war-debt impossible.” The overseas
Dominions had a chance when the Jellicoe
report was presented to get sound defence
at bargain-sale rates. There is not the
slightest doubt that if Australia and the
rest, instead of pigeonholing the Admiral’s
recommendations, had said to England:
“We recognise the supreme importance of
this issue so clearly that we mean to put
it before all else —even before raised Parlia-
mentary salaries, the creation of embassies
in America,, and similar extravagances”—if
that attitude had been taken up Britain
would have been bound to honor the obliga-
tion which it impliedly undertook when
Jellicoe was sent here. The British tax-
payer has stood a lot in the past, and despite
his post-war troubles he would no doubt have
stood more if tactfully handled. But nation-
ally, as in private life, a stage is always
reached w r lien the victim of an imposition
begins to feel he has been too much of a
d —d good-natured fool altogether. Australia
saw the light momentarily 1U years ago, and
the R.A.N. resulted. But darkness began
to tall immediately afterwards, and the policy
was allowed to lapse. To-day men like W.
M. Hughes, who originated it, are associated
with those such as Joseph Cook, who fought
it to the last ditch, and all of them are back
on the old mark. They are Empire Loyal-
ists, and, as such, are prepared to let the
taxpayers of the United Kingdom defend
them to the last man and the last shilling.
One of the meanings of last week’s cable is
that the harried inhabitants of. Britain have
begun to see through this century-old im-
posture. Their reasonable attitude is: “We
have a navy capable of defending what we
own. Why should we starve to make it big
enough to defend what you own?”
The position of Japan was stated by
Viscount Uchida, the Foreign Minister,
a couple of days after the British attitude
was given to the world. Mention was made
of “the tragic destiny of comparatively small
but self-reliant nations such as Japan” in
having to arm; and a limitation of arma-
ments was welcomed, “for it will not only
relieve Japan from the strain of the unequal
struggle, but will make possible the realisa-
tion of her modest desire for a career of
peaceful development.” Japan’s internal de-
velopment was never threatened when it had
no fleet; so that, like Germany when the
Kaiser first began his quest for a place in
the sun, the “peaceful development” of the
Mikado’s empire is evidently aimed at terri-
tories which are at present guarded by
navies. The situation in China, where the
Japanese turned inevitably first, resembles
that in Northern Africa at the time of the
Agadir crisis. Putting the inhabitants and
rightful owners on one side, there are too
many powerful vested interests in China to
make its exploitation on the grand scale
possible. The Pacific seaboard of North
America is even more desirable, regarded as
a penetration area. The U.S.A. has a formid-
able fleet on paper; but like the U.S. Mer-
cantile Marine, the U.S. Navy seems doomed
to be a permanent disappointment. It used
to be said before the war that the U.S.A.
could never again fight Britain at sea, since,
on the outbreak of war, 50 per cent, of the
higher U.S. ratings would have to be in-
terned as enemy aliens. The American sea-
man, both in the merchant service and in
the navy, is still liable to be the product of
almost any country but his own; and there
are so few even of the foreigner class offer-
ing -just now that UIS. ships of all descrip-
tions are chronically undermanned. Far
from being a discredit to the United States
it is a measure of the attractiveness of shore
life in that aboundingly prosperous country.
Things are very different in Japan, where
the fighting sailor is not only a conscript
but a willing one. The United States, like
Russia, or even China, is no doubt unbeat-
able as a nation; but _ that it will take a
grave chance the first time its navy engages
an efficient enemy is clear to demonstration.
The third quarter to which the eyes of
Japanese eager to develop—or, in home-
lier language, better themselves —are turned
is our own. Australia offers all the requi-
sites —proximity, minerals and more especi-
ally coal, a suitable climate and foodstuffs.
There is an idea abroad that even if Britain
failed us the Yankees would readily dash
into the breach and help to uphold the white
man’s burden. Its basis is probably nothing
more stable than the immemorial tendency
of man to believe that which he wants to
believe. Apart from the difficulties the
U.S.A. has to meet as a sea-power by reason
of the passive resistance of the bulk of its citi-
zens to navalism, there are the facts that
a large proportion have no cause to sym-
pathise with us (Uncle Sam’s Germans, Aus-
trians, Hungarians, Turks, Bulgars and
other late enemies of the Empire number
about 20,000,000) ; that about 12,000,000
look on our attitude towards the colored races
as an outrage; and that as regards the
rest, the occupation of this country by Japan
would help to solve their nation’s most press-
ing foreign problem. A sbp such as Australia
ought to keep the Cerberus of Asia quiet for
many generations, if not centuries.
* * * *
Two fairly evident facts emerge: (1)
Australia, besides being the easiest desirable
territory to take for purposes of develop-
ment, would be, by reason of its sparse popu-
lation, the easiest to hold in subjection. (2)
The Commonwealth may have to rely on its
own right arm and no one else’s within the
next few years if it doesn’t wish to be taken
and held. National spirit apart, any Gov-
ernment or party which set out to convert
the electors of Australia to the necessity of
efficient defence, either on sea or land or
both, would have a fairly easy task. The
truth of this was proved by the organisation
of which Mr. Hughes was once a leading
light—the body that laid the foundations of
our citizen army and the local navy. It
may be said that the world has changed
vastly since then. The world, yes; but Aus-
tralia, no. Most of our people are in the
fortunate position of never having suffered
from war-shock. That was why they got
ready for the holocaust six years ago, not
like the French with tears in their eyes, but
exultantly, in the spirit of men beginning a
pleasant adventure. They have never known
militarism at home, never burned with im-
potent rage at the arrogance or ineptitude
of a dominant military class. It is an in-
stance of ignorance being not onlv blissful
but salutary, in proportion as it is plea-
santer and more profitable to endure what-
ever disabilities attach to a home-grown
jack-boot than to support a foreign one. But
suppose, as is likely, successive Governments
here and elsewhere take the line of least
political resistance, and decide in the name
of Empire to spend all the money they can
raise at home or abroad on measures of a
more directly vote-catching nature? In that
event, on the principle that no one is ever
allowed to permanently have it both ways
the Empire, if it is to hold together will
have to get rid of the absolutists and sabre-
rattlers who are dissipating its energy and.
wealth at present by creating strife in all
parts of it. Millions are being squandered
over what boils down to denying India the
vote. The same pig-headed type of Tory
who in England fought every extension of
the suffrage is now fighting not only native
opinion but also such sober English opinion
as is expressed by men like H. W. Massing-
iiam, the Rev. Stewart Headlam. Major
Eraham Pole and Charles Roden Buxton.
The Irish row is embittering America’s rela-
t3r°?,s Britain ; it is giving every enemy
oi the British a peerless opportunity to damn
them as hypocrites in respect of their utter-
ances about Belgium; it is causing vast
scandal within the Empire; and it is to
blame for all the waste and loss of produc-
?* f a war ‘ Even in Australia, which
doesn t possess one genuine separatist to the
. square miles, stupid repression is exer-
cised by what is virtually a war-measure.
Kepression has always been expensive, but
at this time of day, just after a war for
freedom, it is inevitably more detested and
hence harder, and hence costlier, to enforce.
Empire is too hard up to arm against
outside aggression on the spacious lines of
tne past, it is obviously too poor to afford
internal wars or even' serious internal dis-
sensions. The alternative is to trust those
at present within the Empire—a thing that
™?i tr 6 easy e Y ei ? in the case of Irishmen
and Indians on their past records as Empire
Joldiers— and to trust them fully. The
n f practice . of Politicians, imbued with
a lust of power, is to create hatreds for party
nntinTrt aDd th / S s i mply am °iints to white-
rYle ° f a prison while those
to Me I th - fortress watch for their chance
IMMIGRANTS, AND THE LACK OF
PLACES TO PUT THEM.
The fact is widely admitted that Australia
needs immigrants of the healthy, intelligent,
industrious and reasonably moral sort It
doesn’t want cranks, disgruntled refugees or
men who bring religious or racial grievances
in their baggage to expound them here and
rouse sympathy and agitation and animosity
and free fights. The country has its own
stock of woes, including rabbits, droughts
debts, wild dogs and Cactus. Nor does it
want people who are filled with information
about the beautiful revolution they have had
w’int re r haVmg T ° msk or Timbuctoo, and
want to supply one like it. When A 11s
traiia really wants a revolution it should
make the tiling itself, and make it unique
to match the local fauna. But there is a
demand for real people, because there are
ennsf enough each square mile of
coast loi defence and taxpaying purposes
wimT'iviin °S «»*
want. When the mere State or peace debts
J*™ from *5B to about 79 per
head in 20 years, whereas they should be
diminishing, it is plain that the birth and
tn tatl t°if , 01 ' beads ai ' e Quite insufficient
to arrflni?% bUr ? en ! ? nd bein S impossible
to arrange for triplets every time in place
of single infants, more importation is urgent
I eople are a nuisance where there are too
many of them for comfort and decencv, and
a r “l 118 ' 11106 when th ey exceed the
country s food resources. But the extreme
and absurd lack of people, especially in a
country of loose finance like Australia in-
creases the burdens of the handful of tax-
payers to bankruptcy point. Probably Aus-
tralia would get more people if it had more
places to put them in. At present it has
only six (five on the continent and an
island), or seven if the Northern Territory
is counted, while British North America has
a dozen, and the United States 48, and
Argentina 24. No doubt some of Australia’s
places are of monstrous size, but for some
reason or other size doesn’t seem to help
the matter. There are on this continent five
blobs of population—those round the five
K7 l ?ini l | S ' qtK® tlle State mea sures
87,000 °r 975,000 square miles the solitary
blob habit remains. Yet even the little
that has been done at subdivision teaches a
lesson.
* * * *
In the political beginning, which wasn’t
genesis but Governor Phillip, all British
Australasia hung in a theoretical and
sketchy fashion on the Government at Syd-
ney. Maoriland seceded after a while—a
little place of 103,000 square miles —and ■
made a new centre to collect population
around. At late advices it had or 13
p f*f s q uai 'e mile. Victoria, a place
of 8(,884 square miles, broke away and
set up a new centre, and it has raised over
15 inhabitants per mile. Tasmania, a mere
speck of 26,215 square miles, or less than
Scotland, and much of it so mountainous that
it is still practically unexplored, also
seceded. It has no wonderful resources of
anj sort, but its population of about eight
per mile is quite respectable. In the big
areas that cry out for subdivision the den-
mfy T v ?rms from about 5-J humans per mile
m fcw Wales, the smallest of the monsters
and the one with the longest start, to about
one-third of a person in Westralia. Westralia
is the biggest, and, therefore, according to the
operation of the rule that subdivision tends
to bring population, and that the huge poll-
tical estates have a liabit of being empty
and neglected except around the manor
where the political squire hangs out it is
the worst example of how not to multiply
and replenish the earth. For 23 years the
big Sandgroper State has been the golden
hub of Australia, and it has been helped bv
federal subsidies and a horribly expensive
11 ederal railway. Yet it has got do further
than the worst of its neighbors at building
up a community except in a comparatively
narrow circle round the place of authority.
No doubt it is shamefully illogical that popu-
lation should hang exclusively round a seat
of government, and that it should be neces-
saiy to get a lot more seats of government
m order to persuade more population to
hang round. But the fact is there and must
be reckoned with. In each State there is
only one railway owner (or at least rail-
way boss) that counts—the Parliament It
sits m the Big City, which is the last place
where it should be, absorbs Big Citv ideas
forgets aH but Big City intere-sts and gets in
the habit of. converging practically all the
railways to its door to. bring trade, wealth
and population there. Wherever the far
end of a line may be it is generally, safe
to look lor the near end at Parliament’s
door So unless Australia adopts the hu
possible idea of abandoning the wIX
railway business to Private Enterprise the
only visible remedy is to get more Parlia!
mentary doors quite a number more door*
Otherwise Australia will, probablv continue
fnr S6 i t ? e P°P ulati °n it so badly needs
foi sheer lack of places to put it, five places
on a continent not being nearly enough
It is a hackneyed saying that Australia
an absurd and ridiculous number of Govern-
“ P ts tS n for , 5 ’ 000 ' 000 People, but unless it
ma »y “.ore Governments it is
hk ely to be a long time in acquiring much
more tlian 5,000,000 people S uck
* * * *
* u , connection the Melbourne Age
which has developed into a bitter and per-
sistent opponent of decentralisation, lately
declared that -the extent and complexity
ot Australia s system of government have
made it the gibe of Imperial statesmen ’’
As a of fact, Imperial statesmen are
otherwise employed; and though the corn-
piexity and pomp of a system which imports
of i-hi° Vm ? i al Lxcellencies from the far ends
of the earth may surprise them, the extent
for sys *® m 1S nothing remarkable except
f lth , Jack ? f extensiveness. The United
States has nine fetates out of 48 that are
smaller than Tasmania; 39 that are smaller
VWo V lctona , ; 23 with less population than
Victoiia, and a couple with fewer people
than lasmama. Its States are run on the
vJwioTo system > ;ll .\ d even Rhode Island,
. with 1248 square miles, or less than one-
twentieth lasmania’s area, has 100 full-
grown and paid members in its local House
of Reps, and 39, also full-grown and paid, in
the local Senate. Connecticut and Massa-
chusetts (a little more than hah the size
of ias'mama when the two are added to-
gether) have State Assemblies of 257 and
240 members respectively, and State Senates
ot do and 40. New Hampshire (9341 square
miles, or less than half Tasmania, and with
fewer people than S. Aus.) is in a flock
by itself, with 409 members in the local
Rower House and 24 Upper Housers,
Salaries are not large, but they are amaz-
in§iy numerous, and there is a Governor to
every 60,000 square miles of Uncle Sam
country, which would make 11 Governors
in Queensland alone. Australia, with 682
members, State and Federal, makes a poor
numerical showing compared with all this
lavishness, though it is generally extravagant
m its habits. Being acquainted with and
accustomed to the ways of the United States
and the very similar ways of Brazil, Argen-
tina, Canada and Germany, Imperial states-
men don’t gibe at Australia’s system for its
‘extent and complexity.” What makes the
intelligence. of Imperial statesmen totter on
its throne is the spectacle of five groups of
not very remarkable men trying to under-
stand and supervise a continent of some
2,950,000 square miles; of one group trying
to manage 975,920 square miles from a hole
in the southern extremity of the vast estate
and another bossing 670,500 miles also from
a hole in the farthest south ; of a people so
stagnant that they haven’t made a new State
since they were put in charge of their own
affairs oyer 60 years ago; and of nearly
44 per cent, of the continent’s population
crowded into five slummy cities. All these
things call forth the gibes of Imperial states-
men when they have a moment and a scoff to
spare. Yet with the examples of Maoriland,
Victoria and Tasmania to go upon the remedy
for this stagnant condition seems visible
enough. Probably North Queensland would
have been Victoria and Victoria have been
North Queensland if it had been the North
instead of the South which set up house-
keeping for itself, in which case Townsville
might have been Melbourne, or, at least,
Adelaide, and vice versa. The way to get
population has been shown, but the selfish-
ness of the five big cities, which grow more
arrogant, overwhelming, absorbent and top-
heavy every day, is in the road. Australia
fails *to attract immigrants for wqnt of places
to put them, and the sooner it ceases, in this
respect, to be the world’s curiosity it is, the
sooner will be its new birth.
LODGERS, GHOSTS, ETC.
New Yokk, the biggest city in America, has.
like Sydney, a franchise (some call it a freak
franchise) of its own. As a result New York
possesses, much of the time, a Tammany
municipal administration which is a joke and
at the same time a heroic effort in the way of
corruption. Sydney hasn’t got a full-blown
Tammany yet. It had as big a one as its
resources allowed nearly 70 years ago, but
the suspension of the municipal constitution
and a dictatorship which lasted three years
brought about a temporary reform, and it is
only this century that the place has begun to
slide again into the old ways. The idea in
each case is to. have the largest possible
number of voters on the roll —not necessarily
real voters, but serviceable ones including
aliens, nomads, nominees, dummies and
ghosts. In New York the alien was long
the chief agency—the ignorant alien, newlv-
landed, often guiltless of the English lan-
guage, _ who wasseized by Tammany’s agent
on arrival, enrolled, instructed in the alleged
heavy penalties for not voting as directed, and
generally earmarked. With elected minor
judges also very often Tammany's property
to decide that all was regular, the alien
carried many elections for the dishonest and
at times drink-sodden institution which ran
the city. In the absence of any horde of
polyglot strangers the lodger is a useful Syd-
ney institution, a lodger being practically any-
one who lodges or is said to do it or looks
as if he did. It isn’t anybody’s business in
a serious official sense to keep ghosts off the
roll but anybody may attempt to do so
m 1113 own time and at his own expense,
iiie bogus inhabitant represents a return to
plural voting in its worst form, for the man
who keeps a tame spectre has two suffrages
and the second one is always obtained wrong-
fully, whereas a suffrage for property was
only sometimes a sign of demerit. The sham
°^Pl a S iriar y elector always votes in the most
villainous cause, for the kind of people who
gather round a good cause dislike such society.
Therefore there is need for a more careful
supervision of all rolls, and not merely those
ot Sydney. Even if a genuine elector is


wiped out here and there in the process it
will be a small matter provided three or eve
two spooks so also. »
Of late curious things have been happen-
ing in Australia’s biggest metropolis. J-ne
purely city municipality, which stands r
a very small amount of the space but almost
all the debt, has nearly ceased to concern
itself seriously about its business concerns,
though it should be as strictly business and
as wholly non-political as any bank or insur-
ance concern. It has become a scrambling
ground where representatives of Parliamen-
tary parties fight foi the right to loot the
population ; at any rate, loot is inferred by
suspicious people from the new intensity
with which apparently honorary jobs are
sought for. It was only with an effort wlneii
suggested the dragging of a cat off its prey by
the tail that the new variety of City Council
was dragged away from (1) a scheme to
vote a private firm £40,000 or £60,000 for
a simple job which its own paid officers
were quite capable of doing; (-) a scheme
to purchase for £75,000 a coal show con-
demned by its own official adviser as worth
only perhaps one-fifteenth of that amount at
most; (3) a mysterious quarry scheme also
denounced by experts as a sink for tax-
payers’ money. These and worse proposi-
tions may be revived at any time, even
though things are temporarily quiescent. An
outside body, which is the arrogant machine
of sadly-deteriorated political Labor, lias
practically taken control out of the hands ot
the taxpayers and installed its own politi-
cal boss as Lord Mayor, with the casting
vote which is sufficient to carry many ini-
quities. The new variety of Council is
strong on appointing new people (presum-
ably supporters) to this and that; on short-
ening hours, so that there may be room tor
more “workers” on one job, or more flies on
one piece of meat; on raising wages, where-
by it obtains popularity of a ..sort with the
taxpayers’ money; and even to some extent
on the wrongs of Ireland. But it has long
been in a state of paralysis over the fact
that the city is drifting fast towards a con-
dition of cold and darkness because it has
far outgrown the antiquated municipal elec-
trical apparatus.
* * * *
Apparently because, in true Tammany
fashion, the interests of the party have be-
come the supreme concern while the people’s
roads are a side show and their lighting
apparatus an unavoidable nuisance, the
comatose Greater Sydney scheme lias sud-
denly revived. But it has revived with a
difference. The old idea, in which there
was no boodle and little interest, was that
an elected convention should draft a consti-
tution for the mob of municipalities, and
for the franchise and finances, and that with
the election of a new (or greater) council
all the present ones should vanish. The new
idea is the reverse of all this. It aims mot
at complete union but at the absorption by
Sydney of all the adjacent slummy munici-
palities where the Labor interest is strong-
est. Whereas the hold of the new Laborites
upon the rich city and its assets is very pre-
carious, the vote of a new municipality which
included seven of the poorer suburbs and no
more should make their hold on the big
property almost permanent. That is assum-
ing that the lodger (and often dummy) vote
of Sydney is spread over the limited Greater
Sydney to weigh down the local property-
holder* Waterloo is a good place for lodgers,
and so are Newtown, Redfern, Botany, Glebe,
Paddington and Erskineville. With greatly
increased powers of taxation and borrowing,
granted by a friendly Government which is
expected to move in the matter very early,
quite a rich little kingdom and stronghold
might be pegged out for a Sydney Tammany.
THE END OF THE WORLD.
Some real or alleged person has announced
that Edison, who must be 73 now if he
is alive, is at work on a machine for com-
municating with spirits (if any), and thus
getting on the track of the immortality of
the soul (should there be one). The Church
has been trying to get at this same matter
for over 1900 years, its method being “revela-
tion.” And before it the Church of Jupiter,
and, probably, temples, tabernacles and tents
for 50,000 years pre-Jupiter, tried along the
same lines. Conan Doyle (62) and Oliver
Lodge (69) are both old enough to feel
anxious, their method beihg to get at the
facts of the case by the agency of spooks.
Probably, if there is anything to communi-
cate with, old Edison has chosen the wiser
part, and if there is nothing to communicate
with, and nobody to ring the bell at the
other end, and all the people who have gone to
the next world have only got there to find
they weren’t there, for there was no such
place, still he will look less of a fool than
most.’ It has been proved that electricity
can communicate a long way off, while no-
thing of the sort has been proved about
spooks. . , , . ,
Meanwhile, leaving ghosts out of the ques-
tion this might be as good a time as any
to prepare for the end of the world, or,
rather, for the next Deluge and the practical
wfiping out of the human race, and a fresh
start The incredible increase of mankind
within the last 150 years, whereas before
that it was almost stationary, is making
some parts of the globe, like London and
Woolloomooloo, practically uninhabitable.
Wars and unprecedented debts and wide-
spread industrial disturbances suggest that
man has a premonition on his mind. He
has grown to be like the restless cat which
knows the earthquake is coming, and that
it is a lost or, at least, a hazardous cat.
There was a Deluge once, probably hundreds
of thousands of years before the alleged date
of Noah, as geology proves. And it wasn t
caused by mere rain (though, of course it
did rain m the general catastrophe), but by
thp qpfls heaving themselves out of their beds
aid h“ins I glue of football with the hills.
As the Scripture says, ’the same day were
all the fountains of the great deep broken
ud” and probably the fountains skirled
round the earth several times before they
SG Two wfioffy plausible theories have been
advanced. One is that, once in an immense
while the accumulation of ice at the Poles,
or possibly tlfe extra accumulation at one
Pole, shifts the oaiance. Then the globe
for miles, and it would ram as it
"g operand equally logical idea is that
there is in space, of which we k “ OT ' ° nly “
r<>T-npr a heavenly body which, at one pa t
Of its oibif, makes a dash through our | = p
of olanets. It has such an orbit that it may
have only made that dash once
was born and uttered its firat. squall. It y
he due again next month. It need not De
large! It may be so small that we will have
onlv a few days’ notice of its appioach. Ir
ft comes close enough-say, within a mile or
two — a very humble affair, laiger tha
brick but not the size of the
•ill the damage required. As it skntea tne
globe doing a little deviation because of the
“lobe’s attraction and keeping us company
for a while, it would be followed by a tide,
possibly miles high where there happened.to
be an ocean miles deep to drag up. Noah
would doubtless escape, but not much Noaii.
Afterwards, all the cows being dro '™ed, sea
animals would gradually learn to come
ashore and re-people or re-beast the earth.
And some birds would survive.
That would be enough hereafter to go on
with, quite apart from revelations and
ghosts, though the latter may come (Prob-
ably ghosts go on a circular tour of the uni
verse after death, and the universe being big
the first ghost isn’t back yet). The dtstuib-
ance if it was caused by a planet, might
even make the moon to fall- m and possibly
lodge in that great depression of the Pacific
from which it is supposed to have been torn
when the world was still of the consistency
of bloater-paste. If so, there would be a
large splash, and the oceans wou-ld never go
back to quite the old spots. And if the moon
proved to be heavily mineralised it might up-
set the currency as well as all previous cal-
culations, if there ever was again a currency
to l*' l do n’t see that anything can be done
about it, and I am so disappointed with the
world that I wouldn’t do anything if I
could. But as matters of inquiry I think
that attempts should be made to weigh the
ice "deposits at the Boles m view of the first
contingency, and that astronomy should get
an extra move on in the way of
with a view to the second. lor I believe
something is coming. I have seen cats be-
fore an earthquake —quite a modeiate one,
luckily—and, as I remembered afterwards,
the animals .seemed on strike for more mouse
and dissatisfied with everything, just as man
does now. Anyhow, if everybody is to die
suddenly, I hope it will happen while I am
still alive to see it. I would hate to miss a
show like that.
J. E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pity the Poor Ass.
The beastly and boundless calamity of
taken seriously is what has struck the
N S W. Government, and a brick would have
been preferable. No set of hungry applicants
for office ever built a more stupendous teirac„
of promises; doubtless it assumed that it
would be sufficient if it kept one-tenth or
them and redeemed the rest with new pro-
mises, as the old loan is redeemed with a
fresh one or as the note that is payable in
gold goes on circulating till.it is time to
print a clean note. One promise issued with
John Storey’s own eloquent food-trap wao
that “our activities will only be limited by
the available supply of labor,” which implied
that if put in office he and his friends would
find loan jobs for the white races. That
was a blank-cheque for_ the who e globe-the
blankest cheque ever signed. Even John s
worst friends of the A.L.P. didn’t ask him
to quite live up to that, but they decided
to drag him over the coals by the hmd-leg
re the Child Pension scheme. The trouble
may be postponed, but it is bound to come.
There never were one-tenth so many peoi e
wanting the Ministerial billets as there are
now, for these billets were nevei so nch y
salaried. John and his colleagues have made
themselves worth robbing and but for the fact
that there isn’t enough plunder to go round
their careers would be of the shortest. Mean
while good but embarrassing advice about
how to raise the wind is rained on the baited
creatures, and it mostly consists of schmnes
for “taking possession of the banks. ±nis
idea is grateful and comforting, like a well-
known brand of refreshment, but there are
these few drawbacks: — , -
Four of the banks can’t be taken without a brisk
war with England. They are owned there, and
J. Bunn gets into a snappish and bear-like frame of
mind when robbed. ■
Two can’t be seized without a war with ilao
land, which owns them, and the Maori used to eat
his prisoners of war.
The rest can’t be taken save by a war with the
other States, which have big interests in them, and
a healthy row with the Federal Government, which
controls banking legislation and owns the Army and
Navy. In fact, only three of the banks belong msi
John’s jurisdiction —such jurisdiction as he has
and even their money is largely in other States and
beyond his reached y is presumed that
he wouldn’t be so dishonest as to take depositor
money—that he would take only the banks capital
Tnd reserves. And these are mostly represented
by the £lOOO notes which the Commonwealth passed
on the institutions and which it won’t, give cash or.
Yet the poor, unhappy Premier may be
driven to have a shot at the banks as the
S of his job. It is a hard life to be one
medium-sized ass with 500 drivers, all stren-
uous persons* with sticks.
— ♦ ■— r-
Too Frail to Fight.
When the late war began the Permanent
Forces of Australia consisted of a small, a
verv small, instructional staff and a handful
representing the- technical services—engi-
neers, artillery and so forth. All the officers
were supposed to be ready for active ser-
vice ; in fact, they were required under the
regulations to prove it by the production
annually of a medical certificate of physical
fitness. Immediately the formation of the
A I.F. was entered upon a curious situation
arose: the country discovered that about 50
per cent, of its best-paid defenders were
either (1) too valuable for home-service
purposes to be sent overseas, (2) over the
military age, (3) reluctant to go abroad,
or (4) medically unfit. An “indispensable
usually meant a capable and fit junior who
was doing the work and saving the face of
a member of the higher grade who fell under
the 2nd, 3rd or 4th heading. The over-age
contingent was large. But though most of
these men were by reason of their years
incapable of fighting —which, after all, is a
soldier’s principal business —they had then-
uses. Many formed the foundation and chiei
prop of the early A.I.F. training framework.
It is the last and largest class, the medi-
cally unfit officers of fighting age, who call
for serious notice. The indispensables we
still have with us, as is right and just in
the circumstances; most of the over-age
men have been retired; those who refused
to volunteer are, it is understood, to be
forcibly passed out before the end of this
month. But the men who discovered mys-
terious ailments on the day the first shot
was fired in Belgium, and suffered from
these afflictions right up to the Armistice,
are remaining on. Every year that the
late war lasted the medical heads of the
A.1.F., from General Howse downwards,
grew more and more insistent in their
memos, to Melbourne on the importance of
the despatch of fit men and no other sort of
men. Under peace conditions physical fit-
ness is the first essential at every stage of
the soldier’s career: on entering the service,
on going for a staff-college examination,
when about to undergo any strenuous course
of training —on all such occasions the officer
has to step forward with his medical certi-
ficate. Now, it is a fair assumption that
the men who were- too debilitated to go to
the war in 1914 will be equally incapable of
facing an enemy if further trouble arrives.
They constitute so many economic anomalies
inasmuch as—
(1) They are being paid and maintained for work
they will never, in all human likelihood, be able
to do.
(2) They would, on the contrary, become a charge
on the military hospitals, which are invariably over-
taxed after the first few months of warfare.
(3) They are depriving men of opportunities to
learn who, in the event of war, would be capable
of fighting.
On the disciplinary side: —
(1) Their presence is injurious to the morale of
the other ranks, most of whom have served abroad.
(2) The fact that their sudden seizures in 1914
and equally abrupt convalescences in 1918 were
overlooked ’ by the authorities actually makes it
appear that the Defence Department is, in some
cases at least, not above turning a blind eye on
malingering.
It would appear from the above that it is
even more desirable to get rid of these men
than the unabashed non-starters whose doom
will probably be sealed within the next few
days. Most of them are in all respects the
type of warrior that any service benefits by
losing.
More Reasons for Subdivision.
It is a matter of difficulty to run the affairs
of an agricultural and pastoral and cow-and
timber country half as large again as her-
many was before the war with an almost
purely city Ministry, especially when the
Ministry is spasmodic, intensely anxious
to do 20 things at once, inexperienced,
theoretical and slightly off its head. Thus in
one of its recent moods the Sydney combine
was thinking of the poor city consumer and
viewing the country producer as a hard-
hearted extortionist who was sitting on his
cliest. That was w-hen it raged at Judge
Rolin and threatened him with the sack for
keeping up the price of butter so that the cow
man might live. In its next mood it thought
of the overworked and often underpaid coun-
try toiler butchered to make a city picture-
show holiday, and was anxious to lend him a
million or two of other people’s money to tide
him over the tail-end of the drought, and it
gave him a 2s. (Jd.-per-bushel wheat-guarantee
on top of the Federal ss. guarantee, though
it lacks the £5,000,000 to pay with. In a
heated moment it urged its bucolic friend to
put in a lot of wheat, and in a cooler moment
it tried to bulldoze him into hiring all his
labor through certain bureaux which will only-
supply labor at A.W.U. rates, and the.A.W.U.
had almost doubled wage-rates on its own
say-so and at a moment’s notice. It gave
with one hand and took with another, and
shouted and fussed all the time. So the con-
viction increases that city and country should
be kept apart in a legislative sense, and that
N. S. Wales east of the Darling and the
Warrego would look nicer if cut into three
big States and a small one. The big States
might have their capitals at Tamworth (or
Armidale), Bathurst (or Parkes) and V\agga
(or thereabouts). The small commercial and
manufacturing and shipping and financing
State would consist of part of the county of
Cumberland and have its centre at Sydney.
The little State would have lots of precedent
and lots of company, for in quite a number of
countries it has been realised that the big
city and the Trades Hall or Jacobin Club in
a mean city street are not the institutions
best qualified to legislate about crops and
wheat, and the right date to plant cow-seed
so that the calf will ripen in due season, and
the way to prevent the wild dog eating the
pricklv-pear. and how to make grain dear
and bread cheap and butter both at once;
also how to make the farmer happy by having
him constantly inspected and tested and regu-
lated, and his improvements confiscated under
the Land Bill, and the savings bank ordered to
lend him more money for improvements. The
position is specially bad in the cases, found in
Australia but nowhere else, where the big city
and its immediate environs have bloated till
they stand for more than half a big State’s
population and half the ruling power, so that
the only affairs which have practically no
say in managing the cow interest are the cow
and the interest themselves. There was a
distinct type of country-bred politician once
and a fairly good one at times. Now the man
who runs the country is mostly born in the
metropolitan area because it is more and more
difficult to be born anywhere else, and he is
bred there for similar reasons. Nowadays
Government interferes with a multitude of
things which cared pretty much for them-
selves in old casual days, and outside 25<i
square miles in Victoria and 185 in N. S.
Wales Government men know far less what
they are interfering with. Therefore the
Commonwealth’s two prize fat cities should
join such smaller communities as Caracas,
Bremen, Lubeck and Monte Video on the
separation list.
♦
Australia’s Seven Courts and the
Alleged Difficulty of Finding
King's for Them.
Loud Milnek, who knows as much about
conditions in the Dominions overseas as
most men, must have worn a cynic smile
when he announced, inter alia, that Down-
ing-street would “never force Governors”
on the unwilling. It is done, so far as
Australia is concerned, every time a State
Governor is sent from England. Nine
disinterested Australians out of ten are
agreed that these functionaries represent
the worst sort of superfluous luxuries. The
electors would cut out the needless expense
to-morrow, but, as in the cases of raised
Parliamentary salaries, holiday jaunts for
Ministers, grossly over-staffed departments
and so forth, they are in the hands of their
Governments. The Labor party lias been
talking about doing away with imported
Governors ever since it became a party;
and the conservative ranks are stiff with
men such as Hughes, Cook and Holman,
who put the plank in the forefront of their
policies for years. But the procedure, when
a Labor Government is formed, is always
the same. The vice-regal garrison is
ordered to stand to arms and prepare for
an assault. The A.D.C.’s are directed to
undermine the moral of the enemy by invi-
tations to dinners, lunches, dances, balls
and garden-parties. The Governor’s wife
assists with friendly notes to Ministers’
wives, calls, launch and motor parties, inti-
mate colloquies concerning infants and cook-
ing, and the homely touch generally. The
Governor industriously exploits the hearty,
genial, man-to-man pose. Within a month
the siege that had been planned for years
is raised; and the people who backed it
look blankly on while their champions
fraternise with those who were to have
been put to the sword. This somewhat
pitiable spectacle has been offered so often
of late years that the public has come to
take it for granted, like borrowing and 1 ar-
liamentary blackguardism. After all, the
average citizen argues, one can’t blame poor
old Premier Brown and his Ministers for
having a good time with their wives at the
country’s expense. The men they ousted
did the same before them, and so on back
to the beginning of things. The attitude
of the Governor and his retinue is equally
understandable. They have good jobs and
are justified in doing everything possible to
hold them. For Lord Milner’s talk about
the difficulty of finding Britishers to take
Governorships may be as disingenuous as the
rest of his pronouncements on this question.
Such posts are rushed, as they always have
been; and, as in the past, they only go to
men who have done good service to the
party in power, either in Parliament or
financially or socially, or who have powerful
family influences behind them. The local
Tory attitude is that it is right that poli-
tical service in England should he rewarded
with some of the best billets Australia has
to offer, whereas it would be a calamity if
Governorships should become what is usu-
ally termed “the prey” of politicians here.
The reasoning is weak, but in any event it
is not necessary that the _ prey should be
tremendously remunerative in either cash or
dignity. The fact that both have been sup-
plied hitherto to an extent out of all pro-
portion to the duties required is just why
such an atmosphere of pledge-breaking and
intrigue has always surrounded this pai-
ticular good thing.
-♦ *
One Way of Thinking Continentally.
As Professor Wilson, of Harvard Univer-
sity, sees it: —
You have got one of the richest and most beauti-
ful lands in the world. You are a most fortunate
people. You get so much for doing so little
compared with conditions in other countries. There
should be no discontent here, at all. Tnis place is
a paradise, and you don’t seem to realise it, because
the conditions in many of the older countries have
never been brought home to you.
And the Worker corrects him: —
It is hoped that John Storey will do something
during his tour to open the eyes of British workers
to the hopelessness of the industrial outlook here.
The position has become so serious that the Labor
movement cannot afford to remain inactive. Cables
should be at once despatched to the British Labor
party urging them to warn their supporters and the
British public against coming to Australia. They
should be told that the streets are full of idle men.
And in the midst of this acute situation another 300
former British Service men arrive to search for tba
work that isn’t here !
“Here,” of course, is Sydney. There ard
always unemployed (and unemployables) in
Sydney, and Sydney is all Australia to the
Worker. It is the One Big City where
everything happens. It is the home of the
A.L.P. Executive and the Labor Council
and Garden and John Storey and its un-
crowned king is Bill Lambert, Lord Mayor,
A.L.P. boss, A.W.U. secretary and Heaven
knows what else. It has more population
than it can carry, and its principal industry
is pony-racing. It is a place where every
prospect pleases and only employers (except
philanthropists like Minahan, who are com-
pelled, under a brutal capitalistic system, to
make money) are idle. And because two
or three hundred Tommy soldiers (mean-
ing, probably, to settle in the interior)
touch at Sydney, which has a surplus of
unskilled manual laborers (although the
shortage of trained craftsmen is disastrous),
the Labor rulers of Sydney fire urged to
demand that soldier-immigration shall be
stopped throughout Australia. It is a queer
example of Sydney megalomania, -the arro-
gance of the Bloated City that has got into
the habit of regarding itself as the whole
darned continent. In other parts of Aus-
tralia — i.e., those which the Harvard Pro-
fessor has been exploring, and in which
nothing matters because they aren’t within
shooting-range of Macdoneil House —they


T h J Farmers & Settlers'Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA u ?!si; a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL . . . £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident C , „
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoral’ , u , , , ’ Cr ° PS S kS ‘
established Ld "» * hi ~*
■■'■'"■■■■mu■■■ - !■.■■■ ———— DIMOND, Managing Director.
have different views. About the time the
arrival of 200 or 300 Tommy soldiers was
rousing the Worker to fury a thousand more
of the same sort were landing in Westralia,
and for such as came looking for work on
wages—a fair proportion were land-seekers
with capital—jobs had been fixed up be-
forehand. With only two-fifths of the popu-
lation of the One Big Wen, and with trucu-
lent Asiatic mobs raging about its north
coast, Westralia feels that immigrants must
be got somehow, even if the process involves
special exertions and some sacrifices. The
same thought is taking shape among the
Labor rulers of the other frontier State.
Their record in the matter of immigration
is not. bright, but one of them has been
travelling in Europe and another has been
touring North Queensland, and both returned
to Brisbane with the conviction that Aus-
tralia is desirable and in danger. And so
Premier Theodore begins to talk in this
manner:—
To achieve ultimate success Labor will have to
give its attention to the development of Australia.
As matters are now, the people live under a constant
menace. So small a population cannot hope to hold
such a rich land for long. Settlers will have to be
found. Personally, I would prefer to see the native-
born increase to the necessary numbers, but, since
that is impossible, a sane system of immigration
will have to be evolved. It is useless for Labor
supporters to run away with the idea that the pro-
blem should not be dealt with.
It is a notable utterance, and the worst of it
is that Theodore is too far away to be “dis-
ciplined” by the almighty Lambert. Neither
can he be treated in the lofty fashion em-
ployed with interfering strangers like the
Harvard Professor. That meddlesome globe-
trotter may, of course, be dismissed with
the pitying reflection that he is the hireling
of a putrid capitalism.
The Travel Impressions of an
Archbishop.
A couple of generations ago Stead visited
America and stirred many a sluggish mind
and sleeping conscience with his “If Christ
Came to Chicago.” Archbishop Wright, of
Sydney, has just come back from Europe,
Und no eupeptic young millionaire was ever
more blankly uncritical concerning his ex-
periences. Judging by a speech made at
the Sydney Millions Club last week the
Archbishop found everything in the Euro-
pean garden lovely. In England he saw no
unemployment worth mentioning, nor heard
of any ex-service men starving, “all save a
negligible quantity having been reabsorbed
m their ordinary avocations.” He was
highly edified with France: —
We cannot be too proud of our alliance with
France, and in future it will be a blood relationship
between France and Australia.
As for Italy, it surprised him—“we have
every reason,” he concluded, “to be proud
of our Italian Allies.” “My learned friend,”
said James Martin (afterwards Chief Jus-
tice of N. S. Wales) to a jury, when W.
B. Dalley, Q.C., had finished one of lii's
speeches—“my learned friend has given you
the poetry of this case. Let me give you the
facts.” Lord Haig, who by reason of the
work of mercy to which he has dedicated his
life, should be in a position to know, said
three or four months ago that “upwards of
a million men who served with the colors
are unemployed through no fault of then-
own,” and since then things have grown far
worse in the industrial world. So much so
that Arthur Henderson, M.P.,
remarked at Widnes that “he was afraid
something unprecedented might happen.” So
far as the post-war achievements of France
and Italy are concerned, it is all a matter
of the point of view. The type of English-
man who took the Kipling and Alfred
Austin view of the Transvaal problem 20
years ago despised men like Mobley and
Campbell Bannerman, who talked of
“methods of barbarism.” They admitted by
implication a little later that the Radical
policy had been the right one, and, if it
needed further proof, Boers such as Smuts
and Botha provided it when the world-war
came. There are still a Tory view and a
Radical view, a wealth-at-any-price view
and a justice-at-any-price view. One type
of Englishman to-day is little edified at the
sordid struggle between England (Lloyd
George) and France (Briand) for the
Mosul oil which belongs to neither of them:
he is disgusted and perturbed at the grow-
ing Imperialism of France, which threatens
the ruin of central Europe; he is not proud
of the means that have newly enriched Italy;
he blushes when his own Government’s
performances in Ireland are mentioned.
But the landlords of England, the
big commercial interests and the city men
despise this sort of person as a weakling.
Mr. Lloyd George calls him the names that
the proud and the rich called “the little
Welsh attorney” at the end of last century.
It is a sort of dogma with the wealthy that
all that is is for the best just now. chiefly
because “there are many substantial evi-
dences that France will soon again be pro-
sperous,” while the English workers promise
to settle down and the Italians to settle up.
Whatever may be said in favor of such
complacency in the face of unparal-
leled suffering and injustice, the facts
reniain that it does not represent the attitude
or the general body of the poor anywhere, nor
of the best sort of Britisher of means, and
that it squares in no respect with the politics
of the Pounder of Christianity. Nothing is
surer than that the Redeemer, if He came to
London, Paris or Rome would find plenty to
denounce.
A Case of Starved Pugnacity.
“D.E.” has an idea:—
I have a theory that the excited condition of the
Sinn Fein Irish throughout the world is the result cf
repressed pugnacity. Just as some of the freakish
things done during the suffragette campaign in Eng-
land were the outcome of starved sex-instinct, so the
hunger-striking, ambushing and police-plugging in
li eland, and the Irish-fomented industrial disorders
elsewhere, are the outcome of starved militancy, the
prolonged and unnatural pacifism of a fighting race,
there was a war on over the way—it lasted four
years and the republican Irish weren’t very far in
it. By all the traditions and urgings of their breed
and blood they should have been in it up to the ears,
ioiT®? 1 fol ' the small street shin dy at Dublin in
1916—they mostly kept out. The Armistice found the
belligerent peoples (at least, those which had been
belligerent from the first) absolutely sated with strife,
NOBODY'S DARLING.
but it found the republican Irish unchastened by the
horrors of a business in which they had borne little
or no part, habituated to the war-caused idea that
life is cheap, and with their national appetite for
fight sharpened by lone; abstinence and by the spec-
tacle of others fighting-\-and ungratified.
Hence the violent fork that the nationalist move-
ment has taken in Ireland.. Hence the ferocious anti-
English propaganda of the Irish-bossed Trade Council
of New York. Hence the prominence of Irish emigrants,
or the sons of Irish emigrants, in, the strikes that
surge across this continent—you will generally find a
Walsh, a Kenneally or an O’Malley at the head of
affairs. It is all a manifestation of the fighting spirit
that was corked up during the war. If the war had
never happened there would have been none of the
hot I'ible things that have darkened the last phase of
British ascendancy in Ireland. On the other hand,
if all Ireland had hurled itself into the struggle as
all England and all Scotland did, the Sinn Fein
leaders would have returned home as anxious for per-
manent peace with England as Stephen Gwynn
and the younger Redmond, and the South-of-Ireland
soldiers would have been as little inclined to make
trouble as their congeners in the A.I.F. For you
won t find the Irish-Australian Digger, dashing fighter
as he proved himself on foreign battlefields, in the
neighborhood of these industrial broils. It is the
Irish-Australian who didn’t go to the war— because he
was too old, or because Ireland hadn’t got Home Rule,
01 because he belonged to the curious order of
pacifists who would bend their necks to a foreign
enemy but destroy the Australian employer by force
that raises all the dust.
It is a perplexing situation. Apparently the sad old
world will never arrive at peace until the Irish re-
publicans and their allies in Australia and America
work off the excess of fighting spirit they accumulated
during the war. Why doesn’t the League of Nations
give them the mandate to restore order in Armenia,
with the proviso that at least one battalion of the
ainiy of occupation must be composed of Australian
union secretaries and organisers of Irish extraction?
A war between Sinn Fein and the wild-cat tribes of
the Caucasus would produce some memorable fighting,
and while it was going on Australia, which has had
its war and doesn’t want another this side of a.d.
2000, would have an opportunity of attending to
its arrears of work. Or if Armenia is out of the ques-
tion, Afghanistan must be getting blue-mouldy for
want of a beating, and there is always Abyssinia,
which has been neglected too long. Abyssinia hasn’t
had a scrap since 1897.
More White Ants.
If one foreign and wholly incongruous ele-
ment could be eliminated the settlement of
Australian industrial disputes might be
easier; but Governments haven’t the courage
to put it in gaol, and the unions haven’t
the decision to chase it out. Whether it is
a seamen s or miners’ or engineers’ or any
other fuss this element is either instigating
it from the first or butting in later to pre-
vent work being done and to pour oil on
the flames. -The Bolshevik, anarchist,
0.8. U., Gakden influence hardly pretends
to care whether the men get good wages
or not. On the whole, it would prefer that
they got no wages, for the more miserable
they are the better chance of enlisting them
in a wild, mad upheaval the end of which
they can’t foresee, though the self-appointed
leaders may think they do. When some
union gets a violent move on in more than
usually unaccountable circumstances it is
generally owing, at least in part, to indi-
viduals _ who avow their desire to destroy
the union rather than win its battles —to
white-ant” it till it crumbles into dust like
the wooden house that the termite has eaten.
As their organisation doesn’t profess to keep
faith with anybody until “the present fabric
of society’’ is destroyed (and it needn’t keep
faith then, for no one will have power to
call it to account), it is impossible to make
any terms with it that are worth making.
It can only be dealt with under the Mad Dog
Act. W hen (or if) “the fabric of society”
goes, the workers are to get something else in-
stead, details of which will be known when it
arrives. If the white ant is allowed or assisted
to eat the house it may build a new one to
replace it or it may not, but it generally
doesn’t. And, similarly, when the workers
have finished helping the Bolshevik section
to destroy the employer, then they will either
be destroyed themselves or employed under
new conditions to be explained later. It would
be a good thing to have a certified diagram
of the new house before allowing loafers to
burn the old one, but the diagram is wanting.
In the circumstances it might be well if
the 0.8. U. leaders were brought before a
Royal Commission and forced, with heavy
penalties for contempt, to paint a word-pic-
ture of the country as it is to be after they
have wiped the capitalist off the slate, and
to give reasons for their faith —historical
and political and economic reasons. After
the Lenin disappointment, which began with
a general assurance of all-round improve-
ment and ended in compulsory, hard, long-
hour labor on starvation paper-money wages
for all save the leaders, the world has a
right to doubt. The man who publishes the
prospectus of a new paradise with himself
as managing director should be overhauled
a thousand times more rigidly than • the
vulgar swindler with the prospectus of a
bank which is to pay 25 per cent, interest
on deposits.
“Macquarie Street” on impending changes:
Two good Australians having been appointed re-
cently to the Chairs of Medicine and Surgery, the next
step contemplated by the University of Sydney is the
conversion of the Lectureship in mental diseases
into a Professorship of psychiatry. Twenty years ago
we had about a dozen lectures on mental diseases, and
attended a few times at Callan Park Asylum, where
there was no pathological laboratory or any teaching
facilities whatever. As insanity was a dry subject,
we did not worry about it, and quickly forgot any-
thing we might have picked up. I remember meeting
the Empress of Austria, and that’s about all. The
Government has been consulted in the matter of the
new appointment, and has promised substantial aid
to the scheme, and it was well it was consulted, as
it possesses the key of the situation. The new Pro-
fessor is to have the clinical material at Broughton
Hall at his absolute disposal, and is to have free
access to all mental hospitals. The students will have
the advantage of the pathological laboratory at
Callan Park, and an out-patient department for the
treatment of the early stages of mental diseases is
to be formed at the Sydney Hospital or the Prince
Alfred.
It is hard, nevertheless, to find a sufficiently
cogent reason to justify the selection of psychiatry
as a subject more worthy than midwifery and
ophthalmology. The former is of vital importance
to the practitioner, and is the backbone of general
practice; further, it is of vital importance to the
nation. And that it is a neglected subject is in-
cicated by the fact that only a week ago the gyneco-
logical and obstetrical specialists were growling about
“meddlesome midwifery,” much as I heard Dr
Chambers complain more than 30 years ago. As to
ophthalmology, the subject is thrown utterly into
the background during the five years of study This
doesn’t matter so much to the young practitioner
who sticks to the suburbs, but for a country practi-
tioner, whose patients are hundreds of miles perhaps
from a specialist, it is a most serious matter: at
least it is a most serious matter for his patients.
Both of these subjects are, then, of more import-
ance to the future of the medical student than
psychiatry; and as the treatment does not depend
much on drugs, but is almost entirely institutional
the practitioner who followed up this subject after
graduation would have a very restricted field to
practise in. A Chair of Psychiatry may sound better;
but the national gqod points to chairs of midwifery
and ophthalmology are of vastly wider importance. '
• ♦
A returned man hears the guns again:
It is given out that the artillery units of the
Citizen Forces are to be re-armed with 18-pounders
and 60-pounders. I trust that the ranges of those
pieces have been increased, and that if they are
ever used in real earnest the troops will be saved
(W, ,' V fn at happened many times in Palestine.
Calibre for calibre every gun in the British Army
(converted naval weapons possibly excepted) was
out-ranged by the German pieces. Even our 60-
pounder was outranged by the German field-gun,
the 77mm. Range is about the only property our
guns are deficient in; the guns are accurotef and
the ammunition is splendid.
t ri , OW , We „ Cm ' sed the short range of our guns in the
TaneV’ i We n ° thingr to co ™ter “Jericho
feu L T l " Ve T nff entertainment —her shells
tell five miles behind our 60-pounders. The Ger-
mans moved some 77’s into the hills looking down
upon our position, and pasted our 6-inch guns with
impunity and shrapnel. They drove our led horses
rom their position in a basin in the foothills—
drove them down to the flat where another battery
sprayed us, again with impunity and shrapnel. In
situations such as those it is not consoling to be
informed that the enemy is firing beyond his aceu-
a e range, that his high-velocity projectiles wear
t eir gun-barrels rapidly, and so forth. Erratic
certainly, the shooting was, hut the experience was’
no less violent for that reason.


N S W* MONT de PIETE D & I C9T UNITED
7- Castlereagk St., 74. Sydney. '
-ADVANCES -
I "‘lll Ml ill
i.iilHHE
lilllllllllllllii... .niillllll
iiiiillll!
nil
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
'HHiimiiiiiiiiillllllllll I
HIHIIII
- 'fovdiesat 215-17Svanston Stjleib.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane ' __
_ 29 King St., Newcastle. l97*Castlereaqh st, & 159 George St.,West, Sydney,
CAPITAL &200.000 „ PKcme .
Joseph W.Hill. General Manager.
THE “ AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: ‘‘The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
John Storey gets his £2445 per annum
from N. S. Wales without being required to
show any knowledge of law, finance, political
economy, or even Scripture. And with a
six months’ holiday thrown in, the dis-
tressed community paying all expenses on
the higher scale for himself, family and
suite, his job should be worth over £5OOO
this year. Truly those who live by sav-
ing the community from the capitalist have
their reward.
The future of the Federal Arbitration
Court is wrapped in mystery. Justice Hig-
gins announced his resignation some time
back, but though Hughes has probably heard
of the Judge’s decision he has apparently
made no attempt to appoint a successor,
alleging that he is not officially aware of
Higgins’s desire to leave the job. This
means that while Higgins forgets to notify
the autocrat the court is disqualified sine ate.
“Gallery” : The prospective addition of two
or three new portfolios to the Federal Cab-
inet is alleged to 'have brought a look of
office-hunger on the face of Willie Watt, and
interested people are mentioning, in the hear-
ing of Watt and Hughes, that it would be
better to be nice and friendly instead of scowl-
ing at one another in the fashion of the last
few months. Probably the overtures are
coming from Hughes,, who isn’t used to deal-
. ing with a silent and inscrutable chap who
refuses to justify the confident prophecies
of his retirement, but hangs on grimly. The
fact that Watt has his own admirers m the
House doesn’t ease the situation for Hughes.
Meantime there are others who feel that
their amazing intellectual qualities fit them
for Cabinet rank. People who have lately
noticed Hughes and Higgs together in the
Government car believe that the tall Queens-
lander is one of the band of hope.
An attempt is made to represent that the
NSW Government won a victory over Boss
Lambert and the A.L.P., which tried to take
the control of affairs out 'of its hands, and
that Storey started for London with a
wreath on his head and his enemies diagging
behind his chariot wheels. But there was
no victory. One demand was that 20. new
Upper-House members should be appointed
so that all the extraordinary legislation
which McTiernan and Loughlin could con-
ceive should be passed without amendment.
rThe Governor put the kybosh on that for the
reason that a Ministry with. no # majority
in the Assembly save a majority of one
secured by beguiling an opponent into the
chair should prove a better case for its
claim to represent the people. The other
demand was that Parliament should meet in
the majority’s absence to do amazing things,
and Fuller put the cometheT on that by
refusing the necessary pair. But the A.L.I.
hasn’t surrendered, and the kybosh and the
comether are only temporary. If events
s&sr
Storey is'™Ue*t? pasted. Jhen to tries
•sidetoSaSaoi“wml°anter S i g n the bond.
'•Nothing is too good tor * he soldiers,
when one of them came b ? f ck m "‘ th hb e?n
t a wt a"-ms“. r nd “Tasteful Oonrmonweam
S‘ ied ßl;rthe Ttwo” °L\ old tow
and the danger is all over and the glamor
is gone, and the votes of the ™?hp other
patriots don ! t count any more, so the othei
dnv when the Digger with three limbs sboit
Sn to hf/old employer and asked
for some sort of a 30b and got it, the pension
was promptly cut down to 4_s.
Perhaps there is something m woth
all Britain is harassing Australia, polite y
bit definitely, for 40 millions or so due
foi the wages and upkeep of our army, which
John Bull paid. And at the same time he
has sent Canada 30 minions the value of
all sorts of munitions turned out in Canadn
factories and supplied to Bail at
prices when they were badly wanted. Canada,
saw there was money to be made, and hail „
the bawbee instinct it was willing to work
12 hours a day and grab the fleeting coin.
The basis of Canada was the intensely thnfty
Frenchman. Superimposed on h'in was ie
Scotch Highland immigrant named Macphei
son, accustomed to live on moorland scenery,
kilts and the smell of a herring. I hat kind
of race doesn’t lose many chances.
Arbitration Courts are partly responsible
for some wild ideas that prevail about work
and wages. There are thousands ot men
THE VAMPIRE.
who don’t realise that they can’t go on
getting more than they earn; they have a
vague idea that there is some unknown but
tremendous reservoir from which pay can
be drawn. And arbitration Judges by making
awards retrospective give color to that stupid
idea This rotten habit of hitting employers
with awards ordering them to pay increased
wages as from last June twelve-months or
something like that has an effect disastrous
also from the public point of view; an
employer, since he never knows when he
mav be hit for increased wages, has to put
bv an amount of profit to cover contingen-
cies which he shouldn’t have to consider.
In other words, these Judges encourage m
this way the very profiteering they are
supposed to discourage.
The other day Brisbane rejoiced in a
quaint spectacle. In a street there were
assembled about 150 individuals of nonde-
script appearance who formed themselves
into a queue three deep and commenced
to file up past an office, whereat sundry
alleged officials shovelled out alleged bonds
to these alleged buyers, while an indi-
vidual conveniently posted turned the handle
of a cinema-camera machine and manu-
factured a Loan Enthusiasm film. In a
few days doubtless Queensland country towns
will be flooded with picture stuff showing a
rush of Brisbane citizens to buy 6* per cent.
bonds, in the hope that the country cousin
may no longer be able to withstand the miec-
tion.
With the modesty which is the badge o.
his quaint tribe a single-tax witness assured
the Taxation Commission in Melbourne —the
chairman had mildly inquired about his cre-
dentials—that he “represented the world.
It is believed that the flesh and the Devil
have also been represented.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Captain S. M. Bruce, M.H.R. for Flinders, Vic.,
has handed Hughes a tremendous bouquet that has
set all the lobbies talking. And it is a little
significant that Bruce is off to England to make
certain business arrangements Iso that he may
devote more time to politics. Anyhow, Hughes is
re-arranging his Cabinet, and Bruce is well in the
running for a vacant portfolio; but the young man
from the ’Lane is still a political novice, and some
of the old hands will be annoyed if he is made a
Minister. He was educated in England, and is
thoroughlv English in manner and outlook. He
has a pleasant flow of language, wears irreproachable
clothes, and his gaiters and gloves suggest the
valet touch. Hardly the man for an Australian
Cabinet in rough-and-tumble times; moreover, as
an importer he would probably be unsympathetic
to Protection.
David Hall, whose appointment as N. S.
Wales Agent-General was cancelled by the
new Government, is back in Australia breath-
ing mild fire and diluted slaughter. He got
rid of his Parliamentary seat, his house and
1 is furniture to take up the job that vanished
like a dream, so he is angry—within limits;
he doesn’t know how to be angry
as Dibbs used to. be. His chance of
getting damages may be spoiled by the
plea that "the King can do no wrong.” But
on the other hand the King, if applied to in
his spacious quarters in the lower of Lon-
don, may frankly admit that he possibly did
wrong through his agents at Sydney, and may
authorise David to give them beans. Ihe un-
fortunate precedent of the Hall case is that a
Labor Government is not bound by the act.
promise or signature of its predecessors, and
only recognises such when it pays to do so,
it being, on account of special purity, a moral
law to itself. And John Storey may be asked
a few awkward questions on that point by
the bondholders whom he hopes to meet in
London. The plea, of course, was that llaii
isn’t a nice man (about which opinions may
differ) and quite unfit to be Agent-General.
But, then, a lot of the people who hold this
Country’s securities aren’t nice either; m
fact, we probably pay interest to wife-beaters,
drunkards, degenerates, embezzlers and even
murderers.
A Trades Hall deputation wanted Pea-
cock, as Vic. Minister for Labor, to compel
(which he couldn’t) the earjy closing of
Melbourne shops on Friday, not because the
Council objects to late shopping nights for
workers’ wives, but because the results ol
the stewards’ strike are inconveniencing the
shop-girls. The tram service ceases at 7
p.m., and a reduced number of trains is
likely to make the girls later than they
would otherwise be in “walking a long way
to their homes in the darkness after leaving
a train.” In short, an unjustifiable strike
of one lot of trades unionists has included
another lot of unionists in its ill effects,
so the Trades Hall Council asks for shops
to be compulsorily closed in the moral inter-
ests of the other lot afore-mentioned. ‘The
general conditions are not only irksome, hut
opposed to the moral welfare of the girls,”
said the deputation. No doubt. But why
go to Peacock with the story ? Obviously
the right official person for the deputation
to wait upon w T ould be the boss cockie of
the Stewards’ Union, or brother IV alsh of
the Seamen’s Kindergarten, or whoever is
directly accountable for Ihe present strike.
Peacock is neither accountable for the strike
nor for the restricted train and tram ser-
vices.
A Single-tax League still lingers in Vic-
toria, and the chief dinosaur gave evidence
recently before the Taxation Commission,
one of the dozen or hundred expensive bodies
which sit like the old Lord Chancellor in
his High Court of Chancery, brooding over
cases that never ended. The dinosaur said
at great length that if all land was taxed
5 per cent. —its full rental value —the
revenue would equal the amount now col-
lected in Federal, State and municipal
taxes. But he also talked of relief from
railway charges and to do that would re-
quire about 10 per cent, land tax, or double
the present rental value, so probably nobody
could afford to use any land. A fine Big
Union could be made by combining the
Henry Georgians who want to abolish all
taxes' save on land, and the Rechabites who
want to abolish liquor, and the mixed crowd
which wants to abolish capital, and the
people who want to abolish each other s
religions. The abolishers should lead a
happy life together.
From Sydney Telegraph on Winston
Churchill’s appointment as British Colonial
Secretary:—
About the most acceptable thing Mr. Churchill can
do if he gets into the Colonial Office is to make
away with the official phraseology which still per-
sists in alluding to us and the other Dominions as
“Colonies.”
Still the British department has this excuse,
that it has to deal with a Commonwealth, a
Union, sundry Dominions and a lot of
Colonies and it lumps them all together by
old habit and for convenience. But Lang of
N.S.W. calls himself “Colonial Trea-
surer” when he has nothing to do with
any colony at all, and never had any official
connection with one, and hasn’t seen one for
years.
Presumably George Fuller (N.S.W.) has
made it clear to the departing Storey that it
isn’t the least use for him or any member
of his Ministry to accept the Agent-
Generalship—that the next Government will
sack whoever is* appointed and restore Hall
for the balance of his term. Some protest
should be made against restrospective legis-
lation and breach of faith, and this one
would be as simple as any.
The Queensland Government expects by
piling on still more taxes (if there are any
more) to have another record revenue, but
still it is in a tight place. It took charge
in 1915 of a 10-bob State, and laboriously
taught the people 20-bob habits, so that even
a 15-bob revenue doesn’t go far. As an easy
though small expedient it is proposed to cut
down the police pensions. The aged bobby’s
vote won’t be of use much longer, and it isn’t
very numerous, anyway.
A god is known by the worshippers he
keeps, and there are too many thieves, debt
repudiationists and such like in the Labor
congregation. Both the Queensland and
N.S.W. Governments have repudiationists in
their following and lack the courage to tell
them that neither their votes nor their com-
pany are wanted. And the other day a man
with a scheme for “taking possession of the
banks” swarmed into N.S.W. Minister Cann’s
presence as part of a Labor deputation.
Cann didn’t order his removal and say that
he had no time for silly embezzlers, theo-
retical or practical. He didn’t even seem
uncomfortable in such company.
THE SONG OF THE SECRETARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Because bur fathers were oppresst,
And graft is rarely to our liking,
I preach Industrial Unrest,
And urge the boys to frequent striking;
Because the wages that they earn
Have risen with decreased productions,
The lesson I would have them learn
Is “Kiches come through raising ructions.”
The less the work the more the pay—r
That’s what I argue to the meeting;
“Be deaf to what the papers say,”
I’m all the blessed time repeating.
My oath! If once they got to see
That all their strife results in sorrow,
The game would be all up with me —
I’d lose my cushy job to-morrow.
Their fathers suffered cruel wrong
From human selfishness of bosses;
The world was as a callous throng
That heeded not the toilers’ crosses.
Handcraftsmen once were meanly waged
Whose sons make fortunes now from shoddy ;
And so my cry is: “Be enraged,
And do your worst to everybody.”
Production wanes while wages rise,
And prices wait on the inflation;
Ahead, they say, red ruin lies,
But Labor rules the situation.
I wave my arms, I shout, I blow,
I roar like any ancient Viking.;
“Strike high, strike low, strike friend and foe,„
Strike blind, strike dumb—but keep on striking.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.
A CHANTY OF POSSIBILITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wooden ships put out to sea.
(Yeave hoi Blow the man down!)
The bolts were fair in rib and knee.
(God save the king—and half-a-crown !)
If bolts have heads, why make complaint?
Eke out the shortened shank with paint.
(Yeave ho ! Blow the man down !)
The storm came up ; the waves were white.
(Yeave ho! Blow the man down!)
The painted planks got loose at night.
(God save the king—and half-a-crown !)
The stormy water boiled .like sin;
And half the angry sea came in.
(Yeave ho! Blow the man down!)
The ships were seen to break in half.
(Yeave ho! Blow' the man down!)
The jostling sea was heard to laugh.
(The waves be thanked, it’s cheap to drown!)
A sailor’s luck, a sailor’s end
Is covered by the dividend.
(God save the king—and half-a-crown !)
N.S.W.
FRANK SALT.


WHY STOP AT LOTTERIES?
"The motherhood endowment sheme will cost £1,100,000 a year, and Mr. McGirr will get the money by means of a State lottery. If there is any
shortage in the amount required, there are other avenues which I propose to allow him to tap."-N.S. Wales Premier Storey.


Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
LEAD —Soft Pi,. Reiinsd Assay W^Snulated) , Super-refiaed, Corrode
Chemical and Antimonial.
gUQVEß—Refined (Bax - and Granulated).
5S C of D and
BUYERS on Specially Tariff^ of )KoggES
HEAJ f'J^^fS^S^ BMTME “ O,IENE
SYDNEY:
25 O’
R.
LONDON:
8& 9 A
London
CONNELL STREET.
N. KIRK. Agent.
IJSTIN ERIARS, E.C.2.
A. .T. SMITH.
Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE: A>T uUtl/DINGS.
C V STOKES, Agent.
K ° BE J OKIENTAli HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
BHAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobol
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blastin' Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
SECOND only in importance is the _
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once Relieve himself of anxiety concerning such selection by
Appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
which has had over thirty-four years’ experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
„ ~, R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Write or Call for Booklet,
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office :
Life Department.
Ex- To Re- Re-
-1918 £16313 C £3l3' £6,038 £9*962 £9,962
1919 I! 60j656 5,696 29,608 25,352 35,30
1920 . . 94,897 13,031 41,552 40,314 75,6-8
When the Queensland State Office opened a
life branch on January 1, 1918, it had the
assistance of a ready-made organisation cre-
ated by IS months’ handling of the work-
men’s compensation compulsory insurances.
That organisation, State guarantee oi po i-
cies and burjey scattered in the form ot
various concessions offered by the Commis-
sioner practically assured rapid Polmy-
writing. The Commissioner declared that
when compiling liis tables “care .had been
taken to incorporate every desirable leature
of policies issued by all cos. transacting
life business in Queensland. But he went ..
step or two further :
(1) Whole life tables were drawn up providing
for the general cessation of premiums at the age oi
60 (2) “As the Office has the credit of the State
behind it," he declared that “it was unnecessary to
penalise the present generation by valuing liabil-
at an undulv low rate of mteicst , wnerc
fore, when valuing policies 4 p.c. is i»
t y. ( , minimum of assumed iutuie inteiest earn
?ng, and the “profits” resulting therefrom are “to
be'distributed from the very outset.
/o\ Pnliev-holders were given the right to iw
ments! 2s. for quarterly payments, and ss.
proportion of the business
written, the Commissioner admits, has been
mlhe semi-industrial type One-way and
another the- State office has been very
active’’ • after 2£ years of policy-wntin o
there were 13,G72 policies in force carrying
£2,175,365 of insurance, an average of £l6b
nor ooliev For the year to June o 0 last
premiums" resulting from new business were
considerably iarger than the for
iner bringing m £42,283 and the tatter
£33,044. _ . . .
The first policy-valuation was to have
been made as at December 31 last, and until
the details of that investigation are revealed
the precise position of the branch is no
ascertainable. But from the very elaboiate
accounts uf the various; departments some
striking features of the life business obtrude.
Notwithstanding the fact that the life branch
is in its infancy and That the usually very
cxnensive new business was heaviei than
SKSbtat year, the Comm— in h«
accounts claims that expenses took only
£4l 15s 9d of every £lOO of income. Oi,
aSlving The Bullltin’s usual formula ot
nilowin°' 7 pc. as a reasonable chaige on
old business 1 and 3 p.c. for «mmt,es the
£42,283 of new premiums weie got at a c
of £3B 771 or approximately £9l p.c. xnis
looks too good to be true for such a young
life-writer. On the same basis of calcula-
tion it costs the big A.M.P. over £B5 P*c. to
Jet its first-year premiums while efery
npnnv of the 47-year-old Golomal Mutual s
firsf 1 premiums go" in costs There is a sus^
nicion that the organisation cieated to
hwndle the extensive workmen s compensa
Hon department has to an extent been carry-
some of the early troubles and expenses
of g the life branch, which apparently has had
to bear no preliminary or special oiganisa
Hon expenses. To begin with,, certain
directly debited
branch—commissions, stamp duty 'Uethcai
exes, and income tax, together £17,0,0 last
year —and the balance ot £24,482 is tne
amount which the Commissioner arbitral llj
dSed was the portion of the office s gros
administration exes chargeable agauist hte
business. The operations of the State Insur
ance staff are so diverse that it would, ot
„„„ r up he almost impossible to ascertain
I the true actual costs of Miy depart-
t r rHE bulletin would not be at an
™ised though. if the big workmen’s com-
pensation branch has been called upon to
suckle the life infant. .
Though independent accounts are pre-
sented for each branch of the State office
all funds go into one aggregate balance-sheet,
no division of investments, etc., being given
to show how each branch’s funds are laid
out But the interest credited to the van
ous' revenue accounts discloses some mter-
nctinp* sor i£ist&oc6, tlic.
Cat’’ g the other day showed that the interest
credited to the Workmen s Compensation
revenue account -pressed Aret^
2 p. c on its average funds, and tda^
d f been dropped into genera
°t £54,631 aaveoee fiance-sheet, had
reserves m theagg:teg t repre senting
its income by funds . The
SSr* r££v« f S “fiarryetrVe
Ufe Vll funds! 1 however, remain wholly in that
branch’s accounts, and the mteresj cieu
' bereto %JT the
rSeu' S £,ma con,peL'a«ion averse funds
Of £181.443 were Permitted to
employers’ premiums with £3617 of inter
the general reserves of life
ISifssssi
Which ease the matter develops- a more sen
ous. aspect nature bfe
business, in d^ands t i iat a separate
balance-sheet’ should be presented to show
nredsely what investments have been
acquired with its accumulated f«ads, M^the
cash nt et°c 1 The* present* method of lumping
workmen’s compensation, lire, marine, acci-
dent and life fund investments is entirely
unsatisfactory. Logically, on the present
basis the whole of the interest earnings
should be distributed over the several de-
partments proportionately to the amount o
funds each has accumulated. What assur
ance has the policy-holder that some future
management may decide that the mg
inteieS earning securities no longer stand
against the life funds and that the pooiei-
bfterest stuff Ms good enough for that depart-
ment? _ ...
As mentioned above, some aspects of the
State Life Office are not visible until the
first valuation of policies now being under-
taken becomes available. An interesting fea-
ture of that investigation should be the
actuary’s report on the effect of the cessa-
tion of premiums on whole-life policies at
the age of 60. There is nothing novel about
this type of policy, but its general applica-
tion to all whole-life policies, is another mat-
ter : the actuary has no option but to value
the liabilities of the branch on the basis
that no premiums will be forthcoming aft 3
that age. So long as a life office s expense
rate is satisfactory, its future from a policy-
holder’s point of view depends entnely o
what relation the premiums charged bear
to the concessions granted. W ith premiums
and costs on the same plane, undue conces-
sions mean curtailed bonuses. 4 he policy
holder cannot have it both ways.
* * * *
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.,
woolbrokers, etc. (
q i Profits Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Hof £ 157l 5 72 8 i B p - c -: 1:85® £ -°W
Sg" ll’ln fo ;;;; = llfn SW
IS,!:: lIS 10
IKS:: 11:1m IS;;
SS:: 1»:1“ IS ISSill
SBr. SBJ 1°»::a» - *f '-
At the balance (Sept M) paid capital ™
£lOO,OOO, made up of 50,000 £L f ully pa Us
and 100,000 £1 shares paid to 10s. Ihe un
called 10s. on the contribs. has since been
<r o t in, not because all the new money thus
raised was required for the bww. f«
reserves were promptly tapped for £20, 000
to pay a special cash bonus of 3s. 4d. pel
share all round. The call-up and the bonus dis-
tribution were the outcome of a little arm
ment of a year previously which had cent ed
round the directors’ proposal to capitalise
portion of the reserves—which had- grown to
l-i times the size of paid capital—providing
for the issue of 3 new fully-paids for every
20 fully-paids previously held and 3 new
fully-paids for every 40 contribs. paid to
10s. 1 While this arrangement suited both
parties from a dividend point of view, the
capitalisation of accumulated profits l in the
manner proposed weakened the position foi
the contribs in so far that there would have
been smaller reserves to fall back upon be-
fore their uncalled capital would be de
manded in the event of trouble. As the
requisite majority could not be persuadedto
approve of the proposals they weie aban-
doned. Recently, however, though the man-
agement a year ago declared that it did no
know what it could do with the money if
the uncalled £50,000 was got in, the con-
tribs.’ 10s. was called, thus putting both
classes of shares on the same footm„. The
old contribs. appear to have done very wel
out of the re-arrangement, particularly in
view of the 16§ p.c. bonus which they
recently got on their fully-paid interests.
The net result is that the management has
OOO more to play with than prior to the
call-up and since it is proposed to sell the
Circular Quay property and erect new
stores on a Pyrmont freehold recently
acquired perhaps use will be found foi the
additional funds. _
There was a falling-off of profits for the
12 months compared with the previous term.
The Government wool acquisition scheme
terminated at June 30, and the easy con-
ditions which the agency cos. experienced
since the pooling began faded away, lhe
final quarter of H., J. & D-’s financial year
was a very quiet one, for very little wool-
selling was done in the Commonwealth dur-
ing that period. There may also have been
other adverse influences on profit-earning.
the heavy slump in hides and skins was a
feature of the year, and even many old
birds had their feathers singed. But what-
ever troubles there were this co. came
through very well; net profits represented
a return of almost 18J p.c. on paid capital,
though the return is not nearly so good when
the large volume of reserves is considered.
Balance-sheet movements over a number
of years have been as follows: —
1900. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Mortgages ..£78,000 £45,000 £45,000 £57,750
Other debts ~ 115,605 74,117 189,436 164,420
Freeholds .. 153,500 143,113 149,894 179,598
“eve S ’ - 10,486 15,608 15,100
Advances, eto. 173,082 164,131 268,466 253,076
War Loan . . 30,000_ 21,413
The published figures are not; very informa-
tive. Taking into consideration the capital
movements since the balance and the pay-
ment of divs. and bonus, the co. has, on
the basis of its September glance-sheet, net
assets with a book value of £LuB,O2O to repre-
sent a paid capital of £150,000, or almost
345. sd. for each £1 share. A 10 p.c. div.
rate would henceforth call for £lo,ooo p.a.,
and though that distribution could have been
managed with ease lately without the assist-
ance of the additional £25,000 net put in
by shareholders and recent reserve expan-
sions, the future is not clear. The wool
market is at present very dull, and until
Continental Europe comes into the market—
which apparently can become possible only
by an international credit system—the out-
look is not bright. Anyway, the day of very
high-price wool has gone, for a time at amy
rate: and that means smaller earnings for
the commission cos. on present brokerage
charges. On the jother hand, there is little
likelihood of a reduction of costs being
effected or any relief from Jieavy taxation.
The Equitable Building and Invest-
ment Co., of Wellington (M.L.) :
To
Dec. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1907 . . £8398 10 p.c. = £5OOO £3398 £47,997
Premises written up .. 1000 48,997
1908.. 7943 10 p.c. = 5000 2943 51,940
Premiums On new shares 4621 56,561
1909.. 7809 10 p.c. = 5689 2120 58,681
Premiums on new shares 3/9 59,060
1910.. 8578 10 p.c. = 5981 2597 61,657
1911.. 8524 10 „ „ 6000 2524 64,181
1912.. 8881 10 „ „ 6000 2881 67,062
1913 8937 10 „ ~ 6000 2937 69,999
{hi:: 8538 io ;, ;; eooo 2538 72,537
1915.. 8431 10 ~ „ 6000 2431 74,968
1916.. 7725 10 „ „ 6000 1725 '6,693
1917.. 6624 • 10 „ ~ 6000 624 77,317
1918.. 6870 10 „ ~ 6000 8/0 78,187
1919.. 7185 10 „ „ 6000 1185 79,372
1920. . 7936 10 ~ ~ 6000 1936 81,308
Though 10 p.c. divs. continue to be paid with
ease, profits are not so good, as they used
to be. Gross earnings have improved with
an expanded borrowing connection, but
Maoriland is taxing heavily: this co.’s con-
tribution to the Treasury on account of land
and income taxes moved from £9OO in 1915
to £3403 for 1919 and £3550 for the past
year. An amount equal to almost 6 p.c.
on Capital is now handed over to the Gov-
ernment. The return to shareholders looks
handsome, but there is nothing fat about
this land-mortgage co. Paid capital is
£6O 000, but in addition to these' funds
reserves of £81,308 have been accumulated
in the 43 years it has been in business ; so
on total funds net profits represent a return
of only 5.6 p.c. ....
During the war years the Equitable of
Wellington did not curtail its lendings to
any extent, and a record volume of business
is now on the books. To finance the
advances the management has itself had to
borrow heavily. Here is a comparison oi
the balance-sheet figures over 15 years:—
. 1905. 1910. 1915. 1920.
reserve? .. £94,193 £124,656 £137,968 £144,30S
Liabilities . . 260,781 240,924 262,427 295,249
.. 339,235 344,960 369,391 400,240
Freeholds . . 11 776 10,237 10,001 9,300
Liquid ... 3,963 10,383 21,003 30,01/
The wonderfully good time Maoriland has
had with its products during recent years
has made conditions easy for the building
societies. War finance has inflated property
values, but thev have also been influenced
by the abnormally high prices of all staples,
and the mortgage concerns have thus some-
thing more substantial to support their
advance business than in. the hot-an
booms which have afflicted both Maoriland
and the Commonwealth in the past. As the
tabulation above shows, for every £ ot its
own funds the Equitable is working ‘ on
over £2 of borrowed money, £2B6,bt>o of
the liabilities being deposits. From share-
holders’ point of view much depends m
adverse times on the terms on which this
borrowed money is tied to the business, and,
in turn, the inducement to depositors to
leave their money with the management is
contingent on the protection it is afforded.
This co.’s creditors need not be much con-
cerned about the security for their interests;
after payment of the final div. there was
£436,557 of assets, besides the margin be-
tween book and actual values of securities
(which widens as repayments flow in), to
protect £.295,248 of debts. Put another way.
practically one-third of the book value ot
assets would have to be lost before a penny
of the borrowed funds was endangered. In-
cidentally, since the balance the Equitable
has sold its old premises on Lambton Quay,
the directors having decided that, they can
find more profitable use for the funds which
have been thus tied up.
The Farmers and Citizens’ Trustees
CO. (Bendigo, Vic.) Deficit .
Towards (Flotation
Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1010 £99 £99 641
ill}:: 307 Nil 307 334
ran., ou. Reserves
1912.. 371 Nil 371 37
1913.. 291 Nil 291 3-8
1914.. 402 3 p.c. = £353 49 377
1916 ' 734 5 589 itk 69
111 l"" 589 246 1221
1918. . »3o “ » » roo 1543
IS!:: low s :::: 403 _
This little 11-year-old trustee co- is making
steady headway ; net profits have for the firs
time got into the thousands. Though that
represents almost 9 p.c._on capital the
tors still restrict the div. to 5 p.c. and are
accumulating reserves to make shareholders
S m«4 comfortable. There » now 2&
sd. to protect each of funds, but
£lO 000 of the net assets of £l3, <BO is ioQ s eu
with the Vic Treasurer and returns only a
miserable 3 p.c. As funds increase saK'un ics
that earn better interest will go on the boolls,
and as the business grows so will commis
sions Shareholders may therefore look foi
ward to something much better than 5 p.c
Inter on provided the management isl
Should be. The co. does not disclose the ex-
tent of its trusts.
Sydney Exchange Co.:—
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. selves.
Dec., 1913.. 2047 6 p.c.= 900 750 397 19,398
June, 1914.. 1187 6 ~ ~ 900 on „„ 92 718
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,< .
Dec., 1914.. 1592 6 p.c.= 900 300 392 23,110
June, 1915.. 961 6„ „ 900 - 61 23,1 fl
ml" 1 944 900 WO 88*
Dec 1916.'.' 1655 6„„ 900 9000 - 15,651
Sr JSS-BS 6 6 52 3? S
V ™ ]V\l' ' 1053 6 900 50 103 11,691
"Dec 6 ’ 19m: 1732 « 900 - 832 12,523
June, 1919.. 959 6„ „ 900 - 59 12,582
Dec., 1919.. 1596 6„ „ 900 696 13,278
June, 1920.. 1001 6„ „ 900 269 13,110
Dec., 1920.. 1578 6„ „ 900 491 187 13,20/
This co. was formed nearly 70 years ago
to provide headquarters for the shipping
and coal trade. ‘ In the ’nineties pay-
ing 10 p.c. divs., but they dwindled until
for many years past only 6 P; c - has l n
paid. Besides the portion of the premises
used for the Exchange—which gives sub-
scriptions from members and revenue f "°
advertising boards —an adjoining pub an
offices provide rent. But 6 p.c. is a mild return,
particularly in view of £3.3,297 of visible re-
serves which have been accumulated lhere
are invisible reserves as well, foi tue
premises are included at a figure below tlieu
value. Five years ago they were given a
book value of £69,000; nowadays the
balance-sheet entry is £55,000 Considerable
additions were made to the buildings 20 years
ago, and to finance the extensions
was raised by debentures. Subsequent addi-
tions were made by a lessee at a cost o
nearly £lO,OOO as the price for the renewal
of his lease. The co. itself still owes
£12,000 on its debentures.
The Newcastle miner will want to sand
bag his union leaders once he sizes up how
much strikes and the hold-up of transport
have forced lazy Victorian Ministers to hustle
into the brown-coal industry. They would
have shuffled on till doomsday, fearful ot
Country Party clamor about Kiewa, but now
Monash is in charge no time is being lost
in getting things ready to keep the home fires
burning. Seven-tenths -of the coal imported
by Victoria goes to householders, but witn
briquettes available and electricity on tap tor
power, light and cooking, dependence on New-
castle is to end in 1923. So the bulk of the
million tons of coal per annum now sent to
Vic will no longer be wanted. Railway
Commissioner Clapp has come to Monash s
aid by permitting the Electricity Board to
extend the big Newport power station so that
it can supply another 12,500 kilowatts to the


saS" «•"'-
The famous little WaySf “"'jCTec' neediessly.
z~™ t»£aKS
Melbourne-AovT QUee " and Little Collins StrLs.
* * [4
Asbesfos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc of
This b asbest ,ty is . obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi
ation in boilers and condensation of steam Jpes
Adams s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cen/ to
iefaTd Tt fUeUeSSBtokingisrequired - b -e ,t S
from w ! ® am pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
AV °° d PlPe giv6S P erma nent satisfac-
n. It has a greater carrying capacity than metal
p.pe, preserves the purity of the water
ough it and is so inexpensive to maintain that
one engineering report to hand states (of a 12-mile
line of 12m. pipes having a 100 ft. head) that it
cost for an entire year’s maintenance, the absurdly
small sum of 6/-. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.— Advt.
ja ssa&s&stslsr jjaH
advised to communicate with this company.-inv-r.
* * * *
Criffllh N r R H~^ Have you an idea worth patenting?
Gnfflth & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Forei-ti » atpnN
obtained. Coduson & Co., 483 Collins Street MM
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears - practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt. p acuce. write
* * if
Just landed—“l92o Models” “National” a, *•
Gas Engines and Plants of 36 to 3 9 BHP constant
working load, and 43 to 4fi ritp „„ " ' constant
load. Immediate delivery inLTnW
Company, Circular # Quay '(East/, SydneS-Anv^
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chpm
“?? Assav 1
Balances W rif o P f eS ’ Ainsworth’s & OertlingG
Saiiiphfcrtishersf Chemi/a,?’
™ f s - Calll or write for paVticidars *RB Vbv l? Co
“EMPIRE” EDDY-CURRENT
Rotor Controllers.
GetTpa rUculars—- te ° T , '° 3ls -
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD
r , Rational Mutual Buildings,
’Phone loTl r Q t" e , e V treets ’ Me'bourne.
Phone. 4031 Central. Box 1303 G.P.Q.. Melb.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited—-
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cableßoard
”SrfS.r“'
WEEKEND* ° m p« P ° Sted from Canada,
n jiJilv-jiNU messages are a ripen fori
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning. rouowing
IARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt . Britain .. 3/.
New Zealand.. 4£d.
1/6
/9d. (minimum
I 15/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
U - S - A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
111/8,20 words )
the United Kingdom
u.&.A. has been temporarily suspended
t J Sem r ne ’ P razil - Chill and Peru West'
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application Cable forms. Deferred and
We WfifcAO
w ARP. Manager in rho Pacific
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, !l
61 YEA^r ßeputation.
PIONEER Leather Belting.
—■ ■ —•’« c ~”?o"» c »VS. s t °,^j v d -
— 1 I ESTABLISHED in 1858. ' SYDNEY *
Made and
guaranteed by*
industrial chemicals.
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Ftrnnrf ,
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS 8
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
correspondence invited.
fdď
Sn t nnl-?°r ncil a s d thp Melbourne Electric
£>uppij, Co. as distributors. This arrange-
“ -“g Wlll last tiu Morweil gets its own plant
* * # 4f.
issu^/nfVT 6111 , ° f oi he A ««tralian note
at December 27 didn’t look like good
mnn+h wh , e . u compared with that of two
„„ n i earlier. Also it didn’t look good on
hfoh liaprmciples 1 ia prmciples - There was the usual
gold reserve to which the linger of pride
D 2 lnted and which differentiates so
oeautiiuHy from the reserves of effete States
elsewhere, so that the country’s solvency is
triumphantly vindicated and the last breath
ol suspicion crawls away to its lair like a
lame serpent (so to speak). Yet these points
tall for consideration :—.
Useful Notes ° ct ’’ 2o - Dec.,’2o. Increase.
Useless N o £34 ’ 939 ’ 965 £38,113,401 £3,173,436
(£1000) .. 19,233,000 19,538,000 305,000
£54,172,965 £57,651,401 £3,478,436
GoD Reserve .. £23,312,954 £23,712^~^,M6
, 100 , 0 notes are of no use to the public
at least one or two of them would supply
St T fi ey Were a piece of
out useful war finance, and now that the
Most IS of V them ey r ShOUlC ] dimiaish and vanish!
Most ot them lie and swelter idly in the
tho h S ’ ? armn *) nothing, and they arrived in
the banks as the result of a brief and mated
dialogue something like this neated
Treasurer: “Give me ten millions (or more) in
ft that v° f y ° Ur , ,I ? PoSits - I>n Sive you paper for
l’• , u mus^n use find couldn't use if you
ned, and it’ll bear no interest and it’ll be redeemed
lucky to get “ “” e and y ° U Sh ° uW think *«f
Aggregate Banker: "And how on earth am I
j !Ti"ioi:? tore if rm getting none
or »
.ourrtt”' 1 ™ B ““* : “ C “' t J ’ OU do th “ «*l»7
Treasurer; “Not much! I’d rather the people
ursed you. I’ve an election ahead. You haven’t”
the money" 1 d “'* «■»
Treasurer: “Then I’ll dashed well take it.”
Now the position is that if the bogus £lOOO
notes were redeemed in coin, as they should
£4m4S0 WOUl ’ d ba left a B ' old if
174,480 against the £38,113,401 of Wi
timate circulation, which is the only circu-
lation the country ought to have. y That
would be rather less than 11 p. c . instead
0 nominal 41 p.c. or more which exists
it°woun h IS i bl ' aB P d about 80 violently and
«t would be barely safe as well as not legal
Still it would be honest, while a gold reserve
which is in a great measure not the Gov-
<)UtmoflnH,°Wn g ° l , d but metal bush ranged
honest And f£° ple thout interest isn’t
' ulous’ ’n! d r’ the PoSltlon , is lankly ridi-
• * 1 Government keeps not only a
sufficient reserve against the notes that re-
a£n e uT’ ing , l iable tp Presentation but
also a considerable reserve (for show pur-
poses) against the notes that
ufnf g - p f actlcall y irredeemable, though the
nothin? '• t men i lo ? ed - So S° ld that earns
same & at . aotes that do the
same. It looks as if it would be a fnir
thing to offer the banks debentures which
ttouid earn interest in place of their £lOOO
notes that don’t, and then ship 12 or 13
with o ** to Th° ndo ? an , d pay off some d ebt
v ith it. The astonishment of poor old
London would be an emotion worth seeing.
Owing to the Commonwealth 'Government
having opened a “drive” on insurance cos
who do not belong to the British EmpS
by asking them to deposit £50,000 each'
several small concerns have been formed to
pick up business likely to be dropped by the
alien cos. The Southern Union General In- '
surance Co. of Australasia is the most
ambitious of the newcomers: it has a nom-
Iha C ofi2tL° f £ 2 '°° o ’Tii 14 is annou uced
tliat w 02,100 shares of £1 have been snh-
scribed, but how much beyond the 4s. to be
Paid °Vhi 0t Q nen A Will rf' called up is uucer-
tn. The Southern Cross Assurance Co
has also been registered in Melbourne with
an authorised capital of £500,000. though
mihUshS 6 a f U u al K Cash capital has n °t been
published. A baby co. born in Fiji on the
Ist Jan., 1920 called the Pacific Insurance
Sydney ° pened branches in Melbourne and
* * * *
fi i« g(dd production last year was
. (une), compared with 734 00007
in 1917’ S’ 5 ? 0 " 18 ’ nearly a million
m iyi7 and about double that quantity 20
years ago. Big producing mines have
decreased considerably in number since 1910
and as the owners of most of the few re-
maining declare they can’t afford to pay
the increased rate of wages recently awarded
the present outlook is bad. Some of the
mine-owning cos. which find themselves in
this predicament, including the Bullfinch
have decided to give up, and others have
lesolved to let the greater part of their hold-
fribute. The only mines in the
State that can hope to carry on successfully
under present conditions are the Boulder
Horseshoe, Ivanhoe and Sons of Gwalia, and
even the three last named will probably have
lean months. Base metal mining in the
nest is at present down and out.
Hampton Celebration has now been
equipped with a good hoist and pumps, and
its value at 300 ft. and 400 ft. should shortly
i n/i£ no 'y n ‘ Hrom the grass roots down to
IUUIt. the ore in sight is now estimated to
he worth from 3s. to 4s. a share, or less
than one-half claimed a few months ago, and
. developments in the deeper workings don’t
justify the installation of a treatment plant
f US + °/ e Wl , Probably be stoped out and
treated, and the co. wound up. But the
mine is still given a chance by experts.
The remains of Gt. Fingall (W.A.) have
been acquired on lease from the co. by a
local syndicate of mining-men who intend
at . No - , 8 ] evel to get at a block of
oie which is estimated to contain SOUO tons
n f° Pll ai \ oz \ , r £ here h as been a good deal
or talk about the wealth contained in this
block since it was made inaccessible by the
collapse of stopes some years ago, but all
reports circulated about size, value, etc.,
still await confirmation.
Edna May Central, Westonia( W.A.), now
a vi- mpi ? ved grade ore at No. 5 level, but
additional pumps and other machinery have
been found necessary to cope' with ever-
increasing inflow of water. A.s an engineer-
bui rr n ’u th a i co, is provin S successful;
•ind i-L dividend-payer nothing has resulted,
and the position now appears hopeless. Cen-
Golden a Vnlli ° ption , March over the
Golden Valley property which H. G. Stokes,
Zzi 18 m ? arge ’ regards a.s a “promising
entuie and worth systematic prospecting
above and below the 300 ft. level ” 1 °
* * * ' *
Bf> E dna M W beeps’ Shaft is now down over
rmTai- ? d 1S Provmg what a fine property
the btate would have possessed had Edna
the chance 1 f ° r £B ° o ° when k had
* * * ,
Edrni May Battler required all the luck
«outb b irn W r th itS , Trafa]gal ' W, south of
Southern Cross, but nothing but misfortune
has come its way so far. Only limited ton-
nage was treated during December, and the
giade was low. The recent Arbitration
award, railway strike and shortage of water
r ore treatment have practically settled
the remote chances the Battler may have had
of gwmg shareholders a little of their money
* * *
Riverina South (W.A.) claims to have
* * *’ *
a the plates assisted Bendigo
> yield last month to the ex-
t.W u J dSloz - of the total of 42950 z. Omit-
ting it the average of both the Carlisle and
Constellation, stone was about 12dwt This
Offi 1.• C ?/“ e • i° wn | or the latter little wonder
Officially it is admitted that for a time rho
™m°° s at - Constellation was dismal, but good
gold showing up north at below the 600 ft
hv ihW^ 6d - UP things ' r ßhat tad stand
don„ th fA C ai ’ 1S ri 18 yieldin S better than it has
is away 18 Tho t Gn n fia OVer ’ n ° w that Molin e
a 3^ y ; lae Confidence mine to date has
shovelled out anything but gold, and so a
hunt is going on in that lease aftei the com
tmuation of the old Blue Nose reef. If this
turns up, the average of the field for dis
covenes will be maintained. Prospecting is
going on off the Nelson shaft, where the bia
leef found by drilling has been opened up to
“Lr r , S “ the m
uiscioses only mineral. Another snnt
where Amalgamated is prodding in new ter
ntory is at 600 ft and 700 ft. ft Monument
Hill where a saddle is being tested The
o e flh eg reef rr ;tll S b ome ? ld f but
For many years past the total void viold
of Bend, BO (Vic.) has been the sobiert f
16,000,0000 z. haf been
iri nnl v' - fairly acc urate estimate. The
?23 d Sns fi<il At W £4 nearly
£1 m o f OZ ' Sold is worth
1130,052 a ton, so the total value of Ben
£81°396 50tf Ut Thof’” 6 “JO™
io±,c»aD.ouu. I his record has been beaten
Johannesbiirg. 0t ’ ler s ° ldMd “ worM-
Treated, Gold, Costs,
Adelong Estates— ‘ y “' c ‘ yd ’ c - yd.
S 1 IS
nIOSm :: lUfigg flit j-ojj-
wort'at Kh £ T t
Sts’? than D Jrp th G T^ I)erating in shallower
show a bigger tonSw®? dredges, and so
2£> &S ,ss:
SVI“ T“l.a ss. -s
jy^aw^f&'ssss
& ssss
and the C® f6SW? U,d " SBets 01
* * '
u S 2 eC of t m?i X7LLET d N pars - concerning the
sevLri Ptiivensed coal were followed bv
IV s Qumes as to the suitability of
MW D|Pai e tme“?, IS h„weve P r ?St e tar no?
wit rais he ,ss bl £
th^positkm- ■— BC ‘ R H ‘ Cambage ex Plains
it: t * , a f s coa for use in a pulverised form It
tiou TT’ ° VVeVer ’ t 0 borate a brief irij-
matiou ni ,- t r° e T ai ‘ d resulta > als ° all available infor-
neW edit?™ applmation to K. S. Wales coals, in a
Wales” which Ln ,° oal Pvesources of New South
, which will be published as soon as the
necessary data is available.
No practical-test results are yet available but
»tSTS” the “ ly, “ i
of V S W,r e ln , a pulverised form with analyses
„ Wales coals - Points to the latter being well
adapted for use in that form. Pulverised coal is
now largely used in America for metallurgical fur
naees, s eam boilers, and, to a limited extent Tn
lailway locomotives, but it is doubtful if results’ are
justified in the latter case.
N : S \ Wales Kailway' Department has a small
coal pulverising plant, and has had one of its
ocomotiyes fitted up for experimental purposes with
coal in that form. The Admiralty has also experi
mented with pulverised coal at Garden Island. Up
* iS n 0 Plant in the State us 4
pulverised coal on a commercial basis.
Christmas Gi . ft ’ Cootamundra (N.S.W )
miiF mg \ n plant and hopes to have its
mil at work in March. Levels have been
unwatered, poppet legs erected and boilers
the r end nt ot ?o th int ,° position - The winze
K^ f , tne , end °f the long crosscut is down
oOft. where values are declared to go 60s on
ell b do« lf° ld «,«*.’ l»t manner Bot
that value r6Veal the extent of °re of
* * * »
Ipswich which is the centre of what coke-
S Str l there is in Queensland, may
r,et a lift from the establishment of some by-
product coking plants in the near future.
I reliminanes are at present being official! v
considered with a view to one. of these at
ieast superseding the old beehive ovens of
Si? Shff ai ® a t Present in commission,
then total output being less than 15 000
tons annually, while over 50,000 tons’are
obtained from N. S. Wales in the same
700 000 and h SoO d oOo' l e t prc i duces between
iUO,uuo and 800,000 tons of coal per year,
‘ ~ he a much-needed economy to
save the benzol, napthene, etc., which run m
waste under the present system. The bee-
hnf th V /n de iVei ’- S a good metallurgical coke,
bu the process is wasteful, as it effects' no
ecovery of other valuable constituents. The
by-product process makes available the five
“iTH? 0t r 1: , COtC ', ben?
zoi and tar. Benzol and tar are the basis
of the coal-tar industry, and while we might
look in vain for some years for the chemical
secrets to successfully establish that industry
m its various ramifications in Australia the
ST— 1S hungry for all the by-pro-
ducts for a dozen or more commercial uses.
Ur 7 has b ? en bit as never before
with the stoppage of work at the three smel
ters, the only relief being that the co^er
gramme 6 of r a Cet f ng with a “oderkte pro-
bnted fn o development. This has contri-
buted to a stampede for gold, and Mf
Quambi has had considerable attention The
25W ° f from a?
v, oiked ground on this field is onlv lOdwt
not a particularly attractive proposition for
inspectors with dolly and dish. There is
only one shaft down 50ft., and most of the
workings from which the’sampled were ob
tamed are trenches or potholes less than 10ft
deep. Considerably more work will have to
o? damned “ fldd " ci,l >“ »<>
* * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry, although it he* a
considerable development wS rlLSuv
KSf I V vain f “>- another d“£'s ot
den S' ', be Ha r-
*“ woved‘7
to 500 ft Of ti , has been tried dnw„
Answer is the ‘belt hit ft‘S S ’ ProbaW / the
S: - the SaI "°“ «<■« **
acauYrpfl I t t hJ' raS -'^ i U 1 ? ey .’f Hill United which
acquired the original silver-lead leases held
m,.2i SSen i and ¥ add ™ at I^ooroopiiiy
(Brisbane), not the Indooroopilly S.L. Alines
13/lA f tat F- in . a '; Wild Cat? ’ pai (B
.Finneys also owns Logan’s and
other adjoining blocks and has underground
g'hts to that portion of the SZ
Eros’, property in which silver-lead his
shown up. Though there has been some talk
of amalgamation of the two co- neither
management is apparently worry ng about I
toSe? • 8 " nlikely that «>«• wSlcomt
*
’When the S. Aus. Asbestos and Minin®-
SrtedYn tt?? “"8»> «">!» ... Tn-
-jeicea in the Articles. This empowered the
developing 11 * S e Spe 5 d a . s P ecifie d amount on
the deposit near Roberts-
called To-efW° n S i hareholders w ere to be
speetinn r et er ’ ta<en 011 a visit of in-
the? wint°ed\ e propei aad decide whether
opened up with f° ° n ', The deposits have
work The f. t 0 de ? ide to push ahead with
larger so-Oe • r 1S *° be refl °ated on a
up to flh via f d/ns immediate funds of
P to f 10 ’ 000 tor Plant and water-supply.
« is £ ut ™ th a circular
10-ton Snit rlns rUnn3 f, g - he
down Of the S - s qU innn y *f m hee ? shut
vyj - ul c co. s 1U(J0 workers onlv
K 6 inTf Ked^ Zinc production The mfs
the bS nfn e nt f • ° epp and his staff is to get
of the y?ar Th^T-T 11 before the end
won at ‘i Vnsf ih G f I s hoped zinc will be
won at a cost that Risdon will make nrnfif«
even at the present level of the Jtal mark” t


A HARROWING CASE.
The Argos has Men' fitting the poor bookmakers and other racing people ,chose occupations have been cut of by the s trike.
“Pleath gif me a benny, sir, mv bithneth, sir, ith dead-
A cruel lot o' shrikersh, sir, haf r-o-o-b-b-bed me of me bread."


Good to toe
Last - Drop-
A
m
ABBOTS
LAGER
TAeßepr w/Moa/<3/?//&/.
firoh'ptffrom Puro/fd/tifroprOn/y
4-891
ď f
nn A ™ yOU imprison(: ' d in an invisible cage?
known tnT 1 ' ICnC \ th3t awful loneliness only
Kncmn to those who cannot hear? J
- awSeSSi^ 1 * whiist y °- ««*
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
5ft S i Z e^s en w iih V olr y « thoUSands 0f Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of dailv ,kp ; n
Business, the Theatre and Church ’
It is recommended by the leading
Specialists, and is in every respect a S
PERFECT AID TO HEARING
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIiNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHKKSFMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
. n^ ob „ ert Guthrie, who met an untimely end
iSrknSk 11 S ‘ A - *? 1891 he. CharlestonS
virkpatrick were elected to the Legislitivo
ouncil. Bob retained the seat till 190'1
SrJS,° rOSSCd ? ver to the SeMte He was
immen.dv popular with both sides and
funeral SaV ® a tre ’state
F^hm?ThS?“h ( ? S foS!r 8 of a st‘ I M e ° f
R.C. Cathedral in Vd ”!? jt wiH Sl7a
couple of volumes to tell the story nf th.
pioneer padre. feiory ot the
laS X‘h£ a^ be l 1 gets , the job as Maori-
is b ] 1 1 r , us , tee ra ther late in life. He
im-S « An 01 d , b °y of Nelson College hi
joined the civil service in 1874; 20 %’ears
rf S J9ep Jl t y- Com missioner of Taxes •
m 1896, Deputy-Valuer-General and Deputy^
J H. MAIDEN, N. S. Wales Government
Botanist for a quarter of a century.
fnwuvi* °r, Advances to Settlers; and
in 1904 Valuer-General. In the days that
the grasshopper or some other enemy has
eaten, Campbell was a fine Rugby-player.
Ihe Union S. S. Co. is having some bad
iuck with its passengers. Following the
hold-up of the “Irish diplomat,” the Tofua
last week brought to Sydney a passenger
who had been released from a foreign gaol
.utter serving 4} years “on condition that
he went to another country.” The Common-
wealth didn t want to be the other country,
and tne co. has either to push him over-
board or keep him till he can find some
place that will have him.
W. J. Skewes began official life as a junior
clerk in the Vic. Education Department.
■ i f, was P n vate sec. to Sargood when the
latter was Minister of Education and De-
tence, and followed Peacock to the Pre-
mier s office in 1901 when Alec first became
nead ot a Government. Peacock tried to
have lnm made sec. to the Federal Public
Service Commissioner, hut instead of getting
a first-class clerical job Skewes had to be
content with a fourth-class one under Public
bervice Commissioner McLachlan. Now he
is McUachlan’s locum tenons.
v Yoath will be served, even ,in chess. A.
rt n ■ Walkce, , runner-up to Spencer
V/iackanthorp in the championship of N. S
Wales, was champion of Australia when
Crackanthorp was just leaving pinafores.
Wallace won the title by defeating the Vic-
K. Esling, and it is remarkable
tnat he, too, should have entered the arena
ot serious chess after many years’ spell. It
was always considered a pity that Wallace
rid not meet the late J. L. Jacobsen in a
set miitch. Jacobsen was thought to be the
i fhcm afi, though in his declining
da.ts he took oft his hat to his pupil W. S
Viner, jun.
rv W / th u th . e , old y? ar Passed the Black Dog
Creek Hotel at Chiltern (Vic.), and a few
weeks before Chiltern’s sole remaining mine
ih» n rni UP P *£* Yhe pub had been run bv
farml-y for over TO years. It was
tiie first bnqk hotel erected between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and was the headquarters
ot Burke the explorer when on district police-
i uty f“d also of John Conness, discoverer of
the Indigo-Clultern goldfields
“Yoyang”: Yass (N.S.W.) will also have
a centenary in March. The
fiist white men in the district
were Hamilton Hume, J. K.
Hume, W. H. Broughton and
George Barber in the year that
Napoleon died, and there should
be no lack of their descendants
at the celebrations. Hamilton
liume earned distinction as an
explorer. J. K. Plume was
killed by bushrangers at Gun-
ning in 1840. Both were sons
of Andrew H. Hume, one of the
superintendents of convicts who
came to Australia in the Guar-
dian in 1<99. There are num-
erous representatives of the
family in Australia to-dav.
•Broughton was son of another
superintendent who rose to be
commissary and whose first wife
was one of the ill-fated passen-
the Boyd. She was
““P e d and eaten by natives in
the Bay of Islands. Her
daughter Elizabeth was rescued
by Alex. Berry and lived to be
the wife of Throsb.v, of Sutton
f ore it „ George Barber, the
fourth of the young explorers,
married the Humes’ sister, Isa-
bella, and founded a large
family which is scattered over
the eastern States. He was
one of the 779 persons who first
introduced the Napoleon weep-
ing-willows into N. S. Wales.
W. Ernest Williams, canvasser on Mel-
bourne Punch for 24 years, finished an ener-
getic career with an automatic pistol the
other day. He had served in the Boer War
and with the A.I.F. in Palestine. In addi-
farm CalIS Ms < l aily J ' ob > he ran a
taim in the country. Moreover he spent
L«n ant r ty °t» h v savings in unsuccessful
dashes for I arliament. Recently he had a
go for Evelyn in the State Assembly. He
to°Slw eVeiT P n aCe where il was possible
:° M c S o ct an audience, and on election-day
one village woke up to find every telegraph-
p?st ip the main street shouting the merits-
of Williams. The candidate had put no
the cards himself the night before. The
t m hf»ifr e / gy -r as wonderful, but he hadn’t
n-° f , H,nilia f( down the depression that
diove him to suicide at 45.
“J.R.D.”: The modern flapper’s dress is
decorum itself compared with what we used
to wear in the North Queensland bush before
female society had penetrated to those parts.
It consisted mostly 0 f skin and hair and
the consciousness of virtue. One got used
to it if one survived the first roast. I re-
t hoS l heredita ry swells, the
Maekn? rn i brothers of Mt. Spencer,
Mackay (Q.), racing about the wilderness
" hat f rig-out One of them is now the
Earl of W inchilsea, of Haverholme Priory
England. He entertained Hughes royally
when that potentate was in Britain * *
“a typical I - that Bisb °P Welldon i s
i ncn man s man 1R IU/1 />oi \
but when he was U„ a n „f , d/i/ AL),
Sm e .y Bi ?hll the hero of ■> wa^
in band&e^?t W WhiS? T f? mmy lay sw atlied
mho r- i at vv intworth-street Hosnitnl
SR-PS^arfS
S&s MaichesW Sfive?T/ C a d ,S?
£s&? i? a (S
(1860-611 nnH aL 1 the Heales Government
Ajq'u 01 i Attorney-General in the third
Shanassy Government (1861-68). It was
during the last service that he took silk
SchibaW 3 \r“n- dl / r “ mblin e about it; “but
waf also Of 1 Ireland ’ s I B«at competitor!
smoothly? Q -°- d ’ aDd then went
all^killed’in^! 01 ' Bob . Guthrie, accident-
al wavs tb« c ?•, lbo urne the other day, was
always the sailorman, and to the last- n„
wore a square pilot coat and billowy pants
r lth a mild pink f ace he rarely
“ poke in 1 arliament unless his old nrofos
IJS! h |™“ discussion: then he became
bSt one n* ,T as 'tactic-ally a teetotaller!
ISA HiJ:\z aa to wit?, s a r
hemme *° , w ? bbl . e - 1“ this sfate
d^l^b 8 " h * «M. "this
ON AND OFF.
HIS REVERENCE : “Remember, in Genesis
the Good Book tells us Eve clothed her-
self."
HER IRREVERENCE : “Yes, but we’re up to
Revelation now.”
Vic Speaker Mackey’s first official act as
Knight was the signing of a large and im-
posing document appointing Gordon Carter
We m ifi en v£ y a f, nt - Carter has horned
<j n • lc> Poetics as secretary of the
„r *r iCe Federation. His appointment
as i ailiamentary agent gives him special
Sons eSe Rv W J th 7P rd t O . R °Val CoSmis-
sions. Bj law the applicant for such a
.lob needs the support of two members but
when Carter first mentioned the matter in
a taint voice, about three-parts of the House
roared their approval.
«,n?‘?' W k ha ? ? iven S - A - the loan of a deaf
and dumb criminal, E. J. Mann, who seems
to be an inveterate burglar. The Criminal
Court m Adelaide was a little startled when
he pioved unable to plead in the usual wav
and a special jury was put on to find out
whether he was (in the Sid phrase) W?e
Wli^+S 6 ’ ° r by the Yisi tation of God.”
When there was no doubt about the latter
and lS M eXPert , Wa ? Called in as interpreter'
ai d Mann pleaded guilty in this wa v
hsf nf 7 ia the early twenties, he has
a - ls t , of Previous convictions in NS W
and S.A. added 32 months.
W ., P ’ ,? a^. ntlcket : When the latest of the
little McGirrs arrived on the wings of the
wind the birth-ads. in the capitalistic news-
papers left no doubt as to the complicity of
“the Hon. G.
McGirr, M.L.A.,
Minister for
Motherhood'’
in the trans-
action. A
similar event
occurring in the
Ixavanagh clan the
Piute press” im-
puted the blame
(at advertising
fates) to “the
wife of the Honor-
able E. J. Kavan-
agh, M.L.C.” They
may affect to de-
spise titles, these
Cabo r stalwarts,
but they make the
most of them.
"DAD”
Douglas, father
of the captain of
the English XI,
also referee,
National Sporting
Club, London, who
is touring Aus-
tralia with the
cricket team.
, T - Godde > the ex-Manchester University
o- vf/thp 1 ! 10 . a hile . ago visited Ru ssia and
Wo mfi R. o s heviks the best testimonial they
lave had from any educated Englishman, is
ii) studying economic and social
conditions in Australia.
The N. S. Wales Taxpayers’ Association
has gone to Westralia for its new secretary,
a buzzing little chap named J. K. Powell.
In Perth he was known as a hustler with
i arliamentary aspirations, ' a weakhess for
n^," partie ? and a habit of urging
a sinfully phlegmatic electorate to “rise un
diA d °o S f° m - eth p g vL wllich som ehow it never
id. Of a I erth contemporary it was
cynically written that “he got his living bv
contesting seiection ballots,” but Powell mis
an industrious advertising agent and re-
formed the world after business hours His
UB°s”l°e S y h “ iasm “ hO “ M be —i.
Aftei a long spell on the Melbourne Argus
varied by a turn at the Front, from which he’
came back a major, R. A. Lowry has left
newspaper work for the job of secretary to
St Hd W nf W ° 01 H ® alisati °u Co., which is "o
nd of a couple of million bales of Aus-
trahan wool. Anyone who could get hold of
a ! the Argus men who have dropped out in
the last 1- months would have a very fair
newspaper staff. y au
TO A POLITICIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a moment when of you
A splendid hope I had to tell,
Believing “Here is one man who
will serve our waiting country well.”
I saw you sedulous and keen,
I heard the burning words’you spoke.
It seemed that you were hard and clean,
And rapier sharp your every stroke.
Then came success, and i„ a night
An impish thing you stood apart,
All empty-handed for the fight,
■ With worse, alas! an empty heart.
Success had spoiled you, said your friends,
it was not so, for naught was there
io spoil but means to petty ends
At last men saw you bleak and bare.
In those who give you grudging aid
these days, may we the spirits see
io lor the love of men would raid
the strongholds of iniquity?
Are these the heroes high and true
Who, seeing right with honest eyes,
A ill risk their all in putting through
Democracy’s stern enterprise?
V °For ha thnr™ "' ealth t of love. You failed
I or that. Your heart may never cling
To men upon their crosses nailed,
To brothers sadly travailing.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.
THE SENTIMENTAL HANGMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
s=¥, Kfin - J ‘=
No more will he secrete hjs homely features
And stretch the necks of sinful fellow-creatures.
frf Wh in f he WaS neVer known to falter,
n tiuti), he was an artist with a halter.
Without a qualm he’d coffin the departed
And no one guessed that he was tender-hearted,
Yet-so it chanced. Was never senior wrangler
As sentimental as our lowly strangler.
He fell m love, and, swept along by passion
Deceived her in the customary fashion. ’
To make her think he had no earthly' equal
He lied superbly with the same old sequel.
She found him out, and then she gave him Hades-
Ihe immemorial habit of the ladies.
W e’ve all been through it. Most of no
But Jimmy was no ordinary lover. f o\ei.
r" d Steadiiy rew Wronger,
Lntil he couldn’t bear it any longer.
And so he closed the lamentable story,
Took fifty pounds of rock and leapt to glory.
Romantic passion, piercing like a dago-er
Accounted for a tried and trusty scragg’er.
Rife was his scaffold. Love (the sweet deceiver-,
Put hemp around his neck and pulled the lever.
BfmhidM of U fhp Wh >° SSek the Pr ° Ud Potion
rse mindful of the sex’s intuition.
In courtship though they flatter its and kiss us
No ha "S™a.i is a hero to his missus. ’
N.S.W.
D. EMPSON.


What pleases so many
will please you
IT is significant that hosts of men buy “Austral
Suits year in year out. That must mean
consistent satisfaction.
And those men are careful —about materials, style,
cut, workmanship and the finish of the suits, as
well as about the price.
You can have no better lead.
“Austral” Sac Suits
To Measure
£4/15/-, £5/5/-, £s|ls|-, £6jls|-. £7/15/-,
£*/*/-, £919/; £lO/I#/-, £ll/11/-.
£l2/12/-, £l5/151-
Tn ami address throughout Australia we send patterns, together
luh ZpXZrl and forms for self-measurement, free on request.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY, SUBURBS & COUNTRY.
BR° 5 L™
486-494 George Street, 1-17 Royal Arcade
(Opposite Queen Victoria Building),
Branch Store at 304-306 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Has,'/;
SR
£>
* *
-M
w
\y/',\>\~^
w
jr
wmmmmrn-
Wmmm,
Wmm
wmm
■J'r
wmm
MM.
mzmmm
wmmm
.... .3
wmm
m
MMmMMwi^^MMwmm
mmMMimmmmsMm
wMM
Ml
•v.y.'
wmmmm
r-Vv
mW;Wm&:W
m
mw*s
» *'
lliasi
* ***** *** * - ‘ '• •"•
V —• V v ”v xW+X-yW--' v "•-v^-:
ji. u •*•.;•. . .


4
TROPO-CLOTH SUITINGS
NEW MATERIALS FOR SUMMER.
Peapes’ for the sp&ial n at fo g^l^ußhouW send to
f~ neW6St
able; PO yet ot quite '(listing *f lry in texture > Porous and wash-
that i/ closely resembles neaUv'T 1 * SU ? lmer materials in
terns new desfgns. deSl!med tWee<L Six P at ‘
Suits (unlined and
Two-piece Lounge
unpadded)—
Best Tailoring £7/15/-; Vest 35/
Economic Tailoring, £6; Vest 21/
Sports Jackets, 5/- extra.
extra.
extra.
o ~ PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE
Self-measurement form and patterns posted on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
W*
Best for Children.
Children take Sal Hepatica readilv
whereas they shrink from castor oil
and, other harsh, nauseating reme-
• , He P a tica makes a
tflko blin a dnnk that is Peasant to
take and a most effective where a
sate, certain laxative for children
wit r h q rT d - Y r> U neve r botS
with other medicines once you trv
®"i It is the renowned
enem> of stomach and liver dis-
orders. Price 2/-, 4/- All chemists.
SAL HEPATir*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A NEW DON JUAN.
“Thai man is responsible for more broken
hearts than you'd believe.”
“Nonsense! I don't believe any girl would
look twice at him.”
“ I don't mean girls' hearts—I mean
tailors'!"
other "word”' the , A.I.F. use of the
ders in m ?“ y wh ° were in Flan-
X| rs ., m 1»17-1?18 will recall a field of mud
off the mam road running S.-E. from Dra-
noutre wherein was a residence of tins
facmes and ruberoid about the size and
shape of a mastiffs kennel. The door wms
always shut, but smoke pouring through
the galvamsed-iron spout which was the
chimney usually indicated that the owner
was within. Over the door, and flunked on
the right by the colors of the 12th Battalion
(to show what the proprietor had been) and
°>. emblem (to indicate
what he had descended to), appeared in
dear white iettering the adjuration: “Keep
out, you blanky ——. This blanky place
belongs to me.” An instance of the old
worM. aPPhed ’ aS lfc WGre ’ to the whole wide
* * *
“Sixenate”: A strange philanthropist has
been pervading Sydney. Armed with an
open cheque-book and a benevolent expres-
sion he has been scattering largesse upon all
the deserving objects” he came across. He
even called upon the Royal Australian Soci-
ety for the Distribution of Colored Socks to
tne Solomon Islanders, and. remarking that
it was an enterprise which had his entire
sympathy, he deposited a cheque for £2OO
and took an affable farewell of the dazed but
delighted secretary. And that was the least
it benefactions, some of which soared to
the thousands. But the recipients of his muni-
mt'-^ore , astoois bed than were
h , bank officials who found themselves
deluged with cheques totalling £50,000 drawn
S n f i an acco « nt , that had been opened
with a tenner and closed by the first cheque
in a thi >ok ° f - 30, T he other 29 had been utilised
m the spurious benevolence. Manifestly the
fe e k e hiit f n eml?08S i d Kaper derived nothing
nom it but personal enjoyment, but, all the
several disillusioned secretaries are
thiisting for his blood.
* *
“Murkah” on his mysterious craft■
But for the power of selection that results from
the use of different wave-lengths (“tunes”), wire-
less-working, as at present carried on, would be an
impossiblity. Tuning is the adjustment of the re-
ceiving gear to suit the waves sent out by any
particular transmitting station. By varying the
apparatus an operator in (say) Sydney can henr
one after another, stations the world over. But for
the selective power of tuning he would hear them
dii at once.
isokmwh tuni ” s enables each pair of stations to
isolate themselves in the ocean of ether. Trans-
ocean stations always work in pairs-,, « Nauen
(Germany) and Tuckerton (U.S.A.). Roughly a score
the p tlo " S w °[ k tr ans-Atlanti6 and four attend to
nr on Clfi °' Thlls at all times > flne or storm, there
th! Iti n t VerS °L messa - es < ten ea ch way) crossing
nirksiK 0 ' m hanks t 0 the tu,lin ff. each receiver
picks its own stream only from the quivering ether.
the t WUte sln5 ln ,Sydney) a mechanic in Funibashi,
ttth aCiflC Stati ° n > is trouble
with a 300-h.p. gas-engine. As the operator con-
tinues sending, the tone of the note goes down, down,
down indicating slower revolution. He stops to
but the fi!-Th n i ft 1 * " P , Speed ' N ° W he stalts again,
Of thl h fi t * n tter Stea,hes the en eine and the pitch
tw I* rapidly ' S ° His fair t 0 assume that
moment 8 TA wkaffor ” in &r Japan at this
moment. At San Francisco, 6000 miles distant a
Yankee operator i s waiting. Half a point away on
condenser and the whirring of the 3000-a-minute
flier at Nauen becomes audible; .it represents present
perfection in radio-engineering. He is going to
his brother at Tuckerton in an endless chain of
business. Another adjustment brings the reverse
St Tw~T Tuckerton *°. Nauen—in on the telephone.
that Jap engine-driver is at peace with the world
The unwavering note tells that the great engine
w ich is Funibashi’s prime mover is roaring steadily
Colon in the Panama Canal zone, is sending time
to S indicat t 0 eUCh SeC ° nd precisely and a dash
to indicate the commencement of each minute. The
next dash will mark 6 a.m. exactly. Just as accu-
rately that will be midnight in Sydney and I (thank
goodness!) shall be finished.
W'i?e?FnR E /' ght ?- Ea vv y last year theN - S.
\\ ales £ Ull Court in Watson’s case decided
that it was no offence under the Medical
Practitioners Act for unqualified persons to
nse titles intended to mislead the public and
to the necessity SS
rm S tho K t- ,1 A BljrXET ™ par, commenting
on the absurd position created by the deci-
onenofmth?H^d tha 7 t “metaphysieia£” t
one of the baits used by unqualified persons
who calculated that most people would be
Lazy about the meaning or tiie worn nrui
erroneously conclude that a metaphysician
Sr a to U ?h™ r bra ? d medical practitioner!
• to t case tbe charlatans, not sure if
their ground, practised furtively; no w em-
boldened by the discovery that thev
under, the protecting ajs of “Bubble’s
public U i are f flauntil ?S their trade in
public. At least one ot them arrogantly
s>y£m “Vi, “ lmctisi "<= as a”£
pnysieian. llis ungrammatical advertise-
ment asserts he can cure the sufferer in so
for r helilth A< fo and a ?, vi f® s everybody looking
WAfin t 0 f°. nsuit bun. Of course the
ISOO-a-year patriots were too busy raiding
the Treasury for extra cash to botherabolt
the simple amendment the Supreme Court
*
n Jm?°a abella ” : The brass -hats this new year
d e a i umme t training-school for State-
school teachers, the mild fellows who teach
the most elementary drill to the 12-to-14
Wai-old kids in the State and other schools
lin? ri fl CiP v y “arching in something resemb-
and “dreJs ” mter Preting “eyes right”
aa , dl . ess - , F °r some reason only under-
standable to the military mind it is found
necessary for such teachers to do from two
to four weeks hard “jerks” to qualify them
The school comprised 220 men who" volun-
tardy gave up weeks of their annual leave,
t opened during the heat-wave of Jan. l-io'
and, on the old British sergeant-maior nrin-
ciple of making conditions such that to think
“mvSn i r ir- y r 1S t 0 hate the trainees were
•gS? s-hSi
tempera a ture V of e io7deg. book 6
men cracked up by the dozen : seven had t 0
go to hospital, men were to be seen crawling
about bent two-double, twisted sideways and
endways, with scorched skins and stiff limbs
Tht *"» ™vS e b S
BRINGING HIM DOWN TO EARTH.
THE OLD BIRD: "Let's talk business! I want you to marry my daughier."
THE FLEDGLING: "B-but I don't love your daughter."
THE OLD BIRD: "I said business, not pleasure."
nm> l ! seen on to the train'for home,” as
wnnfp b rl Ut men able tp stand the training were
wanted in the school. It is to be hoped
vin, . tb m T ll aia } <e fine soldiers of the 12-
-lds’s ’ bnt . lf the trainees repeat their own.
' Penencewith their trainees, there will be
a great killing among the boys. This mid-
*r, mer mat * ness is costing some £7OOO •
teachers were brought from Westralia atf 9 !
s n h ; P a , d „ir i , i !- fare ' l and »'■“«
i ° da J of Uefeoce Depart-
ment money. It would never have done <-<>
give each man an eightpenny drill-manual
and left him to his holiday in peacTf that
way somebody would have been short of a
sacrificed S ° d Flam has also *> *ave hi*
ANOTHER ORPHAN.
“I never tr V to parade my virtues
"N o. It needs at least two to make a
parade."
th ; X + I+ Z ” : ° ne visiting member of
the Science Congress held in Mel-
bourne speedily earned himself a repu-
tation for his absent-mindedness. Leaving
a morning sitting with a number of
eoually learned gentlemen, he presently com
£'rne “”S S -
p?esent ? ’ Professoi '>” said a lady
present, why have you not put on your
hat. The Piofessor stopped and passed an
inquiring hand over his very bfld head
Dear me, my hat!” said he. But he did not
return to get the long chimney-pot which is
his habitual wear; he .stood where lie wag
caietuUy feeling his pockets for the missing
Henry- Horsecollar”: I suppose that the
emotion which makes the young and hand-
some Amende pose on a ship in Sydney
larbor, and which made Lord Mayor
McSwiney pose on an empty stomach, and
*- nneon Stylites pose on a pillar comes under
the same old heading of self-consciousness.
pants 0 of 1 hi 1 * b i ad A henCe tbe green velvet
lock* in* n , Hah ! d and the drooping
lock on his forehead, and it even afflicts
imaginary people like Miss Miggs in “Bar
naby Budge, ’ who, if I remember aright
wanted, to go publicly as “a Martha to the
gift'and 'so* 1 } 6 h aUSe °- re i, igion - 1 la ck the
Advertisement A? “ IS - Sed a good deal of
auvernsement. At various places in the
Empire I have been stopped by brass-
bounders and even sentries and told that I
could get back as fast as I liked but going
foiward would mean trouble. It wos in
outrage, but I simply replied- “Yep If
you want this bit of the Empire for private
ZS • fio \L d 7' t H rai,)d r tl?e «' s
tX an oath i 1 h ’- Ve been called on to
aa oat h at various strange ports and
or. my ?STK
u*l°d b t r akf °th* dot oZ Bur?ren d
I never travelled armed with a pedigree and
a diplomatic mission. So I never
struck, nor did I ever thirst-strike unless the
liquor was really terrible.
*** * ■
: In many Cases the lad y whom
the Digger married in Britain has proved
Hor^’y 6 aS * he ] cgionary’s bride in
Horace s time, so the authorities have decided
L h ?K w > r T wll ° wants a free Passage
for his British missus will have to pay a
iig San’Je 0 nA® &S * he t ° ne whois hnport-
sofdiers’ brirfc; tn er ° US berths reserved for
been occunfed ’ ’ITf m Posse, have not
their mind* i.’nf be a< ?. le,s having changed
men minds before sailmg-dav The Cnm
it. A veteran who thought t Z,
tte P "wif?“t? t fc ou i ht “ta* « letter 7ro£
tne wire to the eftect that her real hus-
band (someone she had forgotten when she
tha“she had deSdedsffle'’didm’flikfhim and
The" wise XgSsKho b '
t b h r fb S „ o r re tioSe Who a™ sa?e!? h S
A THERMONEPRICAL BALLADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a wind up that licks like a flame,
And the sun is a porthole of hell.
Now evanish prim notions of shame,
And the craving to look rather well— '
i" Pyjamas you’re never a swell,
y ° U Ve ChoSen some rooinily made.
Oh for ices these pangs to dispel—
It s one hundred and nine in the shade!
We, have limped in from tennis. That game!—
d as soon with the damned where they dwell
fetoke a, furnace and bathe in the same!
v r , h "’ C s oo dnnk human craving to quell,
* ot thin chablis nor sweet muscatel.
Never more shall we see, I’m afraid,
The cool shallows, the pale asphodel.
Its one hundred and nine in the shade.
You recline an invertebrate frame
In the moisture your atoms expel,
Gainst the fates very feebly declaim,
All too limp to rise up and rebel.
Action flies and mosquitoes compel.
W< L™ ke P’tiful fight ’gainst the raid.
With a cloying and nauseous smell
n one hundred and nine in the shade.
Envoy.
Here might solids of Ilamlet dispel
Quick the answer to prayer that he prayed,
uman flesh turns to dew ’neath the spell
Of one hundred and nine in the shade.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


I-
-4
mmm
K-
&
fSi
X
\vl
I
Hill
M I
nun
HW«".
m *m '
r *
< v\' /
\
St
fji
V'A
v
<1
<s r >
P
H
/t
-7 nr.
1
o
f
7
*
p.'lß
P
L_
E
»«n
»*!
1
C=
J
/
f&
V
16
For the Children, Too, Surely !
The Aeolian VOGALION.
greatest of phonographs.
IT is an enduring source of happiness, of inspiration
and cuhure you can bestow upon your children
with The Aeolian-Vocation most wonderful of
phonographs.
As babies vou can give them the lullabies oh all
time sung if you will, in the velvet richness of a
deep contralto voice. Tender nothing ream me 0
that breathe the very soul of mother l ove h
swinging slumber songs of Schumann Mozart ;fT|™ d S s
These tenderest conceptions of the mas er m n
nlaved with a fidelity that is possible with this Aeolian
made phonograph alone. The Vocal.on, with its fine
nure tone quality, its absence of stridency, with albits
subtle°refinement, gives your » baby-
hood the music that is best and greatest.
JK sswwSS'Jfes
SSet.SrS'li.S. «
as their fancy dictates.
value!*" P^rthc'ularly training°a
vsstfa zSissrsti^K
6^or As far as modern artistry and mechanical skill
can reach* ?he Aeolian-Voilion has gone toward
phonograph perfection.
Musicians have used their time and ski'l m the
rWelooment of the Vocalion. The result is a pno
noeraoh which is recognised as a genuine musical
instrument. Scientists and inventors have combined in
<?evelooin2 in the Vocalion a phonograph that is
acoustically and mechanically s "have
dinary Artistic designers and cabinet maters nave
wrought cases of distinctive beauty.
And finally, because of its exclus.ve tone control
feature alone, which is so musical in its effects, so tas
cinating to operate, thousands of people have chose
the Vocalion in preference to any other phonograp .
*&?SL2i*£!iZ3 g ""“
The PIANOLA COMPANY pty. ltd.
{Trade Mari. “Aeolian )
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
m OIJEEN ST.. BRISBANE. 58 Rt
252 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
w RIJNDLE ST.. ADELAIDE.
(POST COUPON FOR CATALOG.
Kindly send me the Illustrated Catalog and Price
List of the Aeolian Vocahon.
Name ”
Address
1035


The Standard
All-British Fountain Pen
ďf ďf
THE
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD., bunhill eow, London
Australasian Representatives : NORMAN BAKER & LONGHIIRst q
ASK FOR ONOTO INK BEST FOR ALL PENs " ™
STRg
LA(aER
ONLY,
please.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
b urni shed and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v.f Host
Tsher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
Arthur j. usher,
Managing Director.
th a oe ” : P ue of the saddest things about
the medical profession in Ausinlif
bv S the^‘l Wi -T hi ? h a member is regarded
y the leaders of it should he attemnt in
intreduce ideas which are new to See
and unfamiliar to the bulk of graduates
Should one of these pioneers be a vomit
ha a t?ed aS and ?f“ eraJly is : hostility turns to
naiitd, and the atmosphere becomes fhiek
with remarks about the “charlatan “ K
a hTh «» M Kopuffi regards
as in the front ranks of medical nro«ress
Saner ally getting on in years, and “they
owe their position mostly to the fact that
they nave been practising a long time while
assiduomdy cultivating hospital honorarj-
c e4O ve,ri le reSt ’ they learued their medi-
,Y yeais or 80 ago, and the only addi-
tions they have made to their knowledge have
£ot\f«rt from medical periodSs S
more* Mian tllel l>«ss«ss little
tii l a su P ei ’ficial acquaintance with
theV m ro St T T Bnt - advances iu niedicine, which
legard uninterestedly from a distance-
sues 'lnffi 1 . 011 ®, 0f the “ore progressive school
sr^mi U I iT t - y fa '' ahead t 0 attract public-
attention, their innate conservatism rebels.
0i th ! s iu Australia are not want-
ing for one, the hostile reception that sal-
one Sa ?f n, ; a . brilliant graduate of
one _of our Universities went abroad bv
special request in order to describe his re-
searches into the treatment of disease with
gland-products, and in London was honored
by scientists, who regarded him as one of
Hp °S a new epoch iu aiedicine.
(if l.ifi.li t 0 -n 1S owu c ? unt .ry, the scene
°t .his labors, without receiving so much as
a handclap from the alleged “leaders” of his
profession, some of whom are now decrying
his work and endeavoring to create the mi-
ll* lull that / e \ S not “ st rict]y ethical.”
ittle wonder that Australia’s scientists
aie a disheartened crowd.
* * #
“Spare Corp”: A Queensland ex-Digger
who accumulated 51 wounds has been patched
up and declared fit to return to his pre-war
occupation. It sounds marvellous, but there
ie parallel cases. I know a man who got the
tull issue of a shrapnel burst and was
counter?* 1 qv 1 ° m he ? d to . foot - The doctors
counted 37 wounds and we thought him
deatl ?? d *0 lifelong invalidism, but when I
met him in Sydney two years later he was
leaving for S. Africa to till a job as in-
structor m physical culture. Another man
who was able to hoist eight wound stripes
was the envy of the battalion. 11 length of
service in the line was about two weeks
and he had a golden time resting in hospital
his injuries were slight) and swanking
on leave with all the gold stripes show"
mg on his sleeve. On the other hand,
THE STANDARD OF STYLE.
"I just saw Lotta in a most beautiful frock.
I’m sure it must have cost twenty -five
guineas !”
I know the frock. It cost just five.”
“Go on! With all her money you'd think
shed dress decently, wouldn't you?”
one wound, or none at all, has been enough
vo] men ' An unfortunate who de-
veloped dysentery on the Peninsula “may
J< l a , l righ *; in 12 years,” according
to the doctor s verdict. Another whose re-
of V bntlvl h f Pel T e f S tmces his wreck t 0 a tin
whS W' 14 f et op Ptomaine poisoning,
hi« 1 m 4 ° ol ] e thing and ano tber, and now
ms tiouble is chronic gastric inflammation.
chaime tb ? A ™ y a 1() ng time to
wnrflv habits. In ,Sinai news of an
appioachnig German aeroplane would be
telephoned from our outposts to the camp.
Vf orderly-corporal would then sound the
ahum, usually by beating a kerosene-tin. arid
hm«,r en 111 ca , ra P w °uld double to the
coidd' 1 m^nn lmtethei i llorses as each
coutd manage, and bridle their prosiieo-
tive mounts. When the ’plane came over
they w° uld ( scatter. The next m“e was
and mra'i" 8, kS eleeting a group of animals
and men he would dive towards them and
onTJT W0 ’ M be , Sin ■ Di^ers «ot down
-ittle of S rh - neC i S - and rode them out.
whistW / f i, machine-gun above and the
in tlmg of bullets about them urged the
l rses to their best speed. Diggers who were
he quari ’y derived rare excitement from
ered E'fien 1T^ mitil the Hlln “ad scaT-
icicu tin held and came back seeking f,
conquests; then the excited became tS
hunted until Fritz gave up the pursuit
Kounding-up and sorting-out after these
When ni we eS p(,rT, l” i e^ aust mg business.
i i e sot to 1 alestrue a change
f 6 !'” 1 ’ I resumably the situation had been
St?) by gene , rul staffs and schools of
tactics galore; anyhow, when the same kind
of. trouble occurred afterwards we remained
ZrT ‘n VI ° S fUld let the raided IHhek
« resistance stunt had
oiawback. It deprived Diggers of a
f r method of getting better horses
Horn mother regiment.
* * »
* *
bkyrider When Goulbiirn was trvinv
become the Federal capital, it was “i?
spected by George H. Reid. George was
PITY THE POOR BOSS
"Quite satisfactory-but what salary would you expect?"
"I'd need to get enough to live on”
"Don’t he foolish, child; why I don't get that much myself."
abkcp when he “inspected” it, but that is
’i 0 - 1 ' ' u>1 ‘ e nor lere - He slept at the 1-ite
Aid. Ivnowlinan’s house in Church-street and
£ t,? a . d - catch «*rly train to |Uey
;■) rr wh , i <- h >»
tne siieet so that the cabby could wake him
f h ? re V f liousehold!
fare' u b ° W !? d l,p the f ' u iet thorough-
rare, and cabby sped across the lawn to the
Geo l ;ge ’ s ro °m. “Mr. Ileid.”
snore “Mi- IPe . oniy reply was a terrific
do?in’th reP - ie - d *y tStime eSry
train “ y °f U miss that
took a lemd w^' R '* S i host descended and
hand. A\ hen the statesman walked
out to the cab he found every resident of
Church-street outside. They thought it was
“Ti ne b - lt Geol ' ge was as Pleased as Punch
hat is a very handsome tribute Mr
Knowlnian, he remarked. “I do appreciate
l i.m u d Ceu° ff -” The { ddernian said no-
hM to « k *° A
I-lairpin Roads”: I struck it outside a
Dago restaurant at Ismailia in 1915 •
AVIS!
that '."'SSCV *““)* dtof
ess? - !ree, - v -.—.wmViissr^
_ Ex-Englishman": A recent Bulletin
Par., on the pride of English, sportsmen in
wearing colors, touches old memories. Half
tjm delight of life in England seems to con-
sist m being or possessing something which
most others can’t be or possess; and the
blazer or tie or hat-ribbon is valued for
what it denotes.
Hence the fierce de-
nunciation of an y-
bcdy wearing it when
not strictly entitled,
in extreme youth
there may be a cer-
tain delight in the
coloring itself. Start-
ing a certain new
club at Cambridge,
one of our first tasks
was to design a
blazer. All the colors
were already gone, of
course: also all 'the
more obvious com-
binations. We were
driven to adopt a ver-
tical-striped arrange-
ment of red, blue and
chocolate, which we
then took as a matter
of course, but which
now strikes me as
liable to make a horse
■shy. Certainly I
have never dared to
wear it in Australia
Hvery little club had
lts _ blazer after the
style of Biblical Joseph. It always seemed
to me that in their various ways the Unlver-
sitj chess club and the swimming club were
Soke? °° miCal Claimants to* a vioTent
Callan Park”: I am getting rather tired
of these families which, after voting Labor
for years sent all their male members, in-
cluding the old man, into the fightin«-line
1 ai more psychologically interesting to my
n« *s4™ !&&?&** xs-
•\v tJ jly lecord was as follows •
Horace (38). Rjfl e 01ub 19151qlfi '
nou need medically unfit by family doctor 1917
T** « t»s„ rt , :
Abe -% 351 ! , e^ my aHeAs after Armistice.
iSSST?** -ria?£SS3B:
ti “ aro . ld (30) - A barrister. Unable to leave prae-
“j -is r„„Serr a sr -™ to "*-
'£»«-
£ ““ «,- % death otXm
of filial affection. “ milltary ambltlons on altar
camp 1 ’ E !'Sis) 23) 'a W ain C ' M ' F - Winga-wonga
ised (19fn ’ n l m ; r °° n ° amp (1916 >- D®iobil-
tion in 1918 on I n 'T Up with Graves Seo-
ranlc. Rejected. ° n he WaS given his C.M.P.
Kc.-wS-?e 5° the °S of C hf my i tlle ’
to adopt Andrew Fisher’s phrase
Io a nd n an ‘} nd the Last Shilling!” ’He made
? ,9? use °f A at recruiting meetings other
S°y‘°#T h ° ““ S"
(after 191fi) ‘“Wo n SS6d > as does **»”' and
M, 10 * vVe have ’em on the run”
The family was neutral on the Conscription
iS U Englis b h“ S b t ut e lieWI ieW u that the P oli cy was
“ but —as showing its snin'f „f
combined Glmstian forgiveness and Imperial-
ism—Joshua was one of the largest snK
scribers to the W M fWho* t”!- Sl l b :
Fund. Joshua’s only .brother
•staa rant and won a tfaO at Le Havle
THE MODEREN VERSION.
"It's the old story, They had champagne
tastes on a beer income ”
"Oh auntie, don't be so Early-Victorian,
You mean Fiat 'tastes on a Ford
income.”
(M °a°, r Trans P° r t Section) ;
.md one of Mrs. S. s brothers (44) who
happened to be in the Army when the war
b(gan. made 28 trips as C.O. Troops on
b l tWe r en - he end of 1914 and the
hv i the Lusitania, when his health
i-tjVi (OV T n ‘ 4u addition to Joshua’s
v.I, h. and the D.S.O. above mentioned, the
M"ai!. S (ATbort“ °- BE - (H ° raCe ' ) “““ “
, #
The Parson”: It was New Year’s Eve,
and there was chaff in his whiskers, “It’s
like this, mister,” Jie said. “Me an’ me wife
ave always intended to, ’ave them boys of
ent soine’ow or other we
, U oft an puttin’ it off, till we’ve
we’d Hk^t*’ late ; but if you could manage it,
we d like t ave it done for the New Year.” I
e The i boyS Came up from the
milking-shed to undergo the performance, and
when 1 nad hmshed I felt as if all the
starch had gone out of my collar. The young-
est was six inches taller than myself.
* * * *
In answer to “Pero” (B.
Ik'/1/ 21 ) ’ my authority for the origin of the
short hair-cut among women was a Sister at
where I worked while
from Fvvnt % b ° yS to c / oss over to France
aom Egypt. She was a first-class nurse, and
iLf,vi X 1 fnGnd the Australians; I have
o,ff rd slle r ce d , ied of iuduenza, poor ladv.
e^ phatic that the original name
heard of cut” ; I never saw or
heaid of the idiotic Buster Brown till the
• d i iy ’ and 1 fanc y that the rather prim
Mumtioneer cut” was altered later to re-
semble Buster, whom few people in London
would worry about in 1915-10. At that time
nearly every girl in London was either
munition-work to look as if she was!
“**• IVw nticket”: The odd person at
Bathurst (JS.S.W.) who circulated a report
of his death to .see how the family would
be k fl m,i!'! rrnnd , s of Bl °ggs. It used to
be a habit with Bloggs. Mrs. Bloggs keeps
RW^ dl pf 10USe n al - d uiostly she also keeps
On rfo’ r> °, ggs having an aversion to work,
o ! f a yf ) vl ‘ en , M .y s - Bloggs has driven him
the In k f i? l ' toli ’ a w i re ma y arrive while
the soup is being served to say that Bloaas
has been killed in a tram accident or I
breathless boy may rush in with the news
pence a l r gave him three '
pence to tell the household that Mr Blomrs
had perished of heart-failure in The street
•Bloggs usually comes back at night and
seems annoyed at the. complete aSence of
treat him n a c.^w e . occasion we conspired to
MV *rw having no corporeal existence.
as § JJ gg f regarded his chair at the table
as it it were empty. Not one of us heard
him when he spoke or responded to his
anguished requests for the butter; but we
all made injurious remarks about the benefit
that would accrue to Mrs. Bloggs by Blois’s
it bedthne g b S e to ° k the J \ ke with bitterness,
to Si b l^ aS ? augbt helping himself
room “YnnT f y the star boarder’s
silliness, then!- h slM t B,S
you/damS whisky™ C “' t me drl “ U "e
MORNING FORGIVENESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The morning sun came up
Ridiculously yellow •
Each blossom raised a cup
Exactly like its fellow
And drank a toast in sparkling dew
10 a]1 jt dreamed and thought and knew.
It pledged the tufted sky,
It pledged the night departed,
It drank to mountains dry
And gullies bubble-hearted ;
In fact, it drank to everything
Of which the morning breezes sing.
Oh, doubtful head and grey,
The summer light is mellow;
Eook out upon the day
Ridiculously yellow.
Then hail, amid morn’s fragrant smother
Even the dentist as your brother!
•N’jS.IV.
PAT O’MAORI.


■
.■~.' ' ■ ■ - -
" _ ,■ . .
- - • - . .
A
mi itfunii jm
Wm -
m wm m l
. . *
it
v V
.. ■
*
I
s
8
A
i.t
pm
m
*
v'f '/
-i
:a
if’
■
T&4
mm
sW i
mm
c
hi
B
.
wfcj
.
•*>
1 n i !i 'i
W
ga
:■ > ••/.'i
■
mm
:
m
fc
Kg
•-.•• •'
/ i
sip
mm
Wm
S* ~. rr.jl
fir U
,
' - Ml
L
wsm
//
// - M
.
Wmm
/
/
-
I
j! *
>T“V.
■ISB
r M y:/; W&pl
\J
if
r A
MlMpj
' -,
Z Kflß’
■■■ I
?Ki
assM'
~ 4 <^
SS :
n
lssM»2
; ,V;:\
la
7* '
■ /:
:: !0 . T
:
.
-
,
■
gfis 1 I Hi ■
►!*»»
fc -k i 1 ■
Kp f vC '
•'•■ ..
'■g;
wm
\ m m ‘Q
■H
~,.
.
ilfgfjflsj
®*g^Ss*§«l
«w
.i E
l§|ilfpgl||j|
®g|ti
• .
'
' v
*9S& * ( '
-
m
*
i ms
. .J
-
S. C.
JOHNSON & SON, 379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
| For
Around the House
XT'VERY room needs the bri f^J S I .Juvenate
K, Johnson’s Prepared Wax- It gvena_
your furniture, woodwork, give your home
Irafi^ssiSSwSik y .,
Johnson’s Prcpnrod Wan imßrts a^ohOrt^stiC
SL®-*" B®' 8 ®'- s r sng “ C«*
Johnson's Prepared Wax Pf similar to the
It forms a thin, protecting coat over th desk, tab i e or
sSs?Tf^rs.S“.s*-h bg .
JOHN SON’S
Paste - UQpidjPomlered
prepared wax
Johnson’s Prepared Wax *S^ d^n^shing I 'fmTdture > leather
form. Use the Liquid Wax for the Paste Wax for
Unoleum, tile, marble, etc.
For a Perfect Darning Surface
Just sprinkle J oh^ n thTflolrf and
° £ pSfect condition for dancing.
x For years our employees '® ve ™{
nartners and share the profits. Because ot
this nersonal interest unusual care and
i mi onter into the manufacture of the
jK£"
J to the minimum —and we are
enabled to sell at a very slight
increase over pre-war prices.
Your dealer has “JOHNSON S
don’t accept a substitute.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
Drubbed
3] B. TOWXS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
SUFFER ECZEMA
NO LONGER!
Numbers of happy people, now
cured, are testifying to the wonderful
curative power of the marvellous dis-
covery,
LIGMOLLIENE
Eminent members of the medical
profession recommend it, which is yet
further evidence of its great value.
Your chemist sells it at 5/6 and 7/6
tin but if you cut out this ad. and
send with 1/6 Postal Note to address
you a SP6Clal sample wiU be sent
LIGMOLLIENE CO.
Malyons, Sturt Street,
BALLARAT.
A Signal
Success
*3
theTOP-WOTCHfo^li
u£f
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Two Seas”: Having the misfortune to
live close to a couple of slaughteryards I have too
many opportunities of studying the habits of thp
SS tLf V L hi T t h \ belt "^t^wt^all-round
curse that the cocky has to contend with in his
•truKl. lor , « The bl*
only as a killer of lambs-and weak ewes, a black
dewl whose poisonous beak is fatal; but the cocky
suffers also from the crow’s cleverness in pickino-
up the seed he has sown. Some years ago I reported
that the bird of evil omen had taken to stealing
apples, and for every one that he bore away he left
a score he had knocked to the ground. This season
tor the first time, he came in full strength and
stripped the cherry-trees cleaner than a professional
picker—except that he left the stalks on the trees
the cherries being finished he is now watching the
apripots ripen with great interest, and fills up
the slack time collecting any eggs laid outside the
fowl-house. The only thing the swine won’t lift
is the mortgage.
* * * •
“T.E.A.”: A curious phenomenon is fre-
quently seen near a bush hotel at Uin-Uin, situated
on the Boulia-Winton road, West Queensland, and
at other places in the vicinity. It is known locally
as the Warenda light, and is described by manv
who have seen it as being as bright as a motor-
car light. It appears usually for several nights
in succession, and then it may not be seen again
or weeks. The light is not stationary, but moves
about not far from the ground, about the level of
the treetops. On being approached it seems to
recede. One man is supposed to have nearly caught
up to it, but unfortunately he ran into a*fence
and broke his leg. It will be interesting to have
an opinion upon it from scientific readers. I hav£
not seen the light myself, as I live 80 miles from
the locality. But some of the people who have seen
it are trustworthy witnesses.
* * *
Coringa”: “Cruma’s” “olde bushe ratte
trappe” is too slow if the rodents are at all plenti-
ful. Try something more in the wholesale line. A
large iron tub or tank is about three-parts filled
with water, covered with a good layer of chaff, on
top of which is spread a layer of bran. A box
is placed alongside the tub, with a leaning board
to enable the little beasts to walk up. A thin trail
of bran is laid on board and box. The big bran-
feast spread out for them in the tub presents an
apparently solid surface, and as it is too far away
to be licked up from the box, they jump down with-
out hesitation. The drowning process is quickened
by the smothering layer of chaff. One catch I know
of was 67 in three nights.
# * „
* *
Sardonyx’ ; Can’t say anything about
rufous Maoris (B. 6/l/’2l), but I know that a long-
standing ethnological puzzle has been the finding of
light-haired strains amongst dark peoples. Many
years ago, when two others and myself were follow-
ing-up the Kuti River in south-eastern Borneo, we
were told of a people near the river-head who had
hair like that of one of ourselves—red. We were
duly sceptical, and were consequently astonished to
strike, about 100 miles further up, a tribe which,
though otherwise quite like the western Dyaks, had
not a few of the men—no women—red-headed,
though there wasn’t any collateral lightness of eye
or skin, nor could I trace any family-transmission of
the peculiarity. Some of them could speak a little
coast-Malay, and we thus learnt that, by tradition,
the tribe had long ago come from a far-country in
the south. We took one of them with, us up to
Sandakan, but the ethnological experts there couldn’t
find in the man—bar the fiery locks—any trace of
non-Dyak extraction. His name was Dugal, so we
gave it the necessary prefix, and for anything I know
there may now be in British Borneo a descendant
clan of dusky but red-headed MacDougals.
“Ragar”: The sea-urchin is used as food
by the islanders more or less throughout the Pacific.
The flesh is palatable, and is plentiful among the
rocks and reefs that surround the islands. The
bristles are boiled, and the brew is used for dyeing
the hair of the village belles and bucks. In some
places the native-made fabrics are fast-dyed with
the same stuff. I iiave ! seen lava-lavas red, orange,
blue and purple, and was told that in each case
the color was procured from the boiled spines of
various kinds of sea-urchins. As these fish are to
be found all round the Australian coast, they might
be worth investigating for their dye value. The
color I personally extracted from the spines was
a royal purple, which lasted as well as any now
on the market.
* * *
“Hannibal”: Dad was out in the bush
after cattle, and, happening to have a gun with
him, let fly at a flock of butcher-birds, bringing
down one. It was only wounded, and put up a
strenuous fight, but was finally choked into submis-
sion. Another butcher-bird had evidently been
watching proceedings, as when the old man was
proceeding on his way it suddenly darted down and
viciously attacked the wounded one, securing a
death-grip with its hooked beak. Both had to be
killed in the end. The only rival in tenacity is
probably jacky with a fair-sized wriggler between
the peckers.
“Centre”: Though most of the old-school
swaggies cling to the blackened and battered billy
and the dun-colored and dust-laden bluey, one bumps
into the modern edition here and there. Out beyond
Bourke the other day I came across a gentleman of
the road lunching on sandwiches and fresh tomatoes
and drinking iced beer from a thermos flask. I
dismounted to investigate, and while yapping learned
that he was looking for a job. He said he’d been
going around humping bluey for the past three years
—ever since he got back from the war—but that
he didn’t see the necessity for taking on the old
style of swag. He filled up his thermos before
leaving Bourke, and was heading across the boundary
tor Cunnamulla, where he would be able to fill her
up again.
THINGS GET DESPERATE.
"For Gawd's sake, give 'em "Ome, Sweet 'Ome,' Peter, else they'll never be in time
for the milkin."
: In returning to his denial of the
" 0f te ego,iy ’ “Exul” ignores the most important
challenge I set him, namely, to buy a valuable bitch,
ave her mated with a mongrel and try to sell
her or any of her progeny for stud purposes. If
he is chary of losing his money let him go to any
breeder of pedigree stock, ask his opinion of the
LETIN 3 ° f SUCh a matln§r ' and send it to The Bun-
* * *
“2662”: The beer we got in France was
usually pretty poor, but this time it was the real
thing. It happened to be an area previously un-
occupied by troops, and by dinner-time Brolly, the
ration king, had a skinful. We were resting in
our billet waiting for cookhouse, when Brolly rushed
!f' sl ™' d the door hard and burst into tears.
W hat s the matter?” a dozen voices asked. “A
tin of bully-beef is chasing me,” he sobbed.
THE NEXT-BEST THING.
MR. BOOZEY : “Do you think you can cure
my delirium tremens, Doctor?”
THE DOC.: "Well, no; hut I can make the
snakes look smaller.”
F.C.L. : “Te Whare” (B. 16/12/’2O)
asks about the nesting arrangements of the wild
turkey or bustard. I have known the lady-bird to lay
several eggs, but usually, they are scattered in all
directions, the egg often reposing on the top of a
bed of leaves or beside a grass tuft. But finally she
makes a camp, and generally you’ll find two e°ws
there.
“Blacklin”: The natives on the islands in
Jorres Strait are not actually dyiijg out, but the
birth-rate is low. On an average a hundred new
curly-haired island citizens are brought up on turtle
cocoanut milk each year. Until a missionary's
gar e birth to twins, and reared them, singletons
were de rujueur; it was reckoned “all same” dog to
muLr rC u ha " ° ne ‘ The lady is USUall - v h er own
midwife and never lets an addition to the family
interfeie with her domestic work. The majority of
the men earn good money on pearling and beche-de-
mer luggers. In this respect they are a big contrast
to some of the mainland mission “boys” who are not
allowed to go out and work, and are thus becoming
lazier and less dependable every year.
* * *
“Euro”: If you want to meet a bushman
who knows every beast on a 10,000-square-mile
run I’ll introduce you to Ted Hayes, of Maryvale
(N.T.). It is said of him that he can “mother”
every calf among the 4000. beasts the sta-
tmn hoids One hundred and seventy calves were
chaffed into one yard, from every part of the big
holding; they belonged variously to five owners—
mother, brothers and sisters of this bushman. Ted
was doing the branding, and as. the “boys” hauled
the calves before him he would call for the different
branding-irons, a casual glance being sufficient to
establish the identity of each beast. When the task
was over it was found that one calf had been
wrongly branded: the mother had been transferred
rom one brother to another some time before. Ted’s
sister, on observing this, drily remarked, “You’re
going off, Ted.”
* * *
“Montalex”: “Ragar” (B. 30/12/’2O) is
right about the effect of funk in snake-bite cases.
As for the common belief that the adder stings with
its tail, the creature’s generic name, Acanthop'his
(thorn-snake”), has obvious reference to the claw-
hke but this I have several times
* ln " oCUol,s h y dissecting the reptile and
demonstrating that there are no poison-glands near
the tail and no injectory duct in the “claw” itself
snakes >n^n e is “deaf”-not “death”-adder.
, Ilttle exceeds the brown snake, and
comes far behind the “tiger.” Like all the viperines
it is very dull of ear, whereas all our other poison-
ous snakes (colubrines) have very acute hearing. '
“Delhi”: Talk of casual Australians
always reminds me of a night when I was forced
to seek the shelter of a selector’s humpy. As the
old man showed me my bunk, which was a tent-
folded up and thrown on a couple of hags, he said:
1 c *on t think there’s any snakes in there—l haven’t
seen any lately.” I was very sure before I turned
(Continued on page 22.)
O'CONNOR’S, UP THE RIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The river, breaking from the hills,
Sings as it skirts their ground ;
No summer yet has stopped its flow,
But rippling, swirling, high or low,
the rapid waters as they go
Fill the old house with sound.
The only sound that breaks the hush
Wherein the hours brood 1
The children’s. voices came and went
Now when the Spring's green wave is spent
Calm Summer spreads her hazy tent
O’er speechless solitude.
Nor is there ever any stir *
Within the empty rooms,
Save when a wee mouse questing goes,
Or the soft wind that as it blows
ick on the chilly hearthstone strows
The jasmine’s ravaged blooms.
O’Connor and the wife are dead,
One boy has gone to sea,
Another lad is in the West,
And one, the gayest and the best,
Takes after toil his peaceful rest
On far Gallipoli.
The long years saw the bush go down,
they saw the old house built
They saw the serried orchard trees
expand and proffer to the bees
Their lavish cups, and harvest-seas
O er the wide paddocks spilt.
HIS AWFUL PREDICAMENT
THE MISSUS : “Row long is it since yon had
a job?
SWAGGY: “It’s this way, mum. Eight years
ago I was took bad, an’ the doctor said
I wasn’t on no account to do any work
until ’e gimme the office.”
THE MISSUS: “And hasn’t he given it to
you yet?”
SWAGGY: “He died, mum—an’ I dunno wot
to do.”
The mountains heard from dawn to dusk
-ine placid homestead noise—•
The old mare’s slow and steady jog,
The axe-blade ringing on a log
The crowing cock, the barking dog
The whistling of the boys. ’ ■
But now the long years only see
The mouldering fences fall;
The very fantails long have flown,
And save the water’s monotone
On fickle breezes idly blown
There is no sound at all.
Once more the river dwells alone
And rippling to the sea
Sings as it goes of sorrows brief
And joys as transient as grief
' While time drifts like a withered leaf
Cradled in melody.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


Australian Novels
. . ■ * _ n - A arc
"aladdin and’THE BOSS COCKIE” -
:Thl mSuntmlronga mystery;'
“THE SKIPPER OF ‘THE ROARIN MEG
“YELLOW SILVER” -
"Thl flV E AGERY G OF L MARGARET by'jack McLaren
•™CURATE IN BOHEMIA” Norman Lrndeay
A CURRENCY LASS," J- H M^Abbott
by Randolph Bedford
by Randolph Bedford
_ - - by Con Drew
by Harrison Owen
” -by Jack McLaren
- by Edward Meryon*
by Broda Reynolds
“RED MOUNTAIN”
“HACK’S BRAT” "
“BASE BRANDS”
“SOUTH SEA SINNERS”
“ÜBIQUE”
“WOLAROI’S CUP” - - - -
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER”- - - -
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE” - - - - -
“THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION”- -■ '_
“THE SHANTY-KEEPER’S DAUGHTER
“THE CALLING VOICE” ------
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO”- - - -
“GENTLEMAN JACK”
“SILVER STAR” " “
by Jack McLaren
by A. lan McLeod
- - by H. M. Somer
- by Arthur Crocker
- by C. W. Martin
- by Ambrose Pratt
- - - by Jack North
- - by Ralph Stock
- - -byE. J. Brady
- by H. K. Bloxham
- - by Vance Palmer
- by E. F. Christie
by Ambrose Pratt
- - by Don Delaney
by Randolph Bedford
..tVCdaVimA cit k r ” ----- by Gerald R. Baldwin
“THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF” - - by^. ob A^ llen
“THF KNICHT OF THE MOTOR-LAUNCH, by Arthur H. Adams
“THE MYSTERY OF THE BOXING CONTEST,” by Bert James
“THE DAWSONS’ UNCLE GEORGE” - - - by Sumner Locke
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE” by Roy Bridges
“THE WHITE CHAMPION” by D° n Delaney
“EROS! EROS WINS!” - -* ------ “ by F f , Agar
“THE TRADER” - -- -- -- - by Cecil Ross-Johnson
“THE BULLETIN” BOOK OF HUMOROUS
VERSE AND RECITATIONS,
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or
Direct from Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George St„
SYDNEY.
r
m.
1
■o
m
W
»
7/
V.si
m
W.
%
t
/a
A
J
2i
3.
?/m
m
n*3
vA
m
m
a&Jfi
m
6L
Vf/I
AC
V.
ph
&
s
%
i
FOR HOLIDA i WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them-in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and _in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
See
on e<
SovamDeal
Drastic Reductions
in ail Departments.
Order Early!
ALE
Write for
“SQUARE DEAL"
Price List
WRITE OR CALL FOR PATTERNS.
The “Quality” Suit
Tailored-to-Measure, Usually £B/18/6.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE: £7/19/6
Smartly tailored in guaranteed Indigo Cheviot Serge
or Superior All-Wool Tweeds.
English Cambric
Shirts.
White grounds, with neat pencil stripes of
Blue, Black or Grey. Shirts are fitted with
reinforced necks and gauntlet cutis.
Extraordinary value at 11/6.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE:
B|6
SPECIALS.
“OSH-KOSH” OVERALLS, strongly made
in brown military drill, unequalled dor
genuine hard service. Sizes 4 to 8.
Usually 13/6. . 11/11
Square Deal Price: **/ *
Self strapped, laced at knees, ready to wear.
Sizes 3 to 6.
Usual Price, 15/6. 13/11
Square Deal Price: ***/ * *
SPECIALS.
MEN’S LUSTRE COATS, smartly tailored in
black and white striped lustre, fashioned with
step collar, plain back and 3 pockets. Sizes
3 to 7.
Usually 27/6. 24/11
Square Deal Price: 4 1
MEN’S GOLF COATS, tailored in all-wool
Australian tweeds, Donegal effects, cut roomy
for golfing. Two breast pockets with button
and buttonhole, two flap pockets, half-belted
back and vent. All sizes.
Usually 52/6. 44/11
Square Deal Price: 4 4
2000 PAIRS MEN’S SOCKS.
d Plpnranoe Black Cashmere All-wool Socks, with
seamless feet, medium weight, soft finish. Special Value for 5/\>.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE:
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
416
ďfď
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner SWANSTON
and BOURKE STS.,
MELBOURNE.
Why Bother to Learn?
Learning how to use the ordinary razor, and how to strop it,
is a troublesome and perhaps painful process. Few young
men bother with it nowadays. The modern razor is the
Gillette
No stropping—no honing. Always a keen edge—every
time a smooth velvet shave. The curved blade gives the
correct angle. There is nothing to learn—you shave right
the first time and every time. Standard set in leather case,
JV'S
s-r
28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
ď f
«NqWN THE
WORLD oven
Gillette Safety Razor Co., Montreal, Canada.
S. Hoffnnng & Company, Limited,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.


assured water supplies
or omesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
m an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
ď
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS,
Queen s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
0
CA-C-
-brand
COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
manufactured BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO LTD
o h ,. hl r GORDON STR «T. footscra" vTc
Obtainable from «„ tbe leadi„ g Hardware House, i„ the C„ mm .„„ calßl .
SALES OFFirce.
- - Phone Central 1995
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII s Buildings, Creek Street, 2382
~ a .y ry ” : The man who “slipped his
incident Yh°? F p allS & somewhat similar
nciaent. The Batebula River (N.S.W.) was in
flood and j oe , ho ha(J st dat hom }
to inform Jim, who had got a selection of his own
had died° PP °Th e S ‘Y ,?/ thG riV6r ’ that their father
to Jim wh 01d ,, b,0ke ’ s P assed out,” he shouted
to Jim, who was riding in the shallow water that
had backed up on his river paddock. Jim pu i led
P and held his hand to liis ear. “The old bloke’s
Satc V hed a the Ven, ”/ 0e bUt the water
“The It "'° rds and swirled them down-stream.
The old man s turned it in,” he tried again as if
nmv strength of lung lay in variety of phrasing
“What?” spurred him to a new
the h The ° ld bl ° ke ’ S hooked it’” he roared; but
the brown water laughed in his face. I was up
on a cliff above the roar of the water, and I started
d ° W " Vt! 1 what the trouble 4s. Just then
Dad s dead, Joe shouted, and the two short sharp
struck JiY Cl£^° r ° f the flood a « d
ted out of a ° f bull6ts - He seemed to
reel out of the saddle, and standing knee-deep in
the water leant against his horse and sobbed. That
started Joe, and there, with the swollen river be-
bloke"’ h t m ’ I?? 6 brothers n'ourned “the good ole
bloke who had passed out.
“The Wanderer”: The old bar on the
Manm ng Rlver (N . S . WO has completely sf , tcd e
Grass is consequently growing on holdings where it
never grew before, and oysters and fishYave van-
used to Ye P oT °V the river ~ or wl 'ere the river
Sf *° be ’ one of the inhabitants is shout-
prefet?Yo te P th ninS UP ° f the channel = mother lot
finds
uu. glass, m 1866 the bar was closed as
a ourely as ex-Speaker Willis used to close the mouths
floor! Cnt polltlclans ln Macquarie-street. Then a
flood came along and the waters cleared the channel
Evidently Nature will have to do the job ag 2
Murkah”: Mysterious grass- and bush-
fires are a feature of every Australian summer This
™.w”L a T“ f th °2s
res are apt to be frequent and disastrous. Manv
theones have been advanced to account for tlms?
outbreaks—the burning-glass effect of a piece of
tSSanehSYte 6 P H° dU , Cti ° n ° f sparks b .r ebbing
of &ss s in wiSr vr^’i the re f uit
an aeriai - j '- e ”
taSL ni?L , h T be ° olne charged,” this charging
stflf-p of ti / ° or ra Pidly according to the
state of the atmosphere at the time. Arrangements
ea'rth” COnt ” lUal,y leaking the charge to
stored energy had been
sn
posts becomes a large-capacity storage cell for eleo-
tnc energy and consequent sparks. Everyone knows
the gunpowdery nature of Australian grass in 4um
mer-time, particularly the litter along Tfence? The
A POOR, PLAIN LOT.
PROFESSOR: “Ladies and gents, I've the
most varied collection of snakes in the
country.”
SWAGGIE : “Betcher 'aren’t. Ther'sh tons o'
bluies an' pinkies an' purplies y’ ain't
got."
remedy is to choose a post where all wW
verge ami tiinro ■ , . e e wires con-
veiL,e, ana there file each wire bright „
Ef a° f sS S a r tThe
not form. ' WlrdesS ae, ' ial > and *Parks will
Sepoma : If there is a more afflicted,
“' Sease '” dd * n and superstition-loaded race anywhere
on earth than the Black Brother for whose care
Australia has just accepted the responsibility in
There 3 " , m ° Uinea ’ 1 WOuldn ’t like to see it.
There is hardly a complaint known to tropical medi-
from Wh a h f the NeW ° Uinea nigr ' does not suffer
three' „ fre 9 uen «y he is the possessor of two or
three or even four at one time. Yaws Uramboe.ua),
granuloma, syphilis, tinea, scabies,
ben-beri, dysentery, leprosy,
madura foot, elephantiasis and a
couple of score more are all part
of his daily lot in this vale cf
tears, and the native without a
few ulcerating sores is as rare
as a flea-free blackfellow’s dog.
The “boy” who lives either on
or in the vicinity of a station
or town generally spends about
quarter of his time as an out-
patient at the local native hos-
Pital, and other periods as an
in-patient, suffering from one of
the more serious complaints.
Owing to the layers of dirt which
cover his black hide, the slight-
est scratch becomes a streptococcic
and staphylococcic infection, and
a few days without treatment is
sufficient for it to develop into
a sore several inches in diameter.
In the fastnesses of his native
bush he lives an existence about
equally divided between disease
and devils, the former being re-
sponsible for horrible and unbe-
lievable malformations of his
body, while a firm belief in the
potency and omnipresence of the
latter frequently causes him to
offer up his baby sister as a
sacrifice. And the task of trying
to improve him, either mentally
or physically, is rendered more
disheartening by his complete un-
willingness to be improved, which
generally makes it necessary for
an armed guard to be placed on
the hospital in order to keep
the patients from running away.
*r "Hr u S.
X r. » r £4
r n x a zz ~?ir “•
ance is at hand with the necessary appliances In
the greater number of eases of in Aus
tralia which have resulted
in death shock has been
about 95 per cent, respon-
sible. Compare any of
these species with the
American rattlesnake or
the Indian cobra, and
their comparatively harm-
less nature becomes more
and more obvious. With
the rattler death follows
m 95 per cent, of cases
within an hour and a half
or two hours. The total
number of fatal cases of
cobra-bite in India during
the 12 months ended June,
1920, was, according to
an official report issued by
the Indian Medical Ser-
vice, 22,128. The I.M.S.
has lately been experi-
menting with a new anti-
cobra venom serum, the
preparation of which is
based on discoveries made
by Noguichi, the Japan-
ese, and Calmette, the
Frenchman. So far, at-
tempts to 1 ' prepare a serum
which will be specific for
all cases have been un-
successful, mainly because
the cobra varies with the
district,, as is also the
case with the American
rattler,' and the
venom vana too. Present experiments are based
whiclT i that tbe active principle of the venom,
which has not yet been isolated, is the same for all
species, other constituents of the gland secretion
vSy r Sak b e 6 ** the dUta ““ f °™ d in
“Bad Australian”: About 25 years ago the
Bioken River (Vic.) and its tributaries, including
several swamps, were well stocked with Murray cod
catfish, golden perch and blackfish. The cod and
catfish still remain, although in greatly reduced
as m rar e rS ’as a A “ d tte blackflsh are almost
rate as the bunyip. According to my experience
on the northern tributaries of the Murray the P yellow
belly is a hardy battler well qualified to hold Ms own
m river, creek or lagoon. Why has he ftwh*
losing fight on the watershed of the Broken Rifer?**
o f S v P^f ader ” : The seed of the variegated or
Scotch thistle takes some beating as a poultry food;
Vet the thousands of tons that the inland country
grows in a good season all goes to waste A
machine to head” it would be the means of placin-
duciW ! S u PPly ° f a fatt ening and egg-pro-
eaual g 0d that the ’way-back cocky claims has no
THE COMFORTER.
NERVOURS PASSENGER: “Have you ever
known a ship to roll like this?”
STWARD: “Yessir. Me and the cook was
the sole survivors!”
“Spook”: Partner and I have been doing
ZZAZ p h and
haunted tL ! Jack and his missus - Jack
himself IZ excavatl ons picking up earthworms for
beetle**la dainties ’ such as cockchafer,
we named T !5 . SPld f S for the mi ®us. Another
Tthat S arl °; h , e made ft <3aite obvious to
us that the missus had made a mesalliance. Dailv
he tendered her dainties similar to Jack’s offerings
Came a n da e v W T S and JaCk did the spelling.
Came a day Jack tried to take a ride on a falling-
sapling and became too damaged for aerial loco”
ITas Tow PUt h ™ baCk With the m i ss us. f Lothario
f g,ven . us an absolute refutation of our
former theory; in fact, we are at a loose end. He
carryfng U to T ll^ ' WOrking oVertin,e > Peking up and
carrying to Jack, missus and offspring (three) all
he can lay beak on. Jack, on the threshold, makes
a selection passes the dainties as before to his
spouse, and eats the worms himself. Any explana-
tion to account for Lothario? And I swear P this
solemnly on my gratuity bond.
* - * * #
“Spreader”: N. S. Wales agricultural
expert Ken Humphries, tethered now in fhe Muswefl
fhnf k +n dlSt n lCt ’ after ex kaustive tests has declared
doubt ™ b °T ln ' SUdan ' graSS is justified beyond
doubt. Though a member of the sorghum family it
can be eaten by stock at any stage of its
without danger of prussic-acid poisoning; th
given a fair season, three heavy cuts can be
relied on, and if the third crop is left to
mature before reaping a good self-sown croo
can be assured in the ensuing early summer,
after a light ploughing. Cut green, it makes
an ideal food for dairy cattle, and from
its drought-resistant qualities it promises to
give the drier districts an excellent chance of
producing milk right through the hot months It will
grow as well on the lighter wheat-bSt soils as on
the rich river flats; and no matter where grown
it never becomes rank, wherefore it makes a soft
nourishing hay. ’
“S.H.K.”: “J.J.D.” * inquires*
30/12/’2O) for the name of any Srd other tS
the pigeon that can drink without raising its head
of milk Pa £ hi that r US6d t 0 thuS drillk a saucer
of milk. It had a tongue with- a fringe. This
ringe was laid flat normally, when the tongue looked
the K S /T° t} i aS any ° ther P arr akeet’s, but when
Wrd rd drank the frin^e w as extended and the
bird lapped up liquid just like a cat. In color he
was varying shades of dark maroon, in size Tghtlv
smaller than a “bluey” (Blue Mountain parraS!
a native of Solomon Islands, had a strong musk odor
and was known m the island as the honey parrakeet.
y specimen came to an untimely end through
eating the stalk of the arum-lily.
N OT IN THE CURRICULUM.
“The cow is a wonderful animal, my boy.
Did you ever pause and think of its
varous utilities? Did you ever drowse
in the suceulent pasture and speculate
upon the wonderful"-
"Pause? Drowse? Gec! You might know
a lot about cows, but you don't know
much about the man.?
WILLIAM AND BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Mr. Jiggs was certainly an estimsM
A pillar of propriety, a champion of truth" ’
e had a good position in a warehouse in the town •
A staunch church-worker, he became , i ’
renown. came a layman of
Jig-gs owned a* bijou villa in *
H “ b “
™ir' s oi “’" ent < *" d «*«.
k “° W ” ,b “ l th ' Miskborhood as
* "**• ,0 " 1 ' “ d « "Wil-
-10 round , uom.
So William had discovered for at sivta. .
Behaved with great el,ml, 1 ty ' two hls dad
lad”; ° exuberance, aspired to be “a
Got shirker on occsion, ,„d o ,m« „„ m ,
(Whteh.also,queans the whisk,) „ d , lth
W “hi. ! S,‘ r,baW *” d n.«. upon
Then wmfam^ r ma d t 0Wn ’ SlUl " bel ' ° n the goodly
H rou-r, , worker „ the ehurch. abho,ri„ e . ick ed
A ” tte’s”" Sh ”’‘ ae mat !” <»» 'ieht
m"o",?V' “ W ““"" h “ d '» '“»>
the he" ' O - VSt »”S ■» *° *** to b,
And Bill went giddy with the girls and made
excessive love h ’ a niade
T * otsrdoi'isr'- “ lshw *- «« «
m °J£*J£Z n> ‘ ” IC ° ° W » ver,
** ‘ WK "' “ d —* »fh him
*”S£Z JST* >mcmms °“ dw ■*
Pect!hg d w7'l ° n . the lawn toile( I unsus-
- Wan he struck at William with his fist a
thing of fear— ’ d
He knocked him down, he kicked him, and he trod
upon his ear.
He beat him with a rake, and with the hose he
washed him round
Till SSZifSt^ d and helpless now ’ was **
Then thifLle he ou f t 110 W: “ BiHy 1 h ° Pe fr -
YO ’ l ' l about ndly let Wife al ° ne Wh6n lam not
Will sadly looked upon his dad, reproaclmient in
nis eye.
Bill repi? him UP ’ “ d hiS fflance made Cerent
“Sins of the fathers fall upon the children. Be
resigned.
It’s according to the gospel, so I thought you
wouldn’t mind.” J
Now William hides at Cooktown, and old Bill resides
nay.
nfw-n- ble T° r 311 his Venal actions - 80 to say.
f William Jiggs, whose “gorn all wrong,” a touch-
ing tale he’ll tell—
A-renouncin’ of the Scriptures. And I brought
him up so well!” 65
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


mmm
mm
i- .
fr -tl
/ ; "
I- v
shw
&
®i
** £
«»
* . J '
■v >
-
wm
m
m
Hi
mm
i
v'S
!§§., "
i
SrJ-
ism
•a ®:W
f] W';f ••*.
r I ?>£?■* *
- •:
* .:
‘ \
--- .
Haras
M
m
mm
j.
'.* "sK ■•;
1 y
LSSI
m
«•.
PS*
me#
M
ws£& ; • •
* : r
* ;■ . ;"
v-.«
I
v;
i
iv i
.
S&
■' &
i *:
•:1
\shs
\
■ , -
.^bA
&j
®ib
a ? s ? c*/ •:
hi
IBtK j
<#.
-
IT' V»
B
: ; : : >' V :
' * S
/m.
11!
1
m
¥-‘js
X&EZi
A:
;
'
BCfflwsvV*' • V'A
* -
:
■'■>> x y<
I *
. , ■
rJ ; S
1 * 'Jp
g§B!
155’»- , Sraj&p ♦-
iiiiSi
.* :
La
Utl
Mi
fj ■;,*.
; .
% - §?,
1
■. , >
% - <&%
V q
Hi
•:
■
♦V ,
" ; 'i s ? .
•< -':A' ' . ..'■; ' *",’&• , i
■ -Ki i ■. . i ■:
-A?
. i
> ■
..C!
.
■ - *”•“"* - -
V . ■■ - ••*s*£ > A 'i •.r ■ rff!
:
■;
uni
■
rHE FASCINATION OF SPEEt>L.
Have you ever reasoned why speed has such an
attraction for many motorists. For some reason
a smooth, swift passage over a good road pro
duces a soothing and exhilarating charm that
few virile motorists can resist. Its one of the
attractions in driving a really fast, nippy car,
one that can crawl through traffic, slip up
without an effort or diminution of speed, and
then-as the clear road opens out d .°'Y n g^s
the throttle and it’s a cold-blooded mdividual
who does not feel the exhilaration of the roar
ing wind-the passing landscape the fast rush
onwards. In its place-it is one of the most
fascinating phases of motoring. It ca . ®
high efficiency in one’s car, and dependability
in the tyres fitted, in fact the tyres fitted MUi>l
BE GOOD before high speed on the open road
S attempted. In this direction one can always
depend on “Railroad
S,
depend on Kaiiroaa
DUNLOP TYRES
* i 1 . jI.IL «?»<*>* Ihi ITCSiIS.
for they embody the utmoststrengthand relia
bility that can be incorporated m a tyre. nig
est quality throughout, and built to withstand
thousands of miles of hard driving, they
ensure long service with safety, and at a
running cost that no imported tyre ap
prlaches. This is the experience of
tens of thousands of ‘ Dunlop users,
and the same tyre satisfaction awaits
non-users of “ Dunlops at the nearest
garage
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES "*-1


sure rfiats
PLUME
That is what careful motorists say.
They feel sure then of.getting Benzine
that will ensure easy starting, sweet
running, more miles.
Plume Benzine is straight distilled,
pure, and is the cream of the crude.
Put Plume to the test in your car.
Follow the example of the men who
say, “Are you sure that’s “Plume?”
Vacuum Oil
Pty. Lt<
Write out nearest Branch
for free booklet,
“The Care of Your Car.’ 1
Company
mm
P 20
9
/ft
V.
&
a
fU
z
m
//£j.
l//S
The “Auster” will drive
your electric-light plant
£75
—and 'drive it as well
as, though much more
economically than, ex-
pensive and compli-
cated systems. The
Aust e r” consumes
only half-pint kerosene
per b.h.p. per hour,
and it’s just as efficient
as it is economical.
ADSTER
Farm and Utility or
Marine Type Engine
parts - by
Ss&HF * s r "»“™ r
Two Sizes: Single-cylinder (3£ horse-power), £75.
Twin-cylinder (6-8 horse-power), £135.
Write for “The Auster’s Fourteen Points.”
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence Si Sydney-
/
w
r,
'V
Hi
«
'
THE ROCKCRUSHER.
ALL MADE
THE ROWOLT”
STANDARD
ROCKCRUSHER.
Made in Two Sizes.
L^.C'T’ Ll^^ TEST ’ STRONGEST and
MOST EFFICIENT ROCKCRUSHER
S ON THE MARKET.
JAWHOLDER are made from the
fmest-quahty Toughened CAST STEEL
The JAWS are made from our hiah-orade
manganese steel
Hundreds of these Jaws in use.
INSPECTION INVITED; SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:-
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
.. ' V I i I Ct ,° n ' a Street > Richmond, Victoria.
Listed on Lloyds Register, London, as Manufacturers for Steel Castings.


“ Advance
Australia!'
_n• • _
a
toast from the Motherland in the truest and best Spirit.
H"{ '!!; i 'H
mwwmww'w.
m±msi
[-4 4|!i- -t tilt
-4 4|&4 -4|||
///»///A&WVU
SCOTCH
11'rllr'T!^
By careful husbanding of stocks we hope to maintain regular (if
inadequate) supplies. But nothing will induce us to impair the un-
varying quality of ‘P.D.’ Whisky.
yd
'V.
rx
W
ww
Dawson
SMCIAI SCOTCH
Bunded Whisiu
'P.D.’—the Scotch Whisky
of Historic Lineage and
World - wide popularity.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
THOMPSON 8 CO. 1
Lastlemaiae)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Gastlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WJXTIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
f
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
'' . ! ■ • ; i
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: x _ . ,
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY: THE EAST:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd. McAlister & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE: PERTH:
Newton, McLaren Ltd. BroWn & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
and, more importantly, before they went
money-making with inferior goods, lo date
the cinema hasn’t had a chance to do any
real work; the inferior goods and the clnt
are the only things to hand.
When Rome grew from a hardworking
republic into a rich and less energetic empne
she found need of public amusement, and the
dumb pantomimes came from Etruria to give
it to lier. At first they wore masks, acting
solely in postures, and in gestures of the
hands and fingers ; under Augustus the masks
were discarded, and the facial skill of ex-
pression was added to the art’s technique.
Their work was brought to such perfection
that by report the pantomimes gave a more
finished and precise picture of thought and
action and their finest shades than the poets
themselves. Throughout the life of imperial
Rome these men and women grew more and
more popular and skilful, until the Christians
came with the harsh hut possibly by that
time necessary word that they didn’t wear
enough clothes to conceal the expression of
their art. So they went, leaving more room
for the dancers, who sometimes didn’t wear
any clothes. „ , c ,
These people, Pylades, Bathyllus the freed-
■man of Maecenas, Hylas and the others, men
and women, founded the art of screen-acting.
The bones of the art would be something
like this, perhaps. The fluctuations of speed
in gesture would be the main thing—in
tragedy, very slow ; in straight work, slowish
(or according to the conceived character) ;
in comedy, more rapid,; and in farce, very
rapid —all comparative) of course. These
operate in the spoken drama, I know; but
only as part of the technique. Whereas, I
expect, they were the whole thing in the
pantomimes’ work. In solo work they would
be broad and comparatively simple ; but in
duets and ensemble scenes the correlated
fluctuations of the speeds would probably
make the force and delicacy of the dumb
expression. As the leading lady’s speed ot
gesture and fleeting facial expression over-
lapped and receded from that of the leading
man’s, so in the degree of their skill the
pantomime refinements of the play would get
to the spectators.
If the blossom had been left on the tree,
Bathyllus. of Maecenas locking over the
centuries between would see the magic mak-
ing the lighting and the relative speeds what
if wills. ITe would see the facial changes
so swift that they are gone almost before
they are seen, or are held beyond human
muscular power, at the will of the brains of
the pantomimes, the man at the machine.
He would see each gesture catching up the
thought of another and answering it with a
finished excellence unhoped m Home. a
man’s manner of standing still in Rome
showed his inmost thoughts with a swift un-
deniable certainty far beyond the power of
the lumbering words. ihe brains at the
magic wheel would correlate his standing
still with the movement and rigidity or the
other pantomimes, running off the vivid pun-
gent scene whose thoughts are as rapid as
your own and as clear as your hand.
the eternal gods came down and thought oe
fore the people for an infinitesimal moment
° But Bathyllus would See nothing like that.
He would see a multitude of silly, totally un-
fitted people carrying the burden of heavy
speech into his temples of vivid silence, lo
him words and the assumed superiority ot
words were the marks of the pupil and the
struggling understudy; and he would see
those chief exponents, the ladies male and
female, expressing only when they C! P
manage to translate stumblmgly and obviouslj
into the forgotten speech of the world out-
side the temples. He would read the ex-
planatory preludes, see the desperately over-
emphasised commonplace scenes btween the
idiotic interpolated legends of a hopeless,
helpless jumble of photography and speech.
And it would break his heart.
HILARY LOFTING.
Form and Matter
Thus Vance Palmer,
A recent Red Page review of Hugh McCrae s
“Colombine” definitely raises the question of what
is legitimate subject-matter for a writer McCrae,
it was said, seemed “quite blind, as far as this
book is concerned, to the real beauties abou
him in his own land,” and “made music of
things far beyond his range of real observation or
first-hand knowledge.” This is criticism that has a
wide appeal in Australia, where, for all our pro-
fessed interest in art, we are secretly convinced that
a poet should provide good advertising matter in
payment for his license —matter, that is, of some use
to the immigration-agent. At the very least we
demand of him that he shall recognise the tangible
world of our civic duties and allegiances. If he
happens* to be unconcerned with it in his art it is
easy to prove that he is lacking in originality, rich
thought, youth—all the qualities, in fact, that are
so noticeable in his fellows—and the jury will answer
according to the range of its interests.
But why should McCrae not have the right to
choose his own subject-matter? Most poets in other
countries have exercised that right quite freely.
Coleridge had probably no first-hand knowledge of
albatrosses or sailing-ships, yet that does not seri-
ously affect the value of “The Ancient Mariner.
And Keats had really never observed the magic Case-
ments of faery lands forlorn. Poe was the despair
of the good Yankees of his day, and ours. Yet in
another century or so the Chicago professors will
probably re-translate him from Baudelaire’s French
and find from internal evidence that he was quite
as sensitive to the beauty around him as—well, say
Bryant or Whit tier.
The selection of subject-matter, within certain
wide limits, is a poet’s own business. As far as art
is concerned there is no absolute virtue in any of the
phenomena of life. In the last analysis form is the
only thing that can give it spirituality or perma-
nence. Who cares now that Milton set put to justify
the ways of God to man in his epic? Or that Keats
only knew the Grecian world through Chapman’s
Homer ?
Certainly, certainly McCrae should have the
right —has the right—to choose his own sub-
ject matter. And the writer having chosen
it, the critic should have — lias— the same
right to mention what the choice is, and
even what it isn’t.
A Satchel of Books
Comedy Corner, by Peggy Webling (Hutchinson).
A woman from a London workshop, driven by the
pure passion of motherhood, steals a little child of
wealthy parents and brings her up as her own.
The after-adventures in life and love of the stolen
child make up an altogether charming tale.
Hidden Creek, by Katherine Newlin Burt (Hough-
ton Mifflin Co., New York). The story of an
artist’s daughter who is thrown among Western
Americans of a rough sort. They are not pleasant
people, those proud citizens of the town of Millings ;
but Hidden Creek lies beyond in the ranges and
there life is simple and true. A readable book, it
not very convincing.
Chips Off the Old Stumbling Blocks, by George
Meek “Haka” (Whitcombe and Tombs, Auckland).
Another book of proverbs and > pithy remarks.
Samples
“Don’t brood over your greatness. Great minds
kink alike.”
“Where there’s a man’s will there s a woman s
won’t.” . , „ , , T T> !>
“A nod from a K.C. is a breakfast for a J.P.
“Where there’s smoke there’s tire; where there s
no smoke there’s a coal strike.”
Nearly as good as Solomon, but less humorous than
some of his.
Manhood End, by Mrs. Henry Dudeney (Hurst and
Blackett). Sophie marries a parson and proves a
very erratic young woman; but although she leaves
her husband once with the drunken Corn ford for
escort and a second time at the conclusion of a
domestic row, all is well in the last chapter. Well
written ; but the people don’t matter much.
The Eye of Zeitoon, by Talbot Mundy (Hutchin-
son). A book of stirring adventure containing a
loud plea for the Armenians. The color is excel-
lent, the characterisation a trifle absurd, the plot
all that can be desired; and over and above there
is fighting with the Turks, exposure of the Germans
and wild gipsy love-making.
The Imperfect Mother, by J. D. Beresford (Collins,
London). The story of a mother and son through
an unusual sequence of events. The characters are
well drawn and the book fairly convincing.
The Lady of the Lawn, by W. Riley (Herbert
Jenkins). The lady of the lawn is an old young-
person who watches the love affairs of a soldier
and a girl. The girl has nursed the soldier when
he was blind ; afterwards the soldier, with his sight
restored, makes love to her without knowing she is
the same angel. Bright and readable.
Miss Smith’s Fortune, by Charles Garvice (Skif-
fim-ton). Short stories of the poorest sort, yet a
little less injurious than the novels he wrote.
II L. Mencken, by Buton Rascoe, Vincent O’Sulli-
van and F. C. Henderson (Alfred A. Knopf, New
York). A little book about America’s most unusual
critic Henry Louis Mencken is 40, and has a
dozen books to liis credit; and his influence m Ameri-
can literature has been like a loud, erratic, but
rather wholesome wind blowing through. He is a
joint editor and proprietor, of the Smart Set maga-
zine. Here is a sample of his downright talking
“I am, tested by the prevailing definitions, a bau
American. I do not believe this country has the
glorious future that patnoteers talk of. It will
probably remain second-rate for a long while a
mere milch cow for England. Most of the Ameri-
can ideals, so called, that I know of seem to me
to be idiotic. If they were sound, Id probably
jump into the nearest river. The sort of countiy
they conjure up would be simply a paradise o
bounders, forward-lookers, right-thinkers, all sorts o
stupid cowards.”
Origin and Evolution of Freemasonry, by Dr.
Albert Churchward (George Allen _ and Upwm).
Most students of the beginnings °* Freemasonry
are satisfied to go back to the medm-cal Gul ls
and stop there. The craft actually . originated in
its present form a couple of centuries ago. whe
London's Four Old Lodges constituted themselves
a Grand Lodge under Anthony Sayer in the tap
room of the Goose and Gridiron, St. Paul s Church-
yard. Dr. Churchward has nothing to say of eitne
Guildism or the Goose and Gridiron. He Proves to
Ws own satisfaction that the organisation existed
“about 600,000 years ago.” The Pyramids were
designed and constructed by Freemasons, al d
Great Pyramid “is the greatest Masonic Temple
that has ever been built.” There were Masons m
the Stone Age and in the Bronze Age, and tne
brethren were persecuted by the ® nst ‘“ nS p " ®
the latter ceased to be persecuted by the Pagans.
In proof Dr. Churchward reproduces a drawing of
the Sacred Axe, showing a cross wlncli had bee
forcibly fixed to the top of the blade circa\.u. 90-
Why has the world been afflicted Witk war
after war? Because nation after nation lias acte<
against T G.A.0.T.U., and the result will always be
the^same—-destruction and disintegration and am
other nation will arise and take its place. ®
what way have the nations so acted? By lelying
on Socialism and Bureaucracy, which respon-
sible for the destruction of every great nation that
his Derished, without any exception. Aitnur •>■
Penty proved ' recently in an equally pretentious
volume that the world’s discontents havei their origin
in Justinian’s code of laws. Hilaire Belloc has to
lowed with “Europe and the Faith,” in which he
demonstrates that we will only reh ef
miseries when we go back to mediaeval /
The insolent nonsense of the medievalists ha.
least the merit of being brilliantly Presented. Dr
Churchward’s book is the last word in solemn dul-
ness turgidly expressed.
The Fenceless > Ranges, by Roy Bridges (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.). A bright adventure yarn of the
Victorian Kelly country, with the Kellysskilfully
introduced in the background. Ihe story of the
list fight at Glenrowan is well worth reading
The author has burrowed into official records and
dug up some picturesque particulars to increase the
excitement of the finish. The yarn contains also a
well-drawn hero, a satisfactory bush heroine and an
incendiary town siren to provide a counter attraction.
B/- ? Pete, by Luke Allan (Herbert Jenkins). The
puM.shers were looking for a good adventure story
of the cow-bov west written in England , and they
have got it. The scene is the border-line of Canada
and 11.5. A. ; and the revolvers crack all through.
The yarn never flags. Of its sort it is excellent.
Uncle Pierce’s Legacy, by norothea Conyers
(Methuen). A man pretended to die and left £BOOO
i year to two old maids on condition that they spent
the lot and rode to hounds One old gir' i* an
invalid; but they both stir themselves up and fulfil
the conditions. Readable and with fair charac-
terisation.
The Inky Way
“Ficifolia”: A recent “Red Page” statement that
“Eucalyptus forest once covered th.e British Isles is
not the universal view. The theopf, pr v as I--ttiink,
misconception, arose from the fact of two Germans,
Heer and Unger, determining genera from fossil
leaves alone and Ettingshausen claiming that a few
fossil leaves found in the tertiary and cretaceous: of the
Northern Hemisphere were eucalyptus leaves. Hooker
and Bentham both disagreed with this A "r,,ulw
more recent writers Deane, R. H. Cambage Cuthbert
Hall and E. C. Andrews give incontrovertible proot
that the eucalypts originated wholly and solely in
Australia; and, except for a few species which
spread to Papua and adjacent islands, they have alto-
gether been confined to Australia as far as natural
spread is concerned.


o
If, Like These Cattle,
stock prices kept firm, selling at the Yards
would be simple.
But rates fluctuate. And that is where
the expert efforts of a salesman show out.
bikill and judgment are needed to secure
top market values. For this reason ■
CONSIGN SHEEP AND CATTLE:
WINCHCOM BE, CARSON
Homebush Yards,
Sydney
or
LTD.
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
d
These dainty and beauti-
fully-baked biscuits make
a most acceptable comple-
ment to the ordinary menu
of the week-end picnic
basket. Try a sandwich of
Roy Creams with a little
grated cheese between them,
and we are sure you will
never again consider a holi-
day haroper quite complete
without some.
Your Grocer Sells Them.
Vilely ?a77 eliQS".
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
lt will pay you*
Theconvenienceand economy gained,
together with the constant pleasure
derived from healthy exercise, make
the purchase of a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings a paying
investment. Reliability and service
are the leading features for which
these machines are famous, and make
them invaluable for business or
pleasure. Look for the B.S.A. trade
mark on your new bicycle.
A
B.S.A.
All B.S.A, Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable .
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
A Sign of
Quality.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
wmm
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
ďf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
d
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZING CONCENTRATES — Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION:
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD..
Contractors ivith the Board of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
a
a
□
□
:
m
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
... Aj
A. | Mm
L* ~ * , { . : ; :
mm
. *
fi, .; ■
■ ■ :■
• '
tiMm
.
.
• >. J 4. ‘ 1
HI v ■
... •/ m
i
<■• ..
•;*: .
■
A >
Wm ■
- BB|
1
ensures a permanent water-pipe service
quickly, at a minimum installation cost,
and at smaller maintenance and freight
charges than any other pipe. “Pioneer”
Wood Pipe meets all requirements for
durability, economy and cleanliness.
Engineers who have thoroughly investi-
gated the matter put every confidence in
its merits. Write for our
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
The illustration shows a 36in. Continuous Wood
Stave Pipe (O’Shannassy Scheme) Melbourne
Metropolitan Board of Works, installed in 1913.
One of the main pipe lines conveying domestic
water supply to the city of Melbourne. Pipes
working under a pressure of 320 ft. head.
We are also manufacturers of
Wood Tanks, f
All enquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN
WOOD PIPE CO., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, LANE COVE
(Ferry to Fig Tree),
And at Footscray, VIC.
the palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THJE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. QLOWREY, Proprietor.
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the davs
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, c'olchieum and iodides (bv
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects')
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healtkv complexion’ throu°-h
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricEema.
PREPARED BY ETABUISSEMENTS CHATEUAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia or from
CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical [i
Business, Robbery, etc.
Y.Z. : Being a sedentary animal I find
mj trousers m continual need of new founda-
tlons - . -y»e re-seating cost 4s. a little time
ago, but the last pair offered for half-soling
tan me into is. (id. I complained. “An
Pair re-seated is a new pair unsold,’’
giowled the tailor, ‘hind it’s about time to
put lip prices. Judge sent two pairs
ioJ°+£ aV i e th ,° base restored yesterday. In
tact, the local member lias his done.” This
is how we poor poets are made to pay
through the nose for our fundamental neces-
siues.
* *
* *
Broker : There has been a decrease in
wine imports to Britain of three million
gallons m a year. Portugal is blamed for
wholesale dumping of inferior stocks at pro-
fiteering prices, but French and Australian
vintages have maintained their prestige and
are everywhere in demand. A private letter
rom a leading British distributor says that
despite the competition of all European
countries the future of Australian wines is
unassailable. In fact, it will require the
labor of many thousands more workers to
supply the demands of the market.’’
. * * *
One way to encourage initiative. A man
on the land at Bayswater (Vic.) dammed
the Dandenong Creek at the corner of his
block, put in a water-wheel, etc., and gen-
erated current to electrically light his house.
As he didn t use the water and passed it on
* s i l6 rf 0t it? nobod -V interfered until the
fetate Rivers and Water Commission hap-
pened along. Now he has been ordered to
pay a fee of 50s. a year or dismantle his
plant. lhat is what he gets for using Aus-
tralian water-power instead of Yankee kero-
sene.
* * * *
“Spreader”: Running a Government em-
ployment agency in the country is about
the easiest job going in N. S. Wales these
days. In my district the local bureau has
done practically nothing towards bringing
employer and worker together during the
haivest. Such labor as has been engaged
in the town was picked up either off-hand
m the streets or at the stock and station
agents. As a similar state of affairs exists
m other towns where Government agencies
are run it seems a farce to tax the public
tor their upkeep.
* * *
ec S ol/lo e / r ,oA^ Allstralian ' made Ma gpie pipes
(B. 20/12/ 20) are good stuff, but it’s hard
to get the country tobacconist to take them
on. I bought one last June in Sydney and
have been smoking it ever since. But one
can t stick to the same pipe always, so I
asked my local tobacco-man if he had any
Australian-made. He assured me that they
were very crude things, and “not a patch
on the imported article.” I showed him
mine, and he changed his tune. But I had
to send to Sydney for another, all the same.
Cruma”: There was a bazaar in our
suburb for one of the local charities,
and the musical accompaniments were
played on Mrs. Guppy’s piano. Mrs.
Guppy did not arrive until the show
was nearly over, and to her horror she
discovered that they were raffling her piano.
“But, Father Finucane,” she protested to the
author of the scheme, “you’ve made a dread-
ful mistake. I only lent the piano. I
couldn’t possibly afford to give it.” “Whist
Mrs. Guppy,” replied the padre soothingly’
“don’t you be worrying, now, or making a
fuss. ’Tis the winning ticket we do be giv-
ing you, Mrs. Guppy,” he said.
“Blacklip”: At the beginning of 1920 high
prices were ruling for all marine products,
and a record year was expected in Thursday
Island (Q.). Prospects are different now.
Pearl-shell was then about £2BO a ton; now
the world’s supply of shell is 12 months ahead
of demands, and only small lots are being
bought at £l2O a ton, which is far below
the cost of production. Of 4000 cases
shipped from Broome (W.A.) to the last
three shell sales in London, only about 240
have been sold. Trochus-shell has fallen
from £l3O to £32 10s. a ton, and beche-de-
mer hasn’t fared much better, owing partly
to disturbances in China, but principally to
the fall in the rate of exchange, the Chinese
dollar now being worth about 3s. 3d. as com-
pared with 4s. 4d. in September. It is
problematical whether many boats will go
out in 1921. The only inducement for them
to do. so is the saving of the high expense of
refitting a fleet after it has lain idle for
some time. Certainly profits cannot be
expected at present prices. The shellers in
Broome are on a better wicket. The WA
Government guarantees them £lBO a ton and
pays the freight to England (worth another
£10), but even they are laying up half their
luggers. One redeeming feature is that the
shell will go pn growing. Not even a
Labor Government can stop that.
DON’T WORRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, worry was the text of a sermon preached
at Gollins-street Independent Church. The Argus
notes the sermon with strong approval.
Don’t worry, friends, if in this world
Your dinner’s all too fine—
Eight courses, say—and j'ou lie curled
Upon a couch til] nine; ,
Then calling up the padded car
• You go off in a hurry
To haunt the clubs where round the bar
A group with sim’lar troubles are.
Don't worry!
Don’t worry even though you’ve got
live thousand pounds a year.
Remember there are quite a lot
AVho’re ealled upon to bear
A greater burden still—perhaps
Ten thousand. Do not flurry
Your fat, my boy, though Fortune claps
Her heavy hand upon you chaps.
Don’t worry!
Don t worry! You’ve a house in town,
And one up on the Mount,
And comforts that would bear you down
If you would let them count.
We’ve all our burdens here from which
We sometimes long to scurry,
But do not let it spoil yohr pitch;
Accept your lot, however rich.
Don’t worry!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


'M3Z*-
Willard Threaded Rubber
Insulation permits “bone
dry” shipment and storage
of batteries, so that no mat-
ter how long the dealer
keeps them in stock they
are brand new when they
go out of the door on his
customer’s cars.
STORAGE
BATTERY
ďf


G>
V*
6*
I
>
£
N.
$
"2
*
V
*
s
s
+7-
P
O-
J 8
i
§
v 4
-t
«?
Rfc
\V
r 2
•5*2
%
S'
02
as
«
M
%
ec
cT
£V
Vk
02
</\
&
ft 2
LT
©■%
Biliousness! 1
/CRANKY disposition— yellow look—headaches
7? -dulled brain. AH spell Biliousness, the PRDFESSOR
direct result of a liver which fails to perform its
functions in a natural way.
r , , To . , f f ee y° ursel /> g et y°«r liver in form with
Chamberlain s Tablets for the stomach and liver. Former
attected ones, now well and strong, pay eloquent tribute to
Chamberlains Tablets
FOR THE SIOMACHanJJVER
Jfv \
m
t~ 00
C V W
•; : .vi vVH
OT>
o
o
"WO
m
m
o
ii
Goodrich made the first Cord Tyre in America, and
is still producing it.
Superb in beauty, riding comfort and service.
Insist
on
[STS
The B, F. Goodrich Rubber Company
Akron, Ohio, U. S. A.
Established 1870
Distributed by DUVAL & COMPANY,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
The S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiihiiiiii
lillllllililiimnmiiiiiiiiiiniiii!
r. t. u
Mr. Ocky”: Clapp’s appeal to the Vic.
railway employees to be courteous as well
as industrious struck no responsive chord
in one of his men during the hot weather,
lulling a heavy truck of luggage up an in-
cline on a Melbourne platform, with his per-
spiring chin almost grazing the ground, the
porter was hailed by a fussy ma’am who
wanted directions about her train. “For
Eaven’s sake, mum,” he implored, “don’t
ask me. Can’t yer see I’m only a flamin’
orse?”
“Wessel”: A female abo. on one of the
Torres Strait islands, not far from
‘ Thirsty,” was eating an oyster the other
day when she bit on something hard. She
found! that she had j.ust escaped taking one
of the most expensive meals on record since
the late Cleopatra dissolved two pearls of
price in vinegar and swallowed them. The
gritty substance was a pearl which her boss
sold straightway for £5O, though it will
eventually go for a lot more than that. An-
other abo. in those parts had an even better
hnd, though he came on it in a more ortho-
dox way. He got hold of a pearl for which
he was paid £lOO.
Two Seas”: Among the plants “declared
to be noxious in pursuance of the above-
named Act” which the clerk of a N. S.
\Y ales shire sends me, accompanied by fear-
ful threats of what will happen to me if I
fail to dig up and utterly destroy the same,
is the devastating Rubus fruticosus • At the
same time every nurseryman in • the State
sends me a catalogue which implores me to
buy for Is. 6d. a healthy root of the same
plant, which is guaranteed to flourish like
the green mortgage tree. Is it a trade joke,
or do they really expect that I will invest
good money in the horror for the pleasure
of being fined for having it on the premises?
Anyhow, I hope some day to hear that they
have all been heavily fined for inciting the
simple cocky to commit a felony.
’Litmus”: There’s a lot of encouragement
to go in for a scientific career in Australia,
I don’t think. Three recent graduates in
science from Melbourne Uni., all of whom
passed the final exam, in chemistry with
honors, looked around for employment in
the line in which they had spent four years
and about £5OO apiece. One was offered a
job at £3 a week.; another, one at £3 10s.
a week; the best the third could unearth
was a regret from a firm which deals in
heavy mineral gcids that it had no
vacancy for him in the works as a chemist,
but if he cared to do so he could go on
as a general hand. Every other country in
the world has awakened to the paramount
importance of the chemist in peace and war,
.and everywhere else he is accorded the
rewards and status which, are due to him.
It was the chemist who enabled Germany to
hang out for .so long as she did; it was
the chemist on the other side who was
responsible for her ultimate overthrow. Yet
in Australia he is still looked upon as a
kind of crazy theorist for whom there is
no place in the practical affairs of business.
Even Governments, judging by the scale of
payments to the chemist in Federal and
State employment, seem possessed of this
idea, for, with the possible exception of the
Government analyst, there is not a chemist
in the Victorian or N. S. Wales State ser-
vice who earns as much as an industrious
bricklayer. The net result is that the gradu-
ate of an Australian university who pos-
sesses any distinction at all promptly leaves
for England or America, where he finds a
ready appreciation of his services, often at
a salary 10 or 12 times greater than he
could command in his own country.
What the white man has done for Papua:
Writing in 1889 from Port Moresby, where he was
then Deputy Commissioner for the Western Pacific
(Dr. Macgregor had just hoisted his flag in British
New Guinea as Administrator), Romilly said: “There
is one source of revenue to traders at the present
time which I have not mentioned, because I do not
anticipate any profits from it in the future: this
is the manufacture of what is known as copra.”
With a knowledge of subsequent events in the New
Guineas one is inclined to smile at such a state-
ment; but Romilly was speaking only of the manu-
facture of copra from native-owned palms. He did
not look far enough into the future to see the won-
derful results that followed the wise administration
of Dr. Macgregor, for present-day exports of copra
from Papua, leaving out the production from the
white-owned plantations that have been made since
1906, are mostly from the palms grown by the
natives under the spur of Macgregor’s cocoanut-
planting regulation., The canny old Scot saw a ready
means to enrich the languid owners of the soil, so
he made it compulsory for every able-bodied Brown
Brother to plant at least 10 nuts per year and keep
the palms under cultivation. The results of this
legislation, continued since the' Commonwealth
assumed control in 1906, are very patent to old
residents. Thus Baxter Bay, on the south coast, in
the old days was a waste of sandbeach, along which
two small villages straggled above the tidal mark.
They had two or three hundred cocoanuts, but did
not think of planting any more “because their
fathers did not plant many cocoanuts; they ate
them,” so an old crinkly-skinned gentleman informed
me. Now a stroll along that beach is under an
almost continual grove of bearing palms-—some five
miles of them, all planted as a result of the great
pro-consul’s policy of helping the people to help
themselves, which is the only successful policy in
tropical colonies. In the days when Romilly was
upholding the British dominion over the Western
Pacific, copra was an almost negligible source of
profit; beche-de-mer, cocoanut oil, ivory nuts, turtle
shell, black-lip, gold-lip shell and pearls were more
profitable commodities. The year ending June 30,
1920, 4080 tons of copra, valued at £124,035, were
lifted by Australian-bound vessels. When the
planted areas come to full production the export
from Papua alone will be in the neighborhood of
15,000 tons, equal at present prices to, say,
£700,000. This should be about 1925, for the
majority of the estates are well forward. The only
fly in the ointment is the high freights, and, until
competition for the Papuan trade is introduced,
these will prevail, for at present one firm has a
monopoly of the territory’s oversea trade. Did not
the redoubtable Mr. Hughes buy a line of steamers
to assist primary producers in Australia to place their
produce on the world’s markets ? But, then, Papua “is
not a part of the Commonwealth” (vide High Court
decision), although the Hughes Government reaches
out a hand for Federal income-tax from Papua—-and
denies the colonists a vote in both Australian and
Papuan legislatures l


“A Gear Lubricant that is Different!”
TEXACO THUBAN COMPOUND
Motorists, who use grease for lubricating Transmissions,
Differential or Worm Drives should try Texaco Thuban
Compound.
No need to pack a gear case with Thuban Compound, as
when using grease. Thuban is rich, adhesive lubricant, and
‘‘a little goes a long way.”
For Transmissions, merely use enough Thuban Com-
pound to reach the lower spindle. In the Differential
housing, just enough for the lowest teeth of the gears
to dip into.
Because Thuban Compound is adhesive, it follows the
gears. Every tooth is covered with a film of fine lubri-
cant that is not wiped off or squeezed out.
THE GEARS WORK EASIER. THERE
IS NO NOISE. WEAR IS ELIMINATED.
ECONOMY IS EFFECTED.
One trial of Texaco Thuban Compound
will make you a regular user. Ask
your garage or store for it to-day. If
not in stock, please write to the nearest
branch of
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Ltd.,
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, PERTH,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
South Australian Agents—
Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
TEXACO
MOTOR
SPIRIT
TEXACO
MOTOR
OILS
"THERE IS A TEXACO
LUBRICANT FOR
EVERY PURPOSE."
r V-».
M
f
s'.-
i> Q A
i' 1 /
rr
w
/ .a
/
iftrt 9r
-/I*—
oj£ittle
',? v Wourneii«
dm?
M***
«#»«*'
/
C
Vi.
at
&
?v,/%-iAi
li
1
n*«i2
f/
n,
W
Ob*
3*
R
Ws^
£7/
177/;
/•v
<w
J fix'
T
s
:
sx>
s*s.
r.-
mSSSSIM
p l/re foods
&W,»
Send for this Interesting
“Rex” Booklet
Just off the press is a handsomely printed 36 page
booklet—taking you “A Little Journey” through
the home of “Rex” Pure Foods.
This is not a recipe book—but an interesting story
of how “Rex” Pure Foods are prepared and
packed.
Each copy of this book cost sixpence to produce.
Send a Id. stamp to cover postage and we will
mail you a copy by return.
Address your letter to our nearest oihce.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BENDIGO, PERTH.
J 3951
For tHe Artistic Home.
The BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
has a perfect touch that puts it in a
class by itself, and in harmony with
pure beauty of tone is its artistic
case design.
Try it Yourself
and you will at once be charmed with
the delicacy and velvety character
of its touch, it is so human-like that
it may be mistaken for hand-playing
by a perfect artist.
The easiest way to obtain a Behning
Player Piano is to exchange your
present (perhaps silent) piano. We
will allow you its full value, and the
balance can be spread over a period
of years that will allow for its pur-
chase by moderate monthly payments.
PALINGS
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
$c
S<
--V
i.-l.
m
M
a
Wtr
m
I
<S*4f :f. ''A 7 ##?*??
WRITE TO-DAY FOR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
! . -


Suffered Many
Months With Rash
Cuticura Heals
“For many months I suffered with
a rash on my chin, which had a burn-
ing sensation. The rash
i appeared in blotches and
the skin was very red and
inflamed. The irritation
caused me to scratch it
thereby causing eruptions
and disfigurement and loss
of sleep.
“I tried ma'ny remedies but could
not get a cure. I then sent for sam-
ples of Cuticura Soap and Ointment
which gave me great relief, so I bought
more and within six weeks the rash
had disappeared and I was completely
healed.” (Signed) Arthur Davis T
Church St., Bathurst, N. S. W.
Prevent these distressing skin
troubles becoming serious by making
Cuticura Soap, and no other, your
every-day toilet soap, assisted by little
touches of Cuticura Ointment now and
then. Theyareidealfor the complexion.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
N. S. W.” Soid everywhere.
jlpaEFXutJcura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap. X/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
V
CHATEAU
tanunea
Standards £? Hospital
BE&NDY
<C
l/sO
'>v-7 r r'~'".- \r*K-
"~ <
(£
vV*J -
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
fucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
KEEPKOOL
FOR COMFORT
KEEPKOOL is the
sensible summer
underwear.
It is porous for cool-
ness, absorbent for
health, and elastic for
comfort.
Sold by
LEADING MERCERS
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS., Sydney aud Melbourne
For Sale.
BEAUTIFUL AUXILIARY YAWL
“DORA.”
Built to designs by C. D. Mower, N.Y. Excellently
fitted and found, 43 O.A. by lift. 9in., draught
2ft. 6in., 18-H.P. LAMB ENGINE. The most power-
ful Yacht in Northern Waters.
For sale on account of the death of the owner.
Apply ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers, Brisbane.
THIS is a splen-
did Stetson
model. Its soft
lines offer
comfort and its unob-
trusive shape
lends both dig-
nity and cor-
rectness. Suitable for
almost any occasion.'
It is known as the
“Rialto.” The brim
is 2$ inches wide with
a cut edge; the crown,
5f inches high. Bands
to match or contrast.
POPULAR SHADES
PLEASE ask TO BE
SHOWN THE “ RIALTO"
AT any QUALITY STORE
%
i ’SV’M
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Williams'
To All Men Who Shave
A New Year’s Gift!
By a simple time saving change you can make your
WILLIAMS’ SHAVING STICK
last you three times as long as usual.
METHOD ; Wet the entire face thoroughly with your brush.
Apply WILLIAMS SHAVING SOAP to one portion only,
preferably the chm. YOUR BRUSH WILL DO THE REST.
You will then find your face as thoroughly lathered as if you
had applied the soap to every part of it. By this simple change
f* 1 ® series of shaves which has been costing you HALF-A-
cROWN, will now cost you LESS THAN ONE-SHILLING.
We can guarantee this result pro-
viding you use the lather made
only by—
WILLIAMS’ SHAVING SOAP
Sold for HALF-A-CROWN
By all Modern Chemists
W 44
Holderlop
ShavingStick'
KS
w
—the best pipe at a moderate price.
—and that does not imply that it is not
a GOOD pipe.
You will seek far, even among the most
expensive pipes, before you find another
that will give such thorough satisfaction
as the GBD.
Its genuine French briarwood is chosen
for its perfectly seasoned maturity. This
ensures a cool, sweet smoke, while the
expert workmanship of the GBD guaran-
tees easy drawing.
the perfect pipe.
Many popular shapes. Obtainable everywhere.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Tasmanians are not likely to forget the
efforts of Jimmy Randell (Middle Harbor), who
toured the Speck with Western Suburbs (Sydney)
XI during the holidays. In nine matches he took
52 wickets at an average cost of six. Randell, who
headed Sydney premiership averages in 1909-10 with
78 wickets averaging 12.02, is a trundler of the
“bosie’ type. He was a Digger.
* * * *
The A.J.C. notifies a further fattening of
the prize-money at the Autumn Meeting at Rand-
wick. In the four days £36,000 added-nioney will
be given away—a rise of £6OOO on last year’s
disbursements. The Doncaster Handicap ( £3000)
and Sydney Cup ( £6000) have both got a lift of
£1000; and the Autumn Stakes (w.f.a.) jumps
£5OO to £2500. Encouragement is also given to
hurdle and steeplechase owners by the addition of
£250 to four events, making them each worth
£750.
* * * .
Australian amateur billiards champion J.
R. Hooper had a much easier task against C. E.
Rilev in the second round of the British amateur
championship than he had against S. S. Christey in
the first. Hooper had the game in hand at the close
of the first thousand, when the scores stood: Hooper,
1000 ; Riley, 302. In the second thousand Riley
went from bad to worse, scoring only an additional
294. Hooper thus won —2000 to 596. The winner
did not exceed the century, but played consistently,
his chief breaks being 90, 54, 53, 51, 45 and 42.
Riley, who had been playing decent billiards for the
last two seasons, had no chance and did nothing of
any importance in breaks.
* * * *
Killed on a Melbourne suburban railway
line a few days ago John Stevenson, horse-trainer. In
his young jockey days Stevenson was the crack light-
weight (successor to Edward Gorry and predecessor of
Norman Godby) and when he landed the outsider
Auraria ahead of dead-cert. Hova for the Melbourne
Cup of 1895 there was no rider in Australia could
shake a whip at little Jack Stevenson. Subsequently
he went to England and rode winners, and in Africa
he did likewise. Returning to this country a few
years ago Stevenson got some horses to train, but
he never struck much luck. The middle-aged ex-
jockey had left his career behind him.
* * * *
N. S. Wales’s hollow defeat of South AuSt
tralia by 638 runs has well-nigh decided this
year’s Sheffield Shield. N.S.W. has won three
matches against Victoria’s two; but the N.S.W.-
Vic. fixture at Sydney has yet to be decided. Should
Vic. win the Shield will then be decided on averages
This is the position at present:—
N. S. Wales.
Eor .. 2417 runs for 50 wickets—average 48.34
Against .. 1133 runs for 50 wickets —average 22.66
Credit margin. . .. .. .. ..25.68
Victoria.
for .. 2173 runs for 50 wickets —average 43.46
Against .. 1750 runs for 60 wickets—average 29.16
Credit margin.. .. .. .. ..14.30
It would, therefore, take a substantial win to give
the southern sister a victory.
* * * #
From “The Art of Lawn Tennis,” by
W. T. Tilden (just published by Methuen)
“The primary object in match tennis is to break
up the other man’s game. If you can break a
player’s nerve by pounding at a weakness, do it.”
Of doubles he says:—
“Pick one man, preferably the weaker of your
opponents, and centre your attack on him and
keep it there. Pound him unmercifully, and in
time he should crack under the attack.”
The writer had formed this estimate of Gerald Pat-
terson :
“Where in all the rest of tennis history was
there a first-class man with a backhand so funda-
mentally wrong? His grip is bad, he pulls up
on the ball and ‘loops’ it high in the air. I do not
mean Patterson always misses his backhand. He
does not. He even makes remarkable shots off it
at times, but if Patterson is pressed his backhand
is the first portion of his game to crack because it
is inherently wrong.”
The last Davis Cup contests in which Tilden went
remorselessly for Patterson’s backhand, and finally
reduced the owner to such a condition of demoralisa-
tion that Brookes had to take many of his returns,
demonstrated the astuteness of the champion’s judg-
ments.
The first ranking player of the nation which now
holds the tennis supremacy of the world handles
the rest of the leaders of the game in the judicial
spirit which he applies to Patterson. Norman
Brookes, “the greatest tennis-player and genius of
our time,” he considers still to be “the greatest
doubles player in the worlil to-day,” and he writes
highly of Pat O’Hara Wood.
* * * *
“0.K.”: At this distance of time I cannot
say how long it is since the number of Test matches
—which in the first instance was only one for the
season —came to be extended from 3 to 5; but I
will take oath iny first protest against the unneces-
sary luck of the toss appeared in The Bulletin
when no more than three matches constituted the
Test set. The middle toss even then appeared so
ridiculously unfair to the side that had lost the
previous toss as to be impossible of continuance by
any ruling powers less artless than the ancient in-
fants who control cricket. As soon as the number
of Tests was stretched to five I' started to hammer
away at the proposal that each side should have two
first choices of innings for certain. Not more than
one toss is actually necessary. The winner could
take Ist, 3rd and sth choice, leaving the other
fellow to do as he likes in the 2nd and 4th matches.
Or the loser of the first toss could have a chance
to reverse his luck in the final, if the ancient rulers
of the ancient game prefer to give the two captains
another chance to get photographed whilst the coin
is spinning. Anyhow, one side or other has to have
three to two the worst of it as regards choice of
innings. The luck of the toss should go no further.
It may happen that first use of the wicket gives no
great advantage to the user (the Englishmen in
Sydney and Melbourne might have put themselves in
a strong position by better batting in one case, and
by catching in the other), or perhaps the
policy of sending the opponents in to bat on a dull
wicket may be defeated by unexpected changes in
the weather. Still, as far as the winning of the toss
be luck, it should be kept within the narrowest pos-
sible bounds. I wrote about this in the long ago
until my soul wearied of the subject. And look at
the absurdity of the old follow-on rule! Could it
possibly be sanctioned in these so-called Test
matches if there were any true sense of fair play in
the rule-makers ? The side that wins the toss makes
a big score on a dry wicket. Never mind the fact
that the score would have been much smaller but
for many catches missed in the field. That is beside
the point. The toss-winners pile up a score, and
then rain comes to make it practically impossible
for the other side to do much. Indeed, the toss-
losers fall so far short of the big task, that they
have to immediately play their second innings on
the wicket which accounted for their having to
follow on. Why in the name of commonsense, which
has so little to do with cricket, should misfortune be
thus rubbed into the luckless side, when it would be
possible to level things up somewhat by leaving the
people who had sole use of the good new wicket to
take their turn on the bad one? They might play as
recklessly as they liked, or the captain could declare
the innings closed ere half the side was out in order
to send the enemy back to bat whilst the pitch
was still rotten, but they can show no cause or reason
why the toss losers should be bound to follow on
with a second dire failure because their first dire
failure was unavoidable. There’s a lot of inglorious
uncertainty in cricket which cannot be awarded
against, I know, but some of its time-honored foolish-
nesses could quite easily be removed.
(Continued on page 38.)


ill
...I ■■
HI
■
«
■
fw
■V ■■ j
isor®
OMfMjO
di
o
m
m
in
W
Only sixty-one inches by sixty-four! Yet in that
small area the "Home Grand” combines all the
characteristics which so distinguish the horizon-
tal from the upright piano. Amongst these, of
course, is the beautiful form of the instrument.
This is based on a classical design which forever must
i surely be beyond criticism! Graceful in line, it properly
takes its place in completing the furnishing of a tastefully
decorated room where an upright piano would be pain-
fully incongruous. Being small in size, the" Home Grand
occupies practically no more room than a full-sized up-
right. It fits into any odd corner, thus utilising space that
would otherwise be wasted.
The development of this instrument has taken more than
five years of experimenting. One problem was to retain
horizontal quality in an instrument that would be small
enough for the average home. This we have done.
Then there was the problem of price. By adopting a
scientific routine in production, we have solved this, too.
The " Home Grand ” is for sale at the same price as
any high-grade upright, and it is, by reason of its hori-
zontal construction, a better instrument.
HEAD OFFICE and
SHOWROOMS :
333 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
Pleasures 61 in. x 64 in.
J\lo greater m fence than
a High-grade Uferight.
FACTORIES:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
ANNANDALE
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
J Kiel 105,
BRANCHES:
N.S. IV.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn,
and Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
BRANCHES:
Tas.: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John
Evans Ltd., Adelaide. IV.A. : J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland), LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


SILVER-PLATE TABLE APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunders’ Breakfast Combination, complete with Egg-
cups and Spoons, Toast Rack, Butter Dish and Salt Cellar,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Salad Dish and Servers, English
rystal Cut Glass, A 1 quality, pure Silver-
plated Mounts and Servers, £5/5/.
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, hand
burnished, plain design, £B/10/-
A. Saunders Baking Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, plain design,
highly burnished, Enamel lining, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
detachable dishes, £l2.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £4/4/-
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand burnished and engraved, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, with
Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Satin Glass
lining, £7/10/-
1
d
mm
Beaver Board is used
extensively for Shop
Window Panelling,
because it gives an
artistic effect with
but little work.
More Room for the
Growing Business
When increasing business necessitates
alterations or additions to your premises,
Beaver Board will prove a boon.
Beaver Board enables you to have walls
and ceilings of the new rooms or offices
Quickly covered with permanent, sound-
proof, artistic, Canadian Spruce panelling.
The Beaver Board panels have simply to be
sawed and nailed to the studs or old walls
and may be painted at once. The exclusive
“Sealtite” process gives Beaver Board a fin- .
ished sized surface, ready for oil colours,
water colour or distemper.
Beaver Board is timber- —sturdy Cana-
dian Spruce logs reduced to fibres, then
converted into rigid, handy-sized panels that
can not crack, chip or falk
Beaver Board may be obtained from
Timber Merchants and Builders’ Furnishers.
See your local dealer.
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
THOROLD, ONT., CANADA LONDON, ENGLAND
BUFFALO, N. Y., U. S. A.
MILLS AND WORKS IN CANADA AND U. S. A.
Write for Sample and Booklet to:
Australasian Representative, O. D. GORDON, G. P. O. Box 2408
Sydney, N. S. W.
ď
(for Better
Walls and
Ceilings
đ
KS
Fl*
fd
MADE IN
CANADA,


Amusements.
Harry Kickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINIOsH.
t non theatre, sadnev.
1 EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LIE AC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
“|“IVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the fascinating
Musical Extravaganza of the Orient,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
MatinCes every Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Plan at Glen’s.
SY DN E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION.
BABY BUNTING.
PALACE.
WELCOME, STRANGER.
JOHN D. O’HARA
and
JULES JORDAN,
Amusements.
u
N lON rIcT U H IS TIIEAT It « S
TIIE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
MAJESTiO GI GRAND. J KING’S* CROSS;
WKST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
■ C WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
«J. attractions.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY' EVENING AT 7.45.
The Gorsreous Pantomime Extravaganza,
humpty dumpty.
theatre royal.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
P lU 5£:
TWICE DAILY.
MatinCes 2.30. Evenings 7.45.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE GIGANTIC FAIRY PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
OYT’S
THEATRES, MELBOURNE
OF LUXE, BOURKE "STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
H
TWO GREAT FEATURES:
THE CASE FOR THE DEFENCE
and
THE GIRL IN THE RAIN.
Prices as usual.
jy|A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
YES OR NO.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “ Mattamac
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look to
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quahty-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Reluse any Coat without
the Label, because it
not
“ Mattamac.
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
11
fm
V
ia«B
ml
illi
& M
wsi
•m
i?
©l*
n
Si
l»wJ
! waasswKMSigHP rv- ; >
ďf
d
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21
oz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
ti__ “Mattamac” is waterproof— absolutely. In appearance it is
UenticalS the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-thud the weight
Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
as a
“Mattamac” Stormproofs com? from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable m wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it- Made in five shades.
19 o z.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE
W 1 ■ %
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Drawings
from actual Photographs, and are conse-
quently, truthful representations of the b eatlier-
weight “Mattamac" Stormproof, which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 2l\oz. weight; without
Belt, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
MADE IN ENGLAND ...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If your regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac’’
else. Writetons. Mattamac j and Un .
address of the nearest Dealer who has stoc . , • ip: J: nß Coat for Horsemen
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat tor
“MATTAMAC” BOOXLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask you. Dealer to show you the “Mattamac.” If
“Matmmac” a< Stormproofs ”Tor £. (We supply Booklet.
F, “ *° “ w. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, £.a.w.
m
w
iff
Sole Manufacturers of 1
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs )
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND.
STREET,
(A 504) ©
The
'‘MATT AM AC" TRADE MARKS are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright, reserved^
Amusements.
K
INC
Til 10 AT UK. 'I K I. B « U Ii N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
T & N. TAIT & BAILEY & GRANT’S SUPERB
PRODUCTION, sinbad the SAILOR.
The Pantomime that’s different. 1 lan at Allans.
, ULAN
WILKIE SHAKSPEAIIEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
VACATION.
Re-open HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE AUCKLAND,
February 15. All communications to ALLAN WILKIE,
c/o Hugh D. Wilson, T. & G. Building, Sydney.
THE
OLA Cl ARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
M
ELBA THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
<shnwin°- the pick of the world’s films, including
the produ-ctions o* CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII. RATHE.
WORLD and SELZNIC.Iv. _■
Amusements.
gIUXANNU THEATItE, 31 EX. HOC UN IS
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quaym
TARIFF from 18/C per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Ihiiu
and all particulars posted on application
t 0 The Manages.
is
Broadway Ties, 6/6 to 17/6.
Also Silk Knitted, 15,6 to 25/-
314 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
ď
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting) ; starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES —3,4, 5, 6| and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. BRISBANE.
(Trams pass asar by.) Worlrs-Yeeronspllly. K
14,*
Edison Amberol Records
f
3890-
3893-
oooct’vp Made Up My Mind to Mind a Maid
Iflde Up Like You. Contralto and Ban-
toPr e Helen a oiark & Joseph A. Phillips
-Uncle Josh and Aunt Nancy Put Up the
Kitchen Stove. A Rural Scene.
Kite Cal Stewart & Ada Jones
-You’re Mv Girl. Negro Melody, orch.
acc A 1 Bernard & Ernest Hare
3894 Know What It Means to Be Lone-
some. Soprano, A Freer
3895- My Desert Love. Tenor,
3897 in the Old Sweet Way. Contralto and
Tenor, orch. acc.
Helen Clark & George Wilton Ballard
-Little Arrow and Big Chief Greasepaint.
Vaudeville Sketch. n. r
Ada Jones & Len Spencer
-Granny. Contralto, orch acc.
Marion Evelyn Cox
3899-
3900-
Blue Amberol List.
for January.
Don’t be satisfied by simply reading the description of
\a W Records in the January List. r0 IVT tO y ,
dealer and have them played over for you. No doubt
there are certain of them that are just what you have
been looking for.
Royal Purple List.
29042 La gj™ “ «t'lS „
Don UlO U e Marie Tiflany & Mario Laurenti
29044 —Simon the Cellarer. Bae-Baritone. Orch A " iur
29045— Heaven le My Home. a«. .
3901-
3902-
3903-
3905-
3908-
3912-
3916-
3917-
3918-
-Alexander’s Band is Back in Dixieland.
Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet
-Cleo —Fox-Trot, for Dancing. Saxo-
phone, Xylophone and Piano.
All Star Trio
-Fancy Little Nancy. Saxophone,
orch. acc. Wheeler Wadsworth
-Same as His Faither Did Before Him.
Orch. acc. Glen Ellison
-Love Blossom. Mixed Voices, orch. acc.
Metropolitan Quartet
-Back florae on the Farm. Negro
Vaudeville Sketch.
Billy Golden & Joe Hughes
—Love’s Adieu. Tenor and Baritone,
orch. acc. , ~ ~
Lewis James & Vernon Archibald
—Serenade d’Amour.
Imperial Marimba Band
—Abandonado. Mexican Valse.
Peerless Orchestra
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


CINZANOS
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPUMANTE
VERMOUTH
As Supplied to the King
of Italy and Royalties.
Diploma of Honor. Gold Medals,
London and other exhibitions.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F* LUBRANO & CO. Ltd*,
48 Young- Street, SYDNEY.
r
w
072
YG
OOORD£SO N
FINEST DRY GIN
Sl old tom
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Ansirnlasinn Agents. 26 30 Clarem-e st., S.v<iner~
The Shoe Polish Super Excellent.
Bostock’s Shoe Polish is made from a highly scientific formula of purest ingredients,
is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish, it
PRESERVES the leather.
3
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood. White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
DUCK
CARTRIDGES
Fresh Loaded.
“Blue Seal,” , smokeless. Chilled shot
22/- 100.
“Kilos,” smokeless. Chilled shot, 23/- 100.
“Infallible,” dense smokeless. Gas-tight
cases. Chilled shot, 24/- 100.
“A. p .” “Special,” deep brass. Smokeless.
Gas-tight eases. Chilled shot, 26/- 100.
“Amberite,” “Du Pont,” “Ballis-
tite,” “Smokeless,” 24/- 100
2%. Match Cartridges, 30/- 100.
A reduction of 6d. per 100 on all orders of 500.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEI SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
S« ITERI °* “Baby Bunting”
“Welcome, Stranger”
i l ' ol , l • “The Lilac Domino”
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
Onion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Tlumpty Dumpty”
“ OYAI ‘ “The Maid of the Mountains”
Tivoli ‘‘Chu Chin Chow”
Princess s “Cinderella”
d ING . s VI ‘ V “Sinbad the Sailor”
Hoyts.De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Mewing, Pictures
"J EI ' liA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciakium Dancing
Three mighty fine stage pictures (one broad
setting far each act), a flow of sweet, but
mostly undistinguished music, bright lyrics
a wealth of smart dressing and a particularly
tat part for Gladys Moncrieff are the most
valuable assets of “The Maid of the Moun-
tains show at Melbourne Royal. Its weak-
nesses are inconsistency of character in the
plot, which terminates in a number of loose
ends, ana a want of force and finish where
two principal young men are concerned. One
never quite knows how to take the story. It
begins like “The Pirates of Penzance,” 'with
a young woman doing all the housework for
a band of marauders, resolves itself into a
compound, of romantic opera and musical
comedy, t-ie hero and heroine always strictly
serious, and then breathes its last on an
empty stage, with nothing clearly explained
except that Phil Smith, the comic brigand
has been kidnapped by his long-lost' wife
“WELCOME, STRANGER,” at SYDNEY
PALACE.
Edwin Lester as Seth Trimble.
(M.ione Stewart) who had come into a mint
of money what time he was living the simple
felonious life. Miss Stewart is seemingly
younger and prettier than her character
ought to be, but her comedy is good and she
does more for the general welfare of the
entertainment than Leslie Holland, lost in
the capacity of an aged aide-de-camp named
Crumpet. Arthur Stigant revels in the gro-
tesque character of a Governor who carries
on whilst his newly-appointed successor gets
captured by the brigands and drops out of
public recollection. YTofet Yorke, somewhat
improved in her management of her harsh
voice, is a pleasing and picturesque exponent
of His Excellency’s coquettish daughter. Of
three leading bandits Robert Chisholm, an
inexperienced actor with a fine silvery bari-
tone and a valuable top note, is more promis-
ing than Frank Freeman as the hero. Chis-
holm will grow stronger in his job all the
time, but Freeman, the enthusiastic young
lover of “Tilly of Bloomsbury,” is not likely
to become more suitable to the part of a
thoughtful, matured brigand of popular fic-
tion. Besides, he has no singing voice to
atone for his lack of commanding personality.
Gladys Moncrieff, on the other hand, sings
delightfully and acts with feeling and dis-
cretion as the adventurous stewardess to the
brigands. There’s no great depth of emotion
in the pure soprano’s performance, but she is
convincing. She shares chief honors with
Coleman’s spacious scenery and good old
General Effect.
'l' !f»
The good ship “Pinafore” dropped anchor
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Satur-
day night, with Fred Hobbs as its polite
skipper and Strella Wilson as the little
daughter who bore him company till Ralph
Rackstraw (James Hay) hove in sight.
Hay and Strella warbled tunefully and
suffered the usual recalls. Charles Walenn
was an excellent
First Lord of the
Admiralty and had
a peach of a first
cousin in Bryl
Walkely. Ethel
Morrison was a
hard working
Little Buttercup
and John Ralston
brought the gal-
lery about his ears
when he declaimed
“Pie is an English-
m a n.” A 1 b e rt
Ivavanagh’s Dick
Dead eye was a
thing of joy, if not
o f beauty. The
now seldom heard
“Trial by Jury”
follows Pinafore
and gives Patti
Russell a chance
to demonstrate how
she looks in a
bridal rig-out. Her
looks combined
with her tuneful-
ness cooked de-
fendant Charles
Mettam’s case
at once, and
“The Maid of the
Mountains," at
Melbourne Royal
Phil Smith as the
husband who was
drowned.
learned Judge Walenn’s decision to appro-
priate the bride himself was the only thing
that marred the jury’s happiness.
* * * *
J.C.W. girls are the principal glory of
“Humpty Dumpty,” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
as it was in the beginning and ever will be
with the venefable firm’s panto, shows. Also
in accordance with ancient precedent the
imported principals go through a form iof
taking all the credit for songs in which the
soloist in the foreground merely interrupts
public view of the numerous and beauteous
chorus-girl in mid-distance. On behalf
of these splendidly supported “principals” it
may be pleaded that they do their best to
look as though they deserved the greatness
thrust upon them. They accept encores with
an impressive affectation of conscious merit,
except at matindes, where encores are not
usually requested. The crowning success
of the bi-weekly matinee is a harlequinade,
crowded with sausages, policemen, and sides
of beef.
* % * ;Jj
At Melbourne Tivoli the rival views of
youth and age continue to be expressed in
the sweet, dim scene of an Oasis in the
Desert. Age protests that a red, sinking
sun spells sorrow, whilst giddy youth argues
that the same sun sets for larks, with a large
L, in support of which theory the young
Arabs present indulge in a dance round.
All the same the subsequent capture of
Omar and Vera Pearce by Chu Chin Chow
and his job lot of myrmidons indicates that
old Dad who talked of sorrow lurking round
the corner was a better prophet than the
saucy flapper who gave him cheeki These
weekly reminders of individual items in the
story of “Chu Chin Chow” are intended for
people who have sampled the Tivoli pro-
duction only once, and brought away a con-
fused recollection of nothing in particular
save scenic effect.
:I: * *
These warm nights at Melbourne King’s
haven’t affected the energy of the Sinbad
Co., though Colin Crane must perspire
terribly under his wealth of wardrobe, and
doubtless Jack Cannot gets moist, even
though he is given a mythical bath when the
“Saucy Sherbet” goes to the bottom. The
coolest man in the panto ought to be Bert
Nicholson, the Old Man of the Sea, but Bert
has left the sea-bed for the inside of Ginty,
the Cat, which was recently vacated by
little Hassan owing to the pangs of a
poisoned leg.
Recent amendments to “Cinderella” at
Melbourne Princess’s have given the shapely
Prince a stronger claim to his own domains
and allowed Stifify and Mo a longer leave
of from the general performance.
Mo no longer parades the Palace as if it
were an unredeemed pledge, and the duel
with Stifify over a glass of whisky has ceased
to imitate a chess match conducted by cable.
In other respects the show has livened up,
and from the Puller, or box-office, point of
view Cinderella is beginning to make the
Mint envious of her position.
“The Lilac Domino,” at Sydney Tivoli,
continues to provide its startling contrasts.
Jamieson Dodds sings like the artist he is
—and maintains the dignified melancholy of
one attending the obsequies of a club bore.
Pew of the other males have much voice or
art to speak of. But Ivy Shilling dances
exquisitely—better than she ever did under
the J.C. W. management—and gets mod-
erately applauded ; while George Gee’s comic
shuffle, ending with the usual dumb-show
imitation that he is off in quest of refresh-
ment, creates an uproar of applause. A
youthful attendant, looking in his scarlet
garments like a sort of under-sized Solomon,
sells the stalls lemonade; and in the midst
of much gilding, surrounding life-size paint-
ings of Vera Pearce, appears the battered
old Tivoli advt. curtain which was in com-
mission when serios whined and comics
wheezed and the dressing-rooms of the pre-
sent-day stars were liable to be infested
bv trick-alligators. The effect is as of a
bookmaker’s wife wearing with the silver
and spangles of her 1921 race-frock a well-
tried 1909 gamp.
The cricket Ashes were won from Eng-
land at Adelaide last week, but at Sydney
Criterion the Ashes of enthusiastic approval
are being won every week. The performers
are on the. best of wickets —“Baby Bunting”
—and their Gregory, Dorothy Brunton, is
never out of form.
::: * * *
“The Welcome Stranger” hasn’t outlasted
his welcome at Sydney Palace. Eight times
a week a gentle flow of wisdom issues
through J. D. O’Hara’s nose.
** * *
Norma Talmadge, equally neglected as a
millionaire’s spouse and the wife of an honest
working-man, gets all the sympathy at the
Lyceum and the Crystal Palace. As the
lady of riches and patrician be mty she suc-
cumbs at once when the wickeO male vamp
gives her the come-hither glance. But as the
young woman who vacuums her own flat,
and does her own beauty culture in the
scullery, she flings a scornful “No” to the
man who begs her to leave the washtub and
the home-made ice-chest to wallow in downy
ease. “Yes or No” is the tabloid title. The
lest of the programme is given over to the
growth of human emotions amid tall trees.
This is known as “King Spruce.” At the
Globe and Haymarket Charles Ray goes de-
tectiving in a sanatorium and what he finds
out makes the joy of “The Village Sleuth.”
On the same screen Dorothy Dalton has a
crowded “Half Hour.” A man named James
Barrie wrote the play.
“The Love Expert” is bringing canoodlers
to Melbourne Majestic this week. It is a
tale of impassioned dowagers and decayed
capitalists, old aunts and lunatics, and is
brought to a treacly conclusion by the trick-
ery of Constance Talmadge, whose work
compensates for the foolishness of the sub-
ject. In “The Silent Barrier,” a bad man
tries to add a lady journalist to his harem,
but topples over one of the Swiss Alps in-
stead. Hoyt’s continue to exhibit their new
Latin actress, Francesca Bertini, in a
Parisian thriller. “The Case for the De-
fence.” The other Hoyt narrative. “The
Girl in the Rain,” is mainly interesting for
tnG introduction of Anne Cornwall, whose
vivacity and good looks will set the flappers
longing for her next appearance. At the
Melba “King Spruce” is still reigning amid
heavy Canadian scenery. Clara Kimball
Young’s “Forbidden Woman” is the Bri-
tannia’s source of livelihood until the end
of the week.
• ,^ test co - to tempt open-air fortune
m Adelaide calls itself the Vogues and Vani-
ties. Connie Milne makes a welcome rean-
pearance, and Charles Eoli is the main-
comedian. The rival So-and-Sos rely largely
on the fine voice of Pauline Bindley, and
on a useful newcomer, Arthur Denton. Maie
Baird dances, and the really comical George
Welch pervades the whole show. In pic-
tures, William Farnum at the Royal is
showing that the other Bill is not the only
man handy with a “gun,” and Tom Mix
does his best (with .the help of horse and
hound) to outshine both of them. Wonder-
giaph has a Spanish story which goes near
to tragedy, and by way of variety a filmed
with a _ Long Arm”; he resembles Monte
Uristo m having a whole batch of enemies
and getting level with each one of them in
version of the jolly old American “It Pavs
to Advertise. ’ At West’s is one Mannister
“BLUEBEARD,” AT SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
Bluebeard (Victor Fitzherbert) discovers
that he has been vamped by the Dame
(Jim Gerald).
detail. At the Pav.„is an interesting “Sport-
ing Chance”; if you are abopt to kill your-
self, and a neighbor gets shot, why not pre-
tend you have done it and get a ticket for
the next world without expense?
“0.K.” preaches a sermon:—
Any text will do; but if you must have one,
take the Gospel according to • “Nella,” in the Book
of The Bulletin (6/l/’2l) : “ ‘Yeomen of the
Guard had its Australian premiere at Melbourne
Princess’s on April 20, 1889. Nellie Stewart
waa Elsie Maynard; Billy Elton, Jack Point;
Leumane, Colonel Fairfax. There were others,
but that trinity will take some" living up to.” Now,
having seen every good production of “Yeomen of
the Guard” that Australia knows about I feel quite
safe in saying that the one “Nella” speaks of was
the least satisfactory of the lot. Some of the “others”
were Ida Osborne, who treated Phoebe as a festive
comedy character, whereas it is rich in emotional
feeling and is easily the most interesting study in
the show; Walker Marnock, who sang Sergeant
Mery 11 with an irritating roll in his baritone, and
couldn’t and didn’t act the part; a Dame Carru-
thers (Miss Ameris) who was quite unequal to the
important job and who never played the leading
contralto in any other opera that I remember. But
the three people mentioned by “Nella” will suffice
for pegs to hang my argument on. Nellie Stewart’s
voice was all to pieces when she appeared as Elsie
Maynard, and she was soon replaced by May Pol-
lard, who did at least put some tenderness into the
character. At that time Nellie Stewart had never
attempted to be other than decoratively theatrical
in a Gilbert and Sullivan creation. She was
charmingly artificial as Phyllis in “lolanthe,” as Jose-
phine in “Pinafore,” and as Mabel in “The Pirates.”
But the straight sentimental part of Elsie was
quite out of her operatic line in those days. She
was not then the Nellie who could score heavily as
Ma Mie Rosette; and, anyhow, Rosette is a gay
coquette compared with pensive Elsie. Elton’s Jack
Point was satisfactory in the jesting and his touch
of tragic acting, of course, but his tragedy was
somewhat overdone, and his attempt to warble his
share of the music was pathetic. All things con-
sidered, the more tuneful George Lauri filled the
bill fuller than Elton did; but Lauri was not
nearly so melodious as Walenn, the Jack Point of
the last two Gilbert and Sullivan companies. As
for “Nella’s” inclusion of Leumane in a trinity
that “wants some living up to,” I can only wonder
whether she remembers Leumane at all. He was an
educated singer (of the German school) who used
a fairly good tenor voice for all it was worth in a
forcing way. His best note was an upper A off the
chest, and he made a point of getting it off his
chest at every opportunity. But act! He never
got near to a suggestion of the Col. Fairfax that
Gilbert drew. In that scene with the Yeomen he was
not to be mentioned in the same breath as Courtiee
Pounds, his first successor, or handsome Edward
McKeown of six years ago, or the present man James
Hay, an Australian who gives the most consistently
truthful picture of them all. With regard to
all the other originals, except perhaps Howard Ver-
non as the Assistant Tormentor (the one frankly
comic character in the piece), I would say that they
have been surpassed by later performers, though not
always all of them at one time. It was inevitable
that such work as “The Yeomen” should be improved
in the performance as years rolled on. The opera is
a classic. Each revival of 3 classic rs better in some
particular or other than its predecessor. The idea of
the first Australian rendering of the opera “wanting
some living up to” can be rubbed out as absurd.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TJie Maid of the Mountains is Gladys Moncrieff.
A band of bold brigands she cooks for.
She throws her affections away on the Chief—
Not getting the spooning she looks for.
Phil Smith, never built for a robber or thief,
Provides the bold brigands with comic relief,
But O! for the Maiden in love with the Chief,
Denied the return that she looks for.
A trap for the bandits is carefully laid—
Alas! the catastrophe sad is;
The cops, make a raid and get hold of the Maid,
The only one captured is Gladys.
When threatened with prison she seems not afraid,
In sweetest of tones is her courage displayed;
The Chief comes along, in. false plumage arrayed,
And the love-stricken Maiden soon mad is.
For the Governor’s daughter, so sportive and gay,
Appears to the Brigand delightful:
He squeezes her hand—there’s the devil to pay.
The anger of Gladys is frightful.
Her jealousy prompts her to basely betray
The brigand disguised in vice-regal array,
Because she is jealous'she gives him away,
Then deeply regrets she was spiteful.
The plot is but piffle in Act Number 3,
Where the scene has a background of water;
The Bandit seems glad when the Maid sets him free,
Yet he still is unwilling to court her.
A soldier sings songs (once a bandit was he),
And nobody knows who the stranger can be;
The Gov. disappears, nor can anyone see
What happens his flirty young daughter.


“ Where the
Good Hats are.”
iS IL
rii
V»
*•
\
Murdoch’s summer Sale
BARGAINS IN STETSON’S
M
URDOCH’S GREAT BARGAIN EVENT commenced
on 2 1 st January on an epoch-creating run of 14 days.
Every Department is brimming over with Bargains, and the
reduction here in the Famous “Stetson Hats is typical o
the generous concessions abounding in every section of the
Mammoth Store.
These Smart “Stetsons” are but recently imported—each
Granite, Pea-Green and Olive.
Usually 72/- & 84/- Less 10 per cent.
Reduced to 69/6. SALE PRICE
626
The stocks of Stetsons is limited. Get in
early. If you cannot call, send by post, giv-
ing size and shade desired. Address your
letter to DESK R,
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
MURDOCH’S
In Pai-R St. Ltd., Sydney,
“The World’s Largest Men's & Boys’ Wear Store.”
rnmmm.
mmm
-*?»'**» . - ~
\\
-
mm <&p> v%
ill h
- -•■ V >
Iws. %* a
i,-/
WMWi l §
mm
M
■
11 fill I
-
i
“BUCK”
Time Recorder.
British Throughout.
€J An Indispensable
adjunct to Efficient
Production.
If Registers “Late
and “Overtimes.”
€j[ Patent Check Action
which ensures registra-
tion on the correct day.
<1 Does away with
ribbon-soiled cards.
Practically foo 1-
nroof.
Used in England by —
Sir Wm. Armstrong, Whit-
worth & Co., Ltd.
Dunlop Rubber Co., Ltd.
British Wasting house and
Electric Manufacturers Ltd.
Daimler Motor Co., Ltd.
Handley Page Co., Ltd.
Etc., etc.
Full Information and Prices
from
Wim. Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL SUIT
f-
At 82 Guineas. ,
ff I
l i
ys
&
r s
TO
IS
Wife
vS-
»Vv4^*
t-M
<Hs'
POSITIVELY THE ' BEST
VALUE OFFERED IN
MEN’S WEAR.
WE are proud of our record of
achievement in the produc-
tion of SPECIAL SUIT at
guineas. The materials are
all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Aus-
tralia, the trimmings—the
inside foundation not seen
by the purchaser—are in
keeping with the high-
grade materials and hand
tailoring which goes into
every Special Suit.
BUCKLEY’S SPECIAL
SUIT has another advantage
—that the materials, being
lighter in weight than most
Australian-made Tweeds, meet,
the need for a highly-
dependable Suit at a Mode-
rate Price.
Write for Samples and Self-
Measurement Form —Sent Free
on Application.
SPECIAL SUITS
MADE TO MEASURE,
84 GUINEAS.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD., Bourke St., Melbourne
ďf
1
IttllttllllllllUllltlllll
ď
an
POR heavy or bulky merchandise, the flat
* Platform Lorry is most favoured. This 4-ton
Leyland Overseas type is used extensively
by Merchants and Manufacturers, Customs and Shipping
Agents, Carrying Companies and similar concerns.
Its capacity is great, and it performs the heaviest work
in a sure, speedy and exceedingly economical manner.
/ & m
a long lane that has no
Levland.” -
LEYLAND LOGIC
This 4 ton O.S. model is built to withstand
strain of .ail kinds. Frame, Axles, Springing,
are all scientifically built to this end in common
with all Leyland Chassis. The wheels even,
are made from the same Steel as used by the
Admiralty for its Destroyers and are constuct-
ed in such a manner that the load comes on a
flat face and not on the rivets. Get full par-
ticulars of the Leyland exclusive features.
Prompt delivery from stock.
LEYLAND MOTORS Ltd.
London Bank Chambers,
Pitt and Moore Streets, Sydney
Victorian Agents:
PRESTON MOTOR PTY. LTD.
High St., Preston, Melbourne.


Hotel c/e Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL Ritrht on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
■„ j Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariif from 16/- per Jay, or from
i Four Guineas per week.
Iris,Y3ool, 3002; Apply Manager.
r
r
§#§
ocoa
milk
Z
2\
7,
’/m
/
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
£JWZX
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Agents:—
A. VICTOR L.EGGO & CO.,
7 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
POVERTY
POINTS
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exqusite
‘‘Snell”: “T. 8.,” scoffing at the complaints
of the degeneracy of the modern stage, recalled
a hair-lifting display £f girls in skin tights
under a waterfall at the Princess’s in da vs
gone by Had he been a little older he might
have raked up the show that ran in i,
bourne under the patronage of a well-known
doctor, a show that would be howled out' t o
sea now within 48 .hours. I can remember
too, at the Apollo Hall in Bourke-street a’
performance made up‘of what were called
poses plastiques, which consisted almost en-
tJiely 01 displays of the female form slightly
SSSffta r ?° ng drink " was efsily
accessible to patrons, and what with one
thing and another the entertainment was of
a character that would throw 'Melbourne-to-
day into convulsions. le to
Nell a” : There was never a more, decent
sport than that horsey hustler, “Professor”
Kemp. In Forbes (N.S.W.), at SW
“The Maid of the
Mountainsat
Melbourne Royal
Arthur Stigant as
the Governor.
time, when the
town was crawl-
ing with actors,
musicians, buskers
and side-showmen,
I saw Kemp ride
up main street on
a spirited prad and
vociferously spruik
for his own show.
But he gave the
opposition a leg-
up, too. Halting-
near the smart
motor turnout
which transported
“Casey,” the chim-
panzee, around the
country, the Pro-
fessor hailed th e-
proprietor, “B e g
pardon, sir, but is
that the same cele-
brated Casey that
was in the Sydney
Zoo ?” and so on
for the edification
of t'he gaping
crowd. He did a
similar publicity
turn for all the
showmen, even
asking the Shock
and Howler Dra-
fflatic Co.’si representative if Ins “Worst
Woman s Wishbone” was,the same play that
had lun for five months in Melbourne.
,‘O.K.”: From time immemorial until
quite recently the newspapers advts. of a
first-night show included all the informa-
tion one can get from the theatre pro-
gramme. Brough and Boucicault of old used
to advertise the cajst of characters all the
time a comedy was running. It was the
system the Bancrofts had introduced in
London. But in those days programmes
were given away at this end of the world,
? nt j i e "^ us t r , a lian public was exhorted to
be duly conscious of its privilege as com-
pared with the public in London, where pro-
grammes cost twopence. The practice of
advertising the cast at least once in the
career of a new production was discontinued
as soon as managements found that patrons
were committing the ad. to memory or cut-
ting it out and using it instead of the bill
which no longer is given away. Advertising
space is now devoted to telling the public
everything except who’s who in the per-
formance. The management practically
says: If you want to know anything about
the show you must pay 6d. or 3d. for a
programme. It’s not profiteering. Merely
business.
"O- Blin”: The readiness of the leading
man, Buckingham Jones, saved “The Mad-
DAYS AND OTHER DAYS.
GIFTED AMATEUR (showing masterpiece):
You know, some days I can paint
splendidly ; other days I can hardly
paint at all.”
CRITIC: “Exactly! But what do you do on
the days you can paint?”
dened Marriage” from ending prematurely
m bathos. Buckingham’s great scene hap-
pened in the Sahara, when, tied up by the
villain, he had to call piteously for water,
his voice gradually getting weaker and
weaker as the red sun disappeared and night
blotted out the scene. It was a great appeal
to feminine emotions, but when the drama
was staged at the Bluegum Mechanics the
weather nearly ruined the tableau. From
curtain-up it had been raining heavily, and
with Birmingham’s first demand for
Wat-ah!”,a torrential downpour expanded
a leak in the roof and brought a silver water-
fall splashing to the stage. Even a
Bluegum. audience might have suspected the
origin of the bath, but before the crowd
could get thinking about it, Birmingham
lifted his anguished eyes to the flies and
murmured in broken ton^: “Thank God!
Heaven has answered my prayer.” Then
the curtain came down slowly amid tremen-
dous applaus^.
, “Digo”: Paderewski used to admit that
his long hair had given offence to every
nation on earth, but declared that only in
Beechworth (Vic.) had it provoked actual
assault. There three young roystering squat-
ters seized him, carried him playfully into a
neighboring barber’s and dumped him into
the operating chair. “Cut this chap’s hair,”
said one—“it’s our shout.” But of course he
kept his trade-mark.
“Tilly of Bloomsbury” had to be renamed
when it got to New York, Bloomsbury,
which to the Londoner at once suggests
shabby gentility, having no particular mean-
ing for Americans —and probably it hadn’t
much for Australians either. So it was sim-
ply called by its proper name, “Happy-go-
Lucky,” lan Hay’s novel from which the
play was made. The part of the improbable
Ihckensy bailiff-butler is played in the
L.S.A. by Otto Heggie, the S. Australian.
Adelaide S.P.C.A. has dropped on the
keeper of the performing dogs in Wittha’
cncus for having unlawfully packed a fox*
terrier dog m such a manner as to Subject
the animal to unnecessary pain.” The travel*
ling crate objected to was ISih. x 18in. x oft.
bin., divided into compartments for two.
Ihere was no room for the dogs to move, oh
stand up, said the inspector, and the tern*
perature that day happened to be 105 deg.
Ihe animals were admittedly in good con*
dition, but the Police Court thought it a
matter for an £8 fine, with £6 14s costs
H^ amfat ”i “ Camillet ’ is “East Lynne’s’*
nvai as a last refuge tor touring snows.
One peripatetic troupe has blended the two
wur C • 01 melodramas, dragging Little
Willie in as an early-life indiscretion of the
consumptive Lrench tart. William’s tragic
decease at a moment when Camille’s affairs
are reaching their crisis has induced floods
handets StUie the most dl ' oU Sht-stricken
“Orb” : Talking about theatrical doubling,
goin S t 0 A lbion Park
l irn'n (•' rT lth Uggan and South’s Famous
Iff annum Organisation for the Show dates
-o years ago. Ned Duggan was then
the same bubbling optimist that he is
“R, a ii,r aU . d uu°" kl plt, y anything frohi
Hamlet to Sweeney Todd the Barber,”
Ihere were about eight people in the
qji all b; ld ’ and we opened in “The
W v ) luch has 35 speak-
mg paits. Ihe doubles were so numer-
ous and conflicting that
not only was the audi-
ence flabbergasted, but
the performers were
badly rattled as well.
Jimmy South, a one-time
operatic star, was doing
Daniel Jaik e s, Elijah
Coombe, Mr. Parkyn and
the tipsy passenger. The
change he made to
differentiate Daniel
Jaikes from Elijah
Coombe was to substi-
tute a Tam-o’-Shanter
for a belltopper. The
poor old chap would
totter off, and the lead-
ing lady, Florence Stan-
hope, would change his
hat for him. “What am
I now, Florrie?” the old
boy would quaver, and
Florrie would prompt
him. “You’re Dan’l
Jaikes now, Jimmy-. You
know, the ‘Bodgets
Wouldn’t bite’ scerie.”
And Jimmy would todclie
on again obediently, and
babble the lines. What
the audience thought
about it I don’t know,
but to me, freish from
Her Majesty’s and the
punctilious George Rignold, “The Silver
King” was a nightmare.
“Old Pot” : Kate Bishop, whom “Daddy”
I-olir married, was a much better actress
than her work with George Rignold at times
indicated. She Seemed to have the bad luck
to play whimpering parts, and was mostly
in tears. I remember her in the first Syd-
ney production of “Called Back,” and this
continual tearfulness had caused her voice
to assume a minor key kind of tone which'
was apt to get on one’s nerves. She was then
not in the first bloom of youth, and when
she quitted the stage she devoted her life to
teaching her daughter Marie.
“Histrioii”: “Rienzi’s” statement (B.
13/1/’2l) that Johnny Batson, an old Vic-
torian actor of the ’sixties and ’seventies, is
playing in “The Eyes of Youth” in London,
is surprising, as I thought Johnny had passed
over years ago. The hotel where he acted
on a billiard table was in Creswick and was
kept in my time by a Yankee who had been
an old coach-driver. The same table was
often used as a stage. G. V. Brooke played
“Hamlet” on it. Batson had a mournful
voice and an idea that he was cut out for
tragedy. He had a shot at “Hamlet” in
Bendigo, but one night was sufficient for
Bendigo.
“Fax”: Two of the most prosperous shows
in S’Africa at latest dates were Ada Reeve
and Pagel’s Circus. Australian-born Pagel, the
blonde strong man of 20 years ago who used
to travel around with a tent and a lion cub,
has developed into a circus proprietor. Ilis
first connection with a big show was when
the Fitzgerald Brothers engaged him to lo
his turn with the lion, which was then getting
to be a big lump of an animal, and was
suspected by the Fitzes of being somewhat
infirm mentally. However, it was not too
dotty to be incapable of resenting the igno-
minious manner in which Pagel used to pull
it about, and eventually the angry king of
beasts attacked the big man and mauled him
prettv badlv.
■ T ’” : u Certain Picture managements
m Melbourne have the goose’s neck on the
jfek. They are throwing on reels of dull
stuff dealing with the virtues of Smith’s
stareh or Brown’s boot polish. When this
matter is swiped across the screen, a groin
goes tip which ah astute management ought
to have no difficulty in interpreting.
“BABY BUNTING" AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Eddie Nable as Proop, the hall-porter.
‘ 'First Old Man” : There’s not much dif-
ference between London audiences and our
own, after all. George Grossmith, the Fog-
town comedian, recently remarked at a
dinner given to him and his managerial part-
ner. (Grossmith and Lauriilard boss about
half-a-dozen London theatres) that West-
End playgoers ‘‘laughed immoderately on
Saturday nights and not at all on Mon-
days.” Monday in Australia is generally
regarded as an “off” night—on both sides of
the curtain. When the pubs kept open late
Saturday was invariably an “on” night.
“Sardonyx”: “M.P.A” (B. 6/l/’2l) re-
minds me that I knew a “lion-king” who
fought a lion with a heavy wooden chair.
The brute was rather under average size but
desperately savage. For nearly 20 strenuous
minutes the man kept driving him back, inch
by inch. The lion roared and reared, but
only the foam of His fury reached the man,
who finished-up by driving him clean out of
the arena and into his Cage at the back. The
show was in Paris, and the (fxcitement of the
audience during the struggle frantic. At the
end the hero could not be presented for
applause; he had collapsed. He told me
afterwards that he didn’t think he’d have
pulled through if the lion hadn’t been
partly dazed by the uproar all round. San-
dow, by the way, once “wrestled” a lion.
But it was a muzzled lion, with bagged feet,
and the spectators didn’t know whether to be
amused or disgusted. *
“Eryander” : Caruso’s mishap recalls what
happened to the famous Rubini, in Paris.
Ilis preternatural compass included the high
E from the chest, and the stage-business was
so arranged that with this terrific note he
had to walk on. The sensational entry be-
came the talk of Paris. But one night when
he essayed the startler not a sound could he
get. Again he tried, and again, until the
audience began to titter. The Italian’s in-
dignation came to his aid, and with a tre-
mendous effort he hurled the note out. Then
he walked off the stage. lie had snapped a
clavicle, and for many months he sang no
more.
“Micawber”: The late Emma Wangen-
heim was in great demand at concerts whilst
in her early teens. I have before me a
letter to her from a gentleman (since de-
ceased) who subsequently made Parliamen-
tary history in this country. It is well
worthy of perusal if only to revive memories
of a custom in vogue at that time:—
Woollahra Volunteer Fire Brigade,
. . Woollahra, May 6th, 1876.
My Dear Miss Wangenheim,—l ha\e been re-
quested by the committee of this Brigade to solicit
the great favor of your highly valued assistance
at a concert shortly to be given in the Odd Fellows’
Hall, Woollahra, in aid of the Brigade funds.
the performers will be the best professional
artistes (and one or two efficient amateurs) obtain-
able, and your presence would- add eclat to the
entertainment, which is to be as recherche as pos-
sible, and which will probablv be attended by the
leading families of this fashionable suburb.
Mr. Wangenheim, some time since, promised his
assistance, and I write him asking a renewal of his
promise, and trust that both of you will grant us
your co-operation ; and, in the event of your favor-
ing us with your compliance, be pleased to name
the size and make of gloves you prefer. A cab
shall, of course, be at your disposal, and Mr. Broad-
hurst, who has kindly given his services, will accom-
pany.
Trusting that you will be able to grant our re-
quest. I beg to remain, dear Miss Wangenheim,
sincerely yours, Jno. C. Neild, treasurer, W.V.F.B.
Jno. C. Neild was, of course, our departed
friend “Jawbone.”
THE BUSKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was ’Oppy John an’ ’Ot-stuff Mag,
An’ Fairy (ten times up on the vag),
An’ Forman,'“Sut on the gay garotte
(I fergit the stretches ’is cobbers got),
An’ Sloppy Kate an’ Skager Malone
(’Oo’s doin’ well in the rag an’ bone)
An’ a brace o’ prossies loungin’ there
In the beer-stained fog o’ the alley air,
When Nigger Maloof (with the twisted feet)
An’ Joe comes bunkerin’ down the street
With a organ jist got new,
An’ they stops an’ sings in the blinkin’ lane
A song: “In the Land o’ Beginnin’ Again
Where Broken Dreams Comes True.”
The Yank puts ’and ter jaw ter yell
An’ into ’is whiskers the jew-drops fell;
There was wobbly mouths on every Jane—
Beginnin’ again, aw, beginnin’ again!
An’ through the walls o’ the pub I seen
A farm at ’Allam, pretty and clean,
An’ after I screws ’em off I knew
They all wuz seein’ them pitchers tool
But Joss cracks ’ardy with ’arf a grin,
The might-’a-bin, aw, the might-’a-bin!
Aw, wot wuz ’ e singin’? Aw, ’edge it, wot?
The gunman shivered like ’e’d bin shot.
All of em shikkeved an’ all of ’em crook,
They all gets a sloppyish sort o’ look.
Bad Mike shapes up ter Joe and scowls,
But falls inter Sloppy’s arms an’ ’owls.
An teary an’ beery an’ broken an’ done,
They all takes the chune up, one be one ;
They all grabs ’ands an’ makes a ring,
An- Joe sez, “Sing, yer blighters, sing!”
An they grabs ’ooever they ’appens ter meet —
Aw, Gawd, the dancin’ wuz ’ard ter beat!
But all of ’em stops w’en the chorus come,
Some ow it got ’em and kep’ ’em dumb
W’en Nigger Maloof (with the twisted’ feet)
An Joe comes buskerin’ down the street
With a organ jist got new,
An pitched an’ sung in the leery lane
Their S ong: “In the Land o’ Beginnin’ Again
Where Broken Dreams Comes True.”
VICTORIA.
F. L. H.


f
LEADERSHIP is assured only by con-
spicuous superiority.
In the year 1902, Mr. H. W. Gossard,
president of The H. W. Gossard Co.,
introduced to the world a new idea in
corse try; the front lacing principle. In
the face of long established practices
and the cherished prejudices of many
centuries, Gossard Corsets steadily
gained a commanding ascendency, per-
haps best evidenced by the scores of
imitators that have followed and are still
following in the wake of their success.
This success was built upon the inher-
ent merit of the merchandise; and the
enormous demand of today is a n&tural
developmentof the universal andstead-
ily increasing preference for these orig-
inal front lacing corsets. In this con-
nexion it is a significant fact that in
spite of unparalleled manufacturing
resources Gossard Corsets never have
been produced in sufficient quantity
to satisfy the demand.
Certainly nothing less than unques-
tioned superiority could accountforthe
intensity of favour in which Gossard
Corsets are held the world over. It is
certain that in the maintaining of this
enviable position of leadership Gossard
quality will never be sacrificed in the
slightest to the insistent need for in-
creased production.
You can buy every Gossard Corset with
the assurance that it will render the
unequalled service every wearer of a
Gossard has a right to expect. The
models designed for your individual
needs will give you that style that only
a Gossard can give —the perfect front
and perfect back that others have tried
in vain to imitate; an all-day comfort
that can only result from a faultlessly
fitting garment; an assurance of health-
ful support that is priceless to every
thoughtful woman; and a wearing serv-
ice that alone is worth the price you pay.
You will find Gossard Corsets at those
stores you like best; those stores that
safeguard their prestige by offering only
merchandise of unquestionably supe-
rior quality. Every corsetiere handling
Gossard Corsets takes pride in selling
them and will take a personal interest
in your satisfaction.
The H. W. Gos sard Co,
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Chicago New Tori Toro mo S)dnt, Bueno, Air. ;
I
A
(BP
&
M
f
d


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS. LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
ď
IWHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNfI ?
LEWIS fewrHTTY makers!
If Worry or Overwork is Taking too Heavy a Toll try
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
fd
ď
(Registered.)
A.B
A.B
fd
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., I-iTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., 85 Currie Street, Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a littie more than Melbourne Prices.
The tribe of Moses had a roval time at
Randwick on Saturday. After three rank outsiders
had rolled home some of them handsomely admitted
that they were “breakin’ even on the day.” The
moderately-well-baeked Yucatan won an uninterest-
ing hurdle race, and Marcinelle (Syce—Bretelle)
started the procession of outsiders by downing the
favorite Poilu, full brother to Poitrel, in the Trial,
the winner’s price being 20 to 1. Then Aerolith
(Cooltnm—Aerobelle), a 25 to 1 shot, led Moun-
taineer and Lady Bronzino home in the Nursery.
The flying three-year-old Glenacre was backed for the
Challenge Stakes as if it were all over bar the
hoisting: of his number. Carrying 9st. 41b., the
Youngster ran a. good honest race, but the improving
Maltgilla (Malt King— Noogilla) beat him decisively
up the long straight with Fib a respectable third
and Biplane a significant fourth. Maltgilla’s price
(20 to 1) was a surprise in view of her recent
good form and her fine showing in the race last
year. But Biplane s return to prominence was more
impressive in view of the big Easter events. The
ex-champion is six years old and a bit thick in
the wind, but he will have to be seriously con-
sidered for the Doncaster. Another Malt King pro-
duct in Hawker (7’s) landed the Welter from
Steelbrook and Amberdown, and the imported horse
Kikumon (B’s) credited Wootton with a 10-
furlong handicap in the fast time of 2min. s|sec.,
the runner-up being another imported steed, Olympic.
But it was a great day for Judah.
At <2 Walter Hickenbotham, the Victorian
trainer, thinks it about time to have a rest. He
has been in the public eye as jockey and trainer for
over half a century, and his success in both capa-
cities has made his name a household word. It is
estimated that he has won for his patrons more than
a. 200,000. His two sons succeed to the business.
Jockey Martinez, killed whilst putting a
novice over the sticks at Flemington the other morn-
ing, rode one of the best, though most uncertain,
good things that ever landed a V.R.C. Grand Nat.
hurdle race. He was brought from Queensland to
ride Rathfarnham in 1915—a dark horse from Bal-
larat *that got in at the minimum 9st. and ran
away with the race. Apparently the large angular
son of Poseidon was a queer-constitutioned creature,
for he ran some very bad races in later years. But
in the year after he landed the coup he proved it
was no fluke by running third, with lOst. 101 b. up,
to two good horses in the Australian Hurdle Race at
Caulfield.
* * * .
The N. S. Wales Cricket Association has
made the crazy position in regard to the “amateur
status” look even madder by deciding that “the
definition of an amateur in sport, as formulated
recently by a conference of sporting bodies, is not
to be applicable to cricketers.” Cricketers, the
assoc. say 3 frankly, “must be paid.” The policy
is “to give men who are professionals in other sports
the same privileges [on the cricket field] as ama-
teurs.” Cricket is essentially a conservative game,
but here it is on the side of the progressive angels.
The only effect of the struggle to keep sportsmen
“lilywhite” in the past has been to foster hypocrisy
and snobbishness. In English cricket a “gentleman”
is not one who is unpaid; dozens, from “W.G.”
downwards, have been paid in one form or another.
A “gentleman,” is one who follows one of certain
callings, or does no work, or has been to a certain
school, or speaks with a certain accent. In rowing
at Henley, the bar consists in earning money “in
a menial capacity.” Thus, the owner of an illegal
betting-shop might enter for the Diamond Sculls, but
not the policeman who raided his office. Wherever
it is convenient from the gentleman’s standpoint that
he should play with or compete against pros., con-
vention lets him do it —as in cricket, golf and racing.
Otherwise anything of the sort is “destructive to the
best interests of pure sport”—as in boxing, swimming,
wrestling, athletics and sculling. The time is evi-
dently near when all this feudal foolery will be
wiped out.
The third Test seems to show that on a
good wicket, with even luck, there is not much to
choose between the sides. What there is—and it
may always be enough to turn the scale —is the
Australian superiority at the hinder end. With six
men out the English innings is thinking of its coming
end, but the Australian one expecting the young-
athletes Pellew and Gregory to belt the bowling to
bits. When this pair made but 45 between them in the
Ist innings, Oldfield and Ryder obliged with 94.
Total 354, Collins being the star with 162. England
very solidly topped it by 93. Russell got going at
last, and was not out 135; also Douglas at last
defied Mailey, and made 60 before being l.b.w. to
him. Woolley a grand 79, Makepieee 60. Our
second knock was a triumph of defensive batting by
Kelleway, who was in for parts of three days (after
being badly missed at starting), and made 147.
Armstrong added 121 ; then came Pellew with 104
and Gregory not out 78. The awful total was 682,
close on a test match record. England looked like
achieving the impossible as long as Hobbs (123) was
in, and lost by only 119. Bowling honors go, on
figures, mainly to Parkin and Mailey, but both were
kept on resolutely to take the tail wickets. Mailey's
bag of 10 for 302 is only moderately striking. Still,
he got Hobbs c. and b„ and bowied Hendren and
Russell. MacDonald, though hardly needed with
Gregory fit and well, took three in all, and Gregory
five. It is possible to argue that England lost the
game by dropping catches, but the ground fielding
of both sides was splendid.
An odd sight, on the face of it, in the recent
match, was the pressing forward of Rhodes’s comrades
to shake hands with him when Mailey’s wicket fell.
Spectators were surprised, (although as a matter of
fact it is the first time, in three test matches, that
the defensive Mailey has been got out at all). But
the initiated were ready to applaud, knowing that
Rhodes, whose time in tests must be nearly over now,
had 99 wickets to his credit already, and was despe-
rately anxious to make up the three figures. He has
also made well over the 1000 runs, and joins Giffen
and Noble in the select class claiming that double.
The Adelaide Oval pitch was a work of art, and re-
ceived praise from both sides, being very nearly as
good at the end of six days’ hard wear as at start-
ing. It was the first prepared by Albert Wright ;
but he has had the advantage of long experience
under Charlie Checkett.
Arthur Richardson, of S.A., received a remarkable
testimonial during the match. It has become obvious
that Australia’s bowling, with nothing between the
fast and very slow, is always liable to be collared
by resolute batsmen. Those old warriors and sound
judges, Jack Worrall writing in a Melbourne paper,
and Clem Hill in an Adelaide one, both insisted on
the need for a medium pace bowler who can turn
the ball; and independently they both named
Richardson as the man.
All kinds of records were smashed. Four centuries
in one game was the most, before; this time thee
were six. The three-in-one-innings of Kelleway,
Armstrong and Pellew had been done only once, long
ago in 1884, by Murdoch, McDonnell, and Scott. The
number of runs scored altogether soared from the
1541 of Sydney in 1903 to 1753. A few previous
games have touched on the sixth day, but this one
vyent to the last five minutes of it, and at lunch-
time had looked like starting on a second week.
The accumulated attendances enabled Adelaide, witli
109,000, very nearly to reach this season’s record
for Sydney and Melbourne, each 111,000; but the
gate-money, though half as much again as anything
known before this season, was kept down to just
under £7,000, the Adelaide Oval’s lease from the
City Corporation not allowing more than half a
crown to be charged for any seat. Finally, the Eng-
lish second innings, 370, was far above anything
previously made for the fourth use of a wicket; and
the century of Hobbs, being his sixth in test matches,
puts him alone among Englishmen, and level with
Victor Trumper, in holding that record.
* * * *
E. R. Wilson, vice-captain of the English
XI, doesn’t need to make runs to get into the lime-
light. He started off by cabling an umpire’s
“shameful decision” to London and getting enough
publicity to make Hughes or Mannix jealous. Then
he had a debut as a comedian by bowing ironically
to a barracker at Bendigo, and intimating in a
much-discussed interview that if the choice were
left to him he would sooner play at Bungaree. He
didn’t exactly say that, of course, but he meant to
convey that Bendigo
was slightly outside
the pale of civilisa-
tion. Wilson followed
up this exploit by
pulling the communi-
cation cord of a train
to recover a coat
which had dropped
overboard. This would
have meant a fine for
any ordinary Austra-
lian, but the railway
punishment was even
more drastic. It merely
reminded Mr. Wilson
that the train can
only be stopped in
case of illness, assault
or accident, and said
it in a tone of for-
giveness implying that
the offender didn’t
know any better. That,
however, won’t be the
end of Mr. Wilson’s
achievements. He has
still nearly half a tour
to go, and if he
doesn’t do something
punishable before the
finish he will probably
return to the Cold
Country in great dis-
tress.
WARREN
BARDSLEY.
Warwick Armstrong m all first-class
matches (including the Australian XI v. England
at Brisbane) has scored 928 runs in 10 completed
innings, besides taking 15 wickets for 807 runs.
Considering he is 42, and shakes the earth with 18st.
every turn, the effort is wonderful. Against
N.S.YV., Armstrong has scored seven centuries;
South Aus. bowlers have been banged for 11 cen-
turies; and his aggregate in Sheffield Shield matches
is 0093 runs, averaging 52.50. Warren Bardsley is
next with 817 (74.27). Of the new -comers to
lest cricket Pellew has scored 730 (av. 52.14) and
Johnny Taylor 670 (av. 67).
* * *
In the three Tests H. L. Collins easily
tops Australia's batting figures with 421 runs, aver-
aging 84.2. He had his share of luck, and a bit
over. Armstrong, 341 (68.2), Pellew 307 (61.4),
Ivellewa-y, 271 (54.2), and Gregory 196 (49) come
next. Collins (104 and 162), Armstrong (158 and
121), Pellew (116 and 104), Kelleway (147) and
Gregory (100) have banged three figures, and only
in the first innings of the first match has the Aus-
tralian score-book missed a three-figure effort. Mailey
got four not-outs in five innings.
Arthur Wyns v. Silvino Jamito was the
attraction at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
Wyns made a fatal mistake in the sixth round: he
hit his colored rival’s armor-plated head. The error
was committed with the right, the Belgian’s favorite
engine of destruction, and it was rendered useless.
In fact a doctor diagnosed afterwards that he had
broken it. With characteristic gameness Wyns
battled on but there aren’t many nine-stoners capable
of fighting Jamito with one hand on his present form.
Llew Edwards who has been sparring with him has
exorcised the flashness which used to offer so many
opportunities to the opposition wallop ; and his con-
dition was never better. After the passing of the
halfway mark it became only a question of when
Wyns would decide that the spectators had had
enough blood for their money. His hopes of victory
were nil. The end came in the period of respite
after the 16th round, the referee having sounded the
white man’s camp concerning the prospects of a
capitulation at the end of the 15th.
* * * *
Seven deep-keelers faced the Royal Sydney
Y.S. starter for the ltawson Cup over the Maniy-
Shark Island-Pincligut-Watson’s Bay course on
Saturday. It was the first time the event has been
sailed since Walter Marks won it with Culwulla 111.
seven years ago. Starters and handicaps were:
Oenone, 24min. (J. M. Brunton) ; Awanui, 22min.
(A. C. Saxton), her first appearance this season;
Scotia, 14min. (C. T. Brockhoff) ; Sunbeam, 14min.
(A. W. Crane) ; Magic, 13min. (H. B. Langley) ;
Aoma, lOmin. (J. S. Palmer) ; Bona, scratch (Messrs.
Bradley and Towse). The fleet got away in a steady
nor’-easter with the tide flooding. Oenone sailed
well to windward on the punch to the Village mark
which she rounded 4imin. ahead of Roy Stevens in
Magic, which had simply chewed the blow down har-
bor, displacing Sunbeam, Awanui and Scotia. The
run up harbor saw spinnakers skied well for’ard
and Sunbeam going to such good purpose that she
was third boat at Shark Island, only llmin. astern
of Magic. Flattening sheets for the second spasm
at Pinchgut the first three were: Oenone, Magic and
Sunbeam. Crane’s charge sailed like a witch from
here onwards and quickly cut down the leads of
Oenone and Magic, heading the limit vessel near
Bradley’s on the homeward stretch. Magic, with
every prospect of running into second place, here
carried away her balloon foresail, and Oenone beat
her home by ljmin. Sunbeam won by 18sec.
* * * *
Bananaland’s specially-built 18-footer
Vision had to wait nearly a year owing to shipping
troubles for a fly in the N. S. Wales inter-State
Championships for 18-footers. She landed the prize
and cup on' Saturday, with 40sec. to spare from
Mascotte (W. C. Duncan), which in turn anticipated
Kismet (W. J. Duncan) by lmin. 40sec. The rest
were out of it. Vision carried an enormous spread
of canvas, whilst the other competitors appeared in
second rigs in readiness for the blow which didn’t
eventuate. The winner was splendidly handled by
Colin Clarke, whose crew of- neat, blue-clad mariners
skied extras with commendable speed and work-
manship, and richly deserved their victory. The
Northern flier is a very ordinary craft to "look at,
being built of M.L. kauri-pine, and having less
decking than is seen on N.S.W. and W.A. boats.
Deep canvas lee and bow cloths are used instead.
The last inter-State 18ft. championship was sailed
at Perth, W.A., in 1914, when Chris. Webb won
aboard W. M. Ford’s Australian.
* * * ~
Sydney Amateur Sailing Club’s “Single-
handed Race” last Saturday over the Neutral Bay-
South Reef venue, was won by Jim Alderton with
Gumleaf (omin.), which landed home 20sec. ahead
of Rana, 3min. (R. H. C. Down), with Winji-Winji,
smin. (E. J. B. Macarthur), 3min. away third. It
was Gumleaf’s first win this season and the former
Middle Harbor crack sailed a great race in her.
The Hawaiian swimmers fairly cleaned up
N. S. Wales. Ludy Danger licked Frank Beaure-
paire (Vic.), F. S. Cotton and Billy Longworth
(N.S.W.) in the 440yds in smin. 23 2-ssec., which
was well behind his own world’s record (smin.
17 3-ssec.), and Barney Kieran’s Australian figures
(smin. 19sec.). Langer continued to the 500yds.
mark, and made a new scratch on the book (6min.
13 2-ssec.) —an improvement of 4 4-ssec. on Nor-
man Ross’s world’s record. Kealoha’s turn was in
the 110yds. handicap, and he won a heat in 63sec.
(3-ssec. better than Cunha’s Australian record), and
the final in 62 2-ssec. The latter figures were not
made under record conditions owing to official fool-
ishness.
In the first heat of the 220yds. champion-
ship on Saturday Longworth and R. E. Brown both
finished ahead of Kealoha in 2min. 30 l-ssec„ and
Beaurepaire was a yard ahead of Langer and Herald
in the second in 2min. 29 3-ssec. In the final, the
Hawaiians showed their true form. Herald and
Kealoha both “beat the gun,” and the latter soon
opened up a lead. At the turn (110yds.) he was
four yards to the good, in lmin. 6 l-ssec., Herald,
Langer, Longworth and Beaurepaire being together
with Cotton two yards away last. In the back
stretch, Kealoha kept up the streak, but at 190yds.
Langer headed him to win by just his own length,
with Longwohth, Beaurepaire and Cotton in line.
The time (2min. 28sec.) beat Ross’s figures at
Melbourne last year by l-ssec., but it was still
6 2-ssec. behind Ross’s world’s record. Langer
was last away, and shortly after the start he was
chopped off and had to struggle in the wash ; then
on the home stretch he was again squeezed out,
and had to temporarily ease up. But there was no
mistaking his superiority in the final 20yds. Of
the Aussies, Cotton swam excellently, and in the
last 100yds. gave all of the other starters half-a-
dozen yards and then was only just pipped. He is
certainly the most likely distance champion on the
horizon.
Kealoha threw aside his well-worn robe and moccas
ins again in the 100yds. back-stroke, and had an
easy victory in lmin. losec. from Sid Beck and
Frank Carberry. The versatile Beck, however took
the 220yds. breast-stroke in 3min. 19 4-ssec Manly
was much too good for University and Sydney in
both the 500yds. (smin. 3see.) and 880yds. (lOmin
37 3-osec.) teams championships; and Dick Eve’s
carriage and control
got him 93.3 points
and the diving cham-
pionship. R. Provan
(holder) was next with
91.5. In the junior
championship (under
16 on October 1),
Alan Penfold (Manly)
won comfortably by
syds. in 62 3-ssec.
from C. M. Munro
(Bondi).
The roll-up of old-
time champions was a
feature of the meet-
ing. Dick Cavill(with
the rotundity of an
alderman) watched his
son in the diving com-
petition, ahd sprinkled
among the thousands
were Fanny Durack,
Albert Barry, Harold
Hardwick, Freddie
Lane, Walter Gormley
(who was a top-notcher
in the old Nat. days
in Pitt-street) and
Jack Hellings.
Hawaiian swimmer
PUA KEALOHA.
Queensland , decided two State swimming
championships last week. In the 440yds., the
Springfield brothers fought out the battle, and Syd.
defeated Frank in smin. 54 l-ssec., with J. Laimer
third. The other title went to Elsie Venning, who
won the 220yds. ladies’ championship in 3min, lsee.
It .was her third championship success this season.
* * * *
The Yankee tennis champions drove home
again in Sydney the lesson insisted on at Auckland
(M.L.) and Melbourne, namely that there is no one
in Australasia, at the moment, to touch them. The
best match of the series Was Tilden v. Brookes on.
Saturday. It was Youth v. Years and vigor vj. the
other thing all through, yet the veteran managed to
extend the other. Tilden won the first set (which he
started with a hat-trick in the way of unplayable
serves) by 6—4. But Brookes beat him B—6 in the
next, chiefly on services and matchless volleying.
Tilden took the next 7—5. Any other ending would,
after all, have been absurd. Young Hawkes gave a
great display, all things considered, but his back-
hand is weak, and Johnston fed it to repletion.
Auckland (M.L.) totalisator figures for
the New Year meetings knocked the dust off pre-
vious records. In seven days (four racing and
three trotting), £702,097 went through the
machine, which was £92,922 10s. in excess of last
year’s figures. Even Greymouth claimed a record in
that week with £72,829 in five days.
Gerald Halpin, wlio represented Australia
at the Olympic Games last year, shifted to the pro-
fessional cycling camp last week. He had a madlh
with .Jackie Clark in three-mile heats ; but the latter
won two heats .against one —and the match. Clark
also won the purse attached to the five-mile scratch
race which wound up the meeting. Wells, Grenda,
Halpin and many others dropped out through punc-
tures and other mishaps.
Australian champion It. G. Piggott in
East Sydney championships last week lifted the
titles for 440yds., half-mile, mile, 440vds. hurdles
and was second in the 120yds. hurdles. * K. J. Nan-
kler also cleaned up the field events by winning the
javelin throw (152 ft. 3in.), 161 b. hammer (103 ft.
7in.), 161 b. shot (37ft. s|in.), and discus (112 ft.
yy ! n -) - The latter effort superseded Peter Munro’s
N.S.W. record of 111 ft. 7in.
* * * *
R. de Worker, captain of Maoriland
teachers’ XI, ha'3 been making a noise with the
bat. Against N.S.W. Teachers he rattled up 28
and 100 ; against the dominies of Victoria, 127 (out
of 276). Another fine innings was 94 n.o. (out of
170) v. Gladesville. He is a master of Christchurch
Boys’ High.
“D.”: The Sir Joseph Banks Hotel,
Botany, auctioned this week, was for years synony-
mous in Sydney sporting circles with “jokes” of
every known description. There, in the ’nineties of
last century, innumerable footracing vamps were
brought off, leading to the partial ruin of the sport
and the popularisation of the axiom “Never back
any thing that can talk.” The pony-racing which
raged on what is now an untended field adjoining the
tramline was even hotter on the whole than the
pedestrianism. _ The last gleam of the old spirit
flickered out in 1908 when Jack Johnson arrived
there to train for his fight with Tommy Burns.
Johnson was a teetotaller at the time. Bragging
was his only vice and the incense of flattery the
only stimulant he ever took. The latter he got
from a herd of hangers-on who followed him to the
bar, behind the little winter-garden of the old
pub, and drank beer at his expense while he toasted
them in response in ginger-ale poured from a cham-
pagne bottle. There was method in this seeming
madness. A number of Johnson’s backers were cir-
culating the story that he had taken to the bottle,
and the rumor was verified in the eyes of many who
never got as far as Botany by the spectacle of a
subsidised nigger who got noticeably drunk in the
name of Jack Johnson in Surry Hills and environs.
When Johnson won at odds which were preposterous
ir. the circumstances (he claimed afterwards that he
could have licked Burns with either hand tied be-
hind his backhand there were plenty who agreed)
the storv of his alcoholism was shown by his con-
dition to be absurd. Since then the Sir Joseph
Banks Hotel has been as blameless in its sporting
associations as any other place of public refreshment.
CRICKET IS A SERIOUS THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argus reports crmket \inatehes at far greater
length and with a gravity it never quite attains in
dealing with any other matter on earth.
In politics there’s room for jest;
With frequent gibes are speeches met,
And measures which are of the best
Are themes for caustic humor yet.
E’en though the pulpiteer we fret
With sundry quiddities we fling,
We pray you never to forget
That cricket is a serious thing.
The crowd assembles at a Test,
And Hobbs at length is fairly set,
Though Gregory rocks ’em in with zest;
The barraekers may fume and fret
When Parkin has contrived to get
Eive men of ours—we feel the sting,
And give expression to regret,
Ear cricket is a serious thing.
They have the lead; we would arrest
A sort of rot. No epithet
Is proper, though they’ve got our best
For next to nothing, and your bet
Is good as lost. Don’t sit and sweat;
Due reverenfce to the problem bring.
We have a pile of runs to net —
Ah, cricket is a serious thing!
Envoy.
We have to meet a heavy debt,
And Howell makes the leather swing;
Australia’s pride, is sore beset—
Yea, cricket is a serious thing!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


GET THAT HEALTHY FEELING.
A
I
—without it nothing: else, min / a happv temperament—
the other temporal blessings a g o{ .£ Everything should be
are degraded and dwarfed fo rea son why you should no.
beso. & ‘ ■
The various organs of y f\ r h^ o^' not overtaxed or
form. It is your duty to see “ e *L° g Drope rly fulfilling their
run down, which will prevent them fr P t P r * indigestion and
respective functions. For instance, P your in t e rnal
other disorders of the system are , the fa E in their duty,
muscles being much below normal-failing m their r
My exercises pay P of rtl the ar stomach, on iive°r ?nd'bowels and
govern the action of the i iea ithy state again. Surely
jsf&ir-g «»w *”« t Th "
write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture ?
I should like you tells about
STRENGTH FROM SEL^ t : our name and address
my methods, fees etc. Just it t o me with three
across this advertisement, and send it
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The AM-rouna Ch. m pio n ..h.h.e .f
415 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St., Sydney, N.S.W.
G 5318—1
W. Chorlev g CV
f 1
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
J*
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
313 George St.,
SYDNEY.
mmitzm
iffimp""' - '<
sSslai
JSW!
DC
"Woiud/Best
S 7/nneds? Cased
ir\ CJ?us > tr<3Zjck
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COT. LTD.. AIISIATIJ vn l.
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
df
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
* vj • ■
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Your Foremost Civic Duty.
It is the natural obligation of every Australian
who guards jealously the honor of his nation
to regard its ideals as his own, and to willingly
pledge his labor and his substance to the great
task of building up his country until it holds
pride of place before the world. To accom-
plish this great aim developmental works are
a necessity.
The Queensland State Government Loan is
to be used entirely for extending our
Developmental \^orks —Building Railways,
Constructing Waterworks, and Improving our
Civic Activities. All these projects are of the
greatest importance.
Subscribe to the
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT LOAN
Interest, 62 per cent.,
Free of Income Tax,
And render the completion of these works
an immediate possibility.
Full particulars at any Bank or from any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
for lndigestton.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGEvS
TRADE
ď
MARK.
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre=War Standard.
Palm Beach
Suits
FOR HOT-WEATHER COMFORT.
Our Strenuous Summer calls
for Suits in light, cool washing
Fabrics —none more appropriate
than Palm Beach Textures,
which are universally favored.
You’ll be particularly pleased
with a “Palm Beach”
‘‘ Lincoln-Stuart’ 9
Tailored
by reason of the Correct Cut,
Perfect Fit, Distinctive Style
and Flawless Workmanship
Assured.
THE SPORT STYLE
In Smart Biscuit-shade Fabric,
2 garment 457-
Dark Fawn Finen Crash .. 57/6
In Tasteful Grey Textures.. 637-
Brown Camel Hair 70/-
THREE-GARMENT SACS
In Biscuit Shade 507-
In Effective Greys 67/6
(CALL OR POST YOUR ORDER.
WE PAY FREIGHT.)
Lincoln, Stuart
and Co. '
PTY., LTD.,
244-254 Flinders
Street,
Melbourne.
13*
/
iss
t
5T
w.


Permanent Hair Waving
Accentuates Attractiveness
The many advantages of softly waved hair are
too obvious to need much commendation. To
the smart woman, so important a part does it
play in her coiffure, that it has become quite a
fashionable craze. Farmer’s use a special, per-
manent hair waving process which produces
exquisite waves that remain the same even
after shampooing, and does not in any way
effect the growth, or destroy the natural sheen.
Appointments may be booked by personal'
application in the Hairdressing Salon, Third
Floor, or by phoning, City, Eleven Thousand.
Farmer’s :i Sydney,
Box 497, g.p.o.
d
f
ď
BK9
ma
TRADE M
Made in London.
MARK
Obtainable at all
first-class Tobacco
Stores.
R. TOWNS 8 CO., SYDNEY, Agents.
The CHARM of LIGHT EFFECTS
on Polished Floors adds greatly to the
Beauty and character of your rooms.
USE
81
f
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies Ihrovg honl the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
W[?] cothies
all that is
eclusive
T f WSon ' who went all the way to
m , ; lust year for a holiday, is tripping
£ r,Lt°i Vl l to c handy Morhington this time.
~ f d to Seymour the other day to
for n«L!°n V ntlQg t , bo Liberal candidate
Goulbuiai. At Mornington he will
Imtrc H llaiK ' eH . to chnm UP with Tudor, who
hugs this spot in the summer.
nrmnL SeqUel ?° a most readable breach-of-
piomise ease is announced. On March 14
Dickinson will marry her dancing-
mnn fi Culver, the blonde young
an who used to be Yates and is actually
?ie T TT f oa l Js «• out and passages
Nobody can blame Lady Victor Paget for
having captured a lord of the sort sl!e was
known Tor to divorbe - Dady Victor,
stme wL n Ve a 7 °\ the L,md(m Daiety
n.™ T I A r bo ™ into the world under the
, oi Mho wouldn’t cliange
when tho °/l Mcatyard at an -y Dsk, especially
wi.cn the change was to a title?
wSl k i ng i ° f divorces > th « Colonel Forestier-
, m* V narned Sir John Fuller’s widow
petition ‘ thJT 1 -a previous wife on his own
absolute il h i e qS^ d W got his decree
Wl J’ brought no children into
t ® whereas Lady Fuller provided
m with a ready-made family of two sons
as ten 1 ' SgftjfS She - bl ' oUght S
, we . JI \ JNot all the anxiety over Sir '.Tobn’a
Lad? I Fu“£r b S>, ty C °u Uld dim the comeliness of
, y 1 u.ler when she was in Victoria And
S T°r me vr ery tr T ing experiences’ One
nihht at Her Majesty’s the vice-regal narfv
his muddied 0 Fv 11 ? nte [ in / a private box - and
said “t or d 1 llu ? bed to the front and
. aid . Ladies an gen lemen,” under the im-
pression that he had come to open a bazaar
or something. It was his wife who on that
occasion pu led him violently by his coat
tails and reduced him to silence.
•n&T’S&'SS ts
& ,'F* “he
decHnes tn V°J d b °M but mamma
exists an aftitnd* da ughter-in-law
rhi r att ltude she has maintained since
the wedding-day, when she saw the voun l
woman for the first time. There is no in 3
ligible leason for mamma’s frigidity, but she
becomes majestically lifeless when em-
barrassing strangers mention daughter-in-
laws name, and stipulates, when arranging
for accommodation, that they must' be
divided by the width of the hotel.
The American tennis players had a giddv
mf Ta i K?fore tb ey left for Sydney. The
men had dinner at Scott’s, while Mrs. Nor-
man Brookes and Mrs. Ilardy (wife of the
captain of the team) motored up to Mace-
™PPer for the crowd. About
midnight the players motored to Penola—
the Brookes home-and jazzed and supped
mn( da \ lgbt ' They tennic ed on Sunday, and
PI 't°’ '’d down to the Sydney express on
Monday, and the Rrookeses went with them.
I art of the excitement and pleasure of the
S V Medi , cal Congress was in domon-
•ti a ting ops. V onder who were carved
up to make tlie holiday!
Mrs. Pursy Ghirnside and her only girl-
child Molly trip back to the Land of Awful
I noes in the Orsova. Miss Molly’s accent
it seems, must be kept pure English. Sister
Maud tenner, who is in the Fog will see
that the C'birnside West End flat is free from
dust by the time the trippers’ trunks are
dumped m the attic.
Annette Ivellerman is under engagement
to return to her native land in a few
months. A Domain bath-load of bathing
belies will accompany her.
Major Cbolmondeley Dowling, yvho has
been slam by Sinn Feiners. was the only
son of the late Charles Cholmondeley Dovv-
hng of Creswick (Vic.), and grandson of
the late James Wilson, president of the
Tasmanian Legislative Council. The Dow-
iings drifted across seas some years ago
b wa ®, a , singularly " handsome
ycung man with plenty of brains and a
sunny temperament, the idol of a group of
sisters and an adoring mother. The Dow-
il ngS i and Wilsons are doubly related, as
the late Charles Dowling’s daughter by his
hrst wife (a Western District Robertson)
married the late James Wilson’s only son.
Busy Boyce, of the Tourist Bureau, has
more or less broken down and gone to Maffra
lor a rest cure. The things he had to re-
member; the amount of talk he had to get
through in answering inquirers ! One thinks
of a bureaucrat as a person who does as little
work as possible in the most ostentatious
way; but Boyce of this Bqreau is just the
opposite—always working and never putting
on airs. The buoyancy of youth seems to
have marked him for its own, so, having been
originally a blonde Boyce he is now a vexed
question. Nobody seems quite sure whether
the walking fund of information is a veteran
or a white-haired boy.
On January 12 at'All Souls’ Church, San-
dringham, lone Heather, the Alec Camp-
bells only chick, swore to love, honor etc
Tom Trumble. youngest son of the Brighton
-Liumbles. The Rev. Calder-Wade passed
the matrimonial sentence on the pair,
llie bride, who was handed over by her
dad, spread trained draperies of ivory satin
lined with shell-pink veiled in antique lace
—the gift of Miss Mary Wallace, sister of
Carbines late owner, Donald Wallace. Dr
Carnet Leary’s two elder kiddies, who
Held the bridal train out of the dust,
sported white net frocklets with tulle veils
girded with silver leaves. Rita Heron and
1 rumble bridesmaided, the one in mauve
clnftonery, the other in pink. J. C. Trumble
helped his brother through the trial, sup-
ported by Captain Minifie, and when it was
over motors unloaded the bridal group and
guests at the Campbells’ Sandringham house,
iv la Ura, for champagne and cake before
ihe confetti-covered couple set off to honev-
moon at Buffalo. y
Florence Hood, daughter of Judge Hood,
is making a fuss with her violin abroad. The
Ciood family were a musical crowd in Aus-
tralia ; had quite a little orchestra among
themselves and their place was an objective
ot all the naicest music lovers in Melbourne
In October last Florence Hood and Una
Bourne gave a series of recitals at Prague in
Czecho-Slovakia, playing Elgar music for
vmhn and piano. Florence was in Austria
when the big shooting began, and it took her
MW hS > n r^ ch En & land - She has the
Masters Certificate of the Vienna Meister-
shule and was on the teaching staff before
LUG W3l\
Rose McKenzie, who was a Sister at the.
m u£ e A ; A - N -S., is to marry Wallace
ll jJ£ lst returned after doing his bit in
rial Ar m • e of the Murn-
d,il McKenzies, of Hamilton (Vic.)
That fortunate Mr. Shepherd of the bristled
i/f 0 ' 8 leaving for England early next
month to become secretary to the High Com-
missioner s _ office, is taking a comparative!v
K Wi y t I h , The Previous Mrs. Shep-
heid died whilst the war was raging.
f 1 1 J 'on fi ei '!!f U ' S f f f - ien Con gressors celebrated
the end of their discussions by a motor
pi V ty J® Mornington. The Thomas Bakers
asked the army to lunch at Manyung, their
seaside home. Manyung used to be the old
Giice homestead in the days when there was
room for sheep on the peninsula. It is an
imposingly ugly red-brick mansion with im
posmgly beautiful, gardens and trees.
Giandpa James Grice, now departed, built
the place in 1862. It stands on a hill, and
Grandpa picked the most lovely view in all
the bay curves of our harbor. vewm au
of Vl!?, pvu Gi'ace iVI. .Wilson, new matron
of the Children s Hospital, Melbourne has
been crowded with experience. She began
ier training in the
Brisbane General
Hospital and then
took a midwifery
course in London,
afterwards becoming
a student at the Eng-
lish National Hos-
pital for Nervous
Diseases. More study
in _ Wales and in
Paris followed, and
then the diligent
young woman re-
turned to Brisbane.
She was doing well
there when the war
called her to bigger
responsibilities. Her
first post was prin-
cipal matron of the
Ist Military District, and then she directed
the mobilisation of nurses for the hospitals
abroad. But her best work was done as
matron of the 3rd Australian General Hos-
D It helped her to capture an
R.R.O. and a D.B.E. The photo of the
beaming lady is from Monteath, Melbourne.
Prof. Woodruff and liis lady have managed
to get across the Straits to the Speck since
the Congress and Dr. Georgina Sweet has
gone to join their party for a motor tour
alter her secretarial efforts at the big pow-
wow. Straggle scraps of the Congress will
be entertained in Hobart with some of the
pai ties planned for the whole show.
l Judge Molesworth’s widowed
daughter Ainone Lefroy, who lately enrolled
as a professional pianiste in the Smoke
has_ sent word from across seas saying she
is usking a second matrimonial /venture with
a younsr Englishman, Geoff Palmer, whose
poppa is a J.P. and lives in Oxford at a
place.- called Bodedown House All the
*SSr°r“, wear S Te„lonian
saddler! rvlri tv. 611 tbe youn sest son was
saddled with the name of Lancelot.
Dame Melba—Dame Nellie Melba the
conwtfs n m Sa H^ h i aS been numhl £ a series of
Fmtmna } h ? . blffgel ' Provincial towns of
England, and doing particularly well. The
contralto accompanying her, and winning
r iT .™ °P m ions, the Dame captured in Mel-
r fehe 1S Dorothy Murdoch, a
llhamstown sample who was taught by
Melba and Anne Williams at the Albert-
street Conservatorium, and is said to have
y.ti'b f °° d e f ;us . e for her belief that she will
IhL h uJ he , Stai ; n s st contralto. Madame echoes
tins belief, and though she may give dubious
opinions on soprani she certainly knows a
best contralto when she hears it.
Artist Dora Mee-
son. R. 0.1. (Mrs.
Coates), who has
returned to Austra-
lia with her hus-
band, is already busy
with sketches round
and about her home
city of Melbourne,
and will join forces
with George Coates
in a show in March.
She has reaped many
art honors of her
own—is a member,
among other things,
of the Tempera
Society, and, above
all, was one of the
busies,t of Austra-
lian women in war-
work in England.
There was a party in the Town Hall on
Jan. 18 to celebrate socially the anniver-
sary of the Women’s Medical Society—now
25 years old. It was a very frocky affair.
Secretary Dr. Margaret McLorinan blazed
in sapphire blue sequins and tulle. Mrs.
Dr. Douglas Stephens’ frock was floral sil-
ver tissue with gold and vivid silk flowers
banded round her hair. Lady Mawson
wound opal embroidery round sea-green
silk and Mrs. Arthur Morrison hit in with
vivid petunia purple. Dr. Laura Weir, of
Bananaland, scored, among so much color,
with her black and gold sheath gown. Dr.
Mary de Haris and Mrs. lioss Soden were
also in fashionable clothing. President
Dr. , Lilian Alexander, who received the
guests in the Council-room, wore the softest
gown of grey with rare black lace. There
was music—orchestral—and some singing
by Miss Michaelis and Mr. Stevens, and sup-
per at sociable small tables in the big Council-
room.
Mitchell Tovell, head of Launceston’s
Scots College, and Mrs. David TaylorI’s 1 ’s
daughter Margaret agreed to become one at
Kirklands, Campbell Town (Tas.) on Jan.
12. Brother Dave Campbell led the bride
to the altar. Two Apple Island ' girls,
Dorothy Ransom and Miss Pitt, with a Vic-
torian cousin, Miss Hooke, bridesmaided, and
Major Ray Tovell, D. 5.0., supported his
brother, helped by F. Foster and It. Taylor.
The wedding feast was spread at brother
Dave Taylor’s Campbell Town house, and
all the smartest Specklanders attended. The
bridegroom is a grandson of the late squat-
ting Mitchells, of the Albury district. One
Tovell brother was among the missing after
the Gallipoli landing.
The dress side of “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” is expensive, frilly and picturesque.
It strikes the opening note of the New J.C.W.
modes and robes. If the sartorial display
is a taste of fashions to come woman will
heave a violent united groan on sighting
these voluptuous draperies, half of whicn
are hooped. Even the pleated skirts so
freely aired conceal yards of material in thin,
skilfully-narrowed outlines. Frank Free-
man as the Brigand Chief and Billy
Chisholm as second robber are arrayed as
gorgeously as Solomon in his fullest glory.
Even the male chorus counts in the gorgeous
dress scheme. Gladys Moncrieff as a Car-
menesque peasant-maid faces three tragic
happenings and a happy-ever-after effect in
short petticoats of soft silk with pleated
pinnies and a fringed shawl floating from
her back comb. She finally wins back her
mountain lover in chiffonery in two shades
of rose color with a dash of purple and
white. Violet Yorke. as Governor Arthur
Stigant’s ’orty daughter, airs floating grey
or grey draperies, followed by mauve-colored
chiffon with pointed overskirt, edged alter-
nately with silver lace and blue silk topped
by a silver lace corsage. Mione Stewart
chases her long lost hubby first in a white
cloak _ over green satin riding pantaloons,
then in a pleated gold lace pettie with a
spreading black net tunic edged with floral
embroidery, a pointed gold bodice and brim-
]ec, ~ black and gold hat. She finallv lands
him in a white-pleated cloth skirt and
jumper with a white silk sun hat. •
Little Mervyn Donaldson. L.A.8.. well-
known in the musical world, changed her
mi me _to Monk at Hawthorn on January
U. Mervyn, just about five-foot-nothing,
rm iV imple white tulle with her
? lm Pi, c d aims . bare to the shoulder exeent
Hubby 6 is° comm/t' ° f he - r all ‘ over lace veil,
h •nn VPli i tmg-engineer Monk, of Dur-
wih fhl 17th n e J° USh } tlu ' ou S'b the war
lfe£”nd eD co ,In ' E ™“S <»Vv '.S:
the dauehtm- Of ;, in r; Sydney - Tlle bride is
Hawthorn whn 6 D(aiald 'Son.s of Matlock,
try family’. & | a Romse y <Vic.) coum
States to IS thi n Vi d °w rs who eame from other
celebiatfonf T, , ?• W ° n meu ' s Medical Society’s
Melbourne Ttf * T day in tlle bills round
a bimo-aW Y T Margaret McLorinan has
motored an to n PW< F’ and a part y of 40
b « l f y ller a visit - They re-
stance FHi/ Ti f °\, supper with b>r. Con-
stance Hllis at her house in Toorak.
ft A a v r ] Stradbroke and family .who are now
bcmaie ar *L e * pea ted to land in Mei-
bom ne at the end of February. “Stonning-
Governor ei T ng - fUl t ished up a bit and Lieut-
“Kilevy," ElSm fatteriy" “* ° Wn h ° mo ’
Commanrler Seymour Agar, Y.C. , in
t£°£ land ’ 1S still waiting for his bride—
Sydney 1 °w! S v urnivall—who is held up in
boat J ’ tulg f 01 ‘ room on a Maoriland
liHH lgi A n r eei '' Comil \ ander Mackenzie and his
So MrB ' 7 e hashing back to the Fog
bctoie unpacknig the family photos in their
yaL postern District wool area, Trawalla,
RHdl? ey f h a Ve * tal f en over the late Admiral
SOOO acre?. d ° Ck ’ n ° W gazing on the
MarysviHe. just at the foot of the Ranges
topple over into Gippsland, got up two
concerts to help along the Tourist Society
d ° ne muc ,b to open new tracks
and patch up a passable round to Alexandra
aad fumbleup and such places of magnifi-
views, iumbleup, which hangs on a
peak, dreams of making a name some day
tor precious stones as tourmalines of great
tuvwT *i ave b< ? en tound in the aggressively
tuibulent creeks thereabout. The Marys-
vi le concerts drew good houses and good
money with programmes headed by Walter
Ivirby. ihe Maudsley Knight and his lady
were among the aiidience; also the Paxtons,
the Graham Officers from Wangaratta, and
aiu !,M'' ,s - ployd. Marysville is packed
tight with tourists this season.-
A story of an American man with a
TTrirfm i W le v f he S - ydne y boat came into
Wwk a i ht , tle ,> bride T soing out to join
ei husband at Pago Pago was overjoyed
to see an old friend of the family waiting to
welcome her He received her with en-
. Hisiasm, and after the first outburst whis-
pered, \\ here’s the parcel from home?”
1 haven t a parcel for you,” she replied,
and at her answer the tears positively came
mto his eyes. “Not a little bottle any-
where? said he Then light dawned on
Miss Missouri. When she went back to the
boat a little transfer took place between
herself and a nice man aboard; and pre-
sently two bottles of beautiful old Scotch
went ashore—in a hot-water bag!
An Adelaide postscript:—
The G.-G. flitted to Melbourne on Wednesday.
Owing to the length of the Test the vice-regal cricket
match had to be abandoned.
Just as the Englishmen were starting out on their
second innings in the Test match, a lady admirer
sent an enormous floral horseshoe to Captain
Douglas, and his team, wishing them “Good Luck.”
One lugubriously regarded it for a moment, then
remarked: “No flowers, by request!”
Gentle wonder was expressed some time ago', when
the only son of worthy parents adopted mother’s
maiden name instead of. father’s. Now father and
mother, evidently liking the sound of it, have fol-
lowed suit.
The sudden death of Theodore E. Lutrell Mon-
crieff from appendicitis, at the age of 32, means the
loss of a clever young Australian. Son of the Rev.
S. S. Monerieff, many years Church of England
clergyman in S.A., now in Queensland, and nephew
of A. B. Monerieff, of Tramway and Railway fame,
Theodore Monerieff showed much engineering ability.
A St. Peter’s College boy, he toiled in Scottish
motor 1 works, and on his return to Adelaide estab-
lished the Monerieff Engineering Co., which has
just been floated into a limited liability concern.
Rear-Admiral Percy Grant, chief of the naval
staff, and Paymaster-Commander Cyril Thornton
made their inspection of naval establishments in
b.A. coincide with the Test match.
Artist Henri van Raalte, whose work has been on
show at Preece’s, arrived with his wife last week
from Perth. They spent a few days at Blackwood
and journeyed on to the Eastern States.
Queensland Premier Theodore and his wife, after
visiting Mrs. Theodore senior, who is seriously ill at
Aldgate, caught the express for Melbourne.
Adelaide City Council has been considering its
duty towards citizens who fall on newly tarred
streets and ruin their clothes. Two ladies who had
m streets far apart, come to utter grief through
slipping, sent in claims for £l2 and £l4 10s. ; but
a majority of the council thought it was just care-
less of them, and refused to pay a bean.
Big Tom Russell, who married Dulcie Keightly
and had an orangery at Gawler prior to the war has
since his return taken up land at Orange, in the
Ma State, where the family now reside.


3
m
3
o
Q
n
Q
E53E83


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGN E
“aifcsHeMsiec
Retms
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY IJMITED, Sydney.
■OS9
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
I liunim mini
17«£
ďf
ENTER AUTUMN!
As Autumn casts her mantle of
leaves over the earth comes warn-
ing of the approach of Winter and
the need for suitable raiment. Our
New Season’s Display
at Hotel Carlton
from January 31st
will delight you. A note of daring
in color will be pre-eminent.
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
SHAVE,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Wentworth Cafe
COOL! SPARKLING! GAY'
Dinner Dances nightly, 7 to 11.30
Qri . , (12/6 per head).
Special Dinner Dances, Thursdays and Satur
'oi/ , da 7 s > from 7 P-m.
' J /' per h ®*s*. Non-diners 5/- plus tax)
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
BoDg . is to Tirranna, which from
time immemorial has preceded it by a week
hnf meeting is to on/at. %&
11U ' J -t he Moss Vale course is the head-
quarters of picnic racing. There were more
motors on last- Friday and Saturday than
™ thel ' e were horse-drawn vehicles in pre-
n ,L° r / lly other <*ays, for the crowd was
° ne ,’ and , 11 deluded most of the
► jdney people able to alford time as well
and theTitS h add i ti ? tO , the local residents
mo the little band of enthusiasts who appear
which ;1 r the “ aftairs - Bat hm “to
and h sddie? hrX tUrn , ed up with his wife
Old ni f brother-in-law, was the same
d al fresco function with the usual issue
fronf 1 those PP wr' l ? a° respect dissimilar
which had ruined the party
K many a grandmother present
quarter of a century earlier. The 1 Bon^
doi fvFrS’ WllCh . c °rre s ponds to the Derby
, was in evidence as nsnni nnri
there were plenty of ChiSn” jl 3d.eS
Katers and Austins. The Osbornes we™
represented by the Bens (Billy Manning
who won the Cup on H. I, Austin’s Purse?
P a r the £ us !?. and of one of them), and the
Pats who live at Willeroo, not far away
fbe D p AuS p tm ’ Wh ° has had a mortgage on
the Cup for years, could get no nearer than
second this time. He rode F. G Whße’s
Rochefort. There were two balls, the Golf
Club event on Thursday and the Race Club
one on Friday. Sheila Loughborough in
wonderfu! pearls and a dress that shrieked
wa'Cato *"!«* adm,K ™ "
Sflk™ tol , ' C who 1S sometimes
mistaken loi hei and sometimes for her
sister. Another, decorative figure was Mrs
Sepny Alison, the girl-wife of Jim AHson’s
in n i9l4° Mr? B With the Glli, rds
n -lull Mrs. Bertie Watson displayed her
great effect and the
Hordern family was in evidence
Tony s Spearsong beat Sam’s Linthorpe by
- •»
The Institute of Journalists gave the
Storeys a farewell bite at Farmer’s The
S®r M » as <? ? M ,M 1 John
bv ? br °i ke , away from Precedent
by bunging the schoolroom to the feast
daughter Bessie in a pretty frilled dress
sat up in the seats of honor. Bessie at anv
rate, is quite frank about the jaunt-sh?s
TnhnV7 WaEd , t 0 iL But John and Mrs
John declare almost on oath that fhevVi
much rather never take a water vovZe
A
McCay D
mar?; a ti£ ** S
of boilers and humble beginnings.
as ?'eSdrni i nf\. Wh T ,succee ; ded Tom Heney
eSI , nt of Journalists, was chosen
perhaps because as a public speaker lie is
ull of quips and whimseys. But his firsf
of Rliiah’was n?Jr wearer of tlle mantle
or uiijan was as solemn as an owl’s funeral
Ihe occasion was the farewelling of John
Storey and there was a lurking suspicion
that the revoir might be premature Sr.
nobody dared to joke until it cametoJohnX
re me s^ ak - He jested so hard that one
remembered something about smiii n
whistling past graveyards boys
The vestibule of the Town Hall surged
with motherhood (led by Dr. Arthur) $5
leamea umt it was a shame for Premier
; J(din Storey to even think of linking « D
with his friend the Prince before the Mother-
thednl?f° Wmel l t Blll , was attended to. On
the platform stood the usual little groun
the,-r eagGr - faced women who flung for?h
thev ]ffT S r - r ”fo st against the hard thing
they had founq life to be—flung it into thl
ranks of the apathetic, hopeless-looking
women who sat at their feet. One speaker
an eager slip of a woman with a nose tS
dominated her face, painted in - high lights
h 14 h r tle *“'! Who is flunß ' into the
iacrory at 14 to work out her own salva-
lon or damnation. She quoted “a military
gentleman named Napoleon” who said an
army marched on its stomach, and ended he?
(ration m a fine flood of poesv. “Isn’t she
blue frock ed “Sb S e’ ft ’ pluihpish woman in a
republic 1” Sh eVen got a nose Hke a
r e feminists’ cap is mounted with still
another plume. On a suffocating night last
week 1 rotessoi-Eiton Mayo let himself loose
on Hypnotic bleep” at the Education Build-
mgs under the chairmanship of Miss Pres-
Wh- i Wh ° ls their President. Intel-
>nhf ir i Vdne L was . at Uie brain-feast—
(W, I Q h , with a A tight-fitting feather hat;
Oiace Scobie; Mrs. Robertson, of the
-National Council of Women; Theo Cowan,
inni-pH 31 rn apresS o e lady in a P ink wrap who
looked like a Roman matron on her way
used he un at an l V H len aH | he chairs had been
fiom- n? w : ind °w-ledges and the
!!” f° » he little stage m the assembly-
100m festooned with humans, and the door-
ways blocked with faces looking as though
hey wanted to hear something weird the
Queensland professor with the bulging head-
piece got on to his subject, and completely
ami eS th^ili yPn a° tiSm l - of all wicked charm
and thiill, and acclaimed it really a boon
aad a blessing to men. It was like being
told that your favorite film vamp was a suc-
cessful raiser of white Leghorns However,
when a young man from the front of the
house volunteered to be the Sleeping Beauty
'ivp b ->° W ' S a° r 1 j 10 *” evel '.vbod,y stood up to
have a good old stare. But the young man
dallied so long that most of the company
had to fly for its boat or its tram he
was completely under the influence.
, was a ni g kt when witchcraft was
abioad, and a silver moon as large as a
nigiit s sky. The nurses of St Vincent’s
stick a over d the r °h- and Starch fly on a broom-
stick ovei the chimney-pots of Paddington
and stepping back into girlhood entertained
a crowded courtyard and lawn with song
and dance and story before the dry business
oi ha “ d ! nf? ,° Ut ri the year ’s certificates was
h°ne thiough. From the gateway in Dar-
strings of colored lights melted
into the dim distance of greenery beyond
and pop-eyed youngsters and groups of
women so old that they weren’t above
excited curiosity stood about while the
crowds streamed in from their cars A
girl came carrying a bunch of crimson roses
on her arm. “Oh, the pretties!” unsteadily
crooned a very errant old lady from the bit
“f I Re r . I , mShUr^ t t n at borders on Paddington.
f-Uoi u ane t 0 bring me luck, Miss.” And
that bunch of roses found its way to a per
Tb^t r a i later ° n minus its choi cest bloom.
iT,,u I ? ate "™ one y- as usual, goes to help the
building fund of the nurses’ home • ind
lskv n M D T r ‘ H i v L Morgan and secretaries
Hailey McLaughlin and Dr. O’Shea should
flutter!** an eXtla Te Deum for this year ’ s
The motor show at Moore Park was the
magnet that drew every car-owner on Friday
night. And every prominent make of car
was on exhibition, from the lordly Rolls-Rovce
to'the iw3+ e Mic helin Rubber Giant came
hnf i ei P i y Very stalwart and impressive,
but looked a very tired man when the air
was let out of him. The abo. from the
Boomerang firm had stepped out of his pic-
-eafd was a . centre of delight to all the
tw, l kiddies whose dads had taken
a on? ’ and tbe Perdriau cottage-
gaiaen was an incentive to matrimony.
Mrs. W. Chambers, upon whom will rest
tn e hra P n Slbll^ y ° f arran S in g the carnivals
beldon tbe ai ; nval of Ftheldra Bleib-
tiey, the American lady-champion swimmer,
next month, has been
a member of the
Ladies’ Swimming
Assoc, since it was
born in 1904, sec. of
the Sydney Ladies’
Swimming Club
since 1910, assistant
sec. of the Assoc,
from 1910 to 1913,
sec. from 1913 on-
wards; and every
job has been honor-
ary. She is an
expert with a stop-
watch, has been
starter at every car-
nival since 1912, and
her management of
the carnivals has
lesson in methodical direction. She •'enjoys
Asso? 011^ CG h ° f members of the Ladies’
Assoc., and has managed the swimming
IS ZcTlllT*™ and Queens*
Will be
Sydney°Rilpy.^ rS * °' ,a ‘" lx:l ' s Herewith is by
Ine first thing the summer girl noticed at
the tennis was the footgear of the Americans
-They all seemed to be wearing shoe!? ££
had taken rather unkindly to black dve. Rut
Dlained a U ( d trank young Yankee maiden ex-
f hoes are made of elk-skin,”
she said. Elk-skin is used for all the o- 00 d
sport-shoes in the States. They are tlie light
thin/H u t^ coole : s t obtainable.” Another
thmg the Sydney girl observed was that all
the visiting cracks looked like the young men
in flannels on tne magazine covers; further-
dirkv aH m °. ored their trousers hv a
dinky leather waist-belt, whereas Brookes
and O Hara W ood hitched theirs modestly
with side straps. There were hundreds of
lookers-on. A tiny Jap followed the rally-
ing with thrilling interest. In her endeavor
to avoid sunburn Mrs. Alec Hay looked like
the lady of a thousand veils.
Songstress Dulcie Huxtable was a bride of
«u nd and ex-soldier
servoiL-; Sllyei l on hfls taJien the little (Jon-
servatoimm professor to his hearth. Like
all good brides and true, Dulcie stood up to
he name-changing in soft white satin,
tnmmed with silver lace and roses, and had
diamond pendants and tulle veils and shower
s bung about her in the fashion of
all truly well-equipped brides. Uncle Walter
Ihorman ripped old Mendelssohn from the
waif brides* B^P al meaning, and sister Bervl
was bridesmaid m lemon-colored taffeta, with
hat m deJphinium blue that was late for
the weddmg and had forgotten its crown
stuck by the bridegroom ; and
e bade s parents later on handed round the
S , „ ve r b r 1 R at , lh |.?" I ' l ' 0 "- After s
ert °° wiU 80 baok
This is Professor J. l e Gay Brereton fhe
Se w but X s rh 01 ’ 13 ' ,vh » *»*&.*£
came from ab ° Ut • every tbing else that
1 tlom the in the stately days of
Queen Bess. A’ fine
scholar, whose word
goes far in Europe,
he has written much
good verse and' a
less notable
Prose, and all his
overflowing energy
is sustained on “a
diet of milk and
apples. Chris Bren-
nan and he are
bosom pals, and
both men had chairs
thrust upon them at
almost the same
moment before
that they were lec-
ture r s. Brereton
spends his holidays
in the Hawkesbury
and . becomes a regular cave-man for
a few glorious hours. He is one of the
to U b a nd Wh ° take theil ‘ beads back
jL? at F® a ? d never mterpose a hat between
tlieir intelligence and the Australian sun.
The poitiait is one of Sydney Riley’s.
, n 3 he F ni ? n Bank ; s seneral-manager Cham-
who leaves Melbourne bv the Naldera
on February 5, has been in Sydney 4t3
last impressions to carry to his directors in
bMore ll^/ fi d u Will C i all in 011 Adelaide, too,
cmnZ h fh fin , aLy Packs his golf-sticks. Of
comse, the big man’s departure means a
CnJ ro nffi d "~ m T^ r Fordyce, of the Mel-
bourne pace, will sit behind the general-
aoidLmottl?n' P u ad ’ and Ne wcastle man-
S«S “ B M 8 hat in the
~ kittle Hazelbrook, which is cuddled to
the bosom of the Blue Mountains, is listen-
ing to a rather remarkable series of lectures.
t happens to be the village where The
BuELExm’s Oldest Inhabitant X enjoying
the twilight, and the patriarch, who is a
storehouse of early-Australian lore, arranged
these illustrated talks. The first was gWen
by Henry _ Selkirk on “La Perouse” • tm,
second by E. G. Waterhouse, “The Cathe-
ment o o f f “Th an T? e,,! the t J lird ’ a first instal-
ment of The Romance of the Great Western
The* fourth th ui°i! de l t lahabitan t himself.
lhe fourth will be by Frank Walker on
Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands”; then
£ and ffterMm™ (5
the ly n°S A^tli 01 ? “ ,ls C»«t‘ ‘in
tne U.S.A. the lecturer is abroad bv the
thousand (our own Tom Skeyhiil has
achieved almost fame that wav). The Aus-
tralian hasn’t acquired the 'habit to- any
worth’cStSr'’ 0 ”" 8 - B “‘ “•* »
s*
hlno fi ni’a We m’! ng i. wh ] te georgette and a pale-
i.e and white hat for the occasion, married
Dr. Grosvenor Williams. There were
MJ™>! Ude !T a i ld ' S i one an elder sister of Dr.
Mary s, and bride and ’groom were each
represented by a small niece. Mary is the
youngest (Hughter of the C. T. Bui-fitts of
Glebe Point, and Grosvenor Williams—who,
i the way had a dramatic recovery from
PnL dm n g the p Pidemic-is one of a weT
known Orange family. Medlow, the Caves
and Kosciusko are on the honeymoon list
That good old inn, the Australia, provided
the festive rations. ‘ UIU
Nelson Illingworth has conquered America
an 7 £* -e" 8 laitl ?°.' vn >“* arms to S;
and the critics acclaim him another vie
“a wJim™.
JOtTENA T - ,n L , “iS’ «>' TS ,J "‘ EvENIM
•journal , and a dozen other critics imb
to wh* 1° w Halle^J ’ ah Ch °rus of it. Listen
to what Henry Finck in the Evening Post
says about the earnest young Sydney man :
offered at the Tteafre ' f ® ?St
Nelson Illingworth, and like Perev Trains
Nellie Melba he comes from Australia Vntbii an
SO agreeable as real artists who sing tvith the
aocl the head as well as with the throat wf
Illingworth is one of them. ' Mr -
Now congratulations will begin to trickle
m on the singer’s proud sculptor-dnd
dreaming his masterpieces up big? above
Clarence-street. 6 auove
The location for one of the new films hein-r
VVntt’ by rthur Shirle y is around Oswald
nViIS f°I tage Bailey’s Beach. Here in
a glade between the unique bunches of p-fw
has sprung up a village of huts in the nn
proved South Sea Isllnd mMner Tu,
tenanted by girls clad for the most part in
anTalvl let"'! 1111 '.- 1 mis .si°nary and lli s wife
and a ballet of native girls. As the seeno*
were bemg ‘‘shot” the other morning a bmiob
of intei ested spectators occupied front sen ts
on the strip of beach—Oswald Watt inn
Longstaff, Lionel Lindsay Dig Svdnev
Jamieson, the Rock Phillipses, J D FiV?
S“mh“ n<l M, ' S - Mari “ Wit. lL l Z
ste -
j U lnc f have sold their lovely home
m Mount-street and have taken a f
wl Se T,” B , the t “ shi "“ wait";
n .a. -Lxie house was built- hv
Lmanuels who sold it to Paul Strelitz
I&oTSS tf ° V ‘ er t 0 the Bllt °her.s for
fl li ’o - lley 111 Passed it on for
newm could l-5' man Hacking - because they
dSSaS ■SSSrSfJ li£ S6t
American villa, tiled ro^f^d^ilT 1
view of the river from the cliff sirlp in t-h
grounds is considered the finest in Perth 6
unobtrusive Church of St. Josenh
Woollahra, Myrtle Smith, of Double Rut/
bourn® M i;S i M i ckael Bei> nard Ryan, of Met
bouine, Michael Bernard being an upstand-
lnf young major of the A.I.F The brido
who knows more about dress than most ghls
Ee fnd I f GSS ir ; white satin and silver
Pope Tnd MmS if-f ft Veiling ‘ Beatrice
‘md hf.fi 1 r ul Brid " e combined primrose
and blue frqcking, and sported wreaths of
{ttle r vf mf- I®tt 1 ®tt Ca i. )aC Ity as bridesmaids,‘and
\ SrS i l6 H H gh P was train-bearer. The
AusHaha housed the junketing, which was
tmrr as
JSr fim bei ° B
<Jiillitles J, jf ne the t °6 be SO f er ' p ° sscs “s '>U "the
qidiiues oi the born temperance
the“court of!!? 1 °- f - the evid ence before
less than tl I‘ C A °^ nion : which is little
ssrrj*?*.
K Xe Ca t„°fettr
of „f he A bearel ? bad i ust fi”
reading of America’s unparalleled
bate to f “bh ime ff WhlCh , SOme anthorities attri-
bute.to the aftermath of war,” but more to
prohibition. Anyhow the claim provoked
"Hence 16 ff- d Cheers but a « ™easy
•f. na e " -tbeie is no greater tactical error
it and^f tka ? kno ' vn as overdoing
are wonderfujl' W0I ”“ “«>"*iasts
staff of Prinl Aifroif 81 18 “ the
lanj r3 'th»f m , H '? 1, f S from Switzer-
driven most of .1,1 I ndlan summer has
“vsss s.
mon'th “ PeCtS ‘° lea ™ W Sydney nS
whtim we'tnfw 1 ” the bis “Utraito voice
■US Boyd il nL^-VoX 01 ?^;!
first hn^i ett d h T e at Bellev ue Hill. Her
after siv monthl nf 7 aS a Sea ca Ptain, died
was one 1 ° f h -? ppy m arried life. He
ship throned) rol l Sailor men who took his
“rough the danger zone during the war
ThL£ ell a vic tim to over-work and anxiety
I here is a small boy aged five. ty ’
£sus:
en hand at Cronulla was open for snip
they were among the first to secure lam?
feney to at their y 'b C e ol,l i d - ind " llge in their shell
iancj to their hearts’ content. Like true
collectors the sisters waded into the water to
fiS' tb 7 ‘‘-“fyas before they
less tn th? n th ■ rendered almost value-
less to the connoisseur. Marvellous thlmfc
years. 0 ” 6 ° f 116 show l >1 “ oes of Cronulla for
Pastel-painter Marv Edwards is off hv
Pa'rT/t?pS Ob Ci„SS S«. h ° IMar ; “ d


V.
7^
£
V
V
• y' ll
r
’■■X'S
&
A
4S
Willi ah • A. * H i Li-
WORLDS WHITE JU~JITSU CHAMPION
The Great Tonic and
Strengthener
Men and Women
The letter of testimony, facsimile of which
is here reproduced, is most weighty proof
of the value of “Sedna,” for supplying
bodily vigor and vim, wherewith to
“ rarrv on ” It is important to notice, . N ,
too, that Mrs. Hill (professionally known asMissEdna Davie.l, the
world’s greatest woman ju-jitsu exponent and holder of 126 meda ,
altogether endorses her husband s approva .
If YOU feel the strain of life’s battle, act immediately on the above
recommendation! Drink
132
B °urk e Qf.
.. ***!s£'*•
£32 £, f s °f Pe -lt i . 0/9 /£O.
Dear
Sirs
;fro/ n tjf e I 11/ a,n about *
Shl D. I o!° rld 's re bire » ,
* a *nee * £ av e J or 'tatTfMlc'i 0 ' 1
F^ ; T"‘" x
"'•"""Vo P 0n
Mna eot - r 8^ up
in f Davies • P^o/eskf.
MIBB
ls “'•iX.Vs'Zis:
tad *>* 00.. J. ~ca
r „ y °“ ma» . lo olarlj
sc'iis®
ffl
vmr
m
»
if
©
as
s3®g
SfflWSl
i
BBS
s@KS
It will revive and strengthen the wasted or overworked system
help to make good red blood, and put vrm and zest into you
whole being.
For ladies, especially, “Sedna” can be heartily recommended as a
bracing and strengthening tome without rival.
Obtainable from All Chemists and
Stores throughout Australasia.
xr*n • ft SfDDclt & Sons, Ltd.
Distributors for Vic., W.A., U. McKenzie, M„ Kauuccstou.
N.S.W.: John Woods & Co., oyaney. Tasmania, ww
ill mi
in mi
ss
1
\K
l C ///
1 . /&prt(. .. Bk • 1
TO
efr
KZZ
dm*
c&w
S
ih
N$
2 rp LTP
an.
11l
q-75~7


H°LEPR<PF
Ho/ey-
1
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
I N . its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
ot women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silh, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
d l nt * Sr d yWwale thru
waiter Cathro Pty Ltd * 50 York Street
Sydney
d
es
C lke largest selling
quality pencil in.
theyvovll
ENUS
PENCILS
ďf
best fob
architects,
artists,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Learn to Draw
S
* k
‘There’s Money
in
the Pen."
The above
is the title!
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
oy HARRY J
WESTON, Austral
lla s famous artist.
?L “Plains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. it ex-
plains m clear
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
30 Union House, Ceorgre Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in Thf
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
d
ďf
d
No.
98.
Texas Saddle
No. 98.
This saddle of our own make is selling
well and giving every satisfaction, [f
t.«^ ade i >n i^- ery stl ' on S tree with steel
horn and 12m. bulge. The seat and
a !t. are , in one Pi ece stout leather
f;. I?bastos are lined with felt.
It is fitted with 2 cord cinchas, buck-
ing on off side and tieing with latigos
on neav side. The stirrups are plain
wood No imported saddle can come
near it for price.
£ll/2/6
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Station on the N.S.W
Railway System.
F ° R OUR CATALOGUE AND
LIST. SPECIAL FREIGHT
TERMS TO OTHER STATES.
WALTHER f STEVENSON ITD.,
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
31^.
nvavs
ď
USE
Wan
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed , Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
obtainable everywhere
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New Y or k, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
BOND’S TRIPLE WEAR
Made in
HOSE.
Australia.
In
AN IDEAE HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
We Desire
to Buy
f
PLATINUM, at £lB per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.
SYDNEY.
If you are looking
for low prices —
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY!
Write to-day for
BIG SALE BOOK
Finney’s Pay the Carriage
FINNEY’S
“Drapers of Queensland”
BRISBANE
d
ďfd
m
c
via BEST VALUE
the. world s
1 y^LUL
ď
f
Good Chaffcutter Knives Save You Time and Money.
A void long delays and actual loss in money bv having
reliable chaffcutter knives on your machine S
You’ll always get quick, clean cutting edges if you use
‘‘An Eagle on a Globe” Brand.
They have PROVED that they retain their keenness lomrer
service 61 ’ 11VeS ’ thuS giving satisfactory and economfcal
Made in all sizes for Cliff & Bunting
Buncle and Bentall Machines.
Richmond & Chandler,
Get full particulars regarding prices from Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL GO. LTD.,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
, , Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
_ Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Sc
vs
m
'•Kir
■v:.
■♦. V
*v.
s>-
M
&
m
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
ia ility is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany .
Stephanotis: Follows too close on the
Jaeels ot a par already printed.... T.V.L.: oh, ves
Ins B. pays for lien as well as truth. But' it
wants them picturesque.... Kar: Those Gyppos are
old friends.... J.W.M.: It would make a very good
w^ aph -;,;- WI) - : Sorry > the cramped space won’t
T )m . lU i sot ( m Go Slow: K ot enough there....
The 00 f rail 8..F.5.: Not up Arthur D.:
inLZ ZtZ ' S ° me qUaHty > but has "’t enough
interest.. .N.L.S.; Verse flops all over the place
nd doesn t say very much anywhere Victor K •
Sht tO , IiSP " ith the Poet ’ s ton gue-” All
speech vT Tn f lisping alld a man’s
speech.... Edmund C.: Don’t know-perhaps it could
be worse....A.K. C . ; Thank you; it didn’t strike
iw way. .H.G.iL; Your ear wants sharpening.
.. .. J.F.M.; Fourth Dimension” too long Oliver
U '- Hay-making in the Mallee” does it:—
Well, lads hear we are again!
Spring has done its share;
Ha |;“f ng i in fuh;swing on hills and plain;
b miner bungs its usual pest to make one rare.
Hark! You will hear the binders in full swing
MaHn” a and r ° Ul : d ’ beavin ° °ut the sheave?; *’
Making a mess oi what the Spring did bring-
Everythmg is cut, nothing it leaves.
Over the stumps, and the cursed bumps,
one oiten swears inside afid out:
p ® ,°, ne wish he was near some beer pump,
Foi there would be no fear of getting the gout.
....All White: Hasn’t quite enough strength to
carry it through A.H.L.: Frankly, we think it is
pretty rotten. .. .W.8.H.: Don’t care for the man
who was kicked on the head by a cow. .. .Kewpie:
The verse bumped the eyes out of their pockets....
Hichard N : A mass of verbiage mostly tedious....
R.il. (St. Hilda): Heavy....H.A.E.: No error about
the matter. ...Cos: Not up....K.A.: “Nucleus” too
jumpy and confused. .. .J.A.D.: Take it away and
,‘ OWII H.... Cobweb: Very bad....Doem I.: OH
ideas worked up into thin verse P.R.R.; Nothing
there .. Tin Hat: You haven’t got much life into
£ y ?,\. i ly a pm---S.J.S.: You can handle “Adven-
re better than that Vectis: Just says the old
things in the otd way.... Bendy: No use F.C.8.:
Horrible rhymes; hideous grammar B.F E • That
verse’" ’ XYZ ’ : Very bugged
verse 1L.8.. Not nearly.... Old Beat: Don’t
are tor it F.M.C.: Tedious way of extracting
humor.. . .E.H.M.: The merry thing ought to get a
of "clouds:— °" ly f ° r US lilting mel ° dy in the face
1 w? W !°° ! lluch - >’ es more than they,
gUlde my wayward steps;
My destmy they sought to sway;
rwas all in vain, o’er me they wept.
I know much more, but all too late
Has come the knowledge of my sins ;
I now will leave my all to fate
And see if I or it will win.
....E.F. (Avoca): Not up.... P.McG.: “Renunci-
stuff" of "fhl f loUgb done ’ ’ ’ • S ’ K - ID - : Stupid
stutt of the cheap-Anienoan sort....OUT • “Fires
of Love” is the sort of yarn that should only be told
leek asp ° f eth ?. dist parsons on Wednesday
week . ..A.N.1.. Doesn’t work Alice A.- Too
slight.... C.F.R.: Nothing there.... 1.P. : Not nearly
enough in “Duck-away-Dick”. .. .L.R.P. : “Youth”
and “Favorite” fail. You must either use rhyme or
rhvnT l The id6a ° f Sticking in a » occasioml
Z:tZr e COmeS easily is to ° l00 « e . like the
too verses.... H.C.J.: “The Harvest” has
too much commonplace about it... .W.C K • “Lone
lmess” is a very lumpy sonnet... .D.McI " Doesn’t
S irnar-th"" K ; G - (Kimbolton) : Sony ; you don’t
Se c printer. .Brigalow: Very thin little
tale C.F.C.. Poor stuff... .Mary C.: Not enough
interest in “Con”. --.c.C. (Glen Innes): Pretty
rotten, don’t you think ?... .Ewa: The verse isn’t
good enough to lure us. .. .P.A.M.: “Dad” and the
bees are both weary... .N.G. (Tweed River): “In
the Storm” doesn’t strike us hard enough... .Harold
T.. Sea Moods won’t quite do; but it might be
worse—a iot worse.... V.J. (Footscray) : Yom- girl
j? * dull female.... J.M.S.: Not for us.. EJ.G.
end ng 6 beginning and a foolish
monpfac;;. overwei^d with com-
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Wianui: Feeble jest and impossible drawing
t h e 1 d AM Vincent joke... . I.B.: According
to the office statistician yours is the third gent
who has recently died a glorious death in a
bieweiy vat. The drawing has little merit....J.S :
Not a hope Santuzzi: Take the wretched conv
away and bury it before the artist who did the
enolgh ge vL° n r Ur tracks ’’ ’- R -W.S.: Not good
to find" th ', ' SCarch party has keen detailed
to find the joke G.H.P.M.: Thanks- hut tm.
steward and shipowner semiring on an outbacx
Him m a harvest of explanatory tags are a bit at
%V..E.W.,, L hopoto, a, ,h
of "“4ga°'"' P “ l to h *“ out
Butler, the Adelaide airman, has had a
chance of showing how the good nier can
rise superior to his machine. His engines
M de i) d whei ] he was about 3000 feet
rrl db ?Y e i t\ e sou thern suburbs of the citv
choU , p » lk tads seem to |i™ a
of f Ending spaces, but circling over
to be s e Jr He l T *r tull of cattle
I? S , veered westward to the new
s low grounds, but they are getting filled up
with pavilions and sheds, so he gut outsit
the city to Richmond, and, having by this
time done a five-mile glide Inri f y V s
the best of a forced The paddock'
f° ted i'"' 1 “ stro ”« .boathorn® hed-e
which he used as a buffer, and the pilot ind
his two passengers escaped unhurt.
V?/!" c - )uatl ' e ” : I know of a Digger who
The’- ta e 5 ' 9 shell and lived to tell
Mont o We K Wer ? in the trenches near
mr oara'n?i rn M When a dud 5 - 9 landed on
the'iimh * 4?
Sands’s N. S. Wales Directory for 1991
has expanded to over 3000 Besides
the usual annual tooth-combing of city and
suburbs, country interests r,n,l y .
much attention Ami . J? W ?* ays receive
Government departments •wmrnl guide to


Shipping?'.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Gabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooips. __
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
ilfo: s ? d ° e; -
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 23,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons. IT Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,060.
Directors- The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt fChairman) ! WILLIAM DAVIES; E li.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Qneen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AOFNTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THFoijEEmAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland under
agreement extending to June 30, 19-1.
Subscribed Capital .. " £ 797’i9S 10 0
Capital Paid Up •• •* ’’ 300’, 000 0 0
uSnlble l lnscribed'Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
"non G. W. Gray. M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq..
W. 11. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Aaente throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £l’2oo’ooo
Capital Paid Up
lV™ors:' Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.,
George F. Todman ; Hon. h. Jago Smith, M.L.C.,
Duncan Carson. _ _
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Males.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell. .
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places m
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (326 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2):
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares Hln’ooo
STfSI Undivided Profits IfA’S
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sidney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund .
£625,000
600,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,225,000
625,000
£1,850,000
tivad Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
-with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
T ondon Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
Drafts 3 ' Letters of Credit issued on Loudon
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. ANI^^ESTMsQUI^PPED^ SIEAMERS 1»
«««. E— —— —" POrt '
STEAMERS SAIL EVERY 28 DAYS.
R.M.S. NIAGARA.
R.M.S. MAKURA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington OLD..
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
ThrOUah «... .. .»» «< *'■* *>”
5““~“ r “' k - Sl ***** r *“*’
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. TAHITI, February 1. *
And every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated paruplilets regarding tie STREET, STDNEX.
Sion ItSlm ship oo.’, SM street, Melbourne.
d
Sydney,
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four' to sTven Weeks' Cruisins
Through the South Seas.
p.r M craS beautiful scenery.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
N EW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
- £4,958,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
£13,266,520
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K.
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
Robert L
The Hon.
Franc B.
The Hon.
. Faithfull, Esq.,
James T. Walker.
S. Falkiner, Esq.
Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer Es»; E» Threa.lneerlle Street, RC.
»£2L W i yS' I—tfß. State., a**” l . P »“ “ J L “' ion -
A Ee nts and Correspondents throughout t e wor Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
° Fated and i co a ile C cted m Letters "of Credit and Circular’notesjssued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£2,500,000
.. £2,220,000
~ £2,500,000
£7,220,000
V
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE:
Branches throughout New South \vaie
London Branch: 18 Eire ™ oQ&on ' County Westminster
and
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidcntSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empir .
Distributes a Cash Bonus very
Policies of about •• •• £41,000,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. • £6>0 00,000
Annual Income nearly
The Society Transacts Every
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest
Hotel Accommodation In Australia
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
WING to Strike of Stewards
all Interstate Steamship Sail-
ings are held up indefinitely.
o
Huddart Parker I'E 1
rrr> VV YV 7,F. ALAND —R
Magnificent
' Fast Passenger
_ : steamships.
HKSBKSBS
laPSSsi-:
syan^
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
the fine twin-screw steamer
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
an The yd ‘‘&ca” is fitted with wireless •ahd jvWr
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen
Be T S he round journey
f&r».r«lss
t. Macdonald.
Hamilton & Co., lao Collms Stroct
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co.
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■t'HE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
T °
BKlS beautiful TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permittriig.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAIt SAILS TUESDAY^
Jl&prjszvxs&'sK
coast. . further particulars a PPIy j~ cvr ... T?v
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BBIDGE STIttET,
gfM F Aokfe: iU &i T “mti. S . PHILP
& 00., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
Leaves
Brisbane.
Steamer.
mkku malujT
AKI MARU
TANGO MARU.
NIKKO MARU.
Feb. 20
Mar. 28
May 2
May 29
Monthly bailings rueica • , p a ss-
SPECIAL NOTE.— AII Passengers must have Pas
ports duly vised.
F BUR a NS P PffIfp aI AND COMPANY LIMITED,
BU Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.
Cable Address i
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND-
ssffsSs^s^
Central «“ ritzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
British India Co. Ltd. (except at
P & S as! y N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne Fremantle).
&lf fhke ar S”e eS (Turnbull, Martin V Co.), at
New Shipping Co Ltd B^b^
Unio 1 n n S.S P C t o! ) of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Hudd P art! S Parker Ltd (at Queensland Ports);
London Assurance Corporation
to Queensland Line of Steamers, London
Colliery and Lighter Owners.
n _ ivrpxipa a t Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Swum
■ This means
the Security of
your Linen
And comfort to your peace of
mind when Linen of any kina
goes to the Laundry or else-
where — — '
If Marked with
CASHS
mm
NAMES
The modern method of mark-
ing all linen. Any name woven
•n Fine Cambric in fast color*.
Easily «ewn on.
Ask for CASH’S-Yn Gel Qraßtr.
PRICES s
12 do*., 7/6-6 doz.. S/—3 doz.. 3/6
Obtainable from all Beat Draper*.
Made in Auetralia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
05 Cubitt St.. Richmond, Melb.
WRIT* FOR *TYL« BOOK


GEMUIME
_ „
■r M. £?
Ip
JL
BILLIARD &SNOOKER
— lllllll I Hi! 1 1>ut
&
«
m
«
fa
V
I.S
't£ik
~>
play they are resilient—faultless in running— true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: J|i n .
17/3
f
If in.
21/-
2in.
2 51- set
(Postage on One Bet-N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Sizes: Ifin.
£6/6|-
1 fin.
£7/7/-
2in.
/ :,'- x
£B/8/- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributors:
ac
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
S*# -
::
m
ABBEY
SHOES!
The name “Abbey” on a shoe is the
distinguishing and convincing mark of
QUALITY —a positive guide to satisfac-
tory service.
We feature a fine Velour Calf Derby
Shoe which will take a high polish.
PRICE 47/6.
In Glace Kid - - 607-
In Tan Calf - - 55/-
This shoe is made in full sixes, and
C and D fittings.
POSTAGE EXTEA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
■pvWVER, JOHN, son of Edmond and Margaret
Dwyer, and brother of Annie Crough, iate of Broug-
ham Street, North Melbourne, or anyone acquainted
with his whereabouts, please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne,
Banks’
Busk
Shower
For Use “Outback or
for Week-end Camps.
THE BUSH SHOWER is
poftable, all ready for put-
ting together, and is erected
in ten minutes.
Just work the handle and a
refreshing shower descends.
In winter the Bush Shower
will pump warm water
equally well.
The Bush Shower consists
of a strong Semi-rotary
Pump, Galvanised Water
Pipe and Fittings, Copper
Shower Head, and Hose for
placing in water.
Send for one. Brings the
morning shower to the bush.
You supply the bucket and
water—we supply the rest.
Price complete: 60/-
John Danks 8 Son
PTY. LTD.,
324 PlTtf STREET/ SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE.
>/ '.‘l.'.’uvtT?
Ml
t ii 1 \
vW
a i\i
m
C\
w.
*
O 0/r/?£
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soli.
Personal Attention.
Offioe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ďf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Out West
Watches
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised
Steel 10-jewelled Lever
Watch, 84/-
Our celebrated super “Fx and R” Watches are
the BEST for Out-West Districts.
The movements are f-plate Levers.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have 15 jewels, with jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
hey have screw cases or jointed cases.
The screw cases are practically dust- and water-
proof.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING AND KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga: “The
watch has kept excellent time, stood hard rid-
ing, buckjumping horses, and all sorts of
weather. I don’t think a better watch can be
got. ’
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
For Sale.
For Sale Good Second-hand English
Guns and Rifles, at moderate prices.
Also Guns and Rifles bought. MILYARD,
S Bridge Street, Sydney.


All Australia Uses
REXONA.
ri
m,
‘
MASTER RHODES (from a photo.) ' ' ,
Never a day passes but that Rexona
scores another triumph over those serious
troubles of life—Scalds, Burns, Sores,
Bad Legs, Biles, Pimples, Blotches, Nasa
Catarrh and Rheumatism. The dainty
little triangular pot of Rexona the Rapid
Healer contains a combination ot the
most curative, antiseptic, soothing and
healing properties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age,
because it destroys the harmful germs
that may be present in a sore, pimple or
any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing
any contagion of the blood, and at t a
same time causes a new, healthy skin to
grow. Rexona immediately reduces the
inflammation and pain. It acts as a djs
tinct stimulant to the pores of the skin,
and sets up a healing action immediately
that increases day by day. Bad leg sores
that have resisted every other treatment
succumb almost immediately to its won-
derful influence, while for Piles there is
nothing its equal.
Badly Scalded
Arm Healed by
REXONA.
“Some time ago my little son Victor was badlytbove the*elbow. Friends
worst; it had the skin taken off, right from the ban d ”awful. Butj thanks to
advised me to take Victor to a doctor, as his arm look a e&led in a Wonderful
Rexona, which was used almost from the first dressing, h * , tg wor th, but the rapid
way. We had used Rexona in the home for years aind continually recom-
way it healed Victor’s arm surprised us,, and since then we a which was
mending it to others. lam enclosing a snapshot of Victor, age y lette ' r .
taken just before he was scalded. You may use this snap,
‘X am, yours truly, bitotifis
“(Sgd.) A. M. RHODIIB,
“Chapplevale, via Laver’s Hill, Victoria.
Rexona —the Rapid Healer, a first-aid cabinet in itself.
Price 1/6 and 3/- Tablet
Rexona—the Aristocrat of Soaps, !/■ P ‘
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
d
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
bv CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
Eor quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to ‘procure sencl postal note to then-
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney-
£.G'ST£^
—-
C J
mp?
Invest in Reliability
Strength, Simplicity and Reliability are of vital importance in an Oil-
Engine for marine use. ... . , .
The “AMIS” was designed with these points m view, and is the
outcome of years of experience in the manufacture of reliable, light-
weight engines. * , • ,
Illustrated above is the Single-Cylinder type suitable for Launches,
Fishing Boats, etc. , .. .
Will burn Crude Oil —Kerosene or Benzine- —at remarkably low runnm o
cost.
In stock, 6-, 10-, 15-, 20- and 35-h.p.
We shall be pleased to send further particulars and
complete specification on application to
NELSON ROBERTSON,
Oil Engine Department, 15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Elegy
ON THE DEATH OF THE DOWAGER COUNTESS
OF DESMOND, WHO DIED AT THE AGE OF 126
THROUGH A FALL FROM A CHERRY-TREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BORN the caudles great and tall,
Heavy wax and rushen wicks;
Broider her years on the dark green
pall,
And shadow-soft let the foot fall— .
She died at a hundred and twenty-six.
A hundred and twenty-six years young,
So let the tale of her life be told.
Weep not for her as for one grown old.
The gallant summers round her flung
So much of green, so much of gold.
She had all the joy that a heart could hold
And something over to keep her meny
As the wet, sweet wind that kisses Kerry
And goes to Meath with its song halt sung.
Yestermorn her bridle bell
Went jangle-jingle down the way,
Where yellow lights of August tell
On hair too blithe to own its grey.
Great-rooted elm trees murmuring low
Made a s|un-shot shadow wide.
The oldest laughed to see her ride
Trampling down the rainy years
That made his grandest branches grow
Years are but leaves, for all tlieir tears,
lie remembered, green and slow,
The happy morning, August-wide,
When, jingle-jangle, rode a bride
Laughingly at Desmond’s side
A hundred years ago.
The windflowers knew,
As they danced in the dew,
Only last spring
Of light little feet
That would beat, beat,
Merry and true,
To the twirl of a string.
Oh, the wind has its tricks,
Blowing sunny and shady !
But here came a lady .
Who danced at a hundred and twenty-six
As lightly as grass
When two winds meet and pass;
And the mad little shoots,
Leaping up at the tune,
Want to fly the stone wall;
Till the pull at their roots
Makes them simper and swoon
Down to nothing at a 11....
Were there two feet like these
Since God made cherry-trees?
Burn the candles great and tall.
Rushen wicks and heavy wax!
Taste her parting bounty, all.
Bid them cry and bid them call
“Hither, whosoever lacks!
She had a great ear for hearing
When sorrow sobbed at the gate.
None came to her fearing
That his plea should wait.
Bowman, hoary and grave,
In your grandfather’s day
Of a good heart she gave
To the poor man in the way.
She gave of a good heart;
And the blessing stayed
Till a sweet place apart
In the world she made.
A good thought on the left hand
And a good thought on the right:
And about her men’s prayers would stand.
For a hundred years in the night.
Burn the candles tall and great.
Heavy wax and rushen wicks .
Here is no room for scorn or hate,
For love comes crying against the gate —.
And her dead at a hundred and twenty-six.
We shall go out at sixty and seventy and
eighty
With beards white and eyes weighty
And the old people walking.
And the young people talking
And a dead man first on the road
That is six men’s load.
But she shall go
With the world walking slow
And the world thinking long
Of a great sweet song
That a woman made
To the tune the green years played.
Winter and summer and spring.
The rain and the sun and the sorrow —
Heart, as the young sing.
Hers was the song of to-morrow!
Burn the candles great and tall,
Heavy wax and rushen wicks.
Behind and before her the years call
“She wrought a great sweetness for all
And died at a hundred and twenty-six !
The cherry-tree has blossoms white
In the girl-sweet of the year;
And the bark of the branch is satin bright
And the gum comes out like a tear;
But the fruit is good in the mouth and the
hand , , c
When the summer [looks over the slope o>.
the land.
In Desmond grows a cherry-tree
A man would walk the world to see.
In Desmond grows a cherry-tree
Red with fruit of misery.
Red and redder to its fall.
It looks above the garden wall;
And there the men and women tell
The way she climbed, the place she fe11....
God curse the fruit alive and red
When she is dead, when she is dead .
Burn the candles to her youth.
Heavy wax and rushen wicks.
We, the old.
Her hands shall fold.
She was voung—Ps young as truth—
Dead at a hundred and twenty-six!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Tent Thief.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JARRETT. Meaks, Parrot and Newing
were seated on a long log over their
camp-fire, the flame of which lit up
their bearded faces with a ruddy glow and
picked the adjacent tent out of the black
night. Meaks, laboriously churning tobacco
in his left palm, was laying down the law
that on a diggings a tent thief was the most
ass? •*»
killin’ —killin’ and burym—and its 31.
about time the camp was ™kelbow!
St S, h m lo a tree
the Lord havin’ left one on the lead foi tha
I>U y )l fifth man came suddenly into the fire-
lik<“ a talH S h re sUm i m“n “boat wiose
S £ was“ trace of fastidious-
lioss not uncommon on the diggings, bu
which never failed to excite certain emotions
of resentment and distrust.
“Night, mates,” said the newcomer, one
Tne<»ard He upended a block, and seated
himself. He caught the apple Jarrett threw
to him across the fire. “Apples he* said.
-I had no idea there were any m camp •
Taking out a knife, he commenced paling t
fruit, a piece of squeamishness that did not
wTrfttlkiog about the killiug of
'UmethWSrtto be doue There's
scarcely a tent on the lead hasn t bin robbed
one way or another, and now it s bloody mur-
2er. This here can’t go on. Here’s a poor
digger brained in his bed, and, not con
'tent, the damn scoundrel starts and bunes
him in his own tent! ’ . , , .
Laggard, munching the apple, shook Ins
head. “There was no attempt to bury In-
gram,” said he.
“Well, that’s the yarn Butcher brings us.
lie savs Ingram’s fouhd with his nut caved
in aid clmcked in a hole in the floor of his
tent. Looks as though the feller was neai
caught at it, sez Butcher to me, and pelted
off leavin’ the body with the top of its head
pokin’ out of the dirt.” Meaks lmd lit up
while talking. He sat back with an air of
expectancy. “What you got to say? said
bC '“Butcher Reid is a bright youth,” said
Laggard, “but in his eagerness to spread news
he does not trouble about the simpler facts.
Ingram was buried, but he had buried him
St The four men pushed their faces forward
into the full glow, the same note of incredu-
lity on each. “Buried hisself your grand-
aunt!” scoffed Meaks. “It ain’t the custom
with corpses in this country, mate.”
“Tom Ingram did not bury himself after
the act; he did it before. I have been over
to the tent. I saw the body in the hole with-
in ten minutes of Butcher raising the outcry,
and I think I can tell you just what hap-
pened. Ingram had set himself to trap the
tent thief. He had let it get about that he
had a good deal of dust hidden in his tent.
He had, I fancy, a shrewd idea of the identity
of the thief, and had let it leak out that he
would be up at the poker party at Myers s
that night; but he had already dug a com-
fortable hole in the centre of his tent and
covered it with a couple of boards, the boards
being covered with an inch or so of dirt. In
this hole, under the boards, Tom Ingram
squatted, with a Colt revolver in his hand,
waiting for the tent thief. The thief came
along all right, but resorted to an action
poor Tom had not counted on. He assumed
that the soft spot in the tent-floor indicated
where Ingram had buried his dust, and he
started to dig. The first blow with his short-
handled pick drove the point into Ingram’s
skull, and killed him.”
“See here, mate, how the devil do you drop
to all this?” Newing was on his feet, his
eyes, bent upon Laggard, dark with suspicion.
“Not because I killed Tom Ingram, Mr.
Newing,” said the other, with a slow, wry
smile, “but because I have a little common-
sense. I saw the boards that covered Ingram
in his hole. They had been tossed aside, but
there was a pickhole in one, corresponding
with the hole in the dead man’s head. If
that doesn’t satisfy you I may tell you there
was no dirt out of the hole dug in the tent.
The chap who has murdered a man, and dug a
hole to bury him, does not carefully remove
the debris from the excavation. A murderer in
such circumstances is not too nice ; he dumps
his man into the hole, a nd trundles dirt in
on top of him. Tom was not buried ; he was
left sitting in the hole. The thief had merely
tossed the boards aside, expecting to find
anything but a dead man, I should say.”
The four looked at each other and back at
Peter Laggard. “If it’s as you say”
began Parrot dubiously.
“It is precisely as I say. Naturally,
Butcher was wildly excited on discovering
the body in the morning, and ran stuttering
to the tents with the tale. He was too
flabbergasted to make any attempt to get the
hang of matters.”
“He was white as an old bone when he
came to my camp an hour after,” said Jar-
rett. “After all, lie’s only a kid.”
“And a sight like that would upend an
old, well-seasoned stomach.’’
Meaks nodded, sucking his pipe. “S’pose
we get hold of him and wring the whole
yarn from him now he’s sobered down on
it.”
Jarrett, Meaks, Parrot and Newing were
the four responsible men of One Gum Leaf.
If anything was to be done to put an end
to the flagrant lawlessness that manifested
itself in promiscuous tent-robbing, and that
had culminated in the killing of Tom Ingram,
a hatter, it was from these, the conspicu-
ously prosperous men of the lead, that action
must come. .. Tl
“Will you join in, mister?” said Parrot,
addressing Laggard. “You got a cute sorter
way of lookin’ at things.”
Laggard nodded. “I’ll come with plea-
sure,” said he.
They found Butcher Reid at Harry’s
shanty, sitting by the big fire in the great,
sod chimney that filled one end of the long
bark-and-slab structure. Reid was a stunted,
pasty-faced Cockney of about 25, with a
curious air of belated childhood. As runnel
for Livermore, the lead’s butcher, he was the
newsvendor of the diggings, and carried
information of the events of the day from
tent to tent. He fixed his ridiculously small,
peering, reddish eyes fringed with sandy
lashes on Meaks; the skin of his face, always
shrunken and filled with fine lines, was now
ashen grey. He had a piteous- expression.
“S’elp me, it’s made a cove sick !” he
wailed. “Sick I bin all day, s’elp me. It
scared the tripes outer me!”
(Continued on next page.)


“Feel Weak, Tired, Worn Out?”
fe
"S 3
A
m
3
‘Every Picture
Tells a Story"
-Tn
S ’“NI
Do you drag yourself around feeling “blue,” miserable
and ill? Sharp pains catch you with every sudden
move; backache with a dull, steady throb? All too
often sick kidneys are to blame for this unhappy state.
Overwork, hurry, worry, colds and chills, all tend to
weaken the kidneys. Then you have daily backache,
lameness, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
Don t wait for more serious troubles. Get a bottle of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day! This
time-tried, world-famous kidney remedy has helped
your friends and neighbors. It should help you.
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:— “For a lone
fr i? m K 1 trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in my
that’l b could e not C s h hfl S kp dl rfff y acks ’. di . sord ered secretions, and a dull, tired feeling
every l movement he pain in my J> ack was often almost unbearable, and
Stead of better nothin* J ST' my suff ermg. As time went on I got worse
well and badlv in nSd g J k j- 01 - ng T the least S° od - I was really far from
Doan’l BackacL °p-u medl T cine that would cure me. At last I heard of
Se very thhfgTinted S ,V° lg* a ] )ottle to try them - They proved to be
-s ot these pill, 1 was cure< ''
have t Say m “ My CU £? haS proved a Permanent one, for I
me eight years afo. 6 Doan ’ s .Backache Kidney Pills cured
occasionally, because I think the kidneys need / the “
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE.
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
«t r ' •j' Pn ? e \ Smith’s-lane, off Little* s-avenue, Balmain, Sydney, says:
In consideration of the good Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have done me, I am
pleased to pass the word on to other sufferers, and I hope many will profit by my
*;'? I l e . r 1 ienee - * used this remedy for a severe attack of backache and other symptoms
i kidney trouble, and they cured me completely. I suffered terribly, and could
r u S !i fr< iF l . e constant pain day or night. It was agony for me to even
nin bed. Previous to taking Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I tried different
™ e di c i nes > k ut they did me ho good at all. However, I now feel splendid,
“I S °i° d health ,' s °lely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I always
tufP bott i e in the house, and take some now and then, just as a tonic for the
kidneys, and as a preventive against any return.”
. years later, Mr. Price says: “I have had no return of my old complaint
v, >ai V S j Ra( L kach « Pills cured me. They are a grand remedy, and
should be taken by all who suffer with their kidneys.”
IMKT
5 <
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
t kat time was it when you found
Ingram?” asked Peter Laggard.
iwJi OU *rT n * ne ’ 1 s’pose,” Butcher shud-
eieu. He was a-peekin’ up at me outer
the ground with hees dead eyes,” Butcher
savagef 1 ' 1 bate corp uses!” he added
lmnH 1 ® W r!!, ole business was left in Laggard’s
wWiTp?® diggers sat at the fire, smoking,
while leter questioned the Cockney closely
jJ® J 5 -* he condition of the tent when he
i ( ,ri Ingram ’ and about the last time he
had seen Ingram alive, and what he believed
to be the motive of the murderer. To the
patient diggers much of this cross-question-
ing seemed irrelevant and absurd.
The men were tramping back to their
th™others MCakS and Jarrett in advance of
m ‘T hat f damn feller Laggard knows too
cully lf y ° U ask me ’ said Meaks emphati-
■ does seem a bit too cocksure. What’s
on the lead, anyway
Not dingin', for one thing.”
tu3, h ih°I C T ° f Pai ; rot called them. “Better
lea <wi lat a Sgaid s got to say.”
«. li .at 1 Ilave suggested,” said Laggard,
is that you men club 50 ounces. For that
* l nndertake to deliver up this tent-thief
Siv“ rder f• • Hold bard. I’ve a further
, It . is thls > that in the event of
the thief having more than 50 ounces, I
gold ” WlUt 16 bas got, and you keep your
“But God’s truth, man, he’s stole three
hundred ounces if a grain!”
, \ er .v likely. What is recovered from
(root- 18 I ?p n n; J hnts the essence of the con-
ihnWfi over - fe ee one or two of
tbe better-class men about the camp ; put it
secrecy" ? Tf T “ dlip in ’ but insist on
secrecy. It l am t 0 succee( j t h e oU i Dl q t
must not know what I am trying for 1 If
f" tm ' k *«| worth this to rid the lead of
a scoundrel, I m your man ; if not—well I
am wasting my time on One Gum.” ’
wi?h ai hnlf aD i Meak ? discussed the matter
P t ° Ze r ° th % diggers on lead
and saw leter Laggard again, offering an
that Pt th Ce ° f f IIS pi ' oposal w ith a proviso
“Ihin three a wS£. mUSt be ,cc “ m ‘ >lißhed
n hi n k a <^? ek will serve-” replied Lag-
tw f°n lly ' , N °, W ’ lt; must be ma de known
that I have bought into your claim, Meaks.
ofTnn h n V - e qU A irt . e l' s in .Voiir tent as one
ot you. Give Butcher the news: he will
pass it round.” ’ e wm
rtll Paggard ’ s arrangement was effected with-
out delay, and for the next two or three
days he went to work with his new mates,
took a hand m all that was doing, at the
same time working out the preliminaries of
his simple plan. He made free use of
Butcher Reid. By carefully arranged inad-
vertence the small Cockney was permitted
to know- everything that was going on He
was even permitted to see that the new man
was rather careless about the disposal of
his gold. Every afternoon Jarrett and
Meaks puddled, cradled and panned-off the
wash raised during the day, and always the
result w-as a show of gold that might have
opened envious eyes to the widest. It was
used more than once to open Butcher’s red-
limmed eyes, with the idea of setting his
tongue wagging. Once Laggard even went
so tar as to let Reid come jopon him plant-
ing a fat chamois leather bag in the soil
just under his bunk.
feature of the prevalent tent-stealing
tnat perplexed Laggard was the frequent
raids on food. This was not in keeping
with the fact that the thief, whoever he
might be, had already cleaned up quite a
£ ‘i. s k |U ild not be under the necessity
of niching mere grub.
There came a moment on the third night
when it seemed to Peter that his fine plan
had gone for nothing. He was sitting with
halt a dozen others at a camp-fire, with a
bottle ot brandy and unlimited tobacco,
a sudden, shrill outcry broke upon the
still night. Shrieks as of a human being in
intolerable agony rent the air,
n Consadine jumped to his feet. “By
L—d! he said, “we’ve got him.” He rushed
towards his tent, and the others followed
at top speed, leaving Laggard sitting at the
hre spitting curses.
Consadine had been boasting of,a snare
he and his mate had set for the thief, a
simple but effective device in the shape of
a powerful snap-trap which, if it took a man
rni mi &bt be relied upon to hold him.
±he poignant screams continued, and the
anger faded from Peter’s face, giving place
to a broad grin. The men were racing back,
hanging on to their captive. They brought
black nt< i t ; he llgkt ° f tke cam P" fi re, a big, fat,
rm olle Lead was 011 a portion of One
Bum station, owned by Abel Trent, an old
Victorian settler, and no doubt this pig was
f T n , Ilis herd ’ not 80 conspicu-
f )] J Pig headed as not to have seen the
tolly of foraging in the bush for his keep
when a fine supply of good food was avail-
with f judgment ntS “ th<J CamP f ° r a P ° rker
Laggard was satisfied—the thefts of food,
at any rate were accounted for. Now he
perado *° the human des-
A shivoo had been arranged for the Fri-
day night, to take place in Harry’s shanty,
and Laggard had made up his mind that
tins was to be the occasion for his coup.
He had carefully made it known in advance
that he and his mates would all be in attend-
ance at the spree, and as carefully had
spread intelligence of a great yield from Jar-
rett s claim.
At about 11 on the night of the jollifica-
tion a figure stole to the rear of Jarrett’s
tent, cut a way in, and crept through. A
small piece of candle hidden in a hat made
a dark lantern, and with this the man
searched the empty tent, and then the floor,
found the spot he sought, and dug hastily,
unearthing in less than a minute a fat
chamois bag heavy with gold. At the same
instant, without a sound or a discoverable
movement, a heavy object fell upon the in-
truder, pinning him to the floor, and a
moment later he found himself held firmly
with an arm up his back, and his face grind-
ing into the hard clay floor.
A shrill whistle was sounded three times,
and men came running from an adjacent
tent. Their light revealed Peter Laggard,
with a small man under him. Laggard had
a hammerlock on his captive, who was utterly
powerless. The chamois bag was lying
where his fingers had dropped it.
“Here is your man,” said Laggard. “Hello,
hello! Butcher, my boy, I guessed as much!”
Pie had permitted the prisoner to sit up,
and Butcher Reid, pale as death itself, and
trembling all over like a very old man in the
cold, was staring with piteous terror at his
captor.
“Where’d yer come from?” Butcher stam-
mered. “Gord’s truth, I thought it was the
Devil!”
Peter pointed upward. The tent was slit
open at the top. Peter Laggard’s perch had
been along the ridgepole under the fly. He
had simply fallen through on to the thief,
and pinned him to the floor.
Butcher turned fiercely on Laggard.
“Any’ow, I wasn’t priggin’ nothin’. I
wasn’t, I wasn’t! It was me own gold,
every ’weight iv it. I buried it there among
the saplin’s one night, and Jarrett come along
and pitched his tent right on top of it. He
did, s’elp me Gord, he did! I was alwiz
wonderin’ how I was goin’ to get it back
agin, and I got a perticler scare when I seen
this feller” (he pointed to Laggard) “dig-
gin’ in the floor. I wasn’t goin’ to take no
more risks, so I come to-night to get me stuff.
It’s the troof, so ’elp me two-men-an’-a-dorg,
it is. It’s mine. Look fer yerselves. I
swear to Gord it’s mine.”
It was Laggard’s turn to gasp with amaze-
ment. The chamois bag he held in his hand
was not the bag he had buried. The small
excavation from which it was taken he now
perceived to be at a little distance from
that made by himself. The bag he buried
was full of ironstone pebbles; this one was
full of clean, coarse alluvial gold. How-
ever, the amazement on his face soon gave
way to a gratified smile. He had no doubt
the bag contained all the gold Parrot, New-
mg, Bradley, Smith and others had been
robbed of.
“This is most satisfactory, Butcher,” said
he. “I was afraid I might have no end of
trouble getting out of you where your plant
was to be found.”
Butcher got 25 years, the death of Ingram
being held to be a pure inadvertence on his
- aDC * • ete , r Laggard, for his pains, got
±wl4 in nice, clean, water-worn gold.
EDWARD DYSON.
Gettin’ Goin’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE met it a couple of miles on the
Dunedoo side of Mudgee. In the
shafts of the shandradan—built
mostly of stringy-bark poles and roofed with
rabbit- and bear-skins—-was a moke that
might have been a ’bus-horse; or, again,
it might have been a racer. A young steer,
hitched to the patched shafts with wire, was
in the lead, and was kept up to his work by
a draggled woman of 50 or so, who plodded
along on the near-side, ankle-deep in inud
.4. w hite-whiskered wisp of a man, looking
like SO, navigated the outfit from a perch
under the skins, and he had a couple of
youngsters in behind him mixed with the
pots and pans. In a cage, slung under the
trap, was a galah ; and two kangaroo pups
trotted m the shadow of the tail-board,
let down to make room for an iron bedstead
whose rusty laths rattled dismally.
The old fellow stopped the caravan “for
a pitch about the war,” at which he had
three boys, and to ask the price of chaff
at Dunedoo. The missus and the kids took
advantage of the halt to cut into the bush
to see if they could spot a bees’ nest. It
was, the old boy said, his second missus, and
the youngsters were hers by a former hus-
band, who was a cow. Mainly, I gathered,
because of the aforesaid cow’s bad behavior
he wanted to give her a real good time'
same as he was able to give No. 1; and
he d do it, too, when he got goin’ again—
it was only the gettin’ goin’. Yes, the roads
were bad—they’d bog a duck—but that
didn t. signify with capable cattle and
a light and tight turn-out under you
They’d got the steer with them, and kept
him fat, case they ran out of meat. Just
now the beef was working its passage, as the
saym is.
, , Ha , wk esbury native he was, but he
hadn t clapped eyes on the old river for 20
years. He had made £3OOO on the line
between Goulburn and Yass—a bit of it,
between you and me, out of grog—but he’d
blewed the lot in butchering—went the way
of all ill-gotten gains, the first wife said •
but she was always a bit religious. llow-
somever. he would get goin’ again shortly;
and then he would make things hum. He
might have been a J.P. in his time, only
when he went to be sworn in at Wellington
found there was two quid to pay; and
hed see the old Judge—he’d see the old
Judge where good Judges never go—before
he d pay two bob. Not, mind you, that
he was mean; his worst enemy couldn’t
charge that against him.
Had I a bit of terbacker to spare until
he got goin’ and we met again ? He’d been
goin a bit short, so far as weed was con-
cerned ; but when he got goin’ again he’d
have none but the best and stacks of it.
He hoped to get a bit of cheap chaff at
Dunedoo. With it 'he would fatten his
moke and sell the turnout. Then he would
try tor a job on the deviation, and if he
could get goin’ he’d be on his feet again
ia ao time. And next time he’d hang on to
u' ass : there was the cow’s former missus
and her kids to see to now, you remember.
I risked suggesting that he was rather
to get goin’ much. But he
said. Not a bit! Don’t you make any
mistake i Old Henry Parkes got married
and learned to play the fiddle at 70; and
he was three year short of that and hadn’t
knocked .himself about, as the sayin’ is.
At this point the familv returned and
reported a find. Then the old man hopped
down, took a couple of buckets and an axe
and made off to fell the tree, which was the
missus said, a “sollicker.”
Before I left he asked for my Mudgee
address, and he means to look me up—l
being a friendly sorter bloke—when he gets
goin again.
YARRUM.


f - S
■■L-Jr't&i .? • .siSR&- - ■ • •
j#
■
£KS!
1 8 t
n
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414. &
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
©
3£«»1h*(&
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppet—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Files, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the' world,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
:
1
The‘PLUM’
is the
Razor for Me!”
This noted Razor is no new inven-
tion —thousands are sold annually.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against the stiffest beard, and
gives just that smooth, velvety shave
which every man appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle. . 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
“Plum” strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stop Dressing 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
ď
THE LEAST STRAIN
TO THE FIGURE.
Shirley President Braces are built
to do away with the strain on the
clothing and the figure, and are
designed with the same point in
view as ball or roller bearings on
automobiles, distributing the strain
and tension. By minimising the
strain, it gives the figure grace,
buoyancy and dignified bearing.
Guaranteed by the makers.
V*
Air
&
7
•«*
For Sale by Good Dealers Everywhere.
/
Look for the name on the Buckles—Shirley President.
/
Established in 1870
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., ]LTI).,
50 York Street, Sydney ; 16 Victoria Street*. 'Wellington, N.Z.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE.- This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what .we si;.
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If. it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Be Wise In Time
Everybody needs a little medicine now and then to keep the stomach right,
the liver active and the bowels in healthy working order. Experience
has proved the wonderful value of Beecham’s Pills- as a tonic for the
stomach, a corrective for the liver and a perfect aperient. No remedy
has won a higher place in the public esteem than this old and well-tried
medicine. You will be well advised to
Take The Rational Remedy
—Beecham’s Pills —when you need a little medicine. A timely dose when
you are feeling “below par” will work wonders. Beecham’s Pills
relieve headache, restore the appetite, remove constipation, purify the
blood and thus conduce to goed spirits and a cheerful outlook. The good
effects which follow a course of Beecham’s Pills are unmistakeable and
enduring. They will help you in your work and make your seasons of
recreation times of real pleasure. For general health purposes at all
times and seasons there is no medicine so useful as—
Beecham’s Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
Ii: any illustration appearing m
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price for it
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring, success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullnes*
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’s Little i
Liver Pills, the *
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands
f
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meals. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
d
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probahlv
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the time's
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied lipon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J-
■V V
’* SINCLAIR LTD.,
ďfd
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
rtf+lll
d
■
mm
<
Remington
38 &44 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
There is a demand among sportsmen tor a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop”
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater —38-40 and 44 calibre —is invaluable
for general use. Accurate up to 300 yards.
Rl m^h on -
for Shooting Right
Inquire’of your dealer, who
can order for you. Cat-
alogues free upon request*!
df
ď
C-1
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Bov GBG, G.P.0., Melbourne
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
fd
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
{Patented)
ď
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


n
a
0
D
I=s
<§>
O
Q
PREPARED
#1
m
=5
€&
r*
■ ■
868911
m
I'lltS
rf
s^/1
T" O
\ '(
Bgc
P
/
Opf«*
i
\w
V>KJ
X/
w
\l3
14
iP?
RE PAR
mm
mm
/s
is
:/7n
Rw
Be
i
m
m
PREPARED
m
\\"
i
<» .
m
AND OUTSIDE OF BUILD
iT .weu Everywhere under r>
*** Be^cr&SonsfAusiraMg
er * of Painfe, Colours tVarn
Paint your home
—and protect it!
The house protected with Berger’s
Paint is a house fortified against the
weather a house secure against
decay. Woodwork needs protection.
Repairs cost so much now that it
becomes essential to keep them
down to an absolute minimum.
Berger’s Paint will effectually protect woodwork from
heat and moisture. It provides an elastic film of pure
White Lead and Zinc Oxide—a protective covering
that will not chalk, peel, or blister, if properly applied.
“8.P.” is the most economical paint you could use.
Every drop in every can is uniform in quality, and
ready to apply, so that no time is lost in mixing.
The painter is as sure of his progress as he is
of the result —a perfect finish, without waste.
Specify Bergers e ‘B.P
Manufactured at Rhodes, near Sydney, by
Lewis Berger & Sons, (Aust.) Ltd.
SOLD BY BERGER AGENTS IN ALL
CITIES, SUBURBS and COUNTRY TOWNS.
d
ď
•aaouas aw
