

THE
n
mn
m
SIX
-
$
o
77V
7)
dO o
6
&
cv
\
I
Pi
%
%
\
jf
£*
□□
<^H
v .
aaa
: V
■ a
V:
S*
«
The Car That “Keeps Faith.”
For comfort and reliability, instant response to the man at the wheel, hill-climbing without protest, and for
getting through sand—you cannot possibly find a car to surpass the Chandler.
This high-grade American Six will do everything that a car can be expected to do, and will frequently
surprise you by the stunts it is capable of pulling off when put to it. Chandler owners the world over
have faith in their cars, which in return keep faith and justify this confidence.
If YOU know the CHANDLER you will know this; if you do not know this car, Ring City 2567 and let
a us give you a demonstration.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
’ GARAGE AND SHOWROOM,
147-51 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Agents for New South Wales.
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne,
Agents for Victoria.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., LTD., Adelaide,
Agents for South Australia.
T. KENNEDY, Launceston,
Agent for Tasmania.
The Bulletin
VoL 42.—N0. 2139
Thursday, February 10, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be posted free to any
address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.— advt
What Will the
Next War Mean
to You?
READ
The War of the Future
By GENERAL VON BERNHARDI.
It shows an unrepentant, unsubdued Germany, already
planning for revenge. What terrible new weapons—what
tactics—what methods, she will use, are here examined. This
is a book you must read. Send for it to-day.
PRICE 20/- (9d. postage).
From Your Bookseller
OB
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD.,
262-4 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
If not, write to
Euthymol
TOOTH/PASTEj
Box 224 G.P.0.,
Free sample will be posted to you.
Sidney.
THE YANDOO.
THE 7th F.A.B. MAGAZINE (Vol. 3),
200 pages, 270 photos of exceptional interest,
reproductions of journal published in the firing line,
three big, four-colored maps of Northern France
battlefields. Price 5/-. postage 6d. extra.
YANDOO MANAGEMENT, c/o Sil Rohu,
110 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which lias outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed since 1586. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Swan Self -Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
USE
Swan Ink
SWAN
INK
nm
n
SWAN INK
f SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
An Ideal Treatment for
INDIGESTION GASTRITIS
and
ALL STOMACH AILMENTS
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6. [2
wn\
5h
x:
y
MUSTDIE
KILLS FLIES
Write*.
«» « * «
*?»
Oil
■<**.
>
•&L* A^Ya-4HB
The Red Page
Antonio Fogazzaro
To-day the novel of spiritual strife, of
religious faiths and unfaiths, is dead. This
avoidance of the subject is not, I think,
indicative of a "falling away” from religious
thought, nor of a reluctance to interfere
with your readers’ business (and your
sales), nor even of a silent contempt for
old-fashioned things. As I see' it. the cause
of the silence is that the world, reading and
writing, is not interested any more in the
fine points of religious belief, nor, perhaps
in its blunt ones either. Most of the work
that matters is Christian and the rest of
it is not —that seems to he enough for us
to-day. George Moore’s savage hatred of
the black-coats arguing forever to establish
that “God’s grandmother was a virgin” has
subsided to its true literary place of silence
not of contempt, as I say, and certainly
not of a widening agnosticism; but quite
simply and naturally, of superannuation.
The reader to-day knows pretty well as
much as the writer cah tell him.
When Fogazzaro’s II Santo appeared in
Rome somewhere about 1900 it made such
a stir there that an English translation
came hurrying on its heels. But The Saint's
popular quality was not its religious pre-
occupation; it was the mixture of sex and
Religion, which is always a winner. In
addition and parenthesis it was eloquentlv
and convincingly written, which helps even
a best-seller. Rome, up to the eyes in sex-
novels, and as sick of them as the man was
of the palsy, read only the Saint's gradual
acceptance of a modified Catholic modern-
ism, shoved the book joyously on the Index
and waited open-mouthed for the next.
Storms of protest came from Clericals and
Anti-clericals, and both sides settled down
to make things hot for Fogazzaro. They
did this thoroughly, practically banishing
him from Italian civilisation. He had proved
no case for the Modernists, and he had set
fire to all the smouldering zeal of the domi-
nant Clericals. Fogazzaro .went away and
Ttrote it all down in Leila , Ihis last novel;
and that made the situation worse. Finally
he gave it up altogether, caught again the
bright spirit of faith with which he had
started —the child’s romantic faith, safe
from all scientific details—lived his last few
years in its serenity, and died on the operat-
ing table of a Roman hospital.
Trying to fit the scientific details to the
large romantic faith is as hopeless now as
before the details were discovered. Fogaz-
zaro stepped from one generation of thought
to another —from the quietude of tacit, all-
embracing belief to the loud clamor of
science-made-popular. In the ’seventies and
’eighties everything of importance in thought
was left to people called “elders and bet-
ters” ; they knew about it, and their report
was good enough for the youngers and pre-
sumably worse. The artist in those days
wrote as a believer, accepting simply the
equal belief of his reader. Now he side-
steps all controversial things (things here-
tofore not controversial) because nobody
cares; like his reader he has no ardor of
faith and no violence of unfaith. He is
not atheist: he is Christian. But for the
fine points which made Moore so mad he
has no use. Fogazzaro, stepping out of the
dying romance of silence and safety into
the growing material noise, tried to fit them
together in amity. And that can’t be done
—not because science knows any more about
it than those betters, but because the reader
does, and the youngers and worse. So they
go cold, and don’t answer when the subject
is dug out of its grave.
Thus Valsolda is Fogazzaro’s best book,
notwithstanding the fame of his “master-
piece,” Piccolo Mondo Antico , Valsolda
tries nothing, jumps at no “masterpiece”
heights, hardly tells any story; yet the book
is beautiful. Fogazzaro, unlike the other
great fiction-artists, wrote his story -of his
childhood in the middle of his fame; gen-
erally it is written before the fame is estab-
lished or after its decline has begun. Val-
solda is a quiet, perfectly presented picture
of the life of a small provincial community
in the Italy of ISSO-60. In it the old laws
of good and evil, the punishment of sin,
the shortsighted ardor of youth, and all
the rest of it, lead slowly and charmingly
to a restful, perfectly obvious close. The
book could have been written by some placid
priest with a magic gift of unconscious
observation. There is here nothing of the
sex-themes which obscure the literary direct-
ness of the remainder of Fogazzaro’s work.
He went through storni after storm of emo-
tion, each violent, magnificent love affair
producing a new book, lie was a chameleon
to all the primal colors and all the semi-
tones of sex-attraction. As a good Catholic
he confessed, lashing himself mercilessly in
his books, doing his penance like a man;
and following the first beckoning temptation
before the penance was half done. He was
31. married and a fully professed lawyer
before his first book (some Verse under the
title Miranda ) appeared; and he had passed
his fortieth year when his first novel,
Malomhra, was published. His domestic life
was happy, ho was devoted to his children,
and a man of conscientious and religious
mind; but Marina in Malomhra was a real
woman whose life, under the beckoning
finger, had joined for a little with Fogaz-
zaro’s. The tempest and its sorrow, its
sharp beauty, were written in the book.
While the ink was drying Fogazzaro was
storming and beating his breast in a new
passion. Whose glory and bitterness came in
their turn to be written in Daniele Cortis.
And so on. through II Mistero del Poeta,
Piccolo Mondo Moderno, down to II Santo
and Leila. Over each successive book and
its passionate, throbbing romance a tide of
repentance and self-castigation surges: each
is. in vile journalese, a “human document”
of .confession and purpose of amendment in
the light of the immortal happiness it
triumphantly describes.
The ultimate tribunal of the confessions
and judgments was not Fogazzaro’s own
soul, but the church, the inevitable, inexor-
able church the little boy in Valsolda feared
and loved. That was the last resort of
the great man’s conscience down to his
death; and in much the measure of his
literary greatness is the measure of his
faith. He had no more business in the
pernicketty squabbles of the Blacks and
Anti-Blacks than John Davidson’s nun. But
he came down to the level of sci'ence, and
she broke his heart. Ilis. confessions remain
in their place in the Italian classics, how-
ever. for the service and admiration of
science when mathematics grow perhaps a
little thin towards the end.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
The Bourbon Touch
The true soldier changes neither his mind
nor his point of view. Where the contrary hap-
pens the subject is something much more than
a soldier, like Napoleon I. or Frederick the
Great. Not without cause is the professional
lighting-man who has risen to be a general
selected by satirists the "world over as the
arch-type of mule-headed conservatism.
Seventeen distinguished generals, are said to
have condemned the tanks up to the time
when Winston Churchill, in whose crowded
life soldiering was only an episode, insisted
on their use. The elephants of Pyrrhus pro-
voked wild derision at first; and every right-
minded figliting-man denounced the machines
by which Archimedes saved Syracuse until
their efficacy was demonstrated on the vile
bodies of the foe. Napoleon routed the
upholders of the old Prussian school of lin-
ear tactics: as the military experts of his day
put it, “He did not fight like a gentleman.’'
And now we have General Bernhardi, in his
“The War of the Future,” demonstrating that
the old breed still runs true to type. With
a Bourbon-like gift for learning nothing and
forgetting nothing he still holds to every
principle set out in the Prussian “Training
Manual” from which he acquired the elec
ments of his art. Hear him on a theory that
was set at naught every time a Dominion
division went into the line: —
The first and most important of these methods
(of achieving efficiency) is discipline— i.e., training
the men in those habits of discipline, order, obedi-
ence and subordination which must become second
nature to them. It must work like hypnotic sug-
gestion. The soldier must regard it as an almighty
power which governs him like an iron law.
If there is one institution of the past more
than, another that the civilised world has
grown to distrust it is secret diplomacy. The
entente between England and France has
stood many strains in the last 12 months, but
it did not definitely cease to be cordial till
the revelation was made that the French and
Belgian Governments had concluded a secret
treaty. A modern nation with a secret
treaty about its person is regarded by those
who are not in the know in much the same
spirit as private individuals regard a noc-
turnal caller with a drawn revolver. One
of Bernhardi’s many bitter regrets is that
the Fatherland did not go in for more of this
sort of thing. “We ought” he says, “to have
concluded treaties with Turkey and Bulgaria,
and no one need have known. We should
also have tried to come to some arrangement
with North America, which certainly would
not have been impossible. The same course
should have been taken with Italy and
Roumania.” “It is perfectly obvious” he
concludes, “that diplomacy always must be
secret,” and lie proceeds to postulate the
ideally governed State It is allowed a poli-
tical head, but “this authority must know
how to keep in the background and leave the
military authority to decide what is to be done.
The politician must unconditionally submit to
the will of the soldier, for the combination of
military and political action is the main object
and military requirements determine the
political.” If Germany had won the late war
and a Frenchman had written this book his
fellow-countrymen, with the logic of suspicion
for which they are noted, would probably have
indicted him for treason, and another Zola
would have written another “J’accuse !” No
imaginable sum of money could have bought,
inside France, such a smashing argument for
the maintenance of the Republic’s present
standing army of 827,000 men ; and there are
many passages which, if they are to be taken
as expressing the sentiments of modern Ger-
many, _ fully justify the Briand policy of
“keeping the Boche down —by reparations
first and after that by force of arms.” But
of course the book only represents Bern-
hardi, an incredible old ass, who, sitting amidst
the devastation for which he is largely re-
sponsible, assures his victims that the way to
avoid a similar debacle in their next reach
after world-dominion is to stick to his class
and the military and political doctrines which
have put Germany where it is.
Our copy from Hutchinson and Co.
J. D.
Arnold Bennett
The spirit expressed in the phrase “How
to live on 24 hours a day” is largely the
spirit this one of Arnold Bennett’s readers
finds in all his books, save “Clayhanger”
and “The Old Wives’ Tale.” There if so
much of Bennett solving vitally important
personal problems of the readers that not
much is to be taken into the memory except
a strong impression of the amazing clever-
ness of Arnold Bennett. One should be
pretty nearly superhuman to instruct a
crowd on how to live on 24 hours a day;
ambassadors from the superhuman have
been trying to do that since the dawn of
human intelligence. Arnold Bennett doesn’t
do it, of course; but he. collects and re-
states all the black-coated ambassadors’ old
admonitions in the rough, so to speak—not
buttressed, I mean, or hampered in any way
by the color of the speaker’s coat. These are
presented in the book with an excellent
brevity and force tuned admirably to the
average reader’s ear. All through the bright
expressive pages the title is exemplified
again and again. There is nothing shallow
or tricky anywhere in the book ; throughout
it is as brilliant as its splendid title.
But that is all. There are no new in-
structions in the technique of spending 24
hours; only some admirably expressive and
forceful writing. The same thing applies
in a much smaller measure to the other
little book on “Literary Criticism.” This
less famous book is better, inasmuch as
it opens the gate of literary criticism for
that average reader whose note Bennett
(Continued on page 25.)


uee
F. 76
Blouses Cases
Quality AX. — Cowhide, metal frame, lined cloth,
pockets in lid and body. Size 18in. 20in. 22in.
50/- 55/- 60/-
Quality BX—F76.—Selected Cowhide, metal
frame, as illustrated, handsomely lined, pockets in lid
and body of case, 2 locks. Size 20in. 22in. 24in.
75/- 80/- 88/-
Quality CX. — Selected Cowhide, metal frame, lined
leather, capped corners. Size 20in. 22in. 24in.
90/- 100/- 110/-
'F.4
Genuine Compressed Fibre
Cabin Trunks
No. 1. Eight Real Hide Corners, lined cloth, good locks,
superior bentwood battens, and fitted with tray.
Sizes 30in. 33in. 36in.
£5/5/- £5/15/- £6/6/-
No. 2.—Fibre Cabin Trunk, covered Tan Canvas,
battens all round, two S.N, locks, bound hide, with
tray. Sizes 30in. 33in. 36in.
£6/15/- £7/7/- £7/15/-
No. 3.—Veneer Cabin Trunk, covered Vulcanised
Fibre, bentwood battens, fibre-bound edges, best .locks,
fitted with tray. Sizes 33in. 36in.
£9 £9/15/-
Leather Cabin Trunks
Regulation size, 36 x 21 x 14 inches., Quality CXF7.
Quality AX.—Feather Cabin Trunks, as illustrated,
front straps, welted seams, covered lock, lined cloth, fitted
with tray. Maximum size, 36 x 184 x 14 inches.
Sizes 30in. 33in. 36in.
£7 £7/15/- £B/10/-
Quality CX.—High-grade Leather Cabin Trunks,
turn-over edges, eight stout leather corners strongly sewn and
riveted, drop-back lid, straps all round, stout leather handles,
wooden battens along bottom, fitted with tray.
Sizes 30in. 33in. 36in.
£lO/10/- £ll/11/-' £l2/12/-
Onalities BX and CX, maximum sizes, 36 x 21 x 14 inches.
s
•1 f:
ilEl
Imperial Trunks
Strongly made for rough usage, deep, roomy tranks, to go in the
ship’s hold.
Made in latest models of 3-ply Veneer and Compressed Cane, 1 as
illustrated.
Shallow make — Sizes 36in. 39in. 42in.
Quality AX—F2O. £9/9/- £9/15/- £lO/10/-
Deeper make—
Quality BX.— £lO/10/- £ll/10/- £l2/10/-
Anthony Horderns’
Values & Economies
For close upon one hundred years it has been our constant
endeavor to supply high-standard quality merchandise at
the lowest price possible. Travel Goods and Travel Requisites
featured on this page demonstrate how thoroughly and
economically Anthony Horderns’ cater for your requirements
and also decisively express how much their money savings
mean to you.
Various Travel Needs
Rug or Parcel straps, with two straps and leather
handle, well finished and strong.
Sizes f x 42in. f x 48in. 5 x 60in. f x 72in.
3/9 4/3 5/6 7/6
Rug Straps, with metal handle, special finish.
Sizes | x 36in. § x 42in. f x 42in. f x 60in.
1/9 2/- 2/3 3/-
Diamond Book Straps, best quality.
■J x 24in., 1/3; f x 27in., 1/9
Soiled liinen Bags, for use on board ship.
Brown Canvas, circular shape, brass eyelets, handle and
padlock (F 56) 25/-
Canvas Holdalls, for carrying Rugs, Cloaks and
Cushions, leather handles, straps all round, capacious
inside pockets (F6l). Sizes 30in 33in. 36in.
33/6 35/6 37/6
Passenger Name Tags (F 57) 6d.
Military Brush Cases (F 39).
In solid Tan Leather Case, containing 2 good Brushes and
Comb, with Satinwood or Ebonised and real Ebony
backs.
No. 1 Quality, with Ebonised back... 10/6
No. 2 Quality, with Satinwood back 11/6
No. 3 Quality, with Real Ebony back 18/6
Collar Boxes (F 42).
Diameter 6in. 7in. Bin.
Quality AX, Pig Grained Leather.. 5/6 6/6 7/6
Quality BX, Plain Solid Leather.. 8/6 9/6 11/6
Quality CX, Cowhide, lined Leather 11/6 13/6
In Higher Grades 15/- 17/6 21/-
Travelling Rugs
Fine Warm Woollen Rugs, from the leading English,
Scotch and Australasian manufacturers, in specially-
selected designs and approved colorings.
37/6, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-, 84/-, 90/-
Woollen Bush Rugs
Warm Woollen Rugs, in most serviceable shades.
These durable Rugs are especially suitable for camping
out, for extra bed coverings and general purposes.
Size—6o x 72in 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
Size—6o x 80in 25/-, 30/-, 37/6
Size—7o x 90in 37/6, 42/-
Size—Bo x lOOin 42/-, 45/-
MAIL-ORDER SERVICE.
To shop by mail at Anthony Horderns’
means that you receive the same close
expert attention as though you were
shopping in person. All orders are
efficiently executed by an expert staff
and despatched expeditiously.
Steel Cabin Trunks
Panama Cabin Trunk, as illustrated, grained Oak, rounded
corners, steel bands in lid and along bottom (Fll).
Sizes 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
31/6 40/- 48/- 59/6
Ortona Cabin Trunk, No. 1, Japanned Oak Grain, centre locks,
end clips Sizes 21in. 24in. 27in. 30in.
19/6 25/- 30/- 35/-
F. 23
Popular Kit Bags
Quality BX.—Cowhide, side pinch lock, lined cloth, turn-
over clips. Sizes 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in.
26/6 30/- 35/- 38/6
Quality CX. Cowhide, best frame, finely nickelled, well
lined, side locks. Sizes 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in.
33/- 38/6 44/- 48/-
Quality DX. Cowhide, lined cloth, nickelled furniture.
Sizes 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in.
30/- 33/- 37/6 42/-
Quality EX.-—Cowhide, lined leather, nickelled lock and
elips. Sizes 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in.
37/6 42/- 48/- 53/6
F. 29
Leather Suit Cases
Quality CX. —Hide Suit Case, as illustrated, 8 hide-capped
corners, securely riveted, 2 nickel-plated locks, a very service-
able case (F 29). Sizes 22in. 24in. 26in.
75/- 85/- 90/-
Quality FX. Hide Suit Case, 8 hide-capped corners, well
riveted, lined superior cloth, 2 best-quality locks, extra wide
and deep. Sizes 22in. 24in. 26in.
85/- 93/6 105/-
Canvas Cabin Trunks
Quality CX —F 8 Canvas, as illustrated, bound
with hide, leather handles, eight hide leather pieces strengthen
the corners, straps all round, wooden battens along bottom,
lined striped linen, fitted with tray.
Sizes 30in. 33in. 36in.
110/- 120/- 130/-
F. 19
American Trunks
Quality BX—FI9. —Covered Canvas,
Sizes 30in. 32in.
77/6 847-
Quality CX . Covered Tan Leather.
Sizes 30in. 32in.
, as illustrated.
34in. 36in.
88/- 93/6
34in. 36in.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
lone: City 9440.


■A
I
1
fH
r>
Develop your Films
in a KODAK Tank.
The Kodak Film Tank develops your
films at any time, in any place, with
results that could not be improved upon
by the most experienced professional.
All the work Is done by daylight—no dark room of
any sort is needed. Tank Development is one of
the pleasures of “Daylight-all-the-way” Kodak
Photography.
There are models to suit all Kodaks, Brownies
and other film cameras. Ask your nearest
Kodak dealer to demonstrate the Kodak Daylight
Developing Tank to you.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.,
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley ; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
m
nm
n
mn
For the mood of the moment
You never tire of “His
Master’s Voice” because you
can ring the changes with it
as frequently as you wish.
All popular music can be
heard recorded by the most
brilliant artists on
l
m
r h
\y
u
99
0
All the favorite numbers from “Irene,” “The Lilac Domino,” “The Maid of the
Mountains” and Gilbert and Sullivan are available. Write for complete lists.
This is only a very small selection.
“IRENE” RECORDS.
10-inch Double-sided (Plum Label), 7s.
8.U15
j Irene Edith Day
(Alice Blue Gown. Edith Day
8.1113
| Sky Rocket (with chorus).. Bessie Jones
1 Castle of Dreams (with chorus).
( Nellie Walker
12-inch Double-sided Records (Plum
Label), 10s. 6d.
C. 975
“Irene” Selection 1, containing: Sky
Rocket, Alice Blue Gown, The last part
of every party, Irene.
“Irene” Selection 2, containing: Worthy
of you, Castle of dreams,..Talk of the
town, Irene Mayfair Orchestra
“LILAC DOMINO.”
12-inch Double-sided Records, 10s. 6d.
C. 847
(“The Lilac Domino/’ Selection 1, contain-
ing: True love will find a way, Let the
music play, Where love is waiting, The
] Lilac Domino .. The Mayfair Orchestra
1 “The Lilac Domino,” Selection 2, contain-
I ing: Carnival night, For your love I am
j waiting. Song of the chimes, W’hat is
I done you never can undo,. Finale, The
( Lilac Domino ~ The Mayfair Orchestra
€.848
f For your love I am waiting (with chorus)
j The Lilac Domino (with chorus).
I Louise Leigh, with orchestral accomp.
C. 819
f Song of the Chimes.
J Louise Leigh and Randall Jackson
j Where love is waiting.
I Louise Leigh and Randall Jackson
9
His Masters Voice
“His Master’s Voice”
Reg. Trade-mark.
C. 850
r What is done you never can undo (with
I chorus). Finale., Act 11.
Louise Leigh and Randall Jackson
The Land of Happy Memories.
De Groot and the Piccadilly Orchestra
10-inch Double-sided Records, 7s.
8.903
"The Lilac Domino” —Waltz.
“Pamela” Valse.
De Groot and the Piccadilly Orchestra
(Previously issued).
8.006
Carnival Night (with chorus).
Eric Courtland, with orchestral accom.
Consolation Randall Jackson
8.907
For your love I am waiting.
First love, last love, best love (“Bing Boys
on Broadway’’).
De Groot and the Piccadilly Orchestra
“THE MAID OF THE MOUNTIANS. ”
“His Master’s Voice” Double-sided,
10-inch, 7s.
8.805
Bachelor Gay Peter Dawson
Paradise for Two.
Louise Leigh and Peter Da\»son
8.808
Farewell Louise Leigh
New Moon Olive Burton
8.828
[ My heart just broke for you.
J De Groot and Piccadilly Orchestra
] A Paradise for two.
[ De Groot and Piccadilly Orchestra
“His Master’s Voice” Double-sided,
12-inch, 10s. 6d.
C. 814
f “The 3laid of the Mountains.”
I Light Opera Company
1 Vocal GemSj Part 1 and 2.
[ Light Opera Company
Instrument catalogue, complete record lists 'and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone”
Reg. Trade-mark .


m
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pmkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before,
rinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
file Dr.
Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 0.P.Q., Melbourne.
0
Hand Embroiderer
Joor
Jui
' /so
. )
-as simple
-as i\ seem*'
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
free instructions given.
„„„ learn by post and
SEND a stamped envelope for a
FREE SPECIMEN OF EMBROIDERY TO
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
0
m
Those grey
hairs that
ever give the
appearance of
old age need
no longer be
endured. Feel
young again
by using this
i n v a 1 uable
stain. Assuredly harmless—
easy to apply—waterproof.
All chemists.
>6
n
r
MEXICAN
WAINUT STAIN
Invest in Reliability
Strength, Simplicity and Reliability are of vital importance in an Oil-
Engine for marine use.
The “AMIS” was designed with these points in view, and is the
outcome of years of experience in the manufacture of reliable, light-
weight engines.
Illustrated above is the Single-Cylinder type suitable for Launches,
Fishing Boats, etc.
Will burn Crude Oil—Kerosene or Benzine—at remarkably low running
cost.
In stock, 6-, 10-, 15-, 20- and 35-h.p.
We shall be pleased to send further particulars and
complete specification on application to
NELSON (Si ROBERTSON,
Oil Engine Department, 15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
n
mn
TRAIN the CHILDREN
jpr, IN DENTAL DRILL
yr Dyspepsia and many other distressing
complaints may be avoided in the atter-life
of the rising generation if dental drill is insisted
upon as a regular duty after every meal.
The use of EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE removes
all the particles of food embedded between
hi the teeth, which cause decay if
allowed to remain.
Your Chemist sells it
at
1/-
a
. tube
m
“Fisherman’s Luck.”
Whether the fish only nibble or bite
freely the fisherman with a good,
clean, cool, sweet-smoking pipe does
not complain of his luck. That’s the
sort of luck a man ensures when he
chooses a
i
r
w
W\
*
-HI
n
-‘Che
Perfect Pipe
Many popular shapes. On sale everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Until in Me.
Oh, thou, my son, who, as thy youth began,
Put oil thy childhood to become a man,
A\ ho, while the table of the year is spun,
Dost match the coursing hours how swift
they run.
'“Mark ye tradition,” sayest thou; and, 10,
Thou speakest of “Eve—that woman long
ago,”
Around whose name still fancy weaves her
spell,
Whose name men call forever out of Hell!
If I have failed thee aught, or helped thee on,
Think this of me when 1 afar am gone—
How that we two were friends; such friends,
it seems,
As though that ancient woman’s power still
held,
Through all the blood of womanhood
impelled,
Until in me thou tellest her thy dreams.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
The Star Path.
I’or me there is no love then to thread my
life with gold;
iTour faith has faltered soon, the story that
you told
Was as some early bird note, unpractised,
broken-sweet,
To the fervent love-song you would pour
at her feet.
Oh, she is warm and red-lipped, the still
lure of her eyes
Has provoked your bold soul that would be
woman wise.
I was not strong to hold you ; but grant this
to me:
Strength to laugh at love now and give you
liberty.
For me there is no hearthlight, but happi-
ness I’ll know
Again with my old loves. The cold, sweet
winds that blow
From frahgipanni thickets; a lone bird’s
liquid call;
Lisp of rain in dry grass—these were and
are my all.
And I will seek the clear heights by ways
untrod and long.
Till steals to the green vale the rapture of
a song,
Through the dusk to your light heart that
her love ever bars
From thought of my steep road, the white
road to the stars.
But cold they are, the far stars; I’d barter
them for this—
Your lips upon mine now in one slow-parted
kiss;
And the wonder of all song might pass me
with the rest
For the touch of a soft head held tired
against my breast.
QUEENSLAND.
KATHLEEN ROSE FRANCIS.
Trumpets.
I heard the trumpets of the morning blowing
A clarion call behind the purple hills.
I saw the banners erf the morning glowing,
.And as the sound of rain with whispers
fills
A quiet house, the tramp of marching feet
Filled the calm air. The hosts of day drew
near;
I saw the gleam and glint of many a spear.
Those legions in their shining panoply
Marched o’er the mountains; martial
music sang,
Insistent, ringing. There was naught to
see
But blaze of dazzling colors. Echoes rang,
As they passed proudly to the beat of drums,
And joy ecstatic, full of sound and light,
Thrilled to the glory of the blue noon’s
height.
So with a shout they marched until the wide
Red sunset held nor peace nor weariness.
Untiring and resistless as the tide,
The host passed on to music clear, no less
Prepared for song and triumph than at dawn.
Splendid and clamorous, in bright array,
They reached the verge and took the shining
way
That leads to lands beyond the Western skies.
Mine ears were ringing with the wealth
of sound
From golden trumpets blowing, and mine
eyes
Were blind with glory. To the utmost
bound
Of the horizon splendor throbbed and thrilled
And glowed; and, while the fiery clamor
shrilled,
They passed beyond the Western* slope.
Then came
To ears bewildered, from the stilly night,
A peace as sweet as a beloved name :
After the kingly splendor, pale moonlight
Soft soothed my dazzled eyes. The trum-
pets died
In the great distance, and I heard the far
Faint silver singing of a tranquil star.
VICTORIA.
GRACE ETHEL MARTYR.
The Naked Muse.
The muse of late has grown so bare,
Her naked limbs clothed but in hair
That flows about her naked knees
As she lies swooning under trees.
Or sliding naked down the night
Upon a flake of fa'rv lisrht.
Or wandering naked by a pool
In evenings old. remote and cool,
That reading through her lines it seems,
Between her naked thoughts and dreams.
Her verse is so divinely bare
Of everything, there’s nothing there.
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.


TILLICO” Lathes
High-grade Heavy-duty Lathes.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
The removal of the Engineering Works of WILLIAM ADAMS & COMPANY
LIMITED from REDFERN to FOUNTAIN STREET, ALEXANDRIA, has now
been completed. Shops of an up-to-date character have been erected and equipped with
the most modern Machine Tools for the construction of Engineers’ Lathes and other
work. The Company is standardising high-class lathes from 9^in. centre upwards to
compete with the imported article, and the material and workmanship leave nothing
to be desired.
These lathes have already been supplied to the Government and other big users
and pronounced to be most accurate and efficient tools.
The Company is also specialising in Gear Cutting, having installed the latest
automatic machines for the purpose.
Every machine is thoroughly tested before it leaves the Works,
HIGH-CLASS LATHES, with large hole through mandril, double bach gear and two-speed counter-
shaft, made in following sizes:—9^in. centre, 9ft. 6in. bed; 11 in. centre, 10ft. bed; 12in. centre, 14ft.
6in. bed; 14in. centre, 14ft. bed.
The Company also manufactures the Celebrated
“TIILICO” MARINE OIL-ENGINE
and has supplied these Engines for the Royal Australian Navy launches for
the last seven years,
and undertakes
General Repair Work of Every Description.
William Adams ®. Co. Ltd.,
Sydney Works Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Perth
175 Clarence
Street.
Fountain Street,
Alexandria.
521-3 Collins
Street.
96 Currie
Street.
Comer Edward
& Mary Streets.
33 King
Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2139.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1921.
Price 9d.
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE REMEDY.
POLITICAL BEAUTY SPECIALIST: “I’ve tried every remedy in the place on them, and, dammit, they get fatter every day.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
°°-> 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
or £1 per annum you can have The
bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
..ear, 10 any address in Australasia, post paid,
lo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
n' ij' ,Jues ’ drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
Manage*™* Communications t 0 be addressed to the
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pan of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'lhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
aole, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
I olitical. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
oi Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
n exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
i words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
TH j., BnLI,}mN wUI return unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further , The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, IK.C./.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver;. 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley Neivs Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., 747
Howard Street, San Francisco ; J. Roland Kay Co., 1849
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 74 West Madison Street. Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate, News Agency, 119 Market' Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington. U.S.A.;
Brr.tano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York:
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, 42nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,.
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby ;
Fur.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord IJowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 4«z., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1921.
A NOD WHICH IS AS GOOD AS ANY
WINK.
Admiral Grant, in his response on behalf
of the R.A.N., at the annual banquet of the
A.N.A., did not say directly that the people
who consider Australia can be effectively
defended by submarines and airships are
fools. His position forbids plain speech on
political issues. The way he put it was
this: —
It was a very attractive proposal to choose the
apparently cheap article when considering the ques-
tion of defence, especially if it would fulfil the
necessary functions. But a great many people chose
the cheap article, because of its apparent cheapness,
without knowing whether it would fulfil all that
was required of it, or even if it really was cheap in
the long run.... He would be glad if they would
work out the number of submarines and the number
of aircraft necessary to make Australia, with a
coastline of approximately 12,210 miles, secure from
attack. He would also like an estimate of the
cost. He would remind them, too, that Germany’s
effort had not prevented the transport of 23,000,000
men and 46,000,000 tons of stores in the great war.
It was frequently stated that a few airships and
submarines would suffice for defence. One of the
most vital points was always forgotten, and that
was the protection of trade. They had seen lately
what a partial dislocation of the inter-State trade
meant to the community. But suppose that it was
“held up” for three months. Suppose, in addition,
that the overseas trade was “held up.” He left the
question for their consideration.
The pacifist or international is ready, when-
ever a sailor of high rank talks about the
need for more ships or bigger ships, with
the criticism that sailors, like soldiers, are
naturally disposed to add to the importance
of their own callings. That is true in the case
of some officers in both services, and always
will be, though Admiral Grant, as it hap-
pens, bears no resemblance to the swashbuck-
ling type of fighting-man. Similarly there are
politicians whose personal interests are in
the opposite direction. They call for dis-
armament as a matter of party business.
An inadequate navy means more money to
spend on the endowment of mothers, grand-
mothers, aunts and others with votes to
give for direct services rendered. An army
in which the other ranks cease to be troubled
with compulsory service the moment th6y
reach the voting age may have its weak
points as a combative force, but from the
standpoint of the party in power an arrange-
ment which debars the conscripted from
registering their indignation at the ballot-
box has obvious merits. Many militarists
and navalists are no doubt indifferent
patriots. They would tax their fellow-
countrymen to the brink of a revolution to
keep themselves in good billets, and they
would wantonly start a war or needlessly
prolong one in consideration of the god-iike
powers which are conferred on people of
their sort when nations are in danger.
Marshal Foch cites casually in his book on
the last phase of the fighting in Flanders
a monstrous example of the militarist poli-
tician in action, lie says that M. Clemen-
ceatj wanted the fighting continued for some
hours after the Germans had surrendered, in
order that the end of the war might be
announced under appropriately dramatic con-
ditions in Paris—a ceremony which would
have cost several thousand lives, French,
British, American, Italian, Indian and so
forth, as well as German. However, the
pacifist is just as self-centred and self-
seeking, though he works along other lines,
and in the long run he is liable probably to
produce more misery. The difficult require-
ment at the present time for plain men.
bewildered by the conflicting yells of ex-
tremists on both sides, is to take the sober
view. Everyone wants peace. Is it pos-
sible to have it without not merely arma-
ments, but extensive armaments?
The most splendid possibility ever dangled
before an immense, under-populated, rich
and exclusive country such as the Common-
wealth is the League of Nations scheme. It
represents life without insurance, property
without policemen, Empire without tears.
If the Covenant of the League is taken seri-
ously by all the signatories, then there is no
need even for the obsolete fleet which we
support, or for anv army at all. Each signa-
tory is sworn “to respect and preserve as
against external aggression the territorial
integrity and existing political independence”
of every other signatory. Japan, with a
booming birth-rate, high national ambitions,
insufficient territory even for its present
population needs and a coal shortage, is as
much bound by that undertaking as Austra-
lia, where conditions are altogether different.
But a covenant is only another name for a
treaty, and Japan has broken several since
it entered world-politicsi The representa-
tives of the five great Powers which guaran-
teed the neutrality of Belgium in 1839 were
inspired by League principles if ever men
were. Yet two of the guarantor nations
only waited their opportunity to pour derision
on the treaty while they violated it, and
there is no doubt they honestly believed that
in acting thus they were merely forestalling
the other three. Japan, in addition to having
everything to gain from war, and nothing
to expect from a maintenance of the status
quo, is in a better position than most coun-
tries to face trouble. It is still fairly free
from industrial problems; the people have
not been sickened of nationalism by the spec-
tacle of third-rate exploiting it for
their private advancement; and all classes
are relatively affluent. Nothing else could
make possible the Government’s heroic com-
mitments for defence purposes. Up to the
beginning of 1918 Japan spent a shade over
12| per cent, of its national budget on the
navy. With the arrival of peace and the
Wilson aspirations in the direction of the
Millennium £24,300,000, or over 20 per cent,
of the national outlay, was allocated to
the fleet. Last year’s naval budget was
£30,000,000, plus £100,000,000, to be ex-
pended over an unspecified “period of years,”
plus £70,000,000, which has been earmarked
for fortresses, but which will certainly be
spent, in part, on docks and bases. The
figures for this year constitute a world’s
record for any nation: nearly 50 per cent,
of the whole national income is to be de-
voted to the navy. The Japanese states-
men, while making these and other prepara-
tions for warfare on the largest scale, and
while admitting that Japan is about as
desirable to the Caucasian nations as Green-
land, continually protest that their intentions
are pure, and that they are anxious to desist
from arming, provided someone else will do
it first. But the sea always has been too
cold for those who don’t want to bathe. A
peace bath is apparently the last thing our
ambitious neighbors up north desire. They
haven’t exactly said that they look on the
League of Nations idea as one which very
appropriately emanated from a man whose
mind failed shortly afterwards. But they
are acting as if they held that opinion. And
Australia is one of the white man's countries
which is most intimately concerned over the
fact.
* * * *
If it is admitted that the approval with
which the Commonwealth is viewed by the
Asiatic races has elements of danger in it,
and that the League of Nations is not likely to
beina better position to safeguard this country
permanently than Britain, France, Russia,
Prussia and Austria were to safeguard Bel-
gium in the terms of their agreement, made
80 years ago, then there are only two issues
for honest 'and practical White Australians,
namely, cheap defence as against dear de-
fence. A policy of no defence whatever,
which in effect is what our international-
ists advocate, is simply a policy designed
to put us in the present position of Ger-
many—a plight which has been heartily
dreaded smce the Phoenician cities were
fi r st torlrdden to build walls by Carthage.
If Australia isn’t prepared eventually to be
another Korea or Hawaii, it will have to
choose, and soon, between spending a little
on naval defence and spending a very great
deal. Against che«n of flofen-e
there is this to be said: they have never yet
succeeded in the history of the world,
though the world has never wearied of trying
them. In the first Punic War Duilitjs in-
vented a contrivance which gave the Romans
a surprise victory or two over the possessors
of tue capital ships; but in order to beat
Carthage at sea tne Romans had ultimately
to build live-deckers, like their enemies.
Great things were expected at different
periods of gunpowder, the grenade, the tor-
pedo, gas, tanks and bombing-machines;
also, of pill-boxes, machine-guns and what
were known during the last South African
War as guns”—meaning the
indirect lire which was practised even by
M.-G. brews on the Western front. Some
of these devices won battles, but none ever
won a war. There, are stories in most coun-
tries of professors who, having invented
substances capable of destroying all life for
, many miles round, were so appalled that
they burnt the formulae. Some of the Eng-
lish papers talked towards the end of the
war of squadrons of immense aeroplanes
which would settle things out of hand by
blowing all the big German towns to pieces.
But for whatever reason no important deci-
sion is ever arrived at on these compara-
tively simple lines. It is apparently impos-
sible, even for the most ingenious nation,
to live in untaxed luxury until the eve of
a great war and then suddenly wrest vic-
tory out of a laboratory. The submarine
may be the coming instrument for sea-fight-
ing, and it would be absurd to question the
future of the aeroplane. But, unless all his-
tory is reversed, by the time they come into
their own ; by the time they do to the battle-
ship what the quick-firer did to the
Napoleonic cannon—by that time they will
be neither small nor cheap. In short, on
all the evidence national safety is still a
matter of the big battalions, and is likely
to remain so during our time. Many wiil
disagree—the things some people are able
to disbelieve are as marvellous to normal
minds as the things others are capable of
believing—but to those who agree, and who
love Australia, the way ought to be clear.
At the coming conference in London any
chance •to co-operate at sea with Britain
should be taken unhesitatingly. If it is
a question at home of cutting down luxuries
and increasing taxation, in order to meet
the bill, such steps ought to be taken. In
fact, if it is a question of doing away with
many things that are now looked on as neces-
saries and of taxing ourselves as drastically
as the British are taxed, we should hasten to
do it. In order to insure against something
many degrees worse than a swift, clean death
no imaginable cash-premium is too high.
WHO CAN MINISTER TO A LAND
DISEASED?
Dea i! Bulletin, —
The British authorities have compiler! from the
official statistics of 23 countries a six-months’ record
of strikes. The list includes 20 white countries,
two colored States (Egypt and India) and a mixed
one (South Africa), and the period dealt with is
the first half of 1920. Australia stands out with
twice as had a record, ,in proportion to population,
for the number of days’ work lost, days’ wages un-
earned and days’ production sacrificed as the next
worst country. More of the non-striking days are
holidays here than in most countries, and the work-
ing days are shorter than elsewhere, so when this in-
credible amount of extra loss is added it is no wonder
that production of local goods is pathetically scanty,
and imports unprecedented, and that borrowing and
the flotation of paper as substitutes for hard work
represent a record. The number of days lost in the
six months were 7,602,000, or at the rate of
15,204,000 per annum. That is equal, roughly, to
every adult male being on strike ten days in the
year, but as the vast mass of people who are their own
employers (farmers, shopkeepers, doctors, dentists,
lawyers, etc.) don’t strike against themselves, the
work stoppage among the striking class was enor-
mous. Reckoning 300 whole working days in the
year, it was equivalent to the loss of the services
of over 50,000 grown men all the time, and as
these had to be supported somehow just the same,
like dukes and other non-producers, our parasitic
peerage was immense—about one peer to each hundred
inhabitants. The United Kingdom, with nine times
the population, only lost 6,926,900 days’ work in
the same half-year—in other words, it wasn’t quite
one-tenth as bad as Australia. Yet the U.K. was
supposed to be in a rather troubled condition. e-The
United States, also reputed to be in an agitated
frame of mind, was about one-fifteenth as bad.
In Australia the class defined by its leaders as
“the workers” has certain advantages not common
elsewhere. They include arbitration courts and
wages boards, with plenty of Labor Governments to
improve them if they require amendment; the highest
and most generous old age and invalid pensions on
earth, the baby bonus (to which the most populous
State proposes to add child pensions), almost entire
exemption from State taxes, free education, short
hours, plenty of holidays, Government railways, on
many of which the workers get all. th" akinrs
and more, and an enormous mass of miscellaneous
industrial undertakings demanded by the workers,
established by Labor Governments, and propped up
by taxes on other classes because in these also the
employees get all or almost all the proceeds. So
far as the National Parliament and most of the
State Lower Houses are concerned, all political
privilege has been abolished, and the poorest pen-
sioner has as much influence as the biggest taxpayer.
Politicians’ salaries have been boosted up mostly
by Labor Governments to record heights to make
the political way open and profitable to the humblest
and most unlettered voter. The trades unions have
tremendous powers. The maddest kind and variety
of loan works are undertaken to furnish well-paid
employment to manual workers who have little or
no skill but plenty of votes to sell. There is no
hereditary aristocracy or State Church to eat up
the workers’ earnings. The land legislation tends
steadilv to the breaking up of big properties, and
the States have spent a fearsome amount of loan
money helping impecunious workers on to small
properties. The ideajs of a great Bank of the
Peoplp and a great Government paper issue have
been realised. Also, there are Government ships and
rural banks. Government insurance is developing.
With all this and even more accomplished, and
with a Federal franchise which qualifies the majority
to secure by peaceful means everything else the
majority wants, it is disappointing to find Australia,
if the strike figures are any criterion, the most dis-
gruntled white man’s country on earth.
As a matter of fact, the fairly dependable workers
in Australia, despite their power, rule less and less.
Labor Governments are plentiful enough, and there
are obscure little lawvers in them, also speculators,
shopkeepers, property agents, gamblers and “organ-
isers."” but the real toilers are chiefly conspicuous
by their absence. There are even signs of a ten-
dency towards Dr. Marat’s French-revolutionary idea
of a debased ochlocracy—government not by the
people, but by bad characters arising from the
people in which respect he diverged from the idea
of democracy favored by lawyer and aristocrat
Robespierre, lawyer Desmoulins and other town and
city personages who weren’t horny but lived on the
horny-handed. An ideal up-to-date Australian Min-
istry might be made out of such materials as an
ex-two-up shopkeeper, one or two ex-bookmakers, some
legal men of great energy and moderate to.mage. a
few land jobbers, and an infusion of the liquor and
pony interests. They are men like Dr. Marat and
lawyer-journalist Desmoulins, of small constructive
power but vast capacity as grievance-mongers; and
a grievance can be manufactured out of almost any
material. For 200 years a woe and wrong which
rent Europe and represented all the griefs of all
the Labor conventions multiplied several fold, was
that certain brown men were in possession of an
alleged sepulchre in the next continent. The rumor
that votes might possibly be granted to Catholics
was a wrong that once nearly laid London in ashes
The old complaint against alleged Catholic conspira-
tors beat N.S.W. Minister Loughlin’s complaint
against landowners and Minister McTiernan’s
against profiteers out of sight. The political adven-
turers make much capital about their resolve to
secure “the workers” their “rights,” a right being
anything a person persuades himself he ought to
have. It may be the stealing of factories and
workshops, or it may be “job control” of steamers,
°r may be (Edward Carson says it is) the Eng-
lishman’s right to job control of Ireland. “Rights”
are of all sorts, and all sorts of people find them
and live by advocating them, down to the prac-
titioners who find simple-minded but affluent heirs
to mislaid estates, and collect retaining fees for their
assistance in recovering the same.
One way and another the variegated class which
isn’t Labor yet holds most of the Labor portfolios
has done its full share in making a strange mesa
of a land in which the people hold the governing
rights more surely than they do almost anywhere
else, and in which more has been done for the
woikers than anywhere else without exception. It
is a land of city folk above all others—not towns-
folk but city folk. Nowhere else is a whole con-
tinent divided into only five properties and 44
per cent, of its population crammed into five con-
gested centres. The race is becoming temperamental.
If the loan floats its pride is high: if it doesn’t
the national tail droops. Apparently the three
simultaneous booms gold, land and loans —-enervated
the people, and it may be that a generation will
have to die off, as a generation of effeminate Israel-
ites did in the wilderness, before there is much
change. Australia is loosing its hold on the Pacific
as well as on its own North, and its ships there
grow fewer and fewer, while those of the Yank and
the Jap multiply exceedingly. Though it is the
emptiest white man’s land on earth, with less than
two humans to the square mile, Labor bosses warn
off immigrants on the ground that, with all its
alleged resources, its popular franchise and its Labor
Governments (about 20 of them up to date), it
isn t a suitable place for white men. Sydney is
for population the queen city of Australia: it is
the greatest English-speaking city south of the line,
and the third in size south of the line. And it is
a commentary on the smallness of the minds run-
ning it that the policy of the Labor (not laboring)
majority in its municipal Parliament has for a
good while largely revolved round a scheme for
victimising a “block-boy” or block young man in
the minimum-wage grade. This block youth, while
at the war, served for a time against the Bol-
sheviks, and the act has been made punishable
retrospectively. The city allowance to his wife and
small family during this section of his career
amounted to £7O. And 13 large Labor aldermen
of the Queen City are resolved to recover the money
to tear that amount of crust out of the baby’s
mouth as a retrospective warning. In large things
and small there is everywhere the suggestion of a
Land . Diseased.—Yours, etc., J.E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Remunerative Parasites.
Premier Theodore, of Queensland, has
turned from Leninism in a disillusioned
fiame of mind, having acquired a little first-
hand news on the subject; but he is still
declaiming against “financiers,” “middlemen”
and peopie whom he calls “parasitic specu-
lators ’ —meaning, apparently, anyone out-
side the salariat class. While rejecting
soviets in favor of the Parliamentary system,
he yec wanes the classes above-mentioned
“abolished.” It is a fallacy which has been
exploded ten thousand times that if a nation
or State either wipes out something bad or
institutes something good, its edified neigh-
bors will follow suit. This was the basis
of Cobdenism, and all the hi’falutin stuff
talked in the last half-century concerning
universal Freetrade and general disarma-
ment ; and it is largely the cynicism engen-
dered by the utter failure of the English
doctrine which is making the task of the
pacifists eo difficult now. The world is
unable, apparently, to be either virtuous or
wicked in unison. If Britain imposes a
revenue tariff the U.S.A. goes in for a pro-
tectionist one; if the Turks down arms the
Greeks take them up. and vice versa. Assume
that financiers, middlemen and speculators
are bad, and that the Theodore Govern-
ment got rid of them so far as Queensland
is concerned. The achievement is easy to
imagine, inasmuch as Italy has just done
something of the sort on a fairly large
scale. Provided everybody else followed
suit, those who were not members of the
nroscribed classes might conceivably score.
But human nature is not built that way.
Before Italy went in for a dose of Theo-
doreism the Orient liners called at Taranto.
They are now welcomed at Toulon. Sir
Kenneth Anderson said to an interviewer
last week:—
We would willingly go back to Taranto, through
which port we claim we gave an excellent service;
but the disturbed state of the Italian railways and
other economic conditions in Italy make that imprac-
ticable at present.
In the meantime every shop, factory, hotel,
place of amusement, garage, restaurant and
so on in Taranto suffers (and with them
Taranto’s workers) from the loss of the cus-
tom which _ a steamship company, however
parasT’C, brings, while Toulon reaps the bene-
fit. Before the Theodore Government makes
Oueehsland too hot for the loathly capitalist
it will do well to be sure not only that every
other Australian State is certain to act
likewise, but also the rest of the Empire and
America, and above all Japan. In such cir-
cumstances the experiment would present at
least this advantage, that all would start off
the mark carrying the same handicap. If,
however, so much as one important State or
nation elected basely to stand out, and play


the self-seeking part which Toulon is playing
so cheerfully to the detriment of Taranto-
well in that event Mr. Theodore has only
to go to the friend who gave him the stable
information about Bolshevism to ascertain
what wou d happen to Queensland. The
chief trouble with Russia to-day is not
sovietism, which though tyrannous and un-
democratic from our standpoint, is probably
the best form of government for a people
on the cultural level 01 the Russians. The
workers of Russia are starving chieflv
for the want of what Mr. Theodore call's
pa 1 a sites parasites with steamships, para-
sites capable of financing transport, bv
as we ll as by rail, between the
loodless cities apd the country districts, -find
paiasites with the capital to start industries.
At present these oppressors of the poor are
pouring their money into stable countries
like Belgium and Holland and the shrewd
workers of such places are authorising their
Governments to take the dross with both
hands and ask for more.
White Australia as a Business
Proposition.
The London Times, which speaks for Eng-
land, if any paper does, told the world last
week: —•
If there is a doubt that Britain is ready in case
of need to support Australia on this issue (White
Australia) with all her stiength, then we may say
farewell _ not only to Australia but to New Zealand
South Africa and Canada, which hold the same belief
with almost equal determination, it is one of tne
danger-points between Britain and the Dominions.
Before the war Downing-street was bitterly
liostile to the employment of white men in
any climate that could be called tropical. In
1907 the Emigrants’ Information Office
(London) issued a solemn warning to Brit-
ishers who might ‘‘be willing to work on the
sugui fauns of the North of Australia, where
the climate is hot and moist from January
to March, and hot and dry at other times.”
v\ hen the late Alfred Deakin at the
Colonial Conference of the same year chal-
lenged tnis statement it was re-aliirmed.
My committee, ’ said the Emigrants’ Infor-
mation Office, “do. not consider that emi-
grants from this country are at all suitable
tor work on sugar plantations, and they
would certainly feel it their duty to warn
them against undertaking such work in the
tropics. Another semi-official organisation,
the Empire Cotton-growing Committee, has
specialised hitherto in the argument that
white labor in the Australian tropics is
“too costly.” In face of the 14,000 Europeans
!l OW ,n?. gaged in sugar-production up north,
the IJO7 dogma looks like ranking with the
lamous “infantry preferred” exordium of
the b. African War or with the 1914 doc-
trine that Australian troops would be useless
on the I landers front. Nor is there any
sounder basis for the ancient complaint that
white labor in the Australian tropics is
expensive. The highest rate in the sugar
districts of Queensland paid to unskilled labor
is £4 16s. per week of 48 hours. The worker
either feeds himself or is fed by the employer
at a charge of £1 3s. 6d. per week, deducted
from his wages. In Cuba a few months
ago laborers were receiving four dollars to
hve dollars (16s. Sd. to 20s. lOd.) per day;
m California Japanese earn 15s. to 16s. and
food in the ricefields; in Hawaii last year
Japanese and Filipino male laborers received
30 dollars per month, with a 276 per cent,
bonus if they worked the whole year, the
bonus depending upon the price of sugar, or
£2- per month, and women—the Cotton
i YO aim ittee’s stand-by for picking-—received
dadai ’ s P er m onth with a similar bonus,
lhe Filipinos, by latest advices, were ask-
ing 2.5 dollars per day, and had joined the
Japanese in a strike. In other words, there
is no such thing as really cheap labor now-
adays. If it is cheap in terms of coin it
is mighty dear in terms of output. Also,
wherever there is a large native population
there are millions of old men, women and
children who have to be fed and looked after,
though they produce nothing, so that in
Java, out of every three acres under culti-
vation two go to feed the populace. • The
ILK. is beginning to appreciate these things
as they have always been appreciated in
Australia. And with the rejection of the
Cobdenite theory that “No white child can
be reared on the Equator,” and the growing
conviction that well-paid white men with
appropriate machinery will produce more in
the tropics at less cost than 50 time# their
number of untutored Indians, comes the corol-
lary that Northern Australia can never be
given over to the colored races. The project
was always recognised as involving an act
of traitorism to the white race ; and London
now begins to see that it wouldn’t even be
good business.
♦
The Eternal Cycle.
The Queensland Premier approaches the
inevitable corner around which the crisis
lurks, and he indicated that he knew it by
his speech to the Labor Day Committee in
Brisbane. He remarked that the Russian
Bolshevik Government, so popular at one
time with “advanced” Laborites, was wholly
undemocratic, and that it wouldn’t get one-
third of the votes if the terrorised and
ground-down people were allowed lo speak.
And then, turning to local affairs, he inti-
mated that the basic wage could not be paid
unless people loafed less and produced more.
In fact, it was the old, old recantation that
has to be made periodically under a system
which permits none but Parliamentarians to
hold portfolios, whereas Parliamentarians are
the very men who should be barred. First
there is Scaddan or Ryan or Theodore or
Storey in pursuit of office, and full of mad
saws and frenzied instances, promising
higher wages, shorter hours, employment for
everybody, railways everywhere, child pensions
and 500 new kinds of State enterprises. Pro-
hibition is foreshadowed or else free drinks,
the taking over of banks, a 44-hour or 30-
hour day, and two millenniums at once.
Next there is Scaddan or Theodore
or Storey in office, having outbid all
rival liars. Follows a year or two
of partial, tawdry millennium, which
isn’t a thousandth part of the millennium
that was promised, a new load of high-
priced debt which a cemtury won’t wipe out.
and a stupendous mass of new undertakings
which have to be supported out of taxes
because there is too much laxity, go-slow,
high wage and job control in the manage-
ment. There is a breakdown in the middle
of things because the hated capitalist can’t
lend any more and the Treasury is empty.
There are unemployed because too many
men have left productive work and come to
live on loans. About this time the crowd
begins to call the millennium-monger an im-
postor. And shortly afterwards the latter
begins to hedge, as Theodore has just done
and as Storey did before him. But the
hopeless mass of works and the demoralisa-
tion remain, and the position is that the
State has gone in debt perhaps 40 millions
to partially educate one political clown, and
has gained nothing by his education. Theo-
dore’s big English gold loan failed. His
local paper loan at 6| per cent, had to be
extended like the N. S. Wales per cent,
paper loan. His State meat-shops have been
on strike. His railways, on which wages
were raised again and again till the em-
ployees got practically all the takings, have
long been planning a strike. Two of his
ports, Townsville and Brisbane, were held up
by strikes, which, as regards the former, in-
cluded riots. Nothing succeeds save success
with a party educated as Theodore’s has
been, and a god could hardly hand out half
the success it has been speechified into
expecting.
4,
Very Like the Bourbons.
The Reflections of “Tuart” :
When Germany collapsed there was a strange out-
break ol enthusiasm for the monarchical principle,
as represented in England by Georgs V., in France
by Clemenceau and in the U.S.A. by Woodrow
Wilson. In a swift revulsion of feeling the French
got rid of Clemenceau, and the Americans turned
against Wilson. Owing to the conservative char-
acter of the people and the strength which the
monarchy derives from its antiquity, innocuousness
and independence of party, the British reaction was
relatively slow to develop, and can have no revolu-
tionary consequences, but it has gone far enough
to incite representative thinkers like H. G. Wells
to contribute remarks like those printed hereunder
to serious publications such as the Review op
Reviews -
The Prince of Wales has been touring the world-
wide dominions, of which some day he is to be
the crowned head. He has received addresses, visited
sights, been entertained, shaken hands with scores
oi thousands oi people, and submitted himse.i io
the eager, yet unpenetrating gaze of vast multitudes.
His smallest acts have been observed with pre-
meditated admiration, his lightest words recorded.
He is not now a boy; he saw something of the
war, even if his exalted position denied him any
large share of its severer hardships and dangers; he
cannot be blind to the general posture of the world’s
affairs. Here, surely, was a chance of saying some-
thing that would be heard from end to end of the
earth, something kingly and great-minded. Here
was the occasion for a fine restatement of the obliga-
tions and duties of empire. But from first to last
the Prince has said nouiing to quicken the imagina-
tions of the multitude of his future subjects to
the gigantic possibilities of these times, nothing to
reass; re the foreign observer that the British Empire
embodies anything more than the coios.ai nano al
egotism and impenetrable self-satisfaction of the
British peoples. “Here we are,” said the old order
in those demonstrations, “and here we mean to
stick. Just as we have been, so we remain. Brit-
ish ! —we are Bourbons.” These smiling tours of
the Prince of Wales in these years of shortage, stress
and insecurity, constitute a propaganda of inanity
unparalleled in the vvor.d’s his-.ory.
It may be objected that Wells is an avowed
republican. However, his indictment is su : po t d
by an official account of the Renown’s voyage. There
is nothing in this publication to show that Wells
has overstated his case. In the fatuous literature of
royal tours there has never been anything more
feather-headed than the following:—
There was a dance every night in Melbourne
while we were there. Three dances took place on
board the ship, and the first one was still in full-
swing at 2.40 a.m., when “The King” was played.
By a great stroke of luck we had been enabled to
obtain the best jazz band in Melbourne. Those who
were there at the end will never forget the ham-
and-egg party in the wardroom afterwards. Those
who were left just filled the two big tables, and,
as the eggs were a little slow in appearing, someone
started throwing bread about, ana a first-class rag
was soon in progress. Bread and nuts were hurling
through the air, and everyone was nearly sick with
laughing. Then someone started a poi dance on one.
table, and the girls promptly started an opposition
one on the other tables. The evening reluctantly
ended somewhere about 3.30 a.m., while one of the
girls was still struggling with a fork which had
been put down the back of her dress, and which
she was eventually obliged to “souvenir.”
But for sheer imbecility it is matched by a
Sydney incident: —
Not all the parties we went to ended in quite so
light-hearted a manner; but there was lots erf fun
at the fast we attended ashore, when H.R.H.. Mount-
batten and two of the girls ransacked a wardrobe,
and the Prince of Wales appeared in a pair of very
big tennis boots, the trousers turned up nearly to
his knees, an enormous blue flannel coat that must
have belonged to a man weighing about 1C stone, and
a squash hat also too big for him. Mountbatten
appeared in a dressing-gown and top hat. and the
two girls got themselves up very cleverly in gypsy
rigs improvised with colored handkerchiefs and
apron's. H.R.H. “hoped nobody minded.” The same
party ended with somewhat of a scrap, too, and
several of our white ties were considerably the worse
for wear at the end.
A liberal allowance may be made for the exuberance
of youth. After ail, the lid had ..een on for an uncon-
scionably long period, and the Prince and his entourage
were offered every inducement to enjoy themselves, and
hang the consequences. Released from the restraints
which a great war imposes, the young females of
the class which hasn’t got to work for its living
always contrive, in the mass, to become temporarily
insane. They are seen- iug.-y a trit'e load a i t e -o id
over, and in Australia, when the King’s son was
here, the malady reached its height. But when
a l l is said and done it would appear that Wells as
filed a true bill, and the artless admissions of the
Renown chroniclers show that the defence hasn’t
a leg to stand on.
These jejune tomfooleries have been published
during the worst winter England has known since
Peterioo. It is a time of oitter suffering in t e
Prince’s own homeland: hundreds of thousands of
the men who helped to preserve the throne of his
ancestors are out of work, scores of thousands have
had to beg food and shelter in the workhouses, so e
have even perished on the roads. And turning
from these grim pictures of human suffering we
read that boisterous young people danced on the
tables and threw food at one another in tne
Renown wardroom, while wine flowed so freely in
Sydney that the young bloods wondered if the city
had any left! It recalls the “first-class rag” that
Marie Antoinette gave at Versailles before the axe
fell, and at which the blithered young nobles of
the period sang “Richard, O Mon Roi.”
6s. Bd. in the £.
The European bailiff in the form of an
Inter-Allied Commission recently completed
liis inventory' of the Hun’s voluntarily
sequestrated estate. It was estimated that
the insolvent could pay £11,000,000,000, oVer
42 years, towards the war costs of the Allies,
which amounted to 35,000 millions sterling,
and last week the victorious Governments de-
manded that sum. It is lenient treatment
by comparison with the £200,000,000, plus
the whole of Alsace and part of Lorraine,
which Germany tore from France at the end
of their 10-months’ struggle half a century
ago. The German taxpayer will score tre-
mendously by the elimination of the High
Seas fleet, which even in the nation’s most
affluent days was a luxury comparable to the
maintenance of a Rolls-Royce car by a £lOOO-
--year family. Britain has brought the per-
sonnel of the R.N. down to 136,000, or
15,000 men less than the old peace establish-
ment. and every class of vessel has been
scrapped, beginning with 15 battleships.
Nevertheless taxation in the U.K. is at the
rate of £2l per head of the population, and a
lot of it is absorbed by the Navy. Germany’s
few skeleton battalions, for police purposes
only, compare well from the view-point of the
workaday Boche, who derives no pleasure
from the shouting of the captains, the roar-
ing of the sar’-majors and the panoply of
war generally, with the standing army of
close on a million men which France’s
militarists have fastened on her. Karl
Helfferich, in his “The Economic Pro-
gress of Germany” (1911), estimated the
national wealth at £16,000,000.000. and the
amount was probably nearer £20,000,000,000
by the time the war began. The Germans
are in a position to set against the war-
waste which was common everywhere the
fact that their nation is now one of the
most efficient industrial units the world has
ever known. The leeches have been got
rid of, or anyhow the most costly of them,
and the striker-class, which does more by
limiting production to raise the cost of
living than regiments of idle royal families,
is out of favor. Siilingen, which is the
Sheffield of Germany and which was noted
for its unrestfulness before the war, has
not had a serious industrial dispute in the
last 12 months; and this state of affairs is
general. Under the stress of war thousands
of new factories were built and thousands oE
new industries started; more relatively to
the rest of the world in proportion as the
isolated Hun’s needs were greater. They
are operating to such good purpose that
Freetrade principles are dying in a state of
name, in their home—England. But even
if Cobdenites join with Protectionists on
the other side of the North Sea in legisla-
tion aimed at German dumpers the withers
of the Boche will be unwrung. He is in an
ideal position to trade with Asiatic coun-
tries whose nationals hate him no more than
anv other Caucasian, for he possesses rail-
ways which were organised largely for the
purpose, and a canal and river system of
transport which enatdes huge masses of
merchandise to be shifted at trifling cost.
Germany will do the financial sentence
which the Allies have imposed “on its
head.” assuming the power to enforce it is
retained. And it has a sporting chance,
prov’ded one or more of its creditors are
ruined by the revolutionary policy of “strike
noon str’ke till the capitalist state is
destroyed.” of. in the first place, evading its
liabilities: and, secondly, imposing its own
will on the nat’ors which are at present going
through its pockets.
Who Says the Door is Closed?
The rhetoric which W. M. Hughes un-
leashed last week on the subject of the
Commonwealth’s abounding prosperity under
his guidance stirred most of the conserva,-
tb’A dailies to protest. More particularly the
Melbourne ones. The Age mentioned that
the vaunted increase of the savings-bank
deposits from £39 per depositor in 1913 ro
£44 4s. lOd. to-day represents a loss when
the decreased purchasing power of the £1 has
been taken into consideration, and the Argus
pointed out that direct taxation by the Com-
monwealth is 20 times as great as it was in
the year the war began. But the Age
onrtted to state that there are 3,l'?S 000
savings-bank depositors to-day as against
2,106,000 seven years ago, and the Argus
d dn’t stress Om p<> rt that a w,r : s
an omelette which can’t be made without the"
Lire iking of many financial eggs. Yet with it
all the nastiest blow came from Hughes’s
own camp in the form of this cable: —
Mr. Percy Hunter (Commonwealth Director of
Immigration), in an interview, said: “I do not think
that it would do anv good at present to tell people
to go to Australia. We have struck a bad patch, in
common with the rest of the world, and will have to
go slowly until the present depression has passed.
We must also devise schemes to provide work.”
It is odd to see journals which represent
essentially the interests of the employing
classes going out of their way to d scourage
immigration; and it is probable that they
are only guilty of such anomalous conduce
because they hate Hughes more on parochial
grounds (as a Canberraite and so forth)
than they love Australia. However they
carry no more weight than their arguments,
which are rotten on the whole. Mr. Hunter
on the other hand, is a public official who is
paid a generous salary not only to help
desirable people to come here but to answer
the arguments of the various parties who
are interested in keeping them out. Making
all allowances for W. M. Hughes’s tendency
to tear opponents to tatters on festive occa-
sions, the facts remain that the Common-
wealth is about the most prosperous country
on earth to-day. and that the people who
compare it with stricken
Europe deserve most of the mud he slings at
them. Our very strikes which are used as
arguments against immigration—lugubriously
by Capital, hilariously by Labor—provide a
proof of it. Strikes do a lot to ruin
countries but they stop abruptly when the
damage is done. Labor may be knocking
down its cheque in Australia in a reckless
and vainglorious spirit that makes the sober
grieve.' but anyhow, at present the money is
there; and there are lots more where it came
from. For this land of unexampled pro-
ductiveness and a shade under two inhabi-
tants to the souare mile to officially inform
the U.K.. which has 351 peonle to the same
area, that it is too overcrow r ded to accommo-
date a bigger population is one of the most
impudent bluffs Urnt have yet been" tried ou
the patient old Mother Country. Not only
can Australia take all the sound immigrants
offering (the territory winch is struggling to
form itself into a new State in the North
of N. S. Wales alone claims to be capable of
accommodating four or five millions), but it
must have them. To anyone who takes the
•not so long view it is evident that if the
Commonwealth won’t welcome white immi-
grants it will have to stomach brown in-
vader^.
♦
The Chair of Psychiatry—anti Race
Suicide.
From a Specialist on the Subject:—
The purpose for which a Chair of Psychiatry has
been established at Sydney University is the study
of race problems, with inquiry into the causes
operating in producing mental disease, and —through
an understanding of these causes —the preven-
tion of insanity. “Macquarie Street-’' (B. 27/l/’2l)
objects to this, and urges instead the cianns of
chairs of ophthalmology and midwifery, because they
will be of more use to the student! That is to say
a feeble-minded woman with 12 feeble-minded chil-
dren is 12 times more valuable to the student of
midwifery than the woman in full possession of all her
faculties who has no children! But the
minded mother’s value to the race represents a
minus quantity, and she becomes more disastrous
with each child she bears!
It is a curious fact that general practitioners ant.
statisticians will not admit (except theoretically)
that race suicide depends far less upon tne nu.uuer
of children born than upon the quality of those
that survive to produce the next generation. And
it is just this question of quality that is to engage
the attention of the Chair of Psychiatry. “What
shall it profit a man that he gain the whole world
and lose his soul ?” And what shall it profit a
nation that it has specialists skilled in ophthalmology
and midwifery if the race they practise on consists
largely of idiots? In this connection it is interesting to
know that an official census was taken in N.S.W. a few
years ago of the feebie-minded, and that the figures
were so appalling they were never published! But
it is safe to say that had the study of mental dis«
eases been less casual in “Macquarie Street’s”
student days—and the same conditions have obtained
until a very short time ago—the proportion of men-
tal defectives in the community would by now be
very much less.
The Jukes family, so often quoted as a horrible
example, has an astonishing number of prototypes in
N.S.W. Briefly its history is this: Two feeble-
minded sisters named Jukes lived near New York
early in the 19th century. In 1915 it was found
that they had had in about 100 years 2049 descend-
ants, legitimate and illegitimate. Of these 000 were
feeble-minded, over 300 were prostitutes, 140 were
criminals (seven being murderers), and almost all of
tne oiners were paupers anu a cnurge upon tne
State. Only 20 of them had ever learned trades.
When these figures were compiled it was estimated
that this family had cost New York £500,000. Yet
each of these 2049 births was a source of joy to the
statistician, and most of them had provided “Mac-
quarie Street’s” New York equivalents with clinical
experience. On the other hand, those 2049 births had
not contributed one whit to the life of the nation,
but rather to its disintegration. In fact, if a suffi-
cient number of families had the same history the
result would be the overthrow of civilisation, though
during the process Government statisticians
general practitioners were working overtime to cope
with the birth-rate!
It is true, as “Macquarie Street” complains, that
the Chair of Psychiatry does not aim to provide the
student with a practice as lucrative and easily-
handled as ophthalmology or midwifery. But that
is not its primary aim, the latter being rather to
safeguard the race which provides the student with
experience and the practitioner with cash. Far
more regrettable is the' fact that the clinic for
study and demonstration is under the Lunacy Depart-
ment. There is a vast army of nervous sufferers who
are likely to become insane if untreated. They are
to be found in every medical and surgical gynaecologi-
cal and e.ery otner kind of ward m a.iv ho-pual.
They do not go to a Lunacy Department institution
unt.l they are too “mental” to go anywhere else, and
by that time it is usually too late to look for a
permanent cure. The only way to cope with the
situation adequately is to have a specially equipped
psychopathic wing in a general hospital where every
case will be treated as a hospital case, the neeessary
research being undertaken in the hospital labora-
tories. This wing should have its separate en-
trance and be self-contained, and should provide for
both men and women. It is difficult to know how
else the diminution of insanity can be achieved,
and the first general hospital which recognises the
fact and acts on it will earn the gratitude of poster'
ity for all time.
Secession in a Mild Form.
The N. S. Wales Parliamentary party
which went to the northern parts of
the State recently was supposed to in-
spect and inquire into three railways
—Murwillumbah-Tweed Heads, Kyogie-
Beaudesert and Tenterfield-Casino. These
are additions to 0 r extensions of the elabo-
rate, crooked, complicated system which car-
i e.s tne uaue or me i\oi e, t and north of-
Sydney is three-fourths of the Ma State)
past neglected northern ports to the over-
grown capital. A policy which would show
a sincere desire to give the North a chance
would be based on the construction of a rail-
way from Coif’s Harbor right west to Nar-
rabri and Walgett. It would be no great
work, for much of it, except the Coff’s Harbor
end, is already constructed. But to do
any good it would have to be a real railway
like the one which goes west from Sydney,
with an independent local railway and
harbor management which was resolved to
make a Cit.v.ac Coff’s ilarbor, not a fa.lure
and a laughing-stock as Melbourne manage-
ment has made of Portland. Of Coff s Har-
bor a standard reference-hook remarks with
curt impartiality:—
fincrc is :i fine jetty st the hurbor where ocean-
going vessels can come alongside and unload at any
time Two breakwaters to make Coff’s Harbor aii
overseas port are being constructed.
With one breakwater Capetown became a
great port because the Government and rail-
way authorities meant it to be one, but 20
breakwaters won’t make Coif’s Harbor or
any other place in the north of N.S.W., a
success unless there is a railway system to con-
nect it with its hinterland, and even such a
railway system would leave the place as poor
as ever if it was controlled by jealous rivals
who meant it to fail. Meanwhile, as already
mentioned, the Parliamentary deputation of
politicians from Sydney propose to pacify
or hynnotise the northern separationists
by taking a perfunctory interest in a
cross-country line from Tenterfield to Casino
Tenterfield, on the Sydney-Brisbane line, is
a pleasant spot, but it isn’t the big town
of the tablelands by a long way. Casino


i h l Farmers & Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000' Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
on the coastal line, is described as “situated
four miles above the head of navigation of
Richmond River,” and a “drogher” plies
from there to Coraki, 40 miles down the
river; and at the mouth of the river, 40
miles further, is Ballina, with “a* shifting
sand bar” and quite unconnected with the
railway. So the line from Tenterfield to
Casino isn’t a whole-hearted attempt to give
the North a trade outlet and commercial,
financial and manufacturing centre like Syd-
ney or Brisbane. Yet the secession party
of the North prepared a welcome for these
city politicians who came to pull its pastoral
and agricultural leg by professing interest
in a line from a minor .town to a place four
miles above the head of navigation and SO
miles from a shifting sandbar. Secession
is an art. The Norwegians knew it when
they sent, in 1905, a postcard to the King
at Stockholm (Sweden), saying they no
longer “belonged.” Jefferson Davis wa9
acquainted with it. Ireland’s De Valera
appears to have got a grip of it. But
nobody in Australia has seceded since this
country first got control of its own affairs,
and the attempts of .amateur secessionists
are depressing.
+ —_
A Big- Union’s Internal Malady.
A protest from the Speck:—
Democratic control of the organisation, which
A.W.U. pioneers like Spence, Rae, Tom Hall and
Donald Macdonell regarded as the only sure safe-
guard against a big union’s inevitable tendency to-
wards centralisation and Bossism, has apparently
gone by the board. Slowly but surely, as in the
American Federation of Labor, the “home rule” of the
original units of the A.W.U. amalgamation has been
filched from them, and power is now massed in the
central executive to a degree which the rank and
file hardly yet realise. True, there is a general ballot
for the thief officials, but it is largely controlled by
the same officials. Moreover there is now no such
thing as a secret ballot: as apparently every member’s
vote can be traced by the numbered slip which the
voter must attach to his ballot-paper. True, also,
there is a returning-officer, whose special job
it is to count the votes and personally conduct all
ballot matters. But the R.O. is practically appointed
and controlled by the' executive (ho is not elected
by ballot), and is not supplied with powers and
facilities to enable him to run the ballot independently
of the regular officials. The latter interpret the rules
in regard to balloting and conduct correspondence on
ballot matters with candidates and their nominators,
and, “under instructions from my executive,” issue
decrees as to the eligibility or otherwise of candidates
for paid official positions.
Candidates for office are sometimes ruled ineligible
on the flimsiest imaginable pretext. A case in point
is the eleventh-hour rejection of two nominations for
a paid position in one branch “by order of the
central executive,” on the ground that the candi-
dates’ present occupations, as stated on their nomina-
tion-papers, were not occupations specifically men-
tioned in the A.W.U. rules relating to qualification
for membership. Yet both candidates were fullv-
paid members of the union, and had been so for
years, with the full knowledge and consent of the
officials and hundreds of their fellow-unionists. They
had evidently inserted their “present” occupations, in
the nomination forms on the not unreasonable
assumption that their occupations were the jobs they
were actually doing at the moment of nomination,
not the (probably seasonal) jobs they had been doing
last year and might be doing next year. They
naturally believed that their right to nominate for
any official position in their union rested on the
secure ground of their actual membership of the
union, and had only regarded mention of their pre-
sent occupations as possibly useful to the union re-
turning-officer for identification purposes. But the
union nabobs (one of whom was the only other candi-
date for the job in question) peremptorily declared
the outsiders’ nominations invalid, and without
giving the slightest opportunity of amending what was
at worst a technical triviality, closed the lists. Pro-
tests made to the highest branch-officers availed, no-
thing, as “according to the rules branch officers must
obey the orders of the Central Executive,” and the
general secretary had advised the branch officers to
the effect that the acceptance of a nomination from
a member who was not at the moment following an
occupation covered by the Arbitration Board award
might afford grounds for the de-registration of the
A.W.U.
Theoretically, it would be possible for the aggrieved
nominees to appeal to the annual convention, but in
practice this would mean appealing from CLesar unto .
Cassar, for the annual convention is largely con-
trolled by the central executive and branch officials,
who owe their jobs, or at least their immunity from
opposition in ballots, to such central executive
“rulings” as the above-quoted.
According to the printed rules of the A.W.U. a
union ticket entitles the holder to “all rights and
privileges of membership.” This sounds democratic,
but if a powerful and practically unshiftable execu-
tive has authority to define those “rights and
privileges” it is democracy with an autocratic string
to it. Of course, if an aggrieved member had
sufficient time and money to travel over an extensive
territory and enlist the support of several district
committees, he might succeed in having his trouble
aired before the annual delegate meeting of his
branch. Also, if he could afford to travel a couple
of hundred miles to the annual general meeting or an
extraordinary general meeting of the branch he might
get a hearing; and provided he could secure the
attendance of 20 or 30 supporters at such meeting
(payment of travelling expenses need not cost him
more than £5O or £6O) his grievance might be
motioned on to the annual convention to be held the
following year—where junta methods would probably
provide it with a bureaucratic funeral by referring
the matter to the Central Executive for inquiry, with
instructions to report to next convention or some-
thing. To instruct a lawyer to sue the A.W.U. for a
return of the last, five years’ union fees and levies
paid, or institute a suit for damages for breach of
contract, or take such other action as would test the
legality of the position, would render the com-
plainant liable to expulsion for “divulging union
business.” To be sure an expelled member has “the
right of appeal to the Executive or Convention,” but if
his experience of the methods of A.W.U. billet-holders
happens to have been similar to those of the barred
candidates herein referred to he will probably first
consider it advisable to convince the “comrades” of
the Council or Convention that he will never again
permit himself to be, nominated for any paid office
in his union. And this apparently is what the
democracy of Australia’s biggest union has come to
since Donald Macdonell (whom everybody trusted)
rode west.
The Speech Dooley Didn’t Make.
For talking often and at great length about
nothing, the members of the present N.S.W.
Ministry are in a class of their own, and
now that Storey is away Dooley fills
the position of Chief Blitherer. These,
for instance, are the most tangible items to
be dug out of one of his latest,deliverances:
They were testing the adaptability and suitability
of Constitutional Government to the requirements of
the people. They must keep the Government in
touch with progressive ideals. Owing to the after-
math of the war and the financial stringency it was
difficult to know' what was to be the next move. The
whole of the people, Mr. Dooley added, must com-
bine to play their part in the country’s development.
How 'much more satisfactory to all if the
report had read this way:—
The Acting-Premier said that he wasn’t going to
develop any polysyllables or platitudes. Anybody
who wanted these things would have to go elsewhere.
In future no Minister was going to address more
than one meeting a month, as they had other things
to do. The ultimate objective was to bring the
oration habit down to one per year. He wasn’t
going to complain any more about the aftermath of
the war, realising that the State Government had not
PORTRAIT OR CARICATURE?
“Australia is 'the most prosperous country in the world.”— Prime Minister Hughes.
AUS.: “It's a beautiful picture, Billy: but are you quite sure it’s like me?"
been in any war. As the revenue was now about
£30,000,000 a year, which was twice the amount
required for much the same population eight years
ago, the Ministry proposed to make a radical change
in its financial habits. Borrowing with such a stupen-
dous income was absurd; besides at present interest
rates it was ruinous. The whole 13 Ministers had
decided that the Northern Rivers and Riverina could
have separation if they wanted it. Being wholly
dependent for their political existence on a caucus
majority of 23 strenuous Home-Rule-for-Ireland men
with Irish names they would be nothing better than
illogical tripehounds if they acted otherwise. Worse
than that, they would be ridiculous. He scorned to
play the part which the Sassenach played towards
Ireland and the Czars towards Poland. The Ministry
was about to get its coat off and put together at
least half the money required to repay the
£7,000,000 loan falling due 18 months hence. To
renew the whole of it, probably at double the old rate
'of interest, was equivalent to doubling the liability
—leaving the children with £7,000,000 worth of
partly-worn-out assets and £14,000,000 of debts.
That would be selling our sons and daughters as
slaves to the capitalist—in short, White Slavery of
the vilest sort. He was no White Slaver. Never
should it be said against him that the fathers ate
blunt meat and the children’s stomachs were set on
edge. The meeting closed with the National Anthem
and an astonished expression.
Conan Doyle departed these shores, leaving
a mass of advice behind him, as is the way
with hurried trippers of his class; and par-
ticularly he called on the Commonwealth to
fill up its unpeopled North with a medley of
races after the manner of the U.S.A., be-
cause there aren’t enough “Anglo-Saxons” to
go round. Here are some figures showing
the emigration tendencies of the British (an
Anglo-Saxon is one of those ethnological
rarities that a man seldom sees twice in a
life-time) during periods when the ILK. was
a much better place to live in than it is now 7 :
Emigrants' from Increase of
England, Scot- Population
lanu and Wales, despite this loss.
1881-1890 .. 1,824,060 3,318,160
1891-1900 .. 1,281,873 3,981,773
1901-1905 . . 935,443 1,819,934
1906.. .. 272,927 443,506
1907.. .. 331,584 448,577
1908.. .. 219,259 453,704
1909.. .. 238.539 458,896
The inference is that there are heaps of
pure British people to fill up Australia if
this country will give them a chance. Eng-
land especially is about saturated w'ith popu-
lation, which has much more than doubled
in the past half-century, and now amounts
to one person per acre, with a prospect of
unlimited increase. Britain could, for its
own good, send out 700,000 emigrants per
year and keep its population stationary—
in fact it could reduce its population with
advantage, more especially its slum popula-
tion. In this respect there are three alter-
natives: (1) The surplus may be dissipated
among many foreign countries, where it will
be absorbed and lose its national character
and its children may even become hostile.
(2) It may go to the very few places avail-
able (of which Australia is one) where it
may multiply exceedingly and preserve its
racial individuality. (8) It may Stay where
it is, in which case the pressure w 7 ill grad-
ually reduce the birth-rate and increase the
death-rate till the problem settles itself in
the form of starvation and infanticide. The
third alternative would be a depressing look-
out for Britain, while it would leave Aus-
tralia a poor, ill-defended place, liable to
fall a prey to any brown passer-by.
*
Randolph Bedford writes:—
“ ‘J.E.’ on the offensive” (B. 20/l/’2l) attacks
my statement of fact re Queensland closer settle-
ment fund with remarks about “all the asphalt in
the Dead Sea” and “anguished goats” and “chronic
whitewasher” (which was all very funny to
read in 1889 or thereabout), and then gets
down to earth with the statement that the
Queensland Government “has turned the best-
paying railway system into the worst.” Neither
extreme assertion is quite true. But there is a
difference, and the main reason of it is that when
the present Government took over the railways the
system paid the worst wages in Australia, whereas
now it pays the best with the best conditions for
labor. Of far greater area than N.S.W. the State
has something over 700,000 inhabitants—about two-
thirds'of the population of centralised Sydney, which
drags every ton and passenger possible through the
bottleneck of Redfern. And, in addition, Queens-
land has made decentralising railroads whose ter-
mini are at seven ports, with three other ports not
rated as termini. To make railways pay in these
conditions was to sweat labor, and the Queensland
Government hasn’t done it.
But to “J.E.” the Queensland Government can
never act differently from a dangerous criminal.
“The North-South railway is wanted,” he says, “to
bring the.... insurrectionists of Darwin within four
days’ run of a sane and level-headed city”—presum-
ably Adelaide. And after that Mr. Dick gets out
his King Charles's head and foams after this
fashion: —
The other half aims at strengthening the Bol-
shevik hold on the already hag-ridden Territory by
connecting it mainly with Cloncurry, where Paul
Freeman and his friends used to hang out; with
Hughenden, where returned Australian soldiers were
greeted with curses and assault; with T6wnsville.
where the pro-Hunists were; and with Brisbane, the
headquarters of Theodore and Fihelly In fact
the fight is to annex the North to the most, instead
ot to the least, anti-Australian section of the con-
tinent.
if this be not the rabid howling of an immigrant
against real Australians it must have been prompted
by an immigrant with little knowledge of the coun-
try. “J.E.” apparently thinks that Oloncurry is all
Paul Freeman— -though nothing was proved or even
charged against Freeman; and he does not know
that the Hughenden “riots” were auacks by re-
turned soldiers prompted by persons like himself
on anti-Conscriptionists ; or that the great “pro-Hun
riots of Townsville” boiled down to a disturbance
resulting in the sentencing of a man and a boy
respectively to a gaol and a reformatory; or that
1 iirodoße previously described as a Roumanian
is an Australian born in sane and level-headed
Adelaide; or that Fihei.hy came to Australia before
he could walk and is 100 per cent. Australian in
putting Australia first.
The North-South railway must be; but why should
it prevent the inexpensive linking, north-west and
south-east, of all Queensland’s western railroads,
and their extension into the Territory? Cattle-
men for the Territory from South Australia make
their easting right into Queensland and then west
again along the Diamantina, and they don’t travel
hundreds of miles extra for nothing. All the froth-
ing at the mouth that has ever been cannot prevent
trade making to its easiest port; and Territory
trade does mat —Katherine, Anthony’s Lagoon and
Barclay Tableland into Oloncurry ; Hatchs’ Creek
into the Duchess and the South-East into Charle-
ville, and all the Territory development worth a
bandicoot has been made from Queensland.
Ihe North-South line should go through ; the con-
nection of Western Queensland railroads to a line
into Camooweal must go through; but neither of
these facts or both combined call for bad language
and reflections on anybody’s parentage.
“Solomon Malaprop”: It has long been
my ambition to invent an explosive, elastic
and automatic hair-wash, winch, while im-
proving the hair, will also cause flies to
rebound from the scalp and fall down dead.
Operations being temporarily suspended
pending the arrival of certain ingredients
from Dublin, I had time to read this in Mr.
CP l6tter ° n Irlsh affairs
....Should be grateful to the present generation of
Irish-Australians who have helped to make Aus-
tralia the great country it is. .. .
made Australia the great country it
is 2,974,581 square miles, including Tas-
mania and Canberra, but not reckoning
Papua and the mandated islands. Man
made it a pldce with the biggest debt per
head on earth, the most hopeless dependence
on loans (which, means the minimum of
manly self-reliance), the biggest proportion
of population that the world can show
crowded into five cities, the emptiest coun-
try that any white race can exhibit outside
these cities, the biggest strike record in pro-
portion to the number of inhabitants, a
diminishing production (measured by quan-
tity not paper-money prices) in a multi-
tude of lines, and such an utter lack of the
pioneering spirit that, alone among Federa-
tions, its people haven’t founded one new
kti'to s i lie e they got control of their own
affairs. If I were an Irish-Australian and
Mr. 0 Hagan accused me of helping in
this kind of greatness, I would not rest till
I had Mr. O’Hagan’s blood, also his entrails,
and I would tear his house down and sow
the site with salt and other condiments.
(It is no use for Mr. O’Hagan to reply to
this, for I will be too absorbed in the hair-
wash problem to read his answer.)
♦
Corp” : When the war ended, the
Heads, anxious to improve the value of
A.I.F. men for civilian purposes, provided
i)? opportunity for 100 of them to tour the
U.b.A. and study the latest scientific methods
i a & ricu *ture. The elect had to show they
had had experience on the land and intended
to follow land pursuits. They have returned
after courses in the best agricultural colleges
in Aankeeland, and Australia is due to reap
a dividend on its outlay in retaining them in
the Army and providing them with special
allowances. Not, however, N. S. Wales. The
Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Board is see-
ing to that. That body, which possesses the dis-
tinction of having broken more soldier’s
hearts than any institution in Australia, is
informing the expert agriculturists that
there is no land available, but that if they
like to register they can take their turn, anil
may be provided with a suitable—or unsuit-
able block in 18 months’ time or thereabouts.
In one case they were good enough to tell
the ex-soldier expert that lie could go to one
of the settlement areas and receive a three-
months’ course in the rudiments of farming;
and in another they wanted the student of
scientific methods to prove that he had quali-
fications as a farmer. Some of the men are
going back to America, regarding this country
as hopeless, liet John Storey remarks from
tome to time and his colleagues shout “hear
hear ——that the primary industries are those
m which increased production is most needed,
and the youth of parts and energy is tire-
* mged to go on the land. Presumably
fhe i eferences are to the primary industries
and the land of some foreign country such
as Victoria or the U.S.A. or Manchuria.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS i
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSWMONT de PIETE
I C?T LIMITED.
74 St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 5,200,000 ‘Phone Cii,y 5325
Sranc/tej at- 29 King St.. Newcastle, N-SW- 2\b \l Swanstoh St Mei^.Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. I 97 A Castlereagh 5tJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph VJ Hill, General manager.
rs
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
Not even the heathen Chinee was more
childlike and bland than seamen’s secretary
Thomas Walsh when asked for some kind of
guarantee that there would be some kind of
peace if the stewards came back and the
ships went to sea. He said that the executive
council wasn’t in session and apparently
didn’t see its way to get into session. But
he (Walsh) individually “had no hesitation”
in saying that when the council ceased being
out of the way it would give assurances that
things would “revert to the conditions exist-
ing when the stoppage took place last De-
cember.” These conditions Were that a big
strike was impending, and apart from that
ships were being held up almost daily with
new demands quite outside the agreement.
The owners replied that all of, them, includ-
ing the managers of the Commonwealth fleet,
had in last December been sitting on an ant-
bed for 12 months and the offer to revert
there wasn’t pleasing.
The Southern and Central branches of the
Queensland railway unions have given an
overwhelming majority by ballot for a strike,
and. as the North is a comparatively small
affair and has got the striking habit badly
the stoppage looks certain. So Theodore,
Fihelly and Co. will make the same remark
as Lear did about it being sharper than a
toothless child to have a serpent’s tank, or
words to that effect. They appointed a
multitude of new railways workers to
lighten the work, and divided practically all
the takings, including increased fares, among
them in wage rises, leaving dividends ( i.e.
bondholders’ interest) to be paid out of new
taxes. The reward they are promised is the
most unanimous stoppage in Queensland his-
tory unless they can dig up a lot more wages.
The simple policy of the new brand of union
leaders is to have a strike as soon as the
funds can stand it, and they seem to stand it
pretty often just now.
Prime Minister Hughes moves in a mysteri-
ous way his thunders to perform. He
picked a Judge from the coldest, quietest,
most old-fashioned, most English of the
States to sit in judgment on the heated
riot of Australia’s most tropical town, where
Turks and Greeks and colored folk and cen-
tipedes rage exceedingly. The fact that Tas-
mania is the one State without an aboriginal
to its name doubtless helped in the choice,
the Territory being much haunted by Binghi.
Hughes selected a wandering person only
known as a cyclist with a taste for travel
and adventure to report on transcontinental
railway-engineering problems. He brousrht
a man from England and one from the U.S.,
where break-of-gauge problems are ancient
history, to report on Australian railway
gauges. Finally, as chairman of this com-
mission, he appointed an eminent local life-
assurance authority. It is said that Hughes
and Watt, who have been hardly on shriek-
ing terms at each other since the latter’s
resignation, may come together again. It
is time somebody came together.
Having repented at leisure, Lieut.-Gover-
nor Irvine says there should be no toll-bars
of any kind on the broad road of education,
He wants practically a free Uni. for Vic.,
whether it comes by Government provision
or by liberal private endowment. But when
Irvine was Premier of Vic., and taxes were
light, and the people could easily have stood
a turn or two of the screw, he thought
quite differently. Indeed, but for a stone-
wall organised by Theodore Fink, State
school children who had passed a certain
standard would have had to pay for further
instruction, or, rather, their dads or widowed
mothers would. These enthusiastic exhorta-
tions to other people to do What you left
undone yourself when you had the oppor-
tunity are not impressive.
When the Townsville (Q.) State meat-
shops men went on strike until Flynn (dis-
charged) should be re-instated, Premier
THE HOUSE-HUNTERS.
“N. S. Wales Labor supporters show an extraordinary anxiety to inhabit an elderly and partially
decayed dwelling, which they have already condemned.” —News item.
Theodore’s Government spoke to them like
the steamship-owners talking to the Sea-
men’s Union or old Dibbs damning Chicago
30 years ago. It said that the free-me'at supply
to the employees would be stopped, that it
would choose its own employees and sack
Flynn as often as it liked and as many
Flynns as it liked; and that the union must
guarantee to supply sufficient, capable men
to keep business going. Otherwise State
meat would leave off for good. It made quite
a sensation, as if a sheep had started to
swear.
The cat-fight is on again. In 1919 the
Holman Government, with large support
from all parties, enacted that a referendum
should be taken before June 30, 1921, on
'liquor-continuance or prohibition-with-com-
pensation (about 10 or 12 millions com-
pensation). There was always the hope that
something might turn up before June 21 —
Judgment Day, perhaps. Storey and Dooley
arrived in April, 1920, so they had 14 months,
to think over things. They exhausted the
borrowing possibilities with four huge loans,
and the revenue possibilities by piling up a
shortage of over £3,000,000 in six months,
so they dared not face the chance of having
to pay compensation. Also, they dared not
repeal the Act, or were too slipshod to think
of it. They dared not have Parliament sit-
ting when the referendum fell due, so it
closes till July. Also the Premier goes to
England out of the way. The law is simply
to be set aside to show how lightly obliga-
tions rest on the Government. And Acting-
Premier Dooley does the Mother Gummidge
act at great length about how he is a poor,
innocent or “natural” for whom the astute
Holman laid a trap, and how he fell into it
like a bear falling into a milk-jug. Holman
laid no trap for two reasons: He is a vain
man who fully expected to be in office himself
when the bill fell due; and he is a mere
opportunist, brought up in the Dooley school,
who seldom looks a couple of years ahead.
Two years form a geological era to the Hol-
man kind. But Dooley was born a wronged
infant, and lives in a puddle of tears.
Part of the Ma State community is now
busy informing on the other part. The
great bulk of the proceedings are not for
charging more than the legal price, for the
Profiteering Court hasn’t fixed a tenth of
the prices and never will. It would go
mad in the attempt. But anyone may say
that the profit made or asked was too
much, and as the tired old statute
doesn’t say whether it is or not the Judge
thinks it out. Then the defendant is fined
for not foreseeing his Honor’s think. As
business piles up—and not l per cent, of
the community has been fined yet—other
Judges with different view's will be appointed.
It is all very casual and helter-skelter.
Hardly any of the clauses which require any
brain-fag have got into their stride yet, but
the one which simply says that any profit
is too much profit if the Court feels like that
is as easy as any other kind of push law,
made and administered on the spot.
Backed up by Gippsland, Sale (Vic.) has
started an economy campaign, which aims at
bringing Federal spending within reasonable
limits. But the Argus is doing the laud-
able movement no good by comparing it with
Ivyabrampootra, which was an inglorious
fizzle. Kyabrampootra dragged to light a
dreadful person named Sammy Lancaster,
but the electorate which contained Kyabram
dropped him heavily after he had been in
Parliament for 18 months. Australia can
stand any amount of economy, but another
Kyabram movement would be too much.
“Gallery”: Arthur Rodgers is regarded as
a possibility for the Treasury should Joe
Cook become' High Commissioner. When
he started in the Repatriation Department
officials who had got used to a quiet life
under the easy-going Millen suddenly felt
that there was a gale in the place. Rodgers
was always there, smiling, amiable but
urgent, and he soon began to get things
done. The man from Wannon has youth,
vigor and ideas. He is the only Minister
I have seen hurrying off to work at nine
in the morning, and you will find him still
hard at it late at night, when some of his
ancient and weary colleagues are enjoying
an ill-earned rest.
“Jar.”: The Bulletin’s idea that Sydney
should be formed into a city-State that would
find the money for its own street railways
and \North Shore bridges without loafing on
the North Coast, the West and the Riverina,
and without muddling their affairs from
Macquarie-street, ought to appeal to the
Labor bosses of Sydney. In 1861 a similar
proposal was made by the Tammany Mayor
of New York. The Civil War was about to
start, and the Tammany man and his sup-
porters were agin it, so he suggested to the
A.L.P. Executive of the period that Man-
hattan Island, Long Island and Staten Island
should secede from the Union and constitute
a free city, to be named Tri-Insula. The
A.L.P. Executive (or Common Council) ap-
proved, but then came the bombardment of
Fort Sumter, and with it such an uprising
of loyalist sentiment that the proposal was
hurriedly dropped. And it has remained
dropped ever since. Later on, when all
the good Australians (I mean Americans)
had gone to the front, the gentlemen who
were agin the war took charge of New York
and started a great anti-conscription move-
ment. They even went to the length of
forcibly resisting national service, but that
phase of the movement lasted only five days
and ended suddenly. Lincoln was made of
sterner stuff than Hughes.
From a Federal gallery-man:—
Cook and Hughes are about level in the betting
for the High Commissionership. An epidemic of
guessing is raging in print, but most of the Ministers
are no better informed than the newspapers, though
whenever approached by a pressman, they act up
to the notion that Billy is sharing all his secrets with
them. When Cook was announced as Fisher’s suc-
cessor at £6OOO a year, there was a curt denial of
the appointment, but no suggestion that the salary
had been unduly exaggerated. London wouldn’t pro-
vide Hughes with the power he wields in Australia,
but the screw is tempting, and there would be no
lack of limelight.
Premier Lawson is none too pleased at
having allowed himself to be dragged into
the contest for Upper Goulburn. As ex-
pected, Mackrell, the C.P. man, who was un-
seated on a technicality, won easily, and
Lawson’s visit to Seymour was labor in vain.
The result of the election leaves the state of
Darties the same as at the close of the
session—Ministerialists, 27; Ind. Liberals,
2; Farmers’ Union, 13; Labor, 20; Inde-
pendent Labor, 2; Speaker, 1; total, 69.
From seven to 10 of the Ministerialists are
now willing to be convinced that a Cocky-
Liberal Coalition is feasible.
“Centurion”: Have an idea where Billy
Hughes got his idea of gratuity bonds.
Bought a second-hand volume of Restoration
dramatists the other day and, in “The Sol-
dier of Fortune,” by Otway, I came across
this:—r
Fortune made me a soldier; Fortune made the
peace. Then Fortune disbanded us. Fortune gave
us debentures instead of ready money. And by very
good fortune I sold mine and lost heartily by it.
The poor: devil couldn’t afford to wait for
the German indemnity.
“D. Finis”: Australia, by its Navigation
Act (it isn’t ,law yet, not having received
the King’s assent), declared its intention
of reserving the coast-wise trade of the
Commonwealth for Australian vessels. But
the stewards and the job-controllers and the
rest of them have so dislocated things that
it has become the regular thing for Aus-
tralian-owned ships to be laid up for the
busiest part of the year, while overseas ves-
sels continue to get freights on the coast
as usual. Last summer a business man
came from England intending to go to Tas-
mania. He reached Melbourne all right, but
could not get across Bass Straits, and went
home again. This summer he came a bit
earlier and got across to Tasmania just in
time to be marooned by the annual strike.
Between Melbourne and Sydney passengers
have been travelling lately in British, Dutch,
Japanese and Chinese steamers—anything,
in fact, but Australian vessels. In the odd
art of cutting off his nose to spite his face,
the Australian militant industrialist has no
equal on earth.
A few years ago the Labor bosses were
shouting so much for publicity that they
even insisted on political articles being
signed at election times, and the fool-regu-
lation exists to this day. Now they are so
stealthy that they do almost everything of
importance in muffled caucus with a wet
blanket hung over the keyhole. The Labor
Lord Mayor of' Sydney is now alleged to
receive deputations in secret, the press and
the usual official shorthand note-taker being
shut out. So what a deputation may ask
of his Washup and the reply of his Washup
are alike locked up in his Washup’s bosom.
More strange events are on the Town Hall
horizon. A few months ago there was a
struggle to pay a firm of architects £40,000
for a simple job that the Council’s salaried
officers could handle. Then there was a
bitter fight to pay £75.000 of the ratepayers’
money for a coal-deposit which the Council’s
expert valued at not over £5OOO. Now it is
suggested that £21,000 of the ratepayers’
money should be paid for a stone quarry
which the Council’s expert values at £9776
as an outside price. The day when the
Sydney municipality will be suspended for
the second time should be drawing near.
Q. E. D.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What is happening to the Labor movement is
typified by what has happened to its old leaders who
once bore the torch aloft. Where is Mr. Hughes?
Where is Mr. Holman ? Where is Mr. Watson ?
to mention three names which once stood invincibly
for Labor. Irrespective of all else, these men could
not have parted with the Labor movement if the
initial force of the movement had not spent itself.” —
Sydney Telegraph.
Labor is dead. Its mighty grave gapes wide,
'And round the edges bowyanged mourners weep.
Else Mr. Hughes had not become the pride
Of those who used to hold him more than cheap,
Nor reaped a fortune from the hungry trusts
That once he apostolically cursed
As bodies filled with predatory lusts,
Cradled in Crime and by Oppression nursed.
Let the glad news throughout the land be spread:
The dawn is here. Labor is dead, is dead.
Labor is dead. No longer on a box
Amid the Sabbath verdure of a park
Does Holman stand and level verbal rocks
At Capital from 2 p.m. till dark.
Gone is the crimson tie he used to wear,
Gone the old felt, expressive of unrest:
To-day a topper crowns his well-trimmed hair;
His ties are black and he affects a vest.
His friends are mostly titled, it is said,
And Labor, being cut by him, is dead.
Watson, the Socialist of other years,
The man who strove to burst the marriage tie
And filled the British Empire League with fears,
Lest, Watson living, England’s self should die —
Watson is now a man who deals in mines,
And lives as blamelessly as anyone,
Flaunting a dinner-jacket when he dines,
And a Corona when the meal is done.
Since Watson’s White no worker can be Bed.
Quod erat demonstrandum: Labor’s dead.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


IV you*- Honor, as \ba yo*n$
grant l<rm An is charged yvWf»
abducting a Hussy 1 ask to be-
<zjccus<z-d . I ato no"t
yAmiliar with tbad
Sort of -thing. "
The prisoner :
11 Weve all been there
dearies , So 1 appeals to youS
to let by-gones be
by-goncs '!
"TV>e forevyoman
“.Not (guilty \!
by eleven to one ?
the blogoe I for exemption for the
wife) 14 yet* see I potter few boops over
larse -night bein’ pay day
and she airat what
S she was • °
w Aye wish to be excused,
this is mai day with
mad modiste.”
Aa Cent ■ in black i——
w y our Honor, as -the prisoner is charged
wYtH beating Her husband, 1 dorrt really -Jhink my
wife be.r«v sKould be ailawed "to Sit on the jurj«*
*
N)rs Cirundy . v ' 'am send far me , 11l show <Zm.
Them and their lockin’ up mixed juries all
night - Nice carry on, aint it ? M
MIXED JURIES.
“Interesting phases marked the advent of mixed juries.”— Cable.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS op
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SlLVER—Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
ZTNC DUST.
Also of LITHARGE—(Assay and Industrial!. BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS. ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SII/VER-EEAD ORES, BEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COEEINS HOUSE. COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: P.ellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAK BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
V BHAS>
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
mn
PIONEER
LEATHER
m
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions, and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Lane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W.A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John Me Kell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to Re- Stocks. Re-
Profits. £ venue. etc. serves.
£ (13 p.c.) £ £ £
June, ’13.. 100,12150,719 25,228 7,500 609,408
Dec., ’13.. 111,473 55,719 29,664 8,940 626,618
June, ’14.. 94,798 55,719 34,088 5,607 626,002
Premiums on new shares, £47,210 .. 673,212
Plant written down, £63,336 .. 609,876
Dec., ’14.. 114,703 58,969 46,897 7,872 610,841
Plant written down, £8,812. . .. 602,029
June, ’15.. 104,344 58,969 39,799 4,862 602,743
Premiums on new shares, £44,585 .. 647,328
Dec., ’15.. 110,675 62,219 28,574 7,488 659,722
June, ’16.. 97,280 62,219 23,146 10,242 661,395
Dec., ’16.. 103,535 62,219 28,908 7,371 666,432
June, ’17.. 95,256 62,219 13,866 13,838 671,765
Dec., ’17.. 86,026 62,219 19,404 7,301 668,867
June, ’lB.. 98,169 62,219 21,287 9,268 674,262
Dec., ’lB.. 107,029 62,219 31,450 12,754 674,868
Premiums on new shares, £25,880 .. 700,748
June, ’19.. 88,659 65,000 14,099 8,871 701,437
Dec., ’19.. 49,143 65,000 18,883 3,870 662,827
June, ’20.. 63,760 65,000 22,084 798 638,705
Dec., ’20.. 39",363 65,000 Nil Nil 613,068
This poor co. has had a bad buffeting lately:
“a perusal of your present balance-sheet,”
the directors tell shareholders, “not only
shows that no provision for reserve fund,
gas stoves or meter renewal has been made,
but that after the dividend has been paid
there has been an actual loss of £25,000 on
the half-year’s working.” Melbourne has
had a painful experience with strikes during
the past few years, and being dependent on
the Ma State for its coal supplies the Metro-
politan Gas Co. has been one of the first
to feel the pinch. “For a full quarter of the
year the use of gas was under some restric-
tion,” with' the result that the footage sold
was smaller than at any time since 1915.
This shows the slide since 1918, the year
of record output : :
1918. 1919. 1920.
Coal carbonised
(tons) . . . . 275,999 269,925 259,689
Gas sold (1000 ft.) .. 3,435,689 3,394,886 3,111,752
“When it is borne in mind,” add the direc-
tors, “that, excepting by the purchase of a
smaller quantity of coal, the expenditure can
only be infinitesimally reduced, it will be
seen, how costly any strikes affecting the
shipping industry are to this co.” But not-
withstanding the smaller output there was
no falling-off of revenue from gas sales
during the year: the price to the public has
gone steadily higher and higher, and the
news has been broken gently that further
increases are contemplated to counteract
recent wage increases. In 1915 the Metro-
politan was receiving an average of 4s. 3.6 d.
ner 1000 ft. sold; during the past half the
average had advanced to. ss. 7.7 d. This
comparison (the figures covering a full year
in each case) shows how the principal items
of revenue and expenditure have moved over
three years, and also the important position
residuals occupy as revenue-producers:—
Receipts.
1918. 1919. 1920.
Gas sales .. .. £772,551 £836,845 £848,827
Coke 105,929 114,805 123,469
Tar, etc. . . . . 52,890 52,493 61,439
Sulphate ammonia . . 97,467 53,533 61,635
Expenditure.
Coal 353,959 444,815 460,072
Other manufacturing exes. 180,129 186,952 199,507
Distribution . . . . 96,858 111,215 119,727
Management . . . . 58,417 61,410 68,636
Rent and taxes .. 45,648 36,581 38,642
During the past two years the cost of coal
has increased 9s. Bd. per ton, a 43 p.c. rise;
cost of coal p.c. of total revenue was 22 p.c.
20 years ago; the figures had climbed to
34.4 p.c. for 1918, and to 42 p.c. for the
past 12 months. Residuals have been the
co.’s mainstay, particularly since good prices
have been got lately for coke and an excel-
lent outside market has been available for
sulphate of ammonia. Last year the cost
of coal, manufacturing, distribution and man-
agement swallowed the whole of the revenue
from gas, leaving the proceeds of residuals
to meet taxes, debenture interest and all
other charges.
Though during the past 18 months dis-
closed net profits fell £42,700 short of the
amount required to pay the usual 13 p.c.
divs., the directors have had no hesitation
in passing out divs.‘ at that rate. And
these distributions have been made notwith-
standing that the co. was hard up for funds
for extensions, and that 600 would-be cus-
tomers have been elamorine for connection.
The public had to wait until the special Act
authorising an increase of capital went
through : it would have been an unheard-of
proceeding to have temporarily deferred the
payment of divs. until new capital became
available, and to have devoted the £195,000
of divs. towards connecting-up new cus-
tomers. Yet for many years the public
has, without any serious complaint, per-
mitted this co. to continue to add to its
works from the profits it has made out of
the consumer. Going back to the first
table to the column headed “Works charged
to revenue” shows what a feast the co. has
had. Even during the past hve years, in-
cluding the recent unfavorable strike period,
profits have exceeded the amount required
for the 13 p.c. div. by nearly £195,000, and
all but about £2OOO of this has gone into
new buildings., plant, mains and meters.
Going further back in the table, when at
times divs. were absorbing only half the
profits, the outlay on works, etc., pro-
vided out of revenue was considerably
larger. These appropriations are wholly
distinct from allowances made for repairs,
maintenance and renewals, which are charged
directly against revenue., Melbourne has
been very kind to its gas co. During the past
10 years shareholders have put in £260.465
by way of share capital and premiums and the
co. has borrowed £202,000 more outside. Its
customers have meantime fed proprietors
with divs. averaging over p.c.—though
owing to the stiff premium the actual return
has been smaller —besides making available
for the management about half a million
for new works, etc.
The amended Act, besides authorising the co.
to increase its nominal capital by half a
million to £1,500,000, gave it power to bor-
row £ for £ against the £584.210 of premiums
received from old issues. The directors are
thus in a position to seek £1,584.210 addi-
tional funds. For a start they are putting
out 20,000 new £5 shares, and shareholders
have agreed to the issue of further debentures
for up to £684,210. Portion of this deben-
ture issue will, however, be required to meet
liabilities, which, apart from old debentures,
amounted to nearly £544,000 at Dec. 31. The
increased capital, however, does not overcome
the co.’s worst trouble: sooner or later it
will be necessary to re-establish the works
on a new site, and that shift is going to
prove very costly.
* * X- *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood
Bros, and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Written To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1908. . 14,754 4 p.c. = 10,000 2,500 2,254 51,435
1909.. 13.767 4 „ „ 10,000 3,000 767 50,668
1910.. 13.387 4 „ „ 10,000 2,250 1,137 49,531
1911.. 10,346 4 „ „ 10,000 346 49,185
1912.. 15.551 ii „ ~11,250 4,301 44,884
Assets revalued and written up .. 38,000 6,884
1913.. 15.803 5 p.c. = 12,500 3,3U3 3,081
Reserves.
1914.-27,676 5 „ „ 12,500 2,000 13,176 9,595
1915.. 27.130 5 ~ ~12,500 2,000 12,630 22,225
1916. 5 „ „ 12,500 10,000 18,500
1917. 4 „ „ 10,000 7,990 18,500
1918. 4 „ „ 10,000 5,000 5,000 23,500
1919.. 18.309 4i „ ~11,250 2,059 5,000 28,500
Assets revalued and written up.. 183,029 211,529
1920.-34,649 6 p.c. = 15,000 4,296 15,353 226,882
For some time there has been talk of this
Newcastle brewery linking up with Tooth’s;
but until last week no definite proposition
had been placed before Castlemaine share-
holders. They meet on Wednesday next *to
decide whether they will exchange each
fully-paid £1 share for one similarly paid-up
in the big Sydney brewery. There should,
be little hesitation about effecting the trans-
fer. The tempting bait is the improved rate
of dividend which Castlemaine shareholders
are almost 'certain to secure at once. Since
Tooth's last capitalisation of reserves in
1915 its div. rate has not got below 9 p.c.,
and for the latest half-year a div. at the
rate of 10 p.c. was paid. The 6 p.c. dis-
tributed by Castlemaine last year was the
best shareholders had seen for practically a
quarter of a century, and for many years
4 p.c. was the most the management could
ladle out. Only since the Broken Hill Prop,
got busy and the coal city showed signs of
becoming a big manufacturing centre have
profits looked un. But the co. had had
troubles: only 10 years ago £lOO,OOO of the
quarter-million paid capital represented pay-
ment for goodwill. Further, from subsequent
events it appeared that some of the old
“tangible” assets shown in the published ac-
counts were not all they should have been,
and it is almost certain that for some years
portion of Castlemaine’s trading surpluses
were being used to fill old holes. Anyhow,
in 1914 disclosed profits suddenly showed a
big improvement, though war troubles soon
brought the figures down again. During the
year to Sept. 30 last, however, the co. evi-
dently developed its punch again imder new
management (A. A. Hall, who ran bagmen's
clubs in Perth and Sydney took over in
1919), and the £30,000-odd shown after pro-
viding for taxation, etc., was Castlemaine’s
record profit.
Prior to presenting the accounts, the direc-
tors called in valuators, who declared that
freehold properties were worth £149.924 more
than what they were shown at in the books,
and that plant and machinery were worth
£33,105 more. Taking assets at their new
book values, the position of Castlemaine at
Sept. 30 was as follows: —
Properties .. -..£385,364
Plant, etc: .. .. 93,122
Liquid (inc. stocks) . . 144,451
£622,937
Mortgages . . . . 35,822
Overdraft . . . . 49,306
Other debts . . .. 33,639
Final div. and tax provision 13,803
132,570
Net assets . . . . £490,367
Goodwill no longer figures as an asset. Ac-
cording to the latest accounts, then, there
were 30s. 3d. of net tangible assets to repre-
sent each £1 share. Orn the other hand, the
£1 Tooth’s share Castlemaine holders are
asked to accept in exchange had, at Sept. 30
last, the backing of only 255. 4d. of visible
net assets, and that figure is now being
affected by the Sydney brewery’s new issue
of 206,250 ordinaries at par. But there is
not the slightest doubt that behind Tooth’s
are substantial inner reserves, the magni-
tude of which is kndwn only to those right
inside. The volume of Castlemaine reserves
in relation to capital,, however, further em-
phasises the poorness-' of its dividends. It
boils down to this: Are Castlemaine share-
holders who have £196 £>s. worth of assets to
represent each £lOO of scrip which has, in
the co.’s best year, retJurned only £6, pre-
pared to exchange for £lOO of Tooth’s paper,
represented by s-sscts of a disclosed book
value of about £.125, but returning over half
as much again by way of dividend? The
only doubt is whether, now that Castlemaine
has apparently got over its old troubles, the
co. has not, under good management, an
assured future in the big industrial and coal-
mining districts, where it has a larger beer
turnover than all tlse Sydney breweries
together. But shareholders are more likely
to be influenced by the practical certainty
of immediately-improved divs. from Tooth’s
than by the uncertain prospects should
Castlemaine continue to brew on its own
account.
* • * •
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. ; serves. Reserves.
1910. . £15,677 15 p.c. = £15,000 £677 £52,151
1911.. 9,857 10 ~ ~ 10,000 52,008
1912.. 11,100 10 ~ ~ 10,000 1,100 53,108
1913.. 18,656 174 „ „ 17,500 1,156 54,264
Assets written up and £lOO,OOO
transferred to capital . . 63,966
1914.. 20/781 10 p.c. =r 20,C00 781 64,747
1915.. 7,370 5 „ „ 10,000 62,117
1916.. 10,041 5 „ „ 10,000 41 02,158
1917.. 21,600 5 „ „ 10,000 1.1,600 73,758
1918.. 29,242 8| „ „ 17,500 11,742 85,500
1919.. 32,463 10 ~ „ 20,000 12,463 97,963
1920.. 34,133 10 „ „ 20,565 13,568 111,531
The net profit shown by the directors was
£21,393, but that was after providing for
depreciation and “various contingencies.”
Other accounts besides contingencies had
gifts bestowed upon them wTiich were also not
regarded as profits: £1099 was tacked on
to general reserves; £6500 was dropped into
an insurance reserve; and a dividend equal-
isation reserve benefited by £5141. These
additions, together with the £21,393, give
the £34,133 of profit shown in the table
above. But even that probably does not
represent the full measure of net earnings
for the year, for a new “contingency
account” shows up in the balance-sheet with
£15.057 to its credit, and that may be partly
or wholly true profit. Apart from
this contingency appropriation it is very
clear that Newcastle-Wallsend has had a
splendid year, notwithstanding that the ship-
ping strike dislocated the coal, trade during
the first three months of the period. For
the remainder of the year, however, opera-
tions were unusually brisk, and the northern
coalfields during the 12 months produced
1,700,000 tons more than for 1919. There
were further heavy increases in wages, but
these additional costs were promptly passed
on to the consumer by the Coal Tribunal.
Newcastle-Wallsend nowadays does not
restrict its operations to the Borehole seam ;
in 1915 it took up 1277 acres ow the Mait-
land field, and its colliery there, the Pelton,
has been an important feeder for profits. A
considerable amount was spent on its de-
velopment and equipment, disclosed to some
extent by the movements of the fixed assets
entry in the following comparison:—
1915. 1918. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £22,622 £36,641 £42,999 £25,172
Fixed assets .. 230,682 279,098 295,270 298,796
Liquid assets . . 59,056 53,043 55,692 97,447
The increase in the book value of properties,
plant, etc., does not represent the full outlay
on the Pelton, for the figures are affected
from year to year by the amounts writ-
ten off for depreciation, and whether more
than ample has been struck off in this way
cannot be ascertained. Also, the item appa-
rently includes stocks of coal on hand. A
comparison of the cash position at the
latest balance compared with 12 months ago
throws further light on the. past year’s opera-
tions. After paying the 1919 final div.
there was a surplus of cash assets over lia-
bilities of £2693. Including the interim
div. distributed, during the year the surplus
was expanded to £81,959; but that was
after getting in £33,917 calls on 5000 new
£lO shares issued at par, which were
promptly snapped up by old holders. Without
the assistance of this new capital, the
surplus was built up by £45,349, re-
presenting the solid cash improvement
after whatever was outlayed on fixed assets.
Deduct from that £45,349 the amounts which
should be put aside as a set-off against the
wasting asset and as an allowance for re-
newals, etc., and an idea can be got of the
magnificent run the co. has had. Going
back five years, just prior to the opening up
of the Pelton, reveals that after develop-
ing and equipping that important Maitland
producer and paying an average dividend
of 71 p.c. p.a. on a capital doubled by a
bonus issue in 1914, the liquid surplus
has, apart from the new capital recently
got in, shrunk by about only £3OOO. Put
another way, the Newcastle-Wallsend has
in that short period maintained its plant
in efficient order, paid good dividends and,
except for about £3OOO, met the cost of
developing and equipping its new mine out
of revenue. So despite all mine-labor troubles,
shipping scarcity, maritime strikes and
other inconveniences, the Newcastle-Walls-
end shareholder has had nothing to com-
plain about.
* * * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
ten , To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, ’13..£1580 24 p.c. = £6OO £486 £494 £348
Dec., ’13.. 1775 2| ~ „ 600 891 284 632
June, T 4.. 1539 21 „ „ 600 450 489 1121
Dec., ’14.. 1423 24 „ „ 600 450 373 1494
June, ’15.. 1447 24 „ „ 600 450 397 1891
Dec., ’15.. 1799 3} ~ „ 900 450 449 2340
June, ’16.. 1315 3| „ „ 900 300 115 2455
Dec., T 6.. 1507 3} „ „ 900 300 307 2762
June, ’l7'.. 1472 3} „ „ 900 300 272 3034
Dec., ’17.. 1548 3f „ „ 900 300 348 3382
June,’lB.. 1611 3? „ „ 900 300 411 3793
Dec., ’lB.. 2326 3| „ „ 900 465 961 4754
June, T 9.. 2031 5 „ „ 1200 465 366 5120
Dec., T 9.. 2227 5 ~ „ 1200 596 431 5551
Hotel delicensing compensation, 600 6151
June,’2o.. 1967 5 p.c. = 1200 465 302 6453
Dec., ’20.. 1960 5 „ „ 1200 465 295 6748
For over 30 years this co. has run Mel-
bourne Theatre Royal. The management
has not only had to try to find divs. for
shareholders, but since the property is
leasehold it has also had to make provision
for a return of capital when the lease ex-
pires. The going has not been easy, and
until recently, when divs. were lifted to 5
p.c., shareholders had had very poor returns
on their capital. Six months ago the “Wild
Cat” showed that of the paid capital of
£48,000, less than one-half was represented
by assets which the co. could call its own,
and that £25,781 of shareholders’ capital had
apparently to be, made good before the lease
expired—in about 30 years. Rut all the
management’s troubles have now evaporated.
When it became known that the co. was
willing to sell its rights and belongings,
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., and Rickard’s Tivoli
Theatres, Ltd., did some active bidding for
the theatre, the former finally securing the
oufit by undertaking to pay 455. 6d. for
Theatre Royal Pty. shares, which had been
quoted in a stagnant market at about 14s.
J.C.W.’s has paid over Bs. 4d. per share to
start with, and the balance of 375. 2d. is to
be met in. five equal annual: instalments,
together with 6 p.c. on unpaid balances. It
is a brilliant close to a very dull career.
** * * * .
Paterson, Laing & Bruce, Ltd., softgoods
warehousemen, of Melbourne and Sydney,
still retain their headquarters in London.
The co.’s ordinary capital is a quarter of a
million, but there is also half a million of 6
p.c. prefs. and £233,642 of 4f p.c. mortgage
debentures. There is thus a lot of cheap
money, for these days, to work for the
ordinaries, and naturally since the co. has
had a run “without parallel in its history”
they have had a fine feast. The disclosed
profit on trading for the 12 months to July
last, when the latest balance-sheet closed,
was £115,782. Deducting debenture interest,
pref. divs., directors’ fees, etc., and allowing
£BOOO for staff pensions, there remained
£64,355 available for the ordinaries, equal
to a return of over 25 p.c. Shareholders
got 121 p.c., absorbing £31,250, and leaving
£33,105 available for reserves. Reserves
now exceed ordinary paid capital, so the
actual return on shareholders’ funds is not
quite so handsome as at first appears.
* * * *
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., has drawn a
screen about itself. Last year shareholders
agreed to the concern being converted into a
proprietary co. Now some of them have
made the discovery that the directors are no
longer under an obligation to publish a
balance-sheet, and that in future accounts
will not emerge from the dark-room. And
that, in turn, has meant that the shares are
no longer on the official Exchange list. In
place of the usual accounts all shareholders
have received is a circular telling them that
all is well, and that the directors are con-
fident that “continued prosperity is assured.”


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasned close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. ro
* * * * ■
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe carries more water for its
diameter than any other pipe. It is not impaired
by the effects of electrolysis, acid fumes or corro-
sion. It is light, strong and very durable. Its
carrying capacity does not decrease with age, as does
metal pipe, but remains almost indefinitely. Its
transportation cost is very low—owing to its light-
ness and easiness to handle. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.—Advt.
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wy-nyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
titles, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised J:o communicate with this company.-—Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * » .
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office , tel. Gen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* * * «
, IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Just landed—-“ 1920 Models” “National” Suction
Gas Engines and Plants of 36 to 39 B.H.P. constant
working load, and 43 to 46 B.H.P. constant working
load. Immediate delivery. Arthur Leplastrier and
Company, Circular Quay (East), Sydney.—Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams; “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling f s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, I' urnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
J x l , O8 ’ „£ aI L or wr,te for Particulars. H. B. Selbv ft Co..
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets). Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
“EMPIRE” EDDY-CURRENT
Rotor Controllers.
Made in Glasgow and acknowledged superior
for Motor-driven Plants. Write for Catalog.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Phone: 4031 Central. Box 1303 G.P.0., Melb.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a mail’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death-Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing. Director.
L
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
$8
r\v4
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
ww
w
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
G.D.M.”: U.S. Trade Commissioner
i ernn lias lately taken pains to explain to
Melbourne how the exchange situation hurts
American foreign trade. Most countries
cannot get exchange to pay for American
goods ; and as large quantities already sent
have not been paid for, it is useless to ship
any more. Even American banks with
branches or correspondents in foreign coun-
tries find they cannot get their money re-
mitted to New York. So what ought to
be liquid capital has become lixed in out-
side places. This has checked not only
American trade abroad, but also banking
business. For all this the Americans have
themselves to blame. Through years past
their bankers have been envious of London’s
power as the free gold market of the world,
and have longed to wrest it from her. With
the war came the chance, and the U.S.A.
during the- first two years drained Britain
and France of their gold to the extent of
£500,000,000. Once they got this treasure
in specie and bullion into their vaults,
American bankers thought they had won
the leadership of the world’s finance. But
not having the extensive foreign trade to
help them utilise their vast hoard of gold,
it became a burden on banking, a millstone
round their financial necks. New York did
not win the hegemony of the world’s finan-
cial markets, and -London still remains the
earth’s financial centre. The solution of
the present exchange situation seems simple.
America ought to start exporting her un-
wanted gold through her banking corres-
pondents abroad to those countries where
exchange is nominal or difficult to acquire.
The pendulum would begin slowly to swing
the other way, and a modicum of deflation
might be attained by some of the European
countries. To stabilise exchange the United
States must loosen her hold on the world’s
gold. A mixed metaphor here seems appro-
priate to the effect .that a dog in the
manger can’t have his biscuit and eat it too.
At one time Westralia had 18 gold-pro-
ducing fields and nearly treble that number
of busy mining centres. Now only about half
a dozen fields are left and barely double that
number of centres are alive. If anything
went wrong with the few struggling surviv-
ing mines at Kalgoorlie the monthly yield,
now that the Lancefield is closed down, the
Sons of Gwalia idle and the Bullfinch about
to give up, would not reach five figures. With-
out any new mines of size in sight the out-
look is pitifully dismal, yet all Premier Mit-
chell does when asked to lend a helping hand
is to remark that when the goldfields workers
get tired of mining they can go on to the
wheat areas.
* * * *
A Bulletin man has another look:
Hampton Plains now presents a dreary and deso-
late sight. Apart from the Celebration, Pernatty
and Mutooroo, at the north, and the two Hopes,
Golden and White, at the south end of the field,
practically no activity is visible, and to the cos.
owning these shows is left the task and expense of
proving whether, even with gold at its present high
premium, production can be carried on at a profit.
Dozens of leases for which fancy prices were asked
a year ago can now be had for pegging, and the
holders of dozens of others are prepared to waive
big deposits and take a hundred or two for what they
demanded 10 to 15 thousand at the height of the
hoom. Meantime a number of the “experts” who
reported the existence of free gold-bearing reefs and
lodes here, there and everywhere, or rich loams,
etc., are lying low or have disappeared.
* * * *
Westonia is more than ever sickly. The
belief of Giblin’s successor that the Central
had a chance has been pretty well drowned
by the rush of water at No. 5 level. This
left only 7dwt. to lOdwt. stuff in the higher
levels to meet the heavy expenses of a half
water-logged show. Now an engineering ex-
pert from Melbourne is to try to fix up a
fresh pumping scheme. Until his last word
is said stoping at the Central is to end:
7dwt. dirt does not pay with the shoots
available. Deeps, next door, is not much
better off. Like most other Westralian gold-
mines, only the high gold premium keeps it
going. Consolidated is left with a heap of
tailings and a lot of treacherous ground.
Some day the tails may go to the vat.
Westonia has become a dreary spot.
* * * *
Lanarkshire Gold Mines, formed 12 months
ago to acquire an apparently valueless diorite
hill on Hampton Plains, held a meeting in
Adelaide the other day. The usual regrets
at finding nothing were expressed by the
chairman, and shareholders were informed
that tools and equipment had been carefully
stored and that funds were being conserved
with a view to acquiring something else.
Lanarkshire Hill was one of the many pro-
perties palmed off on the public during the
boom, and, like the rest, would never have
been floated had the reuort of an expert of
standing been first insisted on.
* * * *
Including the premium, gold to the value
of £216,248 was produced by Kalgurli
(W.A.) last year. The profit, which almost
coincided with the amount of premium
received, was £30,270, and after paying a 4s.
div., the co. had on July 31 about £50,000
in cash, bullion and investments after provid-
ing for liabilities. Since then operations
have shown a loss of several thousands, but
the gold premium when it comes along is
expected to convert this loss into a profit.
However, two months ago the manager re-
ported that profitable working could not be
continued for more than two or three months.
Since then the substantial concessions in
respect to wages, hours and conditions
granted by the Arbitration Court make the
position of the 00. worse still. If, as antici-
pated, the mine is worked out at an early
date, the future of the co. will depend upon
the maintenance of a good supply of ore from
outside, and the prospects of such supplies
are at present not good. During the year
the Board obtained an option on a gold-
dredging area in Peru, but it proved a poor
affair and was promptly abandoned.
* * * *
The silence concerning the progress of the
oil-hunt in Papua by the Anglo-Persian Cq.
has been broken by a statement by that big
concern’s chairman to the effect that test-
drilling has proved disappointing to date.
Apparently the old ground has been aban-
doned, for Greenway talks of “other likely
areas” having been located, on which test-
drilling is to commence at once.
# * * •
Having worried the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for a £ for £ grant, S. Aus. oil
enthusiasts had to await an inspection by
geologist Carne. Keith Ward, State geology
director, did the honors at Tantanoola and
Robe, and the pair agreed that superficial
indications of oil in the region were absent,
“or, at least, unrecognised.” Later comes
the straight-out opinion that in the absence
of any visible structural indications favor-
able to the occurrence of mineral oil all work
with the drills is mere blind stabbing.
That is the obvious for those who have
talked about the vast oil possibilities of the
south-east. The washing ashore of bitumen
on the coast-line near-by and at Kangaroo
Island has been the base on which most of
the cash for boring has so far been raised.
These occurrences, the Carne-Ward com-
bination contends, are adventitious appear-
ances, and as they occur in other parts of
the coast of Australia they cannot, in the
absence of geological indications, be regarded
as worth anything. The pair of scientists
let out the secret that they recommended
the Commonwealth to permit the cos. who
wanted to bore to do so, so long as they are
prepared to put up their own cash to pay
for work.
* * * *•
“J.L.S.” in reply :
“Geologist” (B. 3/2/’2l) wrongly interprets my
par. on Queensland oil prospects (B, 20/l/’2l),
which discussed the probability of a certain area
around Roma being a has-been oilfield. My remarks
did not apply to the entire State. Since Cfinning-
ham-Craig’s opinion, the additional evidence has not
tended to discount it very much, and the extraction
of crude oil by means of solvents from the Spring-
leigh bore cuttings at 6700 feet may be a matter of
great scientific interest, but is hardly “striking”
petroleum.
If the State experts have decided that the oil-
bearing sands underlie the thick cretaceous
series unconformably, then why, at this stage,
continue to go through such thick beds in
the hopes of reaching an oil horizon in older rocks,
where the configuration is unknown, when there is
direct evidence of terrace structure and folds for
likely oil accumulation in the large Jurassic area
north and east of Roma? The Queensland bores are,
I believe, the deepest in the world, though possibly
not the most expensive, and doubtless the committee
in control of the development of the State oilfields
will make every effort -to drill in districts where the
supposed oil horizons are nearest the surface; and
that is why I stated that the Queensland Government
is likely to have a better run from boring sites
selected at the conclusion of Jensen’s oil survey than
it has had at Roma.
If the vicissitudes that the Roma well has passed
through, and the enormous waste of casing-head gaso-
line recoverable by standard methods "of stripping do
not constitute a poor run for the Queensland Govern-
ment, then I would like “Geologist’s” opinion as to
what really does constitute a poor run.
* * * *
Another Hill End float has been intro-
duced to Sydney by the Marshalls. This
time it is the Hill End Junction, in 100,000
shares of 2s. each, of which 44,000 are
ottered to the public and 56,000 are to be
bagged by vendors. Ancient history has
again been resurrected to aid the float, the
records of the participants in the boom of
’72 being presented. Market prices of eight
old shows, whose “base-line was about 800 ft.,”
ran out at £l2OO per foot in the boom ; but
“the above represent only one-third of the
area” held by the proposed Junction co.
Further space in the prospectus is de-
voted to recalling the prices paid for original
shares in the various shows before their
golden wonders were unearthed. What all
this has to do with the merits of the present
flotation The Bulletin does not know. As
the promoters admit, “this famous shoot was
worked through one claim to another until
it cut out suddenly and up till now all
prospecting operations have failed to find
its continuation southwards.” Now it is
declared that recfent work done by Mar-
shall’s Hill End has “discovered the* reason
why the gold cut off suddenly.” No signa-
ture backs up that bare statement, nor is it
accompanied by any evidence to support
hopes of a recurrence of the riches.
Junction is being floated to go after this
lost shoot, and to work certain parts of the
property where “highly payable gold values
appear to exist.” But if the secret of the
lost shoot has been discovered with the aid
of the Marshall’s Hill End Co.’s cash, how is
it that that concern is not benefiting by the
find? Junction is taking over two areas,
one being on tribute from the Marshall’s co.
But did not that concern also originally own
the other block ? Anyhow, who are the
people bagging the 56,000 paids, and why?
Vegetable Creek, Emmaville (N.S.W.)»
which has been the State’s biggest tin-pro-
ducer of late years, is now practically
worked out, and the Board was called to-
gether last week to talk things over in the
light of tin at around £155 per ton. General-
manager Atkinson gave out that another
three or four weeks would see the last wash
extracted from the Gordon shaft. When
that is finished there will remain only the
headings at the Allen and Chandler shafts,
but work at the latter is to be continued only
so long as it is profitable. Both boring
plants are biting through the basalt in search
of new tin drifts, but so far the lead, if
such there be, has proved a will-o’-the-wisp.
Ardlethan tinfield (N.S.W.) has a deserted
appearance. Carpathia decided to close
down a fortnight ago, and about 60 men have
been paid off. None of the other mines is
producing, nor can they hope to operate
profitably at the present metal price. Car-
pathia took the wisest course early, and has
a cash balance, as well as concentrates which
it can afford to hold until tin recovers. White
Crystal is spending money on additional
plant, and is continuing development work
in the hope of locating ore for treatment
when tin prices look up again. It is the
same old story, the mine is little better than
a prospecting show. It has not shown a
profit since it was floated in the old boom
days of the field, and depends for its exist-
ence on a shoot of tin-wolfram ore waich
sweetens up the low-grade stuff from Crosby’s
Hill. Manager L. C. Lovat, of Dumbrell’s
Bygoo, paints a bright picture for his mine.
He reckons on having the 10-lid. battery and
plant at work at the end of this month, and
figures on profitable wofking with tin at
30s. per unit. He has been develop-
ing the bodies and preparing to raise
ore. Lovat estimates cost of mining and
treatment of ore at 245. per ton, and with
2 p.c. stuff ficrmes on producing 66 p c. con-
centrates at £6O per ton, while at 30s. per
unit it is worth £99 per ton. He comes to
the conclusion that “owing to the size of
the ore body and its comparatively soft
nature, and the absence of impurities,” the
mine can be so econoihically worked as to
pay even at the present low price of tin.
Tasmanian mining is at present in a sorry
position due to the falling metal prices, and
most of the producing mines have gone out of
business for the time being. In tin circles,
the Boulder, Renison-Bell, Bischoff and
Bischoff Extended, Wier’s, Storey’s Creek,
S. and M. Co., Arba, Pioneer, etc., are all
more or less dormant. The three lead cos.,
Round Hill, Magnet and North Farrell, are .
only hanging on by their teeth, and with the
recent sharp fall in silver they are due to
quit at any time. Osmiridium is unsaleable,
and 200-odd diggers who have been figuring
their yields at £35 per ounce, .are getting
quite shy of the storekeepers who have been
grub-staking them. As for Mt. Lyell, only an
incurable optimist or an A.W.U. organiser
believes this co. to be operating,at a profit.
There-is every reason to believe Lyell cannot
produce copper at much less than £lOO per
ton. In the face of the present adversity,
the Tas. branch of the A.W.U. has prepared
a log seeking a considerable increase of the
basic rate, shorter hours, etc. The latest
A.W.U. demand just about adds R.I.P. to
the Speck’s prospects as an exporter of
metals, unless a remarkable recovery in
prices takes place.
* * * #
Large-scale operations at Mt. Bischoff
have been suspended while the depression in
the tin market continues. Development work
underground is being continued, the ore so
won being the only stuff that is being treated
by the mill. Constructional work on the new
large roasting furnace is being rushed so as
to place the co. in a position to attack
the 3000-odd tons of 2£ p.c. pyritic con-
centrates that have been recovered in the
slime sheds under normal conditions at the
rate of 18 tons per day. It is estimated that
the furnace will cope with 150 tons per week
at a cost of 12s. per ton, so that this plant
will not only add considerably to the output
and stability of the old mine, but will return
a handsome profit at all times from lo'v-
grade concentrates. Under the restricted
conditions of work an output of 20 tons per
month is proposed. A corresponding quiet-
ness is in evidence at the smelters. The tin
coming forward’ from the Speck mines is
not sufficient to keep one furnace in opera-
tion full time, and the shipping strike and
increased freights have practically settled the
inter-State oxide trade, so much so that there
is a possibility of the works closing for a few
months.
* * * *
, D “ r j n « last half year Arba tin (Tas.)
treated b 5,000 c. yd. for a return of 38 tons
of tin oxide. The average grade recovered
was 1.31 b. per yd. and a loss of £023 re-
sulted. The old m.ne is now almost worked
out. In keeping with most other Tasmanian
shows, Arba is at present closed down.
* * * *
The owners of the cobalt show at Clon-
curry (N.Q.), having found that tD pick
high-grade stuff from a 3 to 5 p.c. ope body
is a slow proposition, have arranged for a
N. S. Wales ore-buying co. to spend 440,000
on installing a concentrating plant. The
plant has been ordered, and will be set to
work as soon as possible.
“B.”: Caustic soda is gradually sl&pping
out of the hands of the importer atod be-
coming an Australian production. The Mount
Lyel! chemical works at Yarraville (Vic )
are now manufacturing the substance, and a
plant capable of meeting the whole of the
Commonwealth’s requirements is to be in-
stalled. A much imported by-product, sul-
phur monocliloride, is also now being turned
out at the same works, and is proving of high
quality to the rubber firms that use it. Sul-
phur monochloride, by the way, has a special
wa i interest. It was one of the constitu-
ents of the first gas that the gentle Hun
squirted on the Western Front
*** ' *
According to A. H. Moreing. of Bewick
Moreing and Co., the ancient Cornwall
(Eng.) field is not the worked-out area some
people thmk it is. He expresses himself
as confident that there was more tin in
Cornwall than had been taken out of it”
Recent developments in the Tehidy proper-
ties have unearthed ore richer than'has been
met for many years.


WHY WORRY?
THE ARRIVIST: “What’s wrong with the world, laddie, when you can afford politicians who can afford to live in this style?”


n
£
3S
MOS
J-H-C
ABBOTS
LAGER.
J7te 2)rm/?for
allfrue Sjporlsmen
j Da
mn
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear ?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEJ3SEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Robert Charles Harris, over whom the
grave closed the other day, owned and edited
the Diamond Valley Advertiser (Vic.).
Born at Queenstown, within cooee of the
little printing office with which it was his
destiny to be associated, he went to work on
the paper (then called the Evelyn
Observer), in 1873, when a lad of 13 and lie
realised the ambition of his life when he
acquired the sheet. Two sons were in the
European business, and ope fell on the field
of honor.
Edmond Leolin Piesse, director of the
Pacific branch of the P.M.’s many-twigged
Department, is one of the few Australians
who have more than a nodding acquaintance
with the Japanese language. He belongs to
a family which has been in the Speck for
nearly a century, while another branch was
amongst the earliest of West-
ra)ja. He was trained to the law but was a
mathematician b y
instinct, and used
to revel in nth
dimension analyses
of the proportional
voting at Tas-
manian elections.
During the war
Piesse turned his
keen brain to
account in another
way, and did a lot
of intelligence work
for the Defence
Department, which
needed all the in-
telligence it could
get.
DONALD
McLEOD, who has
represented Dayles-
ford in Vic. Assem-
bly for over 20
years.
All the brains in the Kipling clan don’t
run to literature. Rudyard Noel Kipling
Beedham, whose maternal grandfather was
Jonathan Kipling, a cousin of the other Rud-
yard’s father, has been called to the Speck
Bar at 21 after what is reckoned about the
most brilliant law course on record in the
island.
Charles Ellis Davies, M.D.C. of the Speck,
who died from sudden seizure in his motor-
car while going to Launceston races, had
been managing proprietor of Hobart Mer-
cuey for just on half a century, having
taken charge on the death in 1872 of his
father, John, the pushful founder of the
paper and the family fortunes. With the
backing of the Mercury' afid the loyal assist-
ance of the various institutions which he
founded or fostered, C.E.D. had no diffi-
culty in maintaining a front place among the
publicists of his State. Though never taking'
Ministerial office himself, he made or broke
at least a dozen Cabinets. For 25 years
he was M.L.C. for the “pocket borough” of
Cambridge. The only time he was opposed
was in 1909, during his absence in England,
but he was elected top of the poll. His
brother John George, who ended up as a
K.C.M.G. a decade ago, found scope for his
public activity in municipal (frequently
mayoral) and Assembly politics (some time
Speaker). Thus both busy brothers brought
grist to the Mercury mill, and the firm of
Davies Bros, waxed fat. Sport runs in the
family, and Charles raced horses under the
name of S. M. Wilson.
“D.”: The memoirs of Lord Rossinore
(“Things I Can Tell”), who died last week,
fell very flat when they were published eight
or nine years ago. He told nothing at all,
and as a participant in the revels of the
“Marlborough House Set” during about
quarter of a century, it was felt that he
might have told much. The real excitement
•began some months after the appearance of
the cheerful old roue’s book in the form of
a libel action brought by one Mr?. Ffoulkes
A COMPLETE DEFENCE.
“Now, book —you were out with a lady last
night !”
“No, no, I assure you—it was my wife!”
against the publishers. It was disclosed
during the hearing that Mrs. Ffoulkes had
written Lord Rossmore’s reminiscences for
him, and also Lady Cardigan’s far more sen-
sational memoirs. As no one challenged
these claims a slump set in in Society remi-
niscences. which lasted until Mrs. Asquith
somersaulted into the ring last month.
J. M. Balfour who used to be secretary to
the Central Wool Committee and is going
over to the new Wool Realisation Co., is
a man who has doubled luck with skill. From
a smallish job in the electrical engineering
branch of the Postal Department he went
to be secretary of the Public Service Clerical
Assoc., the job now held down by Tom
Maher. From that he was translated to
secretary of the first Commonwealth Prices
Commission, which died at an early age. That
left him rather at a loose end, but then the
British Government bought our wool, and,
incidentally, created a good billet, and Bal-
four discovered that it would just suit him.
It is worth £lOOO a year.
A memory of the Barcoo: —
With the passing of Alec Murphy, in Melbourne,
there went out about the last of the old-time Barcoo
squattocraey. John Turnbull, of Lansdowne, Dick
Casey, of Terrick, and Herbert Power recently preceded
him. The, firm of Francis Murphy and Sons bought
Northampton Downs, on the Barcoo, from the Rome
brothers in the early ’seventies, and they hung on to
the fine old run until a few years ago, when Jim
Clark, the pearler, bought it. Though they did not
live on the station in the earlier years, Alec and his
elder brother, Frank, paid frequent visits; and
Frank, who died in 1892, was member for the Bar-
coo in the Queensland Assembly for years. The
Barcoo was full of Victorians in those days, notably
the Govgtts and Olivers at Portland Downs, the
Fairbairns at Lansdowne, and Donald Wallace and
Casey at Terrick. Later the brothers bought
Ravensbourne, alongside Northampton, and Arcturus
in the Springsure country, but Northampton was
always their star place. They set the pace in
quality sheep, while King of the North and other
fine horses made the “FY7” brand, famous among
horsebuvers in the Northern State.' Even in those
days, the late part-owner of Artilleryman, which
didn’t long survive him, did a bit of racing, and
the brothers’ colors, yellow jacket and black cap,
scored many a win at the old Western Downs meet-
ings at Blackall, Tambo, etc. The walls of the old
dining-room at the station were covered with racing
and show cups.
It will take years to re-unite the West-
ralian Labor fragments, but Phil Collier,
who delivered his -policy speech last week,
hasn’t given up hope. Collier is a Victorian,
and has represented Boulder in the Leg.
Assembly for 15 years. He was easily the
best administrator in the happy-go-lucky
Scaddan Government, and there is no more
telling debater in either House. But since
1910 his party’s luck has been out, and if
he had the tongue of Cicero and the wisdom
of Solomon Labor would go down at the
elections next month.
Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide Adver-
tiser, has written his name alongside those
of Elder and Hughes as benefactors of the
local University. His scheme is eminently
businesslike. The University has no great
hall, its Elder Hall being a part of the
' °?J SPrv Rtorium. and Bonython is to provide
£40,000 to build one—but not yet. There
has been a suggestion to replant the whole
institution somewhere outside the city,
where it will have more room ; but an equally
strong party would keep it where it is on
Aorth Terrace. Anyway, Bonython considers
another 10 years ought to settle the question ;
and he has paid to the Government a sum
(not disclosed) on which it has undertaken
to hand the University £40,000 at the end
of IJoO. Bonython’s biggest previous bene-
faction in one lump was £.10,000, given to the
Adelaide School of Mines, of which he has
been chairman since its foundation.
“Hannibal” on another old ’un:—
Port Macquarie (North Coast, N.S.W.) will also
have a centenary in a month or two. When wool
was overlanded from the New England tablelands, it
was a rijal port in a small way; but nowadays
it is chiefly a holiday resort. Thomas Dick, a local
veteran, has written a history of the old town (it
is appearing serially in the local paper). He has an
extensive collection of. relies, including cannon-balls
from Ben Boyd’s yacht, The Wanderer, which was
wrecked in the neighborhood. Robert Davidson, who
iepresented the old Hastings and Macleay electorate
for many years, and whom Harry Morton called “the
white flower of the House,’’ spends the evening of
his life at Port Macquarie. And it was the birth-
place of Louis Becke.
“J.R.D.” : A poet has some honor in his
own country. Brisbane Courier remem-
bered the other day that it was 50 years
since Brunton Stephens had published “Con-
vict I met Stephens when he was
tutor to William Barker’s boys on Tam-
rookum station, Logan River, 60 miles south
of Brisbane. The poet had a pleasant home
there in the bachelors’ quarters, and was his
own boss. , He taught me my ABC, and
I can recall the rough drafts of many of his
literary efforts, including “Convict Once.”
His verses on the skull of the last aborigine
were evidently inspired by the Round Moun-
tain cave, two miles from Tamrookum home-
stead. The cave in Stephens’s time was
chock-a-block with Binghi’s ancestors, all
bleached and looking very clean and respect-
able ; the collection was supposed to be evi-
dence of some prehistoric epidemic. Mrs.
Campbell-Praed. Queensland’s first novelist,
was a girl, on Maroon station, 25 miles away.
She married from there, her husband being
connected with the Praed banking and
brewery people in London. She and her
daughter Maud revisited Queensland about
1893, and the lady was shocked at the way
the old runs had dwindled away.
W. H. Winter, dead in Adelaide at 62, was
Anglican vicar at suburban Glen Osmond,
but better known as a writer. He took all
kinds of distinctions at Trinity College,
Dublin, before coming to Australia for his
health in 1904. He was keen in contro-
versy and criticism r but his one pet work
was a heavy five-act drama on “Queen Eliza-
beth,” published just before the war.
Australia has lost one of its finest up-
country newspaper men in David Drysdale,
latterly of Port Lincoln (S.A.). He was
Scotch by birth but Victorian by training,
having had 22 years in Castlemaine (Vic.)
on the Representative, at first under G. A.
Walstab, and later on his own account. In
1877 he moved over the border, and had since
run the Port Augusta Dispatch, and at Port
Lincoln the West Coast Recorder. He
was 75 at the close.
It’s a rare wind that blows ill to nobody.
Mercurial Winston Churchill inherits ah
estate with a formidable rent-roll in Ire-
land, and forthwith his political pals are
in a panic. In the days of his hard-upness
it could never be foretold in what direction
Winston would break out next; and now
that he’s come into ’is little bit o’ splosh—
well, they don’t know where they are. His
windfall—which came through the death of
a cousin, Lord Vane-Tempest, in a railway
smash—is spoken of as the most portentous
happening of a decade, the suggestion being
that now he is free of a financial leg-rope
he'll upset the whole political milk-pail by
heading a party himself. All hands regard
him as a force to be reckoned with, and he
becomes an interrogation mark raised to the
nth degree. Apart from this inheritance, he
was due for a bean or two from his war-
book, now in preparation. The firm whc
published Margot’s autobiography is said
to be giving him something over £lO 000
for it.
M annambool has decided to keep green the
memory of ex-Tremier Jack Murray by hang-
ing an oil-painting of him in the local art
gallery. Jack’s most notable speech in the Vic.
Assembly, where
h e represented
Warrnambool for
3 2 year s, wa s
made in 1901, after
he had become a
total-abstainer. He
invited the'’ House
to regard h i m
as a brand
snatched from the
burning, an d
pleaded the cause
of the dipsomaniac
s o strongly that
Parliament heark-
ened and the Lara
retreat was estab-
-lis h e d for men,
arrangements being
made with the
Salv’army to pro-
vide fo r women.
Had Watt been as
successful in per-
suading Hughes to
stand aside in his
favor as he was
with .Tack Murray
in 1912, #he history
of tiie last two
years would have
been written differ-
ently.
ATLEE HUNT,
just-appointed
Public Service
Arbitrator.
A Maori of some tonnage shifted to the
happy hunting-grounds from Opotiki recently
in Arapeta Taraao. He was a chief of the
Kawaitangohua tribe, and noted, for great
strength and stature. He was also 99, and
leaves the last of 13 wives to mourn his loss.
Dead in Hobart, at 80, Archpriest Hen-
nebry, a great builder and philanthropist.
He came from Ireland in 1866, and will be
best remembered by the buildings erected
under his supervision, and largely financed
through his efforts. At New Town he raised
one of the finest suburban Catholic churches
in the Speck. The Magdalen Home at
Mount St. Canice was another of his
achievements, but dearest of all to the kindly
old man's heart was St. Joseph’s Orphanage,
of which he remained governor until the end.
Lieut. J. C. Mclntosh has abandoned the
notion of a round-the-world flight—for the
time being at least. The adventurous Scotch-
Australian has bought Major Norman Brear-
ley’s flying outfit, which includes two Avro
machines and accessories, and intends set-
tling down in Westralia as a professional
aviator, this being Mac’s idea of a quiet life.
Since July, 1919, Brearley has flown 20,000
miles, carried 3250 passengers and made
2000 landings without accident, despite
the handicap of a bullet wound in the chest.
It all goes to show that, in competent hands,
aeroplaning is almost as safe as automobil-
ing.
Henry Helc, head accountant of Adelaide
Register, has retired after 64 years’ service.
He eiitered the office in 1856 ; but C. J. Page
followed in 1857 and C. H. Franklin in 1858,
and both -are still in harness and going strong.
From the estate of George Godfrey, a
former legal member of the Uppah Cham-
bah, the Vic. Treasury has raked in
£15,179 in probate duty. It also has lifted
£3866 from the little lot left by Norman
Menzies, Dorothy Vane’s husband.
“Gallery”: M. L. Shepherd and Atlee
Hunt, who have just been shifted to big
billets carrying £2OOO a year, are two of the
most unpopular heads in the service. Hunt
has won disfavor by his cold and reticent
official manner; mischievous egotism is the
quality that has got Shepherd disliked. Even
before he arrived at the Prime Minister’s
department he had an exalted view of himself,
and the self-inflation has gone on unchecked
in spite of rebuffs. Probably one of the
biggest knocks he received was in the Federal
Parliament, where, as “galloper” for Billy
Hughes, he used to fuss about informally,
until someone complained, and Shepherd was
tartly recommended to confine himself to his
own small sphere of authority. The poor
fellow took the “insult” rather badly, especi-
ally as he found that Hughes was unable to
soften the blow to his feelings.
MY PETER MITCHELL GIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Apart from bequests to the widow and other
individuals the annual income from the late Peter
Mitchell’s enormously rich Bringenforong estate on
the Upper Murray is to be divided among “capable,
healthy and strong” young Australians, selected by
competition. One-third of the prize-money will go
every year to 15 “unmarried females not exceeding
the age of 30,” who must be versed in Shaksueare,
the Protestant Bible and the standard novelists, in
history, geography, climatology, elementary anatomy
and physiology, housekeeping, nursing, sanitary
science and the care of the young. The ladies must
also be physically perfect (and “not the offspring
of first cousins”), bright and cheerful, able to ride
and swim, and “calculated generally to bear and
rear healthy, normal children.”
My Kate’s the very model of a Peter Mitchell miss,
A girl from whom an anchorite would long to steal
a kiss.
Of standard English novels she’s assimilated dozens ;
Her father and her mother didn’t happen to be
cousins ;
She’s keen on climatology and history’s her forte,
Preeminent in Scripture, she’s superlative in sport.
The kind of girl is Kitty they immortalise in, books,
She golfs'and plays the violin, she gardens and she
cooks.
And when a baby hollers she can rub its little tummy
Incomparably better than its own distracted mummie.
Seductive as a jazzer, she’s a scientific nurse,
A dasher in the saddle and a dab at writing verse.
Her eminent attainments and “the goodness of her
health”
Should certainly entitle her to some of Peter’s
wealth.
She warbles like the nightingale that thrilled the
old Arcadians;
1 know she’s got a figger, for I’ve seen her in
Canadians;
But I want to ask a question of those Bringenbrong
trustees:
Can a girl be “in the money” if she “brushes” at
the knees ?
N.B.W.
WODGIL.


o
$
C\j
u
v
4-' 1 rl
a
&
***
%
II
\
w
7
m
m
m
*JJOME folk say it’s
the handsome pat-
terns, some the com-
fortable fit, others the
excellent wea r
anyway, everyone’s got
something’ appreciative
to say about these
" «*
Pelaco Shirts.
Ask your mercer for
them by name.
nm
n


A Medium-shape Felt.
/
This hat strikes the happy medium between the new
much-curled brim and the lately popular flat-set
brim.
»
It offers at once service and smartness, being neither
too small nor too large for either requirement.
Pure felt, containing absolutely no admixture, it is
sold under Peapes’ “Warrigal” Trade-mark —a
guarantee of excellence. With 2§in. brim, smooth
finish, greaseproof leather, and bow at side. In
colors, Grey, Fawn and Steel— ' - - *'7: ‘
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size and color.
30/-
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*sK. ill,
TO-MORROW
when you wake take
a spoonful of Sal
Hepatica in a glass
of water as certain
assurance of good
health. Doh’t confuse
Sal Hepatica with
fruit salts. Sal
Hepatica is a pure
saline preparation
which provides an
artificial mineral
water, embodying
laxative and tonic
properties similar to
the well-known min-
eral waters of Europe.
a
8s
ALWAYS
when you are threat-
ened with bilious-
n e s s, indigestion,
headache, constipa-
tion and other ail-
ments arising out of
a derangement of the
stomach or liver,
take Sal Hepatica in-
stead of h a r s h
mineral or vegetable
medicines. The
potency of Sal He-
patica is recognised
b y doctors, wb o
regularly recommend
this preparation. It s
pure and pleasant.
Price, 2/-, 4/-. All
Chemists.
SAL HEPATICA
‘Pleasant to tade .
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
THE LAPSING HOURS.
“Is she what you would call a fast girl?"
“Fast? I should say so! Why at last
night's dance she must have covered at
least six laps in an hour.”
“Billy T.”: There is a better story of the
Science Congressman whose idiosyncrasy in-
spired a recent par. While in Melbourne he
met a professional friend and greeted him
warmly by the name of a mutual acquaint-
ance. “I am glad to have seen you again,
Mr. Blanker,” he said, offering his hand at
parting. “That is very kind of you, I am
sure,” the other replied, “seeing that it is now
14 months since you attended my funeral.”
“Is that so?” gasped the puzzled Professor.
“It is so indeed. Blanker was buried in Decem-
ber, 1919.” “Dear me,” murmured the Pro-
fessor. “Dear me, so he was.” Then,
brightening: “Well, in the circumstances,
Mr. Blanker, I must say you are looking
very well.”
“Wealsman”: One of the reasons why
price-fixing is unpopular among retailers of
a sort is that it makes “receiving” more
risky. For example, when everybody knows
the price grocers must pay for sugar, the
defence that the recipient didn’t suspect any-
thing unusual when offered a few tons at
£5 or so per ton less than the
current price becomes no longer
available. Still, the temptation
to turn a dishonest penny in
this way is, in at least one Aus-
tralian port, said to be quite
strong enough and frequent
enough to induce some retailers
to take the risk. And, after
all, given a big sugar-importing
jam factory with fairly frequent
thousand-ton cargoes to be
yanked out of the ship and
carted in ton-drayloads half a
mile to the place or places of
storage, under conditions which
render strict supervision ex-
tremely difficult, the risk is not
great. That a dray load or two
of the stuff should wander from
the road of righteousness and
be dumped by an absent-minded
carter in the back yard of some
up-town shop is not unnatural
under the circumstances, and
would excite no particular com-
ment. An absent-minded carter
and a thrifty grocer might thus
become the fortunate owners of
£5O worth of a scarce commo-
dity, and the drayman with, say,
£2O in his old dungarees could
be back in the procession of
carters at the ship’s side within
20 minutes. For a pound a
minute almost any profiteer
would take a similar risk. It
is stated on more or less un-
reliable authority that one big
manufacturing firm had a leak-
age in raw material and the finished product
of no less than £30,000 during the war
period. But the shareholders were so pros-
perous that they never noticed it.
• * ' % •
“Dr. Nil”: “Ex-Englishman” (B.
27/l/’2l) reminds me of an old passion for
sporting colors. At Hillston, on the Lach-
lan, in 1889, we had a tennis, club that
wanted a bit of brushing up and a little,
additional tone. My old friend “Stali” and
I called a meeting, and it was decided that
both ends could be accomplished by wearing-
blazers. The colors chosen were those of
the Zingari. In due time we turned out in
uniform at a tea-and-tennis afternoon given
to some of our further-out squatting friends.
The lower orders were there, too, looking
on. “Stali” was elated and the squatter
folk seemed impressed. But you should have
seen “Stali’s” face (not to mention mine)
when next week a humble but essential
worker in the vineyard, employed by the
local sanitary contractor, turned out in all
the glory of a Zingari blazer, supplied (we
learned afterwards) by the lower orders.
Everybody saw the joke but us.
* * * #
“Also Ran”: He had been up to town and
had met a lot of his old A.I.F. cobbers.
Consequently, when he was hustled into the
last train for Dingbat Hollow there was a
goodly supply of beer and crayfish aboard.
The conductor, visiting the compartment,
saw Bill couchant on a cray-strewn floor.
“Here,” said the official, sternly, “I won’t
have that.” Bill waved a deprecating hand.
“Well, take it out and give it to the blanky
engine-driver.”
Said the Journeyman Undertaker: —
“Every game has its peculiar features, I sup?
pose, but cranks gravitate to undertakeries in a
remarkable way. Not long ago we struck a curious
case at our place in South Yarra in the shape of
an old fellow who called and insisted on being
measured for his coffin. ‘lf you want a thing done
well, see to it yourself,’ said he, ‘and I’m goin’
to be buried in no ramshackle affair, flttin’ me all
over and touchin’ me nowhere. I want a made-to-
measure coffin —no ready-made hand-me-down.’ We
persuaded him to go home, but three days later his
son-in-law sent for us and asked us as a special
favor to humor him. ‘Make him his coffin, and
make it as he wants it,’ said the man. ‘Anything
for a quiet life.’ So I took the old chap’s measure,
and, so help me, he was as anxious about it as
if it had been a wedding-suit. I had to measure
him just as a tailor would. Three days after he
turned up at the shop. ‘l’ve come for me try on,’
says he, ‘and darn me if he’d go away till we’d
hauled out the half-made coffin and tried the fit.
He wasn’t pleased with it at all. ‘Call that a fit!’
he yelled. ‘Didn’t I say it was to be sprung in
the back and cut a bit low in front. Dammitall, a
Chow carpenter would give a man a more fashion-
able cut! ’ Then he fetched a yell, caught up a
small axe and went for the box. We had to tear
him off, or he’d have chopped it to chips. ‘I won’t
have it,’ he yelled. ‘I don’t care a curse what you
do or say, I won’t have the thing. Take me to
and I’ll tell ’em the kind of coffin-makers you
are!’ He was almost bursting with fury. ‘Where,’
he screamed —and he had to lean on the wall to
finish—‘where are them side and hip-pockets? Didn’t
I say I’d have side and hip pockets?’ He’s now
dealing with the opposition firm.”
“0.K.”: Last week the Melbourne ’Tec.
Department was upset by the discovery that
a man arrested for travelling with a stolen
ticket had told the truth about how he came
to get it. An insurance canvasser was
hauled off the Sydney express at Alhury for
NO OPTION.
“Mabel, I have seen you out with five differ-
ent boys this week."
“Well, dear, no one fellow can earn enough
to give a girl a good time these days."
the reason that his ticket had been un-
doubtedly stolen from a lady who had booked
through from Adelaide to Sydney. The
alleged culprit said the ticket had been
offered to him for fl by a man standing out-
side Spencer-street (Melb.) station. The
police at once assumed that tlieir captive
was only an inferior sort of liar, but on
further inquiry they learned that the ticket
had been in a purse which a sneak-thief
abstracted from a suburban bedroom. Then
it occurred to them that a stolen railway-
TALKING OF THE LITTLE LUNCH.
DAUGHTER DEAR : “Shall I invite the Professor?"
MOTHER DARLING: “Yes, dear, I think so—he is so absent-minded he might pay the
bill."
ticket of considerable value was just what
would be offered to intending travellers by
a strange man standing outside Spencer-
street station, so they begged to withdraw
their charge. Presumably the released pri-
soner has no case for unlawful arrest
against the police. He did buy a stolen
ticket at an alarming reduction from a man
in the street. But a bishop might have been
persuaded to buy the same ticket under the
same circumstances.
“Spare Corp”: The ex-warrior had been
back seven months before he arranged for the
passage of his English bride; and five months
after arrival the lady gave birth to a little
immigrant, which wasn’t quite as Australian
as it might have been. Mentioning the trouble
in a letter the puzzled foot-slogger said: “I
am inclined to think that the child is not
mine, but my wife says she can’t explain it
•at all, so what am I to doV”
* * * *
“Whitehall” on some dangers of club life:
It has always been socially perilous to attempt
to join a club, and so close a student as Thackeray
laid it down that no well-known man should risk it.
His point was that the best of characters collect
enemies as they go through life—often people who
have never met them, but object to the cut of their
clothes or the shape of their hats. These persons
crowd forward on election days and blackball total
strangers, heedless of the fact that a blackballing is
recalled against a man long after all the good works
he ever did have been forgotten. Occasionally, of
course, the rejected one asks for it, as in the case
of a Sydney man of no great popularity who invited
a number of friends to dine at the club for which
he was “up” on the evening of election day, only to
find he had been turned down by a record offering
of blackballs during the afternoon.
Still, until recently, once a man' got into a club
he was safe. Short of going bankrupt, cheating at
cards, or committing some crime involving imprison-
ment or worse, there was no power which could
push him out. A decision by Mr. Justice Schutt in
the Melbourne Practice Court has altered all that.
The plaintiff, who was applying for an interlocutory
injunction restraining the Victorian Anglers’ Club
from expelling him, had done nothing of a disgraceful
nature. Even the defendant committee admitted that
he was an honorable man and a good angler. But
under one of the rules of this remarkable body any
member may have his membership cancelled at any
time, and no reasons given. In finding for the
defendants the Judge remarked :
The position of plaintiff is precisely the same as
if he had been rejected as a member when first pro-
posed, in which case there would have been no
necessity to give reasons.
But the hardship lies in the circumstance that the
public is unable to look at the matter in this
detached light. To be blackballed were bad enough,
but to be' expelled, and that from a humble circle
banded together not by pride of birth or intellect,
but by the tie of fish —that is shame indeed.
However, the apex of Prussianism as regards vol-
untary associations of this sort is occupied by the
Loyal Orange Institution of England. Here can-
didates may be rejected and members expelled
with ignominy, and in addition, in accordance with
a rule which has just been passed:—
Should any person after leaving the Institution
from any cause whatever be guilty of any offence
or misconduct, either against the laws of the land or
the ordinances of the Institution. .. .the Grand
Lodge shall have power to pass on him a sentence of
expulsion.... and to publish the same in the Grand
Lodge Report and other official documents of the
Order so as to warn the brethren.
This tendency to be unnecessarily arbitrary and puni-
tive and generally unpleasant is, of course, an
aftermath of the war, and it has its dangers. The
chief object of our libel legislation is to discourage
the insulted from taking the law into their own
hands; and there is no reason to think that insults
become any more endurable from the fact that they
have been authorised by a sixpenny book of rules.
(Continued on page IS).
THE COWING OF MRS. MACLEAN: A DRAMA OF
DOMESTIC ADVENTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Just how easily the natives submit to the white
man is illustrated by the one who speaks of these
incidents. The natives employed by him in his
hunting- expeditions mutinied. They were dissatisfied
with their pay. He catne out of his tent to ascer-
tain the cause of all the noise, when they scattered
in all directions. His mere presence had been enough.
‘I never saw them again,’ he added. ‘lt is because
of this that British rule in Central Africa is easy.’ ”
—S. M. Herald interview with visiting explorer.
Mr. Subbubs: I am a strong, cold character. 1 awe
the lower orders.
Cooks, “generals” and jobbers who attend to lawns
and borders
Abase themselves when I am near.
Mrs. Subbubs: He fills them all with abject fear.
Mr. S.: I take, as an example of the sort of thing I
mean
The striking case of Mrs. Bridget Rafferty Maclean.
She came to us as cook. It was a Saturday, I think.
Mrs. S.: A Sunday, dear. You wondered how it
was she smelt of drink.
Mr. S.: Well, Sunday, then. She changed her things
and started on her labors
While we, the cynosure of all the eyes of all the
neighbors,
Awaited with the keenest zest the meal she was pre-
paring,
Delighted with the treasure we had had such luck in
snaring.
A sudden uproar struck my ears.
Mrs. S.: A sound of breaking glasses.
Mr. S.: Wild laughter, mixed with yells and cheers.
Mrs. S.: The crash of plates and brasses.
Mr. S.: My dear, I said, this must not be.
What if the neighbors think it’s me!
Without the slightest sign of either dread or hesita-
tion ;
Mrs. S.: (He neVer even showed he felt a shadow of
vexation.)
Mr. S.: Without, I say, the least delay, I sped along
the passage,
Intent upon accomplishing my self-imposed em-
bassage.
I found our acquisition sitting at the kitchen table,
And in her hands a bottle with an alcoholic label.
“Well! Well!” I said. “I am surprised!”
Mrs. S.: (You see, he never compromised.)
Mr. S.: “Tut! Tut!” I cried. “To think of one who
bears the name Maclean”
I got no further. “What,” she asked, “the devil do
vou mean?”
She then packed up and left, with ev’ry sign of
Detulance,
Not giving back the wages I had paid her in ad-
vance.
We never saw her face again, and that was years
ago.
She simply vanished into space: so we will never
know
The dread that I inspired in her, but this at least
is sure:
My domination was complete, my hold upon her
sure
Mrs. S.: You see the point. She must have bowed
to his compelling will.
If not, the thing is plain, she would be cooking for
us still.’
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


THE PRE-EMINENCE
of the “PIANOLA” PIANO.
THERE are now many different kinds of Piano Players. In view of the claims which are
sometimes made on their behalf, it is important to remember that the “Pianola” Piano’s
recognised supremacy in all the markets of the world is based on constructional excellence.
The superior artistic results obtainable frpm the Pianola Piano are largely due to this
perfection in mechanical detail. Whilst other instruments may have the ability to repeat all
the notes of a composition in proper sequence, they lack the Pianola Piano s greater respon-
siveness, its quality of giving complete freedom to the temperament of the performer.
Pianolas are found in the following Famous Pianos:
STEINWAY, STECK. STROUD and English WEBER.
ONLY FROM GUT 01PT POST to-day.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
384 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
384 George Street, Sydney.
Please post me Art Catalog 81026 of
Pianola Pianos.
Name
Address
ww
r . ,
- J X
,
■ ■- ; " .
m :
X
■; /
m
mttl
*
* Li,, t i
-*■ hi *
S|ti IJitf ,if|j
.. ' , m£% i iff-t. k tM L5 ii•
L
B
B ■
**
rrrr:
% • %
1 *
mm
V
E\.
._< J I
- "•'
I ;■
}?/
L
.. ;
/
r
..
H
,■ :
z'./V
"■j-f m
OA'sjßfc.
*
■ in
y «u>
******£
■:■>■■•'. -■•■-: -,v,v
a
..
.
a
. • r 1
4
'<; . J .::f
agj ■ ■ —■
Ml? '
: H
:
II i
V? ■ K<r
mmmmsmmmmmmmmmmmrnmimmm
~~*~**~*~ ■-^■ndMmrr^' —ft*
iMMI
■
.
-
1
m 1
51 ®
at* ?>*
. ‘1
« r ...r
•V
■.<
**S|;
r - .*
i *
...aci
f : ■ >


nm
Fills Itself in a Flash
Filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. The self-filling mechanism is
part of the pen, and so cannot be lost, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-lashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
There is no other satisfacto y seif-filling pen like the Onoto, so be
sure to g t an Onoto and not an oid-fashioned squirt-fil ed pen!
THOMAS DE LA RUE &, CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Kow, London, E.C, 1.
Managing Agents':
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST
Sydney a nd Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-Be t for all Pens
n
STflg
LftgEß
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management «-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with aay Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“P. Pawnticket” : A competency awaits the
man of enterprise who will supply a busy
populace with letter forms to suit its various
needs. Few people can write a tolerable
letter; the epistles read in the Divorce Court,
for example, are nearly always ridiculous. I
know a man who would have left his wife
long ago, and possibly found happiness, but
for the difficulty he found in putting his
parting emotions letter. The marital
partner who is intending to bolt—and, judg-
ing by the divorce statistics, this may be
safely predicated of thousands—-is generally
too busy to adequately express his or her
feelings in correspondence, and, bearing this
in mind, every up-to-date .stationer would
take at least a dozen copies of an epistolary
farewell like the following:—
Dear , —Our married life has been a failure.
1 think it was a mistake from the start, but I at
least have tried to make the best of it. Realising
the incompatibility of our temperaments, I have
still endeavored to be a good husband—wife* to
you; but my efforts have been unavailing. I can
endure no more; and now I am going away forever
with my spiritual affinity. Perhaps when you have
seeured your freedom and found a happiness we
could never find together, you will think kindly of
Your broken-hearted wife —husband*,
(Name here.)
My love to the three—fouT —five —sixf children.
Do not teach them to forget me.
*Strike out words not required.
tStrike out if no children.
Observe the beautiful simplicity of the thing.
Instead of wasting hours in maudlin and in-
sincere composition, all you would have to do
would be to buy one of these satisfying docu-
ments at the stationer’s, fill in the blanks,
strike out the unnecessary words, .sign your
name, and there you are. Other model letters
might be provided for persons desiring (1) to
break off engagements, (2) insult the butcher,
(3) threaten the milkman, and (4) remon-
strate with the owner of the pianola next
door. There are no patent rights in this
proposal. I offer it to the public in a spirit
of pure altruism.
NO RECOMMENDATION.
“He says he'd marry me if I hadn’t
a penny in the world.”
“Rush him off — lie’s either a bloomin’ liar
or a fool; and I don’t want either in
my family.”
“Demos”: Nothing like getting in early.
Teach the young idea all about it when the
mind is plastic, and it’ll be a tough job shift-
ing the impression. During the railway
strike in Westralia a bush v’orker was badly
injured on one of the privately-owned rail-
ways, which, of course, were not concerned
in the strike. The nearest hospital was 30
miles away, and there v’ere no Government
locos, to do the ministering-angel act, so the
company sent its own loco, off with the
mangled unionist. The sound of a loco.’s
whistle and the rumble of its wheels on a
line that had known neither for days drew
out all the town-dwellers en route, but the
down trip left them no time to cogitate. The
return journey was more leisurely, and at
every hamlet on the way were crowds of
children, who greeted the train-crew with
eives or “Blacklegs' and "S&ibs.” Inciden-
tally. the poor devil who was unwittingly
the cause of this monstrous violation of union
etiquette died in hospital.
NOW THEY DON’T SPEAK.
FIRST GIRLIE (relating the story): “I was in an awful fix!”
HER FRIEND: “Goodness! I wouldn't have liked to have been in your shoes!”
FIRST GIRLIE (coldly): “I should say not —they would have been a size too small
for you!”
“Ewa”: My pal Bill and his intended went
church-hunting and inspected half a dozen
worship-houses. Bill almost fainted when
she intimated that the Salvation Army was
her pick. He protested, but it was no good
—her train had to be shown properly, and
the Salvation Army Hall had the longest
aisle, she said.
“L’Homme Qui Rit”: A solemn farce is
being enacted in Mel-
bourne, and “Control of
Aviation” is its title. It
began with the appoint-
ment of three highly-paid,
officials to the Air Coun-
cil. The chief figure in
the dramatis personal is
the Director of Civil
Aviation, who is about to
select more highly-paid
experts : (1) to help him
register aircraft when
they arrive; (2) to ex-
amine and license pilots
when thev’re wanted ; (3)
to stop “trick” flying
when it Starts; (4) to
survey air routes; (5)
to assist municipalities
to find landing-stages;
and (6) to inspect aero-
dromes when they are
built, if ever. In addi-
tion, there are to be air-
supervisers, a chief super-
intendent of aircraft and
a superintendent of aero-
dromes in each State, be-
sides air-surveyors and
God knows what else.
There will soon be more
officials than there are
aircraft.
“Hovea” : I smile bitterly when some half-
baked Age or Telegraph reporter inflicts the
periodical attack on the pampered females
of Flatland. I am one of these supercilious
fashion-plates, and the truth is—as regards
my flat neighborhood, anyhow’—that we are
a harassed and careworn class, who submit
meekly to unheard-of oppression—that of
the trades-people. It is a favor to
get one of these superior beings to
deliver at the- door. The ibaker has
been doing it in a condescending fashion,
but the other day Doughy issued a printed
intimation that if the customer wasn’t wait-
ing with the week’s money when he arrived
with the bread on Friday morning, his visits
would cease. The ultimatum omitted to
thank us for past favors, and it was accom-
panied by insulting verbal explanations (and
you know how sound carries in flats) that
“the boss was puttin’ ther boot in becoz
flat people wuz such rotten pays.’’ But
our chief tyrant is the butcher. He is a
large, intolerant person with a complexion
like beef-steak. Having a local monopoly of
the dead-meat industry, he disdains to run
a cart, and on Saturday mornings we wait
humbly in a queue that extends from Mr.
Cagmag’s counter to 50 yards up the street.
And, submissive as we are to the great man’s
capricious temper, he treats us like dirt, lie
has a loud, penetrating voice and a gift of
rough satire, and his mirth is even more
ferocious than his wrath. “Two chops,” he
will bawl when Mrs. Smithers has meekly
given her little order. “ ’Ere, Bill, cut two
chops fer Mrs. Smithers. Did yer say two
chops, Mrs. Smithers, or one "an’ a quarter?
....’Art a pound of topside fer Mrs. Jor-
kins. Hey, you, ’and over that three-
quarters of a pound o’ topside fer Mrs. Jor-
kins —Mrs. Jorkins is in a ’urry. Three-
quarters of a pound o’ topside is Oh,
y’ said 'arf a pound, didjer, Mrs. Jorkins?
Ang it all, Ted, v’ might a known Mrs.
Jorkins never gets more’n ’arf a pound of
anythin’!” Even a flat-woman has her feel-
ings, and we live in hopes that sooner or
later some frenzied Mrs. Smithers or Mrs.
Jorkins will deliver ns from the iron tyranny
of the butcher by putting cyanide in his
chewing-gum. Meantime, for all our idle
and luxurious habits, which so infuriate the
Age and the Telegraph, we are an oppressed
race.
* *• * *
‘‘Donalbain”: When I used to eat my
tucker at the chief State pub in Darwin
(N.T.), the head cook was a Greek and
his offsider a Patagonian. Their handling
of the food question wasn’t calculated to
encourage settlement in the tropics. Which
reminds me that Conan Doyle, Dr. Arthur
and other. authorities of sorts have been
alleging with great confidence that the only
way to settle Northern Australia is to fiil
it Tip with Southern Europeans. Before they
talk any more about it they should go and
live in Darwin. The Southern European
stunt was tried extensively in Gilruth’s time,
and when I was there the place was stiff
with Greeks and other Mediterranean birds,
not to mention the alleged Welsh from Pata-
gonia, who were largely mongrel Spaniards,
like my friend Tony the cook. As settlers
the whole crowd weren’t worth one green
Devonshire Pommy. For a long time a
benevolent Commonwealth fed most of the
Greeks gratis, and lately it has given a lot
of them tickets to come down and help run
the steak-and-oyster industry in the South.
There aren’t enough real white citizens to
support many fish-shops in Darwin,. and
most of them eat at the chop-suey joints,
anyway. hat little real pioneering is
done in the Territory these days is left to
Australians. There are many good citizens
of Italian and Spanish descent in Australia,
but you don’t find them in the Territory.
The observations of “B.P.”:—
I was not surprised to read in a recent cable
that the historian of the Fifth Army—a person with
the tragically appropriate name of Sparrow—makes
slighting references to the Australians. The Fifth
Army disliked the Diggers as much after the Sprint
of 1918 as the Argyle and Sutherland Highlanders
approved of them. I had an experience of it about
a week after Sparrow and his comrades flew. Their
H.Q. at the time was at La Fletre.; they had fol-
lowed Birdwood there when the A.I.F. rushed to
help relieve them on the Somme. My brigade was
moving down in the wake of the rest, and I had
ridden through 16 miles of slush to draw pay we
having been, in the Army phrase, “temporari y
attached to the Fifth Army” for the purpose. In one
of the rooms facing,the Chateau lake I struck the
type of. officer who was the despair of the Old Con-
temptible class of fighting-man. Faultlessly cos-
tumed, his one pip and other brass-work gleaming
like fire, he sat at a vast desk and manicured a pair of
hands that had never participated in t a field-game
in their lives. I had hardly begun to tell him what
I was after when he cried in the high-pitched and
mincing accents which represent the Claphamite's
idea of the way the Duke of Westminster talks to
a Claphamite: “You’re Australian! We' have no-
thing whatever to do with the Australians. Nothing t
We don’t know them!” Self: “We’re supposed to
be attached to you for pay.” Horace: “Absurd!
Bally rot! Isn’t it, Sergeant? Nothing whatever
to do with you! Nothing at ” Sergeant: “Be?
pardon, sir. The officer’s right. Here it is. Um-uiii
Hordah 204956. Um-um.” Horace: “That’s enough,
Sergeant! Silence, damyer. Now then, sir, hand
over your requisition.” Self: “Could we have the
money in the six amounts shown? My C.O. has
special reasons for not wanting any delay when the
paying begins.” Horace: “1 don’t know anything
about your C. 0., my good sir. You’ll take it as
1 give it, and that’s in a lump. Carry on, Ser-
geant.” And he returned to his nail-polishing activi-
ties. A sense of futility began to overwhelm me as
the business drew nearer and nearer finality—a feel-
ing that a blow should have been struck for the
credit of the A.l.F.’s combative reputation and that
I had let the chance slide. To my relief Horace
looked up, just as I was pushing the last few notes
into iny n.c.o.’s haversack, and said: “One word be-
fore you go. To-day’s Sunday. We don’t work
here on a Sunday. Another time be good enough
to bear that in mind. Don’t you come worrying us
on a Sunday again.” “I didn’t know it was Sun-
day,” I said. “I belong to a part of the army that
fights. Sunday is the same as any other day to us
—and the Hun. My Brigade doesn’t spend its time
in picnic resorts like this. No one in it has been
issued with a manicure-set for months. You won’t
see anyone from my division here again this summer.
We’re all off to the place your army ran away from.
Go to Hell!” Feeling much better I clambered
aboard my horse and departed. If, as has been
contended, the converse of the aphorism “for each
man kills the thing he loves” is as true as the
aphorism itself, then Horace, by the look of him,
would have been ready to give me his job.
“Shopwalker”: She was a neat, well-
dressed woman, nicely spoken, and not more
than 30. She carried a beautifully-dressed
baby of perhaps six months with a tiny lace
veil over its “dear ickle facey” to keep the
flies off. Came doubt, and then suspicion,
and the lady was conducted to the manager’s
room,. where her baby was taken from her
and its interior opened. The infant dis-
gorged about five pounds’ worth of lace and
a piece of organdie dress-material. You
see, the dear child was a large, celluloid doll
with a sliding trapdoor neatly devised to
give access to its empty stomach. As usual,
the distracted husband paid up, and pro-
mised to see that his wife kept to the straight
and narrow for the future ; but baby joined
our museum of curiosities.
SEE-SAW.
“Whom did you look hack at?'”
“That bad-mannered Smith girl. I wanted
to see if she saw me see her look round.”
A CHANGE OF VEGETABLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She complained that the florists had suffered
much. As a result of the high cost of living, let-
tuce was more appreciated than lilies, and red
beet, than roses.” —Melbourne daily:
She’s beauty, line and color blent,
This girl I call a flower,
And roses red and opulent
One time with bunched carnations went
My high esteem to represent,
And lilies were her dower;
But early yesterday I sent
This girl a cauliflower!
■ VICTORIA.
DIDO.
TRIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is it that lovely Kate is best?
When pretty maidens gather near her
I often put her to the test.
Is it that lovely Kate is best,
Or could I love one of the rest,
Does competition greatly cheer her?
Is it that lovely Kate is best
When pretty maidens gather near her?
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Himdred years long
Born 1820. Still going strongs
/ ..
, # %
j
“ #/
-n/ *
x
i V
K
r
\
w
> -^4
r
fi
t
B^3
N>
I)
/
it/i.
m
\
S
M
m
rl
«*\>
Wi;
w
i
i2S
g
a
vm
S*
m
M
Ml
111
i
ft*
s’*
5>
-
4K
if
Sit*
*
«s
3E
srs
kW3
fS
SK?
MS
K>‘
S»
WA
m
m
f
few*
m 2
to
*l5
95
sr
'4m
«
rs
s
«
*<?
II
Q>
V
N
7/
J£o
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL BERIE3. No. 9-BHANQHAI,
Johnnie Walker : '‘You Sportsmen disseminate the best British spirit
wherever you go.”
Polo Player: “Thanks, but surely no one does that more effectively than
you.”
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
m
1
1 j m Imimimimiii'mi iiiiMiifwiimiVi’ ■ l^gen^s
SUFFER ECZEMA
NO LONGER!
Numbers of happy people, now
cured, are testifying to the wonderful
curative power of the marvellous dis-
covery,
LIGMOLLIENE
Eminent members of the medical
profession recommend it, which is yet
further evidence of its great value.
Your chemist sells it at 5/6 and 7 /6
tin, but if you cut out this ad. and
send with 1/6 Postal Note to address
below, a special sample will be sent
you.
LIGMOLLIENE CO.
Malyons, Sturt Street,
BALLARAT.
A Signal Success
la
King targe lV
** WEfIHSW
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
GONE, BUT NOT WITH THE CROWD.
“And how's Mrs. Ailing?”
“Died yesterday, I'm told, sir.”
“Dear, dear! Gone to join the great majo-
rity.”
“Well, I wouldn’t' 'zactly say that, sir. She
was a good woman, so fur as I know.”
“Bouragi”: If “WaF had read iny par.
about the Papuan swamp-dwellers to the end
he would have seen that I mentioned the vanished
raft-dwellers of Koena. lake and suggested that these
had disappeared before the Northern and Eastern
migration of the Binandele tribes. As far as can be
gathered from the native legends the original home
of the Binandele was near the headwaters of the
Kumusi. Driven by the more powerful Aigas, they
gradually overran the Dogi and Gilita peoples until
they occupied the lower Kumusi and Opi and a’l
the Mamba and Gira country. The Gilitas, early
dwellers on the Mamba, and the Dogi of the lower
Opi, were assimilated by the invaders, either at the
dinner table or by intermarriage. The original folk
of Lake Koena were possibly one of the tribal
divisions of the Dogi who had taken to the raft
dwellings for protection. As to the pottery relics
at Koena and at Collingwood Bay, these are possibly
Melanesian in origin, as there is strong evidence of
a Melanesian infiltration among the Papuans of the
N.-E. coast.
“Dux”: M.L. Registration of Arms Bill
is responsible for some quaint incidents. One regis-
tration form sent in recently read as follows: —
Firearm: Muzzle-loading d.b. gun.
Date purchased: March 11, 1871.
Purpose required for: Shooting Maoris.
And it was fair dinkum, too!
“FY7”: “Baree” complains (B. 13/1/’2l)
that the N.T. blacks never make serious use of the
bow and arrow. Neither, I suspect, does “Baree”
make serious use of the womerah or the boomerang.
Yet neither would be as foreign to him as the bow
to the Australian native who never saw the weapon
save in alien hands. In saying that the principle of
the bow and the womerah is identical, “Baree” is
wider of the mark than ever. The womerah is a
lever, pure and simple. The bow an arc striving to
return to its original straightness, and thereby
suddenly tightening the drawn back string which
propels the arrow.
“C.J.P.”: In 1914 a few , tallow-wood
eucalypts were planted on Fraser Island. To date
the tallest is 50ft. high, with a girth of 28in. five
feet from the ground. Anything to beat this ?
* * * *
“Boomerang”: Hasten to “Bouragi’s” i(B.
13/1/’2l) aid with a cure of tick-bite in a dog
or any other animal. Swab the affected part with
pain-killer, and give a spoonful of pain-killer in
milk each morning for a couple of days. This will
first allay and later eliminate the pain, and once
the pain is remedied a cure is assured.
* * * •
“M. Mulligatawny”: Any Abo. tell me of
a cure for tuberculosis in the Pacific Islands?
By the Yankee mail a friend has just got particu-
lars of a “T. 8.” patient who went to a group near
Samoa and was put right inside three months.
The treatment consisted of oil rubbed into the
chest for hours at a stretch by native women and
the drinking of “tea” made from leaves of a certain
herb. If the Yankee informant isn’t skiting there’s
a million for anyone who can bring the oil and
herbs to civilisation.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Tommy Turtle’s lingering
death-agonies are due to black brudder’s unshakable
belief that if a man kills a turtle before cutting it
up he will catch no more turtle that season. With
him Belly is the greatest of all gods, and anything
likely to cause discomfort
in that, direction is cov-
ered with taboo. Turtle is
to the islander what beef
is to us, and he is taking
no chances of .having his
meat ration cut down
through anything in the
way of sentiment. The
under plate is chopped off
first, and then the eggs
are taken out when it is a
female. There seems to
be little method in get-
ting the meat out. It is
just hacked and sliced off
anyhow, but care seems to
be taken to avoid the
laboring lungs. The flesh
of the flippers is far and
away the best for eating,
and is considered the tit-
bit worthy of being offered
to visitors. It would be
interesting to know how
long the flesh remains
sensitive after being cut
up. I have known it
flinch when touched with
the knife 18 hours after
it was put in the safe—
one specially-prepared for
cold storage. The unlaid
eggs, after being fried
slightly, make an' excel-
lent curry, and also are
very palatable when
roasted with the meat.
But eggs that have been
laid, be they never so fresh, always carry a musty
and mousey tang that requires some mastering.
* * * *
“Tropic Bird” : I watched a pair of black-
faced cuckoo shrikes (blue jays) build their nest. The
first part of the business was gathering cobweb from
neighboring trees and carrying it to the site selected
—a fork in a tall bloodwood-tree. The web was
twisted around the branches of the fork to hold the
slender twigs which next were introduced. The nest
when completed was a frail affair, about four inches at
its widest part and llin. in depth. The job
occupied six days. A pair of magpie-larks (peewits)
NO ENCORE.
CABBY : “ 'Are an accident, mister?"
BATTER AND BRUISED OLD PARTY: “No, thank you. Eve just had one!”
built in a nearby tree, but that job took the builders
nearly three weeks. In both nests hatching-out was
going on when the big cyclonic storm with heavy hail
broke over Brisbane a few weeks ago. As soon as
the hail eased off I went out to see how the nests
had fared. The magpie-lark’s nest had been blown
completely off the limb and was lying on the ground,
being the first mishap of the- kind I had seen happen
to one of these villas ; but, contrary to expectations,
the flimsy nest of the shrike was quite uninjured,
and one of the birds was on it, apparently having
stuck to her post throughout the storm. That the
bird managed to keep its seat in the shallow nest
during the fierce squalls which knocked down large
trees is really marvellous. The magpie-larks set to
work next morning on a new nest, and this one was
.completed in seven days—great going considering the
quantity of material used. But they were hard at it
from dawn to dusk.
* * * *
“Aragun”: “5086” (B. 6/l/’2l) wants a
reliable pickle for corning mutton. The following is used
extensively in N. S. Wales meatworks: 25 gals, water,
561 b. salt, 141 b. brown sugar, 21b. saltpetre. Do not
put the meat in till thoroughly cooled. Put tongues
and cheeks in a separate tub, as the slime from them
quickly fouls any pickle. A quarter-pound of hops
soaked in three quarts of water and added to the
pickle. improves the taste of the meat, some people
think.
* * * *
“Momokeni” : The best rat-trap I know is
the one employed in the Government store at Port
Moresby, where a 15ft. python cleaned the place of
rodents and attended to the resident cat, too. When
it was discovered in the rafters the Hanuabadan
store-boys whimpered with fright and called for the
Taubada to bring his gun; but a daring Koiari
youth scaled the walls and patted the fat coils
affectionately, and not until he attempted to unwind
the reptile to remove it to the main store did he
find any resistance or signs of annoyance. Then the
snake showed its displeasure in such terms that it
was left in peace to move quarters at its own will.
The Papuans say there are two kinds of pythons:—
one, a harmless individual, whose length varies
from 12ft. to 18ft. with a thickness of no more
than a man’s arm ; the other, never more than 10ft.,
is thicker than a man’s thigh, and does not hesitate
to attack even a white man with a view to crushing
him to a pulp.
* # * *
“Two Seas”: “Rang” (B. 6/l/’2l)
accuses “Mr. Mac” of talking through his hat when
he says it is uncommon for dingoes to attack humans.
My money is on “Mac.” On the strength of some-
thing somebody told the bloke who told him
“Rang” says “when cornered a full-grown dingo will
almost invariably turn upon his pursuer, be it
man or beast.” But who out of Hades ever heard
of a dingo being cornered by a man on foot who
had “been tracking him for hours?” “Rang” might
corner a poddy calf, but a dingo—Oh, help!
m
“Mooch About” : An inhabitant of Phoenix,
Arizona, was taking me through a garden surround-
ing one of the Government offices. We pulled up in
front of an enclosed patch—the only one in the
garden. ■ There was a notice-board which threatened
arrest and a 20-dollar fine for injury to the sacred
vegetable within —and it was Queensland’s old
prickly-pear. Arizona and Mexico harbor many
varieties of pear, and it is universally regarded as
one of their great natural resources. Cactus candy
is sold everywhere, and New York is commencing
to buy cactus apples. ’Frisco, Los Angeles aiid San
Diego eat them already. My Arizonian cicerone is
still wondering if I am an imbecile or merely a
liar. I told him the prickly-pear was our greatest
pest, and that we had 25,000 dollars ready for the
benefactor who could show us how to wipe it out.
CLEAR OF ALL BLAME.
PROFESSOR : “ Now , Tommy, it is just as
well for you to understand that your
education is going to cost your father
a mint of money.”
TOMMY : “Yes, I know. And it isn't as if
I studied eery hard either.”
“Steve Hart”: It’s always the poorest
horse or beast that collects ticks and lice, and a
white cow or bullock will be infested with ticks or
lice when all the rest of the mob are clean. Why ?
“Fanuela”: Near Bowen (Q.) is a large
cabbage-gum, through the exact centre of which is
the thigh-bbne of a large animal. The bark has
grown smoothly about the bone, which is lying
horizontally, about 9ft. from the ground. Explana
tion ?
(Continued on page 22.)
“GOIN’ TER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’m goin’ ter make a diff’rence ’ere,”
Said old Bill Blake to me;
“I’m goin’ ter make the brand-new gear
As busy as can be;
I’m goin’ ter make a proper start —
I’ve got the whole thing planned ;
I’ve got it orl right orf by ’eart—
The programme’s simply grand.
“I’m goin’ ter pull the kitchen down:
It’s small an’ outer date;
I’m goin’ ter get a man from town
Ter be me buildin’ mate.
I’m goin’ ter paint the ’ouse ; it needs
A coat or two, Gord knows !
I’m goin’ ter pull the garden weeds,
An’ poison orl the crows.
“I’m goin’ ter sink an’ brick a well
(The crick’s so far away).
I’m goin’ ter buy a real good bell —
An’ then let Dobbin stray!
I’m goin’ ter build new yards ; the cows
The old ones pushed askew.
I’m goin’ ter (don’t forget me vows)
Make orl the fixin’s new.”
. y ... .
And that was seven years ago;
The same old kitchen’s there ;
The house still lacks the paint, an' 3 ’o!
It flaunts its disrepair.
The garden’s hidden by the weeds—
Weeds kindly left alone;
The crows still do their evil deeds,
Unpoisoned, and unflown.
The water’s carted from the creek
In casks, the same as yore,
A half-a-dozen times a week,
And sometimes rather more.
The yards are leaning some like this
Or th’ other way about.
The milking cows still go amiss ;
The poddies still get out.
Bill’s “goin’ ter” do this thing and that,
But he is growing old,
And all the jobs he halted at
Have grown a dozen-fold.
And they are growing greater still,
Because to long defer
Has been the policy of Bill—
Who’s always “goin’ ter” !
N.s.w.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Australian Novels
By the Commonwealth's Best Authors.
1/3 each—All One Price —1/4t posted.
“DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES” - - - - by Henry James James
“LYDIA’S LOVERS” ------- by Gerald R. Baldwin
“THE FENCELESS RANGES” by Roy Bridges
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER” by Louis Becke
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COMMAND” - - -by Roy Bridges
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH” by John X. Cameron
“ON THE FRINGE OF THE NEVER NEVER,” by H. R. Bloxham
“THE HEART OF THE BUSH,” by Broda Reynolds
“THE CAPTAIN OF THE GANG” - - - - by Don Delaney
"THE MAKER OF PEARLS” by S. W. Powell
“BILLY PAGAN” - -- -- -- - by Randolph Bedford
“ALADDIN AND THE BOSS COCKIE” - by Randolph Bedford
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE” by Con Drew
“THE MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY” - by Harrison Owen
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ROARIN’ MEG’ ” - by Jack McLaren
“YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
“THE SELECTOR GIRL” by Broda Reynolds
“THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR,” by Jack McLaren
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA” by Norman Lindsay
“FOR TURON GOLD” by Don Delaney
“SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS,” by J. H. M. Abbott
“RED MOUNTAIN” - -- -- -- - by Jack McLaren
“HACK’S BRAT” by A. lan McLeod
“BASE BRANDS” by H. M. Somer
“SOUTH SEA SINNERS” by Arthur Crocker
“ÜBIQUE” - - - by C. W. Martin
“WOLAROI’S CUP” - by Ambrose Pratt
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL” - - -by Jack North
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” by Ralph Stock
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE” by E. J. Brady
“THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION” by H. K. Bloxham
“THE SHANTY-KEEPER’S DAUGHTER” - -by Vance Palmer
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO”, - - - - by Ambrose Pratt
“GENTLEMAN JACK” by Don Delaney
“THE BULLETIN” BOOK OF HUMOROUS
VERSE AND RECITATIONS.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or Direct from Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George St„
SYDNEY.
20,000,000 Men
are daily enjoying the luxury of a
velvet-smooth, clean, close, bloodless
shave by using the
Gillette
Safety Razor
They use it and like it because it ia
quickest, most economical, most con-
venient—so will you.
• No stropping—no honing.
Standard set, in leather case . . 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY
RAZOR CO.,
Montreal, Canada.
S. HOFFNUNG &
COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide.
m
ttttQWNIHE
wohlo evn
mum
1
nm
Drastic Reductions
in ail Departments.
n
Write for
SQUARE DEAL
Price List
• ?
i
'Xi
■i'f.
:.:d
id:
Special
Tailoring Reduction.
Fill in Coupon TO-DAY
for YOUR Patterns.
&/>e
“Quality” Suit
Made-to-Measure.
Usual Price, £B/18/0.
Square Deal
Price,
£7/19/6
This Suit is perfectly tailored in the
best All-Wool Tweed, and All-
Wool Indigo-dyed Serge. Smart
men appreciate the distinc-
tive Leviathan cut, excep-
tional fit & perfect finish.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
SELF-MEASUREMENT CHART
AND TAPE FREE.
“Uhe
Pty.
Ltd.,
Cr. Swanston and
BourKe Streets,
MELBOURNE
&
P & a>'<A
V
,0
CT v*V A*
ft t*V
**
<s?s*
A? * #>.
/J*
y> '€#\
#y
• 's <
•;f^
.'A CvA
.•i4^
y:W
0 N
p
w
C
'JJJt
/ 7
Si
m
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them—in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
\\\
m
m
7
v^r
,v
T 2
n
i
w.
HI
£
wj
iRMfMSPw
%
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
1
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
WKTs b»»4
• ach slurl
on e<
&>
£3
K»
2
m
-VL
Mar®


ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alstons”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
nm
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS,
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia
n
mn
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
C-AC-
m
ONVHH
n
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
TlfE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney -
QUEENSLAND Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
mn
m
n
I
0
>
o
“Durval”: There is one aboriginal rite I
have not seen described by any Abo.-liar. Before going
out on an important single-handed expedition, Binghi
cuts a small piece of skin, about the size of a
Shilling,' from his left heel. This is handed over to
one of the lubras, who secretes it for three days.
It is then presented to one of the male heads of the*
tribe, who examines it and informs the man who
is doing the stunt, whether he is on a good wicket
or not. There is some other secret process connected
with the rite that has not been divulged.
t * * * *
“Ino” : Never saw an eagle carry away a
lamb, but I did see four eagles kill a calf on
Bathurst Plains. They swooped down one after
the other, ripping the calf with their claws. The
cow defended the calf, making rushes at them, but
while she followed one, another would do the ripping.
The calf was quite lively when I first saw them, but
it was beyond a move in 20 minutes. There were
other cattle near, but they didn’t interfere.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : “T. Weed” (B. 20/l/’2l)has no
need to doubt his police corporal’s statement that
Papuan ladies use drugs and other means of decreasing
the birth-rate as freely as their white sisters. It is
notoriously the case on the N.E, Coast of Papua and
has been commented on by Government officials for
20 years. All efforts to trace the plants the drugs
are brewed from have had no success. Some of the
Papuan M.O.’s might turn their attention to this side
of the question. I always had an ‘ idea that the
crotons, which are cultivated in every Papuan village,
might be the guilty vegetable.
* * * *
“Cockney” gives one more tip about meat-
keeping to “5086” (B. 6/l/’2l): —
This method was employed by us in the Nor’-West
on beef and mutton, the meat keeping up to nine
months. Slaughter in the evening, hang all night;
then very early next morning cut into pieces weigh-
ing about 41b. or 51b., removing all bones. The larger
pieces can be slashed in a few places. Rub in plenty
of coarse salt. Pack in sugar-bag with sprinkling of
salt; then hang in cool place, for it must be kept
dry. In this dry-salting method the meat will turn
dark green, even black if kept long enough, owing to
the absence of saltpetre, which of course does not
affect it. If found too salty soak in water for 12
hours, then boil in clean water. Don’t feed your
dog on putrid meat, as his stomach is not any
stronger than yours; he suffers great pain of which
he cannot tell you.
A PRIZE-WINNER.
“That cat took the first prize in the Mus-
covies!"
“ Impossible; how could a cat win a prize
in a poultry competition?”
“I didn't say won ; I said took’ the first
prize!"
WITHIN EASY REACH.
TRAVELLEY: “How far to Bongbangalong, Jacky?"
JACKY : “No plurry distance, boss; plurry mile peg all the way!”
“Alex.”: Here’s a nut for geologists to
crack. Picked up a piece of auriferous quartz, about
the size of a man’s hand, at Lucky Valley (S.Q.).
Brought it home and out of curiosity split it in halves
with a hammer. Near the centre I discovered a nail
firmly imbedded in the quartz. It was slightly
corroded, straight as a good politician and had a
perfectly formed head. By whom was that nail made?
If it could speak we would know something more of
Australian history than we are ever likely to know.
* * * *
“Koel”: Here is an old-time shepherds’
and Chinese cooks’ recipe for “5086” (B. 6/l/’2l) :
Melt down the mutton-suet in a camp-oven. When
all the fat is extracted remove the solid parts, and
while the fat is still warm sink the mutton, con-
veniently cut, into it. The fat will cake over it
and exclude the air. When required, dig out, taking
care to refill with melted fat. The meat remains
quite fresh, is deliciously tender, and will keep for
weeks if the air is thus excluded.
“Planet”: That bit about bower-birds (B.
20/l/’2l) recalls that while camping in Gippsland
(Vic.) we found a play bower—also a couple of
teaspoons that the decorators had pinched from our
sideboard when we weren’t looking. Unlike their
N.Q. relatives, these birds did not object to brassy
souvenirs. Small bits of broken china seemed to
please their artistic taste most, but two bright mili-
tary buttons had pride of place. One day I tore
up a cigarette-box into small squares and stuck them
all over the bower. Passing later, I found no sign
of my decorations anywhere. Whether some envious
bower-builders, struck with such an original design,
had burgled them, or whether the owners, disgusted
at my crude artistic attempt, had taken away and
buried them I don’t knot#*
* * * *
“Yoyang”: Naturalist Bennett wrote of
a morbid appetite in breeding* ewes along the
Murrumbidgee in the early ’thirties, whereby Dutton,
O’Brien, Warby, Hume, Manton and others lost
many of their flocks. As soon as a lamb was born
the mother or other ewe would devour it eagerly.
If the shepherd took the lamb up the ewes fought
him for it, but when he had taken the lamb away,
washed and dried it and brought it back, the
ewes took no notice of it. Some men had to turn
their sheep runs into cattle stations, and owing
to this W. H. Duttpn left the Yass district. Ben-
nett attributed the trouble to ewes eating earth im-
pregnated with alkaline salts; but if that were so
wouldn’t the same thing exist to-day?
* # * •*
“Centurion”: “Ragar” writes (B.
13/1/’2l) of the Fijian medicine-man’s knowledge
of poisons. I doubt if any of the Western Pacific
folk excelled those of Malicolo and Ambyn (New
Hebrides) in this sinister craft. In the old black-
birding days these islands had an evil name, and
canoes from many of the outlying groups visited
Malicolo to purchase the poisons. Natives recruited
in other groups would, if Malicolo lay in the labor
vessel’s itinerary, do their best to buy mysterious
compounds from medicine men coming on board,
presumably for use in Queensland. Malicolo was
famous, too, for its sorcerers in those days, prac-
titioners coming from long distances to receive their
M.A. degree at this famous University of Black
Ahagic. The natives of Santa Cruz were also
esteemed as poisoners. Not only for arrow poison
(Bishop Patteson and Commodore “Tommy” Good-
enough fell victims to this), but for a special pre-
pai-ation they were said to inject through the eyes
of drinking cocoanuts. Old-time traders had to be
careful what Santa Cruzites they drank with. There
is proof that some of the Papuan tribes brew poi-
sons, abortifacients particularly, but nothing has
been definitely run to earth yet.
* * * *
“Steve- Hart”: Some Australian workers
may be going slow, but not the sleeper-cutters of
the North Coast (N.S.W.). Here are some tallies:
Joe Barrett, a boy 17 years old, son of a
storekeeper at Langley Vale, squared 38 sleepers,
Bft. x 9in, x 4|in., and, getting- on to some 6ft. Oin.
billets, he put up a total of 60, while his mate
billeted out 45. Jim Body squared 42, getting
407 sleepers out of two blaekbutt trees. Rayne
Bros, got 227 out of a flooded gum, and averaged
30 squared sleepers a day.
* * * *
“Manar”: “H. 8.” (B. 30/12/’2O) speaks
of Bob Moon and asks for records of other infants
in the cat tie-throwing game. Well, Dick Jansan has
won the cattle-throwing competition at Clermont (Q.)
Bushmen’s Carnival three years in succession. This
year his time was lmin. 2sec. Slow, you say; but
four grandchildren were there to give a cheer as
grandad did the hat trick.
* * # *
“Montalex” : Met with a good many cases
of “latah,” “Seno” (B. 13/1/’2l), when in the
Indonesian Archipelago. A remarkable instance I
found in the Orang-Kaya (head-man) of a tribe
near Tayan, in western Borneo. The Dutch Resident
at Pontianak had told me that it was a long-standing
case of echolalia, and that the man nearly always had
an attack when he had to do with a stranger. When
I mounted into the pile-supported house, the Orang
greeted me ceremoniously enough, and for a couple
of minutes we exchanged civilities in Malay; but when
I said that I was going to push eastward as far as
Sintong, he said he was ; and after that it was simply
a literal repetition of everything I said. Interesting,
but embarrassing; so, after noting that the condition
was strongly suggestive of the hypnotic state, I de-
parted. The most striking case of echopraxia I can
recall was that of a Macassar coolie at Singapore.
He would attach himself to somebody in the street,
and become a perfect replica; staring, if the other
stared ; stopping, if the other stopped ; walking im-
patiently on when the other did ; and occasionally
being given in charge by the pestered person. But
the Sikh policemen all knew him and the matter
never went any farther. This case had epileptiform
affinities, and there is little doubt the affection is a
neurosis, closely allied to the “amok”-madness, which
is also peculiar to the Malay race.
‘lmbaga”: The Papuan of the Mamba
takes the immemorial mother-in-law joke seriously
For either husband or wife to mention the lady's
name is a cause for prompt divorce, a decree nisi and
absolute rolled into one.
* * *
“Jim Carew”: Know a cocky near Co-
bargo (N.S.W.) who gives one of his cows
a pedigree Jersey, a big dish of skimmed milk
every morning after milking. She is in great con-
dition, and gives more and far richer milk than
any of the others.
“Restrau”: Down near the Murray last
year was doing about 30 miles per hour in the car
when I struck a brood of full-fledged emu, and my
meter went to 40. Those birds kept in front of the
motor for 15 minutes before taking to the timber.
It works out that they paced nearly 10 miles in the
15 minutes. Would that be an average or a record?
* * * *
“Boorara”: Aboliars have, quoted some
finff shearing tallies, but here’s the good oil from
a London monthly: “Shearers in Australia are paid
by the number of sheep they shear. A smart man
will shear from 90 to 100 a day. The record is
327 sheep shorn by a Queensland shearer in nine
hours.” The 90-a-day blokes must have been picking
all the coblers anyhow.
* * * *
“Ta-Weel” : Trod on a big black and red
snake in our dam the other day. The mud was soft,
so it didn’t hurt him. He made no attempt to bite,
but squirmed up my leg to the surface—and then we
both broke evens to the bank in opposite directions.
When I hit him later with a waddy he bit himself
three times in the approved snaky manner. Now,
why didn’t he bite me when he had the chance—or
was he afraid of being scuttled if he opened his
mouth under water?
“FY7”: “Te W.,” writing of birds which
visit China to breed, mentions the “Nankeen kes-
trel.” Possibly he means the Nankeen crane which,
as its name implies, is as much at home in Patland
as it is in South Africa or Australia, breeding in all
these places. “Te W.” says, too, that John China-
man takes little interest in his birds and leaves their
“history and figuration to scientific foreign devils.”
Chinese literature is full of bird and animal legends
and no one has ever utilised bird forms more artis-
tically than the Chinese, unless it be their Japanese
(old-time) imitators.
* * * *
“Geraldius” : Regarding the Shire Councils’
ukase against wax matches, I rise to remark that
they are barking up the wrong eucalyptus. The
“safety” match is just as efficient in starting a prize
bush fire as the wax vesta. Spill a box of “safeties”
in the grass paddock, empty portion of the water bag
on them and sit down and roll a cigarette. By the
time you’ve finished the smoke all respect for the
“safety” matches will have vanished. One of my
harvest hands tried it a few days ago and nearly
burnt my nice new hay shed.
* * * *
“P.1.C.A.”: A few weeks ago Pa-ini, a
Badu Island boy on one of the diving boats took
home some of his share of the oyster catch, instead
of turning the lot in to be sold as shell, and pre-
sented these to his mother for her evening meal.
This done Pa-ini betook himself off to a feast'and
dance in a neighboring village, where, having danced
and eaten himself into a comatose state, he slept;
and as he slept he dreamed the supreme dream of all
divers —that he “had found a pearl within his
oyster.” Next morning he returned home and told
his mother: “For sure we get plenty money soon. I
dream I catch a pearl one time plenty soon now.”
“Might be you no wait one time; might be you
catch one already,” said Nareena. “I go bite one
oyster before I cook him and nearly I bite this”—
HIS MISTAKE.
THE BARBER: “Your beard is very tough,
sir."
THE CLIENT: “Oh, is that the trouble? I
thought your pruning-saw wanted sharp-
ening."
producing the “this” which when sold to the
Government buyer realised £4B! This was told to
me by Pa-ini, who dreamed the dream, and Nareena
who found the manifestation, and by the Govern-
ment buyer at Badu, who still has the pearl. Have
any budding Conan Doyles suggestions to offer in the
matter ?
THE CLOUD LADIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The indications are for rain within 48 hours.”
— Forecast.
The rain went by on a little blue wind
That came from the western sea;
And it left a dying sheep behind
And also an aching tree.
It meant so well and it smelt so sweet,
In the words of the daily press,
That we longed to hear its pattering feet
Walk over the mustard and cress.
Fickle and false as a young coquette,
It dimpled and laughed and fled
Till our hope of getting our whiskers wet
Was crushed in our breast and dead.
Let the black jade go, let the loud winds blow!
Let the isobars fret and fume!
With the fall of the glass there will yet be grass
And a season of great green boom.
The rain went by on a little blue wind—
That’s not the sort for me.
On a stallion tempest black and blind
Rides the one I long to see.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


In the Shade of the Ferns!
When it’s 100° in the shade in the City—how
one longs for the fresh, cool air of the hills,
the refreshing shade of the fern gullies.
The motorist is to be envied, for they await
him whenever he cares to take advantage of
their attractions, and a visit to any of the
popular hill resorts proves that he and his
family readily avail themselves of the change
from the hot sweltering City. It's surprising-
now that the car and motor cycle are so
dependable and easily handled-that more
people who are able to afford them do not
partake of the benefits that motoring bestows.
As a life prolonger-a health giver-a means
of transport for business or pleasure—the
automobile stands alone, and yet many
citizens hold aloof from motoring. They miss
a new world, a new pleasure that can be
brought into the owner’s life and into the life
of his family. A car shod with “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYRES
will bring you in dividends-of health, pleasure
and utility-far in advance of drawing 10 per
cent, on the capital value of a car. The
automobile of to-day is easy to handle, and
gives efficient service. The use of “Railroad”
Dunlop Tyres ensures free from trouble
running for many thousands of miles. They
stand alone for value, service and economy.
ALL STATES * DUNLOP RUBBER CO. and n.z.
T?
>
2**
Y
m
■ ... ■
i > *
i
>■'
5-
:
i!


The “Auster” is a True
Help to Economy.
£75
It helps you economise
on time and labor. It
leaves you free from
drudgery and able to
devote yourself to
lucrative jobs that
would otherwise have
to be neglected.
AUSTER
Farm and Utility or
Marine Type Engine
pumps water from well, dam, creek or bore; drives electric-light
plants; saws wood, or drives any kind of farm machinery within
its power.
Two Sizes: Single-cylinder (3£ horse-power), £75.
Twin-cylinder (6-8 horse-power), £135.
The Auster is built by Australians for service.
Do as other progressive men on the land are doing. Find out all
about the “Auster” before you decide on a more expensive and
less efficient engine.
Write for full particulars.
WGWATSON t,C°L TD
279 Clarence S t Sydney
r
The Briton Overseas
remains British—through and through —never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
he retains the tastes and predilictions of the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste for
t
*
SCOTCH
Dawson
wtMoco Whisky
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-w'de popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its native
Scotland.
By careful husbanding of
Stocks we hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.”
Whisky.
iEveryone’s favourite
Scotch—Everywhere J
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
—. GLASGOW.
After every war come the great
successes and g'reat failures.
From a certain little town in Victoria two
men went to the South African War.
Each of them had enjoyed the same
educational advantages, and so far as anyone
could judge, their prospects for success were
equally good.
One man accumulated a fortune. The
other spent his last years almost entirely de-
pendent upon his children for support.
He “had hard luck,” the town explained.
He “never seemed to catch hold after the
war.”
But the other man did not “lose his grip.”
He seemed to experience no difficulty in
“catching hold” after the war.
The difference in the two men was not a
difference of capacity, but a difference in
decision. One man saw the after-the-war
tide of expansion, trained himself for execu-
tive opportunity, and so swam with the tide.
The other man merely drifted.
The history of these two men is being re-
peated in hundreds of thousands of lives.
After every war come the great
successes —and great failures.
Is your future worth half an hour’s serious
thought? If it is, then take down a history
of Australia. You will discover this unmis-
takable truth:
Opportunuity does not flow in a steady
stream, like a river—it comes and goes in
great tides.
There is a high tide now; and those who
seize it need not fear what may happen when
the tide recedes. The wisest men in this
country are putting themselves now beyond
the reach of fear—into the executive posi-
tions that are indispensable.
Weak men go down in critical
years—strong men grow
stronger.
If you are in your twenties, or your thirties,
or even your early forties, there probably
never will be another such a critical year for
you as the year 1921.
Looking back on it ten years hence you
will say: “That was the turning point.”
Many of the wise and thoughtful men of
this country have anticipated the coming of
this period and prepared for it.
They have trained themselves for the posi-
tions which business cannot do without,
through the Alexander Hamilton Institute
Modern Business Course and Service.
The Institute is the institution which has
proved its power to lift men into the higher
executive positions.
These men have already decided
to go forward.
Among the 130,000 men enrolled in the
Institutes Course the world over, 22,154 are
managing directors of corporations; 5 326 are
directors; 8892 are secretaries; 4252 trea-
surers; 1 7,960 managers; 3986 sales-managers;
4636 accountants.
Men who have trained themselves to seize
opportunity will make these afterwar years
count tremendously.
You, too, can make them count for you.
Decision:
An essential to success.
The difference between the successes and
the tragedies of life is expressd usually in one
single word—Decision.
Two men read the facts regarding life in-
surance; both have the good intention to act.
One man does act; and the other waits until
it is too late.
Two men covet progress. One man will
read the advertisement and act, and a year
from now will have made greater progress
toward business success.
The other will hesitate; and next year will
find him just where he is to-day.
.You have decision. Decide now that you
will spend a single evening in investigating a
training that has done so much for other men,
whose problem was precisely like your own.
Send for this book. There is a
vision in it for you of your
future.
To meet the needs of thoughtful men, the
Alexander Hamilton Institute has published a
1 16-page book, “Forging Ahead in Business.’
It is a book of facts and letters—facts about
the scope of the Institute’s training, and letters
from men who tell just what that training has
done for them. It is a valuable book, and it
is free. A copy is waiting for you. Send for
it now.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE.
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Send me at once, “Forging Ahead in Business,”
which I may kaep without obligation.
Name ..
Business
Address .
(Print here.)
Business
Position
8.3


Tke
Purest
Spirit
irv tKe
WkL
l-h
•zr.
SCHNAP^ 6
• w
m
's■ i
m
-i-i-ti
Si
**
*X3&.
i&gsl
BEHNING
Drawing-room GRAND.
THE BEHNING GRAND PIANO is an
exquisite instrument with the stamp of
quality in every detail.
In brilliancy, resonance and volume of tone, the
“Behningj” represents the highest achievement of
this type of piano construction. The delicate
responsiveness of touch is a real aid in obtaining
the finely-shaded tone effects that add distinction
to the performance of the accomplished pianist.
The Behning Drawing-room Grand is designed to
look well in homes where space is precious.
Adapted to the acoustic properties of even small
rooms, it is yet an instrument of such exquisite
tone as to invite comparison in quality with the
noblest of Concert Grands.
Behning Grands are designed by-
artists with a view to expressing in
them by symmetry of outline pro-
portion, that sense of richness which
best accords with their intrinsic
qualities.
mn
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Old Pianos will be taken
exchange, and a liberal method
purchase for the balance is offer
Write for Catalogue and full
Particulars of Easy Terms.
pitches so accurately. Furthermore, it has
some trenchant and true things to say of
criticism for the average critic —things
hitherto unsaid and badly needing the say-
ing in England. There is not so much bril-
liance and Bennett here; possibly because
of that there is more, if less obvious, power
and value.
It is a good style, closely knit, firm and
certain in its touch. “Clayhanger” and
•‘The Old Wives’ Tale,” the best of the
Five Towns books, are so good that they go
into the list of books, read and re-read,
alongside ‘‘David Copperfield,” “Vanity
Fair,” “The Caxtons” and the others. In
a note on Arnold Bennett, his native Five
Towns are interesting. In the midlands of
England the harshness, the hardworking
"first principles” of the North begin their
change to the smoothness, the subtler and
less incessant work of the South. Round
Derbyshire life has become not so savagely
material in outlook, and distinctly more
comfortable. As yet the comfort is bodily
only; the comfort of the mind starts about
Worcestershire. In the Five Towns of The
Peak and Nottinghamshire this mental,
artistic comfort is at the stage of shrewd-
ness, of cleverness and keenness in business,
in business whose hours are 24. Life is
rather blatant and obvious there; men are
inclined to pat themselves freely on the back
for their successes, to point proudly to their
own cleverness. They have a knack of forc-
ing and keeping themselves in the local
public eye, pf pitching their voices to the
largest possible number of ears. So it is
possibly climatic.
But “The Old Wives’ Tale” is magnifi-
cent. It deals with the few interwoven lives
in a small town of the Five, following the
adventures, simple and stirring, of the two
vending characters. These are sisters, of
whom one takes the quiet, safe way and
stays at home, and the other the way of
adventure. In the life of the first very
little happens through one-half of the long
book; into the life of the second much
strong drama is packed of Paris and the
“gay life” of the ’sixties and ’seventies, the
Siege and the thousand joyous bufifetings
of the way of adventure. The book is as
well known to the reader as to me, and
detailed criticism of it is as old as the hills.
But one is glad of the chance to express
again the gratitude and admiration of the
first reading. There is a magic of deft
characterisation which never fails; these
are the very people of one’s childhood and
youth, sitting in their unventilated base-
ment kitchens and plush drawing-rooms,
smug, serious, desperately in earnest,
feeble at times and at times sub-
limely strong against difficulty and
defeat. The impression is absolutely
accurate and absolutely complete; the gen-
teel voices are almost audible, the vapid,
solemn faces almost visible. The book
stands as a wondrous literary feat, I think;
it is an exact picture of Victorian provin-
cial England and of Paris in the welter of
the Siege and the German menace of 1870.
Heaven knows in what store of recording
memory and vision Bennett kept it all so
fresh and clear, so demoniacal in its splen-
did accuracy and truth.
“Clayhanger” stays in the Five Towns,
human and simple, the beautifully-told re-
cords of a lower-middle-class family. Here,
too, an equally vivid impression gets to you.
This is the household of Clayhanger, stand-
ing round the reader deep in the book, tell-
ing him their sorrows and triumphs, their
rises and falls. Again he can nearly hear
the voices. One can’t say much more than
that of an example of literary expression.
In “The Card,” “The Begent,” “Hilda
Eessways,” I am back *with the clever
Arnold Bennett, forceful, adroit and de-
pressingly worldly-wise. He “puts it over
me” rather as if I were a business rival;
when I have finished my brief admiration
of how he does it I have forgotten the busi-
ness and the book.
“Milestones” and “The Great Adventure”
were the dramatic hits of two London sea-
sons. In a fine contrast with precedent both
plays deserve their success. Each is remark-
able in that it tells a long story whose length
is never obvious —a difficult thing to do. I
should think, in modern dramatic work.
“Milestones” in its first two acts reproduces
on the stage in complete faithfulness two
periods of the Victorian atmosphere I have
mentioned. The last act is more truly
modern than “Fanny’s First Play,” though
perhaps not so well written. “The Great
Adventure” is a character-sketch of two
strongly-marked personalities: and not many
men can do that so luminously as Bennett.
In this work there is a good deal of the
skilful experienced observer who permeates
“How to Live,” “The Card,” etc., but
helped by incomparable acting and produc-
tion the plays seemed possibly literature.
In print it was obvious that this was not
so. Still, “Clayhanger” and “The Old Wives’
Tale” have made Bennett’s place in litera-
ture safe. And when we are all dead perhaps
his brilliance, and worldly wisdom will' be
forgotten while those two masterpieces of
his great artist’s mind remain only to his
name.
HILARY LOFTING.
“Sand in the Head”
A wild face, suggestive of strange mirth,
looks from the cover of the little book
recently perpetrated by Boyce Bowden and
Ted Colies, in wlych verse and drawing com-
bine to create something entirely novel.
Here is the -keynote :
1 suffer with sand in the head ;
My doctor explained it to me;
It blows through the ears and the nose, so
he said,
"When living too close to the sea.
I really am much over-wrought;
A fact you can quite understand,
’Tis truly a labor to dig out a thought
From a head that’s all silted with sand.
After that anything might happen; and the
things that do happen are up to expecta-
tion. Many of the lines are very happy;
but there is perhaps just a little too much
ARTIST TED COLLES.
suggestion of real insanity about the book
as a whole. Still, there is a smile in most
of the stanzas; and the drawings by Ted
Colies are full of skill and humor. (Pub-
lished by Alexander McCubbin, Melbourne.)
A Satchel of Books
The Forerunners , by Romain Holland, translated
by Eden and Cedar Paul (George Allen and Unwin,
London). It has been claimed that Rolland is the
finest spirit of modern France. He is certainly a
great internationalist, a great pacifist and a man of
enormous reading and scientific as well as literary
culture. The book consists of a number of essays,
reviews and general writings produced during the
Great War, and is full to the brim with matters of
vital interest. The - author ' sings no narrowing
hymn of hate against any class or creed, but deals
broadly with world problems. Whether right or
wrong in his views, he is always wise, dignified and
tremendously in earnest.
Londoners, Then and Now, as pictured by their
contemporaries (“The Studio,” London). A book of
excellent reproductions of paintings, etchings, pen-
drawings and lithographs, showing London in suffer-
ing and triumph, at work and at play, from 1590
to 1920. No better history of the city could be
written. Hogarth fills a big place in the earlier
part of the pictorial survey; but he has had fol-
lowers in every generation. Here are a few of the
subjects taken at random: “Sir Robert Walpole ad-
dressing the Cabinet” (1730) ; “The Laughing Audi-
ence” (1733) ; “Society at the Marylebone Gardens”
(1755) ; “At the Dog and Duck” (1789) ; “Fair on
the Frozen Thames” (1814) ; “At the Royal Cockpit”
(1821) ; “Bank Holiday—The Swings” (1920).
Eight plates are in color.
Marge Askinforit, by Barry Pain (T. Werner
Laurie, London). Evidently a satire on the revela-
tions of Mrs. Asquith." The humor is a bit machine-
made ; but there are probably a lot of points in the
book that are better understood in London than in
Australia.
The Song Book of Quong Lee, by Thomas Burke
(George Allen and Unwin). Alleged vers libre of
the most virulent kind. The fact that a Chinaman
is supposed to sing the things doesn’t help them to
any extent.
The Spider Woman, by John Goodwin (Herbert
Jenkins, London). This book contains about enough
incident for six ordinary novels and enough plot for
10. Things happen at furious speed, and all are
handled fairly convincingly. Very good in its
class.
Specially Selected, a Choice of Essays, by E. V.
Lucas (Methuen, London). Nothing here is very
bad, nothing very good. Lucas has a sort of, easy
fluency which goes on and on without working great
injury. The illustrations, by G. L. Stampa, promise
better things than the essays contain.
Too Old for Dolls, by Anthony M. Ludovici
(Hutchinson, London). Not much of a yarn, but
containing some fairly well-drawn characters of
unpleasant people. The author’s habit of seeing
everything in terms of physiology and animal desire
produces a leprous effect which even good writing
cannot atone for.
A Dominie in Doubt, by A. S. Neill (Herbert
Jenkins, London). Nobody approaches education
and the psychology of the child with a lighter heart
or a lighter hand. In this successor to “A
Dominie’s Log” there are good humor, wit, wisdom
and a pleasant, bantering note of exaggeration
which carries far over the edges of the study of
psycho-analysis. The book may make some teachers
angry on the ground that it furnishes reasons so
many and ample for their immediate disqualification
as pedagogues.
The Cause of Kelly, in blank verse, by Robitt Jon
Clow, W.M.C., graduate in English Grammar and
Literature, Fellow of the Royal Colonial Institute,
Master Public School, Goorangoola. The Kelly
Gang has been responsible for many things, but
never before for anything like this. Hear Ned
Kelly speak:
“If thou canst just but hinder thy husband
A half-hour in getting his despatch off
In three days’ time ten good pounds will be
thine.”
And again:—
“Farewell lady thy company hath been sweet
I’ll smash the instrument of telegraph
At the post and delivery office.”
The “graduate in English grammar” has very little
use for punctuation.
Three Real Bricks, by T. E. Grattan-Smith (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.). A yarn of boy and girl
adventures during the war, with Sydney Harbor well
in the centre of the picture.' The happenings are
wild, but the youngsters who read the book will live
through them all.


A Look Before a Leap
is a wise precaution. But it invariably pays
to take this step.
Send your Kangaroo, Rabbit, Fox, Goat,
Whiptail and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen Only, LTD .
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
TOP MARKET VALUES. PROMPT RETURNS.
CHATEAU
TANHNEA
BRANDY
2
f?
WksF-4*&
T 4,
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
With your Friends.
Cycling companions are the hap-
piest associations it is possible to
make. The healthy exercise and
pleasure gained make cycling the
one pastime without equal. Relia-
bility and long service are specially
studied in the construction of
B.S.A. Fittings, and the purchase
of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
will ensure care-free cycling for
years. For business purposes the
convenience and economy make a
bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings a real necessity. Look
for the world famous Trade Mark,
the “Three Piled Rifles.”
m
All B.S.A. Partt
, are guaranteed
interchangeable.
DMCIUB
k
A Sign ol
Quality.
Stndftr Illustrated
Listandparticulars
pest free te
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
nm
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
n
BRAND
Containing; about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Zinc Producers’ Association
mn
Contractors with the British Board of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
Vm^
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
iiiimiiiiiiisiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
n
OU are always sure of good style in a
STETSON. Yet there is never any
trace of vulgarity or unseemly ex-
aggeration.
That is partly why this new model—the “ Mystic"
is so much sought after just now by Australia’s well
dressed men. It has a jaunty brim with a bound edge.
The crown is 5& inches high ; the leaf 2§ inches wide.
POPULAR SHADES
PLEASE ASK TO BE SHOWN THE NEW STETSONS
AT ANY QUALITY STORE
STETSON
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. Sheather Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
n.as.s
URODONAL
The Great Frentch Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
til
i
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. Xj. S. BOTAIi.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABDISSEMENTS CHATEDAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Kopai”: Victorian detectives have had
no luck in their operations against the pil-
ferers of beer and other condiments on the
railways. A Melbourne demon had a bitter
experience. He was sleuthing about some
marshalling yards, and entered a box-truck
from which to watch. The truck was
promptly barred and locked from the outside,
whereupon it was attached to shunting trains
and banged violently about the yards. From
11 p.m. until 3 a.m. the process went on,
and the detective was nearly dead when
released. He didn’t catch any pilferers.
* * * *
“F.C.”: There is a glut of stone-fruit
in Victoria, and the jam factories are offer-
ing only 6d. a case of 401 b. for plums. So
a band of Digger-growers told Agricultural
Minister Angus the other day. • Yet the
commonest plums for jam-making are
placarded in suburban shops at Id. per lb.,
and while extra-fine peaches are bringing
the grower 3s. 6d. a case of about 331 b.,
the retail price is sd. per lb. Which is rob-
bery. Plums and peaches are not exported
at present, and all the canneries in Aus-
tralia wouldn’t abolish that profiteering.
The soldier-growers suggested the appoint-
ment of a Director of Horticulture. What
they really need is a Director of Distribu-
tion. Meantime if the municipal councils,
especially in Labor districts, would give
whole-souled encouragement to local mar-
kets they would nearly knock the dishonest
Dago right out. Then the housewife would
get her plums at about fd. per lb., while the
grower would get 2s. a case at least.
* * * *
“Broker”: Prohibition hasn’t withered the
Californian vineyards. The Internal Revenue
Department has ruled that grapes may be con-
verted into beverages containing not more
than one-half per cent, of alcohol, and Pacific
Slope vignerons are intensively cultivating
to cope with an impetuous call for grapes,
which fetch from £35 to £4O a ton, packed
for delivery on rail. Home distillers are the
principal purchasers, and as the prohibition
ordinance permits the sale of medicated wine
it is expected that the inventive Yankee may
yet solve the problem of handling sterilised
grapejuice in bulk. Experiments with un-
fermented musts and dealcoholised wines
have been successful in a small way.
* * * *
“Gas-burner”: Seemingly “Wang” (B.
20/l/’2l) is annoyed about my plain state-
ment of the fact that the Brighton Gas Cos.
got £7 from me for a seicond-hand imported
gas-stove, whereas the Metro. Gas. Cos. sells
a good Australian-made stove for £6, new.
He charges me with being fool enough to
prefer the second-hand, second-rate imported
stove at the higher price, and alleges that
the Brighton Gas. Cos. will sell me anew
Australian-made stove to-morrow at £6. I
can’t say what they would do to-morrow, but
when I went to the co. for a stove I was
told that I could not get an Australian
stove, for the good reason that they hadn’t
any to sell. To soften this Hobson’s choice
I was told that this second-hand contraption
was English, with the implication that it was
something superior. Asa favor I was
allowed to take this superior article and pay
a deposit of 30s. lam returning it after
two months, and the Brighton people are
graciously pleased to take it back. Of
course they keep the 30s.
# * * *
“Pact”: It has been asserted that Aus-
tralia has a lot more wireless stations than
there is any need for, and from the point
of view of sending messages this is true. A
few high-power stations could do the work
quite as efficiently. Two stations, Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) and Roebourne (W.A.),
are being cut out because the radius which
they can work is covered by other stations;
and for sending there are a dozen others
that would never be missed. But until the
minimum range allowed for wireless outfits
on vessels is considerably increased, no
great reduction in the number of coastal
receiving stations will be possible.
MARKET WORTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night, while white and keen and cold
The late moon lit the earth,
I thought of things more rare than gold
That have no market worth:
I thought of laughter lighting up
The frank young eyes of girl and boy—
Gay laughter bubbling from the fount
Of fresh, untainted joy.
And while, on tree and rock and range,
The moon shone, grave and cold,
I thought of things no man will change
For silver coin or gold :
I thought of passion lifting man
And maid to starry realms above—
Rare passion from the welling springs
Of young, untroubled love.
And still, while paling cliff and peak
The moon shone on, I thought
Of things a man may vainly seek
Where wares are sold and bought:
I thought of Friendship warming lives
That else went shivering to the grave—
Strong Friendship leaping from the heart
To succor and to save.
While swans. went by on moonlit wings,
Black shapes against the sky,
I still thought on of precious things
That merchants may not buy:
I thought of Honor strong and true,
Clear-eyed and clothed with living light—
Fair Honor dwelling in the soul,
Untarnished and steel-bright.
To me it seemed that on this earth,
Where empires blaze and fall,
Some things that have no market worth
Are worth the world and all:
They do not shine on velvet shelves
Where gems and golden gauds entice;
No tag have they to show their make,
No ticket tells their price.
And thus, when on the trees and flowers
The white moonlight descends,
I sometimes think this world of ours,
Though all at odds and ends
With peace and justice, still is first
Of all the orbs Space brings to birth,
Because it holds some precious things
That have no market worth.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


rx
MICHeuZ
ft
n
c - -•
r 2
Covers the World
GO where you will among motorists the world over, you will find that
Michelin Tyres are known and appreciated. Thousands upon
thousands of users prefer them, because Michelin has always set
Quality before Price.
VALUE is what every practical motorist demands. The value of a
tyre is the relation between its Quality and its Price. Tyre-value can be
estimated only in terms of MILEAGE—and this is just where Michelin
scores so heavily.
The huge superiority in Michelin Quality secures a mileage-average which
reduces cost-per-mile to a minimum.
MICHELINS will pay you best
42^
MfCHHIN
vSB?
Made in One Quality Only
The Best.
Obtainable only from bona
fide Motor Traders.
MICHELIN & CO. PTY., LTD., 31 King Street, Melbourne.


mn
"b,
he largest selling
quality pencil in
iheyyovlcL
VENUS
V PENCILS
m
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
W
€
ra .«/
■ *
s22*
Sat-*
>~S'
•u'T
‘
is
:4m
z&
C(J'°
O \£7
X> ••v<=^yV
* <£Ky2
e*4i
J ,'•<s
A-
II
' .'’:!■s[ ->J
■ % J
i nc
Sjjg
l@r
Sfr
¥l^
fVVfI
W.V
i
■JV
/S'
i
nm
n
Like an echo of the flower-
scented breezes from English
gardens comes the fragrance of
Zenobia Perfumes.
They faithfully reproduce the
sweetness of favourite old-world
blossoms. Zenobiaarethedaintiest
and most charmng perfumes the
fastidious woman can find. Delicate,
yet lasting; elusive, yet distinc-
tive ; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are :
Zenobia Lily of the Valley
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
Zenobia Night Scented Stock
Prepared only bv ZENOBIA. LTD.
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
Every flower faith-
fully reproduced.
All Chemists & Stores.
Australian Representa-
tive:
K. BCCKMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
[1
Datastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
mn
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Fres, 35/-
S.Sc&tt-YoungLfd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,-
And COMMERCE HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of xanix
and' all particulars posted on application
to The Manner.
'■ 1L» i 1 iJV
r
YlfiYS i iIP
;
tin
IMy#
-IT
n
*,l_>‘» f f&;
i> iff.
&
s
!iJU-J-J*T *V
1 TOkv.:^P4l*i
; TKpv •
*
m.
LUIIIJIBIIIILLLL!
fiumuuH i
i-l
ala
os£@Kl&
—t
ll*K#«» Svrf*c«f
C jo HNSOMWO*
• RACINI
ITT
** **•> »“4 v
j£jOMwvoweso« **»•*•>
. I
Here’s the
Polish !
TO use Johnson’s
Prepared Wax you
need only a cloth—no .
brushes, sprays nor mops of any kind. With very
little rubbing you can produce a lustrous, lasting
polish of great durability.
You can use Johnson’s Prepared Wax wer any
finish, whether varnished, French-polished or
oiled, and the result will be a hard, dry, velvety
polish impervious to water, dust, scratches, heel-
marks and finger-prints.
818 gig
Liquid and Paste
is more than a polish, for it forms a thin protect-
ing film which serves as a wonderful preservative
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Sprinkled over any floor will immediately give a
perfect dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to supply you with this most
satisfactory polish.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, NS W.
WHEN THE LIGHTS ARE OUT.
[For The Bulletin.]
In the day when the sun shines brightly
And the crowds fill the busy street,
It is easy to treat our sins lightly
And our hearts miss never a beat.
We can jest at the loves that are embers
As we breast to the bar and we shout;
But the man who laughs loudest remembers
In the night when the lights are out.
We have loved and laughed and we’ve ridden
Away when our passion was dead;
Laughed at the lie that lay hidden
In the soft parting w'ords that we said.
We took a last kiss as a guerdon
When we reined the old brumby about,
And the mem’ry of this is our burden
In the night when the lights are out.
We know we’re no worse than our brothers
Who drink to our healths in the bar,
And it comforts to know that the others
In their hearts bear the self-same scar;
So we laugh at the faces that daunt us,
And toll the old tale as we shout;
But we crouch from the faces that haunt us
In the night when the lights are out.
We have drowned ourselves deep in the glitter
Of the street with our own kindred crowd,
Till we hadn’t a thought that was bitter,
And our laughter was free and was loud,
We laughed, but our measure of gladness
Was tempered with passionate doubt;
For the night brought the old-time sadness,
And we wept when the lights were out.
west RAI.I A. ARTEMUS H.
“T.O.I.”: Met in the Mitchell Library
last week the veteran Anglican cleric W. H.
H. Yarrington. Although he has gone 10
years beyond the Psalmist’s limit he is still
active in body and mind. About»60 years ago
he won a Uni. Medal for a prize poem. He
still .lias the medal hut has forgotten the
poem.
Having escaped as far as Melbourne the
N. S. Wales Premier told an interviewer
that, being responsible only to Parliament
and through it to the community at large, he
wouldn’t tolerate the dictation of any side
issue or club or extraneous institution like
the A.L.P. nor would he acknowledge its
authority- But he did acknowledge its
authority when he obeyed its summons to the
tick and stood up to plead his cause before it.
Fido heard his master’s voice and Fido cajpe.
Jack Fletcher, dead at 64, was for the last
15 years secretary of the Sydney Cabmen’s
Union, during which time the wheels never
stopped turning. In fact Jack used to say
that strikes were the curse of the country—•
said it at the Trades Hall too. In an un-
obtrusive way he had much to do with
framing many of the present traffic regula-
tions. When the end was heralded four
months ago the cabbies sent him away on a
holiday; in fact they treated their old
secretary like the gentleman he was.
The vacancy left in the Senate’ by Bob
Guthrie’s death recalls that the only time
Alec Peacock could be induced to offer him-
self for the Federal Parliament was when
Senator Yardstick Sargood died, nearly 18
years ago. It seemed an easy thing for
Peacock, who was an ex-Premier and a
thorough Protectionist; but he reckoned
without the Freetraders who came in with
Kyabramapootra, and Robert Reid, M.L.C.
(who resigned his job as Irvine’s Minister
for Education for the express purpose), got
the billet. Labor, not wishing to vote for
either Peacock or Reid, put up Stephen
Barker. Parliament was in summer session
at the time, and members of both State
Houses foregathered in Queen’s Hall to
make the choice. Peacock now holds the
State portfolio that Reid gave up to go
into the Senate. In the intervening 18
years Alec has had sundry turns in office,
including a lease of the Premiership for
three years and a half (1914-17).
“Ex-Dig.”: The annoyance of the O.C.
A.I.F. Graves Section at the discovery of
some unreported graves, including those of
a few Diggers, in an area supposed to have
been thoroughly gone over by the Imperial
Graves Unit, is not amazing. Towards the
end of things, when the Allies had begun
their victorious advance, the scandal of un-
buried Tommies lying in areas which had
long become safe for daylight work became as
noisome as the atmosphere. Apparently the
interment of the poor devils was nobody’s
business, and as the B.E.F. never thought
of doing anything without orders, parties of
Diggers went out on their own initiative and
reverently did the needful. Among the Dig-
gers a dead mate was always given decent
burial if it was humanly possible. On one
occasion, when the risk of taking back the
body of a man who had “got his issue” was
too great, a grave was made at the back of
our trench position, and the O.C. sent to a
neighboring platoon to borrow an ex-parson.
The latter was a dissolute" scamp \vho had
been unfrocked 10 years before, but he knew
his business; and it was a singularly im-
nressive ceremony.
“Mac”: “Moe” (B. 27/l/’21) bewails the
conservatism of the medical profession in
not acclaiming every experimentalist who
has a new idea about curing an old disease.
He instances some friend of his who went
abroad with some notion “by request” and
returned without even a handclap from the
faculty. But conservatism in this profession
is the right attitude in the public interest.
If Koch’s great tuberculin discovery had
not been received in a conservative way it
would have slain thousands. It is better
understood now and occupies its proper
place. The use of salvarsan also has saved
the health of thousands by the “hasten
slowly” attitude of the profession. The best
friend the young scientist has is the old
practitioner with his years of experience at
the bedside of sick humanity. The “bril-.
liant graduate” can’t expect ill people to
have blind faith in his laboratory dis-
covery straight away. But there is no
need for him to be disheartened as long as
he has champions like “Moe” to submit them-
selves and their relations to the_ new and
untried treatment; and there will be no
decaying of it by the old doctors if it turns
up, trumps.


m
STORAGE
BATTERY
Men who have used the
Still Better Willard Bat-
tery with Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation know that
Threaded Rubber is the
final answer to the old re-
insulation question, and
the right answer to give to
any man who asks how he
may put an end to insula-
tion expense and trouble.
errs
n
STORAGE
BATTERY
A


ECZEMA ON FACE]
IN BLOTCHES
Irritation Caused Baby to*
Scratch. Prevented Sleep.!
Cuticura Heals.
•‘My baby was between ten and
twelve months old when eruptions
broke out on her face, which
was very iitchy. I was told
it was eczema. It appeared
in blotches and the skin was
red. The irritation caused
her to scratch her face. It
prevented her from sleep-
ing and caused disfigurement.
“I sent for a free sample of Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment which did
her good, so I bought more which
healed her.” (Signed) Mrs. W. Bross-
mann, Albert St., Rutherford,N. S.W.
Use Cuticura Soap and Ointment
for all toilet uses.
Soap to cleanse, Ointment to soothe
and heal.
For sample each address: ”R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.” Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
I
mn
m
nm
n
UNDERWEAR
IT pays to buy good
underwear. "Keep-
kool” is the durable
summer underwear.
Ribbed and porous for
health and comfort.
Insist on seeing
" Keepkool ”
If your mercer cannot supply
"KeepkoOl” write to us for name
of nearest store stocking same.
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS., Melbourne and Sydney
« KEEPKOOL ” for COMFORT
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
rg
IfSe?
H
[>
□
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
View of 49in. Hardwood Continuous Wood
Stave Pipe, installed in 1920 for the Tas-
manian Government in connection with the
Hydro Electric Scheme at Great Lakes.
(Pressure on this main varies from 60/380ft.
head.)
Below is an interesting letter
recently received from the man-
ager of a large metal-treatment
works. It gives yet another in-
stance of the remarkable adap-
tability of Wood Pipe :
“We have in use considerable
quantities of Wood Pipes of
various sizes, ranging from 4in.
to 16in. in diameter. The pipes
are mainly those classed by you
as 350 ft. head. Long runs of
6in. and Sin. pipes were in-
stalled in 1910, and are still
giving every satisfaction. They
form the main portion of our
Mill Water Circuit, and are
run all over the buildings on
trestles much in the same way
as ordinary iron pipes would be
run. They were adopted in the
first case on account of the ease
and rapidity with which they
could be laid.”
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is
the cheapest, most durable and
efficient water conduit on the
market.
We are also manufacturers
of Wood Tanks.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree)
NEW SOUTH WALES.
' And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
KSPW
■
i
Wm
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The Standard Car is designed expressly for
the Owner-Driver, particularly the one
driving in all weathers over the roughest
roads—and gives faithful service.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
STANDARD MOTOR CAR CO., LID.,
COVENTRY
AGENTS : T. PHIZACKEREEY.
168-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ard
a
m
LIGHT CAR c
The All
\BritisH
0
Headac
%
/
‘ The Little Nune
for Little Ills''
lET Mentholatum
■«—' soothe and cool
that throbbing,
aching head! Simply
rub Mentholatum
on the ache. You’ll
like its cool, clean
“ feel.”
fust as widely used for all forms of Skin Diseases,
rhe First Aid in thousands of homes for over 24 years.
mn
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
—a Healing Cream .
FASSETT & JOHNSON, LTD., SYDNEY.
“Abdul Aswaz”: The night before the
trooper sailed, the boys went into town and
got slightly inked. When they got back to
Broadmeadows, Jimmy lost the party, but
found a nice, roomy tent, a comfortable cot
and oblivion. He responded automatically to
reveille and sat up to study geography.
“Right!” rasped a horribly familiar voice,
“I let you stop there all night; now get out,
and if you’re late on parade, look out! ’ It
was the C.O.
A good deal is being said about the need to
restore and repair Westminster Abbey, where
lie the mighty dead, lest it fall into the sere
and yellow leaf, also into the adjacent void.
A halo hangs round the Abbey, some of it
gold ahd a great deal brass. There are a
mighty lot of dead but they aren’t all mighty.
At one time interment there was lightly
valued, or space seemed illimitable. So
kings’ mistresses, favorite cooks and valets,
also the well-known trio Tom, Dick and
Harry and likewise persons unknown were
planted in the sacred precincts. There is
talk now of a vast weeding out of obscure
old bones, for there is no room left for the
next great man unless he is cremated.
“Parson and Clerk” : Maria Island, where
Bowes Kelly, Monash and others propose
to make things hum with cement works, has
had a long and very mixed history. Tas-
man sighted it in 1642, and named it after
the wife of Governor-General Van Diemen, and
English and French explorers poked _ round
the coasts, ' and Sydney sealers visited it
as early as 1802. In 1805 a sealing gang,
working for Isaac Nicholls, of Sydney, was
stationed on the island. After the sealers
came the bay whalers, who hung out at a
place still called The Fishery. When a
penal settlement was planted on the island
in 1825 the whalers were told to quit, but
they merely shifted to two little coves under
the cliffs on the eastern side of the South
Island, nearly inaccessible except by sea,
and worked from there. Amongst the prison-
ers of the Crown detained on the island
in its prison days were Ilohepa, a Maori
chief from the Wanganui, who was sent
across the Tasman Sea during the war of
1846 and died at Darlington, _ where the
cement works are to be. and Smith O Bnen,
whose cottage still stands at Darlington.
"The Lamb”: The day after we arrived
at Suez Camp, two cobbers and I, with an
hour or two on our hands, sauntered, round
to make ourselves familiar with the neighbor-
hood. We were passing a row of dilapidated
bathing-boxes, in one of which we could see
a stout person writing, when a bellow, like
nothing on earth, pulled us up. “Commere,
you blinkahs,” it began. “How dah you pass
the O.C. without saluting him!” And much
more of an objurgatory nature. He lined us
un and put us through saluting by numbers,
garnished by his own torrid comments, and
then dismissed us with some more lurid invec-
tive. The fat bloke in the bathing-box was the
O.C. The Bellow was the adjutant. “A Pro-
fession in which Brain's don’t always Count’
(B. 20/l/’2l) made me wonder again what
sphere this gorgeous specimen of bombast
found for his talents in civvies.
“Ex-Dig.”: “Bovay’s” general observa-
tions about the G.M.P.’s (B. 20/1/21)
recall young Carker, who volunteered for
the force in London after getting a hint
that by doing so he would avoid the conse-
quences of a leave outbreak that threatened
to make his payboolt a blank for the dura-
tion of the war. But he loved the ‘ Jacks
rather less than the ordinary Digger did, and
as an M.P., from the M.P. viewpoint, he
was not a success, albeit soldiers a.w.l.
regarded him with affection. Carker reached
the end of his tether when he .was discovered
enjoying himself in a dashing restaurant
with an affluent scapegrace whom he was
supposed to be escorting back to limbo.
After that the young man ran amuck. In
Horseferry-road he bogged into three burly
“Jacks,” laid out one of them, damaged the
others and got away. Followed a man-
hunt, in which the whole available strength
of the M.P. was engaged. In Whitehall
the pursuers were informed by a delighted
Tommy that a “Jack” who had gone mad
was giving another beans in ’lrafalgai-
souare, but by the time they reached the
Nelson Monument Carker had slugged out
two more M.IVs in the Strand. In the en»*
he was surrounded and captured by superior
numbers. But when the heads at Horse-
ferry-road heard the story they were not
as annoyed as they pretended to be. They
let him go back to France.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
R. D. Ireland, Q.C. (B. 27/l/’2l), was a noted
“jury” man. He had many ups and downs, mainly
the latter. In 1867 he came to Sydney, accompanied
by 0. A. Smythe, another Irish barrister, and applied
for admission to the local Bar. The original certifi-
cate of admission in Ireland’s case had been
destroyed by fire, but an old Law Almanack was
produced which satisfied the Full Court, James Mar-
tin presiding, and R.D.I. was “called.” He was
also of the M.L. Bar, having been given a brief
marked a thousand guineas to defend Father Larkin
on a charge of Fenianism. Ireland was made much
of by the bhoys in Maoriland, and returned to
N. S. Wales laden with gifts, in addition to the big
fee. The padre got one month’s gaol., Ireland was
once called upon to defend an aggrieved husband,
charged with pumping duckshot into a man who had
been too attentive to the shootist’s wife, and an inter-
view took place in the front room of counsel’s house
in Royal Terrace, Nicholson-street. In one corner
of the room was a plaster bust of Justice Redmond
Barry, which had one eye painted black, a short
cutty stuck in the mouth, and the whole topped by
one of R.D.l.’s old white hats. These adornments
were no doubt the work of young De Courcy Ireland,
he who, with J. D. Wood, gave “Mint Sauce” Jones
a hiding and was fined, for his trouble. Ireland
told the shootist to plead guilty, which he did, and
made an impassioned appeal for mercy to William
Stawell, C.J., who, in his young days, had been
peppered with small shot himself. Stawell remarked
that prosecutor and prisoner should have changed
places, and gave the latter the “rising.” The
Court rose at once, and Ireland and party
adjourned to the S.C. Hotel opposite and made a
day of it. Ireland created a precedent in Parlia-
mentary practice. He had been defeated for Mary-
borough (Vic.) by a few votes, and appealed. The
Elections Committee declared the election null, but
refused to make a recommendation. Ireland was
then Attorney-General in the Heales Ministry, and
that Government brought the matter before the House
and moved that the blank on the writ be filled in
with the name of Richard Davies Ireland. This was
carried, and Mr. Attorney-General was known in that
Parliament as “the member for the House.”


Western Electric
Power and Light
Makes the battery last longer
muff.
.
*1
I M
, ~ vV'-^aOTßrrfflf
'
wks;« '•* *■;*■
■Hi®
M;
-*Vi
■h
B
■
Wiiii
KBS
m
&
The pulley makes the engine do extra
work. Here it is being belted to a churn»
NOT the least important feature of Western Electric Power and
Light is its value as a fine piece of machinery. Apart from its
greater capacity and the features which protect the battery
from troubles, the construction of the whole outfit is a masterpiece of
engineering.
If you are any judge of machinery, be sure to digest these splendid
Western Electric features, which you can’t get in small lighting plants.
The Battery of 288 Ampere Hours (S.A.E. Rating) enables you to
have plenty of electric lights inside and outside of the country home, and, at the
same time, provides sufficient current for using electric labour-saving appliances.
The Tapering Charge makes the battery last longer and eliminates all
those troubles and worries which you can’t avoid in a lighting plant where the
battery is not charged the right way.
The Engine starts by pressing a switch, and when every plate in the
battery is properly loaded with electricity the engine stops itself. Everything is
done on “the press the switch” principle, so that even a child could run the
Western Electric Plant.
H.P. is the capacity of the engine which is available for daily farm
use if you want it. Merely press a switch to disconnect the generator, and you
have a fine power plant for driving various pieces of machinery.
Kerosene is all you want for running this plant, which feeds itself not
only with fuel, but with oil as well. Just glance over the illustrations on the right
and notice what a fine piece of machinery Western Electric Power and Light
really is.
For this reason, don’t buy a small plant that only gives light and does
not protect the battery by charging it the right way. Send now for 20 Page
Illustrated Book, and find out how easy Western Electric Power and Light is to
buy and to run.
Western-Electric Company
(Austra/iajltd.
192 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
2 t 2 - ers Li ane , Melbo urne . T. Tonks, Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
M^hiir^ td pi^ l?tt e St -’, Adelaide - William Adams & Co., Ltd., 33-35 King
10 c .°-> l 1 Argyle St., Hobart. A. D. & Riley Co., Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z. Also at Christchurch, Auckland, and Dunedin, N.Z.
EXHAUST.
I CURRENT INDICATOR.
SELF STARTER SWITCti.
AUTOMATIC E N C 1 N E STOP.
SHUTS DOWN ENGINE WHEN
BATTERIES ARE CHARGED. AND
OPENS CIRCUIT BETWEEN GEN*
ERATOR AND BATTERY WHEN
ENGINE STOPS.
SWITCH FOR GIVING BAT-
TERY SOAKING CHARGE WHEN
DESIREtX
I PILL TANK HERE
kl
rwm
L
THIS SWITCH CUTS OFF GENER-
ATOR SO THAT ALL THE POWER
OF THE ENGINE IS AVAILABLE
AT THE PULLEY.
j LINE SWITCH, j
4’ PULLEY FOR DRIVING LINE
SHAFT OR OTHER MACHINERY.
1
AIR INTAKE FOR COOLING GEN
ERATOR.
GENERATOR.
FUKL DRAIN VALVE I
SHARK PLUG
/
FUEL ADJUSTING VALVE
PUMP FOR LIFTING FUEL FROM
THE BASE. AND PROVIDES A
UNIFORM FUEL SUPPLY AT
ALL TIMES
AIR PREHEATER HEATED AIR
IS DRAWN INTO ENGINE CYL-
INDER WITH FUEL
IGNITION TIMER


A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, daintily engraved, in
Silk-lined Case, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Spoon and Pusher,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, dainty design in Silk-lined Case,
45/-
Silver-plated Cased Goods
t : r.
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, selected Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated
Mounts and Ferrules, finest-quality Sheffield Steel, 45/*
»»«
IS
rw
a
A. Saunders’ Fruit Knhes >nd Forks, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
in Silk-lined Case, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
-/os
‘jCjJlßnb xv ‘paqstu.mq X[ip3U[ a.ind
‘sSuox pus suoodg Bax uooujßXjv .saapunßg - v
m
wmwmm
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork and Spoon, in
Case, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 32/6.
a
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, in Case, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, 50/-
but?
A PairofWil
The same pair of hands directing a machine will do the work of
fifty pairs of hands, and increase turnover and profits in proportion.
How many of the following do you make use of—or do you do
as your grandfather did in the days of Cobb’s coaches arid the
bullock team? The law of diminishing returns proves that, as
the business grows, working expenses increase in a greater ratio.
Keep them down with labor-saving appliances and reap the
whole profit.
The “Wallaby” Petrol Farm
Engine.
The willing horse of the farm does*
most things an engine can do, from
pumping to threshing. In 1-J, 8,5, i
and 10 horse-power, stationary or
portable. Ten-horse mechanical power
is equal to one hundred man-power.
rv
: 1
ZJ
PATENT TROUOHINQ
Leak-proof Troughing for
Sheep, Cattle and Pigs.
Easy to erect —lasts a lifetime.
SM
The “Keratin”
Spray Pump.
All brass—nothing
to corrode. Dis-
charges a bucket of
emulsion as a fine
mist in fifteen min-
utes. Useful as a
jet-pump for wash-
ing vehicles, win-
dows, etc., and for
lime washing. Fits
to an ordinary
kerosene tin or
bucket.
Danks’ “Billa-
bong” Mills.
Ball-bearing, self-
governing, self-oil-
ing, safe in any
weather, built for
wear. In sizes 6
to 16 feet. Write
for catalogue.
m
n
Semi-Rotary
Pumps.
From Jin. to 2in.
Danks* Gunmetal
Windmill Pump.
For long wear and
accessibility single
action —self-priming.
mn
Banks’
Bush
Shower
You
Supply
the
Bucket
and
Water,
we supply
the rest.
L
Double-acting Piston
Pump.
For belt-power for lifts up to
175 feet. Capacities from 40U
gallons to 5875 gallons per hour.
&
Danks’
Centrifugal Pumps.
for raising water in volume.
Sizes from lin. to Bin. 75 per
cent, efficient.
Danks’
Hydraulic Rams.
Self-acting. Uses the power of
falling water to drive the pump.
Capacity, 800 to 4800 gallons
‘ per 24 hours.
Write for full information
and printed matter on
any of the above, or on
other pumping matters.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
324 Pitt Street, Sydney; 391 Beurke Street, Melbourne.
Material only, or if pre-
ferable, ' material and
fixing quoted. AVrite to-
day.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays, at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
“J”IVOI,I THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the fascinating
Musical Extravaganza of the Orient,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
Matinees every Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Plan at Glen’s.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF
*** J. C. Williamson, Ltd.,
THEATRES.
Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
UILMERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION.
BABY BUNTING.
PALACE.
WELCOME, STRANGER.
JOHN D. O’HARA
and
JULES JORDAN.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
ALLAN WILKIE’S SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
OPENING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, WITH
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
UNI O N I’ICTt R E TIIISAT It 15 S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
The Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
P KIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE GIGANTIC FAIRY PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
TYRONE POWER in
THE GREAT SHADOW.
and
FRANK MAYO in
THE RED LANE.
Prices as usual.
Legal Notice.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the Grace of God of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
of the British Dominions beyond the Seas King
Defender of the Faith Emperor of India.
To KENNETH JAMES ROWLANDS formerly of the
Ouse in Tasmania Store Manager.
WHEREAS Kathleen Mary Rowlands of Richmond
in Tasmania claiming to have been lawfully married
to you the said Kenneth James Rowlands has filed her
Petition against you in our said Court praying for a
dissolution of her said marriage with you wherein
she alleges that you have without just cause or excuse
deserted her and without any such cause or excuse
havei left her continuously deserted during two years
and upwards NOW THIS IS TO COMMAND YOU
that within thirty days of the service of this on you
inclusive of the day of such service you do appear in
our said Court then and there to make answer to
the said Petition a copy whereof stamped with the
Official seal of the Registrar of our said Court is
herewith served upon you AND TAKE NOTICK that
in default of your so doing our said Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charge proved in due course of
law and to pronounce sentence therein your absence
notwithstanding.
Dated this Twenty-eighth day of October, 1920.
(Sgd.) A. BRAMMAL (1.5.), Deputy Registrar.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
One each High-Pressure Austral Otis
Hydraulic Pumps and Accumulators,
40001 b. and 10001 b. squhre inch; Steam
driven.
Pair Lancashire Boilers, 28ft. x 7ft. cor-
rugated furnaces, excellent condition, low
price f.o.b Adelaide.
One Marine Boiler Dry Back, lift, x Bft.
Bin„ 82 tubes, excellent condition, low
price f.o.b. Adelaide.
Two Small Contractor’s Locomotives,
3ft. 6in. gauge and 2ft. gauge.
Thirty Trucks for Firewood, 2ft. gauge.
Deland, Wyllie & Davies, Ltd.,
117 King William Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
Barbed wire, black (English),
12-GAUGE, 1 Cuts. 30/6 each. About
3 Tons. Delivered boat or rail, Sydney
Box 17, ROZELLE P.O.
Amusements.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT & BAILEY & GRANT’S SUPERB
PRODUCTION. SINBAD THE SAILOR.
The Pantomime that’s different. Plan at Allan’s.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE JOYCE in
THE PREY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLAGI ARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
[T >,: ' ;?QC K >,&S’HOF?ROCk SF S HOk ROC KSES HO RRQC ftSE b
HOP ROC KSES’KORROCKSFS’HOP WOC KSES'MORR
m
Flannelettes
&
SAFETY
n
COMFORT
mn
m
Flannelettes
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
70L
f
Broadway Ties, 6/6 to 17/6.
Also Silk Knitted, 15/6 to 25/*
314 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
H
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
This is the compact little phonograph that you
can take with you anywhere and that will
stand the stress of travel and weather.
Went through the war with distinction.
Plays all makes of records ; clear re-
production and rich natural tone.
No loose parts —no case—ready
to play immediately opened.
3 Models:
Leather Cloth £9 10 0
Fibre 1110 0
Cowhide ... 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
I*
From All
Music-dealers.
STANLEY B. GBEEN,
LTD.,
Angtratiau Agents
n
What Mr. Edison
has done for you
Mr. Edison places it in your power to have performances by
the world’s leading artists in your own home.
Not an imitation, but a voice as real as breathed by the living
artist. Full of the feeling and emotion that is so essential to
your enjoyment of the vocal art.
Write for details and Illustrated Literature, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE NEW EDISON
•* The Phonograph with a soul! ”
mn
Finish and
Refinement
are prominent characteristics of
ABBEY SHOES
which, combined with their absolute
COMFORT, make them the choice of the
man of discriminating- taste.
We illustrate our special highest-grade Tan
Willow Bal.
PRICE 57/6.
Also in Glace Kid 63/-
Anti Box Calf 47/6 and 65/-
Stocked in half-sizes, C, D and E fittings.
Made-to-order style.
Postage Extra. Write for Our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If you are looking
for low prices —
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY!
Write to-day for
BIG SALE BOOK
Finney’s Pay the Carriage
FINNEY’S
“ Drapers of Queensland ”
BRISBANE
They are
Good
Watches
TURF AX AMUtV
J-plate Lever in Steel Case,
32/6. Gent.’s full size.
15 Years’ Guarantee.
So good that they bear our name and are
guaranteed in writing for 15 years’ wear.
We landed them in quaiitities before the last
monstrous Customs Duty of 48 per cent, was
imposed, and hence are able to sell them at
32/6 each.
Any future importations will necessitate a
price greatly increased.
It seems a great wrong for the Customs to
bleed our people to the extent of nearly one-
half the cost of a watch, an article that
cannot be made in Australia.
However, we are doing our best to keep
prices down to reasonableness, and so offer these
sound, reliable f-plate Levers at 32/6 each.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
cash ggT 23 825 Hunter Street.
For Sale.
BEAUTIFUL AUXILIARY YAWL
“DORA.”
Built to designs by C. D. Mower, N.Y. Exeellently
fitted and found, 43 O.A. by lift. 9in., draught
2ft. 6in., 18-H.P. LAMB ENGINE. The most power-
ful Yacht in Northern Waters.
For sale cn account of the death of the owner.
Apply ISLES, LOVE k CO., Auctioneers, Brisbane.


Italian Wines.
*
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor.
Gold Medals*
London and
other
exhibitions.
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
If Worry or Overwork is Taking too Heavy a Toll try
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating-
AB
m
(Registered.)
AB
SISTERE
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., Ltd.. Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace. Perth, Agents for West Australia.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., 85 Currie Street, Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
Overall, McCray Limited
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL.- —-Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS.—Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES.—Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGlNES.—Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING. —Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S team-driven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGlNE.——Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL. U
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “Baby Bunting”
Palace “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli “The Lilac Domino”
Grand Opera House Shakspearean Plays
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Cnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Jlajesty’s “Hurnpty Dumpty”
Royal "ine Maid of the Mountains”
Tivoi.' .... "Chu Chin Cliow”
Princess’s “Cinderella”
fcnG's "Sinbad tile sailor”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic fj Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦ :
“Princess Ida” 'was revived at Her
Majesty's, Sydney, on Saturday night.
Quarter of a century ago the sweet girl
graduate was an anomaly and an eccentric,
liable at any moment to commit outrageous
offences against modesty, such as riding
astride, or wearing bloomers. Nowadays,
unfortunately, more girls graduate than take
to housework, and scandalised Puritans are
disposed to regret the absence of a stout
pair of tweed knickers in the case of many
a maiden on many a surf beach and jazzing-
floor. For these reasons the audience found
some of the Gilbertian quips which used to
convulse theatre-goers in the late Victorian
epoch rather forced. But the rapier-like wit
of the great librettist was enjoyed on the
whole and so was the music of his, colleague.
Neither represents Gilbert and Sullivan at
their best, but both remain better than the •
best that is being done nowadays. James
Hay makes the Prince a handsome and dash-
ing character with a tremeiulotis capacity fqr
vigorous song. Miss Strella Wilson is the
strong-minded, man-hating Princess, who is
discovered by Ililarion and his friends in
Castle Adamant. Her appearance fits the
part and her beautiful voice is artistically
produced, but she was short of a rehearsal
or something on the first night. Charles
Walenn has the chief comic .role as King
Gama, and struggles with it to excellent
effect; and Frederick Hobbs gives a robust
interpretation of that fine singing part, King
Hildebrand. The minor characters are well
handled and the scenery is admirable.
* * * =!-
A slim and beautifully costumed actor
may, at the present time, be observed in
Sydney, now lounging dejectedly about a
leading hotel and anon wandering in a
distrait manner through the city streets.
The apparition wears, in addition to a full
issue of London clothes, the. aspect of one
who would fain be at work; and with good
cause, for it is Joe Coyne. Owing to the
unprecedented success of “Baby Bunting”
the eminent comedian is unable to get into
the Criterion, the incident representing the
only lock-out with which Dorothy Brunton
(essentially a, kind-hearted girl) has ever
been connected.
“PRINCESS IDA,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Prince Hilaron (James Hay) and his friend
Cyril (Charles Mettarn) in a musical
dis[?]ssion.
At Sydney Tivoli the solemn but sonorous
Jamieson Dodds is still bidding the orchestra
to “let the music play,” and they continue to
let it with astonishing humility, considering
that they are free-born Australian citizens
with a prescriptive right to strike. The
“Lilac Domino” season has now lasted eight
weeks, and there is no apparent reason why
it shouldn’t last IS. Or even SO.
Christian Science gets a nightly boost
from Jules Jordan in “Welcome Stranger”
at Sydney Palace. Christian Science and
a fire-insurance policy cause the electric-
lighting of Little Valley, and Jules finds the
combination of the new faith with the busi-
ness instincts of his ancestors a gilt-edged
security.
* * * *
Allan Wilkie is returning to Sydney with
a tidy swag of Tasmanian money to prove—;
if proof were needed —that Shakspeare no
longer spells blue ruin. “The Merchant of
Venice” goes up at the Grand Opera House
on Saturday, with “Hamlet” on Monday
and “Twelfth Night” on Tuesday. Then
“The Merchant” comes on again.
Eight times a week “The Maid of the
Mountains” regrets that jealousy drove her to
denounce her Baldasarre as an impostor
owing to his leanings towards the other girl.
A Saturday matinee in this case has been
added to the ordinary week’s work of a
comic opera, and the demand justifies the
supply. “Maid of the Mountains” suits all
tastes and mental capacities. Gladys Mon-
crieff is always in good voice, Stigant is an
amiable representative of the only type of
modern gubernatorial idiot that musical
comedy knows, and Mione Stewart, as a
deserted millionairess of uncertain age, adds
a lovely sense of humor to her other attrac-
tions. Also the idea of a job lot of brigands,
with Phil Smith as raw recruit, being banded
together on a 12 months’ contract under the
gentle motherly eye of a sentimental prima-
donna, is a true Gilbertian joke.,
* * * *
At Melbourne Tivoli, the restoration of
normal prices, in solemn celebration of the
Toth birthday of “Clin Chin Chow,” synehro-
nised with another
unavoidable change
of cast. Whereas
Styan came back
to his name part,
a nd Laurence
Harding resumed
duty as tße rever-
end auctioneer in
the slave market
who invokes the
blessing of Allah
on the eminent
sale. Workman
dropped out of his
fat part of Ali
Baba. A slim
young man named
Lidd 1 e, with a
pleasant singing
voice and a laud-
able ambition to
appear the same
sort of astute old
waster as W ork-
man was, filled the
gap. That is to
say, the understudy
filled some of the
gap. The rest of
the original effect
was missing. The
show needs hn Ali
Baba with a per-
sonality, as well as
“ Cinderella,” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s.
Roy Rene sings “Abe,
My Boy.”
a masterfully melodramatic Chu Chin Chow.
Among the high-toned items of “Hurnpty
Dumpty,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, the early
doings in the Wedgewood Rotunda continue
to be much talked of. The tinted goddesses
posed motionless around the Rotunda are pure
delights in charming attitudes; the animated
figure (Iris Turner) on the pedestal warbles
sweetly, whilst the dance of Maggie Dickinson
and Sidney Culver to a “musical box”
accompaniment is as graceful as the who|e
conception of the scene. The panto hasn’t so
many awful sins, as pantos go, but were
they twice as numerous they might hope to
be forgiven for the sake of that dance, that
ditty, and those chaste surroundings.
* rfi *
The end of “Sinbad the Sailor” at
Melbourne King’s is announced, but the
resolution might be modified in the meantime
if the trams get running and bring the
populace back once more. On Saturday the
panto, faced a pretty good house that was
tickled by the same old party of comedians
but heard a new principal girl and boy.
Linda loung. playing the Caliph’s daughter,
gives an added tunefulness to the damsel
without drawing heavily on her vocal re-
sources. Alleged to be a comparative
novice, she acts brightly, and owns an
appearance that doubles her value in the
story. Jennie Hartley’s successor, Nellie
McCarthy, understudie.d the leading lady in
the King’s panto, last year, and on her
form and behavior last Saturday night she
won’t cause a violent demand to set in for
the recall of Jennie.
There is no change in the prosperity of
“Cinderella” at Melbourne Princess’s. The
show registered its 74th performance on
Saturday, and the management • exnects P
to double the score before it gets the word
to move on.
sj: if:
At the Crystal Palace, Sydney, Nazimova
wears the face of a thirsty soul, and not
much else, through seven reels of high-
colored life called “An Eye for an Lye.
The lady has an outlaw sheik for an only
parent, and falls in love with dad’s prize
prisoner, a gallant French officer, whom she
assists to escape. Dad turns crusty, and the
broken-hearted girl quits the old home and
earns an honest living by doing serpentine
twists for a circus. In time she learns that the
French officer has killed off her papa and all
his faithful followers. In a frenzy she
decides to kill the destroyer of pa, but mar-
ries him instead. No doubt, a more fright-
ful form of revenge. At the same address
you can experience all the joys of Alpine
I climbing by viewing “The Silent Barrier.”
In “Civilian Clothes,” at the Globe and Hay-
market, Tom Meighan shows how to regain
the affections of a snobbish little wife who
married her khaki hero in a hurry. The
Lyceum headlines no special star, but claims
to have netted whole galaxies of them for
“Trumpet Island” and “The World and the
Woman,” Geraldine Farrar being the woman.
** * *
“The White Dove,” founded on the yarn
by W. J. Locke, is Melbourne Majestic’s
chief claim for support this week. H. B.
Warner is the melancholy hero who is
doomed by the film-fakir to distrust all
women until the inevitable angel appears to
cure his complaint. The second offering is
Jack London s “Mutiny of the Elsinore ' in
movie form, and the picturesque violence of
the tale would make a verger’s blood leap
madly. In the pursuance of their habit of
educating the multitude, Hoyt’s have let
loose “The Great Shadow,” an alleged ser-
mon on the lines of "Where Are My Child t
ren?” with Tyrone Power in the principal
part. Following on is “The Bed Lane..” a
rather involved story of New England
(U.S.A.). “Yes or No” has arrived at
the Britannia, and the titbit who gives both
answers to the usual Lothario is Norma
Talmadge in two different sorts of expres-
sion, rank and clothes. At the Melba Frank
Keenan is also changing a holy look for one
of heavy depravity in doubling the chief
roles in “Brothers Divided.”
Pictures and open-air variety continue to
be Adelaide’s chief amusement. The Vogues
and Vanities give a brisk show at Austral
Gardens, but Charles Zoli and Con Moreni
might tone down some of their fun with
advantage. Clifford O’Keeffe and Rosa
Carrodus sing delightfully. So, across the
way at the Garden Theatre, does Pauline
Bindley. Singing and dancing are very
strong in this So-and-So Co., and Maie Baird
produces the deck scene from “You’re in
Love” effectively. On the film, Wallace
Reid has a new kind of part in the “Dancing
Fool,” where he illustrates most of the
modern steps with 86b6 Daniels. At
West’s, Ilayakawa has a strong drama of a
Chinese youth at an American college. At
the Royal is “Checkers,” which seems to be
a well-known racing drama of the U.S.A. It
works up to a climax, in which the villain
disables the hero’s jockey, on -which —guess
it in once —the heroine gets into the saddle
and rides to victory.
“0.K.”: When a professed champion of
high-class music, intolerant of low-class, or
even middle-class ditto, gets going on a
theatrical notice he makes criticism from a
managerial point of view too absurd for
words. This is from Melbourne Age notice
of “The Maid of the Mountains” —the italics
call derisive attention to the reasoning:—
Harold Fraser-Simson’s music, while providing the
man in the street with tunes to whistle, commands
artistic respect.... Three or four “additional” num-
bers, by Jas. W. Tate,. while possessing elements of
extreme popularity, are of a very inferior standard
to the Fraser-Simson music, and, without exception,
are unworthy of their place in the score. Fortu-
nately, however, they are not sufficiently numerous
to do more than temporary artistic harm to Fraser-
Simson’s charming and well-written work, I write
frankly; the popular success of the “additional”
numbers may be admitted; but “The Maid of the
Mountains” is nevertheless too good a work to need
the bolstering up of musical-comedy numbers, be
they never so popular.
The fact protruding from this exaltation of
Simson’s ordinarily melodious, non-pungent
music, is that the management which ran
the show on sordid commercial lines evi-
dently thought the original score was insuf-
fieently icatchy, so another man was called
upon to supply extra numbers, which
proved lamentably popular. As a matter of
fact there is no great abundance of catchy
music in “The Maid of the Mountains,”
even with the additions that the Age critic
deplores. As compared with a Gilbert and
Sullivan opera the music all round is un-
original—a string of pleasant echoes of
strains vaguely remembered. In this respect
the least effective numbers certainly re-
semble most of the “high-class” music that
enjoys a brief existence under the patronage
of more or less intelligent students of music
who snort at the man in the street. An aver-
age Dretentious composition, born to per:sh
of popular neglect, is a tissue of direct
plagiarisms, or imitations, such as was the
late Marshall Hall’s opera, “Stella.” Here,
it seems, the Simsonian airs which are least
respectable can be tunefully whistled by the
man in the street, if the man in the street
thinks them worth his whistling. Such
popularity i» usually shocking evidence of
music’s inferiority, even for comic-opera
purposes, from a high-toned critic’s point of
view, but Simson’s score commands respect
in spite of it. The Age critic says so.
Nevertheless, he produces no evidence
that he isn’t libelling the taste in melody
of untutored savages who whistle in the
street. The average scholastic musician
is not necessarily endowed with a discrimi-
nating ear for tune.
“Fax”: The age of juvenile tragedians is
seemingly past for ever. The most a show-
man can do with an infant prodigy these
times is to make a Little Lord Faiintleroy
of him. or leading boy of a juvenile opera
company. Since William Henry Betty, the
“CINDERELLA,"
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Daisy Merritt tries on the slipper.
young Roscius, made,his fortune by starring
in Shakspearean parts at the beginning of
last century, there has been only one notable
attempt to exploit precocious talent on high
histrionic lines. In the ’seventies, some
years before old man Betty died, Percy
Roselle, the kid who had pantomimes at
Drury Lane built to fit him, scored many u
matinee success as little Prince Arthur, in
the scene with Hubert in “King John.” At
his best, perhaps. Percy Roselle was not
nearly so ready a memoriser as boy Betty
before him. if he ever attempted to play
Hamlet the effort was never recorded in after
years, whereas Betty’s fortune must have
been mainly earned by his Hamlet. But a
recent lecture by an old London playgoer
on “M'acbeths I Have Seen” included his
reminiscences of Percy Roselle as Macbeth,
with his sister Amy as Lady Mac. Evidently
there was some sort of demand for freak
performances of classic drama in those days;
Miss Roselle (who died a violent death in
Sydney as Mrs. Arthur Dacre) was only 14
years old.
“0.K.”: I am asked a straight question
by “Nella,” who, in most of his dealing with
my sermon on the fallacy of reverencing the
past in theatrical production because it is
the past, evades the points and camouflages
the issues. “Nella” asks :—•
Does “0.K.” seriously contend that as Marguerite
Nellie Stewart was without tenderness—charmingly
artificial, decoratively theatrical—or that straight,
sentimental parts were quite out of her theatrical
line in those days?
My answer is yes, emphatically yes- The
production of “Faust” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s in 1888, with six members of the
stock comic opera co. in the cast, was
regarded as George Musgrove’s particular
folly. Nellie Stewart had the ambition to
appear as Marguerite, and it was gratified.
The opera was beautifully staged, and
the chorus.and ballet were the best that
Australia has ever heard and seen in “Faust.”
The return of the soldiers from the war,
with Knight Aston as Valentine at the
head of the brigade, and a crowd of well-
dressed supers to make a fuss over them,
was a splendid effect, so brilliant in com-
parison with all that had happened before
that, in spite of the late hour, the audience
cut up rough when the march-off of the
troops was not encored. I think I can hear
a hot, flustered man in evening-dress saying
to the audience, when he got them to be
silent: “Ladies and gentlemen, we w T ould be
happy to do that all over again—but we
can’t.” The Soldiers’ Chorus and the spec-
tacle incidental thereto were expected to
make up for short weight in the. work of
the principals. Certainly Nellie Stewart was
charmingly artificial and decoratively theat-
rical. She overacted where Amy Castles,
say, underacts the part. But think of the
difference between the voices of Nellie of
yore and Amy of now, as great as the differ-
ence. vocally between the people supporting
Nellie and an ordinary Italian opera com-
pany. Just here I am reminded of what
the late Pete Hughes, most candid of theat-
rical agents, said of the 1888 production of
“Faust” when Leumane, who had filled the
name part, made proud reference to his
achievement. “I sang and played ‘Faust’ for
several nights in succession,” said the comic-
opera tenor. “You did !” snorted little Pete,
“sang and played at it, you mean : that’s all
you did.” Does “Nella” suppose that no
clever, pretty-looking actress can play Mar-
guerite without being tender? Ye gods!
Did he think Melba very tender in the part?


m
1
“ Pay Less,
Dress Better .
c^b
Be
Murdoch
tailored
for Easter.
The Best Suit
Value in Australia,
Absolutely i
Murdoch s buy direct from the Mills—this cuts out a long
string of intermediate costs. Again—Murdoch’s Suit designers
are skilled craftsmen—men who can both suit the customer
on the spot and also visualise the far-distant customer,
interpreting his every wish.
Gentlemanly Suits fashioned from high-grade quality Aus-
tralian Woollen Tweeds in pleasing shades and neat,
unobtrusive designs.
To Measure
84/-
Send for Patterns. Forward Name
and Address, and a nice range will
reach you by return mail.
Address your letter to Desk R.
URDOCHO
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
** The World’s Largest
Men’s and Boys’ Wear
Store. ”
OM THE SAME DAY
THEY ARE HA HE.
m
♦
* •
;„V.^
gsass
R
: ' '
i •
“Chocolates
de luxe."
Packed always in Red
Boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6,
7/6, 12/6, £l, 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
j, ■ <:
■
m
: m
■ - :
>62 Pitt St.
SYDMEY.
Over
15E
BRICK
7
PLASTER
3H
WOOD
Beaver Board can be nailed with
ease over any surface, whether its
lath and plaster, wood panelling,
brick or concrete.
Not only is Beaver Board easy to
fix, but the result you can always be
assured will be pleasing and per-
manent. Beaver Board is in reality
reconstructed timber built from the
fibres of Canadian spruce, into large
knotless, flawless panels, that will
not crack, chip or fall. In fact
Beaver Board will last as long as the
building itself.
Beaver Board may be obtained
from Timber Merchants or Builders’
Furnishers.
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Can.—London, Eng.—Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A,
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Write for Sample and Booklet to:
Australasian Representative: O. D. GORDON,
G. P. O. Box 2408, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
£
I
1
-
for Better
Walls and
Ceilings
BEAVER
BOARD
PURE WOOD nnni
.<1
iWiHMild'lMif
MAD&SN
CANADA


DUCK
CARTRIDGES
Fresh Loaded.
“Blue Seal,’’ smokeless. Chilled shot,
22/- 100.
“Kilos,” smokeless. Chilled shot, 23/- 100.
“Infallible,” dense smokeless. Gas-tight
cases. Chilled shot, 24/- 100.
“A.P.” “Special,” deep brass. Smokeless.
Gas-tight cases. Chilled shot, 26/- 100.
“Amberite,” “Du Pont,” “Ballis-
tite,” “Smokeless,” 24/- 100.
2?4 Match Cartridges, 30/- 100.
A reduction of 6d. per 100 on all orders of 500.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
FLAWLESS FLOORS
Can beat be obtained by using one of the
five beautiful Art Shades
of
on®
mn
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working*
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
Wmsz.
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
RetailjSellinz Price, 12/11 per pair.
w.
Chorley 8 C
Ltd
m
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
t
J*
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
*
313 George St.,
SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
The conversation had turned on the de-
sire of every actor to play Hamlet, and it
was declared that the ambition extended to
practically every actress, too. Then Aus-
tralia’s fattest actress was appealed to: “I
Hamlet?” she cried. “Bless my soul, any
hamlet is beneath me. I am a large town
with a corporation. But once I did aspire.
I even went so far as to give selections from
‘Hamlet’ in costume at a semi-private affair,
but James Neild,.who was then critic for the
Argus, came to me immediately after. ‘Don’t,
my girl,’ he said, ‘don’t. Serious stuff is
your forte. Stick to it.’ ”
“Smike”: George Highland is the most
unconventional producer the Firm has em-
ployed. At rehearsals he dances about the
scenery in agitated criticism of the company,
and on first nights he is’ almost equally dis-
tressed. A little after curtain-up George
begins to get worried, and he spends the rest
of the night dodging between the stage and
the d.c., thereby getting very hot and dis-
hevelled for the final curtain, when he is
dragged on panting by several stalwart
ushers and sobs out a few words of grateful
thanks. In his way George is a reminder of
Tilda Brune, but he has gone much further
than Tilda in the art of responding breath-
lessly to the ushers’ applause.
“Jeune Premier”: Once when rehearsing
one of his plays, the late George Darrell
stopped proceedings to admonish his juvenile
lead for garbling the text. “Speak the lines,
my boy,” he said, “I want every word as
written. If you don’t know your part go
home and study it. It’s worth it.” The
mummer, resenting being called over the
coals, remarked acidly, “Well, you know, it
isn’t Shakspeare, Mr. Darrell.” “Perhaps
not, my boy, perhaps not,” the author re-
joined, “but it’s jolly near it.”
“WELCOME STRANGER ,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Fred Esmelton as Gideon Tyler, the hanker.
“Norbell”: The picture serial “The Lost
City,” which is thrilling Suburbia just now,
as usual leaves the herowhine and her bloke
in an impossible hole, and then advises you
to come along next week and watch them
wriggle out. They are generally extricated
through the preternatural skill of the comedy
servant, and in “The Lost City” this useful
comic is our old vaudeville actOr-maunger
friend M. Clark. Frank should be
in the sere and yellow now, by all the rules
of the game, yet in this picture he does some
Snowy Baker fights and stunts with all the
aplomb of a juvenile actorbat, and gets
mixed up with a menagerie of wild beasts
running loose, apparently. Clark has now
been with the Selig people for many years.
“Micawber”: Black-brudder Jack John-
son, now serving a term of imprisonment in
the Leavenworth (Kansas, U.S.A.) Peni-
tentiary. has signed a contract to head a
nigger-minstrel show when he comes out.
Billy McClain, who will be remembered m
this country as a cullud pusson with a huge
diamond in his teeth, is acting as Johnson s
manager.
“0.K.” looks backward :
Vivid recollections of George Darrell as “star”
actor in his own plays make it hard for one to
speak of that energetic and enterprising father of
Australian melodrama with tears in the voice. The
man’s intense self-consciousness, his artificial diction
and his odd sideway gait rendered him rather ridi-
culous to intelligent theatre-goers in the ’eighties
and early ’nineties. Nevertheless he was a distinct
persouage. Darrell in Australia was a weak re-
minder of Wilson Barrett in Britain. Each got his
first lift in -theatrical life by marrying an experi-
enced actress of note, older than himself. As
literary works George’s plays were not so good as
some that Jo Smith has written and produced of
comparatively recent years, but he was equally adept
at construction on safe, conventional lines. Darrell
borrowed his inspirations from old-fashioned English
domestic drama, or American mining ditto, and gave
them a crude coating of Australian color. There was
no scent of the Australian bush in his “Sunny South,”
any more than there was in his pictured appearance
as a hero of early Australian melodrama, but his
plays were composed, produced and scene-painted in
this country, and many of the parts were, taken by
men native to the soil, or who had at least lived on
it for many years.
In the ’eighties George Darrell was a conspicuous
identity. His dramas were mostly here to-day and
gone to-morrow, but they all got a showing tinder
his own financial management, or his stage direction
GEO. DARRELL,
in his “Sunny
South” (1883).
under somebody else’s
engagement, for there
was a better market for
poor stereotyped stuff
30 and 40 years ago
than there is nowadays.
The plays are dead.
There can be no revivals
of “The Sunny South,”
“The Soggarth,” “The
Sundowner,” “The Lucky
L o t,” “T h e Forlorn
Hope,” “Transported for
Life,” “The New Rush,”
etc., but they were all,
in their time, capable
of carrying the author
in the leading part,
which in itself was
proof of a certain viril-
ity in the construction.
Darrell was not such
a bad actor in coinpari-
son with, say, one
like Allan Doone, who
merely walks through
a part. ■ But he was
oddly unnatural as compared with Doone, and
his invariable presentation of a typical Australian
as a dandified fellow who never wore a vest was
irritating to one’s critical faculty. Still, he flour-
ished a while. When “The New Rush” was staged
by the author at Melbourne Bijou, in 1887, several
members of the Brough and Boucicault Co. were in
the cast —sweet Nina Boucicault, Walter Everard and
George Lash Gordon, for instance, beside Philip Beck,
Harry Taylor, Maggie Knight and others. At one
time or other Herbert Flemming, Bill Leake, Annie
Mayor, J. P. West and scores of mummers of former
mark served under George Darrell’s banner. In
1887 he was in a position to end a season at a
J. C. Williamson theatre with a benefit, the bill
including Williamson and Maggie Moore in a farce,
Robert Brough in a sketch, and Madame Simonsen,
Phil Day, Charles Harding, Leumane, Johnny Gour-
lay and a crowd of them in “turns.” . He cut some
ice then did George Darrell. He cut even more ice
when his young second wife, Christine Peachey,
began to share his “starship.”
Chrissie had a natural talent that not even the
influence of her stagey tutor could spoil. Where
George on his own had been hard to endure “The
Darrells” were regarded with respect on account of
the lady. In 1890 George, with his wife, was engaged
by Williamson to play “Potter of Texas,” and a few
of his own dramas. Soon afterwards Christine
Darrell died, and the bereaved George faded slowly
out of notice. Fifteen or 20 years later, when a
benefit was announced at a J.C.W. theatre, and
Darrell himself appeared in one of his “famous
creations,” the matinSe audience mostly viewed him
with amused surprise. “Who was this Mr. Darrell
who walked and talked so oddly?” The new genera-
tion knew him not. It had not heard of him as the
early father of Australian melodrama, the first Aus-
tralian actor-manager to take his own play to
England. But it couldn’t help noticing his out-of-
date personality. Darrell had no model and has
left no imitators.
“Norbell”: When I bought my thripenny
bill-of-fare at Her Majesty’s to see the
“Pinafore” cast, a little printed slip inside
informed me that owing to the indisposition
of James Hay. the tenor role would be sung
by Charles Mettam. I was not sorry, for
l am a barracker for this hard-grafting and
really brilliant understudy, who never gets
any limelight for his work. Owing to the
indisposition of the principal, Charlie Met-
tam has blown on at short notice for every
leading tenor part in the present G. and S.
repertoire. Once in Melbourne he was
pushed on half-way through “The Mikado”
to finish off Nanki Poo’s warblings, as Hay
was unable to get through. Mettam, born
in Maoriland, spent most of his life within
cooee of the Golden Mile (W.A.). He has
been a J.C.W. chorister for about 10 years,
having one spell to go and assist at the Hun
discord. Badly knocked at Messines, he only
pulled through by a miracle. He can act
intelligently, as well as sing, and cuts a
manly figure in his stage finery. At present
he is the Cyril in “Princess Ida.”
Arthur Hare, an old actor just dead in
London, was noted mainly for having the
same name as the more famous John. When
they first met the great man asked, as Henry
Irving once asked Ethel, “Why do you use
my name?” The answer was the same in
each case: “Because it happens to be my real
name: and as a matter of fact it isn’t yours.”
John Hare admitted the justice of the retort,
and gave his namesake the reversion, for
use on tour in the “provinces,” of his star
part as the old gentleman in “A Pair of
Spectacles.”
“Nella” : When L. J. Lohr was in harness,
and running Arnold and other successful
shows, he must have kept a card index of all
the pressmen on the Inky Way, recording
their hobbies, relations and other indiscre-
tions. Occasionally “Daddy” would be
invisible to the most earnest inquirer for a
day or so, what time he would be locked
in somewhere penning friendly little per-
sonal notes to every newspaper man from
Cue to Cooktown. “Dear old chap,” he
would write, “How’s things? Hope the wife
has got over the mumps. How are your
buff orpingtons coming on? I know you
will excuse a long letter, for you under-
stand how busy I must be with ‘Oh, Mary,
Be Careful,’ which is a great hit. Wish all
the boys were as considerate as you. In
haste.” It generally did the trick, and ex-
plains Lohr’s enormous personal popularity.
“Old Pot”: Some time before he dis-
appeared, George Darrell wrote to Jimmy
Atholwood that he had something which
would make Jimmy’s fortune. Atholwood
called, and Darrell produced the money-
spinner—a dramatisation of Dickens’s
“Christmas Carol.” He had- been in treaty
with a theatrical firm to have it produced in
Australia, but things did not pan out as
he expected, and he looked to Atholwood,
as the ideal Ebenezer Scrooge, to help him
out of the difficulty. Jimmy said he was
doubtful whether Australia would care for
it, and Darrell expressed the utmost con-
fidence that the -play would be a winner if
he could get to America, where the Dickens
cult is large. He spoke of taking a voyage
at an early date, and this Atholwood took
to refer to the American project. It was
all plain enough when the sea gave up its
dead.
“Limb”: The two dots over the ©in Marie
Lohr’s name must have originated in the
brain of the first English manager who gave
her an engagement. Her mother, Kate
Bishop, would hardly have told her daughter
to re-Germanise her Euglish name, whereas
a manager, or publicity agent, in those pro-
German days, would be likely to think that
the two dots gave distinction to the brilli-
ant debutante on the bill. The result is a
general supposition in England that Marie
Lohr was born of Hun parents, or is Hun
on the paternal side, anyhow. Members of
the “Man from Toronto” co., fresh from
London, were surprised to learn that
“Daddy” Lohr, the father of Marie, was not
the least bit German.
“C. Oekney”: If it isn’t a “girl” it’s a
“maid” in the play title of the period. The
hit achieved by “The Maid of the Mountains”
in London, with “The Southern Maid” a
worthy successor, brings that astute man-
ager, “Bob” Courtneidge, along with “The
Rebel Maid,” a light opera by a newly-
discovered British composer, Montague Phil-
lips. The libretto is the work of Alexander
Thompson (of “The Clarion” and “The
Arcadians”) and Austraia’s old theatrical
friend Courtice Pounds. Time: When Wil-
liam 111. was king.
“Jeune Premier” : It is unfortunately true
that the chief difficulty in any scheme in
which actors are concerned is always finan-
cial (“Nero,” B. 20/l/’2l). But, although
over 2000 British mummers failed to weigh
in with their subscriptions to their associa-
tion during 1920, on the authority of the
secretary, the strength of the movement has
not been impaired. In a recent communica-
tion to the press he says: “Since the figures
were published many have paid up their
subscriptions, many have been re-instated,
and in spite of those who have left us we
have a membership in excess of our total for
1919.” Incidentally, I may say that I agree
with “Nero” that for an ex-member of the
stage working-staff to represent a federation
of actors argues little business capability on
the part of members. But mummers are
proverbially unbusinesslike. They wouldn’t
remain mummers long if they were not.
London seems to be determined to sup
on plain horrors. The Little Theatre has
borrowed a Parisian thrill which might just
as well have been left at home. It is called
“Private Room No. 6,” and the two char-
acters are a Grand Duke and a girl. Having
vot the ducal person alone she makes him
helplessly intoxicated, tells him that he once
had her brother whipped to death, and
strangles him. Even more gruesome is an
“WELCOME STRANGER,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Clem Bemis (John O'Hara ) and Isadore
(Jules Jordan) arrange a partnership.
English one-acter, “Eight O’Cloek.” The
scene is a condemned cell, and the unre-
nentant murderer is seen having his last
breakfast and hoping for a reprieve, which
does not come. Finally the usual procession
is formed, and the audience hears the thud
of the drop, off stage.
London had only six pantomimes at
Christmas, and three of these were outside
the theatrical centre of the city. Melbourne
with a tithe of the population, lias three
pantomimes going at the present time, all
within a quarter of a mile of one another.
Nor is it the first time this has happened.
The thing is a disease —a recurrent epidemic.
“E.T.” : Though it is not a matter of vast
importance, “Rienzi” (B. 3/2/’2l) errs in
calling the second play he mentions in which
Arthur Woutlier appeared in Australia “The
Holy City.” Hall Caine’s drama would never
have got past the British censor with that
title. It was “The Eternal City.” “The
Holy City” is allowable for a song—but on a
playbill—no! It was in “The Eternal
City,” by the way, that Wontner first gave
a taste of the quality that has brought him
bang to the front in London.
“Ibsenshaw”: Melbourne Argus, in an
attempt to solve the mystery of the drama’s
disappearance from Australian boards,
interviewed “a representative of a lead-
ing theatrical firm,” who remarked inter
alia: ‘*¥oo or I or many others
may see the beauty of the best reper-
tory plays, or of thoughtful plays gen-
erally, but will the majority of modern play-
goers take a similar view? Experience has
proved that they \yill not.... The highbrow
considers that managers Should rush into
insolvency by presenting repertory plays to
empty seats.... Even when repertory plays
or other serious pieces are given, many of
the complaining ‘highbrows’ show great
readiness to stay away.” Seemingly, then,
because the “highbrows” have been asking
for repertory plays, the public is to get no
plays of any kind.
“Rienzi”: When the Firm advertised in
Melbourne that the curtain would rise on
“The Maid of the Mountains” at 7.45 on
the first night the only persons who believed
it were the faithful supporters of the gal-
lery and pit, who absorbed a hurried tea
and rushed into town to buy seats. But, of
course, the Best People, who cannot be
aroused out of their after-dinner torpor to
appear before 8 p.m., straggled in late, thus
postponing the early start which was alleged
to be necessary to enable mere blokes to
catch a strike vehicle home. This sort of
delay happens at almost every first night.
Presumably J.C.W., Ltd., isn’t game enough
to stop the evil by locking out until the end
of the first act all the Superior Folk who
arrive after the show has commenced. Still,
the Firm might be franker with the public
by stating in the advts.: “Curtain rises at
7.45, Best People permitting.”
“Stargazer” : One could never quite make
up his mind whether George Darrell was
serious in his appreciation of his own
plays, more especially “The Sunny South,”
or was doing a little subtle leg-pulling. I
remember an occasion when, among a bar
full of men in the Royal, one boldly declared
that he would far rather sit out the Darrell
drama then in progress than a Shakspearean
performance at a neighboring theatre. “That
may be,” replied George, with every appear-
ance of intense seriousness, “but, believe me,
I sometimes doubt whether ‘The Sunny
South’ will survive as ‘Hamlet’ has done.”
HIS PLEASURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“H G . was well pleased as the juvenile
lead.”- —Theatrical paper.
He was well pleased, too pleased I almost thought
him,
Holding the sweet young star against his breast.
He learned no lesson that the villain taught him,
But spoke the gallant word and stood the test,
Flouting all evil till his rapture sought him
And found him with his trousers neatly prest.
He was well pleased. A perfect satisfaction
Was on his countenance from first to last.
Would he the dud revolver’s loudest crack shun
Or scorn the injured lady-with-a-past ?
No! There the hero soul was- seen in action —
The one true gentleman ip all the cast.
He was well pleased. The villain tried to stick him
With something blunter than a paper knife.
Fate, through five bitter acts, tried hard to lick him ;
And yet he finished smiling for his life.
He was so pleased I grimly longed to kick him;
But left the contract to his starry wife.
H.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


The Comfort
of an
always
sharp
Blade.
s*
54
“VALET"
Safety Razor
It is easy to shave as closely and cleanly as a barber if
you have a “barber’s edge” on your razor blade. Years
of practice have taught him how to strop his razor to
the highest pitch of keenness. With the “ Valet ” Auto-
Strop you can obtain such an edge every morning,
without serving an apprenticeship.
Built right into the razor is a self-stropping device which
puts the keenest edge on the blade. Half-a-dozen
strokes on its strop is all that is needed. Nothing to
unscrew -no separate stropping machine—no constant
expense for new blades.
And the “Valet” Auto Strop is as easy to clean as to
strop - just a rinse and a wipe, without taking to pieces.
THE STANDARD SET (as illus-
trated) consists of heavily silver-plated,
self - stropping “Valet” Auto Strop
Safety Razor, twelve “Valet” blades,
and “ Valet ” strop, complete
in handsome • case lined O'T /(t
velvet and satin “ * / "
Of all high-class dealers
throughout A ustralasia.
Wholesale of
RALPH ABERCROMBT, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
>imwm
mmm
■
-f .:
SE?T:
SPECIAL SUIT
At 8£ Guineas.
N
v.s;
w?
I 1
;v‘
WNJ
38
TO
Jg
KJb
3!^
I
*s
t'V’
. i
mm
POSITIVELY THE BEST
VALUE OFFERED IN
MEN’S WEAR.
E are proud of our record of
achievement in the produc-
tion of SPECIAL SUIT at 8£
guineas. The materials are
all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Aus-
tralia, the trimmings—the
inside foundation not seen
by the purchaser—are in
keeping with the high-
grade materials and hand
tailoring which goes into
every Special Suit. *
BUCKLEY’S SPECIAL
SUIT has another advantage
—that the materials, being
lighter in weight than most
Australian-made Tweeds, meet
the need for a highly-
dependable Suit at a Mode-
rate Price.
Write for Samples and Self-
Measurement Form —Sent Free
on Application.
SPECIAL SUITS
MADE TO MEASURE,
8£ GUINEAS.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD., Bourke St., Melbourne
n
I
4 1
v
m.
AS v
jptad
/"CONTRACTORS —Builders —Shire and County
Councils favour this 2 ton type of Lorry. The
side tipping is a feature of great convenience enabl-
ing the Lorry to be driven straight into confined
spaces and the load tipped exactly where required.
V/,
2>J
fed
K
► 3=?%»
‘Tt.ke this Tip. Let it
he a Ley land”
LEYLAND LOGIC
Leyland Tip Lorries are remark-
able not only for the service they
give but for the variety of types
which are offeied. Steam or
Petrol driven—Rear or Side Tip —
Rand or Hydraulic tipping Me-
chanism-Spoke or Disc Wheels—
and to pull loads of varying
weights up to 5 tons. The
Chassis is Leyland standard in
every case and built to pull extra
loads on trailers.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
FROM STOCK
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.
London Sank Chamber*
PITT tt mOOR£ STS . SYDNEY
Victorian Agents:—
PRESTON AiOi'OM PTY. LTD.
St , Preston, Melbourne
Choicest-qualitv Platinum Watch, set with finest
Gems, Moirfi Silk Band, £lOO.
Bracelet Watches
Platinum, Gem-set and Gold,
with Moire Silk or Expanding Band.
The Firm’s selection of High-grade Bracelet Watches
is the largest in the Commonwealth and is replete with
the very newest designs in finest English and Swiss
manufacture. The very wide range of prices and styles
ensures the perfect satisfaction of every individual
preference. Before leaving the establishment every
watch, from the choicest to the least expensive, is
thoroughly tested and regulated; this, together with
their exceptionally fine construction, enables the Firm
to guarantee in every instance the highest degree of
service and reliability.
Mini. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS & WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
BOSTOCK’S BLACK LIQUID
SUEDE DRESSING
keeps shoeware soft, does not lay down the nap,
and maintains their original perfect black.
O'
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Victoria, minus Armstrong and two
or three other good players who had * gone
to New Zealand, put up a very respectable total
against England last Friday. The- -fact that
five Vic. bats failed to reach double figures promised
a. sudden finish for the local men, but Ryder got
busy and rattled up 54, whilst the tail came to the
rescue in the most encouraging fashion. When Ellis
went for 8 the score was 8 for 150, but Davies, a
new man, associated with the small P’ran bowler,
Grimmett, who played the rock for 31 n. 0., made the
bowling look cheap, eventually adding 61 off his own
bright bat. Likewise the fast bowler, .McDonald,
was found to be in a dashing mood and put on
another 42 (including two 6s) making the final
tally 268. The same day Hobbs went for 12, and,
with the fall of four more sticks for an additional
120 runs on the Saturday, England’s chances looked
particularly blue. But Patsy Hendren and Douglas,
elevated by their recent wins against Ballarat, Ben-
digo and Hamilton, changed the .whole situation,
taking the score to '445 on their own. Hendren
batted magnificently, though • Ryder and McDonald
were the only class bowlers he had to face. The
little Middlesex battler reached 6 o’clock with 262
n.o. . Douglas, 112 n. 0., was never aggressive.
Mindful of his team’s deplorable tail he was content
to let the runs come. His judgment was sound, for
when Hendren went, at 271, next day, no one was
able to stay with him, and what might have been
a record score closed at 486. Ryder’s prowess with
the bat was one of the chief features of this match.
He put up an even freer and more stylish 108 in
Victoria’s second knock ; but though Sandford helped
with 72, the innings closed for 295. McDonald cap-
tured three wickets before England got the neces-
sary 73 to win.
* * * *
Patsy Hendren’s 271 is the heaviest
innings by an English player v. Victoria. It ranks
next here to F. E. Woolley’s 305 v. Tasmania in
1911-12, and R. E. Foster’s 287 v. Australia in
1903-04. But it is still a long way behind the
world’s best—Archie Maclaren’s 424 for Lancashire
v. Somerset in 1895, Charlie Gregory’s 383 for
N.S.W. v. Queensland in 1906-07, and Clem Hill’s 365
for S. Aus. v. N.S.W. in 1900-01. Hendren’s best in
England last year was 232. In all matches on the
tour Hendren has scored 1208 runs (averaging
71.05). Jack Hobbs (1151, averaging 60.52) is the
only other English player to top four figures this
tour. Douglas’s 133 not out v. Victoria is also his
tallest innings, the previous best being- 119 v. Ben-
digo and 84 v. Queensland.
* * * *
The latest regarding the Australian XV
for England is that Park, who failed in the Vic-
torian first innings against England last Friday,
will prohably not get an invitation for the trip.
The elderly Carter has also gone back in the betting
for the job of second wicket-keeper, the man most
fancied now being Ratcliffe. of N.S.W. The full
team should be: Armstrong, Mayne, McDonald, Ryder,
Collins, Bardsley, Taylor, Kelleway, Oldfield, Mac-
artney, Gregory, Mailey, Andrews, Ratcliffe and
Pellew.
The N. S. Wales selectors didn’t risk eye-
strain looking for “new blood” for the return
match v. England, the only change in the XI which
plaved in the first match being Austin Punch (bats-
man) in place of E. Trenerry (bowler), with Percy
Arnott 12th man. Eight of the XI have had a
hand in the Tests so far, and Andrews has been
asked to go to Vie. for the fourth this week. It is
a great batting team, but the bowling is likely to
bloat some of the English batting averages.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Only a few of the wickets of
Australia’s early cricketers are still unshattered,
and that of Chas. W. Beal, manager of the 1882
team to England, fell t'other day. There was a
Jas. C. Beal in the N.S.W. team which played the
first match against Victoria: that was C.W.B.’s
uncle, and an E. Samuel, who played with the
N.S.W. team of four years later, was his mother’s
brother. Beal was a moderately-good cricketer him-
self, but was chiefly useful on the business side, and
was secretary of the old Carlton C.C. for untold
years. #
“O. Blin” : A queer feature of the Arm-
strong row in Melbourne was the wildly-applauded
statement at a public meeting that the big fellow
was the victim of “another Sydney conspiracy.”
There is a curious belief in the Vic. capital that
Armstrong's appointment as captain for the first
Test match was forced through against the votes
of the Sydney delegates, though, as a matter of
fact, it was Sydney’s support that made him captain
when representatives. from the other States were
almost unanimously for Collins, whose brilliant
skippering of the A.I.F. team in England had given
him undeniable claims to. the job. But Collins, being
a soldier and a sportsman, and having no personal
vanity to gratify, duly retired in favor of Arm-
strong and played the game for all it was worth.
Armstrong might have effaced himself similarly if
the Board of Control had made Collins the head of
the team. But it is as likely that lib would have
made trouble. As a cricketer he is an undeniable
champion: that apart he suffers under a number of
disabilities which the public doesn’t so much as
suspect. Notably a badly swollen head.
* * * *
Splendid wickets on Saturday helped Syd-
ney grade batsmen to improve their,-averages, though
in one or two cases bowlers had a run of luck. In
the Wests-Gordon match, Flynn (4 for 31) and
Martin (5 for 55) for the Shore Liners, and Pren-
tice (5 for 31) and Wall (4 for 47) for the sunset
suburb, kept the scoring down. Most of the Bone-
varders found the Petersham bowling easy, and
Jones claimed a permanent position in the team by
compiling a masterly 109. Petersham persevered
HOWELL, the English XI's “express”
bowler.
with only four bowlers, of whom A. Thatcher was
most successful. Andrews was expensive, as he
always is when he fails to strike a length. Scott
and Adams appear to lack practice. Folkard was the
mainstay of Balmain’s unreliable bowling side
against ’Varsity. The fielding was awful. R.
Bardsley batted with abandon for 112. The con-
sistent Boyce (74) was associated with him in
this effort. In the Middle Harbor-Sydney game Gee
nearly bowled the arm off Randall, whose eight
wickets were costly. The only Sydneian not to get
double figures was Fusedale, who was umpired out.
Brown (41) was by far the most attractive Sydney
batsman, and has been unlucky not to have been
tried out this season in big cricket. Willeocks
top-scored with 71. He is a useful 'batsman at
a pinch. M.H. fell down before the old inter-
state bowler,, O’Connor, who is almost as good as
ever—for a few overs. Wells smote up 107, while
M. A. Noble (72) just stayed there and incidentally
helped Paddington out of a nasty “possie” against
Norths. The rest of the side failed miserably.
Norths have lost 2 for 37, yet are in a favorable
position with Punch (25) still. to be got out. C.
Cumberland got possession of the wickets against
Glebe, and with Kelleway away amassed 293 for
nine at the end of a perfect day. Cranney (61) was
C.C.’s particular star, although most of the side got
amongst the runs, safe in the knowledge that they
would not be caught out.
“A.W.”: They were discussing the merits
of the Test teams, and argument growing heated,
the Pommy put in his bombshell: “Well, anyhow,
you haven’t got an outfield like Hendren. Look at
the fourers he saves.” “Gorstruth!” exclaimed the
Aussie. “Why shouldn’t he be an expert at stopping
them? Look at the practice he gets!”
• * * •
The most stirring features of the long-
anticipated Criqui-Godfrey fight occurred outside
Sydney Stadium between 8 and 9 p.m. The place was
packed long before the hour fixed for the event of
the evening—which is the time most of the people
■with reserved seats arrive—and a crowd numbering
thousands surged about the doors. In it were two
or three Judges, some generals, an ex-Premier, several
clerics, dozens of well-known doctors, barristers
and solicitors, a few editors and a representative
assortment of criminals. Trouble was inevitable in
such a gathering, and casualties were numerous
ainongst those who declined to take their exclusion
by the police in a philosophic spirit. One sportsman-
who tried to reach his ling-side seat via the roof
fell, and was only' saved from death by the seat of
his trousers, which caught in a hook. The writer got
- his first view of the arena as the 7th round was
ending. It looked an even thing at that period ; in
fact a nearby enthusiast called upon Heaven to
destroy him, or words to that effect, if the local lad
wasn’t winning. Not so, however. Criqui forced and
forced; he shook his vis-a-vis with wicked lefts and
rights to the body ; and all the time he looked with
icy calm for the chance which was bound to come.
It arrived in the early part of the 10th controversy,
when Criqui chipped the Australian’s chin with the
shortest of right uppercuts. Godfrey seemed dead to
the world, but gamely struggled up at the yell of
“nine,” and battled on. The French champion
methodically took aim and dropped his prey again.
Godfrey rose, practically out on his feet, and a cat-
like smack that didn’t carry an ounce more weight
than was required for its purpose brought the in-
cident to an end. Criqui is a true champion. It
would have been an absurdity if by some accident
he had lost.
* # * *
Two heats decided the Northcote Cup
event, Awanui 111. (A. C. Saxton), R.S.Y.S., N.S.W.
(holder), proving much too slippery on both occasions
for the Victorian craft The Rip (R. E. Edwards),
Port Melbourne Y.G., and liillara (H. A. Armstrong),
St. Hilda Y.C. The second N. S. Wales representa-
tive, Rawhiti 11. (C. Trebeck), contested the first heat
only. She carried away her cross-trees just before the
second race. /Friday’s course was from Taylor Bay
round Watson’s Bay pile light, round Shark Island to
the start, four laps, and the distance about 12 miles.
The breeze came light from the east’ard with a
flooding tide. The gun sent the boats away on the
port stretch with Rawhiti first across, followed by
Awanui 12sec. later, with the Victorian pair close
up. Saxton’s Hayes-built speed merchant established
a lead in the first half-mile, easing away at the
Light with an advantage of 18sec. from Rawhiti.
Killara was next, with Albert’s nominee, The Rip,
last. She went in stays too soon to make the Pile
Light. The local craft hoisted ballooners to Shark
Island: the Victorians didn’t. The first lap saw
Awanui 35sec. ahead of Rawhiti with Killara’s bow-
sprit almost on her counter. The Rip followed 20sec.
later. Punching back to the windward mark for the
second lap Awanui increased her lead to 2min.
3sec. At the end of the second lap the Gup holder
led by 2min. 40sec., and from here she steadily
increased her advantage, coming by 3Jmin. from
The Rip, with Killara 3sec. further astern. Satur-
day’s heat was sailed under similar tidal conditions
in a dying sou’easter over a three-lap course from
Neutral Bay, round a mark between Shark Island
and Point Piper. Killara was first away, but
Awanui held the windward berth, and when the fleet
breasted Bradley’s it was seen that the cedar crack
held an advantage. Awanui eased sheets at the
Shark Island flag over 2 Imin. ahead of Killara, with
The Rip a similar distance astern. Saxton’s charge
eventually romped home with Bmin. 24see. in hand
from The Rip, which lost some time in shaking out
a reef after the start of the race. Killara whipped
in Imin. astern of The Rip.
Winji-Winji, well handled by E. J. B. Macarthur,
snared her third win this season in the Sydney
Amateurs’ “A” class handicap. She had 63sec. to
spare from Adelphi, which headed Athene for second
place in an event -of nine starters.
* * * *
TwenFy-one 18-footers competed in the
two heats and final race staged Dy me Inter-State
Sailing Committee over the Shark Beach-Shark
Island-Clarke Island course last Saturday, when Syd-
ney, the Perry amateur-built craft, notched her
second win of the season with Norman Blackman
on the bridge. Sydney won by only 4sec. from
Plume. Plume wore a brand new Brett sail, bent
upon spars which were feet too short for the job,
and an undersized mast. Despite these handicaps
the big money would undoubtedly have gone to
the erstwhile Sunny South had not her skipper gone
a needless quarter of a mile to windward on the
final run home.
* * * *
Australasia challenged for the Davis Cup
last week to America, and the job of sorting out
three players for the tour has been left to Norman
Brookes. Owing to the heavy challenge entry the
eliminating rounds will begin in September. The
Australasian team looks like being Brookes,. Patter-
son and O’Hara Wood-—unless Brookes stands down.
In that case the youthful J. B. Hawkes has a show.
Frank Beaurepaire added the Vic half-
mile swimming championship to his long list of suc-
cesses at Brunswick last week in llmin. 31sec. —a
Vie. 60yds. course record. J. D. Haig (Essendon)
and H. Gibson (Essendon, and one-time of N.S.W.)
were in the places. The Vic. team for the Austra-
lian championships is F. Beaurepaire, Ivan Stedman
and L. Uren (back- and breast-stroke).
* * * •
Billy Longworth won the Eastern Suburbs
(Sydney) half-mile championship last week, pulling
up in 12mip. 37sec. Ex-schoolboy champion E.
Degotardi and J. Meagher filled the places. In the
100yds. inter-club handicap Harry Hay (6sec.) was
first in 60sec., which sugests an error in the handi-
capping. Mina Wylie’s third in the 'looyds. handi-
cap in 70sec. indicates that she is in good nick for
next Saturday’s championships.
* * * *
R. Neilson (Balmain) had a comfortable
victory in N.S.W. amateur rowing championship on
"the Parramatta on Saturday. Five started, but
Neilson went straight away in the lead, and was
never seriously troubled to win by five lengths from
A. Bull (Leichhardt) and A. H. Byrne (Balmain).
Neilson, who sculls light (list.), was No. 2 in
the Balmain crew which won the N.S.W. champion-
ship eights last year.
Melbourne, at time of writing, seems not
sure of having an Autumn racing carnival, and
even if the cloud of doubt rolls away the New-
market Handicap and Australian Cup will hardly
recover the loss of punting interest they suffered
through the strike. Eurvthmic heads the list in
both events. There has been so much talk in the
Melbourne press about the backwardness of Vic-
torian horses compared with candidates from other
States that possibly the local division will capture
both races, after all, but thus far nothing has been
backed as though it were a certain starter.
EUGENE CRIQUI.
“0.K.”: Apparently Coq d’Or’s trainer
has every hope of bringing him to the scratch
this time. The infirm gee was one of the eleventh-
hour entrants for the Caulfield Futurity Stakes. It
costs £5O to slip a horse into the Futurity at the
last minute, so the owner of Coq d’Or must have
been advised that he was pretty certain to get a
run for his money. Ail tne same, the record of
the ag?d English horse is . not encouraging. In
three years he lias run only three times (.unplaced)
in Australia, and early in his preparation for last
Melbourne Cup he went wrong once again. The
other late entrants were Gold Tie, Greensteau,
Victrola and Graball, a dark three-year-old. The
Futurity is one of the many races that Chrysolaus
ought to have won last season—and didn’t.
Another horse that has hitherto been entered for
many races and rarely started is The Rover. John
Wren’s ill-dispositioned gelding figures along with
stable-companion Nautical among the entries for a
dozen events at the uncertain V.A.T.C. and V.R.C.
meetings.
* # * #
The late Charles Davies, proprietor of
Hobart Mercury, got little enough encouragement
to send racehorses from Tassy to Melbourne these
many years. At Caulfield he never had a win of
importance, but at Flemington the good old sport
captured a Grand. National Steeple with Bay Eagle
in 1902. Flavel, a Hobart Cup-winner, was one
of Davies’ disappointments in Victoria, but with
Two Blues he got third place in Artilleryman’s
Melbourne Cup. It is a rather odd coincidence that
the owner of Two Blues, a part-owner (Murphy)
of Artilleryman, and the winning horse itself should
all have died within the same week.
* * * *
At Wairarapa (M.L.) last week Aus-
tralasian hurdles champion H. E. Wilson, won the
120yds. hurdles handicap from scratch in 15 S.lOsec.,
which equals the Australasian record. Wilson, who
was an MX. rep. at last year’s Olympic Games,
won the 120yds. hurdles at the recent Australasian
championships in 15 9.losec.
* *■ * *
Talisman, T.R.C. President Tom Lyons’s
Hobart Cup winner, was really the stable’s second
string, and might not have started only Tavistock
went wrong. The three-year-old started at evens and
won handsomely. A warmish favorite in Harveston,
a speedy but. fractious mare owned by one of the
Mercury Davies clan, lost more than half a furlong
at the barrier. Those who noted the stern-chaser’s
position at the finish reckon she ran the distance
seconds faster than the winner. Harveston won .the
Wilson Stakes (1J mile) on the third day of the
meeting, but was ruled out of first place for boring
Princess Vimv, and the latter (owned by the Cup
winner) was awarded the race.
* * * *
With a better start the useful Ibex horse
Chamois would have equalled Wolaroi’s seven fur-
long record. In the Welter at Adelaide Tatt.’s on
Saturday he almost reached Moderation, who was
timed to run the distance half a second worse than
the Kenilworth horse. The Handicap resulted in
the_ elderly Wee Gun giving Stage Girl nearly 2st.
and a licking. The indifferent distance performer,
Minchinbur.v, is now racing over the battens, and
the Green Seal gelding beat two home in the Handi-
cap Hurdle.
Alf Grenda’s riding was the feature of
the 50 kilo, bike race at Sydney last week. Eleven
sprints were decided, of which Grenda won eight,
Clark two and Staples one. Total time, lhr. 16min.
17sec. Gerald Halpin and Bill ErskinC' also decided
a match of three-mile heats, but the ex-amateur, ill-
versed in match-riding against pros., went down in
two of them.
On Saturday Grenda and Jackie Clark met
in a match of three mile-heats. Clark surprised
the multitude by winning the first, but Grenda
comfortably defeated him in the other two. Clark
got his expenses by winning the five-mile scratch
in llmin. 37 3-ssec., Grenda retiring with a puncture.
This complaint is getting rather prevalent at the
Sports . Ground, and some caustic remarks were
passed on the mishap by the spectators.
THE THINKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A thinker I, a thinker deep
On themes of grave import;
Strange problems oft perturb my sleep,
In polities or sport.
Some questions, maybe, “from my brain
1 hastily evict—•
But here is one that troubles me
At breakfast, luncheon, dinner, tea,
It keeps me thinking constantly—
It vexes me, it gives me pain:
I ask again, and yet again,
Why. wasn’t Armstrong piekt ?
I know a man who has a fad
Whereof he loves to speak.
Although not altogether mad,
His mind is, doubtless, weak;
lie modern creeds of Wrong and Right
He holds opinions strict,
The while lie’s always “seeking Light”—
Or, so he says, the empty skite!
1 tested him the other night.
And found him wanting, honor bright!
He had no answer—speechless quite—
When I, my face all drawn and white,
Asked:. “Why this d —d official slight?
Why wasn’t Armstrong piekt?”
Just h?re and there you strike a chump
Whose wits are in the clouds,
But take Australians in the lump,
The busy, brainy ctowds,
They mostly think as deep as 1— ,
Their necks are never crickt
By looking up to read the stars.
Opposing views
Of Billy Hughes
And Willy Watt
They’ve mostly got,
But all of them, on trains or cars,
In shops or offices or bars.
Where social views conflict,
Are sharing now one common task ;
With me, as in the sun I bask,
Or brooding sit upon a cask,
They rack their intellects and ask—
Why wasn’t Armstrong piekt ?
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Face Your Fellow Men
A
t ml
confident in the knowledge that you are physically fit. Good health
is Nature’s greatest gift, and it can be vours just as it is the
portion of others. Bodily health depends upon the organs each
taking their full share of functions, and my system of exercises
is specially designed to tune up each organ and make it work
correctly.
By paying attention to the internal muscles you strengthen stomach,
liver and bowels; and troubles that cause constipation, biliousness,
indigestion and other ills are driven from the system. If you
wish to be freed from the thraldom and misery of bodily weakness,
this
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture
will quickly put you on the high road to perfect buoyant
health.
The exercises are simple, easy and interesting. They are
adapted to meet individual needs, so that YOUR case
receives particular attention. You can learn just as well
through the post as you can by personally attending classes.
DON’T HESITATE.
Act now, by simply writing your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me with three stamps for
postage, and I will send you my booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture,” which explains the system
thoroughly and contains the personal experiences of many
of my postal pupils. It’s worth while!
REG. 1. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
424 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St., Sydney, N.S.W.
iQo
H
HU
km
Hnr L ' r
VM- :M
"World/Best
‘"Motor 9>iwr
(S^ec/
/>v £2us*tr&jOc 2.
BRITISH IMPERIAL oil COT. LTD.. ALL JTAT[j ua* Z.
Fine Jewels (unset),
Diamonds, Emeralds,
Pearls, Rubies,
Sapphires, we desire to
buy in any quantities.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.
SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
BGAN, KIERAN, son of JAMES and ANN EGAN,
brother of TIMOTHY EGAN, who went to
Queensland about 45 years ago, will hear of some-
thing to' his advantage bv communicating with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
IF WILLIAM GREEN (or DENNIS),
who left Northampton, England, as a
child about 1884-85, or anyone on his behalf,
will communicate with the undersigned, he
or they may learn something to advantage.
Dated this twenty-fourth day of January,
1921.
H. V. HANNAM,
Solicitor,
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Legal Notices.
TITO ANDREW SCOTT Junior formerly
JL of Whangarei and Auckland in New
Zealand and all persons claiming by through
or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand made under and by
virtue of the provisions of the Public Trust
Office Amendment Act 1913 at Wellington in
New Zealand on the 16th day of December
1920 you are hereby called upon to send in
on or before the Ist day of May 1921 to
the undersigned as Solicitor to the Public
Trustee of the Dominion of New Zealand
your claims to the Trust Fund of £BOO
created by the last Will and Testament of
Andrew Scott senior formerly of Whangarei
aforesaid Carpenter but now deceased fail-
ing which the said Trust Fund will be dis-
tributed among the persons entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington aforesaid this 22nd
day of December 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor for the Public Trust Office,
Wellington New Zealand.
TO EDWARD SHORT last heard of in
England about the year 1860 and son
of Edward Short and Anne Short (n6e
Hind) both of England aforesaid but now
deceased and to all persons claiming by
through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand made under the pro-
visions of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act 1913 at Wellington in New Zea-
land aforesaid on the 16th day of December
1920 you are hereby called upon to send
in on or before the Ist day of July 1921
to the undersigned as Solicitor to the Public
Trustee of the Dominion of New Zealand
your claims to the estate of Alfred Short
late of Wellington aforesaid Nightwatchman
who died on or about the 21st day of Decem-
ber 1918 intestate failing which the estate
will be distributed amongst the persons
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington aforesaid this 22nd
day of December 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor for the Public Trust Office,
Wellington New Zealand.
Situation Wanted.
CERTIFIED 8.0. T. Engineer and
Draughtsman, 6 years shops, 4 years at
sea and 5 years drawing office, open for engagement
charge of plant, factory or designing engineer.
Highest credentials.
“ENGINE,” Riseville P. 0., Sydney.
m
m
Mi
m
■
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to in
plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Sydney. Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co. Brisbane; West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie. New Zealand:
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
/\qgnesia
for lndigesfion.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
mn
TRADE
MARK.
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre-War Standard.
t
than £6115/-
for that New Suit.
SATISFACTION is what you aim
to secure when you place an order
for a new Suit. It’s what you’re
really spending your money to
obtain, and since complete
satisfaction is definitely
GUARANTEED when you
have your Suit
“LINCOLN-STUART”
Tailored-to-Order
at £6/15/-, is it not foolish to
expend more?
Call in and let us show you
the REMARKABLE RANGE
of materials at your disposal
at the price quoted—AUSTRA-
LIAN ALL-WOOL TWEEDS, in
weights, weaves and shades suited
to the season. ENGLISH WOR-
STEDS in light weights and Smart
Grey Colorings. ALL-WOOL
INDIGO-DYED CHEVIOT SERGE,
sturdiest of Service-Givers. See
these Textures.
IF YOU CANNOT CALL,
PATTERNS ARE POST
FREE TO YOU.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co.
PTY., LTD.,
“Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne
m


In every walk of life, in both England and America,
"INECTO”
IS RECOGNISED AS THE ONLY PERMANENT HAIR COLORING
THE responsibilities and strain of modern conditions are such
that only those possessed of youthful vigor and appearance
can attain to the highest pinnacles of success. Premature greyness
of hair is a very real handicap in every aspect of life. "Inecto” per-
manently restores to grey or faded hair all its original colour. Obtain-
able at Farmer’s Hairdressing Salon, and all leading hairdressers.
The "Inecto” Case contains four pairs of small
bottles, thus divided, waste is reduced to a mini-
mum and deterioration overcome. The applica-
tion is simple and inexpensive. Full information
contained in treatise supplied with "Inecto” case.
"INECTO” is procurable in following shades:
No. I—Deep1—Deep Black
No. 2 —Darkest Brown
No. 3 —Dark Brown
No. 4 —Brown
No. 4i — Light Brown
No. 44 — Light Gold Brown
No. 7 — Reddish Blonde
No. B—Blonde
Price complete, 17/6
Sole Importers for
the Commonwealth:
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
Box 497, G.P.O.
for New South Wales: Craig & Aitken, 654 George Street.
I'°-*
Does Your Home Rxpress You ?
LAURA JAY believes that the home
should he planned by a woman.
Extensive training and wide ex-
perience have made her unusually
successful in such work. The many
distinctive homes and gardens that
she has planned owe their individuality
to the fact that they faithfully reflect
the personality of their owners.
Consultations may be arranged
by telephone.
21a
T. & G. Buildings,
Sydney.
Telephone: City 8735.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Women who frivol at race-meetings are
feeling lost since the strike shut down on
them. The most ardent are having motor-
picnics in the country on the depressed
Saturdays. They sit among the gum-trees
and condole with each other and put half-
crown bets on the shrillest shrieks of the
buzzing locusts.
Golf week at Sorrento Avas dizzy. Visi-
tors put in time between tournament-bouts
in walking the seashore. The vision of one
of Melbourne’s smartest matrons in the
parade is still vivid. Clad in black silk
jersey, bathing togs and a red and white
bath-towel, she munched an ice-cream d la
picture show (the sandwich kind, requiring
a well-timed sprint of the tongue all round
to prevent it dripping). The slim little
Simon Fraser widow has her hair bobbed
for the summer, and is keen on the aqua-
plane— twice round the pierhead every morn-
ing. One damsel sported three hats at a
time—a powder-blue bathing-cap surmounted
by an old rose silk-brimmed affair, and then
a Chow straw mushroom over all with a
chin strap. She wore more hat than clothes.
The golfers had a dinner-dance at the
Continental. The Cleggs and the Goodalls,
Drs. Murray Morton and Pat Leary, the
F. S. Ormistons and the Tom Reynoldses
were there. Doctor Hoysted and his missus
and flapper daughter were other enthusiastic
golfers at the frivol.
Gaud-Mayor Hennessy and his wife have
been finishing off the education of their
buxom colleen daughters by spinning them
round the Continent—the smashed European
continent that is. Flying word comes from
Milan, Venice, Rome, Florence and Mar-
seilles. They have left for Australia and
home by now, after rifling Paris shops for
clothes.
Surviving most, if not all, of her contem-
poraries, the widow of William Stawell, onco
Chief Justice and Lieutenant-Governor of
Vic., lived till a few days ago. To the pre-
sent generation she was unknown, but several
of her six sons and four daughters are
familiar figures in Vic. Dr. R. R. of Collins-
street (who did the honors as president when
Edward P. dined at Melbourne Club last
year), Willie of the Malleson legal firm,
Charlie of Perth, another man of law, Mrs.
Sylvester Browne, and Mrs. Edward Hawker
are the best known. Three sons and two
unmarried daughters are in England. Moles-
worth Greene,, who faded out a little while
ago, was a brother. William Stawell, while
C.J., acted as Administrator of the Vic.
Government three times for short terms, but
never discharged vice-regal functions while he
was Lieutenant-Governor from November 6,
1886, till March 12, 1889. Three days before
he died (March 12, 1889) William Cleaver
Robinson was appointed Acting-Governor to
carry on till Hopetoun arrived in November
of the same year.
The late Anzac General Bridges’s widow,
who left elder-daughter Dorothy behind
when she returned from visiting her son in
the Malay Straits, is not likely to coax her
chick home again just now. Dorothy has
warned the family that she is about to fix a
matrimonial date with a rubber planter of
the unromantic name of Hoghin. Rubber has
slumped heavily, and things are not alto-
gether humming in the Peninsula, but Doro-
thy's planter is still well able to butter his
crust.
Alice Sneezum —Lady Forster’s personal
maid —was killed in a motor accident at
St. Peter’s Pass, Tasmania. Sneezum had
done for Lady Forster for 22 years—one
could imagine the agitated ghost of the
faithful old tire-woman worrying, before she
went through St. Peter’s gate, how her be-
loved mistress would find the right frock for
that night’s dinner.
Shepherd—off to the High Commissioner’s
Office in London —will be despatched in a
well-fed condition. have fed
him at dinner at Scott’s, Menzies’ and the
Oriental, and presents have accompanied the
dinners. There are presents also for Mrs.
Shepherd. Someone gave her a “packed
travelling wardrobe” —Heaven knows Avhat
is packed in it. There would be a frenzied
joy in going to your baggage not knowing
what garment you were going to haul out —
sort of lucky-dip affair.
Frocky Mrs. Barry Thomson matineed
with a boxful of shes at “T,he Maid of the
Mountains” last Wednesday. Under the
shelter of her becoming wine-tinted armor
nestled the two charming Lutterell chicks,
looking girlish and graceful in trappings of
jade green and cream.
Brig.-Gen. A. E. Wisdom, who has. the
Administrator job in the slab of territory
in New Guinea ruled by the Kaiser in pre-
war days, was the runner-up for the post
of Vie. Police Chief, being beaten by fellow-
worker Gellibrand. who had figured more
prominently than he in the Big Scrap. The
generals are getting roosters’ shares of the
grain sprinkled in the barnyard.
A large circle of friends is mourning Mrs.
Marion Lewis, who passed out at her seaside
home at Mornington. Delicate and shy, she
did not go about much, but she did a lot
of philanthropic work in an unobtrusive way
or importuned her husband (D.E., chief
competitor of the Gibson combination for. the
rag trade in Prahran) to shell out liberally.
She left two sons—one is at Newman Col.,
within the Uni., and the other at Xavier
Col. —to inherit the wealth her husband is
piling up.
Off on his first trip to England, W. A.
Callaway, who as Under-Secretary has been
guide and philosopher to successive Vic-
torian Chief Secretaries for many years.
Under the Victorian Government, Alf was
for five years Inspector-General of Prisons,
and says that in those years he learnt more
of human nature than in any other period
of his life. He treated the men at Pent-
ridge as human beings, and made many
reforms in our woefully out-of-date penal
arrangements. One morning in Collins-street
he raised liis hat to a woman who had smiled
timidly nt him. Soon after a seedy-looking
individual awaited him: “You don’t remember
me, sir, but I seen you once at Pentridge.”
“Well,” said Alf with a twinkle, “I should
imagine that is one reason you don’t
want to see me now.” “You’d think so,”
said the down-at-heels, “but when I seen
you take off your hat to a tart, I says:
‘Well, that beats the band, and I’d like to
shake hands with him myself.’ ”
The latest Melba bulletin says that the
Dame will not be in Australia until 1.922.
No details as to why this change of plans.
Possibly the song-bird is just exercising her
prima donna prerogative.
The Jim Purves pair are just back from
their seasidejaunt with daughter Valerie and
son Billy. The latter, who left the Geelong
Grammar at Christmas in a perfect blaze
of glory, is now after more laurels at the
’Varsity. There he will qualify to follow
iu the footsteps of his famous grandfather
and of his own dad, who is in the barristerial
line himself.
Stageland has passed on its sympathy to
Thelma Carter, of the J.C.W. Gilbert and
Sullivan Company, whose dad had a sudden
exit last week while having a bath. He was
a first-class sergeant of police and was in
charge at Kew. Most of his life was spent
at Mildura. Mrs. G. De Garis, of Mosman,
(N.S.W.), is another daughter. His officer’s
uniform was in sight when the heart trouble
from which he suffered brought down the
curtain.
No one has done more to make musicians
of people with modest incomes that Cecilia
John of the adjacent photo by Ruth Hol-
liek. With another enthusiast, Mrs. Annie
Macky,- she founded
the People’s Conser-
vatorium of Music
in 1918 with the
idea of educating
humble youngsters
with musical feel-
ings, and developing
a taste for the sub-
ject in the working-
class movement. At
the beginning Miss
John took over
singing, Mrs. Macky
the piano, and ’cel-
list Hattenbach and
the brilliant violinist
Tarczynski also lent
a hand. From the
first note the Conservatorium was a
success, and every year now has a full roll
of students. This year the staff has been
increased to 12, and young Melbas and
Joachims are still thronging in. In fact,
the Conservatorium has developed so much
that Miss John and Mrs. Macky are taking
a run to Europe to learn the latest notions
in advanced training—a job that will keep
them away two years.-
With a hatful of letters of intro, to assist
or hinder him James Boose, the organising
sec., has come over the water to push along
the interests of the Royal Colonial Institute.
He talked about the “United Empire” motto
to an audience at the Town Hall, and the
knightly Dr. Barrett, who is by no means
cast down at Toorak’s treatment of him at
the last State election, got off some spread-
eagle oratory. Boose did not leave much of
an impression as to the practical .good Aus-
tralia is likely to derive from the continuance
of the institute. Amalgamation with the
Overseas Club, he told a questioner politely,
was “under consideration.” Perhaps the in-
stitute is willing to absorb the club on its own
terms, just as Melbourne City Council is will-
ing to “take in” suburban municipalities on
its terms. /
Mr. and Mrs. Scottshotel Wilson shouted
a merry band of the Smart Set to a jazz frivol
at the Glaciarium last Thursday. “On with
the Dance” was the order of the evening,
and the jazzers jazzed till their tootsies ached.
Mrs. Susan Ryan, who carried on the
Maffba Spectator (Vic.) since the death of
her husband some years ago, has supplied
an obituary item for her own paper. Before
coming to Australia she was a teacher in a
school in County Tipperary (Emerald Isle),
where she was born. Her pluck in running a
newspaper was not singular. For several
years Mrs. Witton conducted the Dimboola
Banner (Vic.) first as a bi-weekly and then
as a weekly. She parted with it 13 months
ago to enable her to give more attention to a
fancy-goods shop—her second string.
Six months’ leave of absence has been
granted to J. W. Ryan, its grand secretary,
by the Hibernian Australasian Catholic Bene-
nt Society to enable him to take a trip to the
disthressful country. As he sees and works
more than he talks and can hould his tongue
as discreetly as any well-trained husband,
the divil a thing is likely to happen to him
except, maybe, the annoyance of telling some
Scottish captain in command in a district
where Victoria is when you go to look for it
on the map.
Marie Irvine passed through Melbourne
last week on her way to London Town, and
was put up for a few days at the Simon
Fraser mansion. Marie is travelling sur-
rounded by a bunch of youth. Two Mac-
Veans and two Macßeans along- with one
youthful Keats are voyaging under her
chaperonage. There is talk of the battle-
fields, Italy, Monte Carlo and other haunts
before the return voyage.
The “K.C.” Weigalls’ eldest chick Mim
waved to the family from the Ceramic deck
last week, when she steamed off to visiO rela-
tives in the smoke. Miss Mim is the blue-
stocking of the family, a ’Varsity graduate of
the advanced school. During the war she
recruited from an apple-box on the Yarra
bank. The second, daughter, Nancy, who
inherits the mother’s piano-playing genius, is
just back from a few months with her vice-
regal S’Australian Weigall cousins. The
youngest of the trio, Joan, is a rising-land-
scape painteress. Brother Theyre was one
of the brainiest hopes of Melbourne Gram-
mar School.
Amid the tinted Venuses in the sculptured
army drawn up in battle array at the
Artists’ Galleries, East Melbourne, is a
beauteous creature with a soulful, passion-
ate pout. Bessi, the old Italian sculptor,
discovered this new type of loveliness. She
has the bearing of an Empress and the fea-
tures of a Greek goddess, yet—such tricks
does Nature play—her father is a Neapoli-
tan lamplighter. Bessi has a grey beard
.reaching the last button on his velvet waist-
coat, but the Neapolitan maid never poses
in his studio unless her father is waiting
on the mat. The old man has not gone
through the lamp-lighting business with his
eyes shut.
The tragedy that robbed Lady Forster of
her maid called attention to the absurdity of
some of the old English human names. Lady
F.’s faithful servant passed through this vale
of tears under the name of Alice Sneezum,
which in itself was enough to keep her weep-
ing. But why have such names? When
Alice entered the Forster lady’s service she
might have taken on a x-easonable alias, as
some girls do when they go on the stage or
into a shop. It wasn’t necessary for her to
continue to be known as Sneezum, and
though it doesn’t matter that her tombstone
will provoke a casual smile from readers
who knew her not, the fact remains that she
might as well have dropped the last three
letters. The odd thing is that the English
of olden days should have fastened such
pretty names on things growing wild in the
meadows and lanes and such ugly ones on
some of the folk who picked ’em. There’s
no excuse for a name like Sneezum, unless
the family can be guaranteed to suffer from
hereditary influenza.
The Donald Mackinnons’ little Irish
daughter-in-law has “White Starred” with
Donald the third to visit her own folk in
the Emerald Isle. The ex-politician and
his missus will follow on this month by the
Red Sea route. They want to have a peep
at their married daughter and collect their
flapper chick Nancy, who is being French-
polished at a Paris seminary.
After pushing his way into Bolshie Russia,
to see for himself —and, incidentally, the
Manchester Guardian— what really was
happening there, Prof. A. T. Goode has now
come to Australia, and will stay a while to
collect enough information for a real tome
on our life —social, political, etc. He lec-
tured at the Playhouse on Saturday even-
ing, and upset all the best regulated news-
paper reports as to Russia. Even the yarn
about the nationalisation of women is
erroneous according to Goode.
Dorothea Spinney is threatening another
invasion of Australia, accompanied by her
Greek plays. The Melbourne Lyceum—abode
of icicle intellect —is suffering the regulated
anticipatory thrill and doing free publicity
for the damsel.
Elise Steele, a maid from Castlemaine
who has been drawing the long bow under
the tuneful supervision of Verbrugghen and
Miss Cullen, in orchestral work and other
studies, is about to pack fiddle and frillies
preparatory to making the inevitable trip
to Europe. There are hints that before dash-
ing up the gangway Elsie will give a recital,
or, maybe, a pink tea, and invite Mrs.
Ernest Scott and others interested in her
career to chatter and cheerio among the
china.
Lome, the abode of youthful romance, is
housing an abundance of Wertheim at the
moment. The family and a horde of hou.,
party occupies two houses, and Professor and
Mrs. Ernest Scott are with them, seeing
country life amidst excessively frivolous sur-
roundings. Lome makes everybody frivolous
—there's something in the air.
Mary Anderson —the young daughter of
Eugenie Duggan—has developed a decided
talent for the stage along with. a sweet
soirrano voice.
Eugenie took a com-
pany of her own
through Tasmania,
and daughter Mary
played ingenue parts
in “Life’s Shop Win-
dow,” “The Little
■Girl God Forgot”
and ‘other plays. She
has been studying
hard, and now will
have a chance with
her voice. Digger
Selwyn Bent is to
take a eo. round the
inland cities playing
all-Irish things. All
the men in the com-
pany are Diggers,
and Mary Anderson
is to play leading colleen parts with Irish
songs. This is a portrait of the little Aus-
tralian by Langliam, Melbourne.
J.C.W.’s latest development is Modes, and
as the star artist they have bagged Mrs.
Brookes from a leading chiffon store. Every
frocky woman in Australia 'knows Mrs.
Brookes. There is a series of dainty
rooms alongside Her Majesty’s, carpeted
in pale grey rubber, with a futuristic
black-patterned border. Each room has
two marvellous garments on view % and
the stage is set with smart hats, ' bags
and fans. Pretty walkings-on girls ar*
about to show the wares, and dressing-rooms
and rest-rooms are there, in which to sort out
ruffled plumage after “trying-on.” Any-
one enamored of a costume on the stage may
have that same thing copied—at a price.
“Modes” show some Paris touches. The
evening gowns have a V —then a deeper V—
and you fill the suggestive blank in the back
with a velvet beauty spot. Some gowns are
cut so low in front that a rosebud or two
save the situation.
Some Adelaide gossip :
Merle Robertson, Adelaide Conservatorium’s Elder
scholar, recently gave a concert in Copenhagen,
assisted by the Danish conductor Paul V. Klenon and
his orchestra, when several of her own compositions
were performed. The only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Robertson, of Rose Park, Merle, when but 17,
won the Elder Scholarship, which g'ave her three
years at the Royal College of Music, London, and
she was granted a further 12 months at the end of
the term.
The Mayor and Mayoress have returned from the
seaside, and the latter has immediately started on
an entertaining campaign—three shivoos last week.
At the first, on Tuesday, the guests melted together
in the Mayoral reception-room. One lady ruined a
40-guinea frock owing to the high reading of the
thermometer, and face-powder became Wane-mange.
Again on Thursday and Friday Adelaide’s Naicest
donned best bib and tucker and flocked to the Town
Hall. The Friday affair was a “farewell” for Mrs.
T. Barr Smith, who with her husband, two daughters
and young Tommy has left by the Naldera.
Other Adelaide folk travelling Londonwards by
the same boat are Mrs. C. H. Warren, and her
daughter Kathleen, who quits Kindergarten work to
see the world, Mrs. John Shiels and Mrs. Frank
Willeox.'
Mrs. and Miss Elma van Senden and Mr. R.. R-
van Senden left Adelaide last week to spend some
weeks in the ’Arbor city and the Blue Mountains.
Miss Ermyntrude van Senden,. who has been summer-
ing in Sydney, will return with them.
Hayley Lever, the South Australian artist, an old
Prince Alfred boy, recently held an exhibition of his
work in the Macbeth Gallery, New York. He has
made a special study of the Cornish coast, having
resided at St. Ives, and he has constantly exhibited in
Paris, London and Philadelphia, where he has had
various medals bestowed on him.
Prior to her departure Mrs. Barr Smith gave a
“tea” to the consumptive soldiers at Bedford Park
Sanatorium, and presented a bed-spread knitted by
herself to every inmate. She leaves the good work
in Mrs. Ernest Goode’s hands during her absence
A tremendous gathering in the Pirie-street
Methodist Church farewelled the Rev. Henry Howard,
and his daughter prior to their departure for Eng-
land. A cheque for £2OO was presented to dad
and a smaller one was handed to Winifred. The
departing cleric, who held the pastorate for 19
years, was popular with all denominations.


CAR LYON’S.
0
MU
7
a
*
src
w
a
in
V
a
k
ry
r
SST
*5
a?
Jr
&
\
/,
Z
Si
El
\
u*
ri
(X
*&*
¥
m
P
u
vll
IPH
u
B33HESE superior social functions —
S© Dance Dinners —will be held nightly
from 8 to 11.30.
The new Ballroom has been specially
= built for the purpose. It is modelled
on lavish lines—the decorations are exquisite,
while appointments reveal features quite new
and
The fine, swift dancing floor will meet with highest appreciation,
whilst an appropriately laid out Winter Garden adjoins the
Ballroom.
From their inception, on Thursday, February 17, 1921, Dance
Dinners are sure to be immensely popular.
A beautiful foyer overlooking the ballroom has been distinctly
designed for private dinners.
HIGH-CLASS JAZZ BAND HAS
BEEN ENGAGED.
Proceeds of the opening night in aid of Alfred Hospital Appeal
Fund.
Saturday Afternoon Tea-Dances, 4/-
Charming functions to be held in the new Ballroom, will appeal very
quickly to all, and serve to make this the scene of happy gatherings.
Arrangements made for private parties to hold afternoon-tea dances.
Wedding Catering carried out on up-to-date lines.
Tableau Dinners, with Orchestra—Sunday Nights—6 to 8.
Hotel has been remodelled, and splendid improvements made for the
accommodation of visitors.
Seating accommodation
for Dance Dinners may
be reserved either at
Hotel Esplanade or
Allan’s, Collins Street,
Melbourne.


Under
Royal
W&rranf
n
ToH.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
m
champagne
4>arlesHei<!sie<>
Reims
'Swnsnrgr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
mn
CARNIVAL DAYS
ARE COMING.
Easter is not so far off that one can pro-
crastinate regarding clothes and feel quite at
ease. It is much wiser to call to your aid
the now and 'have designed,
without oHeSfresome fitting if needs be, those
adorable Tailor Suits and Gowns that the
Sydney Carnival Season demands.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Collins Street
Melbourne.
The Best & Most Novel
of all
Modern Entertainments,
coupled with
luxury, coolness
and comfort, is
found at the
famous
WENTWORTH
Dinner Dances every
evening (12/6 per
head).
SPECIAL DINNERS,
Thursdays and Satur-
days, 21/- per head.
Non-diners, 5/-, plus
tax, every night.
Tea Dances daily
from 3.30 to 5.30.
’Phone City 9931.
'ms
at
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones
Calalague
The grotto-like grounds of the Yacht Club
at Kirribilli looked a corner in Fairyland one
night last week, when the elderly gentlemen
in white duck were shooed into the back-
ground while daughter and daughter’s chums
jazzed on the wide verandahs. The rocky
way up from the landing was like a Chinese
l east of the Lanterns or a bit of the Manly
Carnival,, and the lawns where the supper was
laid were romantically dusky under the same
lighting. Add to this cartloads of dahlias
and green stuffs and fluttering young things,
and you have an idea of what the ferries
glimpsed as they slipped silkily around the
Point. The Northcote Cup visitors and
Milsons, of course, were everywhere; Mrs.
Alfred was heavy with black jet, and Marjorie
Milson was outlined in baby blue silk frills ,
a visitor from Melbourne looked like an in-
spiration from Chu Chin Chow, afid # pretty
Muriel Bridge wore yellow satin.
The Milsons of Milson’s Point have a
family boast that no Anniversary Regatta
ever dared to happen without a Milson
appearing on the programme, either as an
official, competitor or both, since the first
fixture in 1837, when grandad Milson (or
Milsom as the name was spelt in those days)
piloted his craft Sophia home first and
lifted 10 guineas, the main prize of the day.
Two descendants of the ancient yachtsman
are still noted for their helmsmanship—A. J.
Milson and A. G. Milson. The last-named
is a great admirer of open-boat sailing, and
with his lady may be seen any Saturday
viewing the races from the good ship
Macrel. Mrs. A. G„ the keenest of ama-
teur photographers, has a remarkable collec-
tion of sailing pictures. She never misses
a race, and in the recent heavy weather she
posted herself in oilskins on Clarke Island
and while buffeted bv a tearing gale snapped
the finish of the 18-footers’ race.
Monty Walker, who got engaged the other
day to Miss Mackay, of “Redleaf,” is one
of the famous twins who have known many
eminent people in many lands. Notably
the Prince here and Gaby Deslys in Paris.
The Prince was astounded at their skill in
sliding down the banisters at the Concord
home' of their cousin, Eadith Walker, where
he stayed; and Gaby could not believe that
such chic and beautifully-tailored young
men had come from Australia. She never
ceased to wonder where they’d hidden their
red shirts and revolvers. The prospective
bridegroom is a stockbroker, and a partner
of Arthur Tooth. The wedding takes place
this month, as the lady’s brother, to whom
she is devoted, has to hurry back to North
Queensland, and she is determined he shall
witness the ceremony. George AValker, the
other twin, who used to be a man of leisure
but has recently joined the management of
Australian Motors, Ltd., will be best man,
and the newly-weds are to inhabit a flat
on the Double Bay side of Bellevue Hill.
Mabel Osborne of Turramurra—her father
and mother used to be the Roma (Q.) branch
of the family—became Mrs. Ronald C.
Osborne at St. James’ last week, Ronald C.
being a major, M.C., Croix de Guerre and a
resident of Mosman. Padre Micklem, in a
bower of roses, was Cupid’s middleman. A
white satin dress with a Honiton lace train
a billow’ of tulle veiling, and a sheaf of
water-lilies made Mabel look like the spirit
of the fountain. There were three fully-
fledged bridesmaids —bride’s sister Helen,
bridegroom’s sister Nancy, and Queensland
girl Louie Mayne—with frocks like ripe
apricots and millinery resembling bag blue.
In addition there were two little Dangar
girls (who arrived with mother Mrs. Clive
Dangar and were deeply distressed over the
absence of the red carpet that had somehow
got forgotten). They w T ore the finest of mus-
lin dresses and guipure lace caps and posies
of deep tea roses, and the elder might under-
study Mary Piekford at a minute’s notice,
having the same head of ash-blonde curls.
The major husband, his best man and the
groomsman all w r ore khaki, and the Queen’s
Club housed the festivities.
The friends of the Titheradge family will
be sorry to learn that Mrs. Titheradge’s
health is not at all good she is making but
slow recovery from the illness that overtook
her soon after her return to England. She
finds the winters very severe, and half-thawed
Nina longs for the surf and the beaches
and the sunshine that she declares, after all,
really go with Christmas.
A tragic contretemps fluttered a mountain
resort recently. An invalid Digger, well-
connected, who has lost his voice, eluding the
vigilance of his nurse, walked in his sleep
and wandered into the room of a married
couple. He awakened to find himself being
violently manhandled in the dark hy the hus-
band, and as, voiceless, he could make no
explanation, the mannandhns: went on _to
severe lengths. The shock threw his mind
out of gear, and when at last he escaped he
wandered off into the bush. He was re-
covered some hours later, and is now an
inmate of a hospital for mental cases. Fate
has certainly dealt out to this unhappy
warrior a full issue of trouble.
Nelson Illingworth had a tough task sizing
up the Venus de Bondi contestants on Satur-
day last, and his hair has lost quite a lot
of its curl through worry. It would have
warmed a ballet-manager’s heart to see
those legs—all of them straight and well
moulded. But the costumes mide the weird-
est collection of female plumage ever seen
out of the surf. Lots of them 'had tufts
of fur and lacing entanglements, and one
lithe lass wore enough white braid on her
costume to do a whole company of Zouaves.
Starting at the hem of her tunic it ran in
rings to the edge of the V on the top
deck. The prettiest girl in the prettiest
costume, according to the judges, wore a
black outfit edged with green, built on a
cavalier cape design. There were all shapes
of girls, ail wholesome-looking as to limb,
and most with a chemist-shop complexion
overlying the tan. For an exciting half-
hour all Bondi and half-Sydney craned necks
to view the bouncing bunch.
Grace Palotta comes into a nice little nest-
egg through the will of Captain Wilberforce
Vaughan Eaves. He has left her £2625 as
a bona fide testimonial to the graceful crea-
ture she w T as when Australia first knew her.
with her success at the London Gaiety, still
dew-wet upon her.
Major “Ronnie” Osborne, who married a
daughter of Mrs. Henry Osborne of Tprra-
murra last week, was not previously related
to the well-known pastoral family, of which
his wife is a member. Her mother was a
Henry Dangar—a sister of Mrs. Clive Dan-
gar, Mrs. Lewin and Miss Muriel Dangar,
who has just got back from England—and
has lived most of her life out of Sydney.
Major Osborne went to Egypt with the sth
A.F.A. in 1915. got an M.C. in France, and
for some time was on the staff of the 2nd
Divisional Artillery. When not soldiering
he is a solicitor.
Here is the latest New York picture of
Frances Alda, who is coming back to Aus-
tralia after 15 years’ warbling in the opera
houses of two continents. She was a com-
pa natively minor
songstress when she
first left for Europe,
but a little tutoring
b y Marchesi gave
her soprano operatic
rank. She opened at
the Opera Comique,
Paris, as Manon in
Massenet’s “Manon
Lescaut,” later on
going to London,
where she sang with
Caruso at Covent
Garden. After doing
Brussels, Milan,
Warsaw and other
European cities, she
went to America and
was soon pouring
out the heartaches
of Gilda, Marguerite and the rest to excited
houses at the New York Metropolitan, where
she eventually married the manager, Gatti-
Casazza. Nowadays she is a full-blown
prima donna, accustomed to singing almost
every Verdian and Puccinian heroine, and
with the further record of creating big
rbles in other operas by lesser-known com-
posers. Frances, who now calls herself
Madame Alda, is a niece of Frances Saville.
and tried her first trills under the watchful
ear of her grandmother, Madame Simonsen.
Peter Mitchell —whose will reads like a
page of Spartan history that tells of the con-
tests of strength between the maidens of the
tribe while the elders sat around keeping
close watch on the vigor displayed with a
view to the furtherance of the race—was
himself a small, rather plain man with a
passionate admiration for beauty in every
form. His eyes, deep set, had a twinkle in
them, even to the very end when in the final
collapse he whispered to his wife “Budgeree,”
meaning that it was good to go quickly
rather than make a lingering exit. He de-
lighted in youth, and towards the end his
chief pleasure lay in watcliing youth enjoy
itself. A lover of b«ok« he regarded Shak-
speare, Cervantes, Fielding, Smollett and
Lamb as intimate friends, and was something
of a versifier himself. He loved Binghi be-
cause he understood him. and one little block
brother, who used to follow him like a faith-
ful dog over the estate at Bringenbrong, is
feeling that he has lost his best friend.
Walter Kirby, Melbourne's tenor, is to be
seen any day in the sun at Bpnui—yuu can-
not mistake Walter if you see him. unless he
lets a silver note or two ring out, when you
might believe he’s a camouflaged Lorelei.
Lots of nervous collapses reported last week
among the cabmen and bottle-ohs. For seven
days all Sydney seemed a glaring eye focussed
upon them, bent on discovering the tiniest
shade of injustice towards our dumb friends.
For. it was "kindness to animals” week. The
Millions Club shared in the event to the ex-
tent of spilling a libation of the usual syrupy
fruit cup at Sargent’s, where at the end of the
meal Justice Heydon (who not so long ago
said a working girl needed neither Torchon
nor Val. upon her undies,, and made the
award forthwith) made a speech that
sounded like a plea for a pension
for superannuated police prads. Dur-
ing the week mere was me usual parade of
hardworking horses, and the S.P.C.A. gravely
awarded beauty prizes. By the way, Redfern
seems the Elysian pasturage for the cabhorse
—'two of the hansom belles gave that address.
The Venetian Carnival held in Mosman
Bay last Saturday to buy a motor-car for the
soldiers at Gra.vthwaite fell short of its
endeavor. Only £294 has been arrived at so
far. ai.d at the committee meeting last week
it was decided to pass round the hat among
the North Sydney residents.
Dorothea Mackellar’s return will give the
Salon a fresh platter of intellectual bones to
crunch. The Salon is a Club or a foregather-
ing of brain- —brawn is not essential; culture
and the higher education are the keys. Trans-
lated that really means money, for where
there is no money there can be precious little
culture, and culture, according to W. L.
George, rests on tradition, and what tradi-
tions have the really hard-up time to acquire
or conserve? Anyway the Salon souls meet
ever and anon, and sitting in a circle listen
rapturously while one of its members reads
aloud the newest highbrow book or play.
Things like Barrie’s “Mary Rose” are past
numbers with them, but no doubt Dorothea
has brought back some still beaded bubbles
from the fountain of wisdom.
Agent-General Mcßride’s wife. is con-
sidered quite the belle of the Commonwealth
representatives. She is reported graceful, a
good dresser and a woman of charm. She
was the only one of the Australia House
bunch whose dressing the papers reported at
the dinner at Buckingham Palace where the
Maoriland and Australian Commissioners
picked a bone with the Prince on his return
to home and mother. On that occasion the
Mcßride lady expressed herself in a Gallot'
model of brocaded gold and black and wore a
diamond necklace. Queen Mary wore rose-
colored chiffon velvet and a rope of pearls,
and Mary Princess wore pale pink, a pearl
necklace and a string of diamonds on a band
threaded through her hair.
Clover Hill, Sutton Forest, the old coun-
try home of the Long-Innes’, and Winslow,
their town house at Darling Point, are com-
ing under the hammer. The first, with its
50 acres, is named after the home of Major
Innes, father of the present generation, at
Leitrim, Ireland. Winslow was a wedding
gift to the wife of Justice Innes. In these
properties can be traced the money of Mrs.
Mary Reibey, of Sydney, and Mr. John
Smith, M.L.C.. of Llanarth, Bathurst, and
Gamboola, Molong.
Energetic Chryssa Crichton-Imrie has been
invited to go on the committee for an ex-
hibition got up by the “Women’s Institute”
in Londoi^ 1 and the committee is made up of
Lady Astor, Lady Cynthia Moseley and a
bunch of social celebrities. Miss Crichton-
Imrie is to speak at the exhibition on “The
Women of Australia” and “Food.”
The Naldera brought back enterprising
Grace Stafford, who’d been in London glean-
ing new ideas and getting the high lights put
o" her elocution. She specialised in speech
impediments at St. Thomas’s Hospital, and
spent some time at the Royal Academy of
Dramatic Art, where she heard Bernard Shaw
rehearse his “Pygmalion.” “Bernard,” she
says, “is a typical Australian squatter in
appearance.” From Dr. Aikin, said to be
the greatest phonologist of the day, Grace had
45 lectures on speaking-voice production,
then worked at Gilbert Murray’s translations
of the Greek tragedies with Irene Mawer,
who did all the chorus work with Sybil
Thorndyke.
There’s a show of school kiddies’ arts and
crafts work at the Education Building that’s
worth taking a look at as a sample of Aus-
tralian art in the bud. Drawings and
crayons and wash-colors ornament the walls
and cover the w’hole artistic programme from
Genesis to Revelation. Hears and pines and
peaches, old hats and boots, not to mention
a depressed-looking gamp, take up quite a
bit of the wall-space. Then there’s the
rooster —wherever you turn that old bird
meets you. He’s a white Leghorn who has
apparently gone the rounds of the schools.
You have him in all the stages, from waking
challenge to the sunrise, until, with curva-
ture of the spine and moulted tail, he looks
as though he hasn’t a feather to fly with.
There are artistic designs for book-covers
and book-plates, designs for cushions, nighties
and tea-set embellishments —with the ident cal
cushion and nightie and teacup in the flesh,
so to speak, opposite. This is what is termed
applied art, and combined with a dash of
cabinet-making should serve to make thou-
sands of vigorous young Australian husbands
miserable for years to come. One corner
stand is inlaid with school slates, on which
birds and flowers and little scene? glow
vividly in colored chalks, and at the end of
the room there is another picture in pencil,
w T ell and truly drawn by a little schoolboy
who has no hands.
The mountains are to have a visit from
the Cheer Oh Girls. With the unconquer-
able Mrs. Bennett White as their leader they
are to give entertainments at Leura,
Katoomba and Wentworth Falls, the pro-
ceeds to go to help the blinded soldiers.
Here is pictured Roy Basil Mackey, the
young Neutral Bay pianist who is thinking
of ways and means
to continue his
studies abroad. Roy,
who is now only 23,
left school at 14 and
got a job at Paling’s.
Chevalier d e
Beaupis accidentally
heard him play one
day, and told him to
throw up his billet
immediately and
study the piano
thoroughly. He him--
self took the lad in
hand for four years,
and afterwards
yo u n«g Mackey
studied with Mme.
Charvin, Signor de
Giorgio and Yvonne
Leverrier, obtaining a scholarship at the
State “Con.” He is a devoted student of
the Old Masters only, and hopes some day
to set the Thames sizzling.
The first ball since the war period in aid
of St. Vincent’s will be held on March 29
at the Paddington Town Hall with Mrs.
Toohey, Mrs. John Lane Mullins, the Hughes
lady and Mrs. Vaughan as vice-presidents
and the Lady Mayoress as president. The
committee’s two cood-lookine- secretaries are
Mrs. Herbert Kendall and Mrs. Pat Kenna,
and treasurer Miss Egan already has a
lining to the cashbox in a cheque for the
hall expenses signed by Dr. Langloh Johnson.
“With You Beside Me” is the song with
which Claire Newton greets the New Year.
The music is gently sentimental and the
words, by Thomas Gurney, tell of an affec-
tion not beyond the compass of the young
man who sings in drawing-rooms. It is pub-
lished by Nicholson’s. Claire is the girl who
wrote “Hush,” and “I Told My Love to the
Roses.”
A little budget from Brisbane:—
11.C.L. doesn’t seem to have any effect on Cupid.
Here are a bunch of the newest weddings, by way of
emphasis: Maude Shakspeare, daughter of the E.
.T. Shakspeares, of Jericho, Central Q., to Frank
Harper, son of the W. Harpers, of Toorak, Melb.;
Jessie Whitehill, one of the pretty Auchenflower
Whitehills, to Fred Pace, a Tasmanian; Jean Hewitt,
daughter of the squatting Hewitts,. of Mount Mee, to
H. J. Perryer, a returned soldier who hails from
the Cairns district; and, finally, Evelyn Elliott, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Llewellyn Elliott, of Low-
mead, to Mr. H. M. Simms, late sth L.H. Regt., and
only son of Mr. Henry Simms, London.
On Monday our new Ex., with Col. Parsons,
A.D.C., and Capt. Lukin in tow, visited Toowoomba,
where he stayed the night, and jogged on next day
to Stanthorpe. A civic dinner, visits to Simla (the
Soldiers’ Convalescent Home), the Boys’ State Farm
at Westbrook, and other spots kept him busy, but
he also managed a little dinner with the Mayor
(Aid. Dick Godsall) and his wife, and Dr. and Mrs.
Aeneas McDonnell, took morning tea with the
Lyttleton Grooms, and spent a few pleasant hours
at the Downs Club. Lyttleton Groom went on to
Stanthorpe in the v.-r. train.
Mr. James McCawley, father of Justice Tom
McCawley, died on Monday. He was 84, and had
spent almost 70 years in Queensland. One of the
pioneers of the Toowoomba district, he afterwards
went to Brisbane, thence to Wynnum, where he died.
Mary Jefferies, the ’cellist of the musical Jefferies
family, has returned after 15 months’ holiday in
England and America. In London she stayed with
sister Winnie, who is studying at the Royal Academy,
and she looked up Walenn, her former teacher, to
find that Mischel Cherniavsky and Laurie Kennedy
are continuing their studies with him.
F. C. Urquhart, now on his way to MS' new job of
ruling the Northern Territory, was given a civic
farewell on Tuesday. An eloquent address and a
more eloquent wallet of bank notes were handed over
by the Mayor, while the Mayoress fastened a wristlet
watch on Mrs. Urquhart’s plump arm.
Capt. Reg Plant, who was A.D.C. to Lieut.-Gov.
Lennon, goes to the N.T. as the Urquhart private
secretary. Reg was one of the few full-blown officers
who gave up their rank to get to the war quickly.
He left as sergeant with the original 15th Battalion,
and won back captain’s rank on the field. Also,
he collected a severe wound.


.■' V . ' . V'. ■
.
.
.
,>,Xi YMi
y
w ...... jf;
IV
r
■
k
m
The TJalue of SMusic
CARLYLE has said that "music is a kind
of inarticulate, unfathomable speech which
leads us to the edge of the Infinite, and com-
pels us for a moment to gaze into it.” It is the
universal language of the feelings which in-
creases sympathy and broadens the horizon of mankind.
HERBERT SPENCER, in his "Origin and Function of
Music,” has placed it at the head of the fine arts, declaring
that music cannot be too much applauded as a noble means
of ministering to human welfare.
Thus these two gifted Englishmen give voice to the feelings
which stir in the hearts of the masses.
The Beale Player-Piano is the one instrument for the whole
family. It is an unlimited source of pleasure to those who
cannot play by hand, and the golden mellowness of the
tone appeals to the technically proficient musician. The
children can listen to the best in pianoforte composition
and study expressipn as indicated by the world’s masters.
The better musician you are the more you vAll appreciate the Teale
Showrooms :
333 George St.
Sydnev
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Factories :
41-47 Trafalgar St>
Annandale
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victoria*: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
Hi
Hi
a
V/
£
m
&
w
A
JMITHf)
JULIO*
.STUDJ^T
u
h
i\
&>
M
xi
\m
a
I
o 0
a
ILL-
-2


m
K. /
GOOD JUDGMENT
encf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and 'Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
aivd How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Ciav Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Learn to Draw
n
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The above ,
is the title'
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE. harry J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
33 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
For Sale.
Freehold Timber Land for Sale
in British North Borneo.
2000 or 3000 acres of Good Timber Land
foa* Sale.
THIS land has a good stand of timber to
the acre, including a large quantity of
the well-known Borneo hardwood “BIL-
LION.” The land when cleared of timber
would be ideal for the cultivation of Rubber,
and is situated about 25 miles from Sanda-
kan, being easy of access by launch. Trans-
port would present little difficulties. All
jungle is virgin, there being no secondary
growth. For full particulars apply to
BARLOW & CO., Singapore.
;
.;k
Comfort Written
All Over It.
THE ‘“LONGREACH” Saddle is perhaps the
most comfortable we produce. Note how
the flap is sewn direct on to tire seat, doing
away with the usual skirt and giving a
narrow, comfortable grip. Note, also, the
shape of the pads and the position of them.
They give perfect security. Tt is made cn
our high-grade “Fouright” tree, and fitted
with folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel stirrups.
THE
“LONGREACH”
SADDLE.
Write for our
Catalogue.
£l5/15/-
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Railway Station in
New South Wales.
OM-OOM-OO
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS—EXPERT PLAITED.
TIIOIIRK —
12-plait. .
16-plait. .
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
17/- 19/6 22/6 24/6
19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait,
16/6; 24-plait, 18/6. If for 9ft.
thongs add 1/6 to above.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m?.
W,
*T
Farm
Accounts
—they’re a worry but
they have to be done,
and letters also have to
be written. Make it
more of a pleasure—as
so many men have
done—by using a
Waterman’s Ideal
F ountain Pen.
You’ll be surprised
what a difference
it makes.
WatermajisffifbuntMnPen
Three Types: “Self-
filling,” “Safety” and
“ Regular,” of St iti 'ners
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G, SLOAN, Ltd., OplJenCorner, London, Eng.
Australia :
HAROLD D. DIXON, 105, Clarence Street Sydney.
mn
Legal Notice.
0 HAROLD BRANFORD of Exeter in the State
of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
31st day of October 1919 has been issued in the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Arthur Henry
Thomas Gully of 32 High Street Kensington in the
said State of South Australia Baker praying for a
dissolution of his marriage with his wife LAURA
GULLY on the ground of her having committed
adultery with you. In default of your so appearing
the Court will proceed to hear and determine the
said charge and you will not be allowed to address the
Court and therefore Take Notice that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within thirty (30) days from
the date of the appearance of this advertisement to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the office of
this Court and there to enter an appearance in
accordance with the Rules in that behalf.
(1.5.) W. L. STUART,
Master.
Arthur Seafortli Blackburn, of Torrens Chambers,
Victoria Square, Adelaide, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell? Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
\ -
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVEHLEY PEN.”
fzcpA& :
CAPITAL
End Mills
Accurate workmanship and high-grade steel that gives a keen an
lasting cutting edge are always found in End Mills and other
Machine Tools made of
TRADE
MAR&
capital
“Capital” High-Speed Steel.
End Mills in the following sizes have just
been landed, and immediate delivery can
be given:-
No. 5 shank
Jin. dia.
Sin. ~
iin. „ .. » ><
fin. „ .. No. 7 shank
jin. „ .. „ I,
lin. ~ .. No. 9 shank
ljin. „ .. i, ,i
All with B & S. Shanks.
n
Prices and further information supplied promptly on request to Dept. “A.”
THE EAGLE (SL GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel*
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Ratrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ud., Newcastle.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently Stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.G.H.: Doubtless interesting, but ink
too faint to decipher... .Vaire Wood: Stuff needs
compression... .W.C.P.: Too wordy; and “Ain t”
joke 01d... .M.C.D.: Lacks interest.... Sammy : The
basket gets it A.L.T.: Doesn’t make a yarn
Frank J.: You’re a gloomy sort of verse-spoiler
X.Y.Z.: You may be on the track, but you have a
verv long way to g 0... .Ella: Nice little verses about
nothing R.A.D.: Find out what the words you use
mean before writing them down. .. .5.5.0.: For the
fifty thousandth time let it be said that “morn” does
not rhyme with “dawn,” and that the person who
thinks it does has an ear like an ungreased cattle-
truck.... Jimsy: Nothing in it... .L.L.H.: It goes
very heavily K.K.: Far too long and too loose.
....Edward T.: Doesn’t seem worth translating....
Francis D.: Not nearly up... .Richard: A man got
a letter from a woman and sent another woman to
call on her. The first woman doesn’t speak to him
now. What a thrilling yarn. .. .Llewellyn L.: Verse
very thin and crude. .. . A.8.P.: Not up... .R.F.D.:
Walks like a wounded elephant Cobweb:
Very clumsy verse... .Tom Cat: Poor sort of
cat that couldn’t get more out of living than
that M. 11.5.: Three miserable yarns with a
suicide in each, and a piece of more miserable verse
with a probable suicide 1 Get to something real and
honest; tragedy is generally false... .J.S.S.:
“Triangle” doesn’t strike us.... Minnie M.: Very
poor verse A.L.N.: Every line falls to pieces....
The Singer: Whatever else it may do it doesn’t
sing....K.L. (Bathurst): Wooden sonnet.... A.R.M.:
All that has been better said a thousand times
Mary R.: To sit down and write a dull description
of a sunset is about the most futile thing you can
do.... Peter S.: The sort of humor a draught-horse
would make S.J.S.: Nothing there. .. .Duncan C.:
Not up.... Geo. B.: Poor little thing Fredk. F.:
Both fail badly Jack A.W.: One of the gems:—
“I’m through with life” was the poignant cry of a
disillusioned man;
Who’d wasted many precious years in the quest of
some socialist plan.
Now this was his vision glorious:
That the “present system” should totter
And collapse, and every citizen
Become rich as a prosperous squatter.
But now ’twas his fate to on the rocks,
Out of a job.
From the wretches he’d barracked so strenuously for—
Not a bob !
“It’s the Devil’s world!” he brokenly wailed,
As he dumped himself into a creek;
And was swept away I heard them say:
“With a haunting, reproachful shriek.”
H.E.R.: “The Pointer” doesn’t convince....
Toxin: “Tarantula” yarn is absurd... .Syd S.: Much
worse than usual... .W.F.K.: Don’t care for
“Adrift” 13: Impossible to remember what one _
would-be contributor sent in months ago... .G.8.L.:
The magnificent person who was ashamed of having
carried his swag, though he had never done any-
thing else that mattered, is too stupid Curzon:
Apart from the fact that “mule” is a word of one
syllable, the idea is poor and the verse shaky....
H.W.D.: Not nearly up S.A.A.: Don’t like it.
F.M.C.: “Early Days” and “Visions” are far
short.... Magpie: Giving up “work” to “write a
book” must be a curious process. The people who
write without working produce the slops that make
parts of the Inky Way so boggy... .Bellerive: The
old battle between Heeman and Sayers lives again
in the thrilling lines: —
Stirred by the great and gallant bout,
Wafting cheers from the throng rang out.
Round after round till tlje shades of night,
Urged by the crowd the warriors did fight.
’Twas proclaimed a draw —they’d done their best,
And fierce quarrels ensued over the grim contest.
Tom Sayers retired with an honored name,
Inscribed on the scroll of sporting fame.
....Jon Con: Too effusive... .E.M.: You “com-
posed the enclosed verses and forgot all about them.”
Pity you didn’t keep on forgetting... .11.L.H.
(Queensland): It is quite possible that Australian
agricultural machines “which cost £l3O a few years
ago, cannot be booked up for next year at lower than
£300.” “A few years ago” always means sometime
before the war. Since that shadowy date wages,
taxes, houses, the price of our imported (duty-free)
loans, the note issue and foreign softgoods have
risen enormously, in some cases three and four fold.
If an Australian machine which used to cost £l3O
in gold, good all over the world, can now be bought
for £3OO of depreciated paper, which is worth
nothing at all in paying for imports, it is a marvel
of cheapness. Foreign-traders cadge for the votes of
the more benighted class of farmers by telling them
that, but for the tariff, ploughs and harrows would
have remained at the old figure, while everything else
went up, but even the farmer’s cow should know
better.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.M.: Like a mangy pup—all scratch... .N.E.H.:
Did you take a second look at old Ziff’s feet?....
V.N.: Your trust’s betrayed—it’s not of “sufficient
merit”... .L.G.C.: But why make Tilden look like
a stoker ? L.H.: If original show's a glimmer of
promise... .M.W.T.: Be an artist by all means—but
learn to draw first....A.E.S.: As you say, “Wad
some power the giftie gie us!”. . . .R.M.: A couple
just miss... .W.F.M.: Curiously uneven work; are
you copying? H.N.8.: Do they grow women like
that up there ?... .M.C.M.: Of no use at a 11....
E. : You’ve a long way to go yet....A.E.:
Wooden drawings; poor jokes... .C.W.C.: Not a ray
of hope... .R.R.: Can’t be done... .G. 8.: Looks like
a poor copy C.W.: Falls a long way short
F. A.S.P. and L. 8.: All unavailable.
“P. Plain”: One of the few jokes of the
Melbourne (n6e Hobart) Science Congress
was heard in the geology section. The Rev.
Father Piggott, the Riverview (N.S.W.)
seismological expert, was explaining his
methods for determining, from the records
of a single instrument, the location in the
earth’s crust where the “jolt” occurred that
gave rise to any particular earthquake. His
eyes shone with enthusiasm as he told of
the first good test to which he was able to
apply his calculations. From his records he
concluded that the “epi-centre” of the earth-
quake was near a Maoriland locality called
Castle Point —of which he had never heard
before. After coming to this conclusion he
awaited confirmation of it. “And you may
judge of my delight,” he confided, “when I
read in the morning papers that the Castle
Point lighthouse had been shattered!”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 23,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, IT Knots, Twin-screw,
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES • F h’
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP.KCMG •’
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. ’
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NAHONAMSANir
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankets to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. 300,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Director?— Ggo, Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN (Acting)
HEAD OFFICE - - . BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland.
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
r U^£7 S p d Prr ital " •• ..£2,000,000
R P v a P £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. # . OOO
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. bLy, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A •
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.c! ;
Duncan Carson. ’
„_, _ Sonera 1 Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
. Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £529 988
Preference Shares.. .. .l 125’000
Ordinary Shares 2,’250,’()00
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
. ~ ~ fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital £625 000
Reserve Fund 600.000
t, t- K-,-* ~, . £l^22M)OO
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£TTssoTooo
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, *E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
STEAMERS SAIL EVERY 28 DAYS:
R.M.S. NIAGARA.
R.M.S. MAKURA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States' can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. MARAMA, about March 1.
And every 28 days thereafter.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mn
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
irips of Four to Seven Weeks* Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
m
Directors ;
- £4,958,260
3,350,000
- 4,958,260
£13,266,520
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: AV. 11. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E
Hea(rOffic e —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up .. £2,500,000
Reserve Fund .. £2/220,000
Reserve Capital .. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
n
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
.Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas 4. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
i a f* If a 1 Established
Australian Mutual ««•
8 7 H ™sTs'dne, Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Ever} 7 Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
{"IEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia,
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
As the sailing dates are indefinite,
intending passengers are requested to
keep in touch with the agents of the
various steamers.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
! STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
I from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
I and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
| cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUODaRT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every lour weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levulca” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"|“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-.
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, applv
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address.
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blacltheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
L^vTTm
HEMSTITCHED
F RULINGS
A BOON IN EVERY
HOUSEHOLD.
For finishing Pillow-slips, Sheets
Underwear, etc., CASH'S Hem
stitched FKILLINGS are un-
equalled. You save Time and
Money and get same effect as
finest handwork. Made of best
material and in various widths.
For Marking Linen —Use
CASH'S woven NAMES
Sold by All Best Drapers
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St, Richmond


4E»dKbo»tatrttttitw»Ui
v,
| PLUME
Mobiloil
A"
(Medium body)
f J7m r JJUrsfrrrrrrrr
CARACr.iI J. hfU)«
©
comasvy
“They always come back to Your Oil
How marketers of Motor Cars, Tractors
and Trucks seek to protect their Engines
A well known Motor Agent writes :
"We have always carried on a consider-
able amount of experimental work in
connection with lubrication and have
held our specification regarding oil very
closely to Gargoyle Mobiloils.”
" We have found that a sample can of
Gargoyle Mobiloils going with the
machine is important, inasmuch as our
customers get excellent service as long
Engine results depend upon scientific
lubr cation.
Engine results account for the fact that
you seldom find a motorist who “ used
to usj Gargoyle Mobiloils.”
Gargoyle Mobiloils are refined from
crude oils specially chosen for lubrica*
ting qualities—for engine results.
Get Engine results.' The present cost
as they use the oil supplied
and are very prompt to
return to your oil as soon
as they have tried some-
thing else, as they usually
do, and find that they do
not get the -a suits.”
Vacuum Oil Co,
Pty. Ltd.
mn
m
nm
n
m
of motor cars, spare parts
and repair service warrants
the use of scientific lubrica-
tion as never before.
Write our nearest branch
for free booklet " The
Care of Your Car."
Throughout Australasia.
Mobiloils
M I A
TAN MILITARY BOOT
ALL SOLID
LEATHER.
Strongly Made from the Best Materials on the Good-fitting
Military Last.
The Three-Decker Soles being Brass Riveted, Sprigged and Sewn
on Edge.
Our Guarantee with Every Pair. Money Refunded if Not Satisfied.
Every Genuine Pair Stamped with Our Name on the Sole.
Add 1/- Exchange on Cheques,
youths’ Sizes, 2 to 5, 19/- Men’s Size, ll’s ....
MEN’S SIZES, 5 to 10, 22/- Men’s Size, 12’s
23/-
25/6
SERVICE SHOE CO.,
Queen’s Parads,
Clifton Hill, VIC.
nm
POST
FREE.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AX WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
I WPfc V
ijafk A
mo
r
vi
& _
■ ' - •.
‘*<3gm
ArA?«®
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating Set.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
G. Minks & Co. Gtd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Etd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Etd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fencliurch Street.
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.’
EVERYTHING EOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match
M.S. National
Service
Peerless
Haymarket
Ilaymarket Selected
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Ex. Special
Avre’s Handicap
Spalding’s Tournament ....
Spalding’s Continental
Spalding’s Gold Medal ....
Slazenger’s Renshavv
Slazenger’s Demon
Slazenger’s Whitehouse ....
Slazenger's E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty
Slazenger’s Stadium
Slazenger’s I.Z
F. H. Ayre’s A 1
H. C. Lee’s Seneca
H. C. Lee’s Church .......
H. C. Lee’s Dreadnought
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post
cheaper rackets: N.S.W., 9d;
7/6
l5/6
27/6
3O-
/ 30/-, 40/-
• • • 45/-, 50/-
.... 46/-, 45/-
6O-
/ / -
4B/6
.. 50/-, 55/-
67/6
45/-
55/-
65 /*
7B/6
B2/6
B7/6
9O-
/
55 / -
95/-
lOO-
/ Postage on
other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 2/9 33/-
Avre’s Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
Slazenger Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
Haymarket Champion, 1921 2/9 32/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other
States, 1/8.)
t
,yx
\
\
re
rrasn
Specialists
in all kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 97/6
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers. l/“, 1/3, I'6
Scoring Books j/q
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/-, 2/6 coil.
n
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting', best tan napa,.laced palms 6 or 8 0z... 15/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz. 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 25/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 ° z 28/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 oV 8 oz 30/., 35/.
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Bilker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Keg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
•FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/-
„ Tan Leather, ~ „ 11/6
„ very superior, „ 12/6
.. Laced > » „ 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d.) 10/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 0/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light.
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6Jd.) 15/6 pair.
MYRROHL America TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
mn
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including tile famous REACH
Halls. A few minutes each day at Bali Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 10/6, 12/6, 17/6
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine leather, stayed
seams, very fast 18/6, 22/6, 25/-
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest napa leather,
welted and stayed, very fast and lively 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially
designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and perfect
shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The
finest made 45/-
EXPERT. double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6 and 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, verv light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .., 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTAREE BALE, Strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.... 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 4/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6. 2/0 „
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 ,»
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat ” Sportsman’s Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Angler’s Guide (B 2). All svortsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Men! Here’s aSHavi.ng'
Soap that Satisfies
REXONA.
The Triangular Stick makes possible
“The Perfect Shave.”
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time
which will he appreciated by men wherever beards grow. Rexona Shaving
Soap contains the same oils and essences which have made Rexona famous
the world over, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus malr.es a shaving
stick which is a soap and lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene
in shaving, and tempers the skin against wind and bad weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated so
as to produce a thick, creamy lather, which will soften the beard and improve
the skin at the same time. Being an antiseptic medicated soap, it has a
tendency to quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune to get, and if
troubled with pimples or blotches of any kind, will daily tend to improve
them. Rexona Shaving Stick is sold only in triangular enamelled boxes, so
look out for it. l'rice 1/6.
FOR TENDER
SKINS.
'Wu
m
W'
%
ra*&wm.
n
TRY a REXONA
SHAVE.
REXONA
Shaving Stick, 1/6.
Em
VARIETY IS THE
SPICE OF THE
SANDWICH LUNCH
Folk who perforce have to take their lunch to
work will welcome a change in the shape of
“REX’* CAMP PIE
This tasty compounded meat with its refreshing
wholesome flavor is always relished. It saves
your time because it is all ready cooked. It
saves money for the same reason —you will find
it cheaper than fresh meat.
BUY A TIN TO-DAY
Always keep a tin in the house.
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
fIE
JEBI
LlllllHl/ll
Wmi
gniiiirnu
h am
'> BACON, veal
°NGue.
Escape.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE’S a south wind blowing, and
trembling are the trees;
The little leaves are dancing, and
shaken are the seas,
Shaken into silver, and blue is the sky;
But the green fields are calling where the
brown birds fly.
There’s a red road running by clover and
by corn,
Where the gold gorse is bursting and white
hawthorn,
And a creek comes winding, winding down
tbe plains,
Singing from the blue hills through yellow
wattle lanes.
Oh, it’s there I’d be walking or lying in the
grass,
Dreaming my long dreams while the white
clouds pass;
For there falls forgetting, and there comes
release
From the hounding of sorrow in the green
heart of peace.
VICTORIA.
ALEXANDER G. STEVEN.
Dusters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OW, look, Jenny, there’s a lot of
things in the world which you
can’t understand yet, an’ one of
’em is that gaol is gaol, an’ that you can’t
touch pitch without gettin’ dirty. I ain’t
got anythin’ to say against young Alf as I
know ’im —’e’s pleasant-spoken an’ ’e knows
what’s due to ’is elders —but there’s that
three months, an’ you can’t get away from
it.” As the girl made an impatient move-
ment of her head, Miss Tripp hurried on.
“Oh, I know what you’re goin’ to say: it
was all along of Cliff Mimbles an’ ’is lot,
an’ it was years ago, an’ that Alf ’as cut
loose from ’em. an’ ’as been in the same job
four years, an’ all that—l know just what
you’re goin’ to say. An’ this is what /
say : the Lord ’as many things in ’ls keepin’,
no doubt, but can the leopard change ’is
spots?”
The girl looked up with a half-smile
under the tears; 'the Lord was a special
friend of auntie’s, a friend who somehow
always got the last, strict w6rd. Auntie
was strict. Down in the ’Loo her quality
of starchiness stood out in complete isola-
tion. The ’Loo is- a thousand things it
should not be (and ten thousand things that
the rest of the world should be), but no
one could call it “strict.” Even at the
docks-end of Forbes-street, where no loose
and homeless theat’icals come, Auntie’s
starchiness was a lonely thing.
Aunt Maggie’s view of it had been forced
on her. Apart from the value of starch as
atmospheric furniture in a: Forbes-street
residential, domestic history had taken a
hand —a heavy hand. Jenny’s mother, the
only beloved sister of Miss Tripp, had died
at Jenny’s birth, which had taken place a
full three weeks too early. The cause of
this haste and death had been the shock of
s Jack Winter’s sentence of three years for
burglary and violence. Handsome Jack had
had a good run at 'the mysterious profes-
sion whose nature his wife couldn’t find out,
but in the end they got him, and got him
good. So he went up for three years and
Jenny was born, and Edith died. While
he was in, Aunt Maggie' looked after the
baby in a menacing silence, a silence grow-
ing deeper and more volcanic as the weeks
and months wore on. Jack’s coming out,
and his shuffling tragically round to see how
things were, synchronised with the volcano’s
eruption, the thunderous breaking of the
silence. So Jack got shockingly drunk to
prove that he was a man, and cleared out
to Melbourne, in whose quite different silence
he had remained ever since. All this, and
the stray raps and heavy blows which 18
years keep up their sleeves and slip out to
you so accurately, had solidified, as it were,
the inherent starchiness of Aunt Maggie.
Life teas a long penance and duty; God did
hold a heavy hand on us; and our only
reward did come after death. The only
chance was the avoidance of pitch and the
leopard’s spots. Look at what happened if
you didn’t. Look at Edith and her year
of anxious fear and her cruel death; look
at Jenny with no mother and worse than
no father, and the pitfalls of a handsome
face and 18 years of youth opening at her
feet with young Alf whispering in her ear.
No; the straight and narrow for Aunt
Maggie every time.
“I thought you good people were strong
on foigiveness of sin an’ that,” Jenny said
in a sorrowful attempt at her rare defiance.
“There’s forgiveness an’ forgiveness.
Jenny; the Lord ’as all things in ’ls keepin’i
E shows us the straight an’ narrow way, an’
we know what ’appens if we step off it. If
you was to marry Alf that three months ’d
come ’auntin’ an’ defilin’ you ; you’d ’ave no
peace in your ’earts. You know I only say
‘No’ to you when it’s for your good—’aven’t
I been right ’undreds of times when you was
a kid an’ a growin’ girl? ’Aven’t" I now
Jenny?” ’
A momentary picture of the sheltered
safety of the little house, the mother and
father in one, the certainty of everything
within the four spotless wails, down to the
little details of “surprise” cakes in her lunch-
packet, the thoughtfulness and constant care
through the years—all this flashed before
Jenny’s eyes in the passing gratitude of 18
years. But springtime was knocking at the
door, and young Alf’s voice came haunting
in the shabby streets at evening, when the
factory’s noise had ceased for a night and
the break of a day.
“You can’t stop us, Auntie,” she said,
fearful of the iron rule embodied in Aunt
Maggie, but strong in the springtime’s pride.
“No, I can’t stop yer, Jenny, I know; but
I can say ‘No’ an’ do my duty.” Miss Tripp
sighed; it was a thin business for her.
“What’s wrong with James ’Gskins? ’E’s
steady, an’ got a clean record; ’e's a partner
now, ’e tells me.”
“Yes, ’e would tell you." Jenny’s feeling
was personal now, and her anger was free
to show itself. “Trust ’im for gettin’ at
the boss first —an’ much good may it do ’im,
the ’ard-’earted, stuck-up, self-righteous”
“ ‘Be ye not over-righteops,’ I know,
Jenny, but you’re too ’ard on James ’cos
you’ve set your ’eart on Alf. James can
give you a good Christian ’ome—pick up that
duster, my dear, an’ put it in the bag—an’
Alf is a Roman, let alone the three months.”
“And what’s wrong with that?” Jenny,
tall and distinguished in her half-scared defi-
ance, delivered her thunderbolt on her aunt’s
defenceless head : “so am I, if you come to
that—or will be soon, when we’re married.”
The sound of the front door closing while
the defiance lasted hardly broke into Aunt
Maggie’s trance of dismay. Mechanically
she went on hemming dusters, the persistent
occupation of her leisure; but Jenny a
Roman! Every room in the house had a
bag, gay and bright, hanging, full of spotless
dusters, beside the fireplace. Dusters made
out of many things, patchwork, cambric,
lawn, calico, silk —anything that had served
its first purpose. A Roman, singing in that
surging tide which came out of St. Mary’s
doors at Benediction ! All the color missed
by Aunt Maggie’s heart'was in these dusters.
Her eyes for linen left or discarded by the
lodgers were quick and predatory. The
gaudier and finer the leavings the better. After
the first year or so, not many of them were
used —their number multiplied too quickly ;
but every Sunday Aunt Maggie “did the
dusters.” Each bag was carefully emptied
on the bed —parti-colored rags of the heart
of Aunt Maggie—and religiously “gone over”
for the needless repairs. As the years multi-
plied with the dusters, Aunt Maggie’s joy of
life narrowed down to this one pleasure of
sorting, distributing, and keeping in useless
perfection this cast-off finery of other people
made over into the bloom of her own darken-
ing days. A Roman, a member and practiser
of the vast idolatry against which all good
Nonconformity waged a ceaseless war—her
Jenny, with her good heritage of the Elders’
teaching! Only the straight and narrow
path was the right one—the path where no
idols smiled and no perfume and music
beguiled the soul.
Registering her firm purpose of seeing
that young Alf got a flea in his ear, and that
Jenny did not marry him, Miss Tripp went
upstairs to do the dusters. Men. seafaring
men and wharfies, do not in general find any
pressing need of dusters, or of texts, but the
one is as clearly good for the soul as the
other. The first-floor-front sheltered Amy,
who was neither a wharfie nor a seafaring
man, but a friend of Aunt Maggie’s, a
“domestic help, sleep out,” who was to be
married in a week or so. Not that Aunt
Maggie held with all of Amy’s habits of
mind ; not at all. Many a time in the past
four years she had taken occasion to speak
to Amy of the hours she kept—the ungodly
hours, literally", in Aunt Maggie’s critique
of them. Entering the room she saw again
the wonderful rose-colored kimono which
Amy’s mistress had given her with a jumble
of other attractive things. The kimono was
a pink cloud of powdery silk, soft and smooth
as down against Aunt Maggie’s fingers. For
months the thing had been in the house;
and every day Miss Tripp, doing Amy’s
room, had fingered it—had picked it up from
the floor to smooth and hang it in the ward-
robe, had taken it from the foot of the bed
to spread it out and watch the rose-lights
slipping up and down the Chinese design, her
fingers itching and her eyes gleaming.
What dusters it would make—what beauti-
ful dusters!
But the kimono was very far from dis-
carded ; even Amy, used as she was to such
things, had a particular affection for it. It
would be many a long day before it was old
clothes. Aunt Maggie sighed as she looked
at it hanging half on the back of the chair
and half on the little table. She could put
one duster of it in each room, and border
all the dusters in the house with it; and still
have plenty over for emergencies and repairs.
Pulling it off the table the corner touched
and shifted the inkbottle. Aunt Maggie’s
hands fell from the kimono, and she stood
upright; the straight and narrow path swayed
under her feet. Why not? Amy would think
she had done it herself; besides, she had so
much —everybody had so much, save poor
old Aunt Maggie. Amy wouldn’t miss it. and
it would make so much joy for her old friend.
It was a little thing. And God knew she had
always done her duty! Miss Tripp’s fingers
closed round the little bottle of ink ; fever-
ishly she pulled out the cork. An infamous
black stain spread and soaked into the
beautiful surface, wallowing round the little
flowers and sinking deep into the scarlet
border. Miss Tripp watched the sacrilege
for a moment; then with a white and
frightened face stole through the door and
down the accusing stairs.
“Oh, Maggie!” Amy’s voice next morn mg
at the kitchen-door was the trumpet of judg-
ment at the end of a sleepless night.
“Yes, my dear?” Aunt Maggie managed.
“I ou know that lovely pink kirn. Mrs.
Dent gave me? Aren’t I a fool? I went and
spilt a whole bottle of ink over half the
front of it throwin’ it on to the table yester-
day. Amy laughed fatuously. “80 Jim’ll
never see it now; aren’t I a aoat? It’s ruined,
Maggie: but it might do to make some of
those dinky dusters of yours. You’re wel-
come to it. if it’s any good. I’ll have to
wear my old blue one now”
Amy faded down the sunlight of Forbes-
street to the steps that go up to Macleay-
(Continued on next page.)


m
%
j
a
mm
y/K .
%
mi
M
r m
%a.
Y/is^r
%
l Every Picture
Telia a StorjT
Those agonising twinges across the small of the back,
that dull, throbbing ache, may be your warning of
serious kidney weakness —serious if neglected, for it
might easily lead to gravel, stone, bladder inflammation,
dropsy, or fatal kidney disease. So if you are suffering
with a bad back, look for other proof of kidney trouble,
and if there are dizzy spells, headaches, nervous despon-
dent attacks; a dull, tired condition and disordered
kidney action, get after the cause. Take things easier for
a while and use DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
the remedy that has been tested for you by thousands.
What satisfied users say is the best proof of Doan s
reliability.
STRAIGHTFORWARD STATEMENTS BY SYDNEY PEOPLE.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr Geo. A. Skinner, 37 Goodhope Street. Paddington, says“As the result
of a bad cold which settled on my kidneys I suffered agony from backache, and was
often so bad that I had to lie up, not being able to move without enduring torture
The kidney secretions were very much disordered, being thick and cloudy, and l
could not even turn in bed without a stab-like pain striking me across the loins. I
took all kinds of kidney medicines, but nothing gave me any permanent relief, and
I was at a loss to know what to do for a cure. A friend, hearing how I was
suffering, suggested I should try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I bought some
at once, and after taking them for a few days, I was delighted to find they were
doin" me good. In a week or so I felt ever so much better, and by the time - had
used°five or six bottles I was completely cured. That was two years ago, and I
am still well, but I always keep Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the house and
take them now and again, as a tonic for the kidneys.’’
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. A. Weir, 168 Botany Road, Alexandria, Sydney, says:— ! ‘ln common
with many others, I can give Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a first-class recom-
mendation as a cure for backache and kidney disorder, these pills having cured me
of a bad attack some few months ago. Before I took these pills I suffered terribly
with my back, it being so stiff and painful that I could hardly get about; in fact,
I have been so bad that I have had to lie up, being almost crippled with the pain.
My ankles and legs swelled considerably, and were sore to the touch, and I was
also subject to dizzy attacks. I could not get proper rest at night, and in conse-
quence always felt dull and tired, and had no energy. However, a course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills , soon put an end to my health troubles, and I have been
grand ever since.”
Six years later Mrs. Weir confirms the above: —“I am still well, and have
had no return of my old complaint since Doan’s Pills cured me over six years ago.”
isr
n
Backache
Kidney
mn
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
street, and Aunt Maggie sat down suddenly
in the kitchen-chair. Sin and its wages—
“these, your transgressions”; she was all sin
now. The years of the straight and narrow
path hadn’t helped her a little bit when a
real temptation came, “Be ye not over-
righteous.” Ajid all for a dozen silly
dusters. Over the heart of Aunt Maggie,
worn out by a white night and a tragic fall
from grace, a tidse of doubt swept, drowning
a number of fixetl eternal things, and wash-
ing out into a .high light many unknown
possibilities. Amy’s voice broke in again.
“Oh, Maggie, I forgot to tell you—l’ll be
very late to-night.. Jim’s takin’ me to”
“Come in, Amy, gin’ sit down for a minute.”
“Why, what’s tht> matter, Maggie? You’re
as white as a sheet; you do look all in.”
“Nothing, Amy, hut I want you to listen
for a minute. You think you spilt ink on
your kim., don’t youl,?”
Amy nodded.
“Well, you didn’t, / did. Wait a minute;
let me start fair. I ’aven’t always been fair
to you, Amy, an’ I ’aven’t always been fair
to young Jenny—far from it. I’ve been too
fond of puttin’ youi right an’ everybody
round me; but it’s the wickedness of your
own ’eart that teadhes you most, not the
Book an’ the Chapel. I wanted your kim. —
I’ve wanted it since I first saw it —to make
me dusters. So I up an’ stole it—spoilt it
an’ stole it. I poured ink on it yesterday
so’s you’d give it me 1 like you did just now.
Young Jenny never did a thing like that, for
all ’er gallivantin’ an* ’er Alf; nor you never
did, for all the hours you keep an’ your love
of dress”-
“ ’Course I ’ave! Why, ’aven’t I ofteh
told Mrs. Dent”
“No, let me say me say, Amy. The things
you’re goin’ to say weren’t real sins like mine
was to me; you didn’t do ’em thinkin’ you
was somebody. An’ so I beg yer pardon,
Amy; I’m sorry I stole your kim., an’ I’ll
pay for another if you’ll choose it. I dunno
’ow I come to do it- —I never thought such
a thing’d ’appen to me.” Aunt Maggie’s
haggard lifted eyes pleaded for enlightenment
and comfort.
Amy laughed. “You know, you’re takin’
on too much about it. I don’t deny it was
a bit over the odds —I liked the kim. an’ all
that; but it wasn’t murder, Maggie.”
Slow and difficult tears crept down Aunt
Maggie’s face. “No, it wasn’t murder,
Amy, but it’s broken me belief in meself as
much as murder would.”
* * * *
“Why don’t you ask young Alf round ’ere
to tea some night, Jenny?”
The girl looked up quickly into her aunt’s
stony face, but no expression there gave any
direction to her deep amazement. She saw
her aunt’s fingers clutch hard at the pink
silk duster she was hemming, as if she were
holding on to it for strength (not all penances
are Roman), but nothing in her face showed
her mind.
“Why, I thought”
Aunt Maggie’s flat voice cut in. “There’s
a deal of thinkin’ goin’ on round the world,
child, elders and youngsters alike. Ask ’im
to tea on Sunday.”
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Mud.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE men seated around the table were
too interested in the game to remark
the stealthy movements of the thin-
faced man sitting opposite the banker. The
half-note had been lying on the outside of
his neighbor’s pile of silver. The man with
the thin face had casually leaned across.
Now he drew his elbow into his side and the
note had changed owners.
‘Tt’s a skinner,” said a player.
Muzuca drew back his chair. “I’m done,”
he said.
It was nearly dark when Muzuca reached
the six-mile peg at the end of the metalled
road. The track had never appealed to
him, but as the art of keeping money was
not numbered amongst his virtues he had to
face it. After 12 months’ hard bullocking
he had drawn a cheque for a hundred
pounds; a week’s steady drinking and
gambling, with hardly a morsel of solid food
between his lips, had accounted for the
cheque. Now he took to the track with a
limpid swag rolled in half a blanket.
The blaze of a fire in the distance drew
Muzuca’s attention, and the social instinct
guided his footsteps. It was not that he
wanted company and sympathy ; under such
circumstances as his either would be an
abomination. He realised this as he wal-
lowed through the next hundred yards of
heavy mud, and his thoughts became a little
less self-centred.
Muzuca slung his swag against a briar-
bush. Four days of steady rain had turned
the black soil of the plains to a quagmire;
and the leaden sky did not encourage a man
to believe it had finished its weeping. Every
way but that Muzuca had come spread
sheets of water, and to a man in his state
of mind the steady drip from the trees
•sounded a dirge. The tendrils of the briar-
bush added their quota of drops to the irri-
tating monotony.
Darkness had fallen when Muzuca bent
down to unroll his swag, and the next 12
hours were a nightmare. Seated on a pair
of spare boots he leaned his back against
the bush. The brambles clutched and tore
at his clothing and worked their way into
his flesh. His face smarted from a long-
scratch he had received as he fumbled with
the folds of his half-blanket in the dark, and
his body was hot and cold from a fever of un-
known dread. Everywhere there was mud,
that found its way over the tops of his
boots at the lightest step—mud and water
and darkness that was like a prison wall.
The blanket was big enough to keep the
legs warm and the knees, but the body got
cold and the blanket had to' be shifted. In
their turn the legs and the knees got cold
and the blanket had to be shifted again.
The feet were always cold, and always there
was the monotonous drip from the sodden
branches of the trees, the clinging, moist
atmosphere, and darkness that could be felt.
At times the moist atmosphere made the
body warm and the breath stifling, but it was
always succeeded by a cold shiver that the
meagre blanket could not still. And then
the process of shifting the blanket com-
menced again—from the legs and knees to
the body, and from the body to the legs and
knees. " After a couple of hours the blanket
did little good, and the dampness of the
earth began to strike through the whole body.
The horses from the carrier’s camp found
their way near the bush. They broke the
monotony of the dripping water and took
the attention from the cold and the clawing
and biting brambles. Then they too became
a menace. In the darkness that was like a
wall they wallowed and fumbled in their
hobbles, and the oozing mlid sucked at their
hooves. Muzuca could not see them, and it
seemed they would trample him down. He
made to shoo them off, but the sound never
got further than his throat; his body broke
into a dank heat and then he shivered. The
horses passed. The irritating monotony of
the drip-drip-drip remained, and the wallow
of mud and water, and the clutching briar
and the cold.
The terror passed with the night. With
the dawn rose a ground fog. It restricted the
view to a dozen yards, but it also shut
Muzuca from the eyes of the carrier who
would have called him a fool. Six yards
from the briar bush was a telegraph line, and
because for a few inches around the poles the
ground offered a more solid footing than was
to be found anywhere else, Muzuca followed
the line.
It was the shadow of a man that dragged
his way from pole to pole. The experiences
of the past week had left his cheeks
hollow and his eyes bloodshot; the night
und'er the briar bush had added a nervous
uncertainty to his steps and a body that
ached from the shoulders downwards. Near
the bush he had drunk from a pool of storm-
water, and now a gnawing hunger made him
feel sick.
For the next hour he lived in a world of
his own. The fog deadened every sound ex-
cept the suck of the mud at his boots, until
the sun broke through and the fog lifted. The
track that had been a continuation of the
metalled road had disappeared; there was
only bare plain, rain-bloated, and the line of
poles. The mud was softer now, and at
each step he sank into it to the top of
his boots. It had a hungry suck and his feet
were as heavy as lead. Once he took off his
boots and tried to get along, that way, but
his feet slithered and the going was slower
than ever. The sun dropped behind a lowering
cloudbank, but there was thankfulness for
that: Muzuca’s exertions had made him a
lather of sweat, which stung his eyes and
tasted salt in his mouth. His shirt rucked
and aggravated his discomfort. At times he
sat on his swag with his back to a pole, but
he srot cold afid the gnawing hunger would
not let him rest.
Muzuca had been hungry before, but con-
ditions had been much different. He had
been on the road then and had a mate and
knew his whereabouts. He had won the
toss, but his mate had made an unsuccessful
bid for tucker. Then he had gone to the
station cook himself and got a dole of flour.
Neither had been much of a cook, and the
flat thing they had raked from the ashes
they had thrown away in disgust.
Pattering drops of rain put an end to
Muzuca’s contemplation of that hard crust.
The cloudbank had started to empty on the
already gorged earth. It passed Muzuca
and dropped its load lower down; but the
mud dragged harder at his feet, and the
weight of the swag seemed to be pushing
him further into the mud. First he threw
away the boots that had been his seat the
night before. That eased the load for a
time; but in half an hour the other things
had gone the way of the boots and he car-
ried only the blanket. That went later with
his hat and jacket. Emily came then and
was walking beside him —Emily of the
brown eyes and the lifting eyebrows; and
she brought the kiddie.
He forgot his misery and the sucking mud
and the poles that came and went. Emily
caught hold of his arm and steadied him;
he did not lurch so much and the poles
came quicker. She laughed as she had
always done before the breach and the
neglect, and rippled on about the future of
the kiddie. Then the arm grew hot just as
it used to when they walked together in the
summer nights, and the unnatural position
made it ache. He lurched against a pole,
and the shock brought back reality with
a rush. He had taken off his vest and was
carrying it under his arm. He flung it from
him in disgust.
Emily never came again, but the child
stayed, and the mud sucked and the poles
came and went. He thought to break the
monotony of the poles, but lie soon returned
for the relief of the mounds and the solider
going. The suck-suck was always there. It
had a strangely familiar sound and it puzzled
him. The child running beside him with the
trusting eyes provided the connection. There
was a bed that faced a bay window. Beside
the bed was a cot, and a child sucked and
sucked at a comforter and was fretful _ and
hungry. Where was Emily? Why didn’t
she make the kid a bottle!
“Emily!” he shouted. “Emily, the kid
wants a bottle.”
* * * *
The carrier whose horses had frightened
Muzuca near the end of the metalled road
tells a tale of a phenomenal rainfall and a
demented man rushing into his camp shout-
ing for Emily.
“I never moved a yard on the road that
week,” he says. “There was mud that’d
cover your wheels, an’ then just after dark
in rushes this feller. ‘Emily,’ he shouted,
and somethin’ about a bottle-1 couldn’t catch.
I give him a pull at a flask an’ got some soup
inter him an’ ’e seemed better. All ’e ’ad on
was ’is trousers an’ a shirt an’ boots an’ he
was covered in mud —seemed if ’e’d been
rollin’ in it. ’E’d been on the booze all right,
but I never asks no questions, an’ ’e went
inter town next mornin’ an’ I never seen ’im
since.”
WILL KEATES.


m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIMGHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S, WALES
OR LICK’S
MALTED
-MILK
r/,
IHVW-'
gjftWDTRA'
-W
S?
Mww-2
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat, 1
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never'
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-j
where. Only water J
is needed. In hot climates it is,
invaluable.
Xo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON,, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the Beitish Austealasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Beitish Atjstealasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see. the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
m
Shave with
The“P
This noted Razor is no new inven-
tion —thousands are. sold annually,
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping’, as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against the stiffest beard, and
gives just that smooth, velvety shave
which every man appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,. 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stop Dressing 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send jur
Illustrated
Folder.
n
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
&
-rt
in
i
/
COMFORT—that pleasant, soothing feeling that comes over one
is superinduced by good-fitting clothing. If the main suspension
should be out of alignment, it will jar that even repose. Wear
Shirley President Braces, they are the main suspension of the
clothing. Millions of satisfied wearers the world over.
Guaranteed by the makers.
For Sale By Good Dealers Everywhere.
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A.
Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Only Those Mho Are Weil
can be said to know the joy of living. Nothing can compensate for
the loss of 'health. Dyspeptic millionaires are by no means to be
envied. On the other hand, no man is really poor who is rich in health.
People who possess abundant energy and vitality, although in
indifferent circumstances,
Are Really Well Off.
In our pursuit of prosperity our first aim should be to secure health
and fitness and to this end we should be particularly careful to
maintain the efficiency of the digestive organs. For this purpose we
shall find nothing better than the systematic use of Beecham’s Pills.
They keep the stomach strong, the liver active, the bowels regular
and the blood pure and thus make it easy for one to be well.
BEEGHAM’S PILLS
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10Jd., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. (brigihal English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome: springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first' day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold ’ a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women - and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’s
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con-1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
CARTER'S
f ITTLE
I IVER
M PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
mn
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probablv
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
' their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” “Their strong
construction, and .the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILD RIDGE, & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland. W-’E.
1
g
Remington
Revolver and Pistol
Cartridges
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct fiint-timi.
fog and maximum accuracy.
for Shooting Right'
j of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box of
particular 11 UMC cartrid Ses —thoroughbreds in every
Catalogues free upon request.
m
ft
C-3i
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
"Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
U *
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
arid Illustrated Circular.
F,q &
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


V//
5008. C.
Pottery Lamp.
'j=-
# #< 'a
7
3000 B.C.
Alabaster
Oil LeoTvp.
~
I 11
1400.
\ki\ctiaiv Stand-
Lamp.
m
Flemish Oil-
8
IS 30
Whale Oil Lamp
nm
isoo.
n
Canvpßinjg Lamp
mn
1
NitroOexv, billed,
°(yi watt.)
LAJv£!P. ,
itc siz.es up to
isoovratts
(approac. 3000. c. fv)
-r.f.il'
1870
Coal Oil Lamp
The Evolution 0/LIGHTING
When the world was young and civilisation was in the learn-
ing-to-walk stage of its development, primitive man realised
a need for something which would enable him to finish the
task arrested by darkness ; and of that need artificial illumi-
nation was born. Every step forward in the progress of culture
has been marked by an advance in illumination.
The 'way to our civilisation of to-day lies parallel to the 'way to
better light.
A stick from the fire was no doubt the first lighting unit, but
there is plenty of evidence that crude forms of oil lamps came,
into use long before history was begun. These have been dis-
carded one by one until to-day the final step
in the evolution of light is the incandescent Be sure that all
electric lamp. The G-E EDISON Electric your lamps are
Lamp with its drawn tungsten wire filament branded
and brilliant responsive light is the electric G-E EDISON
m
to perfection
' t wm
p-
m
i
mm
( ,
*1
/V; ■
\ j
»
,
*
■ ■V..
'
m
m
■
X
i
1
w
i
i
i
Hi
<r
v
*«
Yi
n
sD|s°^
Vacuum, Lamp
in. sizes up to
100 watts.
(approximately
100 c.P)
smith &
JULIUS
STUDIES
mn
m
nm
n
m
nm
35-45 WENTWORTH -AVENUE
SYDNEY"
bSh
m
tic
116 QUEErIM STREET,
n
ADELAIDE, S.A.- -Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
BRISBANE, Q.- —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH, A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W A.) Ltd," Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
TASMANIA—-Oliver and Oliver. HOBART and LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical Sc Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON.
