

à
Electric Irons
smooth, the way
on iroi\irv<s day.
Highly finished in polished nickel, the Edi-
son Electric Flat Iron comes to you neatly
packed, ready for use. Its cleanliness
and the ease with which it can be
I
Come in and see it demonstrated.
Smifl £>Julius'.
Studios
z: v its-
, * ,V -
yg
ICWMnMM
m
35 45 WENTWORTH ZtfENUE
SYDNEY
â
116 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
BRISBANE, Q. -The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), comer Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH, W.A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
TASMANIA Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND--The National Ele&rical and Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH,. DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2164;
Thursday, August 4, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a 6opv of the new library
catalogue for 11)21? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
RYMOCK S BOOK ARCADE. LTD..
George Street. Sydney: - 6431.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE ?
Euthymol
tooth/paste
It not, write to
Euthymol Department B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
.
Free sample will be posted to you.
MANGROViTEf
LEATHER
wmm
You Can Confidently
Expect Unrivalled Service
from Mangrovjte Belting, because long experience
and standardised manufacture, in every particu-
lar, lias produced ah article as nearly perfect as it is possible to obtain.
Leather or Raw-Hide Belting
is made from the choicest cuts of flawless ox-hides, tanned for endurance by a special scientific
process. For traction belts on hard drives, where they are su jected to the roughest treatment
amidst flying grit, steam, oil and acid fumes, these beltings are proving their worth daily.
Try it on your hardest drive.
MANftRITIVfTP RFI TINf! I Tfl Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
innnunuvi I c lUUinh LIU., 4!) York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Ilerham & Co., 3!)7 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Tremaptie.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co., Ltd.. Collins' Street, Hobart. ,
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
S'JNB AM
COATAtEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
A South African Owner says: —
“■* . . Aft?r all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
iHE SvNIEAM MOTOR CAR C? L™
Wolverhampton, England.
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address : " Subeamoco,” London.
I
n\\\\\\WVA\W^,
miWHltniWW'K'
lull
lIIIIHb
u
24 b.p. 6 cyl. SPORTING MODEL,
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WILLIAMS BKOS., LTD., .82$ George Street, Sydney*
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
VV r Sui'H.r —
\HIIAII and Tasmanian Hard.
J wood INles, I lea ms, Sleepers,
I* avi n g Hloeks. 11 11 ilde r s’
Sesliitlimr. Seasoned Mooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNIvUS HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUP STUKET, UKUTII, W.A.
QUEKN-’S WtlPfiE MEI UOrUfNE, VIC.
6SA PITT ST iIUK Tv SVPNKV, N.S.W.
Rranohos in all-.parts of 'the world.-
EORGE HOTEL,
St. iUtda,. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel AcenniiiKiiisti.'in In Auntralla.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
ã
ä
å
p
C: Tim Bronchial
Tubes of a Dissec-
ted Lung.
. The Lobe of one
«f the Lungs-
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name oi
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good’’ as Hudson's Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers. Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
In the Public Library
Having secured my book with something
of the feelings that possess an amateur when
robbing a cfmrch, i settle down to dig for
the extract 1 am after. I do not go to the
library to read, long experience having taught
me the futility of such an intention. The
most marked peculiarity of the mume l.brary
is that nobody over the age of lb can read
in it, and very few do more than make a
specious pretence. I know no place, apart
from an auction-room or a wool sale, whose
atmosphere is less C mddmve to scrams lean-
ing. The noises, muffled and unreal, are
disturbing for their portentousness ; the bang
of a boos upon the tub.e *s more arrest.ng
than a scream; the stealthiness of movement
cultivated by qffic.als and habitues inflames
the imagination With suggestions of covert
deeds.
The young man next on my left has a
huge volume of the Memoirs of Jean Jacques
Casanova open before him, arresting read Jig
surely, such as you might expect to absorb
the youthful m.nd. The volume is fresh
off the chain, too. Consider the attraction of
a book that, for its mamroid s.ns ami vv.cmu-
nesses, is kept on the chain, securely pad-
locked, until some student conies wiui a
special appeal, and liberates it for a brief
space. ■> nut tlpsr seeker after knowledge
loses his appetite for historical research m
the library atmosphere, and is busy cutting
his 10 bails with a blunt knife. The sight
of a person cutting his nails, with a sharp
knife I find sulliCiently irr.tat.ng, but wntn
the barbaric act , is attempted with a blunt
knife that jags, and breaks, and tears the
substance, iny whole nervous system tingles
in revolt. I watch this operation Lke a
man mesmerised. 1 find myself shr.nking
when the hacking effect is too manifest. 1
draw in my breath through my teeth with a
harsh of acute feeling.
All eye's turn hfpon me. ' '
I dive into my book again, seeking cover.
The book is “PepyS.” Not Kfaybrook’s
mauled and mutilated rendering, but the
irank and sprightly Wheatley edition....
A scrap of nail, rebound, ng, hits me
in the eye. The young man apologises, and
commences the polishing process. Again I
retire into the depths of the b g Pepys/ con-
scious that all over the apartment heads, glad
of any interruption, are craning on long
necks to investigate the occasion of the out-
burst. The youth’s apology was short and
low. but it is another of the defects of a
reading-room that, within its walls, the
ordinary■ spoken word assumes the import-
ance and weight of rhetoric.
I trace the lines telling of our hero’s
encounter with "a pretty, sober Dutch lass,”
’but I am not registering any impressions
connected therewith, having just discovered
that the man opposite, disguls ng his identity
behind Vol. 1 of the “Encyclopaffl a Brit n-
‘nica,” which is stood on end to ;orm' a for-
midable rampart, has a peculiar and most
aggravating sniff.- There is always one man
within hearing in a public library who has a
sn'lf. This sniff is more than ordinarily
irritating. It is loud and aggressive, and
as methodical as the ticking of a clock, I
think what a godsend it would be if he
would only give one violent sniff and be done.
He Won’t. He is probably asleep, and the
sniff is liis specialty in snores. I have met
many like him in libraries. They are mar-
ried mentheir w : ves having cultivated a
mechanical trick of digging them, with more
or less asperity, when, the sniff begins to
blow by night, they never get sufficient
sleep in bed, and seek a publ.c l'brary to
make up, the deficiency. If some- bold bene-
factor of bis k.nd Were to thi-ust a p ck-
pornt betwen the second and third asternal
bones of the sleeper buried in the depths of
the “Britannica,” the man would gasp:
“What is it now, Marin? Wliat is it now?
Let. a man sleep, woffian !” ...
/ I trace Pepys to his encounter with the
pretty Dutch woman he finds in bed; alone,
but again the effort is mechanical. The eye
takes in the words ; the mind notes noth’iig.
-The"sniff is like the tick of a noisy clock,
and the. dripping of water, into a tin-can. I
form mind-pictures of its author. He is a
shaggy old man, with a ziff'and a Scotch
drip. A man next on the left rises abruptly,
and over goes the Encyclopaedia. A rather
pretty girl, With nice brown hair, is writ'iig
a note, with her small, pink tongue thrust
out of the left corner of her mouth. She
‘is the sniffer. I make a mental apology, and
dip into Pepys.
There are visitors. These are from the
'country, greatly troubled by the solemnity
of their surroundings and afflicted with
-doubt about the safety of the property they
• had to leave with the utter stranger at the
door, whose address they bad' foolishly neg-
lected to take. They drift down the length
-of the apartment, looking dumbly from right
Ito left. The men carry, their hats in their
hands; they are awed, conscience-stricken.
At any moment a harsh official may charge
down on them, and line them heavily, for
some breach of rules or npglect of discipline.
There is also the obvious chance of their
-encountering a man with a collection-plate
•In any alcove. It is jpst the sort of place
where you would expect to come, face to
face with a man with/a collection-plate.
I return to Pepys. The young man with
the .Casanova is still scraping and polishing
his nails. He has scraped away quite a
quantity of bone-dust, and is finishing off
.with his handkerchief and a bit of pink chalk.
Presently I shall be able to get down to
my task all right, but meanwhile there is the
fellow with the Eohtmghtlies. He. has
three at; his elbow and another is open before
him. The same man has been in the same
place, through copies of the same
magazine, during five recent vis : ts of mine.
.-What can lie be after? Perhaps he is seek-
ing data for some serious literary work.
Then, again, possibly lie is insane. ’ Quite
a number of people whir haunt public I'bra-
ries are. Here is another of the many serious
disadvantages of the public library as a
reading-room—-it is continually awakening
one’s legitimate curiosity. I wonder what
the deuce that crank is after. More than
once I had made up my mind to speak to
him. T shall never be able to make any
serious use of the library while he is rum-
maging and fussing with those magazines. I
close my Pepys, and restore it to the warder;
then, screwing up my courage, I touch the
little old Fortnightly hunter on the shoul-
der, ai d say w,tn someth.ng of an oihe.al
air: “Excuse me, sir, but you seem to be
having a long hunt. Can I help you?” He
looks up like a .startled bird. “Come now,
yes, you might, says he. “Get some of
them Fortnigiitlies after 1902 (I am up to
19021, and look ’em through for me, A
friend of mine tells, me he once saw a sure
cure for lumbago. It was in the back of the
Fortnightly magazine,' but I ain’t bin able
to run it down yet.”
After all, I can find what I am after in
Pepys some other day. Perhaps I can pick
up a cheap, second-hand edition somewhere.
EEDWARD DYSON.
Byron’s Thyrsa
In less than three years Byron will have
been dead a century. There is no literary
man about whom contemporary op.n.on lias
changed so much; certainly none who has
been so extravagantly pia.sed and so inordi-
nately slandered. Mention the name of
Byron at any suburban tea- or dinner-party
and one half of ti e company vv.ll recall their
schooldays and '‘The Destruction of Sen-
nacherib’s Army”; the other half 'Will
vaguely think that you want to talk sound tl:
there may he one or two —though it isn’t
likely.-—who will know you have struck a
tope of supreme interest from the st"”d
point of either literature or romance. For
though there have been one or two r
, poets since By ion, there has been no liter-
ary personality. who cut anything i.ko su n a
figure in the world, or who left such a trail
of light (murky light, some of it) behind
him. f.e"
There is a Byron myth, and a Byron story
—also a Byron scandal. All three have
been much mixed up together. One thing
about I’yron is- certain: he put: his own
feelings into'his verse. With one exception
he did not dedicate or address poetry to
women. Shelley was always doing it —wit-
ness his lines to. Sophia Stacey, to Jane
Williams, to Mary Godwin, to Emilia Vivi-
ani, to Fanny Godwin, to “Constantin” and
many more. Byron wrote a,, “Farewell” to
. his w'fe (mainly in order 'to advert se his
own feelings), and “Stanzas” to his half-
sister ; but td only one other woman did he
.address serious poetry, and that woman was
“Thyrsa.” Who was she? He, wrote of
her as though she were dead. For example:
Oh, what are thousand living loves
To one that cannot, quit the dead!
His Contemporaries knew of no woman
friend of Byron who had died, and concluded
that “Thyrsa” never lived—-that there was
no such person. But Mr. Edgecumbe, whose
book, “Byron, the East Phase,” came out
in 1909,‘ tracked the mystery down.
lie is quite certa.n that 'lhjisa was none
other than Mary Clmwortfi, ti e young woman
of 17 w.tli whom Byron veil in love and
who "laughed at him when he was a hoy of
15, In 1804, when he was 10, the s.nool-
b6y was stJl in love With her, and the story
goes that she, the laughing nuss of 18,
remarked to someone, “Do you think I
could care for that lame boy?” The lame
boy happened to overhear it; he park'd up
h.s hat. and rushed out of-the house. A few
weeks later Mary Chawortli married a distant
relative. '
In 1.809 Byron went abroad. In 1811 he
returned to London. In 1812 his “Childe
Harold” came out. In the summer of that
year l.e was tire rage of London, aiid Mary
Chaworth, separated from her commonplace
husband, living alone in her count v y house
just five m.les from the Byion home at
Newstead, heard the echoes of the young
man’s marvellous fame. A poet,' a peer,
beautiful, and a supreme genius—what could
she think! Some of the things that hap-
. pened later are matters of conjecture, It
is certain that Byron siold away from Lon-
don in the height of his memorable summer.
He went back to Newstead and visited Mary
Chaworth. For some days or weeks they
met often; then the visits abruptly ceased.
There is evidence that they ceased at her
request. In 1813 the “Tlryrsa” poems
appeared. In 1816 Byron left England
never to return. From Y T enice in 1S17
Byron wrote two letters to h.s half-sister .
Augusta, in London, or at least he addressed
two letters to her. One was the sort oj
letter you might expect a man to write to
an older married sister with four children.
It beg.ns “Dearest Augusta.” and is signed
“Yours ever and very truly, B,” In the.
' same month of the same year he writes this:
“My dearest love,—I have been negligent in
not writing, hut what can I say? Three
years’ alfeence and the total change of scene,
and habit make such a difference.... When
you write to me speak to me of yourself.
Never mind topics which canrho .in no deg ee
interesting to me who see nothing in Eng- '
land but the country which .holds you.” With
much more to the same' effect. In his exile
he wants to hear only of, her —nothing in
England matters except that.
This second letter is one of the bases on
which the scandal about Byron and his
lutlf-.Vster was built. But the reader can see
tlie vileness and absurdity of the stores
(started by Lady Byron, propagated by Mrs.
Beecher Stowe, and further circularised by
Byron’s own grandson. Lord Lovelace, in
his book “Astarte”), when Ee compares the
two letters —the one meant for Augusta, and
addressed to her. hut ’obviously
.meant for somebody 'else,. It: is, not within
the hounds of reason that two such epistles
mould have been meant for the same person.
The light becomes clearer when Mr. Edge-
eimibp calls to- mind the well-known stanzas
that Byron d'd write to his half-sister, obvi-
ously in gratitude for some secret, she had
bent:
Though thy son! with m.v grief was acquainted,
ft ■‘•■hrnnk ret to shave it with me..,
Though trusted thou,didst not betray niej.L. |
She did not betrav him ! It is an immensely
significant line —for there would have been
(Continued on page 25.)


ā
<SK
w*
1X7751
u
Sports Coats Reduced.
1X7731 (as illustrated) —Finely-knitted Art Silk
Sports Coats, f: 11 make, large pointed col-
lar, patch pockets; sash at waist. In
Light Saxe, Purple, Champagne. Usual
Price 89/8. Reduced to 59/6
Assorted Knitted Wool Sports Coat"-, various
styles, with collar, belt and pockets, in
plain self shades or fancy stripe effects.
Colors: Cream, Purple or Prune; also in
Cream grounds with VieuS Rose stripes and
Cream and Colored facings. IMial Prices,
55/-, 69/8, 69/9. Reduced to 19/11
einart All-Wool Knit Jumpers, fancy rib,
fashioned with roll collar, interlaced cording
at waist, finished with pom-poms of self.
Colors: Saxe, Vieux Rose, Navy, Maroon.
Usual Price, 29/u. Reduced to 19/11
f
0700
Half-price Hosiery!
Ladles’ Tine Lisle Hose, high, spliced
heels, double soles, every pair abso-
lutely perfect; in the following
shades: Palm Beach, Paris, Beige
and Field Mouse. This is marvel-
lous value selling at half price.
Usual Price, 3/6.
Reduced to 1/© pair
Plain Black Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, I. & K. Morjey’s. Best
British manufacture, double lisle
suspender tops and soles. Usual
Price, 10/9,
Reduced to 5/0 pair
Bargains in Handkerchiefs.
0700— Fine White Swiss Embroidered Lawn Handkerchiefs. . Usual
Price, 6/6 half doz. Reduced to 4/6 half doz.
0500—Fine White Lawn Handkerchiefs, daintily embroidered corner.
Usual Price, 5/6 half doz. Reduced to 3/11 half doz.
Fine White Lawn Handkerchiefs, hemstitched borders. Usual. Price,
3/9 half doz. Reduced to 2/9 half doz.
White Cotton Hemstitched Handkerchiefs. Usual Price-, 3/11 and
2/ii half doz. Reduced to 3/3 and 1/11 half doz.
Fine White Lawn Handkerchiefs, hemstitched, embroidered corner,
assorted patterns. Usual Prices 7/ 6 half doz.
Reduced to 6/6 half doz.
Fine White Lawn Handkerchiefs, scalloped border, embroidered all
round. Usual Price, 16/11 half doz. Reduced to 12/11
« 55
We Pay Carriage on
Family Drapery and
Fashion Goods to
any part of N.S.W.,
and to the nearest
port on Interstate
Orders.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Finishes Saturday, August 13
This is the Sale of Sales! Profits are sacrificed but
quality is maintained —the result is a unique opportunity
for you to save money on every item of your necessities.
Price readjustment has been proceeding for some little
time. This Sale brings the process to a culminating
point with most sweeping reductions, and makes possible
the most inviting economies.
Colored Underskirts
Reduced.
Moire, Saxe, Navy, Nigger, tucked flounce,
O.S. Usual Price, 9/11 each.
Reduced to 8/11
Moire, Grey, Nigger, Green, kilted and tucked
flounce. Usual Price, 12/1!.
Reduced to 11/6
Moire, Black and White, various checks, kilted
flounce. Usual Price, 12/6.
Reduced to 10/6
Moire, Violet, Saxe, Navy, Nigger, Slate, plain
flounce edge, frill. Usual Price, 19/5.
Reduced to 17/9
Cosy Wrappers.
E 68 —Flannelette Wrappers, Striped and Check.
Usual Price, 29/c. Reduced to 15/11
E3O0 —Cotton Ripple Cloth Dressing Gowns.
Usual Price, 35/• Reduced to 29/6
8500 —Cotton Kimonos. Usual Prices, 21/-,
22/6, 24/6.
Reduced to all one Price, 15/6
Bargains in Ladies’
Underwear.
Nightdresses.
El 96 —Ladies’ Nightdresses, cut Magyar style,
with square neck, hemstitched and finished
fancy stitched. Usual Price, 7/11.
Reduced to 4/11
E22—Fine Madapolam Nightdress, neck and
sleeves finished with plain hem, front, and
back inlet with narrow Valenciennes inser-
tion, Usual Price, 12/11.
Reduced to 11/9
E23—•Ladies’ Fine Longeloth Nightdresses, in four
styles, trimmed with Valenciennes Lace, in-
sertion: I ’' finished with spoke stitching. Usual
Price, 14/n. Reduced to 12/11
Camisoles.
E 23 yoke back and front of Valen-
ciennes insertion and lace, inlet with Tor-
chon insertion, 28in. to S2in. Usual Price,
11/6. Reduced to 8/11
E35S—- Silk Camisoles, daintily trimmed with
Valenciennes 1-roe and insertion, and ribbon,
26ia. to 3Qin, Usual Price, 12/11.
Reduced to 9/11
,IX"H01
Blouses Reduced.
Jap Salk Blouses.
IX44ol—Heavyweight Ivory Jap Silk Blouses in
four different styles, with high or roll collars,
pirn, hemstitched or trimmed, pearl buttons.
Usual Price, 12/n. Reduced to 11/6
1X278 —Ivory Jap Silk Blouse--, embroidered and
hemstitched, roll collars and plain cuffs.
Usual Price, 13/0. Reduced to 12/6
Paris Net Blouses.
IXS3 —Paris Net Blouses, with long roll collars
trimmed real Filet Lace and insertion, or
with roll collars, trimmed insertion and
piu-tucked. Usual Price, 15/11.
Reduced to 9/11
Bargains in
Ladies’ Gloves.
Kid Gloves.
2- Dome Black Kid, sf, 6,6 J,
Usual Price, 4/6.
Reduced to 3/6
3- Black Kid. 6f to 6}.
Usual Price, 8/11.
Reduced to 6/11
4- Black Kid, 6 to 6|.
Usual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 8/11
2-Dome Black Kid, white
po’nts, 6J to 7. Usual
Price, 10/11.
Reduced to 9/11
2-Dome Slate and Brown,
white points, 5f to 6|.
U:*ual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 10/6
2-Button Tan Kid, white
points, 6 and 6|. Usual
Price, 8/11.
Reduced to 7/11
2-Button Tan Nappa, to
6J. Usual Price, 8/11.
Reduced to 7/6
White Pique Kid Black
Gauntlets, 5f and 6. Usual
Price, 12/0.
Reduced to 10/6
2- White Kid, 6J to 7.
Usual Price, 8/11.
Reduced to 7/11
3- White Self and Black
points, 54 to 6s. Usual
Price, 10/9.
Reduced to 9/6
Women’s Footwear
Reduced.
&55 —Finest-grade Black Suede Derby-cut Lace
Shoes (as illustrated), plain fronts, taper
toes, hand-sewn pump soles, and full Louis
heels. Usual Price, 84/-
Reduced to 60/-
&261 —Fine-grade Black Suede Court Shoes, plain
fronts, smart pointed toes, hand-sewn pump
soles and full Louis heeß Usual Price, 84/-
Reduced to 60/-
Patent Leather Lace Shoes.
Fine Quality All-Patent Lace Shoes, whole
golosh, neatly perforated, welted soles and
low leather heels; sizes 3to 8. Usual Price,
42/- Reduced to 88/6
All-Patent Lace Shoes, smart medium toes, welted
soles and low leather Cuban heels. Sizes, 3
to 5 only. Usual Price, 45/-
Reduced to 40/-
Dress Fabrics Reduced.
All-wool Navy Gabardine, 54 inches wide. Usual
Prices, 35/-, 42/-, 45/- per yard.
Reduced to 17/0, 21/-, 22/6 per yard.
Black Velour Cloth, 54 inches wide. Usual
Price 25/- yard.
Reduced to 12/0 yard
Black Fancy Silk Mixture Crepe, 40 inches
wide. Usual Price, 8/11 yard.
Reduced to 4/6 yard
Fancy Cotton Voiles, floral and stripe effects,
40 inches wide. Usual Prices, 4/6 and 4/9.
Reduced to 1/11 per yard.
All-wool French Ottoman, in Navy, Saxe, Fawn,
Mole, Grey, Reseda, Jade and Peacock. 42iu.
wide. Usual Price, 16/6.
Reduced to 8/3 yard
All-w'ool Plain and Fancy Striped Grepon, in
Grey, Mole, Saxe, Navy, Nigger and Peacock.
42in. wide. Usual Price, 15/6.
Reduced to 7/6
Manchester Bargains.
British-man if ctured w hite Sh«etr«s.
Widths 54in. 64in.
Usual Prices 2'9, 3/11 2/11,3/11
Reduced to 2/6, 3/6 2/8, 3/3
Widths 72in. 90in.
Usual Prices.. 3/2, 4/3 4/6,5/11,6/11
Red. to.. 2/11,3/9 3/11,5/3,5/11
Renowned Grev Sheetings, hard-wearing and
easily bleached, unequalled values.
Widths 54in. 60in. 72in.
Usual 8/6, 4/3 2/11,3/11 3/6, 4/6,4/11
Red. to
2/11, 3/6 2/6, 3 '6 2/11, 3/11. 4/3
Widths SOin. 90in.
Usual Prices.. 4/6,6/6,6/11 5/11,6/11
Red. to 3/11,4/9,5/9 4/9, 5/9
Finlay’s Best-quality Plain and Twill. Inspect
these and prove for yourself we stand alone
for best valve.
Quality M. —Widths .. 54in. 63in. 72in.
Usual Price 4/6 4/11 6/6
Reduced to 3/9 4/3 5/9
Quality Ft. Widths 63in 72in. 90in.
Usual Price . 4/11 6/6 7/11
Reduced to 4/3 5/9 6/9
a
I JW
J.
K5ll
Irene Corsets
Rigorously Reduced.
Esll—Medium Bust, Long Skirt, 24in. to 32in„
as illustrated. Usual Price, 31/6.
Reduced to 21/-
E5l3 —Medium Bust, Long Skirt, 23 in. to 33in.
Usual Price, 49/6. Reduced to 30/-
E6l4—Low Bust, Short Skirt, 20in. to 27it».
Usual Price, 39/6. Reduced to 29/0
E5l5 —Medium Bust, Long Skirt, 21in. to 20in.
Usual Price, 42/- Reduced to 27/6
Es2o Low Bust, Short Skirt, 21in. to 30in.
Usual Price, 49/6. Reduced to 31 /6
E 53- -Riding Corset, Short .Skirt, 21in. to 25in.
Usual Price, 52/6. Reduced to 39/6
Bargains in Ribbons.
Rich Silk Faille Ribbon tor Bows, Sashes, in
Black, White, Creme, Blue, Pink, Navy,
Vieux Rose, Saxe, Mastic, Jade, Brown,
Emerald —•
Widths ..... 34in. 4 Jin. sJin.
Usual Prices 1/11 2/6 2/11
Reduced to 1/4 1/9 2/3
Colored Glace Silk Ribbon for Hair Bows, Ties,
etc., in Black, White, Blue, Pink, Navy,
Saxe, Vieux Rose —•
Widths 3 Jin. 4sin.
Usual Prices 1/8 2/3
Reduced to 1/4 1/9
mi
m
mm
3K>»« li
070
Attractive Lace
Bargains.
070—Real Torchon Hand-made Lace, medium
thread, 2i inches wide. Usual Price, 1/9.
Reduced to 1/-
Torchon Insertion to match above, "2£ inches
wide. Usual Price, 1/6.
Reduced to 1/- yard
096—Hand-made Cluny Lace, medium thread, 3$
inches wide. Usual Price, 2/6.
Reduced to 1/9
Real Hand-made Cluny Insertion, medium thread,
3 inches wide. Usual Price. 2 '3.
Reduced to 1/6
0105 —Selected Real Hand-made “star Pattern”
Torchon Lace, 2'i inches wide. Usual Price,
9Jd. Reduced to 6 Vz d.
Torchon Insertion to match, 2] inches wide.
Usual Price, fljd. Reduced to 6%d,
Fine Quality Bretonne Nets, 36in. wide, in Pink,
Helio and Saxe. Usual Price, 2/11 yard.
Reduced to 1/6 yard
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Intelligent Feeding will
Solve Your Problems.
What are Specialised Stock Foods?
Food economically adapted for the feeding of all classes of stock—ingredi-
ents incorporated correctly, perfectly mixed and absolutely balanced. They are
palatable, easily digested and assimilated, and there is no wastage of food
elements.
j or f e an< i Cattle Foods are balanced concentrates, which when
fed with roughage, increase the working qualities of the horse, the milk yield of
the cow, and at the same time improve their condition.
Specialised Pig and Calf Foods are specific foods for the economical raising
of pigs and calves.
Specialised Poultry Food is a balanced ration, ready to use for laying hens—
its ingredients so arranged that egg yield is increased and condition of birds
maintained.
Specialised Chick Food contains all the essentials for economical and
successful rearing of chicks.
FEED FOR A PURPOSE.
Why the Use of Concentrated
Foods?
Primarily, to increase production and save waste. Many of the foods in
common use cannot provide maintenance, and give maximum results in work
or production. Concentrated foods judiciously used add the necessary fillip for
such results.
Balanced, mixed and ready for use, and labor-saving, they appeal to the
commercial instincts of the users. They are the safest and most economical methods
of feeding stock.
INCREASE PRODUCTION.
Do They Pay?
Feeding on concentrates is a sound, remunerative argument. Compare
costs of present rations, concomitant wastage and low production with costs of
concentrates, no wastage and increased yields. There will be a marked margin
of profit in favor of concentrates. A practical feed test proved “Cows fed on a
perfectly balanced ration gave .47 per cent, more milk and more butter-fat than
those ted on the same quantity of unbalanced ration."
The efficiency and economy in the utilisation of concentrates for the pro-
duction of human food, whether in the form of milk, beef, pork or eggs, cannot
be questioned.
ECONOMICAL AND EFFICIENT—MEGGITTS STOCK FOOD.
How They Are Fed.
The use of concentrates perfectly mixed and balanced means simplicity, lack
ot worry, and effective results. Concentrates specific foods, e.g., Calf, Poultry
and Pig, are fed mixed with water. No handling of separate foods and indiffer-
ent mixing. 1 ime and labor is saved.
Cattle and Horse concentrates form excellent mixtures with any roughage
in use.
SIMPLICITY IN FEEDING—MEGGITTS STOCK FOOD.
Comparison with Ordinary Foods.
Guaranteed uniformity in quality, in balanced proportions and in mixing,
places Specialised Stock hoods on a pinnacle by themselves. The food value is
sustained, and once a stockowner commences feeding with any Specialised Stock
rood, no irregularities of dieting can occur. Feeding becomes even and normal,
there is no guesswork; no “looking backward”—stock keep healthy, their functions
are in order, and they faithfully carry out their obligations as regards work or
production. Uniformity and consistency go hand in hand. Haphazard, irregular
and unpalatable foods cause continual trouble, and often prove most detrimental.
A FEED FOR EVERY NEED EXACT FOR ITS PURPOSE.
AGENTS-—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay, Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton
(t- Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage d Co., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Johnston
& Co., Ltd., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z; The SJL. Farmers’ Co-op. Union Ltd.,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S~A.
s^f
V
o
c!
zr
o
\\
w
/y
AECCITTC*
PARRAMAm
Oiteboyon the bag
guarantees quality *
e
t
HEAD OFFICE ttGKING STSYmEYftfefeKorainatta)
MANUFACTURERS OF LINSEED
OIL, CAKE, MEAL AND STOCK FOODS.
GGTTS
UKSKdoiimqu
MEGGimi*
PARRAMATTA
hoy on the boa
guarantees quality


PINKETT
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-beadaohe. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacka may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. They
have no unpleasant effeot to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such oases.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning "Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Go.
SYDNEY, NJB.W.
)}
I
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Compute, ■isrssr
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents,
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
'
_ m
■
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs« Hot 24 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
Made in various
sizes and styles
fromH-pintttP
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wihout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY -HOTS are extra pro-
iectedj with ordinary care will
Lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA W
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO,
168 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, W.SJV
sP
\-WH
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY OURSO
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is AOOHN SILK. It is a cer-
tain oure—lt kills them. It is a painless
cure—you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure—four or five days does it It is
a handy cure—no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets. 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. tn stamps to
DUERDIN & BAIN3BURY PTY., LTD..
FLane, Melbourne,
n m
DENYER’S
Sheep and Cattle
Ear Marks.
Denyer’s Sheep and Cattle Ear Pliers are most serviceable, as well as indispensable instruments.
Hand-forged from the best high-grade steel and made specially to order. Send your registered
mark and we will quote a keen price. Remember the Denyer Veterinary Instruments carry an
exceptional reputation for Quality.
GET A COPY OF OUR VETERINARY CATALOGUE—FREE TO YOUR ADDRESS.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia*
281 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Standard AH British Fountain Pen.
SELF-FILLING—SAFETY
AN IDEAL GIFT. THE SIMPLEST PEN TO USE.
The Onoto is the ONE Fountain Pen that has never given a
moment’s trouble. You can regulate the flow of ink to suit your
handwriting. When you have finished writing, a twist with the
finger and thumb seals the reservoir so that the ink CANNOT
escape until you yourself release it.
When you need more ink, your Onoto will fill itself in a
flash from any ink supply. It cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS D£ LA RUE & CO. Ltd.
Bunhill Row, London,
Australasian
Rcpr- s. iuatives:
Herman Baker & Loogbarst,
Sydney and
Melbourne.
o
o
o
so*
Fills itself.
Ask for Onoto Ink-Best for all Pens
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
Tbe Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price Oil. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 28/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
m
CRAIG & AITKEN f 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reii Cigar Factory •
ǻ
ENGINEERS i
Ball Pein Hammers That Last
Made from the finest castateel* Engineers’ Ball
Pein Hamm el's, branded
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
are well above the average, and will, therefore,
give long service and thorough satisfaction.
The face of ‘‘An Eagle on a Globe” Bull Pein
Hammer will not chip nor crack under the hardest
work, and correct balance means less fatigue to
the user.
The prices have been reduced, making these the
cheapest hammers on this market.
Get particulars from Department “A.”
All sizes in stock.
TheEagk§ Glok Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed
Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney}
S6t Latrobe Street, Melbourne}
Cliff Street, Fremantle;
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane;
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle;
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tho Cup.
You drank the eup of love, Linette,
Amid the myriad candle-flare,
While on the wall the shadow traced
The record of the feasting, set
In everlasting memory there.
Linette, you drank the cup of love;
The candles dimmed to little stars.
Faded the feasters one by one :
These sought for sleep, those feared the
sun,
These stole away at whispered call;
Linette, you drunk the cup of love
While silent grew the banquet-hall.
Linette, Linette, the steel of dawn
Strikes like a dagger at the glow
Of one last candle on your face
Beside the silent banquet-place;
The clear quicksilver morning-cold
Flows in the quietness like a wave
Drowning the stars that linger yet.
With blinded eyes that stai-e above,
You drink the bitter lees of love —
You drain the cup,
You drain the euj), Linette.
N.S.W.
ANTON DENNING.
Manly Beach.
Here are rock and crag uprisen draped with
green, and starred with flowers;
There are misty headlands rising past the
shining sweep of blue;
Here the weary heart may gather, through
the march of glittering hours,
Hope and courage long forgotten, and the
love of life anew.
Here the vision grows unfettered, through
the long days blue and splendid,
Where the voice of wind and water has a
separate word for each;
And the skies are deep and gracious, and the
sunlit sea extended,
With the creamy lace of breakers writing
lyrics on the beach.
Bound the shore the dark pines gather, sttenc
vigil ever keeping; .
They are wise beyond all dreaming with a
wisdom they have drawn
From the watch of stars and shadow when
the outer world was sleeping,
From the sombre sea at midnight and the
glad sea at the dawn.
JS.B.W,
N. A. EVANS.
My Dead.
"She did not speak of you," they said,
“But very quietly she died.”
How crude that pert geranium’s red.
How hard the noonday sun outside!
“For God was good to her,” they said,
“And very quietly she died."
They picture her a earven saint —
The straight white sheet above her breast;
Pale cheeks where paler blossoms faint,
AH unresponsive in her rest;
So decorous, prim wreaths amid,
How could they deem a mouth like this
'Neath cloistered eyes in fallen lid
Had ever clamored for a kiss!
Covered with snowy sheet, or earth,
/ yet could tace each line of her -
A Venus veiled was at her birth;
Pan played his calamus for her I
The priest-voice drones of "dust to dust"
To time the seemly tear to start;
“Treasure in Heaven.... moth and rust,"
When just a wild flower was her heart!
They set a hedge, dipt and demure,
They built the closed and barrSd gate,
They wired the hedge—to keep her pure!
A bird will carol to its mate,
And wings can go where locks are vain.
And petals through a hedge may press—
God made for all the sun and rain;
And, underneath her graveyard dress,
Old kisses ache, caresses sting,
That should they plant above her head
Wh'fe lilies, delicate as Spring,
l know why they will blossom red!
“She did not speak of you,” they said;
“The world of men was far from her.”
I claim a ransom of my dead,
For hungry heart, for pulse’s stir.
“She did not speak of you,” they said,
Yet I was written deep in her.
QUEEMSI.AND.
M. FORREST.
The Gathering.
(to-night my mind a journey takas,
A blithe and joyous trip,
To drink the ale and eat the cakes
Of old companionship.
I'm there... .they gather round, as when
Youth dreamt its dream sublime—
M Fin@ fellows, here we are again
In spite of death and time."
The room is just the same, no change
In window, wall or door—
" How splendid and, oh world, how strange
That we should meet once more!
“Though in the street outside there stir?
No foot to wake the night,
Yet we who own the universe
Care little for time's flight.
“Ho, landlord, fill the tankards up,
For we have gold to spare;
And fellowship that shuns the cup
Dwells not with ua, I swear,
‘‘Here's ‘Here and now 1’ whatever fate
May front us, weal or woe.
Who says the hour is growing late?
Who says that he must go?"
From city clocks a midnight host
Of chimes comes solemnly....
"B i.se, Victor, and propose the toast
Of deathless Fpetry V ’
ą
RODERIC QUINN.


iii
■
'
■-■.■■•
;v;>
M,:
il
iii
:
> : ':J,
m
: -
tin
wmmm
Hi
fi,
T
I
,
is;
-yy, %
£
B'7yi|
*
m
I $ s mmt§ i
/r ■ ■
•vl
y •■■
\ ~^'~ rr " .
■ ■■■ A ,■
I.' = -
Vv 5 , _ • ' • ' : ■' ■ - ■' :•.-, ■•_... ■■ , ■ V.. ■ -.<• ■• . :'V--: <:■■:
'
i i i-V'
r , » ajorete ‘ ' ' :
WWM
w
■IP
•Jp®"
&>]
Vv
fVjsa* Ktf
Ifc-J*
>» <
S* «*
. ' J
aA L
<“P" ,
f. m 3 8 S
sir
:• ;>
#*<*
■ '■ -y S;
' . . f'
t-vAnta,*
H
* }B9(.
, i.? i-•*>/■?.for; . ■•
/ ‘ v -
Rfe
II ; 1 m
I ISS
i rf
in
fm
«
9 »*«
#■ »
n i «■
flit
y
~,,,
: ■ ■--■ -
W i • 1 .
is 4he
an
TKe Electric
Sewmj* Matku
is deli^kij'ul.
I
~
i
m
TKe wasmn
machine
I
or itself
'4- 4- i
y:
.• ' ■ ■
. }• ■■-.,- ~y
TheElectrie Iron-saves s4ep
s.
Comfort—Happiness-—Progress
In Australia, and throughout the
world to-day, Western Electric Power
and Light enables thousands of homes
and businesses to make their own electric
light-—to enjoy this twentieth century
comfort although miles from a town
electric supply.
Western Electric Power and Light
serves country homes, farms, stores,
picture theatres, schools, halls, garages,
hotels, railway stations, construction
gangs, and all those who want a better,
brighter country life, better conditions
for workers, or an air of attraction for
their business premises.
To have Western Electric Power and
Light means three great
Electric Lights everywhere—Electric
power for household services and outside
jobs—Engine power for driving farm
and other machinery.
Western Electric Power and Light
signifies comfort, happiness, and pro-
gress. It is not a luxury. Every pound
you pay for it is returned quickly,
because of the time and money saving
Work which this plant does day after
day.
Western Electric Power and Light has
no real rivals. ENGINE is 31 H.P. which
runs on kerosene, has splash oil lubri-
cation, is air cooled, and throttle govern-
ed, BATTERY is 288 ampere hours,
S.A.E. rating, nearly twice the capacity
of most other plants. The Battery is
automatically charged the right way for
your protection. When charging is
complete a special regulator stops the
engine. GENERATOR is 1500 watts
capacity, and the Switchboard is so
simple that a boy can understand it.
Don’t buy any plant until you investi-
gate Western Electric Power and Light.
S*nd for 20-page illustrated book, post
free, from nearest of firms below.
Western Electric Company
(Australia)Ltd
192 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. AGENTS:—C. R FOSTFR 2R2
Flinders Dane, Melbourne: T. TONICS Elizabeth Street, Brisbane- NFWTnTJ
McLaren, LTD., Lei*h Street, Adelaide: WM. ADAMS & CO, LTD Ik™
Street, Perth; MEDHURST ELECTRIC CO., 11 Aryyle Street Hobart- A T?
? IL S Y f C 9 ,, n LTD ;’. v ton Quay ’ N,Z. And ’at Christchurch,'
Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z. ’
o
an


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 42.—N0. 2164.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 1921.
Pbicej 9d.
A LITTER FROM AUSTRALIA
demonstrations and strikes a number of women were shot in Petrograd."-Cable
“Please. Mister, have yon seen me mother? Uncle Ivan's written from Australia to say a lot of his friends want to come ’nd live with us."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
‘'Australia for the White man."
P! lfSr a ve d a n P d Ub M S r ed , Wlt ‘ UAM MACleod, of
Bulletin bfcreets, Mosman, for The
Co 2 r ?i el ' Ltd - the Office of the
~ 4 Otoijje Street, Srdnev v S w Australis
M 0ffiCe: Empire Buildings! 268 Flinders
PUBLISHED OXCE A WEEK.
terms to sunsoRTiims.
(In Advance, Only.)
BvuLnfiJ* 3 ' Pe l' , annum you - can ,iave The
t/ear ro tJt regularly to you every week for a
Toonunifdr AUmiBSS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid .
1 rU, adh , 6ss . overseas, £2 per annum.
all hsiZ’Jr' 1 *’ etC -‘ Wbich should be crossed, and
Manager. Comm vnicuUon S to be addressed to the
, M . • Special Notice.
vejmet J lMers a,e liable t0 b °
pubather\ nten rL 0f r- $ i *V a W r « copyright by the
r>arl ni " ill ',. l0 . ht , to reproduce or translate any
pail of the contents of this number is herrehn
expressly reserved by the publishers. V
„hil le J\u l t0T ,V 11 care f‘ lll H 'ead and, where practic-
nJ e * n a * C l 0l tf e<ide in tbc “Correspondence” column
Politi ni' lh i ltl ° n f subv ntted, whether in the form of
or‘tk'eirlws 6 °‘ °J‘V' ArtMes ’ v erse. Short Tales
and \,!t (those dealing with Australian subjects
"ono 1 t lcec,l,n i> two columns in length, or, sag,
lZtJ* 0 rr% arc socially acceptable),' Paragraphs.
l',ni i A eirspaper Clippings. All communications
WtU be regarded as stnctly confidential.
I HE HcMjHS’in will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is speeded and stamps are enclosed. Iiui
"“S' ml1 bc returned or preserved unless these
, " re " bservt 'd. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
t ie copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable Per-
Z n tm,tio n r>l>(la v° n si f0T return of MS. cannot receive
attention further. The Bulletin desires those
Testl n Jliki S ) ,n .' U - : tinctly understand that it is not
esponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS
lo Amateurs in Iilaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash
of sufficient, merit and interest and adapted for
inect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for' same
an acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will bc paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received a?e those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
ana Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Mouse, Dreams buildings, London V, C.,'i •
L. T. Hole, IJolerth Satire Service, S Fleet Street,
London, E C.; “The British-Australasian,” SI High
Holbarn, London, W.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C,: The In ternational Book
ajiop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
'•■p-: the Boston nat Works and News Co., 10!)A
Eighth, Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets
San Francisco, hew York: Brentano’s. 5th Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 Forth Franklin Street, Philadelphia. Penn.
Farm—Jacques. Horn A- Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said. Egypt.
IIono Kong. —Brewer and "Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
oivrjavore.
Ceylon.—IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papija. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fun. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, M6tropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. lOoz.. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
Iboz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., lid.; 8loz. to lOoz.,
Sd ; lOoz. to 12oz., Sid.; elsewhere, f/ozi, lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in tills paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law, S. H. Prior, J. B.
Bailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 1921.
A BIG INHERITANCE IN THE
NORTH.
In its consistent optimism the annual report
of the Administrator of the Northern Terri-
tory offers a pleasing contrast to the general
cheerlessness of official papers. The half-
million square miles which South Aus.
handed over to the Commonwealth, in ex-
change for an unfulfilled promise which many
politicians, forgetting their morals, want to
wholly repudiate, is the only gift of much
value the Commonwealth ever received.
When the place was entrusted to S. Aus. in
1863, after N. S. Wales had gone out of the
pioneering business, that State had a popu-
lation of only 130,000. In its brief 48
years of ownership there was never enough
money available to make the essential rail-
ways and roads up north. Seeing that the
old Ma State, in its 134th year, with over
2,000,000 people and the record “develop-
mental” debt, is still borrowing to make
roads around Sydney, while its own West is
so little developed that the wav to its own
town ol Broken Hill is still round bv Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, there is nothing won-
derful in the fact that progress in the N.T.
was slow. The one great need of the North, the
land of immense sea distances to connect with
anywhere, is the straight, short line of rail-
way which was in the terms of the transfer.
But the Territory isn’t represented in either
IT f ouse ’ , s< ? il hasn’t a single vote to
say that it must have what it is entitled to
v hile Queensland alongside has 16 votes to
g.ie m return for having the great Federal
diyerfced il:sld e its borders, and 16
S steal '“s' 0 A rOUbIc , w L th if d «sn’t get
its steal. So the work has become a mere
iVdeLif t0 be over like the
"fj capital, round which a similar
is m red - The “terests o Aus-
r o f like m A° hed ’ h r llt exce Pt to rare pat-
R?ETo4 k , I)E f. KIN and Edmund
onlv kl ?d who die poor—these mean
as Lri vnei f such parts of Australia
attitude t° dispose of. The Queensland
attitude, or, rather, the attitude of the ordv
the TerriS ° n ° f Que « nslaD d, is that, unless
own bit ef eT 1S ; ope , ned “P by lines from its
arid uiei2l tTy ’ llC) wPver long and devious
they ma .v be, and is made, a eom-
™ c! £r ° ° f u he N °rtherii State, it
liari better not be opened up at all, even though
some Asiatic nation should take it in conse-
Oert»i» N.S.W. politicians K>
want the Federal railway to meander through
their own North-West, lend some aid to "he
And t0 tfais end weird and hor-
rtble pictures are painted of the Federal
b r exce P}’ of course, the north-east corner
just alongside Queensland, which is put for-
ward as something of a paradise.
* * * •
feren? Administrator presents a dif-
ient sort of sketch. He estimates the
centre" 1 Territory, ‘‘right in the
centie of Australia, between Tennant’s
Creek .and the Macdonnell Ranges, and
)a st ‘' ot , CJ!1 i" from Westralia to the Qneens-
as 200,000 square miles. He
believes firmly in its riches, and holds it “not
improbable that another Kalgoorlie mav be
developed. But the region is “banXand
of ?sobitimi e ’’ mi Tb by tl I c impenetrable wall
or isolation. Ihe centre of this nossihle
treasure is 400 or 500 miles from the end
of a single line north and south, and even
» nci° ses are renMt *- Th. <Urti££ from
2 d are immense. No Australian gold-
leld or any other field, however rich, ever
“ a de a success under such conditions. By
Towers tbA pT‘ 8 °’ Bal, F at - Charters
lowers, the I aimer, Gympie and Mount
} ° d X„lln seaports, and even Kalgoorlie
n l ,' b11 a , re aJ “ 0St coastal places
as the th /rnw r to r> a harbor i® measured
! crow flies. Because machinery and
stores would cost almost their weight in gold
£oned Jenth Z Ce^tral field is nost-
the Rtret-rti A# 5 0m rr. ltS . mineral Possibilities
fbn rf re I h i tbe Territory through which
To? Angusta-Darwin line is to pass, if
political chicanery doesn’t divert it or pre-
Sor ,t ’ S a»:l h ° PeIeS3 «“*■ »» »
and ? ro! . on8 ' cd droughts of Western
Tenitorv " ThJS.'™’ aV ®, in ? known in tbrx Northern
™»« »»;.h Wzfsrs ttst
p.irts of Western Queensland and N. g. Wales.
I orty-two year’s’ observations show the
al ramiall along the route of the straight
line to be 44^ in. at Pine Creek; 40in. at
Katherine, where the unfinished scrap of
4^? e * rom Darwin ends; 19in nt TVilv
Waters, 360 miles from Darwin; l&in. at
Tennant s Creek, in the .centre of the great
flirtbor » Ste ti e ’ f’?r 12 i n ‘ Barrow ’s Creek,
mrtliei south still and the centre of Aus-
ooonft fl ? eyond h f Alice Springs, nearly
-UUOft. above sea level, with 10fin., which
Hl,.t mU nL’ bnt 1S 8 °° d for tbe alleged Dead
tbi| country. Eastwaid one strikes
Boulia, in TV estern Queensland, which is to
be on the transcontinental line if certain
Queensland politicians can steal the great
5 ed eral work for their own State, with a
record of under Bin. in 1920, and an average
ot llin. And Birdsville is worse. About
the possibilities of artesian and sub-artesian
water along the central railway route the
Administrator is enthusiastic, but the wells
are very few as yet It wasn’t possible to
do very comprehensive development in 48
years over an area of 903,690 square miles
(the area of South Aus. and the Territory)
with an infant city situated at the extreme
end of the property as a basis. Deakin, the
ali-Anstralian patriot, had left office when
the Commonwealth began to administer the
wS asset he had acquired. And a new series
or Ministers took no real interest in a place
winch had no votes to give away, and used
the Territory as a dump for political friends.
* * _
* *
So far as conditions have allowed, the
Administrator holds that the Territory' has
proved itself fairly well. Queensland, which
has much of its pasturage in the West, where
its politicians want the Federal railway to
fft A nann' hic A specialises in beeves, had over
7,000,000 cattle to its credit at the top of its
irwv? m got down to 2,500,000 in
iJUo and has never quite recovered. The
Territory has not suffered like that from
droughts. Queensland has a golden past,
as il s ru ? utput of gold was worth
£2,8711,578 m 1900 and only £665,105 in 1920.
Ihe Territory reckons it has a golden future,
but, it isn t yet opened up by railways as
Queensland is. It .has 200 miles of line
altogether, while Queensland has 5800 miles
ol estate railway and a good deal that is more
or less private. In 10 years, under Federal
ownership, the Territory, having no Parlia-
mentary votes to sell, and being merely a
huge national possession awaiting develop-
ment, has been blessed with 55 miles of new
llr,e - T estralia, having votes to dispose of,
got 4o4 miles at Federal expense, Queens-
land acquired over 1400 miles of new rail-
way in the same time. In the absence of anv
attempt to open up the Federal province
nothing has been proved against its claim to
be the coming mining and pastoral land of
Australia, and with the lowest white man’s
death-rate in the Commonwealth and “a
striking immunity from serious tropical dis-
eases, thanks to the W r hite Australia policy ”
there is nothing to prevent it making the
attempt—nothing, that is to say, save its in-
accessibility. ISione of these remarks alter the
fact that Queensland, when it swears off
some of its present habits, win resume its
place as the greatest and most promising sec-
tion of the East. But that doesn’t justify a
shady class of its noliticians in demoting the
Commonwealth’s land as a howling waste
and yet using the existence of this alleged
waste as a reason why their own alreadv
over-railwayed State should be gifted with
another big line, mostly at the cost of its
neighbors.
RUSSIA’S LATEST HORROR.
Thirty million people are said to be starving
tn Russia. This is not due to drought or flood,
it is the direct consequence of Bolshevik rule,
k-ovietism, which has been propped up by desperate
methods during the last few years, has ultimately
crashed under its own weight. This terrible sequel
to disorganised government is perhaps the most tell-
ing exposure of Socialism that the world has ever
known.—A Hons.
This is an interesting example of the half-
truth which does so much damage to clear
thinking. A thousand reasons, all more or
less correct, have been given to explain why
Germany went to war in 1914; bat the fun-
damental one is that the Kaiser and his
Ministers saw threatening their country a
condition of affairs veT.v similar to that
which is now afflicting Russia. On top of
the internal dislocation produced by Com-
munism, Russia is boycotted: Germany was
beginning to be boycotted. Russia’s offence
happens to be a form of government of which
the world disapproves, while Germany’s was
a matter of intensive production which on
the one hand threatened foreign industries,
and on the other calied more and more
vehemently for German colonies capable of
supplying raw material. Germany tried to
secure colonies by the sword as Russia lias
tried to impose Bolshevism by the sword.
Germany failed because it was not self-sup-
porting; Russia is going to fail, and is now'
starving, for the same reason, among others.
* * \ * >,
The Freetraders of Australia, men like
Senator Gardiner and papers like the
Argus, consider that each country, and
even each part of a country, should take the
easiest path in production. Because under
past conditions Australia has been more suit-
able for sheep-growing than for the manu-
facture of textiles, Australians should con-
centrate on the pastoral industry and leave
the manufacture of woollens to Yorkshire.
There is hardly one Australian industry that
has not been met by the cry that, it should
not be assisted since some other part of the
world was better equipped by nature to do
its work. France, Germany and even Italy
were the countries for light wines; iron and
steel should be left to England; shipbuilding
to .Scotland or the North of Ireland; arms
and munitions of war to one ; motors
and lorries to another; aeroplanes, railway
engines and rolling-stock to another. A
modified form of this variant of internation-
alism worked more or less satisfactorily until
the international war- began. The shops of
Australia were full of cheap German and
English fabrics; the French champagne
which was not good enough for London, St.
Petersburg or New York could be had in
Melbourne or Sydney for half-a-sovereign a
bottle; the main streets of all the capitals
were alive with F.N., Benz, Mercedes and
other foreign cars; even our army depended
for all its field-guns and ammunition on
factories on the other side of the earth.
Australia had the unmerited good fortune
to escape invasion: Russia did not. Russia
had enjoyed an effective tariff for only about
half the time Britain had been smitten with
Freetrade; and there were practically no
industrial castes as in England and Scot-
land—families which had been craftsmen
in one line or another for generations. There
was no educational system worth mention-
ing, and the standard of living was low.
The Government set out to pay for the
quarter of a century of warfare which had
preceded 1878 by the export of agricultural
products. In the long run it was fatal. The
theorists who state dogmatically that the
national cobbler must stick to his last—
Nature’s industrialist to this model, the in-
habitant of an agricultural ‘country to that
-—take no account of the fact that the world
has altered vastly since Bright and Cobpen
first put the case for revenue tariffism. Even
toe smallest modern farm requires a certain
amount of complicated machinery and many
manures which were unheard of half a cen-
tury ago. Transport by rail is a prime
factor also in the business. The war half-
ruined the Russian railway system, and
domestic conditions did not allow of the
nation making the best of a bad job. So,
though the vast country still has its
283,000,000 acres of forest, besides great
coal-mines, people were freezing to death
in all its cities last winter ; and now 26
per cent, of the inhabitants are said to be
starving. If Russia, when the Czar was
murdered, had had a Pittsburg, and the
various industries found in countries which
possess Pittsburgs, neither Leninism nor the
blockade might have done much more indus-
trially than cause a certain amount of
remediable inconvenience. But Pittsburgs
have to be paid for with tariffs, hard work
and the mental capacity which goes with a
f,‘gh standard of national education; and
the Russia of the past never rose to those
occasions.
* * * *
Like Russia, the Commonwealth is still
under-developed in the industrial sense. If
me British Navy lost command of the
Pacific-—and it was officially stated recently
that that navy could no longer guarantee all
the outposts of the Empire—-we would not
be able to repair, much less bnild, a mnn-o’-
ujar for ourselves. We are making neither
big guns nor the monitions for them, and
in any case we lack the strategic railways
to move them and the troops who would
need their support in case of invasion. About
half the population is crowded into coastal
cities which would be easy marks for a
modern battleship. In these bloated centres
are most of the factories, and nearly all
the personalty of the nation. If our' city-
dwellers were driven out, either by an invad-
ing army or by warships which treated them
as the Germans did Bailleul in 1D18 star-
vation would face a great part of the pre-
sent population of Australia as it is now
facing quarter of European Russia. We
, t.r ussia \ . ave a foi ™nla to which our
neighbors object and always must object.
And it well may be that in the years ahead
a traveller with the Argus habit of thought
may stand in Melbourne on the steps of an
and a ? he watches
thft Australian coolies &t “work in th©
rJiW f ha? 0 **?! 6 ™ °t White Australia
£ r *iJr. ae , kfowa." But he
will be wrong. It will be an exposure ef
a policy of loaf and drift—of as
the cant economic phrase goes—of economic
dependence on others and of the MicawE
!f ?i PP l' ed to national affairs. In short
of the pohcy which, allied to Communism
has brought the present horror upon Russia
RETRENCHMENT OR RECEIVER?
xjstralia has 100,000 State railway em
plcyees, andtne struggle to Keep air or them
rn ttierr ouieta ana pay them war wage.-,
ana salaries aas readied exiiaustion-point.
in the jargon of militant unionism (and
he railway union ouicmi is a particularly
" lJ:ie ‘workers’ are entitled to
tne lull results of their industry. ’ K ar
several years past the workers on the Gov-
ernment railways, Commonwealth and State
have received tne full results of then 1 indus-
try and a good bit over. Every State Kail-
way Department suffers from a chronic de-
ficit. i articulars of the latest annual tribu-
iauon are not yet available, but there are
estimates based on nine months’ figures
Victorias is expected to be about half a
vwiwwin X Vf» stralia , s bas been estimated at
tobff.UOO. That ot Queensland will, in all
pro liability, be relatively, if not absolutely
worse, for it is reckoned good business in
Queensland nowadays if the railways return
l per cent, op money borrowed at 54 and
per cent. The S. Aus, Minister also' anti-
eipates a thumping debit balance, the
i Vi ’' al bs figures are unlikely to be anv
better than those of Victoria, and a flyim'
hog is not more improbable than a railway
surplus in the Speck.
During the last two years all the 100,000
rail way men have had their pay raised, and
most ot them have had their hours reduced.
y° costly were these concessions that massive
increases m freights and fares failed to yield
tneir equivalent in revenue. The difference
was made up partly by levying on the gen-
eral taxpayer and partly by dipping into
loan funds and transmitting the burden to
posterity, fveither of these ruinous expedi-
ents can go on. It is equally out of the
question to heap new imposts on the pro-
ducing industries, many of which are very
sick as it is, and fares are about as high
as the travelling public can stand. Some-
thing may no doubt be saved by cutting
down unprofitable services, but to this pro-
cess there is an obvious limit. And there is
no prospect whatever of a magical increase
m revenue such as would enable the six rail-
way administrations to maintain their pre-
sent inflated expenditure, for the age of
miracles is past. The plain truth is that
affairs have reached a crisis, and if the rail-
ways were run by business men the crisis
would be met, as in America and Britain,
by retrenchment or (in some cases) reduc-
tion of wages. But the Australian railways
v are politically-controlled, and it is not in
me nature of politicians to sacrifice votes.
. ® situation is therefore being temporised
with in the hope that something will turn
up. in Queensland, where the need of votes
is greatest, hundreds of raihva.vmen have been
put on half-time. In Victoria there is talk
of an all-round introduction of a five-dav
working week, with a corresponding decrease
m pay. According to Lawson, the late Pre-
mier, it would be infinitely more humane
to give all the men five days’ work each than
to give 100 men all the plums and 50 men
Xt be more humane, but
it would certainly be more demoralising.
Lowering the pay of skilled men, whose
2™* ls *T^ y ' l n . order to keep a super-
fluous host of unskilled laborers employed
« 3 e p wa / to secure an efficient service
or a satisfactory budget. The skilled rail-
wayman, as the strike of engine-drivers in
already dissatisfied
with his lot. Notwithstanding his greater
knowledge and responsibility he gets little
P or ter or a lavatory attendant,
and rather less—m some cases a good deal
than a steward in a dining-car. One
of the causes ot the present slump that has
mn n nv ,’ A ; u ®; traIia is that there are too
many casual laborers and not enough skilled
dr!^r« me h*-i To J ; educe the wages of engine-
drivers, boilermakers, fitters and mechanics
m order to retain an excessive number of
P^t^ rs * ticket-takers, carnage-cleaners and
lavatory attendants on the pay-sheet would
give a powerful impetus to the feeling that
learning a trade is a waste of effort in a
land ot pony-races and loan jobs.
* * * *
The fact is that all. the State Railway De-
partments are overburdened with clerks and
unskilled laborers. In 1961, when 12,432
miles of railway were in operation, and’tne
public got better value for its money than
oTn ay ’ ey mana eed to rub along
with 42,219 employees. By June, 1914, this
com pa ia lively modest number had grown to an
army of 89,193, although the mileage had
increased to 18181. Rough tv, seven men
worked two miles of line in 1901, but it
took five men to work one mile in 1914.
During the mtervenii g period Labor Minis-
tries came into power with vigorous borrow-
F policies and strong views about nation-
alisation and the right to work, and in the
development of these theories Government
r ft® , were found on the railways for swarms
of their supporters. The Queensland Labor
Government continued this ingenious process
even after the war began. Between July 1.
1915, and June 30, 1918, it actually added
li-u *? ames to tlle railway pay-sheets,
although every other State Railway Depart-
ment carried on with a reduced staff. Inciden-
tally, the same Government has converted the
small railway surplus which it inherited from
its predecessors into a deficit of about five
millions. Years ago the proportion of sal-
aried men to wages men used to be one in
eight; nowadays it is about one in five.
The fact is symptomatic of the curious
sort of extravagance that reigns in the public
services. The trouble is not that the rate of
pay is too high (in the cases of many com-
petent officers it isn’t high enough), but thaf
there are too many fingers in the pie. Good
men are underpaid, and the country doesn’t
get an adequate return for Its huge expendi-
ture, because departments are over-manned.
In the multitude of officials, many of them
unnecessary, there is inefficiency, and the
man who knows his job has to carry the
incapable on his back. Australia has arrived
at the stage where it can’t afford to support
a huge overplus of railway employees, Am$
putting them on half-time won't' sea© fp
problem: it is only a clumsy pallia#* at
best. The malady !« semens, ar-d demands
radiea! treatment. Retrenchment hae a harsh
sound, but it is not so forbidding a word, aor
so evil a thing, as insolvency.


RED PROPAGANDA.
Carlti.e once wrote that “with bread and
iron you can get to China. ’ M ere he living
now lie would sav that “with ink and paper
you can storm the gates of Heaven. Mer-
chants, statesmen and even kings sheath the
sword to smear the pen. A chewing-gum
manufacturer in the U.S.A. told me last
year that in 12 months he had burned a
million dollars m advertising. Only a tew
moalus ago ail decent were
shocked at the conviction of a U.S. Senator
for spending millions on publicity during his
campaign for office. And it is a fact well
known in Europe that a deposed Emperor
has purchased a string of newspapers for
the purpose of paving the way 7 for his return
to power. _
Bat in these campaigns the Russians easily
outdistance the rest of the world. Bo many
false statements have been made about and
so many misleading reports have come from
that country, that to-day our brains whirl
at the mention of Russia or of anything Rus-
sian. Publicists and stenographers in Paris,
Berlin, Riga, Reval and Helsingfors, all out-
side of and more or less out of touch with
Russia, squander acres of paper and Niagaras
of ink on malicious attacks and untruthful
accusations against the Red Government. It
is from these outside and biased sources that
we have received such lying news as “the
nationalisation of women," “the overthrow of
religion,” “the destruction of Art,” “the
assassination of Lenin.” Antidoting this,
Zinoviev’s bureau in Petrograd and the wire-
less department in Moscow work day and
night filling the civilised world with myths
cf*“brotherhood” and “equality” and so on in
Soviet Russia. And sb the merry game goes
on, while the world reads and does not under-
stand.
In this game of make-believe the Reds
have all the best of it. They have without
doubt the ablest body of propagandists that
has ever been assembled on this earth. Pro-
paganda helped them to overthrow Keren-
sky; propaganda played a big part in enab-
ling them to defeat their enemies; propa-
ganda is one of the main instruments of
their power to-day. Let them once abandon
it and they plunge into night.
Even during the twilight of the Pro-
visional Government the Red propaganda
was the most effective in Russia. The Red
leaders were in possession of unlimited
energy and money; and* they spent both on
advertising. Their speakers were every-
where; their processions were the longest
and the best organised; their printing
presses never stopped working. Such catchy
slogans as “All Power to the Soviets 1”
“Land for the Peasants!” “Peace for the
Soldiers!” “Factories for the Workmen !”
were to be seen and heard on all sides, until
finally the hysterical Muscovite really
thought that the Reds constituted a great
majority of the population. But it was
all make-believe, and it is still more or less
make-believe. At no time, including' the
present, have the Reds been balf-a-million
strong; yet they rule 140,900,060 people—
partly by force, partly by propaganda!
For more than three years the peasants
and the workmen have lived in daily dread
of a return of the old order, with its humili-
ating programme of absentee landlordism
and real wage slavery. The Reds, realising
this, have assiduously cultivated this fear
until it hangs over the heads of the peasants
and workmen like a sword. The intelli-
gentsia, knowing full well that Lenin has
relentlessly destroyed or discredited all
constructive and concerted opposition to his
power, fear that if his Government is over-
thrown there will be nothing to put in its
stead, and then Russia, leaderless, will go
up in the consuming flames of anarchy.
Red propaganda has magnified this fear until
at last the intelligentsia really believe that if
the Communists collapse anarchy is inevit-
able.
The total result of the exploiting of these
fears is that the majority of the population,
fearful of “Out of the frying-pan into the
fire,” not only make no effort to overthrow
the Reds, but actually take the field against
all who would overthrow the present regime.
If was the Counter-Revolution cries of “They
want to cut up Russia,” “They want to re-
store Czarism” which galvanised the nation
into successfully resisting Poland, the Baltic
Republics, Kolchak, Wbangel, Denikin
and Yudenitch.
In Petrograd I took out my pocket-knife
and cut through an inch of old paper before
I reached the board on which these hundreds
of notices had been pasted, one over the
other. Often at the opera and the ballet
in Moscow, Petrograd and Kiev I heard four-
minute speakers explaining and eulogising
the ethics of Communism—the Government
bribes university professors and others with
extra rations to speak in favor of Com-
munism—and in the cinema palaces many
of the Russian-made pictures I saw were
nothing but Red propaganda. Yet it is in
the villages that this art of making public
opinion is most effective. Russia is pri-
marily a peasant nation. Whichever way
the peasant goes the revolution goes; and
the Communists, realising this, have con-
centrated their propagandist forces on the
moujik. Specially prepared “propaganda
trains” radiate out from the larger cities
and penetrate the peasant districts. These
trains are equipped with printing plants,
cinemas, tons of pamphlets and cartoons,
and Red orators. The outsides of the car-
riages are decorated with pictures and draw-
ings all emphasising the importance and
beneficence of the Red Government and the
rottenness and inefficiency of its enemies.
For instance, in order to mobilise the minds
and resources of the peasants against Kol-
chak, Denikin and Yudenitch, there were
pictures of these old Generals and their
reactionary forces returning with the Czar
to Petrograd, destroying and burning vil-
lages, and knouting the peasants in their
path. Similar pictures were used to arouse
the people against the Poles and all the other
enemies of Soviet Russia. To-day these war
p’etures have given place to others which
deal with the food question. One carriage
is decorated_ with vignettes showing slovenly
peasants living m.filth and squalor on their
unt ; lled land, while their brothers and sisters
In the cities are gasping in the last stages
of malnutrition; the next shows scenes of
industrious peasants tilling and harvesting
while their blood relations in the cities bless
them. Ninety per cent, of the peasants can
neitner read nor write so much as their own
names, but they can ail understand these
pastures, and so the Red propaganda strikes
home. The usual procedure is for one of
tnese trams to stop in a village for several
hours. The printing-presses turn out
pamphlets for those able to read, and car-
toons and pictures for the illiterates; at
mgnt there is a cinema show, and about an
hour of oratory; and, of course, the deco-
rated train on exhibition all the time.
The cleverest piece of propaganda I have
ever heard of is what is now known in Russia
as “Lenin’s trial”: it shows the amazing
subtlety of this new art. One of the southern
districts was disaffected, and was rapidly
heading into a revolt against the Red Gov-
ernment. Lenin, hearing of this, dispatched
trusted agents to the troublesome area. These
agents, in the disguise of Moscow workmen
in search of land, settled in the midst of the
anti-Reds, and soon by their vitriolic attacks
against Lenin and his camarilla won the
admiration and later the leadership of the
discontented ones. This accomplished, one of
the bogus workmen suggested that Lenin
be charged with "dissolving the Constituent
Assembly,” “employing the Terror” and “be-
traying the Revolution,” and tried for his
life. The idea caught on, and soon an ulti-
matum was sent to the Red leader hurling
these charges against him and challenging
him to appear and defend himself. The
Moscow papers, printing only what they are
told to, hypocritically demanded that these
attackers of the Soviet chief be immediately
arrested and punished. But Lenin said
No. Let the trial proceed. He would not
attend it in person, but his representative
would be present. The day was fixed, the
spotlight of publicity was focussed upon it,
until from being an obscure local affair it
was magnified into an event of national im-
portance. Of course the whole thing was a
farce; Lenin was prosecuted by his own
agents, and acquitted by the same people.
But thousands who went to curse remained
to cheer. “A great man. Da! A great man.”
News of the “Not guilty” was flashed all over
Russia. The masses, ignorant as the dis-
affected ones were that the whole thing was
faked, were tremendously impressed.
TOM SEEYHILL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Chaos Called Repatriation.
In the repatriation of Digger Biel, the
Hughes Government has been guilty of cala-
mitous inconsistency. lor solid national
reasons it should never have reiinqiusxied
control of soldier-settlement, but at the Pre-
miers’ Confeience in 1.91 < it light-heartedly
handed tile whole business over to the State
Governments, retaining only the privilege of
s-gmng cheques. In the result what might
have been the greatest developmental scheme
in the history of Australia lias been degraded
to the sord.d purposes of a narrow and inept
provincialism. A prodigious amount of money
has been spent m placing a few thousand
soldiers on inordinately dear farms in settled
districts, but thousands of other Diggers are
still landless. And when the ex-warrior who
can’t get land and the ex-landholder who can’t
get paid for his resumed property appeal for
justice to the Commonwealth Government,
that institution coldly remarks that the
complainants have come to the wrong shop
and refers them back to the States. By
contrast, the Government that so recklessly
abandoned its right to shape and direct the
soldier-settlement scheme insisted on taking
control of the far less nationally important
war-seivice homes. This was an undertak-
ing which might very well have been farmed
out to the State Governments, for most of
them owned fairly satisfactory building and
land-purchase organisations. But, heedless
of all representations, the Commonwealth
Government established a huge and inefficient
War Service Homes Department, composed
largely of officials who had no practical
knowledge of building, and who had every-
thing to learn about land values. At the
same time it arranged that the Common-
wealth Bank should let contracts for the
erection of houses, and the Bank allowed its
architects, J. and H. G. Kirkpatrick.', a
supervising fee of 34 per cent. The failure
of the bureaucratic method of doing busi-
ness is now admitted by its authors them-
selves. The agreement with the Common-
wealth Bank was cancelled some time ago,
and as soon as existing commitments have
been cleared up the amateurs of the War
Sendee Homes Department are to re-
tire from the building trade. Together
Bank and Department have been
responsible for 17,170 houses at a cost of
£12.323,499. But less than a third of the
17,170 have been actually built or are in
course of erection; no fewer than 10.223
were purchased in the finished state, a clear
departure from the intention of the Act.
And nearly all the building has been done
about the s'x capitals and Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Comparatively few country
towns have shared in the distribution of
new shacks: Ballarat, it was stated the
other day, hasn’t one to its name. By the
confession of Rodgers. Assistant-Minister
for Repatriation, 1400 of the dwellings built
departmentally have cost more than the
amount fixed by statute —£700 in 1919 and
£BOO since October. 1920 —the total excess
being £130.000. Asked who would have to
find this impressive amount, Rodgers re-
plied that “each ease would be dealt with
on its merits,” wMch means, presumably,
that the burden will be shared, willy nilly,
bv oeeup ! ers and taxpayers. The Minister
attributed the extra expenditure to the
vagaries of the dav-Tabor svstem. Dealing
with this phase of tlm subject he quoted
some amazing figures. The average cost of
the Department-built dwellings (mostly flay
lahorl is £783. land included, and £735
without land. That of the Commonwealth
Bank structures is £686 with land and
£637 without lard. In a word, the contrac-
tor d : d b ; s job £9B per house cheaper than
the day-labor foreman employed by the
Federal Denartnient. with a busv political
hAfid mak ! r>sr a pretence at sunerv ? s ! on.
True, fhe Minister we-rt on to evpMn ?h'at
the Bank started bu ; ld'ng before the boom
in material and labor. wh er eas when the De-
partment was re*dv for operations it was
smitten by sky-high prices, restrospoctire
awards, strikes and go-slow. But even so
it is admitted that the S. Aus. Government,
to which a contract was let when the War
Service Homes programme broke down, is
buildaig and acquiring 1083 hotisejs _at an
average cost, including land, of £647 —£39
less per house than tae Bank's figure. The
new policy of the Government is to extend
the S. Aus. arrangement to other States with
building organisations. That is what the
guilty and wasteful Administration should
have done in the first place. It should have
distributed the housing programme among
the State Governments, with definite safe-
guards as to cost and workmanship, and kept
soldier-settlement a Commonwealth ques-
tion, with the non-political Mon ash in
charge and the brightest minds in the A.I.F.
to help him. In that wav Australia would
have got a truly national and efficient re-
patriation scheme for two-th rds of what it
has cost to bring about a dreary and dis-
graceful muddle.
Aiding and Abetting the Reds.
“A. Spanner,” from the neighborhood:—
The anti-Labor political organisations of A ufi trail a
are playing right into the hands of the Reds—daily
doing more effective work as propagandists of the
gospel of Industrial Upheaval than all the dyed-
in-the-wool prophets Of Chaos could accomplish in
a year. If there is any doubt about this just con-
sider the performance of the Federal Government in
relation to the naval dockyard at Cockatoo Island.
It is of such a character that the best the jackal
newspapers of the Ministry can say about it is—■
nothing. They keep the thing huddled away out of
sight, and snuffle about other things, while Joe
Cook goes on surreptitiously planting dragons’ teeth.
At Cockatoo Island a couple of thousand men,
engaged in naval construction or shipbuilding, were
at the beginning of the year suddenly sacked en
masse. The reason alleged was that the Parliamen-
tary appropriation had been exceeded on account of
work at the dockyard having been “carried on too
rapidly.” Obviously the responsibility for that was
on the Ministry. The men had no voice in it.
Wherefore some further explanation was needed to
justify the pushing of this crowd of workers back
to The bread-line. It took the form of perjury
about "loafing'’ and “going slow.” Stirred by yells
of remonstrance, the Government appointed a Royal
Commission to inquire into the management of
Cockatoo. The evidence before the Commission
showed that the workers at the dockyard had been
disgracefully maligned—that work of the highest
class, electrical and engineering, had been turned
out. Incidentally, it established weaknesses in the
Navy Board and the administration of a serious
character; but with these again the 2000 men
who got sacked had nothing to do. One of the
Commission’s findings now is that “work in connec-
tion with the Navy, the Commonwealth line of
steamers or private orders is ample to provide for
continuity of labor at Cockatoo.” Following upon
that Cook has several times proclaimed that “work
has commenced again,” that “hundreds more men
have been to-day re-engaged,” and so on. The truth
is that work at. the dockyard is now negligible, and
that the hundred or so men put on lately were
engaged for a temporary job, cleaning and painting
the Sydney. The cruiser Adelaide and the oollier
Momba, partly constructed, on which scores of thou-
sands have been spent, are soareely being touched.
Apparently Cook has a notion that the Adelaide
may never be wanted, and that work on a vessel that
was pushed ahead at top speed last year can profit-
ably be stopped half-way through to give the rust a
chanec.
Meantime this large body of artisans are prowl-
ing about looking for odd jobs and attending meet-
ings of unemployed. In Balmain, where most of
them live, the destitution caused by shutting the
dockyard is so acute that a city charity organisa-
tion has there opened a soup kitchen. And to rub
the sacked workman’s nose well in the mud, privi-
leges won by the dockyard employees In the pa6t
have been taken away. For instance, there was in
existence before the sacking episode an arrangement
by which 12 days’ holiday was given on the expira-
tion of 12 months’ service. A notice has been posted
that this has been cancelled. Under the naval regu-
lations and under agreement entered into when the
dockyard was taken over from the State by the
Commonwealth, men after “long service” were, on
retirement, entitled to six months’ leave. This
decent arrangement is now being repudiated. Re-
cently a man who had worked in the dockyard for
30 years and is now getting too old to follow hia
calling applied for his “long service” allowance.
The reply was that as he had participated in the
1917 strike there was nothing doing, and that he
was not entitled to furlough privileges that had
accrued prior to the strike. Yet the strike was
settled on the basis that there would be no for-
feiture of accrued rights. Two small steamers were
built at the dockyard for the purpose of carrying
the employees from mustering points at harbor
wharves to the island to work. These have now
been laid up, and when a gang of men get a casual
job they have to engage private launches to connect
with the work. Further, the wages now being paid
at Cockatoo are in the case of mechanics Bs. per
week less than private firms on the Sydney water-
front are paying— firms such as Mort’s Dock
Engineering Co.—and in the case of laborers 6s. less.
And for these lower wages longer hours are worked.
The occasional jobs are being accepted because of the
men’s need. Supply and demand Is getting in some
fine work.
No wonder Willis, the leader of the Direct Act-
ionists, rubs his hands these days and says all is well,
and asks me to contemplate the results of 25 years’
political fighting to secure Parliamentary majori-
ties !
Is this the way to build Australian industries?
Is it the method by which shipbuilding is to be
made one of Australia’s activities? Is the story of
Cockatoo going to encourage the local youth to
acquire technical skill rather than be satisfied with
a pick and shovel or driving a dray? Further —
and this is of the utmost importance from the point
of view both of the Australian manufacturer and of
the community—how are incidents that have made
Cockatoo infamous going to help make more cordial
the general relation of the man who pays with the
man who toils? How are they going to discredit
Direct Action? How are they going to make Wil-
lis stop rubbing his hands?
♦
A Victorian “Crisis.”
In Victoria last week the Labor and Cocky
groups, poles apart on most questions, came
together for a moment to turn the useful
Lawson Government out of office. The
trouble began with Lawson’s refusal to con-
tinue compulsory wheat pools. Cocky wants
ibe compulsory svstem because he thinks It
would keep up the price of wheat. Pren-
PERGAst supports it partly because the N.
g. Wales Labor Government has committed
itself to the policy and can do little with-
out Victoria's assistance, and partly because
he believes, it would enable Footscray and
Collingwood to get cheaper bread. Not
wishing to sacrifice the thousands of corn-
coaxers who are weary of State wheat-mar-
keting and are willing to take a sporting
risk with their next lot of grain, the Govern-
ment proposed a voluntary co-operative pool
and offered to back it with a guarantee of
2s. 6d. per bushel net. The 13 Cocky
members foolishly rejected this offer. Full
of rage against Lawson they united with the
cheap-bread party to destroy a Government
which stood for their own principle of co-
operation. They will have reason to regret it...
-
Revolution and What It Means.
Still "Yours for the Revolution Bob Ross'’ 3
I have just read The Bulletin’s “Treason against
the People.” It terrifies me. The Labor Congress
rejected the tactics you assert to be in being. Fear
has lent wings to your rushing fears. Your appeal to.
suppression is monstrous. Here have I been insisting
that in Australia we could move constitutionally,,
peaceably, openly and democratically to Social Recon-
struction, only to find you, who also believe in this
method, now' appearing to justify those who tell me
that Capitalism would never permit us to move that
way. I must warn The Bulletin. Surely The
Bulletin will not, without a scintilla of evidence
to warrant it, stand for driving underground the
Trade Union movement of Australasia, or for
making illegal an executive, otherwise Council of
Action, elected in the sight of all men and with
nothing to hide?
Mr. Ross talks of constitutional action. But
among the welter of unions, Labor Councils,.
Political Labor Leagues, A.L.F. and JL J .L.P. r
also 0.8. U. and Council of Action, there
seems to have come to be space and tolera-
tion for every kind of anarchist. The Labor
movement, m one or other of its many
aspects, was coherent enough to give the
sudden exA to men like W. G. Spence and
La mond and Thomas, because they had
strenuous ideas about Australia’s duty in the
war, and to the veteran Higgs because he
disparaged the ability of the Queensland
Labor Council. But there are men in it
who preach revolution with its inevitable
concomitants of bloodshed, rape and pmnder;
who suggest the abolition of the self-govern-
ing rights of all the people and the rule of
a Communistic minority; and who pro-
pose the repudiation of the public debt. It
includes a Minister who proposed omitting
an election and making the Assembly a
nominee Labor body, and a man who threat-
ened to turn the criminal classes loose and
make Melbourne unsafe for women and
children after dark; who weiijt back on the
White Australia policy to the extent of say-
ing that, for the purpose of his union any-
how, yellow men are the same as white; and
who declared that he regarded trade agree-
ments as things to be broken when the occa-
sion served, which meant that he regarded
honor as nothing. It includes among Labor
leaders preachers of strike instead of arbi-
tration, and of Direct Action, which is
a euphonious term for upheaval and murder.
And the new Council of Action is more repre-
sentative of this section than any inter-
state body Australia has before known.
The great mass of unionists may disclaim
the sentiments of these men, but nobody
gets rid of those who advocate them. On
the other hand means are found to get rid
of those who denounce them. The Labor
creed may be the same, just as the creed of
the Church was the same under St. Peter
and Alexander Borgia, and the principle
of the State the same under Alfred the
Great and James 11., and the Hebrew law
the same under Moses and Jezebel. But
the leaders are different, and that makes all
the difference. When the muddle of autho-
rity gets into such a shape that it will be
as prompt to get rid of the debt repudia-
tionist and the Direct Aetionist (or construc-
tive murderer! as of the man who wanted
Australia, to fall in line wjth Britain. France,
Italy and Belgium in the matter of the de-
fence of civilisation, then the rot may be
stopped. But the need for a reformation is
urgent. If the Trades Union movement goes
underground to conspire against civilisation
in vaiffts and caves, it will not be because
of itself, but because of the fungi that are
allowed to grow on it. It isn’t the vine that
is wrong but the phylloxera.
The Amateur Judge,
In the days of the Castle the baron not only
tried and sentenced the members of his
marauding band while in the field: he held
courts, when he felt like it, during his peace-
ful interludes at home. It may serve as an
inspiration to a Melbourne grocer or haber-
dasher when he reflects, as he takes his place
beside the mere stipendiary on the Bench,
that he, the honorary justice, symbolises the
overlord, while the other merely represents
the hireling clerk who was called in to help,
in former times, because the baron could
not read or write. But it is not a situation
that is likely to appeal to a modern com-
munity which takes the trouble to give the
matter thought. In the A.I.F. the most
ludicrous results accrued from the system
which is this one’s twin-brother. We hear
most naturally about the mistakes in pro-
cedure, and in the constitution of the courts,
and the monstrous sentences which wore im-
posed by more or less illiterate laymen who
suddenly found themselves called on .to act
as judges. But in addition to many inno-
cent men being mistakenly convicted, bat-
talions of guilty ones got off. It was a
truism in the Army that the “old soldier”
usually escaped unless his crime was parti-
cularly flagrant, most of the Courts being
bluffable to a pathetic degree by anyone
whom they suspected of the knowledge which
they' lacked themselves. In the Army the
soldier-judges had. at any rate, no axe to
grind. The errors they made were honest
ones. But his Worship is almost invariably
a politician, specially appointed for serviee
to a partv. So that in addition to ignorance
he is subject to natural bias and to the sort
of undue influence which is so easily exer-
cised. In the closing days of the war "legal
officers” were supplied to the military hnno-
rnries, and the latter gladly took their expert
advice, the relation between ail nart ; *s being
most harmonious. But there is scant har-
mony hetween the aTerngc P.M. and the igno-
ramuses who share the Bench w ; th him in
Victoria. And it must be remembered that
there two Justices (honorary) can over-


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000,
AUTHORISED CAPITAL rsnn nnn
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS '
ASSETS EXCEED . . . £sss?
1 , sban . e ’ Mslbourne - Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
17 11 T* n tr*! 1 * SELBY F, WOOD, Managing Director
tUli Alme, Fart Time and LoctJ Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
rule a County Court Judge when he is sitting
in General Sessions for the hearing of
appeals. Victoria is now the only State
which tolerates this system in its mediaeval
entirety—a system which puts ignorant men
on a level with those who have devoted their
lives to a study of the job; which retires
the expert at 66, but allows the amateurs to
sit on till they die; which takes no account
either of the rights of accused persons or of
the security of property and even life when
weighed in the balance against ancient cus-
tom and political influence. That most con-
servative of institutions, the Army, has just
given a lead in this respect. An Army Legal
Corps has been created to do the work which
soldiers, with little or no knowledge of law,
bungled so scandalously in the past. The
abolition of the peace-time equivalent of
courts-martial is required with equal urgency.
Broken Hill, Booms and Bnnkum.
Since the beginning of 1921 the N.S.W.
Government has been doling out relief at
Broken Hill at the rate of over £14,000 a
month, and the total since it started the
charity in July, 1020, is nearly ±IoS,CKA>.
No heroic effort is made by the Thirteen
Fat Men of the Ministry (at £2OOO a year
a man is presumably Fat) to get any serious
work started; rather they devote themselves
to explaining the impossibility of work. It
is essentially a five-days-per-week Ministry,
and Broken Hill is a Labor constituency
which is more Bolshevik than Labor —3
place where in the bright lexicon of Dooley
the strike must be always right and arbitra-
tion or anything else always wrong. It
isn’t safe for the view to be otherwise until
the Ministerial majority, now consisting en-
tirely of Daniel Levy, is a good deal less
precarious. To remark, however apologeti-
cally, that a foolish, not to say degrading,
subserviency to the orders of weird, irrespon-
sible and often foreign apostles of Kart.
Marx and preachers of the doctrine of
“class consciousness” is largely or even
partly responsible for the great stoppage
might leave the Cabinet of Thirteen Fat
Men without a majority, even with the assist-
ance of Daniel Levy. The other day Trea-
surer Lang, tbe hard-driven person who finds
the alms, and who is presently to find the
fluid-endowment money and a lot of other
things, drew a picture of the situation. As
he put it: —
There you have a whole community rendered practi-
cally helpless because the bottom has dropped com-
pletely out of the. metal markets in which they are
interested. Broken Hill is a citv set down in the
midst of country that is little better than desert.
Unless they can get employment in the mines the
men are helpless. They cannot get out into the
surrounding country and engage in other occupations.
The Government, for its part, cannot allow them to
•starve.
This seems to imply that the Barrier must
continue indefinitely to five in a poor sort
of way on alms from the Treasury, feeling
grateful to the Government for giving them
and supporting it steadily for fear of losing
them. Yet has the bottom fallen so wonder-
fully out of the metal markets? The quota-
tion for lead in ixmdon at time of wot ug
Wa ? -S I I S ‘ , w - P er ton - Between 1900
ana IUI 6 the lowest average half-year’s net
price that the Broken Hill Proprietary mine
received for its lead was £9 17s. 6d., and the
highest (for one halLyear only) £lB 6s. sd.
!' or years out of the 14 the figure didn’t
touch xl2. Even making allowances for
freight the present price of lead is high
compared with pre-war rates; but Broken
tlill wasn t quite so “class conscious” in
those days. line silver is 3s. per ounce
P ow * It varied from 2s. Ojd. to 2s. 9ld.
J»e 14 years prior to the war, Zinc is
±26 15s. per ton now; the average price
between 1911 and 1914 was £23 15s And
. is claimed that the present stagnation
is wholly due to the recent slump (supposing
a partial return to the old peace prices is a
slump) there remains the melancholy fact
that Broken Hill closed while war prices
were still up on the roof. That was “class
consciousness,” and the same thing is a good
part of the trouble now ; but a Labor Min-
lstry with such a precarious majority and
13 big salaries at stake can hardly say so
Lang gives his word as Treasurer and house-
agent that even if the miners worked 50
hours per week for Is. an hour not one extra
man could be employed because of the slump.
Nobody wants any such desperate expedient
but nothing half as desperate has been tried
yst. Broken Hill, like Mount Morgan, pro-
duces goods that have to be mostly sold
abroad for what they will fetch, and the
demand for conditions based on anything like
the topmost war-boom prices and not on pre-
sent conditions (which are really far better
than pre-war ones) is a honeless fight with
the arithmetic book. If Broken Hill can’t
work at existing figures it may not be able
to work for 25 years, for no one looks for
another big war and another armament boom.
i resumably the Government can see noth'n®-
tor it, in that case, but that the present
generation shall finish its life on rations and
a new one will grow up on them. Of course
something else is possible; but the Govern-
ment isn’t honest enough to say what that
oerfectly obvious something else is.
“Third Degree” Methods.
“Bat. o’Costs” on the '“Third Degree”
I observe (B. 21/7/’2l) that a young Judge—
Parsons, of S.A.—has been saying he will deal
severely with police who terrorise prisoners into
admissions of guilt. A good deal of nonsense is
talked about the “Third Degree” in Australia. What
usually happens—and the practice has undoubtedly
been growing in recent years—is that a couple of
intelligent Johns or ’tecs are sent to interview
the suspect, probe him with a few vital questions
and, by his answers, disarm him of bogus defences
which he may think of afterwards. As a matter
of fact, the law protects the accused here to the
point of indulgence. Any admission obtained after
a suspicion of a threat or promise of advantage by
a person in authority is strictly rejected; and so
is one resulting from terrorism. There is rarely any
resort to threat or promise by a capable officer, but
the victim is neatly bluffed into thinking an expla-
nation all-important. The most objectionable fea-
ture of the practice is that there is never any
independent witness to these confessions, and the
story as coldly related to the jury may vary very
materially from the original interrogation.
English commentators scoff at the French system
under which arrested persons are taken immediately
before a magistrate and put through an examination
—not without bullying, as the French practice goes.
There has always seemed to me room for a modified
form of this with us. If the accused were promptly
"OUR GREAT NATURAL RESOURCES"
“They toil not, neither do they spin, yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like
one of them."
taken before a magistrate, warned, offered the
opportunity of making a statement without compul-
sion, and very briefly examined, we could afford to
reject altogether every admission made to a con-
stable. Any such examination should be limited to
matters obviously calling for explanation and the
direct question of guilt or innocence never put. A
feature of this is that a statement promptly made
by a really innocent man would carry far more
weight than if it came later, after the opportunity of
“readying up” a defence.
An example of the toughest sort of luck in admis-
sions under interrogation recently came before the
S. Aus. Criminal Sessions. A youth was charged
with undue intimacy with a girl. It was undisputed
that her moral character was pretty outrageous, but
•she was under 16. An insidious detective visited
the young man, who frankly admitted the intimacy,
but saw no harm in it, since she had fully consented.
“Did you know she was under 16?” he was asked.
“I never thought anything about it,” replied the
candid ymith, and so sealed his fate, for as the law
stands in South Aus. the act is no offence if, at the
time, the accused had reasonable ground for believ-
ing that the girl was over the age. Justice Pooi.b
rightly told the jury that this implied that he
must actually believe it, and as he couldn’t believe
what he had never thought about the defence was
not available! It seems worse than bad luck and
points to a hole in the law when one reflects that
a sophisticated youth, with some knowledge of the
law, would have thought about it and easily have
assured himself that this physically mature and
morally over ripe young woman of 15J was really 16.
Anti- Jury” : I throw my hat into the ring.
Kecent cases have shown that juries are an
anachronism. They were born of the needs
for protection against Privileged Classes, and
u Ve ® u tl iV ed them. There are no P.C.’s in
the democracy of Australia, unless coal-
miners, wharf-lumpers or Government em-
ployees come under that head. Juries are
, onl y chopping-blocks on which brilliant
lv.L. s may exploit political and sectarian
party-cries and prejudices. A Judge—or
three if necessary:—would give far better
results, and would save the expense of long-
drawn-out cases due to the desire to appeal
to _ all the baser feelings of a jury. The
brightest lights of the Bar generally talk
over the heads of a jury, and it is left to
the poorer type to impose their mixture of
confused logic and prejudices upon the “hon-
est and intelligent men’’ they have in the box
before them. An advanced democracy should
wipe the system out as being a bar to pro-
gress and a stupid clinging to worn-out
forms.
Some recent remarks by Dr. Earle Page,
M.H.R., the leader of the N.S.W. Northern
Jlome-Rnle-within-the-Empire Movement:—
The most striking feature of the census returns is
the contrast between the country figures and the city
figures in N. S. Wales. The Are northern [Federal]
electorates—Richmond, Cowper, New England, Gwy-
dir and Darling-—which practically comprise half the
State, have increased in all by 12,500 in the ten
years since the last census. The natural increase
[by excess of births over deaths] for this period
would have been about 48,000, so that there is an
actual loss of about 36,000.
The metropolitan electorates increased in the same
period by 270,000, while the electorates immediately
behind or around the metropolis increased by 110,000,
making a total of 880,000.
This leaves the southern electorates to make up
the balance of the increase—about 40,000, which is
less than the natural increase.
In other words, all N. S. Wales is another
Ireland except Sydney and the westward
districts, which geographically belong to it.
The city-bred Governments may deny as hard
as they 1 ke that they .do not aim at attract-
ing people from the country to the city ; but
they achieve the result, all the same, and
the present ci'owd which charges the repair
of suburban roads to the State in general
is the last word. The city doesn’t see the
danger of it yet. perhaps: but it will. The
question is whether it will see the peril in
time. Certainly no city built on quicksand
could be in more real danger.
♦
Railway building in various States has
quite given up being an attempt to supply
a want and to provide the country with a
profitable investment, and is highly-paid re-
lief work, in which the pacification of the
unemployed and often unemploy-
able is 95 per cent, of the matter, and the
value of the result is the other 5 per cent.
Similarly, soldier-settlement in some States
has been very much a device for providing
for road-makers, fencers, builders, tree-
shifters and officials, and very little a matter
of supplying farms at a price which might
give the soldier a chance to live. He seemed
o he didn’t matter. At first
the States did a trifle of settling themselves
and the cost per soldier varied from £2lOO in
A. S. Wales down to £912 in Queensland.
Then the Commonwealth, in addition to
finding £30,000,000 for the soldiers’ gratuity
and £50,000,000 for “homes,” agreed to lend
the State Governments £28,000,000 among
them for settlement purposes, they to spend
it as they pleased. Apparently this de-
moralised some of them, for Joseph Cook
stated the other day that one recent lot of
41 soldiers in N. S. Wales were starting
with a debt of £3500 each, and an annual
interest bill of £220 apiece. The £28,000,000
of I< ederal loan was supposed to provide for
about 21,000 settlers, but it naturally didn’t.
After it was spent the Commonwealth pro-
posed to advance £lOOO for each further set-
tler (actual, not prospective), but a Gov-
ernment of the real razzle sort can’t settle
people unless it gets the money first, and if
it has the £3500 habit very strongly de-
veloped £lOOO is of no use. So the Queensland
Government tried a device of its own. It
asked for £2,000,000 of Federal money, not
for settlement at all, but to build a railway
in the direction of some allegedly suitable
land, the request for a settlement loan to
come afterwards. Acting Prime Minister
Cook has a fear that this year’s Customs
revenue won’t be much more than half that
of last year, and it takes him all his time
to keep his temper. Htjghes in his place
would probably go off in Welsh, like a fully-
loaded Druid with a contract to curse unbe-
lievers.
"Gregor” on a Southern sin>
The plea of “Neisbbr” (B. 21/7/’2l) for an
extension of the V.D. clinics in Sydney applies with
ecpial force to those of Melbourne, which are not
nearly so well equipped. In the Victorian dtv
there is only one institution for treating diseases
in men, and this has but three medical officers, one
of them permanent, the other two • simply prac-
titioners who give several hours of their time a
week to the work. There are no facilities whatever
for microscopical diagnosis. It is well known that
only a fraction of the total number infected go to
the clinic, or else they seek ft only when the com-
plaint has reached an acute stage, and no doubt this is
largely due to the conditions prevailing. Patients
applying for treatment are ushered in to the examin-
ing physician in batches of half-a-dozen, and each
one is compelled to give, in the presence of the
others, the most intimate statistical details regarding
himself and his complaint. Furthermore, earth
patient comes into close contact in the waiting-
rooms with 20 or 30 others, and there is always
the risk of identification and subsequent blackmail-
ing—a danger by no means to be pooh-poohed, as
those connected with the clinic are aware, instances
having even been brought to light in which aban-
doned degenerates have tried to follow female
patients with the object of learning their identity.
What is really needed is a modern building in a less
central part of the city, with its own bacteriological
laboratory and bacteriologists. And every patient
should be afforded as much privacy as is possible,
even to the point of being allowed to interview the
doctor alone. When this is done many more will
apply in the early stages of the disease, instead of
waiting until it has become deep-seated, or else
going to the murderous cheap quack or the chemist
who practises illegal treatment.
•
The biggest and most-highly paid Ministry
that N.S.W. ever had sits at Sydney, bor-
rowing and distributing there the most
money on record, raising and distributing
there the biggest revenue on record, starting
petty railways all round Sydney, subsidising
Sydney suburban roads out of the general
loan fund, and talking decentralisation with
the energy of the Devil lecturing on holy
water So the census results were expected
to be bad; but they aren’t—they are worse.
jdney s population is 897,610 (increase
since last census, 208,137). All the Rest
of the State’s population is 1,19a783 (in-
crease, a mere 181,522). In 1911 out of
every 10,000 inhabitants 3872 lived in the
city. The city population is now 4282 out
of every 10,000. The building of about 1500
im f and , th e addition of about
£(5,000,000 to the public debt “to open up
?? d ft J eVC ° P « the .country” have produced
(7,036 more “rural” inhabitants— not neces-
agriculturists, >it people living
outside towns That is, roughly speaking,
ol new rurals per mile of line, and each
represents about £lOOO of debt. If N.S.W.
were four States instead of one, and had
tour capitals with a modest little Govern-
ment in each, perhaps the population would
gather into four blobs instead of one, which
would be some diffusion. Anyhow, a pater-
nal Government which gathers all the
revenue and borrowings of a big country to
one centre of distribution, and then pro-
fesses to urge people away from that centre,
is a poor failure.


WICH
IT
A
THE TRUCK THAT STANDS FOR ECONOMIC SERVICE.
BUILT TO BEAR FARDELS WITHOUT INFRANGIBILITY.
ANTI-PROFITEERING PRICES.
COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street. Camperdown (City), Sydney.
AGENTS FOR WICHITA MOTORS CO,
Red X Trams Stop at Door.
POLITICAL
POINTS
with sick Andy Robertson (Liberal). But the Hay-
seed bell wethers outwitted Lawson, and the Govern-
ment was left in a minority of five. The Cookies had
consulted Speaker Mackey on the interpretation of
Standing Orders, and picked up the wrinkle that the
counts in the Farmers’ Union-Labor indictment could
be put one by one. Prendergast, as well as Lawson,
was flabbergasted by this, arid an adjournment of an
hour was found necessary to unravel the tangle.
Voting pro forma , and playing oft one party agin the
other, the Government tried to get an amalgam that
all could eventually reject, but Cocky decided, after
rejecting Labor’s “equitable electorates” pill, to
swallow it as an ingredient of the whole lump. So
Lawson was forced to go and see the Governor. The
Libs, contend that Mackey should have acquainted
Lawson and Prendergast as well as Allan that the
complicated composite amendment could be voted
upon in pieces. Perhaps he assumed too much in
taking it for granted that old hands like Peacock and
Lawson were up to every dodge. But it is always
the fault of the central umpire when the team that
was a moral loses.
Premier Theodore has told the Labor heads
in Queensland that his Railway Department
is carrying 2000 more men than there is
work for. Considering that the Theo-
dore-Fihelly combination put on 3829 extra
railway men in four years, with a war raging
most of the time, 2000 seems a liberal under-
estimate. Anyhow,-Theodore is not retrench-
ing, he says. What he has done in the way
of sacking some of the superfluous hands and
relegating others to half-time work merely
amounts to “deflation.” Whether a Labor
Government with a microscopic majority can
“deflate” a bellicose section of its erstwhile
supporters and live will be decided when
Parliament meets. On the whole, it would
no doubt pay its political opponents best to
make the Government clean up its own mess.
N. S. Wales shouldn’t allow ex-Lands
Minister Ashford’s tea-room friend to be
i turned into a red herring. There are morals
and morals ; and a politician might have none
of the one sort worth mentioning and still
be a blessing to his country, while another
who wouldn’t have'a lady friend on his con-
science might be a public calamity. The
question from the public point of view is
“Does the politician make the country pay
for his friendships?” If he does, that is
immoral, and it is exactly as immoral to
build railway lines to buy votes. The finger
of ppblic reproach is pointed at Ashford;
but the linger ought to be pointing just as
resolutely at 50 other men who have been
busy corrupting the electorates at the public
exnense and buying what is hypocritically
called political support (meaning thereby
office and other benefits! with the people’s
money.
More Federal lobby speculations: —
The expected departure of Joe Cook for the High
Commissionership will leave a vacant chair at the
Treasury which the prophets are endeavoring to
fill. Opinions vary, hut the majority of tips are in
favor of Massy Greene, whose strenuous work at the
Customs has encouraged the suspicion that he is
aching for heavier Ministerial burdens. His selec-
tion seems almost foredoomed by the inadequacy of
most of his colleagues. A few suggest Povnton,
who has had a term as Treasurer, but he isn't dis-
tinguished for enthusiasm or administrative ability.
There are also possibilities about Rodgers, who is
vigorous in mind and body, but his promotion would
be regarded as fatal to the principle of seniority,
which has ever prevailed in the Cabinet for the
protection of the duds from the just reward of their
incompetence. Of course, the man Hughes would
like to get is Willie Watt, but that patriot is under-
stood to have been approached already, with unsatis-
factory results. In any case Hughes should be able
to divide up the departments without any further
additions to his Cabinet. Ryrie, now Assistant
Minister of Defence, might be given more work
without distending his hours of labor; and Laird
Smith, of the Navy Office, wouldn’t be overwhelmed
if a couple of activities that have been tucked under
the wing of the Minister for Customs were pushed
his way.
The Queensland municipal elections, held
on the one-man-one-vote basis, were con-
sidered so important that 10 Labor members
of Parliament and three ex-members were
put up as candidates. They were all de-,
feated. Since then Premier Theodore has
been busy explaining that municipal and
State politics are quite separate, and one is
no sort of barometer for telling the weather
of the other. There was once another sort
of six-foot Premier who was interviewed the
day after Waterloo by a pressman who hoped
for an interesting column about the causes
of the defeat. “I expect the people were
tired of us,” said the fathom thoughtfully.
“But can you suggest any particular thing
the community had in mind?” “No," said
the long one. “I expect they just thought
they had a right to be tired.”
“Gallery-man” at a political death-bed
To within a few minutes of the fatal division
Lawson hugged the hope that he could win through
on the no-confidence challenge in Vic. Assembly. The
eleventh-hour report from his <scouts was that four
Cookies would break away from the mob of 13 and
yard-up with the Ministry, and that one would pair
TALKING ABOUT FLOODS
The new Teg. Council of S. Aus. has
created a record for intelligence. The
Address-in-reply was as usual entrusted to
two new members; and when Robert Melrose
and G. H. Prosser had said their say, no-
body wanted to waste time by beating the
air." So the House simply carried the motion
and adjourned lor a fortnight—the esti-
mated period which the Assembly will spend
on the quite unproductive topm.
Stovemaker Minchinton’s effort to oust
Labor-member Parker from the P’ran seat
iu the Vic. Leg. Assembly failed. The Elec-
tions and Qualifications Committee held that
Parker was not an uncertificated insolvent,
as was alleged, by the complaining elector,
who was a sort of John Doe in the matter.
The result was a triumph for Cohen, K.C.,
the latest addition to the House of Dreari-
ness. He was counsel for Parker, and had
a roomful of legislators to hear him. There
was no party feeling. The general view of
members was that it would be a bit too
strong if a man could be kept out of
Parliament by somebody getting an order
nisi against him, and then going no fur-
ther. Pending the granting of an order
absolute or the discharge of an order nisi
a citizen thus enmeshed cannot of course
obtain a certificate. He is hemmed in as
effectually till the poll is over as were
the electors whose boots and pants were pur-
loined at the inn when the spalpeens were
on their way to vote agin the squire.
These loans for six months that X. S.
Wales and Westralia have floated in London,
the market being closed against anything
better, come in handy to eke out the half-
year’s interest. Some people imagine that
when a big borrow is done abroad the money
is shipped here to make progress hum like
a green bay-tree. But a loan for 26 weeks
would hardly reach Australia and get its
things off and have a look round before it
was due to start back.. So' it just stays
where it is and pays interest.
Another income-tax return was due last
week, and N. S. Wales will have one on its
own account in a few months. The income-
tax has become the source of a great indus-
try. Not only are two separate hordes of tax-
gathereYs employed in most States to put the
gun into the one lot of victims, but hundreds
of persons who know the ropes get their liv-
ing by preparing taxation papers for worried
citizens and arguing the point about assess-
ments. Ex-officials for the most part, they
practically constitute a third Taxation De-
partment. Then there are Taxation Com-
missions and Taxation Associations, and
nearly every trustee, insurance and farmers’
co-operative company has its taxation
branch, and the civil servant who does a bit
of private taxation work in his spare time >s
innumerable. And the city politician con-
templates the sinful waste and inanity ox it
and is not ashamed. It all helps to bloat
Ins city.
There w r ere no reports like Justice Street s
in the good old days. Once a N. S. v\ ale.'
Cabinet Minister was accused in tin; House
of having had a strange woman in his room.
Turning to Perry, his accuser, the scapegrace
demanded: "Did you see her? Yes. 1
d;d see her 1” thundered Perry. Ime woman,
wasn’t she?” said the impenitent sinner.
The revolutionary atmosphere of a half-
breed republic hangs round N.S.W. State
politics since the new brand of Labor at-
tained to power. Thus one Lambert, who
has suddenly appeared a la Carranza, com-
mands a formidable force (the A.L.1.)
which overawes the Government. In fact,
he has a sort of Government of his own.
liis force has put him in at least partial pos-
session of the capital—that is to say, it and
not the inhabitants or the Ministry made him
Lord Mayor ("Governor” in the half-breed
language). It is publicly stated that it will
demand a place for him in the Upper House,
unless it goes further and demands that he
shall be nominated to the Assembly, where
there are two vacancies and the old elective
principle is “off.” so far as filling casual
vacancies are concerned. Then it is specu-
lated that this new man, making his first
appearance in politics by a short-cut—just
like Carranza —will be able, if his forces
stand bv him, to demand a place in the
Cabinet, and if it isn’t the top place m
name it will be in reality. So a State which
never elected Lambert to any political place
whatever may find itself ruled by him, and
no alleged democrat seems to see anything
outrageous in the idea.
This is the writing on the wall for Trea-
surers —-and taxpayers. Vic. revenue, which
came in so wonderfully in June and pro-
vided a surplus of over £50,000 for the year,
fell off in July, the first month of the new
financial year. The £1,113,266 received for
the month was £84,066 below the revenue
for July, 1921, and the railways were not
responsible. Uees and miscellaneous receipts
went back £75.000. indicating, among other
things, tjiat business in duty-stamps is not
so brisk.
Though there is no firm ground for the
suggestion that the Grampians electorate
will disappear if Victoria loses a member
under the redistribution of seats brought
about by the census, Edmund Jowett has
already ‘been pictured humping his swag in
search of another electorate. Meantime
Jowett’s leader, Dr. Earle Page, is pleading
against N. S. Wales robbing Victoria of a
member, and his tone is so artistically disin-
terested that no one for a moment thinks
lie may have been wondering how his party
would suffer by the change.
Concerning the elderly amateur who raves
in millions: —
The passionate demand of Joseph Cavruthers tor a
million farms at £3O a farm recalls the case of another
elderly enthusiast, the late Hackett of W estralia.
In 1006 or thereabouts Hackett (Ire was an amateur
cultivator like Joseph) began shouting in his West
Australian for a thousand miles of railway through
the forest. A thousand miles of railway, he asserted,
could be built for a thousand poundß a mile, and a
thousand thousands were only a million, and the
million could easily be got for a consideration from
a good, kind gentleman at the other end of the earth.
The Government of the day, which knew as little
about practical farming as the rhapsodist himself,
took him at his word and, against the protests of
Commissioner Short, the ‘‘thousand miles of railway
at a thousand pounds a mile” policy came into being.
It was the beginning of all Westralia’s financial
troubles. The lines cost nearer £2OOO than £lOOO a
mile, and it took another £3OOO a mile to make
them serviceable when they were washed into the
surrounding territory. Then two severe droughts
struck the region, and thousands of settlers had to be
spoon-fed for years. Thousands of others made the
Government a present of their selections and threw
the mortgages in. Two or three of the reconstructed
lines have shown a profit, but the great majority-
have been run at a hopeless loss. And nowadays the
West Australian informs its readers that the gar-
gantuan Westralian deficit had its origin in the mad-
ness of 1906.
No doubt about it, it does make a differ-
ence whether a district has Parliamentary
representation or not. The Railway De-
partment is saving a thousand or two a year
by reducing the service on the Northern
Territory’s solitary single-line (200 miles
long) to one train per fortnight. There are
lots of railways in Australia which lose a
lot more than that, and yet they don’t have
their services cut at every time of depres-
sion. But, then, they are in places that
have Parliamentary votes to sell.
Signed Fergus Ivaleski: —
As to the alleged reversal of the White Australia
policy. These milk-and-water ladies’-maids in your
Labor unions are not true Revolutionaries at all.
There is no reliance whatever to be placed on them
when the time arrives to do a little killing off and
burning out. We are going to take in enough Asiatic
auxiliaries to have a ready weapon that will be
utterly uninfluenced by any absurd racial or stiff
more foolishly absurd religious—l should say super-
stitious —scruples.
IT ISN’T GOOD FOR MAN TO LIVE ALONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Some members are, or were, in the habi ‘
inviting waitresses to Parliament House.... Young
women were entertained in a Minister s room ... .
box at the theatre....Katoomba , n the Mimstermi
ear Report of Justice Street (N, 8.
Speaking in the Westralian Assembly Mrs. Cowan
ML l for WOst Perth, justified her position on .he
ground that it is not good for man to live alone.
She wanted to help the men.
“Is that you, Fairy? Tom Philander here.
' Shall you and Sissie blow along to-night?
Leggo me leg!. Well, I should reckon, dear!
Hop over, you and Sis, and have a bite.
There’s supper in the Ministerial room
(Asparagus and chicken and the rest),
And then we’ll go and see ‘The Jazzer’s Doom’ —
It doesn’t matter if you haven’t dressed.
You’ll tram it home? Aw, rats! A Guv’ment car
Is ordered —we can have it on our own.
Gee, kid, you know what politicians are.
It isn’t good for ipan to live alone.”
“Ladies and —sorry I Mr. Speaker, sir,
And members of this honorable House:
The sex I represent is, I aver,
Not destitute of legislative nous.
It sent me here, of course, to close the clubs,
Protect the flapper by a curfew bell.
Abolish all the breweries and -pubs
And ring the roaring metallician’s knell.
But let no carping voice or cynic pen
Discredit me with motives I disown.
What am I here for? Sir, to help the men.
It isn’t good for man to live alone.”
“ 'Elp ’em, the pigs! I’d ’elp ’em, pretty quick,”
Said Mrs. Clutterbuck to Mrs. Pym.
“I’d ’elp ’em with an ’orsewhip or a stick,
And tear them brazen ’ussies limb from limb.
Pore lady, I don’t envy her a hit
The contrack she has lightly undertook.
I ’ate them blokes ’oo in Assemblies sit:
Their morrils, like their pollerticks, is crook.
Stfll, tarts won’t trapse around w’en she’s about
Or make appointments on the private ’phone.
It’s time a woman found them members out.
You couldn’t trust the brutes to live alone.
N.S.W.
TUART.


“ALL DRESSED UP AND NOWHERE TO GO"
"The Dominions will not be officially represented at the proposed Conference on Disarmament and Pacific Problems at Washington.”-Cable.


Telephones:
Central 10173, 2473.
Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY.” Melbourne.
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon. Chrome Vanadium, Acid- -
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register. London),
MTTCHELL ROAD. ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, \\La.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. op Syd-
;ney :
Dividends. To
June, Profits. tWp.c.) Reserves. Reserves-
-1909.. At 190,144 *142.960 £»M£4
1010 933 496 150.000 83,496 1,414,010
Jon" oil 050 ibSooo seloso 1,500, eoo
1912.'.’ 243,880 150,000 93,880 1,594,540
1913 266 133 173,685 92.448 1,686,983
ml." 111:624 186J58 100,866 1,787,864
1915.. 264,880 200,000 64,880
1916.. 261,804 200,000 61,804 1,914,538
1917.. 234,556 200,000 84,556 1,999,094
1918.. 293,149 200,000 98,149 2,09.,243
1919 801 671 200,000 101,5(1 2,198,814
1920" 348,602 24L154 2,302,262
1921.. 392,923 260,000 142,923 2,440,185
In April shareholders were invited to put in
another half-mil Lon, and they had the
option, of paying up in a lump sum on June
30 otin five Quarterly calls. Evidence of the
class of shareholder in the Commercial or
Sydney is g.ven by the fact that on June
30, the date on which the year’s
also closed, no less than £409,025 of the
£500,000 had been paid up. The shares were
issued at par, and as there is a prospect ot
10 p.c. divs. continuing, while the market
puts a substantial premium on the shares,
the bait was very attractive. When the out-
standing balance of the present issue is got
in the Commercial of Sydney’s paid capital
will be three millions, half as much again
as it was a little over two years ago. This
rapid increase prompts an investigation into
the growth of the capital of this big Sydney
bank since it got into business 87 years ago:
1834.. £30,000 1893.. £1,000,000
1849. . 90,000 1907.. 1,250,000
1853.. 2 00,000 1908.. 1,500,000
1859.. 320,000 1912.. 1,750,000
1864.. 400,000 1914.. 2,000,000
1874.. 500,000 1920.. 2,500,000
1881.. 600,000 1921.. 3,000,000
No capital was thrown overboard in the
’nineties, though the co. for some years had
to devote profits to patching. But divs.
gradually recovered to 10 p.c., and that rate
lias been maintained for many years.
The latest lot of new shares did not parti*
cipate in the recent div. But never before
has a 10 p.c. been paid with greater ease.
During recent years, and particularly during
the past 12 months, the banks have been able
to find profitable employment for every avail-
able copper. In fact, they have been unable
to cope with all the demands for accommo-
dation following on the late drought and the
importing orgy. And while the advances
book became fully laden, very sweet earnings
were meantime being made from exchanges.
This, for a start, shows how business has
grown since 1915 :
Liabilities.
1915. 1920. 1921.
Notes .. .. £16,952 £10,233 £9,866
Bills .. .. 665,369 1,798,283 1,600,741
Deposits .. 25,071,778 30,017,532 81,245,205
Liquid Assets. . 14,890,785 17,978,450 18,050,996
Advances .. 14,236,405 18,141.733 19,605,066
Premises, etc.. 679,643 632,541 678,961
That table generalises; besides the increase
of 5& millions-odd in the most important in-
terest-earning line, these changes have taken
place in Lquid jm
Coin, bullion, Australian
notes, etc. .. .. £9,722,172 £7,535,466
Money at short call in London 279,737 1,065,000
Short-dated British Treasury
bills .. •• 1,28a,000
Public securities .. •. 3,361,525 6,022,338
Bills receii able .. •• 1,495,216 2,431,603
Notes and bills of other banks 32,135 130,589
There is now £1,660,813 more in public secu-
rities than there was five years ago, and
that increase in conjunction with the better
interest earned is adding a tidy sum to in-
come. Working exes, have been higher, too, but
how much higher can’t be ascertained. Banks
are not usually communicative : this one, for
instance, says no more than this in its P. and
L. acc-ovuit: “Profit for year ended .Tune
30, 1921, £392,923.” The directors’ report,
though, admits that that was the amount
remaining after providing for bad and doubt-
ful debts, after voting £5OOO to an officers’
provident fund, and after striking something
off the book value of premises. Handsome
though disclosed profits are, there is not the
slightest doubt that the Commercial of Syd-
ney could reveal larger earnings if it cared
to. But never since the boom days has there
been greater need for watchfulness on the
part of bankers and for the propping of
weaker assets. For many years the Com-
mercial of Svdney directors have employed
surnlus profits to strengthen the internal
position of the bank, and a little of what they
have done in this respect is made visible by
a recent statement of chairman George
Judah Cohen, when explaining the increase
of *4(3,420 in premises account over tne past
year. “This increase,” he remarked, “does
not, of course, represent the total expenditure
in this direction, as a considerable amount
of the capital expenditure is always written
off.”
The latest balance-sheet figures show the
Commercial of Sydney to possess its cus-
tomary strength from the pomt of view of
its creditors: it held only a little more than
£6 of the public’s money for every £ of its
own funds. Also, notwithstanding all the
exceptional demands for accommodation, no
less than 53 p c. of all liabilities was held
more or less liquid. So much for the in-
ternal strength of the bank. But a bank is
only an integral part of the community, and
no matter how its management may barri-
cade it against trouble, almost everything
depends on how the community behaves itself.
The Bolls-Royce and a second-hand Ford are
of much the same value when they lie
mangled at the bottom of a precipice. And
that is precisely where party politics and a
don’t-care attitude on the part of the public
have a tendency to lead the nat'on’s financial
machine. Chairman Cohen put the position
very explicitly before Commercial of Sydney
shareholders the other day:—
The outlook is not altogether re-assuring and close
and careful control of finance is necessary. It is now
being brought home to us very forcibly, as has been
frequently pointed out before, that the apparent
prosperity of the country during the past few years
was to some extent fictitious.
Abnormally high war-time prices for our products
and the expenditure of large sums of loan mo.:ey led
to the belief that the country was more prosperous
than it really was. Prices have now receded, produc-
tion has fallen off and the excessive expenditure of
war-loan money has ceased. The country has to
bear a huge load of debt, out of proportion to its
production and population, and the burden of tax-
ation which is now oppressive must have a serious
effect on the savings of the people, as well as in
deterring enterprise and restricting development. It
will only be i y strict economy, both public and
private, by universal thrift and by increased produc-
tion that we can hope to cope with our financial
burdens. I have, however, unoounded faith in the
future of this great country, and have little doubt
that we can carry our load, provided we have in-
creased population and good government. One is
of no use without the other. We must have both a
large population and good government, and with
these I firmly believe that Australia is capable of
becoming one of the greatest countries in the world.
Its resources are enormous and only need developing
to place it in an unassailable position. We natu-
rally look to the Governments to set the example of
economy and thrift, but we apparently look in vain,
for, with huge and increasing revenues, they are
unable to make ends meet, and, instead of retrench-
ing and endeavoring to reduce expenditure, are con-
tinually trying to borrow more and to extract
additional taxes out of the unfortunate taxpayer.
The adventitious prosperity caused by continued
borrowing and freehanded expenditure will omy
lead to a day of reckoning and disaster.
* * n *
The Australian Bank of Commerce
(Sydney)
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1911.. £33,3*8 3 p.c. = £32,653 £725 £3,954
1912.. 38,517 24 „ „ 29,786 6,731 10,685
1913.. 54,175 3 „ ~ 35,861 18,314 28,999
1914.. 64,953 3 „ „ 35,866 19,087 48,080
1915.. 65,335 3 „ „ 35,871 19,464 67,550
1916.. 58,595 3 „ „ 85,903 22,092 90,242
1917.. 62,477 3 „ „ 35,960 26,517 116,759
City Bank of Sydney purchased.
1918. . 80,255 4 p.c. = 4,7,947 32,308 149,067
1919. . 97,256 5 „ „ 59,934 37,322 186,389
1920.. 108,391 5J „ „ 65,967 42.424 228,813
1921.. 129,578 64 „ „ 78,000 61,578 280,391
The A.B.C. has been one of the few banks
which have not had to raise fresh capital
during recent abnormal years, and notwith-
standing its growing connections it is still
employing an unusually large proportion of
its own funds in relation to outsiders’-money.
In the Commonwealth it is generally deemed
prudent for a bank to hold not more than
about £8 of the public’s money for every £
of its own funds. At June 30 the A.B.C.
was entrusted with £9,918,055, and, includ-
ing the £1,372,683 of inscribed deposits, it
showed £2,895,074 of funds. It, therefore,
held only £3 Bs. of the public’s money for
every £ of its own. That is a very small
proportion, for which more or less ancient
history is responsible. The A.B.C. displaced
the old Australian Joint Stock Bank, which
had been badly mangled in the ’nineties.
The A.J.S. was kept going until 1910, but
it was a bank whose position invited little
confidence, so it was overhauled and then bios*
somed forth as the A.B.C. Portion (ss. in
the £) of the old deposits was converted into
share scrip and a further 10s. in the £ into
4 p.c. inscribed deposits. The latter have
been a great source of strength to the bank,
for they are a fixture (except that the man-
agement is obliged to set aside £30,000 p.a.
for their repurchase), and they are for all
practical purposes cheap prefs. And, since
they are quoted at a heavy discount on the
market, a nice profit is being netted from
their nurchase. Latest sales have been at
13s. 6d., and at that rate £30.000 of the
bank’s money would purchase nearly £45,000
of the stock. The small volume of out-
side money at work in relation to the
bank’s funds necessnr’ly meant comparatively
small profits available for shareholders in
the earlier years of the A.B.C. Besides, the
management was committed to repaying old
creditors 2s. 6d. in the £ in cash, and among
the assets passed over by the old bank were
some station properties which,’ though no
doubt welt written down, were probably not
very profitable. All were, however, soon
unloaded. Some losses were probably thereby
sustained; and as the A.B.C. could not have
been endowed with substantial contingency
reserves disclosed profits may have suffered
a little in that way, too.
Having the foundations for a very much
larger business, and realising that waiting
for individual new accounts to build up con-
nections would be a slow process, in 1917
the management set about acquiring the
old City Bank of Svdney, lock, stock and
barrel. For it £362,500 was paid, and the
acquisition and subsequent war-trading
brought about these changes:—
Advances
eo.ii-
pared with Per
Paid £ of cent, of
capital. Advances, capital. Profits, capital.
1915.. £1,195,831 £3,980,587 £3.3 £55,335 4.6
1920.. 1,200,000 7,176,809 5.9 108,391 9
1921.. 1.200,000 8,141,832 6.8 129,578 10.8
That explains very dearly how the A.B.C.
has managed to get its div. rate from 3 p.c.
four years ago to 7 p.c. for the past half-
year. The year’s interim distribution was
at the rate of 6 p.c., making the return for
the 12 months 6|. This comparison gives
further details of the expansion since 1915:
1915. 1920. 1921.
Inscribed deposits £1,614,689 £1,413,657 £1,372,683
Deposits .. .. 3,016,323 8.1J8.526 £,560,114
Other liabilities ~ 347,081 1,063,051 1,3u7,941
Liquid assets . . 1,921,588 4,374,093 4,192,382
Advances, etc. .. 3,989,687 7,176,899 8,141,852
Premises .. i. 367,237 499,145 478,914
Notwithstanding the heavy demands for
accommodat.on by importers and primary
producers no less than 42 p.c. of total lia-
b.lities was he.'d liquid at June 30. To
protect tbe £5,725.673 of liabil.ties not so
covered there were advances, after provid-
ing for all doubtful debts, £8,141,832; and
premises, nowadays written do'm regularly
by £lO,OOO p.a., with a book value of
£478,914. On paper that is unusually strong
backing, and means that tbe bank can con-
tinue to attract much additional business
without having to call on shareho’ders for
further funds. Or, putting it from the other
point of view, it will probably be a good
many years before the co. will be in a posi-
tion to offer shareholders the chance of a fat
dividend on new capital.
«c w # #
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911.. £11,075 8 p.c. = £7,200 £3875 £43,285
1912.. 10,757 7 „ ,> 6,300 4457 47,742
1913.. 11,851 8 „ „ 7,200 4651 52,393
Written off premises, £2500 .. 49,893
1914.. 15,697 9 p.c. = 8,100 7597 57,490
Written off premises, £7500 .. 49,990
1915.. 11,355 8 p.c. - 7,200 4155 54,145
1916.. 11,390 9 „ ~ 8,100 3290 57,435
1917.. 11,262 10 „ „ 9,000 2262 59,697
1918.. 14,450 10 ~ „ 9,000 5450 65,147
1919.. 13,075 10 „ „ 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO .. 68,722
1920.. 14,504 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72.486
1921.. 14,352 12 „ „ 10,800 3652 76,058
There is an echo of the bad old boom days
in the latest report of the directors: —
In connection with the amounts written off the
reserve fund between 1894-99, a sum of £5OOO has
become aiaPable. The directors propose to allocate
this amount as a contribution towards the establish-
ment of a fund for the benefit of retiring officers of
thi co. or their dependants.
The £5OOO does not, however, show up in
the profits given in the table, which, now
that the co. publishes accounts only once
each year, has been remode.led for purposes
of comparison to show results for full 12-
month terms throughout. The T., E. and
A. is now controlling trusts valued at
£13,698,906, and how the business has grown
is shown hereunder: —
1900.. £6,329,656 1918.. £12,503,845
1905.. 7,787,043 1919.. 13,353,988
1910.. 9,013,807 1920.. 13,533.081
1915.. 10,936,858 1921.. 13,698,906
The figures have been very steady over the
past three years. But the handling of 2\
millions more trusts than in 1915, and the
improved commissions forthcoming as a re-
sult of. higher interest earnings, have added
considerably to income, though executor
charges have been stationary. On the other
hand, working exes, have moved ahead,
salaries in particular having been lifted to
keep pace with H.C.L. Gross earnings for
the past year were £43,816, compared with
£29,474 for 1915. but of that £14.342 im-
provement only £3OOO could be claimed as
net profit. Salaries, directors’ fees, etc.,
which took £13,721 six years ago, now call
for £23,222, taxes are thjiee times what they
used to be, while other exes, have moved
ahead about £lOOO. However, shareholders
can have no comp’aints, the larger profits
having been won without any increase of capi-
tal. For 22 years paid capital has stood at
£90,000. and whereas for some years only 5
p.c. divg. were paid, the co. is nowadays in
a position to pay 12 p.c. with ease. And
12 n.c. is not outrageous, in view of the self-
denial imposed on shareholders for many
years—a self-denial which is mainly re-
sponsible for there being now £76,000-odd
of visible reserves to help the £90,000 of
capital. If these funds were invested in a
manner wh.ch returned only 1 P-a.
net, they alone would return 0 p.c. on share-
holders’ capital.
There have been considerable changes in
the investment of trust funds during the past
half-dozen years:—
1921.
Mortgages.. £2,i>.#0,616 £1,6fi>,464 Pee. £1,00«,152
Debentures & „ „„„
stock .. 2,413,743 6,344,304 Inc. 2,930,061
Landed pro-
perty ~ 2,806,022 2,343,839 Pec. 462,183
b perty U P *?. 511,386 671,697 Inc. 160,312
Snares .. 1,381,169 1,849,822 Inc. 468,603
Other securi-
ties, deposits
and casn.. 1,273,922 .1,943,780 Inc. 669,808
That comparison provides very striking evi-
dence of tne effect, particularly on mortgage
business, of Government borrowings. With
hign-iate Government securities offering—
and*purchasabie at a discount on the market
—there has been little inducement to put
funds out in mortgage. In 19i5 the T., E.
and A. had 23.4 p.c. of its total trusts in that
line ; nowadays only 11.3 p.c. No doubt other
trustee cos. have had a somewhat similar
experience. Of the 20 pubLc cos. m tne
business only 11 disclose the extent Of their
trusts. Together they show ab.out 60 mil-
lions in the.r care, and if this fai.ing-off of
mortgage business has been general, then
nowadays seven milLons less of the trusts
held by these 11 cos. are available for mort-
gages than would have been the case if con-
ditions bad continued normal. Life insur-
ance cos. —which are really trustee cos. wAh
other functions added —have in many cases
cut down their mortgage bus.ness even
harder, in these circumstances, it is not
surprising, that the mortgagor is find’ng the
market ‘‘tight.” From the point of view
of trustees, however, the diversion of so much
of their business into public securities has
made things easier, though there is a set-off
in complex taxat on problems. The T., E.
and A., like most other trustee _ cos., has
indeed been obliged to set up special depart-
ments to unravel income- and land-tax
tangles.
Tnistee business has become more and
more a work for experts. And not only
do cos. like the V : c. T.. E. and A. nut men
tra ; ned in various sidelines in charge of
benefleiares’ affairs: they further guarantee
that instructions will be faithfully followed.
In this instance there are £166 038 of funds
as a back ! ne to the .guarantee, besides which
there is £60.000 ea’lable if the worst should
barmen. Of the £172.338 on hand at the
balance £97,776 was more or less ; mmed’atelv
available in public securities, deposits and
cash, £l5 900 was loaned on mortgage, and
theue were premia ate., of a written-down
hook value of £56 000. Odd« and of
furniture of a book value of f5OO and £2162
of book debts made up the balance, The co.
did not owe a penny.
Mount Morgan Corn Mintng Co. (Q.) ;
Revenue. Expeifwfure. Profit.
Nov., 1912.. £640,712 . £387,585 £253,127
Mav, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148.003
Nov., 1913.. 496.936 351.973 144.963
Mav 1914.. 459,606 328.217 131. 3R9
Nov., 1914. 502.382 438.546 63,536
Mav, 1915.. 503.018 400.215 102.803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478.395 168.643
Mav. 1916.. 617.754 499.616 118.138
Nov., 1916.. 643.990 502.475 141,515
Mav, 1917.. 657.387' 489.697 167,690
Nov., 1917.. 625.161 500,317 124.844
Mav, 1918.. 608.822 480.917 127.905
Nov.. 1918.. 548.485 462 000 86.485
Mav, 1919.. 426.466 401,310 , 25.156
Nov., 1919.. 495.982 402.648 93.333
May, 1920.. 517.779 479,297 38,482
Nov. 1920.. 656.977 650.703 106.274
May,’ 1921.. 381,706 367,821 13,885
At November 30 last year Morgan had 5035
tons copner on band; during the six months
to May 30, 1697 f tons were produced. The
term closed with stocks of 2528 tons, so the
miserable profit of £13.885 shown for the
six months was apparently won from market-
ing 4204 tons copper and 23,7770 z. gold.
But even that profit is illusory. Morgan
always takes stock on the basis of copper
at £55 per ton, and the profit disclosed re-
presents surpluses realised over and above
book values of long stored-up blister. The
co. publishes accounts every half-year, but
the Mav lot are made to cover operations for
12 months. In showing the profit of £120,158
for the past year at a time when the man-
agement is claiming that it cannot make a
profit in collapsed markets with present high
costs, the directors present this explanation r
If we realise the present ruling prices for this
copper [the 2528 tons on hand at May 30], plus the
present premium on gold, and allowance is made for
the actual surplus realised on copper produced prior
to May 30, 1920, and taken into account at that date
at £55 per ton, the result of the operations for the year
under review would show a substantial loss instead of
the profit as above Some of the copper realised
during the latter part of the 12 months was produced
as blister as far back as December. 1919.
That claim was substantiated by accountants
Frank Hambridge and Colville Cbr'stie, who
investigated on behalf of the Queensland
Arbitration Court and ascertained that dur-
ing February each ton blister was costing
Morgan £166 17s. 6d., including depreciation,


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having- trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
wdl ring your door-bells with the sathe current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Qoulburn Street, Syd
ney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets.
Melbourne.—Advt. (4
. * * j., *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents lass of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Another- highly satisfactory letter, this time from
a big winery in another State, tells of the merits of
Pioneer Wood Pipe as a conduit for fluids:- “Dear
Sirs, We are pleased to say the wood pipe pur-
chased from you has been satisfactory. We use it
for various purposes, running both hot and cold
fluid through it. In all cases it stands up to work
Al.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt,
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Kassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt,
**, * •
Austbauan Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* # * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Co lmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Cabves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants:
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces ; heating and ventilating plants, etc Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay. Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
1921 Models ’-—“National’’ suction-gas engines
and suetion-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainswprth’s Si
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
I’Vf 8 - on C i ,l l? r Write for particulars. H. B. Selbv Si Co..
3 <a eorse Sk J®?L ( ,l )et "’ R cn Hunter and Bond
Streets). Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb —Advt
*.* « •
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Ptv., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
ol their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
s-ooda.— Advt. <
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
R. G. WATKINS (& CO.,
107-109 Kent Street* Sydney,
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR MACHINERY
AND HARDWARE.
Lower the cost of production by usinsr the famous
PIONEER
■if
LEATHER
SELTINC
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions, and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI 8* SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. ft R. E.
Madder, Flinders Lane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QFEENSJLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
IV. A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
Swl.: John Me Kell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide,
' AIHSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 187?.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
©ldlest Mutual Fire Office in Australia*
upport the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
a Pmte-GJass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Give Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane,
CLAIMS PBOMPTir AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
, m . T _ _ agents in all principal country towns.
3*paEX H. CARY. J.P., Chairman, G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
development and other charges. Each ton
blister contained 14oz. gpld, which, at £5 ss.
3d. per oz., was worth £74 11s. That left
each ton copper to carry a costs load of
£92 6s. 6d. in a market which was £lB or
so below that figure.
To date all efforts to get the Mt. Morgan
unions to realise that they are asking for the
impossible when they demand that operations
should be recommenced on the old eosts-
basis have failed; even the offer of a sliding-
scale increase governed by copper prices has
been refused. So, though Premier Theodore
undertook to saddle the community with the
trouble by rebating £lOOO of freights per
week, aud still leaving the co. with a
weekly loss of £l3OO, the shut-down which
began at Easter continues. The process
leading up to the present position is quite
plain. War conditions created an abnormal
demand for metals, wool, wheat, meat and
so on, which lifted prices and profits to un-
precedented levels. These higher prices re-
acted on the cost of living, and wages had to
go up, too. But while, under the favorable
conditions, industry could bear these addi-
tional costs with ease, another factor was
operating. Though the public did not feel
the pressure while high prices continued, the
huge war costs began to squeeze. Now that
the tumble in prices has taken place, the
full weight of the war is being felt, the “pros-
perity” of the past few years stands re-
vealed as artificial, and the world is faced
with the problem of getting costs down to
correspond with the fall in prices. Unfor-
tunately, the Commonwealth lacks leaders
who will face the obvious. But even politi-
cians of the Theodore order must soon real-
ise that the proposed charging of the losses
of a private industry to an already non-pro-
fitable public railway system, and such-like
schemes, arc merely temporary devices and
rotten at that.
The future of Mt. Morgan until all-round
adjustments have been made is not clear.
The present price of copper will probably
not be the new normal, for the world’s pre-
sent low prices are, to a large extent, due
to the disordered financial condition of
copper-purchasing countries. As they recover,
prices should improve, but to what extent
nobody can forecast. No doubt, Morgan can
anticipate receiving a substantial premium
on its gold production for many years, but
nothing much can be hoped for from copper
while costs of producing it continue at any-
thing like £92 per ton. Meantime the big
co. is in a strong financial position, this
comparison showing how the surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities has moved
over the past seven years and during the
12 months: —
1914. 1920. 1921.
Stocks £282,091 £359,829 £203,028
Stores, etc 129,755 180,539 285,983
War Loan and public
securities .. 20,000 57,290 72,880
Cash and deposits 43,270 20,429 43,192
Investments . . . . 59,584 199,146 331,176
Book debts . . . . 43,682 84,386 99,894
£578,382 £901,619 £986,153
Liabilities .. 100,019 262,265 185,566
Surplus liquid assets £478,363 £639,354 £600,597
No div. was paid during the past year, hence
the improvement in the surplus of liquid
assets, now representing 16s. per £ share.
Visible ore reserves at May 31 were 3j mil-
lion tons, averaging 2.57 p.c. copper and
6dwt. gold, but there are big tonnages out-
side those reserves. For instance, during
the past six months 26,872 tons of the
87,564 tons ore handled came from “outside
the boundary of the known reserves.”
* * * *
The Hampden-Cloncurby Copper Mines,
Ltd. —Here is one view of how things have
gone since 1917
Ore Blister Working
tons, tons. Profit.
Feb., 1917 .. 46,856 3331 £64,539
Aug., 1917 .. 54,723 3311 116,363
Feb., 1918 .. 49,065 3262 67,650
Aug., 1918 .. 56,603 3455 61,016
Loss.
Feb., 1919 .. 30,135 1758 51,392
Aug., 1919 . . - - 3,506
Profit.
Feb., 1920 .. 46,710 3360 74,471
Loss.
Aug., 1920 ~ 35,927 2100 51,248
Profit.
Feb., 1921 . . 36,698 190$ 9,308
The heavy loss shown for the Aug., 1920,
half was due chiefly to an over-statement of
profits in previous terms. Stocks six months
earlier had been taken into account on the
basis that electrolytic would fetch £loo per
ton. But realisations were slow, and a lot
of metal was still on hand when the Aug..
1920, balance arrived. Old stocks were then
re-appraised on the basis of electrolytic at
£B5, and new metal won and on hand was
also included at the same value per ton.
How that valuation compared with market-
ings since is not revealed in the accounts
now presented (to February 28 last), nor
is there a whisper as to the value placed on
old stocks still on hand or new metal which
piled up during the half-year. Without
this information, which shareholders are
entitled to, the latest lot of figures are prac-
tically worthless. Stocks are shown in the
balance-sheet “at valuation"—-at £B5, as at
the previous balance, or at present market
value? However, the accounts give a piti-
ful tale: the book value of stocks receded
from £355,067 in August last to £259,439
in February, and though some shipments to
U.S.A. gave fair prices, there was a work-
ing profit of only £9308. Kents, interest and
divs. added £8877, but Board fees, office
exes., overdraft interest and other inciden-
tals took £18,185. So there was a loss of
£6694, besides which depreciation called for
£10,513. So the co. had to tap the equalisa-
tion reserve for £17,207. Smelting ceased in
December last, and the directors now report
that “the present price of copper precludes
the possibility of an immediate resumption of
smelting activity. Substantial reductions in
wages, freights and general supplies must
eventuate before this is possible.”
This show's Hampden-Cloncurry’s drift
over the 12 months to February last: —
Feb.,’2o. Aug.,’2o. Feb.,’2l.
Stores, etc £72,022 £92,550 £70,405
Stocks . . . . 287,013 360,007 259,439
War Loan >. .. 1,843 2,040
Cash, deposits, etc. .. 3,584 2,744 3,017
Book debts . . .. 0,043 4,200 3,078
Shares .. .. .. 45,375 50,190 00,568
£415,880 £506,857 £402,502
Liabilities .. 206,638 343,756 246,727
Surplus .. .. £209,242 £163,101 £155,775
The liquid surplus has thus fallen off
£53,467 during this year, some of it being
due, as mentioned above, to the overvalua-
tion of stocks of metal at the February, 1926,
balance. Meantime, while this slide has
taken place and no div. has been possible,
4008 tons hlister, containing 3952 tons
copper, 23C00z. gold and 19,7280 z, silver have
been torn from the mines. Hatnpden-Clon-
curry cannot afford to see its non-replacable
assets go to non-profitahle markets, for its
? r e-i;eserves are being rapidly depleted. Early
m 1920 there were 182,600 tons ore"in sight
containing 10,040 tonß copper; in April last
general-manager Erie Huntley totted up
136,000 tons ore containing 7110 tons copper.
Another 1000 or so tons copper lie in
erratic shoots in the smaller mines and in
low-grade fluxing ores. Development during
recent years has failed to replace depletions,
and no new mines have blossomed to fill the
gap, though innumerable promising shows
have been investigated but found to be of
no value under present working conditions.
Meantime, one of the co.'s largest producers,
the Duchess, has become exhausted and has
been dismantled.
* * * *
Concerning a Maoriland tangle:
It has been the practice not only of public cos.
but of private concerns and local bodies of all kindfi
in Maoriland to accept deposits from the public,
and pay interest at a rate usually above that allowed
by the trading banks. During the prosperous war
years the money so lodged with these private shows
swelled enormously, and a rough estimate gives the
total at £10,000,000. Other avenues having become
available for more profitable investment, the public
last year began to withdraw these deposits wholesale,
the result being that the banks in Maoriland were
inundated with applications for advances by the cos.
concerned in order to repay their depositors. The
banks refused to grant the accommodation, taking
the view that if their lendable funds were used in
this way they would be unable to finance the legiti-
mate requirements of the farming and commercial
community. The decision of the banks precipitated a
crisis, and, as the various cos. were unable to meet
their obligations, the Government was approached,
and in March last an Act was passed declaring a
moratorium until May 31 with regard to all deposits
except those held by the banks. A further provision
was adopted giving the cos. concerned the right to
retain the funds until December next provided higher
interest is paid. This latter provision has been
widely availed of, and repayment of the deposits
will not fall due until after December 31 next.
Meantime many of these concerns are scratching
around to find a way out of the bog. Some are
issuing bonds with from three to 10 years’ currency,
while others are raising more capital, in some eases
by new pref. issues.
There is a strong feeling that Parliament will take
a hand later on and compel any co. which accepts
deposits from the public to hold a certain percent-
age of its assets in liquid form. Under existing
conditions the depositors have little guarantee of
prompt repayment on due dates, unless the cos. are
favored with covering new deposits, for most of them
utilLse the money as business capital. Various deposi-
tors are, of course, suffering inconvenience through
their money being tied up, hut it is anticipated that
everything will pan out all right in the end.
If the Maoriland Government regulates the business,
the crisis will have served a useful purpose. Moreover,
the banks, by the attitude they adopted, have'
had their position considerably strengthened and have,
with one fell swoop, apparently smothered competi-
tion which had been “white-anting” the foundations
o! their business.
*-* • »
Occidental Consolidated, Cobar (N.S.W.),
has had its anxiously-awaited clean-up and
come a thud. All hands have been put off
and the staff has also received notice to quit.
About 2000 tons ore were treated for 420) oz”
gold (fine) and 45.80 z. in the concentrates’
the reqpvery working out at 4.96dwt. per
too. The average mill samples went over
lOdwt. The tqtal value accounted for ,in
tailings, etc., and gold recovered is 6.25dwt.,
but, of course, there’s more to come yet in
a final clean-up. Apparently the direc-
tor were so flabbergasted that they forgot
about this, and news went out from head-
quarters to the effect that there was a dis-
crepancy between gold recovered and mill
samples of 3. lodwt. Shareholders are to be
sympathised with. A collection of second-
mind machinery was scraped up from every-
where, and the old plant or part of it
sciapped. YV hen the first truck of ore was
tipped into the mill it became evident that
the mill was more suitable for a eliicken-
tarm than for hard sulphide ore. A mill
expert was called in and struggled manfully
to tickle up the plant, but without much suc-
cess. About four tons per hour was its
best, whilst -working, but breakdowns were
frequent. Tonnage, or the want of it, be-
eaine an obsession, and pulp was often sent
to the Pachuca tanks as fine sand and not
slime, launders and Raff wheel slime-baskets
wonldn t handle it, and gold-bearing solu-
tmns, sands, etc., were slopped about and
lost, lhat was how most of the unrecovered
gold went missing. The directors now state
that all will be well if a battery is put to
work instead of the rolls. As about £40,000
has been already spent, and there is very
little to show lor it, shareholders will need
a lot of coaxing to be induced to put in
more money. The annual meeting is over-
due, and when it does eventuate some inquisi-
tive shareholder might reasonably ask for
details of the cost of the present plant, the
amounts paid to directors for fees, travelling
expenses and Sydney office expenses and
commissions paid. Shareholders should also
demand a report from a mechanical and fine-
grinding expert to ascertain what is the
actual position before deciding to throw up
the whole thing in disgust. The old eo.
with its broken-down plant crushed with
greater ease far more dirt than the present
one is apparently capable of doing.
* * • »
v . Pei t h J B awaiting some reliable confirma-
R?.L° f r<ipor } of an alie sed oil find near
n. ? BaV ’ . a char & e of dynamite
put ip a seepage is said to have blown
oove P tV’° h»?' i The are, J 0n - which the “ dis '
- _ has been made is a 12-sq.-mik
a 01 T? th ® Boatll COilst a ud inland
fiom Bremer Bay te West Cliff Point, be-
tween Albany and Cape Beeuwin. It is held
i a co ‘ The beds of tertiary
and post-tertiary rocks, which lie in from
Bremer Bay, extend right round the West-
-oflPe Teeuwin, and as far
noith as Geraldton, and are beneath Perth
it is a possible oil-basin, but bores put down
here and there between Albany and Perth
and in and around the latter place, have
failed to give oil indications. If there is
oil nt Bremer Bay, there should at least
be indications around Perth,. This fact no
doubt, was at the back 0 f the State geolo-
gists minds when they told an ex-Minister
h ° "i’ a - 3 inclilled . t 0 wend money
it? their advice on oil-prospecting in
the south-west, that if he was determined to
make a start he should begin in Perth.
Bake View South was at an early stage in
KaJgoorhe s existence classed as a failure
and nobody thought anything of its chancos
until lecently, when the present owners a
party of working miners, struck a 2oz. tellu-
r»de lode at 300 ft. Hamilton, of the Gt.
Boulder, has taken a sampling option, and
a lot of ground to the south which had been
abandoned for years has been taken up bv
speculative persons. The new find is claimed
to be a continuation of the rich cigar-shaped
bonanza struck 21 years ago in the' Bake
view, and from which roughly £BOO,OOO
worth of gold was extracted in six months.
Then it petered out Suddenly.
• * * *•
The Bulletin’s anticipations regarding
I, 0118 . Gwalia (W.A.) have been realised.
Bewick, Moreing and Co., who run the show
have received a cable from the Bondon Board
to the effect that the reconstruction of the
treatment plant destroyed by fire some
months ago has been deferred. This means
that mining operations will be suspended
tor an indefinite period. The co. is evidently
determined to side-step the “ruinous” wages
award until it previewed by the Court at
the beginning of 1922.
* * ¥• '
. Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is going to swank
in spite of expert warnings. With not
enough ore in sight to make the venture other
than a risky gamble, an additional five-head
of stamps has been ordered, and to pay for
this another call has been made.
* * * *
Lake View Investment Trust, formed 18
months ago to side-step taxation problems
Tw C a i ha £ be i set °! d Lake View and Oroya
(VV.A.) has issued its first report and paid
‘j l b T Bt 6d ; The f -°- is bossed chiefly
by P. A. Govett and J. A. Agnew, late of
Bewick, Moreing and Co. Investments are
shown in the latest balance-sheet at £397 400
a hgure much below their market value ’ Of
P o o^ d nn inv^ tme ? t 9 , onl y one is Austra-
lian . ..8,600 ordinaries in the Zinc Corpora-
* * * .
Arthur Pearson goes up Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, like a dog with a twin tail every time
J. Li. btrevens radios his present itinerary,
btrevens is bound to the land of the 7ft.
nigger of Nor -TV est Australia, the draw being
the presence of permo-carboniferous rocks,
plus the usual yarn of oil indications and
prospects. Meanwhile he has hit the town
with the pbrase that some bitumen found on
the W.A. coast is an “inspissated and meta-
morphosed petroleum product.” While
Strevens is in the Nor’-West the S.A. Oil
concern still has engineer Dods watching
events in connection with the bore which is
being pushed through basalt somewhere near
Ararat.
* * * #
The Caledonia Consolidated, Warrandyte
( Vic.), is trying to pick up any gold that the
Money Miller crowd left behind live years ago
when they scrapped the claim. So far all
that has been got is water and a shaft out of
plumb. Now- the 200 ft. level has been
reached, where, to provide some sort of a
stimulant for callpayers, a crosscut is being
shoved out after Upton’s reef. On the strength
of having cut some leaders, the story was
told that a reef w’as at hand. Not quite sure
about it, the office has now decided to try
its luck by opening out on one of the veins,
and as it looks strong to the eye the betting
is on the co. dropping on to a reef. The judge
will be the Government Geologist, for whose
visit the south shaft is also being put in trim.
Ilis main mission, how r ever, is to be per-
suaded that the State can afford a grant-in-
aid as manna to a hard-up show.


Pruett cal daemon stration
of 4b<& Art cf e
S axfa* Crackitrig *
A lesson
m Forger^/.
The Course*
in Conopa-ny
Promoting.
TV>Oi, Arson School •
* <£? I "V
But H>«»ro is \
on 4, scV>ool wont £t&n<4 «,v«,r)m
SCHOOL’S IN!
"Our prisons are so many universities of crime."—Age.


THH
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having:
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—I 6 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Asiiton, M.L.C., Sir 11, Y. lirncldon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F ii. S. Falkiher, James Kidd, w. li’
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair, Jolui
Mair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S, (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
,WVs\\\W\\V
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don't allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been usin’ an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson £& Co., '““g-.
Olderflest. Collins Street Melbourne.
N-Z.—John Proctor 200 Hi«h St., Ch-istchurch
W A.-H. Little &• Co., 851 Hav St.. Perth
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
SGEWO%
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE**
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or P eady-P übbed
is the Original Tobaceo of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
The Bulletin's sorrowful send-off:—
Although \ ictoria was Thomas Joseph Rvan's
mother-State—he v.as born at Port Fairy in 1876
he had lived so long in Queensland that the soutuern
winter tried his constitution severely. A raw Mel-
bourne July left him with a heavy cold, and it was
against doctor's orders he went north to help the
Labor candidate for Maranoa. In Dunstan’s behalf
he spoke at Blackall, the town that determined his
own election in 1909 as M.L.A. for Barcoo, but the
effort exhausted him. Serious symptoms developed on
the railway journey from B.ackall to Jericho, and at
Barcald.ne the ex-Premier, now very ill, was taken
to the hospital. It was pneumonia, and on Monday
morning came death. So Australia loses one of he
most brilliant sons and the Labor party its cleveres,
and most commanding chief. He was a self-mad
man in the finest sense of the term ; a big Ausn a ia
in body, heart and brain. Unsurpassed in politics
controiersy, he distinguished himself aso as
constitutional lawyer. Going from the Queensland
Parliament, which he had led for four years anc
four months, to the House of Representatives, h
encountered an unusual degree of prejudice, but with
in 12 months he had overcome it completely by
sheer force of intellect and personal charm. Old
hands, hostile to him at the outset, agreed tha;
here wa* a man destined to be Prime Minister. It
is sheer tragedy that a career so rich in promise
should close at 45.
Jim Killick, who died in Sydney a couple
of weeks ago, was. one of the old-time book-
makers who flourished in the pre-registra-
tion days. He was contemporary with the
Thompsons, one of whom died in England
recently. Killick used to bet in a shop in
Iving-street, and one of the inducements
which he offered to his customers was £lOOO
to nothing the Metropolitan, Caulfield Cup
and Melbourne Cup. No one p : cked it, but
several selected the first two legs and had
a nice bit to crush against the third pick.
This in oue case was the Flemington watch-
breaker Wbckawai, who carried the co'ors
of M.L. sportsman Mitehelson just behind
the placed horses. Killick retired many
years ago, and his chref delights were grow-
ing flowers and feeding the brnds in the
aviaries at the Sydney Botanic Gardens.
Most of the birds knew him, and many of
them did tricks for him—in the presence
usually of an interested crowd.*
Alexander D. Ellis, 8.A., LL.B., Assistant
Parliamentary Draftsman in the Vic. Assem-
bly, has captured the degree of Doctor of
Letters for his history of the Fifth Division
Ellis did his bit in
the 20th and 31st
Battalions, subse-
quently becoming
bomb’ng-officer to
his divismn. Dur-
ing his Uni. career
before the war he
owned a pair of
active legs, and at
one time he’d th e
100yds. and 220yds.
chamn'onships of
the State.
FRANK
CLARKE, Min-
ister for Public
Works in the
Lawson Cabinet of
Victoria.
Ben Poulton, one of Adelaide’s most
popular doctors, is dead. He was born at
Geelong, educated at Scotch College in Mel-
bourne and the ’Varsity there, going on to
.London hospitals to complete his medical
course. But err since ISS2 he has been
J sin s. 111 Adelaide. He had few interests
outside his profession, and probably over-
\vork shortened his life. He was at various
times secretary and president of the S.A.
branch of the 8.M.A., and he did great work
tor both hospital and University.
John L. Potter writes in a firm fist from
Timaru (M.L.) ;
My own miner’s right beats by just eight days the
earliest quoted by “Granite” (B. 21/7/ 21). It is
N '°. an< t "-as issued to me at Beechworth (Vic.)
on August, 1856. 1 enclose an article from the
Tim arc Herald, which says I am the oldest gold-
digger in Maoriland, and I’m wondering if I am not
the oldest in Australasia. To date I have put 87
years behind me.
. ith the dearest hopes of his life unreal-
ised, George Austin, of the Vic. Works De-
partment, faded out suddenly last week.
1 wenty years ago he made such a good im-
pression upon everybody by the rush work
he did in preparing arches, pavilions, can-
opies and the like for the George and Mary
visit that Jt seemed likely he would become
Architect-General for Austral 1 a or some-
thing: but bp turned bis attention to a
special kind of pas-
senger aeroplane
and a gun range-
finding and sight-
ing apparatus. To
push these he took
two trips to Eng-
land, but not
secure anything
better than soft
words. Sanguine
till the last he
prepared a sketch
plan of a stately
and highly ornate
monolith which he
proposed should be
erected as a war
tnemoral in Alex-
andra Park, near
Prince’s Br'dge.
The City Court, at
the corner of Rus-
sell and T.otrobe
s'reefs, wlroh cost
fSO COO or more, is
his best monument.
JOHN ALLAN ,
M.L.A., the leader
of the Vic.
Farm era' Party,
which, combining
with Labor, has
just defeated the
Lawson Govern-
ment.
The recently-dead Bishop Druitt of
Grafton was young as Anglican bishops go
—only 46. He was an English vicar when
he was nominated Coadjutor-B.shop of
Grafton and Armidale. and three years later
when Grafton was detached from Armidale
he put on its first gaiters. The first bishop
of the old diocese, Dr. Sawyer, was drowned
in the Clarence in 1868.
Died in Sydney last week—suddenly,
though he had been in ill-health lately—
William Goodall Hearne, whose name is on
a million proprietary-medicine bottles. Many
years ago (he was 76 at the peaceful end)
. he was a chemist at Geelong, and from there
his business spread all over Australia and
Maoriland—he had lately been build ng new
laboratories in the Dominion. Once or twice
he had cut himself away from his drugs and
gone sheep-growing; but his test-tubes
always drew him back. That gallant sur-
geon, Colonel Hearne, who was killed while
tending wounded men under fire in France,
was a son.
Fever has just put “Finis” to the career
of Ferdinand Zabel, a brainy young Austra-
lian, in Central Africa. Born at Moonee
Valley (Vic.) a little over 30 years ago, he
was educated at Melbourne Grammar School,
then had a brilliant metallurgical course at
Freiburg ’Varsity. After a period on the
Rand he went hunting fresh degrees in Ger-
many, but got there iu.st in time to qualify
for four years of hardship as an internee
during the war. Since then he has been
probing the mineral resources of Central
Africa for big financial interests in London.
Incidentally, he was the youngest F.R.G.S.
when those letters were tacked to bis name.
His niother. Mrs. Frances Zabel, of Perth,
had just sold the Booldovers’ Library* and
was packing up to meet him in London when
a cable last week told her of the end.
To-day (Aug. 4) is the 70th anniversary
of the discovery of gold at Buninyong
(Vic.) by Hiscock, who was handed £lOOO
by the Government. Three weeks afterwards
Ballarat was discovered—allegedly by a
party named Brown, who doesn’t appear
to have got any reward at all.
Erie Woods, who has just passed out at
Hong-Ivong, after only 29 years, had nearly-
captured the alphabet in his student days.
He had the right to use 21 letters after his
name and his brains had brought him £l7OO
in scholarships and prizes. He was a Rhodes
Scholar from the Speck, took a doctor’s de-
gree and went to China as a medical mis-'
sionary.
James Kenworthy, who died at Patea
(M.L.) recently, was an old-time Inky Way-
farer, who launched the Budget at New Ply-
mouth, and later edited the Patea Mail,
Hawera Stab and Wanganui Herald. His
last proofs went to the reader at 82.
John Joseph Halligan, who had scored
47 years in the service of Melbourne
Punch, passed out the other day after a
long battle with an incurable complaint.
Halligan joined Punch as a youth, and for
many years was printer and publisher under
the McKinleys, the last of whom, Alexander,
entrusted him with many editorial duties.
Halligan was the example of smiling forti-
tude sometimes found among chronic
sufferers. Almost up to the finish he crept
stoically to work, and no one who met him
casually in the street was ever allowed to
see what the effort cost him.
Passed out at Varroville, Goulburn
(N.S.W.), on July 12, Mrs. Kate Raymond,
aged 90. She was a daughter of Col. Bull,
who in the ’forties was commandant on the
Blue Mountains at Bull’s Camp and B’ack
Heath, and in the first ’fifties went to Ben-
digo as Gold Commissioner and P.M. The
family : s remarkable for its longevity. Col.
Bull died in Goulburn at 95, and his wife
followed in three years at the same age. The
recently-deceased lady left five sisters ard
brothers, the eldest 88 and the youngest 74.
Her husband was Samuel Raymond, LLJD.,
a son of James Raymond, Postmaster-
General in the ’thirties.
Ex-cricketer Tom Garrett, N.S.W. Public
Trustee, had his 63rd birthday last week.
G. E. Pearse, a former Housekeeper of
the Assembly and the Federal Reps., passed
out the other day, a zed 84. He had been a
Vic. PuiTnmentary official for nearly half-a-
centnry, and as he retired a few months after
the open’ug of the first Federal Parliament
his record goes back to the days when Vic-
•.tw'a’R legislators were housed in old St.
Eat rick’s Hall in Rourke-street.
"Spare Corp” on see-saws in khaki:—
An ex-Digger who passed out the other day had a
promotion record which, but for slips backward,
miarht ha-e been a record for the A.I.F. Before
reaching Egypt he had been a sergeant, revetted to
private for a.w.l. and drunkenness, and scaled the
heights to sergeant-major again. Sundry doings in
Cairo brought him back to the ranks —he accepted re-
duction in preference to return to Australia—but
when the notification came through that he had
qualified for a commission his case was reviewed and
he was allowed his pips. On Gallipoli he climbed
rapidly; but after being wounded and returned to
Egypt he again extinguished himself, and was re-
turned to Australia and cashiered for habitual
drunkenness. He re-enlisted under a new name, and
gained and lost the rank of sergeant. Nevertheless,
he slipped through the officers’ school, and once more
became a captain. He had been again returned to
Australia for discharge and was ip camp under a
third name when the war ended. *lll6 curious part
about this man’s history is that when out of the
A.I.F. he has never been in trouble for drunkenness,
which was his major sin whilst in it.
The retort courteous, as practised by Gov-
ernment House in 1816 (Governor Mac-
quarie's secretary is writing to a master-
mariner of Hobart Town, William Stewart) :
Your conduct, in having signed a Petition lately
sent from this Country by a few despicable factions
and Malignant Individuals, and well known to con-
tain the most false, libellous and seditions matter,
is an instance of such unprincipled depravity that
His Excellency can never think you deserving of
any Indulgence Whatever from this Government.
"Ivaree”: The passing at Marseilles re-
cently of the wife of his Ex. J. B. Piot Bey
will be regretted by many original Anzacs.
When none but privileged officabs could
aspire to enter the exclusive portals of most
Anglo-Egyptian homes., Mme. Piot, the Bey
and their daughter treated us “white” by
extending to all Diggers, irrespective of rank,
the hospitality of their beautiful Cairo home,
where we were regarded as brothers of tbe
17-year-old lad who had just joined a French
regiment as a volunteer (and later won two
pips and the Croix de Guerre), Dozens of
Aussie mothers, wives and sweethearts had
reason to be grateful to the kindly, thor-
oughly human and broad-minded French lady
who befriended their boys at Deir-El-Banat
when the war was young.
"Meataxe”: Though they grow old in Tas-
mania they don’t rust. At Westbury a vil-
lage 30 miles along the Western line from
Launceston, Daniel Burke passed his 94th
milestone on June 12. Until a couple of
years back he was warden of the municipal-
ity, and he is still a councillor. Then in
Wellington-street, Launceston, there is John
McDona’d, erandfather of the cricketer who
has been making John Bull uncomfortable.
This warrior against years gaily confesses
to 96, and still does his bit as a dealer.
Gavan Duffy, J. 0 f the High Court made
what is for a Judge an amazing
admission —that he knew something about
vaudeville. Said ’s Honor: “To adopt an
illustration from the music-hall, I don’t think
it makes a bit of difference whether it
happens to John Dam or Solomon Dam or
the whole Dam family.” (Laughter—of
course.)
H. G. DARLING, wheat merchant and a
director of the Broken Hill Prop.
The movement in Adelaide for putting up
a statue to Flinders, who surveyed all the
south coast and named Mount Lofty, just
behind the city, has made a good start with
a To\yn Hall meeting under b.g patronage
and an address from Prof. Henderson. The
indefatigable Fred Johns lias found a batch
oi relics of the explorer in possess on o" t''e
Pilgrim family in S.A., descendants of his
nieee ; they include his compass, a copy of ms
will, and some buttons from h's uniform.
Johns has also made inquiries in England
about the beginning and ending of Flinders’s
I.te, but with no luck.. The b.l’thpiace in the
Lmcolnsmre village of Dorrington lias been
pulled down, and the London cemetery where
he was buried has been “improved” out of
all recognition.
So that he may not be entirely disap-
pointed m tne matter of embroideries, the
\ic. Government has made Gaud Mayor
Swanson a J.P, for life. It could be worse.
He might have got an 0.8. E,
Nearly a hundred years before Herbert
Booth discovered it, Bathurst (N.S.W)
held three curious characters. These were
iiarnson, Strange and Wilson, who had been
'Stt’ in r , for belng im P lio ®'ted in
at °;* conspiracy to mur-
der the British Ministers. Harrison, who
seems to have been a bit soft, had been a
Life Guardsman and Thistlewood had pro-
mised to make him Lord Chancellor of Eng-
and. He was to have thrown a fireball into
the oarracks at Ivnightbridge after the mar*
? e t nded up 36 Bathurst’s baker,
strange, who rose to be chief constable,
captured single-handed a bushranger named
Kobert Story, and was a terror to evildoers.
Wilson was a constable under Strange and
became the tailor of the place. He had
worked at the trade in Cato-street.
Bildad : Just dead Francis Abigail was
? i F r i?- tec^ n i st , a *L one time, but someone
tola him that the Pope was one also, so he
became violently Freetrade. He once offered
considerable money on the hustinsrs to any
one who could quote any speech "of his in
favor of a Protective tariff. An account was
sent ronnd to him at the Ministry of Mines
with a printed copy of his last speech be-
fore he changed over, and the rage of Francis
was considerable. He didn’t pay. Parlces
who gave Abigail his one and only portfolio,
was Freetrade and anti-Pope as a matter of
expediency. But Abigail took the horror of
t °J ne senor|s ly. no one knew why. Like
John Storey he held that it was easv to run
a Government (which is really in the main
a big financial concern) “if one is honest,”
fos idea of honesty being to object to the
I ope. whom he never saw, just as Storey’s
idea is to object wildly to the profiteer whom
he never defined. Perhaps to prove his
capacity Abigail took to banking—and went
to gaol.
THREE weeks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a 01 'thcliffe says he will spend three weeks in
Australia and write about the country on his return
to England.”
The gentle years that Darwin spent
In watching earthworms twist and crawl
Left honest science ill-content;
He wrote, but could not tell us all.
Three hundred weeks to study arts
To Lubbock’s mind seemed far too few;
Yet one with “'bulldogs” in his pants
Would swiftly tell you all he knew.
Three weeks upon Australian soil
At dinner-tables and in trains,
And then the ink begins to boil
While he who came and went explains
All that we are and mean to be,
Our dawn that fades, our noon that grows.
Three weeks! Then for eternity
He knows about it all—he knows!
lf.fi. w.
GEORGE STREET.


"Come end Join Me
00
Perfect Smoke
X'> \ N v \
§>VV•<
>\'\ v . *‘. v .
»;(
OWnV.n % v
Y^V^.'W'v
te : X *
\\
w»
l ft
r wi
m
d?
X
t?
<s*>
I
ft£
PRICE
This Famous
Mixture is
NOW
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
IN
2oz.
AIRTIGHT
TINS
Three Strengths
MILD
MEDIUM
FULL
123*
á
WCi
WUxfUre
6*
99
â
LONDON
MADE
THE PIPE THAT
STANDS THE TEST
OF TIME
AND CONSTANT USE


..•iSSsM
ci-
m
S 3;
wm
wm
sac
3a?
gaspaS
Peapes' “Warrigal” Rugs
All-Australian.
Tlie finest Australian wool—the world’s best —is used by Peapea
tor these soft, warm rugs.
The quality of the wool ensu">s that combination of light weight
and great durability so essential in an article for travelling and
continual use.
The patterns are distinctive, the colorings soft and harmonious, in
shades that do not readily soil.
Dark Grey, Fawns and Brown mixtures ; size 60 inches by 84 inches,
finished with fringed ends.
Decidedly good value at 30 /-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd.
gCI
-
n.
583
RS
&
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
3914-15 Star. S/8 5 Victory Medal, 3/8;
Gen. Ber. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for t.wo
miniatures, 2/8; Brooch for three ns tola-
tore., 8/6; Miniatures of ail medals in
stock. >
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
818 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This modem and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
lie Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
Thug The Bulletin’s M.D.
There ought to be nothing very dangerous to life
in a healthy man of 45 getting an attack of acute
lobar pneumonia from exposure to wet or cold
weather while travelling by motor or. rail. Given
a sound constitution, the recovery rate ought to
be about nine in 10 cases at that age. There is
quite a different story to tell when the pneumonia
is secondary to a disease like influenza. Here there
is a mixed infection, and many exceedingly harmful
germs are at work in addition to the bacillus of
Pfeiffer. An overwhelming toxannia is the great
danger in post-influenzal pneumonia, which comes on
insidiously. The patient may get 'flu, treat it lightly
PERMANENTLY OCCUPIED.
FULL BACK: “It is outrageous the way the
girls flirt with the umpire. I think they
ought to get married men for the posi-
tion.”
FORWARD: “ They tried, my dear, but the
married men all refused on the grounds
of prior engagements.”
by not going to bed at all or by getting out of
bed too soon, and in no time he is wrestling for
his life, the immediate danger being failure of the
heart consequent on the poisoning of the system.
Certainly big, burly people are bad subjects for
pneumonia as compared with those of slight build.
Mr. T. J. Ryan very likely caught the prevailing ’flu
while electioneering, and did not regard it very seri-
ously. He was admitted to a private hospital at
Barcaldine on Saturday, and died early on Monday
morning, which is convincing proof that his Bystem
was overwhelmed by toxaemia, and the immediate
cause of death would be failure of the heart. Re-
covery from post-influenzal pneumonia is purely a
question of the virulence of the toxins generated,
and in very bad cases like Mr. Ryan’s treatment
would be of little avail. Keeping up the patient's
strength, giving strychnine hypodermically and the
administration of an appropriate vaccine are relied
on, but. so far, no effectual antidote to the toxins
has been discovered. The death of Mr. Ryan in
his prime is a startling example of the danger of
maxing long journeys by train, coach or motor in
•July, which, in addition to being the coldest month,
is a period of the year when there is nearly always
a more or less severe visitation of that treacherous
and elusive disease called influenza for war.t of a
better name.
* * * *
“Durham”: It is fairly certain that the
first cattle-station in Victoria was on the
south side of the Murray just above the pre-
sent town of
Wodonga, taking in a
lot o£ the river fiats
that will be sub-
merged when the big
dam is built. In
October or November,
1835, William Wyse
took up Mu nga-
bareena station, on
the north bank of the
river, and including
the site of Albury, for
Charles Uotson Ebden,
afterwards one of the
first overlanders and a
Minister of the Crown
in Victoria. A few
weeks later Wyse
crossed the river after
some stray cattle, and
liked the look of the
country so much that
he formed Bonegilla
station on what is
now the Victorian
bank. In 1836-1837
he grew a crop of
wheat, on Bonegilla.
But Wyse was little
ahead, if ahead at all,
of James McFarlane,
of Ingegoodbie, in the
Snowy River country.
Early i n 1835 McFar-
1a ne and George
Mclvillop pushed over
th§x mountains from
Monaro to Luke Onieo, and a few months
later McFarlane took cattle into the Omeo
country.
* * * *
“Obey”: Many were drowned on the North
Coast (N.S.W.) in thus last record hood,
yet the death-roll would have been bigger but
for hundreds of heroic bits of rescue work,
most of which will never be recorded. Mary
Staunton is a slip of a girl living with her
parents at Knox Park. Murwillumbah. They
were marooned, and when a rescue-boat
arrived it could not get close enough to
the house: so this girl swam out to the boat,
not once but four times, and each time car-
ried with her a younger brother or sister.
Another Murwillumbah girl, Linda Hess,
swam across the rushing waters of the flooded
street from her home to the Australian Hotel
twice, and each time carried a younge,r sister
on her back. A little later she similarly
rescued two other children, and only laughed
in the Australian way when praised for
it The flood swept away all her own be-
longings, and she was left -with only the dress
she swam in. Hats off to Linda Hess and
Mary Staunton, of Murwillumbah !
• « » *
“T.H.M.”: Recently a gale blew for a
week from the nor’-west in Bass Strait, and
one day the anemometer at Currie, King
Island, recorded a total of 1050 miles for the
24 hours—-an average of 43 J miles per hour.
King Island has always been a gusty speck-
let, which largely accounts' for the 39 wrecks
that have happened around its shores. They
were gales like those of the other day that
sent the female-convict ship Neva to her doom
at the northern end in 1835, and the French
female-emigrant ship Cataragin to hers at
the southern extremity in 1845. These were
the two most disastrous wrecks the island
has known, ,300 souls going to Davev Jones’s
locker in the first instance and 399 out of
408 on board in the latter.
* * -t *
From Senator (General) Elliott:—
The note by “A.N.Z.” (B. 28/7/’2l> is a splendid
example of mis-written history. For a faithful
account of Villers-Bretonneux I refer readers to “The
Story of the sth Australian Division,” by Captain
A. D. Ellis, Staff-Officer of the sth Aus. Division. It
was edited by Lieut.-General Talbot Hobbs, late com-
manding the sth Division, and there is a foreword
by Marshal Foch. The book was compiled in London
by. Captain Ellis after perusal, not only of all the
Australian war records dealing with the battle, but
also those of the British units concerned. It was
submitted to the University of Oxford, which con-
ferred the degree of Lift. D. on its author, so that
the authority of the work cannot be questioned.
Pages 292-304 describe the operation in detail. The
13th and 15th Brigades, starting some 4000 yards
apart, were to bite a triangular portion out of the
enemy’s line, which included the village and part
ox the wood of Aquenne. Thus it was necessary, until
the Brigades .functioned beyond the village, for each
of them to protect its own inner flank. The delay
mentioned by “A.N.Z.” was, I believe, nearer three-
quarters of an hour than an hour and a half.
Whether this be so or not, it could have had no
possible effect on the attack of the 13th Brigade, for
the simple reason that no time had been fixed for the
junctioning of the troops beyond the village. Obvi-
ously the progress of the troops would depend on the
amount of resistance encountered.
I have never claimed that the idea of Villers-
Bretonneux .was either brilliant or original. The
converging attack is as old at least as the Battle of
Oannae and probably older. It had been universally
applied by myself while commanding the advance
guard of the sth Division in the advance beyond
Bapaume In March, 1917, whenever we found a village
held by the enemy, and I would add that my orders
for the attack of the advance guard on that occasion
“NIGHT TERRORS
“Come on, you're not afraid of the dark with
me.”
“No — o, — o, but Pm rather afraid of you with
the dark.”
were subsequently adopted by the Senior Officers’
School at Aldershot. I certainly was amazed, how-
ever, to find that the credit of originating the idea
was gravely claimed by the staff of the 3rd Corps
(British).
There is one other point of interest about this
battle. With the 15th Brigade on that occasion was
associated the Chestnut Battery of the Royal Horse
Artillery under Major Van Strauvenzee, and in
memory of the occasion the unique compliment was
paid the officers of the 15th Brigade of making them
honorary life members of the Royal Horse Artillery
Mess at Aldershot, on the precedent of a similar in-
cident in the Peninsular War.
“Oscillatory’V: My ship being in an Aus-
tralian port, I thought I would put a few
of my friends in for a ticket in Tatt.’s as
a small present. One chap drew first prize
—£4Boo net cash. Was he grateful ? I
should say so. He dropped me a line to
Colon remarking that “you will be glad to
learn that I drew first prize with that ticket
in Tatt.’s. I see the price of the ticket was
ss. 4d., which lam enclosing in postal notes, as
it is not fair to have you out of pocket on
the deal.”
* * -* it
“Morob”: Isn’t it about time some definite
statement was made by the Navy Office as
to the fate of the submarine AEI, which
met its end off the coast of New Britain
early in the war? It was first given out that
the vessel had struck an uncharted reef,
although few in those parts at the time be-
lieved that story. From facts brought to
light during the military occupation of
Ilabaul, in addition to what the authorities
knew from the beginning, it seems clear
now that the submarine was sunk by a
raiding German schooner fitted with a gun
and which was abandoned, after its crew
had set it on fire, between Ivokopo and Ral-
uana, close to where the battery protecting
the town now stands. Further, the staff
learned, at the eleventh hour, of the attempt
which was to be made to sink the AEI, and
although every effort was made to find the
schooner it was not done until too late. The
story whispered in Rabaul was that after
the sub. had been put down —with three shots
—•the gun was thrown overboard, th
schooner beached and set on fire and th
crew dispersed in the bush, to make tliei
ways separately to the town. It is ccrtau
that an unknown schooner was found in flame
by natives from the Malaguua mission sta
tion, who extinguished the tire. Although
she had been almost entirely burned, a gun
mounting was said to have been found on
her for’ard deck-planks, and in the cabin
a wickerwork basket of the kind used in
the German Navy for the transportation o:
shells. But surely the Navy Office mus
know the true -story by how, and might jus
as well make it public.
* * * «
“Toe” : The last blankard. Near Corbie
where the Nth Batt, A.1.F., held the line
for 53 consecutive days (the longest period
served by any British battalion), the men
were hopelessly fed up, and even the offi
cial communiques of the day were hailed at-
a diversion. These were usually imparted by
the G.0.C., a courteous old gent., in a morii
ing constitutional along the canal where
numerous posts were established. Stop
ping at Mick’s post once he detailed the
news, and was graphically describing the
bringing down of Baron Richtofen the pre-
vious day, when Darkle interrupted him
with, “Is he dead ?” “Ob yes, quite,” purred
the General. “Lucky blankard!” said Darkie
* * * *
A worried Outback parson fixes it: —
I am getting a bit sick of being asked, "Win
was Cain’s wife?" So let us bury the lady onc<
and for all. Genesis tells ne Adam and Eve hac
sons and daughters besides Cain and Abel (Ch. v
ver. 4).
I do not discuss the morality of the first cOuplt
of generations, I am only out to show that
according to the Bible, it was possible for Cain t(
hava had a wife.
The average life of those times, we are told
was about 850 years, and middle age was 425
Allow 20 years for a generation, and a minimmr
of two sons and two daughters to a generation, and
even if all the preceding generations had died be
fore Cain reached middle-age, he would have hat
over a million buxom young virgins to choose from
Now may she rest in peace.
» *■ % %
“Macquarie”: The use of notes instead ol
gold has hit the finances of the Lithgow and
Bathurst (N.S.W.) hospitals in a queer
way. In pre-war times visitors who threw
coma into the “wishing well” at Jenolar
Caves occasionally went to the length of ?
sovereign. But now sovereigns have disap-
peared, and when the well was last cleared
of its cash donations the best coin was e
five-shilling piece. All the same, each of the
two hospitals got £7B 10s. from the clean-up
• m • •
“T. 0.1.”: Superintendent Dwyer, recentlj
retired from M.L. Police, tells of a case it
which a naked footprint led to the capture
of a gang of burglars. It was in 188 if at
Oamaru, and the track was found on a blot-
ting-pad in a burgled building. Sikes and
his pals had got through a skylight, and one
whose sole had been moistened with dew or
the roof, stepped on to a dusty upper shell
and then on to the blotting-pad, where hr
left a perfect print. When some suspects
were arrested a few days later their foot-
prints were taken, and one turned out to be
a perfect match for the incriminating find.
A plea of guilty put the matter beyond doubt
Later the burglarious gent, who had failed
to watch his step made footprints in the
air while dangling at the end of a rope ir
Sydney. That was to celebrate the killing
of a constable.
ONLY AUNTIE.
“ Don't you know that good little boys nevet
come in where 'ladies are dressingf”
“But you're not a lady — you're auntie!”
“R.F.R.”: One of Fate’s grim little kinks
When a lady died at Rockhampton (Q.
recently a well-known young man sent >
wreath. It was placed on her grave exactly
20 minutes after the young man was buried
He was killed in a motor accident.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE PUPIL OF SMOODGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I desire to take lessons in love.”—Sch advt.
I desire to take lessons in love,
_ I long for tuition in bliss;
I 11 admit I’m a dud, I’ve come a big thud,
In attempts at the game up to this.
I’ve tried being forceful and fierce,
I’ve attempted the mien of the dove;
Maid, widow or flapper, I never can trap her,
I badly need lessons in lovel
See the ac-tor, the hero of flicks.
He just throws a chest at the gateway ;
The little soubrette with an optic joy-wet
Starts climbing all over him straightway.
many a chest (but in vain)
I’ve thrown ’ndd the multitude shoving;
I get the thing muddled, I never am cuddled—
-1 really need lessons in loving!
0 teachers of Doping the Soul,
Professors of Taming the Heart.
Your guidance I seek, all modest and meek,
To help me to capture a tart.
No matter if blonded and gilt,
Brunette or as red ae a forge—
Provide me the dope that will make a jane t*fUt
And snuggle up, gasping “Oh, George!”
Bring along every wile, trick and lure,
Scheme and bait re the object above ;
1 long like the Dickens for cuddles from chickens-
I am pining for lessons in love!
jf.s.w.
HORACE COWNTERLUNCHE.


mm*
it
I
tt
k
A
W ; ri% %
mm
If M
fill;
A
s*& ■'
£_ : ls "* _.:.£§
‘Sti
mi
sss
rv
rsj
r..m;
■
sffiWgfeTS
Sr *
.
|J|pP
:\
:V?
1111111
zsnm
>4HM<
:■■.
iswia
BJSS»I
#«SBiteiS
iHliii
SI
.'■v .1 ■:.■'•
ggglj
7
■ -
IIS!
•vv::
For 77 Years PENFOLDS have
taKen the “e” away from Wine
wherever exhibited.


No.
IoS. All Diamonds, £l3/10/-
No. 144. All dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131.
Exquisite design
Diamond set ’
£l7/10/- ’
-Single Diamond, £7/10
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawson & @cw.)Ltd
Sydneif gstablismenh*-
Jwo Sydney
187 PITT ST NEAR KING ST.
CORNER 4*12 GEORGE ST.
ä
å
No. 148.—A1l
Diamonds.
£l(5/10/-
_
No. 150.—Single Diamond. £9/10/-
“Ford”: Yorlcie’s pal told him that any
medical student could put him straight on a
little matter that was worrying him. He
didn’t know one personally, so in his simple-
mindedness he went up to the University.
He hung about the med. school for nearly
half-an-hour, and then a dapper little fellow
ni white overalls emerged. “Excuse me, sir,”
said lorkie, “but are you a student going for
a doctor !” “Cripes, no,” was the reply:
‘I m just a painter goin’ for a pint!”
«• * *
“Gustavus Gravelpit”: As I neared the
oyster-shop sounds of dreadful commotion
going on inside smote my ears. Shouts! A
crash! Then an affrighted shriek! Sud-
denly a man, demented-looking, his eyes start-
ing from his head, his collar and tie torn
from their moorings, dashed out, nearly
knocking me over in his blind haste. On
the man’s heels followed, yelling “Blue mur-
iV-1 ~o r ,^ le Graeco-Roman equivalent, a
pallid-faced, infuriated Dago waiter. The
puisued took the middle of the road, sprint-
ing as if Old Harry were after him. The
JJago, carrying considerably more weight
than his quarry, and expending a great
deal of energy by reason of his continu-
ous screaming of what must have been hor-
HIS NEW PROFESSION.
“What’s your brother doing now?”
“He’s a joiner.”
“Sort of carpenter, isn’t it?”
"No. When he sees two fellows having a
drink he joins them.”
rible language, soon began to lose ground.
I kept close behind him, telling myself that
this was the real thing, and that I must
A BREACH OF ETIQUETTE.
“Hemma, yer call yerself a lady — ain’t yer going to introduce me to yer Woke?”
be in at the death. We were approaching a
cross street when I saw the Dago put his
hand in his hip pocket and take out some-
thing thafeiglinted. “Aha!" said I to myself,
“I knew it could only end one way. The
tragedy is upon us!” I had never seen a
real murder. The horror was to be vouch-
safed me. The panting steaka-da-oys't
menial for one awful second held the gleam-
ing thing in front of him. Then lie stopped
dead, put it to his lips and blew a shrill blast.
It was a policeman’s whistle. I don’t mind
saying that I felt like kicking him.
* * * *
“Ratio” on a titular grab:—
"Medical Practitioner,” re the use of the prefix
“doctor” by quacks (B. 30/6//21), hits many of
his professional brethren. How many leeches have
any better right to this highest degree than the
hundreds of bachelors and masters of arts, law,
science, engineering
and music. Of 1175
medical graduates of
Melbourne Uni. only
206 have proceeded to
the doctor’s degree.
Thus about 80 per cent,
have not gone beyond
M. 8., 8.5., notwith-
standing that (with
the exception of a
few Old-Regulations
law graduates) only
medicoes may still
proceed to the doc-
torate by exaniination
on set subjects, and
not by thesis alone. A
doctor is one who has
made a contribution to
the sum of human
knowledge. Having
undertaken extended
research, he is quali-
fied to teach some-
thing new. A reput-
able bachelor or mas-
ter of laws does not
ass u m e the prefix
“Dr.” until he has
gained the right. And
in fairness to the
fully-qualified doctors
of medicine, to the
doctors in other
schools who have
given years’ to re-
search, and to the
conscientious soul
whose plate reads “Mr.
Sawbones, Physician,”
the practice of assum-
ing any degree with-
out authority, should
be stopped by the Medical Assoc., by the Unis,
which grant the degrees, and, if necessary, by the
courts of law.
* * *
Quirk” : The hard cases were not con-
fined to the A.I.F. When the R.A.F. was
formed out of the R.F.C. and the R.N.A S a
lot ot the rigid discipline of the Army and
Navy was not enforced. As an instance
pilots in some squadrons were allowed to
paint fancy names on their ’buses. One
"bird,” more daring than most of them,
Oalled his “Myobb.” But lie had to have it
painted out when, after asking the natural
Question, the Brigade Commander was told
“Mind Your Own Blanky Business.”
“Mique”: When a recent ease which I
would I) t name for less than Gs. Bd. was on
jbrowrht the news into a Government Law
Office m Sydney that the jury was con-
sidering its verdict, and that the Judge's
summing-up seemed rather favorable to the
defendant. One impulsive gentleman there-
upon became very excited, and striking a
blow at space shouted : “Then the Judge is
a very weak-minded man—lie’s let himself
he influenced by the Evidence.”
x * * *
“Tc I’aiia”: If “En Zed” (B. 7/7/’2l)
stays a night in any King Country (M.L. j
town he will change his views about Mere
losing caste by receiving attention from
Kam Chowder and his brethren. A common
spectacle is the sleek and sneaky Hindu
Brummagem-jeweilery pedlar escorting a
pretty Maori girl to “te pitchers,” while'a
glowering Hori watches and aches to plant
a boot where it might do some good, although
lere s mum and dad just lean against the
fence and see nothing.
* ■' * *
t o y • lender the re-organisation
ot the Citizen Forces the old A.I.F. units
continue to exist as militia battalions. At
the recent Liverpool (N.S.W.) eight-day
camp the O.C. impressed upon his men the
necessity for upholding the prestige of the
Umpty-Umpth ’ and perpetuating the fame
if won in the war. Incidentally, he deplored
the habit the men had of referring to their
und as the Blanky Umpty-Umpth.” “Whv
he ’ “ em P}°y adjective ‘glori-
ous I hereupon the battalion enthusias-
tically took unto itself the name: “The
Blanky Glorious Umpty-Umpth.”
* * * *
.“Off aider” : Yes, Fritz certainly had his
bright moments. None but a humorist could
have conceived the idea of welcoming the
trill I™’ 1 ™’ ??, wl y™ved from Egypt, with the
f. wa ? alacarde d above a section of
riont-lme trench beyond Armentieres), “Ad-
™ Australia—if you can.” And at the
taking of Bapaume, in 1917, some of the
luggers found a woman’s blouse (call it a
blouse, anyhow) nailed to a wall. Below it
There” deriHlVe h'gmid, “Australia Will be
* * * *
Hori gets a bit of his own back:
„ V le r « ce,!t report of a Maoriland Native Land
Claims Commission—-appointed in 1920—tells the
tale of a piece of land-jobbery by one Kemp in 1848
Acting on behalf of the N. Z. Land Co. Kemp induced
the Maon chiefs in what is now the Canterbury pro-
vince to part with 12,500,000 acres for £2OOO and
ihe promise that certain areas would be set aside
tor permanent Maori use. Originally the allocation
was made by a wave of the,hand: “As far as yo
can see, ehoa.” Time after time the question of th
* reservations” has come up in various Land Courl
and the deed of purchase has been challenged. Now
after 72 years of battling and a bit of good war
by the Commission, Hori and his family in the area
are to get £354,000. The sum is arrived at bv
assuming that land in 1848 was worth lid. pe
acre; and interest and expenses in getting the
claim a hearing are included in the total. The
pahs are anxiously awaiting the return of Bill Massev
to pay te divvy.
“Stoke Gunner”: I think “Addo” (B.
7/7/’2l) has missed the duekboard. Soon
after July, ’l6, Fritz had plenty of oppor
tunities of inspecting Stokes gums, and not
Australian ones either. The reason Fritz
didn’t use the gun was that it Was not fitted
to liis temperament. Every bomb- or shell-
throwing implement that he used could be
fired by lanyard or electricity from behind
shelter. True, he had reason for shying off
the Stokes gnn, in particular—-nearly every
battery of “Charlie Chaplin’s Eight Artil-
lery” in the A.I.F. had \casualties at one
time or other through prematures. Never-
theless, the Stokes shell was singularly effec-
ftye when it arrived safely owing to its load
of 2fib. of ammonal in a small shell of lOflb.
* * * .
“Snips”: The Sydney press referred the
other day to a matter which was to be dis-
cussed at “the usual monthly stopyvork meet-
ing of the Seamen’s Union.” Most union
offices are closed now on Saturday morning,
even if .they are bodies whose members still
work on the Jews’ Sabbath. Not all unions
are consistent, however. One which held
meetings each Saturday in order to legalise
the Saturday loaf (stop-work meetings to
consider any special circumstances are recog-
nised in most awards) received a shock when
its officials put in a claim for double pay for
overtime; and the matter was fought out
over several special meetings before a majo-
rity allowed the officials’ claim. Needless
to say, it was the men strongest for the
Saturday loaf who most vehemently objected
to the payment.
* * * *
“Xajmilc”: In the days before the big
hotels in Cairo were closed to the Diggers a
notice posted in the smoking-lounge of one
of the largest of them
read : “It is not permitted
for ladies or gentlemen
to have children in this
lounge. (Signet]) M
Manager." Some wag
added in chalk : “No lady
would !" And then they
took the scream down.
A DESIRABLE RECIPE.
NEWLY-WED: “Finally I did say something,
and now the wife hasn’t spoken to me
for a week.”
OLD HAND: “Mind telling me what it was
you said?”
Hal”: This notice was tacked by its
owner below a brand-new hat in a Sydney
restaurant: “Am washing niy hands. ' This
hat belongs to the champion heavyweight.
He is coming back.” Ten minutes later the
owner returned and read this scrawled be-
neath : “Hat now worn by champion sprinter
of the Commonwealth. He is not coming
back.”
THE MUSES DOME TO MELBOURNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
bourne a u ve !l niuSiical week in Mel-
Mi will h» pte "!S er ’ "'hen Melba and Clara
\ be There will be concerts every
the vinp-ir!i ail< f S /' 0n ! parts will compete, and
9 bui i ch bells will be a feature of the
KiithiS- 1 » b ™« '* l “' * * societ,
Sing, oh passionate soprano,
Vast contralto, shake the earth;
Now of tenors from Milano
Let there be no sign of dearth.
Mezzos, altos, booming basses,
Baritones, superbly throw
Wider, wider still, your faces,
Chorusing or on your aces.
Hallelujah, let her go!
Twang the golden harp of Tara,
Beat the drum’s distended skin.
Lai Lai, Baw Baw, Yam and Lara,
Send your bandsmen teeming in.
If you cannot warble, whistle.
Twang the Jew’s-harp as you go.
Whang with vehemence and gristle
At the ’cello. Know ye this'll
Flaunt our fame or lay it low?
Days of music wild and woolly
Aie upon us. Do your best,
Clara Butt ; extended fully,
Madame Nellie, now with zest
Wrench your topmost note asunder,
Shake the walls and lift the roofs'.
Musically Melb’s a wonder.
We have said it, and, by thunder,
Here’s where we produpe the proofs !
VICTORIA.
DIDO.
AND SO
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I could not leave things so, and so
I kissed her on the lips.
Half-measures pall, as well you know.
I could not leave things so, and so
We let love lead us on ; but, oh.
The fall, when Prudence slips!
I .could not leave things so and 50....
I kissed her on the lips.
N.S.W.
J.Q.H.


r The Electric Light and Power
Plant for you to install
, Because -
DELCO-LIGHT IS AIR-COOLED: More than
4000 Delco-Light plants were used by the United
States Government in war-work. One reason
Delco-Light was specified by the Government
for this service was because it is air-cooled. 1 here
is no water to carry—no freezing in winter—no
boiling in summer—just efficient simplicity.
DIRECT CONNECTED: The engine and gener-
ator are built as one compact unit. The engine
is direct connected to the electric genera or.
SIMPLE: Delco-Light is self-starting and stops
automatically when the battery is fully charge .
There is only one place to oil. There are no grease-
cups with which to bother. No belt adjustments.
A 1 2-year-old boy can care for your Delco-Light.
DURABLE: Only the highest grades of materials
are used—from the best procurable ball and roller
bearings, through every detail of manufacture
to the crank-shaft, which is drop-forged steel.
DEPENDABLE: Delco-Light is now endorsed by
over 1 50,000 satisfied users. The plant that oper-
ated so satisfactorily during the severest tests
under war conditions— certainly may be depended
upon for every-day use in your home or barn.
EFFICIENT: Delco-Light runs on kerosene,
benzine or gas. You get four times as much
light per gallon of kerosene when used tor fuel
in Delco-Light as when you burn that same fuel
in kerosene lamps.
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
TASMANIA
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Kent Street, Sydney.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
W. F. & E. A. Stewart, Cameron Street, Launceston.
. Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Geo. WUIs & Co., Perth.
jA. D. Riley & Co., Lamb ton Quay, Wellington.
\ Farmers’ Co-operative Association, Christchurch.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. Crowle, Limited, 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


The Federal Mutual
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident $ Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
K. ft Jtr. A r» * vrr
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
lariff from 16/- per lay, or from
72 Guineas per week.
Tels ‘ : Y3OQ I- 3002- Apply Manager.
King Ge woe IV
The TOPNOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
Adrian': Jenkins said he intended to
marr.v as soon as possible. He had the usual farm
and the usual imlk goddesses roamed his pastures,
so female cockvdoiu was “out to ketch.” But
after tailing round, time about, with every single
girl and widow in the valley, he suddenly announced
his engagement to Tilly Simms, the plainest piece
of muslin for miles and a second-rate milker into
, ba ‘' g f u '- “ Wot L wu* yer thinking of, man?”
a-ked old Regan, Whose daughters were star artists
at the game. Jenkins looked a bit sheepish, then
n <WeU ’ She wuz the only one me
mother s wedding-ring ’d fit, and a man don’t want
to have a thing like that lyin’ on 'is 'ands doin’
nothin’.”
*
* # *
, s 1 urphy ” : I>ve J u st read of a big
jewel robbery at San Francisco in connection with
which the chief clue found by Detective John
Cameron was tt coffee-cake bearing the teeth-marks
and finger-prints of the thief. Cameron took the
cake to headquarters; and when he opened his
*7 J at f r 0,1 be found that a hungry brother-
sleuth had eaten the evidence. This recalls an
incident at the Bridge (q.) in the early 'nineties.
The doctor and chemist who had to hold a post-
mortem on a swaggy found dead at his camp were
taking parts of the corpse back to town in a billy-
can for further examination. When passing Cus-
sen’s pub they called in for a reviver, leaving the
billy on the step. Half through their nips a shrill
voice came from the doorway: “Look out, Mister—
a dog’s scoffed all yer bait!”
* ■* * ,
”E.D.” : Among the surveyors on the job
was Ellison, who specialised in snakes. He was a
great authority on them, and seemed to value them
highly He kept bis specimens in candle-boxes, and
dispatched consignments to city scientists with the
same peculiar tastes. A chainman in the gang was
1 ranks, a lad of about 22, whom nothing surprised.
One night a low-down joke was put up on Franks
Sneaking in while he slept, Cronan, the practical
from’ tm P r SltCd l l P ie^ e of S arden hose (pinched
tom the Cargee tank for the purpose) in Franks’s
bed. Means of waking Franks were adopted later
and presently the chainman was heard calling in a
whisper, Ellison t Ellison 1” Cronan drasravd Elli
out of his bed and produced “L SanS
tent-door. “Well, what is it?” demanded Edison
leres a . - great snake in me bed!” replied
!™ nk ( s „. ln the same whisper. “Well, what of it?”
What 11 you give us fer it?” demanded Franks.
x * * *
“Banksia”: The dry cones of the honey-
suckle (banksia) are sometimes used on the Blue
t i r nS as a substitute for tobacco. The
fhrn,! if “ , to u Walt tIJI th ey are dry through and
through, and then crumble them up. The result is
either smoked in a pipe or mad e P into cigarettes
ret/'hn" told . I me that the centre-pieces of the
gr honeysuekle are the sweetest. It is alleged
Z S'rs SSSSJr - “ «*-£
* * * *
Poultry-keepers sometimes, un-
lawfully, ghoot the brown hawk
(two varieties, Hieracidea ben-
gore and 11. oriental™) under
the impression that he is a con-
firmed chicken-stealer; but I
think his diet consists chiefly of
insects. He is a whale on grass-
hopper, for instance, and is also
a keen rabbit-hunter. Just lately
I watched a brown hawk circling
low over some domestic ducks
feeding in a swamp, but it made
no attempt to injure them, while
in another instance I saw a mas-
pie-lark calmly perch alongside
a brown hawk, sitting, half-
asleep, on a willow bough. The
hawk merely opened its eves
noted the small piebald near by’
and dozed off again. Laziness is
a characteristic of these birds.
Instead of building a nest for
themselves, they usually reno-
vate an old magpie’s, crow’s or
raven’s nest. I once saw a couple
of these hawks watching an egret
(great white variety) catch small
cels in a mudpool, but though
the hawks made many attempts
to intercept , the egret’s dinner,
they never struck at the bird itself. *
' * * *
Alefordon”: Somebody recently referred
SMSSfflLSatttei «*•
•» Sss^sffisx?
The animal was about 24ft. high and 44ft in
large tuskflikefw/ W ° man in color - V had
*
“Steve Hart”: Struck a microscopic black
antlike insect on the North Coast (N.S.W ) th»
o„her day that I don’t want to meet again. He
had all the stinging properties of the various ant
tribes rolled into one. He was perhaps a sixfppntii
of an inch long, and had six legs and a pair of scSr.
like nippers in front. Which end he stings with
I don t know ; but he left a lump as big eg-
above my ankle which didn’t go down for a day”
lLl b L Wa /' i P i rt . from this cha P (some Abo. mav
know him), what is our worst stinger?
D.F.’- : One of the first blacktraekers
employed by Government was a gin. In ISI6 some
Tasmanian abo.
if. 1 ?’ , „ i-ad been tor three years with “Black”
tlrifwi T’ S *?“* ot ' bush rangers. Tradition savs
that when Howe found she could not keep up during
that 8 Sum m 6 " 1 t 0 Sll °° 1 t her but failed t 0 kill, and
that when she recovered she was naturallv keen on
NO EXCUSE FOR IT AT ILL
"Blowing a bit, isn't he?"
"Yus, and Gawd know, V. got nothin, to How about-’e came in larst.!"
IZTSe JT$- Lic ' l,t -' Governor Sorell reported
that she had been a constant guide to a party under
beigeant McCarthy which, owing to her skill in
Peking, h.d often tee. in.Ued* to el"
.1 didl'o. A ,—***. « b »- Wrt Mosquito,
also clul good work as a tracker in the Speck at this
cliief* of th er o e + t0 ° k n t 0 the bUSh himSelf ’ became
chief of the Oyster Bay tribe of abos., and made
Changed. ** Bfettler ® ti]l he was ca^ht
* *
“Lofty”: Long-distance shooting? A
hunter round here has to dip his bullets in brine to
keep the roos from becoming overdone while he
ndes up to skin them.
* * *
Jim Jambs’ : Sydney Zoo recently got a
cargo of lions from M.L. A chap over there I
understand, breeds them as a business. In view of
the cat-rabbit cross, which the Abo. Council is talk-
ing about, why not cross lions with sheep? With
careful selection you ought to be able to do it
Then what a surprise you’d have for the dingoes in
the west!
* * *
Claroyamo”: A Richmond Rive?
(N.S.W.) resident dropping in on a
neighbor one evening was surprised to
find the stalwart young grandson look-
ing and feeling very ill. H e couldn’t
say what was wrong with him. He had
‘‘taken bad” that afternoon while plough-
ing and had no pain, but there was a
funny feeling in the upper part of his
back, as if something was sitting upon
it; and he felt he was dying. The old
grandfather, seemingly, was then quite
well. Next morning grand-dad was
dead and the young man was his usual
self again. Have abo. psychics anvthing
to say about it?
“Surat”: Add to “Searchlight's” testiuiony
( • */?/ 21) re the eat-rabbit that many years ago,
on Hawksview estate, near Albury (N.S.W.), some-
body conceived the idea of using Thomas as a bunny-
eradicator, and accordingly liberated several on a
flat separated from the homestead by water. Num-
erous youngsters displaying characteristics of both
-* n, ™ als a [ nved on th e flat shortly afterwards. I
° S* tO . knOW . ? 1 stlll retain the gun that led to
a closer inspection of one of them.
Janus’ : Tell “Narrabie” (B. 30/6/’2l)
:^- Stop hiR Uag ' s teeth flom filing out by rub-
salt Fiv/ UniS t Well everv da >- for a month with
salt. Five minutes per diem is sufficient.
‘Sir Speii 1 ': The head-hunters who reduce
with ° f ,. trophies to that of an orange,
h the original features essentially recognisable
are not such mysteries as “Heredot”' (B Sn
iwf* JUSt °, Ver the range from Cuen(, a. on the
ipei Amazon, live the Jivaros, among whom it is
the custom to treat the victim’s head by this redue-
ing process UTic head is kept, in accordance with
tuba laws, till after the yearly ceremony to appear
Je tl ma 'I S Sp , irit - after which it is handed to
the slater who adorns his doorwav with it or a*
is more often the case, it is traded to a ’passing
OUR OLD FRIEND PATERFAMILIAS.
HEN I.: “Where's Ms wife?”
HEN II. : "Oh, she went gay, and the Judge
granted him custody of the children."
white man. The process is a strict tribal secret.
",/T ag ° a German scientist went to find out
tLSf ‘ e b ’T eSS - About a later he was
was wt < Z ma '' ket ' pJaee of Guenea, but all' that
uas left of him was a shrunken head.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE SUNSET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The King’s Dramatic Players was Bill Stormer’s
company,
And it played to pallid houses in the smalls;
-East Lynne” with all parts doubled and most
tragic scenery
" as its main infliction in up-country halls.
* Ol years old Bill had struggled hard to find his
actors pay
(Though shabby, he’d a heart as good as gold),
And the actors stuck to William in the old-time
- actors’ way,
While the wardrobe and the plays grew green with
mould.
One summer’s day a telegram came from the man
ahead;
Bill glimpsed the word®—they nearly knocked him
down.
’’Take train to Bunga-Wunga,” was the message
that he read,
“Eve fluked the annual Show nights in this town!”
Bill Stormer’s heart was filled with joy and mingled
hope and fear.
Before his eyes rose visions bright and guy.
igars and bouquets floated in a happy haze of beer
He even saw his actors drawing pay!
With dizzy dreams and beating hearts thev packed
the props and bags;
Bill counted out the money for the train;
ie comic man, with fevered brow, invented ten
new gags;
The soubrette and the “heavy” watched for rain.
Now, the town of Bunga-Wunga from the station
lies a mile,
Pin”®/ 01 ' d,iVe there with the "‘oilman in a cart.
Bill Stormer packed his actors in, his face one
beaming smile,
While the peace of countless ages filled his heart.
He climbed up by the driver, and he lit a large
ww" lle /? zed alone ' the dust - v country road,
Whe.e a string of gigs and buggies met his vision
near and far,
Each bringing into town its Show-day load.
A LESSON IN SYMBOLS.
TEACHER: “So, you see, there is the British
hon the Russian hear, the German
eayle, the Chinese dragon and so on.
tralia?"
JONESIE: "Yes, if you pleace, sir, Billy
Hughes!"
Far OV “oud n ; the WeStWard glmd a copper-tinted
Then Bi , n dra,,k in the Pleasant scene;
his thoughts d " Ver a " d he Spoke
“Thafs the finest sunset, sir, I’ve ever seen!”
The dl ’alroJvn ked " P ?I °° lnily ’ then sat b *ck with
“That W ° r , dS Stnick Williai " lik e “ hail
burnin’ down ’ B^D ° r ' that ' S the T °™ Hall
It started when I come down fer the mail.”
N.3.W.
STAN EAST.


EIGHT MILES AN HOUR—
and Loaf While You Do It
mo>
m
AN EVINRUDE MOTOR on
your rowboat will cut the
water at seven or eight miles
an hour. Put it on a canoe
and you can make eight to ten
miles. Any canoe can
be used or any rowboat
—s q u a r e
or pointed
stern. N o
special boat is needed. Your
Evinrude fits them all and is
easily attached.
You can take it any place where there
is boating. The Evinrude is easily
carried—weighs only 73 pounds—and
is so easy to operate that
Anyone Can Handle It.
There is no weed-catching rudder to bother with—
all steering is done by the tiller handle, which swings
the entire propeller sleeve. Swing to the right or
left and you can turn around in a boat’s length.
By a twist of the tiller handle the boat instantly
backs up—without stopping the motor.
Speed is regulated by the timer lever—a slight
move of the timer lever to right or left and you
at once get any speed within the range of the
Evinrude Motor.
Smooth, Flexible Power for
Every Boating Purpose.
Your Evinrude is more than just a
power plant for a fishing or hunting
boat. It makes a power boat of any
canoe, rowboat, skiff or other light
craft.
Then you have quick, easy transporta-
tion, not only for fishing and hunting,
but also for picnicking, camping,
pleasure riding and all other water
purposes.
Women like the Evinrude not only because it is
easy to start but because it is clean. There are
no dirty oil cups. The gasoline and oil are poured
into the same tank and the lubrication is automatic.
There are no batteries, wires or switches to cause
confusion. Ignition is furnished by the Evinrude
built-in-flywheel type magneto.
The Evinrude is handsomely nickelplated and
enamelled, improving the appearance of any boat.
It is designed on lines of extreme simplicity and will
last for years without breaking or getting out of
order.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
SCRUTTONS
G.
161 Clarence Street,
THE CHARM OF A GRAFONOLA IS IRRESISTIBLE.
m
oak - ss>\s
I
a. &
\^m
i
;
mim
m
!W
ft
II
t 4 .
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
AND PRICE LIST.
\ X not become the possessor of such
* * a wonderful entertainer as a
COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA?
You can hear in your own home the
performances of the world’s Celebri-
ties reproduced with the most start-
ling realism through the medium of
this truly magnificent instrument.
We have a wonderful stock
to choose from, and the terms
are exceptionally easy.
ą
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
AND AT—
NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.


Don’t take life too seriously—you’ll never get
out of it alive, anyway!
Keep smiling. In spite of heavy taxation, drought, floods and other misfortunes you can turn up smiling so
long as you have good health! s
Keep healthy by taking an occasional dose of CLEMENTS TONIC when you’re feeling “off color.”
ELEMENTS TONIC has maintained its popularity as an excellent medicine for insomnia. loss
or appetite, anaemia and similar ailments. It is generally regarded as
Australia’s Family Medicine.
See that your local storekeeper er chemist serves you with
CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Billy T.”: The spring dray was driven
by a small, shrunken man who sat on a candle-box,
his knees well up to his nose and a long stick in
his hand, with which he occasionally stirred up a
lank, lethargic, grey horse. Sitting in behind among
the bedding was a fat woman of 35 or 40, reading
a “Twopenny Tripe.” Peters, who was camped by
the track, gave the man good day as he passed, and
received a nod in reply. Next morning, afoot again
early, Peters came upon the outfit in a bend in
the creek. There was some washing hung on the
dray-shafts and on the saplings, and down at the
fire, his sleeves rolled well up and traces of soap-
suds about his elbows, crouched the small man, frying
bacon. The men exchanged greetings and comments
on the weather; then the cook carefully deposited
the bacon on a clean plate with some toast, took
up the victuals, and retreated to a burnt, hollow
log. Within this he placed the food. Returning
with an apologetic grin he said: “I alwus gives the
ol’ girl her brekfust in bed.” When Peters was
going the little man followed him a hundred yards
or so; then, taking advantage of a bit of cover,
he said: “Are you from Bidgee, mate?” Peters
said he had been in Bidgee. “Goin’ back ever?”
“Yes, in about a fortnight.” “Know a feller there
name of Collins?” “Yes, I’ve met Ben Collins.”
“Well, look here, you might sorter put it to him
to come and get liis wife back. I’m on’y spoilin’ her.'
* * * *
“Bung”: If “Aragun” (B. 14/7/’2l)
wants to add a bald-headed nig. to his collection, he
might find one in the Gundagai (N.S.W.) district.
On Bundarbo station in the ’nineties there was a
Binghi stockman with a head as hairy as an emu’s
egg. It wasn’t old age, for on the day I saw him
he cleaned up the whole staff of a boxing sideshow
at the Jugiong races.
* * * *
“Ford”: “Peter Pan’s” (B. 14/7/’2l)
kitten mothered by an Australian terrier reminds
me that a Kerang (Vie.) greyhound bitch, de-
prived of her family, forthwith acted as wetnurse
to a young motherless lamb. The lamb would accom-
pany its adopted parent on her expeditions to re-
stock the larder, but tailed off badly during the
chase. Its lack of speed and refusal to eat rabbit
was a never-ending worry to the old lady.
NO ONE TO MEET HIM.
THE NEW ARRIVAL : “By the way, do you
know where I can hiah a cah about
here?”
THE OLD : “Well, sir, there's a cocky
up that there track about five miles
along who 'as a sort o' one, but I don’t
think 'e'll let it out. She mostly does
the chaff-cuttin'."
“Esmonde”: My dog used to get into a
neighbor’s yard, chase his chooks and scratch up
his garden. He complained, so I told him if Hie
mong. troubled him again to catch him and tie him
up, and that would cure him. I missed Tpwser one
day this week, so I went to see if my neighbor
had tied him up. He had—by a piece of rope sft.
long, to a rafter 10ft. high. Just as I said, it
cured him.
HAD TO BE DONE.
DOWN-AND-OUT (looking for a job) : “Yes, sir, the hirst time I worked was on a
Sunday about ” ——
REV. SNIGGLES.: “On a Sunday! You broke the Sabbath!”
Down-and-Out: “Well, sir, it was me or the Sabbath—one of us had to be broke.”
“Skyrider”: A girl in Goulburn (N.S.W.),
had neuritis in the ankle, and an old gardener recom-
mended her to try the leaves of the green lily—the
plant which has a green flower. She tied two leaves
around the ankle, and in 10 minutes the girl, who
had not walked for a month, was strolling around
the garden. It sounds too good to be true; but
I’m telling a fact. *
* * * *
“Jimmy the R.”: “Bouragie” (B. 7/7/’2l)
notwithstanding, “fracteur” or “fracture” is the
term most commonly used by the' miner for made-
up explosives, and he applies it indiscriminately to
any stuff he happens to be using, no matter what
its proper name. The term has been handed down
to this generation by its fathers, whose first depar-
ture in Australia from the old-time blasting-powder
was the now-forgotten Krebs lithofracteur, a villain-
ous black compound that first appeared here about
1870, and had a vogue until outed by its rival,
Nobel’s dynamite, generally called the “red frac-
teur,” which then reigned alone for years. Forty
years ago there was not a field from Ballarat to the
Towers that did not have its quota of maimed and
marred miners—legless, armless, eyeless or tattooed—
the results of ignorance in handling the compound,
of which the only relic left is the name in its
abbreviated, form.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Old-timer Alexander Berry, who
must have seen many rum-soakers in his day, says
that cod-liver oil is the best cure for a confirmed
drunkard. According to him it takes away the
craving for spirits. Yet many a man who has been
picked up “well-oiled” has smelt suspiciously of
liquor.
“Stringy Bark”: On Flattop (Tas.) two
mates sleeper-getting felled a tree, cut it into lengths,
split and squared 42 sleepers and stacked them
ready for the inspector—all in one day. Anything
better? I was one of the mates.
* * * *
“Magpie”: The boys on a station in the
Goulburn (N.S.W.) district have three or four tame
wallaroos which have been trained to yard-up and
shepherd the sheep. They do their work quite as
well as the dogs, with whom they are great chums.
“SSB” h Can any Abo. tell me how to
turn lambs’ tails into food? When I was a bov in
the Odd Country we used to have very toothsome
pies made from them, but the job was left to the
shepherd’s wife. With no shepherds’ wives in this
country, they are left for the foxes to feed on. They
certainly make good bait.
“Boobook”: Tell “Peter Pan” (B.
11/7/’2l) I had a fox-terrier slut which on two
occasions mothered kittens and, what’s more, at
neither time was she rearing a family of her own.
“Sookie’s” milk glands began to work overtime
when the kittens commenced to “nose”' her, and
in a few days she was able to give them all they
required, and she kept up the supply until they
became cats.
“Thirty-five”: I endorse “Bright’s” re-
marks to “Cane Grass” (B. 16/6/’2l) about the
tanned skins of poisoned animals. I have ’possum-
skins the owners of which were cyanided 10 years
and more ago. A deal of the fur has worn off| but
none has fallen out. X tanned them myself with
wattle-bark.
* * * *
“Steve Ilart” : “Bora” (B. 23/6/’23 ) had
better keep his kelpie pup’s nose out of the flour-
bag if he thinks anything of him. It’s a slow but
sure .death. I have lost four dogs that w r ay, and
know of numerous other eases. The flour seems
by degrees to clog at the back of the jaw, and after
a while the dog finds some quiet spot and passes out.
* * * *
“Orney”: A sheep-owner near us sold
some jumbueks to a newchum returned soldier ("no
Pommy either) a little while back. Some time later
our neighbor was called on by a foaming fury.
“Imok here,” he stormed, “when I bougjht those
blanky sheep I wanted sheep like other peaple’s,
without tails. The sheep I got from you are having
lambs as fast as they can go, and they all have
tails, and I’m damned if I’ll have ’em.”
* * * *
“Jackeroo” : Somebody recently referred to
a wonderful droving feat, from Wave Hill (N.T.)
to Killarney (N.S.W.), 20,000 head of cattle being
shifted in drafts of 5000 at intervals of one day.
This is a fairy story. The dinkum oil about it Is
that J. C. Skaithorp started from Wave Hill with
2000 store bullocks on the long trip, and, striking
a good season, was able to come in by the direct
route, across Barkly Tableland, then go right through
to Killarney. Drover Phillptt started behind him
with 1000 head, but his cattle struck sickness, and
they were let go on Burrenbilla, near Charleville.
After this for several years drafts of 1000 left
Wave Hill, their destination being Burrenbilla or
Glengyle, where they rested or were topped off, and
then started for Killarney in small drafts of 500.
Tn no one year did 20,000 start off Wave Hill for
N. S. Wales, 10,000 being the most. la 1881 C. B.
Fisher purchased Naondoo, Gaonalma, Darell, Bula-
mon, Cubbil, Nee Nee, Currarwildi and Bingarah, all
cattle-stations, carrying among than fully 100,000
head. He sold the whole lot of the cattle to Fisher
and Lyons, who had taken up country out in the
Territory on the Adelaide, Alary and Victoria rivers.
The new owners decided to drove all the cattle
out to stock their country, and this gigantic under-
taking was handed over to “Bluey” Buchanan. His
trusted generals were George Gordon, H. and W.
Gordon and W. Elliot. The stations mentioned are
situated on the Balonne and Moonie rivers. The
job was successfully carried out, and as a droving
feat it will take some beating. Another trip worthy
of record was McDonnell Bros.’ tramp from Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) to Fossil Downs (W.A.), with 800
head, which took two years. Then there was Rose’s
trip from Bow River (W.A.) to Charleville (Q.)
with 4000 head, 22 months. Arthur Giles had a
heart-breaking trip when he left the Alurray River,
via the overland telegraph line, for Newcastle Waters
and Katherine River (N.T.), on behalf of Or.
Browne, With 2000 head of cattle and 10,000 sheep.
He was on the track two years.
• * * *
“Mum-muk” : Recently, while ’gator-shoot-
ing in the Northern Territory, I saw a lung-fish
about 4ft. long skip across a narrow mangrove-
fringed creek. I’ve seen hundreds before, but the
largest was nine inches. Am 1 the only Abo. who
has seen a four-footer?
“1.1. C.”: One of the pastimes of the bush
is sending- for catalogues. Bill decides he’ll have to
get a new suit, so he consults his cobber, and per-
haps a few neighbors, on the important question of
where to get it from. He receives a lot of informa-
tion and advice, some of which would give several
firms excellent grounds for- criminal libel proceed-
ings. After a while Bill gets tired of trying to sift
the grain from the chaff and sends to two or three
(or three or four) places for patterns. When they
arrive there is a great deal of comparing of patterns
and prices (particularly prices), and Bill finally
decides on what he reckons will be “something out
of the box.” Then somebody is kidded to borrow a
tape-measure from the house-cook, and all hands
spend a few evenings measuring Bill in order to fill
in the trick self-measuring chart. Sometimes, pro-
bably after spoiling several, they send the wrong
chart back to a Ann; but that doesn’t matter much,
and the order and cheque go away. After the usual
interval a letter comes from the favored firm
announcing the despatch of the precious parcel, and
the book-keeper is nearly badgered to death until it
arrives. Finally it comes, and everybody helps the
proud owner unpack. It is a snifter of a suit all
right, and fits Bill like a glove in several places.
It’s a bit slack about the waist, but that’s because
that cow of a Jack kept putting his finger behind
the tape while Joe was struggling in front to measure
Bill properly. Apart from this the suit is a great
success, and Bill looks such a swell in it and gets
such attention from the girls in the towsnhip that
others are bitten with the idea. Then they send off
for catalogues—often from the same firms that Bill
wrote to—and so the game goes on: Later, per-
haps, Bill and his mates drift away and catalogues
arrive long after they have gone. But the patterns
never come amiss and are greatly appreciated by
lonely bachelors in times of stress. If the firms were
to include a few bachelor’s buttons, or even ordinary
ones with a small kit of tools, every outback mail-
carrier would be applying for an increased subsidy—
and earning it.
**- * *
’“Blanc”: I had just opened up and was
trying the new typewriter I had bought for my
school, when Clara, the half-caste cleaner, who had
never even heard of such a machine, asked: “Didn’t
they' send a ’orn with it?”
* * * *
“V.J.C.” : Asked why he served junket for
dinner so often our cook explained that it was be-
cause it was so easy to make it with Daisy’s milk.
“All I’ve got to do,” lie said, “is to put Some sugar
in, and the junket is made.” Investigations proved
that Daisy’s milk always thickens an hour after it
comes from her. Can any Abo. give an explana-
tion ? Meantime, Daisy's junket has disappeared
from the menu.
AN APPEAL TO REASON.
"Gome, move on there. If everybody stood
still in the one place, how could the
others get past?”
THE UNEMPLOYED COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Parsnip now the favorite drink
Is rum and milk. They all
Take rum and milk to bed, I think.
It is the morning call.
At Jolley’s it is on all day—
'Tis said to keep the chills away.
When Ben went on as rouseabout
At Jolley’s there were some
Two-score of boarders, each a stout,
Stem votary of rum;
And each man took his rum in milk—
They said it was as smooth as silk.
Poor Ben for thirteen hours or more
Had served the usual rums,
And thought the situation o’er,
Then spoke his mind. “When comes
This prohibition there will be
Some cows thrown idle here!'” said he.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


fffillfflWlfl
s
,
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
Under New Tariff. -
*
S&ect ‘/%xe&e£~
c
Ah
s oi.
&
%
o
'V
<S>
OS'.
0 9
o <s>
o~
O'
o
<
m:
X:
~Q~
a
~sr
-err
m\H fidwi m


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
TWENTY-FIRST REPORT
of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting, held at the Banking House, Sydney, on Tuesday, 26th July, 1921, at noon.
.ACuOU’ItSC u 0U ’l tS ! or the Year euded 30th June, 1921, which have beeu
The '&*&** f0 ”"'™ S ™" t ‘
nSS n V? p % Proyißion’for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts, deducting Rebate on Current Bills, and Ex-
penses of Management, Directors’ and Auditors’
1 ees, Interest on Fixed Deposits, Rates etc
amounts to . .
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the year
£281,798 10 10
37,312 17 10
lu-om which deduct Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits
t* . ~ . , Profit for the year
1 lorn this amount the following appropria-
tions have been made —
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises
Account
£50,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
Out of the taxable portion an Interim
Half-yearly Dividend at the rate of
0 per cent, per annum was paid in
January last, absorbing
and a final Half-yearly Dividend at the
rate of 7 per cent, per ''annum is
now recommended, amounting to . .
30,000 O 0
42,000 0 0
£60,000 0 0
78,000 0 0
Balance
Brought forward from last year
Leaving to be carried forward
£194,485 13
54,907 0
£139,578 6 8
138,000 0 0
£1,578 6 8
28.512 17 0
130,391 3 ~8
2. During tlie year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Bondi Junction and
Dindiield in this State; at Wickham Street, Brisbane, in Queensland; and at Adelaide, in
South Australia. Also Receiving Offices have been opened at McMahon's Point, Merry-
lands, South Randwick, TVoollahra, and Yen da, in N.S.W.: and the Receiving Offices at
Miriam 1 ale, Q,, Rannes, Q., and North Strathfield have been withdrawn.
3. It devolves upon this Meeting to elect two Directors in the places of Frank Nelson
i arwood and George Frederick Todman, who retire in accordance with the provision of
Clause 104 of the Articles of Association. Both are eligible and offer themselves for
re-election.
4. In terms of Clause 171 of the Articles of Association, it also devolves upon this
Meeting to elect two Auditors in the places of William Craig, F.0.P.A., and Milton F.
Johnson, F.C.P.A., who retire in accordance with the Articles of Association, and of whom
the latter is eligible and offers himself for re-election. William H. Perry, F.C.P.A., has
given notice that be is a candidate for election in place of Mr. Craig.
H. R. LYSAGHT,
„ , Chairman.
Sydney, 21st July, 1921.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED
(INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE—BY CABLE.) ’ 1 *
3oth June, 1921.
Dr.
Authorised Capital
LIABILITIES
To Capital subscribed aud paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
„ Inscribed Deposits
Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities
Government Deposits
Balances due to other Banks
Profit and Loss Account:—
Balance
Brought forward from 30th June, 19120!
2,822,683 3 8
9,918,055 7
72,391 3 8
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc.;
for which customers are responsible to the Bank, £645,367 Os. Id
£12,813,129 14 7
By Coin and Bullion
„ Australian Notes
ASSETS.
£732,338 11
Cash at London Bankers and at short eall in London 400 013 14
Government an, l Municipal Securities .. 407 001 17
Balances due by other Banks . . (,u 1 X(
Brils Receivable in London and Remittances in
transit
Advances against War Loan and under' Govern-
ment guarantee 18 q 4
103.255 15
1,13.0,503 7 8
10
all other Debts due to the
Bills Discounted, Loans. Advances,
Bank and other Assets
S’SE” 8 m <* «” Ration
Less appropriation from Profits !! lO.iSo ’0 0
4,177,382 11 4
S, 141,832
15,000
478,914 14 S
£42 813,129 14 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Dr.
To Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits
» Net Profit for the year
To Transfer to Reserve Fund ("making £250,000)
” I lansfer in reduction of Bank Premises Account
,, Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid
final Half-yearly Dividend recommended
Balance to be carried down
£54,907 6 4
139,578 6 8
£50,000 0
10,000 0
£42,000 0
1,578 6
By B iooi ce 0f Profit and Loss for the y par ended 30th June.
J/Css Graduated Land and Income Taxes.. 37,.312 17 10
By Net Profit fbr the year
Cr.
194,185 13 0
£194,485 1.3 0
139,578 (i 8
By
Balance to be brought down—after payment of £42,000 Div
reeommended .. .. .. ’
Balance brought forward from last year
To be carried forward
idend
®* LYSAGIIT, Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager. AUDITORS* REPORT
GenCTal We * nd the — 1 ite - therein stated to conform to
them Weft, rthe r tfrtjfy % *T' aDd <"«*
sS i ,as^2^*sy»jss. lsSS££^^«^£ , T o ss , k2SSr’is*Sr^Hif 3S, & sssr<s e &Jw&»
In our opinion the above is a full and fair Balance-Sheet containing tho n,rti7,,l “ nave been received by cable.
Limited, and b proper,, drawn up so .. to eshibit a tree and eoriect view „? the ?,«,e of "the asshonm wT’SA’J'
HIIIIIIiIinH- WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C.P.A. \
MILTON F. JOHNSON, F.C.P.A./ Auditors.
the Balances in the
that we have found
been certified to as
Bank of Commerce
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of the Australian Bank of Commerce Limited wris
held to-day (26th July) at the Banking House, George and King Streets, Sydney, Air. Herbert R
Lysaght, Chairman of Directors, presiding. ’ •> ■>< c ■ n -
ChairmaTliif-— 6 adopticm of the Report and Balance-Sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1921, the
Gentlemen,—The figures of our Balance-Sheet now total £12,813,000 as comnared with
£12,050,000 twelve months ago, showing an expansion of £763,000. as compared with
The Assets classed as of a specially liquid character, totalling £4,177,000 are eaual to the
satisfactory proportion of Bs. 4d. in the £1 of our outside Liabilities. ’
It will be noticed that our cash at London Bankers and at short call in London amounts to.
£409,000 .as compared with £415,000 a year ago The maintenance of our London funTls
with ra iat e er haVlng regai ’ d <hfflcult condltlons ruling in the London Exchange market, which I deal
Otherwise the figures of the Balance-Sheet appear to call for no special reference— though the
steady progress ot our deposits will be remarked. ®
Although taxation continues to increase, absorbing no less than £37 3ie the ve-ir's profits
show an increase of £21,188 to 139.578 making available for distribution, with’the amount' brought
forward from the previous year, £168,391. Out of this year’s profits an Interim Dividend at the rate
of 6 per cent, was paid in January last, and a final half-yearly dividend at the rate of 7 per cent per
annuin (making 64 per cent, for the year) is now recommended. These dividends absorb £78,000 ' and
a " ,M&, o< L° h r s been tl’?" sf crred to Reserve Fund, raising it to the substantial figure of £250 000 and
i 10,000 has been applied m reduction of Bank Premises, there remains to be carried forward to the
current years accounts a balance of £30,391. u lo tne
The * condition of the Australian Exchanges with London and other centres during the last vear is
so well known, and has so often been dealt with elsewhere, that there is no need for me to “say much
on the subject. While the difficulties of that situation are now greatlv relieved, it is still not
to estimate future prospects. "
An exceptional wheat crop has been the mainstay of the situation and, indeed of our Australian
financial situation generally ; and wool, the market for which for a period suffered great depression is
now meeting a better demand ; and considerable quantities both of 1920 and of previous seasons woo s
are finding a market—thus tending to improve the prospects of the forthcoming clip
A considerable permanent increase in Australia’s interest bill pavable abroad must be faced in
view of continued Federal and State borrowings, and this charge must tend to absorb proceeds of exports
which would otherwise have been available to pay for our imports from abroad. On the other hand in
the immediate future our imports will certainly be on a smaller scale than during the post twelve
months. It is to be hoped that this desirable feature will continue, and that the excess which ha«
billed in both private and public expenditure will give place to the reasonable degree of economy which
the situation urgently calls for.
Meanwhile, the local situation in regard to the excessive imports which have reached Australia
during the last twelve months is well under control, and normal conditions are being rapidly approached
Indeed, the Commercial financial situation may well be regarded as generally sound.
The continued prohibition by the Federal Government of exports of gold, except such as represent
new production, has been freely commented on abroad, and in London has been adversely criticised
bv a portion of the press. Those best informed in high finance here, however, support the attitude
of the Federal Authorities in desiring the maintenance here of the strong gold position with it*
steadying influence, which had been built up by the Australian banks prior to the war: and in this
we fully concur.
£l2/15/5 per head. To-day the State £ St . ate , and , p e*9*J revenue represented
£l3 per head, in all a tofal of over £29 per head / A P ° h6ad> a " d the deral reveilue lieal ' l >
d «rrLS°SiS. SuS .‘T—totoH h'»vl,“r e '* * P»‘"‘ taxation me ,,„
«££ 2&jx££
E.“« e to jfii; r"' r ' in ~- h vSsKM&ar* " *
traced to thfse causk ’ and n,ueh of the unemployment at present in evidence may he
Queensland, from a banking point of view, continues to be unsatisfactory The
at P a standstill publlC * deb , t a ? d taxation have increased enormously, mining is
2ss?s* ■»;i«o.fp.«r„ c v?'coS , L“,rf Sr rss
■<« *m upon 'A ""*9 ***"» “* '•* "*» »” **
seasonTfavorahle SfVr J " parts of New So,,th VValcs a >'d Queensland; but as a whole the
wool clip is expkted to Im vvdl g growk PfiS "* e,,teVtained a * to <ho lie « "+«* <*<*>• The forthcoming
to be °known 5f Pr a ne ' v , Fede u ral Loa:1 of £10,009*000 has just been launched,
- »'E'T * w "* ** ™ ""
his position a l l a aTami I tor\f h tbi n i t jo l lned one of oin ’ directors, Mr. Tarwood, in partnership, has resigned
in' Sof Article 4o i-?k k ‘ a e J?S ret the severance, and Mr. Milton F. Johnson was appointed
this occasion "for re-election*. succeed h ™. ihe report shows that Mr. Johnson offers himself on
M.L.C h , e a nd ot carried r unanimously” ° f the Repolt and Balance ' Sheet was seconded by Hon. F. Jago Smith,
**
jgtfTtftta&ft S&.* - -•— - *•“'**»*■
Ino Onalrmaji stated that the dividend is now payable
Director.* meeting ot the Roar(l hol(1 subsequently, Mr. Herbert I?., lymght was re-elected Chairman of


ǻ
Fife's schnap^ 6 ‘
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
mTnrmT!irTrmrmiißHT'u»t:rmTrrr
/
EVERY Drop of
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure"
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
no merit in not betraying him, if by doing
so she had to betray herself.
What is the solution t Clearly there was
someone with whom Byron was coiiespond-
ing through his half-sister; there is every
reason —moral certainty 7, in fact—tor assum-
ing that it was Mary Chaworth, whom he
had met as a boy, whota he had stolen away
to visit in the flush of his “Ohilde Harold
success, who had told him (for she was mar-
ried and afraid of scandal) that she must
put him out of her life, who had loved lnm
through “a flash of summer, ’ broken from
him, and of whom he had written as thougn
she were dead.
In “Don Juan” only two years before his
death, he writes;
I have a passion for the name of Mary,
For once it was a magic name to me.
And still it half-calls up the realm of faery—
"Thyrsa” was the one woman who prompted
him to write love-poetry. If her remembered
name was not Mary, what is the significance
of the Don Juan lines?
The threads could be followed further, but
there is no need. The proofs seem irrefut-
able. It is true that Byron’s latest bio-
grapher, Ethel Mayne, writing two years
after the appearance of Edgecumbe’s hook
(and after that of Gribble, who follows Edge-
cumbe), prefers to cling to the scandal ver-
sion, and fails to understand, apparently, that
the sentiment of “my dearest love” and
“yours ever and very truly, B„” are not in-
terchangeable. Despite this feminine conser-
vatism, or stupidity, the character of the man
emerges from the welter of things written
about him, not blameless, but neither hard
nor unsympathetic, and with the hallmark
of constancy upon it —a constancy merely
obscured by certain affairs of the senses, and
not until lately credited to the most brilliant
man of his day.
A.J.B.
Dumas and Son
My bad habit of buying rubbish and ex-
pecting some place to be found for it has odd
results. Once the rubbish was a second edi-
tion of Goldsmith’s “The Traveller”; once
it was four of the blue first editions of George
Meredith; once it was a tattered copy of
No. 1 of “The Savoy.” One doesn’t often
hit or approach those levels, of course; for-
tunately, perhaps—-their rarity and the fag
that went to their getting make them look
better on the shelves and in the memory.
Most of it is rubbish; but a book is a book,
and a place ought to be found for it. Some-
body put his last ounce qf effort into it, for
instance; somebody saw the white throne of
fame or a little money for the butcher in
it; somebody’s heart’s blood made the words
swing together. How would you like to find
your first dear effort iu the “Fourpennv
Box”?
The rubbish at. the moment is one volume
of an 1870 “Encyclopaedia of Universal
Knowledge”—-the volume CHI to ELE. A
shilling is not a high price for even a
twelfth of a book with such a title. The
fact that someone had sufficient faith in the
title to put out 12 large books of it is worth
a bob, surely. However, the title is not
very significant; the date is the thing. Albert
the Good and _ his golden bags brood over
CHI to ELE like a Providence —like a Pre-
judice as rigid as Albert’s iron top-hat.
Listen: —
Dumas, Alexandre, or Dumas the Younger, son
of the preceding, who has unhappily followed in
the footsteps of his father, was born at Paris, 28th
July, 1824. His principal work is “La Dame aux
Cameiias” (two vols., 1848), a novel on which is
founded the notorious opera of “La Traviata.” It
is perhaps the most audaciously immoral work in
existence. The heroine is a prostitute, who, while
following her avocation, contrives (in a manner
known only to French novelists) to keep up a
pure and unsullied affection for a young gentleman,
who is a compound of sentimentalism, imbecility
and lust.
I don’t really want criticisms in my com-
pendiums of universal knowledge, but if I
got them all like that I might perhaps
change my view. The trouble was not the
immorality of “La Dame aux CamSlias”—
there were lots of more immoral works in
existence, even in the fact that
its author was French, Albert being German
and Victoria English, “perhaps the happiest
combination of all.” But, however mili-
tarily strong the combination, it is no good
in literary criticism ; it doesn’t know enough.
A’o matter; it is little thumbnail farces like
this that sweeten the road of universal know-
ledge. One should be grateful instead of
hypercritical.
ln the matter of Dumas pere, CHI to
ELE is not so pungently and forcefully
idiotic; but a very strong case is ir-ade
against him, nevertheless. It appears that
he was the son of the republican general
Alexandre Davy-Dumas, “who was himself
[sic] the offspring of Marquis Davy de la
Pailleterie and a negress.” That (it ap-
pears) _is bad to begin with, and his early
“very imperfect education” was bad to go
on with. In Paris, in search of his fortune at
the age of 20, he got a job in the household
of the Due d’Orleans. “Nouvelles” appeared
when Dumas was 23 (i n 1826), “but in 1829
the historical drama “Henri 111. et sa Cour”
was brought upon the stage and France
1 airly mistook him for a genius. .. .From this
period, he became more and more a noted
character in Paris, contriving at once to
feast the appetites of the mob and to con-
tinue the companion of princes. In 1846
he accompanied the Due de Montpensier to
bpain, as the historiographer of his marriage
‘\y , , financial considerations com-
pelled him to seek refuge in Belgium....
■ iiLo i conq Ues t 0 f Sicily by Garibaldi
in ISou he followed in the wake of the Great
Liberator, who does not seem, however, to
nave been imposed upon by his mountebank
worship and bombastic enthusiasm.”
Bad as all this is, it is not the worst.
CHI to ELE tells me that pages pould be filled
with a list of Dumas’s works, “but for two
reasons this is unnecessary: first they are
for the most part worthless, and second,
they are for the most part not his.'’ Two
Parisian men of letters (dates and volumes
given) “have exposed the astounding quack-
ery of this writer. It would seem that
Dumas had introduced the sweating-system
into literature, for he had in his employ-
ment a large number of poor authors and
literary hacks. To these persons Dumas was
in the habit of giving a few brief outlines
of a novel or drama, and then paid them
for composing the work, which appeared as.
the production of Dumas’s miraculous pen.
....His commenced in 1852,
only confirm the impression of his character
which one derives from the perusal of his
books.” Why “only.”? What more should
a man’s memoirs do? The finish is Albertian
—faithful to the Golden-Trouser tradition
that at all costs a thing must be round and
seemly over the lies and truths beneath:
Altogether it may be said that the appearance in
literature of a writer like Dumas is a portentous
phenomenon; and the avidity with which his im-
moral fictions are devoured is the most severe
condemnation of modern, and especially French,
society that could well be pronounced.
He isn’t any of those things. He in-
vented d’Artagnan, Athos, Porthos and
Aramis. By the living truth of his queens
and cardinals and dukes he taught me more
French history than all the denominational
school-books shoved under my weary eyes.
Twenty-five years ago he took me in and
out of the taverns of Fairyland with the
splendid sons of his imagination. His capons
and venison-pasties make me hungry to-day.
His duels and the odds against; Queen
Margot and Monte Cristo ; the angry kings
and the strong, triumphant, commoners; the
cold disdain of his mighty swordsmen —only
a very dirty mind could find anything im-
moral in his fictions. And from what I re-
member of him —of the great good he did me
—I should think he would be a very likely
man to give a meal and a job to the less
fortunate hacks of his acquaintance.
DENIS MAHON.
The Inky Way
Having bought out its old rival, the Standard,
the Maryborough (Vic.) Advertiser has changed
from tri-weekly to daily. In the long ago the two
sheets used to keep one another a live with mutual
disparagements, but in later days the old enmity
passed. Julius Vogel, one-time Premier of Maort-
lcnd, was an old editor of the ’Tiber.
“Two Seas”: When Ed. Dyson gets the A.A.A.
going I trust it will have something to say about
the editor’s off-sider who either pastes or writes
Ins remarks upon the first page of a contributor’s
yarn, which necessitates re-typing that pa°e care-
fully to match the turn-over before it can be sub-
initted elsewhere. What would a fluff merchant sav
it his customer scribbled remarks on the goods vainly
spread out before him (or her) for sale?
“Meataxe”: J. Moore Robinson has had some more
possibly useful matter for his forthcoming Tas-
manian history cast at him. Mrs. Justin Brown has
given the Launceston Mechanics’ Institute Librarv
a nest of letters and papers dealing with the Speck's
early days, and collected by her late husband. Among
the gathering is a diary belonging to the father-in-
law of the donor, the late Archdeacon Brown, D D
of Launceston, dating from 1833. Historian Robin-
son is now sifting it for important facts.
“Wart”: The Launceston (Tas.) Library has a
copy of the locally-printed “Pickwick Papers” men-
tioned by “Hamer” (B. 23/6/’2l). The book was
«m ne r, by Henr V Dowling, who also published
Wests History of Tasmania.” Incidentally, Dow-
ling, who was prominent in the Australian League,
was presented with the first Southern Cross flag and
a silver casket containing 300 sovereigns for the
work he did in the anti-transportation agitation.
“°°py Boy” (London): Under the title of “Llovd
Leorge and C 0.,” David Low is about to launch
a volume of his Star cartoons upon the British
market. The book will have an enthusiastic “In-
troduction’ by Arnold Bennett, whose word on
artistic matters is treated with great respect by
John Bull’s public. I have seen a proof of Bennett’s
remark's, in which he tells of how David “made a
very considerable name on The Bulletin,” and
opines that “under the decree -of Heaven the Right
Hon. William Hughes undoubtedly came into the
world, not to save Australia from democracy,-but to
provide material and renown for David Low.” It
was when Bennett saw “The Billy Book” that he
wrote a paragraph in the New Statesman pointing
out “the painful inferiority of British political cari-
cature” to the Australian work, and it was in
consequence of this paragraph that the Cocoa press
got busy and invited Low to this village. “The
Antipodes,” remarks Bennett, “seem to produce cari-
caturists as plenteouslv as thev produce sopranos,
cricketers and poets (I have heard that every little
shearing-shed in the Backblocks carries a couple of
poets), for H. M. Bateman, like Will Dyson, is an
Australian. Astounding climates, down there!”
Bateman, the highest paid black-and-white man in
England to-day, was born in N. S. Wales. It is
no secret here that when Low came this way Bate-
man received an offer to go to Australia and The
Bulletin, but when he positively declined to con-
sider an engagement for more than 12 months the
negotiations were cried off.
“D.F.”: “Wart” (B. 21/7/’2l) is over-generous in
making William Paterson the first to mine iron-ore
in Australia. As early as 1803, the year before
Pa teuton went to the Speck, Governor King had iron-
ore dug out in N. S. Wales and sent to Britain, where
it was smelted. King was keen on starting smelting
works in N. S. Wales, but nothing came of it.
“0.K.”: The wise proverb (I made it myself)
that one man’s humor is another man’s sadness
occurred to me when reading the protest of “Pollio”
against a Red Page description of Stephen Leacock
as “the most humorous of modern professors.”
“PoUio” asserts the superiority of A. E. Housman
over Leacock, the writer of “commonplace comic
stuff for relaxation,” on the ground that Housman
reveals “humor coupled with mordant and exuberant
wit” in his prefaces to classical text-books. In sup-
port “Pollio” quotes passages which show the author
to be a don whose job has penetrated to his literary
bones. The quoted efforts are ponderous, scholastic
and completely commonplace in their rigidly “sup-
erior” way. I am no belittler of the man’s talent.
I have been a student of Housman's little book of
verse, “A Shropshire Lad,” memorising most of it
and trying to get the elusive trick of the author’s
simple style, despite the monotony of cheat) mor-
bidity in his subjects. But in all the morbidity and
mordant, philosophy not a touch of pathos is felt.
No natural humorist could have written “A Shrop-
shire Lad.” Leacock, on the other hand, has the
lively sense of absurdity, the volatility of thought
that remains foreign to Housman; he is the uncon-
ventional jester, the satirist witli a playful bite;
the scholar who finds tongues in trees and absurdity
in anything.
“Smorgasbrod”: Re that Australian edition of
“Pielcwick Papers” (B. 23/0/’2l). The enthusiasm
occasioned by the appearance of the original book,
in parts, was so great that sufficient copies could
not be procured in the colonies. That’s why it was
reprinted at Launceston, with illustrations, much
after the style of the originals, by a local artist. It
was a pirated edition. The Hobart possessor of a
copy values it at £ 5, but I would risk going rgther
more. A piratedTickwick also appeared for similar
:easons in India. I believe that another novel by
Dickens was pirated in Tasmania, but I have never
seen it.
Tom Skeyhill, who went to Russia to get first-
hand facts about Bolshevism for a series of Ameri-
can lectures, is writing his experiences in a book,
which he proposes to call “The Babylonian Finger”
(or it may be “The Babylonian Finger Writes
Again”), the ex-Australian signaller’s idea being
that the Revolution is a warning to the world to
quit" its orgy of materialism.
“C.C.”: Edward A. Vidler’s Institute of Arts
makes some hearlwav in Melbourne. With almost
every name of note in the four arts appearing on its
schedule, the Institute should attract all the dilet-
tanti in the city. The council meetings provide
studies of the lamb and the lion in many attitudes.
Archie Strong, Vance Palmer, Max Meldrum, Douglas
Richardson, Bernard O’Dowd, Furnley Maurice,
Fritz Hart and Willie Laver are the ill-assorted
figures in the League of Artists which will banish
personal feuds and bring about the Millennium. It’s
just as well for Vidler that he has no sense of
humor.
“Lino": The Australian Journalists’ Association, re-
sponding to the impulse of the newly-formed Authors’
Section, wrote a friendly letter to the Argus asking
bow it felt towards giving Australian fiction-writers
a chance in its columns, and what was its attitude
regarding the encouragement of Australian literature
generally. By way of answer, the. Argus advertised
the commencement of ' another imported serial by
an English author. That was only a week or two
hack. The other day, referring to the success of
Bertram Maekemial. the inconsistent old sheet
deplored that, so many Australians engaged in the
arts “must do their work far removed from then-
own country.”
“Dusty Folio”: The first book published in Tas-
mania was printed by Andrew Bent at Hobart in
1818 with the title of “Michael Howe, the Last and
Worst of the Bushrangers of Van Diemen’s Land: A
Narrative of the Chief Atrocities Committed by this
Great Murderer and His Associates During a Period
of Six Years in Van Diemen’s Land, from Authentic
Sources of Information.” “Black” Howe, who was
a Yorkshireman in spite of the Michael, and had
been in the Navy, was a deal nearer the first than
the last bushranger of the Speck, and he certainly
wasn’t the worst of the lot, though he was a hard
case. It was Howe who cut off and carried away
the head of his mate, John Whitehead, when that
celebrated pirate was shot at New Norfolk. There
was £lOO reward on Whitehead’s top-piece, and Howe
wasn’t going to let the settlers get that. They
took no chances on losing heads in the good old
days. In an official report of a skirmish with some
of Howe’s friends at Scantling’s Plains in 1817, in
which he was reluctantly compelled to shoot two
of them (Elliott and Parker), Ensign Mahon say's:
“Thinking it might be necessary to produce their
heads, I ordered them to be cut off before I had
the bodies interred.”
America continues to acquire the old works of
art, and Europe to grab the cash gratefully. The
Britwell library fust sold in London brought £48,000
in two days, and Dr. Rosenbach, of Philadelphia
(U.S.A.), paid about half of it. Money being no
great object to those behind him, he bludgeoned the
English bidders, yvho took their revenge by running
him up to £lOBO for a copy of “Everyman,” printed
in 1530. When last auctioned, in 1884, it realised
only £32.
“Whitebait”: Exhibit A in the case is the Satur-
day issue of a daily, whereof more than 50 per cent,
of the “supplement” has been lifted from “abroad”
—column after column of it from one issue of an
English magazine. Exhibit B is a popular evening
print which fluctuates in size according to the
quantity of its ads. When compelled to double its
size by a sudden influx of fluff announcements, it
likes to have the Times, Daily Chronicle or some
similar journal handy to provide material for the
column that trickles down the middle of the adver-
tising page. I need not say that both of these
papers are strongly Protectionist. In fact, they
want Protection for everything but Australian brains,
and their feeling on that subject may be estimated
by the rumor that they are approaching Minister
Greene to put scissors and paste on the free-list.
“McNorth”: The lonely places have their lovers
of literature. Buchanan, the pioneer trader of
Vailala, in the Gulf of Papua, was one. Though
160 miles from anywhere and with no white neigh-
bor within several days’ journey, he had an extra-
ordinarily well-stocked library to which he added on
every possible occasiou. The infrequent mails
always had a parcel for' the old chap. One room
of his native-built house was lined with books;
fiWi home-made shelves looked down Anacreon, Pet-
ronius, Casanova, Fielding, Herodotus; Keats and
Synge; Ben Jenson and the other playwrights. I
well remember landing at Vailala and introducing
Buchanan to Conrad. That night, after tea, he got
under his mosquito-net and read till daylight, and
he spent the greater part of the next morning de-
claiming certain passages. Buchanan died a few
years ago, and his library and other possessions
were placed on board the Merrie England for ship-
ment to Australia. But the steamer got into a series
of difficulties during the voyage, ran short, of coal, and
the cargo was drawn on to feed the furnaces.
Buchanan’s loved library formed part of the fuel!
Another booklover was the captain of one of the
loneliest lightships of the Barrier Reef. He was a
tall old man, with a thin, keen face, and his cabin
was a library. He had a partiality for the mystics,
partfcjilariv Ibsen and Maeterlinck. Close reading
and isolation had got him into the habit of talking
to himself, so that his crew of three considered him
more than a little dinpy. I was roaming- the Bar-
rier in a b£(he-de-mer cutter in those days, and
one afternoon I tied tip to the lightship and went
aboard for a yarn. The captain talked books and
read marked passages ad lib. “The only people who
really live are tho-e in books,” he said as I left.
“All others are dead.”
THE LOST THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 waken troubled /in my mind—
Some wondrous thing have I mislaid;
My brain is clogged and strangely blind;
I’ll ne’er remember, I’m afraid.
Was it some splendid jest I played,
Some sentiment serenely bright
That never more will be conveyed?
What was the thought I had last night?
Was it a noble seed to grind
To nobler verse? A leering jade
Most tantalising and unkind
Is Memory. Her visions fade.
The fairest this that might have made
My masterpiece. A leering sprite
Is she, a shadow in the glade. '
What was the thought I had last night?
Ere soul was quite resigned to sleep
It did my raptured mind invade.
How oft I’ve sworn that I would keep
Good note of these gay thoughts that .raid
The drowsy brain ! A renegade.
That owl-like flees the gracious light
To lurk alone in covert shade,
What was the thought I had last night 5-
Envoy,
I’ll sleep not till this problem’s laid.
It spoils my work, my appetite.
Why, Wes's my soul! It is betrayed-
This is the thought I had last night!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
Fibroli^
The cost of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with 1 “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building:
built of weatherboard and roofed with
Iron or tiles.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust or
corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in S 6 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write for free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HAROIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbastos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
381-3 Little Collins Bt., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
m
/
on this
is not one atom -more secure than the cer-
tainty you will secure top prices for all
classes of skins by consigning to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, Sydney and Brisbane. LTD.
Top market rates are
the firm’s strong point.
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland.
7ENOBIA
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley— dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
æ
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., JLT~
Adelaide Brisbane
i
m
i
des>
BO
H
52
A
m
3F~wes3P
,s£f=>
5?
■os©
JW
24
**3*
r<sr
sas
ye.
T
<2L-^
,3UIOJJ 3tp Ul AjOAg JOJ
Why go to the expense of carpets?
Congoleum Rugs are cheaper,
cleaner, just as attractive, and mean
less work.
You can use them with good taste
wherever a medium-priced carpet
would be appropriate —in the bed-
room, the dining-room, the living-
room, etc.
The surface is hard and non-
absorbent. They nevef need to be
swept or beaten— just clean them
with a damp mop.
They lie perfectly flat without
fastening of any kind.
Always look for the Gold Seal.
It is your protection against
imitation.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft. 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 9 ft.
9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
n’SESWB.
GUARANTEE
9
Sole Australian Representatives :
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, and Perth
Brown Brahmins bend by Bava’s shrine
In stately, sad salaam;
Whilst Hindus whine in temples fine,
And Persians hail their Cham.
’Tis thus, through gods by mortals made,
Sound lungs they would assure,
When coughing Britons seek the aid
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Missing Friends.
McBBAN.— The Union Trustee Company
of Australia, Limited, as Executor of
the Will of James Mcßean, late of Haw-
thorn, requires information concerning
James Erie Mcßean, who was last heard
from, about 1915, at Dalby, Queensland.
Anyone having knowledge of him is re-
quested to communicate with the said
Company at 333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
*4OE |A^
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN' AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft, 7ft. Bft. ' 9ft. 10ft. 12ft.
-8-plait .. 10/- 11/6 13/- 14/6 17/6 21/6 each.
12-plait .. 13/- 15/- 17/- 20/- 22/6 26/6 „
16-plait .. 15/- 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/6 30/- „
Mailed free all States. Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.
The Big Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZROY, VIC.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
HUME PIPE
CONCRETE
“Debrac”: When I walked in to buy a
shirt from Moses Isaacson I found him
almost in tears. After I’d put a sympathetic
question or two it came out —old Tom Jones
had died. “Well, never mind, old chap,” I
said, “don’t take it so much to heart; he
had to die sometime.” “It’s not that,” Moses
replied. “But he was my only customer for
184 collars, and I’d just bought a new box.”
“Offsider”: Anyone know Bruno Monier,
described by Senator Russell as “one of the
biggest firms in the world”? According to
Russell, as reported by Hansard, “Bruno
Monier” has “practically made arrangements
to spend some hundreds of thousands of
pounds in the manufacture of soda ash, pro-
bably in Westralia.” Perhaps-the gentle-
man means Brunner, Mond and Co., who
are the biggest people in the British chemi-
cal industries. In 1919 Brunner, Mond and
Co. commissioned a University iprofessor to
report on the prospects of starting alkali
works in the neighborhood of Lake Clifton
(W.A.), and subsequently took him into
their service. It will be a big thing for
Groperland if it comes off; but the co. has
been a- long time talking about it.
“Malua” (Fiji) : “Te Pana” slips When
he says (B. 2/6/’2l) “it takes five spindle-
shanked coolies to do as much work as one
hefty white man.” Tinder the five-year in-
denture system before the war, the daily
task for drain-digging was 360 cubic feet
for Is.; and cane-cutting worked out at
36cwt. for the same amount. I have supervised
work at both jobs, and had coolies who
would dig their 360 cubic feet in six hours
and cut 44 tons of cane (including loading
on a truck) in nine hours. As for the alle-
gation that the scourings of India who are
flooding parts of Maoriland arrive there via
Fiji, it would be just as true to say via
Singapore or Sydney or any other old place
where vessels-that carry Ram Chunder touch
en route. The influx of Indians to M L
isn’t the fault of Fiji but of M.L.’s inade-
quate laws for keeping undesirables out.
“Murlcah”: Successful automatic-tele-
graph working depends largely on the paper
“tape” used. This tape, when “punched,”
—two holes straight up-and-down for a dot
and on the slant for a dash —governs the
current-flow to the line, and so to the distant
receiver. The paper mustn’t “chew” (i.e.,
the holes must be clean-cut), yet it must
be tough, to stand being rapidly wound.
Before the war this tape was one of the
things which, allegedly, Australia couldn’t
manufacture; but it soon became a case of
make it or go without. An Australian firm
stepped into the breach and produced a tape
which left the imported stuff far behind.
But I never realised till recently the super-
lative quality of the Australian product.
Working down, we came to some of the old
stuff. Then such a howl came from the
Brisbane end when we started to “run”
some of it that the messages had to be re-
punched on Australian paper.
“THE FOURPENNY SHINE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If to study humanity you should incline,
There's a field for research at the fourpenny shine;
For the pathways of Life leave their duet on our
shoes,
From Ambition and Art down to Betting and Booze,
And on footgear psychology you’ll “get a line,”
If you hop on a perch at the fourpenny shine.
Here are boots right beside you that used to be
tan;
Now they’re black, but you’ll see where the camou-
flage ran
If you look at them closely; they’re mended with
care,
And the wearer sits nervously up in his chair:
lie is going out seeking a job, I opine,
And he’s gambling a “sprat” on the fourpenny
shine. .
For though “fourpence” is blazoned on window and
wall,
It is really a sixpenny shine, after all,
And superlative brightness you’ll never enjoy
Unless you hand twopence (your change) to the
boy;
It’s an unwritten law which is hard to define,
But it’s strictly observed at the fourpenny shine.
Here’s a strapping Light Horseman, who’s drawn
“deferred pay,”
And is getting spruced up to go out for the day,
And his leggings are lovingly polished with care,
By the kid whose big brother fell fighting “out
there,”
And a tear dims their brightness—“Oh, brother of
mine,
If you’d only come back for a fourpenny shine!”
Here are bulging big “Romeos,” with knobs on the
toes,
And your eye travels upwards and rests on a Nose,
And you think that you’d forfeit quite twenty years’
screw
For the money that painted its passionate hue —
Till the victim refers to the boy as “a swine,”
And the beast “gets the gong” at the fourpenny
shine!
Here are “patents” so delicate, pointed and small
You’d imagine a lady had dressed for a ball;
But the wearer’s a rider of point,-, a “jock ’
■ With a profile of flint and a conscience of rock ;
He is talking in hundreds, and motors, and wine,
And the staff heaves a sigh at the fourpenny shine.
Here are poor broken boots, you may see througli
a crack
Where the sock has been inked, jest the color,
scheme lack
A proper completeness—the wearer once trod
The Shakspearean stage with the air of 3 god.
Oh, the vanity, pathos and humor are fine,
Where we put up our feet at the fourpenny shine!
N.S.W.
H.C. HALLORAN.


Miss Dorothy South praises
POUDRE PLAZA.
Having used for some time your Plaza Face Cream and Poudre Plaza, may I say that I consider
them par excellence the very best? I detest cheap skin foods and inferior powder—they so quickly
destroy a fine complexion. Your perfectly-blended- Plaza Face Cream stimulates and preserves.
Poudre Plaza protects. I lead the open-air life and I know.
Wishing your delightful toilet requisites continued success.
I am, yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) DOROTHY SOUTH,
Criterion Theatre, Sydney.
Poudre Plaza
Makes Plain Girls
Pretty and Pretty
Girls Prettier.
If you would have a complexion
that is simply irresistible, use Poudre
Plaza. You will find that this
Powder is finer, softer, more cling-
ing and delicately fragrant than any
other that you have ever used. By
choosing Poudre Plaza for your
Face Powder you are sure of purity,
for it contains nothing artificial or
harmful. Supplied in three tints:
Blanche, Naturel and Rachel. Price
4/6.
Plaza Face
Cream
Gives you a Perfect
Complexion.
For Plaza is an improved kind of
vanishing Cream that refreshes the
skin and beautifies the complexion
in an amazing manner. Dainty and
fragrant, it is a true delight to any
woman to apply. It contains no
grease of any kind, and is rapidly
absorbed by the skin, with such
marvellous effect that it improves
the skin vastly in the course of a
few days. Price 2/6.
&
mm*
®wm
I x--i
5- i i
SSSg
im
$ s-s
~ 5% > -■" *
mm
m
Miss DOROTHY SOUTH (from a photo ), as Irene in the musical comedy
of that name, in which she delighted all theatregoers.
Plaza Talcum
Powder
Keeps you FresH and
Dainty from Head to
Toe.
Plaza Talcum Powder is a daily
necessity. It soothes, heals and
preserves the delicacy of the skin,
prevents any odor from perspira-
tion, and keeps you cool and com-
fortable in warm weather. The
Best Powder for Baby. Plaza
Talcum Powder keeps yoti fresh
and dainty from head to toe. Price
1/9.
Plaza Tooth
Paste
A Better Paste than
you Have ever used
before.
In collapsible tubes of the dainty
Plaza design, containing a pure
white Tooth Paste with just the right
taste, which forms a creamy lather
in the mouth and cleans the teeth
hygienically. It leaves the gums
healthy and pink, and the mouth
just as you want it to feel—clean
and wholesome. Large tubes, 1/ 6.
Plaza Soap
A True DeligHt.
Plaza Soap is a High-class Perfumed
Soap especially prepared to suit
the taste of dainty women who want
an individuality in their soap. Price
1/6 per tablet.
Plaza de Luxe
Absolutely Free.
A Free Sample of Poudre Plaza will
be posted to anyone sending us name
and address. We know you will like it.
SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.,
131-5 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Toilet Requisites.
Only the very best of materials, the daintiest perfume
and expert knowledge have been combined in preparing
the Plaza de Luxe Toilet Requisites. Dainty women can
appreciate the great help of Plaza in keeping the face, body
and mouth perfectly healthy and beautiful. Obtainable
from all Chemists and Stores throughout the Common-
wealth, or will be sent post free upon receipt of the price by
the Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 131-5 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m.
5 £
WtaM
S vv
m
rmrf.
m.
i im
feA
<CI
i
ms#
> V wx
vHfesilfe
ts*
to*C? o
mm
tggMs
%
m
Ml
h
IKOv i
r iM
fA«r^
05
\1
N
m
m
TAm
Si
Plaza de Luxe Toilet Requisites.


i 'V' ‘ J' ' i
-
mmm
m
\
w s
m
: :
m
v^o
to
9
TO SHIFT COLDS QUICKLY.
Take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy as directed.
at Cough will stop almost immediately and your
cold will disappear entirely within a day or so.
it s wonderfuJ quick action has made it the
'}/ Worlds most popular medicine for Coughs and Colds.
JfaM
Cranny" Chamberlain
-
ǽ
Dodbeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
The one outstanding public thought about
the car is implicit confidence in its quality.
Owners who have had cars year after year,
from the first, are its firmest friends.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Canada Cycle * Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. Standardised Motors., Limited, Sydney.
Clieney Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth. Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd., Brisbane.
Dodge Brother a Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
She was in at Cole’s from the oute
suburbs, and her excessive plumpness wa
an obvious grievance. “Yes,” she said
“everythink is gone up. Everythink excel
the weighin’-machine. It’s always bin
penny!”
Sydney owns one professional fisherwoman
and a considerate magistrate has decided tha
she is entitled to carry a revolver. She
a sunbrowned Scotch lassie, with lint-white
locks, and, clad in cotton “bathers,” ma
sometimes be seen mending her nets on Ba
moral Beach, smoking a cigarette the whil
“Rex”: Was this an SOS sent out from
the father? At 10 minutes to 11 Tom
’s five-year-old son. awoke suddenly ant
cried : “Daddy ! Daddy—l want daddy!
At 11 o'clock we were searching for tk
pieces that remained of Tom’s body. H
had bored into a hole that had misfired a
the Central mine, Broken Hill.
Melba and Caruso are tremendousl
pleased. Special gramophone records, o
each song-bird have been made, placed in
time-proof receptacle and laid beneath th
Opera House m Paris, where (the Fate
being willing) they will stay 100 years. The
the artists and the scientists will gathe
round, so we plan, to arbitrate between th
ghost-voices of the past and the nightingale
of the moment.
“A.R.W.”: Some extracts which may in
terest "Ojregor,” who says (B. 14/7/’2l
that “the carrier of leprosy has never been
found,” and “the manner in which it make
its entry into the victim’s body is unknown”
Some interesting experiments to determine th
mode of transmission of leprosy show that flies, mos
quitoes and other insects may spread it, but i
particular Aeanthia lectularia appears to constitute
very important agent in the spread. Acid fas
bacilli resembling B. leprae have been found i
30 per e'ent. of specimens ud to 16 days after feet
ing on lepers.—T. Lindsay .sands in British Mkdi
cat Journal, 11.—11,460.
Bed bugs obtained from huts which had never
been inhabited by lepers were caused to bite leper
near leprous nodules on the face-—in every case tlxn
contained the bacilli. Experiments to determin
how long they remain in the bug’s body, etc., are
in progress.—E. C. Long in British Medical Jock
nal, 11.—11,470.
Rat and human leprosy appear to be identica
diseases. It is therefore possible that the germ o
both can be transmitted from one to the other givei
an appropriate intermediary—“ Bayou” in British
Medical Journal, II. — 11,269.
“N. or M”: “D.F.’s" par (B. 23/6/’2l)
concerning the sale of wives recalls that
the idea came to Australia along with the
first settlers. The Family Friend maga-
zine of about 80 years ago commented on
the belief, then dying hard in English vil-
lages, that it was legal to make over the
missus to the highest bidder provided she
raised no objections and was taken to
market with a halter. In addition to the
cases quoted by “D.F.” the Van Diemen’s
Land Gazette of March 1, 1817, gets a
lively par out of three auction sales held
within the preceding 12 months, “Mad
Tom” Davey being Governor. At the first
of these the lady brought: “50 ewes, etc.,”
the “etc.” being interpreted in terms of rum.
At the next sale the bidding was not brisk,
the goods being knocked down at £5 and a
gall, of rum; but a few months later the
market improved and a strikingly unpre-
possessing dame changed hands for “20
ewes and one gall., etc.” “From the great
variety of bidders,” says the Gazette, “had
there been any more in the market the sale
would have been very brisk.”
“0.K.” recalls a catastrophe
What I chiefly loved in Leason’s cartoon of the
motor-accident was the glee on the faces of two
young girls standing behind the policeman. They
were thoroughly enjoying the accident, as their par-
ticular kind of office-girl always does. There were
about 40 faces in the picture, all of them expressing
grave concern, or serious curiosity, save these two.
Therein lay the truth of the representation. I know
those young fixings: I’ve experienced them. Years
ago I was leaving a city building one Saturday
afternoon when I tripped and fell. Two girls and
some half-dozen young men saw the mishap in t-hc
otherwise deserted street, the young men being dotted
about—a good distance up the street or on the opposite-
side. One and all of them paused and started to come
to my assistance. The girls, the dear little tender-
hearted girls, were walking close to me when I
smote the pavement. Did they rush to me and bend
down to ask how hurt I was? Did sweet sympathy
shine in their maiden eyes and pity thrill their
voices? Not much! They crammed hankies into
rosebud mouths to keep them from giggling. Also,
they went through the pretence of turning away
their heads lest I should disapprove of their grin-
ning. Apart from that, they left sympathy and con-
cern and practical kindness to the silly boys who
can't appreciate a joke when it comes right under
their noses. I had almost forgotten that pair of
early virgins when they popped up on Leason’s page.
There they are, true types of a fairly numerous tribe
of little dears. You can bet your life that every
mention of a hospital goes straight to their hearts
and inspires them to say, “Oh, I would love to be a
nurse!”
“Fax”: Rather late in the day Vic. Mines
Department is besought by the Otway Shire
Council to send a drill along to test the
depth and extent of alleged Coal deposits in
Otway Forest. Now that the State’s brown-
coal beds are about to be properly ex-
ploited, the drowsy denizens of Otway are
alive to local probabilities. Otway has been
densely wooded for jinknown ages past, and
decayed forest has been accumulating there
since the continent emerged from the ocean,
as far as anyone knows to the contrary, yet
“recent reports of coal deposits in the forest
appear to have thrilled the shire council with
strange wonderment. One of these days some-
body will be staggered by a discovery that
the climates of certain Australian districts
are exactly suited to the manufacture of the
finest woollen cloth, or the of cot-
ton, and then towns will grow up in those
districts, even more rapidly than a coal-
mining town will probably come to pass at
Otwav anon. After all, the ridiculous cor-
pulency of Australia’s largest capital cities
is due to the fact that the glaring possibili-
ties of other places have not been advertised.
Thus it was in London of old. It took a
long while, for someone to discover the vir-
tue of the water at Burton, and, after that,
little by little, London ceased to be the
centre of English beer manufacture. What
Australia mostly needs these times is intelli-
gent quest for provincial potentialities i
the atmosphere, the water and the subsoil
and long-sighted handling when they are
found.


For complaints arising from a disordered
Stomach, Liver and Kidneys, Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are without equal.
They are not advertised as a great “Cure All” but as a safe,
sure and reliable remedy for the Little Ills of Life, for which
they are unexcelled. People who eat and drink too much,
or get their system upset from any other cause, need a medi-
cine of this kind to keep the digestive tract in proper work-
ing order. Many serious illnesses are avoided by keeping
such a simple remedy at hand, and once or twice a week
taking a dose sufficient to cleanse and tone the system.
This is the secret of good health in man, woman and child,
and anyone falling to recognise this simple fact runs a serious risk of
contracting any of the dreaded complaints so common. The old saying,
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure,” was never more aptly
to the point. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are based on a good sound
formula, and are in use by thousands of people. They get at the cause
in an unmistakable manner, regulating, toning and strengthening the
whole system. As a searching, cleansing remedy these Pills are unexcelled,
and once tried they are found so efficient in overcoming Stomach Troubles!
Constipation, Sick Headache, Indigestion and Liver Complaints that they
are constantly used, and always with the most gratifying results. Neigh-
bors, friends and relatives all testify to the marvellous cleansing and
purifying properties of these pills, and their ever increasing sale bears
testimony to their splendid efficacy and popularity as a home remedy.
D
R
Morses
1
i
m
%
m.
%
%
FOR TtfE
mmm
They Make You Feel Brighter.


CUTICURA
SOOTHES SKIN TROUBLES
Bathe with plenty of Cuticura Soap
and hot water to cleanse and puri-
fy. Dry lightly and apply Cuticura
Ointment to soothe and heal. Cuti-
cura Talcum soothes and cools the
skin and overcomes heavy perspi-
ration. Delicate, delightful, distingud.
SoaplB.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
sHF~Cuticura Soap shades without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Perfection is made up of trifles,
Little streamlets make torrents swell,
World freedom is measured in rifles,
’Tis the keen little things that tell;
Invisible germs stress a nation,
And few uninfected endure,
For colds millions find sure salvation
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
genuine
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
With your Friends.
Cycling companions are the hap-
piest associations it is possible to
make. The healthy exercise and
pleasure gained make cycling the
one pastime without equal. Relia-
bility and long service are specially
studied in the construction of
B.S.A. Fittings, and the purchase
of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
will ensure care-free cycling for
years. For business purposes the
convenience and economy make a
bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings a real necessity. Look
for the world famous Trade Mark,
the “Three Piled Rifles.’’
à
All B.S.A. Parti
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
twwm—
k
A Sign Ot
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bcixetin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
UfaxHt
<£>
s£uAi\AjUjOL
111
COLO\
If your car is equipped
throughout with
You can set out on a cross
country trip with every
confidence
They are ycur best assurance
against tyre trouble - - -
ask your oaragb
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also
Newcastle:
Melbourne:
Brisbane:
7 Royal Court, Scott St.
: 54 Market Street.
98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland : Albert & Swanson Streets.
The Saddle you forget.
a
no
oo
ro
A SADDLE that keeps re^
** minding you of its presence
gives you no chance to
appreciate the joys of cycling.
à
is designed and built to be
forgotten once you've fitted it.
Ask your dealer about this Brooks Model .
B. BROOKS £r CO.. LTD. 134 Criterion Works Birmins h am. EngUnd,
presentatives in N.S.W.: Scott & Holladay, X.td., vilA Pitt St., Sydney.
Cl n
a
—and eliminate the
possibility of regret.
There are no regrets coming to
the man who smokes a GBU,
because it is the perfect pipe that
gives a cool, sweet smoke always.
Made of French Bnarwood
thoroughly matured and hnishe
by experts, this pipe is the
smoker’s delight. Invest m a
GBD and prove its merit.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
George Dean, one of tlie oldest traders in
Melbourne, has gone at 83. With his brother
William he commenced business in oils and
colors over 00 years ago in Elizabeth-ktveet.
“Aussie-ite”: I employed him to do three
days’ gardening, and when I paid him off
lie looked at me like a man with a griev-
ance and remarked : ‘"Now I’ve got £lO, and
I dunno whether to buy a bike or git mar-
ried !”
The pluck of the Outback! An old lady
who died the other day at a town in
our far west had been married four times.
When 71 she was to have been a bride for
the fifth time, but just before the ceremony
two of her daughters scared off the prospec-
tive bridegroom.
Related on fair to medium authority that
Billy Hughes confessed to a London dinner-
party that his ambition was to be buried in
Westminster Abbey. At the same time he
deprecated any suggestion of egotism;
whereat a gentleman with an eyeglass, who
may have been Lord Birkenhead or Austen
Chamberlain, said : “Oh, that’s all right, Mr.
Hughes, I’m sure you will be buried in the
Abbey.” Cold print is inadequate to reveal
the acid the speaker got into that “buried. ’
“Mr. Ocky”: While sorting out medals,
paybooks. King’s messages, Tommy badges,
shell-caps and other war souvenirs to-day
I came across .this document: —
This is to certify that Sergt.-Major Ocky is free
from vermin arid scabies.
It was signed by our medical lance-corporal
fhe didn’t put his rank) on behalf of the
Major. It wasn’t true, but it complied with
all the regulations, and let me into Blighty
for a fortnight.
“Debrac”: It is a pity more Bulletin
readers are not picture-goers, in order to
swell the roar about Yank propaganda that
is going to arise when the public wakes up.
Every U.S. production is propaganda, and
a great many have the appearance of having
been got up with this end specially in view.
Personally, I’m tired of seeing the Stars and
Stripes saluted 157 times in one evening, and
I’m more than tired of hearing a theatre-full
of unthinking Australians applauding the
Yankee emblem as it appears at the last
moment to save the hero and heroine from a
horrible but well-deserved end.
“Blanco”: Is there an older church in
Queensland than the little one at Ormiston,
on Moreton Bay? It was built in the early
’sixties by Captain Louis Hope, uncle of
Australia’s first Governor-General. Hope
was the first man to grow sugar commercially
in Australia, and for the first 10 tons manu-
factured he received from the Government a
grant of 2500 acres on- Hope Island, in
the Coomera River (Q.). The old mill build-
ing still stands, though the machinery was
purchased in 1874 by Gilbert Burnett, who
removed it to Wellington Point. The church
is still used, and a few weeks ago a Digger
nurse was married in it.
“Mr. Mac” : White Australia! When I
was travelling lately between Cairns and
Gordon ville (Q.) I saw cane-cutting in
full swing on either side of the road. There
were six gangs at work, and not a Britisher
among them. I pulled up at a farm near
Edmonton, owned by a white man but leased
to three Japs, who had two white men work-
ing for them. Next day I was a passenger
on the little train from Daradge to Innis-
fail. A commercial and myself were the only
English-speaking passengers in one carriage,
but between the jolts I could recognise bits
of Chinese, Japanese, Syrian, Italian,
Greek and Spanish from the other dozen or
so passengers aboard.
Arthur Griffith wants to know: —
The recent rush of a lot of men in Sydney pro-
minent in the Anti-Conscription fight to get to
France and Russia seems to me a bit illogical. If
they really believe that conscription means personal
slavery and national ruin, why do these men ask to
be sent to France, where conscription was invented,
and to Russia, where they have, Under the revolu-
tion, not merely military conscription, but indus-
trial conscription as well. By the way, what has
become of the awful calamities that were going to
happen to Maoriland, Canada and United States as
a result of these countries having adopted conscrip-
tion? Something seems somehow to have gone wrong
with the works, as it is not these countries, but
Australia which didn’t adopt it, that seems to be suf-
fering all the disasters the anti crowd shrieked about.
A Collins-street toothsmith advertised for
a “domesticated” Lady i spelt with a capital
L) as an attendant in his rooms, and m his
bunch of replies was this: —
I am 22 years old ; my friends say, prepossessing.
I speak three languages; am thoroughly conversant
with all the ancient and modern poets. I take all
the society papers; have had the privilege of having
my photo in on one never-to-be-forgotten occa-
sion. (It didn’t do me justice.) My skill at bees-
waxing is renowned. In my spare time I could do
any laundry work necessary. Should you be at any
time a little dull I shall deem it a pleasure to quote
a little of “The Sentimental Bloke” or any other
light comedy I’ll be thoroughly honest with you
—I possess a fur coat. Do overlook it; it s just
New Zealand rabbo. I also possess —a keen sense of
humor. I trust that living in this aristocratic
suburb (Brunswick) will not appear presuming. Let
us be quite clear on this matter —I must wear my
gloves while performing domestic duties.
The hard-hearted man didn’t engage her —
so he declares.
“M.D.” wants to close a door: —
The medical profession in Vic. has drawn atten-
tion to the decrease in alcoholism and the increase
in drug-taking. Blame is thrown on doctors for
carelessness in prescribing morphia and cocaine, and
chemists come in for vituperation for dispensing
“scrips” containing these drugs as often as patients
like to come. Suburban and country doctors should,
in the interest of the public, either sink their dig-
nity and do their own dispensing when the prescrip-
tion contains ingredients likely to prove harmful if
persisted in ad lib., or send the “scrips” to a
chemist who will stamp the date of dispensing, the
doctor writing legibly on the prescription, “Not to
be dispensed for more than a month from this date.”
When I want some hypodermic tabloids of morphia
or cocaine I have to fill in a form wherein I state
that I won’t sell the drugs or use them for an
improper purpose (I forget the exact words, but
I know the restriction is a d —d nuisance when one
is in a hurry). I asked my wife one day to get
me two tubes of morphia, but the wholesale house
thought she was a morphino-maniac, and wouldn’t
do business without my signature; yet a chance
patient can get enough morphia to poison a brigade
by simply humping my “scrip” round to half-a-
dozen chemists in the course of a day. There is
something glaringly inconsistent here that requires
attention.


THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
* - :■
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
-
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.li.p., at 400 r.p.ni.
ENG/NES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Etd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Etd.
~ LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch * Street.
m
IK
i
"zsz,
ft
i#
25K**
fl <W
VEA^
AND ,
'A
\
NEW TASTES
FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES
Give the kiddies these wholesome
meats on their Sandwiches—
“REX” HAM PATE and “REX”
VEAL AND TONGUE PATE
They spread readily and are so appetising
that everyone enjoys them. They are all
pure meat, prepared and packed by the
most hygienic methods. You can have
nothing more wholesome. “Rex” Pates are
great for suppers, parties, picnics, lunches, etc.
Your grocer can supply.
Packed by—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
U9S
j
It is easy to understand why the Hupmobile has beccme known everywhere in
t^. country anc * abroad as an extraordinarily good car. This reason is simply the
ability, of The Comfort Car to remain at its best for months at a time? with
the minimum of expert attention.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge. *
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains—door curtain carriers
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
189-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, alia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


A, J
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, band
burnished, plain design, £B/10/“
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Sauce Boats and Frame, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £4/10/-
Smaller sue, 70/-
TABLE-APPOINTMENTS
Ml
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated,
AX quality, highly burnished, £9/9/-
Others, £5, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £l5/-/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely
engraved and burnished, 65/*
A. Saunders’ Hot-Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Rustic
Stand, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, plain
design, complete with eight detachable tubes £B/8/«
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE—IT’S FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (Oppositeßailway Station), Sydney
A. Saunders’ Hot-Water Jug, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, engraved
“Fern” design, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, complete with plinth,
£5/10/-
“BILLABONG” HYDRAULIC
RAM.
a
Uses the
power of fall-
ing- water to
work the
pump. Turn
your dam or
creek into a
power unit.
Capacities de-
pend upon
local condi-
tions. As no
hand-, wind-
or engine-
power is re-
quired, this
pump, where
conditions are
suitable. i s
r e m a rkably
effective and
economical.
In various
sizes from 1-
inch to 4-inch
intake pipe.
“BILLABONG” DOUBLE-
ACTING PISTON PUMP
is a medium-priced pump for use with
petrol or kerosene engriiaes, and com-
bines power and capacity in a most
compact form. Suction may be taken
from either side, and delivery in four
different directions. We fit this pump
up as a sheep-spray outfit complete
with suction and delivery hose, foot-
valve, lever spray nozxles and safety
valve. Pump will exert a pressure of
751 b. to the
square inch.
Sizes from 21-
inch to fir-
inch. Write
for leaflet.
à
PROVED PUMPS
POPULAR "BILLABONG” MAKE.
These Pumps have fifty years’ Australian manufacturing experience
behind them, and embodv scientific design, workmanship and full weight
of metal, in as compact a form as possible, for the rough wear and tear of
Australian conditions. Nothing is sacrificed for competitive purposes, and
“Billabong” Pumps will be found to be substantially cheaper than
imported Pumps of similar capacity. The voice of quality—economy
calls here.
Send for quotations, information and illustrated matter per return.
á
BUTCHER’S BRINE PUMP
for pickling and salting. Made from special metal which resists the formation of
verdigris and poisonous acetates. Made in two sizes, lj-inch and 3-inch, and sold
complete with two needles.
“BILLABONG”
SEMI-ROTARY
PUMPS.
Well known
for their
many uses
and ease of
operating. In
sizes from
2-inch to 2-
inchj and
capacities
from 396 gal-
lons to 1848
Imperial gal-
lons per hour.
Write for
leaflet and
price list.
â
“KEROTIN” SPRAY PUMP
A powerful all-brass hand spray pump
for small orchards and gardens; will
deliver a bucket of emulsion as a fine
mist in fifteen minutes. Can also be
used as a jet pump for lime washing,
etc.
“BILLABONG” LOW-DOWN
DOUBLE-ACTING FORCE
PUMP.
A powerful hand pump
suitable for filling
tanks, emptying dams,
draining cellars or
hulks, washing wag-
gons or buildings, irri-
gating small orchards,
or for use as a bush-,
fire pump, etc. Has a
total force and lift of 60
feet, capacity 1680
Imperial gallons per
hour; piston rod is of
polished steel, and
packing glands of
brass. Heavier in
metal than the im-
ported pump and 25
per cent, cheaper.
ã
“BILLABONG”
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP.
This Rotary Pump, operated by belt
delivers enormous quantities of
water, and is compactly constructed on
sturdy lines for hard and continuous
wear. Made in sizes from 1-inch to 8-
inch; also in gun-metal, for use with
water containing corroding agents. Suc-
tion and discharge can be taken at any
angle.
324=330 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
JOHN
1^1
SON-Pty. Ltd
391=403 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.


Amusement*.
SY DN E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C, Williamson, Ltd.. Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY'S.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
MR. PIM PASSES BY.
Boarding-house Boots: "Shall I rouse laughter?”
The Boss : “No. The Jeffersons urill rouse laughter.”
SEE BERT BAILEY AND THE NEW
COMPANY organised bv Hailey and Grant in
the Latest English Comedy, THE JEFFERSONS,
at the PALACE THEATRE, Sydney, every evening.
They’re friendly like.
Allan wilkie shakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
NORTH ISLAND N.Z. TOUR.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
11 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
yNI O N PICTURE TIIEAT It K >
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
A USTRALIA’B ALL-STAR MELODY-
** MAKERS’ CARNIVAL NIGHT.
SUPPER DANCE.
BURLINGTON CAFE, 324 GEORGE STREET,
THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST, 1921.
SINGLE TICKETS, 7/- (No Tax).
Direction W. J. FOSTER.
Tickets available Cafeteria under Macnaught’s,
Pitt Street.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
theatre royal.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS ii
LONDON and 155 Nights in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
t/jr INC’S THEATRE. MEI,HOS' It v I
rv Lessees: BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Commenting Saturday, August 6. Cosmo Hamilton’s
Daring and Fascinating' Play, “SCANDAL.”
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
.11 SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Undue V
PRISCILLA DEAN in
OUTSIDE THE LAW.
Also
TOLA VALE, in
COMMON SENSE.
Prices as usual.
QLACI ARICM, MEL B O U It N E.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
|y|A.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY,
JEAN PAIGE in
BLOCK BEAUTY.
Matinees dally at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gUIIASMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Session*.
jyjELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Legal Notice.
TO ItHODA MAY COB~HAM (n7e
Wilkins), formerly of Wooiooga, in
the State of Queensland, wife of Allan Blen-
man Cobham. —Take notice that I, Allan
Blenman Cobham, of Wooiooga, aforesaid,
your lawful husband, hereby declare that I
nave not seen or heard of you since the
First day of March, 1914, and that I intend
to remarry if I do not see or hear from you
on or before the Fifteenth dav of September,
1921. ALLAN BLENMAN COBHAM,
Wooiooga, Queensland.
Position Vacant.
A PPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
Secretary to the Workers’ Educational Associ-
ation of Queensland. Applications must be accom-
panied by statement of age and experience. Further
particulars as to duties, etc., will be supplied on
application in writing. Applications must be in the
hands of the undersigned not later than 5 p.m. on
Friday, August 12, 1921.
W. MeCOSKER, President W.E.A.,
C/o Box 15 G.P.0., Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
TO THOMAS RIXON, formerly of Syd-
ney, New South Wales, nephew of
Thomas Rixon, deceased, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him;
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
15th day of July, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are here-
by called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the Ist day of February, 1922,
your claim to the estate of Thomas Rixon,
who died on the 25th day of May, 1910, fail-
ing which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 18th day of Jnly,
1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
ANYONE having information as to the
next-of-kin of OWEN McSORUEY,
alias EDWARD PRICE, late of Waipori,
New Zealand, laborer, deceased, but formerly
of Sydney, Australia, is invited to communi-
cate with the undersigned.
G. H. ELLIFFE,
Local Deputy Public Trustee,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Positions Vacant; ______
TiteMillaquin Sugar Go. Ltd.
Bundaberg.
VACANCY GENERAL MANAGER.
APPLICATIONS are invited prior to
27th August, 1921, for the position of
General Manager. Salary, £l5OO per' annum,
with residence at the works at Bundaberg.
Thorough knowledge of all branches of
the business required, embracing plantations,
crushing and refining, combined with com-
mercial ability.
Applications, to be made by letter only,
accompanied by copies of testimonials and
stating age, training and practical experi-
ence, also date prepared to assume duty if
appointed, to be addressed to The Chairman
of Directors, Millaquin Sugar Co., Ltd., Box
159 G.P.0., Brisbane.
IS
NOT
a better watch
made the world
over than our
%
I&FMt mMH»
N
=KH
0.1
Gent, s
“Super
Fx
jewelled
. Oxidised Steel
and R” fully-
Lever, 84/-
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding.
For long life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After 81 years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Pl, i.rSK 25 8 25 Boater Street.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed since l«i6. FOR "Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FAILING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton's ’’—refuse all substitutes.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
i* * Food-Drink which main'ams
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'.'i daily. It
combi les the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
Barley. Quick,y made by the
addition of not or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTE9 MILK CO.
6UOUOH. BUCKS, ETNC.
0
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
T&ff*.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SIDNEY.
TfWPW Razor
CRAIG & yAITKEN, Sonic Proprietors.
'The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
itt Craig k Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
saloon in George Street Hundreds ot other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum." which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6—-POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Queensland State Government
Insurance Office.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.
Bonus Distribution to With-
Profit Policy-holders.
Holders of participating
Policies are advised that a dis-
tribution of the valuation sur-
plus has now been made, and
Policy-holders will shortly re-
ceive their Bonus Certificates.
The Actuary’s recommen-
dation is that a reversionary
bonus of £1 10s. per £lOO per
annum be declared on whole
Life participating Policies, and
£1 per £lOO per annum on
Endowment Assurance and
Endowment Policies, and the
full report and recommendation
will be printed with my Annual
Report.
The Life Funds at the
valuation date (31st December,
1920) amounted t0£112,257, and
the sums insured to £2,826,109
as the result of three years’
working.
JOHN A. WATSON,
insurance Commissioner.
Brisbane.


fjoleproof ffosierg
PURE SILK, SILK-FACED, FIBRE SILK, LUSTERISED f.ISI.F.
EXTRA STRETCH TOP—FOR STOUT AND SLENDER WOMEN.
SOLD BY LEADING STORES EVERYWHERE
IN A WIDE RANGE OF PRICES.
Wholesale and Indent, through WAITER CATHRO PTY„ LTD., 50 York Street, S.vdne.r; l 6 victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
xt SYDNEY SHOWS FOU COMING WEEK.
“ uh - hdd y>
Ckiterion “Mr. Pirn Passes By
utvtt* “ x be Jefferson*
UIOK IIIEATUES Moving PictUl
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOU COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “The Lilac Domino
S “Niuhtie Night
tV 8 “Scandal
Urn r a Oe Luxe it Lyceum Moving Picture
Movn.g Pu-mru
llkitakiiu Moving Picture
MauESTic Moving: Picture
Guaciakjcm ice bkath
4
There is only one character worth remem
bering in “The Jettersons,” the new En O Ls
comedy m which Bert Jiailey has returned t
the Sydney Palace, and Christopher Jetfei
son is Ins name. Christopher is a humoi
ously irascible Lancashire cotton-spinne
who has a feud wall Nathan.el Moscioi
owner of a neighboring nuU, is brought t
the brink of ruin by a strike which Moscro]
has fomented, is saved at the eleventh
by the advent of an impossible Yankee inven
tor, and gets home on Moscrop by purchasin
lus mill, whereupon everybody is made happy
»T ter having been thoroughly miserable, by
Moscrop fils marrying the Jefferson daugh
ter. Apart from Christopher it isn’t mile
of a play, but that whimsical figure saves it
Christopher is a capital bit of portraiture
and the part, unfamiliar as it is, enable
Bert Bailey to demonstrate what a versatile
and human comedian he is. Bailey’s work
is impressive throughout. Sometimes, it is
true, he. introduces Australianisms into his
Lancashire dialect, and even a cotton-spinnei
devoted to “brahs” would hardly wear the
one suit seven years after he had made b-s
pilej but in the main his is an excellent
impersonation, and one that adds cub.ts to
his stature as a straight comedian. Adele
Inman acts smoothly and wears pretty
dresses as Rosie Jefferson and Len Budrick
is a satisfactory Moscrop. But Sylvia
McNair is much too young looking to be a
convincing Mrs. Christopher, and a jarrah
floor is not more wooden than Norman Lee’s
manner of making love. Also, no Yankee
who talked like Roland Conway was ever
allowed to escape from the U.SiA. Either
Conway has neglected his opportunity of
acquiring the American accent or lie hasn’t
lived long in Sydney. The other parts are
taken by Alison Greenwood, Thomas Sidney
and Rolstan Denman.
* % *
A new Dorothy Brunton stepped out of
the box at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Satur-
day. night, and the Firm would be well
advised to nail down the box to prevent her
getting back. The New Dot is as impish
as the old one was coy and curly. From the
moment she. as Faintin’ Fanny in “Oh,
Lady, Lady!” steps out of the big chest in
the corner of the stage to begin her campaign
“Nightie Night,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Joseph Coyne as the
perturbed Billy.
for Willoughby
Finch (Cyril Rit-
chards) seem very
black. But the
guiding hand of the
reformed Sni k e
Hudg'ns (Alfred
Frith) not only
leads Fanny from
the straight and
narrow path of
burglary and
nocket-picking to
the tortuous and
bumpy mat ri-
moniai track, but
determines the fate
of two other loving
couples.
* * *
Dorothy B run-
ton, whose habit
of fainting into
the arms of gentle-
men and then re-
moving their valu-
ables has enabled
her to put some-
thing by for her
future home, and
Frith, whose ac-
complishments on
somewhat similar
lines have helped
him to m-ovide the
balance, are at
their best in this
show'. Edith Dray-
son, as Mollie Far-
rington, the bride
who sees the altar
getting more and more distant as the
evening wears on, and Madge Elliott,
the sweetheart of the past whose appearance
on the wedding morn causes the altar to
drift, and whose dancing is (as usual) a
feature of the show, are two other bright
spots. William Green, best man and later
bridegroom, and Cyril Ritchards, the ’groom
who almost remained a bachelor, and Millie
Engler, the bride’s mother, who caused more
trouble than a bride's mother usually does,
will satisfy those who haven’t paid their
money and been satisfied already.
The deplorable effects of mendacity in
young ladies’ seminaries, as illustrated in
"The Little Whopper,” w r ill be exhibited for
the last time to-uight in the Criterion, Syd-
ney. On Saturday comes Marie Tempest
in “Mr. Pim Passes By.”
The warmth that merrymaker Wilkie Bal’d
is rad.atmg at Sydney Tivoli keeps that
house a cheerful spot in a city, of biting west-
erlies. Of the accompanying vaudeville
turns Nina Gordon’s impersonations are the
most outstanding, while on the cal.co sheet
there is a screen version of “Twin Beds,”
though an obdurate censor has had the name
changed to “A Sleepless Knight.”
At Sydney Crystal Palace Clara Kimball
Young is Marta, a fascinating daughter of
Old Mexico, who nearly ruins her young life
trying to be the salvation of her husband,
whose name is Rafael. However, the übiqui-<
tous rich and food young American lover
drops in, and Marta dec.des to let the Devil
win the throw for “The Soiil of Rafael.”
Same screen shows Viola Dana in “The
Puppets of Fate.” The Lyceum furnishes itself
with “The Thirteenth Chair” and Rafael’s
soul above mentioned. Globe and Haymarket
star a bit of horseflesh named Iloneyblossom
“ADAM AND EVA,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Kenneth Brampton as Lord Andrew Gordon.
that wins young Australia’s approval, though
it doesmt win its first race, throwing it
away to save a little cheild who has toddled
into ‘'The Home Stretch.” Dame Margaret
should take warning from this near-tragedy
and leave Diana and Daphne at home next
A.J.C. meeting.
A big man’s show in Sydney:—
In the exhibition of pictures, mostly portraits, by
John Longjstaff at Anthony Horderns’ Gallcrv, one
little landscape sketch, “Near the Coast, Bilgola”
(No. 18), because of its more convincing light and
general fidelity to Nature gives an air of unreality
to the rest of the show ; for his portraits, while in
most cases of a higher standard than the vast majority
of pictures in the same department, are nevertheless
the work of the Fashionable Portrait Painter. Even
in his best work, a portrait of Capt. Ralph Longstaff,
M.C. (No. 15), where he has made his biggest effort
and reached higher, and in that of Professor Mac-
Callum (No. 16), he has not been able to shake off
the outlook and formula of his profession. To be-
come a successful portrait painter it is more or less
necessary to make concessions to satisfy the sitter and
the sitter’s friends. The artist must, in short, be-
come somewhat artificial in his outlook, and Long-
staff, sincere artist though he is, by his suggestion of
wax faces and general unconvincing light, shows haw
hard it is to come back.
People wearied by the patois of American
musical farce will welcome the reappearance
of the English language in A. A. Milne’s
latest, “Mr. Pim Passes By,” which was
staged for the first time in Australia at
Melbourne King's on Saturday. The author,
who had exhibited his satirical humor in
“Wurzel Flummery” and “Belinda,” recently
produced by the Mermaid Play Society,
shows no. slackening of h ; s adpoit invention
m the mischievous but rather unconvincing
use of Mr. Pim to shatter the peace of an
English county family. Pim drops in at
Marden House with a letter of introduction
to the head thereof, and, in the course of
chatter with Dinah Marden, learns that
Mrs. Marden was previously marred to a
swindler named Telwovthv, who had d : ed
long ago in Sydney. But the name of the
crook, hoarded up by Pirn’s treacherous mem-
ory, is carelessly fastened to a stranger
whom he had lately met on a voyage
from Australia. Of course, the bloomer is
snhseoucntly exnfnined hv the anolovetic
Pim. but in the interim the dramatist finds
ample opportunity for baring the soul of an
immaculate county gentleman in the fust
throes of realising the utter scandal of a
bigamy in the family.
Marie Tempest, firing her quiet ridicule at
her complacent partner, seemed a tonne of
merciless banter as she sat for much of the
time bent gracefully over the sewing of large
yellow curtains. Graham Browne, as George
Maiden, suffered from the author’s shortage
of inspiration in writing his dialogue, but
he obliged with an entertaming display of
the mental and moral processes of a pig-
and cattle-grower trying to do the right
thing. A romantic s.de-issue was Mane
Ney’s effusive affection as Dinah for Br.an
Strange (Frank Allanby). Frank was rather
pokei backed in his assumption of manly dig*
nity, whereas Marie’s fiapperish animation
tended to put her love-affair in the kin-
dergarten class. The piece, which was pre-
ceded by Harold Chapin’s “The Dumb and
the BLnd,” a comedy of Cockney sentiment
where.u Graham Browne and Doris Gilliam
shared the limelight, was due to depart last
night for another address. Next Saturday
comes Scandal, ’ and Melbourne is living in
hopes of gett.ng a record thrill from the
cardinal scene. But don’t, for Heaven's sake,
let Sydney hear of this.
Good Father Time put back the clock, and gave us
such a play
As used to make the public roar in old George
Coppin's day:
A farce wherein a stagey girl, respectable but “fast,”
Brings into Billy Moffat’s heme suspicions of past,
And moves his doting jealous wife to sudden sob 3
and cries,
Whilst Bill his innocence defeats by telling futile lies,
Which aggravate his noisy plight and all his projects
mar—
Till from a bedroom comes in sight
A pierrot figure, plump and white,
The stage-girl in her Nightie Night,
Bold Trix Lorraine La Varre.
A sister soured by man’s deceit, a dotty parlor-
maid—
They add hysterics to the scene, and rush to
Tumult’s aid ;
And Billy’s friend, who snorts around and brandishes
a knife,
Tie likewise helps to dig the breach ’twixt William
and his wife;
Misunderstanding riot run*, fresh complications grow,
Yes, all because a married man was giddy long ago!
Grim Fate, to give the farce a plot, has tracked him
from afar,
Grim Fate, with a vindictive spite,
Imputing wrong where all is right.
What 0 ! that figure plump and white—
Tho stage-girl in her Nightie Night,
Blonde Trix Lorraine La Varre!
From room to room, irom door to door the saucy
siren flits,
Endeavoring to raise a roar and put the house in
fits;
Within a mg she folds her form and rolls across the
stage;
The clock that Father Time put back then strikes
a bygone age.
In and in pantry small the hunted
charmer hides;
If some among us shake our heads the others shake
their sides;
For when upon the wash-trough lid Bill sits to
keep her down
It is a pantomime indeed, and Trixie is the clown.
So, ere the happy ending comes, one somehow seems
to feel
That T ixie from a butcher’s shop some sausages
should steal.
But, anyhow, she does her bit; in fact, she is the
star—• <
Hers is the part that has the bite:
She keeps the fire of farce alight,
That pierrot figure plump and white, ’
Whose garments fit her fairly tight,
The naughty girl in Nightie Night,
Fair Trix Lorraine La Varre.
• * * .
As leading man in a rather head-ache.v
game ’of hide-and-seek, Joseph Coyne when
left without the assistance of a witty remark
frequently gets there by sheer force of
humorous art, and his gestures and grimaces,
though usually excessive, are never irritat-
ing. On the other hand, Marjorie Bennett,
as the little wife, is unfortunate in suggest-
ing, from the moment she appears, (hat Dot
Brunton in the same part would lock much
the same and act it with broader effect, which
is what several parts in this broadest of
farces seem to need. Miss Trelease, as the
soured sister of the husband, for instance,
subordinates the jazzy spirit of comedy to
her rich contralto voice, and makes scan-
dalous insinuations in tones more consistent
with solemn prnrer. Sidnev Stuffing, as the
faithful lover who rushed Trixie into second
matrimony without waiting to hear she was
a widow with a little Freddie attached, is
rather out of the picture,' yet not uninterest-
ing. Lance Lister gives a bright sketch of
what a commonplace American male flanner
ounht to appear on the stage. Cecil Snong
is the usual wild exaggeration of a freak ser-
vant maid, and Marie La Varre ravels in the
nightie character of Trixie. Her revelry
1? somewhat too loud for the loud nart.
Subtlety is out of her line. She shines
brightest as an exponent of the frank and
teariess, and under conditions where Ethel
JLnine (ot the “Glad Eye”) would have kept
hei accents soft and low, Marie, the bouncing
1S disposed to shout. As to
whether the Melbourne Royal Show would
better serve its financial purpose by being
less boisterous—well, perhaps not.
„ Annette Ivellerman will dive no more at
Melbourne Tivoli after Friday this week.
i Stuart Barnes bewail his married
lot. lhe picture just now is a fairly conscien-
tious version ot Ralph Connor s “oiry ruoc,'’
whereof a crowd of cattle on the rampage
constitute the chief attraction.
sjc $ $
“Outside the Law” is Hoyt’s champion
him in Melbourne this week. Priscilla Dean
“Nightie Night,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Lance Lister as the
cub brother-in-law.
carries the burden
of the plot and
endures promiscu-
ous violence to her
feelings, while her
adored lad gets his
face pushed about
iu an underworld
brawl. Mary Mac-
Laren, as “A
Forged Bride,” is
the next in point
of sensation, whilst
Vola Vale again
establishes woman’s
right to the first
word and tbo last
in “Common
Sense.” At the'
Majestic Florence
Vidor in “Lying
Lips” nearly suf-
fers the penalty of
a broken heart
through her affec-
tions wandering at
the crisis of her
life. J. Warren
Kerrigan appears
in “The Dream
Cheater-,” which
cannot be con-
demned for slavish
imitation of the
or'.einal tale by De
Balzac. The reign-
ing divinity at the
Britannia is Louise
Glaum in “Love.”
The Melba, which
started the week
with a rush of
Fatty Arbuekle to
the screen, is now
inviting attention to Elliott Defter’in “The
Witching Hour.”
*** * "
The Maid of the Mountains, at Adelaide
Royal, bluffs a lot of officers in the course
of the show, but General Desire compels her
to prolong the successful season for a week
more than was intended. The Victoria-
square district is brightened by two Fuller
shows, the Prince of Waies with a series
a j about Home and Mother, the
Adventuress and similar safe topics, while
the King’s has a sound variety bill. Eslick
at the Dance Palace gets in quite a lot of
dramatic work on the floor of the house
and among the musicians. Pictures vary
widely. “William Ashe,” at the Pav., is
English politics: “The Junklins,” at Wonder-
graph, an American mountain feud; “Les-
sons in Love,” at the Majestic, plain laugh-
ter with Constance Talmadge in the lead,
and “Straight from Paris,” at West’s, an
emotional story of mostly feminine anneal,
built round gorgeous froeking. Also Percy
Trevors clever amateurs have reueated for
a chanty the sood old M*d-Victorian “Pick-
pocket, which recalls Harwood and Bouci-
cault.
»J* M sjs
Nelson Illingworth writes from New York:
Since corning to America I have been much sought
after for information concerning the N.S.W. State
Conservatorium and Orchestra. And now I have been
requested by the Board of Directors of the 1300
music clubs and other bodies determined to emulate
our example to go to Washington and speak to the
Senate Committee on the subject; to tell of the
results of the Conservatorium, which far outstrip
those of any I have yet witnessed; to tejl of the
Orchestra, which for verve and youthful enthusiasm
is not surpassed by any, not even those that cost
10 times the amount; to tell about the Government
that gave this orchestra to the people so that all
might hear it for a shillirg (a price unheard of here,
hence another cause of surprise) and about the
orchestra that made world fmind, world') musical
history by having no financial loss in its first year,
while giving the people the very best that music had
to offer, interpreted by a great conductor. What a
record 1 The people here are agape at it. And what
a just cause for pride we have! Do you wonder that
I hasten to tell you from afar what a tremendous
achievement has been ours and how dearly we should
prise it ? I tell you our record is amazing. And the
quality of the performances is something to make us
very happy; I have heard no choral singing that
begins to eomnare with that of those performances of
the Mass; while Mr. Verbrugghen’s conducting of it
remains to me one of the greatest tours de force that
I have witnessed.


Shirts—Half-Price
at Murdoch’s.
EW Goods awaiting entry. Present stocks must go—
hence the drastic cut to half-price. Every Shirt is
Murdoch’s own reliable make.
Men’s Golf Shirts. Made from good quality Fabrics. Soft turn-
back Cuffs and reinforced Linen Neckbands. No collar. In a range
of neat stripe effects. Splendid value.
Usually 12/6 to 15/6. NOW 6/3
Working Shirts. Men’s Navy Drill Working Shirts, in Fabric of
strong, wear-resisting quality. Specially strengthened for good service.
Usually 14/6. NOW 7/3
, t
MS
m
SjWk-n. "
f:‘-‘ .
* %
}•&& -
7
Tennis Shirts. Men’s White Mercerised
Tennis Shirts, with Collar and Pocket.
Strongly sewn and gusseted throughout.
Excellent wearing. As illustrated.
Usually 10/6. NOW 4/11
Replenish your stock NOW!
Never such an opportunity to
savo money!
Be sure and address your
letter to DESK R.
WE PAY POSTAGE TO
YOUR DOOR.
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK ST. LTD, SYDNEY,
“The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys' Wear Store.”
>
/
W-
lour
lb Sunny ,
QyeeitsiQW
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns—via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter.
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Levuka,
Wyandra, Bombala, Wodonga.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
FuL particulars on application to Agents, riz.:—
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
STAND ON
Ift
o©
s/sr;
TEmCO
tfc.
'.'ihiir
S»
B®2@S®SS © BSS^fv?
VIC««S I
TOUT Mr-C^ c^
CO
TE
Texaco Roofing is Permanent.
THERE is a lot of satisfaction in
knowing that your roof is per-
manent.
When you lay a Texaco Roof it stays
on. You seldom need to repair it. When
it does need repairing, you can do it
yourself.
The felt body of Texaco Roofing is
thoroughly saturated with weather-resist-
ing Texaco Asphalt.
Then both top and bottom are
thoroughly coated with Texaco Asphalt,
specially tempered to cope with all kinds
of weather.
There are no holes, however small, to
permit leaking. No places for heat or
cold to enter. Texaco Roofing won’t
crack, warp, peel or blister.
Its initial cost is low.
It comes in rolls of convenient size,
complete with cement, nails and printed
instructions. It can be easily laid by
unskilled labor.
Office Addresses of
The Texas Com fany (Australasia) Limited
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.—Auto House, 143-145
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE. —Carrington Chambers, Watt Street,
Newcastle. ” . ,
SIELBOCKNE, VlC.—Chancery House, 444 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRISBANE, Q’LAND. —Exton’s Buildings, Queen
street, Br.sbane, Q'land.
PERTH, W.A.—St. George’s House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, W.A.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.—4O St. John Street, Launces-
ton, Tas.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—22 Customs House Quay, Wel-
lington, N.Z.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Richard s-Upton Buildings, 53
Customs Street East, Auckland, N.Z.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —South Australian Agents—Harris,
Scarfe, Limited, Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
SQ
A
Water
For Ifbur Stock
A constant supply of fresh water is neces-
sary in order for them to thrive.
With a genuine
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
you are always sure of water at any time and
regardless of any and all weather conditions.
The Farm Pump Engine comes all com-
plete-engine ana jack are a unit —readily
attached to any wind-mill pump or standard
without interfering with the working of
the mill, or it can be set up by the side of a
tank without any special platform.
Prominent pastoralists, farmers, gar-
deners, orchard ists in fact all users
throughout Australia speak of the
FULLER & JOHNSON Farm Pump
Engine as the most satisfactory pumping
outfit of its kind.
Profit by the experience of others—
get the original FULLER & JOHNSON
Farm Pump Engine which has an estab-
lished reputation.
FULLER & JOHNSON ENGINES are dis-
tributed by
Buckeye Harvester Co.
Melbourne
TheS. A. Farmers’Co-operative
Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd.
S. Brisbane and Sydney
p Use
Fuller & Johnson
L Power A
Easy to Start
■


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
Real cocktail—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stored.
Insist on CINZANOS.
Good to the
Last Drop
m
ABBOTS
LAGER
TJjpßppr wMoafdKmA
VrpWprf from PmTfdft&ffoprCnfy
or LunaltmmmQ
an
C-Cf
nff'i s
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
GTCheeseman
POVERTY
POINT
Model & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHANPAGNE
Exquisite
“0.K.” sees his old friend off:—
The name of Howard Vernon as a Gilbert and
Sullivan opera artist is kept green mostly by theatre-
goers who did not hear him until his voice was
pretty ragged. Originally he sang as a tenor, and
was engaged by W. S. Xyster for comic opera, but
it was not until he had emulated the late R. S.
Smythe in taking a show to strange Asiatic lands,
some 46 years ago, that he made his first appearance
In G. and 8. work. The old Arm of Williamson, Garner
and Musgrove was producing "Patience,” with J. C.
■Williamson as the Seigeant of Police, and young Ver-
non was cast for the Grossmith part of the Major-
General. For many years afterwards Vernon filled
parts wherein the singing voice mattered little and
pungent humor and personality mattered much, dur-
ing which time his tenor voice passed out of recogni-
tion. In 1886, when "The Mikado” was first pro-
duced in Australia, nobody thought of Vernon as a
singer, but his forcible fnnnincss in a Japanese
character physically unsuited to the tall comedian
made him the prime favorite. It had previously made
his Bunthorne the outstanding feature of "Patience.”
His methods were decidedly rough. Gilbertian opera,
however, was played here on broader lines than the
modern generation is accustomed to (save in the
matter of some fooling on the floor in “The Mikado”),
"IN A MAN'S QUIP," AT THE OPERA
HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Heart-touching moment when the angel child
discovers that the lady burglar is no
other than his long lost mother Papa
Walter Hunt swoons.
and he never was out of the picture. Vernon, not
subtly droll or pleasantly tuneful, was strong and
emphatic, and in such a part as the Grand Inquisitor
in "The Gondoliers” his presence was a large asset.
Outside of several first productions and many revivals
of G. and S. works, extending over more than 30
years, he was a useful man in Williamson operas
while Elton was leading comedian and afterwards.
He had good parts in “Billee Taylor,” “Ermiuie,”
“Pepita,” “La Cigale,” “Olivette'’ and “Vicar of
Bray.” He even played one of the gipsy characters
in “Carmen” when Marie Halton starred in the name
part; Ryley was the Toreador, and Flo Gr-aupner
a charming little Michaela. He was Squire Bantam
in “Dorothy.” In “Ma Mie Rosette” he played the
well-remembered old Colonel, with his “Other side,
please.” Again he popped up in “Mam’selle Nitouche”
and “La Belle Therese.” He was associated with
Florence Young, Brownlow and others in a lot of
operas before musical comedy came fairly into vogue.
Then he began to drop out of notice. In 1897, when
he was an old identity turned 50, he ventured an un-
fortunate season at the Melbourne Alexandra, pro-
ducing Offenbach’s “The Grand Duchess” and Plan-
quette’s “Rip Van Winkle.” Fifteen years ago, after
marrying young Vinia Deloitte, of the last G. and S.
co. he was associated with, he travelled foreign parts
as an “entertainer,” the support consisting of his
wife only. When he drifted back to Australia the
new generation knew him not, save by hearsay. One
of his last appearances in the theatrical world was at
the funeral of Florence Young, where he walked as a
pall-bearer. Bantock was another of the pall-bearers
who has since gone to the grave, and the late
Villiers Arnold was among the crowd in the cemetery.
“Old Pot”: Much of Howard Vernon’s
success as Ko Ko was due to the fact that
he had studied Japanese acting while he ran
his own show in Tokyo. It was there that his
son, Victor Prince, now a well known J.C.W.
comedian, was born: he came into the world
in the dressing-room of the Stuntomesa
Theatre, Tokyo, the proud mother being
Florence Howe, a concert singer. Vernon
was the first European to play with the
Japanese: he appeared with Danjiro, known
as the Japanese Irving, and in that season
picked up a lot of business which he intro-
duced into the “Mikado.”
Nina Gordon, entrtainer-at-the-piano.
Sydney Tivoli.
“Norbell”: Howard Vernon used to keep
the mummers in a fever, particularly on first
nights, through his unfailing habit of blowing
in, breathless just on the death-knock. If
he had to open the first act pf a brand new
opera it was a safe bet that the orchestra
would be started before he charged in at the
stage-door. Yet he never missed the ’bus in
all his long career. He had a patty-pan
arrangement filled with variegated grease-
paints, and would hold this over the gas
with one hand while he took off his boots
with the other. A few deft dabs, a light-
ning rush into his costume, and then came
his cheerful chirp: “Ring up, I’m ready 1”
“Old Pot”: Howard Vernon did not play
Macbeth to Genevieve Ward’s Lady Macbeth.
It was W. H. Vernon who did that —a dis-
tinguished English actor. I saw them in
“Macbeth” with Locke’s music at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney, in 1884. The sing-
ing witches were a great feature. E. C.
Calvert, who afterwards played as E. C.
Corlesse (that was .his real name), was
Hecate, and his fine baritone filled the old
theatre. Still, Howard Vernon did play in
Shakspeare, but only in comedy parts. lie
was Pistol in George Rignold’s revival of
“Henry V.” at Her Majesty’s a few years
before his death. George Lauri, who has also
gone west, was the fiery Welshman Fluellen,
and the scene in which he made Pistol eat
the leek was a fine piece of work.
“Hamfat”: The reopening of the recon-
structed Sydney Theatre Royal recalls that
of the performers at the opening of the ori-
ginal theatre on December 11, 1875, only
one is still alive—Harry Leston. The play
was Byron’s “Daisy Farm,” and the produc-
tion was under the direction of the lessee,
Sam Lazar, who introduced the William-
sons, Lingard, Chaplin, Mrs. Scott Siddons,
Baker and Farron, Rignold in “Henry V.,”
the Soldene Opera Co. and a number of
others to the Sydney public. Adelaide Bow-
ring was the star of the “Daisy Farm” cast,
which included Kate Douglas, E. B. Rus-
sell, W. J. Holloway, Jimmy P. West and
G, P. Carey, who were all still on the stage
within the memory of the present generation
of playgoers.
“T.E.”: The Melbourne Mermaid Society
is turning its attention to Australian plays.
Next week at the over-tbe-bridge Playhouse
it will stage a new one-act piece, “The
Jester,” 4 by Frank Russell, who won the
£5OO prize given by lie Garis for a novel,
"The Ashes of Achievement.” The Mermaids
announce that they hope to devote their next
performances- to locally-written plays en-
tirely, which is a scheme that should gain
them much kudos, and —who knows?—the
honor, perhaps, of introducing a new drama-
tist to the world.
“E.K.”: Deadheads, eh? How’s this? A
Brisbane suburban cinema of the semi-open-
air variety shows twice a week to a moderate
audience. Recently it celebrated its first
birthday, and the management invited its
patrons to a free show. At 7 p.m. there
was a queue 200yds. long, at 7.15 it had
almost doubled in length, and at the opening
of the doors there were enough to fill the
place half a dozen times,
"Paroke” : Julian Eltinge, America’s front-
rank female impersonator (there are many
hundreds in the other ranks), paid Australia
a visit early, in the year, after playing the
North with his own company. He had an
idea of an Australian tour, but developed
home-sickness, and cut his stay in Sydney to
about 27 hours.
"Eddyson”: If I were King of France
or Pope of Rome or merely Bill Hughes I
would hire Marie Tempest and Graham
Browne to produce plays for me for an in-
definite period. I would secure a theatre
and instal them in it. I would create
a committee of five, said Tempest and here-
inbefore mentioned Browne two of the num-
ber. to select suitable dramas, ancient and
modern, and they should charge 55., 3s. and
2s. for admission, no more, no less, and pro-
vide as worthy a company as Australia can
supply to .assist them in the good work. By
this means we should be guaranteed a decent
assortment of excellent plays for public con-
sumption for six months of the year in
Melbourne and the same in Sydney, and the
private managers would have a model to live
bp to in artistic excellence and to work
down to in price. But lam not Bill Hughes,
consequently I must witness the passing of
the delightful pair with keen regret, and a
consciousness (being past 50) that I may
not live to see their like again, whereas I
shall always have a surfeit of the things that
politicians really worry about.
“Private Boxer” : “Zigamar” owes me an
apology. He says (B. 28/7/’2l) that I. am
wrong in stating that none of Barrie’s plays
have been done in Australia since “What
Every Woman Knows.” If he will read my
par. he will find that I particularly men-
tioned “the later” pieces. “Peter Pan” is
going on for 20 years of age and, was played
in Australia as far back as 1005.
“C. Ockney”: Since her first engagement
in the Big Smoke, Marie Lohr has never—
except for a few flying visits to provincial
centres trying new plays—performed out of
London. She is now breaking the rule, having
arranged _to go to Canada for a 20-weeks’
tour, taking her own comnany, scenerv and
costumes. She opens in “'Fedora,” and will
appear in most or the pieces she has scored
with at her Globe Theatre and a new one
written for her by the French dramatist,
Louis Verneuil, “L’lnconnu,” which H. A.
Vaehell has adapted. Although nothing is
settled it would not be surprising to find the
Australian-born actress following this trip
up by a visit to her native land.
"Him Up”: It may interest “Floater” (B.
28/7/’2l) and a few others to know that
the real surname of “the famous vamp,”
Theda Bara—a ridiculously over-rated act-
ress, in niy opinion—is Goodman. She hails
from Ohio.
“Rienzi”: Joseph Coyne has been asso-
ciated with an unusual number of long-dis-
tance successes. He was leading lad in
“The Quaker Girl” for two years at London
Adelphi, he did another two years in “Going
j'P” at the Gaiety, and he had 30 months as
Prince Danilo in the first London production
of “The Merry Widow.” He made his first
appearance in the Fog with Edna May in
“The Girl from Up There” in 1901.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Wilkie Bard is the only
truly-English vaudeville comedian of prom-
inence who has been game to .cross the At-
lantic. George Robey has never dared sing
English to the Yanks, and Harry Weldon,
the present idol of the halls, has been deaf
to the signals of the N. York managers.
Bard faced a Palace audience and found
himself almost unintelligible. The canny
Lauder, who was in the wings, tipped Bard
off. “Ye ken, Wulkie.” he said, “these folk
oonderstand Scotch, but they’re nae acquaint
with English.” So, later in the season, in his
“Night Watchman” sketch, “tanner” and
“’arf a bar” became “jitney” and “five-buck
piece” and instead of “giving her notice”
the slavey “hit the fresh.” Bard, however,
was not only fighting the language; he
was up against an organised anti-British
clique. They had him groggy the first night,
but he won in the end.
“Alwyn”: Ray Maclean, the smart little
dancer in “Humpty Duinpt.v,” has had 22
years on this sphere. He has been absent
from Australia for six years, working through
the U.S.A. and England as a single dancing
turn. His father, Teddy, was an old Aus-
tralian harlequin, a part Ray has just been
nllmg m panto. His brother and sister.
JiakHe and Decinja, are the Australian Da.
tos, who taJre the biggest size in headlines on
xtnglisu programmes.
“THE LITTLE WHOPPER," AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Geo. Willoughby as Judge MacGregor ,
Chester Clute as Jack Harding , and
Cecil Kellaicay as the sentimental Butts.
“Spec": Until lately the Ricketty Islands
escaped the attention of the “photo-play
school," but I notice advts. for screen pupils
in several M.L. papers now. Among the
advertisers are two or three men who tried
to do business in Australia, but found the
shopgirl and the office-boy too wary to part
with cash in exchange for stark promises.
Unfortunately some of the M.L. papers take
the “schools" seriously, and are expressing
editorial joy over “the founding of the film-
producing industry” in the Dominion. They
ought to put the results under the micro-
scope first.
“Advance”: One talented Digger was “dis-
covered" by an exiled Russian countess who
ran a troupe of entertainers in the Cairo
hospitals in ’l5. From there he went via
Gallipoli to Blighty, where he shone in the
well-known No. 1 Command Dep6t Concert
Party, a trouple of convalescents who had
the assistance of Tommy Lesso, the juggler,
and Arthur Itiscoe, of “Dandies” fame, and
showed all over Blighty. Then Jerry, as
my particular Digger was familiarly called,
had another fly at the Hun, who issued him
a dose of gas which kept him in hospital
until the “Cease Fire" sounded. Meantime
London managers had come to see Jerry
with good offers, but the call of the gums
was too_ insistent. The other day 1
struck him _ driving a timber-dray in a
Northern Vic. town. I asked him why he
wasn’t behind the footlights making a pile.
“Not for me!" said Jerry. “A home with
my missus and four quid a week is worth
more than 40 quid and always on the move!”
,Grease-paint fame is very small beer to
some good men.
“75" (London) : The little syndicate re-
sponsible for the production of “The Beggars'
Opera ” at the Hammersmith Lyric (for-
merly known as “The Blood Hole" and for
years the haunt of fourth-rate bellowdrammer
cos.) has already pouched more than £20,000
clear profit. Said syndicate consists of Lon.
Howard de Walden, who is enormously
vvealthy and hag ideas of art concealed be-
neath his coronet; author Arnold Bennett:
Nigel Playfair, producer of the show, and
Lovat Fraser, who designed the scenery and
costumes. The production recently cele-
brated its first anniversary, and Playfair
reckons it will run another year at least,
“Bat": The late Howard Vernon had
great personal pluck, even as an old man.
Two years ago I was one of an audience in
a small country town to which he was play-
ing with a variety company. Some hoodlums
at the back had been heckling all night, not-
withstanding that Vernon had addressed
them from the stage, offering their money
back if they weren’t satisfied. The climax
came when he was dramatically reciting
“Gungha Din.” A couple of lines from the
end Vernon stepped from the stage, and,
still reciting, walked through the audience
to the back of the hall, arriving in front of
the biggest of the hoodlums just in time to
roar the last twisted line in his face: “I’m
a better man than you are, Gungha Din!"
accompanying the words with a gesture of
rolling up his sleeves. For the rest of the
evening the company got a fair spin.
SLAVERY DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Baker said that the federation desired to
obtain for the actor and actress a little leisure, and
redeem them from Slavery.”—S. M. Herald.
About the Point the faded mummers mustered,
Frayed, shop-worn remnants from a score of shows,
Approving while Horatio Stormer blustered
Of Union vandals, who had dared propose
To trammel Art with Labor’s iron rule.
The old man withered them with ridicule.
"Odds bodikrns I Are actors serfs ?” he spluttered;
"The abstracts and brief chronicles of the time?
Shall smug inspectors gauge all speeches nttered.
Change ‘Hamlet’ to a Trades Hall pantomime?
I'd rather be a kitten and cry mew,
Than join the gross, iconoclastic crew! ”
He paused, and as he paused around the corner
Strode Clarence Belgrave, breezy juvenile,
The “Pink Puff Pastry” lead and chief adorner,
For Clarence is the dernier cri of siyle;
From trouser creases to his perfumed curls,
The darling of a gallery of girls.
As Clarence passed, the Point took his full measure.
“Young Osricl” sneered old Stormer. Pawkins
swore:
"That sort of bloke demands ‘a little leisure,’
While I’ve been resting for six months and more.
•Redemption from his slavery’? By Gad!
I’d do with half the treasury he’s had! ”
S.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


X
\
W
m
& >:
fj
m
J'
■
■a
Wm
!* V '
:
• i(KP
■ w\
t ‘ ; J!
•. •-• -V
ir
Tke
IrvteprvaHorval
Favorite.
N? IO
n.
ALWAYS
M/us/c^
RELIABLE” //


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED. Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS feWhlTTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Gk& t©nJ
Looks Like
a Guinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-made Lever
Filler. Made as well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
11/6 and 12/6.
SOLD AT ALL
stationers.
The
CONWAY QTEWART
LEVER '*** FILLER
PEN.
SOLD AT ALL
JEWELLERS.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Time wa3 the Australians’ ally in the
fourth Test. Together wita tne stubborn defensiv
tactics of Collins, who batted nearly all day fo
40, it saved taeui from tneir first defeat. Whe
the last wicket fell the tourists were 187 behim
England’s 862 (declared at four wickets down) ant
In the few minutes left for play Parkin entertaine
the capricious crowd, which had shown rotten sports
mar ship over the declaration incident, with som
J l *, 8 Against Essex in the followinj
matoh Collins was as brilliant as he had been metro
dical at Old 1 rufford. In 140 minutes be knockec
up a masterly 119, included in which were 1
™rf rS fi„ an £ a ? ixe /’ BLi , t there were three sixer
and five fours in Gregory’s SO, made in 43 minutes
and Bardsley (59), Andrews (69) and Pellew (34)
also (cored rapidly The county fell, for 123 in
the first innings and 219 in the second, the onh
noteworthy batting performance being a fine 90
by Hubert Ashton. Gregory collected eight of the
20 wickets for 103. M-ailey six for the same number
and Ilendry five for 46. The long ’un got liussel
cheaply in each innings,
* * * *
This is the week when the Australian XI
programme goes mad. It has, on the whole, been
planned to let them work from one fixture to the next
with as little travelling as possible. But now, to go
Horn a lest match in Lancashire to the mouth of the
Thames, away to the far-west in South Wales, and
back to Lancashire again, for (onsecutive matches, is
about as triangle as England could produce.
Howevei, it will give the team a good idea of the
possibilities of the big express trains, first on the
London and North-Western, next on the Great West-
ern to Liverpool on the Midland.
The English newspapers have joined in a
chorus of admissions that the better side lifted the
ashes There was not much else to be done, really.
But it would have been better for the national repu-
tation as a good loser if there had been less whinir,<-
The undercurrent all through—typically expressed in
the writings of the Anglo-Indian E. H. D. Sewell—
was that the Australians lacked “manners,” and
that they had no right to have “Mr.” written in
front of their names. The accusat : on of bad
cricket manners boiled down, when examined, to the
fact that the Australians were unaffectedly out to
win. Not merely to win the Tests, but every match
they could, or, that failing, to avoid defeat. What
better cricket manners eot.ld there be, assuming thev
played fairly? And the scrupulous fairness of their
methods was remarked on with approval by such
a good and exigent judge as Lord Harris. The “Mr.”
absurdity, which -has always outraged a certain type
of Englishman, has nothing to do with the Austra-
lians. They are rot accustomed to it in their own
country, ar.d would not miss it abroad. As a mat-
ter of fact, it looks like an invidious class distinc-
tion after the style of the separate gate at Lord’s,
which rather annoys those who trouble to think about
It. However, if it is no more or less than a sign-
manual of amateurism, then who have better claims
to it than Australian cricketers ? As young men
who work during the week, and only plav on Satur-
days, there is less of the professional touch about
them than there is about many of the ex-armv officers
who are secretaries of county clubs, or the" masters
at public schools, who are employed almost entirely
on the strength of their cricket, rowing or football
achievements at universities. Preposterous though
.It would no doubt appear to critics of the type of
Sewell, some of the present generation of English
cricketers have almost as much to learn from Aus-
tralia about the true spirit of the great game as in
regard to the way to play it.
.* * * *
The luck that attended H. L. Collins in
Australia deserted him in Britain. After scoring 387
in 12 innings, he smashed a bone in the right hand,
and had to stand down for 10 matches. Since he
resumed playing Collins has scored 463 runs in 10
imdngs. inob-dirg 100 and 113 in Scotland and 119
v. Essex. His aggregate is 850. averaging 38.63, and
unless the bad hand goes back on him he is rea-
sonably certain to reach the 1000. The odds are
that this Australian XI will put up a record in four-
figure soor.ers. Macartney and Bardsley already are
Over it, and Andrews (929), Gregory (895), Taylor
(813), Armstrong (804), and Peilew (817) are
going well.
* * # *
The Australian Hurdle and Steeple at
Caulfield, each worth £l5OO to the winner and
£350 to the runner-up, are dated five weeks later,
respectively, than the Nationals, which, as a rule
attract bigger fields. So many jumpers get knockei
out as the season progresses that the long-distance
everts on the Caulfield course are not hard to wir
if the horse be only in tiptop condition, on excel-
lent terms. with his jockey, fairly well handicappe*
and not unlucky in the race. Given these few advan-
tages a nag of good class may be quite a good thing
for the Hurdle, which lasts 3m. 788yds., or the
Steeple, which is “about four miles.” The length
of the Steeple journey is always remembered nowa-
days in connection with the extraordinary slowing
down of Sir Prim, who had won the National, and
appeared to be winning the four-miles event with
great ease until he came to the last 150 yards. Then
the top weight practically sjtopped, whilst Algous
came along and beat the all-out animal. Such a fate
might befall Mountain God in the same race this
year if he should be leading down the straight. The
big fellow is weighted at 12st. 91b.. or 51b. more
than Sir Prim failed under, and the chances are
that lolaus will beat him. whatever the lighter
weights may do. lolaus will meet him on 151 b.
tetter terms than in the National, and undoubtedly
ho will bo in greater nick than he was at Fleming-
toa.
At Moonee Valley last Saturday the
Hurdle and Steeple fell to Sauduie and iolaus, a
repetition of last year’s result in the same double.
A week later S’ai dole made a big effort to run away
with the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield as he had run
away with the National a month earlier. Being
rather better handicapped this time Sandule looks a
promising place investment for the big race next
batuiuay, but there are others. King Neptune was
not allowed to risk a race on the bad going last
Saturday, but if he gallops in good form to the end
of his preparation he should win in the big event.
He has been placed in every or.e of his races lately,
and has been improving all the time. With the
minimum weight and Hugh Cairns on his back the
Sea Prince gelding will have the chance of his life
for a rich hurdle race. Starvation prices only have
been offered against the double thusfar, but the best
odds available about the Kirg Neptune—lolaus com-
bination would be a reasonable investment on appear-
ances at time of writing.
* * # •
Died last week old “Mossy” Isaacs, a book-
makii light of Melbourne's earlier days. “Mossy”
was renowned for indefatigable endeavors to avoid
painful risks. He hated risks. He was the son of
Israel who wore a helmet and rushed around the
ung with “I lay the double,” though earlier in his
career he ventured sometimes a straight-out book on
single events. In his bolder fielding period he got
the straight griffin that Bad Egg was stiff for a cer-
tain race, and when backers rushed the supposed
gc>od thing at 2 to 1 Mossy rose to the -occasion. Old
clients approached him with offers to take £2O to
£lO, but he couldn’t let them escape so easily. “Make
it 40 to 20, if you like,” answered the dead-meat
merchant, and they mostly doubled the wager. He
laid more 40 to 20 bets than the world thought him
capable of. He screamed his willingness to go on
peppering the favorite. Somehow Bad Egg was
i ostored to fveshress without poor Isaacs being
warned of the miracle, and when it romped home an
easy winner he staggered off the course a dazed
specuator. It happened in Sydney, and the consola-
tions of home were denied Mossy. He sought his bed
at the hotel, instructing the chambermaid to call him
early. There he lay, mourning hts loss, cursing his
feny in doubling the bets, until his broken spirit
insisted on repose. Mossy slept and dreamed till the
maid hammered at his door. “Twenty to ten, Mr.
Isaacs,” came the summons to breakfast. The sleeper,
half-awake, shouted back: “Make it 40 to 20.”
S.A. Jockey Club presents a brisk balance-
sheet for the past year. The race meetings made a
profit of close on £lO,OOO, and the balame in hand
has been increased from £48,000 tn £53,000. The
club has spent £17,000
in remodelling the
accommodation at Mor-
phettville. Adelaide
Racing Club published
an equally glowing re-
port of its finances. It
works on parallel lines
to the S.A.J.C., but
pays rent to the Adel-
aide corporation for
using a slice of the
city parklands seven
days in the year, in-
stead of owning its
own freehold further
out, as the senior body
does.
DAN DONOVAN,
stipendiary steward
to Tasmanian
Turf Club and
all Northern
Tasmanian racing
bodies.
In England local race-meetings have
events with all sorts of weird conditions. Gatwick
has one in which two-thirds of the entrance-fees and
sweepstakes go to the second ard the rest to the
third, the club putting up £2OO for the winner.
Lhia year there was an unusual rush of entries, so
the second hor-e got £246 against the winner’s
stipulated £2OO.
* * * ft
“15-30”: The scores in Australia’s Davis
Cup win against Canada show that Hawkes had the
hardest battle. Though he won three straight sets,
ho was hard pushed in the first, ard in the third
Bennett was 5-4, 40-15 —actually within one point of
forcing the youngster to face the often fatal fourth
set in which, through lack of stamina, his game be-
gins to crumble. I saw Hawkes against A. H. Lowe,
a tenacious base-line driver, in Melbourne last year,
and that encounter was strong evidence of the distress
he suffers in long and monotonous rallies with men
in his own line of play. If he meets Gordon Lowe
in the match with Britain at Pittsburg, he will have
to play all-in to capture the “straight three,’’ be-
cause Gordon is as effective as his brother Arthur in
tiring out the enemy with well-placed drives. A
net-man like Patterson or O’Hara Wood would butcher
the Lowe game with a paralysing series of stop
volleys, or compel recourse to the defensive and
doubtful lob, but Hawkes isn’t comfortable at the
net in singles. He prefers the safer, but fatiguing,
long-range duel that is a confession of weakness to
artists of the aggressive, net-rushing school.
PERCY
OGDEN, cap-
tain and coach
Essendon ( Vic. )
football team.
Vincent Richards, who beat W. M. Tilden
for the iihode Island (U.S.) tennis chanipionsuip me
other day, has had a wonderful record. At 15
he and another player twice his age won the doubles
championship of the United States. He was not
much older when he downed Kumagae, albeit at that
tune the Jap hadn’t fully developed the American slice
and twist service, or complete.}' acquired the art of
killing at the net. Richards relies on his brilliance
as a volleyer in all his offensives. Though he drives
is his high and low volleving,
both back- and fore-hand, that piles up his points
It is also interesting to note that he excels in the diffi-
cult half-\olley, ar.el is now regarded as the equal of
Norman Brookes, who was long the world’s admitted
master of tho shot.
* * * *
la driving rain and a wind fresh off the
lee Carlton had their first defeat of the season on
Saturday, Roy givii git to them. The big men, who
had so far carried all before them, slid about in the
slush, and the High marking in which they excel was
impracticable with the greasy ball, so they strove vali-
antly but vainly while the lignter maroons twisted
and turned and piled up point after point. Yet
Roy s awful shooting nearly lost them the game,
their ultimate 4 goals 16 behirds not giving m”eh
advantage over Carlton’s 3 goals 6 behinds. Still,
they won, and that puts them into fifth place, equal
with South a fid but a game ar.d a half behind ’Wood
and Geelong. The same ’Wood encountereel Essendou
and, having put on a 7-goal majority by half-time,
took tilings easy and finished up with 71 points to
23., Geelong visited Richmond and of course left
their play at home, their exhibition being moderate
in the extreme and yielding but 36 points to the
Tigers’ 69. If the Seasiders would but play in Mel-
bourne as they do at home they would be champions.
South, faced with a deficit of 22 points at three-
quarter time, against the despised Melbourne, sud-
denly saw their '‘final” hopes disappearing and
straightaway rushed up another 38 pouts while the
others stood quite still. Souths can do things when
they want to; the trouble is they so seldom feel that
way.
* *
'Varsity and Eastern Suburbs attracted
5000 spectators to Sydney Sports Ground on Saturday
and provided the finest exposition of Rugby League
football eeen this season. It was a cleanly-contested
and brilliant game, which East won in the last
10 minutes by 20 points (4 tries 4 goals) to 14
points (2 tries 4 goals). Newtown registered their
fourth successive win bv beating the premiers. North
Sydney, by 12 points to 0. Glebe beat Balmain bv
21 points to 15. and South Sydney walloped Wests
by 13 points to 9. Glebe are leading in the competi-
tion.
♦ * * #
This paper’s Sydney football contributor
"Pongo” was not the writer of a par. (B. 22/7/’2l)
re the results of certain Rugby League matches
played after the team for England was chosen.
Naturally the League didn’t like that par; but it
has no justification for associating “Pongo” with it.
Twenty-eight representative Rugby League
footballers are on their way to Britain via Maori-
land and America by R.M.S. Tahiti. The team is
skippered by Cubitt, of Eastern Suburbs, with Fraser
(Balmain) as first mate. The 32 matches arranged
include three Tests, to be decided at Leeds, Hull and
Manchester respectively, and a game against an Eng-
lish team in London. No finer set of footballers ever
left Australia. The forwards are heavy and fast, and
the rearguard is composed of men clever in attack
and resolute in defence. Each tourist draws £4 sa,
a week, besides travelling and hotel expenses.
The Springboks have suffered their first
defeat in M.L., Canterbury doing the trick on Satur*
dav by sis points to four. Canterbury’s forwards were
more at home in the mud than the heavier Afri-
cans, and Wilson and Ford got tries for them,
Strauss drop-kicking a fine goal for the visitors.
Earlier in the week West Coast got the drubbing
ot the tour at Grey mouth by S 3 points to 8.
* * * «
The Rugby Union surprise in Sydney on
Saturday was W estern Suburbs’ win. After battlin'*
against Lane, Shute and Co. and a gale in the first
halt East showed no dash at all. Norths, also, sprang
a surprise by walking over Glebe-Balmain, who hau
a weak team in the field. Newtown shook Manly up
and led them in the first-half, but, afterwards went
to pieces. ’Varsity accounted for Old Boys, but the
latter put up a fair game and held the cracks in the
second half.
Lnder Australian Rules at Sydney New-
town got a lessen in goal-kicking from East, who
beat them by 7 goals 8 behinds to 4 goals 14
behinds. Knott, the finest kicker in the code, con-
tributed four of East’s goals. Railway’s defeat of
Sydney by 102 —26 was heavy and deserved. Pre
miership matches will be suspended for a couple o
weeks while N.S.W. sends a team to Victoria. In
Soccer, Granville _ altered the order of the premier
ship table by achieving a great win over Canterbury
—2 goals to nil.
* * * ♦
“Hecagus” : How’s this for a record? In
a League football game played on Sunday, July 17
between Pecramon and Atherton (N.Q.). the ambu-
lance men attended to 22 of the 20 Sabbath-breakers
on the field. The unhealthiest injury was a broken
leg.
* # • «
An American citizen named William
Shade once knocked Hrbie Hinton, the Gtitinedah
middleweight, out in half a round, and Hinton has
never forgotten it. Against Monty Murton recently
he was as nervous as a cat, and iust missed being
sent into oblivion by the first punch that came his
\vav. Opposed to Frank Burns, the new middleweight
champion, at the Svdney Stadium on Saturday night,
he was plainly haunted by a memory of the Shade
wallop. Seeing this, the youth from Newcastle
bogged in vigorously from the beginning, and
although the highly-strung one fought back gam el v
am * took a lot of punishment, it was all over in
the fifth. Hinton took. Tommv Uren’s place at short
notice, and the public took the hint to stay awav
in large numbers. Stop-gap scraps are rarely worth
seeing.
* * * * '
Tommy Noble, the solid little English
featherweight, is fighting himself into hjs best British
and U.S.A. form. At Melbourne Stadium last Satur-
day he was always on top of Bert Spargo, who beat
him in Sydney, and referee Quirk crowned Noble nt
the end of 20 gruelling rounds. On more than one
occasion it looked as if Spargo would lie knocked
out. but the Victorian, who was the lighter of the
pair, rallied splendidly, and was oil his feet at the
finish Several times the crowd hooted the stolid
Woodbine for bitting low. But the rrf-reo was
satisfied that all his punches had landed above
the Plnnsoll mark.
* * * *
Through mud and slush, in the teeth of
a biting wind, 120 amateur long-distance peds
scampered over the environs of Geelong on Saturday,
when the 17th annual cross-country championship of
\ ictona was held. The local racecourse was cold
and uninviting after the downpour of several hours,
and instead of the anticipated 5000 spectators there
were as many hundreds. Frank Ivohlman, a 26-year-
old atalete from Hawthorn Harriers, who was a red-
hot favorite, found Malcolm Boyd, of St. Stephen’s
(Richmond), a tough proposition, but got his measure
after the half-distance and left him IOOVds. behind at
the finish. The watches said 28min. 86see.—excellent
running for the heavy course. Kohlman, who is everv
inch a champion, finished third last year in both
the senior five- and 10-mile championships. He will
take a lot of beating in the forthcoming Vic. and
Australasian 10-mile championships to be held under
the management of the Victorian Three A’s next
month. Boyd and Jack Cooke had a set-to for second
honors, the former just touching off the ex-Xavier
runner by a whisker in 29min. lsee. Tommy Vines
(St. Stephen’s), the winner for the post two rears,
ran into fourth place, while \V. P. O’Neil (Carlton),
runner-up last year and winner in 1914, mad" an in-
glorious “farewell” to running, as he could onlv
manage to scramble into 22nd possy. St. Stephen’s
(holders) did the hat-trick—winning in 1919, 1920
and this year. They scored 20pts.; Carlton (run-
ners-up last year) followed them home once move.
The Saints had another hollow victorv in the “B’’
grade.
•*•***
Dr. Tom Bell, who died at Mosman
(N.S.W.) last week, was one of the finest athletes
ever turned out by Brisbane Grammar. When still a
schoolboy he represented Queensland against N. S.
M al°s in ’B9 as a Rugger half-back, while over the
hurdles and in sprints he made hay of contemporary
amateur cracks. _ He went to London for his medical
course, and beside repeating his track success, was
capped as an English international, a rave honor fo*
Australians then. Returning to Australia, Dr. Bell
married and practised on the Northern Rivers. He
served with the A.I.F and also did military duty at
Brisbane as M.O. later. Pneumonia stopped him
from scoring 50.
* * * *
Last week Tom Kinleyside, of South Gee-
long, gave the book a jolt. Competing in the Vic.
Inter-Club Cycling Association’s 25:-mile open road-
race, he annexed first honors off 2inin., as well as
smashing Ern Tamme’s Australasian record of lhr.
2min., the new figures being lhr. lmin. Bsec.
* * * »
Charles Dawson, the English billlardist,
who recently died, was originally a Hudders
field weaver. In 'B7 he was on strike, and,
to keep the wolf from the door, took over the
management of the George and Dragon Hotel at his
home town. This drove him to billiards and so to
the professional championship, which he won in
1899, 1909. 1901, and again in 1908. It was one of
the few oases on record where going on strike ever
did a man any financial good,
* * * ♦
S.A, Football League, after making its
oSoe headquarters at a pub for many years, has
moved to private rooms. At the housewarming a dis-
play was made of a long line of team photographs,
going back to the weirdly-whi'dieml lot of Victorians
that sailed round from St. Kilda in 1877 to play the
first “intercolonial” club-match.
THE WOWSER’S PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"At a meeting of metropolitan Methodist churches
theXte"Lottery 0 Bm g >' liSe “ P ‘ oteSt a * aillit
Lord, aid us to defeat the Bill
For luring this misguided State
In public schemes for public ill
Silver and gold to speculate!
Pernicious though the giddy dance,
Or billiards, cards or play-house be,
They pale before the tempting chance
Of fortune won by Lottery.
A menace to the moral health
Of millions we to-day lament;
The fleeting hope of easy wealth,
Full guaranteed by Parliament,
Diverts men’s thoughts from higher things.
Forgetting spiritual law,
Unmindful of the King of Kings,
They talk of nothing but the Draw.
But shouldst Thou let this blow be struck
At Methodism, after all,
Then, grant, 0 Lord, the strokes of luck
Some erring Brethren may befall.
Good deeds from evil are distilled
When winners, who have learned to search
The Scriptures, are impelled to build
A Baptist or Wesleyan church.
VICTORIA.,
O.K.


A SKILFUL BOXER HAS NO FEAR
i
■
A skilful boxer is a man to be envied
and admired. He has himself under
complete control. He has been taught
to be patient and tolerant. He is
not easily “put out” and usually is t..e
last to seek a quarrel. When he is
forced, however, to defend himself, he
does it with a quiet calm that breathes
self-confidence in his every action. He
is not flurried in the least. He has a
set plan and adapts himself to cir-
cumstances. He reserves his strength
until the other fellow is getting
“groggy.” He is always doing the
right thing at the right time.
Would you like to be a skilful boxer
—to be able to give aggressive indi-
viduals a couple of stone and a beat-
ing? Then, why not learn Scientific
Boxing in your home?
LEARN BOXING BY POST.
We -want to tell you all about the methods. How-
simple and interesting they are. What rapid pro-
gress you’ll make, and what healthful exercise you
will secure from this instruction.
Write for the illustrated booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which gi\es full particulars and
cost of tuition, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and post it to us.
We’ll know what you mean. Send three stamps
for postage.
M
REG. L. (“
') BAKER
The All-round Cnampioh
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
548 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
5^
3 -
~2f»
3S
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Spcrts.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of_tlie Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes,
Ch. nee tor 1921.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 won bv W. M. Neilsen,
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
Tickets from Local Agent in all Towns, or direct from
rthur W. YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
Special Alloyed Motor
Car Spring Steel
For springs subject to very high strains and very heavy shocks.
Stocks on hand.
Sizes from 1 inch by 3-16 inch up to 2\ inches by | inch.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8704.
No difference
at all
■
¥
HP
HB
i*
You’d think, of course, that you could
tell Miss Shepherd’s voice from its
New Edison Re-Creation, that there
would be some difference.
But there is no difference: you cannot say definitely
whether you are listening to artist or machine. You
just feel that the living, breathing presence of the
artist is there—and so it is, but Re-Created by this
master invention—The New Edison—“ The Phono-
graph with a Soul.”
You should know more about this remarkable musical instru-
ment ; learn in detail of the qualities that have brought it to
its present pre-eminence. Interesting literature is sent, post
free, on request by
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD., 304-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a sou /."
“Laugh, and the world laughs with you! ff
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health.
kmiwum
Ei T W fcStMIUS
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
Don’t let ill-health discourage
you.
HYPOL
can do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially chest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sold at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grim wade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
or
tj
a
4C
CoH
Foster Oil-Cooled
Transformers.
Their standardised efficiency is as high as possible, con-
sistent with reasonable capital outlay. They show to
advantage in the initial cost, and also in the total cost
over a long period. Only the highest-quality materials are
used, and great reliability has been achieved.
The insulation is not affected by moisture or hot oil:
nor will it disintegrate under the influence of vibration.
Windings are of double-covered copper for small
currents, and rectangular wire copper strip for
higher currents.
FURTHER PARTICULARS AND PRICES ON
REQUEST.
Manufacturers—FOSTEß ENGINEERING
CO., LTD., Wimbledon, England.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 172-6 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street. Sydney.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Mel-
bourne.
å
SkUost
Make a Launch of your Rowboat!
The 2-h.p. “BANTAM” Perfection
Engine instals inside any boat.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Bore 2iL Stroke Zh
8..P.M. 500 H : gh-
tension Ignition.
a
DIMENSIONS
OVER ALE.
Length 16in., Width
10in.. Height lOin.,
Weight 401 b.
THE “BANTAM"
MARINE MOTOR
drives your boat
from 7 to 9 miles
per hour. May be
easily operated and reversed without pre-
vious experience of gasoline engines. Suit-
able for Canoes, Rowboats, Dinghies, etc.
Prepare now for the coming season.
Just, a month or two and the picnic and boating season will he here
again. You’ll need a “Bantam” for that boat. Why not have all
the thrills of motor-boating for a low cost? Write now for particulars
of the “BANTAM” or Oaille Perfection Engines in any size for
light or heavy duty.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”


ORl—Sporting Life, high grade, cur
gold bar Tobacco, specially prepared
and packed for Fanner's from selected
Virginia leaf. Per ounce, 9d ; per
half pound, 5/9; per pound, 11/6.
ORa Victoria House Smoking
Mixture; £ lb. tins, 3/-. $ lb. tins,
6/-. Price per pound, 11/9. "The
Four Winds*’ Mixture, i lb. tins, 4/-;
£lb., 8/-; lib., 15/-.
Smoking Mixtures
That never have an “off-day”
Farmer’s Tobaccos and Cigarettes are reliable as
well as unusually good. They never have an “off
day”. If you are not aquainted, send for sample tin.
OR.3—Farmer’s Hand-made Cigarettes, special
plain, gold, cork tipped. Per box of 50, 3/6; of 100, 7/-.
Farmer’s, Sydney
We pay
carnage
OR!
'O’d'O
C6V *»g
Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace ot Colds
that la home on every cool breeze.
Keep a bottle of Bonnlngtoa'g
Irish Moss handy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
à
mmjhmgtohT;
cXEMitt* 4
WISH "MOSS
Ifc
ssf >
£“>«« »ONNcnctOA i
gsgg^«jr
á
IRISH MOSS
Get a bottle to-day—
insist on Bonnlng: ton’s,
and take no proffered
substitute.
--is the standard remedy for Coughs, Colds, in-
fluenza, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, and all Chest
complaint* jj,A,22.
ILOTT
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Thouch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
[?]
A small party, headed by the Governor
and his lady, came to see Mr. Pim Pass By
at the King’s on Saturday. The Earl, whose
ripe apple complexion grows ruddier in our
wintry winds, gave all his decorations a night
out, while the Countess relieved her fountain-
pen effects with a fetching halo or green and
ttame-color around her dark tresses. Pro-
bably feeling that the curtain-raiser would
leave their Exes, rather dry, Jules Grant
sent up a tray of coffee at the first interval,
whereat the gods craned over to catch every
detail in the ritual of quenching the vice-
regal thirst. Marie Tempest charmed
every feminine eye with an evening frock of
squirrel grey, with broad hoops' of silk in
the same color circumnavigating her well-
built skirt. Tall and pretty Marie Ney,
opening in white and green, followed by
white muslin and a kiddish blue sash, wore
flat, unbecoming shoes, apparently to bring
her within arm-reach of her devoted young
man.
The Old Trinity Grammarians had their
dance at the St. ivilda Town Hall. There
was a handful of Old Boys to give weight,
but the crowd was of the tadpole age, and
jazzed with precocious flappers in their teens.
There is nothing so wonderful as the get-up
of your modern flapper whose adoring
parents let her run bills at big chiffon stores.
One slim youngster wore Spanish lace that
had been dyed greeny-blue; she had a girdle
of coral, and her black satin slippers had
scarlet heels three inches high. Another,
in some intricacies of amber color, wore gold
tongues to her brocaded slippers, and gave
a movies-heroine attention to her pale-gold
hair. Then there was a 17-jear-old like a
cameo; she wore pink taffeta from waist to
knee, and had borrowed her eldest sister’s
pearls. One girl got an inspiration frond
the latest wedding—rose-petals were scat-
tered over her silver tulle frock and reck-
lessly showered on her hair. Another had
her frock built of silver chain-mail. They
were wonderful little butterflies —and one
sweet, simple maid in mauve with no rouge
on her lips was a wallflower for half-a-
dozen dances; she didn’t reach the standard
of the schoolboys. These lads themselves
were alarming phenomena in swallow-tails,
though some of the tails suggested borrow-
ings from Big Brother. Headmaster Shand
was a benevolent presence; his lady, in soft
grey chiffons, helped; and young secretary
Sollas handled his job with serious efficiency.
Heavyweight social dames concerned in
raffles nowadays go to extremes to make the
drawing obvious and public—“there has been
so-o-o-o much fuss, rn’dear.” Some dolls
were presented to the Blind Appeal, and the
raffle was drawn at the Oriental with much
ceremony a few days ago. The Mayoress,
Mrs. Cabena, Mrs. Hennessy and several
other importants grouped around a big barrel
which gave the proceedings a Tales of Hoff-
mann look. Manson, of the Blind
Appeal Board, Nathan, of Maoriland, and
an impressive globe-trotter named Gould
were there as witnesses to the deed as Miss
Mcßae, that generous little lady of the
Oriental, fished in the barrel for the winning
ticket. When the strain was over there were
tea and Walter Kirby’s voice to soothe the
company.
The John Madden widow, as president of
the Austral Salon, gave a party at the Club
to Annette Kellerman, whose mother, a noted
musician, was one of the early members of
this oldest women’s clpb in Australia. Ann-
ette, w r ho was bombarded with warm greet-
ings by those w r ho had been her mother’s
friends, looked radiant in a frock of del-
phinium-blue velvet which had the New
York cut that belongs to the movie-star
artist.
Wattle Day this year (Aug. 19) is to
help the children, and 50 or 60 charities de-
voted to youngsters will share the gathered
coin. In the last year or two the collections
have fallen off badly, and strenuous efforts
are to be made this time in the metropolis
and big country centres to make up the lee-
way. President Danks and the committee
of the Children’s Welfare Association have
an army ready for battle, headed by Mayor
Swanson and his lady. Greig Smith, trea-
surer of the C.W.A., is honorarily organis-
ing the thing into shape.
A dinner-dance at the Occidental on July
29 netted close on £4OO for the Blind Appeal
Fund. Percy Evans was responsible for the
effort, which was trimmed with rainbows
of balloons, fizz-sticks, paper-streamers and
heaps of noise. John Mills, of Maff'ra, gave
a £125 cheque to help swell the total. He
and his lady, in expensive black, and daugh-
ter Violet, in buxom mauve and silver, had
a large table. The Ed. Ducketts had another
party, Mrs. Ed. frisking in gold lace and
tissues. Pretty titian-haired Elsie Fergu-
son from Queensland wool lands was in
smartest black. She was at brother Peter
Ferguson’s table with brother-in-law Cow-
lisliaw\ Geoff Heath, Geoff Butler, Vera
Armstrong (also in black) and Lewenne
Roxburgh, also in black and gold. Lilian
Hill, frocked in wispy drapings of blue and
crimson georgette, was in company with
Mrs. Marcotte’s rich trappings of burgundy
charmeuse and gold. Sister Irene Hill came
later with fiance Ilughie Steyne after theatre
hours. Gertrude Dix, still flushed with the
compliments of Edward P., was in black lace
with sky-blue cuinmerbunding. Norman
Falkiner brought along a live crayfish, which
shamelessly pinched Ed. Baker when he was
putting it up for auction. The squatter
Edgars from Casterton (she in flesh-pink and
silver), General Blarney, Dr. Don Bennett,
the Wangaratta Woods, the Fred Craigs, the
Nichols and Matthews were also among the
giddy tangle of paper streamers.
St. Ivilda has decided to give Mayor Alford
a return ball. Agar Wynne heads the com-
mittee and the date is fixed for August 28.
The Bendigo golf tournament ended in a
deluge. On the Friday the best golfing
matrons gave an afternoon tea at the links,
but the rain kept most of. the golfers away,
and the cartload of cakes left over were
heaped upon the poor, dripping little caddies,
who did some wonderful demolition work.
Mrs. Sep Strahan drove up in her own big
touring car for the golf week, and brightened
the links in a canary-colored jumper. It
was this sporting matron who not so long
ago startled the natives of some of our best
golf links by turning up in smart tweed
knickers. She was implored to change, as it
put the respectable old gentlemen off their
drive and paralysed the caddies.
There was a dance for the blind—-not
merely a jazz to help the blind—at the
Braille Library the other night. It was a
fancy-dress affair, and prizes went to Miss
Tilly Ashton, Miss Crawshaw and Mr.
Moreli, for all of whom the light has failed.
Miss Gwenda Grim wade brought her amateur
jazz orchestra to help.
Mrs. Dorothy Vane Norman Menzies is
still in the land of fogs and Test matches.
She flitted across a couple of months ago
with 17-year-old son Archie, who means to
pick up all the theatrical ideas that
can offer him. Archibald made a start last
summer, playing with a variety companv at
St. Kilda. ‘
Dorothea Spinney is coming back to Aus-
tralia shortly to cultivate our taste in Greek
drama and the last word in highbrow litera-
ture. The Mayoress is collecting a com-
mittee to see that she gets a fair deal.
Myrtle, daughter of Maoriland agent Man-
son, had her 21st birthday a day or two ago,
and a big party celebrated the fact in a
house swamped with pink roses. The birth-
day girl Wore fluffy white georgette with big
gold velvet flowers; and mamma, in a hand-
some black satin gown, saw that a fine
supper was spread round the birthday cake.
This is a Brooth-
orn picture of Violet
Clift, a Bendigo
singer for whom
good judges
predict a great
future. She is the
Amy Castles of to-
morrow, according to
the rhapsodies of
her warm admirers.
The voice is a rich
soprano, and the
charm of the young
songstress is most
appealing. The
photograph is by
way of a prophecy
of a winsome girl’s
success.
Mayor Swanson has again invited coun-
cillors’ wives to the quarterly dinner for-
merly sacred to men. This mixed eating will
happen on August 9.
Colonel Olden, author of an approaching
book on the achievements of the lOth Light
Horse in Palestine and Syria, has secured a
promise from Doris Padbury, a pretty Perth
girl. The future Mrs. Olden belongs to one
of the pioneer Westralian families. Among
her possessions is a wealthy pa.
Soprano Vida Sutton and pianist Doris
Hadden made a success of their joint recital
in the Assembly Hall. The singer wore a
cerise and emerald sash around her black
net dress and the pianist had a soft pale
blue clingy gown that left her athletic arms
and shoulders bare. The audience felt that
hers vyas froeky as weil as musical talent.
The very latest in fashionable dancing is
being administered to select learners at the*
Austral Salon by Maggie Dickenson’s sister,
Mrs. Charlie Wenman. Whether the best
Austral Salon matrons will be given special
preference in ballet steps is not quite clear..
The Academy was opened last Saturday, and
threatens to be feahf’ly smart.
Everyone is glad to hear that Mrs. Cross,
known to novel readers as Ada Cambridge,
is much better again after a serious illness.
A little circle of Melbourne pen-women
poured out tea in special libation to her at
the Lyceum Club last Friday. Ada Cam-
bridge is not very far off her 80th birthday,
but she flits about town and discusses the
latest best literature as brightly as her own
20-year-old heroines.
Although it was a wickedly' bleak night on
July 27, the Fred Colliers’ concert more than
threequarters-fllied the Town Hall. The
music was well worth the price of wettish
feet and uncurled hair, and tuneful Mrs.
Collier looked her handsomest. They sail in
a few weeks for the Cold Country.
Stella Ross, a daughter of Irwin Ross, one
Oi the Tails’ handy men, has risen to the
dignity of theatrical manager. The good-
looking damsel was in charge of the front
of the house during the recent Marie Tem-
pest season at Melbourne King’s, and her
effective work in handling her staff, com-
bined with her accuracy in tile treasury
department, is convincing evidence of her
ability and the progress of her sex. Miss
Ross formerly helped her dad in the Tait
offices, and was one of the assets taken over
by the Firm at the recent amalgamation.
The boys of the Public Schools of Mel-
bourne lost a good pal last week when pneu-
monia caught “Tommy” Mcllraitb in its
grip, v His supreme idea of pleasure was to
K'JOUt relays of schoolboys to theatre parties.
His car-rides and panto excursions have for
years been recognised by scores of more or
less grateful youngsters as coming from a
perennial joy-fountain specially made for
them by Heaven.
The Mayoress and the Hennessy lady
would be glad if you’d drop them a line—
ol blankets. They are gathering them in
this cold weather to help St. Vincent’s, whose
finances at present are rather -strained, while
the call on its resources is unprecedented.
Maorilauders Hubert Carter and Shayle
Gardner have been asked by the Middlesex
Education Board to give recitals of Shaks-
peare and the Elizabethan poets at the sec-
ondary schools. They started with Harrow.
While he was getting into overalls to go
under Niagara, somebody remarked to
Rupert Atkinson that the falls were a won-
derful sight. “Yee-e-s,” drawled the golden
one, tucking a few thousands into his left
sock. “But how much more thrilling it
would he nowadays if it were all old Rye
whisky!”
Old identities are almost in tears over the
fate of Norman burst, the “fine residential
property” off Flinders-street, at the corner
of Coil ms-place. It has been bought for the
site of a uew Hekald office. Normanhurst,
a two-storeyed villa, is shut out from the
madding crowd —-not that the crowd ever
mads much at the top end of Flinders-street
—by a venerable brick wall on a blue-stone
basis, suggestive of a convent. It really
was built for a solicitor in 1857, vide an in-
scribed stone in the brickwork. The dignity
of that secluded dwelling-place, with its
aged garden environment, was the envy of
every suburban householder. The prying eye
of the passer-by couldn’t penetrate the brick
wall, and a romance of mystery attached to
the home which the first Mr. Duerdin built
00 years ago. It became a boarding-house
in the fulness of time. The story goes that
the late George Ireland happened there one
night as the guest of a boarder. Something
struck him as familiar in one of the rooms,
and he remembered that he had visited Nor-
manhurst half a century earlier as a young
amateur actor. Now it is going to make
room for a newspaper office! The exclusive
wall will fall,, and the sacred garden will
be invaded by swarms of ’Ekald boys in
quest of spesnul dishuns. Ghosts of dead-
and-gone gentility looking most upset are
doubtless these nights haunting the Collins-
place corner —which is also said to be
haunted by others who are not ghosts.
Sitting as a Court of Criminal Appeal
three Supreme Court Judges will deter-
mine whether J. M. Worthington, Assembly
Sergeant-at-Arrns, was properly convicted on
a charge of having corruptly accepted money
in respect of the restoration of war bonds,
said to have been stolen. Meantime Worth-
ington is out on bail. It will be urged that
he was to gain no personal benefit, and that,
however foolish his go-between conduct was,
there was no felonious intent.
Collins-streeters thought Bolshevism had
broken loose _ the other afternoon when a
sphere the size of a dropsical cannon-ball
was seen bowling down the broad highway.
It looked like a bomb big enough to shatter
the Town Hall. Some bolder souls exam-
ined it and found a giant “medicine ball.”
It had come from the Auditorium roof gar-
den, where a women’s gymnasium was at its
exercises. Smelling-salts and burnt feathers
had to be brought into action before the
flapper who flipped it over the top was con-
vinced that she had not killed half Collins
street.
On the wait-for-the-tram seat in Dande
nong-road, near the cemetery, two women
were sunning themselves. “A naiee ceme-
tery,” said one—“a very naice cemetery.
Such rich people have monuments there, it
is crowded, though. You can’t get in unless
you are booked up. Thank goodness, I have
some land bought there,” and she purred with
satisfaction that she and hers would res
their bones among the only people one could
really be seen dead with. "Have you seen
the Necropolis at Spring Yale?” the other
asked. “A huge place! There is room for
millions there. But, of course, anybody
could be buried in the Necropolis.” Of course
she was a cat.
Gibson Young, pictured here by Ruth Hol-
lick, is one of the parents of the projected
“musical week” in
Melbourne. Born iu
Bendigo and acquir-
ing his music in
Manchester and Lon-
don, Young has be-
come an enthusiast
for musical eduea
tiou. A while back
he lectured the capi-
tals on his favorite
subject for the
\V orke r s’ Educa-
tional Association.
Four years ago in
Manchester he
started the Child-
ren’s Concert move-
ment, which has since
spread all over Eng-
land. In Melbourne
he has wide influence as a critic. Primarily
he is interested in the violin and the voice,
but is well up in all branches of music,
and has commanded an orchestra with suc-
cess. His wife is an elocutionary lady who
grew up with the Irish Literary Theatre
in Dublin, and has lately done good work
as a member of the Mermaid Play Society.
Some Adelaide gossip :
The resurrection of the Adelaide Rowing Club Ball
was a success, but the time-honored vice-regal
lancers and the fluffy deb. were missed. The dance
brought a host of old rowing meh out of their shells,
and the smell of moth-balls was strong in the land.
Some very handsome skirts were worn. Their Exes,
and suite arrived at 9, atid were received by Presi-
dent George Auld and club-captain Arnold Harvey.
The Mayor and his lady were among the also
presents.
“Give! Give! Give!” is the ory at present.
Every public institution is demanding new wings,
and re-feathering costs money these times. The
Mayoress is starting a drive for the Children’s Hos-
pital, North Adelaide, and it will include a raid
on country cousin during the September Show.
Culture turned out in full force to hear Walter
Bagot lecture at the Institute Buildings on West-
minster Abbey. The object of the lecturer is to
raise money for the renovation of the venerable pile;
but at present Australians have a bit too much
building of their own in hand to worry seriously
about refurbishing abbeys and things on the other
side of the world.
Heather Hammond, daughter of W. G. Hammond,
of Wakefield-street, sails for Colombo by the Mantua
to marry Bex Hamer, and meantime Society is busy
giving her teas and lunches and, incidentally, some
handsome presents. Her friend, Mrs. W. T. Mort-
lock, is making a trip to Colombo with her sons
to see the bride safely tied up.
Mrs. Francis J. Fisher has got together a big
committee, and is issuing countless invitations to
a gift tea at the Osborne Hall in August to raise
money for the Queen’s Home.
News has come of the death of Leslie Clare
Bleeehmore in the Malay States at a too-early 84.
He was an old St. Peter’s boy who enlisted, served
four years abroad, then on his return obtained his
certificate as a licensed surveyor, and in November
last left Adelaide to take up a position in the
Federated Malay States.
A few days ago his Ex. and Lady Weigall made
a dash to Morgan, where they opened a new district
hospital and unveiled a tablet to the memory of
the local Diggers who fell In France.
Adelaide has had another sale on “the Bugler
system”—a term familiar to everybody in S.A., but
unknown outside it. It dates from the Boer War, when
d. C. F. Johnson, journalist and Minister of Educa-
tion, gave a horse, which happened to be named
Bugler, for public auction for war charities. Tin-
buyer good-naturedly said he didn’t want it, and’
put it up again; after which each succeeding “buyer”
felt bound to do the same. Ever since then the
announcement of this system has meant that every-
body present is struck for a donation of as much as
he cares to give, a shrewd auctioneer generally nam-
ing for small sums, towards the end, any who have
hung back. Sidney Kidman and other pastoralists
lately gave seven bullocks to Minda, the home for
weak-minded children at Brighton. The Governor
and Lady Weigall attended the cattle-market, both
making speeches, and then the good-natured game be-
gan. When everybody was tired of it, and the cattle
were sold “straight out,” they realised about £l4O.
But the “system” had brought the total up to £613.


CITROEN
Tlu? Standardised Frcndi Car
A
A
&
/CN
?
r
fi
=sfT •
, "T
-r
&i
§SS
Mt
*
v\' v
r
P:
Sv
»\\\W
ss
8^
as
*•*»
vN\V,
v' \
mi
K>.
v,
i>
(W
rv
&
r
w
?S%SS
3
Ti
3
a
P
>///
aft
ss>
The Car of Beauty,
Power and Economy
SOME people think of the Citroen as
a light car, an efficient car —the car
that averages 36 miles to the gallon.
Owners, however, know it to be much
more than that. They delight in its ample
and flexible power that enables them to
take any reasonable hill on top gear.
They appreciate the system of chassis
suspension that gives the Citroen car rid-
ing qualities that might be expected only
in cars of much heavier build. The silent
running and absence of wear that come
from the use of the famous Citroen helical
gears greatly add to the life of the car,
and make it an unusually good invest-
ment.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Bradley Bros., Ltd.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Websters Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
AGENTSs
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Clifton Hill, Victoria.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Moncrieff Engineering Co.
Light Square, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc., Christchurch. Leyland Motors, Ltd.,
Factory Representatives: W. A. Crowle, Limited, Crowle House, 161-163 Castlereagh
Street,


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CM!
HE PLUS DLTR/J
15
K'-.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY I.IMiTED, Sydnsy.
7
‘039
L*v
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
-
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
'
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress,
Ss
The“BULLY
_l7lfi POST
-11 IV FREF
Usually
2 51-
Here’s a good-looking long-service boot in
G’ace Kid, exactly as pictured, now being
offered during our Sale for much less than
it is worth. Sizes, sto 10.
MAIL YOUE ORDER FOR A PAIS TO-DAY 1
FINNEYS,
BRISBANE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hortery
There were no greater chums in the wor;
than Mrs. T. J. Ryan and her big Tom. The
fell in love when Tom was pupil-teachin
np m Queensland and Mrs, T. J. was a sli
ot a girl continuing her study in language
and music at the neighboring convent froi
which she had just graduated. He was he
first and only sweetheart, as she was hi
To see the good-looking, well-tailored wi:
walking. about the ring with her big ma
was a sight familiar to all racegoers. Anc
to watch Tom come into a ballroom in time t
take Mrs. Tom home, and hear the fire o
banter between the two, he with his rathe
sleepy, good-natured eyes reminding one of
large house-dog keeping guard over a kitten
was to make the looker-on realise that mai
riage can be the happiest estate of all.
So much clashing of swords and flashin
of steel enlivened the Masonic Ball at th
Town Hall the other night that it sounded t
the passer-by as if a first-class tourney wa
in progress. The galleries were packed t
the last seat, every onlooker a-thrill to se
the arch of steel. The Viee-Regals, wh
passed beneath, only breathed freely when
they had gained the dug-out of gum-blossom
on the dais. Came a trumpet blast and
large-voiced Master of Ceremonies announcer
the d<sbs.’ presentation. To anybody sicken
mg for the ’flu the first trumpet must have
sounded like the horn of the angel Gabriel
Familiarity bred contempt, however, for aftei
the call for “God Save,’’ and another to
announce that their Excellencies were com
i g £ he ball> and still another that botl
the G.-G.’s and the Davidsons were on the
premises, there was a greater than evei
to greet the progress of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master. It blew to announce tin
presentation of the debs, (mothered by Mrs
G. G. Hill in black and'emerald) ; again be-
fore the formation of the little white flock
into a set; and it nearly burst asunder to
call the Vice-Regals to the Official Lancers
Mum and dad and the dyed-in-tlie-woo
dancers of yesterday’s school intended to have
their fling, and while the ’eads were being
tangled midships the old ’uns formed un-
obtrusive sets under the balconies. Lady
Forster was very charming in powder blue
brocade and silver lace; and Lady Davidson
wore exquisite pearly-tinted brocade and a
handful ot diamonds. A handsome dresser,
Miss bamiiel, who is everywhere with the
v zce-Regals, this time wore old-gold satin
draped with Irish lace. Down below there
was a great assembling of parties in prepara-
tlon for supper, and if the floral decorations
looked rather frost-bitten the supper itself
was one of real food..
Saturday afternoon saw the gallery of the
Education Department well-crowded with
picturedovers trying to get a good look /at
the Royal Art Society’s show. All the old
favorites among the Royal artists were show-
ing, and little Olive Birkenhead had four
charming bits of modestly-priced sun and
shade. In the oils Dattilo Rubbo’s daslvng
vividness took a foremost place ; and Llovd
Rees showed a clump of hydrangeas that made
everybody long for a cottage garden. Miss
Soubeirari, the Justice Streets, Rose Scott
the Joskes, Professor Holme and Mrs. Back-
house and a small girl wrapped in a High-
land tartan were among the first viewers.
Not for many years had Government
House resounded with so much childish
laughter as last week when Diana and
Daphne invited about 60 of their young
friends, mostly pupils of the C. of E. Girls’
Grammar, to play basket-ball with them The
lawns of the vice-regal residence have of
late been converted into a real children’s
playground.
During her stay here Dame Nellie will be
the guest of Dame Margaret.
Premier John Storey’s wife was welcomed
back to Sydney by Mayoress Lambert last
Friday atternoon in the Town Hall recep-
tion room, and if a count had been taken
youd have found more white kid gloves of
the long and expensive variety than any
Sydney festivity has sported for manv a long
day. Mrs. Storey, who shook hands in navy
georgette and a black hat, has gained con-
siderably in weight during her trip—possibly
she has been to a different part of England
that visited by Mrs. T. H. Kelly and
Mrs. Geoffrey Fairfax, who returned a stone
or two short. Mrs. Lambert was dressed in
a mile of white kid gloves and black cash-
mere-de-soie frocking and a jaunty hat with
pink horticulture upon it. Mrs. Hugh D.
Mclntosh wrapped a squaw-built squirrel
coat closely about her. Mrs. Mutch was all
vivacity and bunchy black taffeta; Mrs
Dooley was plainly tailored and wore nigger-
brown millinery with the prevailing dangle;
several Judges’ wives were in evidence, little
Mrs. Backhouse slipping in as quietly as a
mouse;. Mrs. Rabbi Cohen and Dean Talbot’s
wife stood for the Church, and Mrs. Dwyer,
Mrs. Golding and May Mattnews for women’s
rights; and soprano Lilian Mitc'hell sang.
You girls who want to be movie stars, stop
and consider before you leave your cushioned
typewriter chans or your boring husbands.
1 icture-producers are hard men who always
decide to “shoot” shipwreck scenes in the
depth of winter. In all the show and sleet
and westerly of last week-end Raymond
Longford, who is producing “The Mount
Marunga Mystery” (the book is by Harrison
Owen), set his ball scene. The Hydro at
Medlow was the appointed place, and by half-
past S carloads of girls and men set out
through the frosty night, along snow-banked
roads, emptying themselves with a sigh of
relief on to the Hydro steps to find that a
withering blast shrieked along the “art” gal-
lery to meet them. Between miles of ship-
wreck and bush fires the shivering crowd
dashed into dismantled rooms to apply the
last layer of cosmetic. The girls emerged
in ninons and georgettes, bare-armed and
low-necked; the men with the fronts of their
dress-suits frilled in with pale pink shirt
(pink comes out the softest white). Mrs.
Henry Hill Osborne, who (in the play) sand-
flies the murder of her husband between
the third jazz and the supper Hesitation
did her little act in cloth of gold;
and Berenice Vere nearly died of the cold
in layers of rose-pink velvet and flower-trel-
■ised georgette. Lottie L.vall was every-
where: and presently the yellow-cosmeticised
faces (that’s to make them come out white),
wilh the brown lips and blue-black eyes,
formed an admiring ring, while Ivy Shilling,
benhboned and crinolined, d’d a pas seul in
the full glare of the white lights, which made
Dan Carroll, in the background, stand out
glaringly in a tangerine topcoat and buff-
colored gloves.
Mrs. Monty Severn has had her portrait
painted by Dora Ohlfse.n, who is turning her
lace towards Rome once more. In the pic-
ture Mrs. Monty wears a large black
hat and a graceful lace veil, and the artist
has managed, while preserving the kindly
look of the sitter, to add her famous “duch-
ess’ look. To the Eternal City Dora takes
a plaster Nellie Stewart (head and throat)
to be completed in pink Milanese stone;
and replicas of a Zoo kangaroo, a pelican
and a native-bear will travel each in its little
water-tight tin compartment.
B. E. Minns, too, has been painting por-
traits. One is a fine picture of the Shepheard
Laidleys’ son who was killed by a shell
lust before the Armistice. The young man
looks like a typical Australian soldier, and
no young man can look better than that. An-
other portrait that is drawing visitors is one
ot Queensland veteran Archie Meston. But
what the friend of Black Brother will cer-
tainly regret is that the artist can’t show
that wonderful muscular development which
Binghi taught him how to cultivate.
This is a May Moore picture of Ella
Richards, who has just finished her bac-
teriology course with honors at the Uni., and
has taken to perpetuating skin lesions in
wax—a delicate and
fascinating operation,
in which all Ella’s
old art of miniature
painting is called in-
to play, for diseased
skin surfaces demand
the finest of color
shading. First of all
the artist-bacteriolo-
gist must get just
the correct normal
skin tone. This col-
oring is mixed when
the wax is boiling,'*
but you don’t know
until the mixture sets
whether the tone is
right. If it isn’t the
process starts all
over again. Need-
less to say this wax modelling of skin lesions
attracts a lonely few. Ella was for a long
rime hon. seemary of the Arts and Crafts,
and was the smiling head of the Old Linen
depot in the Town Hall basement during the
war.
Lieut.-Colonel Harry Murray, V.C.,
D. 5.0., etc., the most capable" fighting*
soldier and one of the shyest and most
modest men that the A.I.F. possessed, is en-
gaged to be married. The name of the lady
who has drawn this unique chance in the
only big gamble which the churches unani-
mously approve is Constance Cameron, of
Camlet 801 l on (Q.). The one-time idol of
the 13th Battalion has beaten his machinp-
gun into a ploughshare, so to speak, and has
been using the implement since he left the
Army at Blairmack, which is near Mueka-
dilla (Q.).
On a still night last week Mervyn Finlay,
third son of Dr. Finlay, of Randwick, mar-
ried Marjorie Kirkwood, 0 f Bellevue Hill.
Marjorie, who is a grand-daughter of the late
Russell Barton, wore some beautiful Lim-
erick lace belonging to the Barton family on
her white satin finery. Doris Buckland,
whose dad is a director of the Bank of New
South Wales, and Sylvia Barton, whose dad
was the Master in Equity, walked the aisle
in the bride’s wake in gold tissue shot wi 1
green: and cousins Sylvia and Janet Barto
wore cream silk net over gold. Nearly II
guests dashed across to Petty’s for th
toasts. The bride’s mother received in ton
of black and lilac; and the belle of the par 7
was grandmama Russell Barton, who ha
just turned her 89th birthday. The gues
.Ist included the names on many brassplates
j4‘ Brad J’ s ’ Priors, Bowker
braddon and Lethbridge Kings were £
few who helped to swell the caterer’s bil .
Bridegroom Mervyn has just been taken int
partnership with the Armidale law-seliirg
firm of Mackenzie and Biddulph; and, mor
over—just think of the luck of it!—ha
secured a pretty cottage to live in. Empt
houses in most country towns are as extinc
as they are in Darlinghurst.
A pretty wedding last Thursday evenin
that the rain just couldn’t spoil was that
Mildred Whiddon, who married Walter F.
Morrow, at Wimmera, the Whiddon home ;
Artarmon. The long drawing-room was
bower of lilies and greenery, and the browi
haired, pink-cheeked bride joined her ta 1
bridegroom under a green arch from whic
a wedding-bell dripped petals. The crescei
do of the bride’s finery was reached in th
beautiful old Honiton veil. Bridesmaids i
honey-colored softness and carrying goi
baskets of daffodils and mauve hvacinth
grouped themselves around the bride; an
nearly 100 guests vowed their good wisfie
at the wedding breakfast, even though th
brides uncle is Tax-Commissioner Whiddon
Mildred’s father was Sam Whiddon, wh
used to represent Paddington in the Leg
Assembly.
The King’s School Old Boys have held
their yearly dance in Paddington Town Hall
Headmaster Morgan Baker, although he i
a grass-widower just now, his graceful wife
being away in England, came to the junket
mg; and large crowds of present and pas
boys and the best-girls they have married 01
hope to marry pushed their way around to
the usual old jazz sounds.
The committee of the Catholic Women’s
Association sat on its square of carpet and
looked complacently down a Paddington
lown Hall all green laceries overhead am
masses of tender blossom; and treasurers
Miss O’Loughlin and Mrs. McMains radiated
joy at the sight of hundreds of heads sway-
ing and bobbing over the floor. President
Mrs. John Barlow in soft blue satin hac
the support of daughters Kitty and Helen,
and Mayoress Lambert brought her Emperor.
She was in violet and gold-shot taffeta The
debs, by the way, boasted only one undiluted
straight-from-tbe-sod name—Doreen Len-
nane. Sweet-faced Mrs. Woolf from Mel-
bourne looked in for two minutes, and Mrs.
Jack Meagher and Mrs. Coyle were other
good-lookers among the matrons.
Bohemian Night at Dixieland drew over
500 dancers; and at 10s. 6d. a head (with-
out supper) that takes a bit of reckoning.
This time the supper was a real knife-and-
fork affair; and the young man who had
saved up for the outing with his best girl
looked at times thoughtful. Only two or
three fancy costumes took the floor, and one
was “Mine Host Holbrook” with the big
bottle of sauce under his arm. Something
that looked like a vine-wreathed statue from
the parks was another dancer. But most of
the merry-makers were in ordinary evening
togs. Lights went out in time for the per-
sistent stay-to-the-last ones to catch the
10-to-2 boat.
The owner of the most fascinating cropped
head in Sydney in a week’s time will be
Helen Denny. Helen, who has been book-
browsing and mountaineering for nearly
four years, is to be settled with mother and
father 111 Chatswood in time for Melba’s
first concert.
The Alexander Watsons flew last week to
Maoriland, where the Midland Hotel Wel-
lington, will supply their perch till the end
of August.
Thousands of toilers up the stairs that lead
to The Bulletin’s editorial dens have en-
countered there an ancient janitor who soon
became known to them as “Mr. Brown.’’ The
oldest of them don’t remember when Mr.
brown wasn’t an urbane Methuselah. The
old gentleman, a bachelor without a known
relation in the world, died last week, after
two or three days’ illness, and Ken. Prmr
(manager) and Norman Campbell (for the
army of contributors) helped the assistant
rector of St. James’s to settle him in his
long home..
Sir Melville Macnaghten’s death in Lon-
don a few weeks ago has an Australian inter-
est. His son, Colonel Macnaghten, married in
Australia, was living in Sydney when the
world-war began, and had one of the most
romantic careers in the A.I.F. He was at
the Gallipoli landing, and, after command-
os a brigade which is specially mentioned
tor efficiency in lan Hamilton’s book on Hie
campaign, he came back to Australia. Re-
joining the A.I.F. as a private he had
risen to be a captain by the time he wa*
desperately wounded at Messmes. TF
authorities then pulled him out once more
and gave him a big munitions job in London.
. e ™ ves m old-fashioned corner
m Warwick-square which his father inhab
ited when he was Chief of the C.I.D. at
Scotland Yard.
Can you tell a book by its cover? You
can if Wal. Taylor has done the binding
Wal. laylor went to the war, and after he
was wounded and while he was waiting to
be made whole again in England he was
drawn by Letters into her service. He
couldn’t write books, but he could bind them.
so he set to work to
learn the craft with
all its embellish-
ments, and the les-
sons have flowered
into leathers gilt-
tooled, or inlaid, or
matrix and turquoise
encrusted, like the
missals of old. With
Norman Lindsay’s
Columbine it is as
though he gathered
up the charm of the
book and wrapped
it tenderly about the
printed word. Leon
Oellert’s *‘Songs of a
Campaign” has a
look of military
efficiency and a
tooled-out Lewis gun in the middle of the
front cover. The Julian Ashton book and
"Iweltth Night” have the dignity of their
masters. The young Queenslander lingers
over his labor of love in Roy de Mestre’s old
room above Little George-street, where even
the smell of cooking fish and the nearness of
the Taxation Department fail to ruffle him.
liis work keeps Lloyd Rees’s pen-drawings
company in an art-show in Brisbane this
month. May Moore made the picture.
Percy Reason lias a fascinating array of
trees up in Gayfield Shaw’s rooms. Evi-
dently, like American poet Joyce Kilmer, ho
dreams in boughs and barks and' leafy
crowns. Meticulous as ever, Percy’s work
has no. blobh.v palette-knife effects, but can
be looked right into, and the tree still re-
mains a tree. Geometrically his work is
about perfect.
The Italian Opera Co. drops a note from
Cairns, where the Queensland success showed
no sign of becoming moth-eaten. Hear Lute
Drummond:—
From Townsville up Nature is more than seduc-
tive—islands set in emerald, azure waters; vegetation
,as vivid in its scarlets as in its greens; soft hills
and mists which mock reality ; and a Labor Gov-
ernment, which has inexorably fixed breakfasts from
eight till nine, irrespective of tenors’ and prima
donnas' late performances.
Sandwiched in between Melba and Levitzki
the Sydney Choral Society is offering ; ‘Fau3t’'
in company with the State Orchestra ou
August 13. Cara I-loldgate is booked for
Peggy Faust, while forceful contralto Phi-
lippa Alston doubles Siebel and Martha.
The Housewives’ Association has a new
president, that splendid worker Mrs. AsWev-
Thompson having stepped down. The hor-
ticultural Miss Brace takes over the task
of opening up markets for the sale of cheap
fish and vegetables.
A girl writing from New York describes
Broadway as a check board in a donimo.
Lvery woman wears a loose cloak over a
dress checked to the seventh dimension.
A Brisbane postscript:—
7 here is to be a vice-regal ball in a night or two.
and the wails of the uninvited are loud in the land.
General Brand, the Sydney Commandant—in the
long ago a Queensland school-teacher —-has been in
Brisbane lecturing at West’s Olympia,„ where the
war pictures are being shown and the War Museum
funds getting a lift.
It’s a dangerous thing to help the unemployed
these days, especially if you don’t know all the
awaids. A tnan who took pity on a workless wan-
derer, and gave him three days’ toil at 12s. a day
and tucker, found himself in court, sued for the
legal extra 6s. per day—and had to pay it, phi;
costs. He was awfully cheered.
Mrs. J. F. Maxwell, whose husband is the retiring
Mayor, will act as Mayoress for Alderman Diddams,
the new wearer of the plumage, until one of his
relations can come up from the South to help.
Rene Allom, who has several years V.A.-ing to her
credit, is to be married next week, and her com-
rades accompanied their farewells and good wishes
with serviceable gifts.
The Ball happened in the National
Association’s new hall, a pleasant change from the
Exhibition tarn, which was built for concert pur-
poses and has a sloping floor, down one side of
which dancers glissade and then toil painfully up the
other. Palms, peach-blossom, Japanese lanterns and
electric lights veiled in cherry color made the place
bright. Messrs. Calder, Lecky and R. S. Philp were
the committee, and Jessie McWilliam, the Bartholo-
mew child and Bob Hall designed and supervised
the decorating.
The J. S. Badgers stage-managed a dinner at the
Hotel Cecil on Thursday to farewell Mr. A. Leney.
who is giving up his job as secretary to the Brisbane
Tramways Co.


ã
Ivory.
m
Ladies’ Ivor.v Hair Brushes, fine quality bristles, from
£l4 0 0 per pair.
Hardy Bros, invite inspection of a choice and
exclusive stock of Solid Ivory goods.
Dressing Cases, fitted with all necessary Toilet
articles in Ivory, range from £B4 0 0.
Hair Brushes, Hat and Cloth Brushes, Hand Mirrors,
Manicure Sets and Pieces, Trinket Boxes, Puff Jars,
Hairpin Tubes, Button Hooks, Shoe Lifts, may be
purchased separately.
Selections sent on approval.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JJ6-H8 Queen St,
Brisbane.
London.
ä
Always Reliable!
%‘Sz'^k
lt^rfeo*fsdKj
'if
RAtJ**
ALtST
“Perfection”
Dental Alloy
A High-grade Alloy
for Amalgam Fillings.
Comparative tests place it on a level with
the very best Alloy that European or
American manufacturers have produced.
Samples on application.
Read what a Client says:—.
“I exclusively use ‘Perfection’ Alloy and find it
equal, if not better, than any other I’ve used during
my 20 years’ practice. I’ve been using it now for
a few years, and all Fillings I’ve examined sin™
are in perfect order.”
Manufacturers of
DENTAL GOLDS
SOLDERS
PLATINUM and its ALLOYS
PLATINISED WIRES, etc.
REDISTILLED MERCURY
Specialists in the economic and scientific treat*
ment of
DENTAL RESIDUES,
å
Ijo “THE DENTAL
Uw METALLURGISTS’’
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Laboratories and Works : ANNANDALE, SYDNEY*
Branches in all the States and New Zealand.
BUCKLEYS
EXCEPTIONAL OFFER.
AN
ALL-WOOL SUIT
Made to Measure
ā
Changing Conditions
Demand New Methods.
The sadden change of conditions has
presented some exceptional baying
opportunities, which we were in a
position to take advantage of for Cash
Payments.
As progressive merchants, we aim at
supplying the demand for a modei’ately
priced Suit.
Wages have not been reduced, but
helped by opportunities of securing
woollens and linings AT EXCEP-
TIONALLY KEEN PRICES, and by
challenging every item of expense in
the manufacture, framing our esti-
mates with extreme closeness, WE
ARE ABLE TO SUPPLY AN ALL-
WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED OR
INDIGO-BLUE CHEVIOT SERGE
SUIT MADE TO
MEASURE AT
£5/5/-
SEND FOR SAMPLES AND
SELF-MEASUREMENT FORM.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
ON ALL CLOTHING.
¥T l
\.C
7
s^=3
Si a
00 ;
■I
■:v
BOURSE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SON TME SAME DAY
THEY ARE MflCxE
No higher grade Chocolates
produced anywhere.
We are the actual ,
manufacturers, and
we distribute our
Chocolates direct. It
is, therefore, impos-
sible to buy stale
“Hillier” Chocolates.
Guaranteed under the Pure
Food Act, Serial 1567.
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post, free to any address in
Australia.
981
%
? ■,
. .■ ■
v •
is&y.
m
- ' >
o .. s - ;
9
m


BECOME AN ARTIST!
a
a
'There’s Money
m
the Pen.’
You can da
so without
drudgery, i f
you take up
the Weston Postal
Course of drawing.
Mr. Ham' J. Wes-
ton, the noted
commercial artist,
places within your
reach the means of
making your in-
come grow, and
learning a fasci-
nating and ever-
trseful subject. His
series of lessons,
based on his own
wide experience,
covers the whole
field of black-and-
white work, and
takes you on from
stage to stage
rapidly and easily.
Three stamps will
bring you Mr.
Weston’s booklet.
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” which
tells all about
the course and
gives examples
of the lessons.
Write for it
and learn what
successful students have accomplished.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
68 Union House, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
'
M
tim
MADE
Perfection
PirSK RUBBER.
■AMERK
American Flashlights
AMERICAN Flashlights have
“ many improvements, which
make them superior to all other
lashlights. Among them are:
Dual Contact—
permitting either a flash or con-
tinuous light.
Non-short-circuiting case-
insuring long battery life.
Shock absorber—
to prevent breakage from drop-
ping.
No movable parts —
to get out of place and cause
damage.
American Flashlight Batteries, too,
give greater satisfaction—they last
Aonger and give a brighter light.
Insist upon ’'American”. Ask
your electrical dealer.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inc.
30 East 42d Street, New York, N. Y., U.S.A.
P312114E
We Desire
to Buy
à
Platinum, Cold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS. LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
line Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS. LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Easiness Notice.
JOURNALIST corrects amateurs’ MSS..
small fee. Typewriting 1000 words,
3/9. No. 12, Ninth Floor. 247 George
Street, Sydney.
a
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
bjC UKIHTOI’HEB
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Raror, which is of the
nnest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
<* <i ' STe '%
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. M enable to procure send postal note to their
rep’-egentatives. Norman Raker & Lor.ftfnirst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
The Shoe Polish Super-Excellent.
Bostock’s Shoe Polish is made from a highly scientific formnla of purest ingredients,
is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish, it
PRESERVES the leather.
THE SION OF
A GOOD 3HTNE
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brow* Paste, in Tins, now on Sale.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
SEVENTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
of
The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House.
George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 20th July, 1021.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of tht
Bank on the 30th June, 1921, and present the following Report:—
The balance at credit of Profit and Loss, after adding the amount brought forward, and deducting
interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, paid on 21st January, 1921, rebate on enrreni
bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying Land, Income and other
taxes, and providing for bad and doubtful debts, as well os granting to the Officers a bonus on theii
salaries, and making an addition of £5OOO to the Officers’ Provident
Fund, amounts to
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To payment of a Dividend for the past Half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum out of the Year’s profits .. £125,000
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. . . 140,000
„ Balance carried forward .. .. .. .. ~ 85,185
£350,185 8 4
£850,185 8 4
The Directors desire to reoord with deep regret the death of Mr. Frederick Holkham Danger, who.
after serving the Bank as a Director for nearly 50 years, resigned from the London Board about two
years ago.
This Meeting is called upon to elect a Director consequent on the retirement in terms of the Articles
of Association of the Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.0., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the
requisite notice that he is a candidate for the Office.
It also rests with this Meeting to appoint Auditors for the ensuing year,
r Ur v? g ar Dr /J nc , h ,? s , ot the Bank have been established at Barmedman, Gosford, Griffith,
Leeton Mayfie d, Newcastle West, and Yeoval, in New South Wales, and at Peeramon in Queensland.
The Dividend is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 80th JUNE, BY CABLE)
Dr.
Or.
Capital .. £2,909,025 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 2,220,000 0 0
Reserve Capital.. 8,000,000 0 0
£8,129,025 0 0
To Capital Paid-
up .. ..£2,909,025 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 2,220,000 0 0
>T —£6,129,025 0 0
„ Notes in Circulation .. .. 9,866 10 0
„ Bills in Circulation , . .. 1,600.741 6 6
„ Deposits and other liabilities.. 31,245,205 0 9
„ Profits and Loss Account .. 360,185 8 4
£38,335,023 4 7
By Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r alian
Commonwealth
Notes, and
Cash at
Bankers .. £7,585,466 6 1
„ Money at short
in London.. 1,065,000 0 0
„ Short - dated
British
Treasury Bills 1,285,000 0 0
„ British and
A u s tralian
War Loan
Stocks and
Government
and other
Securities .. 6,022,338 0 0
„ Bills Receiv-
able in Lon-
don and Re-
mittances in
transit .. 2,431,603 10 7
~ Notes and
bills of other
banks .. 130,588 13 8
„ Bills discounted, and other
debts due to the Bank
„ Advances to Commonwealth
Government on account of
War Gratuities..
„ Bank premises, furniture, etc.
£17,469,996 4 *
19,605,066 0 3
581,000 0 0
678,961 0 0
£38,335,023 4 7
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim Dividend for the Half-
year ended 31st December, 1920,
at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum, paid on 21st January,
1921, out of the Year’s Profits £125,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows: —
To Dividend for past
Half-year at the
rate of 10 per
cent, per annum
out of the Year’s
Profits .. .. £125,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund .. 140,000 0 0
~ Balance carried
forward . . .. 85,185 8 4
350,185 8 4
£475,185 8 4
By amount brought forward from
last Year ..
» Profit for Year ended 30th June,
1921
£82,282 0 3
392,923 8 1
à
RESERVE FUND.
1921—June 30 .. .. . . £2,220,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss . . .. ~ 140,000 0 0
£2,860,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
H. H. MASSIE, General Manager.
F. J. L. DUNLOP, Accountant.
Sydney, 13th July, 1021,
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in
the Head Office of THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, and have compared
the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing: Balance-Sheet.
F. W. HIXSON ( ,
HARINGTON B. COWPER f Audltors '
The following resolutions were carried unanimously:—
That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to he
circulated among the Shareholders.
That, the Honorable H. E. Kater. M.L.C., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.
That Messrs. Haringten B. Cowper and Justin J. Brenan be appointed Auditors for the eneohy:
year.
That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers
of the Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the Institution.
H. H. MASSIE, General Manager.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted; and tut MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
K-: Why not get oh to something
original instead of merely barking back at another
dog?... .Oubbon: Thanks; but it’s now nine months
siuce the story was toid....Trocus: No, mat man
didn’t say ex-German New Guinea was rid of malaria.
He only said Kabaul was, at the time of wnich he
wrote, practically mosquito-free im: Well enough
done except that you don’t make ns believe it’s
true... .A.W.P.: Too far off our beat. We should
have to explain, for instance, what Wops are....
A.M.H.: Try a N’York magazine with “Misfit”....
M.B.P.: Overstocked with nightmares. But it’s
rather well done....Box. 22: You’ve said the last
word on the subject:—
But if the pubs of New South Wales
Still close at 6 o’clock.
Our sailors still will have t.hcir port
And horses still their hock:
The abo. still will have his gin.
The rivers still their bar.
And each of us will have a bier,
No matter who we are.
....S. (S.A.): “Cooking” needs a bit more cultivat-
ing. Run the harrows over it and submit again.
M.M.: Well enough done, of course. But can’t
you give us something a little less unpleasant?
F.E.S.: More gloom ; and it glooms along an old
- track.. . .R.W.B.: The weak story-interest spoiled
its chances. But there is an idea in it for a big
thing Raggedie: Shicker is said to be of Hebrew
origin; but this paper’s Hebrew isn’t as mire as its
Australian, so perhaps you’d better postpone the
drinks....Sodium Chloride; Wait till you succeed
occasionally before you think of depending upon
doing it regularly....W.H.I.: You proposed to the
girl when you were drunk and woke up to be 6orry.
That would want good handling to make a yam...'.
W.M.D.B.: All said often and better Stan: Shock-
ing. Clip out published matter, mark the date and
page on it, and send to the accountant Billy R.;
Timo: We don’t like the policeman,...
C. J.M.: Too overstrained to be convincing... .Mary
Jane: Nothing there E.D. (Randwlok): Very
lame... .Skean Dhu: Give it up D.A.L.: No
good Breton: The “White Crane” doesn’t fly
cheerfully enough P.8. (Sunnybank): Those limp-
ing lines are not helped by the fact that the opening
letters spell something George F.: Doesn’t get
near the printer Seven Bore: Too far off our beat.
....Harry M.: Not up... .G.P.M.: The dog’s point
af view isn’t a bad idea; but it should be put better.
S.K.: Tlie “Shepherd” must go back W.F.
(Glenroy): None of them... .Amauros: No use in
that form.... Florence G.: Poor verse about nothing
much.... J.H.A.: Deserves smarter telling... .K.G.
(Ivimbolton): The poppies must nod more prettily.
....Louie T.: They’re not up by some miles....
Traction: Shocking... .W.E.L.: As thin as Lazarus.
.. ..A.B.P : Both miss....N.B. (8yd.): Metre impos-
sible.. ..A.ALT.: A note to your Agricultural Depart-
ment will bring von all the information you want...
J.M.C.: It doesn’t quite convince... .D.E.M.: The
metre is mad and the matter needs strengthening
food E.J.R.: Lines like “From Australia thev
had came” suggest that you’d better try to craw'l
in prose before you run in verse Mary W.: It’s
whimsical enough but for the ending. Can you Im-
prove that? George C.: No use A.E.G.: Lumpy
commonplace Frank F.: Not much good. That
writing in the present tense is always irritating
H.N. (Footscray): “The Mountains” are dull objects
in that verse... .Bellrrive: There is a Wordsworthian
simplicity about “Washing Day”:—
Garments on the clothes-lines flutter to and fro.
Drying, quickly drying, while the gusty winds do
blow;
Busy women toileth to get the washing thro’.
Stir the steaming copper, and mix a pail of blue
Sparks doth flit and crackle, smoke-clouds drift away.
The proper time for drving is a gusty, windv day.
Over is the washing when men come home to d : ne.
Out of tubs and baskets are pesrsfecl out on the line.
M.C. (Mafeking): Nothing in it H.E.W.:
No market for it here....J.C. (Wellington):
Very weak W.M.M.: “Dear Hands” can’t
flutter round our heart..... .H.E.S.: Not well
enough carpentered B.W. (South Melb.): Verses
like those would sink almost any ship Chris T.:
Put the plane over it,.. .C’Roy Q.: Not up O.L.Z,:
No good Mary M.: Your guess was better than
your verse John M.: “The Vikings” labor too
heavily E.M.E.:. “The Favor” tails off J.A.C.;
Ragged... .W.J.F.: It may be true, but it is very
bad verse, all the same Also Ran: The refrain
has a catch in it, but the rest is not attractive as
it Siam's D.M. (Diamond Creek): You succeeded
in making it dull.... J.B.F.: Oil its joints... .Moira
C.: Not nearly.... Ilaka: Kinney is rather ponderous.
L.S.W.: The basket got it B.MN.Z.;
“Models” won’t do S.O.B.: None of them get
near enough even to have their noses rubbed
Lneg Si’"" • Nice verse, hrf. net «-'te enm-gh
in it 2198: As rough as a cocky’s chin on Satur-
day morning... .T.A.W.: Incident hasn’t the makings
of e v>rn. .. .tiucv T-T.; Its e v jef f a -~lt is that it
states the obvious and doesn’t do it melodiously
John M.: Only worth a small par. ... Choiseul: Verse
not badly done, but hardly interesting enough....
Mildred C.: Too unnecessarily irregular... .Heldar:
The idea that a parson of any sort could be as
ignorant as you pretend makes the varn absurd....
Beelzebub: Stupid... .C.O.H.: You "have the stuff.
Now make the yarn John D.: They don’t get near.
-. .Bowral: The lines have several had jolts.. .E.A.W.:
The poorest sort F.F. (North cote) : Misses...".
L.T.H.: Conventional horrors no use June: Mere
grouping of commonplaces L.C.R.: You made no-
thing of “The Father” Edwin N.: Poor
F.W.S.: Feeble little flutter D.M.S.: You push
fancy into the pit and lose her J.A.W.: You
make your effort to put salt on the tail of mirth too
obvious. .. .Hal R.: Yours is a very stolid love affair.
— .Quirk: The same thing has been written so often.
. ...J.M.H.: Yarn too machine-made. ....T.A.V.S.: The
idea is too erode J.L.K.: Doesn’t make a yam
Peterouski: Rotten off C.P.C.: Go down to
the bottom.... H.W.D.: You too. ...Helen P.: You
three A.J.S.: Four of you Mary M.: Thin
little thing.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.J.M.: Amazing mixture of print, pencil and
blue-ink going back. .. .A.B.C.: All hope’ess....
P.H.: “Imaginative Sketches” too imaginative for
us Karee: Much below par J.W.; No good
here.. .E.R.H.: W r eak drawing and weaker humor...
H.C.N.: Why so rough on a visitor? R.S.: Just
plain libels... .C. A.: But she wasn’t like that....
J.R.W.: Misses T.L.W.: You’ve still a long way
to go, but you seem to have started nrht ...G.H.-
Anatomical monstrosities P.J.W.: Faulty drawing."
.... J.M.C.O.: Method too scratchy... .W. A. H.:
Ruled out....L.J.8.: Not “a good idea,” nor a
good drawing D.C.H.: Wooden.. . .D.G.: Better
learn drawing, and then try.


Wftgjg;
ORIENJT LINE
Luxe.' Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT *,N, CO., Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246.
4247,
4810.
2,4, <i Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—Snn Francisco.
Yosenilte Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING AUGUST 81,
SONOMA.
10.000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Street*. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
"THE North Ooast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd*
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL, TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger duo in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORAKA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m..
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer, (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
Si CO., LTD.
Hanking, Public Companies, fte,
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Si?~ ALFRED 3, COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E, H,
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.O.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES,
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street,
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and In NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. > James Love,
Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE,
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. ~£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert U. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwqoo. F.C.P.A.;
George F. Ton man ; Hon. F. Jagg Smith, M.L.0.:
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Cabb.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street),
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: B. T. Moodie.
LONDON (87 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNRY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARO
STREETS,
Guaranteed Stock., .. ~ £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. ~ 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares 2,230,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
oil Australia, New Zea*
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
tcwuftcU »U other usual Basking buaiumL
Shipping, ate.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, Bth SEPTEMBER.
NIAGARA, 18th OCTOBER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z)„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States* Canada* or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST, 10 ».m.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply--
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY./
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
j •V ‘
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles,
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMICS 18,500 tons
(largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
HU NIC 12 >5OO tons
SUEY'IC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Afriea.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCUES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES . ... 11,250 tons
12,500 tons
’jtfIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS,
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
GUcbrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Fertb.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£4,965,200
3,425,000
4,965,200
£13,355,400
The Hon. Sir Charles 1L MacKellar,
K.C.M.Q.,
President.
Thomas Bucklund. Esq.
Oh n vies Uiniiie, fivo.
uouert Faithfull, M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Kea'inaltl J. Black,
wmfriwm. I*il«&iiP* Hi: S. E. Lnidley, Esq. Acting General Manager: C. G. Alford.
Office-—George Street, Sydney. London Offiee—29 Threadneetlle Street. E.C.
857 Branches and Agencies In the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Caide remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places Mil LOT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collet.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World,
HEAD OFFICE -veney*-**' SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
(n the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London <?).
Savings Bank Department
«t all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacino.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
Bblnn!* , : l
interstate steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne tor Geelong arid other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide tor S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geruldtou
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
•CANBERRA" i
(Melb. only)
.'Sails from - Sails from
Sydney, j Melbourne,
Sydney Agents.
Sat.,
Aug. 0,
2 p.m.
•Zealandm .. Sat.,
Aug. 6,
noon.
Tries.,
Aug. 9,
.3 p.m.
Sat.,
Aug. 13,
noon.
•Katoomba. Sat.,
Aug. 13,
noon.
♦Ahawatta. .
(Melb. only j
tOOOMA
(Melb. only)
JWYANDRA
(Melb. only)
JDIMBOOLA
Tues.,
Aug. 16.
Fri.,
Aug. 19,
4 p.m.
Wed.,
Aug. 10
Wed.,
Aug. 17
Tues.,
Aug. 23.
JBOMBALA.
(Melb. only)
Sat.,
Aug. 20,
noon.
Howard Smitlr,
Ltd.. 350 George
St. (Tel. 0221)
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
(Tel. 95GS).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10681).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 0221).
Mciiwraith,
McEadiarn’s Line
01 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684).
Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., Ltd.,
Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
(Tel. 8213).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 850 George
St. (Tel. 0221)
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSYILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berrr and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 0221).
81BOMBALA.
(Omits
Bowen)
LEYUKA.,.
B*Oanbruka.
(Omits
Bowen)
{AitAWATTA. .
7 Bridge Street.
(Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
Y.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
•Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers,
fCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
J Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
STrariships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker L!m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALANI) —Regular sailing*
from Sydney ami Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vioe versa. Parcicbbu's to be obtained on applt 1
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vine versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three saUings per week
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, 8ydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY island, Manila,
JVioutui v sail nigs
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan.
Full particulax-s of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Fhilp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & 00., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.'’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents tor:
Australasian United Steaui Navigation Co. ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., limited,
l’itzroy Estates limited.
Blacklieath Collieries ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steam6tiip Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Svdney).
P. Si 6. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle),
Messageries Maritime* Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane. „
■New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (kt Brisbane).
Canadian- Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Port 3).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Rnndaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Heat! Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
Australian
Established
1848.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
Tl»e I jji finest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,886,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,376,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEHLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute.BsllSCo.Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
a


\ All the great good in milky
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Benger’s.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon tin of Benger’s Food, and
special formulae, commenc ng w th babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within ths-iia.
a
Food
1* * natural Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milk
and water, according to the age of the child
Benger’s Food is more tbaa an addition to milk. It to specially
prep?.T«d to perform the important duty of modifying cow's milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post tree, from.
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEI
Sole Proprietors ant Manufacturers BENGER S FOOD LTD., MANGSEBTr.It, England.
ALWAYS USE M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
“Made For Better Service.”
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match 8/fl
D 12/ ‘
0.8.8. Special
M.S. National 15/<1
Service I...!”.”: 27/6
0.8.8. Quad Centre SJS/«
0.8.8. Double Strung 27/6
Haymarket 80/-, 40/-
Haymarket Special 40/-. 45/-
Haymarket Selected 45/-, 50/-
Hayinarket Extra Special 63/-
Spalding’s Tournament 49/6
Spalding’s Continental 55/.
L2/6
Spalding’s Gold Medal 70/-
Slaaengor’s La Belle 27/8
Slazonger’s Player 30 /„
Slazenger’s Wimbledon 30/-
Slazonger’s Renshaw 45/-
Slazenger’s Demon 55/-
Slazenger’s Whitebouse fill/.
Slazetiger’s E.G.M 35 /.
Slazenger*s Doherty 37 /Q
Slazenger’s Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers 90/-
Slazenger’s VI §5/.
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-
11. C. Lee’B Church 90/-
H. 0. Loe’« Monogram 106/-
(Rackets, so/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper raokota: N.9.W., 9d.: other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Bach. Dot,
Grey Regulation „/g 5/3
Dunlop Regulation Qrev 1/4 15/.
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 2/7 30/-
Ayre’a Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Cypress 2/4 27/6
Ayres Champion, 1921 8/- 35 /.
Slazenger’a Champion, 8/r 85/-
•**
\
to
V
Specialists
in ail kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
Davis Riseley 3/?’ 86/-*
Haymarkct Champion, 102 i 2/4 27/6
{PosUiyo on one daz.; tf.S.W., l/. ; other Stated ,1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindi; add sufficient to cove* cost of carriage.)
Each, f
Touals Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Cbatnpion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tenuis Court Markers 37 /Q
Tennis Tapes 33/3
Gut Solution, for renovating tlie strings
<rf rackets, bottla jj m
Racket o«ver« 2/6, *6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
Tbe “Grip" Backet Press 3/0, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips l/„, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books *jq
Racket Gut, 30ft. wails 2/-, 6/6
Backet Gut, 21ft. coils .. 6/6, 8/6, 15/-
w
Ti
1
>
Ail Prices subject to market fluctuations,
_____ without notice.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
«uid aie u asm passed for durability aud effectiveness.
„ „ „ - MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
*-’l'd)., real leather, epeoial value 12/6
v3-B„ Fighting:, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 0z... 13/6
F *Fhting, superior napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 18/6
L. 8.8.) napa, leather lined, 6 or 8 oz. .. . 21/- 23/-
PERFEOTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined', 'padded
wrist-band, 0 or 8 oz. 2f5 /- 30 /-
1,71 FlGlfTfNfi, napa, curled hair, leather
TH
Jlne4, laced palme, 6 or 8 oz. 35/„
oivi ■ia.i lA G,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr, Rest. L. (“Snowy’*) Balter
(Postage on one set
40/-
40/-
N.S.W., 1/- ; other States, 1/8.)
a , BOYS’ GLOVES, Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed g/_
laced palms 9/-
« „ >. .-**. 9/6
12/9
Leather
Tan leather
Tan „
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2. j
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 7/3 eac h
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3Jo e, (Post 6£d.) 15/6, 17/6 pair.
MYRROHL KM TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea, An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
a
PUNCHING BALLS.
We «awpy a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, li<dit
make, for fast wort ..,,,.,, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine leather, stayed
seams, very fast ‘ 18/6, 22/6, 25/-
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest napa leather,
welted and stayed, very fast and lively 30/- So/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially
designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and perfect
shape; made of faigbest-quality brown mocha kid. The
finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for eefling 12/6 and 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 80/-, 35/- 40 /«
PORTABLE BALL, Strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather’ cover and bladder, complete .... 75/.
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., fid.; other States. 1/2.)
Ball Gloves . 8/9, 4/9 pr .
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6, 5/6 „
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 »
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
LmJ
Australia’s Greatest
Providers,
Headquarters: 7208 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Hunter St., Edward St, BRISBANE.
Prospectus of the
Diggers’ Loan
Applications will be received between Monday, Bth August, and Monday,
sth September, 1021.
1. The Loan will be used for the payment of War Obligations and for Repatriation
purposes only.
2. Applications for the Loan, also the Deposits and Instalments of the Loan, may be
lodged—
At any Bank or State Savings Bank; or
At any Money-Order Post Ohice; or
With any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
9. Instalments will be payable as follows: —
10 per cent, deposit to be lodged with application.
20 per sent. on Monday, 3rd October, 1021.
20 per eent. on Monday, 7th November, 1021.
20 per cent, ou Monday-, sth December, 1921.
26 per eent. on Monday, 9th January, 1922.
4. All or any of the Instalments may be prepaid.
5. The Banks will not charge exchange on cheques, sent from one place to any other
place in Australia for payment into the Diggers’ Loan.
6. Receipts will be issued by Banks, Sta te Savings Banks and Post Offices for all
Deposits and Instalments received.
7. When the amount applied for by any applicant has been paid up in full, Bonds to
bearer, with interest coupons attached, will be issued (as soon as they can be prepared),
or Stock will be inscribed. The applicant should indicate in his application whether he
requires Bonds or Stock.
8. The Stock will be inscribed in accordance with the provisions of the “Common-
wealth Inscribed Stock Act” 1911-1918, and Inscription Books will be kept at the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
9. The Bonds will be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO. Stock will be
inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
10. Holders of Stock of this Loan will have the right to exchange it for Bonds of
this Lean at par, and holders of Bonds of this Loan will have the right to exchange
them for stock of this Loan at par, at any time on application in writing to the
Commonwealth Treasury, Melbourne, or any Branch of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia.
U. The Issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Acts of the several States,
and Trustees may invest therein notwithstanding that the price may at the time of
investment be above or below the redemption value of par.
12. (a) If the Deposit and all Instalments are paid up In full on or before sth
September, 1921, Interest amounting to £1 I2s. 6d. on each £l9O will be paid by the
Commonwealth on 15th December, 1921.
, QfVt (b) Where the Instalments are not paid up in full on or before sth September,
IffL b %s 9 re 9 ftl ? on or b «fore tbeir due dates, Interest amounting to £8 7s. 6d. on each
£199 Will be paid by the Commonwealth on 15th June, 1922.
te) Thereafter the Commonwealth will pay Interest half-vearly on 15th June and
loth December at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
13. Interest oa Inscribed Stock will be paid by Interest Warrant, which will bo
P ° St ' ° r aßlou:at wiU be credited direct to a banking account, at option
Interest on Bonds will be paid on production of Coupon.
a , v. 'warrants and Coupons will be payable free of exchange at any Bank or
State Sarngs Bank m the Commonwealth.
. If - ,Th® % repaid at par at the Offices of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or Hobart on 15th December,
lvoU.
b ' onds and Transfers of Stock will be free of Commonwealth and State Stamp
18. Interest will be subject to Commonwealth taxation, hurt: will be free of State
Income Tax.
19. Bonds and Stock will be accepted at par in payment of Probate and Succession
Duty due to the Commonwealth.
n Principal of and the interest on this Loan will be a charge upon the
Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Commonwealth. *
2L ■Members of recognised Stock Exchanges will be allowed a Commission of ss.
pel ±lOO on applications which are registered by them with the Commonwealth Bank of
* K nd whl itr,A ear tbe {? stam P- Authorised agents will also be allowed a ciom-
lssion of os. per £lOO on applications which bear their dockets in the manner prescribed.
22. Commission will not be paid both to a Stock Broker and to an Authorised Agent,
i, application bears the docket of an Authorised Agent, no claim for commission
by a Stock Broker will be allowed in respect of such application-
CONVERSION PRIVILEGES.
23. Every person who makes application for Bonds or Stock of the Diggers’ Loan has
the right, up to the amount of such application, to convert Bonds or Stock of any previous
War Loan or Peace Loan owned by the applicant on Bth August, 1921, into Bonds or
Stock of the Diggers Loan at par, Conversign will he contingent on the application for
» ds g* Stock of the Diggers’ Loan being duly completed by payment in cash, on or
before the due dates, of the Deposit and all Instalments.
24. Conversion will be effected as on 15th December. 1921, at face value without
ouarge.
25. Persons who so convert Bonds or Stock maturing in 1925 or 1927 will receive
I” 1 half-yearly interest payment on the old Bonds or Stock on the 15th December,
1921. Persons who so convert Bonds or Stock maturing in 1923 will receive three months’
“Merest on the old Bonds or Stock on the 15th December, 1921, namely, £1 S S . od. on
Thereafter, interest on all Bonds or Stock converted into Bonds or Stock of
thg Diggers Loan will be paid half-yearly on 15th June and loth December at the
rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
sth 2 &pte P m& t l°9n for 0011761:81011 raast be made 011 tb e prescribed form not later than
2 J- ''ST*! Saying o Certificates will be accepted in payment of the deposits and instal-
ments ot the Diggers Loan up to a maximum of half of the amount applied for For
tins purpose the three years’ Certificates will be accepted at the purchase price together
with simple interest at 4} per cent, per annum from the date of eabh Certificate to the
c^e P° Sl t or instalment, as the case may be. Five vears or ten years
Certificates will be accepted at the purchase price together with simple interest at 5 per
cent, per annum from the date of each Certificate to the due date of the deposit or instal-
ment, us the case may be. War Savings Certificates will be converted on these terms
only by Branches of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
2 ®' Ao commission will be payable to Stock Brokers or other Authorised Agents in
respect of conversion applications. w 10
Commonwealth Treasury, 22nd July, 1921.
JOSEPH COOK. Treasurer.


All that Stands between
a World
of AMSERY
(OUGHS
Colds
r
rf
%
£tn»
&/
'-r'
IS
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Of all the new discoveries in medical science the most remarkable of
recent years is one which has proved invaluable to thousands bf people,
and which is rapidly taking the place of all other remedies for the relief
of coughs and colds.
This preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs
and Colds, and is a scientific compound of great merit. It
is most healing to the lungs and throat, and banishes the cough
or cold in a remarkably short time, leaving no bad after effects. A few
doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, taken when a cold is coming on, is
generally all that is needed to soothe the fever and correct the bodily
discomfort of a severe cold. It is well to continue taking New Discovery
for a day or two, even after the attack seems averted, for its soothing
influence on the mucous. membrane renders one less liable to a second
attack.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a favorite cough remedy for men,
women and children. Take a bottle home to-night.
a World
Of HAPPINESS
D»Sheldon'sl
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
See this
brand
on
each
shirt
SVE
a
BE
%
%
S'
%
Mao#:
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns— a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory v\ ear and
Service. xS
JkA 61
Sacrament.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOMETHING came to me out of the
woods „ ,
With a small child’s form and an old
man’s iace.
The sky was a sky of many moods, .
And the blossoms were white m the
haunted place.
Mine was a folly of many moods
ADd the small thing came to me out of
the woods.
“Give me, ah, give me a penny brown,-’
He cried as he held'forth a wrinkled hand.
“There’s laughter to sell in Sunset to\vn
And a fool may eat it and understand —
Loaves of laughter in Sunset town;
And the crumb is light and the crust is
brown.”
“Bread is baked, but your jest is raw!
The town is fed on the salt of tears;
And a pipe-shanked man with a Book of Law
Has a blade for the baulking of folly’s
ears;
For sunrise to sunset the Book of Law
Is master of mirth and its 'jest is raw.”
“Jest of the Rule and jest of the Spade!
Here I hunger,” the small thing cried.
“Wine of tears in the woods is made—
Tears for the soul of a joy that died.
In Sunset town is the laughter made—
Jest of the Rule and jest of the Spade.”
Wrinkled his face as a small brown leaf.
“Bread of laughter is good,” said he.
“Here I die of the taste of grief
And the dew of sorrow on bough and tree.
Here I die, for the soul of grief
Sighs at night in the small brown leaf.”
“Grief,” said I, “is the bread of life;
Supping sorrow the great world goes.
Whip and poison and sting and knife
Throng the path that the sore foot knows—
Adder’s poison and treason’s knife;
And none may laugh at the wounds of
life.”
“Laugh!” he cried. “For the bread is
baked.
The crumb is light and the crust is brown.
I have drunk of tears and my thirst is
slaked,
But the fat jowls wrinkle in Sunset town.
Give me a penny, my thirst is slaked ;
I would buy the bread that the joy-coals
baked.”
Wrinkled his face as a sun-parched rod.
“Give me, ah, give me a penny brown.
At the sacrament feast of earth and God
My soul must revel iu Sunset town.
My soul must feast on the body of God-
Bread of his laughter and wine of his
rod!”
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Burglar Retainer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. SNORKY JEPSON stared
moodily into liis empty pintpot.
Ilis cobber, Mr. Joseph Briggs, rose
from his seat and had the larder replenished.
Then, limping very carefully and ostenta-
tiously back, he handed Suorky his refresh-
ment.
Snorky eyed his mate with sympathetic
interest. “Yo’rtn’t walk too much on that
there foot of yers,” he remarked, “else it’ll
never get better. An’ Gord knows what
we’re goin’ ter do if it don’t do it quick. Th’
blanks have outed me from th’ stand.”
Ten days previously Miv Briggs, pursuing
his calling with the fruit-barrow in Fiinders-
street, had trodden on a piece of orange-
peel and had sprained his ankle. Snorky
had taken his place with the barrow next
day: b>pt an argument with several other
merchants and a city inspector had satisfied
Snorky that that part of the city was a good
place to keep away from. So the barrow
was stalled, and the pair waited for Joseph’s
return to health. But the injured member
refused to hurry itself along the road to
recovery, despite Joseph’s increasing care of
it by bathing it once a day in warm water,
and then giving it gentle exercise by limping,
with the aid of a stick, up to the Three Stars,
and continuing the healing process bv sitting
on a form in the bar-room, and imbibing large
quantities of beer. Now the exchequer was
getting low, and the cost of living getting
higher; food had risen to sixpence a pot amd
to over a shilling a bottle, and they viewed
the immediate future with anxiety, almost
alarm.
“Well,” responded Joseph, holding his ban-
daged foot up and critically surveying its
proportions, “it ain’t much better, an’ don’t
feel ’s if it will be for a long time. Dunno
what yer wanted ter get into holts with Dago
Pete, an’ his push for, anyway.” he added
peevishly. “Yer’ll have ter find something
ter do. We’ve only got a bob or two left,
an’ when that goes—well, what’re we goin’
ter live on?”
The alarming prospect caused Mr. Jepson
to groan.
“It’s up ter you ter think of something,”
prompted Mr. Briggs. “Carn’t y’ getter job
somewhere as rouseabout fer a week or two
till I get better? It won’t hurt yer; y’ know
now ter work it.”
Next afternoon Snorky entered the Three
Stars, and found Joseph waiting impatiently.
“How’d yer get on? Anythin’ doin’?” he
inquired.
“My oath!” answered Snorky. with a noise
meant to be a chuckle. “At least, I reckon
there will be,” he added. “Y’know that ole
bloke I put in a week or two with once. An
ole professor cove, who lives out at Cam-
berwell. Well, I went out, an’ saw him, an’
pitched a tale to him, an’ he said he’d give
me a job about the garden fer a week or two.
He’s an absent-minded old cove, an’ if I
don’t skin him fer a few quid I’m a Dutch-
man. He said he’d give me a couple of quid
a week an’ I could sleep home. I’m goin’ ter
start termorrer.”
That same evening at his home in Camber-
well Professor Goldsby stood eyeingTds latest
Invention with great satisfaction. The Pro-
fessor always eyed his latest invention with
great satisfact.on. He was the only mem-
ber of tvs household that ever d : d.' Since
retiring from his chair at the Univers’tv Pro-
fessor Goldsby spent his time inventing epn-
trivanees for the benefit of the community.
It cLd not damp his ardor that none of his
numerous inventions had ever got nearer to
the public than the patent-agents’ hands.
Mrs. Goldsby, his wife, never allowed herself
to rise to any degree of entnumasm over
of her husband’s inventions, much to the little
man’s secret disappointment. He was of
extraordinary mildness of manner, and gentle
in his dealings with his fellows almost to the
verge of imbecility at times. Brutality in
any shape was horrible to him. He had
long regretted that in dealing with burglars
the citizen was obliged under existing con-
ditions to employ methods as bad almost as
me burglar’s own. So be bad set bis fertile
brain to work, and the result was the
Goldsby Burglar Ketainer.
The retainer was a merciful contrivance
in so much that it did not take the burglar
unawares, but gave him plenty of warning of
its presence and intentions. Incidental to
the successful working of the mecnamsm
were the automatic self-closing doors and
windows. The Professor put the finishing
toucnes to his masterpiece, and, in answer
to lug call, his wife appeared in her dressing-
gown and a questioning scowl.
The Professor eyed her affectionately.
“It’s completed at last, my dear,” he said.
“At last!” Mrs. Goldsby replied, disin-
terestedly.
“Yes,” continued the Professor, “it's com-
pleted at last. The only burglar-catching
appliance that does its work effectively and
without bloodshed.”
Mrs. Goldsby allowed her gaze to wander
to the Professor’s latest invention. It was
a quaint-looking instrument. It stood about
six feet in height, and resembled, as much as
it could be said to resemble anything, a man
clad in armor. Two long arms, with oiled
joints showing in profusion, hung loosely at
Its sides. Its lower extremities rested on
a platform set on rubber-tyred wheels. The
top of the contrivance was in the shape of
a man’s head, the “eyes” being two holes con-
taining small electric bulbs.
The Professor explained the workings of
the wonderful contrivance to his wife, en-
thusiastically demonstrating. “A burglar
comes in, my dear. Immediately he steps
on the floor beneath the window or inside the
door, he releases a spring which sets the
retainer in motion, rings a bell in my bed-
room to awaken me, and automatically closes
and locks the door and windows. Then”
Mrs. Goldsby at last managed to make her
husband understand that it was after one
o’clock in the morning and bedtime. Reluct-
antly, and with a fond glance at the retainer,
the Professor switched off the lights, and
followed her.
At breakfast next morning the Professor
addressed his wife further on the subject of
his invention. Mrs. Goldsby listened politely
and wearily. The Professor’s son, Bobby,
laid down the portion of the daily he was
scanning for murders, piracy and wholesale
massacres. Bobby was human despite his
parentage.
He glanced across at his father. “Say,
dad,” he remarked, gleefully, “here’s a bit of
fun. Old Ben Abid, the Abyssinian lion at
the Zoo, escaped yesterday and hasn’t been
recaptured yet. Pity you can’t invent a lion-
catcher. That’d be handy just now.”
The Professor peered at his son over the
tops of his spectacles. “My boy,” he sad,
and his voice contained a mild rebuke,
“what is a lion to a burglar?”
“As good as a coffin if the lion catches
him,” responded Bobby, irreverently.
“Tut, tut! This is not a jesting mat-
ter,” replied the Professor, gently, “As I
was explaining to your mother, my new in-
vention is going to do away with such things
as burglar-proof safes and alarms and insur-
ances ; in fact, when the retainer is installed
in every home such things as burglars w 11,
after a while, cease to exist. Lions always
will exist.”
A maid entered the breakfast-room. “The
man you engaged for the garden yesterday,
sir. has come,” she announced.
“Oh! yes!” replied the Professor, rising.
“I’d quite forgotten about him.” He glanced
at the clock. “Dear, dear!” he exciaimed.
“Half-past nine,” and he hurried out to the
back of the house to find Snorky leaning
against the wall watching the cook attempt-
ing to split some knotty wood blocks.
“I’m sorry to keep you waiting so long,”
apologised the Professor. “Dear, dear! You
are a very patient man. You’ve been wait-
ing here since eight o’clock, I suppose?”
“Yes,” lied Snorky. Then, with a hurried
glance at the puffing cook, who looked up
as though to make some comment, he added,
hastily, “I didn’t like ter disturb yer, so I
staved round in tli’ front.”
“Yes, yes, I see. Very well, get those
tools there, and clean up the front-garden
beds.” Then, leaving the delighted handy-
man to his own devices, the Processor shut
hifaself up for several hours in his workshop
experimenting with his burglar-retainer. Its
performances pleased him immensely, and
it was a proud man who piloted a monstrous
and quaint piece of mechanism into his
library some time later, and wheeling it to
a corner covered it with a sheet. The library
had been fixed up with the automatic appa-
ratus, and therein the Professor decided that
it should for a time keep guard over his
home.
Early in the afternoon the Professor left
the house, and an hour or so later returned.
He paused to talk to Snorky, as that worthy
scratched a garden bed, and Snorky’s eyes
bulged as the Professor, putting his hand
into his coat pocket for a handkerchief,
drew out a roll of notes as well. Then he
walked to the house, and Snorky, under the
E retext of wanting a hoe, shuffled alone be-
ind him. As he passed the library window
he glanced in, and saw the Professor place
the roll of qptes on the mantelpiece.
With a sigh Snorky shook his head and
walked on. “Too risky,” he muttered. “But
what a haul!”
At five o’clock Snorky gathered up his tools
and carted them around to the back. His
bleary eyes roved to the mantelpiece of the
library, as he passed the room on his wav
home, and with a thrill he noted the roll
was still there.
. “Oripas!” he muttered. "Th’ olp goat’s
forgot all about ’em. I’ll— yes, I’ll — but
I’ll wait fill I sen Joe.”
He found Mr. Briges at the Three Stars
in a state of gloom and general despondency.
Joseph hadn’t had a drink since two o’clock.
(Gmthntefl on page 4&)


'JZ,
7,
/
j
y
%
t
7/
Don'i
Let It
Get a
Hold.
Got a
(sld?
The germs that spread colds and
influenza may be breathed into the
system in the tram-car or in any
crowded place of resort. First, you feel
as if you had been hard at work for a week
without sleep; then your voice gets hoarse
and the throat feels relaxed and painful. Your
head throbs, there is a dull pam behind your
eyeballs and the back of your neck. You are
shivering all over, yet you are all on fire inside. With
a box of Peps always handy you
can defy the worst epidemic of
Influenza Golds,
for the medicinal fumes which arise as Peps
dissolve in the mouth are wonderfully antiseptic
and germ-destroying. Against influenza Peps
provide the strongest possible defence, for they
lortity the throat, lungs and bronchial tubes with
a medicine which goes direct to these parts, thus
expelling the disease and destroying its cause,
liquid medicines are worse than useless, since
they can only be swallowed into the stomach and
cannot possibly reach the lungs.
A regular course of Peps will strengthen the
lungs and bronchial tubes, effectually preventing
pneumonia and pleurisy, and curing that bad cold.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS
GIVE THE CHILDREN PEPS
as soon as the first symptom of a cold
appears. Neglected colds lay in the
foundation of weak constitutions, and
many cases of lung trouble can be
traced back to neglected colds in child-
hood. A Peps tablet at bedtime clears
the throat, and ensures the bairns’
sleep being unbroken by coughing fits.
A Peps to suck on the way to school
is also a splendid safeguard against
colds.
1/6 and 3/- of all chemists
and stores, or post free from
the proprietors, C. E. Fulford
(A’sia) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street*
Sydney.
ECONOMY NOTE; The 37-
size contains more than three
times the 1 /6]
a
Snorky drew a two-shilling piece from his
Placed it on the counter.
How much more ’ave yer got?” asked
Joseph, after he had swallowed half a pint
ot ™le-curing medicine at a gulp.
J-P lust io th’ world,” replied Snorky.
ihe situation was desperate, and the cobbers
held a whispered conference,
u "ifjt evening it required all the eloquence
the 1 roiessor was capable of to convince
Mrs. Goldsby of the great efficiency and
marvellous capabilities of his invention. Mrs.
Goldsby shook her head dubiously. “It's
absolutely infallible, my dear,” urged the
t lotessor, with a touch of desperation in his
voice. ‘‘Absolutely, my dear. To show you
tue faith 1 have in it, I purpose leaving on
the mantelpiece in the library my watch
and chain, and a sum of money, 'f5U in notes,
which I have to-day withdrawn from the
bank. I will leave the window opening on
to the garden unlocked, and will place a
light on the mantelpiece in such a position
that it will shine on the money and jewel-
lery, and yet leave the rest of the room in
darkness. A prowling thief comes along,
sees the money, opens the window and creeps
in and my invention does the rest.”
An hour later the Professor retired to bed.
The Town Hall clock had just struck 12
when a small, rabbit-faced man crept cau-
tiously along the street in which the Pro-
fessor’s house was situated. He kept close
up against the fences, as much in the
shadow as poss.ble. Presently he puiled up
in front of the Professor’s house, and peered
anxiously at it. Gently he opened the gate,
and pulling a small chock of wood from
his pocket, propped it open. Snorky
knew that an open gateway was ex-
tremely handy when dogs, not to men-
tion citizens armed with revolvers,
were close behind. Though he knew the
Professor had no dog, he wasn’t so sure about
the revolver. Anyway, he wasn’t going to
take any unnecessary risks. Sofily lie crept
up the path that skirted the side of the
house. A faint light shorje through the library
window, and with great care Snorky
made for it. “Looks ’sif th’ old coot ain’t
gone t’ bed yet,” he commented. He crept
beneath the window, and, cautiously elevat-
ing himself, peered in. What he saw made
his eyes bulge, and his breath come quicker.
On the mantelp'eee stood a small hand-lamp,
and the light from it shone on a roll of
notes and a gold watch and chain.
.i ,“V. ri P es he chuckled, “if he ain't forgot
th light an’ th’ dough as well! Well, here
goes fer th’ lot."
It took Mr. Snorky Jepson just two
seconds to find that the window was un-
locked, and just five more to get inside the
room. Then something happened. Behind
him the window closed, and the catch
snapped. At the other side of the room
the door closed gently, and a bolt shot home.
Somewhere in the house a bell tinkled. Then
from out a corner a quaint monster moved
silently, with arms clasping and unclaspin'*
across i-ts front. Two yellow eyes glared
trom its head, Snorky gasped in horror, and
just in time to miss a elaso
The Thing came on, zig-zagging across the
floor, and then suddenly twisted around and
faced Snorky. Snorky backed madly, and
raced behind it. At the door the Thmg
twisted suddenly again, and Snorky ducked
as an arm wh.zzed over his head, rie mane
a lush for the window and felt for the catch;
but the monster, grim and snent, except tor
puiiing sounds inside it, reached out an
r° r him. In two strides Snorky was at
the door; he grabbed the handle and dropped
it as the iLhing made for him. He groaned
as he reaLsed he was trapped.
Backwards and forwards, , dodging and
ducking, Snorky shuffled and jumped, and
ever the monster pursued him. Ouunde tne
door he could hear the Professor talking
excitedly to someone. Snorky tried to shriek,
but his voice stuck in his throat. He tried
to think of a prayer, but at that moment
had to jump to escape annihilation. His
strength was almost gone; but the pursuer
w » s untiring. Turn as be would it was ever
alter him. As he raced past the fireplace
he stooped and picked up a fire-iron from
the fender, and as the monster turned to
him once more, with his last remaining
strength threw the missile at the horror,
i. here came a rattle and a jingle of mechan-
ism somewhere in the Thing, and it spiaag
with a mighty leap towards the door, whien
just at that moment opened. As he collapsed
m a corner Snorky caught a glimpse of the
1 lotessor in his pyjamas and a policeman
rnu uniform standing outs.de in the passage.
I hey sprang aside ns a clanking mass tore
through the doorway. It cannoned against
the opposite wall: then, turning, sped down
the passage towards the front door, which
had been left open when the policeman had
entered the house. With a whir it flew
across the doorstep and over the steps on to
the gajden-path ; then it wh.zzed through the
gateway, and, leaping across the gutter,
landed on the middle of the tram-track, and
twisting around tore with amazing speed
along it, its arms clasping and unclasping
rap dly.
“Oh, my glorious invention!” shrieked the
1 roressor. ‘ He’s injured the mechanism.
Come, quickly!” and grasping the policeman
by the arm he tore after the clanking re-
tainer.
Ben Abid, the escaped Abyssinian lion,
mus hungry. He had had nothing to eat
except a couple of stray dogs since escaping
trom the Zoo. Stealthily he crept along
the street, his hungry eyes ever on a figure
ahead of him. The figure had been “enjoy-
lng itself, and stopped now and then to
lift a bottle to its mouth and to tear a limb
from a crayfish it was carrying.
Ben A bid crept nearer, licked his hungry
lips, and prepared to spring.
Suddenly a ciang and clatter ahead caused
pursued and pursuer to look up. The in-
ebriate gave a yell, and clambered over a
lence into a garden, as a whirring object,
with waving arms and blazing eyes, raced
down the tram-track.
Ben Abid crouched; then, as the quaint
object whizzed towards him, he sprang. A
,°f slant arms clasped him around' the
middle, and Ben Abid bad the life belted
out of him.
Around the corner the last tram sped
homewards. The driver rubbed his eyes
gave a gasp and jumped as a clanking
mass of machinery carrying a dead lion in
its arms leapt at him.
For the next m.mite or two the stilly
night was filled with the sounds of wrecking
as the retainer, whizzing madly, fought with
the tram. Tnen mere came a oang, anu me
tramdriver collapsed on the side of the road
with a hon's hmu leg reposing on his waist-
coat.
hour later the policeman and a Pro-
fessor carrying fragments of his brain-child
in his arms nurried back fpr the burgiar.
h>ut Mr. Jepson, having recovered, had dis-
appeared. And so had the roll of notes.
H. R. McDUFFIE.
The Champion Bullock-driver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were sitting outside old Tallwood
cattle-station, in our white mole-
skin trousers, elastic-side boots and
cabbage-tree hats, watching two stockmen
shoe a very wild brumby mare. We were
all slaves to the saddle and bridle, and there
was nothing too heavy or hard. The boss
squatted on a new four-rail fence. There
were 20 panels of this fence, strong ironbark
post-and-rails. The first rails were mortised
into a big ironbark-tree, and there were
four No. 8 wires twisted around the butt,
passed through the posts, and strained very
tightly to the big strainer at the other end.
As though he had dropped down out of the
sky there appeared on the scene a very smart-
looking man carrying a red-blanket swag,
a water-bag, tucker-bag and billycan, lie
put them down and said, “Is the boss
about?” We all pointed to the man on the
fence.
The new chap took his pipe out of his
mouth and walked up, a bit shy-like, and
said: “Is there any chance of a job, boss?”
‘‘What can you do?” asked the boss.
“Well, anything amongst stock. You
can’t put me wrong.”
“Can you ride a buckjumper?”
“Pretty good,” said the young man.
“Can you scrub-dash —I mean, can you
catch cattle in timber on a good horse before
they are knocked up?”
“Hold my own,” said the young man.
“Have you got a good flow of language?”
The young man hesitated a while before
answering this question. So the boss said:
“I mean, can you drive a rowdy team of
bullocks?”
“.Tust into my band,” said the young man.
The boss jumped down off the fence,
“kook here,” he said, “it is no good you
telling me you can drive a team of bullocks
if you can’t.” and pointing to a little grave-
yard he added: “Do you see that little ceme-
tery over there?”
The young man pulled his hat down over
his eve, looked across and said “Yes.”
“Well,” continued the boss, “there are
16 bullock-drivers lying there. They came
here to drive this team of mine.”
I watched the young man’s face when the
boss said that to see if he would flinch : but
a little smile broke away from the corner
of his mouth, curled around his cheek and
disappeared m has earhole, and as the efiect
died away he said: “They won’t put me
there."
• r don’t know so much about that,” said
the boss.
"i will give you a trial,” the young man
suggested.
"It would take too long to muster the
bullocks,” said the boss. “But take that
bullock-whip there’’—it was standing near
the big ironbark —“and, say, for instance
eight panels of that fence are l 6 bullocks,
show me how you would start up the team.’
“Right,” said the young man. Walking
over he picked up the big bullock-whij
and very carefully examined it to see
how it was fastened on to the handle. Then
he ran his hand down along the whip, exam-
ining it as though he was searching for a
broken link in a chain. Then he looker
closeiy to see how the fall was fastened on
to the whip. After that he stood back and
swung it around and gave a cheer.
First he threw the whip up to the lead-
ers, and then threw it back to the polers.
He stepped in as though to dig the near-
side pin-bullock under the am with the
handle of the whip, then stepped back and
swung the big bullock around. He kept on
talking and the whip kept on cracking, until
a little flame ran right along the top of
the fence. And he kept on talking and the
wh.p kept on cracking until the phaatom
forms of 16 bullocks appeared along the
fence —blues, blacks and brindles. And he
kept on talking and his whip kept on crack-
ing till the phantom forms of 16 bullock-
drivers appeared on the scene, each of them
carrying a big bulloek-whip. And they kept
on talking and their whips kept on crack-
ing till the fence, started to walk on, and
pulled the big ironbark-tree down.
“That will do,” said the boss.
“Not a bit of it,” said the young man.
“Where is your woodheap?” and we all
pointed to the woodheap near the old bark
kitchen.
And they kept on talking and their whips
kept on cracking till they made the fence
pull the tree right up to the woodheap.
We were all sitting around on the limb
of the tree, and the young man was talking
to the boss, and we felt sure he would get
the job, when the boss called out, “Get the
fencing gear, lads, iind put that fence up
again.”
“Excuse me for interrupting, boss,” said
the young man, “but would you like to see
how I buck a team of bullocks?”
“Yes, I would,” said the boss.
So the young man walked over and picked
up the big bullock-whip again. He swung it
around and called out: “Now, then, boys,
all together,” and the phantom forms oi the
16 bullock-drivers appeared on the scene
again, and they kept on talking and their
whips kept on cracking, till every post and
rail burst out in flame, and when the flame
cleared away each post and rail backed into
mace, and the phantom forms of the It!
bullock-drivers sainted the young man, then
bowed and backed, and bowed and backed
right into their arrives recognising him as
the champion bullock-driver.
LANCE SKUTHORE.


\
f
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum,,life and highest effi-
ciency- .
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
W rite for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Qiieeiiß'ttiut Agents I.CLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
K.Z. Olflce—63-107 Featheistun Stieel, Wellington
Victorian Office- 98 Queen Sti eet, Melbourne
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
tf REE liUAi-.
If vou are troubled with Ibis complaint, write
us'uml ue «:il semi jou oui camtogue, fully
describing our i’ATErVI Al. l CUSlllu.N
At’l'l.l AACK. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel
ing of ease and comfort from the first day's
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint, it will lioUl a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To pro-e •• hir
WE OFF 10It TO 810 XI) IT TO YOU
OX \ Fit 1010 TillAE.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to .keep it, and the trial costs you
nulhitig it Is suitable for men, women and
ctiildren, and the price is within the reach of
all.
lI.MJKTtfATKI) CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere
THTC WINSLOW <“O.,
SW Street, Melbourne. Vie.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is tnc regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, goal health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dvspepsia, Indigestion, R liousncss,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail y u, thev will result in lack of
energy, of niemory and ill-
Smalt Pill
Small
Do«©—■ *
Small
Paic©
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PIUS
health; but
remember
Carter's Lit-
tie Liver PiiU
touch the 1 ver
and cute all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
-r
I~
mmumsmrtu i
A Shirley Brace Made
for Every Labor
In the large variety constituting the
SHIRLEY family of Braces is in-
cluded a great range of webbing and
trimming.
The same degree of workmanship and attention to
detail is given to the wearer’s comfort and the brace’s
quality no matter what SHIRLEY MAKE BRACE
one buys.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the bucklis and the printed guar-
antee label:
“SHIRLEY MAKE”
TEg&idenl '\Sti6fcetuler Ccmjhcmt/
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870 Cable Address: President
II
*S H 3 RLE Y
AKCjjss*
V
Precision
Fire
I? ? v , ery ms *ance the Remington
Model 51 Automatic Pistol per-
iorms its task with precision.
Phe flat matted sighting rib, mat-
ted to prevent the gleam of re-
flected light, and the low sights
peculiar to this pistol alone, have
nrnved a great aid to exact shoot-
■RemingtotK
for Shooting Right
SPECIFICATIONS; Caliber, .380; length,
6 S/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.; weight 21
°hoMa Unloaded; ?. nis h, dull black; magazine
holds seven cartridges, one extra cartridge in chamber
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m Browninf Short) rim!
less automatic standard metal cased of
soft pointed, the same cartridge as is
Used in other American Automatic
Pistols of this caliber.
à
1
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D ' D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 68G, G.P.0.. Melbourne
MAKE
A NOTE
OF IT
7
z
7^
C
'OKXIX
ARE WORTH
MAKING
A SONG ABOUT
Your health
ntJXollls Browne'S
CWorodyne
The Original amt Only Genuine.
lUK lt.«>T \| Kill (INK I Oil
Coughs, Colds, Astnma,
Him in liic I'uiiitii iii i»iiO.>CIH l'l» mill
Checks fr’KV ICKISH-
NKsiS ami effectually
cuts short ail attacks
of SPASMS ami
COT.IC.
usu.vnin.imi :m.)v
ii.i.imi.i. •virnvji im\
*J-iH(l> 1° «**H 11 !
dAUV’IKU V
UTS 1,1 K K A CIIAKM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
OJ all Chemists. I’rices in lie gland, 1/S and S/-.
Made in England.
Four Favorite Fitments fores.
No. I—The1 —The Peerless Radiator for Ford Cars.
The popularity enjoyed by
this prime favorite conclu-
sively proves that it is what
we have always claimed it to
be, viz.:—
A Superlative Cooler
for Ford Engines.
Could it be otherwise, when
you read this brief specifica-
tion ?
a
Upper ami Lower Tanks
drawn from one piece of
Brass—no seams, conse-
«.utility no leaii-s. All Braes
Honeycomb Type of Core,
Heavy-wrought Brackets at
base, and Heavy Steel Rein-
forcements.
As constructed, THE IMS'S R-
UlflSS !s 400 PER -CEXT.
more efficient than the ordi-
nary tubular Radiator, hav-
ing- SGOO inches of cooling
surface, ps against 1211
inches of the ordinary type.
Prices.; Radiator only, £lO. Descriptive Leaflet, with pleasure.
Radiator with Streamline Bonnet and S .ieiri, £l5.
No. 2 —The Standard “5.R.8.” Roller Bearing, for
the Front Wheels of Ford Gars.
These bearings easily with-
stand strains that destroy
tile Regular Hearings, and
tly improve the steering.
They overcome side strain,
at the same time preventing
undue tyre wear. Altogether
a magnificent improvement.
a
Price, SO/- per Set
4 Bearings.
Sufficient Equipment for
the 2 Front W 1
No. 3 —The “Simplex” Ball Thrust Bearing,
To supersede the White-metal Thrust Washers,
for the Ford Bark Axle. Hold the gears snugly in mesh, and will not grind, strip or
break. The S mplex has none of the disadvantages of other Ball thrusts, and we recom-
ijiend them with confidence. PMCE, 12/9.
No. 4—The Splitdorf High-tension Magneto,
with Impulse Starter, for Ford Cars.
A Ford with
a Magneto is
indeed a
Ford i m-
proved out
of sight. It
means easier
starting.
i
More regular
firing, better
pulling and
m
■ n
Price of
whole
Outfit,
Magneto,
including.
Silent
Chain
Drive and
Gears, and
Solid
Mounting
Platform,
£39/15/.
a
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The House for Motor Er g'neers’ Supplies.


DEWAR’S
THE THREE GREAT TESTS
OF GOOD WHISKY ARE
QUALITY-TASTE-AGE
Quality
is the Essence of Goodness and Fine
Blending. It conveys that indefinable distinc-
tion, which makes a man a prince among his
fellows, and Dewar’s a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a Science; Pre-
eminence in Blending an Art. Dewar’s is a
Mingling of Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal com-
bination of both.
Taste. The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden
Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues
of the memory. In Dewar’s Whisky there is
something creamy and yet not cloying;
something velvety and yet not heating;
something rich and yet not obtrusive; some-
thing crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet
gentle, Dewar ’s is the Paladin of Whiskies.
Age
is the Crowning Stage in a series of fer-
mentations. Fermentation means Life. Age
dissipates its roughness, rounds off its edges,
and refines its character, leaving nothing
behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewar’s
is the Veteran of Stimulants.. It is ripe for
Promotion to your Palate.
