

The
Quality
is Highest.
The Prices
are Lowest.
2 HORSE POWER, £45
S „ „ £7O
4 „ „ £9O
The combination of “HIGH QUALITY” at a “Moderate
Price” has placed nearly 2000 Cooper engines in use
throughout Australia.
If you require Engine Power for any purpose, write us fully
and let us send you advice and full particulars of an outfit to
suit your requirements.
Our 30 years’ Engineering Experience is at your service.
WRITE US NOW.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Perth; Australasian Implement
& H. F. Co., Adelaide; James Semple & Co., Launceston; N. Z. Loan and M. A
Co., Rockhampton, Townsville, Hughenden; F. G. Locke, Cairns.
THREE
ď
POPULAR
ENGINES
ENGINES
Have been known for a Quarter
of a Century as GOOD ENGINES.
Their reputation for practical construction* ease
of operation and long life stands unassailed.
They are built on the “Long Tried and True”
4-cycle principle, which ensures FUEL
ECONOMY and FULL POWER for years
to come.
Cylinders, Heads and Valve Chambers
have roomy water jackets, and are water-
cooled from a large separate water-
tank on the thermo-syphon system
—a cooling system which ensures
cool running and full power
continuously. They are fitted
with best make quick-start
magnetos.
For driving shearing machi-
nery, pumping plants,
chaff-cutters, saw benches
and other machinery,
COOPER ENGINES
stand supreme.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.- No. 2163
Thursday, July 28, 1921,
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Port Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Port as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be, sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOGK'S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE ?
ol
TOOTH
PASTE
not, write to’
Euthymol Department B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
Like the Right Key in the Lock
’’fliat is* why Marigrovite ieltiftg : Iq consistently conveys
every ounce of power generated to the machines. For the
general service of a belt -all factors . must, be considered •
high speed on small pulleys,' Sudden iul'l loads dropping
instantaneously .to no load.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
stands for efficiency under all conditions. When you instal
it you get the right belt for your drives—strong and tough,
with an efficient grip that utilises every ounce of pOwtr,
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Victoria : Corbett, Derham&Co., 397 Little Collins St., Melb.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
Tasmania: Henry Clark & Co. Ltd., Collins St., Hobart.
'»*■£
|pF
s»sr
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth*
A new and revised edition of the “Referee will be available
shortly, and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
THE ROUND TABLE.
A Quarterly Review of
the Politics of the British
Commonwealth.
I UNE NUMBER.- —-Special Articles on Ireland;
Meeting 1 of the Imperial Cabinet.; The United
States and the Old World; IToblelus of Europe; The
United Kingdom—The Industrial Situation : India—•
The Delhi Parliament; Australia —The :Imperial Con-
ference —The Financial Position.
Price, 5/- per copy; 20/- per annum.
Messrs. MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
Russell Street, Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed since i 596. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England,
insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
158-162 OXFORD STWI. I72.REGENT SI W. 1
2.QUEEN VICTORIA SI E C 4,
LONDON. ENGLAND. 1
H
The Canteen Illustrated is completely
fitted for 12 perrons with Prince’s Plate
Spoons and Forks, plain patterns, and
"Trustworthy” Cutlery. Price com-
plete £5l : 10 ; 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are'
entirely made at the Company's own
Sheffield Works. “ Trustworthy”
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality, ,
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections • may he traced to , the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Bel nr destructive to
all organisms which give rise to. infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth fn a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states! —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
terieidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
V
3»
d
A. The Larynx
Organ of Voice.
B. The * Trachea
Yvindpipe.
c The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
, Lung.
D. The Lobe oi one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention
Consumption.
The Red Page
The Pursuit of Happiness
The gambler who accepts gains or losses
with the same equanimity compels the ad-
miration even of those who may disapprove
of his actions; and this enforced admiration
is based on the unconscious recognition that
he has, at least in his particular pursuit,
mastered one supreme lesson in the philo-
sophy of this life of ours. We are always
living in the future, striving after happiness,
gain or amusement, which ever elude our
grasp or lose their value immediately they
are attained. It would, perhaps, be more
accurate to say that we pass our lives in
the vain endeavor to escape sorrow, loss,
pain and boredom. The records we have
of human thought show that this pessimistic
view pf existence has always been prominent
in philosophical sfieeulation. It 1 lias.’ been
the foundation of all organised religions,
\Vhieh have been invented in the hope that
a future life will redress the wrongs of this,
and in the craving for some Power to which
we can appeal for help against “the slings
and arrows of outrageous fortune,” The
Buddhist devotees,' the 1 lindu fakirs, the
Christian ascetics and the Roman Stoics
all adopted the theory that the only escape
from misery was to mortify the flesh and
to subdue the emotions. In modern times
Schopenhauer, Leopardi, Hartmann and
others have emphasised the mockery of exist-
ence. Schopenhauer’s pessimism was ex-
pressed with great intensity and convincing
force. Some alleviation, he allows, may be
found in the cultivation of art and in appre-
ciation of all that is beautiful. In artist's
lie recognises the seers who penetrate and
ifeveal to us the inner and eternal truths of
the universe; the ideas, as Plato termed
them, that are the sole realities as
fo appearances. In the pleasure and con-
solation we derive, from beauty we may
forget the cares of life and find the purest
, enjoyment, and for a time escape the sordid
4offerings that beset us. Art, however, is
but a temporary consolation, and the
Only permanent escape is to be found
fn holiness; that is, in the complete
and renunciation that leads
ps to live for others and to relinquish the
constant striving after the illusions of life.
Thle Hebrew moralists taught the same
truths. . “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity,”
dud many other texts confirm the pessimistic
view of life, and the whole earthly duty of
ifian may be summed up in the exhortation
fo do to others what you would have them
do to you. There can be no doubt of the
essential truth of this teaching, though opti-
mists, in revolt against the hopelessness
ef such a grim philosophy, have urged the
moral gain of bravely fighting ills rather
than accepting them as inevitable and
throwing up' the sponge. Unfortunately
fhe majority are. not given to introspection,
and an almost universal mental inertia leads
them to acquiesce in having their thinking-
done for them by others without any assur-
ance that they are reliable guides. The
Consequence is that the evils of existence,
quite unavoidable as they are, become dis-
torted into wrongs that may be righted by
Reforming a corrupt social system, lending
to internecine conflict between classes, each
of which is subject, to the same inevitable
trials. . Discontent, selfishness, downright
Cruelty and general unrest result from such
a struggle, and instead of each class doing
its best to ameliorate the sufferings that all
must undergo, we find a callous deter-
mination to fight for the gains and amuse-
ments that are wrongly supposed to secure
happiness and content.
There seems to be but one remedy for this
disastrous condition, and it is to be found in
the more careful enlightenment of the young.
If children were given more insight into
the realities of life and were taught that
the purest source of happiness is in making
others happy; if their aesthetic senses were
trained to appreciate art and to take a
delight in the beautiful; if they were made
to understand that the search after amuse-
ment leads only to tedium, and that duty
well accomplished imparts a glow of satis-
faction that will never be attained by evad-
ing the work they are called upon to do;
if they were helped to realise that work is
not only the rule of life, but may be made
a resource that helps us to forget the ills
of life, and that those who work are happier
than those who loaf, and that mutual con-
sideration and courtesy , go far to smooth
away the roughness of the road we have to
travel, while self-sacrifice brings greater
rewards than self-assertion, and that liberty
and independence ate not best exhibited by
Rudeness and insolence but by self-respect
find a modest deference to age and legitimate
authority, we should probably have in a
future generatibn a new and better spirit
that would do much to bring credit on the
country and dissipate certain criticisms
that are not altogether unfounded.
: It is to be feared that the moral and
material advantages of the diffusion of
culture (not the German brand) among the
people are not sufficiently appreciated in
Australia, and the deplorably low standard
of manners points to a neglect in schools
6f the iuculcation of taste and refinement.
The appalling atrocities hanging on the
walls or posed on shelves fondly supposed
to adorn the homes even of people one
would expect to distinguish between what
ip beautiful and what is simply gaudy, pro-
claim the omission of a most important
subject from the course of early training.
It is not to be expected that the partidlly
educated and poorly paid teachers who pre-
side over the vast majority of the schools
possess either the knowledge or ability to
arouse the enthusiasm of their pupils, but
something might be. done, by frequent lec-
tures and demonstrations given by experi-
enced exponents of the beauties to be found
amid all surroundings, to awaken the dor-
mant sensibilities of the young, whose atten-
tion should also be drawn to the charm of
good literature, which can only be unfolded
by expert commentary. We should try to
dweeteu life for ourselves and others
and to strengthen our powers of endurance,
patience and tolerance. The blatant orators-
who spread abroad the false philosophy that
we can improve our position by violent re-
sistance to circumstances that are the inevit-
able outcome of communal conditions, and
who add unrest and discontent to the troubles
all must face, are not the inspired prophets
they pretend to be, but are enemies of the
human race. The prevalence of unselfish-
ness, mutual courtesy and forbearance
throughout all classes in the Commonwealth
would justify the proud claim that Aus-
tralia is God’s own country—which it cer-
tainly is not under present conditions.
F. E. TAYLOR.
Art-Books
Although his name is known to only a
few, the art of Ernest Moffitt had a definite
influence in the development of black-and-
white in Australia, and in years to come
he will be regarded as a forerunner. There
are none of his drawings in the galleries, but
fortunately a selection of his best "work is
preserved in “A Consideration of the Art of
Ernest Moffitt,” by Lionel Lindsay, pub-
lished in 1899. That was the first art-book
of any distinction issued, in Australia.
It : was while they were contributing to the
Freelance in Melbourne that Norman and
Lionel Lindsay shared a cottage with Mof-
fitt, in the picturesque garden of an old
homestead called Chartersville, on the banks
of the Yarra, at Heidelberg. Moffitt, who
experimented in most of the mediums in
black-and-white and was remarkably skilful
with the pen, had a fine appreciation of the
decorative beauties of landscape, and it was
through his influence that Norman Lindsay
took to the study of Greek authors. So it
is to Chartersville that we may trace the
nymphs and satyrs in the drawings of Nor-
man Lindsay. The Moffitt book was financed
by the late Professor Marshall Half. It
was produced with rare taste, and the edi-
tion of two hundred was soon sold out.
About a year later a souvenir volume in
aid of the Children’s Hospital. Melbourne,
was brought out by the late Joshua Lake.
It contained drawings and stories by a num-
ber of representative writers and artists,
was sumptuously produced, and sold for
half-a-guinea. Ten years passed before; the
next art-book appeared. This was ‘’The
High Light,” published by a group of en-
thusiastic. young artists in Adelaide. It
was the first attempt at an Australian, art
volume in color. There is a monotony about
the work, owing to the predominance of
studio studies; but this is redeemed to some
extent by the color-reproductions of paint-
ings by Archibald Collins and M. C. Church
and the drawings of E. A. Wolff. Two of
the choice spirits associated with this ven-
ture passed out in the bigger venture in
France—Wolff, who showed promise of do-
ing something distinctive, and Bernard
Dubois, the editor who got things done.
Another combatant artist connected , with
“The High Light”—the book was issued at
the low price of one shilling—was Albert
Storr, who during the war was a regular
contributor to Aussie, His “Field Dentis-
try in Action” was one of the cleverest
drawings published at the Front.
During the war Australian art-books be-
came more numerous. In a large volume
on the art of Frederick McCubbin, the
chronological arrangement of the illustra-
tions gives the reader the opportunity of
tracing the development of the artist’s work,
from the old days when he toiled with Tom
Roberts at the camp at; Box Mill. He began
as a painter of subject pictures, and we
can note in this volume how in tilde his
treatment of landscape became more per-
sonal, till his art reached its highest
expression in his atmospheric painting called
“The Bathers.” The format of the McCub-
bin volume is rather ponderous, but its
information is a Valuable contribution to
the history of landscape painting in this
country. There were, great possibilities in
“The Melba Gift Book” ; and if the editor
did not rise to the full height of his oppor-
tunities, he at any rate produced a volume
that earned a place in the art library. It
was not till the war period that an effort
was made in Perth to collect examples of
the best work of Westralia, “The Westra-
lian Gift Book” contains good reproduc-
tions in color of paintings by G. Pitt Morri-
son, Daisy Rossi, H. Van Ilaalte and others.
Van Raalte’s “Where the Swan Meets the
Sea” was probably the first imaginative
work painted in the Cinderella State.
So far the production of art-books had been
attended with a certain measure of success;
but in 1916 a volume was produced which
marked a great advance on all its predeces-
sors. This was the llilder book, which was
a revelation, not only in its color reproduc-
tions, but in its tasteful presentation. It
caused surprise here and wonder on the
other side.' Probably the thing would have
‘been impossible but for the fact that Sydney
Ure Smith, the founder of the new type of
art-book in Australia, had gained great tech-
nical knowledge in commercial work. When
doubts were raised regarding the possibility
of reproducing the subtle effects of Hilder’s
water-colors, Smith was the optimist who
was certain it could be done from the ex-
periments he had made in pictorial adver-
tisements. And, besides, he badly wanted
to do it; for he had been thinking about
publishing rare volumes for years, the three
books that had impressed him most while he
was still a youth being the Moffitt book,
“Gum Leaves” (illustrated by D. H. Sou ter)
and the English publication, “The Poster.”
•Then he had felt his own way writing, illus-
trating and publishing “The Australia Kat.”
The llilder book was the forerunner of
Art in Australia and other volumes with-
out number. There are so many that no
artist is now complete without a book all
about himself, illustrated in color.
WILLIAM MOORE.
The Lansing Book
Cine of Robert Lansing’s colleagues in the
Wilson Administration is credited with the
remark that The Peace Negotiations: A Per-
sonal Narrative (Houghton Mifflin Co.) is
an attack on Wilson, for having appointed
the author Secretary of State. There is
justification for the gibe. In laying bare
hi s master’s shortcomings the servant re-
veals his own. Lansing’s book is a depress-
(Continued on page 25.)


JL
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
Manchester Reduced.
Horrockses’ White Calico.
36 inches wide.
A 1 B 1 C II M 2
Usual Price 1/3 1/6 1/11 2/3 2/5 yard.
Red. to 13/9 16/9 21/- 25/- 26/6 doz.
Horrockses’ Medium Calico.
36 inches wide.
Usual Price 1/11 2/2 2/4 yard.
Reduced to 19/11 22/6 25/- doz.
Horrockses’ Pillow Calico.
40 inches wide.
Usual Price 1/11 2/6 2/11 3/3 3/9 yard.
Red. to . 1/9 2/2 2/6 2/9 3/3 yard.
40in. Circular Pillow Calico.
Usual Price ... 2/10 3/3 4/3 yard.
Reduced to 2/3 2/8 3/6 yard.
Horrockses’ Madapolams.
36 inches wide.
Usual Price.. 1/10 2/- 2'3 2/6 yard.
Reduced to 19/11 21/6 23/6 26/6 doz.
Striped Flannelette.
Usual Price —
1/6 1/11 2/3 2/6 2/10 3/2 3/11 yard.
Reduced to—
-1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/- 2/3 2/6 yard.
White Turkish Towels.
Hemmed and Hemstitched.
Usual Price. 5/0 6/11 S/3 11/3 each.
Reduced to-- 4/6 5/11 6/9 9/9 each.
Travel Goods Reduced.
Leather Suit Cases.
Cowhide, lined Cloth, two sliding locks —-
market. For the purposes of business or pleasure,
for daily use or week-end visit, no hag compares
with it.
Cowhide, lined Cloth, end clips, side locks —•
Sizes 14in. 16in. 18in.
Usual Price 22/6' 25/6 28/6
Reduced to 18/6 21/6 24/6
Senator Bags.
The Senator Bag is capacious in point of
room, convenient in use, comfortable to carry,
combining lightness with strength.
Cowhide, with Japanned Frame, end slides,
centre lock —
Sizes 12in. 14in. lGin.
Usual Price 19/6 22/9 25/9
Reduced to 16/9 19/6 22/6
Brief Bags.
Cowhide Brief Bags, Japanned Frame, centre
lock, end slides —
Sizes 12in. 14in. 16in.
Usual Price 12/6 14/6 16/6
Reduced to 10/9 12/6 14/6
American Trunks.
High-grade Saratoga Trunks, made of 3-ply,
veneer, covered and bound best vulcanised
Fibre, best brassed hardware, most attractive
, and du.able Trunks —
2 Cabin shape, 34 x 20 x 12. Usual Price,
£lO. Reduced to £B/15/-
2 Cabin shape, 38 x 22 x 12. Usual Price, £ll.
Reduced to £9/15/-
2 Deep Imperial, 36 x 23 x 22. Usual Price,
£ii/5/- Reduced to £lO
2 Deep Imperial, 38 x 25 x 23. Usual Price,
£ii/n/- Reduced to £lO/10/-
Travelling Rugs.
All-Wool Travelling Rugs, in choice designs and
serviceable shades of color—-
All-Wool Scotch Rugs, 60 x 70. Usual Price,
42/- Reduced to 37/6
All-Wool Jaeger Rugs, 54 x 68. Usual Price,
45/- Reduced to 39/6
All-Wool Jaeger Rugs, 54 x 68. Usual Price,
50/- Reduced to 45/-
All-Wool Jaeger Rugs, 54 x 70. Usual Price,
65/- Reduced to 60/-
Bush Rugs.
Self-color Fawn, 60 x 90. Usual Price, 19/6
Reduced to 16/6
“The Grantham,” 60 x 80. Usual' Price, 25/-
Reduced to 22/6
Striped, 70 x 90. Usual Price, 37/6.
Reduced to 34/6
Finishes Saturday, August 13
The scope and magnitude of the savings to be
made at Anthony Horderns’ Sale is practically
unlimited. Prices have been brought to
the lowest possible point—and then reduced.
Profit is not a factor, only clearance is
considered as the object of the event. The
advantage is yours—the opportunity belongs
to you.
Price Reductions in
Stainless Cutlery.
w. Franklin's Stainless Dessert Knives, round or
square Xylonite handles. Usual Price, 65/-
doz. Reduced to 50/-
Fred. Ellis’ Stainless Dessert Knives, square
Xylonite handles. Usual Price, <5O/- doz.
Reduced to 50/-
Wade & Butcher’s Stainless Table Knives, round
Xylonite handles. Usual Price, 95/- doz.
Reduced to 80/-
Wade & Butcher’s Stainless Dessert Knives,
square Xylonite handles. Usual Price, 85/-
doz. Reduced to 70/-
Wade & Butcher’s Stainless Dessert Knives,
square Xylonite handles. Usual Price, 85/-
doz. Reduced to 70 /-
Joseph Fenton’s Stainless Table Knives, Stainless
Steel handles. Usual Price. 80/- doz.
Reduced to 70/-
Joseph Fenton’s Stainless Dessert Knives, Stain-
less Steel handles. Usual Price, 70/- doz.
Reduced to 63/-
Joseph Fenton’s Stainless Table Knives, round or
square Xylonite handles. Usual Price,
75/- doz. Reduced to 56/-
Josepli Fenton’s Stainless Dessert Knives, round or
square Xylonite handles. Usual Price, 65/-
doz. Reduced to 51/-
Keenest Values in Men’s
Wear.
Colored Fashion Shirts.
Striped Zephyr, dressed band and cuffs, V-cased
front, neat stripes of Blue and Black. Usual
Price, 11/6. Reduced to 9/6
Fine Quality Jap. Crepe, dressed band and cuffs,
dark patterns. Usual Price. 14/6.
Reduced to 11/6
Colored Golf Shirts.
Made in our own workrooms from reliable
British materials.
Striped Cambric, dressed band, reinforced neck,
gauntlet cuffs, Blue, Black and Helio Stripes.
Usual Price, s/11. Reduced to 7/6
Best Cambric, dressed band, V-cased front,
gauntlet cuffs, detached collar to match,
Black and White stripes. Usual Price, 12/6
Reduced to 9/9
Check Zephyr, dressed band, V-cased front, gaunt-
let cuffs, detached collar to match, neat
check effects, sizes 14 to 151 only. Usual
Price, 17/6. Reduced to 10/6
Strong Oxford, dressed band, V-cased front,
gauntlet cuffs, Blue, Black and Helio
stripes. Usual Price, 12/-
Reduced to 10/6
Silk Shirts.
Tussore Silk, double cuffs, detached Peter Pan
collar to match. Usual Price, 27/6.
. Reduced to 22/6
Heavy Tussore Silk, soft double cuffs, detached
collar to match. Usual Price, 39/6.
Reduced to 32/6
Best Quality British Silk, dressed band, soft
double cuffs, detached collar to match.
Usual Price, 37/6. Reduced to 22/6
Heavy Quality Striped Jap. Silk, dressed band,
V-cased soft collar to match, sizes 15 to 161.
Usual Price, 37/6. Reduced to 27/6
We Pay Carriage on Family
Drapery and Fashion Goods
to any part of N.S.W., and
to the nearest port on Inter-
state Orders.
Exceptional Value in
Men’s Sac Suits.
High-grade Materials, including all the latest
colorings in English and Australian Suitings.
Stylish in cut; faithfully made.
THE HOR HERNIA, 2-button front, medium roll
collar, out breast pocket; no vent, vest, -1
pockets ; trousers, side or cross pockets, hip,
plain or cult bottoms.
Vicars’ Tweed, Grey and Brown effects. Usual
Price, 63/- Reduced to 58/6
Australian Tweed, striped and check. Usual
Price, 70/- Reduced to 65/-
Fancy All-Wool Tweed, Kent design. Usual Price,
90 /• Reduced to 85/-
English Worsted, dark shades. Usual Price,
100/-, io.j/- Reduced to 92/6
Fancy Worsted, new effects. Usual Price, 126/-
Reduced to 119/6
Vicars’ Blue and Brown Worsted, all wool.
Usual Price, 137/6. Reduced to 131/6
English and Irish Tweed, latest, colorings. Usual
Price, 155/-, 157/- Reduced to 139/6
Navy Blue Cheviot Serge (Indigo Dye). Usual
Price, 112/-, 115/- Reduced to 105/-
Vic-ars’ Fine Twill Serge. Usual Price, 135/-
Reduced to 129/6
Fine Rib Serge (English), Indigo Dye. Usual
Price, 168/- Reduced to 157/6
Men’s Gloves.
Men’s Seamless Woollen Gloves, Grey and
Heather. Usual Price, 3/9.
Reduced to 3/6
1 Dome Grey Cotton Suede, fleecy-lined. Usual
Price, 3/n. Reduced to 3/-
Tan Leather Driving Gloves, double palms. Usual
Price, 16/6. Reduced to 14/6
Grey or Brown Leather Driving Gloves, Celona
lined. Usual Price, 17/6.
Reduced to 15/-
Dark TT uiin°A Motor Gloves, fur wrists.
Usual Price, 23/6. Reduced to 19/6
Tan Linen iioior uauntlets, fur wrists. Usual
Price, 30/- Reduced to 25/-
Men’s Working Shirts.
Strong Harvard, 6in. double back, collar and
pocket. Usual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 9/6
Best “Bolton” Harvard in Red check only. Usual
Price, 12/6. Reduced to 7/6
Strong British Oxford, collar and pocket or bands.
Usual Price, 12/6. Reduced to 10/6
Best “Bolton” Harvard, 9in. double back, light
and dark patterns, collar and pocket or
bands. Usual Price, 12/6.
Reduced to 10/6
Horrockses Best Harvard, with collar and pocket.
Usual Price, 13/6. Reduced to 10/6
Strong Drill, Navy with White Stripes. Usual
Price, 12/6. Reduced to 10/6
Black Mercerised, cbllar and pocket. Usual
Price, 12/6. Reduced to 10/6
Strong Flannelette, collar and pocket. Usual
Price, 8/9. Reduced to 7/6
Write for the Sale Catalogue.
A copy will be posted free
on request. Every page is
full of money-saving sug-
gestions.
Reductions in Men’s
Raincoats and Winter
Overcoats.
Anthony Horderns’ offer a large variety of
local and imported Overcoats, comprising all the
latest styles and materials in Tweeds, Blanket
Cloth, Naps and Gabardines, Featuring a few
of the leading values—TWEED RAGLAN OVER-
COATS, designed with easy slip-on shoulders,
centre cut at back, patch pockets or flap, turn-
back or strap cuff.
Fancy Tweed Brown or Grey shades. Usual
Price, 60/- Reduced to 55/-
Australian All-Wool Tweeds, newest designs.
Usual Price, 70/- Reduced to 65/-
English Tweed Dark Shade. Usual Price. 90/-
Reduced to 84/-
Dark Grey, All Wool. Usual Price, 95/-.
Reduced to 87/6
Medium and Light Grey Tweed. Usual Price,
too/-, 105/- Reduced to 92/6
Dark Grey English Tweed. Usual Price 126/-
Redueed to 115/-
Light Grey Irish Tweed. Usual Price, 147/-
Reduced to 139/6
Double-breasted Overcoats.
Comfortable for any occasion.
The Altcar, Double-breasted, Patch Pockets, half-
belt at back, lined.
Dark Fancy Tweed. Usual Price, S4/-
Reduced to 79/6
Medium and Dark Grey. Usual Price, 105/-
Reduced to 97/6
English Tweed, newest shades. Usual Price, 147/-
Reduced to 139/6
Grey and Brown Tweed Mixture. Usual Price,
138/6. Reduced to 130/-
Slashing Price Cutting in
Dress Fabrics and Silks.
AH these Half-price.
All-Il 00l Navy Coating .Serge, 56 inches wide.
Usual Price, 2i/- Reduced to 10/6
All-Wool French Ottoman in Navy, Saxe, Fawn,
Mole, Grey, Reseda, Jade and Peacock. 42
inches wide. Usual Price, 16/6.
Reduced, to 8/3
All-Wool Plain and Fancy Striped Crepon, in
Grey, Mole, Saxe, Navy, Nigger and Peacock.
42 inches wide. Usual Price, 15/6.
Reduced to 7/6
Heather Mixture Wool Tweeds. 42 inches wide.
Usual Price, 6/11. Reduced to 3/6
Covert Coating, in Light and Dark Fawns only,
54 inches wide. Usual Price, 7/11.
Reduced to 3/11
Herringbone Heavyweight Tweeds. Grey only,
56 inches wide. Usual Price, 16/6.
Reduced to 8/3
All-Wool Amazon Cloth Reduced
42in. Navy and Claret only. Usual Price, 18/-
Reduced to 10/6
54in. Chiffon Finish in Amethyst, Wine, Saxe,
Navy, Grey, Mole and Vieux Rose. Usual
Price, 21/- Reduced to 15/6
48in. Venetian Cloth, in Navy and Claret only.
Usual Price, 23/6. Reduced to 15/6
54in. Velour Cloth, in Grey, Nigger, Fawn, Bis-
cuit, Mole, Navy and Bottle. Usual Price,
24/6. Reduced to 19/6
50in. Cloth in Navy only. Usual Price, 28/6.
Reduced to 21/-
54in. Cloth in Navy only. Usual Price, 30/-
Reduced to 22/6
50in. French Cloth in Navy, Fawn, Grey, Jade,
Saxe and Brown. Usual Price, 31/6.
Reduced to 25/-
Colored Gabardines Reduced.
50in. Fine All-Wool Gabardine in Saxe, Grey,
Nattier, Mole and Fawn. Usual Price, 21/-
Reduced to 16/6
54in. Heavyweight Gabardine, All-Wool in Grey,
Fawn, Putty and Slate. Usual Price, 32/6.
Reduced to 25/-
54in. Fine Grain Gabardine in Fawn, Grey, Mole,
Orpter, Saxe, Bottle, Putty, Nattier and
Navy. Usual Price, 35/-
Reduced to 27/6
Continental Silks Reduced.
38in. Duchesse Mousseline, in shades of Ivory,
Sky, Champ., Putty, Helio, Pink, Grey,
Vieux Rose, Light Navy, Saxe, Nattier, Tan,
Lyme, Reseda, Emerald, Bottle. Violet,
Royal, Navy. Usual Price, 18/6 yard.
Reduced to 10/11
38in. Colored Cashmere de Soie, in shades of
Ivory, Pink, Helio, Sky, Emerald, Reseda,
Tomato, Grey, Nil, Champagne, Canary.
Usual Price, 19/6. Reduced to 10/11
40in. Silk Poplin, in shades of Ivory, Navy, Saxe,
Grey, Nigger, Amethyst, Mole, Wine, Prune
and Black. Usual Price, 21/-
Reduced to 14/11
40in. Taffeta Papillion, in shades of Ivory, Saxe,
Grey, Brown, Mole, Biscuit and Black.
Usual Price, 24/6. Reduced to 14/11
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Kodak
Same-Day
Service
Developing
and Printing
Spools left before 10 a.m. will be
developed by experts and prints
made—ready for delivery at 5.30
p.m. the same day.
f
d
ďf
d
ďf
The New Kodak Printing and Developing Department is the most up to date in Australia.
The knowledge that we have acquired in making Kodak Films and Printing Papers is here
applied by skilled experts in securing the best results from your exposures.
By the Kodak Same-Day Service, spools 'left before 10 a.m. will be developed and printed, and
ready at 5.30 p.m. the same day. Although the work is so expeditious, it is very thorough
and most satisfactory.
Post your films if not convenient to call.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
570 Qe°rge Street. Sydney; "The Block, - ' 284 Collins Street, Melbourne;
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
2'io-2a2 Queen Street,
it
m
I rJi
ikuuil
L.
$
iU
6
Vs
) \
V
■J V/
(V
*
1
3;
r
T
*
RH
i
f
V
*
2§S
'*ms
You Will Please
Your Guests
What a feast of music you can offer
your guests with the aid of a "His
Master s Voice" instrument and
records!
You can match the liveliest spirits
of your guests by the exhilarating
strains of the latest dance airs. And
you can wholly satisfy their music-
hunger by letting your instrument
pour forth the heart-stirring, en-
thralling voice of Melba or ,Caruso,
or any one of the world s famous
artists who record exclusively with
"His Master’s Voice."
Write for instrument catalogue,
record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
"Bis Master's Voire n
Read. Trade-mark.
“Gramoph one"
Read. Trade-mark.
la
ESS
His Masters Voice


PINKETTES
FOR BAD BREATH
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning, a
bad taste'in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative— an
excellent remedy. _ They
correct the stomach con-
ditions which cause symp-*
toms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pink-
ettes act without causing
sickness, or griping, or after-
effects of strong purgatives.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
fhe Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Com plete. FU Eva D ry e M t ach ! in" ith
Bond a. Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
CHATEAU
TANUNE3A.
Standard &
BRANDT
A
w
•>- ‘ . - * •'
Ww<&¥
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character,
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd,, Sydney
We Desire
to Buy
d
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD ,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ď
f
a
rA
a
n
m
Why be put
to a disad-
vantage with
aging grey
hair. when
this high-
grade. per-
manent stain
offers your
hair the
youthful
color of wal-
nut ? Be wise! Get a
to-day. Easy to apply,
fectly harmless.
packet
Per-
S*S3
5
MEXICAN I
1 WALNUT STAIN!
EUDENTA
Tooth Paste
xVlade in Australia
-and a Better Quality. ’
Kudenta Tooth Past.' is a veritab e
triumph in eheminal research, and
being an Australian product it can
lie sold at a price based on actual
cost only—not a cost inflated by over-
sea Heights and the manv
expenses incidental to the im-
ported article. Fragrant and
antiseptic it is a
pasio you will buy
again and again once
.vow have struck
acquaintance.
ALL CHEMISTS
SELL IT.
W\\:
m
<i
*r
m
M
HI
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere “Vallo” is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
'VSSMf
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now fiom your
storekeeper.
d
Look for the 1 rade Mark
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
i
Waterman’^
Ideal)
'Records are important.
You may have to refer to them in
years to come. Write them in
ink with the world’s best Pen—
Waterman’s Ideal—the pen that
is always reliable and always
ready at a moment’s notice.; 1
Three Types— “ Self-Filling,”
"Safety” and “Regular.” Nibs
to suit’all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L, G, Sloan, Ltd,
Corner
Kingsway, London, Eng
4 Australia : Harold D. Dixon.
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
MU
4fe
A
m „n
Eight-hour Art Union § Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.)
DR AWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
Chance for 1921.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 -won by W. M. Neilsen,
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
Tickets from Local Agent in all Towns, or direct from
Arthur W. YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Lethe.
Oh, for an ebbing tide that backward draws
Across the amber sand
Leaving pale shells at every shining pause—
A long, lone, shimmering strand.
Oh, for a faery moon that stands at gaze
Low o’er the muffled sea.
Blurred sweetly by a honey-colored haze
That cannot change nor flee.
Oh, for a depth of flowers upon that shore
Wherein to straightly lie,
Facing that sweet moon changeless ever-
more,
There where all voices die.
No, there would be no voice in all that
No movement through the grass;
Only one figure on the level strand
Would slowly seem to pass.
A man in white, slow-pacing by the sea.
Ills pierced hands stained with red :
And halo-wise the mild moon-glow would be
All golden round .his head.
Oh, peace profounder than the deeps wherein
The sunken stars are lost,
Above each bloom its perfume, rising thin,
Hangs like an incense ghost.
No voice in all that land, no tread of feet:
But from the love-deep sea.
Where Mercy and all needs of mercy meet,
A shadow comes to me.
My heart, unbeating in my breathless breast,
Is stilled of all alarms.
Ah, now is rapture wedded unto rest
As by a bridegroom’s arms!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
The Garden Dim.
Two men and a girl in a garden dim ;
Twin roses plucked from a red-rose tree. —
A rose for her and a rose for him,
But alas, and alas, no rose for me!
A star and a star in the azure span,
Two singing hetwts, and a heart grown
dumb;
’Twas ever the way since the way began—
For some red roses, and thorns for some.
The last flush dies in the paling west,
And all the breadth of the sky grows wan ;
For the rose in his coat and the rose at her
breast
Will merge their petals when 1 am gone.
Each scent shall marry the other’s scent,
And leaf wed leaf, and hue wed hue,
Till rich tips offered and dry lips bent
Shall meet and mingle in fire and dew.
O sweet, sweet Giver of roses rare,
The gift is given—and day has fled;
But each dewfall on the evening air
Shall bring the odors of roses dead!
A man and a girl in the garden dim,
Two rosea plucked from a red-rose tree—
A rose for her and a rose for him,
But alas, and alas, no rose for me!
N.S.W.
RORDERIC QUINN.
The Ghost-Child.
I dare not loiter where the seagulls play,
I dare not seek the woods in rain or shine,
Lest I should meet upon some lonely way
The ghostly little child whose eyes are
mine.
She weeps behind the grey, soft, falling rain ;
Above the lurching wind I hear her feet;
She laughs among the scarlet cups that stain
The luminous and yellow-bladed wheat.
She peers from out the bracken, bead-in-
wrought ;
She throws a ball beside the foxes’ lair,
And down deep pools star-haunted I have
caught
The rhythmic wavering of untied hair.
At twilight when the ruby lathps are lit,
And evening blusters in, blue-black and
wild,
I draw the curtains now, and trembling sit
And hear the tireless tapping of the Child.
I dare not bring her from the dark outside,
Lest she should sob, and touch my fingers
too,
And whisper with her eyes, accusing, wide:
“Where are those shining dreams I left
with you ?”
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Night Rain.
Running flutter of leaves.
Stars few and high—
How the grass sobs and grieves
On the ground hot and dry!
In little ovens of brick
The people bake their sins:
And the stale air is sick
Where the (flack lane begins.
Something moves on the hill
With broad winnow of wings
As if the earth’s will
Yearned to the dead springs.
Surely it comes again
A vast prayer for grace—
It is the rain, the rain!
A drop fell on my face.
Patter of aery feet —
The galloping heralds pass:
And I draw through my nostrils sweet
The scent of dust in the grass.
Wet word of the wind
That my heart in darkness hears—
The whole" world grows blind
With cold, glad tears.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


m
m
e
i*
A
m
m
1
dm
ekl
m
wm
■
m
mm
m
W"
m
M
>
$S
■
■ ■ w
"WW*
»
■. .. :
< /HtHi
■
■HP
The man on the land can now enjoy the convenience, safety
and comfort of electric light and power by means of the
G.E Home Light and Power Unit
This is a complete plant for the generation and storage
of electricity and is compact, economical to run, safe
and easy to operate. It is of sufficient capacity to per-
mit the use of electrical appliances, such as vacuum
cleaners, sewing machine motors, electric irons, toast
ers, etc., as well as electric light m every room in the
house. Furthermore, the full horse-power of the
engine is available at all times for driving pumps,
grindstones, churns, and light machinery. The
G.E. Home Light and Power Unit is a sound
investment that will pay big dividends of comfort.
IVrite for Particulars to-day
Australian General Electric 0
35-45 WENTWORTH jWENUE
SYDNEY
d
116 QUEE/N STREET,
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, Q --The Engineering Supply Co of Australia Lrd
(E.S.C.A ). Corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
1 ASMANIA—-Oliver and Oh ver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE, S.A.-—Charles Atkin, &. Co Ltd.. 88-qo Currie Street
PERTH, W A —-Charles Atkins &: Co (W A.) Ltd.," Mazda House."
894 Hay Street
NEW ZEALAND—-The National Electrical & Engineering Co Ltd.,
AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON. CHRISTCHURCH. DUNEDIN


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 42 No. 2163.
TILL! IMS DAY, JULY 28, 1921.
Price 9d.
ALWAYS ROOM ON TOP.
“The Federal Income Tax returns are due on Saturday.”
JOE COOK (attendant in charge): “Come on, gentlemen, we can still give a few more friends a lift! Time enough to
Stop piling you on when the animal’s knees sag!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White .Man"
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Cos., Ltd., at the Office of the
Cos., 214 George Street, Sydnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
/' or £ 1 1(1$. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid,
to any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Managef.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
oil contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Netvspaper Clippings, All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Tui Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Illack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical draivings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Cos., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.: The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.; the Boston Hat H’or/.-.s’ and News Cos., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Cos., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Cos., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City: Quaker News Cos.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn ck Cos., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Cos., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Cos., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; It. B. Perera and Cos., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper); Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom. All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Btoz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law, S. H. Prior, ,T. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, JULY 28. .1921.
HIGH PROTECTION V. NATIONAL
EXTINCTION.
Senator Pratten expressed a wish the
other day to see Australia with an excess of
exports to the value of 50 millions sterling.
It roused A. G. Huie from his fiscal sleep,
and he advanced this argument in rebuttal:
Senator Pratten quoted the enormous excess of
exports from America during the war period. That
is the root cause of the financial difficulties with
respect to America’s trade with the world at the
present time. She was sending out goods, but not
receiving goods in exchange. It has been a feature
of American trading operations for a number of
years to have an excess of exports. In
fact, the Tariff policy has established unfor-
tunate trade relations, and one of the most
noticeable results of it is the small American mercan-
tile marine. On the other hand, let us take the
experience of the United Kingdom. For at least 60
years Britain has had an excess of a hundred millions
•a year or more of imports. That did not tend to
impoverish Britain. It made London the trading
centre of the world.
If Mr. Huie’s contention means any-
thing it means (1) that Britain’s sea-supre-
macy is a matter of the 60-year period since
the repeal of the Corn Laws, and (2) that
London is the trading centre of the world
because the U.K. has been accustomed to
have an excess of imports. But England
has been supreme at sea roughly since the
reign of Elizabeth. English industries
were rigidly protected by various devices from
Henry VIII.’s reign until half-way through
that of Victoria, by which time the nation
could well afford to follow the advice of
Cobden and Bright and try a spell of
internationalism. We know tne result: the
rest of the civilised nations refused to act as
the Huies of the period had forecasted < that
is to say, internationally) ; in propor-
tion as tiieir tanlts rose their industries
grew; these industries called for mer-
chant shipping, and the latter demanded
navies. More preposterous still is the claim
that London is the trading centre of the
world because Britain is a revenue tariff
country. London’s financial supremacy-'' is
based on conditions which existed before
Cobdenism was dreamt of, namely sea-power
and a steady supply of gold. The bill of
exchange on London has been regarded as
the equivalent of gold by foreign banks
because London has been known to be in a
position to pay gold when asked; and it has
been in that position because of the exist-
ence of dominions like S’Africa and Austra-
lia which produce gold, of the ships to carry
it, and of a navy to protect it. Britain’s
excess of imports—-particularly marked just
before the world-war—is also unrelated to
Freetrade. Prior to the war something
like 300 millions came into the coun-
try annually as interest on foreign in-
vestments and by way of shipping freight
—a vast income that was due partly to un-
tain’s unique geographical position; partly
to its natural wealth ; partly to the acumen
of the inhabitants ; but above all to the fact
that generations of Englishmen in ages past
had got ahead of the world, commercially,
under a system of rigid Protection, and had
used the opportunity to build fleets and
develop productive countries overseas.
* * * *
The economic truth of this proposition
may be seen by a consideration of what
Germany was; what the U.S.A. is. “Be-
cause,” said Bismarck in the Reichstag in
May, 1879, “it is my deliberate judgment
that the prosperity of America is mainly due
to its system of Protective laws, I urge that
Germany has now reached the point where
it must imitate the tariff system of the
United States.” Germany was in a most
miserable condition at this time. It had
recently enjoyed a record excess of imports
in the form of a French indemnity of five
milliards of marks. Trade had been almost
entirely free for many years. But manu-
facturers were few and unimportant; the
best of the male population were emigrating
(Australia owes its German colonies almost
entirely to this epoch) ; the mercantile
marine was insignificant, and there was no
navy. Bismarck got the tariff he wanted.
For the first quarter of a century England’s
laissez-faire school of political economists
smiled in gentle contempt. Cheap or dumped
German goods were acclaimed as a boon.
Gradually, as unemployment increased in the
British trades which were hit by these im-
ports, a national feeling of hostility to them
made its appearance. Measures were taken
to handicap their sale —such as the proviso
that all European imports should be branded
with the name of their country of origin,
which amounted to a tariff in principle if
not in fact. The North German Lloyd, the
America-Hamburg line and many other
great shipping cos. appeared. Inevitably
the German navy followed. In 1912, which
was a fair average year, Germany’s exports
of manufactures were £284,600,000, and its
imports only £79,100,000. The Germans
went to war for that which Britain had
acquired, not in its previous half-century or
so of Freetrade, but iiiythe centuries during
which it had built up a mercantile marine
under tariffs —namely, the sources of raw
materials. Or, to use the Kaiser’s euphuism,
“a place in the sun.” In 1912 Germany
had to buy from abroad twice as much in
the way of raw materials as it sold, while
it imported foodstuffs to the tune of
£157,400,000 as against £39,200,000 exported.
And it found the situation intolerable. In
that remote sense only was this empire
ruined by Protection. But before the Kaiser
took the chance which brought about his
people’s fall, he had seen, in his own life-
time, Germany’s mercantile marine rise from
insignificance to 5,135,000 tons (three times
that of France, and four times that of any
other European country except Britain), and
he possessed a navy which was second only
to that of Britain. Previous to the war
the U.S.A., in an average year, exported
twice as much manufactured goods as it
imported ; while its imports and exports of
foodstuffs about balanced. And the U.S.A.
worker —despite the fact that unionism is
comparatively weak there —did well; while
the vulgar affluence of the American
capitalist became a by-word. With the
war the U.S.A. got genuine Protection,
and it began to export still more heav-
ily. Assuming the correctness of Mr.
Huie’s argument, it should therefore now
be (1) weak in merchantmen (and there-
fore enfeebled in the matter of its navy),
and (2) poor to the verge of insolvency.
The facts shout derision at both conclusions.
In 1914, according to the latest edition of
“Lloyd’s Register,” the U.S.A.’s sea-going
mercantile fleet amounted to 2,027,000 tons.
By 1919, after five years’ furious exporting
to every part of the world, and after a
record shortage of imports, owing to non-
production in Europe, it reached 9,773,01X1
tons. Simultaneously the U.S. Navy has
grown astonishingly. Just before the last
Presidential election the Chairman of the
Naval Committee told the House of Repre-
sentatives that the U.S. fleet would be equal
to that of Britain in fighting power by 1924.
“In the next four years,” he said, “the U.S.
will put out the most formidable Armada
the world has ever seen produced in a similar
period.” Modern U.S.A. can afford such
luxuries. It is the country where two work-
ing men in five are said to own motor-cars.
Inside six years the national wealth increased
by 6000 million pounds sterling.
* * * *
There are many reasons why Australia
cannot afford to act fiscally as Britain did
60 years ago if it ever intends to be a manu-
facturing country. The social standards of
the British and German workers were much
the same in the middle of last century. The
Japanese, however, whom geographical posi-
tion has made our industrial rivals, know
nothing of the six-hour day, the minimum
wage of £5, and the motherhood-endowment
and such-like schemes which are in vogue
here. Their ideas on food, liousmg and hygiene
are not ours. Of the 3,371.389 working days
lost in the Commonwealth through strikes
between 1907 and 1913, 1,493,523- (accord-
ing to the N.S.YV. Industrial Gazette,
voi. 4 ) were sacrificed in connection with
disputes about working conditions. Japanese
do not strike, in Japan, over working condi-
tions. We have also to reckon with a nation
which is just awakening industrially, and
which has a standard of living so low that
it defeats even the Japanese. China has
400,000,000 of the cheapest and ordinarily
the most docile toilers on earth. It has
practically unlimited coal (that of Shan-Si,
which Japan controls, being equal to the
best Welsh steam coal) and sufficient acces-
sible iron to supply the world for centuries.
Obviously only a tariff, and an extremely
high one, will give Australian industries a
chance to compete against those of Asia
under the wage and other conditions which
white men demand. “Exactly,” say the
Gardiners and Huies, "and therefore we
must turn to those pursuits which do not
require artificial assistance” —to sheep-
raising and wheat-growing. These are excel-
lent methods of earning money within their
limits and in their way, but they have never
made a white-man’s country populous, and
they never will, and tne wealin of a wiutc
country lies in the number of its inhabitants.
Now, Australia needs wealth, and it needs
it soon. It is not a question of Imperialis-
tic ambition, which was the inspiration of
Germany’s lightning industrial development
in the course of the 35 years preceding the
Great War; it is a matter of surviving or
going under as a nation. The lessons that
the past half-century has to teach are that
with industries built up behind effective
tariff walls and compelled to pay white
man’s wages wc will attract the only sort
of immigrants that are worth while; that
an-export trade must follow, even if, as in
modern America’s case, some of it consists
of goods for dumping; that a powerful mer-
cantile marine must automatically arise,
and with it a fleet the necessity of which
will appeal even to the most pacific. In no
other way can a country like Australia put
itself in the position to afford an adequate
fleet; and unless it has such a fleet, within
a very limited space of time, its natural
destiny is to become yellow. If it loads the
dice against itself too severely, with extrava-
gant wage and other standards, the Com-
monwealth may fall even then as Germany
fell for other reasons. But a Germany or a
France may rise again: a Korea never does.
A MILLION MEN ON A MILLION
FARMS.
Ex-Premier Joseph Carrutiieks, of N. S.
Wales, is nowadays a rather stereotyped
elderly gentleman shouting in millions and
full of threadbare inspirations, left over from
his old Freetrade days, for getting people “on
the land.” The other day he was credited
by the Sydney Freetrade press with making
“a statesmanlike speech” to the National
Club on the well-worn subject. His “slogan,”
he announced, was “a million men on a mil-
lion farms,” and his proposal was that
£30,060,000 should be raised (which of
course means borrowed) to put them there.
Original sin seems young and fresh by com-
parison with this idea. It is long, long years
since Australia began loan-mongering for
settlement purposes, and the ultimate aim
and object of about £440,000,000 of State
debt was that and nothing else. When, one
debt failed in its purpose that fact was held
as proof that another would succeed. When
a big debt only resulted in people getting
off the land, a bigger one was incurred to
put them back again. When they escaped
some more, a specially big debt was floated
to recapture them. Within the last two or
three years staggering sums, compared with
which Joseph Carrutiiers’s proposed
£30,000,000 operation looks petty and mean,
have been spent under the name of repatria-
tion to get “a million men on a million
farms.” The census returns and other evi-
dences suggest dire failure.
* * * *
Joseph argued this way : —•
If America can maintain 12,400,000 persons actu-
ally engaged in agriculture, of whom probably one-
half are interested as owners and the other half as
hired workers, and can do this on 879,000,000 acres
of cultivated and grass lands, an average of one to
every 70 acres, is it not a fair thing to believe
that Australia can at least aim at placing additional
men on the land to secure 1,000,000 farm-owners
with a' fair quota of laborers ?,... You will need
money and then men. It will probably take many,
many millions. Money expended on such a scheme
will be an investment with assets to represent it.
Land will be worth something. Railways, too.
Waterworks and roads will also be assets.
If the United States keeps, as alleged,
6,200,000 farmers (the other 6,200,000 being-
farm employees), then roughly 6 per cent, of
its population are farmers. Allowing a wife
and child to each, and one unmarried em-
ployee to each, 24 per cent, are farmers.
Carrutiiers’s proposed million farm-owners
out of a population of a little over 5,000,000
would be about 19 per cent, of this nation,
and, counting wife, child and employee, it
would be about 76 per cent. If the popu-
lation rose to 10,000,000, it would still be
40 per cent. They would form the hungriest
white crowd imaginable. They would have
to export most of their produce in order to
five. Through pushing settlement further
out the distances to the few open ports would
be greater even than thev are. Through
the discouragement of industrial towns the
local market would be worse than it is. The
produce would mostly have to pay double
freights over the longest sea-route known, for
perhaps nine-tenths of the ships would come
back empty, and one cargo would have to
pay for two journeys. That trouble is bad
enough now. Australia’s biggest export in
1919, for which year complete figures are
available, was 220,000 tons of wool in the
grease (wool which is half earth), whereas
its biggest imports were fairly-expensive
made-up goods such as Woollens, cottons,
linens, silks, velvets, velveteens and the like.
They just about counterbalanced the value
of the exported wool that was half earth, but
they probably weighed only about 20,000 tons.
That left 200,000 tons of shipping to come
back empty, and 200.000 tons of Australian
goods to pay double freights. Something of
the sort is the poverty-stricken fate of every
fool country which believes in going on the
land that it may export raw materials which
are cheap and bulky, and import manufac-
tured goods which are dear and compact,
instead of using, most of its raw materials
in its own factories. But the case is especi-
ally bad in Australia because of the mon-
strous debt, the lack of cheap inland water-
carriage, the barrenness of much of the coun-
try, the droughts, the enormous land dis-
tances, caused largely by the insane railway
system, the closed ports, and the great sea
distances. Joseph Cabbuthebs’s states-
manlike scheme would make all these matters
much worse.
*■ * * *
The United States, quoted by the Car-
kutherses in such a wildly inappropriate
fashion, is the example above all others
which proves their folly. These are some
of the discrepancies:—
Leaving out the detached possession of Alaska, the
United States is much the same size as Aus-
tralia. But more than one-fifth of its surface
(412,021,120 acres out of 1,937,144,960) is fresh
water. This is river (much of it navigable), lake or
swamp. That means rainfall and fertility. There
is no place in the U.S. dimly resembling the water-
less stretch of 1250 miles traversed by Australia’s
East-to-West railway, and its lakes aren’t universally
salt.
The United States has 48 State capitals instead
of six to furnish centres of population and create
local markets for the farmer.
Its unsettled lands belong, with very small reser-
vations, to the Commonwealth, not the States.
Its ports are open. The Australian closed port
is a peculiarly Australian device for lengthening
distances.
its railways aren't under political control, and
they connect with every harbor where there is a
chance of business.
It doesn’t and never did “settle” people on the
land with public loans.
It aims at being a manufacturing country first of
all, and being independent of imports.
And any knight who proposed putting 76 per cent,
or even 40 per cent, of the people on the land, despite
the fact that the U.S. land has various facilities for
settlement which Australia lacks, would certainly be
regarded as an amiable lunatic.
There is a certain distinction in being so
much behind the times as to be Waiting for
the corpse to be born when up-to-date people
are returning from the funeral and remark-
ing- on the wonderful way the deceased held
out. Yet that poorly expresses the back-
wardness of anybody who discovers the idea
of starting land settlement with big loans
and loan railways when the miserable busi-
ness began 60 years ago and Australia as
now sitting among the ruins.
MOSTLY MR. LEVY.
Some time in September the N. S. Wales State
Legislature is to meet, and the Government
expects its old majority of one, provided
Daniel Levy resumes his billet as Speaker.
It being the Government’s second session, if
Daniel Levy renews its lease, the Governor
may lend his ear to a proposal for swamping
the* Upper House with a batch of trades-
union secretaries, which would make the
party’s hold on tne Chamber of Life Nomi-
nees stronger than it is on the other
Chamber. If anything of the sort should
happen, owing to the aid of Daniel Levy or
to other causes, various things will become
possible —more or less possible- —that will
tend to consolidate the party’s position. The
electorates may be “readjusted” (with a
view to an election when it can’t be avoided)
on the basis of the census figures. There is
likely Jo be a great disfranchising of the
North and South, which want Home Rule,
and a great addition to the voting power of
Sydney and some adjacent districts, which
are expected, under the guidance of a
strongly Home Rule Ministry, to see that the
North and South don’t get it. The voting
age may be reduced to 18 years, which is the
rule in tangled Soviet Russia and in no other
known place. There may even be an outside
show for Minister McGirk’s tentative pro-
position that the General Election of 1922
should be dispensed with, and that the pre-
sent nominally elective Assembly should just
nominate itself for a spell of continuance —
short, long or indefinite. A new chance
should open up, too, for Minister Lougiilin’s
Land Bill, including the appropriation or
confiscation clauses. Also, a new run might
be given to that lost clause in Minister
McT’iernan’s Profiteering Bill, by which a
court of sorts could overhaul a firm’s or
company’s accounts for years back, and de-
cide that 5 per cent, or 95 per cent, of the
prices charged were overcharges, and take
any part of the amount by way of penalty.
In fact, assuming that the Ministry, by
the grace of Daniel Lev* or anybody else,
retains its majority in the Assembly,
and secures a good hold on the Council, the
air is full of possibilities. Some dexterous
amendment of the Assembly franchise might
even make it possible to dispense with Mr.
Levy as a worn-out instrument. Progress
would probably resume where it left off last
December. The child-pension and orphan-
pension and widow-pension propositions have
yet to be dealt with. It is still possible to
add £1 6s. 4d. per head to the already pon-
derous State taxation without passing the
latest Queensland record. By sumciently
violent repression of “the capitalist” (who
doesn’t nowadays mean so much the man
with money as the sinner who produces
things and gives employment to union labor
at union wages) this additional amount
might be raised till the taxpayers were used
up as the Turks used up Mesopotamia.
Then there are possibilities about the forma-
tion of a limited sort of Greater Sydney by
amalgamating with the city those munici-
palities where Labor is strong, and endowing
them with a Bolshevik sort of franchise
which will as nearly as possible make Labor
rule permanent —until some future Parlia-
ment abolishes the municipality altogether,
as happened when the municipal methods of
the N. S. Wales capital went to the dog.s in
1853. Sydney is more than ever before
N S'. Wales in itself, and such a municipal
authority, with enlarged taxing and borrow
ing and coalmine-buying powers, might be
something like that of Paris long ago, when
it was a question whether the Commune or
the Convention ruled France. Certainly
the fact that a mere State Government can r
lay its hands on the note issue or the banks
limits the prospect unless some kindred souls
secure control of the Federal machine. Not-
withstanding that, there are great chances
if control of both Houses can be secured. A


great deal, then, depends on Daniel Levy a
very great deal, considering that he has made
no great name in science, art or literature,
in war by sea or land or air, and that he
is neither a record-making cricketer nor a
champion heavyweight. #
The Storey Ministry came into office with
an unfortunate and perhaps misleading ex-
pression of rage, vengeance and concentrated
hate on its political countenance. Its attitude
was rather that of a foreign conqueror arriv-
ing to plunder and ravage and depart—some-
think like the Duke of Ai.va entering Hol-
land—than of a brotherly crowd born in the
country and forming part of it. It created
a disconcerting impression that it regarded
all traders as persons to be spied upon until
they could be detected and sentenced to
prison or fine; most landowners as
individuals to h*> robbed; practically all em-
ployers as bad characters to be pursued with
the utmost rigor of the law; producers in
general, especially if they co-operated and
formed companies for want of sufficient
wealth to work alone, as brigands of one sort
and another. During its one brief session,
whenever a raw young Minister was gnash-
ing his teeth and introducing his Amending
Disembowelment Bill and anybody offered a
criticism, the raw young Minister was as
flabbergasted as an Inquisitor when the her-
etic asked to be represented by counsel.
Like their ally, Lord Mayor Lambert of
Sydney, the members of the Storey combine
believed in ruling everybody out of order at
sight. The eccentric aggregation will meet
the House with a lot of leeway to make up
Though it scraped together nearly six mil-
lions more revenue last year than in the
previous year by increasing railway and
tramway charges and by raising taxation
from 48s. sd. to 7.15. 2d. per head, it. finished
nearly half a million short. Its two local
loans have failed. The Premier, who went
foraging in London, returned with the glad
news that he had explained everything, so
that now N. S. Wales was assured of loans
whenever necessary. Right on top of this
came the statement that London would not
look at N.S.W.’s loan at present, except in
the sense that it may advance three millions
repayable in six months. For a Government
which has been spending 14 or 15 millions of
loans per annum and repaying nothing, that
is depressing. The census suggests that the
depopulation of the country districts is going
on faster than ever. The cry of the unem-
ployed has become a roar. Some landowners
whose properties were taken for soldier
settlement complain that they can get neither
principal, interest, civility nor satisfaction.
Some soldiers whose housing the Government
took carp of talk of shoddy shacks sold them
at exorbitant prices. The imports are tre-
mendous, just because production doesn’t in-
crease. The number of men employed dig-
ging and filling up holes on the Sydney
tramway lines is certainly very large just
now, but though that is employment it isn’t
production. The leeway that has to be made
up is thus very considerable. Still, if Mr.
Levy sticks to Ministers no doubt they will
do their heroic best—along the same lines
they have travelled in the past. Whether
that sort of travel will not land the country
still deeper in the bog with which it is at
present struggling is a question worthy of
the calm consideration of Mr. Daniel Levy.
THE SABBATH-NIGHT PEDLARS.
The lecture-room of the Institute is at
the end of a dark passage, and the freak
sect that raves there *has the most freakish
of architecture to freak in. The Church is
mostly the church of one noisy herbalist —
such a vociferous herbalist that after the
second hymn had been roared and a prayer
uttered (lack of enthusiasm in the congre-
gation being compensated by the youth at
the portable organ rumbling the black notes
in the bass to sound like the gabble of the
devout), the herbalist bitterly denied that
he ran the church merely to sell his potted
vegetables. Apparently nobody made the
accusation, but the vociferous herbalist in-
sisted on publishing it that he might deny
it, incidentally securing a new advt. for the
herbs aforesaid.
Before this and after it and during the
show an optimistic lady sat at the door
with a collection-plate receiving the small
change of the faithful while the Vociferous
Vegetarian loudly proclaimed that there is
but one God and He is Allah of the Spirit-
ualistic Herbalists. The table on the plat-
form was draped with the poor old Union
Jack, to be again employed in the sort of
patriotism described by Dr. Johnson.
Apparently the qualifications of a patriotic
dervish include a mobile pale face gar-
nished with silver hair, a la Worth-
ington. At any rate, all these spiritual-
istic factories have for lieutenants a
silvery-haired old man who talks at the
collection-plate until the obvious becomes
too brutally frank and then he restores confi-
dence by ordering a ’ymn. The hymn varies
from “Rescue the Perishing” in the suburbs
to “Ah, Cark Me Sole” in the city. At the
factory whose lady-conductor told the audi-
ence that they “all knew the malady” of
“Ah, Cark Me Sole” the usual silvery-haired
ruffian bleated ; at the Church of the Vege-
table Spiritualists the silvery-haired dervish
blithered. He was called severally “Pastor,”
“Perfessor” and “Prafesser,” and he had
taken folly as it flew, as must all vaudeville
people and all such dervishes as have no
settled congregation ; and they must be more
opportune than a politician before nomina-
tion. Taking his stand behind the Union
Jack, and putting up his hands so that he
looked like a mantis, he prayed. The lady
with the collection-plate preyed too; and the
youth at the portable organ pressed the
black keys in the bass and made the organ
murmur all the devotion that wasn’t there.
The silvery-haired dervish then preached
on “The Divine Origin of the Union Jack,”
taking for a text certain remarks alleged
to have been made by Isaiah. Now, IsAiAn
was a good poet, and his prophecies are as
reliable as the prophecies of any other poet,
and I have such respect for him that I hated
to see him in such unnoetic company. But
ns for the Divine origin of the Union Jack
it is this way. Israel had disobeyed the
words of the Lord, who had ordered the
extermination of the Canaanites, and there-
fore the Lord had punished them. The
Canaanites became the Phoenicians, and the
Phoenicians survive m the Fenians and the
Sinn Feiners who disturb the Divine Flag
to-day!
Also, when Jacob was old and so blind
that he could not duff Laban’s or any other
man’s cattle any more. Joseph brought his
two sons to be blessed by Grandpa. But
Grandpa wasn’t deceived by Joseph putting
Molasses on the right side convenient for
the blessing, and Ephraim on the left.
Grandpa in blessing them gave Ephraim
the biggest and most able-bodied blessing,
crossing his arms to get the right hand on
Ephraim’s head. Thus he made an ensign—
and what was it? It was the Union Jack!
And if God condescended to make our flag
—as we have proof He did—shall we burn
it? Shall we defile it? And this is how
God made our flag. Its base is the Cross of
Christ. The monogram of Christ— Alpha
and Omega—is Z and a cross. Superimpose
the Zon the cross and we have the Union
Jack.
It says much for the diffidence of the Aus-
tralian that nobody laughed. But the polite
air of boredom in the audience prompted the
dervish to put more ginger into it. He was
wise in his opportunism, and the little sec-
tarians in the little hall applauded and gave
other signs of animation when the dervish
remarked quite casually that Rome is a
ruddv harlot sitting on seven hills —which
position the lady must find very uncomfort-
able. I must say, however, that, knowing
Rome well, I never noticed any such pheno-
menon, and therefore believe that the der-
vish’s statement is exaggerated.
The Divine origin thus disposed of, the
dervish asked the audience to sing “God
Save the King,” the dervish, leading the noise
and wrapping himself in the Union Jack.
Then began the real business of the even-
ing. The audience lost a few because the
collection-plate, having got its second wind,
resumed sparring vigorously; and the der-
vish, to maintain the interest, announced
that he had often talked with his dead
brother and his dead father and his dead son,
thus heating Conan Doyle by two defunct
relatives.
The plate bad gone round again; the
Vociferous Herbalist now called to the vic-
tims to come up to the front. Then seating
himself at the organ he made us all weary
and ill at ease as his fingers wandered idly
over the noisy keys, in a vamp to the ’ymn
that was necessary to bring the snirits to
the old reliable stamping-ground. The tor-
ture ended, the spirits were brought down
with both barrels: the Herbalist working
the right of the hall and the lady the prompt
side. Things ran this way
Vociferous Herbalist (holding up watch) : ’Oo’s is
this ?
The Victim: Mine.
V.H. (dreamily) : You are thinkin’ of somethin’.
Some step you will take, but you’re not sure. (Tri-
umphantly.) Take it, and it will all come right.
So then we left after the dervish had pro-
mised to preach on “The English as the
Lost Ten Tribes of Israel.”
The little new fakirs go their way, and
the time is almost ripe for this old fake of
the Lost Ten Tribes to reappear. It may
make money again—as a side-line, this time,
of Imperialism—-and “The Divine Origin of
the Union Jack” may be a fitting introduc-
tion of the foolishness.
A pity, though, these whirling prophets
have no sense of humor. One in Melbourne
the other day prophesied with all the relish
of the good soul who hopes for the worst:
“The end of the world is near. There’s been
a plague of mice among the wheat. The
Lord is coming, and I hope I won’t be here
to see it.”
Surely these Sabbath night muck-mer-
chants call for as much police interference
as the gold-brick man or the rich uncle from
Fiji.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Useless Gamble.
Unless Speaker Levy revolts or the nominee
House turns sour, N. S. Wales, which has
been ruled for 10 months by a crowd without
a majority, will soon have a State lottery.
The Government wants the money for the
pauperisation of a large section of its sup-
porters, and, short of raising taxation beyond
the limit of endurance (it is perilously near
that point already), can see no other way of
getting it, being a shiftless and ill-informed
lot. In accordance with the modern Labor
custom in these matters, morality is left out
of the argument. The affluent Minister for
Motherhood admits, indeed, that “gambling
is not a good thing,” but since Tasmania has
its Tattersall’s, Queensland its Golden Casket
and Westralia its annual Labor sweep on
the Perth Cup, and since portion of a Sydney
park has been handed over permanently to
the A.L.P. for the raising of funds by choco-
late-wheels and similar devices, he sees no
reason why the Ma State shouldn’t run a
monthly lottery. The proposal is certainly
consistent with the cynical materialism which
has got the Labor party down. It is in
keeping with the new doctrine that the
“workers” shouldn’t fight for Australia, or
pay taxes, or toil more than five days a
week; and that they have a right to be sup-
ported from the State exchequer, without any
recompense whatever or any time limit, when
they refuse to labor for a legal wage. Hav-
ing been taught by the new leaders of a
party from which idealism has departed that
£ s. d. is the be-all and end-all of things, the
“workers” are in the right mood for the re-
ception of the great truth that, by a lucky
turn of the Government lottery-wheel, any
one of them may become a rich gambler like
Wren. These are days when the practice of
economy is enjoined upon everyone, the Gov-
ernment above all. There never was so much
talk of thrift and so little evidence of it. Never
was there such riotous extravagance in
administration, such unbridled loan-expendi-
ture, so furious a mania for horse-gambling.
In Sydney nowadays the pony-races start
as early as 10 a.m., and there may be 150
nominations for the Maiden Plate. The
supply of starting-price bookmakers, double-
merchants, buttoners, whisperers and other
varieties of turf-parasites has reached dimen-
sions never before dreamed of. Throughout
Australia the amount of money diverted from
the normal channels of industry to nourish
this horde of loafers can only be reckoned
in millions per annum. Probably the State
Government could get the use of most of
this wasted capital by reducing the number
of race-meetings (not interfering at all with
genuine sporting fixtures) and issuing pre-
mium bonds. Nobody imagines for a moment
that horse-gambling can be cut out altogether,
but if the small punter could buy a premium
bond for a five-pound note, with principal,
interest and a chance in a periodical distri-
bution guaranteed, its volume would be
greatly reduced. Suppose the N. S. Wales
Government issued 400,000 premium bonds
at £5 each. At the present price of money .
it could afford to give the bondholder 24
per cent, interest, payable annually, and set
apart 3 per cent. (£OO,OOO in the first year)
for the redemption of bonds on the lottery
principle. In this way the Government would
get a cheap loan —since loans it will have—
and the bondholder a safe investment plus a
monthly or quarterly chance of landing sub-
stantial prizes, which, in the case of many
patrons of the sweep-promoter and the
starting-price bookmaker, would be an incen-
tive to thrift. (As a matter of fact, pre-
mium bonds flourish among the thriftiest
neoples of Europe, the Belgians, Dutch and
French.) There would be some sense in such
a proposal, but the N. S. Wales Government
isn’t interested in discouraging the current
betting madness or in yoking the punting
instinct to some useful purpose. It merely
wants some easy money for needy supporters.
The Proposed Swindling of a Small
Sister.
There are still signs of life in the proposal
that the Commonwealth should break faith
over the railway-building agreement which
was part of the terms on which the Northern
Territory was handed over to it. The idea
is that it. should abandon the development
of all the south and centre of its own vast
property and devote most of the Federal
money and railway mileage to opening up
Queensland and N. S. Wales instead. This
is to be done by setting aside the plan of
a transcontinental line across the Common-
wealth’s own territory at its widest part,
and building instead a railway, from Bourke
(N.S.W.) to Camooweal (Q.), and after
that through as little as possible of the
Federal Government’s own territory to the
sea. In the end, of course, it might be
arranged to drop the Federal territory out
of the business altogether, and have a purely
State line built with Federal money and
ending at Point Parker, where Thomas
Mcllwraitii’s land-grant line of earlier days
was to finish. The scheme as at present
outlined would leave the partially-completed
transcontinental railway—the 478 miles from
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta —a derelict end-
ing aimlessly at a stump. Its probable
further developments might make the
northern section from Darwin to Katherine
River (200 miles) a practically-abandoned
fragment also, and leave the Territory out
of sight indefinitely. Certainly there is no
more moral reason for keeping faith about
one end of the work than about the other, and
there is no more reason why Queensland, if
the idea looked payable, shouldn’t annex the
terminus of the Federal railway as well as
the middle. “A. Meston” (presumably the
well-known Queenslander Archibald of that
ilk) lately awakened the subject in the Syd-
ney press. The advantages of a line 2200
miles long from Sydney to Port Essington
(suggested in preference to Darwin), rather
than one only 1700 or 1800 miles long from
Adelaide, and with no breach of faith
attached, were dwelt upon eloquently. There
would be only about 500 more miles to fill
in on. the Broken Promise route, and 500
miles is nothing. Certainly in Meston’s
scheme of things N. S. Wales and Queens-
land are to pay for the part of the work
which would run through their territory, the
latter carrying the bigger load, because it
would have more mileage. But, if they are
willing to pay, it is hard to see why they,
and especially Queensland, should try so
hard to diddle South Aus. out of its
line —-why they don’t simply leave the Com-
monwealth out of the business altogether, and
set to work to build for themselves to the
Gulf along Mcllwraitii’s old track. Accord-
ing to Mr. Meston’s showing the line would
lie in specially-beautiful country if it “fol-
lowed the Point Parker route to the Nichol-
son,” and, being once there, and almost in
sight of the coast, it could hardly seem
worth while to carry it out of Queensland
at all. That would leave the Commonwealth
quite free to remain honest and build its own
line. The Administrator of the Territory,
in his latest report, says that “the great
pastoral zone commences south of the
Katherine, and constitutes a great and flour-
ishing industry, and our principal source of
revenue”; also he speaks of “the great
mineral belt. .. .between the Macdonnell
Ranges and Tennant’s Creek, having an area
of 125,000,000 acres, situated in the centre
of Australia,” which “cannot possibly be de-
veloped until made accessible by a railway.”
These alleged sources of wealth are on the
direct route that Australia is pledged to —
not on the long one through Queensland and
round by Leichhardt’s death-bed. Yet even
if they were not there a bargain is a bargain ;
and the one the Commonwealth made with
South Aus. cannot be broken. We have sold
a good many things for votes during the past
few years. It will be something to be
eternally ashamed of if the national honor is
added to the heap.
The Plague of “Pictures.”
Out of the mouth of a Mothers’ Union at
Melbourne Anglican Cathedral chapter-house
has come some wholesome criticism of the
movies. Originally, or in quotation, one
mother remarked: —
The films to-day are an unfair representation of
life. The importation of American slang and
American “sob-stuff” should be stopped. The mil-
lionaire who is out to wreck everyone who crosses
his path; the butterfly woman with marvellous
clothes; the übiquitous motor-car —all are untrue to
life, and art is bound up with truth. All this must
react upon the future life of the children. The effect
is not only shown in occasional trouble in police
circles; the real damage to the child is something
more subtle and dangerous.
Another mother admitted that she didn’t often
go to picture-shows, because they “bored her
stiff.” She gave admirable reasons for the
stiffening process.
She objected to the slushy sentiment of the aver-
age American picture more than to the little bit of
naughtiness, for that is less harmful than the slushi-
ness. The stupidity of heroes and heroines is detest-
able, and the spoiled only child of film parents is
insufferable. The wonderful dresses of these spoiled
darlings make the average girl dissatisfied with her
lot, and the wonderfully smart exploits of the only
son, the apple of his parents’ eyes, make boys think
their fathers old buffers. Does the American family
always consist of only one?
Most of the things the mothers said can be
urged also against much of the spoken drama
that comes from ’Murka. The greater evil of
the pictures is in their greater frequency.
The average young citizen might see four or
five farcical comedies in a year that are
antipathetic to the settled policy of Mrs.
Gicuni>y in bringing the holy bonds of matri-
mony into contempt. At the picture-shows
he might see lawful wedlock repellently pre-
sented four or live times a week. Some-
times one -can see two henpecked-husband
and one weeping-wife films at the same sui-
ting. Literary drama, light comedy and the
bellowdrama which falls so heavily on crude
villainy and is so encouraging to artless vir-
tue appeal altogether to a very limited pub-
lic compared with the truthless film. The
difference between the spoken play and a
story in dumb show is always an exaggera-
tion of 'untruthfulness. The excess of action
is invariably false and usually unwholesome.
That more than decent little comedy, “The
Man from Toronto,” for instance, is
coarsened, vulgarised and robbed of its
native air of reality when pictured as “Les-
sons in ixive,” with a padded plot and added
details. And if not pernicious in thern-
seh s, American pictures are likely to be per-
nio. ous in their advertisements, which fre-
quently trust to such quotations from the
text as this: “The last six dames that
tickled this typewriter married tin- last six
guys that worked at that desk.” The attrac-
tion of such a film, seemingly, lies in the
“charm” of that slang, which is probably
prepared for export, for only the very poorest
type of American —mostly the unacclimatised
city type—have any use for it themselves.
Where is the national pride of the Great Re-
public? More than almost anything-else this
country wants the friendship of the other
great Pacific Power, and it wants to feel
brotherhood. But the U.S.A., judged by
that American thing which the Australian
knows best, appeals only to those citizens
whose friendship is worth least and means
least; the others that thing repels. Is it not
time the Republic refused to allow itself to
be put in the position of being so misjudged?
An Internationalist on His Creed.
“Yours for the Revolution Bob Ross :
The Bulletin asks (B. 14/7/’2l)
(a) Do the new internationalist Laborites believe
in the White Australia policy?
(b) If so, how do they propose to defend it should
it he forcibly attacked ?
I agree with you that these are “vital proposi-
tions,” and it would give me considerable satisfac-
tion to discuss the issues off my own bat. Much,
however, as I appreciate your invitation to explain
where my party stands—and by “party” I understand
you to mean the Trade Union Congress—l am afraid
I cannot speak as one having authority. I sought
a chance to defend something Congress quite defi-
nitely stands for: you meet the quest for bread by
hurling a stone. Very effectively hurled it is, I
allow, and it is a real regret that your dexterity
cannot be countered. The fact is that the Congress
did not explicitly restate where it stands on White
Australia.
I know where I stand. I stand for a White Aus-
tralia while Capitalism lasts, or as long as we can
hold it without war, or until Socialism says other-
wise. If I were not an Anti-Militarist and an Inter-
nationalist I could quite easily be with you on
White Australia right up to the hilt. Your position
is simple; mine is complex. 1 look to Anti-Militar-
ism and Internationalism more soundly stabilising
White Australia than your splendid fanaticism will
or can do.
Nevertheless, I do wish that many apologists for
“the new Labor doctrine”—your characterisation—
knew, like myself, where you stood a quarter of a
century ago, and how much it moulded our land
then and for to-day. Because of this knowledge, I
am perpetually in hot water with some of. the
brethren. Still, in a burst of horrible candor, let me
urge that The Bulletin does not stand on related
issues where it stood, conspicuously inspiring, 25
years ago; and thus its White Australia posture,
while the same, has become attached to a quite dif-
ferent philosophy.
Let me point out in respect of (a) that the Trade
Union Congress did not assemble to entirely overhaul
the Labor platform, but only to advise what it con-
ceived to be essential in the way of an industrial
policy of reconstruction. I infer that the Labor
party’s plank of “The Maintenance of a White Aus-
tralia” remains intact until decreed otherwise.
Congress declared for Labor Councils of Action
in all the lands bordering the Pacific, with a view
to blocking the next bloody saturnalia most of the
experts are busy scheduling for the Pacific. It is
also proposed that Australian Labor take the initia-
tive in convening a Pan-Pacific Congress of the
Labor movement. At it I assume that the move-
ment will declare a common policy on inter-racial
relationships affecting tariffs, immigration and emi-
gration, indentured and cheap labor, color, etc. These
decisions seem to me to be statesmanlike and genius.
Having said so much I shall be honest and add that
among “the new internationalist Laborites” keen
controversy rages round the White Australia policy,
and that as an outcome anything is possible.
The answer to (b) is—l can’t say, though I hope-
fully expect it will be defence by control of the
economic processes. Let us hurry to our Pan-Pacific
Congress—the Labor one—and fix it all up. Mean-
while, the Labor party’s position is as it has been,
with some prospect (I deduce) of the party’s special
Tnter-State Congress at Brisbane in October revalu-
ing the whole of its programme.
And now, what about the Socialisation of indus-
try? Will The Bulletin open its pages to an Aus-
tralian’s case for an Australian socialisation?
In the circumstances, No. If White Aus-
tralia goes everything goes and there will be
nothing to socialise except ruins. Mr. Ross
talks hopefully of defending Australia
against Asiatic invasion “by control of
the economic processes,” and of hold-
ing a Pan-Pacific Conference of trade-
union delegates (the trade-union delegate
has about as much power in Asia as Binghi
among us). to discuss Asiatic immigration
and militarism, “and fix it all lip,” as if the
resolutions of a few obscure individuals could
bind Japan, China, India for all time! If
this is really the programme of the new
Internationalist Laborites, it is even more
infatuated than The Bulletin thought.


T*l e Farmers & Settlers Co-operative Insurance Co. of
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Enter the Army Legal Corps.
A few weeks ago the Federal Government
was trying to impose the Army Act on Aus-
tralia’s citizen trainees. The claim was then
made that anyone who objected to serving
under the Army Act must be a “bad liat,”
since it was the ideal form of military gov-
ernment. Now the essence of the Army
Act is the enforcement of discipline by
means of courts-martial, composed not of
legal experts but of soldiers. Last Satur-
day the Government admitted, inferentially,
that the Army Act is an undesirable relic of
the past by foreshadowing in a special
Gazette issue a reform which The Bul-
letin has been demanding for a few years
past. The establishment of an Army Legal
Corps will, if it is carried out with logic
and courage, give the soldier justice for the
first time in history. But the extraordinary
manner in which the change has been intro-
duced—at the tail end of the session, and
shortly after a vehement defence by Senator
Pearce of the system which is its antithesis
—suggests either (1) that the Defence Min-
ister hardly appreciates the full significance
of what is proposed or (2) that his military
advisers mean by it something very different
from what the mere Digger who saw the old
arrangement at work overseas means. The
latter theory is supported by the proviso that
officers of the new department “are not to
rank higher than lieut.-colonel.” The idea
at the back of the agitation for an Army
Legal Corps is a simple one: it is that a
soldier’s liberty is as dear to him as his
health, and that he should, therefore, have
the same right to be attended by experts in
the one case as in the other. The A.l.F.’s
Army Medical Corps was stiff with full
colonels, and it boasted several generals,
while it is directed under peace conditions
by a general. Chaplain-generals were com-
mon (the Bishop of Bathurst became one
within 18 months of his embarkation from
Australia), and chaplain-colonels were fea-
tures of every base camp and of many troop-
ships. The effect of offering relatively poor
prospects to those who join the Legal Corps
will be the same as if a like policy were
pursued in one of the other specialist lines.
Even bishops react favorably to the stimu-
’ lus of high military rank and its accom-
paniments. The certain effect of pursuing
a half-hearted, niggling policy with the new
corps will be to cause the defeat of its chief
end —namely the attraction of the best class of
junior barrister, and at least a sprinkling of
eminent seniors. Another point to which
Parliament should address its attention when
the time arrives is the necessity for the
completest possible divorce between the com-
batant soklier and the military lawyer in
the handling of the court business. A sol-
dier, as such, has no more right to assume
the function of Judge than he has to per-
form a surgical operation. The organism
of British justice is fully as complicated as
the human body, and equally liable to show
disastrous results in unskilled hands. The
whole duty of the officer, therefore, in re-
gard to a soldier charged with a military or
other crime, should end when, on information
duly laid, the suspect has been removed to
stand his trial, in the same way as an
invalid soldier’s unit temporarily loses con-
trol of him when he is evacuated to hospital.
If these broad principles are adhered to in
the creation of the new organisation the
common pacifist catch-cry of the horrors of
militarism will lose its weight. Discipline—
the only sort of discipline which is of any
value —will not be in the least affected. And
Australia will have earned the distinction of
being the first quarter of the British Empire
to inaugurate a reform which must shortly
become universal.
♦
Australian Universities.
From an Australian laboratory:—
The remarks made recently by an Adelaide pro-
fessor concerning the lack of scientific research in
Australian Universities were justified. Not one of
our six institutions is a University as the word is
applied in other lands. They are glorified technical
colleges, given over exclusively to the job of train-
ing young men and women so that the earning capa-
cities and social status of these may be increased.
Apart from ensuring that there shall be no lack of
trained workers in the professions, they bestow no
benefit upon the community.
Broadly, a University is a place where efforts are
made to increase the sure of human knowledge; the
instruction of those wanting it for the purpose of
earning a living is entirely a secondary considera-
tion, and a function added in comparatively recent
times.
The Australian Universities came into existence
in response to a definite demand that Australia might
provide its own doctors and lawyers instead of having
to send abroad for them. At the same time, how-
ever, it was intended by their founders, in most
eases, that they should investigate new phases of
knowledge—in short, that they should be centres of
culture. That the two functions are not incom-
patible is demonstrated by the American Universi-
ties, which, having been created by influences exactly
similar to those which created the Australian Univer-
sities, carry out an immense amount of valuable
research work while equipping students for the pro-
fessions. In this country, partly because of Government
indifference, and partly because of lack of public in-
terest, Universities have ceased almost entirely to
be anything else but mills taking in the raw material
at one end and passing out the partly-finished pro-
duct at the other. And because of the absence of
research among those who constitute the Faculties,
even the training imparted cannot be as complete as
it should be.
Doubtless under present conditions this state of
affairs has to prevail. There is not an institution that
has sufficient money for its needs, and not one that
is not crammed with students. Professors, lecturers
and demonstrators all have their hands full with their
programmes of classes, which leave them hardly any
time to spare, certainly not enough in which to
engage in research work. There are few research
workers to be found in the laboratories for one
thing; there is no room for them, and if they have
not private means by which to live the Universities
cannot afford to maintain them. Hence, during the
past 20 years or so practically no new thing of any
value to society has come out of the Universities, and
at present there are only two places where research
work is done —the Bacteriological Lab. of Melbourne
Uni. and the Physiological Lab. of Sydney Uni. Yet,
in the English and American institutions, scarcely
a week passes without some new fact being brought
to light by the workers there.
The Universities must find some means of altering
the present position before they can look for
THE TIGER THAT TURNED.
“The unemployed members of Queensland A.W.U. accuse the Labor Ministry of putting the boot
into the worker, and of being the enemy of the working-man.”
THEODORE: “ The indignity of it! And to think I brought the beast up myself, too, on
asses , milk!!”
help from outside. Men like Andrew Carnegie and
Eastman, the camera-manufacturer, who recently gave
£2,000,000 to an American educational institution,
have contributed huge sums primarily that knowledge
and learning might be advanced for the ultimate good
of the world, not that there might be more doctors
or engineers; and for so long as wealthy men in
this country—they being the class from whom endow-
ments are to be expected—-see that monetary presents
to a University mean only that some other man’s
son may be able to increase his earning capacity by
virtue of a degree in medicine or law, they will
continue to refuse financial aid, and in the circum-
stances they can hardly be blamed.
A “Please-Explain” Army.
By a former officer of high rank: —
Short of work, full of grouse, and hard up—this
is the state of Australia’s permanent military forces
to-day. It is bad to be out of work and drawing
no pay. It is worse for men to be out of work and
drawing pay, for it saps moral.
Australia cannot afford to maintain an establish-
ment of permanent soldiers on the present scale,
because Australia cannot afford a Citizen Force big
enough to keep them usefully employed. M.L. saw
this long ago. It paid many of its permanent staff
off and told them to get work.
Hughes and Massey are in London pledging their
respective countries to join in the Imperial Naval
Defence scheme. In so doing they are doing well.
But there is a staggerer coming when the Admiralty
tells them what it will mean, in figures. Despite
Joe Cook's mangled and camouflage surplus of
£6,000,000, Australia is going to be very hard put
to it to finance its proper contribution towards Naval
defence. It is a certainty that there will not be
any great amount left for other forms of defence;
and if this money is wisely allocated it will be ear-
marked for aviation development rather than for the
maintenance of staff-officers and n.c.o.’s who are busy
writing “Please explain” to each other and accom-
plishing little of real value.
The trouble is, of course, that, apart from a
small bunch at military headquarters whose interest
it is to preach the need for this expensive but
relatively unnecessary outfit, nobody lias training
enough to appreciate that Naval, Air and Army
expenditure should be as 0. 3, 1. This small bunch
}ias an influence with the Government out of all
proportion to what it should have. The Australian
Navy has no forceful spokesman, and the Army is
running the Air Force. The views of one man—a
soldier —dominate the Council of Defence.
The Australian permanent military establishments
could be cut by 50 per cent, and nothing but good
come of it. The money saved could well be put
into naval and aerial development, for when the
next war comes it is these arms which will be
wanted in a hurry. Under cover of their protection
the Empire can, as before, mobilise its reserves of
man power.
Moreover, permanent soldiering in Australia is a
blight. The system blights the members. They
don’t get enough to do, therefore they rust. The
Permanent Force was full of the “Please explain”
type of soldier in 1914, and 50 per cent, of them
were no good for the field. In 10 years’ time, if
present conditions continue, those who are left will
be just the same.
“Sucrose ’: Extract from Chairman A. J.
Draper’s remarks at the last annual meet-
ing of the Mulgrave Central (Sugar) Mill,
Cairns:—
Mill whites have played an important part during
the past season, when about 1100 tons were sold at
a satisfactory figure. The Federal Government
demanded, and was paid, an excise of about £7
per ton on this sugar before permitting us to sell
on the open market.
Neither the present nor the last Excise tariff
so much as mentioned sugar. Under what
law, then, is the manufacturer of raw sugar
required to pay £7 per ton before he can
place his product on the open market?
Babinda mill, owned, or, at least, controlled,
by the Queensland State Government, has
also been selling sugar in its neighborhood,
and as it has been charging 6d. per lb. cash
for 701 b.-bags it may be assumed that tile
Federal Government has beep tapping it, too,
for £7 per ton. It would be interesting to
know whether Maffra, in Victoria, which
does not sell to the refineries, has also been
paying this £7 per ton to the Commonwealth
Treasury. From the tariff debates one would
judge that the settled policy of the Govern-
ment and of the country is to assist the
manufacturer. How, then, can the penalis-
ing of these manufacturers be justified?
*.
One of the fruits of Labor rule in Queens-
land is adult franchise in municipalities, and
the first elections under the new order of
things were held on Saturday. The result
was bad for the party which stands for un-
limited borrowing and “socialisation”—so
bad that the Theodore Government’s hold
on office begins to look precarious, and the
Labor candidate for Maranoa must be feel-
ing glum. And nowhere did the axe fall
more heavily than in Brisbane, where Lewis
McDonald, secretary of tha. Queensland
Executive of the A.L.P., was beaten for the
mayoralty by the Nationalist candidate Din-
dams. Nationalist rule of Brisbane has
been in no way brilliant. Compared with
other Australian cities, the Queensland capi-
tal is municipally backward. But the elec-
tors decided that the stodgy devil they knew
was preferable to the glittering devil they
didn’t know. Although the Labor party pro-
mised, if returned, to “build dwellings for
the people wherever necessary,” and provide
“free ferries, popular lectures, concerts, organ
recitals, theatrical and pictorial entertain-
ments of an instructive and enlightening char-
acter,” and establish a Greater Brisbane
scheme, with 21 aldermen at £BOO a year and
a mayor at £l5OO, they refused to be im-
pressed. Not even the promise of the South
Brisbane Labor candidates to “endeavor to
arouse public opinion, and bring pressure to
bear on the Commonwealth Bank to estab-
lish credit accounts and finance public bodies
at 1 per cent, interest”- —a policy, it was
added, which had been made practicable by
“the action of the All-Australian Labor Con-
gress in making control of national credit
the principal fighting plank of the Labor
platform”—aroused any noticeable degree of
enthusiasm among those who went to the
poll. Perhaps the things they had heard
about the Labor-bossed Sydney Council had
chilled their ardor.
♦ '
An organisation calling itself “the Victorian
Auxiliary of the Australian Student Chris-
tian Movement” has held two conferences at
Melbourne to deplore the White Australia
policy, and may hold more. At its last
function it was addressed by Dr. Strong, of
Seattle (U.S.), who recommended an admix-
ture of the negro because of Uncle Tom’s
“music, humor and • oratory.” But even
without Uncle Tom Australia is doing fairly
well in music; and there is enough
humor in its Profiteering . Bills to go
on with. As for oratory, this country
has too much of it already, and, anyway,
Uncle Tom’s is the same sort as that of our
brown friend Henare Maniapoto, of Maori-
land —long and turgid and of little practical
use. Next the master of Ormond College
said that “the idea that any sections of the
human race were to be permanently segre-
gated could not for a moment be enter-
tained.” He didn’t say how or why. Pos-
sibly. no segregation is permanent. Possibly
nothing is. Yet if Australia can found a
virile white race and keep it distinct as
long and as well as the Japanese or the
•Tews have kept themselves distinct, it will
be something to start with. Finally, there
was old politician Sam Mauger, who was
senior member for Beargrass when Batman
arrived and found William Buckley, the
“wild white man.” Samuel said that White
Australia “went straight in the teeth of the
teaching of Jesus Christ.” Possibly
Samuel lias been mixing up the teaching of
Jesus, the Hebrew rabbi and founder of
the Nazarenes, who preached up and down
Palestine the purification of the Law,
and that of Paul, the hurried, eager cos-
mopolitan, who wandered far and wide, and
mixed up with the very-much-colored - folks
at Rome, and created a new sect and did
lots of things. If Mauger will separate
the two characters he may find that the case
for White Australia isn’t so unscriptural,
after all.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
ft-SWMONT de PIETE
Toi C9T LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh 5t.74. Sydney
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone Ciiy 9325
SwcAej st- 29 Kmc Sr..Ntwt*sm.HSW- to* swa«to.st
m Adelaide Sißmbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh St„IS9 6eorgeSt.Wesf, Sydney.
Joseph W Mill, General n*na S er\
r
w
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete R. and I. C'o. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
From tlie Federal Gallery:—
The affable Arthur Rodgers hadn’t a pleasant job
in confessing the defects of tlie War Service Homes
administration to the Reps, last week, and it was
inevitable that in his hour-and-a-half’s discourse,
revealing wholesale ineptitude and carelessness, he
would create in members’ minds a criticism of his
colleague, Senator Millen; and when he disclosed
the proceedings over the appointment of Lieut.-
Colonel Walker and the subsequent dropping.of that
officer on what may yet prove a technicality, the
A REVERSAL.
ELECTOR : “Funny thing, one time I thought
I owned that dog. But now, thanks to
party politics, Em afraid he owns me!”
impression prevailed that Millen wasn’t whitewashed
by his colleague’s information. Millen subsequently
avowed his ignorance of a certain telegram vital
to the case of the Commissioner, but the emphatic
declaration of an official named Gilbert that the
wire was filed and had been more than once brought
under the Senator’s attention convicts one or other
of defective memory at least. But the affair of
Colonel Walker was only one groan in Rodgers’s tale
of woe. He told how £2,972,721 was spent on the
acquisition of existing houses when only £150,000
had been allotted for the purpose. He admitted
charges of fau.«.y building in various Staves, a.id a.sh
re-. a. ked that nouses had cost more than the statu-
tory £BOO owing to the practice of the day-moor
system. Of course there was uproar at that; but the
din failed to prove that either system is immune to
the operations of speculative outsiders. The Govern-
ment, however, is now committed to contract, but
its promise of stricter supervision isn’t half the
atonement demanded for the chaos, incapacity and
worse of the last two years. Something more e,en
than the mere sacking of subordinates is called for.
“When Colonel Walker was War Service
Homes Commiss.oner, a Sydney arcnitect
ottered bum a br.be of £50,000 if he would
let a contract for 10,000 houses.’ Interest-
ing contr,button of Bamfoid, M.H.R., to the
donate m the House of Reps, on the Diggers,
dwellings. “The • name _ot the architect,
Bamford proceeded, "is in a letter w rittcn
bv Walker to Senator Mitten, and that letter
is on the files.” Rodgers, Assistant-Min.s.er
for Repatriation, professed ignorance ot the
document, but possibly the Pariiamentaiy
committee which is inspecting Billjun s home
at long range will d.g it up—or dig Walker
up. It amounts to the same thing.
In Queensland nowadays, although the
principal mines are shut down and the wool
and dead-meat industries are sick and unem-
ploved abound, and the Government is re-
duced to begging for temporary accommoda-
tion and paying it off by small monthly
instalments, there is one _ industry _ tuat is
having a perfectly rosy time —the industry
that nourishes high-minded patriots like
Wren. There is to be racing every day in
Brisbane this week.
When peace was signed the closing of bars
at 0 p.m., introduced to N. S. Wales as a
war measure, was continued for IS months,
whereupon there was to be a referendum.
The Storey Government dropped the refer-
endum on the score of economy—-it was in
process of awarding each of the DO Assembly-
men a rise of £3(5 p.a.—aiid last week a
Sydney magistrate decided that Mr. lickle-
brain 'was entitled to revert to the pre-war
closing hour, 11 p.m. The chances are that
lie will waive his right, but that won t save
the clumsily perfid.ous Government from the
trouble it tried to avo.d. Clouds oi hornets
—no-license and otherwise —are preparing to
fasten on its large red neck.
It was cabled last week that Australian
meat is setting in London at 4|d. per lb., of
which sum the Australian grower gets lid,
the other 3d. going in expenses. As the lid.
doesn’t pay, many of the meatworks are
closed, and the men are unemployed, while
the squatters have mighty little to pay taxes
with. If Australia tried its hand at manu-
faeturing for itself 100 millions worth of the
finished goods that it imports, it seems (1)
that the new factories would support dUU.UUU
men at (say) £6 a week each, and their
families and hosts of dependants; (2) that
the meat would be consumed locally and fetch
4Jd. instead of lid.; (3) that the meatworks
would be going; (4) that there would be a
lot more revenue and a lot more people to
share the load of the public debt. But put-
ting people on the land to grow more meat,
instead of into factories to eat it, won t help
the situation. .
Westralia closed the year at June 30 with
its tenth consecutive deficit. There were
some previous ones, but they weren’t consecu-
tive. The first of the series (June, 1912)
arose because the great gold btate taxed its
people onlv 235. lid. per head against Tas-
mania’s 355. 2d. In 1915, 1916, 1917 and
1918 it achieved its object, or at least its
shortage, bv being deliberately the :most
lightly-taxed State in the Commonv/ealth in
1918 it collected from each inhabitant
295. Id., while Tasmania made ends meet by
enlarging its people 525. 6d. The new
shortage is £684,822. There is a theory that
the Commonwealth will never allow’ a State
to default lest the whole edifice of credit
should come down with a run. And that
may bo true. On the other hand, the con-
ditions it may impose on the insolvent may
be such that the insolvent may wish it had
never been born. .
While people are crowding into the Fair
Rents Court to complain that the landlord
demands another ss. a w T eek —and are gen-
erally told that, they had better pay it—the
usual quarterly strike has occurred in the
Svdney building trade. Judge Beeby lately
specified that “the week should be worked
in five days of eight hours and a Saturday
of four hours.” But Saturday is a racing
day, and no serf of the capitalist can be
expected to labor at his vocation when his
mind is brooding on “the we : ghts.” The
plasterers settled the matter by staying away
on Saturdays, thereby awarding themselves
a 40-hour week. When the other side retali-
ated by announcing that emplovees w’ho
didn’t turn up as agreed in the bond would
therebv write themselves off the pay-sheet,
the Union carried a resolution that “the
motive of the buttders in forcing our mem-
bers to wo”k on Saturday is one of vind'ct’ve-
ness.” Which means, in effect, that while
work is a curse at any time, work on
morning that Pigweed is down to run in
the Galloway Welter is a drove of
intolerable and unmitigated curses.
In addition to imposing the highest per
cap ta taxation in Austrai-a, the Queens.and
Labor Government played up millions of
loan money last year. &\\t Treasurer
Knelly, who wrote of Ins predecessors that
“their financial record is the recklessness
that spells national bankruptcy,” and whose
Government has borrowed 20 millions in six
years, isn’t a bit ashamed of it. On the
contrary, he.is astonisncu at his own modera-
tion.
The militant unionists who howl for “the
overthrow of the capitalist system” and the
control of industry by the workers are no-
where more persistent than at Broken Hill.
Already they have one “industry” under their
control* there—a daily paper. It has had
about 20 editors in as many years; and,
though it has compulsory subscribers, it has
eaten up one fund after another —it even got
the A.M.A. funeral fund “invested” in it.
Lately two factions inside have been busy
strangling one another to get possession.
AN EXPENSIVE FAMILY.
THE MAN WHO PAYS : “Strewth, I never
thought things would turn out like
this!"
Charges were made at a general meeting
against the editor, but the great proletariat
finally upheld him. Then the sub-editor and
the manager resigned, stating that they
wouldn’t work in the same premises with
the boss potentate. Next the executive of the
union took a hand and sacked the potentate.
As the other officials had resigned their jobs
the paper was then really vnthout any
management at all. It is a fine advt. for
“the workers’ ’’ ability to run things the s.ze
of the Broken Hill Prop.
The anti-taxation strike at Darwin is still
going strong. At latest Brennan, sec. of the
Butchers’ Union, was snorting at local resi-
dents who had petitioned that they be given
three months’ grace in which to pay. ‘No
taxes,” says Brennan, fresh from 28 days
martyrdom in prison for refusing to pay his
little'lot; “no taxes until representation is
secured, and only from such date as it is
secured!” The devout wish of Brennan s
hearers must be that the date will be post-
poned indefinitely. He won’t pay until an-
other £2OOO is added to the cost of govern-
ment, while those who have representation
feel like going on strike until public expendi-
ture is reduced by 500 times £2OOO.
Premier Dawson, who doesn’t often do
that sort of thing, threw a two-guinea
bouquet at himself in the Vic. Assembly
the other day. He told how Governor Stan-
ley had refused a dissolution to Bowser,
declined to give a commission to George
Elmslie, and entrusted him (Lawson) with
the leadership, “and I venture to affirm,
he modestly added, “that the dec 5 s'on of the
Governor has been abundantly justified.” The
House tried to look serious, but couldn t
manage it There was a hilarious chorus,
in which the passed-out Bowser and the
philosophic Peacock were conspicuous.
From the Federal Gallery : —■
In some respects Senator Jupp Gardiner is the
nark of his party, and his dismal howling at Pro-
tection isn’t music in the ears of Dr. Maloney,
Matthews, Anstev and others of his colleagues in
the Reps, who helped to build the tariff which he
is denouncing. So he will probably be spoken to at a
caucus meeting, and if he doesn’t emerge a little
damaged in his amour pro-re the power of Anrtey
and Matthews in the matter of scorching reproof
isn’t what it seems to be. But no amount of dis-
course will remove Gardiner’s Ereetrade leanings.
Lately he showed an ingenious Cobden attitude by
suggesting a 24 p.c. reduction on imports brought
in Commonwealth ships; and some day, when a
needy Treasurer looks for extra revenue in that
way, Gardiner, if he is alive, will surely be offered
a knighthood for the tip.
Let’s hope the new Brotherhood of Man
union.sts apprec.ate this advt. from the Wel-
lington (31. L.) Evening Post (J/</21) .
HINDU CANVASSERS.
Wanted, 20 Hindus, to Canvass Nancy Goods, Drap-
ery, and some Grocery Lines.
Application by letter to •
The Jap party politician is a humorist,
too. According to a recent cable, Viscount
Ivato, ex-Minister for Foreign Affairs, says
“it is deplorable that the Japanese Govern-
ment is adopting a policy of extreme secrecy
in dealing with the Anglo-Japanese alliance
thereby caus.ng a crop of unfounded
rumors.” It was the same V iscount Kato who,
as Foreign Minister, presented Chma with
the famous Twenty-one Demands, ihe cen-
sorship was used in Japan and England to
keep the details secret, and when they did
leak out, via America, \ iscount Kato denied
every allegation made and attributed even
the questions asked in the House ol Com-
mons to German propaganda.
The returned soldiers who were marooneu
on the land at
Kentucky, 335
miles north of
Sydney, report that
they fi n d them-
seives in a roadless
conntr y, where
produce can’t be
got to a railway.
A vehicle with an
ordinary ' burden
has been known to
sink twice in 100
yards—to sink so
deep that it had to
be unloaded and re-
loaded. Meanwhile
the Dooley Minis-
try says that, de-
spite the loan
failure, it will
somehow find
£500,000 to make
smooth motor-
tracks round Syd-
ney, and the Syd-
ney-Botany railway
will be started
forthwith, and
there are hopes
about the Sydney-
Balmoral tramway and the Sydney-Narra-
been branch railway. That new. State must
come.'
Vic.’s latest political crisis extended over
a fortnight, and the lobby-writers were hard-
pressed to keep it going and include a fea-
ture” each day. To Baird, Webber and
Slater, who served in the trenches, it seemed
in accordance with the fitness of things that,
each party should dig in, but such tactics
are not magnificent, nor are they politics, lhe
old “intensive” two-days’ sro, with probably
an all-night sitting, is infinitely preferable.
Of 137,701 telephone instruments ordered
sinee August 134,282 were lately still unde-
livered. P.M.G. Wise querulously remarks
that the manufacturing countries appear to
be attending to their own needs first.. What
does he expect? If Australia made its own
telephones, then we could attend to our own
needs first.
From the Federal gallery:—
Arthur Rodgers, of the Federal Cabinet, is the-
equal of his colleague Massy Greene in urbanity, but
he hasn’t the other fellow’s icy aplomb in facing a
hostile Opposition, and his inexperience in “hack
chat” makes him an easy mark for a House which-
has been taught to expect in a Minister a capacity
to return insults with innuendoes. But he is so*
palpably straightforward and well-meaning that even
if he could he wouldn’t use the weapons which Hughes
and Cook employ to defend themselves. A course in-
repartee under the tuition of his present chief would
probably help him to get through a lot of dirty
weather, though it would remove the bloom of poli-
tical innocence which is his most engaging-
characteristic. A constitutionally fair man with
high principles and tremendous energy, he seems
a bit too good for politics. Plainly there is much
in the game that makes him writhe —particularly the
indecent manoeuvring on both -sides for the pleasure
of a party advantage.
On the old subject of prison reform the Age
quotes an unspecified authority as suggest-
ing that all the working prisoners at i ent-
ridge should be gathered into ‘‘one large wool-
len factory with modern appliances,” which
would employ 350 prisoners. Their labor
would be worth £52,000 a year, which
amount the Government should divide with
the workers, who for their part would also
“be placed in a position to earn an honest live-
lihood on release.” Hitherto the trades
unions have blocked most of the attempts to
run the prisons on commercial lines.
The woollen industry has, however,
some features that make it different.
Already thriving, it is, under 'Pro-
tection, bound to expand, and its possibilities
nre larger than those of any other manu-
facturing business. If, however, woollen-
trade urrons object to being “tainted with
prison-reformed felons,” as is threatened,
the obl’gation would be upon the Gove n-
ments to establish their own mills, where the
reformed men might earn the full reward of
their reformation.
A BOLSHIE DITTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the bourgeois blood is uiying iu the K u er,
And the winter hail pelrs madly from the skj ,
When a peek of roubles buys an ounce of butter
And the whisky springs have gone for ever dry ,
When the Whites are chasing Reds about the suburbs,
And the Pole is reaching out to get a gun,
You’ll admit, inquiring friend, Russian life’s a tunny
blend,
And a Bolshie’s lot is not a happy one.
When the famine-stricken people cry for breadstuff's
And the Moujik answers sourly “We have none ,
The Millennium may be near with a plenitude of beer,
But a Bolshie’s lot is not a happy one!
Wien the winds of winter make us shake and shiver
In the scanty rags our country can provide;
When the Chinese mercenary cries “Deliver!”
And you feel his bay’net pricking in your side;
Wien the latest edict tells you “Be not lavish,
•Tust as if you’d flour and sugar by the ton;
When the Devil wakes the mob that rob and ravish,
A Bolshie’s lot is not a happy one.
When the honest man is hiding in the shadow,
And the knave is strutting gaily in the sun,
You may touch your cap and cry “Lo, a lord is
passing by,”
But a Bolshie’s lot is not a happy one.
When you see the noble towns depopulated
And the kiddies begging offal in the street,
When the jaws of death have hunger unabated
. And the snows are but the city’s winding sheet;
When the brains of town and country have departed,
And yife alone are noodles who have none,
There may yet be joy in life and a savour in the
strife.
But a Bolshie’s lot is not a happy one.
When the square is just a hell of civic battle
And the brother meets the brother with a gun;
When the stream of leaden hail clears a bloody
human trail,
Oh, a Bolshie’s lot is not a happy one!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


THE COWBAIL DISTRICT PREMIERSHIP: THE LAST QUARTER.


PORTABLE WARMTH
r
PATON
The Electric Radiators sold by Metropolitan
Vickers are strong and efficient. They give a
clean, radiant heat. They can be moved from
room to room, wherever there is a lighting or
power point. They are economical. Get yours
before the rush.
ďf
m
21 Elizabeth Street, Jlelbourne,
304 Kent Street, Sydney.
d
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WRITER
LVfREH
<33
RKftTBEo
OAf-MAN POWERFUL SPEEDY LOW-PRICED
(2)0(§(§(1[§“
mmift
Quick Gears Pty. Ltd., 75 Penders Street, Thornbury, Victoria
The WILD CAT
LOUMN
The Queensland National Bank: •
Towards
Gross Written Repaying Nominal
r ,„.„ Profits Off. Depositors. Reserves.
1908 *lB7 088 £47,088 £BO,OOO £09,000
•• 87 895 37*895 40,000 79,000
loin ' 90 058 40,058 40.000 89,000
Ini? ‘ ’ 92 449 31 449 50 000 100,000
g Sa as sks
ll\i :: s;’ss = BSK xSSiSS
HKS = 5!:2i ill®
1918 — 103,666 223,564
Net T°
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919 £lOB 346 10 p.c. = £53,144 £55,202 £-78,766
1920 104 673 10 „ „ 77 274 27,399 306,165
B«:: uKIi i0,;79,746 35,795 341,960
During the year the Q.N. lost its old g.-m.,
W. V. Ralston, and M. G. Haymen, who
has managed at headquarters for 12 yeais
and had been chief accountant for many years
previously, is now at the wheel. But Mr.
Daymen goes to the bridge ot a proposition
very different from that which faced his old
chief, who, on the death of Col. Drury in the
’nineties, suddenly found himself elevated
from branch-manager at Rockhampton to
control the affairs of a bank which had been
badly buffeted in the big storm. His first
iob was to devise means of more or less
satisfying the bank’s creditors. Ralston at
once began to clean up: for a start a lot of
capital and reserves w 7 as swept away, then
interminable stock to represent 15s. in the £
of private deposits was issued, and he under-
took that the bank would repay in cash, out
of profits, the balance of ss. and the 1& mil-
lion or so of Government deposits for which
there were no visible assets. Altogether, he
undertook the stupendous task of shifting
ilj millions of debt before shareholders could
again get a look in. Things worked out
better than Ralston had anticipated, and
three years ago he w T as able to turn out the
last of the dead-horses and prepare share-
holders for the shock of again receiving divi-
dend warrants. But the old g.-m. did more
than clean up the mess of the ’nineties.
Favorable conditions had permitted him to
get somewhat ahead of the programme he
had planned, but rather than rush things he
wisely set about strengthening the bank. So
at tlie end of 1918 visible reserves almost
equal to half of the severely written-down
capital of £480,000 had been accumulated,
and there was reason to believe that there
were, in addition, considerable internal re-
serves. Moreover, in straightening out the
affairs of the Q.N., Ralston decided that it
was not a bank’s job to run station proper-
ties and sugar-fields, no matter how success-
ful these old foreclosed assets thrown on
the bank’s hands might now be, and he there-
fore passed such enterprises over to tw r o in-
dependent cos. —the Millaquin Sugar and. the
Q. N. Pastoral cos. Both have developed into
sound and profitable concerns.
So the Q.N. is nowadays not only cleansed
of its old troubles and become rejuvenated,
but, thanks to the three millions or so. of 34
p.c. interminable stock and to the public’s con-
fidence, it is in a very favorable position
from the viewpoint of shareholders. Though
paid capital lias been increased from £4SO,OOG
to £798,003 during the past three years, the
management is still able to set aside a visible
9s. for every £ passed out to shareholders in
the 10 p.c. divs. Since the 1918 balance
£llB,OOO-odd has been in this way laid aside.
Probably, owing to the higher exchange and
other charges, combined with the unusually
large volume of imports, and notwithstand-
ing heavier exes., the Q.N. did better during
the past 12 months than its disclosed net
profits indicate. The bank is nowadays not
so communicative as it used to be: at one
time it showed gross profits (after providing
for contingencies) and also expenses; now
one line in the accounts gives merely the “net
profit” claimed by the management. On the
average total of interest-earning assets (not
including premises) the latest net profit dis-
closed is under 14 p.c. A closer examina-
tion of balance-sheet details over the period
since war finance effected big changes in bank
assets indicates very clearly that concerns
like the Q.N. are putting by much apparent
profit to provide for contingencies, or that
expenses are making much greater inroads
on gross earnings than formerly. It may
be some of both. This one’s assets now T tot
up £lOO,OOO or so less than in 1915, but
note the increase in some of the revenue-
producing lines: —
1915- 1921.
War Loan .. .€050,956 Inc. €050,906
Securities b *! *€166,200 150,362 Dec. 15,838
Short-call money
Treasury ® bS£ 401,800 450,000 Inc. 48,200
Advances 6,288,587 6,972,710 Inc. 681,123
€6,856,587 €8,124,028 Inc. €1,267,441
A net 1 p.c. on a million and a quarter of
interest-earning assets would alone produce
more than this bank claims from the whole
of its transactions during the past abnormal
12 months.
The reason for the shrinkage of the
balance-sheet totals is that the Q.N. is no
longer banker for the Queensland btate Bov-
ernment: under the agreement which trans-
ferred the Savings Bank to the Common-
wealth Bank, that account is now with the
Commonwealth institution. But the Q.N. is
apparently not much concerned about losing
it: profitable use could not be made of the
Government funds, which were callable with-
out notice, while exchange operations on
behalf of the Government, which at one time
were considerable, had of late years become
practically non-existent. In fact, the man-
agement claims that, owing to altered con-
ditions, the account latterly had not been
profitable. At March 31 last the Q.N. held
nearly 1! million of Government money, but
whatever was left of that had been trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth Bank before
the accounts were made, up in June. Com-
nared with 12 months 'ago the Q.N. was,
however, holding £479,170 more private de-
posits, and three millions more than 10
years ago.
The £3,091,069 of interminable stock is, in
effect, cheap preference capital. Including
it with the £789,003 of paid capital and the
£341,900 of reserves remaining after pay-
ment of the final div., the bank showed
£4,231,032 off funds. Deposits and other
liabilities totalled £7,338,505. So the Q.N.
held less than £1 15s. of the public’s money
for every £ permanently on the premises.
That is an extraordinarily small proportion
of outside liabilities, and on paper there is
no other proprietary bank in the Common-
wealth which offers the depositor such secu-
rity. It means that considerably more than
one-third of the book value of all assets would
have to be lost before a penny of depositors’
and other creditors’ money was imperilled.
And at the balance no less than 57 p.c. of
all liabilities was protected by cash, notes,
etc., and investments which have been writ-
ten down to market value.
* -*• *- *
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney), paper merchants and wholesale
stationers
f Dividends \ To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. 5 p.c. prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves,
jyjy €81,924
1916 €37,561 €4325 10 p.c.= €25,423 €7,813 89,737
1917 40,861 4325 10 „ ~ 25,423 11,113 100,850
1918 44,908 4325 10 „ „ 25,423 14,260 115,110
1919 47,028 4325 10 ~ ~ 25,423 17,280 132,390
Transferred to capital, €50,000 . . 82,390
1920 69,766 4325 10 p.C.= 27,923 37,518 119,908
1921 60,328 4325 10 ~ „ 35,423 20,580 140,488
This eo. has been in business since the mid-
’eighties, but the public has been interested
only a half-dozen years, the Articles havmg
been amended in 1915 to permit quotation
of the shares on ’Change. When they blos-
somed as a public co. the old proprietors did
not reconstruct, as many others have done
in similar circumstances, so the first
accounts showed the whole of paid capital
represented by tangible assets, besides which
there were visible reserves equal to almost
os. 6d. per ordinary £ share. Owing to war
influences the past six years have been
eventful for the trade. Unprecedented paper
prices gave exceptional profit-earning oppor-
tunities. On the other hand, the high prices
necessitated the raising of considerable capi-
tal to finance operations: during the past
year 100,000 shares were issued at par ta
holders. Also two years ago £50,000 of re-
serves was converted into scrip, so the re-
turn is a shade better than 30 p.c. During
the past five years such luscious profits have
been made in rising markets that, although
nearly £140,000 has been required to pay
regular 10 p.c. divs., published reserves have
expanded by £50,750. The past year, though
visibly not so good as the previous one, pro-
bably showed record figures—up to a certain
point. Prices then crashed unexpectedly,
with the result that many traders are loaded
with stocks for which they cannot hope to
find a market at anything like cost price.
This co.'s balance-sheet covers the 12 months’
operations to April 30 last, but it was not
presented until a little over a week ago, so
the management had nearly 21 months in
which to reflect on the value which it should
place on stocks held in April. These stocks
are shown to have been heavy, but under
date of July 19 the directors report that they
had been “valued at replacement cost or
less,” while “adequate provision has been
made for any possible loss on book debts,
or any fall in the value of the co.’s invest-
ments.” After making all these provisions,
the disclosed profit for the year showed
nearly 14 p.c. on ordinary capital.
The next comparison indicates how bal-
ance-sheet figures have moved since the first
accounts were published in 1915 -
1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . . . . £ 18.994 £ 105,498 £ 101,187
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 88,516 80,598 80,598
Stock 187,314 219,940 276,351
Sundry debtors .. . . 180,452 202,957 332,932
Cash and investments . . 17,348 129.620 122,406
Investments comprise War Loan holding and
shares in “carefully selected cos.” Plant and
fixings, which six years ago were given a
book value of close upon £BOOO, have been
entirely written out of the accounts. So
long as there is no further considerable fall
in paper prices the co.’s position is very snug.
To represent the £490,740 of paid capital,
£80,509 of which is 5 p.c. preference, there
was, at the balance, £570,503 of net liquid
assets, including stock and book debts, and
in addition premises with a book value of
£80,598.
The Argus Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911.. £lB7B 7 p.c. = £1474 £404 £3718
1912.. 1670 7 „ „ 1542 128 3846
1913.. 2096 7 „ „ 1549 547 4393
1914.. 2460 7 „ „ 1568 892 5285
1915.. 2640 7 „ „ 1624 1016 6301
1916.. 2085 7 ~ „ 1646 439 6740
1917.. 1706 7 ~ „ 1646 60 6800
1918.. 1934 7 „ „ 1646 288 7088
1919.. 2070 7 ~ „ 1640 424 7512
1920.. 2139 7 „ „ 1646 493 8005
Written oft, £3OO .. 7705
1921.. 2973 9 p.c. = 2161 812 8517
This little nuilding society began in the Mel-
bourne land-boom days, and was one of the
very few which survived the crash without
having to reconstruct and write down capital,
so nowadays it proudly proclaims, in large
type, that its dividend rate is on “original
share capital.” Of course, the co. did not
get through unscathed. Heavy losses w r ere
sustained, but they were gradually made good
out of profits. Twenty years ago payment of
divs. was resumed and gradually the rate was
lifted from 3 to 1 p.c., the latter being main-
tained for 10 years. Now, for the past 12
months, 9 p.c. is paid with greater ease than
7 p.c. was paid formerly. The war interfered
with business, and during the abnormal
period advances were considerably curtailed.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures over the period
1914. 1918. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. .. £22,462 £23,510 £23,510 £24,010
Deposits arid other
liabilities . . 30,715 11,646 21,284 22,404
Advances .. . . 56,065 42,795 47,710 51,997
Other assets . . 4,033 1,096 6,735 5,095
In 1914 the management was working on
of deposits, and a mortgage of
£7000; in 1918 only £7442 of deposits was
on hand; but at the latest balance £13,404
was at work, together with £3570 raised on
mortgage and £5332 borrowed from the eo.’s
bankers. The early war years were marked
by heavy repayments, but no doubt that
suited the management well, for though it
meant reduced earnings it made the posi-
tion of the society more secure during the
abnormal period. However, the advance
business has again been built up to within
nearly £4OOO of the figures of seven years
ago, and as the new loans are earning higher
interest, income is larger. Exes, have not
grown to any extent, so, after paying interest
on deposits, overdrafts, etc., a record profit
has shown up. The deposits are well pro-
tected. At the latest balance there were
net assets with a book value exceeding
£48,000 to protect £13,404 entrusted to the
co.
11l aw area Coke Co.. Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
, Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Writ- Re-
Mar., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. ten off. serves.
1914.. £321 £321
Loss. Deficit.
1915.. 366 -- ----- 45
Profit. Reserves.
1916.. 1179 - . 1134
1917.. 4255 - -■ £5250 139
1918.. 6778 £2562 -■ 4000 355
1919.. 8564 8000 919
1920.. 7138 1587 6 p.c. = £3OOO 2000 1470
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up. Two
ordinary shares isf'ued for each ord. in old co.
1921.. 8268 800 4 p.c. = 4400 2500 2038
This co. owns the most northern of the chain
of cokeworks linked to the X. S. Wales South
Coast collieries. Construction began in 1914
on a leasehold area adjoining the Coal cl iff
colliery, and production commenced on a
limited scale about a year later. But when
the co. got its works and plant in full going
order, a series of mining strikes put a brake
on operations, and, as the table shows, it
was not in a position to pay arrears of pref.
divs. until 1918. In 1919, though trade had
slackened, owing chiefly to the cessation of
metal smelting, a fair profit was earned, but
the co. had uses for its cash other than
for the payment of divs. Besides having
had to provide for the shrinkage in value of
its leasehold property it has had to pay
£3OOO p!a. off a debenture debt. Paid capi-
tal until a year ago was £60,000, in 50,000
£1 ordinaries and 10,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
But that capital did not nearly finance the
enterprise : "contracts and leasehold rights ’
iook iOo.OOO, while £59,00U-odd was spent
on works. In consideration for receiving
a favorable coke contract, Mt. Morgan
hnaneed the enterprise to the extent of
tiU.uvo, in ti p.c. deoentures. This debt has
been reduced by £15,000 during the past live
years. Twelve months ago the outlook for
the coke industry appeared so bright that the
management, no doubt influenced by the
profit-snatching threats of the State Labor
Government, uec.aed that it would be advan-
tageous to reconstruct on a basis which
would make future dividend returns look
less pretentious. And as the works had
been erected when materials and labor were
cheap, it was decided to wind up the old co.
and sell its assets to a new one at a price
nearer wlrat would be the present construc-
tion cost of the works. So paid capital was
doubled, two ordinaries being issued in the
new co. for every one in the old, the prefs.
also getting an ordinary share together with
one pref. share in the new co. Apparently
the works, plant, etc., were written up
£50,000, the book value of leaseholds by
£OOOO, and goodwill was included at £lOOO.
So though the past year’s divs. on the ordi-
naries totalled only 4 p.c., holders are actu-
ally getting an 8 p.c. return.
This tabulation details balance-sheet move-
ments over the past five years:—
1916. 1920. 1921.
Paid capital .. £59,775 £60,000 £120,000
Debentures. . . . . . 40,000 28,000 25,000
Sundry creditors . . . . 8.739 6,977 8,149
Leaseholds, etc. . . . . 55,000 41,000 47,707
Coke works, plant, etc... 51,586 44,761 92,492
Stocks . . .. . . 610 777 639
Book debts .. .. 2,118 5,827 7,520
Cash, etc 329 8,609 8,429
For “contracts and leasehold rights” £55,000
was paid by the old co; but though the item
had been written down to £41,000 by 1920,
the new co. was charged £50,000 for the
leasehold. The promoters, instead of erect-
ing works some distance from a col-
liery, snuggled close to the Coalcliff mine,
and feed is taken directly from the col-
liery screens into the works by conveyor
belts. In this way handling and transport
charges have been 'minimised, and by this
saving the co. hopes to recoup a good deal
more than was outjayed on acquiring its
works site. The leasehold has another 131
years to run, and no doubt, since the arrange-
ment with Morgan has suited both parties
well, when the balance of the debenture debt
falls due in 1925 Illawarra Coke will not
be faced with the problem of seeking finan-
cial assistance in other directions.
*.* * *
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ- To
i ten Re- Re-
Profits. Divideiros. Off. serves, serves.
£> £ £ £ £
Dec.. 19X3.. 2047 6 p.c.= 900 750 397 19,398
June. 1914.. 1187 6 „ „ 900 287 19,685
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,718
Dee., 1914.. 1592 6 p.c.= 900 300 392 23,110
June, 1915.. 961 6 „ 900 61 23,171
Dec., 1915.. 1731 6.. .. 900 —■ 831 24,002
June, 1916.. 944 6 ~ 900 150 23,896
Dec.. 1916.. 1655 6 „ .. 900 9000 15,651
June, 1917.. 1181 6 ~ 900 5200 10,732
Dec., 1917.. 1787 6 „ ~ 900 31 856 11.588
June, 1918.. 1053 6.. ~ 900 50 103 11.691
Dec., 1918.. 1732 6„ ~ 900 832 12,523
June, 1919.. 959 6„ ~ 900 59 12,582
Dec., 1919.. 1596 6,. .. 900 696 13,278
June, 1920.. 1001 6 .. ~ 900 269 13,110
Dec., 1920.. 1578 6 „ „ 900 491 187 13,297
June, 1921.. 957 6 „ 900 57 13,354
There is nothing exciting about this little
co., though its Board of a dozen includes
.some of Sydney’s weightiest. The co. was
established 70 years ago to provide a home
for ship and coal interests. But though at
one time the Royal Exchange was feeding 10
p.c. divs. to shareholders, for many years
6 p.c. has been their regular meal. And
apparently even that rate of div. has been
imperilled by increased taxation: the usually
uncommunicative directors’ report on this
occasion remarks that 40 p.c. of gross
revenue is now paid away in taxes. In
this instance, heavyweights of the George
Judah Cohen, R. J. Black and P. T. Taylor
type are apparently unable to practise the
gentle art of “passing it on.” A few years
ago the book value of the Exchange buildings
was £69,000. but the asset has been written
down to £55,000. The enterprise is
financed by £30,000 of shareholders’ “.stock,”
£12,000 of debentures and £14,000-odd of
accumulated profits. The past half’s net
profits represent a return of less than 44 p.c.
p.a. on total shareholders’ funds involved, a
couple of points less than current mortgage
interest.
* * * •*
-V comparison of the terms on which the
Sydney Council and the Melbourne Board
of Works obtained their recent loans in Lon-
don is favorable to the Sydney Council. The
Sydney loan was £1,000,000 and the Mel-
bourne £1,140,000, the rate in both cases
being p.c. and the price of issue 99. But
the charges of the Commonwealth Bank,
through which the Council’s loan was issued,
were 2 p.c., which covered all flotation ex-
penses. In the case of the Board’s loan the
fees of the English bank, through whose


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street* Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. (o
* ♦ * 9
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adarnax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd,,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * ♦ *
Would you be interested if we told you that
Pioneer Wood Pipe carries more water for its
diameter than any other pipe? Neither is it affected
by the action of electrolysis, acid fumes or corro-
sion. Also, it is more durable, cheaper to lay, and
tha cost of maintenance is practically nil. When you
require a water conduit of proven dependability
specify “Pioneer” Wood Pipe. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.— Advt.
* * * *
ASBESTOS. The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos SJate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House” corner
York andl Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * #
Inventors.— Have you a n idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, link's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 50S5. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
• * - .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears - practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 “National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s is Oertline’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. II. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd. 2R-. George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract,
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE HEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or .Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN.
Managing Director.
r
&
POORD &.SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ďf
C ow »P» n y LtU„ Australasian Agents. 26,30 Clarence St., Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
cJ
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
hands the applications passed, were 2,} p.c.
With stamp duty, printing, etc., additional,
and the total costs will easily reach 3 p.c.
In nnU eans t^iat tJ ? e -^ oar< l is letting slip
±II,IKK) or so by ignoring an Australian
agency.
* * * *
From an oil man on the spot:—
There is a good deal of grumbling at the cost to
date of the search for petroleum in Papua. But the
amount expended has been very small compared with
the outlay on some of the world’s proved oilfields. One,
in the Carpathians, was prospected for 14 years
before the “dinkum oil” was struck, notwithstand-
ing that all the mechanical resources of civilisation
were at hand, and that unlimited capital was avail-
able. The Papuan field has suffered from the out-
set from the fact that it is “a thousand miles from
anywhere, ' and that nobody has been in a hurry.
The first hole was put down by using a hand boring
plant of a similar type to those employed by
the Chinese borers 3000 years ago. Later, an
Australian-made rig was installed. These two were
the only plants on the field when Dr. Wade took
charge. lie got Canadian rigs and drillers, both
being reckoned by oilmen to be the best obtain-
able. But only the smallest and simplest repairs
could be undertaken locally, so when anything
broke it had to go to Australia, and at times the
wheels ceased to go round for months, whilst the
men sat round and got fed-up generally.
Since the Anglo-Persian people took charge there
has been more business ability displayed- than in all
the previous years, and, seemingly, money is no
object. The surface seepages show that the oil
is there all right, waiting to be tapped. Geo-
logically the formation is of the right sort to
hold large volumes of oil, but the Akauda series
of rocks is so broken that boring there is purely
blind stabbing. The Ie hills district is the same;
perhaps worse owing to the intrusion of coral lime-
stone in the sandstone-mudstone formation. At
Koaru are surface indications, but, no rocks being-
visible, the geologists are chary of giving an
opinion. At, Po-Po, on the Naratu River, a bore is
now being put down and the prospects are bright,
the oil-bearing strata showing more signs of regu-
larity than elsewhere. If oil is struck here in
payable quantities there is a good harbor 20 miles
away at Hall Sound, and little in the way of natural
obstacles to hinder a railway being built or pipe-
lines laid. If the investigation of the Po-Po area
brings forth no oil, there is still the Cape Vogel
district (North-Eastern Division) worth a trial.
* * * *
Ignoring the Commonwealth’s monopoly
over oil, little Bus Trembath has one of
the Darling family on the hunt in German
New Guinea. The search is being carried
out by the liabaul Prospecting and Explora-
tion Co. If Darling be correct, it has taken
him less than six months to get oil. Any-
way, he has pegged out three 50-. square-mile
leases and one 100-square-mile block, thus
leaving very little for the next man should
the ground be O.K. His locale is the Wapik
River, and, when 100 yards away from the
first seepage, Darling declares that he could
sniff the stuff. Where he could stick a bar
into the ground he also got the smell and
taste of kerosene, and there had been no
campers ahead of him to sweeten up the patch.
Darling is now filling in time looking for
gold in ground over which there are no re-
strictions. Whether he is right about the find
or not, it is a certainty that the Common-
wealth Government will not let any single
party get a hold on big blocks such as those
pegged out.
* * * *
Bux, of the Badak boom, has had R. U.
Boyd in Borneo looking for a gold show.
His reports are more or less favorable, but
if any money is spent there it should be
seen that the co. gets a sound title and that
any royalty shall be reasonable. Boyd in-
tends to start out on the Kapois River, where
Chinese have been alluvialling from times
immemorial. To get on the right side of the
Dutch Netherlands law, Boyd has had him-
self registered as a resident. Meantime, Bux
has proved the Barren Island tin leases to
be duffers. The Board engaged Boadle, who
did the final test at Badak, to run the rule
over the Trengannau lease as recommended
by director Scarborough; but the monsoons
have kept him away, and now a second ex-
pert has to take up the spade work. Bux
owes nothing and has £4lOO to play up over
its Borneo and Siam ventures.
The Badak affair has been responsible for
another • tragedy, the apparently-aecidental
drowning, at Brisbane, on his way back
from inspecting various tin shows, of J. R.
Raleigh. He had been next to g.m. Moline at
Bendigo Amalgamated. When Bendigo was
smitten with the Badak fever and Moline
was unable to take on the control of the sup-
posed wonders, Raleigh w T as selected. Then
the rottenness of the whole business became
apparent; but Raleigh, on behalf of the
crowd who got caught, went in search of
other areas, and was on his way to Mel-
bourne with several options which looked
likely. What he thought about the new
claims no one knows definitely, but his
papers may provide sufficient inducement for
another expert to be sent to report. Appa-
rently the Vie. Government is still consider-
ing whether it take any action with
respect to the 1 Badak fiasco. Two of its
C.I.D. men, it seems, have recently returned
from Malaya. But by the death of Raleigh
an important witness has been lost; though
he joined Badak at the tad-end ox the boom,
it was iiaieigh s investigation which finally
settled ail doubts as to the worthlessness of
the pioposition.
Edna May Battler (W.A.) still fails to
come up to the expectation of its supporters.
From the beginning, the ore did not give the
values officially forecasted ; then, instead of
the promised improvement in the aftairs of
the co. when a better water supply was
obtained and more ground opened up, there
was a change for the worse. Now the clean-
up from the first month’s cyaniding shows
an extraction of only one-third the value
that had been placed upon the sands. The
manager states that another fourth of re-
ported values is in the plant, and that the
balance leaked out of it. He now claims to
have stopped the leakage. Performances
leave the impression that Battler’s values
are irregular and have been over-estimated.
Following on its reconstruction, Ives’
Reward (W.A.) obtained three months’
exemption the other day on the plea that
funds were almost exhausted, and that time
was required “to get matters settled up.”
Several thousand pounds and big blocks of
pa.d shares have still to be handed out by
the co. before it gets free of the vendors and
promoters, but should the purchase of the
property be completed, it will then probably
have no further capital to call up. Inter-
ested parties prophesy good profits in the
near future, and preparations are being
made to stir up shareholders for more cash.
A Government-subs'dised battery is being-
erected on the field to serve a number of
other shows which have but little ore oponed
up.
* * * *
The Paris Co. (W.A.) has got six months’
exemption on the understanding that it will
resume operations when its diamond-drilling
plant, already “arranged for,” is available.
From time to time during the yast pear the
Paris has been praised by Adelaide boom-
sters, and quite recently was declared to have
an assured future. When a Bulletin man
saw it 12 months ago it showed a little ore,
but apparently the show can be classed as
a small mine, so common in the West, which
requires calls to keep it alive. One month
a profit is made, then there is a loss, and as
the workings get deeper the chances of suc-
cess fade away.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines has ceased
publication of its Monthly Journal. Years
ago, when Tommy Maughan was the secre-
tary and live-wire of the Chamber, the
Journal was br.mful of general and techni-
cal information, and had a w : de circulation
among mining men. Latterly, however, it
had become a dull sheet.
The high cost of supplies, together with
“the oppressive Arbitration Court award,”
has cr ; ppled Menz’es Consolidated (W.A.).
The show bns been worked for many years
by an unobtrusive London crowd for little
or no return, and has latterly been the
mainstay of the depressed and
dilap’dated town of Menzies.
* * * *
From Meekatliarra:—
Melbourne h*»s floated off one Ingliston pup at
Meekatliarra (W.A.), ard it will be known as the
South Ingliston. Nominal capital is £30,000 in
60,000 10s. shares; 50,000 paid to 4s. have been
passed on to the public, and 10,000 fully paids,
together with £l6OO cash, go to the vendors. The
co. thus starts operations with £B4OO, less flotation
exes., and some blocks of ground whose value is
unknown.
* * * •
The B. H. Prop, is now getting manganese
for its s*eel-works from the deposits at Woo-
eilln. 1"0 miles from Port Augusta, on the
East-West line. The deposit is very pure
manganese, and is exceptionally free from
phosphorus. The stuff is beinc dug out at
the rate of several thousand tons a year.
» * *
Mt. Dudley (N.S.W.), which has had a
very rough passage and come near founder-
ing more than once, has picked up a shoot
at 345 ft. which looks better than anything
produced previously. Manager Deloherv ba S
srone down on it for 164 ft., and at 195 ft.
has a drive about 40ft. to go before ascer-
taining- whether the better stuff lives down.
If it does, he will learn still more by driving
in the bottom level, down 295 ft. Dudley’s
position has o’wd somewhat by having b Q pn
i-opoved of £l5OO of liability, portion of the
£2OOO balance due to vendor Eirkmnn, which
was payable in instalments of one-fourth of
srold won. The eo. is imw committed to pay-
ing in cash a balaneo of £4OO, in instalments
of £3O monthly. With the excenPon of a
small mulshing of 3124 tons, which gave
almost 940 Z„ work tin's year has been devoted
to d Q velonment. Tim d’seovery of better
values has put a little heart into the few
faithful rpmain’n"-: but it is yet too early
to saw whether Dudley w?H 'get a much-
needed lift as a result of the recent find.
* * * *
The Sbrmn. at Kapcnmo HUls (NO.),
has several other snhsid’arv shows wluoh
are as yet undeveloped. These include the
Barramundi, Terrible Whale and Groper, and
adjoin the parent lease. Very litue work
beyond surface prospecting has so far been
done, but this work has given promising
prospects. The Shrimp lode probably runs
through the Groper and Barramundi, and
good tests have been got on the surface from
both. The Terrible Whale has a promising
granite lode with kaolinised shoots which
have been carrying the high-grade stuff in
the other mines. Most of the lodes on this
fieid are more or less chlontic, and in this
respect are very similar to the chlorite-tin
lodes in parts of the Inverell district of the
Ma State. The holders of the Shrimp pro-
perties are optimistic regarding future devel-
opments, and there is talk of floating a co.;
but it is doubtful whether the public will
get much of a look in, as probably most
of the cash will be put up by those already
holding.
* * * *
The Black Snake mine, at Kilkivan (Q.),
wh ch was worked away back in 1876 for
gold and copper, has recently been opened
up again by a local syndicate, but this time
the attraction is silver-lead. A shaft has
been put down 50ft. on a formation carry-
mg galena and fair silver values, and pros-
pects for further developments look moder-
ately bright. _ The country is mostly serpen-
tine, w’lreh is rather unusual for lead and
silver lodes, but is cut through by porphyry
dykes, which have undoubtedly brought the
metals in. It is the right formation for
asbestos, and there are several deposits on
the lease; but so far only low’-grade stuff
has been sighted.
• * * ■»
From an old hand on the field:—
Laurence Wilson, who has transferred his ener-
gies from liavenswood to Mt. Coolon (Q.),
should find much to engage his attention there.
The lodes are large, one in Barclay’s lease being
from 4 to 20 feet wide and almost vertical. Bar-
clay’s 10-head mill is bumping away almost con-
tinuously, piling up the nucleus for future income-
tax returns. Wilson’s options are genuine con-
cerns ; two of the leases carry a large ore-body that
assays up to £7 per ton. The other lease carries
a large ore body which goes Gdwt. on the surface;
but little prospecting has been done on it. The
ore is free-milling, but the gold mostly fine. High
wages and heavy cost of transport tend to keep the
field back. Transport facilities will be improved
considerably when the Bowen coalfield railway is
completed.
“Pentland”: The Mount Clear View gold
lodes (B. 10/0/’2l) are not on the old Cape
Itiver diggings, but on the divide of the Cape
and Ffinders watersheds, about 14 miles to
the_north of the boundary of the old field. In
1915 a few pot-holes were put down by one
of the present prospectors, but owing to the
prevailing drought work had to be aban-
doned. In 1918 the ground was taken up as
a prospecting area by the present parties,
and has been worked continuously since.
Results have been sufficiently encouraging* to
induce the present owners to keep going. The
Oxley Queen mine, by the way, has been con-
tinuously held by Shetland and party since
they originally took it up.
* * * *
Briseis (Tas.) turned out 244 tons tin
oxide for the 12 months to Dec. 31 last,
compared with 180 tons for the previous
year. And, of course, with the larger ton-
nage going on the boom market, Briseis did
very much better financially: a net profit of
£15,467 slowed up, five times as much as
for the previous year. Throughout the year
Lindesax 7 Clark kept pushing on in the deep
ground ot Krushka’s lead, meantime piling
up tailings into a high bank to divert the
Ringarooma River behind him. Dry weather
helped this work, but delayed operations
with the nozzle on any Ringarooma face.
The wall Clark is building to keep the river
in position is in some places 85ft. high, and
the work stands as a splendid bit of engineer-
ing done without puff. Now the tin drifts
are turning under the river, and until that
is carried behind him Clark will not be able
to produce high yields. With the metal
market down this is bad luck, but the co.
was fortunate in having done the worst of
the work when prices were at their best.
Now* the co. will have to hang on till the
top drifts of the Ringarooma hill get cleared
away. The Board has always kept a fair
reserve in hand, and though it blewed a tidy
bit in a colliery gamble during the war it
started 1921 with a reserve fund of £25,559
and cash assets of £15,702, and that should
be enough to keep Clark going until he can
again tackle the Krushka flat on the old
scale. _As relaxation, he has had a couple of
Victorian gold-dredging options under his
microscope, one at Wodonga and the other
on the Ovens River; but neither impressed
him.
* * * • *
Osmiridnim is down to £23 per oz., which
means a falls of £5. A deputation to the
Speck Premier last month brought out the
fid wail about the digger being exploited.
Vs a matter of fact, the Speck osmiridium
icratcher has had above the world’s parity for
some years, owing to Australian merchants
using the metal in the U.S.A. to establish
credit there. The local competition for this
medium of foreign credit forced the price
above normal parity, and the fountain-pen
manufacturers found themselves facing a
squeeze out, and had to hustle to secure sup-
phes here or pay the Australian merchant
m the U.S. a price that represented a nice
little profit on turnover. Lately the demand
has fallen oil considerably, and prices have
dropped; but the system is still at work as
is illustrated by the London price of the
metal. _ For first-class crystals suitable for
pen-point work the spot price in April was
oniy ±23, while at the time the price at
VVaratali (Tas.) and on the fields was ±2B
j To he Tasmanian price has to be
added purchasing agents’ charges, commis-
sion and forwarding charges. When the dig-
gers demand world’s parity they overlook
tlie tact that most of the consumers would
be only too happy to give it to them. If the
digger was grateful he would toast the health
ot the U.S. exchange god.
*** * •
A proposal is on foot to increase the capi-
tal of the Magnet silver mine (Tas.) from
±lO,OOO to ±24,OQp, (50,000 shares of 8s dis-
placing the present 50,000 of 4s. The mine
is more or less in a state of suspended ani-
mation, pumping and a little stope-filling only
being in hand. A large number of shares
have been recently forfeited for non-payment
of calls, due possibly to the impression cur*
rent that the co. is considering the with-
drawal of the pumps for a year or so.
* * * *
Operations have been ’suspended after a
trial run at the New Compeer mine (Tas.).
Tbe test runs, gave recoveries of 1.87 and
1.94 lb. of tin oxide to the yard, but owing
to low markets it: is deemed advisable to
await better conditions. Timber buried in
the wash gives a lot of trouble.
* * * ♦
. The South Esk (Tas.) has started sluic-
ing, and reports an average yield of 31b. to
the yard; but as only 15cwt. oxide has so
far been won, the announcement of 3lb.
values seems premature.


In Melbourne’* wor*t clubs honey-pots
is the most violent indulgence.
Unlike Sydney Domain the Botanical
Gardens are a wowser’s paradise.
In the Palais de Prance the Barn-dance
is reserved for those who feel devilish.
***** 4*
. VO *
Ccv®* &*%&
o* V
VO o* V
V^
e* c
And almost every unattached lady nr *
Hat i. a member ot the T ” d
Society.
As a matter of fact, Melbourne’s wors
sin is looking at the Felton Bequest picture
on wet Sunday afternoons.
MORAL MELBOURNE.
Another writer in the “Age” has been descanting on the wickedness of Sydney.’ Thank Heaven, Melbourne is different!


(or LuncHii&Kl
' anc
Jp ' \
; I
it V 1
iff
ftfe /« «£3£gl 0 : c >5..
run i
m
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HAL i
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
the Summer Camp
Abbots
lAGEQL
.the BEER WrTHOUT A’RTVAL
■
1
m
m
BE2
4*98
d
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves ?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
August birthdays
D. Joi. Verco (S.A.), 70, on Ist; Edward Miller
(Vic.), 73, and Canon Charlton (N.S.W.), 61, on
3rd; J. F. Bailey (Adelaide Botanic Gardens), 55, on
sth; Justice Isaacs (High Court), 66, and E. A.
Southee (Principal of Hawkesbury College), 31, on
6th; Vic. Speaker Mackey, 56, and E. ,J. Brady, 52,
on 26th; C. Gavan Duffy (ex-Senate Clerk), 66, on
Bth; Major-Gen. Legge (Duntroon), 58, and Prof.
Elliot Smith, 50, on loth; J. T. McGowen (Sydney),
66, on 16th; Prof. Rennie (S.A.), 69, on 19th;
R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 65, on 20t.h; Judge Curlewis
(N.S.W.), 52, on 22nd; G. T. Allen (Melb.), 69, ex-
S. Aus. Agent-General Cockburn, 71, on 23rd ; Major-
Gen. Hobbs, 57, on 24th; P. McM. Glynn, K.C.
(S.A.), 66, on 25th; ex-Prof. T. R. Lyle (Melb.), 61,
pn 26th ; ex-High Commissioner Andy Fisher, 59, and
Brig.-Gen. Carran, 39, on 29th; Principal Ronald
Macintyre (Syd.), 58, on 30th; C. R. Long (Vic.),
61, on 31st.
A minor minister to science went out the
other day at Sydney in the person of Carl
Sissore. Bearded, hatless, perched in a small
shandradan drawn by a couple of donkeys,
on one of which his small son rode
H. V. McKAY,
the Sunshine
Harvester man
and a
director of
the Broken
Hill Prop.
postilion, h e
was a wo 1 I-
known street
identity. O n.
fine nights he
would at a tray
or so a time
give you a tele-
scopic view of
Venus or Sat-
urn, or what-
ever planetary
rover chanced
to be doing the
stellar black.
When bad
weather tem-
porarily put
astronomy out
of business he
descended f o
earth and fruit-
hawking. He
collapsed in the
street, and
went star wards
almost at once.
1 rancis Abigail had a second funeral this
week. The first—which he attended only
in effigy—was carried out at Broken Hill
30-odd years ago. “Frawneis” was Parkes’s
Minister for Mines at the time, and Broken
Hill blamed him for its water famine; so it
hired a hearse, carried his effigy to the town
boundary and solemnly burned it. But a
bigger trouble fell on him shortly after-
wards. Though he knew as little about
nuance as he did about mines, he became
chairman of the Australian Banking Co.,
and when that concern burst with so many
others, the rather pathetic old chan was made
a scapegoat. He and the manager went to
gaol; and the public never heard of him
afterwards.
Bertram Mackennal, the first Australian
artist to be knighted, is still the only Aus-
tralian associate of the Academy. He came
under the spotlight when his “Circe” got
a mention at the Salon in 1913, and was
placed in the Academy the following year.
On the hefty female being exhibited on loan
at the Melbourne Gallery about 20 years
back, the trustees offered the sculptor £BOO
for her, but when he found the payment was
to extend over three years he closed with
a private offer for the same amount, cash
down. Nine years passed ; then, finding that
the sculptor’s stock had risen, the trustees
bought the same statue from its owner for
£l2OO. Of Mackennal’s works in Sydney
the statue of “Oceana” in the Union Club
is about the best. He is represented in the
Tate Gallery by the relief “The Earth and
the Elements” and a nude “Diana” modelled
on the same generous lines as “Circe.”
When last in Melbourne Harry Hawker
told of a man who was very anxious to go
up with him. He
pleaded most per-
sistently, but the
airman, who had
been having some
bad landings, was
obdurate. At
length, turning to
the applicant’s
young wife, h e
said: “Why don’t
you dissuade your
husband?” “Not
I.” was the reply.
“I mean to divorce
him, anyway.”
JOHN
PEARCE,
Tasmania’s
Oldest vet., who,
on the passing
of the Speck’s
Vet. Surgeons’
Act, refused the
concession of
registration by
virtue of 50
years' practice
and at 75 sat
for and obtained
the F.R.C.V.S.
diploma.
N.S.W. Premier John Storey is a tragic-
looking figure. He went to London with a
medical verdict that was very disturbing.
Harley-street said the diagnosis was wrong.
Whatever the truth may be six months has
made a sad change in him. The Storey who
became Premier last year was a burly, nug-
gety man, heavy-shouldered and florid. To-
day he is drooping, pale and thin —so wasted
that the clothes he not long ago filled so
amply now merely hang upon him. His face
is deeply lined. He looks very tired. But
he has one great asset left —his sense of
humor. It still bubbles up in all his very
copious conversation.
The Mark Foy (Sydney) co. has lost
another of its heads —James Joseph Smith,
chairman and managing director. He died,
of cancer, on July 21, on his 57th birthday.
Born in Dublin, he came to Sydney in his
twenties, got a job from Mark Foy, and
the house has known, him ever since. On the
retirement of the late Francis Foy he be-
came general manager, in association with
Victor Foy. Smith was tw’ice married —
first to one of the Fov family ; then to Miss
Turner, formerly of Hobart, who survives
him.
Justice David Gilbert Ferguson, who
handled the Liguori case so admirably—
there is to be no appeal—is a son of John
and Elizabeth Ferguson, and was born at
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) on Oct. 7, 1861,
which brings him close up to his 60th mile-
stone. He plodded the Inky Way from 18S3
till 1890, and was successively on Brisbane
and Sydney Hansard. Called to the Bar in
1890, he practised mostly on the Common Law
jurisdiction, was Challis Lecturer in Law of
Procedure, Evidence and Pleading, and
reached the Bench in 1912. Holman read
law in his chambers.
In its motor-car jaunt from Oodnadatta to
Darwin, the Federal Public Works Committee
is learning something of the Digger spirit.
At a well north of Alice Springs it struck
two Aussies, Heffernan and Plenty (fine old
Australian name that), who have taken up
a tract of cattle country in the alleged dead
heart of Australia. They drove their stock
right from the Fitzroy Iliver, in Northern
Westralia. and it took them a year to reach
their run; but in spite of flooded rivers,
waterless stretches, hostile blacks and sick
ness among beasts and men—at one time both
lads were down with fever, and not a bite of
tucker in the camp—they got through. “Is
there anything we can do for you?” asked
the committee, as the Government chauffeur
cranked up the leading car and saw «hat the
case of whisky was securely fastened.
".Nothing,” replied the modest heroes, all un-
mindful of the pony races and the 36-hour
week. “We’ve no complaints.”
W. L. Thomas, who died in Westralia the
other day, succeeded the massive Moore as
M.L.A. for Bunbury, the birthplace of Pre-
miers, and during the Scaddan regime was
about the most interesting speaker the Labor
party had. When the split came in 1916 he
took the conscriptionist side and. was in-
cluded ip the Lefroy Ministry, but at the
ensuing election he was defeated by a Liberal
who got the Labor vote on the second count.
Thereupon Thomas swore off politics, .and
found consolation in his garden, observing
philosophically that flowers were more
lovely than legislators and less fickle than
constituencies. lie was an apothecary from
Victoria and an all-round good fellow.
Richard Butler has reached the Speaker’s
chair in S. A. Assembly, but he had a rough
passage. The Labor Opposition stayed away
from the preliminary meeting which usually
settles matters, and when the House had
met, and the Governor was waiting to have
a Speaker presented to him, a brisk debate
was going on over an amendment nominating
Lionel Hill instead. The awkward argu-
ment the Liberals had to meet was that, only
about two years ago, they supported the late
Premier Peake in turning Butler out of the
Gabinet over a Wheat Commission report.
Barwell was reduced to afguing that a man
may be a good Speaker though a poor Min-
ister. However, both sides agreed that no-
thing in the finding of the Commission re-
flected on Butler’s honor or integrity, and
Edwards, of the Opposition, summed up the
general view of him as “a fine old chap.”
He w’as elected by 30 votes to 16.
Went west in Maoriland recently, Alexan-
der Aitken, said to be the last of tin* party
under A. W. Howitt which brought in the
remains of Burke and Wills from Cooper’s
Creek in 1863. He had reached 90.
W. F. Massey completed his ninth year
as Prime Minister of Maoriland on July 10.
Francis Bell and Dr. Pomare have shared
with him an unbroken run since 1912. But
Dick Seddon, with 13 years 51 days, still
holds the record Premiership.
Gone to his last anchorage, Captain Wm.
Ilurford. who for 10 years skippered steam
ers on the Australian coast. “Captain Bill”
was of the breezy type of master manner
and a born navigator who could take a ship
blindfold through the 800 miles of the Great
Barrier Reef, so thorough was his local
knowledge of depths and courses.
That Dr. G. C. Davis who died in Sydney
a few days ago was a son of Gateward
Coleridge Davis, a barrister called to the
Inner Temple in 1860 and to the Sydney
Bar in 1866—the year the doctor was born
—and the first Bishop of Antigua was some-
where in the family tree. Gateward Davis,
sen., who climbed up to a temporary Judge-
ship, died in the ’eighties. The son made
the eye his specialty.
The Commonwealth Public "Works Com-
mittee, which is taking evidence about the
North-South railway, interviewed one of
the loneliest white women in Australia, Mrs.
Bertha Crook, who holds 200 miles of the
heart of Centralia. She and the two
daughters who help her with the property
have no neighbor 6f their own sex and color
nearer than 180 miles.
James Hanley, who seems to have been
the pioneer tobacco-grower and manufac-
turer in Vic., has just gone out at Milawa,
near Wangaratta, aged 92. A Herefordshire
native, he spent some of his boyhood in Cali-
fornia, and landed in Vic. in 1850. He built
the Emu Hotel at Milawa in 1859, and later
he selected some rich flats on the' Ovens
River, and established a fine vineyard with
a cellarage of 100,000 gallons. He also cul-
tivated hops largely, and was interested in
some of the oldest flour mills in the district.
Memories of early Melbourne’s “eight-
o’clock rush” at the Mechanics’ Hotel in
Bourke-street have been revived by the death
of Ascencio de Freitas at North Carlton.
For over 40 years he ran the hotel, and dur-
ing practically all that time he supplied at
8 p.m. a meal free of charge to all who could
crowd into his dining-hall. Freitas, who
was a Portuguese, arrived in Melbourne
ni 1853 and was 82 when the end came. It
was about 25 years asro that the retirement
of the venerous old Bung put an end to the
food scrambles.
A Hugh McCrae memory:—
Remember once doing- a sketch of Zox as a phan-
tom in a white waistcoat with whiskers to match.
That was a long time ago. The other night, after
a lapse of years, I made a first visit to a new
friend’s house, and re-diseovered the picture hang-
ing in a frame over the mantelpiece. What a dear,
funny old chap Zox was! I was very nervous when
I sketched him, and he told me stoi’ies to get me
settled. One was about a boy with a cold in hit
head who gave a description of the Black Hole oi
Calcutta. “The Sepoys got a hundred ad fifty
Igglishmed ad locked them up in a dark narrow
room with one little widow. Negxdt mording all
the huddred ad fifty Igglishmed were dead.”
Miss Emmeline Frances Byrnes, who died
the other day, was born in Parramatta
(N.S.W.), and lived the whole of her 80
years there. Her father, William Byrnes,
was a member of the first Leg. Council, which
expired by effluxion of time on June 1861.
and he sat on in the nominee House until his
death on Oct. 28,
1891. Miss Emme-
line was a link
with the first fleet,
her maternal.great-
grandfather, John
Small, being in
charge of the Gov-
ernor’s bodyguard.
Her grandmother
was Mrs. Francis
Oakes, a daughter
of John Small,
and the first white
child born of free
parents in N. S.
Wales. The Byrnes
brothers were mer-
chants and wool-
len-goods manufac-
ture rs in enrlv
Parramatta, and
their father was at
one time post-
master there.
McWHAE, Vic-
toria’s new Agent -
General.
Paris Nesbit. K.C., who married again the
other day at 70-odd, has enlivened the dull
Adelaide Police Court. While waiting for
another ease, lie volunteered, as one ‘‘holding
letters from his Majesty the King to author-
ise me to assist in the interests of justice,”
to defend a man who denied having
been drunk after a few beers. The K.C.
quoted poetry on the various stages of in-
toxication. lie demanded that a constable
should illustrate in court just how the
accused staggered ; but the S.M. barred that.
He dived into ancient history and said that
“a very high luminary of this Court” had
been seen “paralytic” or thereabouts. Finally
there was a conviction without penalty, costs
Is. 6d„ and the lawyer remarked cheerfully
that they had had “eighteenpennyworth of
fun, anyhow.”
Will Hope, a Maoriland cartoonist who
has crowded a lot of adventure into his
career on the Inky Way, has lately turned
up in London as political scarifier for the
Communist, a sheet that is disappointed
with the present state of the proletariat in
England. Two of Hope’s cartoons have
already brought writs from Thomas, of the
English Labor party. Also the office of the
paper has been raided twice, and the artist’s
drawings, proofs and blocks have been seized
by the police.
Major Lusk, who died suddenly at Helens-
ville, near Auckland, recently, arrived in M.L.
as a Hi-year-old. and when Jtlori went on the
warpath the pakeha left off peering through
a theodolite to gaze along the barrel of a
rifle. Lusk organised the first big volunteer
force of settler-soldiers, and one strenuous
day, with (57 men, defended a church against
400 natives thirsting for gore. He was also
in the historic siege of Orakau. Even in
1913 the old chap couldn’t stay out of a
scrap. As president of the Auckland Farm-
ers’ Union be organised ‘‘Massey’s Army”
of baton-armed special constables to keep
order during the big waterfront trouble. In
his earlier and less troubled years in the
V indy Isles he surveyed the site where
Christchurch now smiles upon the plain.
Lusk, who came fra’ Greenock, Scotland,
was 8S when the last post sounded.
Dr. Colin Anderson, who is a graduate
of Otago (M.L.) University and went to
Liverpool (Eng.) for further studies in
radiology, has gained a two years’ X-ray
research scholarship carrying £4OO a year
at Manchester University. The young medico
is now in Bavaria, and goes from there to
Frankfort, Holland and Sweden. After the
Continental studies, lie will give his mind to
cancer research mostly.
Very wisely—although the aviator kicked
—the authorities have prohibited Lieut. F.
S. Briggs’s proposed flight across the Tas-
from Hobart to Maoriland. The trip
of 973 miles was to have been attempted in
the D.J-I. 4, which has already flown over
most of Australia, including Perth-Sydney
(two days), Brisbane-Melbourne (one day)
and Melbourne-Perth (two days). Briggs,
however, isn’t discouraged, and is looking for
another machine which will carry the pound-
age demanded.
OTHER, TIMES: OTHER MANNERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A crowd of 200 Diggers marched through Mel-
bourne this morning to interview any available Minis-
ter about providing work for unemployed soldiers.
They went, to the Treasury, and saw the Acting-
Prime Minister. The interview was brisk, and there
were many exchanges. Mr. Whalan complained that
the Government had promised the men anything
before they went to the war. The Acting-Prime
Minister: ‘Don’t begin that. Recriminations do not
help. The State Government must look after em-
ployment.’ ”
What’s that? You ask jor Wort;! Now, none of that!
Don’t you, my lad, try blustering with me!
Vou dare to do it and, 1 tell you flat,
Your conduct you’ll regret most bitterly.
1 once “spoke differently to fighting men”!
But, man alive, there was a war on then! •
Don’t let me hear a word from anyone
About the men who’ve had their pensions docked.
Shut up! They were well paid, and had their fun:
Were we to blame if some of them got knocked ?
And how could we, the servants of the Crown,
Have raised our screws had we not cut theirs down?
Clear out! I’m sick of the whole pack of you.
Here, porter! show these persons to the door.
The Government’s done all it means to do,
And nothing will induce it to do more.
Your whining cries for toil are quite in vain:
Edge off —until we go to war again !
N.S.W.
JOHN D.


Modern Methods of Construction
All Reinforced Concrete
Bulk Store
for Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
Flinders Street, Sydney.
V
m
m
aifl:
a
a
I u
S 3
m
■
1
1
1
m
■
i
i
i
i
R
■
jS&Mi
I
\kX\m%L
; ■ r, . . .;> ' :
■:■■■ ZZ'.. 7. .S QZ', ...Z.. Z:'] Zy :£.ZZZ'
:: 1 :
KawtifcSl
M Hi
HQMI
STORE FOR COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
JOHN and HERWALD KIRKPATRICK, Architects.
ALL WALLS, FLOORS, ROOF constructed throughout
of REINFORCED CONCRETE.
During the past twelve months we Have completed
a quarter-million pounds’ wortH of construction work.
We will give you Estimates and Designs for All Classes of Reinforced Concrete Construction.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.,
173 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Made in Italy
for Peapes.
These fine felt hats have been very scarce
of late. This has been unfortunate, as
they are much favored because of their
adaptable brims and reliable colors.
Peapes can judge how well they wear by
ihe number of times they are sent in for
cleaning and re-blocking.
A new shipment makes all sizes available
in Cement, Fawfc or Steel shades.
They have medium crowns. 21-inch un-
bound brims, and lf-inch bands with side
bow.
Recommended for service, style and
value at Peapes’ competitive price—
-45/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
x-t:
Weighs
but
6 pounds
TS.
Price
only
£l7/17/-
CoroNA
THE PERSONAL
WRITING MACHINE
Most convenient of all Typewriters.
Will handle the heaviest kind of work.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
19 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SORELLE
wish to announce that
Miss Sexton, from their Mel-
bourne Rooms, is with Miss
Rossiter at the T. & G. Build-
ings, Park Street, Sydney,
where they are now showing their
NEW SPRING AND
SUMMER MODELS.
SOCIETY
“10-2-4” on the Convention of Suicide:—
Consider the wooden lack of originality displayed
by mice and things. One John Simopolis, of Perth,
has just got £25 damages out of a publican who sold
him a bottle of beer containing a dead mouse. No
created thing, apparently, except a mouse ever
PLENTY FOR
ANYBODY.
TEACHER: “Note, children, it is a curious
fact that the bee stings only once."
BOY: “’Strath, isn’t once enough ?”
destroys itself in an article which is afterwards sold
for human consumption. Sparrows, bats, cockroaches,
guinea-pigs and a dozen other creatures of similar
dimensions might also be expected to immolate
themselves in bakeries, breweries, pie-factories and
the like. They never do. On much the same prin-
ciple at certain periods seven Sydney suicides out of
10 pass out via the Gap at South Head. There are
10,000 other eminences which would be equally
suitable for the purpose. But no; a weary and
expensive tram-ride is indulged in, a wire fence is
laboriously climbed and the Great Adventure is
entered on under conditions which might be bettered
by the use of the humblest hotel or office window in
the city. With one of the cleanest, quietest aid
in every way mpst suitable harbors on earth for self-
destruction it is remarkable that the cases of felo de
se by drowning in the neighborhood of Sydney are
infinitely fewer per head of the population than in
the filthy and carefully-policed Thames between Che’.-
sea Bridge and Greenwich. When will Henry Lawson
or Red Quinn do for Circular Quay what Hood, with
his "Bridge of Sighs,” did for the London Embank-
ment ?
“H.H.”: In Victoria the gaol population
threatens to become extinct barring that part
of it which has no money or is too unim-
portant to be sent to a jury. The detective
force also looks as if it would as soon be
extinct as not, only it doesn’t knowf of any
other employment, so it goes on chasing
shadows. Jury-squaring
has become so well
organised that if any
coiny person is found
guilty it can only be
ascribed to over-confi-
dence or to ignorance of
the ropes. The heads of
the organisation are said
to be as well-known to
the police as Professor
Moriarty was to Sherlock
Holmes; but if they were
arrested they wou 1 d
square their own juries,
and, besides, the gang
runs an intimidation
bureau as a side-line, and
testimony is hard to get.
Two steps might be
taken. One is to stop
selling lists of the jury-
panel to all and sundry.
The other is to break
away from the English
fetich of 12 unanimous
men in a box, and to
adopt the Scotch idea of
a jury of 15 (or some
other odd number) and
a majority verdict. It
takes a lot of bawbees to
square a Scotch jury, for
eight men have to be
bought to make the posi-
tion solid, and then it is
dangerous to approach
so many. Only about
half-‘a-dozen years have
elapsed since the situa-
tion became very serious
in Victoria, and Lawson
is against perspiration and undignified haste.
Still, it is thought that something may
happen about next Twilight of the Gods.
* * * *
“Hayeworray”: Do people ever laugh their
way into hospital? Yes! One plucky chap
arrived at Mooroopna (Vic.) the other day
from a timber-mill accident horribly muti-
lated. He seemed to think he ought to
apologise for his condition. “The saw
knocked me out in one round,” he said, “but
I don’t believe Dempsey ’d’ve lasted two.”
“Ox”: Herbert Booth is hereby warned to
stop away from Newcastle (N.S.W.). The
devilish fox-trot and demoralising jazz can’t
get a look in there. Recently a
giddy entrepreneur, anxious that
Coalopolis should keep in two-step
with Sydney, built him a dancing
palace more magnificent than any-
thing in the metropolis. Newcastle
came along in hoides the opening
Saturday night, danced a bit, gaped
a bit more and went home with
every appearance of having had the
time of its life. Monday found
only five forlorn couples on the
great floor; and a few nights later
the orchestra faced the tragedy of
supplying music for one couple,
who stuck it for an hour, jazzing
in majestic loneliness. The man-
ager changed the prices and hoped
hard for a couple of weeks, but
Newcastle kept its toes strictly to the fire-
side. What chance has the Devil in a town
like that?
“Nipper”: Talk about post-war re-unions!
My dad, who is a commercial traveller,
wandered in to a prospective customer last
week, and handed over his card. A perplexed
look came over the business man’s face as
he read the name, and after reflecting for a
few moments he asked: “Did you have a
son in the A.1.F.?” “Yes,” said Dad proudly,
putting out his chest. “Was he one time an
adjutant of camp?” “Yes,” still more
proudly. “Then,” explained the business
man, “you’ll get no blanky order from me!
That cow gave me 14 days 0.8. once—so
Imshi!” Dad got no order, but he is sport
enough to think it’s a great joke.
“Norman Gilbert”: “Country Fed” (B.
23/6/’2l) is not wide of the mark re diph-
theria carriers. When an outbreak of dip.
occurs in a school it is only a matter of
minutes to take throat swabbings of a hun-
dred children. Swabs and sterile tubes are
always available at the State Board of
Health labs., or for that matter are easily
prepared locally with ord'nary test tubes, a
w’sp of cotton-wool and a few inches of wire.
The wire and tubes are boiled and the wool
sterilised by steam. The wire, armed with
the wool, is rubbed along the tonsils and
throat membranes and placed in the tube,
which is then plugged with more cotton-
wool, and the lot is packed and sent to the
nearest lab. The microbes are grown on a
suitable medium, and a search made for the
Klebs-Loeffler bacillus (diphtheria) under the
microscope. The whole process is qiuck and
certain, and doesn’t call for any particular
technical skill. A system such as this has
obtained in regard to entries for the Austra-
lian Navy since the diphtheria outbreak
aboard the Tingiru in 191-1. All new entries
IT WASN’T THE SIZE OF HIM.
“Did anybody ever kiss you before?”
“Oh — yes.”
“Is he too big for me to thrash?”
“Not too big, perhaps—but I think he might
be too many.”
are housed in a special building in Lyne
Park until they can show a diphtheria-free
swabbing. In my time there as medical
officer it was surprising to find bow relatively
high was the percentage of carriers—--often
as much as 15 per cent. —but it was signifi-
cant that no cases of diphtheria occurred
aboard the ship.
* * . * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: On October 20,
1821. Lachlan Macquarie laid the founda-
tion-stone of “old St. Mary’s” R.C. Church,
Sydney; and the authorities are preparing to
celebrate the centenary with great solemnity.
It was not till 12 years after Macquarie’s
masonic effort that a service was held in the
building. Mass was first celebrated in Syd-
ney by Father Therry in May,
1820, in a temporary, building
belonging to John Reddington
in Pitt-street, near the present
site of Her Majesty’s Theatre.
Later he used the old school-
house in Castlereagh-street for
services; but before St. Mary’s
was completed a chapel— St.
Joseph’s—was built within the
enclosure, and services were
conducted there. “Old St.
Mary’s” went up in smoke on
June 20, 1865, and a tempo-
rary building of wood did duty
for years. At the laying of the
foundation-stone of the new
cathedral the late James Mul-
lins, father of the Lane-Mul-
Imses, presented Archbishop
Folding, on behalf of the
R.C.’s, with a massive trowel
of Australian gold. In after years Arch-
bishop Vaughan placed it with some others
in a show case in the Museum of St. John’s
College. One day it vanished, and it’s pro-
bably a gold-filling in somebody’s tooth now,
and an Orangeman’s as likely as not.
Touching a campaign of hysteria:—
An appalling amount of muslj has appeared in
some of the Sydney papers about the treatment of
female prisoners in Long Bay Penitentiary. Among
other harrowing allegations it is said (1) that the
tea is not sugared (which is untrue) ; (2) that the
potatoes and pumpkins are cooked in their skins
(true, but many medical men and epicures prefer
them that way) ; (3) that women on remand are
placed among convicted prisoners (utterly false), and
(4) that it is useless to complain of these and
similar atrocities, because you are not allowed to see
the superintendent. As to this there is a Prisoners’
Aid Association with a ladies’ committee, the mem-
bers of which are frequent visitors to Long Bay.
Prisoners are always at liberty to see them privately.
They have the same privilege as regards the sisters
from various religious organisations, who are also
regular callers.
But the most damaging allegation is that when a
woman quits the prison nothing is done for her, and
that she has no place of refuge but the parks. If
true this would convict the P.A.A. of being a heart-
less fraud on both prisoners and public; but it is
a malignant falsehood. Besides the women’s com-
mittee referred to, and it is most active and enthusi-
astic, there is a paid officer, a capable young Aus-
tralian woman, who meets delicate or ailing dis-
charged prisoners at the gaol-door and takes them
to a home, where they are well looked after. Those
able and willing to work are provided with decent
outfits of clothes and placed in situations in the
country, their railway farea being, of course, paid.
If immediate employment is not available, they are
furnished with board and lodging, as well as cloth-
ing, until it can bo found.
There is a good library at Long Bay, and now
and then there are excellent concerts. Nobody sug-
gests that the place is a rival to the Medlow Hydro
(albeit some of our soft-headed scaremongers would
evidently like it to be), but there is no foundation
for the charge that prisoners are inhumanely treated,
either while serving their sentences or upon their
discharge. The last, especially, is a venomous libel
on a worthy body of welfare workers who don’t ask
for recompense or limelight, but deserve something
better than a hasty and malevolent brick.
* ■* * *
“Adrian”: While we were in camp at
Fovant (Eng.) Bill, who had palled up with
a “choom,” was seeing him home one night,
but had no idea where “home” was. and
Harry was past tell : ng. At last, when Harry
kicked against a rickety little gate, Bill was
overjoyed that they had found h:s pals
nossie.' but was a hit dubious about meeting
Mrs. Harry after what he’d heard about her
tongue. However, he steered Harry as
quietly as possible to the front door, found
it unlocked, engineered his charge into the
nearest bedroom and started to undress him
in the dark. He had got Harry down to his
shirt when a light suddenly flared up, dis-
covering an angry female sitting un in a
bed. Bill fairly wriggled. “I—I —I’ve
brought yer ’usband ’ome, missus,” he cooed,
edg’ng towards the open door. The ladv’s
voice was brimful of acid. “I’ve got no hus-
band. mv man,” she snanned. “Never had
one.” “Well,” gasped Bill from the door-
way, “row’s yer chance!” and he fled into
the ni.vht.
* * *
“D.’s” vignette during an interval: —
It was strange to note what a few months in an
outer suburb bad done for Miss Partridge. Gone
were the ascetic, almost forbidding, reserve of man-
ner, the compressed lips, the averted eyes, the sub-
dued voice which mark the convent inmate. Nothing
of the old life was left save the enormous spectacles
which, for some reason, appear to be worn by four
nuns out of five, A distinctly festive air was over
the little party in a city luncheon-room. A half-
bottle of hock was called for and divided into three
portions. One of the men set fire to a cigarette, and
leaning back savored it as though it had been a
Corona-Corona. The ex-nun peered here and there,
with weak eyes; giggled often, and passed the little
jest on. Presently they rose to go. We have all
seen a nun walk. Or, rather, pace; for the move-
ment which has come down to the convents from a
SHE KNEW HE’D GOT THAT FAR.
THE THEOSOPITIST: “Does your husband be-
lieve that his soul leaves his body while
he sleeps?"
THE MATERIALIST: “I’m not certain; but
he’s got a suspicion that his money leaves
his pockets.”
more leisurely period can hardly be called a walk.
All this ceremonial method of progression has Miss
Partridge sloughed. With her macintosh streaming
behind her she led the way to the door, her arms
and shoulders swinging like, say, the
Little Whopper. T am sure they call her some name
like "Gertie” or “Trix” now. It is the completest
case of speedy suburbanisation on record.
(Continued on page IS.)
A JOY RIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
life is a ramshackle, rusty old car,
That bumps o’er the bush-road of Fate,
With clang-clanking engine and crazy springs’ jar,
On bearings all worn with Hate.
They search for a rose without thorns, O Desire!
Inflame not my heart for a freak ;
Where primroses beckon, red poppies suspire,
And green are the banks of the creek.
Love is a vale with the wattle in bloom,
And the sun shining brightly o’erhead ;
Gomes Death, a grim forest of infinite gloom—
Stark gums with their bark newly shed.
So open the throttle! The engine’s rude din
Entices the dust and the flies,
Dear fabled delights of incarnadine sin,
In this exquisite valley of lies.
Slowing down, slowing down! With the sun in the
west
Voluptuous pleasures soon cloy;
The weary old motor comes gently to rest,
All spent is the petrol of Joy.
SA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


' <Tk Wonderful
Duo -Art Pianola.
jmaster piano of the world
Ha
liy
■Jr,
HERE is a ne\V musical instru-
ment, embracing {he Pianoforte,
{he Pianola, and {he art of {he
Pianist {he DUO-A.RT is a
development of {he Pianola.
Hire DUO-ART Pianola reproduces
keyboard performances widi absolute Verity)
of detail.
From die first note sounded to die finale,
die entire performance will be die actual
playing of some notable pianist.
As the artist plays, so one hears.
Just pause and grasp die significance of
diis statement.
In one’s own borne and at one s will,
Paderewski, Hofmann, Harold Bauer, Perc;9
Grainger, and scores of odiers will step to
die pianoforte and pla^)—will actually equal
dieir best performances upon die concert stage.
How diis is all possible bow l , through
die development of die Pianola and perforated
music roll and a wonderful super - sensitive
recording piano, such almost miraculous results
haVe been accomplished —is but another
chapter in die history) of Pianola achievement.
Ohe DUO-ART Pianola is built in die
following pianos only : STEITJWAY,
STECK, STROUD and famous WEBER.
We accept Pianolas in part payment for
die DUO-ART, also Placer Pianos and
Pianos. Moderate monthly payments arranged.
Informal recitals of die DUO-ART are
held daily at our Showrooms. We extend
to sou a cordial inVitation to call; if a Visit
is inconVenient, please fill in coupon below?
and sou w?ill receive post free, full particu-
lars and prices of {he DUO-ART.
The Aeolian Company (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporating The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.),
Oracle “jieolian
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Also at
252 Collins Street, Melbourne, 436 Queen Street, Brisbane,
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY !
\
Please post me Art Catalog and Prices of
the DUO-ART Pianola.
My present instrument is a
Name -
Address


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
Be Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British-made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off, you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink-flow to suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in a flash from any ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONCHURST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask lor Onoto Ink —Besl for oil Pens.
o
-E%b
STA(a
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
“Anz. ’: Senator Elliott pleads guilty to
providing the so-called brilliant idea for
the recapture of Villers-Bretonneux” (B.
23/(i/’2l). He must have blushed to. find his
idea famous. The history of the recapture
of V illers-Bret. is told in a few words. On
April 24 the 13th Brigade moved from rest
billets at Querrieu, marched 14 miles and
attacked Villers-Bretonneux at 10 p.m. The
Brigade Staff had been told by the com-
mander of the British Bth Division that the
town had to be recaptured, and it was left to
General Glasgow to formulate the scheme
of attack. lie did this and carried it out.
General Elliott was not even at Divisional
Headquarters when the matter was discussed.
The official report on the operation, which
brought, congratulatory messages from Foch
and Haig, shows that the 15th Brigade, com-
manded by General Elliott, which had been
in position before April 24 and knew the
ground thoroughly, was an hour and 30
minutes late in kicking off into the attack,
leaving the left flank of* the 13th exposed. I
have this report, together with maps showing
each phase of the battle, and can produce it
if necessary.
“Momokeni”: There are a number of
“radio” stations in the Gulf Division of
Papua which would puzzle even Marconi.
In each village a long pole has been erected,
and _at the foot of this crouches a native,
holding two seashells to his ears as receivers,
and regular reliefs are arranged for these
“operators.” It is a recurrence of the Vai-
lala madness, a hysterical condition into
which the natives have been brought, it is
*4id, by a sermon preached from Revelation,
foretelling the Second Coming, when all men
will be equal. The natives call the poles
their “wireless,” and allege that bv means
of them they get messages from God about
THE INVITATION.
“If I teas to throw you a kiss what would
you say?”
"That you are the laziest man I'd ever met.”
their ancestors, and they make pencil
scratches on scraps of paper and exhibit
these to the incredulous as proofs of what
they say. The messages received affirm that
their ancestors will soon return and that
they are now white men. Consequently the
sevesi masks and other savage panoply are
being destroyed, chairs and tables are being
made, and long-hoarded scraps of European
clothing are being worn, so that the distin-
guished visitors may be fittingly received.
‘ Wodgil”: Peter Board, who went to
Westralia recently to run an Education Com-
mission, is acquiring knowledge as well as
imparting it. Among other things, lie got
® insight into the mentality of the
Eternal Enigma who buttons her blouse at
the back and racks her body with high-heeled
shoes. W hen the Westralian Government
started to teach housewifery to the older
girls in the city schools, it found the matrons
coldly antagonistic. Ma saw in the Domestic
classes (as they were called) a sinister plot
to make her Bella a common slavey, instead
of a genteel typiste or saleslady, so she stub-
bornly kept Bella away. The position was
explained to a genius versed in the subtleties
of the feminine temperament, who pointed
out that the name was doing the damage.
“It's all sulphur and no treacle,” he said;
“how about changing the title to Domestic
Science?” That was done, and the classes
were forthwith rushed. The moral is that
there is a vast amount of snobbery among
the ladies of our democracy. I suspect that
this is mainly the cause of the perennial
shortage of Mary Anns.' If the practice of
addressing Mary A. by her Christian name
were put down by law, and if the State
schools issued degrees in Domestic Science
to girls who can wash and cook (in which
SO WELL BROUGHT UP.
“Delighted to hear of your dear little Thelma's engagement—it is such a relief when they
marry and divorce properly, isn’t it?”
case Miss Mary would be courteously re-
quested to bring in the carved mutton or
tinned cow, as the case might be, and politely
informed, when the occasion required it, that
there was a letter in the box for Miss M.
A. Jones, B.Sc.D.), the “servant problem”
would be solved.
“Callan Park” on news values: —
As an amateur photographer I have been gveatly
interested in Sydney Telegraph's photographic com-
petitions. “News value” is the main requirement—
v eil exemplified in a recent winner representing a
dead snake in a mouse-trap. I have several snap-
shots ready for submission; and in view of certain
predilections for which the Telegraph is famed, I
have few fears that my efforts will prove successful
one and all. The first, which is entitled “Suicide,”
represents our village grocer hanging from the door
of his shop. A composite affair this, made up of
(1) front view of shop ; (2) back view of grocer
taken while leaning conversationally over his
counter ; (3) portion of the family clothes-line. “A
Narrabeen Tragedy” shows Mrs. Park (in two-piece
bathing-suit) lying on the beach by the cruel surf
with self holding handkerchief in one hand (indica-
tion of grief) and hat in the other (respect for
the dead) in a dejected posture nearby. On my right
is the doctor (tall hat and stethoscope) looking
hopeless; to the left a policeman taking notes in an
astute manner. “Breaking the News” shows Mrs.
Park being carried feet foremost through the door
of the cottage which her mother is renting near us
at the moment. This otherwise effective picture has
been marred by a. stampede of cows—the property
of our comic local boundary-rider—impinging on a
corner of the plate near the head of the corpse,
thereby causing the latter to move. But for sheer
poignancy commend me to one of my interiors (a
solicitor’s office) which I have called, with effective
simplicity, “Stung.” It portrays Bro. Barton, of the
Orange Lodge (portrait reproduced from the Sun),
being informed that the costs in the Liguori
case amount to £5743 17s. 3d. By comparison with
this the “King CEdipus” of Sophocles is broad farce ;
and, of course, my work is absolutely up-to-date
agony, which is where its news value comes in.
“Adrian”: I can back up “Wodgil” (B.
7/7/’2l) re the aspirin craze. In my kid-
whacking establishment there is a girl of
about 14 who can go into hysterics at a
minute’s notice, and who is so highly strung
and nervy as to be almost unmanageable.
Noticing that she went out about six times
a day, yet got no farther than her lunch-bag, I
decided to investigate—and found an aspirin
bottle. She confessed that she had been
using aspirin for about 12 months, “and,
please sir,” she implored, “don’t tell mother,
because I must, have them, or I’ll die.” How-
ever, I did tell Mum on the quiet, and she’s
having her work cut out to check the habit
or disease or whatever it is.
“Ex-Dig.”: Of the five Australian confi-
dence-men, each handed five years the other
day in London for swindles which ran into
massive figures, one served with the A.I.F.
in curious circumstances. Arriving in Eng-
land during the war. he bought a deserting
Digger’s full equipment, paybook and all ;
then, working on the popularity of the Aus-
tralians, carried out some heavy frauds. The
M.IVs caught him one day, and on his pay-
book promptly identified him as the absentee
Digger. Probably he felt it advisable to
be missing from England for a time: any-
way, he was sent to France, and as Private
Blank-Dash joined the absentee’s unit. In
the confusion over Fritz's 1918 offensive he
went unchallenged, although recognised as a
fraud bv Blank-Dash’s cobbers; and, thrown
into the line with his company, he distin-
guished himself and was wounded. He dis-
appeared from hospital in London ; but just
about the same time the real Digger, starved
out, decided to give himself up. He was
amazed to find a medal thrust upon him, and
his sins forgiven as a result of his vicarious
gallantry. There was some inquiry into
the circumstances; but as Blank-Dash’s
records showed that he had been doing good
deeds in ETance, it was dropped ; and Blank-
Dash is now proudly wearing the ribbon won
for him by the man who went to gaol last
week. <
“Cobar” : The Gyppo will have to keep his
eyes open if he wishes to retain his reputa-
tion as the most shameless cadger in exist-
ence. A kind, motherly Government is
breeding a couple of small communities likely
to outdistance all competition in a very few
years. When trouble bumped Broken Hill
and Cobar the Government was appealed to
for work, not charity ; but after a few weeks
of loafing, card-playing, beer-drinking, pic-
ture-shows, etc., the idea of scorning
charity died out, and a clamor for relief
coupons without work took its place. Even
those who at first held off gradually drifted
into the ways of the others, and now we see
men (some .single) and women drive up in
£5O sulky turnouts to claim relief. Even a
motor-car has bowled up on the same mis-
sion. At the start of the depression free
railway tickets were issued to enable men to
go away and look for work, and when the
husbands secured work free tickets were
issued to the Avives and families to join the
husband. This gave a glorious opportunity.
Some took three or four trips to Sydney and
Newcastle without a blush. The old-time
digger generally saved a few pounds, and
wlien his job “cut out” he left the few pounds
with the family, shouldered the swag and
went per boot to look for more. The very
thought of charity gave him the creeps. But
times have changed. His successor squats
down and abuses the Government for not
providing clothes as well as food and
blankets.
THE TRAGEDY OF IT.
MRS. RUBENSTEIN : “Vot an awful sho ck you
must hare got, Rachel, ren your did
friend Gretchen died so suddenly."
RACHEL: “ Yeth, indeed, my tear —it cost me
fifteen shillingth for run Small wreath.”
Dear Bulletin, —Some small recent reve-
lations re convent discipline give me the
impression that it is an undignified business.
No grown woman should be spanked and sent
to bed, or even sent to bed without spanking,
by anyone save her husband, and then only
if they are on extra-affectionate terms.—
Yours, etc., Solomon Malapkop.
“Yarra Ben”: A Melbourne policeman
suicided a few days ago by taking prussic
acid. A returned soldier, and a military-
medal man, lie had recently been "stood off,”
and the worry of a pending inquiry proved
too much for him. He left a number of
messages and letters. For grim pathos this
line from one of them would he hard to beat:
“Don’t blame the chemist. I told him I
wanted it for a dog. I’m the dog!”
“Ex-Dig.” : The compliments passed in the
Big War were not all bitter. Near Charleroi
in the early fighting a whole army of French-
men, left in the soup by an ally, were cut
off, but died fighting, and before their extir-
pation wiped out at least an equal number of
Germans. When the Allies returned to this
area they found a monument in granite and
marble—a German tribute to the “amazing
valor” with which the martyred Frenchmen
died. Up in the Catacombs, at Wytschaete, was
a little cross bearing an inscription in Eng-
lish, “To an heroic German.” That word
“heroic” was so uncommon I often wondered
what was behind it. Further over, beyond
Hill 00, was a grave with a broken stretcher
spread over the top. A German inscription
simply, “Brave British Stretcher-
bearer” ; and one can visualise what brought
that tribute.
“Gallery” : There is a shortage of cadets
at Duntroon Military College, and the staff
is twice as numerous as the students.
Assistant Defence Minister Ryrie has ad-
mitted that 170 people are required for the
peace, happiness arvd instruction of 81
youths, the purely military and educational
staff comprising 29, the administrative 12,
with 25 groundsmen and laborers and the
same number of grooms. Moreover, there are
nine stewards, six laundresses and various
other menials, the stewards being engaged
exclusively to serve the young warriors at
table, a separate official called a “butler”
attending to the wants of the officers’ mess.
There is also a cook each for the officers,
cadets, hospital, laundry and humble em-
ployees ; but the Government declines to
consider a suggestion to appoint a special
cook for the cooks. That is regarded as
bordering on extravagance.
“Exul”: “Friday Island” (B. 23/6/’2l)
is right about the danger of the introduction
of yellow fever to Australia. One of the
most convincing bits of research work done
here was performed in 1916 by Drs. Cleland,
Burton Bradley and McDonald. They col-
heted specimens of the Stegomyia fasciata
mosquito at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), where
dengue fever was raging, and proved by ex-
periments that it was this mosquito that
was responsible for the transmission of
dengue, and not the Cule.v fatigans as had
been supposed. Many authorities hold that
dengue is, in fact, an attenuated form of
yellow-fever, with which it has many points
of similarity. As we have anophelines in
N.S.W. and Drs. Clayton and Utz have re-
ported cases of malaria occurring in people
who have never left that State, “Friday
Island’s” suggestion that a mosquito survey
should be made—to be followed by mosquito
eradication- —is a very necessary one.
LOVE’S WORLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Green trees and blue skies
And a red road to walk ;
they that speak with love’s eyes
Need no tongues to talk.
Bright birds and blithe birds
With a song in their throats,
They that use but love-words
Speak in golden notes.
Shine there and shade here,
And the sun like a king;
They that fare with love fear
Little shadowing.
lied blooms where bees sup
In the noon’s glow and heat;
They that drink of love’s cup
Know the sweetest sweet.
Clear pools where tall grass
And the ferns mirrored shine;
They that look in love’s glass
See themselves divine.
Fair youth a throned king
In a realm free of strife ;
They that drink at love’s spring
Know the joy of life.
Green trees and blue skies
And the Spring's waking breath ;
They that look in love’s eyes
Feel no fear of death.
N.S.W.
CASTARINA.


" . ''- ..
- wm
m
t
/
m
' &*«
■
*
■■■■■■
m I ■
m
«liii
M
m
v
lii
.:'■ . ■ '' ■ !
I
m
<n
m
H
ill
/:
li®
i H
m
ii
mz
y
>
■
Mm
imi
. P:(-:vi:.::-.'.'-5-'S::i;*'i
*'*i s
■*
%& I
.11
■
. I
HI
m
■
m
ill
H&i
\
»
wssms
mm mm sgmg ~■
M
l«
I
»
*<**' -<m-
H
C; 1 ;'
m
m i
Hi p
111
H
■
ML
Wm. Mmm
WfflMm
mm
x
m
888
■
V
mi
y
r
m
1
m
s\
The history behind
modern beauty
“The heat and scorching winds from
the South made careful attention to the
shin absolutely necessary —for health of
body and content of mind depended on
it Women of rank and fashion
used fine oils imported from the East
and especially prepared unguents and
salves.”
—Extract from “A Short History of the
Egyptian People” by Wallis Budge.
SUN and wind are the chief enemies of
the skin and complexion. Cleopatra
and other elegant women of Egypt found
in Palm and Olive oils the best defence
against heat and scorching winds.
The women of Australia need a similar
safeguard. Our dreaded winds-whether hot or co’d
—are dry and harmful to the skin. In PALMOLIVE
SOAP are combined Palm and Olive oils—finer, better
blended, more convenient in use than in ancient days
—but still invaluable to the woman who cares tor her
skin.
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
The guest-room size cake of PALMOLIVE
SOAP will be sent post free on request by
G. van Werveke, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
7
1
D
A
□


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
He i
JJ R. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney. Agents.
Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
lariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4Vz Guineas per week.
Tels.; Y3OOl, 3003. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
*3
King George IV
** WMHSEdr
The TOP-NOTCHScotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Steve Hart”: “Cartot” (B. 7/7/’2l) is
light in saying that nothing comes amiss to the
dipsomaniac if it has alcohol in it. Outback Bung’s
missus locks ,up her perfumery with the cash in the
safe; but there are chemist shops and, failing them,
general stores where the dipso, can buy patent medi-
cines nine-tenths of which contain more or less
alcohol. I have even seen him dilute one particular
tooth-paste, which contains 20 per cent, alcohol,
and drink it. But painkiller, with 90 per cent,
proof spirit, is a joy forever, and can be got any-
where. Still, my particular curse goes out against
the cough-mixtures, which plant the germ of dip-
somania in the kiddies. Most dipsos, are not
sots, and would gladly cure themselves—but the
cure? Cannot some of Tiie Bulletin’s medical con-
tributors send along a cure that may be taken at
home ? I once met a man travelling outback with
an alleged drink-cure. He said it was dinkum if
persevered with, that he had cured himself with it,
and that every doctor knew of it —simply a strong
decoction of quassia chips.
* * » .
“Monaro ’: Re curious appetites in ani-
mals (B. 30/6/’2l). A Nathalia (Vic.) cocky often
missed soap from the tank-stand outside. One day
lie caught his hack contentedly chewing the last of
half-a-bar, and that mystery was cleared up. During
a long-ago drought, when Binnaway Downs station
(N .S. \\.) was as bare as a schcfol playground, one
of the hands kept a favorite horse alive on boiled
'roo. On Bomerah station, near Gunnedah (N.S.W.),
is a horse that regularly lines up for his ration
of boiled mutton. A Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) galah
demands tea, with sugar in it. Old Molly, Mel-
bourne Zoo's ourang-outang, recently developed a
cold and was dosed with milk and whiskv. The
cold better the whisky ration was discontinued. But
Molly rejected mere milk with scorn. Whisky was
added, and down it went. She had taken to drink.
“Talawong”: The “Newest Arrival" (B.
30/e/’2l), having gone so far in his experiment
should know that he already has the necessary
material for producing piebald ponies; but as no
outside horses are available, the best tip is for
him to drop it. The sort of ponies likely to result
tiom his casual method would prove about as accept-
able to most people as a piebald population to the
advocates of a White Australia.
Foxglove’: What is the Australian re-
cord for a carpet-snake? My entry resides at Sam-
ford (Q.), and is reckoned to be 24ft. din. long.
Me is quite tame, and is looked upon as a benefactor
by the farmers and dairymen, on account of the
large number of wallabies he consumes. Therefore,
woe betide the person who molests him. His only
failing is that he occasionally varies his diet with
eggs.
* * * *
Boorara”: I have seen many snakes in
the sandy country south of Sydney, but I have
never yet seen one have recourse to a trick common
to the wrigglers of Southern Palestine. Over there
if a snake is disturbed he immediately burrows
under the sand, 'completely disappearing in an
inciediblj short time. They don’t merely cover
themselves, but travel for yards beneath the sand
without any apparent movement of the surface.
“Fleming”: Let me into this “best-work-
ing-bullock” argument. The Devon is quick, a
good walker, and a nice red. Those are his good
points. On the other hand, he is wanting when it
comes to the long, heavy draw. You’ll find this out
if you give him a couple of hard, hot days, with
two nights on scanty pasture. The Hereford is
slow, stupid and mostly lazy. After years of
experience I’ve yet to see a good Hereford leader.
Durhams, with Durham and Ayrshire, Devon and
even Jersey crosses, have always been my best set-off
against the local storekeeper, butcher, etc. If
D.I. (B. 23/6/’2l) is thinking of putting a team
together, let him first remember that a good worker
might be any color, breed or close. Select a straight
walker, a high shoulder, a deep chest, a round body
and a head like a milker's. Cut out blacks and
whites, not through faults as honest toilers, but
because of their darned bad habit of wriggling and
pushing up when being yoked or left standing in the
sun.
* * * *
“Sassafras”: I agree with “Colub” (B.
«0/6/ 21) that all snakes do not strike alike, neither
do they all inflict the same sort of wound. Very
often a snake makes only one mark, and I have
known one to strike savagely and not inject poison—•
and a very healthy black one he was. I can't sav
why he didn't poison, but 1 think his fangs were
deformed, although under a microscope thev
seemed normal. I have on my left arm two dis-
tinct marks, nearly an inch apart, the result of a
snakebite, and right through the Big War that arm
refused to yield to vaccination of any sort. On the
Burnett River (Q.) I treated a death-adder bite that
showed only one puncture. When I killed the adder
and examined his mouth I found that one fang and
two other teeth were missing, lost 1 possibly in a
scrap with a goanna or another snake. Another
fieak that I met was an entirely blind black snake.
Sou -YY pst : The Abo. who said some
time ago that scrub can be killed by cutting down
in autumn is talking through his neck. If he still
thinks so there’s a fortune for him between Wagga
and Hay, where the recent floods have brought up
millions of seedlings. There are two ways of coping
with scrub, one by rnattocking out (which is costly
but most effective), the other by cutting down a
face in spring or early summer, and when the shoots
begin to grow after the autumn rains, firing the
whole lot. The thicker the scrub the more effective
the treatment. The only disadvantage is that the
blaze destroys the grass roots, particularly in basalt
country.
Te W ; There is nothing cherubic about
file shaik family on the whole, but it includes one
strange, pale-skinned form with wide, sweeping
wings remotely resembling those with which angels
aie furnished by artists. This freak is known as
the angel shark (Squatina australis ). One was
PAINTING THE LILY.
NEWGHUM VISITOR : "What horse am Ito ride to-day—the one with the bob-tail?"
ARO. STOCKMAN : “Ah, he not flash enough for you, boss. Other pheller flash—he got
two-bob tail."
caught on the N.S.W. South Coast some little time
ago. this shark noses quietly along the bottom in
quest of crabs, shell-fish and small fishes, after the
manner of the shovel-nose. It runs to 4ft. or oft.
in length. A much rarer kind is the ghost shark
( Ch'imcei'a < igilbi ), which has a large, pointed fin
near the head and wide pectoral fins. When swim-
ming with the top fin erect it recalls the ghost of
commerce.
“Hawk” : My constant neighbors the foxes
have a new stunt. A pair of them strolled within
a few yards of our back door last w’eek at 10 in
the morning. They were not bothering with the
many ehooks about, and strolled off casually on
seeing us. They were mice-hunting. The present
drooping season means plenty of grass seed with
a plague of fat mice living on it. Reynard has a
passion for mice ; for them he neglects grapes
passion-fruit, rabbits and fowls, and even his own
precious safety. One farmer leaving five poisoned
mice m a ploughed furrow gleaned five dead-on-the-
spot, foxes.
“Lilac Domino”: "Barcoo’s” par (B.
23/6/ 21) leads O.lv. until he describes rough-rider
Jack Rigg doing a circus turn by vaulting into the
saddle the wrong way round and sticking the roughest
of them. Take 12 bad horses on
any station, and I will guarantee
that three-quarters of those nags
would not stand quiet enough for
any man to vault into the saddle
the right way round, let alone
the wrong way. Assuming that
Rigg gained the saddle back to
front, how he rode the 'rough ’u n
is beyond me. Maybe he had
patent adhesive pants. What
makes the act appear so impos-
sible is that most big-gun rough-
riders invariably state that the
worst buck is the back-buck,
which has unseated many a good
man. let “Barcoo” calmly tells
of Bigg riding a series of “back
bucks through the prad plung-
ing full steam ahead. If “Barcoo”
says he saw it, I will go to the
kennel, but not before I say it
was due to the bad grog which made him see the
wrong way round.
“M.H.”: The biggest turnip of the season ?
My entry is a purple-top grown on Andrew Hing-
stone’s farm in the Br.vdone (M.L.) district It
weighed 281 b.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: I bumped him as he came
out of the police-court, and he seemed rather daze.!.
They pinched him for stealing a pair of lorry
wheels,” he growled. “And his lawyer says to me,
‘Mould it surprise you to learn these are not a
pair of wheels?’ ‘lt would!’ I says, because I’d seen
those wheels every day for 10 years. ‘Then count
the spokes! says the lawyer. And, sure enough, one
wheel had 14 spokes while the other had 16 ! And
me using ’em as a pair for 10 years!”
“Bouragi”: “Ten Eye” (B. IG/G/’2l)
claims that the missionary policy is to discourage
European clothing, and that the Administration is
“now backing up the missions.” Fine! When
did the missions begin? It was always a thorn in
old Dr. Macgregor’s cushion that the L.M.S. and the
Methodies would persist in clothing their converts,
the ladies especially, in spite of the ordinances he
put out early in his reign forbidding the practice.
Ihe Anglicans, coming much later, observed the
ordinances, as “Ten Eye” says. The L.M.S. in
particular has an ill record in this matter of cloth-
ing. In the very early days of last century they
supplied all converts with top-hats and black broad-
cloth clothing for church wear. Absurd as this may
seem the mission record's authenticate it. Returning
from church the hot clothing was thrown off, and
the cool trade winds did the rest.
“Weary”: If “11.R.8.” (B. 23/6/'2l)
squirts the milk all over the lamb that he wants the
ewe to “mother,” and then places the youngster handy
where she can smell and lick it, he will find that
in nearly every case the ewe will adopt the nipper.
Bukawaqa”: Though “Bouragi” and
“Dudlyngil” (B. 7/7/’2l) have come at me over my
Par I cannot withdraw one word of it. I stated
that dynamite, the old original, had disappeared
fiom the markets, and mentioned the component
parts of gelignite. “Dud” can kiss good-bye any
knowledge he might have had of high explosives. ' 1
quote from “The Book of High Explosives,” issued
by Nobel's Explosives Co. (page 22) : “For general
blasting purposes blasting gelatine is too powerful
QUITE UNPRINTABLE.
in its effects, and its modified form of gelignite
is the result of altering the proportions of nitro-
glycerine and gun-cotton, and so obtaining a thinner
gelatine, which is made into a paste by adding a
mixture of wood pulp and nitrate of potash.”
“Bouragi” was evidently blind to part of my par.
In taking him to task re his “boggins” of dynamite
I spoke of it as “the old original,” so he makes a
bad miss in trying to show that 1 contradicted my-
self. Undoubtedly the Nobel-Glasgow people still
advertise that they are selling in Australia “dyna-
mite,” but 1 would recommend him to accompany
“Dudlyngil” to the agents and find out if this is
not the “so-called dynamite” mentioned by me.
(Continued on page 22. )
FENCIN’ WIRE AND BINDER TWINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When our farmin’ team starts foolin’, playin’ up
instead of pullin’,
Burstin straps an’ swings an’ eyebolts in an
implement or dray,
\\ e just do some cocky mendin', usin’ binder twine
an' bendin’ •
Bits of fencin’-wire to suit our needs, an' calmly
go our way.
Wire makes bonzer forks for toastin’, skewers, meat-
hooks, grids for roastin’,
Clothes-lines, bucket-handles, iron-stands an’ cur-
tain poles an’ ;
When piano notes start bustin’, with a trifle of
adjustin'
We can mend the rift with fencin'-wire an’ wake
the silent strings.
When the drill shows signs of wearin’, or the binder
needs repairin’,
We can’t always sit around an' wait for parts
to come to hand;
So we start bush-engineerin’ (there is no one within
heatin’)
With a bit of wire an' twine, an’ calls it Workin’
on the Land.
When some castin' bursts or buckles we fight hard
with bleedin’ knuckles,
Single-handed in the wilderness we’re tryin’ to
subdue;
lurnin bolts in awkward places, snyin’ prayers an'
makin’ faces,
Till with wire an’ twine we make the old thing
work as good as new.
I’ve seen many an invention that the catalogues
don’t mention
Made of binder twine an’ fencin' wire that lasted
out for years—
Fruits of sudden inspiration on an outback farm
or station,
Workin side by side an' keepin’ pace with crack
new patent gears.
HER STATUS.
ONE OF THE AUDIENCE: "What's she—the
referee ?”
ANOTHER OF THEM: “No; but one of them's
the co-re."
Simple men of simple manners, armed with shiftin’-
wreneh and spanners,
Are the Dads an’ grim Necessity’s the Mum of
new idees.
Fencin’ wire an’ first-hand knowdedge take the place
of fbrge and college,
An’ the binder twine will often save the expert’s
time an' fees.
When the Mallee poet’s spirit feels the Muse’s frenzy
stir, it,
But is bushed to find a subject or a dinkum
Aussie lyre,
Let him sing of wayback farmin', an' his harp will
sound quite charmin’,
If he strings it up with binder twine an’ bits of
fencin’-wire.
SOUTH AUSTKALTA.
STRIPPER.


SPORTING NOVELS
!n the
"Bookstall” Australian Fiction Series.
1/3 each. 1/4£ posted.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,”
by Con Drew.
“In RACING SILK,”
by Gerald R. Baldwin.
“THE MYSTERY OF THE
BOXING CONTEST,”
by Bert James.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND
NATIONAL,” by Jack North.
“WOLAROI’S CUP,”
by Ambrose Pratt.
“THE MARE WITH THE
SILVER HOOF,”
by Bob Allen.
“THE WHITE CHAMPION,”
by Don Delaney.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
by F. Agar.
Sporting Novels by Arthur Wright:
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.”
“UNDER A CLOUD.”
“A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
“A GAME OF CHANCE.”
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.”
“OVER THE ODDS.”
“GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“RUNG IN.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
Recent Additions to “Bookstall Series
“BODGER AND THE
BOARDERS,”
by E. F. O’Ferrall.
“THE MYSTERY OF WALL’S
HILL,”
by Sydney Partrige and Cecil
Raworth.
“TAP-TAP ISLAND,” by J. M. Walsh.
JUST PUBLISHED —
"The Fortunes of Geoffrey Mayne,”
by Charles Rodda,
One of the greatest novels of Australian pioneering.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or from the Publishers.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
r
X-
l
llMt.’Si.'w
vr
tit
Wat
ToSuimv ,
Queensland
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns —via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid * the Southern Winter*
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Levuka,
Wyandra, Bombala, Wodonga.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz. :
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE LEVIATHAN S
“Square Deal” Sale
/J Gl/MS#
NAVY TWILL 501111105
‘Square
Deal”
Price
m
Hand Tailored to Order. Tailoring is of
the Leviathan 13 Gns. Standard
Linings and Trimmings are in keeping with the
high duality of the materials, and cut and tit
are guaranteed as perfect.
asked to accept delivery unless satisfied.
Materials Purchased at 50. per cent.
Less than Ruling Prices Direct from
the Mills.
Finest Indigo Twills, Serges and Vicunas, manu-
factured from super two-ply worsted yarns, tine
and soft, which will not shine and rub with
wear, and will retain shape when made up.
FILL IN PATTERN COUPON.
NAVY TWILL SUITINGS.
y’ame
Address
(Bulletin)
-We Pay Carriage.
Order by Post
/ •
mm u
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston
and Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
m
t
Ui.
m
t//rn
&
shuts
r
m
J
-7
UK 3
GneaC iit
m
■v//x
sa
d?
X
2>
r
sn
SL
s
*s>
da®
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62


Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device in the world that will
refract and focus waves of sound upon the drum-
head, and assist the hearing power where any sound
can be heard at all.
5*2
V^4
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £l/1/- complete.
They usually last about
two years. The price for
a second pair is 165.., without instruments. ~
We will post you a booklet if you wish, but we
would advise you to waste no time and get the
Ear-Drums. Write to-day.
WILSON EAR-DRUM CO. (H. Wilkinson),
178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
Hi. ,
s
/-x Fw:
&
e.
K (
k.
«P*
\\:3£
Our new Illustrated Catalogue will
be posted to you on application.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
<34 Criterion Works, Birmingham.
England.
Representatives in jS'.S.W.;: Scott <
BROOKS
SADDLE
makes every ride a joy-ride.
JUST imagine a ride of a hundred
J miles or more—started perhaps
in the early hours of the morning
and finished late in the evening,
and all thought of the road surface
forgotten—your only wish that the
day had been longer so that you
could go still farther. This imagi-
nation becomes actual retrospect
after a day on a BROOKS Saddle.
Holladay, Ltd., 31A Pitt St., Sydney,
FOX RIFLES
Winchester Repeater, .32 Cal.,
Model ’92, the ideal Fox Rifle, made in
full- and half-magazine Carbines, £7/17/6.
Rifles, £B/10/-
Same model, in 25/20, .38, .44 Cal., at same
prices.
Winchester Repeater, Model ’9O,
fires W.R.F. Special Cartridge, £B/5/-
Ross .303 Cal. Match Rifle, £6/10/-
9 M.M. Browning Rifle, Special High-
power Automatic, £l5.
Cm*
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
“Bora'’: I’m not given to blowing about
dogs as a rule; but I went down to give the kelpies
some tucker this morning, and I noticed one of
the water-tins (half a petrol-tin) turned upside
down. Kicked it over and found a half-grown
chicken under it. There was only one dog untied,
so I reckon he must have worked the chicken into
the tin and -turned it over on him.
* * * *
“N.T.”: Travelling as a loose packhorse
with a mob of cattle from Mt. Cornish to Carran-
dotta (Q.) an old mare pestered the life out of the
drovers, for every time a kangaroo showed up it
was soon racing at its top with the old mare fully
extended behind it, and a drover had always to join
in the chase and retrieve the ancient prad. The
man who used to ride her on Mt. Cornish was in the
habit of chasing kangaroos, and the mare got to
believe that with something on her back chasing
kangaroos was part of the day’s work. When you
saw a ’roo being chased by a packhorse wdiich
was being pursued by a stockman the joke
looked against all three; but it was really against the
’roo for taking the old mare seriously.
“Hugh”: Mrs. ASneas Gunn has told us,
in The Little Black Princess,” how the kangaroo
(before he was a kangaroo) once went by the name
of mirran; but it takes an American, Albert P.
Sourhwiok, to give ns the origin of the word
kangaroo itself. “When Captain Cook discovered
Australia,” he writes, “seeing a dead animal in
possession of the native*, he sent some sailors ashore
to purchase it. The latter, after buying it, tried
to ascertain its name, but the savages, unable to
understand them, replied in the Australian language:
‘I don’t know',’ or ‘kan-ga-roo.’ This w'as supposed
to be the name of the new and curious animal, and
was thus reported by the seamen to their com-
mander.”
TO THE BITTER END.
GOLFER ( who is beating the curate hollow):
“Never mind, Simms. You wait until
you are saying the burial service over
my grave."
SIMMS: "But, my dear chap, even then it will
be your hole."
“Katakurak”: Re “H.R.B.’s” inquiry
(B. 23/6/’2l) about making a ewe adopt a lamb.
Lock the ewe and lamb in a small yard for the
night and tie a dog up close by. The ewe keeps
up an offensive, but returns at intervals to sniff
and “baa” at the lamb, and gradually becomes used
to it. It may take several nights to accomplish
this feat, but it generally comes off.
“Alex.”: Tell “Aragun” (B. 14/7/’2l) I
can produce an Australian aborigine as bald as
an alligator’s egg. He drinks rum and hammers a
gin at Brandon (N.Q.). He was barefooted on the
head from birth, and bis only son, w'ho is seven
years of age, has no hair either.
HIS THEORY.
“Funny way the old bloke shaves himself
“Reckon it’s so’s he won't waste any of his beer .”
“H.R.B. (B. 23/G/’2l) wants
to know how to make a ewe mother a lamb not her
own. The mr<st successful method is to put the
ewe and the lamb in a small pen and rub a little
whisky cw the ewe's nose. The sense of smell is
thereby nullified. The rest comes natural to the
lamb.
* * * *
“Te Fana”: A very learned gentleman
has recently expressed his fear that the
South Sea Islanders will fade away
without leaking their mark on the sup-
planting race; and several other learned
gentlemen have had similar fears. But
I, who have shared food and sleeping-
mat with Brown Brother, do not think
so. Rather will the islanders’ gradual
absorption develop a new type. One
thing is certain—if left to itself the
Polynesian race would soon be extinct.
Th roughout the islands you will find
couple after couple of full-blooded
natives, young, strong, healthy—and
childless. The race seems to be getting
worn out with isolation and old age.
But an infusion of European blood, how-
ever small, works a miracle. The most
significant fact in the Eastern Pacific
to-day is that it is the cross of white
and brown that is repopulating the
islands. I venture a glimpse into the
future and see the process of absorption
complete—a half-caste race, with child-
ren clinging to the distaff side. Maori-
land is wont to advertise that Hori is
on the increase. Figures say so; but
countless half-castes are dubbed Maori
for statistical purposes. It is only those
who live as Europeans that are classified
as such. Hori has less excuse for fading
than his island brother, and Maoriland
none at all for writing down a half-caste
as a Maori. It is a false total, and false
totals strengthen my argument.
“J.C.R.”: Apropos the discussion on aged
horsebieakers: 1 met Tom Dodd in a southern
Riverina town the other day. He was riding- a
gi een colt and leading another m tackling-. I ques-
tioned his age, and the time he’d spent horsebreaking,
and he told me he rode his first bucker at 14, »nd
has been breaking ever since. He is now 72. His
brother Jim died a few years ago at 62, and he was
riding l-oughuns to the end.
* * * »
Rooinek”: Ret me settle llrs quail argu-
ment. Both “Yoyang” (B. 19/5/’2l) and “Nor’-
West” (B. 30/6/’2l) are right in a sense. The
true quail ( Coturnix ) resembles other birds in that
the male has the fine feathers and the female hatches
the eggs. But their cousins, among the hemipodes,
the “button-quail,” “painted quail,” etc., have a
curious reversal of sex-characteristics. The female
is much more brightly colored than the male, and
the male does the hatching. A hemipode is easily
distinguished from a true quail by the absence of the
hind toe. Hence its name —literally, “half-foot.”
I The Bulletin is sorry that that is the last par.
it will get from “Rooinek.” He was Ronald G.
Douglas, who some years ago came to Tasmania
from East London (S. Africa), and joined the ser-
vice of the National Bank. Later, on that bank's
amalgamation with the Commercial of Australia,
lie was manager at Derby. As he was driving the
other day in his district, a tree fell, smashing across
his vehicle and killing him instantly. He had done
a whole lot of shooting in three continents, and
was an authority on his pet subject of “Game and
the Gun.” His other hobby was decimal coinage.)
“Givet”: I would like to ask “Merlin”
(B. 16/6/’2l) how he accounts for the existence of
animals which are clearly a mixture of two species.
Some years ago one was captured at Ocean Grove
(Vic.) which had a cat’s head and body, but, instead
of the usual hair or long fur of the cat, it had short
silvery-grey fur ; its tail was clothed in the same
material, but was bare on the under side. It was
not a “ringtail.” To all appearances this animal
was a cat in ’possum’s clothing 1 , or, viewing it an-
other way, a ’possum built on the lines of a cat.
* * * *
“Audio” : Wonderful how news travels in
the country! On my way to the city to spend an
annual holiday I stayed a night at the railway town,
120 miles from Tin Gully, the scene of my labors.
I was asked how we got on for food up there, and
replied that the local Bung had shot an old ram
on tlie hills, and consequently meat had been plen-
tiful for the last week. About two years later the
proprietress of The Diggers’ Rest at "the Gully de-
manded an explanation. She wanted to know why I
had made adverse comment on her housekeeping. It
was quite a time before it dawned on me that my
facetious remark of two years before, after going
the rounds with malicious additions, had just come
home to roost.
“Sandfly”: Let me introduce to “Jim
Carew” (B. 19/5/’2l) Alf Young, the liorse-
breaker of Gulf fame, who is well over 60 and still
handles and rides the roughest of them. He was
over 45 when he toured N.Q. with Professor Kemp,
riding Dargin’s Grey and the best that Kemp
could bring forward. I could name half-a-dozen
other youths well over 50 in the Normanton (N.Q.)
district who, when in the saddle, take more shifting
than the mortgage.
“Snell”: The °drl was fair, but burned
brown; her skin was almost the color of her short,
crisp, golden-brown hair. She was busy milking a
big red.-cow at the end of the shed—she was
Spadder's new girl. Glidden, Spadder’s nearest
neighbor, came sauntering to the shed. It had been
his intention to borrow an adze, but the 1 new girl
caught his eye. “’Ellow!” he said. The girl
glimpsed him from the corner of an eye. “’Ellow!”
she replied, and continued milking. “Me name’s
Pete,” said Glidden. “What’s yours?” “Susan.”
“You ain’t too bad,” continued Pete. “Lovely ’air
viv got.” The girl’s two hands were busy; the milk
frothed in the pail. “You’re Spadder’s new girl.
I ’eard he had one. S’pose you ain’t got a reg’lar
bloke?” The girl shook her head. “Don’t want to
be bothered with ’em,” she said. “Oh, but I’m
different,” Glidden assured her; “I got a nice
bit iv land here and 30 cows and a sawmill. What
if we get married ?” The girl went on milking.
“M hat yer say?” urged the gallant suitor. “I ain’t
on.” “Ah-h, come on.” “I don’t know yeh.”
“Well, there’s lots of time after we’re married.”
Susan shook her head. “Ah, come on, don’t be a
narlc.” Glidden was down sitting on his heels
now playing with a straw. “There’s lots would
have me,” he urged. Without rising he shuffled to
her. “Give’s a kiss,” he said. He put an arm
about her. She resisted, and over went the full pail.
Susan looked ruefully at the slop ; she looked towards
Spadder coming down the shed, roaring over the
calamity. “There,” said the girl tearfully, “look
what yiv done. I’ll have to marry you now.” And
she did.
“Cos”: “Ria-akiaki’s” spud-diggers (B.
23/6,/’2l) are only mugs. In the Learmonth (Vic.)
district in 1911, seven of us, when exhuming taters
for a cocky named Creelman, decided to go our
nardest to find out what we could dig, pick and
sew. Result: Billy P.arker, 47; Long Jack Flinn,
52 ; Darky Evans, 41 bags. I forget the other
tallies, but I, being new to the game, knocked up
27 bags. The price was ninepence per bag, and the
hours worked eight.
* * * *
“Bill R.”; A Braidwood (N.S.W.) dairy-
man recently learned that any old fodder isn’t good
enough for Strawberry. He had a crop of ripe
maize, ungarnered because the constant wet weather
bad mildewed the cobs. Not to waste the grain
he turned his goddesses into the paddock, and next
morning most of them were ready for skinning. In
the same locality a teamster lost several draught
horses through feeding them with mildewed ensilage.
What is the devilry that lurks at times in mildew ?
“Ironbark”: Here is my nomination for
the Strong-man Stakes. A hatter neighbor of mine
recently shore his few sheep, the baled wool weighing
a little more than a hundredweight. Mick then
walked 15 miles to town, borrowed a hand-truck and
shouldered it home. The next day he wheeled the
bale of wool to the town and delivered it to the
most, astounded woolbuyer in the world. The track
which Mick travelled is a typical rough Tasmanian
bush road.
* * * *
“Twilight”: “lI.W.G.'s” yarn (B.
23/6/’2l) re lynching in Australia reminds me. This
happened during the time of the Boer War at Enoch's
Point (Vic.), a mining town on the fringe of Gipps-
land. One Saturday night Newland’s pub was full of
half-wild, mad-drunk miners, when in came Lowery,
a pro-Boer, well inked. Big Jack Bourke, always
at loggerheads with Lowery, soon started a row and
said: “A man oughter break yer blanky neck, yer
scraggy, herrin’-gutted blanky Boei\” “Go on then,
do it,” said Lowery. “Decent men oughter string
yer up, yer blanky, bandy-legged blank,” continued
Bourke. “Perhaps they oughter,” said Lowery,
“perhaps I’d be better dead; anyhow, there’s not
much sense in livin’ with the likes o’ you; I wish
ver’d do it.” This made Bourke see red. Tying
the unprotesting and seemirjgly-careless Lowery’s
hands behind him, Big Jack lifted him on to an empty
nine-gallon cask, grabbed a coil of rope, knotted one
end around Lowery’s neck, and, cutting off about
six feet, tied the other end to a rafter ; all the while
Lowery daring him to do it. Meantime, an inde-
pendent brawl had started nearby, and in this Bourke,
postponing his lynching act for the time being,
joined, with the result that the barrel was knocked
from under Lowery’s feet.V He let out a yell that
ended in a gurgle as the noose tightened ; his tongue
shot out, and his legs worked up and down like a
frog - battling up stream. There’s no question that
Lowery would have died had not Newland, having
heard the scuffle, pushed his way in. He sprang
across the room and cut down Lowery, who was by
this time black in the face. It took three-quarters
of an hour to bring him round.
NOT HIM.
“If you didn’t have that beard I could almost
swear you were my first ’usband wot
deserted me five years ago.”
“No, lady, I've only had this black eye a
week.”
BIRD-LIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All day long in this verdant valley,
Sunlight gilding each shining wing,
Birds of a feather throng together,
Trill and w'histle and dance and cling,
Making most of the golden weather,
Feeling only in full measure
Present joy and present pleasure.
What to them is the grey to-morrow,
What the sorrow's of yesterday ?
Here in this valley where they rally,
Singing over their mossy ways,
AVaters wander from grove and alley;
Life to them is light and leisure —
Present joy and present pleasure.
Would that like to our sylvan sisters,
Singing sw-eet in the golden light,
We of the Sorrows —grey to-morrows —-
Shedding care and its trammels, might
Borrow bliss as the blithe bird borrows:
Keeping as a flawless treasure
Present joy and present pleasure.
X.s.w'.
BRIGALOW.


m
y i.l i/A
r
m
' v. ...
m
m
m
i i
s:g-
M
m
mm
i <
■> V • V'v- ,v '‘C <!
MjHEfi|H|§i
?w * <y» ' ?a . i •>:• !• ;*
m
Di
•: • .
Si
i
m i ,
H
$ /-.v M-t-i
r
■
p*
• AaedSMfef
8
mM
mm
Mb
u
l
i
\f sell psp
:■ n ■.
Ml
s? jfE
mm
MBIHI
wfttran
I
iti
11
t.®
, ; ' .•
' ■ . ■■■ . : V :', ’< •
• ;
■ .' ''e * ' } ’ '
> m* '* l':\
',,V . • ,
* , jk
I
R
1
8 | !
i 38 | .’.v •
1 \ £ /.%},
■ i-> : ' •; jA . ' ;£!
■HP : ; v:- |
mSm I HN
yvf i’vivvi
pa
:
&M Km
; k «.
1 ;
: : 3 r?
Bii;gj|ajgjgg«||g|iagi«|i
. -;V 9 g
'
!. v i vv ;
(V ;
.-A,/ .*
Miaiiaaii .
:
mi
■■IB
m
wmm
mm
W
m
:
mm
m
im
7/ / rt.JJ.ALi .../’Vrj I
1
■
•> . ,
■•.•/-it' . •■■ • ■
. .
> ’
■'? :;-;v
r''Ki \
\
>
W- II
DUNLOP RUBBER CO . •
IB
ALL STATES
ATES AND N.Z.
.
■:•.. . ; V' _
REDUCE OVERHEAD COSTS!
At no stage in the history of this country
has it been so imperative that costs
should come down. Efficiency in every
branch of industry is called for.
Material, effort, power must all render
their utmost. In this connection
□
D
SERVICE —CONVEYOR— DRIVING
offers manufacturers, mining, and
other primary industries the opportun-
ity of obtaining the highest efficiency
and economy in transmission of power;
also in the transport of every descrip-
tion of material—from ore to grain—
at a charge infinitesimal to the cost of
the out-of-date methods employed in
many industries. We have the finest
and largest plant in the Southern
Hemisphere for the manufacture of
every description of high class rubber
belting, thousands of miles of which is
already rendering fine service in the
industrial progress of this country.
Dunlop belting has won a unique repu-
tation in the Commonwealth for quality,
value and service, and has demonstrated
its superiority over the imported article.
Our experience is at your service,
and we shall be pleased to confer
with those desirous of “cutting costs”
in the direction indicated. No order
is too large, none too We also
manufacture every description of
rubber goods used in industrial work.
Tenders and samples submitted.
Correspondence Invited.


d
ďf
Every Man
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge-
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping
This is where the “ Valet " Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shave. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-), and demonstrate the razor.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
OT\
t\s*
,)))
3^*77 7r7m""1(1'
LX.
ji
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA :
RALPH ABERCROMBV,
LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
The -word “ Valet' 1 on Razors,
Strops , and Blades indicates the
genuine product of the Auto Strop
Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207.
City Road, London , England.
o
VARIETY IS THE
SPICE OF THE
SANDWICH LUNCH
Folk who perforce have to take their lunch to
work will welcome a change in the shape of
“REX” CAMP PIE
This tasty compounded meat with its refreshing
wholesome flavor is always relished. It saves
your time because it is all ready cooked. It
saves money for the same reason —you will find
it cheaper than fresh meat.
BUY A TIN TO-DAY
Always keep a tin in the house.
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
JEB&
P-'lir'!
pill
giKSTS
iJiiimiinniiHiiiinifflu
IN
H am
™> BACON. VEAU
t °ngue.
EIGHT MILES AN HOUIU-
and Loaf While You Do It
d
AN EVINRUDE MOTOR on
your rowboat will cut the
water at seven or eight miles
an hour. Put it on a canoe
and you can make eight to ten
miles. Any canoe can
be used or any rowboat
—square
or pointed
stern. N o
special boat is needed. Your
Evinrude fits them all and is
easily attached.
You can take it any place where there
is boating. The Evinrude is easily
carried—weighs only 73 pounds—and
is so easy to operate that
Anyone Can Handle It.
There is no weed-catching rudder to bother with
all steering is done by the tiller handle, which swings
the entire propeller sleeve. Swing to the right or
left and you can turn around in a boat’s length.
By a twist of the tiller handle the boat instantly
backs up—without stopping the motor.
Speed is regulated by the timer lever—a slight
move of the timer lever to right or left and you
at once get any speed within the range of the
Evinrude Motor.
Smooth, Flexible Power for
Every Boating Purpose.
Your Evinrude is more than just a
power plant for a fishing or hunting
boat. It makes a power boat of any
canoe, rowboat, skiff or other light
craft.
Then you have quick, easy transporta-
tion, not only for fishing and hunting,
but also for picnicking, camping,
pleasure riding: and all other water
purposes.
Women like the Evinrude not only because it is
easy to start but because it is clean. There are
no dirty oil cups. The gasoline and oil are poured
into the same tank and the lubrication is automatic.
There are no batteries, wires or switches to cause
confusion. Ignition is furnished by the Evinrude
built-in-flywheel type magneto.
The Evinrude is handsomely nickelplated and
enamelled, improving the appearance of any boat.
It is designed on lines of extreme simplicity and will
last for years without breaking or getting out of
order.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
Dept.
G,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.


rke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
World.
■r.
; v
r
SCHNAP^
u ..- j*~~' -
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA-
COUCHS
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
ing record of the failure of American policy
to win the peace, and to that failure he con-
tributed by radical defects of character ; he
was honest but fatally weak. “There is in
the President’s mentality," lie writes, "a
strange mixture of positiveness and indecision
which is almost paradoxical.” Lansing had
indecision without positiveness. He lacked
the fighting spirit. The discovery that \\ il-
son “considered opposition to be a personal
affront, and was disposed to retaliate in a
personal way,” plainly overawed him. Dif-
fering profoundly from the President re-
specting self-determination, the League of
Nations, the mandatory system and the
Shantung settlement, he recorded his opinions
in copious memoranda, most of which he kept
to himself (lie is one of those politicians who
are remarkably eloquent at a typewriter),
and submitted to outrageous .snubs. Not
even the contemptuous statement, “made with
great candor and emphasis,” and in the
presence of other parties, that Wilson “did
not intend to have lawyers drafting the
treaty of peace” (Lansing was the only
lawyer on the U.S. delegation) moved this
meek functionary to wrath. He signed the
pact of Versailles without believing in it,
and told several persons that many parts of
it were thoroughly bad. One of his con-
fidants published''the substance of the conver-
sation, and the infuriated President there-
upon demanded the resignation which should
have been handed in voluntarily long before.
In Lansing’s judgment Wilson should
never have gone to Paris. That was the
President’s cardinal blunder. Having gone,
he should have presided over a meeting or
two and returned home, leaving his four
Commissioners to thrash out the details of
the treaty according to instructions. In
that way he might have dominated the Con-
ference without actually being present at it.
As it was, he crossed the Atlantic without a
programme and with plenipotentiaries whom
he treated as if they were clerks. He arrived
with a bundle of phrases and pious aspira-
tions, and thought that nothing more was
necessary. “We Commissioners are like
skilled workmen who are ordered to build
a house. We have the materials and tools,
but there are no plans and specifications and
no master-workman in charge of the con-
struction. We potter round in an aimless
sort of way and get nowhere.” So Lansing
confided to his typewriter on January 1(5,
1919. And when, at a vital stage of the
negotiations, the President went back to
America for a month he left the Commis-
sioners neither instructions nor plan. The
event proved that, with all his self-suffici-
ency, he was no match for the wily negoti-
ators of Europe and Asia. Overborne by
veteran cynics who knew Avhat they wanted
and how to get it, he sacrificed one after
another of the Fourteen Points. By the
threat of withdrawing from the League of
Nations Japan coerced him into acquies-
cing in the Shantung settlement, which
violated the traditional U.S. policy towards
China. That was his most striking aban-
donment of principle, but Article 10, from
which the original self-determination clause
was omitted, owing chiefly to “the opposi-
tion of the statesmen who represented the
British Empire, in contradistinction to those
who represented the self-governing British
Dominions,” registered another notable climb-
down. “Open covenants openly arrived at ”
disappeared early in the piece, whereupon its
advocate became a pillar of secret diplo-
macy. Concerning which Lansing notes, with
a rare touch of malice, that “Mr. Wilson
pursued this method of handling the sub-
jects of negotiation the more readily because
he was by nature and inclination secretive.
He had always shown a preference for a pri-
vate interview Avith an individual. Pie talked
a good deal about ‘taking common counsel,’
but showed no disposition to put it into
practice.”
Mr. Lansing’s criticism of the self-
determination chimera is shrewd and timely.
A week after the American Commission
landed in France he set down his thoughts:
When the President talks of self-determination,
what unit has he in mind? Does he mean a race, a
territorial area or a community? Without a definite
unit which is practical, application of this principle
is dangerous to peace and stability.
Unfortunately the Secretary doesn’t seem
to have put his conundrum to the President.
He observes, however, that, although Dr.
Wilson professed to regard self-determination
as “an imperative principle of action,” and
talked beforehand of making it one of the
bases of peace, he abandoned it utterly in
the Treaties of Versailles and St. Germains
and the foreign policy of the United States.
If self-determination is sound in principle
the South was right in 1861, which no one
nowadays believes, and the North was wrong.
And since the Americans reject the thing
utterly as regards their own affairs, how can
they consistently maintain that “it is a right
inseparable from a true conception of politi-
cal liberty and therefore universally applic-
able”? By his acts the President has proved
that self-determination is a mere phrase,
but the phrase is “loaded with dynamite”:
Since the principle was proclaimed it has been
the excuse for turbulent political elements in various
land's to resist established governmental authority.
It has induced the use of force in an endeavor to
wrest the sovereignty over a territory or over a
community from those who have long possessed and
justly exercised it. It has formed the basis for ter-
ritorial claims by avaricious nations. And it has
introduced into domestic as well as international
affairs a new spirit of disorder. It continues to
have the apparent sanction of the nations when it
has been in fact thoroughly discredited and will
always be cast aside whenever it comes in conflict
with national safety, with historic political rights, or
with national economic interests affecting the pros-
perity of a nation.
Mr. Lansing, it will be seen, is capable of
writing like a statesman, though not, appa-
rently,. of acting like one.
J.E.W.
Cambridge v. Oxford
The steady age-long advantage of Cam-
bridge over Oxford in the matter of poets
is one of those minor points in literature
which have an interest though perhaps no
great, value. The tiling that matters is what
the poet produced, not where he got his
training,
But, to take a parallel from sport, after
we have applauded the all-Australian cricket
team, we may fairly note the curious fact
that as many as ten of them come from
N. S. Wales. Similarly it is worth recording
that all the greater English poets have had
a University training except Shakspeare,
Keats and Browning; and till the other day
“University” to the British mind meant Ox-
ford or Cambridge. (Browning had a term
or two of classes at London, newly-founded
and non-residential.)
Now, as between the two famous old seats
of learning, the probabilities might have
been reckoned all in favor of Oxford. It
is slightly the older foundation. It has also
been —in each instance not overwhelm ugly,
yet admittedly—more favored in beauty of
local scenery, more consistently devoted to
the Throne, more given to the classics and
less to mathematics; that is, to imagination
and expression rather than to precision and
proof. Further, it is, as one of its greatest
sons has said, the Home of Lost Causes. All
these things would seem to push it towards
supremacy in poetry. Yet the advantage
on the other side is nothing less than start-
ling. Cambridge claims in steady succession
Chaucer, Spenser, Marlowe, Milton, Dry-
den, Gray, Coleridge, Byron, Wordsworth
and Tennyson, with any number less distin-
guished but still notable, as Ben J.onson,
Herrick, Kingsley, Macaulay. Against these
Oxford had Shelley—had him a little while
on trial, and expelled him! —Matthew
Arnold and Swinburne: with others such
as Wesley and Keble, Landor, Clough and
William Morris. You simply can’t “bring
them together,” as handicappers say.
Of the moderns it is too early to speak;
but Rupert Brooke, Owen Seaman, James
Elroy Flecker, Sassoon, Geoffrey Fyson and
J. C. Squire were all Cambridge men. New-
bolt and Noyes were at Oxford. Their
fame, actual and compai’ative, must be left
for half a century hence to decide.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
A Satchel of Books
The Heart of Cherry Mcßain (Hodder and Stough-
ton). Conventional novel of the Canadian AVest.
Maundering hero ; pugilistic villain; girl who is a
child of Freedom and a child of Nature.
The Other Woman, by Norah Davis (Century Co.).
A well-told American yarn of Langdom lvirven and
John Gorham, who are respectively our old friends
Dr. Jekvll and Air. Hyde. It ends on the lugubrious
note which the modern American seems to like.
Hidden Fires, by Airs. Patrick Mac Gill (Herbert
Jenkins). A thrilling affa'ir of virginal London
chorus-girls, dissolute managers who get publicly
thrashed for lechery on their own stages, a misun-
stood heroine and a deliriously happy finish.
Maumbury Rings, by G. V. McFadden (Hodder
and Stoughton). Those who like a good novel about
18th-century England will find all requirements
here. The pictures of country life are fascinating,
and the inevitable missing heir is identified under
unusually unusual circumstances..
The Cotton Broker, by John Owen (Hodder and
Stoughton). A rather powerful story of an unplea-
sant person who rises from humble beginnings to
airy heights and crashes. Some of the characters
seem to be drawn from life, and Manchester will no
doubt recognise them. There , are striking descrip-
tions of the cotton business, which is evidently
more romantic than bookmaking, but not so fascinat-
ing as two-up.
The Wreck, by Rabindranath Tagore (Macmillan).
A young Hindu lawyer escapes from a river wreck
to find himself holding another fellow’s bride. As
the damsel hasn’t seen her husband, she assumes
that her rescuer is her property, and produces com-
plications which are detailed in 414 pages of deft,
colloquial English. The interest never flags, and
the descriptions of Hindu life and character are
particularly well done.
His Chinese Idol, by Carroll P. Lunt (John Lane).
There are none of the tricks of the trade about this
tale of Pekin. And it is the more convincing for it,
because it professes to be a sort of autobiog. of a
dealer in curios, and he just rambles on —for the
most part entertainingly. Pretty plainly he didn’t
know quite where he was going when he started;
and the last half-dozen chapters have nothing to do
with the title. Apart from its fair story value the
book is worth while for its picture of the life of
a European colony in a Treaty port.
A History of Trade Unionism, in Australia, by J.
T. Sutcliffe (Alacmillan), gives a thumbnail sketch
of industrial conditions up to the arrival of the
“New Model” in England. The trrand periods of
the movement here are, of course, the decade follow-
ing the 1890 slump and the years between the
arrival of compulsory arbitrati-"- and our own times.
These are handled in detail and with an admirable
accuracy and absence of bias. The book is one of
the AV. E. A. Series.
Paid in Full, by John Goodwin (Herbert Jenkins).
An elderly crook whose “eyes became like points of
hard crystal” when he’s annoyed; a tremendously
aristocratic hero who quotes Horace before plunging
into a river to save two socially-impossible persons
from drowning; a typist who is really heiress to
the Tallbors’ title and estates, and, shielding her
from the machinations of Callaghan and his band,
the Man with the Brooding Eyes—you can judge
the book by the ingredients.
Some Experiences of a New Guinea R.M., by Cap-
tain C. A. AA r . Monckton (John Lane, via Angus
and Robertson). A racy and well-written book.
The author u*as a prospector and pearler before he
became a magistrate under the old regime, and in
the latter capacity he travelled widely and saw
abundance of fighting. “Governor or ruffian, bishop
or cannibal, I have,” he says, “written of all as
I have found them,” and certainly his vignettes are
vivid, his judgments candid. He dislikes Australian
newspapers, politicians and officials; admires French
missionaries, Burns, Philp and Co., Bishop Stone
AA r igg and AVilliam Macgregor. Macgregor, indeed,
arouses his enthusiasm :
“Short, square, slightly bald, speaking with a
strong Scotch accent, showing signs of overwork and
the ravages of malaria, there was nothing in the
first appearance of the man to stamp him as being
out of the ordinary, but I had not been three minutes
in his cabin before 1 realised that I was in the
presence of a master of men—a Cromwell, a Drake,
a C®sar or Napoleon. Once, and only once, in my
life have I felt that a man was my master, in every
way a person to be blindly obeyed, and one who
must be right and infallible, and that was when I
met AVilliam Alacgregor.”
In a very different vein are his observations on the
Robinson tragedy:—
“It was a dull season at the time for the Austra-
lian papers; they had not had a fight in their
Parliament, or a sensational murder, for some time.
Here was a chance of selling their rags! The
Press fairly howled for the head of Robinson, as did
certain Australian members of Parliament. The
Administration bowed to the storm. So died Chris-
topher Stansfield Robinson, first Australian Admin-
istrator of New Guinea, murdered, as clearly as ever
a man was murdered, by the lying sensation-mongers
who had hounded him to a suicide’s grave.”
The war interrupted this adventurous Maorilander’s
plan of narrating his ascent of Mt. Albert Edward
and his journey across Papua from Kaiser Wilhelm’s
Land to the Gulf. Another volume will be welcome
from his vigorous and picturesque pen.
Tobias o’ the Light, by James A. Cooper (Sully
and Co., N. York, through Whitcombe and Toombs).
A good, wholesome story with the salt of the Cape
Cod breezes through it. The Puritan Fathers still
live in those parts, and—-well, they show up best in
the history books. But you’ll like Tobias, the light-
housekeeper, and Heppy, his sister, and you’ll thor-
oughly enjoy the old boy’s humor and philosophy.
Not tine book in 50 holds a better companion for a
winter evening.
The Edge of the World, by Edith Blinn (Herbert
Jenkins). ‘ All about Mother Lee, who ran a sort
of combined ’commodation-house and creche on the
edge of the sage-brush country in the West —that’s
the U.S.A. West, of course —and filled in spare
moments between making broth and popping corn
with match-making and philosophy. A fine old soul
is Mother Lee, a lot more humanly possible than
the youngster she brings up on purpose that Miss
(or Mrs., as the case may be) Blinn might have the
sort of hero “the Edge of the World” demands. He’s
going to be a millionaire some day. Already before
he marries the girl who you knew all along was
goin" to be his wife he has a big' black ottomobeel.
Little Pierre, by Anatole France (John Lane).
Another of France’s works in English, and the trans-
lation retains the author’s simplicity of style and
his old ironic attitude to human infirmities. The
story is merely of the development of a child, but
his sharp vision, his precocious suspicion regarding
events that are normally beyond the understanding
of his age, is told with a reality suggesting that
the author has torn a few secret pages from his own
biography. The book is full of wonderful portraits;
and the description of Pierre with a red spot on
his left hip, allegedly due to his mother longing
for cherries when her babe was on the way, is a
delicious tilt at the superstitions regarding pre-natal
influences.
Mac of Placid, by T. Morris Longstreeth (Cen-
tury Co., via Whitcombe and Tombs). Unusual
American tale —unusual in that the bad man, instead
of being hanged or shot, is stung to death by bees.
Also, ' the celebrity dragged into the proceedings,
according* to the weird U.S. fashion, to play heavy
father to the hero, isn’t Washington, Jefferson,
Franklin, Lincoln, Grant, Sherman, Andrew Jackson,
“Stonewall” do. or Robert E. Lee, but Robert Louis
Stevenson. Needless to say, he talks like a senten-
tious prig, and writes verses to the rustic heroine.
There is good stuff in the early chapters, but the
introduction of Stevenson is an unforgivable sin.
The New Japanese Peril, by Sidney Osborne (Allen
and Unwin). An arresting statement of the Ameri-
can case against Japanese imperialism. U.S. foreign
policy, the author maintains, rests on two main
pillars—the Monroe doctrine, which says to Europe
and Asia, “Hands off America!” and the Hay doc-
trine, which stands for the territorial integrity of
China. In his judgment the militarists of Nippon
have wrecked one pillar and threaten the other.
Hence America will always see in an Anglo-Japanese
Alliance a menace to her interests, “and nothing can
ever remove the fear of such a menace except a
declaration in the treaty itself that in no circum-
stances is the alliance aimed at America.” Osborne
is a convinced Yellow Perilist. To him the one
thing that can save AVestern civilisation from an-
other and vaster Mongol invasion is an Anglo-
Americano-Russo-German entente.
The Inky Way
“Peregrine Pickle”: The newly-formed Australian
Authors' Assoc, missed a chance in forgetting to
support the Melbourne printers’ request for a duty
of 3d. a volume on imported books. The duty
wouldn’t be big enough to atfect the sales of the
worth-while stuff, but it would give a stimulus
to local publishing, and would also encourage Eng-
lish publishers to print their “colonial editions’’
here, which would probably mean a reduction in
their previous English costs when freight, duty and
other charges are eliminated. But the point that
should have impressed the Authors is that
every fillip that can be given to local production
inevitably hastens a larger recognition for them-
selves, since publishers, once protected by the Cus-
toms, will not be satisfied with the foreign copy-
rights they may secure, but will be looking for the
work of Australian brains. The local book-importer,
who is no more pronounced in his patriotism than
his brother in Klinders-lane, scoffs, of course, at
the idea of 5,000,000 people establishing Literature
as an “industry,” but it is worth remembering
that the United States was little larger when it
started on a course of protective legislation that
has made the American author impregnable agamst
foreign competition. Nowadays one must publish
in America to obtain American copyright, and if
we thought as much of the Australian writer as we
do of the Australian onion (which, by the wav, is
encouraged by a prohibitive duty) we would be
emulating America’s example by every process and
shift allowable under the statutes.
“Red Ribbon”: Regarding that typewriter, the
comp, loves it; the sub. blesses it; and the proof-
reader adores it. Who else matters, anyway?
“Yaclco”: Is there any truth in the yarn that,
about 1870, some pages of all available copies of
that bitter book, “The Felonry of N.5.W.,” by a
one-time magistrate, Major Mudie, were stealthily
destroyed ? I recently bought a copy. It was com-
plete, but the paging was much in error. Perhaps
that gave rise to the story.
A line from the North: —
On Feb. 17 The Bulletin printed (p. 9.) a set
of verses by P. Airey entitled “L’Etat c’est moi,”
wherein the unionistic working man was depicted
as assuming the airs and boast of the Grand Monarque
when he made that famous assertion, “I am the
State.” On April 27 (just time enough to allow
The Bulletin of Feb. 17 to get decently to London
with a few days to spare) there appeared in London
Punch a leading cartoon entitled “L’Etat c’est
moi,” by Bernard Partridge—a cartoon wherein the
British working-man is portrayed in a fine heroic
attitude, while beside him great Louis Quatorze, wig,
crown, sceptre and all, is displaying himself to the
best advantage. Anyone who reads the verses and
then looks at the cartoon can come to only one
conclusion. Surely it would have been decent to
acknowledge the indebtedness.
“D.McM.”: “Bill Bowyang’s” par (B. 30/6/’2l)
about the printing press converted to lamp-posts
reminds me of another that had a short if hectic life
in Maoriland. About 1860 old Franz Josef of Austria
presented the Waikato (M.L.) natives with a printing
press, and with it they published in Maori a sheet
in the King interest. It was edited by Patara te
Tuhi, was called Tb Hokioi (after a mythical bird),
and was used to check the influence of a rag that was
published in Te Awamutu against the man a of King
Tawhaio. But the editorials, although fiery, were
not strong enough for Patara’s following, so several
of them visited Te Awamutu and wrecked the rival press
and premises. The editor, the late Sir John Gorst,
was told to clear out. and when he refused to budge
Patara advised old Hori Grey that he was afraid
there would be a dead journalist on his hands soon.
Eventually Gorst was persuaded to. leave, and on
the way to Auckland spent the night under the
shelter of the reptile contemporary at Ngaruawahia,
where he was generously treated. That was when
be went back to England to become Under-Secretary
for India, Financial Secretary to the Treasury,
Rector of Glasgow University and a host of other
things.


Wool-Shearing; Costs
have advanced and all other expenditure
with woolgrowing. The best way to off-set
increased expenses is to get full rates for
the clip shorn. Send Your Wool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane. LTD.
Selling Brokers whose sales are unfailingly
on top-market levels.
CYCLONE
j
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CYCLONE” and all other Cliisholm-
-3loore Hoisting- Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—3o%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“ Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night*Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire,England
Agent for Australia;
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street. Sydney,
AUSTRALIAN
■HQ
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Btreet
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
d
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
ď
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zl’nC DllSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZING CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS "HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
I/i'i. Wood Stave Pipes arriving at Wambool, for
Mammoth Molybdenite Mines, on 28th July, 1911.
3
'
□
□
a
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
KEEPS WATER PURE, FRESH AND
FREE FROM CONTAMINATION.
While good money is paid for water purification, have you ever taken into
account the fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe does not contaminate water, but
on the other hand preserves its purity?
Not only does it preserve the. purity of the water, but remaining free from
corrosion and algae, its capacity actually increases 15 to 20 per cent, with use.
Think over its low cost, light weight, small cost of handling and laying, and
that maintenance charges are practically nil. Then send for our 6S-page
Pioneer Wood Pipe Book.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
Love's camouflage comes fair and free
Wherever love-lorn maidens be.
Feminine youth will have its fling
To win and wear a wedding-ring!
For in love’s brief and dizzy dance
The maids retire e’er they advance,
And those who wintry trysts endure,
If wise take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Missing Friends.
McBEAN. —The Union Trustee Company
of Australia, Limited, as Executor of
the Will of James Mcßean, late of Haw-
thorn, requires information concerning
James Erie Mcßean, who was last heard
from, about 1915, at Dalby, Queensland.
Anyone having knowledge of him is re-
quested to communicate with the said
Company at 333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
f
d
ďf
d
Don’t content
yourself with
wishing for a
good pipe—
ensure satisfac-
tion ; smoke a
From the first pipeful to the last
you are assured of a good smoke-
time when your pipe is a GBD.
Made by experts from French
Briarwood, thoroughly matured
—the GBD takes pride of place
with smokers all the world over.
Many popular shapes.
the perfect pipe.
On sale everywhere.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
HUME PIPE
CONCRETE
“Queenslander”: In a Toorak grocer’s I
saw tinned crab. The tins were labelled
Gjroz. and came from Japan. The price was
3s. 6d. It used to be Is. Bd. and even less,
but the makers have elevated the price. I
was not long down from Queensland, where
one can get fresh crabs, weighing two and
three times as much in good solid flesh, for
about 2s. Gd. What are the Northerner's
doing? Are they too busy lighting about
politics and Bolshevism to attend to business
which js dying to be done? It looks like it.
“Wealsman”: Ex-cricketer Joe Darling,
Tasmanian M.L.C., greatly daring, his pre-
sent company considered, writes to the local
papers urging that the 2,500,000 bales of
Australian wool which can’t be sold because
the war has left so many millions of men too
poor to buy a second shirt, should be pre-
sented to China as a trade advt. The U.S.A.
years ago burned a few thousand tons of
cotton rather than have the market knocked
flatter. Joe’s idea is better than that; but
neither seems much good to a man who has
just had to pay 19s. for an allegedly wool
garment that could be had for 7s. Gd. when
there was much less wool in Australia than
there is now.
“D.F.” : Salt was the first mineral exported
from South Aiis., and the business is well
over a. century old. The record goes back
to May 8, 1814, when the 20-ton sloop Fly,
of which William Stewart was the master
and owner, arrived at Launceston with seven
tons of salt from Kangaroo Island, as well
as 800 seal- and kangaroo-skins. Stewart
gave the value of the salt as £SO a ton. He
got permission from the Acting-Commandant,
Lieut. Campbell, to barter it for grain and
meat; but his pioneer venture came to a bad
end —he had a row with Campbell, was
arrested and sent to Hobart Town, and
when he came back he found his craft cap- >
sized and the cargo lost.
“Aneb”: The other day a smart thing
came into Lisletops, Madapolam and Co.'s
and was suited with a fur coat costing a
mere £7O. She tendered a £IOO note, and
as one can’t be too careful these times, the
office-boy was set rolling to the bank to ask
if it was genuine. The lady commented on
the delay in receiving her change, and was
most politely told the reason. She became in-
dignant, and when the boy returned to report
that the paper was O.lv. she demanded her
note back, and “they could keep the coat.”
Profuse explanations and apologies failed to
console her, and it took all the blandishments
of the shopwalker and then of the manager
to smooth her ruffled plumage. She handed
back the note, took her coat and £3O change
rather stiffly and evaporated. Next day the
note was returned —a forgery. She had
“rung the change” durijig the argument.
THE STEAM PACKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over the seas goes the old steam packet!
With a four-foot sweep her tailrods leap ;
lier skipper has whiskers that brush his jacket,
And under her stern with a heave and a racket
Her big screw pound's on its noisy rounds;
For she’s hopping along, is the old steam packet.
They built her truly of Glasgow metal;
Solid each bar and her columns are.
What though you call her an old steam-kettle,
Reckoning soon her account she’ll settle
As her old plates throb and her slide-valves sob !
What you forget is her weight of metal.
Out on the, breast of the heaving waters
The blue seas bow to her heaving prow
As though she were royal like Neptune’s daughters.
Oh! it isn’t the queen that the vassal slaughters;
So the seaman knows wherever she goes
She is loved right well by the league-long waters.
Snug in your berth you can feel her shifting—
Through twinkling glass the bay-lights pass
To her big cranks’ dip and her big cranks’ lifting,
And warm, brown smoke from her funnel drifting.
Nor’-east-by-east, with her wake a-yeast,
There’s no mistake but the old boat’s shifting.
Even to-night her saloon is splendid ; ’
Mirrors are there and silverware;
And though as a liner her life is ended
She has broken records that can’t be mended
(With a heave and a throw her engines go),
And her main saloon carries memories splendid.
Bright were the nights on the new fast flier,
In dim days gone when the lamplight shone ;
When hearts beat high and the play was higher,
When the music swayed and heads bent nigher,
When the liquor flowed and bright eyes glowed,
And we danced till dawn on the famous flier.
Many have dreamed in these cabins stuffy,
With their swinging lights that the rolling rights—
Ponderous people with manner huffy,
Frivolous ladies with tresses fluffy;
Old and young in these bunks have swung
And blessed the seas and the cabins stuffy.
Steady and staunch you can hear her punching
Into the swell off Cape Farewell.
Under her bows the seas she’s crunching,
Breaking their bones like a monster munching—
Oh! her steering wheel is a joy to feel
As she sways along with her tall bows punching !
When seas are calm and the stars are shining
(Her delicate spars just frame the stars),
The wind she makes sets halyards whining,
And a feather of steam round her whistle twining;
And, blow on blow, her engines go,
Till she’s making port with the dawn-lights shining.
She’s a lady born who walks the waters,
The seas bow low, for the wise seas know
That she is a queen like Neptune’s daughters,
And it isn’t his queen that the vassal slaughters ;
So, lift and fall, in calm and squall,
They love her well, do the wise old waters.
MAORILAND,
WILL LAWSON.


The Briton Overseas
remains British—through and through—never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
he retains the tastes and predictions of the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste for
TtS?!
IE
f
tun
iSsfei
imm
Hitf-t
mm el
SCOTCH
nWU
Dawson
&unocd Whisky
By careful husbanding of
Stocks wc hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.”
Whisky.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch—Everywhere l
PETER DAWSON. Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
—. GLASGOW.
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-wide popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its- native
Scotland.
Westclox
10
9
9
3
8
7
5
6
Sleep-Meter—
A Friendly Clock
Sleep-Meter is a snug
clock that you know is
dependable the moment
you set eyes on it.
There’s something
about it that invites your
confidence. It may be the
business-like trimness of
the case —it may be the
artistic grace of its simple
lines —it may be its care-
ful finish.
It may be all these and
more, but it is the name
Westclox on the dial that
assures you that you can
depend on Sleep-Meter to
run and ring on time.
IVestdox Big Ben, 27/6; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter,l7/6; America, 12/6.
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/-; Glo-Ben, 22/6.
Boyproof, 15/-; Pocket Ben, 151-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A
BEHNING
THE
DRAWING-
ROOM
GRAND.
OLD PIANOS WILL BE TAKEN IN EXCHANGE
AND A LIBERAL METHOD OF PURCHASE
OVER A PERIOD OF YEARS IS OFFERED.
ď
AND AT
NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
The BEHNING Drawing-room GRAND is an
exquisite instrument with the stamp of quality
in every detail. In brilliancy, resonance and
volume of tone, the “BEHNING” represents
the highest achievement of this type of piano
construction.
The BEHNING Drawing-room GRAND is
designed to look well in homes where space
is precious. Adapted to the acoustic proper-
ties of even small rooms, it is yet an
instrument of such exquisite tone as to invite
comparison with the noblest of Concert
Grands.
If you desire a piano that will fill
every demand of the most critical
musician and still conform to your
requirements as to the space it
occupies, the BEHNING GRAND will
surely appeal to you.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.


ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS WELL.
A FANCY DRESS FRIENDSHIP.
“T WISH,” said Helen, as she gave her
hair a linal pat, “that 1 could get hold
of a really decent , costume for to-
morrow night. This Jazz affair is getting
dreadfully tired. And every other girl in
the room is wearing its twin sister.”
A pretty rose-and-grey Pierette. who was
adjusting her right shoe nodded reflectively.
“M’m,” she said, "but its no good worry-
ing. Its a bore not being a plutocrat....
i say, Helen... .just look there 1”
The two girls gazed fascinated at a woman,
who had just slipped off her coat. She
wore a delicious eignteenth-century costume
of mauve satin over a sprigged petticoat. A
white powdered wig set off her softly glow-
ing face, and a patch was perched haughtily
in one dimple.
"Isn’t she exquisite 1” whispered Helen.
"I think those oicl-tashioned tilings are en-
chanting and original these days!
Come along, Mabel; they’re waiting for us."
It was a very depressed Helen who changed
her shoes in the dressing-room after the
dance. Her costume was rumpled and torn
and a large stain was visible on the front.-
"I can’t go to the ’Excelsior’ in this to-
morrow night,” she confided to Mabel. “I’ll
have to tell Guy I’ve got a headache or
something.”
“Poor old girl!” sympathised her friend.
“I’ve only this one fancy dress, and I
haven’t a sue in the wide. Oh. I say, I was
introduced to that lovely creature she’s
a Mrs. Beauchamp. She’s asked me to have
tea at her flat to-morrow here she is
I’ll introduce you, too.”
The following afternoon Helen and Mabel
were having tea with Mrs. Beauchamp. It
was a charming room, and, though the
weather was warm, a small wood lire burned
clearly in the grate.
Mrs. Beauchamp’s appearance by daylight
had given both girls something of a shock.
Her frock was pretty, her complexion beau-
tiful, but the lovely wig of the previous
night had given place to her own hair, which
was lank, dull and straight. Though she
seemed young, there was already more than
one grey streak in her locks. She looked
almost plain.
“I’m so glad you liked my frock,” she
smiled in answer to a remark of Mabel’s.
"But it always depresses me so. I do wish
I lived in the eighteenth century, or that
wigs were the fashion nowadays. I can’t
camouflage my horrid hair anyway by day-
light! Have another cake. Helen; they’re
real cream! Forgive my being frightfully
rude, but could yoii tell me where you get
your hair waved? Or is it natural? Because
I was admirig it all the time at the dance.”
Helen laughed.
“Can’t afford to patronise hairdressers,”
she answered, “and it isn’t natural. No. I
just use silmerine.” She finished as if that
explained everything, Mrs. Beauchamp
knitted her brows.
“Silmerine?” she inquired, “I’m afraid I’m
very ignorant. What is it? Where do you
get it? What do you do with it?”
“One at a time,” laughed Helen. It is
a rather nice-smelling colorless liquid. You
can get it from any chemist’s. You just damp
your hair with it, put in slides where you
want the wave....and, voila, ze curls”....
“But that’s too wonderful,” exclaimed
Mrs. Beauchamp. “Do you have to use it
every day?”
‘ Oh. no! The effects last for some
days. And the queer thing is that the more
you use silmerine the less often you require
it. It seems to coax the hair into natural
waves that stay in of their own accord.”
"If m .Y hair weren’t so odiously thin and
streaky,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, “I would
rush out this minute and buy a bottle before
I have andther sandwich. But my grey
locks would look too ridiculous in waves.
Shall I have a bottle of peroxide or Condy’s
fluid, and turn my few remaining hairs a
bright gold or red?”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” put in Helen, “I'm
going to reveal a horrid secret. A little
while ago I found some grey, hairs on my
own head. Mabel’s fair; she won’t go grey
so soon. So I got a packet of tammalite and
dissolved it in bay rum, and put it on the
faded parts with a clean little brush. It
was wonderful the way that it gradually
brought back the color to my hair.”
“How lovely,” continued their hostess,
“les, I really must try that. Tammalite,
you said, didn’t you? By the way, a lot of
people I know are using boranium as a hair
tonic, but so far I haven’t tried it. Do either
of you know if it’s any good?”
?°od!” chorused the two girls...
Why, it’s the only thing....
“I mix it with bay rum”
“You can use eau-de-cologne. I believe.”
‘It s the most priceless stuff.”
“My hair’s grown heaps thicker since 1
used it.”
* “Good gracious!” interposed Mrs. Beau-
champ “I suppose I shall have to use it too.
111 put it down with the tammalite. What do
you, shampoo with?” she asked. “You’ve both
got such glorious hair.”
• This time Mabel answered. “Oh, the usual
stallax, you know.”
“Stallax ? I don’t seem to know it. Is it
some special preparation ?”
“I don’t think so,” replied Mabel. “It is
quite ordinary stuff, I believe. You can buy
it in packages from most chemists. But it
makes the most lovely shampoo; it lathers
gorgeously in any water, and your hair dries
quickly after it and looks so soft and bright
My own hair always gets so dry and brittle
after a shampoo of any kind that I always
massage my scalp with olive oil before wash-
ing it.”
“That’s awfully nice to know,” said Mrs
Beauchamp. “Keally, I’m most intensely "rate-
ful to you two girls. I’ve been envving vour
hair.” ' J
“And we’ve been envying your complexion ”
said Helen. “I do wish 1 had nice pink cheeks
like yours, and I don’t like the idea of rouge ”
“Powdered colliandum,” said Mrs. Beau-
champ. in a dramatic whisper “just a trifle
... .harmless indetectable... .any chemist's
used it for years. By the wav. Heien
didn’t you say something about wanting a
fancy dress for the ‘Excelsior’ dance to-night’
You wouldn’t care to borrow my rig-out, i
suppose? It’s just your size, and I know it
would suit you.”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” said Helen, “you’re one
of the best.”— Advt.
mm
m
'CBS:
■
<^k£>
a
4811.
s EKwaC®>
403 K
»>l«k| 4»4*4«r«w»J
M#K#rf Sv«f***
C- JOHNSOHWOH
RAC I*l W«%
i£^OHNU)NtWMV.
Just
Like New
ANY housewife can easily
jLjl keep her home clean
and bright by devoting a
little attention to her furniture, woodwork, floors and
linoleum. All they need is an occasional application of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. This cleans, polishes and pro-
tects the finish, adding years to its life and beauty.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a hard, dry, glasslike
polish of great beauty and durability. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches —preserves the varnish—and
prevents checking and cracking.
Liquid and Paste
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil consequently it
does not gather or hold the dust and it never becomes soft
or sticky in the hottest weather or from the heat of the
body. It will quickly and permanently remove that bluish,
cloudy appearance from your piano and mahogany furniture.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made in liquid form as well
as paste. Use paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile, lino-
leum, etc. We advise the liquid for polishing furniture,
woodwork, leather goods, etc.
A Dust-Proof Auto Polish
Automobile owners will find Johnson’s Liquid Wax the
most satisfactory polish for their cars. It sheds water and
dust and makes a "wash” last twice as long. Protects and
preserves the varnish. Write for our folder on "Keeping
Your Car Young”— it’s free.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
.Tames Lang Campbell, K.C., who led for
the defence in the Partridge-Dwyer legal
light, was in a bank to start with. After
leaving that he worked in the Crown Law
Department, and was admitted to the Bar at
the age of 27—35 years ago.
“Pons’: The missus had got into holts
with our Chinese vegetable specialist, and
she raged as she slammed the kitchen door
on him. • "Lord, how I hate Chinamen!’’
quoth she. “Too right,” said our new maid,
‘‘they're all narks, say what you like. Xow,
if it was me. I’d only buy vegetables off a
man o’ me own sex.”
“Lamp-post Leaner”: There’s one parson in
Sydney I d be proud to drink with. Din -
ing the last wet spell a half-starved terrier
shivered in a Pitt-street archway. The chap
with the back-to-front collar, happening
along, spotted the dog, patted it, then straight-
away made across the road to a pastrycook’s.
In a few minutes he returned with a meat
pie and told the mong. to “wire in.”
Flannery, K.C., and Maxwell, counsel for
the Bishop in the Liguori case, have a weak-
ness for gaiters. In the last case involving
a church dignitary, Maxwell appeared for
the Anglican-—the late Bishop Stone Wigg—
and Flannery and McTiernan (now Attor-
ney-General) against him. The matter in
question was who should have the custody
of a soldier’s children, and whether they
should be brought up Anglican or Roman.
M. Wilder-Neligan, late lieu t.-colonel of
the 10th Battalion, enlisted as a private in
the 9th Battalion (Q.), got his first stripe
next day, came off the Peninsula with two
pips, went to France as company com-
mander, for .a while was acting-brigadier,
and finished up with the substantive rank of
lieut.-Colonel and the D.S.O., C.B., C.M.G,
D.C.M. and Croix de Guerre. The amazing
fact of his years was unguessed at until his
return. He was 53 and passed for under 30.
“II.M.”: A curious stroke of luck came to
Charles L. Bourchier, of Oatley, near Syd-
ney, the other day, when a dog twisted its
chain round his leg and brought him down
heavily. Forty years ago, when a youngster
at Narromine (N.S.W.), Bourchier had a
fall from a horse which crippled his back ;
and another fall 20 years later made the
crippling worse, so that he could not hold
himself erect. After the accident of the
other day, however, the man of falls found
that he could straighten himself, and he is
now free of the pain that has haunted him
from youngsterhood.
Major W. A. Chappie, R.A.M.C., some-
time medico of Wellington (M.L.), and
M.P. for Stirlingshire, Scotland, has visited
Iiji and made a book about it. Chappie,
being Cold Tea, would take drastic steps
to make Fiji “dry.” lie admits that one
sees but little drunkenness in the colony, but
says the Britisher is cultivating a taste and
laying the foundation for the habit. In his
cursory glance at Fiji Chappie has spotted a
truth. By Government Ordinance it is
illegal to supply liquor to a native unless he
lias a permit. But a sly-grog trade is done
throughout the group, and only spasmodic
attempts are made to suppress it.
"Wealsman”; Somebody wants informa-
tion as to present doings of V.C. winners.
Well, one of. Tassy’s nine (or is it ten?),
Sergeant Whittle, is having an argument with
the Hobart Fisheries Commissioners about
boat which the law confiscated when the
y -C. man and a mate were caught fishing
in prohibited waters. The offenders were
fined a few shillings in the police court, and
reckon the confiscation of their boat and
gear is an utterly over-the-odds additional
penalty which they should not be called
upon to bear. As most people seem to agree
with them, the chances are that when the
Commissioners come to auction the boat thev
will get only one bid, Whittle’s own, of
about half-a-crown.
in/?£oi s ?”' “1‘m’cy Pawnticket” (B.
tells of a model wife who, having
no children of her own, adopted a love-child
of her husband’s. Here’s another mixed
family. A, a widower ivith two children,
married a young woman by whom he had
several more kiddies. Then A died, and his
widow married B, a widower with five or six
olive-branches. The A-B’s had only just
set tied down when they discovered an infant
on the doormat. It turned out to belong
to B s late housekeeper. Fortunately Mrs.
A-B was a kind-hearted sort and not at all
touchy, so she said : “Bring it in ; one more
won’t make any difference.” So in it went
and became a recognised member of the
family. Then in the fulness of time a little
A-B arrived, making the fifth bud on a much-
grafted family-tree.
T.O.I.” on the lights o’ Melbourne:—
-Melbourne streets were first lit with gas on
August 10, 1857, the cost being 22s. 6d. per 1000ft.
As a result of a series of lectures at the Me-
chanics’ Institute (now the Athenaeum) in Collins-
stieet East, by the Rev. John Allen, a co. was
formed, the first directors being J. R. Pascoe, H. S.
Walsh, Michael Cashmore, John Bland, John Hood
(the Judge’s father) and John Carson. It was first
intended to erect gasworks on two acres in Collins-
street, near Spencer-street. About 1852 it was de-
cided that the block was too small and the pre-
sent site at West Melbourne was obtained from the
Government. William Westgarth, the financier and
floater of many public loans, who happened to be
in England, was authorised to engage an engineer,
and his choice fell on Alexander Kennedy Smith, a
Scot. Smith arrived in April, 1854, under a five
years’ engagement, and struck a considerable snag
for a start in the excavations for the first gaso-
metei, as Batmans Swamp at this point seemed to
be a bottomless pit. Every night the swamp undid
the work done by day, and after weeks of this the
job was tackled in small sections of about 3ft. each.
At last the circle was complete—then next day the
swamp spewed up from the bottom and submerged
the whole show. But Smith got it fixed at last,
and on January 3, ,1856, the gasworks were opened.
The coal was imported from Scotland, and the price
to the consumer was 25s. per thousand. Parson
John Allen was the first secretary, but after a few
years was succeeded by one Priestley. After the
erection of the works the office was removed to Col-
lins-street, on the spot where the Age now lives,
and it remained there until the formation of the
Collingwood Co. The office was then shifted to the
■site of the Equitable Buildings at the corner of
Collins and Elizabeth streets. Shortly after that
Priestley resigned the secretaryship to enter the
National Bank, and John Scott succeeded him. When
the Collingwood and later the South Melbourne cos.
were formed a gentle game of cut-throat went on
at intervals until the amalgamation in 1878.


STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber
Insulation permits “bone
dry” shipment and storage
of batteries, so that no mat-
ter how long the dealer
keeps them in stock they
are brand new when they
go out of the door on his
customer’s cars.
fd
STORAGE
BATTERY


II
FA
m
In Blotches. Red and In-
flamed. Cuticura Heals.
*‘A rash appeared in blotches on
my face and arms. The skin was
ďf
d
both red and inflamed and
the irritation often pre-
sented me from sleeping.
It was so itchy that I used
to scratch it, and doing so
caused eruptions.
“I suffered about two
months before sending for
a sample of Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment which afforded relief so I bought
some more Soap and Ointment which
healed me." (Signed) Miss F. Cuffe,
15 Tyrone St., Nth. Melbourne, Vic.,
July 18, 1920.
Use Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Talcum for all toilet purposes.
Soapls.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointment ls.and2*.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
dfd
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York. U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
When nobles die in state they lie,
Whilst heralds file the vouchers,
’Tis silver mounts for dukes and counts,
But plain pine planks for “scrouchers”!
Yet coughs and colds make all men kin,
In this trite truth stands sure —-
Both peers and pedlars “plunk their tin”
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
It will save trouble.
The comfort and elegant design of
bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings
make them essentially machines
suitable for lady cyclists. Ease of
control and the absence of trouble
give a feeling of absolute security,
while the economy of a bicycle built
of genuine B.S.A. Fittings is ap-
parent from the first week of pos-
session. For reliability, comfort and
long service they are world famous.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A
AS
B.S.A
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
'D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
3S?
EALISING that many
men allow but ten
minutes or so for the
selection of their hat, high
grade Mens’ Outfitters, to
save the minutes will invari-
ably offer you a STETSON.
They know a STETSON
Hat will render you Service
and Satisfaction—that the
STETSON is dominant in
Style, finely made, hand
finished and unimpeach-
able in quality.
R
A STETSON is
FAR EXCELLENCE
a GentLman's Hat
STETSON
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 61-
Ladies’ - - 41-
Soles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2/-
Ladies’ • - 1/3
(Heels only;,
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS Ltd.,
London, Eng.
Uj THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
Ji to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
MILITARY
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last tbe time of three
{IT THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
A* worn by
thouundi of
Auitr ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G. WILLIAMSON, <6, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 282, Poet Office Place, Melbourne.
S. A W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
\ '\\\
/ //
Laurel,K frosfne
/// /'ft "«" \ !
L
\
Vr';
I
FADING »N
COMFORT
<0
Laurel is shedding its “soft white light” in thousands
of Australasian homes. Laurel gives a splendid light,
and is soothing and restful to the eyes.
Fill your lamps with Laurel next time; you will be
pleased with the excellent service it gives. It is equally
good for cooking and heating.
Don’t say Kerosene —just ask for Laurel
One of Adelaide’s oldest commercial
houses, Wigg’s bookshop and library, is
going to change its name. It will be taken
over by present manager 0. S. Harvey; and
the Wigg firm—which for years past has
been mostly Davidson —will move to anew
Grenfell-street warehouse, and carry on as
manufacturing stationers.
“Grower”: As to those 10,000 cases of
oranges which South Aus. and Vic., in view
of “an unusually heavy crop,” are managing
to send to London, “to compete with the
South African-grown.” They will have com-
petition all right. Friends on the Euripides
write that their boat picked up 00,000 cases
at Cape Town at the end of .Tune. And
rhat was only a little lot that the Runic, a
day or two ahead of her, hadn’t collected.
A brainy young Adelaidean, H. B. Tuck,
was the other day appointed lecturer in
electrical engineering at Christchurch (M.L.)
’Varsity. He got his B.Sc. degree at 20, and
enlisted the same year. After serving with
the Engineers in France he worked for an
engineering firm in England, and then re-
tured to Adelaide, where he re-entered the
University, and in 1920 won his B.E. degree.
Recently he has been with the Electrolytic
Einc Corporation at Hobart. His father
headmasters the Unley (S.A. 1 public school.
Lieut. C. R. Smith, R.A.N., has been ap-
pointed torpedo lieutenant on H.M.A.S.
Anzac. He is the first Australian to qualify
for the billet, and was the only Aussie
among a group of 22 who were selected for
torpedo instruction at the end of the war.
He won his place by heading the list of
candidates, and at the finish of the course
was only beaten by a few marks for the
first position. During the war he was
torpedoed on the British cruiser Aboukir,
and subsequently got all the thrills he
wanted in submarine trapping.
Before dyspepsia got him down the
Priminister used to be devoted to peanuts.
On one occasion he toyed abstractedly with
a little pile of peanut shells while a deputa-
tion Whs heaving speeches at him. One of
the orators, however, seemed to make an
impression. Putting his hand to his ear,
Hughes listened intently to every word.
Then he asked the speaker to come up closer.
“By the way,” he whispered, when the beam-
ing deputationist had finished, “I noticed,
while you were sitting down, that you had
some peanuts in your pocket. I’ve run out
of them.” When the deputation left Billy
was still munching peanuts.
Consider the ways of the privileged classes,
and the rich man’s greed, arid the brassiness
of elected persons. Gardiner is the one
Laborite in the Senate. The law awards
him £IOOO a year, which is probably twice as
much as he could earn if he hadn’t a political
machine behind him. It also awards him
£2OO a year as Leader of the Opposition,
which is himself, or as Follower, which is
also himself. And Gardiner, of all men
in the world, has introduced a Bill to exempt
his affluent self and Federal meriibers and
officials generally from State income-tax.
The French noblesse used to exempt them-
selves from little things like that, and some
very cheap politicians play at being noblesse
these days.
Chinese Jimmy departed from Melbourne
Gaol lately amidst showers of rice. The
tendency to dottiness which accounted for
Jimmy’s original conviction as a murderer
had made him a popular old identity at the
end of 3(5 years, and now that he has gone
to a home for the ancient he will proballly
drop into the gaol occasionally to have after-
noon tea with the warders. Absolutely the
cleanest boarder on the premises, himself was
only one of he bathed and scrubbed
thoroughly every morning, even in the cold-
est weather. His clothes, his towel and his
boots suffered the same fate. Jimmy couldn’t
be employed in the kitchen lest he should
have insisted on boiling every grain of rice
in a separate drop of water.
“Silas Snell”: He had been employed as
gardener next door, and after the racket be
explained it all to me. “Suspicious devils,
them Jameses,” said he. “I’nS done with ’em.
What yer think? Accused me iv stealin’ their
lawn-mower! Me, a father of seven, and
one what’s held his head high, though brung
down by failure in the bottle trade. " Me steal
his lousy lawn-mower.! Said he’d have the
police after me. Said I was a scoundrel,
which is defamation of character, and I
asked him to say it afore witnesses. Me
steal his rotten lawn-mower, which wouldn’t
cut butter! Couldn’t a man have him up
for that?” “Well, and what did you do?” I
asked. “Do? What could a man do? I
give him his lawn-mower back.”
Cargo-prigging having become an extensive
and growing industry, the inevitable Royal
Commissioner was appointed to investigate
and report. He finds that last year’s turn-
over amounted to £380,000, of which £317,000
represented imported fluff, efc., and the
balance inter-State goods. It wasn’t all
stolen at Commonwealth ports, but the Aus-
tralian branch of the business is assisted
by the refusal of the waterside unions, except
at Launceston, to*,.take action against con-
victed thieves. Not only is the re-employ-
ment of dishonest lumpers insisted upon (the
penalty is strike), but in some cases their
fines are paid by tarpaulin muster. Leav-
ing honor out of the argument, the fact
that the general body of workers pay for the
operations of these criminals in dearer liv-
ing might be expected to weigh with the
union bosses, but senmingly it doesn’t.
Moralising on the fact that Sydney’s
appalling City Council is run by a Labor
caucus with a majority of one, the Worker
observes with pride, that “Labor is begin-
ning to realise the' latent riches of this
domain of activity,” viz., local government.
“If you want to know - what use it has
made of its opportunity,” the A.W.U. organ
adds, “listen to the howls of the Tory
press.” But sometimes the Labor press is
even more thrilling than the other sort.
For example:—
You want to know why we [the A.L.P. executive]
took in hand the matter of electing the Lord Mayor?
Well, I’ll tell you. The Moore-street extension
scheme was on. There was to be a little commission
of £IOO,OOO. But that seemed toS much, so it
was reduced to £40,000. Wasn’t it time that the
executive stepped in and took a hand in the business
when that kind of thing was going on ?
Cecil Last, of the A.L.P. executive, said
that at the Labor conference. At least the
Worker so reported him, and nobod v con
tradicted it.


The enormous difference in
value between a fabri which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour element in
SUNDOUR
UNFADABLE
FABRICS
is indestructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishings.
Sundour is made in a
great variety of fabrics
Including Casement Cloths,
Damasks. Tapestries, Reps,
Chenilles, Madras Muslins,efc
also
Sundour Washable Rugs
forßathroom.Bedroom op Nursery
Of ill the best Furnishers
Morton Sundour ASnrs /
(Trade 0~Ar) o<3r/'S/&.
I
WS
****&■
k
1
■A
--:
X**
\
X:
M
/
m
ffSm
:-t
St: '
i > 2 St
SV EY
SOLD OM TflE SAME DAY
THEY ARE HADE
No higher grade Chocolates
produced anywhere.
We are the actual
manufacturers, and
we distribute our
Chocolates direct. It
is, therefore, impos-
sible to buy stale
“Hillier” Chocolates.
Guaranteed under the Pure
Pood Actj Serial 156".
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in
Australia.
Comfort in the Hupmohile is a very positive quality. It can be measured in the
car’s extraordinary riding ease; its superb steadiness over all roads; in its pulling
power and its wonderful performance.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
SM in. bore x s^in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension mageto.
Carburetter.—Adjustable.
Fuel System.—Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch. —Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. Clincher, or 32in. x 4in
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color. —Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
H immobile


4. Saunders’ Solid leather Kit Bag, Nickel
Locks and Clips, I6in., 30/-, 40/-
usriajmdtnd
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving' Set, finest Sheffield Steel, Xylonite
Handles, pure Silver-plated Mounts, 40/-
Otheis, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-
A. Sauwjlers’ Solid Leather Suit Case, cloth
lined, Nickel Side Locks, Leather Handles,
Capped Corners —
20in., 75/-; 22in., 80/-; 24in., 85/-;
26in., 90/-
4. Saunders’ Writing Attache Case, fitted with necessary
conveniences. £4/10/-
Others, £B/10/-, £5/10/-
&
A
i£-S
r
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush and Comb, plain design,
hand burnished, finest quality bristles, in silk-lined case.
60/-
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 104 pieces. • Sheffield
Steel Knives, Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated Spoons and
Forks, etc., A quality, in Oak Case, £B5.
Others, £l5/10/-, £l7/10/-, £2l, £25.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Work Basket, leather top, fitted
with all Sewing- Requisites, £3/5/*
■KtTISM MAHUFACTURe
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Dressing Case, solid leather, fitted
with every convenience, 55/-
THE ECONOMY OF
MECHANICAL DRYING.
Rapid and efficient drying is an essential
feature in the large-scale production of many
Australian manufactures. Not only is time
saved in fulfilling orders, but there is also a
valuable economy of space where a compact
drying plant handles your material expediti-
ously, regardless of weather conditions.
Even when the product itself needs no drying there is often on the wrappers
and labels a moist adhesive, which must be dried quickly to save time in
despatch and also to prevent damage to contents of package.
“Ideal” Radiators and
“Vento” Hot Blast Heaters
can be adapted to practi-
cally every drying need.
Temperatures, humidities
and air circulation can be
accurately adjusted for the
treatment of even the most
difficult products.
A “Vento’ Battery—3 rows
deep—similar to that shown
in the illustration at the right,
will heat air travelling
through it at a velocity of
1 000 feet per minute from
an initial temperature of 60
degrees to a delivery tem-
perature of 120 degrees,
using steam at 51b. pressure.
A lower velocity, a higher
steam pressure or a larger
“Vento” Battery will result
in delivery temperatures up
to 220 degrees or more.
Encased Battery of “Vento” Heaters with fan.
h
i
lil i
! »
111
ml
til
ii
uni
Him
“VENTO”
Hot Blast
Heater.
Mechanical Drying covers a
wide field. Here are just a
few examples:—
Leather
Timber
(Including the difficult hard-
woods)
Chocolates
Pastilles
Drugs
Macaroni
Paint & Varnish Work
Oilskins
Foodstuffs
Laundry Work
Write us about your drying problem. We will
gladly send suggestions and sketches to suit
your particular requirements. The simplest
and smallest plants, as well as the most elaborate,
require careful design, and OUR ADVICE IS
FREE.
JOHN
im
s t<
§ SONrPiy.Lid
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“IDEAL.”
low Pressure
Boiler.


m.
a
%
m
%
Columbia
c Dry
batteries
For ringing doorbells, buzzing
buzzers, furnishing ignition power,
running toys—in fact, for every
use—you will find Columbia Dry
Batteries supreme.
Columbia Dry Batteries are
made by the world’s oldest manu-
facturers of electric batteries.
Powerful, long-lived, economical.
Have your electrical dealer fur-
nish you with the original Colum-
bia. Look for the name.
COLUMBIA
BATTERY
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inc.
30 East 42d St., New York, U. S. A.
0
COLUMBIA.
Also Manufacturers of
Columbia Storage Batteries
for Automobiles, American Flashlights and
Flashlight Batteries, Carbon Brushes, and
Carbon Specialties FJ22IIIE
George hotel.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay•
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Surri.r —
JARIIAH ami Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, B u ilde r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
6Si PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
df
Legal Notice.
ft VI UiiuuA MAY COB HAM (nie
I Wilkins), formerly of Woolooga, in
the State of Queensland, wife of Allan Blen-
man Cobham. —Take notice that I, Allan
Blenman Cobham, of Woolooga, aforesaid,
your lawful husband, hereby declare that I
have not seen or heard of you since the
First day of March, 1914, and that I intend
to remarry if 1 do not see or hear from you
on or before the Fifteenth da’’ of September*,
192 L ALLAN BLENMAN COBHAM,
Woolooga, Queensland.
Amusements.
SIDNEY'S CHIEF TIIEATBES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
LIEII MAJESTY’S.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
THE LITTLE WHOPPER.
ROYAL.
ADAM AND EVA.
Boarding-house Boots: ",Shall / rouse laughtert”
The Boss: “No. The Jeff ersons will rouse laughter
SEE PERT BAILEY AND THE NEW
COMPANY organised by Bailey and Grant in
the Latest English Comedy, THE JEFERSONS,
at the PALACE THEATRE, Sydney, every evening.
They’re friendly like.
Allan wilkie siiakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
SEASON ENDS AUGUST 1.
Australasian Ucuresentiitivc: liIj'GII 1). WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Earnest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds - • .. .. £44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S.. General Manager.
Amusements.
yM O N rIVT t R E TIIEAT It IS a
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. W ILIA A .'ISON, L,TI>., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 30,
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS in
LONDON and 155 Nigrhts in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
ING'S THEATRIC. MK I. R<* * It V IS.
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 30.
BAILEY and GRANT present MARIE TEMPEST
and GRAHAM BROWNE in a new comedy by A. A.
MILNE,
MR. PIM PASSES BY.
K
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, .M EI. HOC UN 1C
Also SYDNEY.
HE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM Cover
Princes Biidpel.
HARRY CAREY in
HEARTS UP.
Also
BEATRICE JOY AND GRACE DAEMON© in
THE INVISIBLE DIVORCE.
Prices, as usual.
I, ACIAIt I C M. MELBOU li N 2.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
pItITAAMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
■MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
HOUSE 1 PETERS in
LYING LIPS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nisrhts at 8.
Copy this
d
If you can copy
you can be taught to do original
drawings. Many pupils who pre-
'/iously could only copy are now
learning to do ordinal sketches under the
Bancks system 01 postal lessons. There is a
const ant demand for new original sketches
of all kinds —und good pr ces are paid for
them. If you have anv lik ng for drawing
let Mr Bancks (the well-known cartoonist
and catkaturist) show >ou how you can
learn to earn good fees in this way. Both
learning and earning can be done at
home, in v» tir epnte Ume.
Send you name and address (with 3d. in
stamps for return postage) tO a address
below, and the Bancks booklet. ' Art that
Fays,” will be po-ted to you. Also, if you
like to send a sample of your own sketch-
ing (either a copy of this head or some
drawing of your own), Mr. Bancks will
personally write you, absolutely free.
giving his frank opinion of your work.
This School offers the finest practical
instruction in the art and ptact ce of
Drawing to be had in Australia, and it is
conducted personally by Mr. Bancks in
his own nam°. Tne booklet gives full
particulars. Write for it now.
J. c. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
|y| EJLIJA
THEATRE, MELItOUIiNU
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
XYOIM r> and Si r./NICK.
Si
MCO
MOTOR
OIL
*****.(>ll
U.t
Tl 4 ° u MOUT
jM’OT to Motorists
* alone, but to every
user of Lubricating Oil Kas come
tke "New Era”— the long looked for
period when efficient lubrication would
be a scientific certainty, eliminating the
troubles brought about by Oils not
meeting the essential standard.
SHELL
Lubricating Oils
retain their physical properties under all
temperatures, thereby reducing friction to
a minimum. Tears of scientific investi-
gations by our own experts have resulted
in the production of Lubricating Oils,
which always give the maximum lubrica-
tion — Better Oils do not exist
Write for Booklet—
“TKe Key to Perfect Lubrication.*
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd*
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND^
SHELL
MOTOR
SPIRIT
Scientists Have deter-
mined that the correct
method of judging a
Motor Spirit is by its
range of boiling points.
Shell Motor Spirit
consistently responds
to this test.
Inferior spirit may drive
a Car, just as inferior
oil may stop a squeak,
but ultimately inferi-
ority will assuredly
take its toll of soux
engine.
You will avoid this
b$ using
SHELL
MOTOR
SPIRIT
C!


oie
STRETCHES WIDE BUT
FINE FOR STOUT
PURE SILK, SILK-FACED FIBRE
OBTAINABLE LEADING
wS’oiSam" } Tl "touGH WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
,-yk
ALWAYS RETURNS TO SHAPE.
OR SLENDER WOMEN.
SILK and LUSTERISED LISLE.
STORES EVERYWHERE.
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
16 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOU COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Oh, Ladv, Lady!”
Criterion “The Little Whopper”
Royal “Adam and Eva”
lalace “The .Jeffersons”
Hoyt s . Moving Pictures
Union Iheatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOU COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Lilac Domino”
5°y AL “Nightie Night”
King s “Mr. Pim Passes By”
iio\Ts De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mei.ua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Gi.aciauium Ice Skating
• ♦
When Wilkie Bard landed in Sydney he
had his doubts whether a £4OO-a-week star
could penetrate the murk of slap-stick and
custard-pie humor that was alleged to en-
velop the city. But, as he soon found out
at the Tivoli, he had speut sleepless nights
for nothing. Bard conjures up a spirit of
comradeship almost as soon as the curtain
rises, and doesn’t let it flicker out thereafter.
There are some excellent impersonations on
his list; his best perhaps is the familiar
panto dame who wants to sing in opera, back-
chats with a dress-circle Johnnie, and
mumbles remonstrances to the orchestra.
Another cliucklesome character is an old
Woodbine, forgotten by the War Office, and
still on Sentry Go in a lonely spot long after
the war has ceased, though some of his gags
in a whimsical colloquy with a young staff-'
officer have travelled this way ahead of him.
With these and the night watchman who
humors homing drunks and places his cubby
at the disposal of the principal panto-girl for
an impromptu rehearsal, he keeps the house
merry for an hour. Supporting artists are
the acrobatic Eclair Bros., the melodic Tay-
lor -and McQuoin, and the mimic Nina Gor-
don at the piano—with Connie Talmadge
offering “Lessons in Love” on the picture
screen.
Jascha Heifetz said farewell to Sydney
on Saturday afternoon, and though the wind
and the rain came in long shuddering gusts,
in the Town Hall there was the warmth of
golden music, sunshine cloven by the beat
of a bird’s wing and all the earth songs
that Heifetz knows so well how to rustle
from his magic bowl of sound. The young
man without a smile goes off to Maoriland
this week.
Bert Bailey returns to Sydney on Satur-
day night in “The Jeffersons,” a play with
the made-ih-England label. And this at a
time when Sydney had almost resigned itself
to the belief that modern comedy is ex-
clusively a thing of double-beds and pyjamas
and imported voices like the north wind play-
ing on loose sheets of galvanised iron or a
fretsaw ripping up a kerosene-tin. The
Palace will be the scene of Bert’s daring
experiment.
There are many likeable things in “The
Little Whopper,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
not the least of them being Cecil Kellaway’s
cleverly subdued method of singing the
“Round the Corner” ditty, the effectiveness
of which would be spoilt by a vocalist of
the beef-it-out type. The threatened exter-
mination of Chester Clute, whose fighting
“THE LILAC DOMINO," AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
George Gee and Hugh Stegne in the ballet.
weight is Bst. 121 b., by Claude Flemming,
who strips when in condition at list. 21b.,
is also a joyous incident. But “The Little
Whopper” moves to the Criterion on Satur-
day in succession- to the Humphrey Bishops,
who go on their travels again. ' Its place
will be taken by “Oh, Lady, Lady !” a non-
stop musical comedy with Dot Brunton in
the lead. And there are rumors that the
Maid who intrigued Melbourne for several
months, will shortly emerge from the mists
that envelop her Mountain.
* Adam and Eva,” at present inhabiting
the Theatre Royal, Sydney, are looking for a
new home. They are due to quit the old
address, along with the cat and the primus-
stove, on Wednesday night.
At Sydney Lyceum Warren Kerrigan
swathes himself toreador fashion, re-
chlistens himself Don Jose, and goes into
►South America to see if his ward's young
inan is worthy of her hand and fortune. One
look at the girl decides him that the only
man in the world worthy of such charm is
himself It is called “A White Man’s
Chance. As “The Branded Woman” Norma
lalmadge goes through more than her usual
share of worry this week, but has the con-
solation of widespread sympathy at the
Lyceum and the Crystal Palace. ‘ Blanche
►Sweet, as a small heiress, lives at the Crystal
I alace all this week, and sends out her frank
oOS, “Help wanted—Male,” which mainly
demonstrates to every girl that fine clothes, a
small legacy and the tenancv of a swagger
hotel make a fine salt for dropping on the
tail of a rich bachelor bird-man. At Hoyt’s
and the Haymarket Fatty Arbuckle, in an
out-size set of yachtsman’s clothes, enter-
tains Royalty to the disgust of his snobbish
neighbors, who laid wanted to keep the efful-
gent “Dollar a Year” secret-service man in
the background.
_ ‘ -Tl ' R r , Lilac Domino” will be transferred
lrom Melbourne Royal.to Her Majesty’s at
the end of this
week. Then will
conductor Solomon,
.it lie be wise as his
famous namesake,
reduce the tone of
the orchestra as
low as it can rea-
sonably go when
the weakest of the
solo voices are ask-
ing for a hearing.
The strongest of
them, viz., the pom-
pous staccato
warble of Jamie-
son Dodds, im-
proves a little on
acquaint-
ance, though it
doesn’t ingratiate
itself with one’s
hearing like the
tremolo of Rene
Max w e 11, who
makes herself plea-
sant in many re-
spects. Dodds can
hardly be accused
of making hnmseif
u ((pleasant, but ho
is destitute of fri-
volity and when
called upon to play
the gay and reck-
less dog in company
with two perform-
Wilkic Bard at
Sydney Tivoli, sing-
ing, “I Want to Sing
in Opera.”
ing goats (George
Gee and Hugh Steyne) he easts some-
thing of gloom over the imbecility.
Nevertheless, he serves very well in
heroic passages, where the course of true
love is interrupted by snags. When he and
the bonnie young millionairess strike the
reef of old serioso passionata that runs
through the farcical comedy they don’t strike
it very rich, but they get fair musical and
melodramatic results. If it were done in
foreign language, and Gaston Mervale were
to rush around in his velveteens so as to look
like a crowd, the two finales might be mis-
taken, in a dim light, for old Italian opera.
One or two nights last week Dodds was off
duty, and Lou Vernon, his understudy, dis-
closed a nice bit of a voice whereof lie had
been already suspected. Vernon, in his
ordinary way of business, is the inoffensive
parent of Rene Maxwell, and impersonates
a time of life when giddiness is still a luxury
rather than a task. Last week’s notice
forgot to mention that Maie Baird, part-
nered by one Thompson, is the stereotyped
pretty danseuse eventually carried off the
stage in an upended position. The soul of
this newspaper begins to yearn for something
new in that way.
Melbourne King’s the artless story of
Cousin Kate,” which might have walked
out of a London sixpenny magazine in the
pre-war period, is restricted to two more
nights. Four nights and a matinee of “Mr.
Pim Passes By” will close the season. Marie
Tempest and . Graham Browne have not
played Mr. Pim ’ previously, the adi t, says,
and they are giving A. A. Milne’s new
comedy its introduction to Australia.
* * H= *
The various appearances of Annette Kel-
lerman, at Melbourne Tivoli, will end
shortly. Ere she relegates herself to the
local gallery of recollections the winsome
little lady desires to lodge a protest against
the word “fake,” applied in this column to
the shoes she wears in her graceful toe-
dancing. They are the up-to-date ballet
shoes of the make that Pavlova and her com-
pany wore in New York. The best ballet-
shoemaker in the busiuess built them on re-
gulation lines, aud, if the inevitable padded
ba ? * be e &ect of a heel when pirouetted
pon, it is because it is less profusely padded
V“ £ wa f 111 former days. Anyhow,
Annette on the extremities of her tootsies,
wonderful things with her arms mean-
while is good to see. The film this week
w t r ada P tati «n of “Idols,” a novel by
hriAv « ,^ e difference between the
T , ld / he P’loto-play is pretty rough on
Cocke, but presumably lie got well paid for it.
.. Night,” with Joseph Coyne aud
, e ?P OUi ; d lts mightiness, comes to Mel-
bourne Kojuil on Saturday.
Melbourne Majestic’s sermon this week is
Z h J' C °J d text that love is greater than
, unconvincing tale of a girl who
nuiiies dollars to provide a soft life for her
™!} n f er • SlSt £ r l is the basis of the argument,
fi«i o vT°- UlSe Glaum brings it to an emotional
Ih!L 111 , rec ?/ d display of distracting
clothes. “Help Wanted—Male” is a comedy
of a damsel ready to surrender to the likeli-
cheque-book. The leading lady is Blanche
who gives an eloquent testimonial to
tr dentist. Hoyt’s invite every woman with
a disappearing husband to inspect “The In-
Y* s i bla ' forces wherein Virtue is upheld
< id the other Cat is dismissed with glaring
blots on her character. The supporting film
s Hearts l,? with Harry Carey showing
in . situations that would be ruined if the
■im olver had not been”invented. “Go Get
it, the tale ?f a gorilla with a transplanted
brain, is the Britannia’s prevailing night-
mare. The Melba has “O’Mallev of the
Mounted, in which the face of Wijliam S.
iiait grows more like a stiletto than ever.
Two one-man Melbourne shows:—
Lionel Lindsay’s etchings at the Decoration Gal-
lery are most impressive in the aquatint department,
but in the other methods, notably pure-line etching,
the artist scores many successes. In aquatint “The
Deserted Shrine” and “The Sacred Grove” are re-
markable for technique. “The Sacred Grove” is
especially distinctive, because it is an example
wherein undraped ladies have no obtrusive interest,
and are only part of an exquisitely-balanced com-
position. Elsewhere, as in “Herodiarie Before the
Mirror,” fastened to an appropriate quotation from
Mallarme, the nude becomes supremely spectacular.
Unsatisfactory draughtsmanship disqualifies his
“Femmes Damn<ss,” a pure-line illustration to Baude-
laire, ' and sometimes it damages the quality of
Spanish plates that rely for some effect on the
vitality of the preponderant human details. This is
not the case, however, in “The Gypsy Dance,” a fine
performance, whilst “The Picador’s Girl” demon-
strates that his hand is surprisingly sure on occa-
sion. Again, he makes excellent use of the needle
in the likeness of Henry Lawson and “A Bit of Old
Sheffield” ; and in landscape “Hauling Timber” and
Ihe Old Carriage Way” deserve a special bouquet.
Harry McClelland has a show at the Athenseum,
where the grandest example of his ornate style is
“The Township,” a vast canvas with a huge tree
in the foreground, poultry in the middle distance,
and a few dwellings behind. The price, £2OO, sug-
gests that he has hopes of selling it to the Felton
Bequest. The color-scheme of three panels, “Early
Settlers,” is fairly quiet, if conventional, but in the
representation of atmospheric effects the artist loses
all reserve and paints like a designer of Oriental
carpets. The sunsets in “Mountain Side” and
“Black Rock” probably contain every color in the
spectrum, the predominant note being raw vermilion.
Elsewhere his art shows symptoms of scarlatina.
Inspection reveals a scarlet cartwheel (No. 12),
ditto shed (No. 13), ditto garment on a line of
washing (No. 28), ditto chimneys (No. 59), ditto
flag (No. 65), ditto umbrella (No. 73) —all in
landscapes wherein emphasis of his favorite hue
often ruins an otherwise good to passable impres-
sion. In water-colors tall tree-ferns are his strong-
est source of inspiration.
“The Maid of the Mountains” is having
the accustomed triumph at Adelaide Royal.
Zoe Wenke bad to plav the lead for the first
few evenings, and rose finely to the big
chance; but Gladys Moncrieff, better than
ever before in voice, acting and appearance,
is now at work again. Toe mounting is
sumptuous, and a lot of big players have
tiny parts. The position of Frank Freeman
is curious, as he does little more than talk
or intone what songs he has, though
Chisholm . sings duets with Freeman’s girl,
and does it very well. The booking is heavy
At the King’s is Ferry, the “frog” contor-
tionist ; there are several clever pairs, but
Billy Elliot gives his turn single-handed.
He still relies largely on weird alleged scan-
dal concerning the other members of the
company, and audiences seem to like it.
Pictures have an uplifting turn at the Majes-
tic. in both the widely d'fferine “Sky PUot”
and “The Sin that Was His.” Bryant Wash-
burn at Wondergraph is frankly frivolous
when he sets out to drag his aristocratic
name in the dust by doing “menial” work—
and brings his valet along to help. 4 female
goose named Arabella is another star per-
former in this programme. West’s have a
good double bill, with H. B. Warner in a
study of revenge, and Viola Dana in vet
one more version of the “Cinderella” storv
with American crooks taking the place of
the fairy godmother.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Sti eeton s one-man show at the Society of Arts
Gallery is small but good. There is nothing quite
up to the three big things now hanging in the Art
Gallery of the State. But here are beautiful
glimpses of sea seen through trees at Portsea and
“MASKS AND FACES,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Harry Avondale and Maurice Jaffey
dispensing melody.
lorne; grey stretches of Mount Abrupt, of Mace-
don, and of Melbourne as distantly viewed from the
Grampians; and war studies, either of stark ruin or
of attractive woods. By way of showing his versa-
tility, the artist adds a few exquisite studies of
flowers. The student can approach the question
from a different angle, going close up to the canvas to
learn how heavy blotches of paint can be so laid
on as to produce a brilliant effect at-longer range.
Tlie show is quite unconventional. It had no formal
opening, and the 27 items on the catalogue loftily
ignore such a thing as prices. But there are many
inquiries by the discerning.
Henri Verbrugghen was given a civic wel-
come when he appeared in Brisbane at the
head of the N.S.W. State Orchestra, and
he seized the opportunity to say that good
hard cash will have to be put up if the
orchestra is to be kept going. Brisbane says
its pocket is low, yet hopes to raise at least
£lOOO. Verbrug.’s concerts were pretty well
attended, but the Exhibition Hall is a hard
place to fill, and there were many gaps ill
the most expensive seats. But the cheap
ones were crowded.
“Vandorian” at the Boyal Academy:—
Sir William Orpen’s portrait of a chef at "the Hotel
Chatham (Paris) is the most cracked-up picture of
the 1921 Royal Academy. Detail is at the moment
very dear to the British public (hence the big de-
mand for J. Farquharson’s pictures) ; and the fat.
bluggy mutton-chops in the foreground of the chefs
picture excite rapturous admiration. A little more
blood on the gent.’-s immaculate white coat would
be regarded favorably. Orpen exhibits several other
portraits. His subjects’ hands are all beautifully
painted ; but they are all exactly the same hand —
with long, tapering fingers and super-manicured nails.
Arthur Burgess exhibits a notable marine picture,
“The Turn”—a grey cruiser in the offing, and sap-
phire-blue sea tumbling into breakers on the shore.
Fred Leist returns to his first love, “The Milkmaid,”
in a graceful oil-painting. There is nothing new in
Bertram Mackennal’s sketch-model for, a bronze group
for Australia House—Phcebus driving his classic team.
But the craftsmanship is sure. On the whole, the
Academy is strongest in its portrait-painters. It is
weakest in its new and startling desire to keep
abreast of the times. This has turned its head, so
to speak. W ith lack of balance it has hung weird and
sploshy samples of jazz coloring and wooden draughts-
manship, and congratulate'? itself on being merry and
bright. It has even made Augustus John an Associ-
ate, by way of showing that it recognises modern
art.
“Hamfat”: Sydney’s Poverty Point pos-
sesses an old-time vaudeville heavyweight
who is now commissioned by various mixed
shows to engage turns. " The business
doesn’t run to an office, but on certain days
ambitious artists may interview the agent
as he leans majestically against the wall of
the corner pub. He always does his leaning
at the same spot. Facetious Poverty Pointers
call it his oflice. The other day "he left it
for a time, and on his return found gummed
to the wall a slip of paper with the legend:
Back in ten minutes.”
Bernard Shaw has jumped the claim of
H. G. AY ells in “Back to Methuselah.” It
has five acts, each one complete in itself.
The Ist js located in the Garden of Eden;
the 2nd in the present day, with a plan to
save civilisation bv prolonging life inde-
finitely ; the 3rd 300 years hence, with sur-
vivors from to-day; the 4th much later,
when most Britons live 300 years as a
matter of course, the rest of the world re-
maining shortlived and looking up to the old
people as oracles. The last act (or play) is
called “As far as thought can reach,” and is
dated a.d. 20,000 or thereabouts.


OE
/
£
:
77
f:
d/
?TRAr
*.v~yT>
!»c&
OWm&
m&Ksnm
VO i
warn
JMSi
mmmsm
Mii
ntaHi
<*=*@BB}.
ocas' i ;
sitss«sfe?4tilv> >U';V.
all:
£s?§
Cr*&
>r »»c»» •••ksq ,\5?-v
iWW
£*S
k
111
{#
ptipf
1
ivssa^s®
§S?^5M&s!
X
•*«<«L
Sr s -SiisvSS:"»sfsK-
i'i“, JsVVJ
iteAJiz&stextesZiti
atigsgane
111
tid&sra*
Sf
ft
-4i7
mmm
c\
V
X-
V
■
U v 7
r$
sm#
iy^'.Y'vv--* v'-'
ISII
mmmmm
ItPltl
Z^VriJWC;
Wlft
MWi
•’ass*
NMNN
i ■MZtot&mt&Mr.
: S’, h;
V\V.>
mwmi
!»>■
li
W
Cv fess&SE
ill
?jaas
sts £
PI
:«
ass
i&iM
»i
iiSi
&&£§£«s&&s
HS®I«P
BSSSKSS
sss
&gs
!x\ ?; ifeft >? j-j/.»j /
88®5
v
is
PsSfitesSa
Sijj&fcf'#*.
OV-'i
BS&&
S n;;
aftrS®
m
mm
t'y
issa*
v\-Vj!
sKtt
SSs
85 is;
MRE
4rt
THE. Pelaco label guar-
antees you tbe Sbirt
satisfaction you Have a
right to expect. It is a
promise from the makers
that the Shirt is perfect in
cut, make, fit and finish.
A new Shirt FREE if it
isn’t.


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
i
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.*
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
Ml at sacrifice prices.
o
m
M
ffi MS
mi
Gidttetv!
§Lpi.
Looks Like
a Guinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-raade Lever
Filler. Made a« well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
11/6 and 12/6.
SOLD AT ALL
STATIONERS,
The
CONWAY QTEWART
LEVER W FILLER
PEN.
SOLD AT ALL
JEWELLERS.
W. Chorley 8 Co. Ltd.
ďf
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
J*
LADIES' S
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPGRES
.
315 George St.
SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
Model & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Howard Vernon, whom Australia knew
and loved as Ko-Ko in “The Mikado” and
the Grand Inquisitor in “The Gondoliers,”
has taken his last call. No finer exponent
of Gilbert and Sullivan has been seen in the
Commonwealth, and yet he was wholly an
Australian product—born in Melbourne on
the site of Scott’s Hotel, and bred in classic
Collingwood. When he retired from the
stage a few years ago he had survived prac-
tically all his contemporaries except Gene-
vieve Ward (still on deck in London), with
whom he played “Macbeth” at Melbourne
Theatre Royal in 1884. Vernon, who mar-
ried Vinia Deloitte, one of the Three Little
Maids (the others were Aggie Thorn and
Dolly Castles) in a 1907 revival of “The
Mikado,” was 76 when the curtain fell.
“Master of Surgery”: How do actors
manage to appear clean? For disgusting
uncleanness let me recommend a dressing-
room in a well-known, high-priced Sydney
theatre. I was called behind the scenes to
attend one of “ the profession,” who had met
•with a minor accident. In his dressing-room
(shared by three) was only one small towel
—damp and filthy with wash-dirt and greasy
“make-up.” Fortunately cold water was in
plentiful supply, and I happened to have
two handkerchiefs with me. The actor’s
wound had been bandaged with a strip torn
from an actress’s undergarment. Mind you,
the three men in question were leading folk
in the show; what the conditions were in
the chorus dressing-rooms my surgically
aseptic imagination balked at. I object
to paying 3d. for an advertisement pro-
gramme, but will willingly donate a like
amount to a fund for providing human mum-
mers with the necessary commodities of
cleanliness.
“0.K.” on art and showmen’s tricks: —
When Levitzki sits reverently before his piano,
with bowed head, as though praying into an invis,
ible hat after taking his place in church, I presume
that he is concentrating his recollections of the piece
he will recite next, even as Alexander Watson does
when seated silently on the platform. I don’t like
to think the bowed head is but guff: I prefer to
think the young man is visualising the notes as they
appeared in print the last time he saw them, and
recalling to mind his exact way of reading them.
I wonder why young Levitzki and Heifetz do not
arm themselves with books of cues. It is all very
remarkable, their abnormal distension of the recol-
lective faculty. But when carried to excess it may
prevent the mind of the instrumentalist from soaring
high. In the case of young performers, anyhow. The
constant strain on the memory, slight as it may be,
dulls the edge of inspiration. A book of cues would
be an undoubted assistance to a whole-souled inter-
pretation of a long sonata, and an aid in many a.
shorter task. Older men than Levitzki and Heifetz
may have a mile of musical score always at the
tips of their fingers, so that their memory may be
said to be in constant touch with the notes; but,
then, the older men have played and played the same
old pieces ever so much oftener than the Russian boys,
who are just now playing “everything without music”
and some things without much feeling. Heifetz, to
my way of thinking, is at present not so much a
brilliant musician as an instinctively clever mechanic,
who has learned hie business thoroughly and carries
a tremendous quantity of musical scores in his
young head. In performing he doubtless has occa-
sional lapses of memory and slips of the hand, so to
speak, and these may account for occasional con-
fusion in his effects. In a lesser degree the remark
applies to Levitzki. The habit of playing the longest
of his heavy pieces has not yet become second nature
to him. Both he and the violinist would be more
impressive artists if they had a memoriser to refer
to. On the Other hand, of course, they would not
be such satisfactory showmen from the management’s
point of view. Which suggests that show value has
greater weight than artistry.
“T. D. Emdee”: Dion Titheradge, who
the lyrics for “Fuss, Fuss” (B.
21/7/’2l), was only a k.d when be came to
AustraLa with Margaret Anglin, but it was
about that time he began to write. He and
Aubrey Mallalieu jointly issued a magazine
during a tour of Maoriland —wrote the whole
concern and published it on a multiser.pt.
Young Tith. also illustrated it and showed
promise as a cartoonist. Only one edition
was issued, but when the pair were assoc.ated
in another J.C.W. company they collaborated
again on a more ambitious scale. When old
man Tith. saw the boy’s work he remarked :
“I suppose the young beggar will be writing
plays soon. Anyway, he is named well
enough to do it.” The name Dion came from
the old man’s friendship with the Bouci-
caults. G. S. Titheradge was leading man
to Dion Boucicault, senior, for the actor-
dramatist’s Sydney season in the early
’eighties. Louise Thorndyke, whom he after-
wards married, was his leading lady.; but
the best work was done by Agnes Thomas,
mother of that all-round artist, Eily Malyon.
“Epacris”: “Norbell” (B. 21/7/’2l) is
wrong: Sarah Bernhardt did appear at the
old Sydney Royal. She did a season of 19
nights at Her Majesty’s, then went for nine
nights to the 'Royal, where she produced
“Theodora.” I know, as I was one of the
amateur supers who “helped” the show
along. The “last night” of Madame in Aus-
tralia took place at the Royal, and the pro-
fession in Sydney all came along to give a
hand. Amongst them were the two
Georges, Anson and Rignold, and brother
William Rignold. J. O. Williamson and some
of the Broughs were there also. On the
following Monday night Rignold revived
“The Merry Wives,” and Madame was the
honored guest, together with Mrs. Fisher, an
old Bulletin identity.
“Hanifat”: The American film firmament
is becoming dotted with stars from Australia.
One of the latest tp strike success is Percy
Marmont, who plays the lead in the First
National picture, “The Branded Woman,”
which was released in Australia the other
day.
“Silas”: During the “Tempest” season at
Melbourne King’s the comedians have done
Wilkie Bard as “The
Night Watchman.”
without an orcnes-
tra. In the inter-
vals a ’cellist first
and later a violin-
ist filled in time. I
did not miss the
orchestra in the
least. “The Great
Adventure” I
found to be an ex-
cellent entertain-
ment without musi-
cal accompaniment.
The dramatic
moments lacked
nothing for the
absence of agitato
music. But the
gaping place where
the orchestra
should have been
and wasn’t I
did find an aching
void. The deserted
bandstand and the
yawning gap left
understage sug-
gested coldness
and emptiness even
though the hov?se
was well filled. If
there is to be no
orchestra it will be found essential to
bridge the void between audience and stage
with sightly vegetation or some simple deco-
rative effects.
“T. D. Emdee”: Louis De Rougemont
may have been well known in N. S. Wales,
as “Bung” (B. 34/7/’2l) says, but it was a
difficult job to dig anything out about him
when the news of his turtle-riding, etc.,
reached Australia by cable. Martin Dono-
hoe, the war-correspondent, then doing police
rounds on the Sydney Evening News, was
the sleuth employed, and many a busy day
did he pass before he identified the yarn-
spinner as the Swiss camp cook Louis Grin
or Grinor. It was Donohoe’s graphic story
that killed De Rougemont’s Sydney Tivoli
apearance and led to the chant of “Liar!
Liar !” from the gallery.
“Zigamar”: “Private Boxer” is wrong in
stating (B. 21/7/’2l) that none of Barrie’s
plays have been done in Australia
since “What Every Woman Knows.” Peter
Pan” was produced at Sydney Cri. in 1917-
18, with Kathlene Macdonell in the title
r le. Gracie Lavers (now in “The Little
Whopper”) made her first appearance on
the Australian stage as Wendey.
“Te Babarantiko”: There is probably not
a p.cture-film producer in Australia who
will look at. a scenario that isn’t taken from
a published book. I have asked one after
another, and the reply has invariably been
a refusal. American film compan es operat-
ing in Australia, such as the Paramount,
“MASKS AND FACES,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Bert Crawford , the super-dexterous jazz-
drummer.
are much more courteous and helpful.
Although not producing in Australia, they
will send you detailed information as to sub-
ject-requirements, with a recommendation to
forward scenarios to their headquarters and
an assurance that attention will be given
them.
“Paroke”: Australian vaudeville acts that
have played U.S.A. in the past 12 years all
seem to have met with success. This is one
reason why an exodus to America is impend-
ing. The Fuller monopoly debars anything
like a big'salary for Australian performers,
and the latter also find their usefulness a
negligible quantity after playing that circuit
twice around. Those to make the trip abroad
are Ajf Raleigh, Beattie McDonald, Francis
and Volta, Bert Weston and George Camp-
bell—all except the last good Aussies, and
Campbell has been a performer here for
some years. American booking-agents reach
out whenever an Australian act strikes
’Frisco, as they realise that Aussie versatil-
ity can adapt itself to almost any condition.
The modern London idea of putting on a
“society entertainer” instead of a curtain-
raiser gets a further development in “Pins
and Needles” at the Gaiety. Tubby Edlin,
one of the cast, comes in front of the curtain
at every change of scene, to beguile the
“wait.” He never arrives anywhere, being
smothered by a curtain or shouldered aside
by scene-shifters just as he is getting into
his stride; and his baulked efforts! form a big
part of the evening’s fun.
“C. Orkney”: Theatrical London, which
a few months ago welcomed a real Yiddish
Shylock, is just now being entertained by
a. nigger leading man. The darky’s name
is Charles Gilpin, and he stars in a play
called “The Emperor Jones,” one of N’Yark’s
last season’s successes. Gilpin used to be
a Pullman-car conductor, but gave up work
to become an actor.
“0.K.”: Died in London the other month
John Beauchamp, an old character actor who
created a minor part in many a melodrama
that achieved “world-wide success.” It was
Beauchamp who gave the original air of im-
portance to Mr. Parkyn in “Silver King,”
and became the model for subsequent Parkyns
of olden days. Parkyn and his aged cronies
get only a few lines each to speak, but those
lines have, in one production or other, been
spoken with more point and feeling than the
ordinary half-baked actor is ever capable of.
“Hal”: The first opera ever sung in
America was John Gay’s “The Beggar’s
Opera,” staged at_the Nassau-street Theatre,
New York, in 1750. It was first produced
in 1728, and is declared to be the forefather
of “Ptnafore.” It is now playing at the
Greenwich Village in New York, and was to
be presented here by the Firm, only the cos-
tuming was so difficult and the lines so out of
date (its humor concerned the doings of
gentry long since departed) that J.C.WTgave
up the idea.
“Charing Cross”: Clever “publicity” and
an uncanny technical facility enabled Lev-
itzki to capture Melbourne. The hard-
headed, steel-fisted little American has
brought the bourgeois concert-goer to his
knees. In politics, cricket, pugilism or
burglary we admire above all “cleverness.”
And so insusceptible are we to deep feeling
that admiration breeds outbursts of enthusi-
asm which are translated by the delighted
entrepreneur as “emotion.” “The whole
audience stampeded to the platform,” the
publicity man reports. What really hap-
pened was that, at the end of the programme,
a bundled or more people who had paid 3s.
rushed the seats lately vacated by the seven-
and-s.xpenny lot the better to hear the long
list of “encores” which their greedy shouts
would presently command. And thus is the
public sulled into a belief that it is really
listening to “the successor to Paderewski.”
Concert-giving under such conditions is so
undignified that the more susceptible prefer
to stay away. I have heard all the great
pianists—Pachmann, Paderew r ski, Busoni,
Siloti, Rosenthal, Lamond, Bauer, Borwick,
Backhaus, Godowsky and d’Albert. Those
are names of artists who have won inter-
national fame and not merely American
plaudits. Levitzki cannot be mentioned in
the same breath as any of them. That “suc-
cessor to Paderewski” tag is really libellous.
Paderewski was always a poet, a sympa-
thetic and soul-stirring artist. Levitzki is
a clever boy, lacking emotion and without
versatility.
“Orb”: Consider these Los Angeles pic-
ture fakirs how meticulously exact they are
as to atmosphere, local color and —er —
detail. In the First National attraction,
“My Lady’s Latchkey,” the heroine reads
the Daily Telegraph in London, and gives
the audience a peep of it to show that some-
one or other has arrived at “South Hamp-
ton.” Later a Cockney person explains to
a London householder that he thought “a
burglar had gotten into the house.” Yet I
remember that Noo Yoick chortled because
Mrs. Pat Campbell, unused to Yankee
“notions,” rested her bare arm on an Ameri-
can stove, which should have been red-hot
by all the rules of Card’s own country.
“T. 0.1.”: The old Theatre Royal, Sydney,
had a queer tragedy. One Corcoran, a Syd-
ney cobbler, father of the late Kate Corcoran,
was in the gallery and fell asleep. When
he awoke he, groping his way in the dark,
fell over into the pit, where his corpse was
found next day. Kitty, a popular actress
in her day, married Jack Smith, a wealthy
racehorse owner, who later went to the Cold
Country and died there.
The Albert Hall, London, has celebrated
its jubilee and that of the Choral Society
by a great popular concert which the King
and Queen attended. It just missed being
all British through including the Jewel Song
from “Faust,” Gounod having been the
society’s first conductor. The rest was
Barnb.v (“Sweet and Low”!, Br'dge, Parry,
Sullivan (“Golden Legend”), Cowen, Stan-
ford (“Drake’s Drum”), Mackenzie, Cole-
ridge Taylor and a lot of Elgar. Times have
changed: at the first performance, in 1871,
there was not a single English composition
on the programme.
“Floater”: Theda Bara, the famous vamp,
though generally regarded as a Frenchwoman,
is a Yankee, whose name is an anagram of
“Lleath Arab,” apparently fastened to her in
one of her first films by a publicity expert
seven years ago.
“Snell”: It happened at Lefroy (Tas.)
in the days when much gold was being got
there. Madame Marmarosa, snake-charmer,
had given her performance with snakes and
other vermin, and the Pink Sisters were doing
a vigorous song-and-dance turn when Madame
made a sudden and dramatic reappearance.
She came through one of the side doors, and
commenced an energetic search among the
front chairs. She went down on her! knees,
she prowled and peered, and excitement took
hold of the audience. The Pink S.sters sus-
pended operations. Madame, still on he>-
knees, cried: “Go on ! Go on ! Eet ees not-
ting. My leetle green snake, he go. escape
him.” She laid a hand on the nearest leg,
and the owner shrieked. In two and! a half
seconds the orchestra chairs were empty, and
the rest of the house was thinning out. At
this stage a frowsy attendant appeared at the
sde door and beckoned to Madame. “I’ve got
the thing,” he whispered when she drew
near. Madame rushed to the entrance,
happy again, and addressed the audience
now mostly out of doors: “Eet iss al’ ri’,
laties and gendlemens. I haf got ze
sing!”
. “C. Ockliey”: It is something of a coin-
cidence that two of the best pla,vs now on
view in London’s West End are by soldier-
authors, and both Scotchmen. “Bulldog
Drummond,” Gerald du Maurier’s hit, is the
work of “Sapper” (Captain McNeile) ; and
Arthur Bourchier’s winner, “A Safety
Match,” was dramatised by Major lan Hay
Macbeath from his book with the same title.
The last-named piece, though not quite
another “Tilly of Bloomsbury,” is yet
destined to add a solid amount to the profits
of the simple mirth-maker—who, by the way,
promised in 1918 that he would be in Aus-
tralia within three years, but hasn’t been
detected yet.
THE BOUQUET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
My roses red and roses white,
While Fame weaves wreaths above her,
Go whisper on her cheek to-night
How tenderly I love her!
She’ll read upon your leaves ablow
An eloquent oblation;
Your petals will unfold to show
My glowing adoration.
Go, let your various stalks recite
Again the vows I' gave her!
Oh, lilies, tenderly invite
For me her gentle favor!
Go, lie upon the girlish heart
Of Juliet, my dear one;
Of whispers from your buds that start
She possibly may hear one 1
There’s honey here that needs must be
Less sweet for her great sweetness,
Carnation which’ will show that she
Has not her peer for neatness.
Here’s bluebell which beside her eyes
Will seem a foolish blunder;
A deep red tulip which implies
Her two lips’ crimson wonder.
Go, say from me no Juliet
Was half as fair as she is,
And whisper her of one who yet
Has hope that she will be his!
Go, dear bouquet, upon your quest.
And serve me well —oh, rot it!
Was ever sucjti a beastly pest?
The fat old nurse has got it!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


(omm/2nC£S‘
July f£*
ends
Auonsi lc>^
David Jdnesr
SALE
AU goods
subject to
discount ot
£xca pi only jl (evj
proprietary lutes -
Commenced Monday, July 25
Ends Saturday, August 15
Big reductions and 2/6 in the £ discount for cash—
thousands of bargains to select from—first general sale
for two years —a genuine post-war reversion to pre-war
prices—an epic event in merchandising history—all
YOU want at sale prices. Shop personally or mail your
order early, before the best attractions are sold.
=David clones=
for Service
Opp.G.P.O. SYDNEY. Te1.C1ty6336
cr 1
Special Imports
Important Consignment
of Rare Goods.
Gentlemen’s Rib
Socks.
All Wool.
Three Shades of Grey.
Three Shades of Blue.
Two Shades of Brown.
Including Lovat Green and
All-Black.
7/6 per pair.
3 pairs for 21/«
Jliclmrii s,(£o,
314 George Street,
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Circular Saws tHat
Cut Down Expenses
I.: :
'•mi autumn
r*
iU'aimi
n
V,
II.N
Increased production.
That’s the problem that every manufacturer is seeking
to solve in order to offset the higher costs, that must be
met because of the shorter working week.
Every employer who uses circular saws can increase his
output, and reduce his operating expenses by installing
An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
Because they are correctly hariimered they
give long and satisfactory service. A keen
cutting edge, impossible on inferior steel, or
where the hammering has not been so
thorough, can be given to these saws.
“An Eagle on a Globe” brand Circular Saw
cuts quicker and easier because it is ground
and polished by men who have been specially
trained to this work.
Tension—so necessary for good, accurate
work—is retained throughout the long life of
every “An Eagle on a Globe” brand Circular
Saw.
Try a Sample Order
“An Eagle on a Globe” brand Circular Saws
have been on the market for more than fifty
years.
To-day they are in use all over Australia, and
repeat orders testify better than anything else
can to the satisfaction they are giving.
For prices, etc,, write to Department “A.”
The Eagle &. Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
266 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE!.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE!.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
R. L. Milligan, HOBART, TASMANIA.
A. R. Hislop, Ltd., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Kidd, Garratt, Ltd., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Peter Kennedy, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Peter Kennedy, Ltd., DUNEDIN, N.Z.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIBP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WMITTY:
- ' ■ •- ~? s '\ <
MAKERS;
mm
&■&&(&*&!&?<
*&*&!*& -*•««*•
d
ď
fd
ďfd
ď
f
ď
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAYILIE, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The fourth test, which opened at the Old
Trafford ground, Manchester, on Monday, was useful
as an indication of what England might have done
under different conditions. Play had had to be
abandoned on the Saturday on account of rain. When
it began 48 hours later the local men went in on
a sodden pitch, which gave the bowlers no soft of
assistance. A. C. Russell, who has the useful
average of 54.50, made 101 before Gregory got him,
treating every bowling change with equal contempt.
Mead (who heads this season’s combined batting
averages with 70.12) made 47. And 11 rown and
Fender also came off. It is significant that none of
them were selected for the first Test—in fact, this
side, which is the first since the picnic game at
Lionel Robinson’s place to hold its head up against
the invaders, contains seven names which were more
or less spurned by the M.C.C. overlords last May. At
841 for 4 Tennyson attempted to declare. Armstrong
objected. The postponement had turned the match
into a two-day affair, and under the rules (Law 54)
a first-day declaration in a two-day match may not
be made “later than lhr. 40min. before the time
agreed upon for drawing stumps.” It might have
conduced to the popularity of the team if Armstrong
had not insisted. On the other hand, the concession
might equally Lave had an opposite effect. It is
recognised that the Australians are out to win every
match they legitimately can ; and that is one of the
reasons the public is keen on watching them play.
There will be less sympathy here with England inas- '
much as, but for the idiotic local convention of not
covering the pitch in wet weather, the Old Trafford
wicket would have been playable after lunch on
Saturday. The rain, both in the morning and in
the afternoon (when it ceased altogether for lengthy
periods), is described in the cable as “light” ; and
that, in England, means a gentle drizzle.
The player with most reason to curse the weather
is Mailey. He is only four short of his 100 wickets
for the tour. Being useless on a wet wicket Arm-
strong had to stand him down. When the latest
Test began McDonald had taken 94 wickets and
Gregory (who made his name with the A.I.F. team
as a terror in the slush) had four less.
The Yorkshire match was notable for low
scoring on both sides (even Australia’s opening effort
of 251 was paltry considering the perfection of the
Sheffield wicket) ; the bowling success of Gregory
(he got four for 10 in the second) ; and the appear-
ance of Wilson, the cable expert, for the first time
this English season. Wilson went on late-—he has
played practically no first-class cricket since he left
Australia —but tied the Australians up badly with
his good-length slows. The county crashed bv 175
runs eventually, having only avoided a follow-on by
an unexpected lOth-wicket stand. Yorkshire has
a traditional dislike of fast bowling, but McDonald
could do no good for some reason, and Mailey quickly
replaced him in the second innings. The googlie
specialist’s figures were 4 for 54.
C. G. Macartney’s consistency is exceptional. After
the fourth match (v. Yorkshire) he was on top
with 350 runs averaging 70, and at the 23rd game
the little ’un was still in the van both in aggregate
and averages (1595, averaging 69.34). Macartney
r-cored 2207, averaging 45.04, in 1912, and looks
like eclipsing both figures on the present tour.
Jack Gregory evidently finds Yorkshire bowling to
his liking. In the first match against the county he
held the fort with 104 not out out of 263 ; ’last
week, he was the big joint in the tail with 68. and
with Rardsley (71) got 139 out of 251. Including
the Yorkshire match, Gregory has scored 820 runs
and taken 90 wickets, and like Armstong (66
wickets at 13.50) he seems certain to land the
coveted double. It is Armstrong’s fourth trip to
England. He made 2002 runs (averaging 48.82)
and took 130 wickets (average 17.60) in 1905, and
in 1909 his totals were 1480 runs (43.53) and 126
wickets (16.23). George Giffen exceeded the 1000
runs and 100 wickets in 1886, 1893 and 1896; G. E.
Palmer in 1886, and Hughie Trumble in 1899.
The N. S. Wales Cricket Association
had a surplus of receipts over expenditure for the
year ending June 30 of £6911. With £1784
brought forward, there is a total of £8699 at credit.
English Test players will learn with a measure of
relief that the Bulli soil has given out —and with
mixed feelings that earth calculated to provide much
the same result, when transferred to Sydney Cricket
Ground, has been discovered at Prospect.
Languid public interest in the Australian
Hurdle and Steeple at Caulfield got a shake-up from
the meeting of four or six fancied hurdlers in the
first event at Aspendale Park (Melb.) last Saturday.
Roisel (9st. 21b.) beat Fiscom (list. 71b.) arid
Earlborn (lOst. 121 b.) despite liis amateurish jump-
ing, and he will at least have an outside show in the
Si miles race if he warms to the business in the
meantime. Clearly Fiscom, the National winner, was
not equal to giving the novice 331 b. over two miles,
and though he meets him on 81b. better terms at
Caulfield his chance on paper is not so good as Earl-
born’s. The Earlston horse is comparatively thrown
into the coming event with only 10st. 31b. to carry.
He W'as fairly beaten on Saturday, but the difference
in terms next time he meets Roisel and Fiscom should
give him a big pull over the lightweight, anyhow.
King Neptune, instead of another go over the sticks,
w r as asked and expected to win a 10-furlongs race
on the flat. Neptune earned neither glory nor dis-
grace by running third with only 6st. 71b. up. He
never was suspected of being as good as his half-
brother Greenstead, but he may prove himself a re-
spectable stayer under hurdling conditions. A favo-
rite that didn’t disappoint his trainer was Uaoma,
who won the Brush Steeple as he liked. Entered for
both Hurdle and Steeple at Caulfield, he would look
dangerous if his stamina were not very questionable.
* * * " *
The M.L. Racing Conference has adopted
two sound rules —one that there shall be no more
half-mile w.f.a. races; the other that there must be
a generous minimum weight in steeplechases and in
hurdle events. The four-furlong scramble is .plainly
a farce, regarded as a means of improving the breed.
But even more absurd is the encouragement of a class
of jumper which can only negotiate a series of 3ft.
6in. fences with an Bst. mannikin up. The service-
able remount, which is the nominal objective of all
horse-racing, should be able to carry 14st. across
country.
* * * #
All the horses that mattered, bar Bright
Plume, have been left in the Australian Hurdle and
Steeple, but with only 19 first acceptances in one
case and 20 in the other, fields for the coming Caul-
field events will not be crowded. Last year 13 went
out for the Hurdle, and a little lot of eight com-
peted for the £2OOO given of steeplechase prize-
money. The fields are never too small to attract
big crowds to Caulfield on the principal jumping
days, for the course gives the crowd an easy view
of the two longest races in Australia. So everybody
approves except the horses.
Lee Steere, Eurythmic’s owner, while in
Perth gave his friends the straight griffin about
the champion. “1 warn my friends not to touch
him,” he said, “and a word to others may not be
out of place. At present Eurythmic io more likely
to be Scratched than to start in the Melbourne Cup,
and I would certainly advise his admirers to await
developments.” Re-
garding Eurythmic
going to Sydney to
meet Gloaming, Lee
Steere said that as
Holt has such a large
string of horses to
look after besides
Eurythmic, he would
be unable to make
the trip, but both
Holt and he (the
owner) would he
pleased to see their
horse meet Gloaming
in Melbourne.
DICK COOMBES,
Assoc. Editor
Sydney Referee.
president of the
A . .4. Union
of Australia since
1891, and president
or vice-president
of 29 sporting
organisations.
kjdney Cricket Ground on Saturday
, , niinus Thompson and Ives for their
clash with Easts. However, Horder, Blinkhorn and
Peters turned out, the first-named playing his best
defensive game in years. Norths started with the
roaring S.E gale behind them, but the opposing
ruekeip, with Pearce and Watkins prominent, were
too solid. Green beat Pearce in the downs for the
leather, but the ball was too slippery for proper
handling. 'The first half ended with the tallies
even: North 2 (a fine goal by Horder) ; East 2 (a
pearl agair.-t the gale by Rex Norman). After lemon-
time the Reds and Blacks, working back to the East’s
line, were awarded a penalty shot, and Horder again
hoisted the bunting—North 4; East 2. Then Ray
Norman got a try for the tricolors, which Rex
couldn’t convert—East 5 points; North 4. A
penalty goal by Rex Norman followed. Ear-t 7;
North 4. Taplin, North’s custodian, was carried
off with concussion of the brain at this stage. He
had collided with clubmate Blinkhorn’s knee. Horder
played bac-k after the tragedy, and there were no
further scores. Elsewhere ’Varsity downed Wests
by 8 points to 5 ; Souths walloped ’Mains (minus
Eraser, Latta and Schultz) by 12 to 5 ; New-
town headed St. George by 7 to 5, and Glebe licked
a Yass XIII by 21 to 0. Of the 22 Sydney players
selected to leave by the Tahiti to-day (Thursday)
for England, via America, only Norman,' Caples, Wat-
kins, Pearce, Horder, Blinkhorn, Peters and Townsend
risked losing their passages by playing last Saturday.
In Melbourne on Saturday ’Roy, who
ha\e acquired a disconcerting habit of losing to weak
teams and walloping strong ones, licked the Rich-
mond 1 igers, on the latter’s own ground, even more
thoroughly than ’Wood were hammered the week
before. Almost from the start the Maroons were a*
shade faster, cleverer, more determined. They were
obviourly out to win and they did it, comfortably—
9/ to 60. A 30,000 crowd paid £403 to watch the
slaughter. Geelong saw the best game of the day,
the locals, invincible as usual at home, outing Col-
lingwood by 72 points to 47 ; but it took them all
they knew to do it, and up to the middle of the last
quarter it was anyone’s game. South, striving almost
hopelessly to recover their lost chances, tackled Essen-
don, and crashed disastrously, the “Same Old”
going off with a strong lead and keeping it to the
cox McCarthy,
follower and half-back
of Collingwood. lie repre-
sented Victoria against
South Ave. in 1919; teas
captain of Vic. planing
in Melbourne and vice-
captain in Adelaide.
end. This was extra-
annoying to South, be-
cause ’Don haven’t
Buckley’s chance of
getting any sort of a
place. Scores: ’Don
til points; South 43.
Undefeated Carlton
pounded St. Ivilda with
contumely and both
feet, piling up 142
points to 44, which
indicates a certain lop-
sidedness about the
game. Clover notched
13 goals, and now has
a long lead for the
goal-kicking record.
S. Aus. Football League has entered a
formal defence to the action brought against it by
Edwards, M.L.A., who claims *lOO for assault, and
asks also for a ruling that he is entitled to be
accepted as delegate for the West Adelaide Club.
The League’s defence says that the assault was
merely technical, being just the resistance necessary
to keep him out of a meeting: also, that Edwards
had been “rejected as a delegate by the other dele-
gates, by a majority vote, in accordance with the
powers provided in the rules.”
Eastern Suburbs drew with Manly in Syd-
ney ltugby Union on Saturday. The villagers were
unlucky not to win, and Easts had repeatedly to
look to George Walker, their full-back, to pull them
through. The absence of A. Walker left a big hole
in their defence. Norths met ’Varsity, and their
forwards prevented the superior student backs from
getting to work. The Shore three-quarter line, with
Cooney and Humphreys predominating, occasionally
took a hand, but Nothling, as usua.l, was dependable.
Northr- scored only one try in the second Half, but
the solid defence was equal to the spent ’Varsity
attack. D. B. Louden was conspicuous as the
Shoremen’s most improved all-round player, and
Oatley was an inspiration to the other forwards.
Wests played a tough defensive game against Glebe-
Balmain, and with a little luck would have won.
Wogan set his side a splendid example, and they did
their best to follow his lead. Shute and Davis de-
serve special mention. Old Boys downed Newtown.
The latter have two rep. players in McKay and
Connor, but they get little support. Grayson is the
Old Bov*’ star performer.
* * * *
“Machete”: The first Springbok test in
Dunedin (M.L.) will settle who are the R.U. world’s
champions. This way. The All Blacks (1905-06)
beat Scotland, Ireland, England and France, and
were beaten bv Wales. First Springboks (1906-07)
beat Ireland, Wales and France, drew witli Eng-
land, and were beaten by Scotland. The Second
Springboks (1912) beat Scotland, Ireland, England,
Wales and France. With Australia accounted for,
the Springboks now have only Maoriland to beat.
On form they have Buckley’s chance of doing it.
* * * *
Wellington (M.L.) lived up to its best
reputation on Saturday when the Springboks met
the local XV. Snow, sleet, rain and gale vied to
make everybody miserable, and in it the ’Boks
revelled and won by S points (two tries and 1 goal)
to .3 (goal). The hefty S’African forwards won the
match in a fashion reminiscent of the “All Blacks”
in the days long since. Early in the week the
Springboks had their easiest win of the M.L. tour
by defeating Wairarapa IS—3.
Mainly through the good work of Sleem, a
brilliant young Hindu who is beginning to assert
himself in international tennis, India has outed
France for the Davis Clip. Sleem won both his
engagements against Laurentz and a newcomer who
tries to rejoice in the name of Samazeuilh. Laurentz
ran Sleem to five sets, but against Samazeuilh Sleem
proved his mastery by running out in three sets-
(6 —1, 6 —3, 6—3), after Sam. had beaten Jacobs
(India) in three sets, 6—3, B—-6,8 —-6, 7—5. Sleem’s
triumphs, coupled with the victory of Fyzee and
Deane over Laurentz and Brugnon in the doubles,
gives India a strong chance.
U.S. champion Tilden expects that Janan
will qualify for the final round of the Davis Cup.
He considers the two Japs, Ivvmagae and Shimidzu,
who will probably appear in both singles and doubles,
will carry too many guns for the other combinations,
and may even give Uncle Sam a hard run. Kumngae,
who lives in U.S., and is little known in Europe
except bv repute, ranks fourth to Tilden, Johnston'
and Williams in American tennis, and, as he num-
bers among his victims the hard-hitting Johnston, who
is little inferior to Tilden himself, Kumagae must
be regarded with wholesome respect. Shimidzu’s
achievements should also compel his prospective
opponents to lose some sleep. For two years in
succession he has fought his way into the semi-finals
at Wimbledon. He lias beaten the best of the Eng-
lishmen, Lycett, and in 1920 put up a brilliant game
against Tilden. Shimidzu is small and light, but he
shows great agility and footwork. Also he is remark-
able for playing almost invariably with a backhand
grip. . ' ,
The Australian Davis Cup team is shaping
auspiciously in North America. On the first day
of the match against Canada Hawkes accounted for
Paul Bennett, the Canuck champion, in three
straight sets (8 —6, 6 —4, 7 —5), and after losing
the first set (4 —6) to La Framboise, Andersou
settled down and won the remaining three (7 -5,
6—o, 6—-2). The second day's play was inter-
rupted by rain, but since Peach and Todd beat the
pick of the Canadian players in the Dominion
Doubles championship, the Australians, after the
defeat of La Framboise, had the match at their
mercy.
It looks as if Tilden is on the down grade.
The man who won at Wimbledon two years running
and took the Davis Cup back to America, Was
beaten the other day in a Rhode Island tourney by
Vincent Richards, the 18-year-old wonder. In his
book Tilden says of tlie youngster that “Richards
has the greatest natural aptitude and equipment or
any tennis player 1 have ever seen, and 1 hope
to see him develop to be the greatest player the
world has ever seen.”
Sid Godfrey (9st. 81b.) used to be a right-
handed slugger. Since his return from the Philip-
pines he has developed into a two-handed defensive
boxer of the highest class, while retaining the
capacity to out anything short of a bullock with his
off-side member, given the shadow of an oppor-
tunity. At Sydney Stadium on Saturday flight Llew
Edwards (9st. S:J 1b) was too speedy and watchful
to suffer the last indignity that can befall one of his
profession ; but he caught pretty well everything in'
the way of punishment, and caught it hot. His left eye
was in an appalling condition, and half-way through
the 20 rounds it was useless to the owner, though
invaluable to Godfrey as a target. In the conclud-
ing stages the game little Britisher made desperate
attempts to score the knockout, which was bis only
hope. The only effect was to bring him within an
ace of extinction himself. In the 19th, thanks to
a blizzard of lefts and rights from the Auburn lad,
he was as near hir- end as hardly to matter. It was
one of the finest all-round exhibitions seen at the Aus-
tralian headquarters of the game for years.
With a persistent straight left and a pon-
derous right body punch, Barney Thompson, of the
milk-o profession, won the Vic. middleweight cham-
pionship from bookmaker Los Kemp at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. There is bad blood
between the men, and it was a vicious fight, but
Thompson was on top from the first round to the
twentieth. It was a case of a slow bruiser being
methodically thumped by a pug. who wasn’t so slow,
and who had had it in for him. A smart lightweight
like Stone, who has beaten the new title-holder,
would outpoint the lumbering pair in the same ring,
•Toe Kirkwood played fine golf in Britain,
but on U.S.A. links he has been tragically below
form. In the American open championship he fin-
ished “down the course” with a score of SI 8, Jim
Barnes, the New York professional, winning With a
total of 289 from Fred McLeod and Walter Hagen
(298), Chick Evans (302) and Bobby Jones (303).
Like Kirkwood, the British representatives were out
of it. Yet Ray donkey-licked the Yanks in 1920.
# * * *
Yalo-Harvard beat Oxford-Cambridge in
eight out of 10 events in America last week, the
Britishers’ only two wins being the quarter and the
mile. It must have been a weird experience for
the Englishmen to find themselves lip against a
full-blooded negro undergrad, in the person of Ned
Gourdiri, of Harvard. Gourdin put up a world’s
record broad jump, not merely for amateurs, but
for pros. He did the astounding leap of 25ft. 3in
The previous - best was Pat O’Connor’s 24ft. 11 ■jin.
at Dublin in 1901.
* * * *
Under conditions that would have soured
a saint, 11. W. Sweeting (1 min.) won South Sydney
Harriers’ 41-mile road race (Boreharn Cup) on Satur-
day. Sweeting did the trip in 24min. ssec., and
Bob Fitzsimmons (lOsec.) took 24min. 43sec. Botn
are candidates for the N.S.W. five-mile cross-country
championship on Randwick racecourse next month.
Lacrosse in Adelaide has been made more
interesting by a dash from the University, who beat
the hitherto unbeaten Sturt. The students used,
years ago, to be almost unbeatable themselves, but
have latterly fallen far behind Sturt and East
Torrens.
,*#*■»
Queensland made X. S. Wales lacrosse
players look second-raters in the inter-State match
at Brisbane on Saturday. In the A match the
Northerners, after leading by 9 goals to 2 at half-
time, won by 16—3; while in the B match they
cantered home by 21 to nil. On Monday, Queensland
prevailed again, the A team scoring 15—11 and the
B team 14—C.
The English Amateur Rowing Assoc, stands
like a monolith of exclusion amongst the ruins of
tlie old sporting order. At a conference last week
it declined to be polluted by further association
with the Olympic Games —though “willing to arrange
occasional friendly contests open to British and
foreign amateurs.” And it “refused to alter its
present definition of an amateur.” Its present, defini-
tion is, roughly, one who doesn’t work and has been
to a public school or its Continental equivalent.
Thus a policeman was held ineligible to compete for
the Diamond Sculls at Henley, though he had never
made money at any form of sport. Again, a small
shopkeeper or a shop-assistant would be ruled out.
Several riverside persons of this class have been
rejected by the authorities, who are all Leande*
men. On the other hand, a Selfridge or a Harrod
would be welcome. The whole thing is so involved,
and in the eyes of (say) Americans so illogic-al,
that the chances are English amateur rowing will
be left to the aloof seclusion it enjoyed before the
first Yankee oarsmen came to Henley at the end
of last(century.
FASHIONABLE FOOTIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘The girl footballers have decided to appear in
costumes as like those of the male players as pos-
sible.”
At first ill simple woollen goods
The damsels showed upon the green.
Disdaining ruffles, tucks and hoods.
In colored guernseys they were seen,
And simple, neat accessories,
All flapping limply in the breeze
Above their handsome, dimpled knees.
But never far from Fashion’s fold
Can modern women hope to stray.
New modes began to take a hold,
New cuts and styles must have their day.
Came soon the players to their task
in frills and furbelows. Don’t ask —
The newest guernsey has a basque.
Followed the saucy little hat;
With aigrettes next ,she raised her bid;
A pretty ruffle went with that.
Soon silken coatees hardly hid
Perfections that they covered o’er,
And swagger trouserettes they wore,
With costly laces by the score.
And now a match between two teams
Of dainty players was a treat.
Their uniforms were perfect dreams,
Their boots and hats were just too sweet.
The Graces won in gold and brown—
On points, for hat and boots and gown,
They gave the Fays a dressing-down!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


BE HEALTHY & BE HAPPY!
Wm
mmm
m
1
You don’t know that life is really worth living: unless you are
physically fit!
If your nerves and muscles are working properly you’ll find that
the’ world is a jolly good old place after all!
You’ll enjoy your work, enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure and
enjoy the company of those around you !
Good health is the most glorious asset man can have, and
YOU CAN HAVE IT!
By taking up Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course o{
Health and Strength Culture you can build up the organs
that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from the system,
and make the whole body work in perfect harmony, as
Nature intended it to.
Then you will feel the wonderful glow of perfect physical
fitness. The difference will surprise and delight you!
The exercises are clear and simple, and are adapted to YOUR
particular requirements.
You can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course if you will send for “Snowy” Baker’s booklet, “Health
and Strength from Self-Culture.” It will be bound to
interest you. If you want better health just write your
name and address across this advertisement and send it
with three stamps to us. We will forward the book.
REG. 1. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
532 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
Bostocks Shoe Dressing
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, are now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’3 POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
f
xCA
HE
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Under four times
the size of this
picture.
The Decca ia only 11J Inches
square and weight only 12
lbs., yet it has a mo;e powerful
tone than the largest Cabinet,
Instruments.
It is clear and natural in reproduction,
needs no case, and is ready to play
immediately opened.
Why not buy a Decca and have music
wherever you may be ?
i Mcdeis :
Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. .. 11 10 0
Cowhide.. .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music Dealers
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.,
A ulatraHan Agents
d
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL STZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AGENCIES:
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
“Laugh, and the world laughs with you!”
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health.
A PURE
COD LIVER Oil
EMULSION
eru
Don’t let ill-health discourage
you.
HYPOL
can do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially chest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sold at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
■22 RIM FIRE. «Effii3£aJ
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
A Tailoring Proposition
That Will PUT POUNDS
in Your Pocket.
It is an absolute fact that there is no
Tailoring Value in Australia to compare
or come within miles of our SPECIAL
OFFER in
High-Grade Australian
All Wool
Tweeds
£61151
DIRECT from the Mills we have secured
for Cash a New and Unrivalled Selection of
Tweeds that are right out of the ordinary in
class and quaIity—GUARANTEED ALL-
WOOL, FULL-WINTER-WEIGHT TEX-
TURES that are a triumph and an achieve-
ment for Australian Industry.
£6/15/- for a Perfect Suit, such as
“LINCOLN STUART
TAILORED-TO-ORDER”
means, is the lowest possible price at which
sucli materials could be secured.
Elsewhere you would probably have to pay
Gl T INEAS beyond this, charge.
The wide range of pleasing shades and
distinctive patterns assures a selection abso-
lutely to your taste —and investing in this
STERLING OFFER NOW—means Satisfaction
of the eompletest kind and Pounds Saved.
CALL OR WRITE.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
“Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
US
m®
S
to
09
CD
oO
cfesSE23®


'Patterns and self-
measurement forms
sent on application.
I
m
m
m
x
tt'e “Pay Carriage.
The Logical Way-
have your Shirts made-to-measure.
THE logical way to procure shirt-satisfaction—
_ correct length of sleeves, strongly sewn but-
tons, exclusive patterns, and service-giving
qualities—is by having them made-to-measure.
RRl—Oxford Shirts, made-fo-measure; white
grounds, various coloured stripes. Price, 17/6
Soft collar to match, in any desired shape, 2/-
RR2 —Zephyr Shirts, made-to-measure; white
grounds, single or double stripes. Price, 21/-
Soft collar to match; eyelet ho es or buttons, 2/ 9
RR3 —All-wool Shirts, medium weight, in all
the latest strpe patterns. Price 37/6
Soft collar to match; made to own pattern, 3/6
RR4 —Fine All-wool Taffeta Shirts, made-to-
measure; a variety of stripe designs. Pr.ce, 45/-
Sof t collar to match; Peter Pan or golf shape, 4/6
Farmer’s,. Sydney.
"The Store for Men. " <Bcx 497, G P.O.
Australian Childhood
Portraits Competition
Eleventh Series.
Seven and Sixpence for
Every Photo Dsed.
United Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion’s National Annual,
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY.”
PHOTOS wanted from every State Un-
used photos returned after judging, post
paid. Age: Babyhood up to 15 years. Must
have been taken during the last twelve
months. Circulated all over the world
BACK OF PHOTO must show NAME OF
CHILD AND NAME AND ADDRESS OF
SENDER. Photos must reach Editor
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” Box 496 G P O
Melbourne, by September 10, 1921.
MEMORIAL. TO FALLEN SOLDIERS.
GREAT WAR, 1914*1918.
THE undermentioned Committee is desirous or
obtaining a full list of fallen soldiers who
enlisted in or belonged to the Grey District, New
Zealand, for the puipose of inscribing the names on
the proposed Memorial to be ercteted at Greymouth.
Persons in possession of such information are
requested to forward particulars to The Grey District
Fallen Soldiers’ Memorial Committee, c/o F. H.
Denton, Town Clerk, Greymouth, New Zealand.
Greymouth, 12th July, 1921.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE $ HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL & 500,000.
F?i*p Insurances directed or, all classes o
Ftreinsurances p u -,^;„„ g Stocks, Furni-
ture IVC. Hints also assured.
Marine Risks
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” in an Australian
BAUTIN lIAWH. General Manner.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
[?] Her [?]
The Earl and Countess were held back
by dark political clouds from their trip
northward; but they will call on fellow-
workers Davidson and Nathan, at Sydney
and Brisbane, as soon as the umbrellas are
furled again at Parliament House. His
Ex. has now got the bandage oft' an eye
which had been troubling him.
Lady Stradbroke is presiding over the
committee of musical and mock-musical
women which is sworn to gather in a suf-
fL'ient number of subscriptions to meet Vic-
toria’s liability over the Verbrugghen Or-
chestra scheme. They still use the word
“company,” as though there was a hope of
dividends for subscribers; but there’s no gold
to Le got out of orchestral concerts, except
for the soul. It will, however, be quite
the right thing to subscribe. Art demands
it A practical Toorak dame quoted her
matter-of-fact husband’s remark that “if
we want to be considered musical we must
put up this money, and keep the thing
going.” Then, in confidence, she confessed
that he said “the d —n thing.”
One suspects Toorak of having shrouded
its best parlor furniture in holland wrap-
pings on account of the domestic-servant
shortage problem. Most of the Old Brigade
nowadays hostess their infrequent frivols in
public halls or women’s clubs. The other
day Mrs. Fitzpatrick and her sister, Leila
Armytage, gave an afte?moon frivol on the
balcony of Carlyon’s. Yet Como was once
famed for the number and exclusiveness of
its entertainments.
Melbourne has gone dancing mad. Added
to the innumerable supper jazzes there is a
revival of all the balls that were annual in
the days before the war. Mayoral ’ops have
become epidemic in the suburbs, and various
societies and clubs are flinging themselves
into the whirl. But the men are getting
piqued at the return of the old pencil and
programme, which went out of fashion in
war-time. With a programme and pencil
the giddy male prancer gets caught at the
start for duty dances with an army of sisters
and cousins and aunts, and the delight of
sticking to his fancy jazz-partner is being
severely docked.
Dr. Frank Niall and Dr. Shelton, the sec-
retaries responsible for the Newman Society
Ball at the St. Kilda Town Hall, made a
joyous success of their job. It was a youth-
ful, rollicking frivol, crowded with some of
the prettiest girls in Melbourne, and, more-
over, there were plenty of partners. Some
chaperoning grown-ups came along, Mrs.
Shelton, the Hennessy lady and her David,
Mrs. Skeats and her Professor, Dr. and Mrs.
Ryan, Mrs. Byrne, Mrs. Mahony, Mrs. Burke
and crowds of doctors. The decorations
were particularly artistic, with big plates of
blue-and-white willow-pattern striking an
effective color-note among pale-yellow wattle.
Supper was a sociable affair of great im-
portance up in the council rooms, but the
busiest dancers snatched a snack downstairs.
Contractor Young, Gollingwood’s popular
mayor, made a splash with his official ball on
the ,19th. Gaud Mayor Swanson came
along with his wife and romped with great
vigor through the official lancers —he is one
of the few who like that ancient official
prance. The Bob Best dame, who once lived
near by, appeared in ivory white and silver
lace. There were mayors and their wives
from four or five neighboring suburbs. Mrs.
Young wore black lace over clingy cliarmeuse.
Mrs. Adamson wore pink that looked like
branched coral. Bank-manager Birch’s lady
had ,some lovely paddy-green on her black
gown, and Mrs. Taverner was in georgette
and old lace. The d€bs. gave the most grace-
ful dance of the season, so far as mayoral
balls are concerned; they were coached by
Miss Creightly-as-was, and were as pretty as
a trained theatre ballet in a quiet minuet.
Coliingwood stood outside the entrance in
two dense lines, and jeered and cheered each
motor arrival as the dresses took its fancy
or offended its taste. Coliingwood has not
had a ball like it for years.
The Women’s Automobile Club dinner-
dance (a guinea a head), at Carlyon’s, was
one of the merry frivols of the season. The
orchestra stayed on till one, but didn’t
seem to mind —except the guitar man,
whose cynically-bored expression the dancers’
applause simply couldn’t rub off. Mrs.
Leslie Stuart had a birthday party, and
“Sandy” Jaques, over from Sydney, was
another host. Mrs. Itussell Gabb bad a
b.g party, and some marvellous souvenirs for
her guests. This frocky lady wound amber
round her corn-colored hair and dressed in
taffeta of black and pale gold. Mrs. Mein
wore a tricky Parisian black frock, and Mrs.
Tom White’s narrow velvet sheath of a frock
was looped with jet. Ted Duckett’s pretty
little bride inhabited a yard or two of prim-
rose silk lace. Mrs. Pres dent Lambert
stuck a Carmen rose in her hair and wound
some silver lace round her black chiffons.
The gate money is to provide funds,for the
tucker on the numerous motor excursions
arranged for invalid Diggers.
The bankers are to have a ball on August
5. It is their first offence.
There will not be an Australian Club ball
this year. That most swaggah of Cup
week events has been frozen solidly out of the
calendar because high jinks at last ball
horrified conservative members. The Mel-
bourne Club has not had a “mixed” frivol
this many a year.
Miss Eleanor Shaw, a sister of Mrs. Kodak
Baker, gave an afternoon party at the Aus-
tral Salon the other day, and her friend Miss
Annette Lynch shared the hostess work.
They filled the rooms with wattle and blue-
gum, and gathered a fine programme of
music. Incidentally, Mrs. Secretary Quin-
nell said good-bye before trekking on a
holiday to Sydney and Brisbane.
The young widow Lefroy—a daughter of
the late Judge Molesworth —made a second
plunge into matrimony on May 25. The
ceremony was in London and the lucky man
is one Palmer, brother-in-law of our Gwen-
Jones Palmer. There were crowds of x\us-
tralians at the wedding. Mrs. Molesworth
handed her daughter over at the altar, and
the bride wore a smart, very short frock of
butter-colored lace, with a ducky little brown
tulle hat and a big bouquet of pink carna-
tions. General Walker’s daughter Elaine
was bridesmaid, and Dr. LaunCelot Moles-
worth best man. There was a wedding
party of Australians at the home of Mrs.
John Mathieson.
“Mick” Tolley, an Adelaide girl,, has just
become engaged to Jack Wischer, son of
lawyer Victor Wischer. Young Jack hur-
ried over to the Big Fight as soon as he
turned 19, but before he had time to become
a general or anything, he was captured by
the Huns. After years of uncertainty and
strain he was returned to his worried family.
Since then he has thrown himself into the
wool business, and is already doing well
enough to keep his br’de in jumpers. An-
other Tolley daughter married into the
De Bavay family not so long ago.
The Stanley Argyles’ younger chick Betty,
who bridesmaided so picturesquely at sister
Inez’s wedding with Esmond Lillies, con-
fesses her intention of sporting the family
bridal lace herself next year. This in fulfil-
ment of a promise she has just made to
Eric Woodruff Hill, only son of Henry
Woodruff Hill, of South Yarra.
Lieut.-Colonel Olden, D. 5.0., pictured
here by Clarke, of Perth, is the latest Digger
author. His forth-
coming book, “The
Westralian Cavalry
at the War,” to be
published by McCub-
bin, will tell in 500
pages, illustrated by
photos, maps and
diagrams, the activi-
ties of the 10th Light
Horse with which he
was associated in
Palestine. Olden,
who practised as a
dentist before the
Great Call came,
helped to draw
Abdul’s teeth in a
big, bold .way, and
his regiment proudly
claims that it was
first in Damascus —an achievement largely
due to the initiative of its commanding
officer. Olden promises some interesting
revelations in his book, which, by the way,
will have a generous Foreword *by (Lieut.-
General Chauvel.
Lorna Cooke has just engaged herself to
Eric Blair, who grows rubber in Borneo.
Mayor Alford of St. Ivilda has been
wrestling with ’flu since the cold, stormy
night of his big party.
Mrs. Barry Thompson is going to Maori-
land for a few wreeks. Goodness knows how
the caf£ chantants and jazz suppers for
charitable objects will get on, as the lady is
a figurehead at all such frivols.
Bertram Mackennal had all the impetu-
osity of the artistic temperament when he
married his pretty wife, Agnes Spooner, w r ho
was an art student in Paris in his days of
mere ambition-and-twenty. Their daughter,
Rita, has the beauty of her mamma and a
large lump of her dad’s artistic gifts as well.
Bertram’s brother Horace has a busy job
here in the Public Works Department: he is
an architect.
The Fred Barkers’ eldest chick, Madge,
and Arthur Radford, an Anzac, have agreed
to take each other for better, for worse. It
happened in Malvern Anglican kirk, which
was overflowing with former V.A.D. pals of
the stately bride. The latter trailed classic
white satin draperies gladdened by a floating
tail, the gift of Auntie Jane Barker, who got
it from great-grandmamma. The usual orange
flowers tacked the bride’s lace veil to her
pale gold locks. Great-grandmamma’s dia-
mond pendant seemed to twinkle defiance at
the pink bridal bouquet as if to say, “Br_des
didn’t sport colored trimmings in my day.”
Sister Betty br.desmaided sweetly in pale
blue satin fixings, with a head swathe of
blue tulle. The health-drinking took place in
the mammoth hall of Valentine Flats, and
ended up as a fox-trotting revel. Auntie
Jane, who had motored from Berwick, might
have posed as Queen Elizabeth: she was in
satin brocade draperies with a lace shawl and
jewelled clasp which have lurked in the
family for generations.
When the Melba scholarship at the Mel-
bourne Con. was won by Marie Bremner, the
pretty 17-year-old flapper, you could have
laid out all her senior competing sistei’s W'ith
a puff of thistledown. Upon the very day
of her triumph Marie’s family had decided
to go and dwell among the mountains of
Olinda, where father Bremner intends to
run a guestery on the de luxe scale. So
Marie practises her scales among the moun-
tain gorges, and catches an early-morning
train down to the Con. every day. Her
songs-at-the-p:ano and elocution have been
forbidden, as injurious to The Voice, for the
present.
Judged by the sale of the Norman Clark
collection of porcelains, pictures, bronzes,
etc., last week, there is no such thing as a
depression or slump. A Geo. Raby speci-
men of Boulton, a “Peony” bowl, brought
£lOO with scarcely an effort by the auc-
tioneer. Ceramics, French bronzes and rare
porcelains brought their £Bo’s and £Go’s as
if they had been hot cakes.
Outliving her husband by manv years, Mrs.
Caroline Baker passed out at Elsternwick
last week. Her Richard was Customs and
Education Minister under Patterson, but
was swept out of politics in the whirlwind
raised by an appeal to the country in Sept.,
1894. Irvine, now C. J., beat Baker for
Lowan, and made that entry into politics
which brought him the State Premiership,
the Federal Attorney-Generalship and the
Lieutenant-Governorship.
Reg. Raleigh, who was accidentally
drowned at Brisbane when returning home
from the Malay tin-mines, was the eldest son
of the late Joseph Raleigh, whose widow
was an “Overnewton” Taylor. The hand
of sympathy goes out to the mother, who
only two years ago was rejoicing over her
son’s safe return from the war.
Brother Tcks, M.L.C., who realised one
of the dreams of his life when he was made
an Honorary Minister (under Lawson), is
very ill at Bendigo. His other dream was
to have members of the Uppah Chambah
paid. Lawson called on him last week
while the crisis was at its height, leaving
Peacock in town to try to scheme a way out
of the tangle the Government was in.
Bendigo celebrated its jubilee as a city
last week. It was a municipality prior to
1871, but on July 21 in that year it assumed
the higher dignity. Dr. Boyd was the first
city mayor. David Andrew, who now wears
the fur-edged robe, gave a feast, and there
was great talk about the £82,000,000 worth
of gold raised in or about Quartzopolis since
the yellow fever first broke out.
The Assembly was sitting when the news
arrived at the House that J. M. Worthington,
its Sergeant-at-Arms, had been convicted.
Although it had been known that he was in
a pretty tight corner, the brief daily-paper
reports of the second trial gave the impres-
sion that he would get off, and members who
had knoAvn him from three to 32 years got
something of a shock. Unless the convic-
tion is upset by the Court of Criminal Ap-
peals he will cease to be a State officer the
moment he starts to serve his sentence.
Worthington had a pretty hard climb, from
telegraph-operator to Sergeant-at-Arms. His
admirable Index to the State Parliamentary
Papers from 1851 to 1909 is a monument
of industry; and it would be merciful to
him and beneficial to the State, in the event
of the worst coming to him, if he could be put
on to some similar work of compilation.
Natalie Dawson’s concert —Natalie has
propagated music in Toorak for a score of
years—was quite a social affair. She tackled
her piano solos without malice, and fairly
stroked the ivories for some particular
Chopin effects. Betty Ternan, a debutante
from Mrs. Gibson Young’s studio, “elocuted”
for some moments —a pretty, determined
young lady who evidently takes her art seri-
ously. Hubert Ennor, a Bendigo baritone,
backed the female element on the programme
with some wisely-chosen ballads.
Fred Collier and his wife, Elsy Treweek
are giving a farewell concert in' the Town
Hall this week. Collier was clerking in the
railways until 1918, since when he has made
strides in his profession. Elsy has added
considerably to her avoirdupois,' but her top
notes are still secure. A small daughter
who will go with them to London, inherits
a supeisensitive ear from papa and mamma.
This youthful Australian, Edward Fielder
Billson, has bagged half the important job
of designing and superintending the building
of the new Arts School of the M.L. Univer-
sity at Auckland. In open competition Bill-
son, . a Melbourne
’Varsity product, and
Lippineott, of the
Chicago (IJ.S.A.)
Uni., won the first
prize for the design
and the lay-out of
the grounds. The two
went over to Auck-
land in the beginning
of July; and since
their arrival have
been given the prac-
tical job of looking
after the construc-
tion. Billson was
the first studenf to
gain a diploma for
architecture at Mel-
bourne. He was the
first student entered
there for that course, and is hoping for a
Chair of Architecture to be established, as
in Sydney, so that he may take his degree.
He is one of the youngest of the associates
of the Victorian Institute of Architects, be-
ing only in his early twenties. Like his
dad, A. A. Billson, M.L.A., he was born at
Beechworth. The portrait, was made by
Ruth llollick just before he left for Maori-
land.
We all hear heart-rending stories of the
poor, especially at Christmas time, and in
church magazines the whole year round;
but the sorrows of the rich get very little
publicity. Perhaps it is because the rich
are more modest. Anyhow, here is a picture
of the other side of the medal. On one of
the iciest days of last month somebody’s
gardener blew into a telegraph office and
handed in the following urgent message:
“Please come and carve beautiful turkey for
dinner. Annie’s hand still very painful.
Sending taxi to bring you.” Consider the
tragedy of the situation. The smell of the
well-roasted bird —the pale, helpless fingers!
On the St. Ivilda-road the Christian Scien-
tists are building a temple of their faith. It
looks as if it would easily seat SOO. It is
•said that the Melbourne followers of Mrs.
Eddy naid £5OOO down for the bit of land
and will pay nearly £25,000 for what’s to
go on it.
Some Adelaide echoes :
The thing of the moment is “The Maid of the
Mountains.” There have been theatre parties galore,
most of them preceded by a dinner, which always
inspires appreciation. Some have overdone the inspi-
ration and will have to go again ta find out what it
is all about.
An exhibition of Arthur Streeton’s pictures has
been drawing crowds to the Society of Arts rooms.
This is the first time Adelaide has had a show of
Streeton’s art, and it has been duly- impressed.
The death of John Drennan the other day removed
a pillar of the Scottish community. He was one of
the trustees of Scotch College and of the recently-
purchased Presbyterian Ladies’ College. He came
to S.A. in 1877 under engagement to the late J. H.
Angas. Two of his sons fell in the Big Fight.
Ethel Gurner, eldest daughter of the late J. R.
Gurner, of Fitzroy, said “I will” a few days ago in
the Lady Chapel, St. Peter’s Cathedral, to R. W. de
Bohun Helm, of Adelaide, formerly of Sydney. Hugo
Boothby gave the bride away, and the after-festivities
were held at Ashbourne, the residence of Mr. and
Mrs. Boothby.
A little later a Sydneysider, H. F. B. Castle,
carried off Zoe, only daughter of J. H. Reid, of Mills
Terrace. The knot-tying took place at Christ Church,
and there was a festive eating afterwards at the
Grand Central.
Great progress has been made at the Memorial
Hospital, Avenue-road, and the extension was opened
by his Ex. on Wednesday. The opportunity to link
the three beautiful old homes into one big hospital
situated on one of the best sites in North Adelaide
has been a great stroke of luck. The committee
gave a luncheon and invited his Ex., together with
all the influential business men of the city, to inter-
est them in the matter.
The Girl Guides are still going strong. When an
English Guide arrived the other day from the Cold
Country, to marry an Australian Digger, the
Mayoress, who is also State Commissioner, stood
sponsor for the damsel, gave her away at the church,
and then entertained the newly-weds and, all their
khaki-clad pals at the Town Hall.
The geological Profs. David and Howchin are back
in Adelaide from the heart of the continent. They
find, as hoped, abundant proof that Australia was
at one time under ice, the boulders grooved by it
being obvious at Yellow Cliff and elsewhere. At
Horseshoe Bend the cliffs are described as a real
tourist rcrort, “of surpassing beauty and coloring,
recalling those of Colorado.”


PRESENTATION SILVER
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE
Illustrated is a Reproduction of an Original Antique
Silver Tea and Coffee Service. It is Hand-made
and of Finest Workmanship. Teapot, Coffee-pot
with Sugar Basin and Cream Jug, in Sterling Silver,
£5O. Salver £lOO.
®Sm. ®rummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BUCKLEY’S
ALL-WOOL SUIT
m
iss
SSi
&
m
P.-iiir
i
*r*-S
i
MADE TO MEASURE
for £515!
Changing Conditions
Demand New
Methods.
The sudden change of conditions
has presented some exceptional
buying opportunities, which we
were in a position to take advan-
tage of for Cash Payments. As
progressive merchants, we aim
at supplying the demand for a
moderately priced Suit. Wages
have not been reduced, but,
helped by opportunities of
securing woollens and linings
AT EXCEPTIONALLY KEEN
PRICES, and by challenging
every item of expense in the
manufacture, framing our esti-
mates with extreme closeness,
WE ARE ABLE TO SUPPLY
AN ALL-WOOL SUIT MADE
TO MEASURE AT
£5(5 1-
We Pay Carriage on all Clothing.
Send for Samples and Self-
Measurement Form, Post Free.
BUCKLEY’S,
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.
Bourke St., Melbourne.
im
m
mum
TRAD&F* y X MARK
d
CAUTION
When buying these celebrated Serges
protect your own interests by seeing
that the material is Branded every two yards with
our Trade-mark. Without this-brand you are not
buying the genuine Fox Serge.
FOX BROTH ERSeC9 LIP
WELLINGTON . SOMERSET , £JVGI-A/*C>.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ďf
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
d
ď
'•HampACWC
hartesHadsie
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agsitts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
Theme Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
f
d
fHORUCKSI
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. ' Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26 >
N Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W. //
VN In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
E
<c'
& i
kr
XfL
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKG
SLOLICH. BUCKS
ENG.
****73~tnntL'*
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
loin the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
\V hen the Tower of Babel bricklayers
decided oil their stop-work meeting the sounds
were no more confused than those that
greeted the ear at the Arts Ball in aid of
Sydney Hospital, for Dane and Spaniard,
Frenchman and Belgian, English and Greek,
Dutchman and Pole, Norwegian and Italian
poured the compliments of their country
into the ear ot the accompanying fair, who,
of course, understood at a glance. The Con-
sular sets really had been a great idea : they
roped in groups not usually met at balls,
and the costumes provided the color-scheme
of the magic human carpet which wove and
unravelled itself on the Town Hall floor
under the guiding hand of Mrs. Bertie Kelly,
who was in a get-up that suggested Cleo-
patra.
Mrs. Segaert was the most striking figure
in the Consular sets. She was the yellow in
the Belgian Hag, and, holding the tall red-
dad Neville Mayman lady with one hand
and the plump black-draped Mrs. Verbrug-
ghen with the other, marched at the head of her
set. Other countries had mere bunting, though
the Heaven-descended Danish white cross on
its red ground was carried proudly by one
clad in the authentic soldier uniform of ISG4.
Noticeable among the bouquet of Danish
girls with the gay-beribboned caps were the
long blonde plaits and blue eyes of Mrs.
Adrien Felumb. Mrs. Rodney Dangar
brought her “Cranford” set, all red bowpots
and hoops, most of them fresh-colored Moss
Yale girls, of whom Biddy do Mestre’s fair
curls and a dark-haired Campbell’s sloping
shoulders seemed to emerge in greatest tri-
umph from the saxe-blue Early Victorian
dresses. In the same set Roy de Mestre
looked more like an Old Master than a
Futurist with his mutton-chop face-adorn-
ments and black-ribboned monocle.
But the “really different” feature of the
evening were the long panels representing
the various schools of Art placed between
the columns of the gallery. Olive Crane,
who danced just like any ordinary girl in a
perfectly enchanting chintz hooped skirt and
a coral pink silk shawl, was responsible for
the much-admired Chinese panel, while Isabel
Huntley, who was guilty of the striking
Augustus John panel, fox-trotted as a gay
goose-girl. The panel of the paunchy indivi-
dual wrapped in a black cloak excited the
attention of a small group. “After Velas-
quez,” murmured an artistic-looking youth.
“Oh, I thought it might be after supper,”
murmured a mere girl. The “Har-
lequinade” proved worth a journey into the
top corner, and Mrs. Rix Nicholas’s design
for the programmes held pride of place under
the stage. Incidentally, that lady as a Chinese
Prince and Sylvia Walker as a Marquise
with a male bit of Morocco carried off two
of the prizes, while Barbara Westmacott as
a black and white pierrette was another win-
ner. The “Cranford,” being the only book-
set, was awarded the prize for letters. The
Greeks, looking like young gods from Hellas,
got away with the Art prize, and the Spani-
ards won the historical guerdon. But judges
John Longstaff and Mrs. Bertie Kelly can’t
be orthodox. According to the Good Book,
the most original costume in the world was
worn by Adam and Eve; yet artist Mary
Edwards and J. Grant, who represented our
first parents, only got a reward for wearing
the cheapest costume.
Perhaps the judges were handicapped by
the double-banking of vice-regals—the entire
Forster family came to the party, and Mrs.
Pitt Rivers, in silver and green dressing, and
sister Mrs. Lubbock, in black lace, danced all
through the night. In the march to the dais
Mrs. John Stinson had the handsome G.-G.
for jher 'cavalier; John escorted the gold
tissue and diamond tiara of Lady Forster ;
Sir Walter and the Braddon lady and the
Braddon knight and Dame Margaret were
bracketed. Sec. Mrs. Watson Iloldship, in
black and scarlet, looked like a sigh of relief.
Mayoress Lambert walked in purple that
smacked of Julius Caesar’s regime; Consul
Teppema’s wife was in black and gold bro-
cade!; and the lady who was Mrs. .Tohhnio
Norton wore a coral pink and turquoise blue
coatj over a fortune in powder-blue brocade
and j carried a gold-handled lorgnette and
som4 jewelled combs.
At the Longstaff private view Anthony
Horderns’ gallery gave the impression of
having been almost vacuum-cleaned of its
island of bric-a-brac for the occasion. Long-
staff’s men have more punch than his women
—his portrait of Professor David in his red
robe is a magnificent thing, and makes the
onlooker wonder what John might do with
a cardinal or a Papal delegate. Mrs. Broom-
field gazed at her vivid little self captured
b.v Dongstaff’s brush 10 years ago. In the
Hesh she looked like a trim yacht in her
cream tailorings, buttoned up high under the
pointed chin. For supports she brought her
fv.C. husband and a slim walking-cane. It
is a pity Dame Margaret has not been
painted standing up, for she is one of those
fortunate women built long as to leg and
correspondingly wide as to shoulders,
hdmund Barton dominates the room, and
George Reid looks somnolent as ever. John
himself, very like a russet apple in the face,
showed just the proper shade of deference
to the enthusiastic G.-G.’s. Floating about
the unusual expanse of floor-space were Mrs.
Kendall, sitter-to-be Airs. Darling, Miss Bur-
dekin and some of the Wigram Allens. But
attention was about evenly divided between
the portraits and Airs. Bertie Kelly, who
arrived with a skin slung between her
shoulders and a wide black hat traversed
from side to side by a blue-grey plume that
dripped from the centre back and coquetted
with the jaguar or panther or whatever hide
the lady wore. Fur and feather seem to be
absorbing passions with her: the horticul-
tural crop is left undisturbed. Of her Tenny-
son might have written “Her feet touched
the meadows and left the daisies cosy.”
*No dancing to-night” was the sign that
confounded the jazz boy and girl who dashed
up for a whirl at the Wentworth, just like
that, as a kind of afterthought on Friday
evening. Mrs. Willie Collins had engaged
the big ballroom for her an reroir dinner-
dance before flying north again. The affair
was a good deal in the form of farewell to
friend Airs. Gordon Wesche, who is off to
Europe next month. Yellow and red gold
were the color tones for the table decorations
and for the enormous bon-bon that burst into
a shower of bright-hued balloons later on,
and the paper caps that came out of the table
crackers covered many a blonde and bald
head. As a social scalping expedition the
party was the success of the season ; it held
four titles —'Lord and Lady Digby, the
Loughborough lady, and the Russian Prince
Obolenski. John Longstaff, who has just
painted Mrs. Willie’s portrait, was among
the dancers, sc he must have been quite for-
given. The two Forster sisters as usual
favored gold tones in their dressing, the slim
Pitt Rivers lady being all gold tissue and
lace, and Mrs. Lubbock wearing a length of
black and gold velvet that might have been
painted by Vandyk. Knoxes, Macarthur-
Onslows and T. 11. Kellys abounded, and
Navy and Army provided the bulk of the
dancing men. By the way, a small company
of d6bs., among whom were a Kelly and a
Noyes child, emerged into Society* butter-
flies.. Their dinner-table, escaping the sophis-
tication of yellow, w'as dressed in white. Mrs.
Willie hostessed in black lace and diamonds,
supported by daughter Dorothea in wedg-
wood-blue taffetas.
Harry Musgrove sent out white-and-gold
cards broadcast for a welcome to Wilkie
Bard, the Tivoli’s new comedian. The Aus-
tralia put up the counter-lunch, and the
drawing-room was chockful. Never has there
been an afternoon party with more men at
if, (there were no matinees that day).
Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh, fresh from an ill-
ness and America, was the receiving hand
that shook the world; and she passed the
guests’ names on to the Bard couple. lie,
like all comedians, took his social duties with
gravity. Mrs. Wilkie Bard with a smile
glanced out between the brim of a fascinating
black satin hat and a small fortune in pink
carnations and hyacinths. Buunv Aitken, just
back from New York, wore a cascade of
green plumes upon her head. It looked as
though she had been caught rehearsing a
farm-yard scene. Harry Roberts passed the
word of welcome on to the guest, who re-
sponded with thanks and a tale of how he
was sacked from his first job as comedian.
At the table where the Humphrey Bishop
party gathered sat the beautiful little Rus-
sian Countess de Yezey ablaze with dia-
monds. In addition to the diamonds she
had a charming dress of grey and violet
embroidered velvet, a gorgeous fur cape that
reached below the knees, and a grey chenille
hat. Next to her sat .Jules Jordan. Little
whopper Blanche Browne consumed cream
Puffs modestly in a fur coat and a turned-up
black hat; and Nellie Payne, Itubi Trelease,
and prosperous looking Maude Hanaford
were other facets of interest.
The sequestered V.A. Club put on a record
luncheon the other day. when some of the
Red Cross Heads (that’s what a. sparkling
V.A. calls them, with just the faintest pause
after the tied) decided to hand out roast
chicken and salted almonds and some melt-
ing little entrees by way of farewell to J. O.
Fairfax. All the O.U.K.'s glittered round
the prettily-decorated tables, so there's no
need to mention names: and the whole of a
deliciously-cooked luncheon was prepared by
three merry V.A.’s on one little gas stove.
The lady in Waverley who drew a Golden
Casket isn’t the only one that Dame Fortune
(God bless her!) lias thrown a plum to.
Little Miss V. A. Martin was on duty at the
Blinded Soldiers’ Tea Rooms the other day
when she was called to the ’phone. The
message that came was of a legacy that ran
close to a thousand. Pinning on her hat
she went to discover the strength of the
message. After half an hour she returned,
hung her hat on its peg and carried on.
The Y.A. Club is to harbor the Thanksgiving
Feast she’s spreading.
The Women Grads, gave their first dance
at the old Concordia, in Elizabeth-street, the
other night. Winsome Riley and Frances
Musgrave engineered the success; and the
just-returned-from-Tasmania Miss Mallarky
and Jean Hinder, Violet Reid and Miss
Fidler acted as hostesses.
The Havilah Dance Committee has almost
gained its objective. About five of the
required seven hundred have been harvested
from the Cinderellas in the Paddington Town
Hall.
Francis fie Bourgignon isn’t leaving Syd-
ney just yet. Frank Rigo has asked him
to be conductor of a company which is to
serve grand opera to the suburbs. The young
Belgian is delighted with the Australian
girls’ voices—“so fresh, so beautiful! But,
oh, their owners cannot count; their sense
of rhythm it is atrophied!”
The little Belgian colony is preparing a
play which is to be produced at the Conser-
vatorium on August 4 in aid of the Belgian
Benevolent Society in this State. It’s “The
Mayor of Stilmonde,” a war drama by Maeter-
linck, and Consul Segaert is producer sta°e-
manager, publicity man and the Mayor all
m one. For his daughter Bella he has High
School r reach-mistress Irwin; and Neville
-'layman is in the cast. r lhe de Bourgignon
young man will play solos in the interval
and the Mayor’s faithful old gardener Claus
in the play. The fresh-faced, immaculate
Consul has a tall son who goes off to sea
next month, and for two years will plough
the waves in a sailing vessel.
Tlie lads and lasses who batter a type-
writer or run up additions in the Federal
Service are to be given a chance to become
acquainted. In the first week of the first
mouth of spring they will foregather for jazz
and coffee at the Palais Royal. And every-
body knows in which direction the pendulum
of a young man’s heart swings in the month
of boronia and pittosporum scents.
The Paddington Town Hall has been booked
for August 16 in the interests of the North
Shore Hospital. The Forster and Davidson
Fxes., the Chief Justice Cullens and the won-
uerful old Thomas Dibbs couple promise to
look in at the proceedings. The decorations
will be of the nice, soothing order, being in
the hands of the Massage Department of the
Hospital; and Mrs. Arthur Joscelyn and the
\ .A.\s are looking after the supper.
The debs, had a rough passage in the cloak-
room before one of the big balls a week or
two ago. The poor dears in their thin white
frocks were kept in the cold atmosphere of
checks and macintoshes, rehearsing their
curtsey to the vice-regals. Their instructress,
wearing a newly-budded title, explained
to Miss Australia that she must bow deep
before their Exes., “because they represent
our dear King and Queen.” When one chif-
foned .scrap bobbed her knee the dame flung
up her hands in horror. How much longer
are the debs, and their mothers going to put
up with this presentation nonsense that crept
in with the Peace Ball? Their Exes, are
plainly bored with it; as for benignant old
Sir Walter, his heart goes out to the flutter-
ing white covey that half the time looks like
scared bunny.
Doris Weaver held her coming-of-age and
her engagement party together the other
night. Doris’s dad is G. L. Weaver, of Lyn-
wood, and Dr. G. Goddard is the man'in
luck.
Fred Lassetter, who has just been married
in London to a Miss Kilgour, is the only son
of the head of the George-street business,
llis mother was Elsie An till, a sister of the
General. Villa Margherita, on Lake Como,
where the young people went for their honey-
moon, was bought originally by Freder-
ick Lassetter, who virtually founded the firm.
It is full of wonderful old brasses, collected
in Milan and thereabouts in the days when
such antique things were genuine.
The boys at the Waterfall T.B. Sana-
torium give warm welcome to parties of
entertainers. The days and evenings are
very long while health is loitering back to
the inmates. So tar only one concert party
is booked for August. The July concert was
organised and supplied one Saturday by Miss
Manton, of the Commonwealth Bank. The
patients are now busy making a bowling-
green for themselves, and are looping to get
help in the way of bowls and accessories
from metropolitan clubs. Parcels should be
addressed to H. McDonnell, Patients’ Recre-
ation Assoc., Sanatorium, Waterfall.
A note from a doctor in the neighborhood:
How’s this for honesty and pluck ? Lakemba
shopkeepers paid A. Carlisle 2s. a head per week
to act as a block night-watchman. A few days ago
he was taken suddenly ill, and to keep faith with
her husband’s employers Mrs. Carlisle unostenta-
tiously did his all-night street rounds. Poor Carlisle
died in the Coast Hospital, and his widow is now
nursing a very sick baby. Could any philanthropic
Bulletin reader with an interest in eugenics do bet-
ter than help the offspring of such stock?
A Brisbane postscript:—•
The social event of the week w T as Kathleen
Campbell Riley’s wedding to Commander Alan
Howard, of the Anzac. He is a son of Col. Howard,
late of the Royal Sussex Regt. ; she is the niece of
Mrs. Falkner, of Toowoomba, and daughter of Camp-
bell Riley, a well-known old-timer. Bishop Sharpe
tied the knot, and Canon Simmons helped him. The
bridal gown was of white charmeuse, nearly hidden
by a Limerick lace veil and a train of Limerick and
Carrickmacross lace—two treasures worn by the
family bridcr- for generations. Gwenda Campbell
Riley and May Falkner bridesmaided in shell-pink
charmeuse, with touches of silver, and silver-lace
hats. Little Nugent Walsh held up his cousin's
train, Lieut. Cavaye was best man, and one of the
Coochin Bells was groomsman.
Last week George Addison, ison of architect Addi-
son, was married to Miriam Urquhart, daughter of
the Administrator of the Northern Territory. The
bridegroom is an Anzac, with four years’ service and
a commission, won on the field, to his credit.
Judging by the feather-trimmed hats the weaker
sex sported at the Q.T.C. Races on Saturday, there
has been another great slaughter of innocent-. No
one objects to an ostrich-feather or two, but when
it comes to stripping hundreds of little winged
creatures of their feathers to make a fashionable
head-piece, it’s about time our brutal males passed
a law or something.


mm
. ~r !<*• <
-•-•: ■';■:■ y '
- -:;W
m.
| lgg
m
SIS
111
m
WKMmmMmmmmmmmmmmmmMMM
■
H
1
. 1 ‘
m
■ .' •; -‘
98
inn
i !
■
|j|*
ill—
m
i m
■
m m
, t m
§ m
; m
■
mm
■
I
m
m
w
H
§m
r. 388
5
• .-/•
li
i?
H
H
■
it
■
■
H
I
e
SI
■m
-
H
wmm
m
. B
m
mm
I®
1
:
I
' *-wv'- : -
iT
m
~ ,-
■HBttS
“One more Selection before we go !
The aesthetic appeal of the New Beale Player-Piano is very great. By
its superior performance it appeals to all—in especial to the cultivated
musician who has keen appreciation of the subtleties of tone control.
This New Player has features not common to the usual run of player-instruments
devices for interpretive control which give the untrained musician not only a facile
technique, but a control of that technique far in excess of that of many good musicians.
"The New Beale Acccessible Player-Action” is the name of a Booklet
just published which gives photographs and facts of interest concern-
ing this uncommon Player-Piano. Sent post free to any address.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
SYDNEY
HU
BEALE §> COM PANYITP
-to*
Head Office and Factories
41-47 Trafalgar Street
AN NAN DALE
BRANCHES— IV.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulbum,Wagga. Vic.: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tas.; Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SA.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: J. A.Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


LEARN TO DRAW!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
s
't' 1 '
asa,
The only
way in
which you can
properly master
the principles of
art is by making
original drawings
and having you:-
faults corrected by
a master.
In his postal course
of drawing,
Mr. ryj. Weston,
Australia’s foremost
poster designer and
commercial artist,
has prepared a
series of simple,
easily - understood
lessons that teach
the basis of black-
and-white a n d
color work, showing
the student exactly
where each line
should be placed
to gain the proper
effect. The lessons
are PERSONALLY
CRITICISED.
Send three stamps
and your name and
address for a copy
of Mr. Wes-
ton’s booklet,
“There’s Money
in the Pen.” It
tells all about
the course and gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
66 Union House, BYDNEY.
yiiQi |
dhe largest selling
quality pencil in
the world.
ENUS
PENCILS
ďf
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS.
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
9
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
d
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
it Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
CASH'S
WON/ EM V
NAMES
fetch, §wiitiv
The IDEAL Way
TO MARK ALL LINEN
or any Material, CASH’S Names en-
sure protection and individuality
They supersede Marking Ink—A Clear
Neat Name woven in Fast Color ia
easily sewn on.
Prices: 12 doz.7/6-6 doz. 5/--3doz. 3/6
Sold by all best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J.&J. CASHES;
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Victoria.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
No.
98.
i§p*
IteAl
?
»
H
m§
i ■
/
READ THIS ABOUT
TEXAS SADDLES
Mr. Clyde Beale, of Leeton, via Yanco, has
had one of our Texas Saddles, similar to
illustration, for o\er 12 months, and in a
letter state*: —
“I can say with the greatest confidence that
it is far superior to the ordinary Aussie for
rough and ready riding, and just as good for
long-distance riding as any other saddle. On one
occasion I rode 400 miles in it with more com-
fort than I expected. A horse cannot roll over
on it, and there is less danger of one’s foot
catching in the wooden stirrups.”
There you have the opinion of a man
actually using the saddle under all
conditions.
£l2/7/6
Freight Free for Cash with Order to any
Port or Railway Station in N.S.W.
Write for Price Delivered in other States.
Write for one of these Catalogues:
Polo Catalogue, Trotting and Horse Boot Catalogue,
General Saddle and Harness Catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers & Polo Specialists,
395 George Street, Sydney.
ď
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHItISX O P H E It
JOHNSON & CO., at their
tVestern Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Itazor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
£.g isTe^
C J
tAt^'
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure semi postal note to their
representatives. Norman Raker & Longhurst. SO York Street, Sydney.
ECZEMA
QUICKLY GOES
and all Skin Troubles too after a few appli-
cations of the marvellous discovery,
LIGMOLLIENE
Has permanently cured numbers upon num-
bers of sufferers. Highly recommended by
medical profession. Get a tin from vour
chemist to-day, 5/6, 7/0, or send for special
generous sample, 1/6, from LIGMOLLIENE
CO., Malyons, Sturt Street. Ballarat.
Try LIGMOLLIENE SOAP—unsurpassable for
the Skin, 1/-.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel*
TARIFF;
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Missing: Friends.
HUGHES'. —Information wanted as to
the whereabouts of three brothers.
Peter Poncia Peverelle Hughes, Ernest
Edmund Hughes and Arthur Chas. Hughes.
Address replies to Hughes, Grosvenor Hotel,
Deansgate, Manchester, England.
THE
GREAT
HOUSE
FOR
WATCHES
fd
f-plata Lever Gold Wristlet
Watches in all the new designs
from £B/8/- upwards. 10
years’ guarantee with each.
No Jewellery Firm in Australia turns out move
Watches than we do, we have every reason to
believe.
Thousands every year is our record.
WHY ?
For over 80 years we have been selling
Watches. “Fx & R” Watches are known more
than favorably throughout Australasia. Thou-
sands in the far bush and distant islands swear
by our Watches. We only have sold Depend-
able Watches, and every o e is tested by
Experts and guaranteed for 15 years.
Our present stock is just under 4000 Watches.
Ordering in such large quantities enables bed-
rock prices and permits the selling at the low-
est possible figures. Then, too, every watch
we sell can be depended on. Inspection is
invited of our latest and daintiest models.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Burris ii Australasian,
tid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
uf Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Bjutisii Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn. London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
FEDERAL TAXATION RETURNS NOW DUE
INCOME TAX.
(Income derived during year ended 80th June, 1921.)
All except Businesses 31st July, 1921.
BUSINESSES . 31 St August, 1921.
LAND TAX.
(Land owned at Noon on 30th June, 1921.) 31st AUGUST, 1921.
FORMS OF RETURN MAY BE OBTAINED AT ROST OFFICES OR MY OFFICE.
FULL DETAILS OBTAINABLE FROM MY OFFICE.
Federal Taxation Office,
Warwick Buildings,
Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
T. S. HULME,
Deputy Commissioner
Taxation.
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
ď
fd
ďf
CRAIG &AITKEN , 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reii Cigar Factory.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Marne and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions colon
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Cui Bono: The one point you make is
that, anyway, the Highmores, secured for the Mel-
bourne Gallery, were “four of a dozen whose dis-
covery and identification excited much comment in
Eng.and, and which were acquired en bloc and lotted
for by the Tate Gallery', the London National Gal-
lery, the Fitzwilliam Museum and the Felton
Bequest; so that if the Felton trustees frittered
away money they did it in good company”....
YV.H.13.: Hasn’t quite the strength to carry it
through... .A.P.R.: Not up to your standard'....
Erie 11.: Fairly ingenious; but so thin. ... P.C.C.:
Too long for the interest. .. .X.F.S.: Your rules
should govern the case. But in the absence of rules
the Parliamentary practice is usually adopted; and
that being so the chairman would exercise only a
casting vote....Ox: Conte in, come in, and wel-
come :—
The shearers threaten trouble,
Our pastoralists are glum ;
The game seems to a bubble;
Of shearing we'll hare hone.
Oh, do not take to mopen
Or be of grief forlorn;
The Stock Exchange is open
Wherein our lambs are shorn.
. ...W.A.J.: Mostly pipe-light quality...-Gagi: The
, gentleman might have cut his throat much more
humorously.... Eggilton N.: The metre is correct —
for two lines, anyhow.... L.lt.: Verse not very firm
on its feet. .. .Grevillea: The yarn is machine-made.
. ...L.C.R.: “Partners” yarn doesn’t hang together
well.... W.S.D.: “Backblockers” but it lias
points. See if you can strengthen it....J.W.
(Geelong) : Verse too like the stuff the girls are
making their blouses of....Ida G.: Lumpy verse
about nothing much.... Pan: Not up... .E.O.R.:
Weak little thing. .. .F.M. (Mount Gambier) : Poor
stuff... .Cams J.: It joggles along saying only
commonplaces C.L.G.: Misses by a point or two.
. ...G.H.G.: We don’t reprint; and what you send
is cheap stuff.. .R.J.J.A.: Don’t care for “Bubbles.”
. ...G.H.G.: Poor where it isn’t destitute... .Wan-
derer: It doesn’t make a yarn.... Charles M.: Must
go back.... V. J. (Caulfield 1 ): Hasn’t any appeal....
Maurice S. : That one doesn't strike us. .. . J.J.R.:
“Hallucinations” haven’t the strength to pull them-
selves through... .J.P. (Castleinaine): It doesn’t
work out.. . .O.W.S.M.: Well done, but not much
demand for that sort of thing. .. .Gaetan: Too
mechanical... .Jack H.: We don’t like it.... Frank-
lyn: The mirth goes thin. .. .WAV. (Ballarat): Only
says the obvious. ...D.M. (Q.) : So wispy the wind
blows through it... .C.T.C.D.: Several lines in
“Conly” are lame. Will you heal them?... .L.M.N.:
Yes, M. Forrest has published at least one book....
Irene M.: Well told ; but don't 3011 think the reward
business is rather absurd?. .. .Scorpio: Moves heavily.
....Sylvia S.: Not up... Cecil J.: Nothing in it...
J.L.V.: Verse hasn’t the quality to carry it....
L. : Can’t see any purpose that could be served
by publishing a poorly-written horror of that sort.
... .Gwendolyn J.: Not well enough done.. . .P.O’R.:
That field is too well ploughed... . Doloroso: Weak
verse; weaker thought... .Twilight: Doesn’t possess
a thrill. .. .F.W.C.: Album verse... .M.R. (Young):
Poor.... Beryl L.: Haven’t any idea. . . . W.J.D.: The
lady must go took to you. . . . A.G.M.: No use....
N.,1. (South Yana): None of them....M.M. (Ips-
wich) : Read the paper and you will see the kind of
thing we publish. .. .Adam: Out again, poor chap...
P.A.L.: The mirth runs a bit thin. .. .J.J.II.: Shock-
ingly crude... .Auspa: You’re rather a remarkable
person to find proof of God in a thunderstorm at
this time of day'. . . . F. V.: Doesn’t strike us....
J.A.L.: The dust hasn’t quite point enough....
D.C.I..: The verse has no merit... . Katherine B.:
Carries a fearful load of commonplace verbiage. . . .
M. : Interesting idea. Now see if you can’t
handle it better... .Rosa T.: Not even the begin-
ning of an acceptable yarn in it... .P.P.P.: Begins
well, but tails off.. . .Orney: As far as wo can read
it it is no good....Ole B.: “Last Place" too rugged.
. ...H.M.S. : Rubbish. . .. A.O. (Beaudesert) : No u-e
at all.... Mel O.: Verses not up and theme over-
worked. .. .Dad: The bullock got into the garden
and , trampled things down. That’s nothing; in
most suburbs cows get in and eat up half the garden
every night. .. .Gertrude: It bumps the breath out
of us M.B.P.: “Separation” misses. .. .C.M.A.:
Not well enough done.... Arthur T.: Trite moralising
that goes lamely C.P.C.: Too rough M.M.:
Don’t care for “The Plough”... .E..J.R.: The verses
have no merit L.L. (Burwood) : All fall a litrie
short... .C.E. (Fairfield): Sonnet not neat enough.
. ...A.P.G.: None of them up. .. .R.L.C.: Your
fisherman talks like a professor... .F.A.D.: No use.
. ...C.M.Q.: Too incoherent... The Overlander: Very
raw. . . . J.T. (Deep Creek) : Ditto. . . .Monty' II.: Not
enough meat in “Scotty” D.E. (Orange): The
verse moves brightly, but there is nothing there to
make verse about.... Austere: Terrible.... Blackboy:
Commonplace in corduroy verse.... Sataroa: Un-
interesting, and it creaks all the way.... District
Officer: Far too wordy for us... .A.M.H.: Yarn
doesn’t make us believe it’s true. . . .R.McK.: Daesn’t
quite do it. .. .Beatrice McC.: Not very much in it;
and the verse form is impossible. .. .J.K.B.: Falls
far short.... Edward M.: No M.M.L.: Nearly,
but not quite... .J.M.S.Y.: No use to us... Ken K.:
Story just wanders on lazily. .. .H.B.O.: Can’t you
find more interesting subjects than the Bartons and
Tonchells ?.... Soviet: Try it on the Labor press....
H.N.H.: A Bulletin man has a photo, of a geanna
swallowing a hen-egg whole... .Ajax: Your vanished
appendix not worth the space. This office could
almost fill an issue with vanished appendixes....
Wanderer: Price was first elected July 17, ’94;
Fitzpatrick, July 24, ’95.... M.F.: The original par.
barred the brakes.... Honest: Length outruns inter-
est.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Anglo: Can’t see an effective picture in it....G.
Adams: Those that are not too old are too young. ...
E.B. : Much too crude, and suspiciously un-Australian.
. ...C.W.H.: Pencil sketches useless, except as sug-
gestions .... J.G.: Feeble pun feebly illustrated....
Nineteen: Penwork too finicky; don’t be afraid to use
your pen.. . . Streb : Drawing not up...S.H.: Clumsy
imitation of Souter’s cat. . . .F.S.P.: Hopeless for
reproduction. . . .C.\V.: Grow up ; then try again.. . .
E.T.C.: Neither artistic nor humorous enough....
T.D.: Very weak.... J.H.: Broaden out; originals
are much larger than illustrations as they appear...
C.K.: Not up J.McC.: Terrible drawing....
E.J.N.: Finish !. .. .H.P.: Both ruled out. . . .K.U.F. :
Better study hands for a while H.E.B.: No draw-
ing. .. .P.N.B.: Misses badly... .D.M.: You’ve a
good way to go; but there’s no reason why you
should knock off....L.M.: Doesn’t pass... .G.H.S.:
Faulty drawing and weak idea.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Jjixe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply ,
ORIENT S. N. CO., LW.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Svdne
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By nay of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 3,
VENTURA.
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES- E H
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
lion. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES,
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.069 4 5
All neiv business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, .M.L.C.; James Love,
Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M, G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ".. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C.*Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Dodds Fairbaiiin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH: %
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Gfiaranteed Stock.. ~ .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . .. . . 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1365.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . • 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST. 11 a.in.
MAKURA, Bth SEPTEMBER.
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER,
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Ptind
Reserve Liability
d
- £4,965,200
3,425,000
4,965,200
£13,355,400
Directors :
Tile Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Hinnie. Esq.
Auditors : W. H. Palmer, Esq. : S. E. Eaidley, Esq.
Hubert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.T..C.
Acting General Manager ; C. G. Alford.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street. E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collec.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 183 V.
Capital paid up
Reserve I'und
Reserve Capital
.. £2,500,000
.. £2,220,000
.. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
ďfd
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.1..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses. M.L.C.
J. AV. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchir. Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery.
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Covering first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
ROOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
Shloplnff.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney IS days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., juoi ,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled ■on the
coast.
For further particulars apply
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO- LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Addr
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
‘‘lroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Util.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., limited,
i'itzroy Estates Uimited.
BlaeUlieatli Collieries Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. cat Queensland
Ports).
Tluddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd Cat Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line -tearners, London
, to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug' and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


AB 14.
Propeller Brand
oiled
petals
(Australian. Manufacture)
Leading Engineers use
“Propeller” Brand Rolled
and Drawn Bars and Rods
The success of ' Propeller” Brand metals is
beyond doubt. Not only are they univer-
sally accepted by the engineering trades,
but they are continuously used on Government
work where metals must conform to British
Standard Specifications. An up-to-date labora-
tory working in conjunction with an expert
staff guarantees the never-failing quality of
"Propeller” Brand metals.
Brass, Copper, Arsenical Copper, Muntz Metal,
Manganese Bronze, Naval Brass, Tobin Bronze,
in round, square, hexagon and flat.
Commutator Bars & Busbar Copper
Manufactured from Australian Electrolytic
Copper to conform to the needs of the Electrical
Engineering Trades.
Arsenical Copper Stay Rods in
standard sizes
Produced for various Australian Railway Depart-
ments and many private firms.
We are Government Contractors for this material
in Australia and South Africa. All tests con-
form strictly to British railway conditions.
Quotations and complete information on request to
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. LTD.,
G’Riordan Street, Alexandria.
ď
Remington,
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
te’nitfipn
for Shooting Right
Ask your dealer to show
you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25, 30, 32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request. A
:
i
05
f
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
The musical qualities
of two phonographs.
You get two kinds of music when
you buy a New Edison.
The New Edison literally Re-Creates
music so perfectly that you feel you
are listening to the living artist.
r>
9
The New Edison will also play the ordinary needle talking-
machine records of any make, and play them better than any
talking machine.
The NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a soul.”
Always remember this: The
can do. And —it also does
New Edison does all that any talking
all that any living artist can do.
machine
You should learn all about this marvellous musical instrument. Write for
information to-day. - e Aor
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
d
ďf
Dependable Guns
>c
a*
f
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Pries 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post tree.
iSSs
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. of/I o Ir
Delivered, 3^5/
Delivered, £O/5/-
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
WE REPAIR
GUNS @ RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
dfd
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
. , , - English D. 8.8.8. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
oairels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/
“Koolah” Shaving: Sticks
Delightful to Use. lOd. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
lihacaJieLd
130. “Ithaca" Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol SOin. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7ilb. A 1
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, O/ * O,
d ď
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
ďf fd
819. Midland Gun Co/s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7}lb Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL So",TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea. ♦
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra',
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
d fd
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
'Ejector, 05/- Freight paid>
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
1C
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
„ BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


SWEAR BY
FOOTBALL TIME
REXONA TIME.
Boys! Just think if you were picked to play in the match on Saturday and then
had to drop out on account of a damaged finger that had festered and got sore
through lack of care, wouldn’t you be furious? And if you had just had a tin or
Rexona in your locker it would be quite healed again. If you make a bad mistake
at practice or the match, if you fumble a pass, if you kick carelessly you determine at
once that it shall never occur again.
You do not neglect anything that will make your form better, so when you get
badly bruised and knocked about at football you should never fail to make yourself
fit again by using Rexona Ointment. Rub it in well after your shower, and from
bad cuts and bruises no ill-eli'ects will follow.
Boys, use Rexona and keep fit.
ALL AUSTRALIA USES REXONA.
Never a day passes but that Rexona scores another triumph over those serious
troubles of life —Scalds, Burns, Sores, Bad Begs, Pimples, Blotches, Nasal Catarrh
and Rheumatism. The dainty little triangular pot of Rexona the Rapid Beater
contains a combination of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing and healing proper-
ties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harmful germs
that may be present in a sore, pimple or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing
any contagion of the blood, and at the same time causes a new healthy skin to grow.
Rexona immediately reduces the inflammation and pain; it acts as a distinct
stimulant to the pores of the skin, and sets up a healing action immediately that
increases day by day.
Bad Beg Sores that have resisted every other treatment succumb almost immedi-
ately to its wonderful influence, while for Piles there is
nothing its equal.
REXONA, 16 and 3/-
THE RAPID HEALER
o
GO
/
*
rv
Vi
0
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office, 5-7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Also at
Ask your
Garage
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 88-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland : Albert & Swanson Streets.
!
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
The P£unv Razo?
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the,only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum.” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 13/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Fools’ Ware.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHY should Ave joy in the strength of
our manhood?
What is the use of persistence and
pluck?
Let us buy tools' Avare, victories unfought
for;
Let us sit. down and Avait triumphs unsought
for,
Listening and lusting for Other hoiks
Luck.
Hark to the pedlar-man chuckling and call-
ing,
The creak of his Avheels like a laugh doAvn
the road!
"Hee-haAV !” brays his donkey Avith long ears
twitching,
“Hee-haAv ! We have stock for the world’s
enriching.
And kaiser and cloavu hanker after our
load.
“Here are the innocent faiths of childhood,
Rosebuds for gathering while ye may,
Cream of the milk of human kindness,
Silken blinkers of Cupid's blindness,
Gay little slippers for feet of clay.
“Hope and indifference, pretty credulities,
Skins of leather for those Avho Avould
climb;
Painless experience, omens and Avonders,
Priceless rubbers that rub out blunders,
Widdershin Avatchkeys that Avind back
time.
“Here is a cure for a troublous conscience,
Fine stiff corsets for Aveak-spined wills,
Packets of needn’t-get-up-in-the-morning,
Thumb-to-nose answers for Fate and her
scorning,
Waste-paper-baskets that swallow bills;
“Machines for filling up Income Schedules,
Charms to cover bald pates with hairs,
Gags for itinerant street musicians,
Insect-powder that kills politicians,
Doses of courage for dentists’ chairs.
“For lives prosaic, lo! happy adventures,
Pepper and spice for dry daily bread;
Here is a hair of the dog that has bitten,
Here are the letters you ought to have
written,
And here are the things that you ought
to have said.
“We’ve plenty of pleasure that’s not all
vanity,
And something new at last under the sun ;
Masks and buskins and manifold seemings,
Sleep that is rainboAved Avith delicate dream-
ings,
Gallons of crystal sleep Avith none.
“Here is a sample of Fourth Dimension,
Here’s Truth fished up from her bashful
well;
A permanent closure to silence Trouble,
A deed of divorce for the chin that is double,
And pulleys to pull doAvn the H.C.L. ;
“Rare, good old days for the good old fogeys,
Brass bands that cannot play rag-time
tunes,
Potions to soften the hearts of editors,
Man-eating watch-dogs that live on credi-
tors,
Durable, morning-proof honeymoons;
“Bundle of clean new leaves for turning,
Ships that come in with roseate sails;
’Twixt SAvift-Avitted lie and ready denial,
All safely tethered for second trial,
Lost opportunities wag their tails;
“Splints and plasters for broken promises,
Handy tablets of stop-and-think,
Exquisite ices of prudent coldness,
Savories (devilled) or cayenne boldness,
Blankets for shiverers on.the brink.”
Oh, we all Avaste our time sighing after the
pedlar-man,
Offering our souls and our honor to pay
Grasping at shadows, realities dropping,
Hoping that sly old Good Luck will be
stopping—
But ahvays he passes down some other
Avay.
“Come buy!” Just hark to him, chuckling
and calling!
“Hee-haw!” laughs the donkey. “Ilee-
haAv for our load!”
And we proffer our hearts and Ave jingle our
purses,
We avoo him with tears and with bribes and
Avith curses;
But fools’ Avare is jogged doAvn a different
road.
VICTOBIA.
E. C. C.
Deep Waters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILL the Trader —a little, sallow,
clean-shaven man, his face a net-
work of wrinkles,- and his neck and
throat full of little vulture’s pouches—had
come into possession, for debt, of a diving-
dress, air-pump and lugger. He decided on
an extension of operations to pearling when
he could find a diver for the tides of Son-of-
a-Dog Point, far to the eastward. He was
a thin, dried-up dark lizard of a man, seem-
ingly bloodless, but with the cold, stubborn
vitality of an orchid. He told me that
day that the little Ysabel was bringing him
a diver from Cloudy Bay. He admitted
that it was a queer place for a pearl-diver
to select as a registry-office, but this sub-
marine mariner had left a good job in the
Darwin fishery to go after plantation land at
■Cloudy Bay, and was land-sick and wanted
to dive again. Bill’s trade-house is quite
near the village—-where there were pigs like
dogs, and dogs like pigs: tattooed brown and
yellow women nursing pot-bellied babies;
small boys merry of heart and dirty of nose;
grizzled cannibals chewinsr betel-nut; girls
‘smoking tobacco in yam-leaves; young bucks
naked but for the sulu of palm-fibre, the
grass anklets and the frangipanni and
oleander blooms impaled on sticks and thrust
through their armbands of plaited cane.
The huts of nipa-palm built on flat forms
and shaped like inverted canoes straggled
their little groups along the shore, so there
was a new village with a new name every
hundred yards or so. The gins ran into the
houses and the scrub in half-pretended fear
of the white man. Black sand and glisten-
ing pyrites starred and tongued the white
beach. A stream of fresh water made to the
salt bay over three falls of diorite. Behind
the falls the village gardens, ramparted by
scrub, backed by a heavily-wooded talus find
steaming forest. And rising sheer and behind
all a cliff like a wall, and a waterfall that
became a lacy ribbon as it dropped down the
cliff, cold, sweet water to warm salt; a few
white cockatoos splashing the blackness of
the forest; wild clematis starring the scrub,
and dropping a hundred feet of scented
bloom from the tree-toys; and on the beach,
tied up for a wedding-feast, Baroka the pig,
squealing his agony in four sharps.
Bill the Trader showed me with pride his
wealth in native and Australian currency.
As fixed capital he had 24 pigs’ skulls, each
skull tilled with the deceased pig’s own hair,
and 18 pig tusks; five tocas or armshells;
and a few thousand dogs’ teeth, for which
many a poor cur had died at Pyrmont and
at Ultimo. He had, further, 10 gross of Jew’s
harps, seven bales of flags, three hundred-
weight of trade tobacco, three ounces of
small pearls, two tons of black-lip shell, four
tons of snail shell, a hundredweight of shark
fin, 22 tons of copra and 51 birds of para-
dise. And he had tinned meat and souare-
face, much trade salt, and furkey red and
all such other things as minister to the appe-
tites of white men and the vanity of black.
Lastly, there were the lugger anchored 5u
feet from the shore, with air-pump and gear,
and against the interior back Avail of the
store the diving-dress like the sloughed skin
of a swollen giant, and the diving helmet
glowering and goggling from its face-glass
and filling the nigger boys with wonder and
affright.
Yet was the possessor of all these things
ungrateful in his discontent.
“Nothin’s no good. I get me boys to shoot
birds o’ paradise an’ the Gov’men’ stops the
export. I recruited seven boys an' fat-
tened ’em up to get their chest measurement
up to 32 inches so’s they’d pass the magistrit,
and I couldn’t get ’em more than 311. an’
the recrootin’ officer disallowed ’em. Near
all my feller boat-boy run away—’cept they
had ringworm, an’ then they stayed. Them
Was the good days when the miss’n’ries made
currency . outer gunwads—lo gunwads to
one stick er tobacker, 26 sticks to the pound
—an’ give one feller boy one feller gunwad
sposern he been workem one feller day.
“I done hard work, too—minin’. Gettin’
away up in the cold seven thousan’ feet, on’y
khaki pants an’ shirt on; all me carriers
near wiped out—heatin’ their shoulders with
hides to keep up a circulation.”
“Hoot! hoot! hoot!” from seaward, and
a doddering little steamer rounded the point
and dropped anchor within the outer reef
half-a-mile away.
Bill the Trader brightened suddenly. “My
oath!” he said. “I got a chance now. That
there diver’s aboard the Ysabel, and I might
get big luck Avith the pearlin’. Wait a shake,
an’ ol’ Jimmy Legge ’ll send a boat in fr
water. I’ll go out now.”
I waited, watching the excited hurrying of
canoes'afloat, and the racing of them by Bill
the Trader’s boat’s crew taking their master
out to the ship’s side. But the Ysabel was
in too great a hurry to Avait for them; and
the water-boat was clear of the falls and
bound for the beach almost as soon as she
anchored.
I saw that the Avater-boat had two AA-liite
men —an officer aft, and a little man in the
bows sitting on the canvas tank that filled
the boat. She beached at the foot of the
fall, and the Avhite men and the crew came
ashore. The officer left his boys to fill the
canvas tank from the waterfall, and, fol-
lowed by the little fat man, joined me at the
store.
“G’day,” said the officer. “Where’s Bill?”
“Gone to the ship.”
“I thought that was his boat we passed.
I’ll have a peg while my boys are loading.
I’m an old hand here.”
He took the square-face bottle fropi the
table and poured for himself a peg that Avas
almost big enough for a cricket stump.
“G’luck,” he said, and drank.
“ ’Sense me,” said the fat little man, cap-
turing the bottle and imitating the generosity
of the officer. I looked at him then. He
was tubby as if he were made of puddings;
small-eyed, small-nosed —every feature small
and indeterminate; a slant eye, and a gross
mouth, very thick in the upper lip, with a
ragged ginger moustache; grey hair, short-
cropped to a fat face, and thick ears and
the neck pouched like a vulture’s. A rotten
face it Avas, Avith a cherry end to its nose,
contradicting malevolence with the appear-
ance of humor. His trousers Avere of a
color partly of the yellow of bile and other-
wise of the tints of rhubarb stew. They
were so large for him that they suggested the
generosity or the spoliation of a bigger man.
Later I saw those trousers in the most fur-
tive and cowardly manner making faces
behind the back of that diver Avhose diving
or other ability was thereby scorned.
“I’ll ’ave one,” he said, with the glass to
his mouth. “I’m the neAv diver.”
Then he Avinked, gulped, and that large
peg of gin Avas no more.
“That’s the dress over there,” said the
mate.
> The rhubarb-trousered man set down his
glass and -walked to the dress, examining it
and the helmet in a manner that seemed to
me professional enough to justify his im-
portation. The mate winked, but I an-
swered the wink with so serious a manner
that he turned away to the bottle again as
the fat diver came back to the table.
“That’ll soot all right,” he said, half-filling
the glass. “Gorbless yer, it ain’t as good as
I’ve had, but it’ll go all right. I been divin’
12 year. I’ll have another gin till the boss
comes back.”
He helped himself as if he were extremely
fond of himself. The mate walked back to
the boat grinning.
“I seen lots o’ trouble in me time,” the
diver said, shaking his head at the gin as if
he deprecated it. “Red blokes, black blokes
an’ Avhite blokes; divin’ among blue jelly-
fish, not gettin’ enough air”
“The jelly-fish?”
“No ! Me. An’ all the air gettin’ in the
middle o’ the dress an’ sendin’ me boggin’ on
the Avater. Avith me ’ead down an’ me feet
up; fightin' sharks an’ reef-eels; gettin’
(Continued, on next page.)


Feel Weak, Tired, Worn Out?”
'Every Picture
TetkaStory’
Do you drag yourself around feeling “blue,’" miserable
and ill? Sharp pains catch you with every sudden
move; backache with a dull, steady throb? All too
often sick kidneys are to blame for this unhappy state.
Overwork, hurry, worry, colds and chills, all tend to
weaken the kidneys. Then you have daily backache,
lameness, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
Don’t wait for more serious troubles. Get a bottle of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day! This
time-tried, world-famous kidney remedy has helped
your friends and neighbors. It should help you.
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:—“For a long-
time I suffered from kidney trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in my
back, bad headaches, dizzy attacks, disordered secretions, and a dull, tired feeling
that I could not shake off. The pain in my back was often almost unbearable, and
every movement seemed to increase my suffering. As time went on I got worse
instead of better, nothing I took doing me the least good. I \vas really far from
well, and badly in need of a medicine that would cure me. At last I heard of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I got a bottle to try them. They proved to be
the very thing I wanted, for, after taking three bottles of these pills I was cured,
and I have had no return of kidney trouble since.”
Eight years later Mrs. Cox says:—“My cure has proved a permanent one, for I
have not had a sign of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me eight years ago. I always keep this remedy in the house, and take it
occasionally, because I think the kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE.
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
Mr. J. H. Price, 9 Smith’s Lane, off Little's Avenue, Balmain, Sydney, says:—
“In consideration of the good Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have done me, I am
pleased to pass the word on to other sufferers, and I hope many will profit by my
experience. I used this remedy for a severe attack of backache and other symptoms
of kidney trouble, and they cured me completely. I suffered terribly, and could
get no rest from the constant pain day or night. It was agony for me to even
turn in bed. Previous to taking Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I tried different
kidney medicines, but they did me no good at all. However, I now feel splendid,
and I attribute my good health solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I always
keep a bottle in the house, and take some now and then, just as a tonic for the
kidneys, and as a preventive against any return.”
Two years later Mr. Price says:— “l have had no return of my old complaint
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. They are a grand remedy, and
should be taken by all who suffer with their kidneys.”
df ď
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney,
me life-line fouled be a hox-ray. Stung be
stone-fish I been —week in, week out —mon-
soon an’ monsoon I been. Plates rattlin’
in the racks, an’ her rollin’, rollin’, rollin’,
blocks rattlin’ in the sheaves with a breeze.
My crums! I’ll ’ave another gin. I got a
touch o’ paralyse, I ’ave —deep divin’.”
He was a great actor, never failing to
suit the action to the word.
“At Darnley Islan’ shell’s thick in 30
fathom. ’Oo’s the ole bloke V”
He broke off to inquire the identity of Bill
the Trader, just then landed from his boat,
and I satisfied him.
“Me boss, eh? I’ll jus’ ’ave another go.”
He expended the gin-bottle as Bill the
Trader came to the verandah, and he drank
in a hurry as Bill the Trader entered the
store.
Then he looked at Bill the Trader as if not
quite at ease, and said : “Are you tlie boss :
“Yes! That’s me. You’re the diver?”
“Yes! That’s me.”
“The skipper says you was stranded in
Cloudy Bay an’ he brought you on.
“Yes.”
“An’ the niggers was goin’ to eat yer if
yer didn’t clear out?”
“That was because I wouldn’t dive f’r
’em.”
“H’m!” Bill the Trader lifted the bottle,
remarked that there was nothing but the
south wind in it, and turned to get another.
A new gleam came to the diver’s eye. But
the trader sat down without drawing the
cork, and kept his hand bn the neck of the
square-face as he talked.
“Where yer been divin’?” he asked.
“I was one of the on’y two white divers
in the Territory. I’ve had trouble, I ’ave,
but a good diver me. I useter get 15 ton
o’ shell a week in Darwin.”
“Wha-a-at?”
“Fifteen ton a week.”
“Y’ must be strong!”
“I am that.”
“Dead strong !”
“No—just strong. I seen danger, too.
Once I was divin’ an’ I seen a opticus—a big
opticus, too —wavin’ his feelers. I wasn’t
afraid—not me. I outs with me knife an’ 1
feels his arms tryin’ to suck me blood out
through the dress, an’ I ups with the kiibe
an’ cuts that there opticus’s final cord. Some-
times when I think about it I feel I can’t
dive again. Give’s another tot.”
“What fathom did you dive in that time?”
demanded Bill the Trader, ominously calm.
“Forty-seven fathom, lie was a big bloke,
that opticus. Give’s another” ——
“Y’ flamin’ liar. Forty-seven fathoms an’
a opticus, be cripes. I know y’ now.
You’re Smith the Stiff. Out! Out o’
Papua this minit!”
. He drove the pudding man before him with
blows and kicks, turning him south with a
list, and whipping him like a top to the north-
ward again with a foot —>and cursed him as
he revolved.
“An opticus, an’-vou in 47 fathom! An’
you stole a passage off the skipp >r because
he knew 1 wanted a diver! An’ you got me
square-face, too! Out! Out, Smith the
Stiff!”
He beat the deep diver off the verandah,
and once his feet felt sand the deep diver
ran to the water-boat then putting back to
the ship, his rhubarb-colored, over-large
trousers making derisive fiaces at him from
behind his back. lie ran into the boat and
hid himself among the Kiwrai boat-boys. The
mate, laughing too much |to turn him out-
board, gave the Word and the boat put out
to the steamer.
“A opticus an’ him divin* in 47 fathom!
He dived pretty good in the square-face!”
We both laughed.
“What will become of him, Bill?”
“The skipper’s got a soft heart —he'll take
him on. A opticus, by cripes.... Have a
peg 7. . . .Well, I’ll have to learn to dive
meself.”
The Ysabel pumped the load of water and
hoisted her boat aboard, weighed anchor and
steamed to sea with the man who severed
the final cord of a opticus in 47 fathoms.
RAMDOLPH BEDFORD.
Getting Married.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LITTLE red devils lurk in the embers,
and a wise man does not look into
a fire when it is glowing low. If he
does the little red devils slip out, and
scamper all over him, and get their sharp
little teeth into his bruin. It is the same
with women, only in their case it is little
shivers which hide in the warmth, and they
are .just as cruel, though they affect the
lieu r e.
Hopkins was not a married man, for his
honeymoon was only, three months behind
him. He was still a bachelor, for all the
incantations of the clergyman and the giving
of a ring. He was a bachelor with a wife.
She was sitting opposite him now, pretty and
wistful. Her mother was there, too —not
the mother-in-law of the funny men, but
just an ordinary, hound v woman whom Hop-
kins esteemed. Also he loved her daughter.
But this married! bachelor whose name
was Hopkins had bden looking into the em-
bers, and the little red devils had taken
possession of him. They were painting
strange pictures in the lire’s heart: faces
lit' had never seen, but felt he might have
had he stayed.single —beautiful, bold faces;
vivid cameos from beyond far horizons, which
he might have seen in reality had he re-
mained single; groups? of men with a. lurch
in their legs and a s»ng in their threats—
if he had remained single!
Hopkins, you see, had gone through the
ceremony of marriage at an early age, and
there were many forbidden fruits, which he
had not had an opportunity of discovering
sour. Hopkins, in this the third month of
holy bonds, was more a bachelor at heart
than he had ever been. The red devils
whispered that he had signed away his free-
dom —and of what avail was it for Hopkins
to point out to them that he had never
valued it when he had it? They pointed
out to him that he might have! They snig-
gered that now
“Thinking, dear?” said the girl the cleric
had declared to be llopkirus’s wife.
Hopkins realised with a start that for the
first time her voice did not strike a note
of response in him. It seemed to come to
him through a pad of wool. Though he did
not confess it to himself, Hopkins was
annoyed by it. It was so sugary, so sweet;
it seemed to spin a mesh about him —a flimsy,
impalpable, unbreakable mesh.
“Yes, love,” said the married bachelor.
“What were you thinkingV”
Hopkins made a non-committal noise. It
had just occurred to him for the first time
that for years and years, stretching right
away to the grave, lie would not even be
able to have his own thoughts. He had to
share everything, to an extent, with this
other human being who had come to him
out of her own life, and of whom he knew
little more than he knew of the character of
his neighbor’s cow —that is, below the sur-
face. He had discovered the color of her
eyes, her taste in sweets, the curve of her
ankle, her graceful dancing and a host of
other minor matters—pleasant trifles that
keep a man so busy when he’s in love. Per-
haps, after all, Hopkins could have made a
better guess at the innermost thought of the
cow.
The little red devils painted in the fire a
long, long corridor, sliding into infinity. It
had a roof of red tiles and its floor was
carpeted with a well-kept lawn. Down this
nightmare hall passed two diminutive figures,
walking ever so slowly to nowhere, and Hop-
kins realised with a pang that they were
Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins.
lie made an effort to throw off the sense
of bondage.
“How’s the book, mother?” he asked.
The old lady laid down her novel and
smiled, kindly enough.
“Silly,” she confessed. “All nonsense!
I don’t know what the folk of to-day want
with their everlasting freedom and their ever-
lasting hunting of shadows. Nothing sen-
sible seems to be any use, and the only
really clever thing is wallowing in the
gutter.”
“Now, mother!” warned her daughter
with a. smile. But Hopkins wondered.
Perhaps,* after all, he was only suffering
from modern nerves. lie did not want to
lie single again; he wouldn’t exchange his
little girl for the Queen of Sheba ; he had
everything he could reasonably require. And
yet there was the endless corridor beneath
the red tiles!
Hopkins wondered at his symptoms and
did not realise that they indicated a bad
attack of matrimony, lie thought he was
discovering a sensation, when, as a matter
of fact, a sensation was discovering him.
The spell was working.
The women chattered on and Hopkins
could feel them studying him .sympatheti-
cally. Of course it was good of them to be
interested in him, but it gave one a cramped,
listless feeling—the feeling a nsh must have
in an aquarium. He was an ungrateful
animal, but why couldn’t they just let him
alone? He’d be all right in the morning.
His liver was out of order.
But it wasn’t an ill of the flesh, this of
Hopkins’s; it was a malady of the spirit.
“You don’t seem to be yourself to-nigbt,
John,” said his wife with-a note of anxiety.
"Do you feel ill?”
“Never better in my life!”
There was a note in his voice which had
never been there before. It seemed as if
Hopkins was getting married.
"Did you take your pill after dinner?”
asked his wife’s mother.
Hopkins had taken his pill. Hopkins
stressed the point that he always took it.
Hopkins was not ill. He thought he had grown
sleepy through sitting over the- tire. He
looked hard into the glow, but lie could feel
their compassionate eyes upon him. They
were searching for signs which might guide
them to cheer him up. The sound of their
hushed voices was weaving, weaving all
about him. Hopkins decided to flee and walk
his mood off.
“I’m going for a stroll before we turn in,”
he announced abruptly.
“Dear, it’s raining,” expostulated his wife.
“You might well catch your death,”
warned his mother.
But Hopkins had made up his mind. He
remarked, with a testiness foreign to him,
that he supposed he could go for a walk if
he wanted to—and he went.
Outside it was bleak and the street lamps
threw shafts of gold across the wet streets.
Behind him he seemed to hear that endless
shuttle of words wrapping him about like a
cocoon, for ever and ever, world without end.
He was very young and single was Hopkins.
He had been out but seldom in the evening
since his marriage. On one night he had
gone to town and met some of his friends,
but they seemed to belong to another world,
or to have placed him in a different sphere.
Hopkins vowed that his life would go on
just, the same, but the married men merely
smiled. They knew he would _ shake down
presently. Hopkins felt that this side would
right itself with time, but it annoyed him.
Why should the whole world band together
to make him feel the-change?
lie trudged along the wet streets in a
mood as black as the sky, but his anger
was chiefly directed against himself, lie
repeated again and again that he had lost
nothing and had gained everything; he knew
that the pictures in the fire were only phan-
toms ; but always the long corridor recurred
to him. All life was like that, Hopkins told
himself; but he could not escape from the
red tiles which must forever shut in his
heaven.
Presently, feeling very wet and foolish and
annoyed, he returned to the shelter of his
red-tiled roof. The sight, of the lighted win-
dow cheered him with its mellow square of
color. He walked up his garden path with
a lighter step—-for the last time as a bach-
elor with confetti on him.
For the next day Hopkins was in bed with
a cold, and it kept him there for a week.
All the time the shuttle went on weaving,
and the incantation which had been made
over him in the little church three months
before worked potently.
A bachelor died in that sick-room, and a
married man was born.
DALE COLLINS.


t
A*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Fenttierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office- 99 Queen Street, Melbourne^^^
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us'and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Alll CUSHION
APPLIANCE. T\hi.s appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what We stale*
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability or
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up yr>r.» liver with
Small Pill —
Small
Dosej«
Small
CARTERS
JTTLE
VER
PILLS
Urter'e Lit-
tle Liver Pill«
and start the
ay with a
right cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young —purely
vegetable.
đfd
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their .DEPEN I) ABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied ,upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements arid design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but ,to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Otir extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Vuckland, N.Z.
V-
V
L,
Good Braces Prolong the Life
of Your Wearing Apparel
It is the infinite care that is worked into SHIRLEY
PRESIDENT BRACES that makes them different from
other braces, just a better clinging to the outlines of the
figure, better shaped so as not to bind, that is what
carries the clothing so gracefully without hardly feeling
that one has braces on.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT"
SistSemUr Ccrn^ru/
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870
Cable Address: President
nMDSfff
dO*.—dfh
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
12/6
each
Post Free
{Patented)
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
ďf
simplicity, lightness, and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
SOUTi
Stal
FOR THE
General Good
For over half a century Beecham’s Pills have been of un-
told value in protecting the health of the people. They
have faithfully served the general good by relieving the
everyday ailments of life, and in uncounted cases, pre-
venting serious illness. Beecham’s Pills have won public
confidence by their great merit as a safe and dependable
household remedy for the stomach, liver, kidneys and
bowels A remedy that acts promptly, safely and pleas-
antly and produces no unpleasant or disagreeable effects.
are a great help in relieving sick headache, biliousness, a dis-
tressed stomach, nervousness and constipation. They are com-
posed entirely of medicinal herbs, and contain no injurious or
habit-forming drug. Their action is mild, natural and sure. Use
them with* confidence whenever you have a bilious attack, a dis-
ordered stomach, or need a tonic and corrective. These pills will riot
fail you. Medicines come, and medicines go, but Beecham’s Pills
have gbne all over the earth, and have proved their value in a
countless number of ways by a most successful record of over
70 YEARS IN THE
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d.
S. (Original English prices.)
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
Westinghouse
k
a
I ill am,
\3!
IM
d
The Right Lamp for Your
rYour dealer can supply a WESTINGHOUSE U S. A. Lamp
to fit your flashlight no matter what its make or size WEST-
INGHOUSE U. S. A. Lamps are manufactured for every purpose,
and whatever your need you can t go wrong if the lamp bears the
WESTINGHOUSE U. S. A. mark.
The cause of WESTINGHOUSE superiority is the >-igjd adherence to'tfoe highest
manufacturing standards, the accurate designing of the lamp to meet the exact need, and
the careful testing and nspection to which every WES T INGHOUSE ELECTRIC
product is subjected. ,
To Dealers
We want to hear from reliable distributors who are interested in
the sale of WESTINGHOUSE U. S. A. Lamps- Such distributors
will be backed by proper publicity.
mse Electric
Incandescent Lamp Department
165 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
U. S. A.
. CABLE-IWEMCOEXPO. NEW fOEK
w
ď


N
/
'
A
<r
m
*=3
m
7/
M> v V^
S) *
17
X
x
a
\
fl, i
$
\
J*)
*
:-
Z 1
Ito o£Xf\
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. NO. 17. CALGARY,
• ' • .... / .; ; _
Cowboy: You need not throw it Johnnie Walker, They will all come to
you.”
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
John walker & sons, ltd., scotch whisky DisHitjiU, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong .
