

%
%
%
%
gs
%
a
a
S>
>s
9
$$
$$
£S
a
l j
liniHmiiimiiiiiiHiniiiiiiiuimiiuiimiHuuiimiiimiiiii
mn
E
m
Immediate Delivery—No Delay !
Having ample stocks of Cleveland Chasses, we are prepared to supply
business turnouts suitable for parcels and goods delivery, commercial
travellers’ samples, and any other light transport required.
The Cleveland has proved itself a most reliable engine; it is one of
the lightest of light sixes—light in original cost, light in upkeep, and light
on tyres, petrol and oil, and is a car you can afford to buy and run. With
a body suited to your particular uses, built on so dependable a chassis, your
transport troubles are eliminated.'
We can supply, FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY,
the STANDARD MODEL FIVE - PASSENGER
CLEVELAND SIX TOURING CAR
•n ill i*
illustrated below, for
mm
n
The Car with a Conscience.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2151
Thursday, May 5, 1921.
Price 9d
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


HAVE yon had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
A Book for Horsemen.
The Horse
AS COMRADE and FRIEND
by
E. R. CALTHROP.
mn
One of the most entertaining books on the horse ever written '“ Argus.” Melbourne.
Written to appeal to the practical man and the amateur ’’—‘ Queenslander.” Brisbane.
Profusely Illustrated. PRICE 21/- (Postage lOd.)
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS or
MELVILLE & MULLEN Pty. Ltd.,
262-4 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
Euthymol
TOOTH/PASTE
ff not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
*f££ ■ >'.#&• 5 . ;.- .
Free .sample, will be posted to you.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
11l
•V-, HSSSSr
KRESS
s?=rrHC:
W 2
i
MANGROVITE Leather Belting
is the Most Profitable
because it transmits maximum ixtwer at minimum cunt.
Marjgrovite Leather or Haw Hide Belting is the best and
most consistent transmitter on the market. It is .stronger,
more scientifically designed, better finished and every pro-
cess of its manufacture is standardised.
Behind the well-known quality of Mangrovite Belting stands
Mangjfbvite Ser.vice to the user, and Mangrovite co-operation
with the dealer.
Mangrbvite Beltings hate recently been considerably reduced
in price. '<,. ■ V '}> ■
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
Western Australia : Cibbs. Bright&Co. Ltd.. Fremantle,
outh Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide.
THE YANDOO.
THE 7th F.A.B. Magazine (vol. s), 200
pages, 270 photos of exceptional interest,
reproductions of journals printed «n the firing-line,
three big-, four-colored maps of Northern France
battlefields. Price 5/-, postage fid. extra.
No Aussie Artilleryman should' be ..-without it.
YANDOO MANAGEMENT, e/o Sil Bohn,
110 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
m
n
MOTOR
...CARS
IS
IDEAL
N£>
IDEA
mi
1 ' ■■:;
IDEAL
fm^/oqk
Watermans'
(Ideal)
Fbuntain/Pen
There are Three
types of Waterman’s Ideal—the
“ Self-filling,” the “ Safety ” and
the “Regular,” each with special
features. No matter which type;
you buy you have the finest
Fountain Pen made. Insist on
Waterman’s Ideal.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L.G.SIoan Ltd., OyQXerc. (Torttcr
Kingsway, London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
m-;
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
m
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—-“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidauy as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines. EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
thov have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the toed
when taken after meals. [5
The Red Page
The Man with the Muck-rake
John Runyan’s man with the muck-rake
has his parallel in literature as well as life.
There is no more remarkable feature of our
time than the waste of effort and stood
printer’s ink on the discarded failures anti
inconsequent trifles left by those who died in
honor, “leaving great verse unto a little clan.”
For the intense lovers of verse are always a
little clan, though the talkers and writers
about verse are an innumerable company.
No publisher could make a success of any
volume of fine poetry who had to depend
.solely upon selling the book to those who
really felt and appreciated. It is the crowd
who half appreciate or, failing altogether to
appreciate, think an appearance of apprecia-
tion is the correct thing, on which the pub-
lisher must depend. That being so it is
natural enough that the muck-raker should
get to work on the waste-paper baskets- of
those who have won fame, and try to place
on record every inferior line or thought that
the writers themselves would blush to own.
Again and again some magazine announces
the publication of a hitherto undiscovered
poem of this, that or the other man of genius;
and when we turn'up the pages and find the
much-advertised discovery we are confronted
by a few lame and staggering lines which
would look inferior even in the columns of
the Chuhch Monthly or the Young Man’s
Magazine of Self Help. Most poets, could
they rise from the dead for half-an-hour,
would spend the time in slaughtering the self-
appointed editors 1 of their work, and then turn
upon their biographers and rend them limb
from limb; for, as Oscar Wilde once pointed
out, the chief horror of death lies in the free-
dom it gives to fools of tampering with both
your work and your private affairs.
The muck-raker, in his zeal for forgotten
fragments, tries to choke the garden of litera-
ture with weeds. Having no feeling at all
lor poetry nor even for the decencies of the
vorsenum’s craft, he drags out of obscurity
all sorts of poor odds and ends and actually
applauds them in his descriptions with terms
like “lost gem,” “exquisite little poem” and
“precious manuscript.” If the poet were a
drug-fiend, a chronic drunk or an insane per-
son with only occasional intervals of lucidity,
there is always the possibility that a thing of
real value from his pen may come to light:
hut very few poets in all the long list answer
to these descriptions, it may be taken as a
general axiom that the thing the poet threw
away he meant to throw awav. and that the
stufl thus cancelled is no more a poem that
should bear his name than the colors left on
an old palette by a great painter are a picture
that should be hung in a (n art gallery.
Yet. the muck-raker' throws his miserable
findings in the face of the dead and creates a
strange confusion in the minds of the living.
? oung readers struggling after an understand-
ing of the masters of song meet the rubbish
that has been signed with their names, hear it
called beautiful and note the fact that men
with an air of infinite wisdom write pages
abopl ; t- Then they close fbp book with a
sigh of despair, feeling that the love of verse
and poetry is beyond them.
fake a few examples of the muck-raker’s
work. This was supposed to have been
written by Robert' Burns, at Brownhill Tnn.
and was long ago added to,his poems with the
idea of enhancing bis fame:—
At Brownhill we always gW dffintv—gbod cheer,
And plenty of bacon each day in the year:'
VVvo a’ thing that's nice, and mostly-in .season,
Hnt why always Bacon—comp toll me the reason?
This from Keats’s rubbish-tip has been
tenderly preserved
Over the Hill and over the Dale,
And over the Bourne to 'Dawlish,
Where ginger-bread wives have a scanty sale
And ginger-bread nuts are smallish. •
Here is a gem Coleridge wrote in 182(5,'which
was published for the first time in 1017
In the corner one—
I spy Love!
In the corner none,
I spy Love.
Only that and nothing more. This of Shelley’s
was first printed in 1003: —
The death knell is ringing
The raven. Ns singing
The earth worm is creeping
The mounters are weeping
C Ding, dong, be 11....
Perhaps there is a faint Interest in the fact
that Shelley, like several modern Australians,
wrote his lines first and put in the punctua-
tion afterwards.
Worse examples than these of the muck-
raker’s work might possibly be given ; but all
that I have quoted finds its way into stand-
ard editions. No wonder frequently-
rejected trier complains that lie can write just
as .well as Burns, Keats, Coleridge and
Shelley— at their worst. Of course he can.
Even Alfred Austin could probably have out-
sung the waste-paper basket of Shakspeare.
D.M.W.
The Spruiker in Art
Australian, art does not enter as many
complaints as it once did. We do not hear
so much of the* 'languishing local painter
' fabricating pot-boilers at five shillings a
time for his daily bread and dripping, while
filling his studio with masterpieces for which
a purblind and futile public has no use on
earth. In fact, the Australian artist is
singularly 'reticent, regarding his means of
late years. He has ceased to take us into his
confidence, a reserve due possibly to reluc-
tance to enlighten that pestilent institution,
the income-tax. The general assumption is
that Australian art is much better provided
with bread and good beef-dripping than it
u§ed to be. and. being able to fill the ward-
robe as well as the cupboard, can assume
a certain dignity that is new, but becomes
it well. We have had too much of art in
the habiliments of the gaberfimzie, and, find-
ing a tendency to over-development of the
corpus (front elevation) and a disposition to
assume jaunty raiment, I am moved to ask
for an extension of this self-sufficiency.
The time for the abolition of the sponsor
in the art of the painter approaches. No
other art needs a sponsor nowadays, if we
except that poor relation of the theatre,
the side-show, whereat the spruiker lifts up
his voice in noisy laudation of the exhibi-
tion within. It is long since literature shook
off the beneficent and wealthy gentleman
who, by virtue of his high position in society
or the great extent of his worldly accumula-
tions. was deemed to be a fit person to pose
as patron saint to the poor poet, and the
retention of the superior sort as a barraeker
for art seems incongruous in our day and
generation. Yet no artist, however fine his
quality or generous his customers, dreams
of opening an exhibition of his work with-
out the assistance of a Governor-General, if
a Governor-General be procurable at a
month's notice, or, failing that high digni-
tary, a State Governor, a Prime Minister,
any other Federal Minister, a State Pre-
mier, an ordinary politician or Dame
Melba. If none of these be accessible, any
exceedingly rich gentleman may be called
in to perform the opening function, precisely
as if a picture exhibition were a local pound
or a dog-show. If the exceedingly rich per-
son fails, any functionary down to a police-
constable might be utilised—anything in pre-
ference to permitting the display to "gang
its ain gait,” or allowing art to speak for
itself.
The Melbourne and Sydney publics have
become good picture-buyers of late years.
There have even been shows at Adel-
aide that were financially very successful.
And although on each occasion the person
eminent in politics or society, or one merely
egregiously rich, has been beguiled into pat-
ting the little artist on tin* head, and be-
lauding his paintings in a speech betraying
great goodwill and an interesting and
peculiar ignorance of art in general and
the present display in particular, it cannot
be said that in any instance subsequent sales
were influenced for good or evil by the plati-
tudes of the conspicuous spruiker. In every
announcement of a pending exhibition \>i-
paintings it is thought absolutely essential
to advise the public that the show will be
opened by his Excellency, or. at a pinch,
her Excellency. The failure to secure an
Excellency of some sort is evidently regarded
as a sad blow. The management in the case
of a recent Melbourne display had to fall
hack on William Watt, who is not an
Excellency, but is a Minister once removed.
His speech was first-rate from any point of
view but that of art. The neat foreword of
a still more recent Melbourne exhibition of
original black-and-white and water-color
drawings announced that the opening func-
tion Would be performed by his Excellency
the Earl of Stradbroke. Governor of Vic-
toria, but added in excuse for the absence
of an even bigger begum that “their Excel-
lencies Lord and Lady Forster had hoped to
be early visitors at the/;exhibition, but have
written that their absence in Sydney will
unfortunately prevent their attendance.” So
the fact that a Governor-General was not
going to the exhibition, but had had a nar-
row escape, is deemed of sufficient importance
to be advertised at large. What effect
this would have ou the show, how it would
react on the value of the pictures, is left
to common conjecture.
The artist is not essentially a snob ; meet-
ing him in his war-paint, he is, on the whole,
an agreeable sort of a bloke, who betrays
no disposition to go on all fours to. his
avowed betters. Very well, then ; he should
bear in mind that as good wine needs no
bush, a good water-color calls for no puffing
and blowing from a small man with a title
or a large mSn who has made a million out
of lard, however generous , a buyer be may
be. .4 rs c.s t cel arc art cm might be trans-
lated “True art is to conceal business.”
E.D.
Dulcie Deamer
Some years ago the ,readers of Australia
were startled by the appearance of a series
of short stories of primeval life from the pen
of Dulcie Deamer. The tales were so strong
and convincing, so. perfect in their reconstruc-
tion of the ways of primitive man, so vivid
and so full of understanding that a great
future was predicted for the writer; and
when it was known that she was still in
early girlhood the achievement was held the
more remarkable and the promise surer. Now
in the First Novel Library of T. Fisher
Unwin (London) Dulcie Deamer gives us
a broadly-treated romance, entitled Revela-
tion, which awakens the old interest. The
book goes out to challenge the world’s fiction
and demand its place in the sun: and in its
pages the question must be answered whether
the early promise has been fulfilled.
“Revelation” is a romance of Jerusalem
at the time of the Crucifixion. The back-
ground of the narrative is Bible story, and
there is no lack of orthodoxy nor any varia-
tion of the sequence of events as told in
the Gospels. The hero is a young Jew .who
glows at the thought of the coming Messiah,
the prince of Israel born to break the Roman
yoke and exalt Israel above the nations; the
heroine is an exquisitely beautiful dancing-
slave of -Greek and Syrian descent who has
been brought up in complete ignorance and
closest seclusion. The young Jew steals the
girl from the palace of Herod, where almost
at her first appearance she is offered insult.
They are married, much to the scandal of
the pious .Jewish home ; and thereafter events
move at great speed to the tragic close. The
ill-mated pair have nothing in common but
their youth and 'tlieir love. The man is
aflame with dreams and great national de-
sires : the girl is a beautiful young animal
who knows nothing at all of the world or its
ways.
The triumphant entry of Jesus of Nazareth
into Jerusalem: the incident of the woman
taken in adultery (she is the young wife
herself, and the charge is true) : the judg-
ment of Pilate; the carrying of the crosses:
the crucifixion with the attendant, earth-
quake, darkness and fear; the resurrection
on the ,morning of the first day—all these
are Closely connected with the tale. There
is descriptive power, and a certain sharp
realism that is in marked contrast to the
soft eastern voluptuousness. The dancing-
girls twining naked arms as they lie in the
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk
w aGe
m
3
HUB
Portable Forge, as illustrated. 18in. Pan
(XTIB3A). PRICE 78/6
Blacksmiths’ Forges, with circular
bellows —
Size of Bellows.. 16 18 20
Size of Pan .. 18 20 22
Prices .. .. £6/19/- £7 £B/8/6
Swage Blocks
and Stands
Green River Swage Blocks and Swage
Block Stands, of specially strong, hard
Iron, carefully moulded (XTI36) —
13 x 18 x 41in., regular finish
PRICE 53/-
18i x 181 x 41in., regular finish
PRICE 85/-
Stands, for Swage Blocks—
-13 x 18 x 4Jin. PRICE 53/-
18J x 18J x 4iin. PRICE 85/-
121 x 121 x 4in. PRICE 35/-
Major Spray Pump, as illustrated, with
12ft. Hose and Simplex Nozzle (XT7la)
PRICE £8
Various Pump Nozzles
3-Way Nozzle (XTIBS). PRICE ... 15/-
Singrle Vermorel Nozzle for Knapsack
Pump (XTIB6). PRICE 10/-
Double Vermorel Nozzle, for Knapsack
Pump (XTI67). PRICE 15/6
Bordeaux Nozzle (XTIB3). PRICE 14/9
Vermorel Nozzle (XTIB2). PRICE 9/3
Simplex Nozzle (XTIB4). PRICE .. 16/6
A business lives through its customers, and its
greatest asset is their goodwill. Anthony
Horderns’ has earned the undisputed position
of leadership through this goodwill, the faith-
fulness of unceasing service and unequalled
values. The examples of merchandise enumerated
on this page illustrates how decisively the House
of Economy pursues its policy of exceptional
value giving.
Write to us for particulars of any implement
or engine you are interested in. We stock
everything needed by Builders, Mechanics
and the Man on the Land. Illustrated Price
Lists will be Posted Free.
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE, Illustrated.
Challenge Oil Engines are reliable, efficient and even-running, and'will accomplish
greater service than any similar engine of its size. Economical to run. Write to us for
particulars of these dependable engines.
HP.
«
3~
5
SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICES.
Speed
Bore. Stroke. R.P.M.
3i .. 5 .. 475
4i .. 61 .. 450
4i .. 8' .. 400
Dia.
Pulley Flywheel.
6x4 .. 20in.
Bx 6 .. 22in.
10 x 8 .. 26in.
Shipp.
weight.
3001 b.
3051 b.
0001 b.
Kerosene. Petrol.
£49 .. £45
£65 .. £59
. £ll3 .. £lO5
Portable Forge, as illustrated, 18in
Pan (XTIB3). PRICE 78/G
Blacksmith’s Bellows (XTIII) —
Sizes:
PRICES:
Sizes:
PRICES:
Sizes:
PRICES:
Sizes:
1(5 18 20 22 24 inch
45/- 53/6 70/- 76/- 87/-each
26 28 30 32 inch
£5/2/6 £5/17/6 £7 £B/1/6 eat
34 36 38 inch
£9/13/- £l2/7/6 £l5/10/-each
40 42 inch
PRICES: £l9/7/6 £23/5/- each
The “Century” Barrel Sprayer, as illus-
trated (XT7I). PRICE £lO
SPECIFICATIONS:
Pump sets low in barrel. The
cylinder is submerged. By removing
four bolts the valves and plunger are
accessible. The iron base for mounting
pump on head of barrel is adjustable.
Base fits 10 x lOin. hole. The liquid
is poured in a filling hole.
Buffalo Standard Blacksmiths’ Forge, as illustrated, equipped with
Buffalo No. 200 Silent Blower and Vulcan Tuyere. Size of
Fan, Win.; blast pressure, 3in.; speed of Fan, 2200 R.P.M.;
size of Hearth, 28 x 40in.; weight, 3321 b.; without Tank
(XTIO6). PRICE £2O/12/-
Blacksmith’s and
Carpenter’s Sundries
Grindstones, complete, fitted on Stand,
ready for use (XT77)—-
Sizes: 14 16 18 20 22 24 inch
PRICES—
each 36/6 38/- 39/6 41/- 47/6 49/6
Grindstones, Stones only (XT79) —
Sizes: 10 12 14 16 18 inch
PRICES: 4/- 4/6 6/- 7/6 9/- each
Sizes: 20 22 24 x 3 inches
PRICES: 10/3 11/9 13/3 each
Sizes: 24 x 4 26 x 4 28'x 4 30 x 4 inches
PRICES: 17/9 19/9 23/6 27/-each
Common Plat Tongs (XTll2b) —
PRICE 4/9
Hollow Tongs (XTll2c). PRICE .. 4/9
Heating Tongs (XTll3b). PRICE .. 6/-
Rivet Tongs (XTll2e). PRICE 6/-
Side Tongs (XTll3c). PRICE 7/6
Plat Stock Tongs (XTll3a). PRICE 7/6
Hollow Bits (XTll2d). PRICE 6/-
Cold Sates, with handle (XTII3) —
PRICE 5/6
Hot Sates, with handle. PRICE 5/6
Cold Sates, without handle. PRICE 5/6
Hot Sates, without handle. PRICE 5/6
Buffalo Horseshoers’ Forge,, as illustrated, equipped with
12in. Buffalo No. 200 Silent Blower. Size of Hearth.
23 x 30in.; diameter of Ban Case, 12in; shipping weight,
2051 b.; without Tank (XTIO7) PRICE £l6/iO/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


m
.4.
Hum
mi , **
:- r , . u
I
KODAK
the ally of
your pleasures
Every Kodak picture made by you will live
with reality. It will bring back the happiness
connected with every episode of your travels,
outings and experiences.
Start now and collect pictures of everything
that gives you pleasure. You will then be
able to enjoy the incidents over and over
again, for the rest of your life.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is an efficient model —
light and compact—easy to carry—and you can learn to use
it in half-an-hour. For pictures 2£ x3 4 inches. Price 987-
Other Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/157-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, ' Melbourne; 250-252 Queen
Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 4o Elizabeth Street Hobart •
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and
CIJ. i. ttr i AT 7
These great artists
record exclusively with
'His Master's Voice"
Heifetz
Hambourg
Moiseiwitsch
Galli-Curci
Kirkby Limn
Gluck
Elman
Tetrazzini
Calve
Annsseau
Caruso
Melba
McCormack
Paderewski
Kubelik
Farrar
Destinnova
Chaliapine
Ruffo
Zimbalist '
Hear them at their best on this wonder-instrument —the only one they consider worthy to
reproduce their gifts.
For perfect results, play “His Master’s Voice” Records with “His Master’s Voice” Needles
on an “His Master’s Voice” Instrument.
Records from 7/- each, double-sided.
Machines from 11 guineas to 85 guineas.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists, and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
J
t
z
S\rt
'l* A
Mi
l-v i
“tv
ifo 0
L«
«5 - f '?-“
<*ilt
:*
«uT
H
V
3
t
His Master’s Voice
Instruments range
in price from 11
guineas to 85
guineas.
"His Hosier’s Voic«P
Read. Trade-mwrjc.
THE. GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE"
Read. Trade-mark.


PINKEIIE!
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No n*ed ary longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN UY POST, ANI)
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
They are
Good
Watches
So good that they
bear our name and
are guaranteed in
writing for 15
years’ wear.
We landed them in
quantities before
the hist monstrous
Customs . Duty of
48 per cent, was
imposed, and hence
are able to sell
them at 32/6 each.
%
fXJBT AX ».
IfIDML'V * tUUDO*
r plate Lever in Steel
Case, JJ2/0,- (lent, ’s
lull size. lfr Years’
Guarantee.
Any future importations will necessitate a price
greatly increased.
It seems a great wrong for the Customs to
bleed our people to the extent of nearly one-
half the cost of a watch, an article that cannot
be made in Australia.
However* we are doing our best to keep prices
down to reasonableness, and so offer these
sound, reliable, f-plate. Levers at 32/6 each.
HOSPITAL COLLECTION DAY IS TO BE
FRIDAY 6th MAY, this year.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
3
m
i
i
GREY
HAIR, the
tell - tale
symptom of
old age.
need no
longer be
endu red.
Father and
son can be
i n d i s tin-
guishable—
both hav-
ing the
same youthful walnut hair.
Perfectly harmless and
easy to apply. No injuri-
ous effect. All chemists.
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
Tooth Paste
f A TRIUMPH IN
r DENTAL RESEARCH.
Eudenta Tooth Paste is composed of
ingredients particularly beneficial
to the teeth —each component part
contributing to dentifrice perfection
Hot only does it impart the
whiteness of driven snow to
the teeth, but it is a safeguard
against the germs of decay.
Sold by all chem-
ists at 1/- a tube
-—a price only pos-
sible because of its
local origin.
n
GEAR GUTTING DEMANDS ACCURACY
Only accurate work will pass
subjected. Rejects mean loss.
the rigid inspection to which every job is
But if your gear cutters get dull quickly, and
have to be resharpened frequently, valuable, time
is wasted.
Capital High-Speed
Steel is Unsurpassed.
Its excellent quality permits of a strong and
lasting edge being put on it. This means more
and better work, and greater economy, because
gear cutters made of Capital steel stay con-
tinuously on the job and last longer.
You can have full details by applying to Department “A.”
THE EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of “ Ultra-Capital ** High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
3(56 Latrobe Street. MELBOUKN’K.
46 Bonlder Road, KALGOORLIB.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
John Reid '& Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Rtd., ADEEAIBE.
Paul & Cray. Etd., NEWCASTLE.
R. t,. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART.
io>
J&.
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of “VALLO.’’ Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through “VALLO.
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for “VALLO” can be substantiated by performance records.
Trade Mark.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE * SYDNEY - BRISBANE
m
nm
n
m
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
ACTUAL SIZE.
If unable to
secure from your
Tobacconist, send for a
Trial Box.
Box of 25
Box of 50
Box of 100
Post Free all over Australia
18/<i
23/9
46/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rhythm.
Tide of the splendid, unplumbable, limitless
sea; , , ~ ,
Tide of the moon that fetters and bolus and
lets it go free;
Tide of the woman by ebb and by Hood re-
turning to mystery.
Out of the well-heads of ocean turning itself
to the land, .
Piling and damming the upper-earth, drying
the nethermost strand,
Cupped by the moon in her phases' as water
is cupped in the hand ;
Warring with winds like ghosts that are
footless, their shrouds in far stars;
Struggling with ships that go seaward, the
land-breezes bending their spars.
Breasting the rivers that flow from the lulls
granite bars.
Tjde of the woman at one with the sea and
the moon ;
Tide of her love that floods her and neaps
her late or at noon ;
Tide of desire that comes to her tardy or
soon.
Tide of the woman’s love, tide of the moon-
light and tide of the sea;
Fettering man ; shackling the ocean and set-
ting it free; .
(’hanging repulse to attraction from
weather to lee.
Waves of true rhythm in water, in sound,
and in light; . . ,
Life at the ebb m the dark, dying hours of
the night;
And all the' tides locked till they turn all
aweary of fight.
Lone, vagrant tides of the great deep, on
dark shores forlorn,
Till rhythm returns them again at the spring
of the morn,
And the tide of the woman at flood tor a
child yet unborn.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Statue and the Ship.
Where the children dance together,
Circling round with swaying hands
In the pleasant April weather,
On its pedestal of granite,
Shaped of bronze the statue stands.
In the distance, waters gleaming,
Lies the harbor, cove and nook,
But no sound may break the dreaming,
Wake to life the moulded features
Of that statue of James Cook.
Grass from English lawns and meadow's,
Smooth and green, around it lies,
And the slanting April shadows
Fall on flowers from Northern gardens ■
Blooming under Southern skies.
North and east the statue faces.
Seeming evermore to stare
Over parks and crowded places.
On and on, to where the ocean
Sparkles in the morning air.
For it seems to gaze forever
Towards that stretch of sunlit blue.
Where the quaint old ship Endeavor
Once upon a time went sailing
By a lone coast, strange and new.
North and north, forever questing
With her gleaPiing bows a-drip.
Sailed that. ship, the green waves breasting :
But. with eyes that search forever,
Still the Statue seeks the Ship.
x.s.av.
RODERIC QUINN.
Forgiveness.
Now you are dead, and all the bitterness
Of brooding years in your still grave is
laid,
I bury, too, what anger I possess
For all the hurts your bitterness has
made.
I’oor child, who did with childish petulance,
That years brought never wisdom to
efface,
So mar our that from our sweet
romance
You tore each dream, each hope, each
tender grace,
And, brooding ever on your fancied wrongs,
Turned love to hate, and dark revenges
sought;
My spirit, spite of you, could find its songs.
Whilst you still suffered for the ills you
wrought.
Though stern and bitter oft my heart has
been
Beneath the lagh which ever you em-
ployed,
Now I am grieved for joys by you unseen.
And all the years you wasted unenjoyed.
Your grave lies starkly like a new, raw
wound,
But in that wound lie all the years of
woe:
And I shall plant sweet shrubs upon the
mound
That, like dear memoi’ies, unseen will
grow.
reace to your troubled, brooding heart, poor
child,
• Never to woman grown, though old in
years;
T, long divorced, to you am reconciled.
And water memory with gentle tears.
All the spoilt years are dead, and they are
gone;
But scented flow’rs will blossom, fair and
free;
For now my heart will only think upon
The young, dear sweetness you were once
to me!
>'.S.W.
HAMER.


The
Largest Electric Motor
in
the World
fh
/
■L
i*
-4#
St*
r*
: r*
if*
T"
'
r
• >
< —
....
**si***~>.w..
6000/20,500 h.p., 40/70 r.p.m., Direct Current Double-
Unit Mill Motor driving a 42 in. Reversing Plate Mill at the
Steel Works of Messrs. Dorman, Long & Co. Ltd., Middles-
brough, England.
This is the LARGEST Electric Motor in the world,
and its peak rating of 20,500 h.p. at 40 r.p.m. corresponds
to a maximum torque of 1200 ft. tons.
It is an achievement on the part of British electrical industry
and was manufactured by the British Thomson-Houston
Co. Ltd., Rugby, England.
Sole Australian Representatives:
n
m
n
c Agents throughout the Commonwealth


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2151.
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 1921.
Price 9d.
BAIL REFUSED.
“The United States authorities are being careful not to be drawn into the position of seeming to guarantee Germany’s offers of reparation.’’— CaMe.
GERMANIA: “Save me, save me! It’s all right—tell him I’ll do what I promised!”
UNCLE SAM: “But I’m not so sure about that!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White .Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
R. f 0 x-'“ McLeotl streets, Mosnian, for The
r o \; Vui|l:l f 1 Co ” Ltd -'- :lt the Office of the
°” .14 George Street, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
R.iwpt.v pe f , dnnum V°u can have The
„ c ™ sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, to am address in Australasia, post paid
lo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
‘J' (/U . e *' ‘ lr afts, etc., which should be crossed, and
Manaye? neSS Commvmcatiom t 0 b « addressed to the
Special Notice.
refused ClentlV siamped lelters are liable to be
COT tt e nts of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. Ihe right to reproduce or translate any
ir'f. 7 the co , ntents of this number is hereby
exp essly reserved by the publishers.
Ihe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
‘ Soc „ la f nr °t ,lcr Articles, Verse. Short Tales
m Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
7 f ot exceeding two columns in length, or. sag,
mi) , wordy, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
•ii ji* ° T Nell ,' s P a Pcr Clippings. All communications,
mil be regarded as strictlg confidential.
The B'.’LUCTiN will return all unsuitable MS. when
the. address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MU. is forwarded
Without, stamps for return it. will he understood that
the. copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
at ten ft (M». further. Tub Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
nut EOT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture abstaining a good idea
bet, unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be rc-drawn—will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Qotch, Lydgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.) ;
L. T. Role, Holerth Satire, Service,’ 3 Fleet Street,
London, L.C.; “The, British-Australasian,” SI High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. —Thomsen Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ' 1,1,1 Hastings Street.
I ancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., JO9A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
V.B.A.—-Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Doulevarde. Chicago; Uni-
rcrxal News Co., V, West Madison Street. Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency ,119 Market Street, Chicago;
Clark Street Reading Club, 11,1 N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
cud Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle : Liberty
News Co.. Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Schultz News Agency, Bryant Park; Schultz News
Agency, 102 West I,2nd Street, New York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square News Stand,
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central News Stand,
IGS East sth Street, Los Angeles. Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Koypt.— Jacques . Horn Sr Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Cetlon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Bcillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. -t
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
run.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk dnd Lord Howe
Islands, ltloz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, !,oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 1921.
THE ADVANTAGE OF BEING A
UNIONIST.
The assumption, which is fairly general in
Australia to-day, that Japan is anxious to
tight the U.S.A., or vice versa, takes no
account of some important truths. Nothing
was established so definitely by the late
war as the long-suspected fact that when
great nations clash none of them can win.
Neither the British nor the French wanted
to fight in 1914; and when the necessity
faced them and they took up the gage, it
was with the hope that those who had called
the tune would eventually have to pay the
piper. "Wc- shall go through their pockets,”
said Mr. Lloyd Geokge. “They shall pay
to the last franc,” promised M. Clemen-
ceau. The commission issued from Dillen-
burg by the Prince of Orange in 1568 has
excited the amusement of posterity. “To
show our love for the monarch (Philip of
Spain) and his hereditary provinces,” it
ran, “we have requested our dearly beloved
brother Lons of Nassau to enroll as many
troops as he shall think necessary.” As
Motley put it, this “authorised the Count
to levy troops and wage war against Philip
strictly for Philip’s good.” Apparently,
unless France takes steps against Germany
which modern civilisation would not coun-
tenance, the Great "War will have been waged
for the ultimate, if not the immediate, good
of our late enemies. It half-ruined the vic-
tors—meaning those who bore the brunt of
the fighting. Britain lost an eighth of its
national wealth, and France a fourth. The
wealth of Japan was doubled and that of the
I .S.A. increased by SO per tent., largelj
at the expense of the two winning eoun
had poured out their blood a
freely as their money.
Germany Ims suffered, of course, and is
suffering. But not a held was ravaged, no
a factory destroyed. The blockade spurrec
the national chemists to heroic efforts, ant
the German nitrate problem was solved. Tin
textile trades developed, and silk and cotton
are being exported in immense quantities
The neutral countries which stood to the
Germans so well during the war are eagei
to trade with them now. Giant combines
are the order. of the day among them. These
suit their disciplined hubit of mind, anc
make for increased production and deereasei
working costs. So a huge volume of wealth
both- in cash and in kind, is waiting t<
be taken by the wronged nations which had
war forced on them in 1!»14. But to take it in
either form, except perhaps for the payment
o| foreign debt, is perilous. An individual who
after suffering 1 incredible hardship and
poverty, was given several thousand pounds
sterling per annum for a fixed term, might
put part of it by every year, and in the
meanwhile continue working. Nations never
do. The decline and fall of ancient Rome
was not brought about by immorality or
irreligion, as is sometimes contended in
clerical circles. The disaster was due chiefly
to the numbing wealth which poured in from
foreign tributaries, transforming a vigorous
race into a nation of loafers. There are
Germans alive to-day who can remember the
misery caused in the Fatherland half a cen-
tury ago by the a 11-too-prompt payment of
the French indemnity. A sudden shower of
gold produces high prices, profiteers and all
the rest of tin 1 poor man's spectres as cer-
tainly as a sudden drop in production. But
suppose the payment is made in goods, what
then? It would mean a modified form of
slavery for the present generation of Ger-
mans.; but they would no doubt accept the
yoke if it were pressed on them with sufficient
vehemence. The Saar Valley miners are volun-
tarily working an extra hour a dav already to
ensure the Supply of the French coal tribute.
But though the German fathers are made to
cat sour grapes, it is the French children
whose teeth will be set on edge. There is no
conceivable fiscal device by which the French
can save all their industries for posterity if
they decide now to force Germany, at the
point of the sword, to become a nation of
manufacturers, working coolie hours at coolie
wages with white men’s brains. There re-
mains a third method of dealing with. Germany
and men like Maurice Barres and the editor
of the Democratic Nottvelle plainly, favor it,
though they do not say so in as many words.
As a measure of desperation they would
make of Germany a “tabula rasa “There
are three ways,” observed Machiavelli
(‘The Prince”), “of holding States which
have been accustomed to live at liberty under
their own laws. The first is to ruin’ them.”
And he proceeds: “And whoever becomes
the ruler of a free State and does not destroy
it may expect to be destroyed by it.”
* * # *
What has Japan to gain from even a suc-
cessful war with the U.S.A. save the finan-
cial calamities which followed its swift and
decisive victory over Russia? As for the
U.S.A. it. has considerably less to expect
from the warlike Asiatic nation than it got
from Spain, which was known 20 years ago
to be incapable of putting up a fight against
a modern power. Such a war would not be
business for either party. But there is not
the slightest doubt of Japan's determina-
tion to expand somewhere. A Maoriland
doctor, interviewed a few days ago by Sydney
Telegraph after a trip through Japan, said
that the following sentence from a leading
Japanese magazine “had made a profound
impression on his mind” :
It is the sacred mission of the Japanese race, even
at the cost of much suffering, to vindicate the right
of the yellow race throughout the world to be the
equal of the white.
This is a perfectly understandable ambition.
Shorn of its embroideries, it is the spirit
that has made the British Empire, it is
the spirit that drove Germany into the late
war, and is now driving France into Ger-
many. The Italian euphemism for it is
“sacred egoism.” Its basis is a conviction
that the rule of the would-be conqueror is
the best thing that can happen to the weak
nation with a desirable territory, the fact
that the weak nation invariably thinks other-
wise having no bearing on the case. There
is still a eiaSs of war which can be waged
with profit to the victor. ‘ The conditions
are that it must be so one-sided as to be
capable of an early decision : that when it
ends there is no economic paralysis in the
markets of the victor; and that the de-
feated country shall be inhabited so sparsely
or by such mean-spirited people as to be
capable of profitable occupation. There is
only one great country in the world to-day
which reacts to those essentials: and that
is Australia. It would be immaterial if we
blazoned the fact in every town hall in the
Commonwealth, for the world knows it
already. What tragic balderdash it is, in
the circumstances, for our Internationalists
to talk pacifism (a creed of which 90 per
cent, of Japanese conscripts have never
heard), or to argue that this country can
be held without co-operation with Britain!
So long as Australia is prepared to pay its
share of the Imperial Defence Bill it is
not only reasonably safe in any imaginable
war; it is further likely to be safe from
war for many years to come. The great
Powers have apparently bad a belly-full of
fighting with each other. But once outside
the sanctuary, with warships scuttled, arms
beaten into ploughshares, the red flag of uni-
versal brotherhood flying, and someone like
Garden in charge, within an incredibly short
time the martial proletariat of Asia would
be here with the same message which it
brought Korea. The world is a cold place
for non-unionists to-day, national no less
than industrial.
MUMBLING OVER DEAD BONES.
During the recent Senate discussion of the
Army Act the Minister for Defence made
the following remarkable statement: —
I have been informed by a man who served in our
forces that taking the A.I.F. courts-martial by and
large they would compare more than favorably with
the administration of justice in the Australian
Courts.
In this connection a remark made by Sena-
tor General Cox is of interest: —
The men who took the places of the fallen [officers.]
had been trained as troopers and n.e.o.’s. As soon as
the opportunities occurred these men were sent to
schools of instruction in order that they might be
fitted for the commissions which ‘they held, and
which included the conduct of courts-martial, it is
part of an officer’s duty to understand, that.
Both these legislators are plainly under the
impression that a working knowledge of the
criminal law and procedure of England—
without which an effective attempt at hands
ling the Army Act cannot possibly be made
—was to be picked up in the intervals
between bombing-schools, signalling-classes
and the like. The newly-made ofneers of
the A.I.F. were not super-men intellectually,
aud so they were not capable of the feat
with which Senators Pearce and Cox credit
them. Their natural ability to Become
Judges at a moment's notice was evidenced
so clearly, after a time, that an innovation
was introduced. 'The billet of i.egal-otticer
was created. The Legal-officer’s duty was,
in plain language, to teach the field officers
who presided over courts-martial their busi-
ness. He was usually a young solicitor or
barrister, who sat beside his superior
and saved him on the one hand from being
bluffed into acquittals on points of law by
knowledgeable prisoners’ friends, and on tie
other from errors of procedure calculated to
upset convictions on reference to the Judge
Advocate General. When our Supreme Court
Judges have to be bear-led in tins fashion it
will be time to begin comparing the quality
of and military courts respectively.
* * * *
Notoriously court-martial justice is rotten
justice. Trial by such a court is like war.
inasmuch as it is justifiable only as a mea-
sure of desperation. It is a good system
for a guilty man—sometimes. If the pri-
soner is a valuable asset in the field much
will be forgiven him; for, as is perhaps
natural when nations’ lives are threatened,
the tendency is to put the cause before the
principle. But for an innocent accused the
system is disastrous. The very traits which
make men good soldiers and disciplinarians
help to make them bad Judges. The Ameri-
cans, from the days of the Pilgrim Fathers,
have been a law-loving and a law-reading
people. Free as they art' from War-Office
traditions and influence (the imponderables
against which Senator Elliott collided
when he fell foul of a duke’s son in Flan-
ders), they lost no time after the war in
instituting an inquiry into the whole of the
court-martial system as it touched their
expeditionary troops. .V Clemency Board was
appointed by the War Department. It re-
ported that "the sentences in base camps
and in the field were in more than 1500
cases excessive.” The report went on
The present system of military justice has prac-
tised injustice in over 90 per cent, of the cases
submitted to the Board, and the sentences imposed
are over 400 per cent, higher than thev should have
been,
Some sample cases quoted are significant of
the grotesque lack of any judicial facultv
which characterises a certain type of mili-
tary mind :
Private TV. L. Nelson, 1.55 th Infantry. A.VV.L.
r . nne day. Twenty years old, with good record in
civilian life. Regiment was not in the line. Sen-
tenced to 10 years, and given suspended sentence of
dishonorable discharge from the army.
Private Hurley A. Royles. Company G., 152 ml
Infantry. A.W.L. Regiment out of the line. Record
in civil life good. Sentenced to 15 years. Dis-
honorable discharge.
Private Shbls Watson. Company If., 55th Infan-
try. Refused to submit to operation on thigh before
embarkation. Sentenced to three years “at Fort
Leavenworth (Kan.). Served 11 months 10 days.
If it is suggested that this kind of thing
may go on amongst Yankees, but never where
soldiers of British birth, training and tradi-
tions are concerned, there is a ready answer.
It is freely in evidence in Ireland at the
present moment. The following notice was
posted on the gates of Victoria Barracks,
Cork, on Feb. 2 last: —
Cornelius Morphy, of Ballydally, Rathmore, Co.
Kerry, farmer, was tried at Cork on January 17.
1921, by a Military Court for being in improper
possession of arms and ammunition, namely, a loaded
revolver. The Court found Cornelius Murphy
guilty and sentenced him to suffer death by being
shot. The finding and sentence of the Court were
duly confirmed by the General Officer Commanding-in-
Chief in Ireland. The sentence was duly executed
at 0801 on February 1, 1921.
So long as armies wander into the far
places of the earth in quest of their enemies
it is necessary that there should be courts-
martial. That is to say, peripatetic jurisdic-
tions ready if required to accompany the
fighting men to the cannon’s mouth itself.
A judicial system is as necessary for any
large body of men as a medical system, or
a dental system, or a veterinary system. But
nothing but ancient precedent dating from
the Dark Ages when armies lived precari-
ously on the territories where they fought
justifies the use 6f non-expert soldiers in
any of the above capacities. Any fool can
appreciate that it would he extremely dan-
gerous to have an eye or a leg or an appendix
removed even by so eminent an officer as
General Birdwood. And so during the
Great War we had the A.M.C. It is doubt-
ful if General Monash himself could blister
a horse or fire him for curbs as efficiently
as a professional vet.; and so every mounted
unit had its veterinary officer. But men
and animals do not, as a rule, die as a result
of incompetently administered justice. At
a glance, where it is levelled by an ex-car-
penter suc-h as Senator Pearce, or an ex-
railway clerk like Senator Cox, the legal
butchery looks as skilful as the work of a
Samuel Griffith. And yet . its evil effects
may be wide-reaching—in burning resent-
ment against those responsible, and so in
the eventual promulgation of hatred and dis-
trust of the wjjole military system. The
Diggers of the rank and file knew, whoever
did not, after they had been a very short
time under arms, that the old-time court-
martial system was a ramshackle, hit-or-
miss contraption that had only been left
in their army because no interested party
knew enough at the beginning of hostilities
to take it out. It is as extinct, in its
present mediawal form, for the purposes of
any future A.1.F., as the death-penalty:
while to talk as the Senate did the other
day of applying it to citizen trainees is
blank insanity.
THE DOSSERS OF DARWIN.
Recently at Darwin 20 men without prk
or patriotism or self-respect—2o men wit
the. instincts of the British professions
workhouse inmate or the Australian liabitua
Domain dosser—managed to occupy IT da
in cutting down two trees —not baobabs
cedars of Lebanon or any other vegetab
giants, but just trees, it was a Dover
ment job, and for it they contrived to co
lect £49!), largely extorted by the tax-co
lector from people poorer than themselve
llu.s sort Of thing is considered a triumi
lor tile new brand of Labor princi[>les wme
consist of doing practically no labor an
Jiving op the toil of others after the mann
of dukes and similar waste characters. Bin
there is a difference, for some peers n
writers, soldiers, statesmen oi a sort or pa
roils of art and learning, and at the wor
they are survivals of a class which u
invented for a useful purpose as defend*-
ot the country, though she decay of f-m ta
ism caused their job to leave them. At ■
poorest the order of the loafing nobility In
been suspected of patriotism at- interval
and has occasionally been convicted of b *n
useful and industrious and constructive. Bt
the new non-workers are a fresh excrescent*
a retrogression and an anomaly. They at
an invention, not a survival. They profes
t<> have a gospel to preach and endeavor
make converts to their doctrine of sto
work which the loafing peerage never efit
lireferring to keep its order select. Unlii
the peerage, they are just as hostile to figli
mg for their country as to working for i
It is interesting to consider what may hui
pen if the new teachers make a success
their crusade and get control of the countr
as they have done of fragments like Darwi
and Broken llill. For then presumably a
dr most of the community will want to liv
by cutting down trees at £40!) a pair as a
Darwin, or to exist on pauper doles am
broken victuals as at the Hill. And
there is no “capitalistic” or industrious o
productive class to extract money ifrom
the result will be a general return to th
lower animal state —not to the aborigina
state, for Binghi had his scheme of life am
never lost it, whereas the doctrine of th
chronic strike and stop-work leaders is thai
the white Australian should abandon th
only scheme he has and revert to chaos i
the hope that something may evolve there
from.
The Northern Territory, though the fac
may be little realised, is one of the world’
great experiments. There is no State Gov-
ernment, while the feeble Federal Governmen
is the breadth of a continent away, and
except as a source of alms, hardly counts
It sends representatives of one sort anc
another, and they are deported if they don’
suit. There is no landed aristocracy to run
things with a high, hand as landed aristo
cnicies have always had a habit of doing
when the king was a child or a weakling
The Territory is the world's overwhelming
new example of public land-ownership am
the leasehold principle. There is no power
lul and militant Church of the mediaeva
kind to grasp the reins of power, as the ok
Church used to do, keeping pretty good order
but reducing liberty to a minimum. There
is*no Liquor Interest such as used to manage
a good many United States towns and cities
after a squalid but vigorous fashion, for the
public-houses are public property. In fact
there has been for a long time no definite
power at all outside the trades unions. Hav
ing control of the class from which juries
were largely drawn, from lack of any other
class, they \Vere the law to a very remark
able extent. Having fallen under the con
trol of the work-stoppers, they shut up self
supporting industry, for cutting down trees
at £499 the pair, paid with the money o;
outside contributors, isn’t industry in an.v
proper sense of the word. The story of theii
control of a land big enough to make an
empire is largely the story of the rise ant
almost immediate fall of one big industry—
the privately-owned meatvvorks. When these
were established union leaders of the work-
stopping description hurried to the spot to
spread the whole gospel of Garden and
Walsh where isolation gave it even a bettei
chance to flourish than at Broken Hill. In
time it cost £4 per ton to load or unload
goods at Darwin wharf, and a large gang
averaged a little over 24 tons per hour. The
train which dragged things between the
wharves and the one big factory sometimes
stopped so often for “recreation, social inter-
course and educational facilities” that the
average pace was one mile per hour. When
the capitalistic system of private enterprise
was eliminated no kind of co-operative work
was put in its' place any more than
at Broken Hill, which made an equally
complete stoppage. The degenerated white
population simply left in a worse frame of
mind than when it arrived, to look for and
eliminate the employer elsewhere. What
remains of Darwin is now mostly an Asiatic
hamlet, and among thq class which expends
most mouth-loyalty on the White Australia
idea no one seoras to care.
♦ * * ■#
The remnant of settlement in the North
lives chiefly on the expenditure of the horde
of officials whose salaries are contributed
from outside and on comic-opera jobs paid
for from outside, such as cutting down trees
at £249 10s. each. Broken Hill during nearly
two years of struggle for a 30-hour week and
greatly increased wages had a slightly dif-
ferent record. It existed partly by confiscat-
ing local rents, which the paralysed law was
unable to prevent. Weird stories were told
of one or two small female property-owners
past the working age whose incomes stopped,
and who were scoffed at contumeliously when
they begged for their own property. Another
source of revenue, or, at least, of economy,
consisted in using the free quarters piece-
meal for fuel even as the starved Bolsheviks
are burning Petrograd. A third consisted
of contributions from outside, and the
Dooley Government is still subsidising the
town at the rate of over £200,000 a year
with money forced from people outside. -The
trouble is that, supposing the great work-
stopping gospel preached by the newest
brand of Labor leader —the kind that domin-
ates Sydney Labor Council —spreads over
Australia, there will be no outside. Instead


of two comparatively unimportant places
'ike Darwin and Broken Hill turning Domain
dossers and sturdy vagabonds with over
5 000,1 >OO people to cadge from, there will
be over .'>,000,000 Domain dossers and no
one to cadge from. That will be the way
„f things unless the leaders develop some
organising capacity very different from any-
thing shown at the two towns they control,
or from anything shown in the management
of their two or three papers, which exist
!>v levying tribute or blackmail on unionists
and turning them into compulsory sub-
scribers. The wreckage of palaces or cities
or civilisations isn’t universal loss, for there
are inferior creatures who like to live and
prowl among ruins, like the monkey tribe
described by Kipling who had a dead metro-
polis to themselves and found it grateful
and comforting. But they are a useless, un-
progressive, unproductive, obscene lot, and
it isn’t Worth while making ruins for their
accommodation. Possibly Australia may
have a revulsion of feeling one day and set
out with the energy of converts on a new
path. Then there may be a violent compre-
hensive enforcement of forgotten laws about
sturdy'hnd premeditated vagrancy.
THE CENTENARY OF AN
ISLANDER.
A hundred years ago to-day died Napoleon,
Emperor of the French. Cancer killed him,
as it had destroyed his Corsican father ; he
was within three months of 52, and had
for years been a prisoner of the British
Government on St. Helena, llis career of
achievement began at Toulon in September,
17113, and ended at Waterloo in June, 1815.
During those 22 years, without advantages
of birth, wealth or position, he became the
greatest man of his time, and one of the
greatest in history, lie saved France from
its foreign and domestic enemies, and reor-
ganised it on enduring lines, lie overthrew
the armies of Austria, the Italian States,
Turkey, Russia, l’russia and Spain. lie
occupied every capital in continental Europe
except Constantinople and St. Petersburg,
lie made Holland, Belgium, Italy and Illyria
part of the French Empire, carved up Aus-
tria and North Germany, put his brothers
on the thrones of Spain and Westphalia and
forced Russia to become his ally. liti Switzer-
land, Portugal and Poland his word was
law. lie was crowned at Paris by a Pope,
and married into the oldest and proudest of
reigning: families. And then he became in-
fatuated with his own glory and waged war
for war’s sake. He thought it was the path
to universal dominion, but it led instead
to utter ruin and to captivity on a dreary
island infested with rats and Sir Hudson
Lowe, from the unspeakable boredom of
which he was freed by death.
Of Napoleon’s military conquests no-
thing remains; of his moral conquests much.
If he left France smaller, territorially speak-
ing, than he found it, he rescued it from
the chaos of the Revolution and made it a
modern State. He restored its finances, con-
structed its magnificent roads and canals,
and breathed new life into its decayed com-
merce. He codified its laws and gave it a
system of local government stamped with
his own genius, lie established peasant pro-
prietorship on permanent foundations —and
the peasants stuck by him to the end.
National schools, the Concordat, the Legion
of Honor—these were among the fruits of
his work. Circumstances made him a sol-
dier, but he was essentially, as lie said him-
self, “a political being.” During the Con-
sulate, when he had a brief interval of
peace, he proved himself a constructive
statesman of the highest order. And France
signified its gratitude by paying him the
most magnificent compliments ever accorded
by a people to its ruler: by 3,568,885 votes
to 8374 it appointed him Consul for life;
by 3,572,329 to 2569 it made him Emperor.
Nor were the Napoleonic campaigns, even
those sordidly dynastic in their purpose,
without benefit: to the conquered countries.
They were grievously costly in blood and
treasure, and were accompanied by sad exac-
tions, but they delivered Europe from feudal-
ism. In carrying fire and sword from Lisbon
to Moscow, Napoleon destroyed the rubbish
of ages and set liberal ideas in motion. With-
out intending it he revived the love of free-
dom and the spirit of patriotism among
peoples oppressed for centuries. He might
have put himseif at the head of these move-
ments and, with far greater prospect of
success than the doubtful experiment now in
progress, redrawn the map of Europe on lines
of nationality. He certainly had it in his
power to re-establish. Poland, and if he had
done that effectually he would have saved
the world from the calamity that over-
whelmed it in 3914. But he became a megalo-
maniac and forgot France, forgot Europe,
forgot the maxim of the First Consul that
“the gra-ndest victories, and those which
leave no regrets, are those of knowledge over
ignorance,” arid persuaded himself that con-
quest had made him and would sustain him.
It was a fatal illusion. He taught his enemies
how to defeat him. He was destroyed by
the very forces that he had awakened from
sleep.
Napoleon is the supreme egotist of his-
tory, but there were extenuating circum-
stances. He was the child of an age unfavor-
able to the development of the Christian vir-
tues—a selfish, corrupt, turbulent, blood-
thirsty age. Born in a semi-barbarous island
in which life was held cheap, he passed over
to a country where, in the most plastic
period of his manhood, murder became the
policy of the State. He witnessed the rising
of the Faris mob against Louis XVI., the
massacre of the imprisoned aristocrats by
paid agents of the municipality, the long
agony of the Terror and the atrocities of
Lyons and La Vendee. He was nearly
sent to the guillotine himself. The priva-
tions he suffered in those years of adoles-
cence, the dangers he underwent, the horrors
to which he became habituated had a lasting
influence on his mind. From a life of obscure
poverty and from a hazardous and humiliat-
ing dependence on ferocious ruffiaus like
Robespierre and Tallien he was delivered
by Avar. He made war more skilfully than
any man had done before; it ended the
dominion of prating scoundrels and set him,
the Corsican lawyer’s son, on the mightiest
throne in Christendom —that he came to re-
gard war as a necessity of his position is
understandable though lamentable enough.
His contemporaries gave him no encourage-
ment to become a man of peace. The Tory
Governments on the other side of the Chan-
nel treated him abominably. Their slan-
derous newspapers accused the man of every
crime in the calendar. Holland Rose has
proved that the Breton desperadoes who at-
tempted his life in 1800 were paid by the
British Foreign Office. That sinister fact,
of which Xapoleon was fully aware at the
time, although it was not revealed to the
British public for nearly a century, was far
more flagitious than the act of retaliation
provoked by it —the so-called murder of the
Duke of Enghien.
* * * *
Xapoleon’s experience of human nature,
as seen about the camp and Court, helped
to make him cynical and self-centred. He
never met the right woman, nor had a real
friend. His first wife, a faded Creole with,
bad teeth, was unfaithful to him, not long
after the honeymoon, with officers on his
own staff. The second 'coldly deserted him
in his adversity for a one-eyed Austrian
rake. He carved out kingdoms and princi-
palities for his disreputable brothers) and
sisters, and in return they nearly plagued the
life out of him. He “made his marshals out
of mud,” and some of them repaid him with
ingratitude; others with treason. Fouche
and Talleyrand, whom he loaded with
riches and honors, cynically betrayed him to
the Bourbons: Murat and Bernadotte,
who owed their kingdoms to him, showed
their gratitude by leading armies against
him and against France. That the man had
something line and lovable in him, the devo-
tion of the common people testifies: but his
character deteriorated under the influence of
the ungrateful gang of swindlers, swash-
bucklers and sycophants, male and female,
among whom he moved. He had a magni-
ficent intellect, and did great things for his
country; had the circumstances been more
favorable lie might have done greater things
for the world. His fate is a warning to the
depositaries of power anywhere to beware
of swelled head.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Housewife’s Vote.
Speaking at Broken Hill, Minister Gann
got off a suggestion for which he might have
given credit to The Bulletin but didn’t.
It was that the wives of unionists should
have a voice, along with their husbands and
sons, in deciding whether a strike shall hap-
pen or shall continue if it has already hap-
pened. The striker’s wife suffers bitterly
herself when the family income stops, and
suffers again through her children, so" she
is really more interested than her husband.
She suffers a third time by comparison with
him because, while with him the stoppage
means no work and no wages, with her it
means extra work and no wages. That is her
case as compared with her husband’s, and it is
bad enough ; but it is a thousand times worse
as compared with that of the unmarried, un-
encumbered youth of somewhere between 14
and 21 whose vote is often the cause of strikes,
it being a sort of jest to his ill-conditioned
soul to harass and starve and drive to
despair women old enough to be his mother
or grandmother, but too respectable to de-
serve to be either. In a land * which has
now, in proportion to its population, the
worst strike record on earth, the right of
woman to a vote as a member of her hus-
band’s union on matters which are life or
death to her is of vast importance. It is
of far more importance than the right to
vote as an elector for a Legislature of
diminishing importance, which is now largely
a machine for registering union decrees, these
being partly the decrees of the unmarried,
, unencumbered youth already mentioned.
Her position is worse than it ever was be-
fore by reason of the fact that her husband,
whom she may influence, is himself some-
times voted or howled down at the strike
meeting by the new irresponsible “kid” ele-
ment. She represents a monstrous case of
disfranchisement. Labor bosses (among the
most conservative and impervious folk on
earth) meet the question with a blank wall
of silence, and unless one of them was hanged
up by the thumbs, and not let down again
till lie consented to become aware that such
a question exists, it is likely to remain one
of the things he and his class are officially
unaware of. But. as a means of changing
the subject, combined with an advertisement
of their own large liberality, they talk a
good deal about the organisation of House-
wives' Unions. The proposition is a heart-
less joke. The only employer the housewife
has to strike against is the househusband,
and she enn’t strike against him, even as a
belated, useless, behind-time protest against
his own strike, without bringing hunger,
dirt, misery and perhaps death to the house-
child. That is one reason why the nominal
powers of a Housewives’ Union would never
be used. Another is that in such a union
employers would be as numerous as em-
ployees, and the latter would be the weaker,
and so scattered that hardly two of them
would bo together. Therefore, Minister
Gann and his colleagues had better go solidly
for making the miner’s or seaman’s or engi-
neer’s wife a fully qualified member of her
husband’s union by virtue of her marriage
lines. • Then other Ministries might recog-
nise that a simple act of justice is involved
and follow suit. The way is to draw up
the necessary bill, put it in front of the
Ministerial programme, and then shove hard.
Such a reform should reduce the strike curse
by 75 per cent., and nerhaps save whole
towns from vanishing off the map.
Unfouncl Australia.
Some of the fog having cleared away, it
transpires that Australia’s new lOU, which
Mllen gave to the British Government when
in London, was for about £58,000,000, being
the principal of the money which Father
Bull advanced to pay and keep the Austra-
lian army during the late unpleasantness,
along with some back interest, which was
added to the • debt. This left about
±;i,000,000 to' be settled when the final
accounts are made up. In Australia,
though the people may not realise it, the.
war expenditure is just getting up speed.
Some countries are easing off taxation a
little because they are no longer paying
any of the cost of actual fighting out of
revenue: but Australia paid practically
nothing of it out of revenue, so the end of
the war brought no relief in that way—it
only added the cost of repatriation to the
previous troubles. And in this country,
where much more than half even of the good
land is still the nation's to sell or give away,
and where half the factories necessary ro
supply the local market aren’t built yet, it
costs almost a man’s weight in gold to get
him settled down again even in the place from
which he lately got up. It might be argued
that the job, so far as able-bodied men are
concerned, should be really easier and cheaper
than settlement was in the days of Captain
Phillip and the First Fleet for these rea-
sons -
(1) The good land which the Government has to
give away is immensely more than Phillip and his
immediate successors had to rely upon. They knew
about i per cent, of the country, and the absence
of railways, roads and navigable rivers, also the
presence of hostile abos., made much of that of
little Use.
(2) The Government has more places to plant
coastal cities at than Phillip had. Some of these
places have Government land handy, and where
private land must be dealt with its value is small
and the cost of resumption would be little. Phillip
had no places at all to build, on except Port Jackson
and Botany Bay, for even the Hawkesbury wasn’t
on the first map. Nowadays there are a score or two
of ports, with hardly any more (sometimes abso-
lutely no more) white population than when the
First Fleet was dropping its first clumsy anchor oif
the Tank Stream. The founding of cities seems to
pay if one may judge by Melbourne and Sydney, to
•say nothing of London, New York and Chicago. And
settlement can be started without spending .£lOOO
of loan money per settler if one may judge by
Columbus and others.
The way Australia goes about the business,
however, is large, slow-moving, conservative,
as red-tapey as the old Aulic Council at
Vienna, which used to give a general permis-
sion to charge the enemy three months after
the enemy had loft, and as expensive as
Nero’s method of travelling about Greece.
So after fixing up the IOC for £58,000,000
aforesaid, the Government showed that there
was no animosity bv borrowing, for repatria-
tion, another £5,000,000 at 6 per cent, and a
heavy discount, repayable, like almost every
new loan nowadays, 10 years hence, that
beifig apparently the date fixed by general
consent for something unspecified to happen.
Principal and interest must be met in gold as
with all foreign loans. Australia has now
become relatively of small account as a gold
producer. What metal it digs out is only a
drop in the bucket of its gold liabilities. Gold
must nevertheless be found to meet these
liabilities, and it can onlv be done by selling
a tremendous lot more raw materials for coin
in foreign lands, the export of any large
quantity of other than raw materials being
remote. Unfortunately this is a very
uncertain business, for wheat and butter
and wool and bull and "wild rabbit
have often to be disposed of for a song
in glutted markets. But the position and
prospects may be improved by buying a tre-
mendous lot less manufactured goods, de-
manding coin instead of picture-films, silks,
fluff and feathered hats for the produce we
do sell, and paying John Bull with the coin.
That means, of course, manufacturing on a
much larger scale here for our own reliable
market. It means devoting much more
energy for a while to the creation of new
cities which really seem to pay, and much
less to putting new people on Old Dad’s Selec-
tion, which didn’t yield much to anybody, save
' the author who wrote about it. On the
latest returns it costs £3OO in land, buildings
and machinery to set up each worker in a
well-paid drought-proof manufacturing in-
dustry, with a market alongside (Victoria
does it for £220), while it costs about £lOOO
directly and a lot more in roads and unpay-
able railways to repatriate him on land to
grow something which nobody seems likely
to want very badly for a long time. How-
ever, these are details. The large fact is that
Australia is still, for settlement purposes, not
much less undiscovered than America was
when Columbus went there; and the finding
of America startled Europe into affluence.
♦—■
John’s Compromise.
It was practically certain from the first that
various features of the wonderful X. S. Wales
Land Bill would liave to be dropped if the
Ma State' hoped to raise any more money in
London. And without new money in Lon-
don (golden money, good to pay English lia-
bilities with), Ministerial life would be the
echo of a great silence, and the shadow of a
ghost wandering in space. There is always
reluctance to refuse to renew the loan of
even a very bad debtor, for refusal won’t
briug back the money and will only precipi-
tate a catastrophe. It is like cutting the
throat of a patient ivho looks pretty hopeless
yet may recover. But, as Theodore of
Queensland found, the advance of new money
is a different rriatter. Apparently Premier
Storey has. got the promise in a tentative
fashion of a fair amount, though not as
much as the excited Theodore asked for on
behalf of one-tliird the population, the terms,
as reported, being the abandonment of the
only clauses in the large holdings confisca-
tion scheme that make it worth proceeding
with. The aspects of Louciilix’s uuipiuim
opus .which roused most objection were
these: —
Every big property outside a municipality could
be earmarked for seizure, save £20,000 worth left
to the owner. This might be only 200 acres, for the
£20,000 wasn’t to represent the present value, hut
the value if improved to the utmost.
The value of the remainder as at the end of 1920
was to be fixed.by the majority decision of a Court
of three, .and two (the majority) were to be
appointed by the buyer (the Government). No
appeal was allowed for, so the buyer would be final.
Then, even if the land wasn’t really resumed for
30 years, it was to he taken in 1950 at the buyer’s
own 1920 valuation and all subsequent improvements
confiscated. Improvement would therefore cease.
All through the years of waiting (and it would be
many years before the last deal or steal could be
fixed up) all buying and selling was to be illegal
save by permission of the Minister of the moment.
And when an estate was taken (possibly at half
its value by reason of low valuation without appeal
and the confiscation of improvements and unearned
increment) payment was to he made in s best-
ing low interest and due to he cashed in another 38
vears. So the person with a heavy mortgage might
not have even enough cheap long-dated 1 O l’s to
pay his creditor with.
Provided there was an unlimited demand for
small farms by people who were able to pay
for them, the prospects of the scheme were
gigantic. Quite a large area of the State
might he seized at a very low price on long-
dated bills and sold sit the highest possible
price for cash and short-dated bills. 'lhe
Government wouldn’t be here long enough to
pay the compulsory sellers, for no Govern-
ment lasts 38 years, but it might last long
enough (provided there was a big demand)
to spend a good few millions collected from
the new buyers. It was so ineffably clumsy
as to seek power to eject the humble tenant
or share-farmer from a resumed property-
not turning him into a State tenant for the
rest of his term, but tearing up his lease and
casting him out to clear the way for a buyer
with a big deposit to pay. It isn’t likely that
people in England cared much what hap-
pened to the Australian tenant- or share-
farmer. But two big English banks and
one or two smaller ones and a number of
Inter-State banks with wide influence and a
lot of big English companies saw a chance
of losing millions when their mortgages were
'repaid (and possibly repaid only in part)
vvitli depreciated paper due in 38 years. And
the proposal to tear up leases and to a great
extent nullify land titles made them inquire
if-the 38-years p.n.’s might not also be torn
up or written down. When the most respect-
able-looking member of the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment arrived to ask for a lot of money to
keep his crowd in good fettle, so that it could
pass his legislation (with extra-severe penal-
ties added, as Minister Loughlin declared),
there was naturally a coolness. So a com-
promise was suggested ; and if it is as cabled,
that resumed estates are to be paid for in
cash at full value, then all the joy has gone
out of the Bill. It is a money-raising device
no longer.
*
Illogical Divorce Laws.
Judging by the recently-expressed sentiments
of X. S. Wales Attorney-General McTlEß-
nan, and b.v other evidence of an equally
definite nature, there is a powerful section
•of the Commonwealth favorable to the abro-
gation of our divorce laws. In the House
of Lords a few days ago
The divergence of the views of bishops and
lawyers deepened when Lord Bcckmaster moved an
amendment to his Bill for Divorce Reform, making-
three years’ desertion a ground for divorce. « The
Bishop of Norwich said this would make the mar-
riage vows a light thing. The Archbishop of York said,
“If that is carried the bishops will refuse further
to support the measure.” Lord Gohei.i, added that
he also would wash his hands of the bill.
There is more than one Church that declines
to recognise divorce, and their ministers, or
many of them, will not marry a party to a
divorce, guilty or otherwise. Yet in the
United Kingdom, according to a recent state-
ment of Dr. R. Murray Leslie at the Lon-
don Institute of Hygiene, there are more
than a million excess females of reproduc-
tive age. The proportion may not be so
great here, but it is large enough to be an
obvious factor in the problem of unrest.
Xo happily-married woman has time to be
an agitator. In Britain a wife whose mar-
ried life has been a total failure —whose
husband, for example, has deserted her—can
only get her freedom and the right to.marry
again by publicly branding herself an adul-
teress. In Australia the sacrifice demanded
is not so great. The wife to whom mar-
riage has become a farce, who is detested by
her husband, and has come to detest him,
acquires the separation they both desire —
and which it is in the interests of the com-
munity they should have —by an elaborate
conspiracy. Her solicitors —the practice is
much the same in every State —drafts a
letter to her husband begging him to return,
the husband usually having departed for the
purpose of the proceedings. The husband
ignores it, or writes a refusal. A barrister
irods the disingenuous document in court,
and a Judge makes a restitution order. This
ponderous farce is necessary in the case of
innocent persons where marriages have failed,
since, even in Australia, a common anxiety
to be divorced, unaccompanied by miscon-
duct, drunkenness, violence or what not on
one side, is held in law to be a bar.
In law; but not by lawyers. Every Aus-
tralian State has its King's Proctor —
the official whose duty it is to track dow T n
collusion and drag the happily-divorced
couples together again. In every case his
billet is a sinecure. The legal profession
assists collusion and the Bench condones it;
and no more shame is experienced over the
illegality than a boot-legger feels as ho passes
round the whisky in modern Xew York. It
is a reasonable proposition that this system,
which is costly to the litigants concerned
and subversive to the dignity of the Law’,
should be abolished. The attitude taken
up by certain of the Churches is logical.
They disapprove of divorce in any circum-
stances whatever. In opposition to them is
a school which says: “It is as senseless and
as cruel to keep two antipathetic human
beings tied together as it would be to do
the same thing by a couple of cats. The
man or woman who makes a matrimonial
mistake in one direction may score a win in
another: and it is highly desirable that the
nation should have as many well-mated
couples as possible.” * If the Church point
of view is the right one. then let the States
of Australia take Mr. McTiernan’s advice
and wipe out their Divorce Courts altogether.
In the other event, let them wipe out col-
lusion, along with those obstacles to divorce
which make collusion so common. In France
they have a procedure wffiich might be ex-
pected of that logical country. A magis-
trate interrogates the parties to every
divorce-suit,-and tries to bring about a recon-
ciliation. SXot till he is satisfied that their
mutual distaste is unconquerable does he
abandon his efforts. And the petitioner is
then able to proceed without resort to per-
jury. It would be an edifying substitute
for the device by which the Divorce law’s
are sidestepped here.


Tfe Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Tara and Taimvorth.
Dear Bulletin, —So far as can be ascer-
tained, John Storey didn’t obey the orders
of the A.L.P. Conference and Lord Mayor
Lambert and call in person on the King
at the Tower of London to demand the re-
moval of the British hordes from Ireland.
Instead, he seems simply to have mentioned
the matter to some minor functionary and
let him pass it on if he found a favorable
opportunity. So that matter is unsatisfac-
torily disposed of. Meanwhile, other resolu-
tions of more or less weight are accumulat-
ing, and there is no end to the vanity anu
vexation of spirit. A recent one was from
the annual conference of the Catholic Federa-
tion :
In support of the right of the people of Ireland
to choose fully, without coercion or dictation from
outside, their own Government institutions and their
political relationship with other countries... .we
further demand the withdrawal of the British
Army of Occupation in order that the elected repre-
sentatives of the Irish people may be able to organise
the adminstration of their self-chosen Constitution in
peace.
Resolutions of that sort are now as plenti-
ful, especially in N. S. Wales, as leaves used
to be at Vallombrosa; yet, curiously enough,
no resolutionist thinks of covering the whole
ground while the conference or convention
is at it, and remarking that N. S. Wales itself
has two districts which want in a moderate
way to choose their own Government institu-
tions. They also want the tyrant to remove his
army of occupation—his bobbies, clerks of
petty sessions, land agents, travelling
Judges, gaol warders, railway minions and
other evidences of oppression. Until the
present difficulty started (about 1916) there
were very few people in Ireland who could
even seriously pretend that they had been
maltreated by the Sassenach, for the process
of active oppression really ended 50 years
ago. When the oppressors and the oppressed
are botli dead, like the floggers and floggees
of the N.S.W. convict system, there may be
old history to remember, but there isn’t
much that is modern to tight about. Ireland
has the management of its own railways,
which neither Riverina nor the Northern
Rivers ever had. It pays less per head under
the name of Imperial contribution towards
the cost of the late war than Australia pays
directly, and had more voice in making the
war. It hasn’t to contribute towards the
losses on English railways or towards the
roads and bridges about London as the two
proposed new States do towards those around
Sydney. It can build and manage its own
lines where it pleases, and they can’t. Its
ports aren’t closed by corkscrew devices
against all but petty local trade, as theirs
are. It has its own banks and a practical
monopoly of its own banking business, and''
it possesses its own note issues, which they
don’t. Then the island has its separate vice-
roy, while all that Riverina and Northern
N. S. Wales possess is the loan of a bit of
an imported viceroy in Sydney and a small
fragment of another in Melbourne. London
has lent Ireland in recent years at low in-
terest, and with its own name on the back of
the bill, almost as much money as the whole
N.S.W. debt so that it might get rid of its
big landlords. The seceding sections of
N.S.W. reverse the process, for their names
are on the back of the bills of a Govern-
ment which is almost “pure Sydney.” Cer-
tainly these sections can’t be called repre-
sentative of distinct nations, but for that
matter Ireland wasn’t either at the time of
the conquest and for long after, whatever
it may be now. Like those other communi-
ties of Celts, the Welsh and the Scottish
Highlanders, it was an assemblage of tribes,
occasionally brought together under one
chief like Scotland’s Lords of the Isles, but
with.no cohesion. The cohesive element even
now seems more sectarian than national.
Altogether the Irish secessionists in Aus-
tralia should do something, if only along the
lines of “support in return for concessions,”
for their own secessionists who, barring the
lack of a sectarian misery, have the better
case. It would be a mighty advertisement
for Home Rule and for the self-determina-
tion of peoples (“rightly struggling to be
free” and all that sort of thing) if some of
the cumbrous States were cut up. In fact,
the example thus set might turn the scale
in Ireland’s favor, and the lack of it may
spoil the whole mess of pottage. Charity
begins at home—not at Rome. And who has
time to think of Tara while Tamworth is
languishing in chains? —Yours truly, H. 11.
♦
Secession.
James Edmond on the Jeroboam act:—
A very influential secessionist conference has been
sitting at Armidale (Northern N.S.W.) trying to
undo the mischief set on foot by George Reid, the
Machiavellian meddler and muddler, when he started
to put his unauthorised patches on the Federal
Constitution. His achievements included the clause
which says that, when an outlying district dislikes
the ruling powers at the capital so much that it
wants to set up for itself, the only way is to get
these powers to dislike themselves so much that they,
will agree. In fact, Charles I. is to behead himself,
for no one else can do it. Secession in any other
way is illegal.
The Sydney dailies have been sympathetic chiefly
in expressions of grief at the impossibility of separa-
tion. This impossibility they point out at great
length and in a way calculated to break the heart of
Gibraltar. The State, they explain, has tied itself to
itself so securely by its own unalterable act that
escape from itself is impossible. It has got into a
safe and locked the door on the outside and swal-
lowed and digested the key. Any attempt to leave,
according to the Telegraph especially, may even
lead by mistake to the bottomless morass of unifica-
tion. And unification is such a self-evident horror
and a monster of such dreadful mien that all right-
thinking people shudder at it and their hair stands
on end. Yet quite a good device, if it could be
brought about, would be temporary unification —
suspension of all State Parliaments for three or five
years, during which time the Commonwealth would
have unlimited powers to subdivide Australia on
rational lines and furnish it with new Constitutions
and new Parliaments with revised powers. In the
interim it could appoint committees to help adminis-
ter the States. Supposing the period of unification
came to an end with the work undone, then there
would be a Restoration and the old States would
start again and new remedies would have to be
looked for.
Just to show its contempt for the whole business
the Sydney Government proceeded, while the secession
conference was sitting, to put on the market without
any authority from Parliament (which isn’t sitting)
a new loan of a new kind. It is to furnish employ-
ment in the County of Cumberland (Sydney and
environs) and to relieve the local rates (the road-
repairing rates) in the County of Cumberland. It
is, in fact, a tribute levied on the whole State,
including the districts which talk secession, for the
benefit of the capital, and it may prove to be only
CALL OFF THE DOGS!
the first of a long series. Having struck this new,
brilliant and elastic idea for turning the country
into permanent alimony for the city, the chance of
the latter consenting to a divorce from its rich
wife is less than ever. If the Dooley Government
wasn’t simply blundering along—if it really chose its
time and had an object in view—the half-million
loan is an intimation to the North and to Riverina
and any other place concerned that they may get
what they want by a political strike a la Jeroboam,
but not otherwise.
♦
A more or less personal note from ex-sig-
naller Tom Skeyiiill, sent from Viborg, in
Finland :
The Bolshevik Foreign Office people in Moscow
emphatically refused me a passport, simply because
I declined to be their rubber-stamp; so, as a
Swedish electrical engineer, I sleighed across the
frozen Gulf of Finland from Terijoki, under the
guns and searchlights of Kronstadt, to Orienbauin;
and there I caught a train to Petrograd, where Rus-
sian friends sheltered me, introduced me to interest-
ing people, guided me about the city, and then
passed me on to their relations in Moscow and Kiev.
Living with and as the Russians, starving with
them, shivering with them and sharing their joys
and sorrows and fears, I really believe that I saw
Bolshevism, r,ot as it is reported to be, not as the
Bolshevik would have liked to have had me see it,
but as it really is.
There seems to be no prospect of Lenin losing
out for some considerable time. He has the bread ;
and bread is the sceptre in Russia to-day. Military
intervention and economic penetration will not avail
us to overthrow the present regime; the movement
must come from inside, and, failing that, it will
come through Lenin moving to the right, until he
steers the rickety ship of state into the placid
waters of political morality, outside of which he
cannot find a haven. Judging by his recent speeches
be realises this, and is preparing the way gradually
for the convocation of the Constituent Assembly.
If we forcibly overthrow Bolshevism it. will come
again; discontented workmen the world over every
how and then will resurrect it from the grave. Had
the Jews not crucified Christ there would probably
have been no Christianity, and if we do not crucify
Lenin there will be no Leninism. I firmly believe
that we ought to leave Bolshevism severely alone,
and then, either through failing or moving to the
right, it will demonstrate the impracticability of
Communism.
An expert on Sydney’s telephone troubles:
There is a hopeless and increasing overloading of
the trunk (i.e., inter-exchange) lines. The auto-
matic system, which is the basis of Sydney’s tele-
phone service, is an American invention, and was
installed in Sydney by American engineers. The
Yanks looked the call-statistics ove?r, and said that
nothing less than a certain indicated number of
lines would carry the traffic. But they, who had
come 8000 miles to do the job, were over-ruled
by a man who happened to look in the door just
then and the indicated minimum was reduced. Con-
sequently satisfaction as to call-promptness was
never guaranteed by the Americans. Trunk-line
shortage exists throughout the whole service.
There is an absolute lack of system in connection
with overhaul. The policy is one of waiting for
complaints rather than periodic attention. It is
common to see two and even three mechanics start
shortly after one another on motor-cycles to attend to
complaints in the same district. This sort of foolish-
ness produces an artificial scarcity of mechanics, and
the whole service suffers. Systematic overhaul could
be carried out by fewer mechanics, and thereby 90
per cent, of complaints would be obviated. For
days there has been a notice hanging on an unusable
Sydney public ’phone saying, “Don’t waste time here
—come over to my shop.” The shop is a Dago’s
where the 'phone is in perfect order. He charges
3d., and his ’phone is going all day. As a direct
result of this lackadaisical repair system Sydney’s
telephone service is never more than 50 per cent,
efficient. The introduction in public ’phone-boxes
and near wall-telephones of a few clear instructions
as to use and care would probably effect an improve-
ment. At present there are a multitude of posters
plastered about boxes promising all sorts of penal-
ties for misuse but containing no information as
to correct usage.
Girls are insufficiently and improperly trained for
their nerve-wracking job. They are flung into busy
exchanges far too soon. A girl over-matched and
bluffed on her first day never becomes the fast,
accurate worker that proper training would have
made her. And, anyhow, these girls are over-worked ;
Sydney’s call-per-girl figures are the highest in the
world.
* — +
“Rio”: The executive of the Red Cross
Society (N.S.W.) lately gave £lO,OOO to
the Bush Nursing fund. This surprised me,
for in seeking a bed for a disabled Digger-
friend not long ago I was told that none
was available as the Society - had lately
closed several homes from motives of
economy. But leaving this aspect aside, if
Red Cross money can be donated to bush
nursing it can be given to city nursing or
any other worthy cause, and I’d like to
know where the thing is going to stop.
Amounts similarly subscribed at the time of
the Boer War were afterwards given to
other funds, and S’African veterans whose
wounds later came against them found
themselves helpless and destitute. Is the
disabled A.I.P. Digger whose health breaks
down in years to come as a result of his war
service going to be ti’eated similarly? These
large funds should be put on a statutory
basis.
%
Prom a West Queensland pastoralist:—
“Cuzenos” (B. 24/3/’2l) leaves me with the
helpless feeling that either he is abysmally ignorant
or 1 am. He asserts that our annual income could
be easily doubled or even trebled but fails to show
us how to do it. Some of the best brains in Aus-
tralia have been, and still are, devoted to the prob-
lem of how to increase the carrying capacity of
the country and minimise losses in drought. Dam-
ming a creek or river and making earth tanks ceased
to be an experiment donkeys’ years ago. The state-
ment that the quality and quantity of the pasture
could be improved by scarifying or disc-harrowing
is only of value if it can be shown that the experi-
ment has been successfully made over large areas in
different parts of Western Queensland. “In some
seasons fodder crops could be grown.” Yes! In
about one year in ten. Presumably the grazier is
to put in fodder crops every year and have one
crop to every nine failures. At the end of the ten
years he would be insolvent.
It is ridiculous to assert that western pastoralists
would rather import fodder at (Id. per lb. than pro-
duce it at Cd. per cwt. If “Cuzenos” can show us
how to conserve even bush hay, the cheapest of all
fodders, at 6d. per cwt. (10s. per ton) a fortune
awaits him. He tells us that a loss of 5 or 6 per
cent in a dry period is taken for granted, and in
very dry periods there is no particular alarm if
the losses go up to 15 or 20 per cent. In vterv
good years a loss of 5 or 0 per cent, is only normal;
in very dry seasons the losses have gone up to 50
per cent. Graziers “should be required to furnish
correct accounts of their losses.” There already is
a return culled 1)1, which the Queensland Government
insists on having every year; it not only shows the
losses but the various causes of such losses. Appa-
rently, however, a new Government Department is
needed—with “Cuzenos” at the heat!—to pat the
good grazier on the back and severely reprimand the
bad one.
“Boorara,” from a different angle:—
“Mujik” (B. 21/4/’2l) should stroll in some other
park. Watching 200 IN'. S. Wales cadets undergoing
weekly training I received totally different impres-
sions. Of military evolutions there were none, but
for two hours the lads, clothed in singlets and
breeches, competed enthusiastically in relay races
and other pastimes calculated to harden the muscles,
sharpen the . sight, improve the wind and impart
that healthy rivalry which is the father of esprit-
de-corps, and is as necessary to the soldier as his
rifle or boots. When I joined up I was a physical
impossible, but after three months of just such train-
ing I took part in a 50-mile route march, carrying
full marching equipment. We did the stunt in two
days—actual marching time, 12hrs. Make the young-
sters hard, healthy and self-reliant. Let them meet
other battalions in military sports. There is no
hurry for them to learn how to mark time and shoot.
•
“It is merely a first instalment of a larger
scheme,” said N.S.W, Minister Dooley,
speaking of the proposal to relieve the County
of Cumberland of £500,000 of ordinary road-
repairing rates, and charge the jobs to loans for
which the whole State will be responsible. The
spending of £500,000 of borrowings on road-
patches in an area of 1673 square miles re-
presents almost £3OO per square mile, or
nearly 10s. per acre, and it is probable that
Cumberland will swallow a great deal more
than this, for the half-million is mostly to
be spent on four main roads, and there are
many others. That may make the bill £1
per acre. Then, unless a great reformation
sets in, the work will have to be done over
again in a few years, for roads wear out —
the whole trouble now is that these roads
have worn out —and the second top-dressing
should run the new debt up to £2 per acre,
and the third one to £3. In fact, there
seems no limit. But, with the haste of the
man who sold the skin of the bear w r ith a
sore head while the animal was still at
large, Dooley didn’t wait for his County
of Cumberland Loan Repairing and Rate-
relieving Loan to materialise before his fancy
carried him away, and he threatened more
bond issues to patch the adjacent counties
which are geographically attached to Syd-
ney, and are expected to remain with it
whatever secessions there may be. Thef’e
are five such counties, and the three to
which the principal roads run—Camden,
Cook and Northumberland —amount to
6580 square miles, and should call for nearly
a couple of millions for a first coat. The
troubles are: (1) Intending subscribers to
the first loan may weaken when they hear
of so many loans to follow; (2) the people
that Premier Storey is trying to borrow
from in London may grow shy when they
learn prematurely that highway repairs are
to be an increasing part of their security;
(3) when the districts which already talk
secession find that nearly half the bill for
these city municipal jobs is to come their
Avay, their resolve to get away from Dooley
and his bills will be very wild indeed.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
\\
Jiii vCm \ •
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
HSWMONT de PIETE
M I C9T LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh 5t.74. Sydney
CAPITAL it 200,000 ‘Phone Cit,y 9325
firanc/tes Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle. N-SW- 21517 SwanstohSt.Mei^.Vic
40 Adelaide st.,Brisbane.!). l 97 A Castlereagh StJ59 George St. West, Sydney
' - '• • , - • ' - '
Joseph W Mill, General manager.
r
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd,”
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of the proposals that will have to be
knocked out of Pearce’s new Defence mea-
sure and trampled flat is that Australian
troops, whether at home or on service abroad,
shall be liable to be shot for desertion and
so on. This means that the Digger shall
be liable to be stood against a wall for get-
ting shell-shock. Dozens of officers who were
in close personal contact with the front lines
know cases of men who, after getting decora-
tions for conspicuous bravery, lost their
nerve, and in a few instances actually bolted.
Others, whose valor was beyond question,
came to their officers and told them some-
times with horror—that they could not trust
themselves to do the job for which they had
been detailed. No Australian doctor had
better opportunities to study shell- and
battle-shock and its effects in France than
J. W. Springtliorpe, of Melbourne; and any
Senator or M.H.R. who is doubtful how he
ought to vote on this question should have
10 minutes with that expert.
On a specialist in the art of getting there:
Tudor’s sickness is likely to drive him into retire-
ment. His necessity will be Ryan’s opportunity.
The big Queenslander’s affability has won him many
friends, and the genuinely Australian trend of his
speeches, especially on the Tariff, has excited a
lot of attention in the House. Nowadays and -nights
the growing importance of the man is testified by the
crowds he gets for his orations. Standing on one
of the back benches, flourishing his specs, by way
of emphasis, he looks powerful and intractable, but
there is no suggestion of the dogmatist in his flow
of unadorned English. He puts his views with all
the strength of a large voice, informed with a highly-
trained intelligence, and the interest he commands
is shown by the absence of interruption. Clearly
the man has made up his mind to be Prime Minister.
His initial task will be to compose the differences
between the two sections of his party, and if he
can accomplish that there will remain the necessity
of formulating a sane Australian programme with
pacificism, internationalism and all that sort of
lumber omitted.
This country is blessed with too many
tired Ministers. One Federal portfolio-
holder proposed to shovel the whole Britisn
Army Act into an Australian Act to save
trouble and fill up, though he couldn t pro-
duce a copy of the British Act. .Another
Weary Willie idea was that the British Ail
Force' law r , whatever it may be, should also
be enacted off-hand. These things might be
fair enough if Britain would reciprocate by
enacting, say> the YV estralian Rabbit Act
without reading it, and building a rabbit-
proof fence all down the W elsli border, but
otherwise the business is one-sided. In the
N. S. Wales Profiteering Court about the
same time the Storey Government s specially
appointed Judge heard a two days argu-
ment. In the course thereof he asked the
Government’s barrister for his helpful opinion
as to the principle on which he was meant
to decide what was an extortionate _ profit,
seeing that the tired statute gave no intima-
tion or definition whatever. The reply was:
I realise that it is difficult, in view of the terms
of the Act, to say anything more in a general dis-
cussion than that there is no guiding principle.
In short, the Law gave his Honor a salary
and an axe and said, “Here, go and suppress
sin!” And his Honor said, “What do you
mean by sin?” And the Law said. “Dunno!
You’ve got to find out what I mean, but hit
something.”
“My salary in Britain,” said a plucked
birdman at Melbourne the other day, is
£.530 a year and I pay £6 a month in income-
tax.” By such heroic methods the British
Chancellor of the Exchequer achieved a sur-
plus last year of, £230,500,000 and paid oh
£259,500,000 of the war debt. In similar cir-
cumstances our disastrous Australian Trea-
surers borrowed and spent deliriously, en-
couraging thriftless people to believe that
hard times would never return. Even while
the boom was bursting they were found
appointing more sinecurists and royal com-
missions, and now, amidst the smoke and
debris of the explosion, all they can think of
is to borrow harder than ever.
HIS LAST WORDS TO THE CIRCUS.
THE SUPER-SHOWMAN: “Row, don’t forget. I’ve left Joe in charge of the ring; and
you two have got to work together and keep the old show going strong with the
public all the time I’m away.”
Despite recent happenings in the Federal
Parliament the Sydney morning press has
somehow persuaded itself that the N. S.
Wales division of the Country party is about
to ally itself to —which means to be absorbed
by—the Dashitall Federation. A similar
illusion possessed the Brisbane Courier until
W. J. Vowles, Cocky’s leader in Queensland,
drily remarked that political suicide wasn’t
on his programme. Being ponderously
rebuked for his impertinence Yowles came
back in this fashion: —
The Country party’s platform and ideals differ in
the main from those of the Nationalists in that city
interests are. and always have been, inimical to coun-
try interests. The Courier stands for city interests,
conservatism, and the bad old order of things. The
Country party does not expect the Courier's sup-
port in politics ; in fact, it would be a weakening of
our cause were we to receive such support. Put your
own political house in order, and let the Country
party attend to its own business. If we want your
esteemed advice we will tell you so.
The N. S. Wales Cocky may prove more
pliable than his relative in the North. But
the separation movements —which are largely
Cocky movements — don’t point that way.
The S’African Parliament having decided
to consider the appointment of a permanent
Tariff-adjusting Board, Australia’s Customs
Minister Greene has discovered that the
notion has its merits and might well be in-
vestigated. The Bulletin’s old idea, hav-
ing now become an imported one, is neces-
sarily good, Greene’s only concern being the
constitution of the Board, which "he as-
sumed would consist of members of the
House.” But that is just where Massy
Greene misleads himself. If a Tariff-adjust-
ing Board is to do the work expected of it
it must include representatives of manufac-
turers, merchants and the consuming pub-
lic, but the party politician is the last person
wanted on its premises. Most of him, any-
how, wouldn’t know a scientific, sliding-scale
tariff if he met one.
Let’s see —isn’t this the month in which
Hughes was to cash £10,000,000 of war
gratuity bonds with “the first instalment of
the German indemnity”? In his hurry to
get away to the annual conference at the
other end of the earth the Priminister forgot
all about it.
Declaring that it can’t keep things going
at a loss of £5 a bullock, the Westralian
Government is closing down the Wyndham
meatworks. Which means that there will
soon be £1,500,000-worth of plant and
machinery in process of becoming scrap-iron
at Wyndham and Darwin. The hapless
Wyndham enterprise was of the Head-
dan Government’s legacies to its distracted
country. It cost about three times as much
as the'estimate, and took three times as long
to construct. It has been run at a loss so
appalling that the employees got “the full
product of their labor” and a great deal
more, being about the highest-paid body of
manual laborers in the Commonweal th.
They were bitterly dissatisfied, nevertheless,
and were apt to leave work without warning
because the Government wouldn’t pnv them
for going to the races, or find lucrative posts
for a swarm of unwanted gentlemen of leisure
who had drifted over from Darwin, or for
such-like reasons. Finally, when the bottom
had fallen out of the dead-meat market, they
fired in the customary demand for more pay
and less exertion, and the almost-insolvent
Government intimated that it had had enough.
It means that the W -stralian taxpayer will
have to shoulder the whole burden of interest
and depreciation. But that will be nothing
unusual. He has been doing it all along.
With a deficit of £400,000 facing them,
Vic.<* Railway Commissioners will probably
suggest another lift in fares and freights.
An additional 5 per cent, may arrive on
June 15 or thereabouts.
“E.F.”: Before the glow of our mutual
Anzac Day admiration has died away, it
may be well to refresh our minds with the
criticisms of, say, Jakob Burckhardt, a
learned German who twice visited Australia
and was entertained by Lord Mayors and
such. Taking it for granted that the future
of Australia lay with the German Govern-
ment, Jakob wrote :— t
When we come to Australia we do not anticipate
any trouble with the younger generation. They have
proved themselves to be the most arrant cowards.
The young males are spineless jellyfish. The only
people they can bully are their aged parents, to
whom they should be a blessing in their old age,
but are only a curse. Their only ambition is to work
in a store, an office or an emporium. They have not
any desire to exercise their intellect. We will put
them in gangs on the road, and in making fortifica-
tions, locking them, up in stockades at night.... The
number of girls and even mature women who we e
our friends proved very uninteresting companions
owing to their lack of intellectuality, but they
soon become at least docile in our hands. in
factory girls and sewing girls are even worse. tne„
are utterly mean creatures.
As a matter of national policy every Anzac
Day ought to be made a day ol public
remembrance of the things that representa-
tive Huns were saying about Australia anu
Australians in 1915 and later.
Said the scowling Lord Mayor Lambert of
Sydney, airing his eternal grievance at a re-
cent Hibernian dinner: —
There is a bitter sectarian and racial campaign of
hatred against one of the finest little nations on the
face of the earth Immediately any person of the
Catholic faith or of Irish extraction any
important public office in this State we find a
of howling dingoes barking at his heels.
Yet even with 23 distinctly Irish names and
about 30 It.C.’s in a party of 40, and with
10 or so Il.C.’s in a Ministry ot 13, it is
possible the State wouldn’t worry provided
these people could open a cow-show without
talking Ireland. Twenty-three stamp collec-
tors in power would make the community
wild if they always talked stamps.
Genial observations of one H. A. ( amp-
bell, described as a Labor organiser from
Australia and M.L., in a Scottish Laboi
sheet
Hold fust, Sinn Feiners of Ireland, and make no
bargain or compromise with Ireland s age-long
enemy. You have got the big, brutal British bully
beat. You have unmasked the world’s champion pro-
fessional thief, most infamous' liar, and most deceit-
ful, dangerous hypocrite. You have revealed to the
world the blood-stained cloven hoofs, poisonous tall,
and crooked horns of Satan’s agent on earth. \ou
have exposed the white fangs of the original serpen ,
and you have challenged the right of a horde of
barbarians to rule you. You have found that the
British brute-beast in search of immoral power knows
no shame, grace, honor, justice or truth.
After which there is the refreshing announce-
ment that the polite Campbell lias written
a pamphlet, “The Crucifixion of Ireland,
which Archbishop Mannix warmly praises
for its impartiality,
Charlton, M.H.IL, was mildly indignant
when Treasurer Cook declared that he had
no money for an increase in, old-age pen-
sions. Charlton’s remedy was to shove on
more taxation. It didn’t occur to him to
suggest that the Government might help the
ancient inhabitants by cutting the expendi-
ture in other departments. Of course, there
is a good reason why a Ma State Labonte
doesn’t press too strongly for economy.
Charlton is committed to the Canberra busi-
ness, and any demand for a reduction of
extravagance might start the pruning-knite
on his favorite folly.
Victoria’s 200 branches of the A.N.A. held
simultaneous corroborees on April 27 to cele-
brate the Natives’ jubilee. A handful of
young fellows who were tired of being re-
ferred to patronisingly as “colonials” started
the organisation in a small Melbourne pub.
Now it has 50,000 members in the six
States and 32,000 in Vic. alone. George
Wise, P.M.G., pleaded, at the P’ran revels,
for a stronger manifestation of the Federal
spirit. He said nothing about doing a bit
of manifesting on bis own account. The
high hopes which his fellow-Natives centred
in Wise when he first displaced Allan
McLean in Gippsland have faded to no-
thingness.
Percy Douglas, Federal Tax Commis-
sioner for Tasmania, told the Taxation Com-
mission in Hobart that he had no idea why
the Federal unimproved land values tax
exemption was fixed at £5OO0 —there was no
exemption under the State land tax. From
which it is plain that the wondering official has
never been an active member of either of the
two parties that have made federated Austra-
lia- a political cockpit for a couple of decades.
Else he wouldn’t wonder. He would know
that the party that failed to pander to the
economic ignorance of the cocky, and the vor-
acity of the smaller breed of land-shark,
would regard itself as lacking in political
sagacity and unworthy of credit at the Tart
Shop.
One Baillie of San Francisco arrived in
Sydney on Wednesday, and being inter-
viewed in time for Thursday’s Telegraph
said that what struck him most in Australia
was the lack of motor-cars: —
He thinks it extraordinary that the Australian
working man doesn’t go to and from his work in a
motor-car. In the States a car is considered a neces-
sity. In Los Angeles there are 125,000 cars, or
almost one to every family.
Well, this country may possibly lay up even
the cars it has. It is tired of buying oil
from a person who proposes to shut out
almost everything we have to sell and de-
mands gold for his goods regardless of the
fact that he is already sitting on most of
the gold the earth possesses. But it is in-
teresting to reflect that even “ile” must give
out, as the buffalo did, and when it does it
will be a shock to a soft, voluptuous race
which has lived so long in its buzz waggon
that it has forgotten how to walk on its
goldarned feet.
DEMOCRACY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In this democratic plan
It is great to be a man,
Great to* have a freeman’s choice.
Grand to own a ruling voice.
Since democracy began
It was great to be a man.
Here I sit to air my views
And consider William Hughes.
He and I, with joint consent,
Hole this mighty continent.
1 have my peculiar views:
So has William Morris Hughes.
Always on election day
1 arise and say my say.
With a cross I air my views,
Try to smother William Hughes.'
On the free election day
1 have just oue word to say.
Having spoken, I am dumb
Till the next election come.
William then can have his say
Twenty-thousand times a day;
And for answer I am dumb
Till the next election come.
William Morris Hughes and I
Thus to rule together try
By the democratic plan
Giving power to every man.
What can William Hughes and 1
Do with such a scheme but try?
At the poll I try to break
William Hughes for conscience sake ;
After that for three years he
Tries his hand at breaking me.
I have simply failed to break
His strong grip for conscience sake.
Thus democracy is spent,
Thus we rule a. continent.
Through the William Morris dance
I must wait, my three-years chance.
Uselessly my vote is spent—
Though I rule a continent.
In this democratic plan
It is good, to be the man
Whom a day’s swift chance may bring
Greater power than any king ;
For this democratic plan
Walks upon the oth^iPiaiiHHHl
N.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


THE BATTLE SIGNAL.
The Argus continues to call on the Federal Parliament to cut down the tariff in the interests of the foreign manufacturer.


m
=?*£
n
The Electric Radiators sold by Metropolitan
Vickers are strong and efficient. They give a
clean, radiant heat. They can be moved from
room to room, wherever there is a lighting or
power point. They are economical. Get yours
before the rush.
ROPOLI
ELECTRICAL
CO- LTDt
%
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
104 Kent Street, Sydney.
m
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
n
PIONEER
LEATHER
mn
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions., and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, IX7 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Lane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W. A.: Horace Summers,
Howard-Street, Perth.
S.A.: John Me Kell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co.. Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, merchants, etc.:—
Writ- Added
. ten to Re- Re-
Proflts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
March, £ £ £ £ £
1908.. 69,787 10 p.c.= 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ „ 30,000 24,915 399,616
1910.. 70,167 10 „ „ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.. 79,890 10 „ „ 30,000 49,890 474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
Cash bonus of 7} p.c., £62,500 . . 136,877
1913.. 109,389 5 p.c. = 40,000 69,389 200,206
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 .. 166,266
1914.. 115,401 6ip.c.= 62,500 52,901 219,107
1915.. 98,317 64 „ „ 62,500 35,817 254,984
1916.. 118,583 71 „ „ 78,750 39,833 294,817
1917.. 161,466 74 ~,, 78,750 82,716 377,533
1918.. 199,747 74 „ „ 78,760 120,997 498,530
£lOO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398,530
1919.. 227,488 74 p.c.= 93,750 133,738 632,268
1920.. 260,139 10 „ „ 125,000 135,139 667,407
1921.. 132,274 10 „ „ 125,000 7,274 674,681
For once in a way the published figures
claim a larger profit than the table shows.
The P. and L. account sets it down at
£167,094. But from that has to be deducted
£19,820 which has disappeared from “Insur-
ance Fund and sundry branch and other re-
serves.” Hitherto it has not been possible
to say how much of this composite item was
Insurance Fund and how much the other
things; but the directors now throw light into
the dark place, and announce that of the
aggregate of £367,700 the Insurance Fund has
credit for £277,044. Not that it matters
much: one of this co.’s contingency accounts
is probably as good as another. As usual a
10 p.c. bonus on staff salaries is taken from
profits; and it looks as though staff salaries
have been moving along fast. In 1917 the
10 p.c. called for £10,000; 1918, £11,500;
1919, £12,000; 1920, £15,000; and now,
though the co.’s Island interests have been
disposed of, again £15,000.
The B.P. interests in the Islands were
taken over by Burns Philp (South Sea) Go.,
Ltd., as from January 31, 1920, the con-
sideration being 500,000 £1 shares in an
authorised capital of £2,000,000; and part of
the agreement was that B.P. shareholders
should pay cash for 250,000 shares at par.
The new co. has thus a capital of £750,000;
and of the parent’s net profit of £132,274 for
the year, £50,000 came in a 10 p.c. div. from
the infant for 11 months’ work. The division
of the business must be kept in mind when
the eye runs down the table on top and
takes in the fact that a serious fall is shown.
For, though the parent’s profit includes the
dividend which it received from the infant, it
doesn’t include the infant’s undivided profit;
and after paying 2s. per share on the new
capital for 11 months’ trading (notwith-
standing that that capital only came in by
calls, the last of which was not paid till two
months after the accounts closed), there was
£27,846 to put by. It can’t be said to a.
fraction; but it seems that, if 10 p.c. p.a» is
alloived on the capital actually in the busi-
ness for the time it was there, including the
parent’s £500,000 in shares, the surplus made
by the infant would be about £45,000. Which
must be grateful and comforting to somebody
and absorbs part of the shock of the fall pre-
viously mentioned.
As one result of the South Sea maiden
going into housekeeping on her own account
at Suva, in Fiji, where the rich uncles live,
there are a few big movements in B.P.’s
balance-sheet as at March 31: —
Liabilities.
1910. 1915. 1920. 2921.
Capital . .£300,000 £1,000,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. 479,783 347,484 807,407 814,681
Liabilities 195,435 261,095 831,417 960,984
Properties 155,000 177,000 191,000 1
Shipping ... 168,485 258,7201 [-1,399,993
Cash and in- r 533,355 J
vestments 84,340 187,088 J
Stock .. 180,551 250,808 583,969 ( ooa oci
Other assets 141,831 322,339 902,660 j oou ’ ooi
Book debts 245,011 382,624 677,840 734,821
That doesn’t show it very well; but it can’t
be helped—there has been too freauent re-
grouping of the assets to permit of perfect
clarity. “Other assets” used to consist of
“copra and other island produce on hand and
in transit”; also shipping, consignment and
other advances. Now the merchandise stock
is bundled with “copra and sundry produce”
and the advances. Anyway, the total assets
of the great concern have moved like this: —
1918, £2,261,506; 1919, £2,642,497 ;
1920, £2,888,824 ; 1921, £3,015,665.
Further: —■
Assets of B.P. & Co., 31/3/’2l £3,015,665
Less interest in Islands Co. 500,000
£2 515 665
Assets of Islands Co., 31/12/’2O 1!126’,040
Total assets .. .. .. £3,641,705
Which shows that there hasn’t been any
shrinkage in the operations. Liabilities, of
course, have had to move along, too. As
shown above, the old co. owed £950,984 on
March 31 and the Island co. £304,401 on
Dec. 31; total £1,255,385. It is doubtful
whether there is a single creditor who doesn’t
wish he was owed five times as much.
The future? Who knows it? But it has
to be remembered that, though there are many
people who can make money out of fine
weather, there are a few ivlio can make it
out of wet weather, too. On past records,
if anybody can make profits, B.P. can. From
Queensland the co. spread out to the Pacific
islands; then it went north, and the northern
trade—with Java especially—must have been
tremendously profitable during the last few
years. It isn’t easy to make millions in Aus-
tralia : there are not the millions to make it
out of. But there are in Asia; and the possi-
bilities of trade development that way are
incalculable.
The South Sea Co’s performance during
the 11 months is fairly well covered by the
foregoing. On a capital which at the end
of the year was £718,794 a net profit of
£102,546 was shown. Few men in the wide
world knew less about business than
W. M. Hughes did when he became Prime
Minister —how could it be otherwise? But
he had an enormous opinion of himself, and
being a megalomaniac he got power under the
War Precautions and other Acts to poke his
finger into everybody’s business. Indeed, the
control of many people’s businesses was taken
completely out of their hands. This inter-
ference had a serious effect upon Australian
trade with the Pacific, and the Americans,
seeing an opportunity, jumped in and pro-
ceeded to collar for themselves what Sydney
had previously enjoyed. Hence, so far as this
co. was concerned, “during the first year’s
operations a considerable amount was ex-
pended in erecting increased storage at many
suitable points for Island produce, while
wharfage facilities were improved,” and the
organisation was bettered to allow of “larger
and more economical working, rendered
necessary through increased competition.”
Probably a good deal of the trade will be
done direct with the U.S.A., Burns Philp
and Co. of San Francisco, Incorporated, hav-
ing been formed for that and other purposes.
* * « »
The Bank oe Adelaide (S. Australia) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1908 .. £56,510 9 p.c. = £36,000 £20,510 £326,014
1909.. 52,694 9i „ „ 38,000 14,694 340,708
1910 . . 66,130 10 „ „ 40,000 26,130 366,838
Premiums on new shares.. 50,000 416,838
1911.. 79,048 10 p.c. = 45,000 34,648 451,486
1912.. 80,598 10 „ „ 50,000 30,598 482,084
1913.. 51,138 10 „ „ 50,000 31,138 513,222
1914 .. 71,946 10 ~ „ 50,000 21,946 535,168
1915 . . 53,023 9 „ „ 45,000 8,023 543,191
1916 .. 49,806 8 „ „ 40,000 9,806 552,997
Written off, £12,997 .. 540,000
1917.. 56,173 8 p.c. = 40,000 16,173 556,173
1918 .. 71,355 10 „ „ 50,000 21,355 \ r ,o S
Voted to Provident Fund, £lO,OOO \ ’
1919.. 69,349 10 p.c. = 50,000 19,349 / ; S , 577
Written off premises, £3OOO .. ( ’
1920.. 87,694 10 p.c. = 50,000 $7,694 ( r 7l
Written off premises, £5OOO .. ) ’
1921.. 93,108 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,608 ( 642 179
Written off premises £5OOO j ’
Another £125,000 of share capita) has been
got in during the year, the first lot for 10
years; and if you allow 0 p.c. for that, the
past year’s profit was certainly no better
than its predecessor’s. Still it was pretty
good—slightly over 6f p.c. on share capital
and reserves combined. Certainly that is
not much in these times when you consider
ivhat the goodwill of a bank such as this
ought to be worth. The simple truth is that
banking in Australia isn’t a very profitable
business ; in almost any other line a concern
with such a goodwill would certainly think it
was not doing well enough if it did not show
8 p.c. on its capital and reserves, especially
as assets like premises have been steadily
written down —in other words, as there are
reserves that are not disclosed at all. For
the comparatively poor showing of Australian
banks, as a whole, they are themselves largely
to blame: they have for the most part a
ridiculous number of competing branches.
And you can’t tell how ridiculous the com-
petition is by merely ascertaining how many
banks have branches in one particular town-
ship, because when a bank establishes an
office at Smithton to serve Smithton, Jones-
ville and Brownburgh, its competitors usually
go one to Jonesville and the other to Brown-
burgh. Here, for instance, is a little con-
cern with a capital of £625,000 and no less
than 54 branches. And then there is the
competition of the Commonwealth Bank and
to some extent of the State Savings Banks—
perfectly legitimate competition for the most
part, yet serious because they don’t have any
capital that calls for interest. Thereupon it
is proper to inquire how they came to acquire
a large amount of free capital. In the first
place, no doubt, by having very large sums
of savings bank money which are for all
practical purposes as good as the fixed de-
posits of the private banks, but cost a great
deal less. Nominally the Savings Bank de-
posit can be withdrawn on demand or very
short notice, but when these deposits run
into millions (the Commonwealth Savings
Bank alone has nearly 20 millions drawn
from half-a-million depositors), a good half
can be as safely employed in ordinary bank-
ing business as the private banks’ higher-
price fixed deposits. This means that the
Savings Bank depositor doesn’t get the advan-
tage that ought to come to him from co-opera-
tion on a large scale. The bank gets his
money too cheap. And, incidentally, this and
other private banks suffer, and no doubt will
go on suffering.
Considerable changes have taken place in
the Bank of Adelaide’s figures during the
year, but most of them have been towards
the restoration of the normal, which was
upset by the financing of the wheat pool:
Liabilities.
1914. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Notes .. £12,822 £ 7,747 £7,519 £7.306
Bills, etc.. 320,311 223,246 293,106 866,054
Deposits .. 4,834,739 5,365,076 6,380,056 5,984,597
Liquid assets 2,988,615 2,176,522 4,342,048 3,303,919
Advances.. 3,128,104 4,424,338 3,327,451 4,689,898
Premises, etc. 111,321 104,086 157,753 162,569
Liabilities, now £6,857,957, amount to about
£5 7s. 9d. for every £1 of shareholders’ funds ;
and others things being equal that means
first-rate security for depositors—even 8 to
1 would not be an out-of-the-way proportion.
And the creditors’ position is good also from
the point of view of assets held liquid : this
holding is just on 50 p.c. of total liabilities.
But you get an inkling of the deplorable con-
dition of national finance from the fact that
of the bank’s liquid assets of £2,837,518,
exclusive of remittances in transit, no less
than £850,230 is held in Commonwealth
notes—a large but unknown part of it a
forced loan, which has been employed in the
inflation of prices and the demoralisation
of the country.
Wool, wiheat and copper are the middle
State’s great stand-bys; and the markets for
them all are sick and going to be sicker be-
fore they are well. It will take several
years for the wool market to become normal,
because of the vast accumulation of stocks.
But it isn’t necessary for wool prices to be
anywhere near war-boom rates to make the
industry profitable—provided outgoings
shrink along with the cost of living. The
same can be said about wheat and copper.
And that is just where S. Australia is likely
to score. Its habits have changed, no doubt,
during the past few years, but it hasn’t so
universally acquired champagne tastes as
some other States have done. That explains
why the S. Aus. Government is leading the
way in its opposition to pools and other war-
time devices for manipulating the markets.
All suggested new devices, such as those for
holding wool and lead and wheat off the
market, are the pick-r e-ups that are thirsted
for in the sorrowful morning after the wild
night before. And because S. Aus. didn’t
have such a very wild night, it doesn’t hanker
much after even a brandy-and-soda.
* * w n
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods :—•
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
- £ £>£>£,£,
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 p.e.= 5000 2670 71,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 ~,,5000 3000 662 71,981
July,’ls.. 8,203 10 „ ~ 5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,, 5000 4121 78,305
July, ’16.. 8,141 10 ~,, 5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195.. .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10 p.c.= 5000 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000.. 74,167
July,’l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
Jan.,’lB.. 10,460 10 ~,,6250 4210 80,252
July,’lB.. 13,677 10 ~ ~6250 7427 87,679
Jan.,’l9.. 14,663 10 ~,,6250 8413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, £5OOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July,’l9.. 13,067 10p.e.= 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes, £BOOO .. .. 69,597
Jan.,’2o.. 25,878 11 p.c.= 7563 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £5OOO .. .. 82,912
July,’2o.. 23,275 12 p.c.= 8250 15,025 97,937
Jan.,’2o.. 14,030 12 ~,,8250 5,780 103,717
After having had a busy time rushing fodder
into drought-stricken areas, this old carry-
ing company has got back to something
like normal. But it is a very healthy nor-
mal: the latest disclosed profit showed over
20 p.c. on paid capital. As usual in such
a business, book debts are large; but, then,
farmers and pastoralists had not received
payment for their wheat and wool when the
co. balanced. Very handsome profits showed
up as a result of operations during the
drought, and the co. did considerably better
than its published accounts showed, for large
provisions were made for contingencies, and
only a year ago the directors whispered
that they had £40,000 of undisclosed profits
put away. In addition there is £13,000 set
aside, and not included with the reserves
shown above, for taxes, though all current
calls by the Treasuries have been met out
of revenue.
The latest balance-sheet figures compare
with those of five years ago in this way:
Jan.,’l6. July,’2o. Jan.,’2l.
Liabilities .. ..£48,757 £108,317 £85,690
Premises and plant.. 17,963 23,838 3L048
McCulloch Co. .. . 25,000 25,000 20,000
Book debts .. .. 100,467 185,621 194,642
Stock .. . . 45,175 71,976 66,567
Cash and Government
securities .. .. 40,955 55,693 26,775
Paid capital has meantime moved from
£lOO,OOO to £137,500, but only £12,500 of
that increase was new money got in from
shareholders. The balance, £25,000, was un-
distributed profit capitalised. But in addi-
tion to this issue of bonus shares a 20 p.c.
cash bonus (£25,000) was divided. _ As the
introductory table shows, after paying divs.
of 10 p.c. and better, visible reserves have
now expanded to £103,717, apart from the
£13,000 set aside for taxes, which is also a
genuine reserve. To represent the paid capi-
tal of £137,500 there was, after payment of
latest divs., a surplus of book debts, stock
and cash assets (all apparently well pro-
tected bv internal reserves) over and above
all liabilities of £198,169. Also, there were
premises and plant with a book value of
£31,048, and the £25,000 interest in the
McCulloch Carrying Co., the Melbourne end
of the business, which has also been prosper;
ing, and which no doubt has reserves of its
own.
* * * *
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne),
which in 1907 succeeded the Freehold Assets
Realisation Co., whose job was to act as
undertaker to the Freehold Investment and
Banking Co.: —
Reserves.
Taken over from old co. .. £14,119
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.
Jan., 1908. . £1,484 Nil £1484 15,603
Written off reserves, £2957 .. 12,646
Dec., 1908.. 6,540 7 p.c. = £5,197 1343 13,989
Dec., 1909.. 7,284 8 „ „ 5,939 1345 15,334
D&c., 1910. . 11,327 104 „ „ 7,795 3532 18,866
Dec., 1911.. 8,569 9 „ „ 6,682 1887 20,753
Dec., 1912.. 8,319 9 „ „ 6,682 1637 22,390
Dec., 1913.. 8,302 9 „ ~ 6,682 1620 24,010
Dec., 1914.. 9,040 9 „ „ 6,682 2358 26,368
Dec., 1915.. 6,899 9 „ „ 6,682 217 26,585
Dec., 1916.. 6,979 9 „ „ 6,682 297 26,882
Dec., 1917.. 8,407 9 „ ~ 6,682 1725 28,607
Dec., 1918.. 12,886 16J „ „ 12,251 635 29,242
Dec., 1919.. 9,400 114 „ „ 8,538 862 30,104
Premiums on new shares, £6439. . 36,543
Dec., 1920.. 12,644 14 p.c. = 11,038 1606 38,149
This co. will serve as a warning to some and
a hint to others. The worse the drunk the
worse the headache; the higher you climb
among the stars, the deeper you are liable
to burrow among the ashes. That is why
this co. got the remnants of some boom cos.’
assets at prices that had been written down
too severely altogether. The co. has been
paying a pretty fair dividend all along, and
now, profits having been “augmented by a
special dividend received from one of the
investments,” a bonus of Is. on the old and
of 3d. on the new shares is paid. These
new shares, 25,755 of them, were issued dur-
ing the year at a premium of 55., and make
the capital £lOO,OOO. There was a previ-
ous bonus in 1918, and that was due to the
completion of sales, leaving in hand certain
provisions for contingencies. And, even
though there are hard times ahead, there
probably will be further plums of that kind,
because in addition to the reserves shown in
the table there is a realisation suspense
account with £29,477 at credit, and that
much is not likely to be called for, seeing
that all the freeholds at cost stand at only
£54,369 and balances owing by purchasers
£39,470. Here, however, is the whole posi-
tion epitomised
1908. 1917. 1918. 1920.
Liabilities.. .. £89,954 £83,859 £84,066 £85,861
Realisation suspense
account .. .. 7,460 31,177 25,339 29,477
Property .. .. 76,438 30,604 30,407 54,369
Shares in other cos. 6,256 114,364 114,422 119,421
Balances owing .. 58,440 37,460 30,084 39,470
Other assets .. 46,589 39,172 47,260 48,295
There has for several years past been a
steady profit on the sale of nroperties
(£3284 for the past year) ; and that makes
the realisation reserve look all the better.
Still, last year isn’t next year; you can’t
eat your fowl and have omelettes as well.
As sales have been made and other money
has become available a lot of it has gone into
“shares in other cos.” The Land Mortgage
Bank of Victoria has taken most of it:
in 1912 this co: bought 140,500 shares out
of 145,770 in that derelict. The two have
since practically combined to extend the
business of commercial undertakers; and
there is a lot of money in disposing of the
corpse if you acquire it at the right time,
and know just what to do with the waikh
robe and sundries. It may even get pickings
out of the slump that is coming; and it
doesn’t look as though it can be very hard
hit itself.
* * . * *
The N. S. Wales revenue returns to the
end of March haven’t improved the horrible
record of the Dooley Ministry, that proud but
sobbing aggregation whfcch is always in
tears about how badly its predecessors
managed the finances and always wild (but
not speechless) with admiration about how


Dalgety 8 Company
-Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABEE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution. of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
* * * •
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth,— Advt. [2
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe stands for water puritv,
frost resistance, speedy installation—for low cost.
And engineers of great experience specify it con-
stantly as being most efficient. Wood Pipe is not
affected by electrolysis, acid fumes or corrosion, and
its upkeep costs practically nothing. Therefore, when
you want a water conduit of proven dependabilitv
specify “Pioneer” and you will get genuine satis-
faction. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to Fig Tree), and at
Footscray, Vic. — Advt.
* * # *
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
1921 Models” “National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
, . —Advt.
* * »
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Ass.r
Bequisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s k
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun'
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowes
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv k Co.
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bom
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
&
BOORD&jSON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
$8
DT
l£HjlL_^_9-?. ,nl>any ktd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St..
Sydney,
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties,
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
its great brain put things straight and thus
left all previous financiers in the shade.
This is how the financial years have closed
since the first Labor Government took office:
Labor Government (McGowen).
1911 . . Deficit £588,202
1912 .. „ 340,143
19)3 . . ~ 1,228,379
Average Annual Shortage, £718,908
Labor Government (Holman).
1914 .. Surplus £373,039
1915 .. „ 430,048
1916 .. „ 149,591
Average Annual Surplus £317,559
Nationalist Government (Holman)
1917 .. Deficit £268,79S
1918 . . Surplus 23,8^4
1919 .. „ 214,768
Average Annual Deficit, £10,086
Part Nationalist Part Labor Government.
1920 Deficit £1,559,000
Labor Government (Dooley).
March, 1921 (9 months) Deficit £4,160,224
March, 1921. .Deficit on Loan Account, 9,567,422
There would, of course, have been no sur-
pluses at all under a rigidly honest system of
accountancy—the kind that would be adopted
by men who had no regard for personal
advertisement. And under that honest
system the deficits would have been a great
deal worse. All the same, the figures are
eloquent enough.
The meeting of the Commercial Bank of
Tas. shareholders the other day to confirm
the decision to hand over everything to the
E., 8. and A. got a shock in the shape of a
claim from a local firm of auctioneers and
commission agents (Murdoch Bros.) for 1
p.c. on the £616,000 purchase money. The
claimants asserted that the sale was effected
as a result of their introduction. Commercial
Bank managing-director Barclay denied that
he had employed an agent, and E., 8. and A.
manager O’Sullivan said ditto, the latter
adding that he regarded the claim of the
Hobart firm as “an impudent one without
merit.” Murdoch Bros, say that in the face
of these denials they have no alternative
but to test the matter. Barclay declared at
the meeting that Murdoch Bros, “haven’t a
ghost of*a show of getting a copper.” The
shareholders present said, “Hear, hear,”
passed the confirming resolutions, after
souelching an objector, paid some compli-
ments to the beloved Mojses who had led them
successfully for 40 years or so, then went
more or less sorrowfully home from the
funeral.
* * * *
The only objector at the final meeting of
the Speck's Commercial Bank shareholders
was lawyer Pringle, who protested against
the wind-up resolutions on the ground that
the interests of his client, Mrs. Margaret
Barclay (widow of late managing-director
Charles J. Barclay), who holds a life tenancy
in several thousand shares, were not suffi-
ciently protected. Though himself a life
tenant under a settlement, Pringle was ruled
out by the meeting, as he was not a/share-
holder. Whereupon he gathered up his books
and papers and left the room, his bearing
plainly indicating that somebody or other
would hear more about something or other.
This incident, together with Murdoch Bros’,
claim for £6160 commission, would suggest
that the liquidators of the bank may not find
the job a bed of roses.
From the general manager of the A.M.P.:
The Bulletin of April 28 makes a reference to
the election of directors, and an incorrect statement
appears which, I trust, you will kindly correct in
your next issue. So far from the late Mr. B.
Short having been the only director elected by the
members of the Society without previous appointment
by the Board, I would point out that very many
have been so elected, including both of the directors
who retired on this occasion. These gentlemen ori-
ginally submitted themselves to the members, and
were elected over the heads of the retiring directors
who were seeking re-election.
Perhaps Mr. Apperly will be good enough
now to tell us what directors (except Ben-
jamin Short and Alex. Jobson) have been
elected over the heads of the Board during
the past 32 years. Prior to that conditions
were different, because if two directors re-
tired only one was eligible for re-election
or if only one retired then he was not eligible
until he had been 12 months off the Board ;
so new men were constantly coming forward.
White Hope (W T .A.) has few friends
nowadays, and even its sponsor, Herbert
Daly, has given it the cold shoulder. Most
of the underground men and all but two of
the surface hands have been paid off, and
unless the diamond drill finds something pay-
able at depth White Hope’s doom is sealed.
A crosscut put from a winze at about 170 ft.
down to intersect the lode found only a
narrow sulphide vein of low value. A year
ago the show Was claimed by most front-
rank experts to he a great one; no one
now regards it as of any consequence.
* * * *
The whole story of Boulder Perseverance’s
troubles with its tributors was told share-
holders by the liquidator in London on Feb.
22. Not being satisfied with the proportion
of the gold premium given them, some of the
men went to law. The co. gained a verdict in
the State Supreme Court, and as the four
judges of the appealed-to High Court
were equally divided the co. remained on top.
As, however, Labor-leader Collier and others
alleged that Shylock had been completely
out-done by the co., and as its conscience
pricked a bit, a compromise was made, the
litigant tributors accepting considerably less
than half of what they originally claimed.
Had the co. not made terms in this way, the
case, according to the liquidator, might have
brought about an amendment of the Mining
Act, and perhaps led to the Commonwealth
Government refusing to allow’ the Gold Pro-
ducers’ Association to export its gold, on the
ground that the tributing miners were not
receiving their full share of the profit derived.
Many anxious shareholders want to know
something about Riverina South. Gold pro-
duction to a shallow depth was creditable,
and on the strength of this and a lot of
blow about future prospects, a co. of 60,000
shares, nearly half of which were paid pro-
moters, was formed and started operations
about six years ago. Since then an amount
roughly estimated at £60,000 has been called
up and spent, together with the proceeds
from gold won. ■ In addition, the co.
obtained a Government loan of £2000; got
credit for several thousands more: and
issued £6OOO worth of debentures. Then,
with a feeling of work well done, it spent
what it had and gave up. Later on, Mick
Williams, of the Edna May, came along, and
encouraged by the promise of a further Gov-
ernment loan of £3OOO, he re-opened the mine
on behalf of the Board. Since then pros-
pects, according to his reports, have bright-
ened, but there is no ore blocked out, a rush
of water has hung up development, and the
plant is described as inefficient. Moreover,
the present high cost of gold-mining in the
West is considered fatal to any chances of
success the mine might have.
* * * *
Prospects at Ives’ Reward, Mt. Monger
(W.A.), appear to be no better than those
at the Riverina South, and its financial
position is certainly ■worse. Before the co.
can wholly own the mine and be clear of
debt, it has to pay £9OOO to prospector Ives
and redeem £14,500 worth of 8 n.C. deben-
tures. So far the cash at its disposal has
been barely sufficient for working expenses,
and before long the want of funds will pro-
bably kill it. All other ventures floated on
this field have turned out failures.
Pernatty Central, which at the height of
the Hampton boom looked to be one of the
few shows on the field worth prospecting,
and which has been worked with some energy
since, is to have a 20hd. mill at an early
date. The management seems confident that
the ore in sight is good enough to treat, but
it will probably be found to yield little profit
for shareholders.
* # * *
The plight of Mt. Morgan is made very
clear by the joint report of Frank Ham-
bridge and Colville Christie, the two account-
ants deputed by the Queensland Arbitration
Court (the former nominated by the unions)
to investigate the co.’s affairs. Taking the
four weeks ended Feb. 20 they found that
27.816 tons ore treated gave '508.38 tons
blister containing 503.29 tons copper and
7129.65cjj. gold, the average quantity of ore
reouired to produce a. ton of copper being 551
tons. Each ton blister was ascertained to
have cost £166 17s. 6d„ made up in this
wa v :—-
Mining .. £57 3 1. .Fire insur’ce etc. £0 16 10
„ „„ „„ „ Accident insur’ce,
Concentrating 17 10 8.. etc _ 2 310
Smelting .. 48 14 2. .Management, etc. 3 6 3
Converting .. 7 5 10. ..*"*»„ 16 10
That makes a total of £l5O 17s. 6d.; the
balance of £l6 is the outgo on development
(£2 10s.), depreciation (£7 17s. Id.), land
tax, etc. The .great assistance the gold con-
tents have been to Morgan is made apparent
by the fact that each ton blister contained
14.1660 z., worth £74 11s. with gold at £5
ss. 3d. Deducting this from the gross costs
leaves £92 6s. 6d. as the net cost of pro-
ducing and realising each ton copper, which
is £lB 6s. 6d. more than the current market
price for electrolytic. For Morgan to operate
without loss, but without allowing the co.
one penny for depleted ore reserves, the
accountants found that, with stores, etc., at
present prices, an “all-round reduction in
wages and salaries of 24.8 p.c. will be neces-
sary.” Notwithstanding that this report by
the accountants (one of whom represented
the unions) thoroughly justifies the co.’s offer
of a 20 p.c. wages reduction, the unions appa-
rently intend to reject the proposal, and
chance a shut-down.
There has been an orgy of ore-divining
around Brisbane, due possibly to the
presence of an important mine within the
suburban boundaries of a capital city.
Numerous attempts have been made to locate
other silver-lead ore bodies at Indooroopilly,
but so far without success. In Bestman’s
shaft on ILL. 58 the ore body was to be
found in less than 80ft., but they have gone
120 ft. with no ore in sight. In Bruhn’s
shaft the ore was to be found at 40ft., but
they are now down 70ft. with the same
result. Still, faith in divining dies hard,
and operations have been commenced on the
other side of Brisbane for similar bodies on
diviners’ predictions. One of the craft, this
time nosing for gold, has been discovering
reefs in Too won g and Cooparoo suburbs, but
the public is not exactly rushing this pros-
pect.
* * * *
'The whole of the concentrating plant for
the Mt. Cobalt mine (Q.) is on order, and
some of the ’Murkan-made lot has already
been delivered in Townsville. The greater
portion of the machinery and plant, however,
is being manufactured locally, and will not
be ready for delivery until July. The mine
at the lowest level looks well, showing good
bodies of concentrating ore, also tbe usual
blanks of barren lode gangue. Judging by
development work the mine has vast possi-
bilities as a low-grade proposition and ‘indi-
cations of a deep-seated ore body.
* * * *
Good progress is being made at unwater-
ing the old Vulcan, Irvinebank (Q.). The
pumps have lowered the flood to about the
850 ft. mark, and bottom should be seen
witbin a couple of weeks, thus fulfilling the
words of the prophet who said the old mine
could be pumped dry within about three
months. Before baling began many consid-
ered that the shaft would need to be re-
timbered, but so far all timber has been
found in good condition, and few troubles
have been experienced. The object of the
resuscitation is to ascertain whether the bot-
tom level (1400 ft.), which proved barren,
will get into ore when taken further south.
The State mining-engineer considered it
likely, and the Mines Department agreed to
advance £ for £. Shareholders cheerfully re-
sponded to a call, so the directors decided
to go ahead arid see whether the old tin-
wonder had fooled them in the bottom level.
Several tin shows in the Irvinebank dis-
trict (Q.) are stiff at work, but though the
owners could knock out more than good
wages they are stacking the ore in the hope
of a market improvement. This has been
proceeding for months, with the result that
the State works, taken over from the Irvine-
bank Co., have operated only long enough
to shake the rust off the machinery. The low
price of tin has, however, beaten the old
Gilmore mine, and exemption has been
applied for. This is the show which in
three years from 1900 paid £20,850 in divs.,
and though shareholders have had nothing
since it has managed to pay its way con-
tinuously and rewarded odd tributors.
“Itellu”: The Normanby field, interest in
which has been revived lately, was first
opened up in 1872. It was discovered by
Sam Verge, a stockman on Havilah station.
He became one of a party who worked
the Hibernian Reef. Other important
reefs were the Grace Darling, Marquis,
Welcome, Star of Hope. Albion. Venture
and New Zealand. The .attractions of the
Towers, the Palmer and other rushes soon
killed the first boom at Normanby. In 1891
there was a revival, and the population
reached about 300: but still the time was
not ripe. Nearly 20 years ago Alex. Mac-
kenzie lost £6OOO on Normanby, and even
then came away with a good opinion of it.
Last year the district was overhauled by
P. F. Meredith, who discovered the Billy
Hughes, Ross Smith and other promising
shows, about five miles from the old Nor-
manby township. Normanby has always
suffered from its isolation. Probably a road
will now be opened up to the new coalfields
railway.
* # » •
The shutters have been put up at Sunny
Corner (N.S.W.) once more after a run
of a little over three years. The low price
of metals and the high cost of treatment are
the reasons given, and the syndicate which
has been operating there has been granted
four months’ suspension, with a view to
raising sufficient capital to erect a local
treatment plant. The ore has been sent to
Port Kembla for treatment, but this course
cannot be continued while costs and values
maintain their present ratio. During the
past three years £70,000 worth of ore has
been taken out of the mine, and 20,000 tons
more are said to be in sight, with the lode
going strongly under foot in the lower level.
There is also 600,000 tons of slag, carrying
more or less silver.
* * * *
Round Hill (Tas.) has ceased operations
for the time being, owing to high operating
costs and adverse market conditions, and as
a result there is a total cessation of lead-
production in the Speck. The lengthy period
before final settlement by Cockle Creek
smelters has acted like a boomerang with all
Tas. lead producers; an advance of 80 p.c.
was allowed when lead was £2B per ton and
silver ss. per oz., but instead of credit
balances in their • favor the cos. now find
themselves in debt to the smelters. North
Farrell is reported to owe £2OOO, and Mag-
net no less than £7OOO.
Lode-mining in the Speck has almost ceased
during the last few months, only Lyell and
Bischoff going for their lives in an attempt
to beat the metal slump. The fearsome list
of the non-producers is: Argent Flat,
Queensberry, Niki, Federal, Renison Bell.
Bounder-Dreadnaught, Read-Rosebery group
and subsidiary mines, Lyell Blocks, North
Farrell, Chester, Magnet, Bischoff Extended,
South Bischoff, Wier’s Surprise, Shepheard
and Murphy, Round Hill, Storey’s Creek,
King Island Scheelite, Royal George, Mt.
Lindsay, Mt. Jasper, Mt. Pelion, and many
smaller shows —representing a large capital
outlay which is undergoing rapid deprecia-
tion.
* * * *
A local syndicate has been formed at
Charlton (Vic.) to search for oil in the
valley of the Avoca River, where natural
gas was said to have been found some time
ago. The syndicate has options over a large
area of private property. Prospecting bores
are to be put down immediately. In the
opinion of H. S. Whitelaw, field geologist of
the Vic. Mines Department, “the weight of
evidence” is in favor of the idea that the
gas issuing from Robinson’s Dam and there-
abouts is “the outcome of the decomposition
of vegetable matter in the damp upper
layers of the alluvial deposits.” R. Murray
Scott, the co.’s adviser, who has had experi-
ence in' Borneo and Bombay, scoffs at this
notion, of course.
* * • #
Welcome Nelson Syndicate looks like pick-
ing up the Lord Nelson line north of St.
Arnaud (Vic.). At 120 ft. three reefs, re-
spectively Bft., 2ft. 6in. and Oft. wide, have
been found, all carrying gold, and they may
junction. Assays have not been given out;
but it is said that there is no silver in the
ore, as there usually was in the St. Arnaud
product. One of the Badak wild cats, having
some money that it can’t find use for in
Malaya, is looking this way.
(Continued on page 26. )


PITY THE POOR PARSON
“At the Bathurst Synod astounding assertions were made as to the position of low-paid clergymen. One clergyman declared that he did not have one pair of sheets in
the house, and did not know where he was going to get blankets to keep his children warm in the coming winter. The Rev. M. Barry (Stuart Town) said his parish had
decided that his stipend should be raised from £l2O to £l5O. But it was already four months behind in payment. He had had to borrow a couple of pounds to come to
the Synod. The poor had given more than the rich. S. M. Herald.


iHUH
V '
$4 V
M fl *
* «
'S
VIS
When You
ask. for
Lager-
VABBOTS
"The Beer
without
a Rival”
n
mn
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing fo'p
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
May birthdays:—
Senator Brig.-Gen. Charlie Cox, 58, and Vic. Rail-
ways Commissioner Miscamble, 59, on 2nd; Justice
Rich (High Court), 58, and Prof. Laby (Melb.), 41,
on 3rd; David J. Gordon, M.L.C., (S. Aus.), 56 on
4th; G. M. Prendergasf’, M.L.A., (Vic.), on 6th;
Senator Pratten, 56 on 7th; H. C. L. Anderson
(Syd.), 68 on 10th; Insolvency Commissioner Mit-
chell (S.A.), 69 on 11th; Chief Justice Cooper
(Q.), 73 on 12th; Brig.-Gen. Abbott, 52 on
14th; Justice Chubb (Q.), 76, poet Leon Gellert,
29, and Dr. Langley (ex-Bishop of Bendigo), 85, on
17th; \V. M. Fleming, M.H.R., 47 on 19th; A. B.
Moncrieff (S.A.), 76 on 22nd; Justice Angas Par-
sons, 49 on 23rd; I. McGillivray, ex-M.L.A.
(S.A.), 81 on 24th; Archgaiters Riley (Perth), 67,
and C. H. Goode (S.A.), 94, on 26th; Dr. Fred
Bird (Melb.), 63 on 27th; M. Scott Fletcher
(Principal Wesley College, Sydney), 53 on 28th;
G. Gordon McCrae (Melb.), 88, and Surgeon-Gen.
David Bruce (b. Melb.), 66, on 29th; Prof. Berry
(Melb.), 54 on 30th.
ALLAN R. MCCULLOCH, Zooloaist of the
Australian Museum (Sydney).
Auctioneer Frank Johnson, of Adelaide, has
knocked down his last lot, at 66. Son of a
city councillor and M.H.A., he was one of the
few surviving scholai’s of the ancient
“Academy” of J. L. Young. He had long
service in the Adelaide Corporation, taking
his turn at last as mayor from 1907 till 1909,
and became first chairman of the Abattoirs
Board. Johnson was a first-class elocution-
ist and a prominent Mason. He was a
bacheloi", and a sister mayoressed during his
term.
Mary J. Henty-Wilson, who died at Rich-
mond (Vic.) the other day, was the second
daughter of James Henty, who landed in
Portland in 1834. The old lady was born
in Tas. in IS4O, and she had been living in
the ancient family residence at Richmond
for 70 years. Probably pride in her histori-
cal name induced her to hyphen it to Wilson
when she manned John Lepper of that ilk
in ISB2. For 30 years she had been secre-
tary of the Richmond and East Melbourne
Benevolent Society, but finally had to resign
owing to failing eyesight. Her sister, Mrs.
•Tames Balfoux 1 , who is now well on in the
’eighties, is the only survivor of James
Ilenty’s family of six.
A. F. Weavex-, who answei’ed the final
call in Adelaide recently at 80, was one of
the few surviving original members of the pre-
sent Adelaide Stock Exchange, founded dur-
ing the Broken Hill boom cf 1887. The only
others left now are Wills, Beach and David
Fotheringham.
The Professor Coleridge Farr of the recent
N. S. Wales case in which his wife’s sanity
was the issue is a brilliant scholar’, born
in a scholarly atmosphere. His father was
the Archdeacon who for many years was
headmaster of St.
Peter’s College,
Adelaide. The Farr
family was a large
one. Edwin Black-
more, the first
Clerk of the Fed-
er a 1 Pai’liament,
married one
daughter, and a
second was the
wife of Canon Hey
Sharpe, a longtime
warden of St.
Paul’s College,
Sydney. The Dr.
Granville Sharpe
who came into the
recent case was a
son of that mar-
riage.
MONTERO,
Consul-in-Chief for
Spain in Australia.
One Christie Butters, of Braudon (N.Q.),
the other day stepped firmly on the 103rd
rung of the ladder of life. He has been
married four times, and lias 17 children
living. The eldest, a girl, is 85 years of age,
and she herself has had 13 children. One
died in his youth, aged 67, unmarried, lie
was the only one of the baker’s dozen who
didn’t either smoke or drink. Brandon is
such a horribly healthy place that the under-
taker has to take on cane-cutting to keep
the dingo fi*om the door.
Major E. W. Hunt, D. 5.0., M.C., re-
turned to the S’African Parliament for Turf-
l’ontein, a Johannesburg electorate, is an
Illawarra (N.S.W.) native and a son of
late senior school-inspector G. H. Hunt. A
follower of Premier Smuts, he had an easy
win over the combined Labor and Nationalist
(Republican) nominees. Young Hunt fought
in the Boer War, and commanded “Hunt’s
Scouts” under General Botha in three other
little affairs —the S’African rebellion and the
German West and German East campaigns.
Melbourne lost a familiar musical figure
the other day, when Ernest A, Jager died,
lie was some years president of the Musical
Society of Vic, and for a long while con-
ducted the North Suburban Church Union,
a number of big works being given for the
first time in Australia under his baton. He
was 74 when the end came, and he left a
widow, a son, Oliver (superintendent of the
British-American Nickel Company of On-
tario, Canada), and a daughter, Viola, who
has the paternal bent.
Ex-police Superintendent James Spence,
who died suddenly in Sydney the other day,
was one of the few remaining members of the
Soudan Contingent that left by the Ibei'ia on
March 3, 1885. Another Sydney policeman
—Drew —not only a member of the contin-
gent but in the same company as Spence, also
attained the rank of Supei-intendent. Frank
Walton, secretary of City Tattersall’s Club,
solicitor Shipway and naval commandant
Brownlow were among the others who toed
the mark in that company.
Bert Hinkler, the Maryborough boy who
has made a name for himself as an airman,
started his career as copy-boy in the Bunda-
berg Mail office. He always had a passion
for flying, and joined up with the Queens-
land Volunteer Flying Corps as soon as Tom
Macleod formed it. In 1912 the youngster
got to England, and made for the nearest
’drome as a pigeon makes for home. Sop-
with took him on as a mechanic, and the
war helped him to join up with the R.N.A.S.
He chased Zepps away from the English
coast until 1916, and then went to France
to help bomb German towns. Later on he
saw service in Italy, and was there till the
Armistice. Between stunts he has patented
the Hinkler Double-Lewis gun, the Hinkler
compass and the Hinkler altitude recorder.
He brought a baby Avro back to Australia
with him, and flew from Sydney to Bunda-
bei’g (700 miles) in Shrs. 40mins., landing
quite near his parents’ home. As neither
Federal nor State Governments offer much
encouragement to aviators, Hinkler is going
back to Blighty.
John Milne, ex-superintendent of Vic.
police, who passed out the other day, climbed
from the ranks. As a constable he was in
the hunt for the Kelly gang, and was closely
enough associated with the capture to be
awarded £ll5 13s. 9d. as his share of the
reward of £BOOO distributed. After giving
up the job of inspecting superintendent of
police Milne had a spell, and then became
pi'esident of the Flemington branch of the
P.L.C. But he did not hanker after lime-
light as a politician, and until his death
comparatively few knew he was an active
Laborite.
Passed out at the age of 33, after an opera-
tion, Horace Young, mayor of Brighton
(S.A.). A young man .able to indulge his
fancies, he was a bird-lover, athlete and pro-
minent racing owner.
When in possession of the Faulconlmdge
estate Henry Parkes set apart an area for
his own grave. It has now been increased
in size and proclaimed a general cemetery.
The old man’s plot is well in the centre: his
eldest son (Robert) and his wife are buried
not far away.
Recoi’d? Robert John Gamble, an ex-
soldier with the Crimea, Zululand and Mutiny
ribbons, and said to be 99 years of age,
the other day turned up at the Albury
(N.S.W.) police-court, charged with plain,
every-day drunkenness. The magistrate
decided that boys will be boys, and made the
fine one shilling.
Dead in South Aus., at 85, a good Aus-
tralian lighthouse-keeper, George Leslie.
Originally he was a Scotch bootmaker, but
from 1872 he did 40 years in one lonely post
after another, handling in turn the lights of
Cape Jaffa, Troubridge shoal, Cape Northum-
berland and Cape Banks. It is a pity Leslie
didn’t write his reminiscences, for he had
much to tell of thrilling happenings on the
coast.
Edwin Lewis Scott, who went west at 77
recently, had a mixed career in N. S. Wales.
Fifty years ago he was lecturer at a show
of “wonders” in the School of Arts, and later
he got a job in the Civil Service, and remained
in it long enough to secure a small pension.
While in the service he did a good deal of
fugitive writing—including a burlesque or
two, and a pantomime, which, he said, he
turned out in just three days. His wife was
a Miss Ryall, a well-known singer of another
generation.
Having let comparative trifles worry him,
William Clark, governor of Melbourne Gaol,
ended things with a revolver-shot fired
into his mouth last week. He had been
bothered over a change of clothes by one
of the three prisoners awaiting trial
for the mui-der of pawnbroker Borkheim;
but thei - e had been only an incidental
reference to the matter in court, and no
official kick. Curious that a man who could
be so disturbed over such small things should
have sought the governorship of Pentridge a
few weeks before. With a screw of £432 a
year, and quarters worth another £BO or
£lOO, Clark was not badly paid. He had, in
fact, a comparatively soft job for one with
37 years’ experience of prisons.
Peter O’Loghlen, about the best-liked man
in the Westralian Assembly, has been visit-
in the effete East. For about half his life
he has been associated with forests and
Forrests. He was cutting salmon-gum on
the goldfields when the Labor party per-
suaded the promising youngster to have a
cut at Parliament instead. Three times Peter
opposed the late Bigjohn Forrest; five times
he has been returned unopposed for Forrest;
and he is Parliament’s acknowledged expert
on forestry. Very foolishly and ungratefully
the Labor caucus left him out of its last
Ministry. If he is still on hand when the
wheel turns he is sure to be in the next.
By a man who grows family trees: —
Feeble was Lord Mayor Lambert’s “explanation”
of how Sydney Town Hall came to be flagless on
Anzac Day, absurd his suggestion that Walter Marks,
M.H.R., whose family have been Australians for a
century, was an importation, fatuous his reference
to himself as “the chief citizen of the State,” lament-
able (perhaps one should say Lambertable) his exhibi-
tion altogether. But. William’s putting himself for-
ward as a victim of Saxon persecution was a fine
effort of humor. His Lordship’s name is pure Saxon.
There is nothing Celtic about either William (which
derives from Wilhelm) or Henry (Heinrich in the
original German), and Lambert is as English—-that
is to say, Teutonic-English—as Jenkins. The first
Lambert mentioned in history was a Tlmringian, Lam-
bert of Hersfeld, who wrote a chronicle of German
events from 1040 to 1077. Other famous German
Lamberts were Francis, the Protestant preacher
(1486-1530), and Johann Heinrich, the scientist
(1728-1777). Of celebrated English Lamberts there
have been John, the General (1619-1694), and Daniel,
the fat man (1770-1809), the alleged John Lambert
who was burnt at Smithfleld in 1538 having been
really a Norwich man named Nicholson. But there
EDMUND JOWETT, M.H.R.
has never been an historical Irishman named Lam-
bert. The family name of the Earl of Cavan, who
commanded the British corps at the battle of Vit-
toria Veneto, is Lambart, but be is a Herefordshire
man, whatever his ancestors may have been. Pity
it is to shatter the illusions of a Labor Lord Mayor,
but, on the evidence of his patronymic, he must
be remorselessly assigned to the race of the tyrant
and the oppressor.
“Starboard Watch”: Duncan Grant, re-
cently captain of the R.A. Naval College and
now on his way back to the Cold Country,
once had front seats with a brother officer
at a vaudeville show in Paris, at which a be-
spangled strong man tore in two a pack
of cards, the halves of which he handed amid
applause to the front-seat patrons. Grant
accepted one-half and, using forefingers and
thumbs only, halved that again, politely
handing back the mutilated remains to the
discomfited strong man. The youngest post-
captain in the Navy, Grant was probably
the strictest disciplinarian; but he was a
kindly “father” to the cadets.
Touching a testy autocrat: —
A “pressman’s judgment - ’ of Hughes (B. 28/4/’2l)
suggests that Billy reserves his violence for the
humble reporter. In point of fact, no one is immune
from his displays of temper. The irritability that
boils over in churlish rudeness is just as likely to
floor a tame member of his Cabinet or leave some
permanent official in a state of dumb wrath. Minor
officers and ushers suffer in the same way. The
Priminister’s infernal touchiness makes even docile
individuals unambitious to become his batman, even
when he travels to England. Hughes demands of
his valet and luggage-bearer a superlative devotion,
and behaves like a spoilt urchin if he doesn’t get it.
The send-off of a club-mate:—
Poor F. L. V. Coffey was a very good lawyer, and
more than a very good bridge-player. He seemed to.
have an uncanny instinct for judging the value of a
hand, and his declarations, though they sometimes
seemed over-bold, were always sound. On one trip
to England he made a four with some average
players, and I believe he won the whole expenses of
the voyage—exclusive of the fare, of course—-at a
shilling a hundred points, and was able out of his
winnings to shout the other players at one of the
ports. I do not know if he ever played with J. L.
King; I should place him even higher in the
hierarchy of bridge, because King was never quite so
good at auction as he was at the old game, whereas
auction suited Coffey’s bold spirit excellently, and
it was by his declarations that he won his fame. A
man of square build and genial, rosy face, in his
blue jacket he looked the very image of a naval
officer; wherefore we called him “Admiral.” I think
he liked it, too. He was a great leg-puller, always
in the gentlest and kindest way: I never knew him
to hurt anyone’s feelings. In his heart I believe he
was a deeply religious man; he was a devout
Roman Catholic, but you would never discover it
unless by an accident. I shall always remember
him by his exceeding look of wisdom at the bridge-
table. He seemed quite Surprised whenever he won;
he had an aspect of wise geniality resembling a
kookaburra’s. There are few men whom intimate
friends will miss more.
WERE I NOT SMITHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is reported that the Moore-street (Sydney) ex-
tension scheme, under which J. and Herwald G.
Kirkpatrick, architects, were to get a fee of £40,000,
is to be revived.... There were 1672 houses erected
by the Commonwealth Bank for soldiers. Mr. Denison
Miller claimed payment of 34 per cent., equal to
£40,964, on behalf of J. and H. G. Kirkpatrick.”
The poet’s crown I- covet not—•
It never bought a man a meal —•
La Gloire to me is ruddy rot,
And Politics have no appeal;
' But, ah! if 1 could only be
Kirkpatrick, J. or Herwald G.
■s#
Fame is the phantom of an hour,
Impermanent as Guyra’s ghost;
And vain is the pursuit of Power
That serves its victims up on toast:
A million times I’d rather be
Kirkpatrick, J. or Herwald G.
When slump and discontent are mates
And squatters tremble for their wool,
’Tis then that one appreciates
A patron with a healthy “pull,”
And longs incessantly to be
Kirkpatrick, J. or Herwald G.
My wants are simple: merely such
As fat commissions would assuage.
These contracts are beyond my clutch,
And so I say, while critics rage,
Were I not Smithers, I would be
Kirkpatrick, J. or Herwald G.
N.S.W.
PHINEAS SMITHERS.


Lowe’s Ltd.
Authorised
Capital,
£100,000.
FOUR BIG
CLOTHES
SPOTS in
SYDNEY,
and a
FIFTH in
Newcastle.
m.
=55
Wk
m
m
m
M
I
wmwMm
Mmsmt
‘W
M:
SAWS
&*$*
I Cw?)
h$$mM
Mm
H
:.;.x.v.^.-:':«:*>:-:<v
.'.V.V.'.'.V/.V/.'/'.'
wam&
V/'
mmmm.
.
|pmps
3MS
f5&&
w 1
as :■
I
5Sf®3KSS
HE
■.8S
gss
5*;i
wmmmmm
iiliillill
if
•»«&#
feSt-ys.
JKMsEtwSR
pUHP
82S»®?S@
SSssbShe
K*c
«K<9
SS
as
mm
*»S3
'
* - ' -r
I
il
> : : ; l
li
X , f
IMS!
18
J
i :
©:
tfcSSa&S
HWI M W t M;> i 11II! 11 IV.M.W??!
f .•....:
warn:
Illlllilll
..:•’• 1 \
’ |
' Mk
MM
Back to the Good
Old Days at
m
LIMITED
Merchant Tailors
SYDNEY.
W 6
■m.-
m
WA
wm
m
m
mm
mi'.
m
m
FREE Trousers
Once Ag'ain
Same Material as the Suit You Order.
It was quite impossible, as you can easily understand, to offer
EXTRA TROUSERS FREE during War Times, when materials
were so scarce, and prices so high—but NOW IHE TIMES
HAVE CHANGED!!! The bottom has dropped out of the
market. We are over-stocked. So Lowe’s have determined to
stabilise our position and to voluntarily
CUT OUR LOSSES NOW INSTEAD OF BEING
COMPELLED TO DO SO LATER—TO DO IT
NOW, ONCE AND FOR ALL.
Hence we are not only giving you the advantage of our “Drop-
in-the-Market” Prices, but in order to cut up our stocks quickly
we are also including
EXTRA TROUSERS FREE
at the following
“Drop-in-tHe-MarKet” Prices—
mi-ms/-mi-m
i
£9191- £lOllO £lO
1816 £1111216 £121121
For a Limited Period Only.
We know what we are talking about. This Free Trousers Offer will prove so
popular that thousands of orders will come in. Therefore we are compelled
to make this offer FOR A LIMITED PERIOD ONLY.
COUNTRY AND INTERSTATE CLIENTS SHOULD
WRITE AT ONCE FOR PATTERNS. Sign the
coupon below, cut it out, and post back to us to-day.
leswesv
1 mw
tSESSSM
Merchant Tailors, Sydney.
GEORGE STREET right through to
PITT STREET; DARING HOUSE, at
Central Railway Station; and OXFORD
STREET, SYDNEY. NEW STORE,
BOND and GEORGE STREETS,
„ SYDNEY.
Also HUNTER STREET, NEW CASTLE.
£
■V
c°
&
,df
Lowe’s Ltd.,
Sydney.
Please send me patterns of
your Materials for Suits to Order
with EXTRA TROUSERS FREE
of the same Material as the
Suits.
Price is about
Name
Address
i m m b.'s/5/’2i.


m
nm
These are days when value is a first consideration. It
finds true expression in Peapes’ offerings—for as none of
them were bought at the top of the market, they can in all
gases be sold at competitive prices.
Quoted here is a typical example:—
Special Quality Cashmere Half-hose, all wool, medium
weight, made in England.
7/6 pair; 43/6 half-dozen pairs.
PEAPES ? PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY,
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4- Yz Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“ Jerry” : Another Charlie Ryan yarn. At
sick parade one morning one of our chaps
was trying his best to look down and out.
BETWEEN—ER OURSELVES.
SHE: “Is your wife entertaining this year?”
HE: “ Not-er very.”
Asked what was wrong, he replied that he
saw large spots beforq his eyes. “That’s no-
thing,” roared Charlie, “I can see large spots
before my eyes. I can see ’em the size of
transports going to Australia. But I can’t
see you on any of them.”
* * * *
The lawyer talks to the doctor: —
“There are none So pure as those who sit in judg-
ment seats,” and the doctor who discusses the law-
yer’s connection with the Mort case (B. 21/4/’2l)
arrogates to himself and his tribe a very special
allowance of purity. “The medicine man,” he says,
“learns from his earliest lecture to carefully test the
truth of what he hears and to put the interests of his
sick patient before everything else.” Perhaps the
theoretically perfect medicine man is true to sample,
but in very many of these gentlemen, who are tainted
by their association with things mundane, allowance
must be made, as with others, for the margin of
human wickedness.
It was a singular coincidence that led another medi-
cine man with a large practice to say to me in my
consulting-room only to-day that “in the medical pro-
fession one cannot be too honest and make a decent
income, but there is of course a happy medium.” He
then gave me in detail samples of medical crookedness
in dealing with patients, and the taste his stories left
in my wicked forensic mouth was unpleasant indeed.
It is quite understandable that, in advocating the
cause of a murdered brother, the medicine man should
lean kindly towards him, and from a not less under-
standable desire to rehabilitate his memory that he
should gloss his faults. Why, however, this vilification
of the Bar and the foolish and mistaken enunciation
of so-called principles of the Law Court f In fact,
the ethical standard of perfection in law is as high
as that of the medical profession. It is this to do
justice; nothing more, nothing less.
“The barrister,” says our friend, “can lie, forge,
call false witness, commit any infamy so long as his
possibly guilty client escapes the hands of justice,
the only condition being that he shall not be found
out.” In reply, I say that the medicine man can
lie, bear false witness, commit any infamy (including
abortion, seduction and adultery), the only condition
being that he in his turn be not found out. The
truth of the matter is that the outsiders and black-
guards in each profession do these things and fall
far short of the ethical standards of perfection, but
the decent men don’t. If this consulting gentleman
will carefully test the truth of what he hears, pur-
suant to his youthful teaching let him answer this:
Is it true that he has heard of more doctors being
tried for illegal operations than barristers being
tried for subornation of perjury or forgery ? Again,
if this seeker after truth will advert to the corres-
pondence which was made public in the particular
case under review, and if, further, he is a just man
with a well-balanced view, he will see at least
some mutuality in the moral blameworthiness of
the two parties. He is a poor critic who judges
any body of men by its shocking examples, and
lawyers as a whole are justly entitled to resent any
imputation that they amount to nothing more than
human scum.
* * * *
“Deco”: John MacGregor, chairman of
directors of the North Coast (N.S.YV.) Co-
op. Batter Co., now visiting the Cold Country
and Europe in connection with North Coast
interests, was once part-host (the other part
was the late It. A. Bell, N.C.S.N. Co.) to
Gov.-Gen. Munro Ferguson on a visit to
the Northern Rivers. Going up his Ex. was
deeply interested in the co-operative move-
ment as applied to dairying, and was aston-
ished at the rapid growth of the Byron Bay
co.’s output. But on arrival at the creamery
Mac was doubtful as to how the G.-G. viewed
the outward aspect of the weather-board
erections that comprise the factory—economy
in everything but dividends being the cow-
cocky’s policy. “What does your Excellency
think of it?” he asleep. Munro Ferguson
answered in his native Doric. “Weel, Mac-
Gregor, it’s easily seen there’s a Scot at
the heid o’ affairs; mon, ye hivna’ wasted a
board!”
“Murkah”: Sydney G.P.O. is something
of a tangle. For instance, at the George-
street end the top floor is No. 6 —the tele-
graph operating room. Walk 20 yards or
so from this room towards Pitt-street down
two flights of stairs and you are on the 7th
floor. The average recipe to get to any par-
ticular cilice is to take a lift to
some floor or other, walk along
250 yards of alleyway nailed on
the outside of the building, down
two or three flights of stairs, up
a couple or so, turn to the left,
right, left, left, up six steps, down
seven and knock. At Pitt-street
the top floor, No. 5, is level with
No. 8 at the centre of the building
and with No. 6 at George-street.
The public is expected to thread
this maze to various departments
in the middle of the labyrinth. I
never pass through without some
scared individual stops me and asks
if I could assist him to leave the building.
Some time someone will wander through the
dark and dreary corridors till starvation
catches up.
* * * *
“Howitzer”: I nominate this for the queer-
wound stakes. The cooks had the stew ready
to serve up, u*nd hungry Diggers were crowd-
ing round, when Fritz registered a bull on
the cookhouse with three whizz-bangs. Tim
was the only casualty, and swore loud and
long that he had lost an eye. After the
stretcher-bearers had prized his hand away, a
piece of gristly stew was extracted from the
socket, and the eye was still there. But we
laughed too soon, for Tim eventually lost that
eye. A bit of bone splinter in the stew had
penetrated the ball.
* * * *
A young man who has discovered Australia
writes to The Bulletin from ’Aekne.v, Eng-
land :—•
Would you please insert this picture of myself in
your paper with the following writing? As I am
intending to come' to Australia, and as it is my
ambition to live in Australia, I am having my
picture published, together with particulars, in the
hope that someone will adopt me, as I am only
20, and I think it little use travelling all that way
with no friends or anyone to meet. As I mentioned
previously, I am 20 years of age, medium height,
in perfect health —at present—fresh complexion, blue
eyes and dark wavy hair. I have been acclaimed as
England’s best-looking young man, as I came out
first in a competition for manly beauty. My present
calling is clerking, but I am returning to opera,
as I made a great success in London in that capacity
some time ago. Anyone requiring more information
with regard to my character, etc., or anyone wish-
ing to adopt me, stating their particulars, etc., please
write to my private address, and as far as possible
I will answer.
“Peter”: Bertram Mackennal’s bronze
bust of a warlike female, which was un-
veiled on the steps of Federal Parliament
House last week, looks a lot too small for
its position. The lady would have been
STRATEGY.
THE ANGEL ABOVE (disturbed by the noise) : “ What on earth arc you doing?”
THE CRAWLER (with a brilliant idea): “S-s-sh! There's a burglar somewhere, an' I'm
trackin' him.”
more impressive on a suitable pedestal in
the Queen’s Hall; outside she loses all
her significance, and, in fact, facing towards
the Princess Theatre, she rather suggests
the Spirit of Criticism frowning on the
Fuller drammer. The hard-featured dame
has been allotted a site that ought to be
the address of something larger and national
from the sculptor’s hand —an equestrian
monument preferably.
OUT OF ORDER.
THE WIFE: “Come here, George! I have
something I want to talk to you about.”
THE HARASSED HUSBAND: “That's strange!
You usually want to talk about things
you haven't got.”
‘‘Jens": A new constable made bis fi
arrest in our N.Q. town the other day.
prisoner had all the appearances of an m -
important drunk, and his only offence was
the maltreating of Annie Laurie in a oac
lane. An hour later the main street^jwas
working itself up
into apoplectic in-
dignation because
a certain necessary
but odoriferous
vehicle was stand-
ing meditatively in
front of the swag-
gerest hotel, and
looked like medi-
tating there all
da y. A frantic
hunt for the miss-
ing driver ended
only when one eiti-
ze n happened t o
recognise a voice,
with more beer
than melody in it,
issuing from the
clink, and discuss-
ing Laurie’s unfor-
tunate daughter
Annie. There was
an immediate gaol
clearance, and the
hamlet breathed
freely again.
“Bildad”: One of the potent causes of the
demand for no Saturday work, so far at
least as Sydney is concerned, is the fact that
the pony races begin at 12 and unless Satur-
day morning toil is cut out the pony-maniac
misses an event or two. Men who don’t go
ponying—mostly the elder men —look for
small contracts to till in Saturdays, and earn
a bit of money in defiance of the day labor
principle. Mostly they go in for house- and
fence- and drain-repairing work, and they
don’t mind working long hours on a profit-
able job. Painting and paper-hanging are
done to a considerable extent. It is a curious
situation and something may grow out of it.
(Continued on page 18.)
MAY I
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This morn 1 saw a troop go by,
Dragging a damsel, white and shy,
Whose small, soft feet, as pink as shells,
Tinkled like little rosy bells:
“Some out! Come out! Come out to-day
And fill the pipes of Time with play! ”
I ran by leafy path and pool,
I followed them through shadows cool,
And, in the greenest, mossy place,
Where Silence lifts her grave, still face,
I watched them loose the damsel fair
And dance about her light as air.
On pipe and lyre and grassy flute,
They made a song that kept me mute,
The while she tapped' her little feet
And on the earth a music beat
As wild hs laughter Pan might chase
Through flowery fields of haunted Thrace.
I yearned to join the revel dance,
And, like a leaf of old romance,
I fluttered nearer to the ring,
And made my warm voice lilt and sing:
“Be kind! Be kind! O things of air!
And let my heart this rapture share!”
They called me in with sunlit eyes,
They bade me welcome in surprise;
But when I sought to touch them, lo!
Prom fragrant finger-tips aglow
A million violets they blew
And scented all the valley through.
And then I knew the damsel there,
Her snowy arms, her golden hair.
It was the lily-slender May
With all her happy maids at play,
Mocking the winter while the hill
Was yellow as a daffodil.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
MORNING PARADOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the pleasant dew of morning',
When the gentle worms arise,*
Feeding little birds and scorning
Their good deed to advertise,
On the hill the kindling yellow
Kisses tree-tops far away;
And my dreams begin to mellow
At the touch of early day.
I am fond of early rising,
Fond of young, untainted air,
Fond of seeing lights surprising
That you lose in noontide’s glare/
There are ancient gods for toasting
In the morning’s silver cup ;
But you never heard me boasting
I was fond of getting up.
Yes, I really love the morning,
Once of slumber’s weight bereft,
And I feel a lofty scorning
For the blankets I have left;
But there stands the old conundrum
How to get me out of bed,
Nor can joy of wind and sun drum
Will-to-gladness in. my head.
s.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


mill
MMHM
-« - « v -
-. 83®* ■ - > ■ ■~ '■ * **■**"'~ - ■ ‘- - - - ■ - ~ •■ * * ■"''
mmm.
- - -- -
mass
■■
- ;
wmi
M
~ ;?**
Ssh
PfeJ
'
'
*
N >V •
'm
~v.
I
I
5
&
w®.
..
■yy
, . ~ .V.
■
§lBB®
! ■
««A I?*'
'
<,-* _,\ v
wm&S
1
.
■ .■ : ■■'■■■:
\ ■
. .
iiifjp
' Ui
■ * V V*
i» ■ .. 8j
t
-
V
iji.n I,aiwi-in«.« IW. ■ ■■ M !
. 4 -
h > ;
i
•V; ..%: a
■ ” *
""' ’ ■
Mm*
W m
1
mmm
v 1 i
■ ... .
9«
■K
mmmm
mm
m
:
?5
THE PRE-EMINENCE
of the “PIANOLA” PIANO.
: . ' ■■■• —B
a■■■• 1 ; :
THERE are now many different kinds of Piano Players. In view of the claims which are
sometimes made on their behalf, it is important to remember that the Pianola Piano s
recognised supremacy in all the markets of the world is based on constructional excellence.
The superior artistic results obtainable from the Pianola Piano are largely due to this
perfection in mechanical detail. Whilst other instruments may have the ability to repeat all
the notes of a composition in proper sequence, they lack the Pianola Piano s greater respon-
siveness, its quality of giving complete freedom to the temperament of the periormei.
Pianolas are found in the following Famous Pianos:
STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD and English WEBER.
ONLY FROM
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
384 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
58 RUNBLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
384 George Street, Sydney.
Please post me Art Catalog 81026 of
Pianola Pianos.
Name
Address


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British-made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off, you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink-flow to suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in a flash from any ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives!
NORMAN BAKER & LONCHURST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask for Onoto Ink —Best for all Pens.
n
o
o
o
-EPq®
STA(a
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
rile Lamb : \ou might think our town is
slow ; but we keep a close grip on business,
l in the doctor and yesterday old Cough in, the
undertaker came in, and, with the harassed
ot r. a iv Imd § rsdane magnate, asked me:
Mr. Galls, d yer know if there’s anyone
pretty crook jes’ now? If there ain’t I want
ter go down ter town fer coupler days.”
Copabella”: Told by a Vie. metropolitan
police magistrate. Scene, the Children’s
, 1 defendant, small, neglected child.
•' ,V j * low old are you?” Child: ‘‘Nine,
sir, Lot a father?” “No, sir.” “Mother?”
‘No, sir.” “Any relations at all?” “Only a
brother, sir.” “Well, where’s lie?” “At the
University, sir.’ “At tlio University and
you in this state?” “Yes, sir.” “What’s he
doing at the-University?” “Please, sir, Vs
in a bottle, sir. He’s got two ’cads.”
* * * *
“Magpie”: The parson told the yarn at
lulls wedding-feast. They were only a
young couple, he said, and tiie bride recorded
her occupation as typiste. Mr. Newlywed
came home for lunch and found his better-
or-worse half leaning over a pot on the stove
and C ™P> ng bitterly. “Whatevor’s the
matter? he asked. “Why, dear,” she sobbed,
1 ve had these eggs on the fire since II
o clock and they aren’t soft yet!” And she
gave the hcnfruit another jab with the fork.
* * *
On another little war:—
Tartarirt the wool-buyer and Salandrini the painter
came into Palalogo’s oyster cafe as I was toying
with my nightly dozen-in-the-shell. The pimpled
features of George the waiter contracted into an evil
scowl. He executed their orders with a moroseness
that could be felt. I beckoned him over and asked
what the trouble was. “Eet iss mahee coontr-r-a,”
he whispered. “Da gr-reat Gr-reece. Ve go to
var-r vit-a Jocko da Tur-rk. Ve ’ave-a da goon, da
shell, da ship. ’F, ’ave-a da notink. At least-a ve
tink-a so. Ve vipe-a da floor vit ’im. Ve take-a da
Constantinople. Ve restor-re-a da empah of da Alex-
ander da Big. Ve land-a da king-a da hit an’ poot
in da boot. Gee, da going’s goot. Den Italiano
ships land-a da coast. Dey bring-a da Fr-rench
goon, da Fr-rench shell. Jocko get ’im. An’ before
ve know vere-a ve arre—pst! ’e svinga da left—
pst!—’e, svinga da raheet, an’ Constantino, da
THE PERILS OF THE SEA.
THE LOOK-OUT: “ Danger ahead, sir! Small
flapper on the port how, sir!”
gr-reat king, ’e flop laheek-a da bag of da Sydney
R-rock an’ take-a da count. Boot mahee coontr-ra,
da gr-reat Gr-reece, it shall-a be revenge!” He
jerked his right thumb meaningly towards the allies’
table. And then I saw Tartarin wrestling hope-
lessly with what seemed like a hunk of fried hippo-
potamus, while on Salandrini’s face was the dismal
expression of a man who realises —too late —that the
oyster was overblown. Hellas was avenged.
Sol. M.’ : When the Sydney doctors
gathered together to back up certain col-
leagues in the matter of Mrs. Parr’s insanity,
some of the evidence against the lady was
interesting. At one place where she was
staying her deplorable mental condition was
proved by the fact that she was restless and
wanted to make excursions to Bowral and
BEYOND MEDICAL AID.
[?]EATHLESS VISTOR : “Doctor, can you
help me? My name is Jones"
DOCTOR: “No, Em sorry; I simply can't d [?] [?]nything for that."
elsewhere. I am often restless in a small
town if 1 have nothing to do, and the rest-
lessness of people on board ship, tramping
up and down the deck like wild animals, is
a very mad-looking business. The lady also
ran up a small account (a few shillings)
at a shop in a hamlet, and she frequently
asked for money when her allowance ran
short. Once she showed herself “in an
exalted condition” by signing a letter to a
friend “Lady Maud,” just as Richard Swivel-
ler showed himself in a depressed condition
by calling Sampson Brass’s little smudge-
of-all-work “Marchioness” (I know a girl in
an dxcited state who signs herself “Queenie”
though her name is Sarah). She had “a
passion for letter-writing,” but Minister
Dooley, who hasn’t the monotony of an
asylum as an excuse, has it also, and the
replies of Thomas ’Enley are fairly passion-
ate also. So the signs of madness are many
and varied.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket” : It was Miss Slink, the
lady help, who first roused Mrs. Briggs to
rebellion against her lord.
Being an unmarried woman
she was able to tell the mat-
ron the right way to manage
men. It was done only by
showing spirit. Acting
under her guidance, Mrs.
Briggs hurled crockery at
her husband’s head when he
came home only slightly
drunk, but late; also she
locked him out of his room
and made him sleep on the
dining-room sofa, and gener-
ally made his life a turbu-
lence. It did not seem to
make: Briggs any more lov-
ing or tractable, strangely
enough; and at last, when
he came home to find his
house bolted against him and
water falling from an upper
window, he went away and
slept elsewhere. But Mrs.
Briggs’s faith in her com-
panion’s advice never fal-
tered. She pursued the poor
man to his lair and made
scenes about women who did not exist, until,
in resentment, he found women who did. Then
she sot a divorce. Now Briggs has re-married
and his late wife is the most wrathful woman
in Sydney. It was Miss Slinks who married
him.
* * # *
“Baby-Dodger” from a Sydney address: —
My real name is Smithers and my profession is as
above. My sentiments are below, and if they were
as far below as any place mentioned in the Book
of Revelation it wouldn’t more than express them.
There are, it seems, 35,000 of us in N. S. Wales,
for some politician stated last week that if we
motor-drivers put £2O each into the Good Roads
Loan the amount would be £700,000 and the result
would be remarkable. Y itor-cars were invented
because bullock-drays are too slow, likewise omni-
buses, cabs, tramcars, mixed trains and snails. The
men who'drive them are supposed to provide speed,
haste, velocity and sundries. They represent the
forlorn hope for the train and the last chance for
the steamer; also, the last getaway for the co-re-
spondent. Now and then a collision takes place.
Sometimes it is a kid who smokes cigarettes, attends
picture-shows, talks horse, plays in the middle of
the crooked, crowded street, and has no respect for
the rule of the road. Sometimes it is a man who
had got out on the wrong side of a tramear and
also on the wrong side of his bed in the morning.
Sometimes it is a woman walking backwards and
throw! < a last word over her insufficiently-clothed
shoulde: 10 a friend on the pavement. My most
exciting experience was when that kind of female,
coining briskly off the pavement with her head and
her voice the other way. put her unseeing foot
through the spokes of my wheel all in an instant.
I stopped in three revolutions, but when a woman
does three revolutions, attached by one foot and
flying out in all directions, damage is unavoidable.
When anything happens to one of the vehicles which
exist solely to meet the public demand for speed,
the coroner at once inquires if it was travelling at
more than two (2) miles a month, and if so, why?
The cliff at South Head causes more deaths than
100 motor-cars, yet no one accuses it of furious
driving. In my opinion people ought to be fined
at least a month’s hard labor for getting out of
tramcars on the wrong side, lingering in the middle
of the street and walking backwards or sideways in
the street. I am not going to put £2O into the
Good Roads Loan, for I think the roads we have
are a great deal better than many inhabitants de-
serve. I have a friend who was once a Tommy
sahib in the British Indian Army. At one time his
regiment went to Cashmere on business—l suppose
to kill a number of people who deserved it, or
something a great deal worse. Most people do.
He told me that a feature of the country is the
Great North Road, otherwise the Gilgit, track. In
his time it averaged 2ft. wide, and was paved with
foam and boulders, except at one place where traffic
climbed a precipice by a rope. And even there
honest men plying for hire were fined for excessive
speed.
* * * *
From an embittered litigant:—
A confidence trick played on litigants by many
of Australia’s present-day advocates is the “I object”
device employed to spin out the proceedings. The
following is fairly typical:—
Blank, K.C. (examining): “Did you see this man
Smiggs looking through the door, at”—
Wank, K.C. (for the defendant) : “Objee’, yer-
onner.”
Blank sits down with raised eyebrows, expressive
of surprise mingled with contempt. Wank gets up.
“I object, veronner, to m’learned friend leading his
witness in this manner. Most irregular.”
Blank (wearily) : “Did you”
Wank: “I objee’. Don’t answer ’im, witness.”
His Honor: “I —er —really think, Mr. Blank. That
is to say—er—l”
Blank: “I’ll put the question in another form,
yeronner. Now, witness, you know the front door
of No. 31 Dreadnought-terrace. I believe”:
Wank: “Objee’.”
Blank (very patiently): “Tell the Court, Mr.
Mugge, what you saw at No. 31 Dreadnought-terrace
on the date in question. Pay no attention to my
learned friend’s interruptions. Just let us have it
clearly, simply, in your own language. Now, pro-
ceed, if you please,”
This kind of futility persisted in throughout an
important action, as it often is, represents hours of
wasted time for which one if not both sides must
pay through the nose. At the London Bar an objec-
tion is not lodged once in a blue moon. When it
does come it has nothing to do with a triviality such
as counsel leading his own witness—which 99
times out of 100 is neither here nor there,
but merely serves to expedite business. When
an Edward Carson or a Gordon Hewart objects it is
on a point which reaches to the very vitals of the
case. The judicial and barristerial joke is an inflic-
tion which those who go to law must apparently
continue to subsidise so long as human vanity and
supreme authority are found in conjunction. But
something might surely be done to mitigate the
wearisome exchange of amenities between (say)
the Bench and the Crown Prosecutor. I have a
theory that “ea’ canny” originated in the legal
profession. It certainly existed there before the
Combination Laws were repealed ; and no present-day
proletarian exponent of loafing on the job can show
some of our leading counsel points in the art.
* * * *
“Titus”: The spirit that comes back all
the way from Heaven to manifest some
great truth by throwing gibbers at the shack
of Smith, or smashing the windows of
Brown, generally achieves disaster by not
knowing when to stop. He is a stone-
throwing pitcher which goes to the well too
often. Just when spiritualists gather up in
force to demonstrate that the footprints of
the supernatural are obvious .and the truth
at last prevails, the poltergeist (which is the
latest German term) is found behind a tree,
where he has lingered to shy one more brick;
and that brick is the last straw which breaks
the camel’s back. Then a community which
was nearly converted to the faith of Conan
Doyle and Oliver Lodge goes back again into
the wilderness of unbelief, and grazes once
more on the husks of incredulity. The spook
at Guyra (N.S.W.), which tried to prove the
immortality of the soul by pounding Bowen’s
house with rocks, and making knocks and
shocks, has gone the way of the rest and
proved to be partly small girl and partly
• male incapable. Any first-class illusionist
should be able to produce a “haunt” which
would baffle the country police, but first-
class men see no mirth or money in it, and
amateurs spoil it.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” tells it:—
On May 11, 1840, the foundation-stone of the first
Wesleyan chapel in Melbourne was laid at the nor’-
west corner of Queen and Collins streets. At the
first land sale, June 1, 1837, this half acre was pur-
chased by a Sydney man named Bowerman for £BO.
He thought it dear and forfeited; then he left
Melbourne for Sydney in one of the cockleshell boats
of the time, and was not heard of afterwards. The
Wesleyans were then holding their services • in a
small cottage in Flinders-lane, which later became
the kitchen of Tom Monahan’s Queen’s Arms Hotel.
When the owner gave them notice to quit they got
Bowerman’s forfeited lot at his bid, and built half
a chapel on the northern cud. But the lot was
judged too valuable to hold for church purposes, and
early in the ’sixties it was sold for £40,000, and
the church in Lonsdalc-street was erected. A
fatality hung over the Bowerman family. A son of
the man who forfeited the Melbourne block was a
police magistrate outback in Queensland. He
was recalled to Brisbane in 1808, and, while under
suspension for neglect of duty, assaulted with a
tomahawk Under-Secretary A. W. Manning, a brother
A DEFECT IN THE LAW.
“But I really have heard you are divorced.
Tell me, why did you divorce your wife?”
“Well, my dear, because I couldn't divorce
my mother-in-law.”
of the late N.S.W. Justice William Manning. There-
upon he was sentenced to imprisonment for life. The
doctors said Manning couldn’t live six months, and
a special Act was passed granting him £5OO a year
for the remainder of his days. But the doctors were
out in their reckoning—Manning lived near Sydney
for something like 40 years. Owing to the efforts
of Bowerman’s wife he was released after 13 years,
but she died a week before the prison gates opened.
Bowerman came to Sydney, failed to get constant
employment, and suicided in the Domain, near the
Art Gallery.
SHE LIES AND LOOKS AT ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She lies and looks at me.
Her face upon her rounded arm,
The glor3' of her fresh young charm
Impervious to dawn’s alarm,
And I get morning tea.
She lies and looks at me,
ho, snatching one brief, parting kiss
Kush from domestic realms of biiss
The morning ferry-boat to miss
To Circular Quay,
I sit alone. With soulful eyes
Her picture gazes from the wall.
’Tis 2 a.m. A taxi’s call!
Her aunt was ill —yes, that was all.
She looks at me —and lies.
N.S.iV.
H.C. HADLORAN.


CORRECT CORSETRY
YEAR after year the tendency has grown to look to the House
of Gossard for authoritative corset styles. Ours is the
responsibility to know: to know which of the many style influences
that each season clamour for attention are worthy of consideration ?
:o know those unchanging principles of good taste that must always
form the foundation of correct corsetry.
The responsibility of our leadership is emphasied at this time
when the ever-vital topic of fair price is uppermost in the minds of
the public. The high principles of merchandising upon which we
established and have maintained our reputation of responsibility, is
your best assurance that the Gossard Corsets you buy today repre-
sent a fair value.
Gossard quality has been and always will be consistently main-
tained. You may unhesitatingly buy every Gossard with the
assurance that it will be worth all you pay for it—worth it in style,
worth it in comfort, and worth it in wearing service.
Certainly nothing less than unquestioned superiority could
account for the intensity of favour in which Gossard Corsets are
held the world over. It is certain that in maintaining this enviable
position of leadership Gossard quality will never be sacrificed in
the slightest.
S
*
*
• . >
■ *
m ,
V ?!
1
The slender Woman should never sacrifice her full
possibilities of beauty on the fallacy “ I’m so slight
it doesn’t matter what corset I wear.” The pre-
destined Gossard will smooth unflattering angles
to attractive roundness and enhance the lithe grace
that is her chief charm.
The woman of large proportions cannot but be
interested in what Gossard artistry has accom-
plished fo> the stout figure. Symmetry of line is
gained by a natural, pliable support with no
excess weight and clumsy over-straps to distort
the figure to the ungraceful appearance of being
over-corseted. Would it be convincing to know
that the woman in the photograph above weighs
Quite a bit over two hundred?
D
Front Lacing
are sold conditional upon your complete
satisfaction. You will find them at those
stores you like best and patronize most;
those stores that safeguard their prestige
by offering only merchandise of
tioned dependability.
Long before the face shows signs of passing years,
the lines of the figure betray it. To the gentle per-
suasion of a Gossard, the 100-prominent hips, the
fleshy back, or the too-short waistline of maturity
gns way to the graceful proportions of youth.
The H. W. Gouuard Co.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
New York London Toronto Sydney Buenos Aires
West cl ox
1
1
10
9
3
L
8
Wcsklax
BIG BEN
5
7
6
if;'
Big Ben—/Timekeeper
In thousands of homes
Big Ben is more than a
clock —he’s a member of
the family. Any question
of time is referred to Big
Ben —he’s considered an
authority.
As for sounding the ris-
ing call —it has become
second nature to leave it
to Big Ben.
It is not surprising that
Westcloxhas come to mean
reliability on the face of a
timepiece, when Big Ben,
the best known member of
the family, has made such
a reputation for himself.
Westclox Big Ben, 27/6 ; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6;
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/■;
Boyproof, 15/-; Pocket Ben, 15/-
America, 12/6;
Glo-Ben, 22/6;
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
—•fill flu
J
c
SB3P|
iTmTiw
o
Kj
I 111!
m
VARIETY IS THE
SPICE OF THE
SANDWICH LUNCH
Folk who perforce have to take their lunch to
work will welcome a change in the shape of
“REX” CAMP PIE
This tasty compounded meat with its refreshing
wholesome flavor is always relished. It saves
your time because it is all ready cooked. It
saves money for the same reason you will find
it cheaper than fresh meat.
BUY A TIN TO-DAY
Always keep a tin in the house,
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
n
mn
» bacon.veal
ONGUE.
IN


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
*nn- ; f
The Charm of
A PERFECT SKIN
is realised by every lady, and therefore the
advantages and benefits to be gained from
LIGMOLLIINE
CREAM SOAP
will be specially appreciated, > since it is a
sure mitigator of blemishes, , sunburn, etc.,
and, moreover, makes the the\ skin clear and
lovely. Sold in oval tablets* at 1/- each.
All chemists, or direct from
LIGMOLUENE* CO.,
MALYONS,
Sturt Street, BaiJa|;at
A Signal Success
King George IV
wheskst
TJieTOF-NQTCHScotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
Gerald Fitz”: Not long ago an Abo.-
writer referred to “the extinct wombat of Tas-
mania.” Lately visiting the island I one sunny
day went to Sandy Bay and whilst at a friend’s
table saw a small object come into the room. I
thought it was a cat. The conversation proceeded,
and something nibbled at my shoe lace, then at my
shoe. down I saw the quaintest animal I
had ever met. “My pet wombat wants you to notice
him,” said my friend. “Pick him up!” I held him
rather timidly ; but the creature closed his eyes and
pretended to be asleep. Here, quite at home, was
the supposed extinct wombat. He is a great play-
mate, and runs, or, rather, lumbers all over the
house. He will not drink milk, preferring water,
and likes a crust of bread. He was brought to
Sandy Bay from Sorell in a boy’s pocket when a
few days’ old.
“Murk” : Sev en men, one ekaffeutter, one
day—B64 bags, weight 43 tons 4cwt- These figures
were put up by Mackie Bros, at Gan-
main (N.S.W.) a few years ago. I’m
not entering the weight as a record;
in South Vic. and Tas. . hay weighs
heavy and 16 bags to the ton isn’t
uncommon. But the number of bags
is the ]best I know of for a travelling
cutter. At Ganmain Show the fol-
lowing year the same people put
through a ton in 91 minutes. You
can make your own rules for tilting
at that performance.
* * *
“Sir Spen”: At Trigamon
station (N.S.W.) the other day the
manager (W. Sutton) gave
chase on horseback to an
outsized dingo, which made
for the Macintyre River,
over two miles distant', and
swam to the opposite side.
Although rapidly tiring,
the station mare gamely
carried her rider close
upon the dingo’s heels.
Then they raced neek-and-
neck along the bank, until
once again the quarry took
to the water and made
for the station side of the
river. It was asking much
of the mare to make a
second trip through the
swift-running current, but
she responded nobly. In
mid-stream Sutton man-
aged to grab the dingo by
the back of the neck, and
after a vigorous struggle
forced its head under
water. A very tired mare,
an almost exhausted man
and a dead dog reached
the river bank.
“Cane Grass”: “Resoorse,” said Ryan to
Wade, “is what a polytishan wud call a scarce cum-
modity. Now, there’s Tim Canavan he have it.
Diwle a sitooation ever had Tim bate. Duk ud the
toime Whalin’s Eileen had to go to Syndey to her
married sister thet was down wid twins. Whalin
had a seliction out beyant Booligal. Eileen wus
nointeen an’ weighed twilve sthone. She’d niver
seen a railway thrain or a town larger* thin Booligal.
Whalin druv her into Hay an’ tuk her ,io th’ station;
but whin the thrain backed in Eileen jibbed. Get
into th’ carriage she wudden’t. Thrits, an’ coaxing
wer’ no good. Th’ stationmaster an’ th’ porter w r er’
misguided enough to use foorce; and whin th’ scuffle
finished Eileen hed hur arrums round fjh’ weighin’-
machine, th’ porter hed a black oye, an’ (the station-
master hed lost most uv his whiskers. ’Twus thin
Tim Canavan tuk a hand, and in -three mfinits Eileen
w'as in the carriage an’ th’ thrain gone-” “But,”
said Wade, “how the deuce did he get her in the
carriage?” “4isy es winkini,” said Ryan. “He jist
blindfolded her wid his hankirchef an’ backed her
in.”
* * * •
“3489”: Is there any belt for amateur
strong men? I met a hairy cocky up near Koroit
(Vic.), where the spud's come from, who’s a likely
claimant for it. He was going into the town for
a coil of barbed wire which he intended, he said,
to carry home in a chaff-bag. It was over two
miles, but he fairly snorted when I suggested pay-
ing a carrier a bob. “Do you know what I carried
from the station to me house once?” he said. “No,”
I replied. “A set of harrows, a bag of seed-maize
and 10 loose melons.” “What! —all at once?” I
faltered. “Sure,” he said; “I shtirck the melons
on th’ prongs of the harrows.”
* * * *
“Te Pana”: Brown brother in the Loyalty
Group has a unique cure for temporary deafness.
A small insect like a lady-bird is placed inside
the ears and the apertures closed with raw cotton
or kapok. In half-an-hour the crawler will have
done its duty—eaten up a quantity of wax—and is
then released.
*****
“Dido” : There are still people in the bush
who believe certain lizards to be more poisonous
than the snake. In fact, any creature that is ugly
enough—the goanna, for instance —is popularly be-
lieved to bite with deadly effect. I saw a mill-
hand outside Gembrook (Vic.) yank a black snake
from under a log and jerk him agaanst a tree.
When I enlarged on the folly of such a proceeding
he laughed, and said: “Oh, my troubs. about those
blank things. They can’t hurt me. Em what-yeh-
call immune. I bin bit three times by differin’
lizards, and I ain’t dead yet.”
“Ophis” also sees snakes :
FY.7 (B. 31/3/’2l) evidentlv has in his pos-
session a very old and out-of-date book. He refers to
the death-adder (Acanthophis antarctiovs) as a
viper; but that is very wrong, as all the Australian
venomous snakes, anti many of the non - venom ous
ones, are eolubrine. And, although the death-adder
may be viperine in form, it is truly eolubrine in
anatomical characters. Furthermore, the majority of
Indian venomous snakes, including the cobra and krait
are eolubrine. Part of “FY.7’s” description of the
fangs is far from correct, and I would like to give
him and othei Abo. s a better idea of their forma-
tion. Vipers have exceptionally large fangs which
are attached to movable bones,“so that thev’ean be
erected or depressed as the jaws open and shut • the
tube, or canal, through which the venom is ejected
is completely closed, there being no trace of a
groove on the exterior surface, and in this respect
they may be compared to hypodermic needles except
that the opening, instead of being at the point is
BEG PARDON!
“What, back again! I thought you were
going to make your fortune farming.”
“Don't mention it—I made the same mistake
myself .”
a short distance above it, on the anterior surface.
On the other hand, the venomous colubrines have
very much smaller fangs, which are followed by
several other very small teeth; and while the
maxillary bone to which the fang and these small
teeth are attached is slightly movable, the fangs are
permanently erect, and generally fit into sockets in
the lower jaw when the mouth is shut. The groove
or canal is on the anterior surface, and not the
posterior, as described by “FY.7.” In the back-
fanged snakes, such as the brown tree-snake, there
are merely open grooves; but in the front-fanged
species, such as all our well-known venomous kinds,
and also in the cobra and krait of India, the front
edges of the groove have almost closed together,
forming a more or less complete canal inside—but
the groove is always plainly visible on the outer
surface.
* » * •
“Jimmy Cubby’’: Re the effectiveness of
dynamite in bringing fish to the surface. During
one of the visits of the late Governor Rawson to
Moss Vale (N.S.W.), his house staff held a picnic
at Fitzroy Falls, and one of the party was drowned
in the creek above that retreat. My father, at the
time in charge of the Moss Vale-Berrima police dis-
trict, finding dragging operations unsuccessful, fired
a plug of dynamite, with the result that not only
was the body brought to the surface, but also
some of the finest trout I have ever seen. Dad cogi-
tated for some days as to whether he should lay an
information against himself for dynamiting fish, but
succeeding in persuading himself to let the matter
drop.
'** * *
“Porry”: Recently while I was fencing in
Central Q. an axe was rejected on account of its
extreme softness. It was placed against a tree about
50yds. from the camp and during a dry storm the
tree was struck by lightning and the axe-handle was
splintered. Upon investigation the axe itself was
found to have been tempered to the hardness of a
politician’s heart. Any explanation from Abo.
lightning professors?
* * * *
“M.D.”: “Kosicusko” (B. 24/3/’2l)
brags of the intelligence of his sheep dog Bonnie in
finding the 17 lost sheep and bringing in 16 and the
skin of the one she had killed for rations. As a
matter of fact Bonnie was a blanky fool for lugging
a sheep-skin about for several days. Any really
intelligent mong. knows that during these last few
months sheep-skins have had no commercial value.
“Murkah”: “Ragar” (B. 31/3/‘2l) doubts
my explanation of recent mysterious floating lights.
He says that the country where he saw the glow was
as bare of vegetation as Joe Cook’s head. How does
he know? Did he dig down 30 or 40 feet to see?
My statement that decaying vegetation produced
an inflammable gas didn’t necessarily refer to the
vegetation of the day before yesterday. The world
commenced manufacturing vegetation some time
before ‘‘Ragar” was horn. Pockets of natural gas,
the product of vegetation of past ages, exist
throughout the earth's crust. In the case quoted
by “Ragar” it is quite likely that a drought-crack
released the contents of a small reservoir.
* * * *
‘'Bill R.”: Here is another plan, simpler
than that of “Ragar” (B. 14/4/’2l), for hunting
skip-jacks out of the bluey. Put a handful of
pennyroyal leaves in the bunk, and for weeks there-
after all insect rest-destroyers will shy from
Matilda like wowsers from beer.
* * • *
“Aragun”: Noticed the dingo’s partiality
for dead horse? I once came across three large dogs
dining off a very defunct nag. There was a cow
nearby in a similarly decayed condition, and another
not 50 yards away that was only lately deceased.
The horse was drugged to pieces, but the cows were
untouched. Yet in the same district I have known
them pull down yearling steers and full-grown cows,
but have never heard of one tackling a foal or even
a worn-out paok-liorse turned out to die.
* * * *
“8.3.8” : The Brisbane coot who carried a
coffin down Queen-street the other day is not the
only queer chap there’s been in that town. A now
well-known and important personage, who used to
share a Bohemian life With a Bulletin man and
me, got melancholy in his cups at one of our musical
evenings and stole .out on to the balcony with
our best rope clothes-line. Noosing one end round
his neck and tying the other to the verandah post,
he took the terrible leap to doom. In his muddled
state he forgot" that his rope was - 30yds. long and
the drop only about 12ft. He was snoring peace-
fully with a lot of spare rope on his chest when we
found him,
* * * *
“Mirza”: When the boss received an ane-
roid barometer for a birthday present he decided to
have it hung in his bedroom. “But don’t hang it
too close to the bed,” he cautioned. “I don’t want
to be kept awake all night by the damned thing
ticking.”
* * e *
“Sand Seeker”: “Sassafras’s” contention
(B. Sl/3/’2i) that white-ants cannot live without
direct contact with the earth is a fallacy. I can
show him the skeleton of a large abandoned punt
100 ft. x 22ft. now lying in the mud at Riley’s Hill,
Richmond River (N.S.W.). It was built for the Gov-
ernment out of oregon-pine planking 12in. x 3in.,
and in a few years was completely eaten away by
white-ants although afloat on the river and away
from any connection with the earth. The Govern-
ment sank it in the dock to drown the pests, but in
a few weeks after raising and pumping dry they
—the ants, not the Government—were working
overtime!
* * » *
“Rebel” : Why not regard a dog’s habit of
rolling on any dead, smelly substance as a survival
of camouflage in its wild state? The better it coulcl
neutralise its own native smell the more successful
it would be in pursuit of its prey.
* i * * *
“Carotid”: “Anatomist” proves to his own
satisfaction the growth of finger-nails post mortem
(B. 7/4/’2l). The nail grows by multiplication of
cells at the nail root. For multiplication or division
of cells it is essential that there be a circulation,
and if “Anatomist” has ever seen or heard of a
circulation post mortem I’ll go he.
THE RETORT DISCOURTEOUS.
THE LADY (who has just alighted): “If you
had’ne been half a man you would have
give me a hand down."
THE CONDUCTOR: “Yes, madam, and if you
had been half a woman I might have."
“Born-tired”: A light pony hauled two
list, men in a sulky, with impedimenta, from
Donald (Vic.) to Brisbane in 31 days, two of which
were spent spelling, and a maximum of 10 miles was
travelled on Sundays. The estimated distance covered
was 1141 miles, and there was a canter in the ponv
at the finish.
(Continued on page 22.)
ROLLIN’ TH’ BLUEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Las’ night ’e ses to me, ’e ses:
“I wanter talk ter you.
Yer makin’ it a welter, don’t you think?
The cows got in agen las’ night
An’ tore the bloomin’ stack —-
Yer makin’ it a welter, ain’t yer, Blue?”
I ses to ’im, I ses: “Gor’ strike me pink,
Yer mean ter say it’s my fault
If the cows ’as tore yer stack
W’en there ain’t a decent fence ter keep ’em out,
An’ th’ bloomin’ gate is ’angin’
On bits er binder-twine?
1 don’t see w’at yer goin’ crook about,”
I ses to ’im.
’E picked about the ploughin’
An’ bein’ drunk las’ Christinas Eve,
An’ about the chains I lorst las’ New Year’s Day,
’Bout ’ow I driv the pony
On the night uv Johnson’s ’op ;
And ’e ses 1 dunno ’ow ter toss a sheave
An’ I wasn’t worth a quarter uv me pay.
So then I ses to ’im, I ses:
“The ’ut is full er bugs,
An’ yer never give yer men a decent feed ;
Yer couldn’t run a fowl-’ouse,
Let alone a bloomin’ farm—
T ain t seen such a blanky lot er mugs!
Yer’ll be lucky if yer strip yer bloomin’ seed,”
I ses to ’im.
’E ses: “Now chuck yer bloomin’ slack,
Er yer’ll do in yer blanky job.”
I ses: “Don’ give a blanker if I do;
I can get a job at Stephen’s,
Or anywhere about,
Witli ’arf the work an’ more’n thirty bob.
Thank God I don’t,” I ses, “depend on you,”
I ses to ’im.
I up an’ give it to .’im straight,
Jes’ toll! ’im w’at I thought.
’E ses: “Yer better come an’ get yer cheque.
Yer been a blanky nuisance
Since I’ve known yer, so yer ’ave •
Y'er’ve argued every time that yer’ve been caught.
Now yer goin’ ter get it in the neck,”
’E ses ter me.
HE WAS BUILT FOR THE JOB.
“Did you make your boy a bootmaker, after
all?”
“No, he was so fond of animals we decided
to make him a butcher.”
So we goes up ter the kitchen,
An’ out comes the bloomin’ b.ook.
Then ’e ses: “Yer been a long time with me, Blue-
I’d be sorry fer ter lose yer
While the missus is so crook.
Stay onl I’ll raise yer wages if yer do!”
’E ses ter me.
But I wasn’t ’avin’ any,
After orl the things ’e said;
So I ses: “Wen I ses I’ll go, I go.”
If ’e went down on ’is bended knees
An’ prayed till ’e was dead,
I wouldn’t stay. Well, so long! 'Ooray, Joe!
VICTORIA.
OLE BLUE.


ADVENTURE NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
• Australia’s Foremost Fiction Library.
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
AH Bookstalls and Booksellers
or direct from the Publishers .
“THE FENCELESS RANGES,” by Roy Bridges
A great story of the Kelly Gang.
“THE MAKER OF PEARLS,” by S. W. Powell
An excellent volume of Island adventure and humor.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,”
by Jack North
Thrilling Sporting Adventure.
“THE CORAL QUEEN,” by Beatrice Grimshaw
“THE SKIPPER OF ‘THE ROARING MEG,’ ”
by Jack McLaren
“YELLOW SILVER,” by Edward Meryon.
“A GAME OF CHANCE,” by Arthur Wright
“FOR TURON GOLD,” by Don Delaney
“THE TRADER,” by Cecil Ross-Johnson.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
:6m
&
Gillette
Safety Razor
Its quickness is one of the reasons why twenty-million
men use the Gillette, but the main reason is that it does
not irritate the skin. It is adjustable to the light or
strong beard and leaves the face perfectly smooth, soft
and cool after the most frequent shaving.
No stropping—no honing.
Standard Set in neat leather case, 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
THE GILLETTE RAZOR CO., OP CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors: S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
MADE IN
n
TCIVNT3
«N9WM TH*
WORLD ©V*H
TEARING DOWN PRICE SALE
A THE LEVIATHAN
To the Retailer Two Roads are open. He may ask a profit on the oiiginal
cost of his Merchandise, bought before the drop in the wholesale inarme ,
OR LOWER HIS PRICES TO MEET THE
CHANGED CONDITIONS.
The second way is our way. We would rather sacrifice profit and keep
our customers than lose our customers and lessen our volume of business
this quick turnover keeps us always in a position to go into the maiKet
and buy for cash, at lowest prices.
Write for Illustrated OVERCOAT LEAFLET.
Secure YOURS at Sale Price.
TAILORING
at Emphatic Price Reductions
Just opened—All the New Season’s Suitings, featuring Fox’s Genuine Navy
Twills, latest pinhead, Plain, and Fancy English and Scotch Suitings,
including All Wool Australian Tweeds,
Usual Price 11 Guineas.
TO-DAY’S PRICE ...
m
Our superior facilities and the Expert Knowledge of our Tailoring
Organisation, enable us to specialise in the Finest Hand-Tailored Suits at
Keenly-cut Prices.
Write for Patterns, Home Measurement Chart and Tape.
Illustrated Catalog of Autumn and
Winter Wear Now Ready.
T»*
Pty.
Ltd.
Cr. Swanston and
Bourke Streets,
Melbourne.
o
r
///.
JS
W'\
A
!,
</
A\vV
V/,
m
m
%
i.
-h
-7MW/.
» \X vi > v
M«3
%/
111
Mr /
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them -in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns —whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
EconomfiSlWHßHg^H
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
See
On
Musi brand
each., shut
m
&
&
2s
a?
z>
Ci
&
&
fife


Brewed at Home
r*
3
Ifitfsn't
Its Better
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
—. Alo onri fifrvnf Thp TTinPfit ’HrinL' -ivi
Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
t» a t> wm'ETTMri
tralia JtSiVIV I'lvninnu. XXA x/ \j a JN.XV 111 N
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
tralia. OR POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
Invaluable for
Nerve Troubles, Headaches,
Kidney U Liver Derangements.
All Chemists and Stores—in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
WILSON’S EAR-DRUMS
MAKE THE DEAF HEAR.
w
A wonderful little de-
vice that fits into the
ears without the
slightest discomfort.
Invisible when in-
serted —so tiny, so per-
fect, that you forget
you are wearing them.
This marvellous in-
vention was perfected
by Mr. Geo. Wilson,
after years of suffering
from hopeless deaf-
ness. They enabled
him to hear perfectly. And this miracle has
been repeated for thousands of other sufferers.
Mr. ii. WATT, Wallacedale, writes: “I have
been using Wilson’s Ear-Drums for many years,
and 1 have derived great benefit from them, i
would not be without them for twice the price,
as without them I can hear nothing, so you
can undei'stand how I value them.”
We get hundreds of letters like these. We
will post a booklet if you wish, but we advise
you to waste no time in getting and using the
Ear-Drums. The price is £1 Is. complete
WILSON EARDRUM CO.,
H. WILKINSON, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this paper.
Dudlyngil”: Get under cover while I
throw a bo rib at “Recoil” (B. 14/4/’2l) for giving
wrong advic • on the peculiarities of explosives. The
slow, rending action of gelignite is less effective
than dynamite. There are three classes of explosives,
viz., high, such as gelignite, lyddite, dynamite and
guncotton; intermediary (known as propellants), cor-
dites and ballustite; and slow, gunpowder. Although
both are termed high explosives, gelignite is used
in a solidified form, whereas dynamite resembles
biown garden soil, and therefore exposes more sur-
face, with the result that the explosion is much
quicker and more effective. Here is another illus-
tration. The strength of cordite used in service-
rifle cartridges is regulated by the thickness of the
strands, or, in other words, by the surface exposed—
the component parts being the same as regards quan-
tity of nitro-glycerine. Gelignite contains 75 per
cent, nitro-glycerine, 20 per cent, nitre, 5 per cent,
guncotton and woodmeal. Dynamite is composed of
<5 per cent, nitro-glycerine and 25 per cent, absorbent
earth, and was invented by Nobel. However, for
quickness give me ballastite. I guarantee it is faster
than any female member of Society.
* * */ *
“Wandi”: Has anybody ever seen a cross
between a corella and a galah? These birds very
often fly and feed together on N. S. Wales western
plains. I have seen several thousands on the ground,
all intermixed, and feeding on the most friendly
terms. When they rose they circled in one flock,
the whites of the corellas and the pinks and greys
of the galahs forming a beautiful picture of flashing
colors. They also alighted in trees together; but
always at roost-time they separated. I have often
heard westerners express wonder that these birds,
considering their frequent close association, do not
inter-breed. The weejugla, or pink cockatoo, looks
like a link between the two, but this handsome
species keeps religiously to itself. 1
ALL ARRANGED.
“Oh, well, if you will be an artist I don’t
know how ever we are going to afford to
get married .”
“ That’s all right. I know a johnny tcho is
going in for the church, and he’s pro-
mised to fix us up the first job he does
just for practice."
“Jimsey”: “Chips” (B. 14/4/’2l) asks if
shearing 51 sheep without changing the cutter is a
record. Some years .ago near Bathurst I saw Tony
O’Neill pull the fleece off 89 without a change
of cutters; but they were not heavily wooled.
“Aragurn”: “Dingohanna’s” champion
boozer (B. 21/4/’2l) is a mere novice. Two tin-
smiths at Ramornie meatworks once had a go, as the
result of one, a stranger, boasting of his camel-like
capacity. The beer (draught) was served in 21b.
tongue tins, each tin containing well over a pint.
The betting was pretty even until the sixteenth
round, when the stranger skied the towel. I’ll back
the winner to lick the combined forces of “Dingo-
hanna ’ and his tinker friend, providing they buy
the beer.
THE TRADITION.
HOUSE-PARTY HOSTESS: “Very bad form, I call it, to ring one up during church hours."
GUEST: “ Probably she Knows you don’t go to church,”
HOUSE-PARTY HOSTESS: “ Very likely; but she might have the decency to assume that
I do."
“Alex.”: “Builah Delak” (B. 3/3/’2l) is
wrong in stating there is no after-death growth of hair.
I viewed the late Les Darcy’s body as it lay at the
undertaker’s. His face was as clean aS that of a
newly-born babe. Two months later I visited the
vault in the Maitland cemetery, and through the
glass lid of the coffin again gazed upon the dead
champion’s face. There was nearly half-an-inch
growth of hair on it. The hair on his head had
grown over an inch. Seeing is believing.
* * * *
“Friday Island” : There’s more than super-
stition underlying the sailors’ aversion to manhand-
ling the albatross. The graceful bird, despite, fre-
quent sea-baths, is always. unspeakably lice-ridden.
Perhaps it was this “chatty” condition that made
the Ancient Mariner so garrulous.
“Bright”: I’m with “Bad Australian” (B.
7/4/’2l) when he says rodents are not afraid of
cold. A Sydney cold-storage house
packed about a thousand crates of
brer rabbit in the ice chamber for
some time, and when it went to move
them found the crates overrun with
the common gray rat. The little beasts
had grown hair in many instances as
long as two inches. Having eaten
the flesh of the carcases they had
made nests of the fur and reared
innumerable families which seemed to
thrive in the chamber surrounded by
hundreds of tons of ice. •
* * *
“Pick”; Though wild birds, us
a rule, plan their nurseries on beaute-
ous and symmetrical lines, they
usually, in order to avoid detection,
take pains to disguise or hide them.
The blue wonga works by rules of
contrariness. She makes her nest in-
conspicuous by building in the open,
and when completed it presents no
recognisable shape. From a cursory
view it resembles nothing more than
a few fallen twigs caught in a fork.
Because her white eggs might attract
attention, however, the nest is always
cunningly placed with a canopy of
leaves above, and for choice is built
in a nettle-tree to keep off interlopers
from below. Frail and ragged though
it is, the building is a marvel of
ingenuity. From beneath, the eggs
may be seen through the wide inter-
stices between the twigs, and the
beholder wonders why they don’t fall through. But
the builder has provided against this contingency by
interlocking the sticks to prevent their spreading,
and it requires a few pounds’ pull to separate them.
“Claroyamo’’: “Aragun” asks(B. 14/4/’2l)
if any Abo. has seen a dog tackle a death-adder. My
blue cattle-dog Ranger not long since settled two
beauties. The first one he took in our banana
plantation when it was in the act of striking at my
brother. The other he caught in an open paspalum
paddock. They measured 29 and 27 inches respec-
tively, the longer being of prodigious girth. Once,
though, a few miles north of Byron Bay (N.S.W.),
I saw Ranger funk it. All he would do that time
was to circle round and bark.
“Bouragi”: “Recoil’s” lofty correction of
mv comparison of the merits of dynamite and
gelignite for “fishing” (B. 14/4/’2l) is funny with-
out being vulgar. Especially where he explains that
while dynamite is just nitro-glycerine mixed with a
“non-explosive absorbent” —it is an infusorial clay,
to be exact —gelignite consists of nitvo-glycerine
absorbed “into stuff which is mainly of a highly-
explosive nature.” That “stuff” is just gelatine
which, though unpleasant when it is in the glue-
factory stage, cannot be justly styled explosive.
“Recoil,” after classing gelignite as slower than
dynamite, later denies this. The makers say it is
slower and they ought to know. The closer assimila-
tion of the gelatine and the explosive make com-
bustion slower, and the explosive has a greater tear-
ing effect. The dynamite will get the fish where
gelignite is useless. The difference is very noticeable
when the “shot” explodes in the water. Dynamite
gives a shattering bang, while gelignite “trumps”
like a member of the Millions Club going under a
steam-roller. As to dynamite disappearing from our
markets, I can tell “Recoil” where he can get
hoggins of it.
“Baree”: “FY7” (B. 10/2/’2l) has mis-
read my par. Here in the Northern Territory I
have repeatedly found myall blacks making bows and
arrows as toys for their 'children, and found the
youngsters far more skilful than the average white
boy in their use; but the adult black never seems
to have made use of the bow for himself. As the
bow and arrow was developed into the arbalest and
quarrel, which in turn was developed into the
modern rifle, so the principle of the bow and
the woomera are the same. Both are used for im-
parting speed, accuracy and deadliness to a weapon.
The arrow was certainly evolved from the short
throwing spear, even though the spear and the arrow
still abide to-day and have their own separate uses.
The abo. father in many cases uses the same materials
for spears for his son’s amusement with the bow, and
for “play-about” fights among his own mates. Why
he never developed the bow for his own use is still
an unsolved puzzle.
* * * *
“Blanc”: I’ll back the common pepper-
tree to equal “Ficus’s” Moreton Bay fig (B. 14/4/’2l)
in its search for food. My bottom row of pot-plants,
standing on a board three inches off the ground in
dry Cobar, suddenly died in spite of regular water-
ing. The murderers were rootlets from a pepper-
tree 40ft. away. They had left the ground and had
worked their way around, or through cracks in, the
board, and sucked the moisture through the holes
in the bottom of the pots.
* * * *
“Colub” comes back :—•
I seem to have started something with the inoffen-
sive par. I wrote concerning the relative poisonous
effects of the snakes of Australia and other kinds.
But I still adhere to my statement that the shakes
of Australia, even the most dangerous, are infinitely
less harmful than those of America or India. Two
most important factors overlooked bv various Snake-
experts are (1) the time which elapses between the
bite of the snake and the death of the person bitten,
and (2) the fact that, in the most recent classifica-
tion of snakes, the job is done, not according to the
zoological species and varieties, but according to the
physiological effects of their venom. As far as the
first is concerned, the average time taken for death
to ensue, after the injection of the poison, in the
case of the commonest American rattlesnake
(Crotalus horridus ) is from one hour to an hour-
and-a-balf and in some cases death has been known
to take place 20 minutes after the person was
bitten. As far as the Indian cobra (Naja tr'ipudians)
is concerned, about two hours is the longest that the
bitee survives; and with both these species, i e
rattlesnake and cobra, and the South American fer-de-
lance, the deaths among persons bitten range from
93 to 98 per cent. With the Australian snakes,
24 hours frequently passes before death occurs, even
with the black-snake, tiger-snake and death-adder
and that, too, in winter time, when the glands con-
tain more venom and the latter is more virulent If
ever a person died in two hours from the bite of one
of these, it was because he was in the last stages of
heart-disease when bitten. Moreover. I doubt if 20
u er cen t. would not be too high an estimate of
the death-rate. On the question of classification, all
venomous snakes belong to either the viperine group
or the colubrine. The effect of the venom of the
former is confined to the blood-stream, where it
causes haemolysis, or disintegration of the red cor-
puscles, while the venom of the latter, by being
deposited on the end-plates of the phrenic nerve,
results in a paralysis of the respiratory centres and
Tir .‘:' au f s death from asphyxiation or suffocation.
Most Australian venomous snakes are colubrine-
poisoners, and so, bv the injection into the blood of
suitable physiological antidotes to their venoms, the
the latter may be counteracted without much
difficulty. M itli a viperine poison-bearer, ft is a very
different matter, the use of physiological antidotes
being- out of the question. Size, by the way, has got
a distinct relation to venomousness. Noil-poisonous
snakes are all thin and comparatively long, while
venomous ones are short and thick, the rattlesnake,
full-grown, being from 4ft. to Oft. long and often
from Gin. to lOin. in diameter.
* * # •
“Sir Spen”: Walking down a side street
the other day I met a small boy leading a dog which
was a lamentable essay in mixed breeding. I asked
his pedigree. '‘Dunno wot sort you call ’im,
mister,” said the nipper. “Muvver calls ’im a
trine ’ound, sister calls ’im a foxy, but me cobber
Billy Bingle tells me 'e’s a slut breed.”
* * * •
“Gutter”: Re “Choppy’s” oddly-matched
team (B. 31/3/’2l). For weeks stone has been carted
from the Ida 11. to the Lavcrton (W.A.) State bat-
tery in two drays with horses in the shafts and bull
camels in the lead. And they’re doing good work, too.
* * * ■»
“Droftep” : At Mulveruton, on the Black-
all line (Q.), a kelpie can be seen daily herding a
flock of goats inside the railway fences. Immediately
on the sound of a train approaching he rounds up
his charges and drives them clear of the railway
line, then leaves them to wander at will when the
danger has passed.
“De la Poor”: Does any Abo. know of a
full-blooded Chinese who is a good all-round horse-
man? Recently at a carnival at St. George (S.Q.)
an Australian-born Chinese girl annexed the prize for
the best lady rider. She also won the ladies’ cattle-
drafting competition, and two of her rivals in both
events were exceptionally good horsewomen.
* * * *
“Tun”: Re “Ivanhoe’s” trench-digger (B.
7/4/’2l). Give him the half-hour to remove net-
ting and wires, coil same and get home. This leaves
him shrs., or 18,000sccs., to take out 2310 shovelfuls
of earth at a foot a time—less than Bsecs. per
shovelful—and no spell. Whose leg was pulled ?
HIS THOUGHTS WERE FAR AWAY.
HOSTESS (referring to her daughter's voice):
“What wonderful timbre, Mr. Wayback !”
DAD ( his mind on his new selection) : “Oh,
yes, missus—good 'cavy timber. But
it'll all 'ave ter be ringbarked.”
“Ida D.” (Argentine) : We have a mule
here that is 44 years old, and still bucks every
time he is brought in. He threw a stockman three
times on one recent morning.
HIS LAST BID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Dick from Crowbait went to town
To spend a holiday,
He met a girl of brief renown
Who figured in a play.
She danced a bit, and sang a bit;
Her clothes were strange to see.
As for the show, to Richard’s wit
It seemed that it was she.
Of course there were some other pros.
At these Dick never looked,
The girl in long-, pink silken hose
Possessed him. He was hooked.
He asked her would she wed. He’d got
Three hundred acres cropped,
. Spring water, and a little cot.
Here anxiously he stopped.
She shook her head. “Five hundred pounds,
Six horses and a plough,
A bonzer windmill on me grounds,
An orchard and a sow.”
She frowned. “S'mall hope I must confess
I feel.” He knit his brows.
Came leaping Hope. “That is, unless
You’re fond of milking cows!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
“Bill Bow yang”: I witnessed a strange
fight between two abos. in the vicinity of the Roper
River (N.T.). Both claimed the same gin. When
commencing hostilities each placed his left arm
round his adversary’s neck, and then passed his
right hand, which grasped a sharp piece of flint,
behind the back of his opponent. A bystander gave
a signal, and each naked combatant proceeded with
fierce energy to rip, hack and. tear the back of his
antagonist with the sharp flint in his right hand.
Hacking belujv the belt was not allowed; but they
made a gruesome mess of each other from the waist
upwards. When one cried enough the referee handed
over the dusky female to the other; then both men,
dripping with gore, retired to their respective fires.


■b&
,
'
O'
WiSM
s
mmam
■
kS. 11 # J
■■m
Ml
5.
*> :' 1
- -fifflaSslßtS
| «tpi if m
’ Sftft
'• :■ ''
i..l
■1
; *.
):■ ■ i
*.•„
,**>. t 1
. -
; : r
ft
.
ft-ft
rm
- ' :•>,
: j
* i "“'
:
.
s@sr
■ ,
IS
¥,J
'■••ft
* '
■ft
m
i ;ii
k
.
ii
. .
aft ft
SS5® ■' ... .
§m
*£K
I , ■ ;■**
« gft
I
A *
11l
i
*•
: as
■
ftillii
■' &
. : -ft.
1
: .
si ' '
** -
• •-
.
i
mm ftf\
irt V
£ -J i
• •
; . ; ■'
ft v -:>ft
ftl.
sswft
■r i
!
isi mi
m
% \ A
■ft
mm
• iX'» -a "-'i
mm&m.
■ _
■
■
‘
£
L
■Wk.
;
ft
/;yv/
mm
- - .
m
A
'J:
■
,V ft, v
;ftft.-.ft,
■’. • .
Ivrs/l
i. r. ,j
msmmiM
I:*-r • '
WV X
■ ■
ft
- ;
fi
TELLS...!
In practically every phase of
life this is apparent—and re-
cognised. Nobody appre-
ciates quality more than
motorists, for motoring de-
mands quality before satis-
factory service is rendered.
Motor tyres well illustrate
this. Look what the covers
have to withstand! Carry the
load, transmit the driving
power, eliminate vibration
by their resiliency, minimise
road inequalities and resist
abrasions and cuts. All
makes of tyres attempt the
task, but few succeed in
accomplishing their work as
well and as economically as
the high quality “Railroad.”
The high grade rubber and
fabric incorporated in
UN
O)
D
enables them to withstand
all this work for months at a
time without giving the least
trouble. Inspect “Railroads”
that have run many thous-
ands of miles. It’s hardly
believable that the smooth
red treads—without the sign
of a cut—have accomplished
such a herculian task. Here’s
where quality in materials
and quality in construction
is unmistakably indicated.
We know it is there—but
more important motorists
know and appreciate the fact
also, hence the reason why
“ Railroads” are easily the
most sought after and most
popular* tyres* on the roads
to-day. It is worthy of note
that “Dunlop” quality costs
you no more—in fact less
than most of the tyres on the
market. Use them—it pays !
DUNLOP
ALL STATES
RUBBER CO.
AND N;Z.


nm
ijv&rsMr
MournM
111
L
“fe
l W
ML
m
Hotpoint is a house-
hold word in the
modern homes of every
country on the globe.
It stamps Electrical
Goods as the best that
can be made—the
most efficient, economi-
cal, durable and beauti-
fully finished.
If you have difficulty
in obtaining any of the
many time- and labor-
savers listed under the
famous Hotpoint trade-
mark, communicate
with us.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
N.S.W. and Queensland.
Illustrated here are—
a Hotpoint Grill and
Ovenette—most handy
for quick-time Winter
morning breakfast, and
a Hotpoint Iron, which
need not be lifted from
the ironing board, but
merely tilted back on
its attached handle.
Prices and particulars
of all Hotpoint goods
on request.
n
WG WATSON&C°L TD
279 Clarence St Sydney'
Electrical Suppliers and Engineers.
Telegrams: Switchon, Sydney.
V
%
Every Man
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave. But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge—
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping
This is where the “Valet” Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shaye. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-), and demonstrate the razor
‘VALET’
Safety Razor
or\
WVv
uprriW'
IM
m
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney,
The word “ Valet” on Razors,
Strops , and Blades indicates the
genuine product of the Auto Strop
Safety Razor Co. f Ltd 197—207,
City Road\ London, England.
4'
Mb
/&V*
»
25:
Jevland
CONTRACTORS —Builders —Shire and County
w Councils favour this 2 ton type of Lorry. The
side tipping is a feature of great convenience enabl-
ing the Lorry to be driven straight into confined
spaces and the load tipped exactly where required.
%
-#J/‘
m m f
* %
* r
■
!l
'£ < fe,>.
“Take this Tip. Let it
be a Leyland"
LEYLAND LOGIC
Ley land Tip Lorries are remark-
able not only for the service they
give but for the variety of types
which are offeied. Steam or
Petrol driven—Rear or Side Tip —
Hand or Hydraulic tipping Me-
chanism-Spoke or Disc Wheels—
and to pull loads of varying
weights up to 5 tons. 'The
Chassis is Leyland standard in
every case and built to pull extra
loads on trailers.
IMMEDIA TE DELIVERY
FROM STOCK
XEYXAND MOTORS LTD.,
Xondon Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents:—«
Preston moior pty. ltd.
ili&h St , Preston, Melbourne
BUTTER SCDTch
SI
WAFERS
■
clip's
m
m
i.
, ' .
k>%
■ ■■■?■
i ! c*
■J •■••-■
m
8«i
■ a
r
%
&
h fs
... ;
On/y /fddress
162^i1l St. SYDNEY
Packed in I*-
Tins.
5/6 EACH
POSTAGE 6? EXTRA
Sent to any address in rfustra/ia.


m
■’S
„p?~' f K
4 W ° LF E'S SCHNA
imTiirnTTmfTmf!
©
©
COLDS
COUCHS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TJSCU2U3
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
©
©
aa a a
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
warm and scented noonday about the rich
palace chamber are set off by the young Greek
philosopher-porter who is so poor that he
cannot afford to have his sandals mended,
but binds them on his feet with bits of
string. Tte wonderful temple glows in the
picture; Pharisees are there to the life,
even to the polor of the robes and their modes
of prayer; put filth oozes from the stones of
the street, \he prison reeks with evil odors,
and the ha ises of the poor artj bare and
squalid. Everywhere there is color, color
laid on in masses, more color than atmo-
sphere.
Jesus of Nazareth works miracles and
, walks very naturally out of the shadow of
'he trees on the Mount of Olives: but no
%ipt is made to get close to Him, to
Ise His teaching or to judge its value.
Js part of the machinery of the tale, but
.etferts little moral force in its development.
The characters are clearly enough depicted
but they are not subtle or complicated ; and
the reader could almost imagine that they
are the primitive men and women of the
earlier tales in a new setting. Still, they are
all quite believable—more believable than the
events through which they move.
The book is distinctly unusual. The in-
terest is well sustained, 'though there is a
certain sense of crudity which is perhaps in-
separable from any work of fiction dealing
with the period chosen. To galvanise the
dead past into life is always difficult; but it
is the more difficult when that dead past has
a kind of saintly halo about it and the ordin-
ary matters talked over the wash-tub of a
mean street have become the roost sacred
and accepted facts of a worldwide religion.
Books like “Hypatia,” “Quo Vadis” and “The
Last Di.vs of Pompeii” rise naturally for
eompari.Ln. All these are very much longer,
very mmh more analytical and with a kind
of dignity gained at some expense of tedium :
but none of them has more lavish color.
“Revelation” has hardly fulfilled the
promise of “As it was in the Beginning.”
There are passages oetter than anything the
•earlier tales contained; but “Revelation” is
rather a pageant than a novel. Though the
people are alive, they do not matter much;
though the tale moves, it does not stir deeply.
A tragedy should reach; the inner fount of
tears; this merely makes the reader hurry to
find out how the difficulties end. The book
may have a wide nonularity; but the author,
on the showing of the best passages, can do
much better.
The Critic
The critic has always been in a false posi-
tion. It is not often that Bedford’s “Do-it-as-
well-yourself” brick has been thrown at him
lately, but every artist keeps it handy for
emergencies, and every sensitive critic fears it.
That Bedford has written novels and plays,
short stories and verse, and that Dixon pre-
sumably hasn’t, doesn't make Bedford the
better or more reliable critic. Historically, the
contrary is the case —historically and, I think,
logically. I can think of only two creative
artists who are great critics as well—Cole-
ridge a,id Carlyle. And Carlyle’s creative
greatness is at least questionable.
The critical faculty is obviously secondary
to the ( native, but it is a faculty, and not
merely ; idle spectator’s verbosity. Ruskin
had it; "i his degree and to his limitations
he led Victorian artistic thought for more
than half a century by its light. He made
the theoretical technique of painting and
architecture the interesting possession of the
average inartistic man. By pointing to faults
and praising achievements, on the one hand
he kept his generation artistically sane, and
on the other he passed on the less obvious
excellences of the practising artists’ work.
Any student can do that, of course; but the
creative critical faculty is artistic publicism.
The rich splendor of Ruskin's style made his
matter worth reading for its own sake, which
by corollary created an interest in his sub-
ject—journalism, in fact; Parnassian jour-
nalism. The creativeness is directed to the
reader’s mind —to the dissection of the bro-
mide “I know nothing of art, but I know
what I like.” Insofar as his manner of
doing that is interesting and reliable, so is
his literary position high or low. For
example, Ruskin’s name will be alive long
after most of the novelists’ and playwrights’
of his generation are forgotten. His effect
on English thought is greater than theirs,
albeit he spun not yarns, modelled not and
builded not. He pointed to the yarns and
the statues and the churches which else might
be unread and unseen. He created an
artistic demand; hence the wise paucity of
Bedford’s bricks. Bedford, writing as a Pre-
Raphadite, an architect, a sculptor or what-
not, can’t afford to shut Ruskin’s mouth. The
developing thought of Ruskin’s or Dixon’s
age can’t afford to shut the mouth of either
of them.
Narrowing the thought down to the literary
art, Coleridge, as critic, first gave us reasons
for our love of Shakspeare. He reduced the
bromide “I know what I like” to “I know
why I like,” putting the thing on the plane
of reason instead bf instinct. He is a bad
argument for me because he is a sublime
creator as well; but I can’t afford to let his ‘
enormous critical service to letters pass.
Hazlitt, Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt are great
names resting for their greatness entirely
on criticism. Coming nearer to-dav Oscar
\\ ilde is a great critic whose creative work
iTT*i? r . soon be) negligible; the power of
\\ ilde s analytical thought is obvious in most
of the properly-so-called criticism now. Ches-
terton will last as a critic; his “Charles
Dickens was a classic when its author was
short of 40. E V. Lucas, H. W. Massing-
ham T. P. O Connor. Edmund Gosse, Ber-
nard bhaw, Augustine Birrell, Frederic
Harrison, Sidney Colvin —the amount of
creative work to the random names is com-
paratively small. Add the thousands of
equally and less well-known and unknown
names and the list will represent British
literary thought to-day.
The critic is an essential necessity to art
(it has been said thousands of times, so
-once more won’t hurt) ; and the artist trying
to make a living knows it as well as the
public trying to understand something it likes.
According to the creative quality of the
critic’s analysis—according to his journalistic
power of first interesting his reader and
then telling him something—he takes his
place high or low. In the highest places
his creative results are much greater than
the artist’s; “Sesame and Lilies” and “Ethics
of the Dust” (note the fine “arrestingly”
interesting titles) are directing groping
thought to-day; probably a dozen copies of
each are sold for one of, say, “Lavengro” or
“The Cloister and the Hearth.” The critic
is the arbiter whose portion is sometimes a
wise politeness and sometimes bricks; but if
he is a true critic neither will stop or qualify
his utterance. In directing the taste of the
average reader from the bad to the good, he
leaves some enemies in his wake; hence the
occasional, negligible brick.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Fashions in Heroines
If you have read the plays of Mr. Con-
greve, Mr. Wycherley, Mr. Vanbrugh and
other nimble-witted if indecorous gentlemen
of the Restoration, you will have observed
that, like the bright-eyed women of Chaucer,
the ladies of that period were both
pretty and sprightly, fairly well versed
in the ways of a gay and none too
seemly world, and inclined not only to call
a spade a spade but to tack on very spirited
adjectives. The excellent Miss Doolittle, into
whose mouth Shaw put the remark that
staggered all the best people in London, was
not the first damsel to speak her mind with
a frankness which tender-stomached people
find a little disconcerting.
But with the triumph of Jeremy Collier
and his black-coated, sour-visaged school, the
stage trod the ways of modesty once more,
and of course the heroine changed too. And
so we find that the erratic but rather charm-
ing hoydens of the Restoration have become
the tiresome prudes of Richardson and his
followers, trembling at the sight of a man and
eternally protesting their virtue. Female
virtue was an obsession with poor Richard-
son. He began his literary career by under-
taking the composition of a “model letter-
writer” designed to “instruct handsome girls
who were'obliged to go out on service. .. .how
to avoid the snares that might be laid against
their virtue,” and the designs of Lovelace and
“Mr. B.” against Clarissa and Pamela are
the sole motif of his two best books. Love-
lace succeeds ; he is the villain. Mr. 8., being
less astute, fails, and for no other apparent
reason is the hero. Richardson, whose
authority in matters of morality was so great
that thousands of silly women used to write
to him for advice, is equally eccentric in his
conception of the perfect heroine. Pamela
resists the attempts of Mr. B. so persistently
that that unpleasant Fut wealthy scoundrel,
having found all other devices useless, gets
down to business and offers to marry her.
When the poor but honest maiden hastily
embraces him and a life of luxury, while her
family sheds tears of joy, one suspects that
her virtue is only another term for a keen
eye to the main chance.
In spite of the healthy influence of Fielding,
whose Sophia Western and Amelia are human
if still somewhat conventional, the stilted
heroines of Richardson, as full as Mr. Peck-
sniff of moral sentiments and given to
shedding “pearly fugitives” on the slightest
pretext, remained fashionable for the rest of
the eighteenth century and well on into the
nineteenth. Worse, they developed into
Languishers. These ravishing-creatures—all
heroines were beautiful and all beauties were
“ravishing”—never appeared without a
chaperone, allowed their bosoms to palpitate
with confusion when addressed by a man,'
and swooned in the least thrilling emer-
gencies. Swooning, indeed, became so modish
that it was accepted as the test of true
gentility. When a man mentioned a naughty
word like “trousers” you trembled and went
faint; when the brute said “leg” instead of
“limb” you “registered” all the symptoms of
shell-shock, glanced around hurriedly for a
couch or rug (in case he failed to catch you)
and then swooned as gracefulb' as circum-
stances and your figure would permit. If you
didn’t, you were No Lady.
The Lahguishers even survived the revolu-
tion introduced by Jane Austen. Greatly
daring, she made her heroines plain and
almost human, and cast them into an environ-
ment in which nothing ever happened. Louise,
m “Persuasion,” does fall at Lyme Regis, but
the fall is due to gravity rather than levity.
The only other hectic incident that I can
recall is Maria’s elopement, conducted with
all the dash of a Quaker couple at a jazz
party. But the very commonplaceness of the
stories ensured their popularity. The experi-
ment of the plain heroine hit the taste of
thousands of ill-favored females who had
always cherished a secret conviction that a
cast in the eye was not a fatal bar to
marriage with a peer, and for years women
abandoned sewing, churning butter and other
occupations then closely connected with
literature, and instead churned out novels
which not even the excessive plainness of
their heroines could redeem.
The movement inevitably had its reaction.
Bulwer Lytton, Disraeli and Dickens all
show signs of the gushing sentimentality
with which Richardson sickens you; the
work of the minor novelists of the period is
overloaded with it. Each of them introduces
you to a creature, as beautiful as a lily and
as frail, who languishes and pines and sighs
and ogles till you nearly burst with an un-
gentlemanly desire to kick her. Thackeray
(what a masterpiece Becky Sharp is!),
George Eliot and George Meredith led * a
return to sanity, but it was only after a long
struggle, and over the prostrate bodies of
“Ouida” and all her colleagues of the yellow-
back era, that the human heroine has entered
the kingdom carved out for her by Hardy,
Wells, Bennett and Compton Mackenzie.
Novelists agree now that the heroine shall
be natural and unrestrained. They differ
only in the matter of her appearance and the
degree of freedom that should be allowed her.
There seems to be an impression that any
foible short of homicide is quite permissible
—a nice point in ethics which I will leave
professional moralists to decide. But one
thing I do object to, and that is the vogue of
ugliness. This is how Hugh Walpole describes
Maggie in “The Captives”
She was neither handsome nor distinguished, plain
indeed... .She would prolably be stout one day.
She moved like a man.... Her clothes were ugly
with the coarse drab of their material, and the
unskilful workmanship that had created then,.
There are plenty of others like her in the
novels of to-day, and I for one am tired of
them. You see enough ugly and commonplace
people in the world without running against
the girl you meet on the train, the girl who
shows you your seat at the theatre, the girl
who brings you your chops, in every new
novel you pick up.
G. C. Dixon.
“The Faculty of Wonder”
Adrian Lawler’s article (R.P. 14/4/’21.)
is packed full of suggestions—packed so
full, indeed, that he could have elaborated
his column-and-a-half into a whole book.
One or two points raised by him have a local
Australian interest. The mysterious natural
sounds described by Marco Polo as heard by
him in the desert of Lop, w'hieh is Gobi in
Central Asia, were real sounds. Many years
ago much publicity was given to some mys-
terious mountain noises in Tasmania. I
happen to possess a yellowed newspaper
cutting from the Argus, describing the
sounds, and quoting at length Marco Polo,
Milton’s “11 Penseroso” passage and the well-
known verse in the “Hymn on the Nativity,”
beginning “The oracles are dumb.” The
black fellows gave the N. S. Wales district
of Tumbarumba that name on account of
the rumblings heard at different times. On
the same State’s south coast weird noises
can be heard at times from the Cambewarra
range and thereabouts. Wonderful organ-
like effects are obtained by the wind among
the ranges, though I believe wind is not the
cause of most of the above-referred-to
“hideous hums” and “hollow shrieks.” Some-
times prior to a southerly the boom of the
oncoming gale is heard with most awe-
inspiring effect for an hour or two before
the actual performance starts. The faculty
of wonder is not lost to the listener because
the cause of the marvel is known.
The “incommunicable thrill” that comes
from “seeing into the hidden heart of things.”
as Adrian Lawlor says, comes even if the
things are all about and around us and
as commonplace to some as the primrose to
Peter Bell. In our own Australia the
globe-trotters have by no means staled and
made threadbare the wonderful store of
Inyth and tradition which men like the late
Dr. George Brown, Fison and Howitt, Spen-
cer and Gillen have unearthed from abo.
lore. Dr. Brown could give “the incommuni-
cable thrill” to his audience when he dis-
coursed on the “spirit fathers” of the abo.
women’s babies in the dim past. Sir Jas.
(“Golden Bough”) Frazer recently wrote
concerning all these workers in the rich field
of Australian folk-lore that they did not
view their savages through a telescope from
either a club or college window. The facts
accumulated by them deepen the wonder we
feel at the mysterious processes and develop-
ment of human nature through all its stages.
Another name should be-added to those of
Brown, Fison, Howitt, Spencer and Gillen
—that of Mrs. Aeneas Gunn. “The Little
Black Princess” is steeped in wonder.
FLORENCEW BAVERSTOCK.
Inky Way
London publishers’ announcements include, amongst
forthcoming productions, a new book by Steele Rudd,
“We Kaytons.”
“Yarra Ben”: A member of the South Melbourne
Municipal Council arose in his wrath the other day
and declared that two books in the Public Library
were “outrageously indecent.” A brother councillor,
equally shocked, moved that tbe two books referred
to “be committed to the flames.” The motion was
carried. The books were novels, “ ’Liza of Lam-
beth” and “A Holiday Husband.” I have no know-
ledge of the latter, but Somerset Maugham’s “ ’Liza”
—well, I suppose it is 25 years since I first became
acquainted with it. If that work deserved “com-
mitting to the flames” at this time of day, Shaks-
peare had better look out. The S. Melbourne
Council has started to read.
"Yoyang”: “P. Pawnticket’s” yarns (B.
14/4/’2l) about the lack of literary knowledge on
the part of the giggling girleen of Sydney’s smart
suburbs are not overdrawn. Apropos of the cen-
tenary of Keats’s death, I happened to tell the
tale of the professor who went to one America’s
smart women’s clubs to lecture on lveats, and was
asked by one young thing beforehand, “It’s all so
interesting, Professor, but what arc Keats?” Two
of my listeners said in a duet: “Well, and what are
they? I never heard of them!”
A person who makes me tired is that
strenuous young reporter who writes that Smith
“was admitted to the hospital in a serious
Who goes to the hospital in a humorous condition?
From one of the writing brotherhood : *—
I have written that great Australian novel. You
know; the one we have all been waiting f or. I
thought I might be able to sell it here an< j there
in Australia for serial publication. I was
mistaken. I can’t. In my sweet simplicity I tried
the Protectionist papers that print serial stories.
They had nothing to say against my story,, and in
order that they might remain unprejudiced towards
it declined to read it. They were getting the long
stories they needed from English and,. American
sources, all syndicated stuff, very cheap, and for the
most part pretty good. Papers which wax enthusi-
astic daily, applauding our capacity in the matter of
making boots, for instance, were not prepared to
admit that as makers of books we Were worthy of
a single thought. Papers that get mfid if the prin-
ciple of buying in the cheapest market be applied
to iron rods or plaid trousers calmly usurp the right
of purchasing literary matter abroad at the lowest
possible rates, and apparently feel ho call to defend
their position. Editors, in fact, seemed to take it
for granted that I would endorse their procedure.
It was graciously assumed that nothing remained to
be said but “Good day! Close the door, please.”
I am a convinced Protectionist; I am taxed from
the crown of mv hat to the sole of mv boot for the
good of my neighbors. I am denied the privileges
of the settled policy for my own advantage, and this
by the dailies that want free paper in addition to
comparatively free matter. I once put these points
to a seini-eminent politicinn. His reply was: “Who
cares a damn about the Australian writer?” He
was right, so incontestably right that I temember
thinking at the time he should have been an Aus-
tralian editor.


Prices
for
Wool
'•feA
m
'
are not what they might be. But make the
best of the situation. Consign to —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Trade records prove the firm’s skill and
success as salesmen.
[2
3N010A0
nm
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—1915.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
—lt will save trouble.
The comfort and elegant design of
bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings
make them essentially machines
suitable for lady cyclists. Ease of
control and tbe absence of trouble
give a feeling of absolute security,
while tbe economy of a bicycle built
of genuine B.S.A. Fittings is ap-
parent from tbe first week of pos-
session. For reliability, comfort and
long service they are world famous.
A
Jfr
B.S.A.
X
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
('Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE
AffSIRWLIAN
mm
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address —•
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors icith the. Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
n
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOFHE It
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which Is of the
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputation.
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker. & Longlmrst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
o
C J
Hf
□
:1
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
CAN BE LAID IN A WET TRENCH.
Hydro-Electric Scheme, lfiin. Wood Pipe Line, Cliff
Section, Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co., Ltd.,
at Lake Margaret, Tasmania.
It is corrosion-proof. Does not scale, pit or clog. No tuberculation, and it is npt affected
by electrolysis. One-fifth of Australia’s population receives its pure water supply
through it. It costs only a fraction of what metal pipe costs to instal, and its upkeep,,
expense is infinitesimal. We can ship large quantities on short notice.
SEND FOR OUR DEEPLY INTERESTING BOOKLET.
WE ARE ALSO MANUFACTURERS OF WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree). fj|
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
/*<
' : ■
“The Scrutton” Lathe.
' SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR MOTOR GARAGES.
CALL AND INSPECT THIS TRIUMPH OF ENGINEERING SKILL.
6in. Centres, 6ft. Gap Bed, Self-acting, Sliding and Screw-cutting;
Takes 1 in. Black Bar through Hollow Spindle;
Has Back Gearing and Independent Feed Shaft;
Admits 3ft. 9in. between Centres, Gap swings 20in. dia. x in. wide
in front of Face Plate;
Apron Gears run in Oil Baths.
Complete with Face Plate, Driver Plate, Change Wheels and Countershaft.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
These five-penny estimates for working
ground in the Malay Peninsula don’t get
much support from latest experiences. At
Kampong Kamunting last month working
exes., apart from depreciation, amortisation
and h.o. outgoings, were 0.51 d., and at Asam
Kumhang 6.14 d. .
“Rooinek”: “(food Australian’s” scheme
(B. 7/4/’2l) for paying our debts by calling
every sovereign two sovereigns is beautiful in
its simplicitiy. But why stop at gold? Call
every bale of wool two bales, and every
bushel of wheat two bushels, and our debt
will vanish like the morning mist.
* * * *
Midland Railway Co. (W.A.) collected
£129,100 in the year ended June 80, 1920, and
that was £19,400 more than in the previous
12 months; but still it failed to come witlnn
£lB,OOO of the receipts in 1.913-1914, the year
before the State’s parallel line was opened.
Net receipts totalled £50,100 and after pro-
viding for all expenditure and ear-marking
£20,000 for depreciation there was a deficit of
£lO,OOO. The co. is still haggling with the
Government about compensation for traffic
diverted to the State’s competitive line, and
is pressing the Federal land-tax people for a
substantial reduction of its assessment of
£14,440. So far, however, it has made no
progress with either claim.
* * * .*
“Old Banker” : The Federal note-issue has
touched £00,000,000 and closed the quarter
at lialf-a-million below that The banks hold
521 millions and the public carries 27
millions. Gold held against the notes totals
just under 40 p.c. of the issue. Australia
needs more gold and fewer notes. Instead of
Victoria floating a loan of 24 millions in
London for more railways which can’t pay,
it ought to raise one of £4,000,000 and pay
the money to the note-issue authorities. In
fact, all the State Governments ought to be
asked to repay the money they borrowed from
the notes fund and so enable the controllers
to begin to deflate the currency by calling in
and cancelling notes to the extent of the
States’ repayments.
* * * *
Queensland Oil Co.’s bore is still going
down at Wolston, near Brisbane, and re-
cently the co. lodged a claim with the Com-
monwealth Government asserting its eligi-
bility for the £50,000 prize. The bore is merely
a stab on a diviner’s site, and cash was
forthcoming from a few to back him. The
diviner is confident (they always are), and
has asserted that the strata passed through
have contained gas and oil, though so far
there lias been no official confirmation from
the Mines Department. The bore is going
down in the Ipswich coal measures —not an
unlikely formation for oil, provided they
have hit on a spot where structural geology
permits of. its accumulation. It is therefore
not strictly correct to assert, as has been
done, that the bore is in a similar formation
to that at Roma. Considering the para-
mount importance which British and Ameri-
can experts ascribe to geological structure,
there would be more public faith in the suc-
cess of this venture if there was not a
suspicion abroad that this aspect was not
considered when the site was chosen.
* * * *
.T. W. Roberts on the Lucknow float: —
It is not to be wondered at that an effort is being
made to float a company to fre-open the Lucknow
mines, near Orange (N.S.W.). Lucknow has been a
name to conjure with —no new goldfield in Australia
would have been complete without a Lucknow or a
Bendigo co.-—but to say that it holds a world’s
record with £2,000,000 worth of gold is to ignore
Kalgoorlie’s Golden Mile. I express no opinion as
to the merits of the new proposition, except that
there is justification for systematic prospecting from
the D’Arcy shaft, from which, allowing for the
dip of the formations towards it, search could be
made at depths down to, say, 2000 ft. from the lode-
apex. The promoters lay undue stress on the pro-
bability of tribute parties being successful. Which
recalls the fact that not long before his death a
unique tribute proposition was submitted to the late
John Gainford as agent for the then owners, the
chief of whom was the notable Frank Gardner. This
was that for the right to clean out certain old
privies on the freehold the tributor would give 00
per cent, of the value of the gold specimens found.
The outcome of this 1 never heard. There are well-
corroborated stories of large quantities of rich
arsenical ore being recovered from abandoned under-
ground water-tanks and all sorts of other hiding
places. Lucknow was always a popular mine—
instances are recorded of parties of men paying good
sums for the right to step in and work other men’s
places. It was this peculiar popularity which led to
the long strike in Warnford Lock’s time when he
insisted on a strict system of searching to stop (as
he alleged) a wholesale system of theft.
“G.A.”: Having surrendered its black coal
mines in the Saar Basin and Silesia to the
Allies and agreed to send 2,000,000 tons a
month to Italy, France and Belgium, Ger-
many is turning to brown coal for fuel for
its own needs. This year no less than
120,000,000 tons of it will be mined, and it
is intended to raise the output to 180,000,000
tons. The stuff used to cost 2s. a ton at pit’s
mouth, had 2500 heat units and contained up
to 60 p.c. of water. It is chiefly made into
briquettes, but by the application of scientific
methods, the result of strenuous research all
through the war, the chemists have been pro-
ducing out of it lubricating, heating and
lighting oils, benzine, ammonia and petrol.
In fact, this nearly worthless substance has
been transformed into a storehouse of oils
and chemicals in every-day use. Germany
has to deliver every year for three years
50,000 tons of tar to Franc >. 30,000 tons of
ammonia and 38,000 tons of benzine. These
things were formerly distilled from black
coal. Now they come from brown. Accord-
ingly the brown coal distillation industry is
assuming formidable proportions. With the
oil electricity will be generated on a vast
scale, and the German railways will be elec-
trified and enormous quantities of black coal
saved for other uses. The by-products of a
ton of brown coal are said to be worth £35
at the Mulheim Experimental Institute, and
that leaves out of account the coke, drugs,
dyes and solvents left in the ultimate pro-
ducts. Are the Victorian people awake to
this altered value of their limitless brown
coal beds, or do they prefer to remain fast
asleep 1


S 3
PS
i
y
't
•> \
",\.r
SEriSC
='"’W ! —ns
iiyJlyJ
f||| r^|H'"if
vt/m/mm/,
SSI
■ &
M* it|K- 411
IfcHffrH
ixirt-iii!
’'MMz.
■///rs/j/M wt////t//A
’/HUM,
y/mmav/.i nib
ami
■tm.
&
• A
fETEB
Dawson
SPECIAL SCOTCH
Bunded Whisict
J.
lOt*i
£wJ&>o
' :
=
mm "'ini ■
■
1111
iiliiißl
m
W
* ■
■
im
The Briton Overseas
V
remains British—through and through
—never losing his Nationality—nor his
characteristics.
Above all, he retains the tastes and pre-
dictions of the Homeland, and prominent
amongst these is his taste for
£
SCOTCH
In these days of scarcity it is only by
the most careful husbanding of stocks
we can hope to maintain regular (if
inadequate) supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the unvarying quality
of ‘P.D.’ Whisky.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde St..
GLASGOW.
v is* o>yj
L
m
mmm
m
iff
tit £2
■
H
»
£H
Sh
CAUTION
Look for the
Trade-mark on
the selvedge
every two yards
FOX
TRADE
MARK
FOX BROTffEftSeC? LIP
WELLINGTON,SOMERSET. ENGLAND.


/
r»ot|
laxyest'selliriij;
quality pencil in
the yvoxld
l/ENUS
V PENCILS
nm
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CHATEAU
TANUNm
Standard O
BRANDY
2
?r
<*V5
WMMUM
mw-
<2--
A rich, pure,
health-giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
n
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS"^LIFETIME.
And COMMERCE
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
CASHS
WOVEN
s , . irtn.lli, ■ wl| th/,,,,,,, ,S‘
c fcuyk ✓ Smiths
The IDEAL Way
TO MARK ALL LINEN
or any Material, CASH S Names en-
sure protection and individuality
They supersede Marking Ink—-A Clear
Neat Name woven in Fast Color is
easily sewn on.
Prices: 12 doz.7/6-6 doz. 5/--3doz. 3/6
Sold by all best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J.&J. CASH [3:
85 Cubitt St., Richmond.
Victoria.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
m
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
In the Matter of
GREAT COBAR LIMITED.
Sir Arthur F. Whinney, K.8.E., Receiver and Manager, London.
William AJorner Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
TENDERS are invited by William Horner Fletcher, the Receiver and Manager in
New South Wales for the Debenture Holders of Great Cobar, Limited, for the
purchase of the following assets, namely:—
Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery and Plant, Tools,
Stores, Rolling Stock and Sundries, Trade-marks, Goodwill.
Business and Undertaking of Great Cobar Limited as existing at
the date hereof, excluding Live Stock, Book-debts, Cash and Bank
Balances and Records, but including Freeholds and Leaseholds
and Copper, Gold, Silver and Coal Mines and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc.; Offices and Cottages at Cobar, Wrightville and the Peak, County
Robinson, and at Lithgovv, County Cook; Leaseholds and Freeholds
at Cobar, Wrightville, The Peak uTul Lithgow.
Railway Sidings at Cobar and Lithgow.
The Vendors reserve the right to sell any asset by private treaty before tenders
close and to elect whether tenders shall be accepted.
(1) As a whole. (2) By lots.
Tenders are being called for simultaneously in England and Australia. The Lots
are more fully described in the schedule which, with Conditions of Sale and forms of
tender, may be had on application to the undersigned, or to : —•
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building. 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. 11. C. Chappie, Great Cobar Limited, Cobar.
Mr. John Evans, Great Cobar Limited, Lithgow.
Tenders endorsed as provided in the Conditions and addressed to the Receiver in
the case of tenders from Great Britain and Ireland, or the Local Receiver for tenders
from elsewhere than Great Britain and Ireland, must be in the hands of the Receiver or
Local Receiver (as the case may be) not later than noon on Fifteenth day of June, 1921.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydney this First day of February, 1921.
Equitable Building, W. H. Fletcher,
350 George Street, Sydney. Local Receiver and. Manager in New South Wales.
iiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiii
■as*
A
The All
British
rd
light car
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Comfort in keeping with its appearance
of quiet elegance are features of the
Standard Light Car that have won the
favour of the Owner-Drivers throughout
;; the world. ::
2 and 4 - Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co.* Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHTZACKERLEY,
108-171 Elizabeth
SYDNEY.
Be patient; e’en though the fish don t bite.
Be prudent; set your smoke stack alight.
If your line is clear —just bide-a-wee
And puff away at your GBD.
Many popular shapes. On sale everywhere.
GBD
Perfed Pipe
The Bulletin's “Oldest Inhabitant” turns
into his 82nd lap on May 9.
There is a proposal that employees of Syd-
ney Municipal Council should be “invited”
to subscribe to a fund to promote the re-elec-
tion of the present Labor councillors. Just
how much will the non-subscriber be "vic-
timised”'?
“Liver”: About 17 miles from Bathurst
(N.S.W.), at a crosvsing of the Macquarie
River near Fremantle, where there is a
public and unattended boat tied up, a notice-
board bears this legend :
Shire of Turon.
Persons using the river boat at this crossing are
warned against leaving it on the Bathurst side.
By Order of the Council.
Conan Doyle has had his say about the
shortcomings of our postal system. But he
did not mix so much acid with his oil as a
recent Canadian visitor. This innocent went
to Sydney G.P.O. in search of stamps. He
became entangled in the four-deep assembly
at the counter. Just when his patience was
at vanishing-point a. tired assistant handed
him the stamps. “May I use these on Sun-
days?” meekly inquired the Canadian.
“Itellu": Occasionally Cairns (Q.) has a
drought; but more often it gets damp, if not
positively wet. For the first three months of
this year the rain-gauge there has registered
two good yards of water. But for a real
wet season you have to travel 60 miles
soitth to Innisfa.il. Here the rainfall has to
date averaged a full yard a month —that is,
as far as the record has been taken, for it
is alleged that the official gauge overflowed
several times.
“Singemoine”: Father O’Reilly, Rector of
St. John’s College, with his dictum that
“those who are starving have a moral right
to steal sufficient food for their needs,” has
stirred up the platitudinous of Sydney in a
manner highly entertaining, no doubt, to him-
self. But it is a very, very old one. Car-
dinal Manning said it in Hyde Park 25
years ago. The Bishop of London (Dr.
Winnington-Ingram), who addresses the
working man as “matey,” gave the same
superfluous counsel at Bethnal Green on a
memorable occasion. Of course, it is per-
fectly sound, ethically, unless pilfering is
hold to be more blameable than suicide, and
human lives of less importance than a loaf of
bread. But the real object of these messages
is not so much to save the workers as to, in
the phrase of our late Allies, “4pater les
bourgeois.” Father O’Reilly’s success in this
respect Was remarkable.
Nowadays the lady who arrives to do the
weekly washing is not always a florid, inde-
pendent matron who talks interminably
about her ailments and the moral delin-
quencies of her ole man. Sometimes she is
a brisk and efficient spinster who tackles the
job so industriously that she hasn’t time io
pay out chin-music —except perhaps at
lunch-time, when she exhibits a sane outlook
on life. Also, she doesn’t pour her tea into
the saucer or impale green peas on her knife.
The wash-tub is no place for the jazzing
flapper, but the girl who isn’t afraid of house-
work and has no false pride or silly affecta-
tion might do worse. One neat and capable
young women “goes out” five days a week.
She begins at nine and is always finished by
four. For six hours’ work (less, if it is a
modest wash) she gets 10s., with tram or
train fares both ways and a hot meal —and
morning and afternoon tea, also, if her em-
ployer is a decent sort. Better than being a
hat-slave or a lady-yelp.
“S.S.” : A soprano who had come out with
a grand-opera company was fat when engaged
in her native Milan, but put on so much
weight on the ship that the amazed manage-
ment decided it could not find room for her.
and she was instructed to stand aside until
she was reduced to fit the scenery. “Fat
soprani, yes,” said the management, "we are
all familiar with them, but a lady who takes
the stage like an elephant backing out of a
tent—no, no !” So 'the singer and her spouse
withdrew in indignation. After three 'weeks,
the hopeful husband, smiling and gracious,
presented In's wife again. There was no
visible difference. The management shook its
head. The man pleaded. The management
was obdurate. It was too much for Cesare
Balbo’s Italian blood. “Whatta ees it that
you willa nbtta let the greata the gran'
Guicciardini seeng?” he screamed. “Iss all
ze exercisa to go for notta theeng? Xe
great privation eet willa notta count, eh?
Ah, too bad. tooa dam bad! You see the
great Guicciardini what she endure! Sin
lova the Eenglish kipper, she adore the Eeng-
lish kipper. She goa withou’ three Eenglish
kipper for breakfast for three week. Man.
aliva. she lose de halluf noun’!” But the
shocking sacrifice was all in vain; and
Guicciardini returned to her kippers.
The highly inflammable Garden came out
the other day with an axe in his hand to
explain his Labor Council’s anti-immigration
policy. Said the Garden of Eden :
All the old capitalistic dodges are left aside, and
the attacks take the form of a brutal and open
demand for the reduction of wages. Therefore our
position is clear. We will instruct the workers of
Great Britain as to the actual position in this coun-
try, and explain to them various incidents that com-
pel us to believe that they are to be used for the
purpose of reducing the standard of living in this
country.
But unless Garden can procure the sup-
pression of Judge Beeby, or prevent the
British workers hearing of him, his warnings
are likely to fall on barren ground. For
Judge Beeby sits in his court all day, yield-
ing lightly and automatically to “brutal and
open demands” for the reduction of working
hours without any reduction of wages. As
a Special Court under the Eight Hour
Amendment Act he has recommended that a
44-hour or five-day week shall be adopted
almost all round, and as for the basic wage
it is in full bloom. The Judge also laid it
down only the other day that “workers are
entitled to more leisure and wider oppor-
tunities for relaxation, education and social
intercourse.” If these things can’t be sup-
pressed, the British worker, whose wages are
dropping wholesale, he having no Loan Gov-
ernment to fall back upon, will say there is
one Paradise left, ancT nothing save lack of
passage money will stop him coming. Should
he hear about those 12 men at Darwin who
made a £5OO job out of felling two trees
he will swim.


m
mmi
rmu-‘
c" >"
itr-
‘'tftstjjk
. I
i ■
m
iJ »
# J is?
SSJ
, f .
v'-i.'.
y ■• '■
■ . . ■ ■,
fi'.'V !■.'«• . .<■■?+>' -i A Site-/ • ■ ; V- ■- " -■ /?h/ -V' X
. ’ 'S',-'.
- i s*-£.,>«>, •
■ ■■ ' '> » ':,./'
Si
ft!
ilk
y a
.
? a > ■ ■:■; ii, ■ '“-/ ■ ■ 'A
■ ■: . ■ r
• , ’ iff*
■
'
* i " I S' ■ * .
s
".v:
'
•*% \ . v jf'j-x •, v .. ,i
rf
■ frtt
f- , y ■ '*% k, : t t
~ V : ; ?..• ■'••' .
■ ' X - < ..■
1 -V
tun mm
.
’ - -
.
■
; i*
[
i:
-
» r :v -
Y.tk. .
■ ,• '■ r’* ’t„ \ ,J V
‘j - M
\ ' -• ■.
!
X&- -it
. i ■
R/Vf ••
i'*' ? Vi- ’
' 7 -a* • •-
■••/.*v ••• . ; i r- k . '•. *r-.-*r •-*•■••:
' A-
. '-^gK
■
■
•> -, V .■' • •“
.
.. •
.-■ ■ ■
■'’'• l. \ . - V' ■
'■ 'V'"' ..
:
u - *h '"
'
■ ' -a’
> v*“ i '
" •
'= ■ ■■■ ■
:
■ ‘ ’ ■ • .- • ■
"S>'£'s#ji xaSSsp--"- j'i.v;;-:.- '
;.: :/x. ■• ■ x
4,
■
is*. f
;is'y
v-§"
' v. ..
Is
B
'
ZfTk
*
*
*
4
RAC
STO
BATT
RY
*
o
$
\
Ol Al
Every battery has to stand
more or less pounding every
day of its life, for even the
best springs in the world
can’t absorb all the jolts.
The effect of big and little
bumps will be greatly les-
sened if you see to it that
the battery is clamped
tightly in place.
L , !!
STORAGE
BATTERY


CUTICURA HEALS
BABY HOULT
Of Eruptions On Arms and
Legs, Lost Sleep. Very
Itchy and Inflamed.
“ My baby was a great sufferer from
eruptions on her arms and legs. They
first began as a pimple which got
larger and then burst turning into
festered eruptions. They caused hex
many sleepless nights and were very
itchy. The eruptions were inflamed.
“I saw the Cuticura advertisement
and sent for a free sample. The itch-
ing seemed to be eased so I bought
more Soap and Ointment and she is
healed.’' (Signed) Mrs. A. J. Hoult,
Stanwell Park, South Coast, N. S. W.
Use Cuticura Soap for toilet pur-
poses, assisted by touches of Cuticura
Ointment to soothe and heal any
tendency to irritation, redness ox
roughness of the skin or scalp.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold evei-ywhere.
UM£'*Cuticura Soon shaves without mug.
Soap. 1/-: Ointment. 1/- & 2/-
n
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true—Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower ; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
—a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufaclur.d only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
mn
■ i
(a
STATES
IllilllJUillillllllllllllllllllllllli
TETSON
Sole Australasian Agents; P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
EALISING that many
men allow but ten
minutes or so for the
selection of their hat, high
grade Mens’ Outfitters, to
save the minutes will invari-
ably offer you a STETSON.
They know a STETSON
Hat will render you Service
and Satisfaction—that the
STETSON is dominant in
Style, finely made, hand
finished and unimpeach-
able in quality.
1
A STETSON is
PAR EXCELLENCE
a Gentleman's Hat
WRIGLEYS
Six
bars
tut
SUc
peg
K
asfs
o
A 177
Them
in each
packet for 3d.
The iong-iasting sweetmeat
that aids appetite and digestion.
THREE Flavours
The new
Juicy Fruit
flavour
The Spicy
flavour of
field-mint
The tasty
flavour of
Peppermint
Made In
Australasia
Chew it after every meal
SEALED TIGHT
KEPT RIGHT
Andy Fisher says now that he intends to
keep out of polities.
“Toby C.”: One chap in West Queensland
brought a naive veracity to his census paper.
In reply to the query, “What was the cause
of your unemployment?” he replied: “Bad
government.”
A v celebrated table at a Melbourne cafe
which used to be ringed with genius at the
midday snack is not so bright as it was;
but one of the first liabituds, Alex. Peacock,
is still there to stir the company with his
yarns and threaten the crockery with his
laughs. But Alec’s mirth has lost a lot of
its old steeple-rocking roar, and people who
pass him at the height of his merriment are
not so often convinced that a boiler has bui’st
outside.
Having lightheartedly gone into the fish
business with an overdraft and strong views
about Irish politics, the Queensland Gov-
ernment has unobtrusively gone out of it
again. It has turned the State fish-market
over to a co-operative company and the tax-
payer will be permitted to wipe out the
deficit. In conducting the funeral obsequies,
Forgan Smith, Minister for State Ilinder-
prises, explained that “75 per cent, of the
fish (mainly mullet) came in during two
months of the year, and to avoid storage, and
to ensure people getting the fish, the State
had disposed of the supplies at cost and
under cost.” A masterly stroke of business,
and presumably most of the people who got
the fish “at cost* and under cost” were elec-
tors and didn’t forget to vote for the Gov-
ernment.
The secretary of the Vic. Socialist party
has sent every member of Melbourne City
Council a letter which rambles on in this
style
The socialists of Victoria applied to you for per-
mission to march through Melbourne’s streets or
May Day,
And were refused.
Naturally, we expected it.
That is, of course, knowing the state of yom
mentality.
We don’t observe this in any spirit of spite or
anger-—we’re really sorry for you.
You’re only a very puny concern—a really insig-
nificant stub on the path of Labor’s progress, and
your efforts to embarrass us haven’t any more effect
than a flea on the hide of a rhinoceros.
And so on until the secretary concludes with:
I am, dear brother, your affectionate relative as
a unit of humanity, though living in a more enlight-
ened mental atmosphere.
But how much better if he bad concluded:—
I am, dear Flea, yours faithfully, the lthinoeeros!
The dull debate in the Iteps. on the Anglo-
Jap. alliance was enlivened by some specula-
tions of Considine’s on the possibility of
wat about oil. Armed with a pile of news
clippings, Considine prophesied a clash be-
tween Standard Oil and the group of British,
Dutch, and other foreign companies (the
British holding a predominant interest)
which at present control over three-quarters
of the earth’s known oil-bearing surface.
The prospect of the U.S. going dry as re-
gards oil in another 20 years whilst the British
held untapped areas sufficient to last the.
Emipre for centuries was alleged by Con-
sidine to offer Unele Sam a possible casus
belli when his local supplies ran short. There
is no doubt that Uncle is anno.yed at the
British grip on the rich Mesopotamia fields
' and doesn’t relish the growth of the Cow-
dray interests just' over the frontier fence
in Mexico; but it is unlikely that he will
fight for a larger share of the woi’ld’s oil
when he has unlimited quantities of shale
in the Western States. One of Uncle’s ex-
perts recently declared that Colorado alone
contains enough shale to keep the nation
in fuel for several hundred years.
“Solomon Malaprop” at a christening:—
The N.S.W. Northern Rivers people want a name
for their new State. The finding of a name is as
necessary to put secession on a legitimate footing
as the anointing and crowning which used to turn
a pretender into a dinkum king, or at least give
him a claim to be a belligerent instead of a shifty
rebel. The first batch of suggestions were disappoint-
ing. Especially so were New North Wales (which
might as well be North New South Wales), New England
(which is second-hand and double-barrelled), Wara-
tah and Orara (to be a Warataher or an Orarer
would be hard to pronounce and the latter citizen
would be called a Roarer) and Eastralia. There are
already a Northern, a Western, a South, and a New
South and the compass grows threadbare. Tasmania
is this country’s one real success as a State name,
though Victoria and Queensland aren’t bad now
that the varnish of snobbery has worn off them. A
place name ought to be music on the tongue and look
well (not Welsh) in print, and it should be possible to
make an adjective out of it without at the same
time making a noise like a bellows or a snort or an
explosion ; also without making the inhabitant
ridiculous by being a Cape Codder from Cape Cod
or a Caper from Cape Colony. It shouldn’t be
simply descriptive, like Brightland, which an enter-
prising person once suggested for New South Wales,
or the Great Big Muddy River, which once disfigured
the map of the Western U.S.; nor abusive, like the
Dirty Devil River in the same vicinity. It is
handy and simple to borrow the designation of a
great or at least well-known local character, but
such people are scarce, and many, like Cook, D’Entre-
casteaux, Billjim and Clancy of the Overflow*, have
names that don’t fit. Among the counties in the
New State there are some with mean-looking appela-
tions, like Clarke, White, Finch (not Tomtit),
Hawes and Leichhardt, the last a most incompetent,
bumptious and overrated person, who lost his way
perpetually, lost his temper constantly, and, it is
probable, lost his life eventually because he used to
camp in solitary pomp some distance from his party
lest he should see too much of the lower orders.
Then there aro imported names in the North of “Noo
South” like Drake. Clarence and Raleigh, and there
are overworked names and mixed names. Of the lot
Baradine sounds euphonious and looks Australian, and
I suppose it doesn’t mean anything unpublishable.
It is local and one doesn’t find it all over the world.
If it was applied to the whole State a new name
could be found for the county—say Dibbs, after
the first Australian-born Premier, a good man who
doesn’t seem to be perpetuated much. Oxley, the
name of another county, is among the suggestions
for the whole State, but Baradine looks better.
Rabbitland, with a new capital at Rabbitburgh, may
serve for the next new State.


r
%
';,£n£)
/K
Vi
y
'l H/l -I
IMS
v
,1
'ZmSp+Jrj
>•.* -V >
r
Hi
HE!
Iteian
.K
*
iasM
$
as
C-JvJ
<ts»
wm.
S
">
ill
4s*-,
M#
„. ,
*
!##
v
'- a
: A;
. '
£s® 1 v " m v r ?GNflW*3s
■-■■ .-i 1
,ff *1 '
■
i»l
I’.'V
■ ■ *ws?*
i
M
sS«»
&
m
■ '
&
30?
«aB#*S
f v .. ,
.**v**f#»»« »«gB»ta»iaag
IP^£2
, '-.
m»m£
Shb, > j|pbs
** *« -
m
M*
■ J: ;:
■' SI aiw»* *%
«gri
■HQBOSpBHF,
::Mi
sWS
wpsfcSfs
Sr
i M
i
Paste - Liouid - Powdered
PREPARED WAX
S YOUR linoleum dull and dead-looking? Bring it back to life and it will
reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you need is Johnson’s Prepared
Wax and a cloth. Johnson’s Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum—preserves
and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long-—an ordinary sized floor can
be polished in less than an hour and it may be walked upon immediately.
The Secret of Beautiful Floors
Beautiful floors are largely a matter of prevention the great secret is to put
them in perfect condition and then keep them that way. Doorways, stair-
treads and other parts receiving hard usage should be polished
frequently. This requires no great amount of time or effort if the
proper finish is used.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the proper finish for floors of all kinds—■wood,
tile, marble, composition and linoleum. It does not show scratches
or heel-prints and floors polished with it can easily be kept in
perfect condition.
Rejuvenate Your Furniture
with Johnson’s Prepared W ax Liquid. It imparts a hard, dry, velvety
polish of great beauty and durability. Use it also on your leather goods
woodwork and automobiles. Johnson’s Prepared Wax forms a thin*
protecting coat over the varnish, similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a desk or dresser top.
Your dealer has “JOHNSON’S”— do not accept a substitute.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
'Jt 5
win
fishing and Pres<?r
Surface
JOHNSONS
feswJiACiNe wis>
J °HKsn\.> S' SON.


A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Cluster
Bar Brooch, ltfct. Gold, £25.
Larger Diamonds, £35.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Finest Quality Double-cut
Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’
Three-stone
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Grold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Double-eut
Diamond Trefoil
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cluster
King, ISct. Gold,
£l5.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Single
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, *25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring:,
lSet. Gold, £35.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring.
ISct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Crescent and
Circle Dia-
mond Neck-
let, 15et. Gold,
£l5, £3O.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Broocb, 15ct.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Links, set fine
Double-cut Diamond,
£4. Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-
Diamond Jewellery
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Double-cut
Diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full
jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£2O. Larger diamonds, £25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Gold
Hunting, Keyless Lever, £l2/10/-
Waltliain, High-grade Lever. £l5,
£2O, £25, £3O, £4O, £5O. Guaranteed!
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond
Cluster Neck-
let, £3O.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders' 15ct. Gold
Links, set 2 Double-cut
Diamonds, £6/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders' Double-cut Diamond Cluster
and Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £<s.
A. Saunders’ Fine Double-cut
Knife-edge Bar Brooch. 15ct.
tUO. £5O.
Diamond
Gold, £3O,
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15et. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Qent.’s Double-
cut Diamond
Bing, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold. £25,
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over Ring. 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds. £l2/10/-,
£M.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over King, 18ct.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond King,
18et. Gold, £2O.
A.
let,
Saunders’ Doitfble-cut Diamond Cluster Brace-
15ct. Gold, £l5. Larger diamonds, £25, £35.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Boat-shape
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £3O.
‘Tirst"
was erected is 1808 on the A-PPin Road, near the old
town of Camptt ell town. It was built of dressed stone,
with centre shat't, gear wheel and pinion made of hard-
wood. One huh dred years ago the old Milll ground the
grain sown in the district into flour for the needs of
the pioneers. 4What a contrast to the scientifically-
constructed
“BILLABONG” Mill
of to-day, made jfrom steel and iron, with steel ball-
bearings, silent in action and regulating its speed to any
breeze by its oy vn combined Speed Regulator and
Governor ! This ; patented contrivance prevents racing,
adapts the speed oj the wheel to the wind, and automati-
cally pulls it out of the gale when it is dangerous to
pU.nip,
*phe “Billabong” fis built stronger and more massive
than is actually n eeessary; the future as well as the
present is provided, for by the makers. Other points are:
massive main castii lgs, automatic lubrication, centre lift,
and. split bearings w hieh can be renewed without removing
any gear. Duplicate parts at low cost. The quality
Mil at a moderate price.
Ufor information and quotations
for Mills, Pumps or Troughing,
write to Banks', Sydney or
Melbourne.
m
mi
r
(r
V V
_ /)
_t ri-
II
§i
S 3
sCJWjiisoa^
-=^4
J D
iL
DANKS’
John D« inks Pty IW
524-35 OPil’rS! • PAJ E/S JE;Ei> • 391-403BotrkeSr
SXDNIzY; * MANIi; fACTI/fcERS • MELBOURNE
WHY DRIVE STOCK
into dams or excavations to drink, where they
foul and waste water?
K
tent
U? 2176
Regular
watering
points
consisting of
BILLABONG
Cattle and Sheep Troughing
fed by the “Billabong” Mill, ensure a clean drink, and save driving
animals long distances to water. “Billabong” troughing is supplied
in 6ft. lengths made from 20-gauge Galvanised Steel. The trough
rests on a rigid frame of angle iron, with strong, legs and cross
bars, and has solid cast-iron ends. Each length locks with its
fellow, up to any length, making a leak-proof trough. Stands
any amount of wear and jostling. Deposits can be swept from
the trough with a house broom, ensuring a clean drink free from
contamination.
Particulars per return for your address.
Sydney
<jom&
tm
ON - Pty.
Melbourne


Amusements.
SIDNEY'S CHIEF THEATKES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
I-lER MAJESTY’S.
firefly.
CRITERION.
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Evenings at 7.45. Matinees Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOAV OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
u
N I O N PIC T U U E
TIIEA T R E S
THE PICK OF THE' WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
OYVN HALE, 8 Y D N E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
THURSDAY NEXT, Also May 7, 10, 12, 14.
JASCHA HEIFETZ,
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINIST.
“His playing is simply final— there is nothing more
to be said.’’. —London Times.
PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
Public Notice.
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED.
INTERIM DIVIDEND.
THE Transfer Books will be closed from the 7th to
the 18th May inclusive, preparatory to payment
of an Interim Dividend of 5/- per share—being at
the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, which has been
declared and will be payable at the office of the
Company, 15 Bent Street, Sydney, on and after the
18th May.
M. R. MACRAE, Manager.
DREDGE-MASTER
for Bucket-Dredger “Ponrabbel II.”
”pHE Marine Board of Launceston is prepared to
J receive application for above position. Appli-
cant to state previous experience and salary required.
Application to be addressed to the Secretary, and
the envelope containing same to be endorsed
‘Application for Dredge-Master,” and must reacn
this office not later than 11th May, 1921.
GEO. S. MEREDITH, Secretary.
Marine Board of Launceston,
Esplanade, Launceston, 26th April, 1921.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SYDNEY EMERSON.
■F the abovenamed William Sydney Emerson, who
■ came out to New Zealand in or about the year
.889 or 1890 will communicate with the under-
igned he will hear something to his advantage,
tny person who is able to give information as to
he abovenamed William Sydney Emerson is also
equested to be good enough to communicate with
he undersigned.
MACNAMARA & SMITH, Solicitors,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Mercer (now possibly mann)
HELEN ELIZABETH daughter of
leorge Daniel Mercer and Elizabeth Mercer.
If the above lady, or her husband or de-
scendants, will communicate with the under-
lined she will hear something to her advan-
tage.
Miss Mercer sailed for Australia in
October or November, 1877, and was last
Heard of in 1892 at Brisbane; from letters
then received she may have married one
Thomas Mann.
CHAMBERS, McNAB and McNAB, 139
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WILL LUCY ANNA REBECCA JUDD
or any person knowing of her where-
about please communicate with
ANDREWS & ROBINSON, Solicitors,
Narrogin, W.A.
fJE MARIA KELLY, late of Ireland Street, Bright,
-*'■ Victoria, widow, deceased. Let EDWARD
KELLY, a son of the abovenamed deacesed, at once
communicate with the undersigned and he will hear
of something to his advantage.
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
'WJ 4NTED. —Any person knowing the
* * whereabouts of CHARLES CLARKE,
who left Taroom, Queensland, about the year
1900, to communicate with the PUBLIC
CURATOR, Brisbane
F. W. MOLE,
Public Curator,
170 Elizabeth Street, City.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurie
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
The Remedy used by Army and fSavy men.
Used since 1506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
Amusements.
LLAJJ
W ILK IE SHAKSPEABEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
TOOWOOMBA TOWN HALL.
5,6, 7 APRIL.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
C WILLIAMSON. LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical plav with an intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
H
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
- - Also SYDNEY.
HE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
MARIE WALTON in
PINK TIGHTS,
and
EUGENE O’BRIEN in
THE WONDERFUL CHANCE.
Prices as usual. _
Town hall, melboubn e.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
Messrs J. & N. TAIT announce the return visit of
the N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA and their distin-
guished conductor HENRI VERBRUGGHEN.
FRIDAY, SATURDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY,
6th MAY. 7th MAY. 20th MAY. 21st May (Matm&e).
Season Tickets (transferable), £2/2/- ■
Reserved Seats, 7/0 ; Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
K ,N
(i'S THEATRE, M B I. 15 () B K N 15.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE. MEI.ISOL' IiNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
GOOD REFERENCES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
T H E N JK U M, M E E B O U R N E.
“THE INCOMPARABLE ALEXANDER WATSON.”
ALEXANDER WATSON’S
DRAMATIC RECITALS.
3/-, 2/-, 1/- (Plus Tax). Plans at Pianola.
Carlyle Smythe.
|y|EEBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGUAPH, PAIIIE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
rj KITANN IA THEATRE, MELBOL UMi
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
fj > * 8
I jir4j xXfc-«_ Yf§* wrt / r v*'4>V/\ *. •*
;\®s ! :
s&im
\ SX
Ofi
0*
«v 'A* y-
.%
r\ ’
SW / i
>'
<,.»■
1 xj 5
* J
L 4
.« f
!N;/?.
f A
{l ) w
\
i
\ l\ ;
Jr
A-'7%e: «M
sde^
&r ~\S
fig*. «
\s . .
rY'
- A
LW 4 !
-
o
Zips,
m
ski j
*
"
44Vf%
..9£A>
\ V'V ?
•v C V > VI
■;% / M *f* </
\ ---Dei
\N
L x
L W
MP%v
, iv*
• 4 //I «
v\- § ■//®L
W. X
rVjc:/
? - t V?
!y
; \
1 ! !
; a
>'
■«y>
rN/-;
&
.... j 3
rXvtl i r^M
‘5 Morton Sun (/our & tries i
: 4 (Trade Otdf) Ccir/if/C, .
< V
■H
; r\
P*l>A
MM
A
\ X V :
j<£i $r.S XV^N'X.X_ :\V.V
•*. i
M
YvVX >**«
wj
' W/
The enormous difference in
value between a fabric which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour element in
SUNDOUR
UNFABABLE
FABRICS
is indestructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishings.
Sundour is made in a
great variety of fabrics
including Casement Cloths,
Damaslcs.Tapestries, Reps,
Chenilles. Madras Muslins,etc
also
Sundour Washable Rugs
for Bathroom, Bedroom or Nursery.
IQS
□ QdDflb°dDJ
The NEW
EDISON
will brig'Hten
your Home.
The New Edison is more than a phonograph. It is an
instrument that Re-Creates with absolute realism the
performances of singer or instrumentalist.
The New Edison Re-Creates not only the melody, hut also
the soul of the music—-even the emotions and feelings
aroused by the living artist are Re-Created.
You should learn all about this wonderful musical instrument.
Let us send you particulars, post free. Write to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Sicharii 3)imt iCo
ISO
Exclusive Styles and Patterns,
liadies’ and Gents.’ Coats.
From the Leading English Makers,
BUKBEKKV, AQCAStTXI'M, DEXTER.
ALSO
Special Line Black Dress Overcoats,
*6/6/-
Dress Gloves, Ties and Waistcoats.
3idiari>;i)uiit s.(O,
II
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
v il
m
■-
;
ABBEY
SHOES,
Always the most fashionable styles.
Abbey shoes are made by experts from
highest-grade materials, and give the long
service you expect from good footwear.
We illustrate a very smart Box Calf Bal.,
leather-lined, with stout, flexible sole.
In full sizes, narrow, medium and broad
fittings.
PRICE 47/6.
In Tan Willow Calf, leather lined,
57/6
POSTAGE EXTRA.
Write for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.
CORRESPONDENCE invited from MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY houses desirous of representation
in South Australia. Live selling organisation.
Specialty lines preferred.
T. W. KIMBER & CO., LTD.,
Royal Exchange, King William Street, Adelaide.


z
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
'W-Z*-
w
net
mills
=b
I
:/- ?
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFEICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Agents:—
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
< Hamilton Street, Sydney.
A. VICTOR LEG GO & CO.,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
m
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “Firefly”
Criterion “The Sign on the Door”
* ALACE “Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
i. ivoli Moving Pictures and Vaudeville
“ OVT 8 Moving Pictures
Onion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Irene”
OYAI ' “The Maid of the Mountains”
£ ING ’ S “Welcome Stranger”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
" ELBA Moving Pictures
Britannia ...' Moving Pictures
«.
( Sydney waved an affectionate farewell to
“The Lilac Domino” at Her Majesty’s on
Friday night. The “Domino” ran four months
and a bittock (actually there were 155 per-
formances), and if anyone is willing to wager
that “Firefly,” which succeeded it on Satur-
day, will last longer he can get a shade of
odds for h.is money. Not that “Firefly” is
a failure, or anything like it. On the con-
trary it is an excellent imitation—the near-
est Otto Hauerbach and Itudolf Friinl could
get to it —of English comic-opera. The
music, though occasionally reminiscent, is
gay and tuneful, the dialogue is clean and on
the whole clever, and the plot, which turns
on a very plump Italian soprano from New
York masquerading as a boy on a pleasure
yacht bound for Bermuda, is not less con-
vincing than the average in this kind of
piece. The company contains some clever
people who both act and sing, the scene-
painter and the electrician have risen to the
occasion, the conductor shakes his stick to
some purpose, and there is an abundance of
Australian girl. “Firefly,” in short, is light,
bright, diverting stuff—admirable recreation
for the tired bookmaker. But, since com-
parisons are inevitable, though odious, it is
not staged so. sumptuously as “The Lilac
Domino,” nor is it so palpably a winner.
Nina, street singer, who is smuggled
aboard the Vandare yacht in borrowed habili-
ments and becomes in the last act a coron-
etted and bespangled diva (do the Melbas
and Tetrazzinis really go about like that?),
is adequately impersonated by Itene Max-
well. The young Australian sings superbly,
and her acting lias improved out of all
knowledge. Her finest work (and that of
the composer) is in the finale of the second
act. She is supported on the feminine side
by Ethel Morrison, as Mrs. Oglesby Van-
dare, the languishing owner of the yacht—
a capital.bit of acting; by Edith Dra.vson
as Geraldine Vandare, Mrs. Oglesby’s niece;
by Nellie Payne, as Geraldine’s sprightly
French maid ; and by Kitty Reidy and Muriel
Cathcart. All of them act acceptably. Among
the men Claude Fleming, as John Thurs-
ton, an impassioned uncle, is the outstand-
ing figure. He gets a fine, fruity humor out
of the part, and his duet, “Sympathy,” with
Miss Drayson, is one of the successes of the
show. Next to Flemming comes Lou Vernon,
whose Professor Franni, Nina’s old patron,
is a fine bit of straight acting, and he
sings admirably to boot. Ralph Errolle. as
Jack Travers, Geraldine’s fiance, is a rather
wooden lover, but there is nothing the matter
“FIREFLY,”
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Hugh Steyne as Pietro, the Bolshevik.
with his vocalism. Hugh Steyne's restrained
methods are effective in the part of Pietro,
and he dances prettily with Nellie Payne.
Maie Baird and Mel Ward contribute a bril-
liant tarantella. There remains George Gee,
who is Jenkins, Mrs. Vandare’s confidential
clerk. His dancing is a delight, but his
over-acting makes the judicious grieve.
* * *
Love, song, murder (of the lingering sort,
with boiling oil in it) and other Oriental pas-
times are still being exhibited, with attrac-
tive trappings, in “Chu Cbin Chow,” at the
Sydney Opera House.
“The Sign on the Door,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, is oftener “House Full” than any-
thing else at present.
v V *l*
At Sydney Palace Joe Coyne, Marie La
Yarre and others continue to extract all the
fun there is in “Nightie Night.” It isn’t as
deep as a well or the synthetic philosophy,
but it suffices.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum Mahlon Hamilton’s
guardian angel gives him “Half a Chance.”
An escaped prisoner, wrongly convicted of
murder, he survives a shipwreck, and, being
cast on a desert island, puts in time fagging
up some salvaged law-book. Ten years later
he reappears as an established lawyer and
proves his innocence. Under the title “Jes’
Call Me Jim” Will Rogers sees the session
out at this house. He is a good-natured
trapper who aids an inventor to recover his
stolen patents from a crook. A ghost w'orks
the oracle. Minister Mutch is to visit the
Globe to learn how Wallace Reid conducts
the girl school he inherited from auntie. The
flapper wishes Wallace would open up a
branch here. This picture’s housemate is
“The Junklins,” a six-reeler. The Strand
presents a conundrum, “Should a Husband
Forgive?” with an outsize in interrogation
“NIGHTIE
NIGHT,”
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
The tigerish Jimmie Blythe (Sidney
Stirling ) demands an explanation.
marks. It doesn’t wander far from familiar
tracks. The way Alice Joyce handles the
eternal triangle in “The Vice of Fools”
at the Crystal Palace causes conservative
teachers of geometry much discomfort. The
Lyric invites you inside to witness an Aus-
tralian production, “A Girl of the Bush,”
and the Empress converts itself into “The
House of Intrigue.”
Constance Talmadge entertains Sydney
Tivoli this week with “Mamma’s Affair.”
Mamma is a languid dowager who feigns
nerve trouble so that all may jump to her
whims. Connie,, usually vivacious, is a de-
jected flapper—until a young doctor pre-
scribes a rest cure away from Ma. In
addition there is the war-time “Mothers of
Men,” with Claire Whitney as an Austrian
girl married into a French family cooking
the goose of an enemy spy; and a Hawaiian
trio twang guitars and sing dreamy ditties
beneath a canvas palm-tree.
>l-' * * !f
Alexander Watson drew a crammed house
on his reappearance at Melbourne Athenaeum
on Saturday. Starting off a little after eight,
he went on unflaggingly through a two-hours’
programme, only pausing for a couple of
minutes to bend liis tall figure to the gales
of applause. His first selection was Dickens’s
“Boots of the Holly Tree Inn,” and audience
and entertainer revelled in the fat of that
diverting and garrulous tale." A bit from
“Pickwick,” wherein the artist realised the
characters with some delightful vocal por-
traiture, was not less finished than the joyous
and raucous “Shut Eye Sentry” from Kip-
ling’s “Barrack Room Ballads.” “The Song
of the Banjo” by the same author was not
so strong in elocutionary appeal, but Watson
scored better in “The Ballad of the May-
flower,” which he recited at the Mayflower
Tercentenary in London last year. He also
made the most of “Lone Pine Ridge, 1915,”
an Irish tribute to that heroic achievement,
holding some fiercely pathetic lines. The
next piece, Paterson’s “Amateur Rider,”
brought the smiles back again, and the even-
ing ended with Theodore Hook’s narrative
of the bogus surveyor who threatened to run
a canal through a baronet’s garden. It is an
absurd story, but Watson’s expressive voice
and face made it extraordinarily vivid and
humorous. This week he has dipped into
“Julius Caesar,” “The Tempest” and “Romeo
and Juliet”; to-morrow there will be a Kip-
ling recital, and on Saturday Dickens will
be drawn on once more.
At Melbourne Town Hall the N. S. Wales
State Orchestra is making work for Ver-
brugghen just now. This third adventure
over the border started on Saturday with a
very mixed concert, the most impressive
feature whereof was the Overture and Venus-
berg from “Tannhauser,” while the most ap-
plauded was Percy Grainger’s chirpy “Shep-
herd’s Hey.” If there was any perceptible
difference betwen the orchestra this time
and last time it was the evidence of improve-
ment—a gain in confidence and strength.
The item most open to complaint was Ver-
brugghen’s fantasia on British sea songs,
which needed pruning, especially in the mat-
ter of “The Death of Nelson” and the horn-
pipe. Nor were the singing turns a bril-
liant success. Owing to the acoustics of
the Town Hall, or the enunciastics of Ilaigh
Jackson, the words of “Where’er You Walk”
were mostly mystery; and the baritone’s
“Largo al Factotum,” from “The Barber,”
seemed lacking in the snirit of the old opera.
On Friday and Saturday this week the
Orchestra will be at it again in the Town
Hall, and then there will be a pause of a
fortnight while the 80, musicians wander
afield.
# * sic
At Melbourne King’s the conspiracy to
prevent Jules Jordan from opening a general
store continues to be rendered unnecessary
by 4000 dollars of fire-insurance money com-
ing to him through the wickedness of Ic'habod.
Also, the combined effort of the town to
blight the in-no-cence of Lizette Parkes is
still a failure, and Clem’s electric-light
scheme makes everybody’s fortune us before.
* * He
The score of the “Maid of the Mountains”
at Melbourne Royal will be 120, or there-
abouts, by the time this present Bulletin
comes to issue, and still the house is crowded
on Saturday nights. That’s what has/come
of putting up a handsome show in opposition
to “Chu Chin Chow” in the days before
healthy opposition was squelched.
## * *
“Irene” continues at Melbourne Majesty’s.
Nothing has happened to justify mine host
of the garden fete in speaking of himself
as a man much older than the johnnies who
are throwing their devotion at the lady in
the name-part. He looks almost young
enough to be a son of one of the other fel-
lows, but as nobody pays much attention to
what anybody says, the anachronism prob-
ably doesn’t matter. Besides, where so
many things in the performance are not
what they should be. a little fault like that
is hardly worth finding.
** * *
Arthur Greenaway promises performances
of “The Merchant of Venice” to-night and
to-morrow at Melbourne Playhouse. Green-
away himself will appear as Sliylock, and
Adele Inman will get a chance as Portia.
* * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the second part is
devoted to the strange, unspoken story of
how a crazy son of Vengeance came to
marry Kathleen Macdonald for the purpose
of leaving her unkissed. Kathleen is about
the loveliest peach on film-record; neverthe-
less her husband, The Thunderbolt, declines
to kiss her, owing to his having inherited
a family feud. Fortunately the silent pair
are joint parents of an inexplicable babv,
and after a mile or two of excellent photo-
graphy the family feud runs dry, and kiss-
ing-time begins. The sins of the wild
romance are many, but for the sake of Kath-
leen’s beauty much may be forgiven it. In
the first half the entertainment is least in-
teresting when Fatty Arbuckle obtrudes him-
self, Fatty being a wearisome exponent of
alleged humor who divides his time between
falling down and upsetting people in a horse-
trough. The vocalist for the week is Reg
Roberts. His final effort is a narrative song
dealing with an artless cheeild and a golden-
hearted pawnbroker, who scatters quids of
kindness for his reaping by and by.
'** 'l* '!*
At Hoyt’s, Melbourne, Eugene O’Brien is
slick on the sheet as the wayward burglar of
“The Wonderful Chance.” In about half-an-
hour’s regeneration he acquires sufficient
grace to qualify for full honors as a Button
Fund collector. The “Pink Tights” that
follow are well filled by Marie Walton, who,
as a balloonist in a travelling circus, para-
chutes on to the roof of a parson’s residence,
whereat “Dulce Domum” is its motto ever
after. Hoyt’s also film “A Daughter of
Brahma,” which is a sequel to last week’s
“Prince Bharata,” and is equally embellished
with spine-shaking situations. At the
Majestic Blanche Sweet advertises “The
Deadlier Sex,” which, of course, always
beats a mere man at his own game by
superior audacity, charm and cunning. The
demand for ambulances in the last reel is
almost unparalleled. The other Majestic
picture, “Hearts are Trumps,” is founded
on an ancient Drury Lane bellowdrama, but
it is worth following again to see who takes
the most tricks. At the Britannia Clara
Kimball Young is playing the heroine in
“Mid-Channel”; and the Melba’s latest de-
monstrates that “To. Please One Woman” a
man must be a candidate for Key or Callan
Park.
This week's picture-show in Melbourne: —
Penleigh Boyd is showing the best aspects of
Portsea in several new studies at the Decoration
Gallery. Despite the brilliant treatment of light and
atmosphere, the repetition of the same scenery be-
“IRENE,” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Peggy Maloney and Marion Earle as Helen
Cheston and Jane Gilmour, Irene's two
cobbers.
comes tiring. The artist demonstrates his brush-
work with greater effect in “The White Road,”
which skirts the coast and fades away to a thread
in a gleaming perspective. His handling of “The
Wave” is also excellent, though the cold realism of
the subject seems eccentric in comparison with the
romantic effusions in the water-color Section. In
this set of half-a-dozen the painter is scornful of
all teaching and tradition and achieves a lyric
beauty all his own. Only he could make a success
of a silhouette of a schooner against a pier in dying
twilight, with an unseen moon silvering a fore-
ground ripple and the faraway sea-line, leaving a
patch of lovely purple between. “Crepuscle” is
similarly charming, and the quality of “The White
Boat,” emphasised by a dim jetty and a misty
sky, shines like a good deed in a world of potboilers.
-I- -!■ -!- v
Between the new generation to which Gil-
bert and Sullivan come as a novelty, and the
middle-aged whii want to revive old memories,
the present season at Adelaide Royal is an
unexpected boom, the house being unable to
hold the crowds. James Hay, Hobbs and
Ralston divide the sentimental interest,
Walenn -and Kavanagh the comic. The
voices are unusually good, and encores fre-
quent. On the feminine side, Patti Russell
and Thelma Carter share the honors, and
Mollie Tyrell gallantly makes herself unat-
tractive in a succession of the elderly females
that Gilbert so ungallantly used to barrack.
The South Australian orchestra, with Prof.
Davies conducting, is getting Adelaide into
trim for the coming Verbrugghen season. In
pictures, the Majestic scores with wild ani-
mals and wilder man in a story of the frozen
backblocks, “Nomads of the North.” At
West’s, man and beast are combined in “Go
Get It,” an intimate story of a newspaper
office, the It which the reporter has to Get
being a gorilla into which a murderer’s brain
has been neatly grafted. Wondergraph has
a mixed bill, from “Deep Waters,” a tale of
a diver and a lighthouse, to an “Uncle Tom”
burlesque, in which the ice-bound river
unfortunately catches fire; incidentally
Jean Keith dances and Myrtle Ingham
sings. At the Pav. is “The Saphead,” in
which the hero is supposed to be one, but
proves himself brainy by the highest Ameri-
can test, a successful gamble on the Stock
Exchange. Flora Cromer has a good turn
at the Prince of Wales, and at the Dance-
palace Eslick has introduced a popular
actmg-and-singing turn on the floor.
* * * :•!
From an Adelaide critic:—
Rose Lowcay, now Mrs. Sheard, has not been
beard of much since her marriage, but now has a
show in the Society of Arts gallery. It is a great
advance on her exhibition in 1912. It is difficult
for a South Australian to handle white foam or
gum-trees without the critics murmuring “Ashton”*
or “Hevsen,” but Mrs. Sheard gets a distinctive
tone. Figures she rarely attempts, but her landscape
shows a wide range. High lights on foliage are her
strong point, but she has brought from her English
experience a fondness for grey skies and ivy-clad
tree-trunks. She is essentially a long-range painter,
getting her effects with a broad treatment that does
not encourage a near-sighted examination. The
Bulletin spoke highly of two of the Lowcay paint-
ings when shown in Sydney a year or two back • but
so far no gallery but that of Adelaide has bought
her work.


SURE PROTECTION!
The Murdoch-made
OVERCOAT
Insist on a Murdoch-made !
INTO every seam—into every inch of the foundation and
faultless finish—into the warp and woop of these
splendid big Overcoats there is infused that degree of
“goodness” and business integrity ever associated with the
term —MURDOCH MADE.
And, as the illustration suggests, there is a wealth of
character and a distinction wholly
unexpected at this low Price.
Special Value
63|-
Fashioned from All Wool Austra-
lian Tweed of tough wearing qual-
ity, showing in a pleasing range
of smart treatments in shades of
Brown, Fawn, Light, Dark and
Mid Grey. Made in Raglan Style
with neat Step Collar, Strapped
Cuffs and Flap Pockets. With or
without Full Belt —63/-
If you cannot call, Order by Post,
Address your letter to DESK R.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
MURDOCHS
in Park Street, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
“The World's Largest Men's and
Boys' Wear Store."
l
£
I
£=
L
\
• ■ " ' v <"
1 mam
wm
era
■
,
Vim
mm
i;V 1:,(,
Q
>...
Easy to Start
Water
For Your Stock
A constant supply of fresh water is neces-
sary in order for them to thrive.
With a genuine
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
you are always sure of water at any time and
regardless of any and all weather conditions.
The Farm Pump Engine comes all com-
plete-engine and jack are a unit —readily
attached to any wind-mill pump or standard
without interfering with the working of
the mill, or it can be set up by the side of a
tank without any special platform.
Prominent pastoralists, farmers, gar-
deners, orchardists in fact all users
throughout Australia speak of the
FULLER & JOHNSON Farm Pump
Engine as the most satisfactory pumping
outfit of its kind.
Profit by the experience of others—
get the original FULLER & JOHNSON
Farm Pump Engine which has an estab-
lished reputation.
FULLER & JOHNSON ENGINES are dis-
tributed by
Buckeye Harvester Co.
Melbourne
The S. A. Farmers* Co-operative
Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd.
Brisbane and Sydney
>v • j: Use
Fuller o Johnson
AGENTS
WANTED
throughout Australia, New Zealand, the Pacific
Islands, Java and the East, in every centre where
Pleasure and Commercial Craft are in\ use,
for the Famous
“THISTLE” MARINE OIL
A Heavy-duty High-class Engine made in sizes
68.H.P. upwards.
Suitable for all classes of Pleasure and Commercial
Craft, for River, Harbor, Island and Coastal
Service.
For Efficiency, Economy, ■ Low Cost' of Upkeep,
Dependability and High-class Workmanship no
engine imported or made in the Southern Hemi-
sphere can equal the “Thistle.”
SEND US YOUR INQUIRIES.
ENGINES IN STOCK & PROGRESS
MAKERS
Stewart Saademan Ltd.
Marine Engineers & Shipwrights,
Iron and Brass Founders.
High-class Builders of Yachts, Launches
and all classes of Commercial and
Pleasure Craft.
Slips for Commercial and Pleasure Crafts.
Works, Foundries and Slips: 1
Careening Cove,
NORTH SYDNEY,
City Office:
Union House,
247 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J
u
■
« J
FIGURE 5.6. A “THISTLE” 12-16 B.H.P. DOUBLE-CYLINDER MARINE OIL ENGINE.


FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
FLAWLESS FLOORS
Can best be obtained by using ene of the
five beautiful Art Shades
of
/5£
p
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd.
m
■}
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FRIDAY, 27th MAY,
at the Corinthian North Mine, W.A.
near Southern Cross,
at 10. IS a.m.
Unreserved Clearing Sale
of Valuable
MINING MACHINERY.
]Vf ESSRS. H. D. PELL & CO., of Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
have received instructions from W. Slont-
gomery, Esq., Attorney for the Corinthian North
Gold Mining Co., to sell their MINING PLANT,
BUILDINGS, etc., comprising:—
1 Winding Engine, “Phoenix” Duplex Cylin-
der 12in., stroke, 36in., complete.
1 Fouch Condenser, 5 units.
1 Norwalk Compressor and Receiver, 1200
Cubic Feet.
1 No. 3 Gates Rockbreaker.
2 Ridgway Vacuum Slime Filters.
1 10-Head Sandycroft Battery, 12701 b. Stamp,
complete. Grinding Pans, Mild Steel Vats,
Mechanical Thickeners, Pumps, and a great
quantity of sundries, making up a complete
Extraction Plant, IN LOTS TO SI IT
PURCHASERS.
NO RESERVE.
POVERTY
POINT
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Well-respected Stan Leslie (born Carroll),
for 37 years connected with J.C.W. com-
panies as opera singer and latterly as assist-
ant in the front of the house, passed out the
other day after a long illness. He was a
widower, and leaves a son and two daughters,
one of them a musician who has composed
several excellent pianoforte pieces. Stan
was a Dublin man, and his father was once
Lord Mayor of that city.
“Fax”: Stannis Leslie (Stanislaus Leslie
Carroll), who died last week, had the mis-
fortune to be the most widely recognised of
the original J.C.W. comic-opera choristers
on account of a facial disfigurement. He
looked as though he had grown up with a
broken nose, and a strained expression of
countenance made him always view the situa-
tion with, an unchanging air of surprise. But
he had an exceptionally fine voice. For more
than 30 years every one of the Firm’s big-
gest musical productions had Stannis Leslie
among the background figures, but he rarely
emerged from the crowd. The most import-
ant job he ever got in a metropolitan show
was the part of an outlaw in a very hand-
some production of de Koven’s “Robin Hood”
19 years ago. He had at the opening of
the 3rd Act the whole stage and a capital,
song all to himself.
MAURICE GUTTRIDGE, musical director,
“Irene,” Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
“Nella”: Nancy Stewart is back home
from the American front. Her first return
happened 10 years ago. Then fresh from a
convent school at Lausanne, Switzerland, she
came home to sit at once at the piano as
conductor of the orchestra during Sweet
Nell’s long, long trail through the back-
blocks and front cubes of Australia. In
those times mother sternly discouraged
Nancy’s ardent grease-paint yearnings, but
the maternal views have changed, apparently.
Nancy can’ use water-color as well as grease-
paint, and once turned out an audacious
study of her mother’s silk hose and lingerie
as seen from the orchestra in the 2nd Act of
“Sweet Nell.”
“Film Up”: In one important particular
American films easily beat the British and
Australian. The mummers are better dressed.
Leaving fashion and cut out of the question,
the Yanks’ togs—l am speaking of modern
plays—look good, and the players for the
most part know how to wear them. Very
few British-made pictures have I seen in
which the men appeared comfortable or the
clothes looked worth more than about £3.
And the women are dowdy and old-fashioned
—sad rags are their frocks for the most
part. As for “period” costumes or uni-
forms, they are palpably shop-soiled goods
hired from the nearest hand-me-down em-
porium. Clothes may not make the man,
but they go a long way in making a movie.
“O. Blin”: George Rignold, whose social
side was not
greatly developed,
was invited to a
swell gathering in
Melbourne one
night, and dress-
ing up in his
best clothes went
to see what the
show was like.
Arrived at the
house he was im-
mediately captured
and hurried off to
the drawing-room,
which he was
excitedly told was
full of “lions.”
Just as they
reached the en-
trance the door
opened and George
caught a glimpse
of an actor about
whom he couldn’t
speak civilly.
Thereupon he
unceremoni-
ously hauled his
guide into an
alcove and said
haughtily: “I
didn’t think when
you mentioned
‘lions’ just now
that I was really
going to be pre-
sented to the king
“Nightie Night'’ at
Sydney Palace.
Joe Coyne as Billy
Moffat, whose motives
are misunderstood.
of beasts,” Then he seined his hat and coat
and made a grand exit in his Henry V. style.
“Smike”: Heifetz was entertained in an
American city a while back, and after the
congregation had tucked away about 10
courses the wizard was invited to play some-
thing. He did not respond with enthusiasm,
but being rushed with a violin he took it up
and started sawing off prime cuts of the
classics, whizzing from one piece to the other
until it sounded like a serial by Paganini.
After about 20 minutes, the genius sat down
and was immediately overwhelmed by
applause. When the row had died away the
biggest diamond-mine present ventured to
ask the name of the composition. “Oh,
surely you know that?” answered Heifetz
sweetly. “That’s ‘Abie, My Boy’—in Rus-
sian !”
“Alwyn” : In a recent Australian-produced
film the actors’ salaries, ranging mostly from
£0 to £lO weekly, resulted in a net outlay of
over £B5O. There was 20,000 ft. of film actu-
ally photographed (6000 ft. of it was shown),
and this meant another £250. The motor-
car hire was considerably over £350, to say
nothing of other incidental expenses, such as
staff, laboratory, supers and small-part
players. No wonder the five-reelers can’t be
done under £3OOO.
“C. Ockney”: “Liza of Lambeth,” lately
banned by no less a body than the South
Melbourne Municipal Council, was the book
that first brought Somerset Maugham into
notice in England. Since then he has written
a dozen novels and a score of plays, and
once made a record in London by having
four pieces from his pen played at West
End theatres at the same time. His latest,
“The Circle,” is the present production at
the Haymarket. But to the S. Melbourne
councillors Maugham is obviously a new
and unknown author who must be made to
see the error of his ways. Meanwhile the
younger generation is besieging the book-
sellers. for copies of “Liza,” which is pro-
bably out of print.
“E.T.”: Died in New York last month
Paul M. Potter, a naturalised American (he
was a native of Brighton, England), who as
a journeyman playwright turned out a num-
ber of pieces which brought him in a sack-
ful of dollars. The most successful wrns his
adaptation of “Trilby,” which, crude though
it was in many ways, proved the most accept-
able of all stage-versions of Du' Maurier’s
story. First produced in Boston, it w r as
taken from America to London by Beer-
bohm Tree, w r ho made with it (and his per-
formance of Svengali) the biggest success
of his career. It was seen in Australia with
Nellie Stewart in the title-part, Gaston Mer-
vale playing Svengali.
“Glen H.” from London:—
Clemance Dane, an ex-actress who has written
one or two novels, has made a brilliantly successful
arrival in the ranks of dramatists with “A Bill of
Divorcement,” which had a remarkably successful
first night at the St. Martin’s, where it has replaced
the dramatisation of Wells’s “The Wonderful Visit”
—a distinct dud. Part of the success of the new
play is due to its topical interest, the plot being
based on the assumption that the recent majority
report of the Royal on Divorce, which
urges insanity as a reasonable ground for the grant-
ing of a decree nisi, has become law. A shell-
shocked husband, who has been insane for many
years, returns home cured, a week after his wife has
been given her legal freedom and is about to marry
again. The emotional upset of the lady, torn between
the anguished pleadings of her former husband on
the one hand and those of her lover on the other, is
powerfully handled. In the end she goes off with
the lover, and the daughter of her first union, becom-
ing aware that insanity sometimes skips a genera-
tion, breaks with her young man and resolves to
devote the rest of her life to comforting pa. Another
interesting new production is “The Ninth Earl,” at
the Comedy, the hero of which, while doing penal
servitude for manslaughter, inherits a peerage and
estates. There is good dramatic material in the
pathetic figure of the released man (finely played
by Norman McKiimel) lonely among his great posses-
sions and surrounded By hangers-on and potential
blackmailers, llalliwell Hobbes, who was in Aus-
tralia, first with Ethel Irving and later with Lewis
Waller, provides a brilliant study of a family butler,
one of the things the ex-convict inherits. Two
other performers known to Australia —Jumes Lindsay,
who was in Henry Arthur Jones’s “The Hypocrites”
and sundry bellowdramas, and Frances Wetherall,
who accompanied Oscar Asche on his second visit—
are in the cast. Bob Courtneidge has scored a hit
with an all-English romantic opera, “The Rebel
Maid,” which has for its background the landing of
the Prince of Orange in the West country to depose
the Stuarts. The book is by Alec Thompson, author
of ‘“The Arcadians” (and editor of The Clarion).
The Everyman Theatre, at Hampstead, where a series
of Bernard Shaw revivals is being done, is enjoying
a tremendous boom. The British workingman especi-
ally has taken Pshaw to his bosom and travels in
large numbers from distant suburbs to see the shows.
One that has scored a hit is “The Showing-up of
Blanco Posnet,” which previously, owing to its
having incurred the disapproval of the censor, had
been done only at private performances. Lauder
is getting ready for another tour, in which Aus-
tralia will be included. The poor man is paying for
his knighthood. He was hissed at Glasgow on his
last visit.
“Norbell” : I object, your Honor. When
sentencing the girl who tried to bail-up the
Commercial Bank at Rockhampton (Q.),
Judge Jameson is thus reported:—
His Honor: “Oh, for Heaven’s sake leave pictures
alone! When did the prisoner ever see a bank being
stuck up in the pictures? It’s absurd.”
Counsel: “It’s nothing new in some sensational
series.”
His Honor: “There are desperadoes doing things,
but I don’t think in your experience or mine we have
ever seen the sticking up of a bank.”
Only once have I acted in a picture drama,
and one of the principal items then was the
sticking-up, by permission, of a bank at
Mitcham (Vic.). The resultant thrill was
labelled “The Kelly Gang.”
“0.K.”: Jennie Lee must be well into
the 70’s, but hers is a common case—one
never knows how young the woman is when
she first makes her name. Jennie would pro-
bably have made more than the one name
had it not come to her so early in life.
Practically she began and ended with Jo.
She could do other things—-for instance, the
lively little heroine of “The Grasshopper,”
which she played in Australia. But she put
no work into these others. I remember how
easily but carelessly she tripped through the
part of panto, boy at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s. I am always being reminded of
the petite lady by a portrait in the
foyer of that theatre. There’s no name to
any of the photos that have grown old on
that wall, but the young woman of uncer-
tain youthfulness, in; the neighborhood of
Ivyrle Bellew and Mrs. Potter, must have
been meant for Jennie Lee with her war-
paint on. I’d have liked to see her appear
with Pollie Emery at the Lyric (Lond.)
recently at a Dickens birthday matinSe.
Pollie Emery, whom the late Harry Diver
married once upon a time, is another gifted
character actress who was identified with
the Princess’s (when her father was stage
managing), and many infants in arms have
lived to have babies of their ow 7 n since she
left Australia.
“Combermere”: Years ago I was at a show
in a town with an unpronounceable name in
Paraguay. The comedian had created a
furore throughout his tour and this night he
was better than ever. He had the hall roar-
ing in two minutes. Suddenly he jumped
from the stage plump on to the conductor’s
back, then on to the floor by the orchestra
stalls. Charging down on an inoffensive old
first-nighter, he fixed his talons in the man’s
throat—and the crowd shrieked with merri-
ment at the unlooked-for novelty. Some time
passed before it was realised the funny man
had suddenly lost his reason. The old chap
died. His assassin is still, to my knowledge,
in an asylum in the vicinity.
“FIREFLY," AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Claude Flemming as Uncle Thurston.
An International Theatrical League has
been formed in Holland to “cement the intel-
lectual relations between former enemy
Powers.” Jessner, of the Berlin Comedy, is
president, and announces that he has received
many promises of support from England, but
“replies from France are awaited with im-
patience.” It looks like being a long wait.
A song of Schubert was lately given with the
German words in a Paris theatre, and the
result was a riot.
“C. Ockney” : A novel departure has been
made by. Liverpool (Eng.) University.
Helped by a benefactor who has been a
staunch supporter of the local Repertory
playhouse, it has founded a lectureship on
the Art of the Theatre. The lecturer ap-
pointed is Granville Barker—-undoubtedly the
best man for the job—who will give a series
of public addresses during the coming months.
“Old Pot”: Frank Thornton (B. 7/4/’2l)
was able to play “Charley’s Aunt” in Aus-
tralia only as the result of strategy. Penley
had no love for Thornton, whom he regarded
as a servile imitator —and perhaps he was. At
any rate, he determined that Thornton should
not have “Charley’s Aunt” ; so Charles Arnold
was deputed to secure the Australian rights
as if for himself. Penley nearly fainted when
he heard that Thornton was to play the
part.
“Hamfat”: The shortest theatrical criti-
cism has been under discussion. The Bir-
mingham Mail put in its claim for: “Last
night a play called ‘Pure as Snow’ was pro-
duced at the Blank Theatre. It is not as
pure as snow.” But a Manchester journal
had this: “Last night Mr. Wendell’s play
was produced. Quite a number of people
stayed to the end.” America put in this
one: “A play by Ulysses Sims was played
last night. Heaven will judge him.” The
Eltham (M.L.) paper once had a gem : “As
advertised the Blank Wash Co. played ‘The
Black Flag’ on Tuesday night. The co.
escaped by the first train yesterday.”
English film-producers steadily work on
well-known novels instead of looking for
original plots. The latest to be filmed are
“Kipps” and “A Cigarette Maker’s Romance,”
the latter by F. M. Crawford and very popu-
lar 30 years ago.
“Snell”: It had come to the ears of
Blinker, the manager, that a certain young
actor had been caught trying to shoot him-
self. He sent for the unfortunate youth,
and expressed his sorrow at the hard lot
that had befallen so graceful an artist. He
shed seven distinct tears while speaking.
“But,” said he, “things are not so bad as
all that. You can come on with my com-
pany. Turn up at 10 in the morning, and
I will find a place for you.” The would-be
suicide was back at the manager’s desk
within the week. “Excuse me. sir.” he said,
“but the treasurer has just given me £2 ss.
Am I to understand that that is a week’s
wage?” “Yes.” “But £2 os. is no good
to me. I can’t live on it.” “Live on it!
Live on it!” snorted the manager. “Well, of
all the d—d inconsistent fellow's I’ve ever
met. Eight days ago you were trying to
shoot yourself, and here you are worrying
over a living wrnge already. You are a
humbug, sir—a humbug ! I don’t believe you
want to die any more than I do.” He didn't
get a rise, either.
A MOUNTAIN DUET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hear Caruso singing
The phonograph to crack,
Above the cow-bells ringing
Some distance up the track.
The setting moon is new, so
Her elfin, silver boat
Rocks somewhat when Caruso
Achieves his final note.
His final. Nay, with rapture
He bellows forth again,
Intent with noise to capture
The bush with his refrain;
But now the distant roaring
Of Johnson’s fettered bull
Above the tree-tops soaring
Comes to the paddock cool.
The bull against Caruso
Strives for the palm of noise,
lie wins; and yet to do so
His last breath he employs.
Roar, bull! Roar, lofty tenor !
Twin music shakes the hill.
Oh, bull, you did it then or
By twelve o’clock you will.
The fire is fed with fuel
Of most tremendous zeal.
To this world-shaking duel
The high red-gum tops reel.
Licked! By Apollo’s fiddle
Your efforts both are vain;
Across the tumult’s middle
Here comes the Sydney train.
Roar, beef ! Roar, master singer !
Alas, the game is done!
The simple, black home-bringer
By tons of sound has won.
His top-note leaves you broke-
Amid the shadows cool;
But if he had not spoken
I still had backed the bull.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


n
srr~
£L«s SgSysSajrWy^t-gpw
5*5 ■
sS-«:s
EE
i^f.
3sr
io^
«ggg
=3-^
&S
fe==?l3ase
i
?s
$ 4 f@S #
-M's
s^S
'=r.
-m..%
»ns
■'V
is.
a£
mm
T
I
w
Back of the NEW LIGHT-SIX
—one of the world’s greatest
manufacturing institutions.
INCE 1852 —nearly 69 years ago—Studebaker has been solving the trans-
portation problems of the world. From a small, cross-roads blacksmith
shop Studebaker has, through all these years of tireless endeavor, grown
to what is now one of the greatest industrial organisations in the world.
Studebaker’s mighty factories in South Bend, Indiana, Detroit, Michigan, and Walker-
ville, Canada, cover 225 acres and contain 5,750,000 square feet of floor space.
Armies of skilled men —men wh6 have given a lifetime of service to Studebaker
ideals—are employed in these modern plants. Studebaker’s purchasing power, due
to unlimited financial resources, is tremendous.
And so, when you think what that name of Studebaker stands for—when you think
of the millions of people in every country on the globe to whom it has come to be
a pledge of honesty in every little detail—you can appreciate the inbuilt quality of
the NEW LIGHT-SIX.
When you see the many conveniences and the many service-giving qualities that Studebaker has built into this
new car—you will appreciate even more what it means to buy a car that has back of it all that Studebaker
experience and Studebaker ideals of what a car should be.
Cayce-Paul Motors Ltd.
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, BRISBANE.
BAGOT, SHAKES & LEWIS, LTD., ADELAIDE.
F. N. ADAMS, LTD., NEW ZEALAND.
TURNER BROS., SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, PERTH.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, TASMANIA.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&
WMITTY;
MAKERS?!
/'X
is <*.
\rV*vs,f'
saasfii
SBi®
wm&m
BXSHBSj
m
it'&tritfi
K: *
r ;-V
'■■■.■
WINCHESTER
RIFLES
REPEATER MODEL 1906. The ideal 22 cal.
rifle for quick and accurate shooting. Fires
short, long and long-rifle cartridges. Take
down. Extra light-weight 20in. Barrel
£6/17/6
MODEL ’92 REPEATERS 25/20, 32, 38, 44
cal. For larger game this model is unequalled
Light-weight 24in. Barrel Rifles £B/10/-
Carbines £6/17/6.
ROSS RILFES 303 cal. The noted rifles for
big game shooting. Only a few of these re-
liable game-getters left. £6/10/-
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
p . 7* " ' ' r \ ; - I t -i 1
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
QieecL/
for aw
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Warwick Armstrong and his men began
their tour of Britain by making Leicestershire look
cheap. The county team had first use of a fine
wicket, and after Whitehead, who had not scored,
snicked a fast one from Gregory into Carter’s hands,
Mounteney (28) and King (29) made a decent
stand. Then McDonald came on in Gregory’s place,
and the rest was a massacre. Sending them in
splendidly the Victorian express collected 8 wickets
for 41, and by 3.15 the county were all out for 136,
Salmon (33) and Coe (23) breaking a melancholy
procession of failures. Collins went for 2—he tried
to hook a straight ball and it got past him—but
Macartney and Bardsley, the former especially, hit
the weak bowling all over the field. The little
man ran to his century in 73 minutes, and at knock-
off time the pair had raised the score to 243, notched
in 130 minutes —Macartney 140, Bardsley 97. It
was batting of the most brilliant description.
The second day saw the finish. With the loss of
six more wickets the Australians carried their total to
430, whereupon Armstrong declared the innings closed.
The big man’s contribution was a duck —Benskin
skittling his wicket first ball. Taylor (13) and
Andrews (11) also did little, and Ryder’s 27 n.o.
was disfigured by a chance; an easy catch was
missed when he had made a single. Macartney,
Bardsley and Gregory knocked up 364 of the total,
Macartney’s share being 177 (he batted three hours
and hit 20 fours), Bardsley’s 109 (in 150 minutes)
and Gregory’s 78 at the rate of a run a minute.
Going in a second time Leicestershire could do
nothing with the bowling of Mailey (5 for 55) and
McDonald (4 for 63) and, with King unable to bat,
the last wicket fell at 142, Australia winning inside
two days by an innings and 152 runs. No previous
XI has made a more brilliant beginning. McDonald’s
12 wickets for 104 was a most impressive perform-
ance and the English sporting press is becoming
convinced that in the Victorian and Gregory Aus-
tralia possesses a pair of fast bowlers in the same
class as Tom Richardson and Lockwood.
* * * *
P’ran wrested tlfe Melbourne District
cricket, premiership from St. Kilda last week. Saints,
who finished the first day with 3 for 262, finally
amassed 385, and reckoned that with reasonable
luck it was all over bar the congratulations. But
P’ran passed the enemy’s total with five wickets to
spare. Willis, caught again in a lively mood with
the bat, was responsible for 115 ; Sutherland collected
89, and Stephens a valuable 66. Willis’s century
made his aggregate 427, with an average of 142 for
the last four hands. This is P’ran’s first win for
nine years, and their next best beat Melbourne for
the pennant in the second .eleven competition.
* * * *
Willis (P’ran) and Hotchin (St. Kilda)
tie for top place among the century-makers in Mel-
bourne district cricket during the past season. Wil-
lis’s record was 136 n. 0., 115 and while
HotchiD, whose batting average works out at 57.92,
made 189, 130 and 108. Those with two centuries
to their credit are Vaughan (Melbourne), 154 and
100) ; Cohen (Saints), 122 and 109 : Keating (’Wood),
112 and 108; and Ryder (’Wood? 132 and 104.
Ryder’s performances were the most remarkable, inas-
much as the Tests and inter-State games left him
little time for club cricket. The highest indi-
vidual score for the season, 234, came from Edgar
Mayne’s bat just before that warrior left for Eng-
land.
* * * *
S. G. Moore, who once made 86 for
Queensland v. England, and thereby got a place in
an Australian XI, was the chief factor in Toombul-
Windsor’s defeat of Valley in Brisbane A grade
cricket premiership final. " He top-scored in each
innings (124 and 40), and also took four wickets
for 46. Toombul-Windsor scored 210 and 80;
Valley, 123 and 40. Barstow (7 for 21) caused the
wreckage in Valley’s final innings.
* * ■* *
In the Sydney Rugby Union competition,
which started on Saturday, ’Varsity, last season’s
premiers, went down before Glebe-Balmain in a game
chiefly remarkable for forward rushes. Uni. have a
set of very fast backs, but they are a bit light, and
stopping the rushes of elephantine forwards is not
their forte. The strong Eastern Suburbs’ team
knocked spots off Newtown, mastering the weaker
team at every point. Faulty handling and high
tackling (it’s as illegitimate as tripping) were Old
Boys’ chief failing against West who beat them
comfortably. Ward Prentice was very much in
evidence for . the winners. North Sydney’s condition
helped them for a time against Manly, and it was
anybody’s gariie well towards the finish, when North
cracked up. Mingay was the spot-light in an other-
wise dull game.
* * * *
A crowd of 14,000 saw Eastern Suburbs
down South at the Cricket Ground on Saturday by
32 points (6 tries 7 goals) to 8 (2 tries 1
goal). It was the Surfers’ first game of the season,
and they were without Watkins and Lees. The
hooking of Sandy Pearce, the fine concerted work of
their backs (Cubitt and Wright), the remarkably
accurate kicking of Rex Norman, who raised the flags
seven times out of 10 attempts, and the solid form
shown by Caplcs, Kaufman, Norinan and Rigney were
factors in their victory. The defeated team notched
all their points during the concluding 25 minutes.
McGrath and Funnel 1 worked hard for them, and
their nuggety half, E. Swinnerton, charged into the
tricolor forwards like a Highland bull. Larry O’Mal-
ley, the international, refereed capably. The other
games provided some fine tussles. North beat Glebe
by 12 points (2 tries 3 goals) to 8 (2 tries 1 goal) ;
Balmain overcame St. George bv 11 points (3 tries
1 goal) to 8 (4 goals), and West snatched victory
from ’Varsity by a point—s tries 3 goals to 4
tries 4 goals.
* * » *
Balmain Fernleigh (last year’s premiers)
and Pyrmont played a fine draw (one goal each) in
the opening round of N.S.W. Soccer premiership.
Pyrmont led by I—o until a few minutes before the
final whistle; then Porter found the net with a lucky
kick and evened the scores. In the other matches
Eastern Suburbs beat Gladesville (recruited from the
juniors), 2—o ; Canterbury defeated Campsie Thistle,
3 —o; and Granville did the same for Annandale,
12—3, Henson booting eight goals.
» * * *
Under Australian Rules, East Sydney
opened the premiership round by walloping Padding-
ton (last year’s premiers), 78 points to 63, Knott
kicking 5 goals. In the other matches North Sydney
licked Sydney 73—26, and Newtown trimmed Bal-
main, 84 —41. The chance of a place in the N.S.W.
team, which is to tour the Southern States, has put
ginger into the game.
“Boomerang”: I’ve met many men who
excelled in some branch of sport, and they generally
had a kink. Turkey, billiard-marking in a saloon
at Rove, South Aus., many years ago, was the
district champion
sprinter, hurdler and
high-jumper. A pro.
came up from
Adelaide, his breast
covered with medals
earned over the “sticks.”
Turkey sought him out
and entered into an
argument, the outcome
of which was that they
agreed to jump off, for
a side-wager of £2O
and a pool, the obstacle
to be fixed by Turkey.
On the day appointed,
Turkey appeared and
cleared his obstacle at
sft. 4in. The profes-
sional refused to com-
pete and forfeited his
wager. The obstacle
was a cross-cut saw,
its sharp teeth placed
upwards!
H. C. MORGAN,-
Bee. Royal Auto-
mobile Club of
Australia.
The hero of a rather rich little meeting
at Caulfield on Saturday was Luteplayer, a gelding
that sometimes wins races from end to end, and
rarely does the trick any other way. This respect-
able son of Comedy King was never troubled in the
Glenhuntly Cup, winning easily from Distant Star,
who had been expected to pay a dividend when ready,
and conceding the mare 211 b. Salatis, in the two-
year-old race, gave 2st. and more to Shepherd Queen
and Lionel Attwill and beat them for stamina in a
tight finish. Another first favorite to get home was
Clan Fingon, in the Glenferrie Welter. The money
went on Eric Connolly’s horse as though he was a
really good thing, and maybe he will repay follow-
ing in the spring. Aquarock and Monrose, "first and
second in the Steeplechase, are worth bearing in
mind for winter engagements. Two classy jumpers
in Grand Fleet and Merunqua were practically
counted out. The one got badly hurt in a fall, and
the other appeared to break down during the race.
* * * *
Craig an Eran, winner of the English Two
Thousand Guineas last week, is grandson on the
dam’s side of the famous mare Sceptre, who passed
through the hands of Bob Sievier, and left a terrible
lot of money sticking to them. Famous mares are,
perhaps, more likely to shine as grandmothers than
as mothers, but even in the immediate maternal
capacity they are not so unsuccessful as tradition
paints them. Wakeful, for instance, has at least
two distinguished offspring to her credit. Blairgour
was a brilliant sprinter, who beat Broadsword in
the Futurity Stakes; and Nightwatch, after winning
a Melbourne Cup, ran second in the Sydney and
Caulfield Cups.
About the smallest jockey in the Common-
wealth is H. Perry', who rode his uncle’s horse
Lawless to victory' at Ascot (N.S.AV.) the other
day. He is 14" years old, is barely liyds.
long, and can go to scale at sst. Even so, he is a
capable horseman. It runs in the family: his father
was a jockey, his grandad is an owner and trainer,
and his uncle, to whom he is apprenticed, is also in
the business.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: Tell “Emdee” that, al-
though it is unlawful, most of the big betting
in S. Aus. is still done with the books. Why? Well,
for one thing, with the tote, the public can see
whether a horse is being really backed or not—and
that doesn’t suit most owners.
* * * *
In regard both to number of winners and
stakes won J. Holt, the Mordialloc trainer, is an easy
first among the Vic. contingent this season. His
charges scored in 25 events in Melbourne and three
in Sydney, and the stake-money amounted to
£33,248, of which Eurythmic was responsible for
£21,096. His fine record also included 11 seconds
and nine thirds. The runner-up is W. Leyshon, with
12 wins, eight seconds and nine thirds.
* * * *
At card-call for the N. S. Wales Coursing
Derby at Rooty Hill last week 100 to 4 was on
offer about Boy Scout, the ultimate winner. Dom-
bey, owned by Maddrell, of Braidwood, was favorite
at 4 to 1, with Aspirant and The Infant at s’s.
Galloping in determined fashion, Boy Scout removed
Aspirant from the picture in the first ties. His
next victim was Dombey, who was beaten decisively.
In one of the most bitterly-contested courses of
the meeting, Boy Scout accounted for Magic Deed,
one of the 100 to 1 division, in the final, but the
Deed was a hard-run, weary animal that will be
heard of again. The Oaks went to the favorite,
Hazeldawn, a White Hope puppy, wnose owner,
Ilayes, of Orange, also took the Woodstock Cup
with Hazeldean. The meeting lasted three days
and Governor-General Forster motored up every
day—“not officially,” he said, “but just like your-
selves, to see the sport.” There were only three
kills altogether, and the attendance was the best for
years.
* » * •
Last year King’s School (N.S.W.) won
the head-of-the-river title at their first attempt;
this year Newington’s first effort was successful.
King’s and Grammar were placed in the first of the
preliminary heats; Newington and Bt. Joseph’s in
the second. A great crowd collected to see the
final. It was rowed under ideal conditions. From
an excellent start, Newington, rowing a long, sweep-
ing stroke, and hugging the northern shore to miss
the light nor’-easter, took the lead, and, with half
the course covered, were two lengths to the good,
with King’s, Grammar and St. Joseph’s almost in
line. Racing towards Cabarita Newington lost a
little of their advantage, but they kept plugging
away, and in the end won handily, albeit, they
stopped rowing a few lengths fiom the judge’s boat,
owing to the pistol anticipating events. King’s,
Grammar and St. Joseph’s finished in that order, and
the mile and a half was left behind in Bmin.
44 l-ssec. The winners owed much to E. R.
Barker (coach), the one-time great oarsman. F.
N. Ohenall (stroke) set them a fine, even pace,
and Eric Bardsley ; 12st. 51b.), 4, E. A Calder
(13st.) 5, and D. R. Baker (12st. 51b) 6, ex-
hibited exceptional strength and staving power. The
Yaralla Cup (first fours) went to King’s who won
comfortably from Grammar and C.E. Grammar in
6min. 35 l-ssec.; and St. Joseph’s landed the third
crews from C.E. Grammar and St. Ignatius’ in 6min.
32sec.
Jim Paddon (holder) had little difficulty
in defeating Billy McDevitt for the Australian scull-
ing championship on the Richmond River. The Evans
Head giant scaled 13st. 91b. against McDevitt’s 12st.
41b., and the extra poundage, plus Paddon’s better
watermanship, was reflected in the result. A spirited
tussle occurred over the first mile, but fitter that
Paddon went to the" front and stayed there, winning
by three lengths in 19min. 41 l-ssec. Although
he suffered from a heavy cold he showed a return
to his best form.
* * » *
Dick Arnst has signed articles for a
match with Paddy Hannan for the world’s sculling
championship at Wellington on June 11. Paddon.
I elton, Ripley and Hadfield (M.L.) all want to meet
the winner.
* * * *
“Push Off”: According to the latest list
passed by the International Swimming Federation
at the latter end of 1920 Fannv Durack holds but
three world’s titles—the 220yds. (2min. 52sec.),
500yds. (7min. 8 l-ssec.), and one mile (26min.
Bsec.). Her times over 150yds., 300yds., 300 metres,
440yds. and 880yds (some of them put up as far
back as 1917) are ignored in favor of efforts from
2sCc. to 30see. slower. Since the Australian girl’s
performances were all established under record con-
ditions and requirements in every particular, it is
the duty of the Australian Swimming Union to get
into touch with the International Swimming Federa-
tion and have the matter adjusted. The people be-
hind Ethelda Bleibtrey have lost no time in getting
recognition for her performances, though in most
instances they are seconds behind Fanny Durack’s.
* * * «
Gerald Patterson was the enigma of the
N. S. Wales tennis championship meeting. At times
he played wonderful tennis and revelled in the sultri-
est tussles; at other times he showed out like a
second-rater. He was at his top against Jim
Anderson, beating the N.S.W. colt in straight sets
(.9—7, 6—3, 6—2). J. B. Hawkes had wretched
luck. He played finely, particularly in defeating
Norman Peach (9—7, B—6, 7 —9, 6—4) and R. V.
Thomas in straight sets; but a strained tendon put
him on crutches when a final with Patterson was
the thing nearest to his heart. In the doubles Patter-
son and Thomas overwhelmed the opposition,
Todd and Peach being downed in the final (6 —1,
I°—B, 6—4). Patterson’s success made him the
holder of the singles and doubles of Victoria, S.
Aus. and N.S.W. S. H. Henderson, a Sydney colt,
created a stir. He beat R. Eagle, Bob Neil and
K. Poulton in the singles; but Patterson outed him
in the semi-final. Henderson wasn’t included in the
N.S.W. team recently ; but his form must have made
the selectors blink. Mrs. Molesworth followed up
her fine form in the inter-State match by taking the
ladies’ singles. The brilliant Queenslander never
lost a set in the round of matches.
The form shown in the championship justified
Norman Brookes’s selection of Hawkes, Anderson and
Peach to make the trip to America. Britain’s
Davis Cup team will consist of Kings cote, Lvcett,
Crawley and Woosnam, and they' will play- Spain for
the first heat of the Cup at the end of May." On paper
they look good enough to reach the semi-final at least.
Crawley' and Lycett ran into second and third places
for the Covered Courts Singles in London, which
championship was retained by' the Frenchman,
Gobert, after a hard-fought battle with the former.
Kingscote is the little man who made such a good
impression here in 1919. His tennis is brilliantly
accurate and he has the heart of a lion.
* * * *
“15-30”: Peach’s defeat of Patterson in
the Vic.-N.S.W. tournament will probably make him
the most limelit Australian in the Davis Cup. When
I saw him beat Brookes in Melbourne I was greatly
impressed with his inability to be shaken by a Great
Reputation. A comparative youngster, he should
have been seized with faintness when Norman grabbed
the first two sets, and was on the way to annexing
the other, but, instead, Peach stiffened in every
department of his game and played the old champion
off his feet. Peach’s knitted brow and unassuming
manner suggest the hardened thinker, and 1 shouldn’t
be surprised if he proves the toughest player that
Australia is sending across the Pacific this year.
Though his service isn’t spectacular, it has deceptive
simplicity that will rattle star players at embarrass-
ing inoments. Moreover, his clean driving powers,
exhibited in beautifully-placed passing shots against
the most formidable service he has encountered, is
another warning to the best not to take him too
cheaply.
* * * *
While Dencio was settling S.v monels’s busi-
ness at Rusheutter’s Bay, his compatriot Jamito was
earning a points’ decision over Bert Spargo at Mel-
bourne Stadium. AVhen Val Quirk awarded the ver-
dict to the Filipino deafening howls of rage went
up from Spargo’s supporters, who called upon all
their gods to witness that it was premeditated homi-
cide. But the referee was right, albeit the margin
in Jamito’s favor was not great. It was a spirited
fight from go to stop,
but the result empha-
sised the indifferent
quality of the present
generation of Austra-
lian boxers, for the
brown fedder is not,
and never will be, a
champion. He would
have been “pie” to
boxers like Griffo, Billy
Murphy and the late
Tim Hegarty.
Another view of
BALVINO
JAMITO, who got
the decision against
Bert Spargo on
Saturday night at
Melbourne Stadium,
Somehow when Joe Symonds is matched
with a hard hitter the tussle generally ends in an
unsatisfactory manner for the spectators. His
struggles with Sid Godfrey and Arthur Wyns came
to a disappointing conclusion. On Saturday night
the little Englishman fell screaming to the floor of
the Sydney Stadium ring in the sth round of his
fight with the Filipino Dencio. Joe Wallis forgot to
finish the count, and signalled for a doctor. That
functionary decided that there had been no poultry,
and Wallis awarded the decision to Dencio. For
four rounds the loser had provided a dazzling exhibi-
tion of attack and evasion. On one occasion he
thumped the Filipino so hard that the onlookers
expected Dencio to fall. But the latter was only
waiting for a suitable chance to being about an early
settlement of the dispute, and a right jab to the
stomach did the business. The small Manilaman left
the ring with a high opinion of the medical profession.
* * * »
Two husky welterweights, Jack Dillon and
Jim Dixon, stood toe to toe at Sydney Stadium on
Monday night and slugged away enthusiastically. Both
were out on their feet more than once, but sheer
gameness kept them going until the sixth round,
when Dixon sank to the floor and was counted out.
As a slogging-match it was magnificent, but the
public doesn’t go to see slogging-matches to any
extent. It prefers the clever tappers.
Although most of the top-notch N.S.W
amateur golfers made a bid for the Concord Cup at
Concord (Sydney) on Saturday, it was chiefly a
match between Eric .Apperly, Ivo Whitton and Tom
Howard. Apperly staggered the opposition in the
morning round of 73—eight strokes better than the
next best cards; but in the afternoon he only did
80 against Whitton’s 74 and Howard’s 75. In
aggregate Apperly scored 153, Whitton 158 and
Howard 158. Apperly, who had previously two
legs-in, won the cup outright; but he handed it
back to the club for further use.
Cabled that ribbed golf-clubs will pro-
bably be barred after this year’s championships in
England. Australia has not yet been troubled much
by the rough-surface clubs, but in the U.S.A. the
idea has run mad. Obviously, grooved lines across
the club-face will give it more grip on the ball.
Experts can get, when required, a cut which stops
the ball dead where it drops. The latest develop-
ment has the iron scored so deeply that the ridges
will literally cut one’s finger. This weapon demands
a new ball at every hole. It has been thought in-
advisable, evidently, to cause an international com-
plication by barring these freaks just as a crowd of
American golfers is about to cross to England for
the championships, otherwise they might have gone
on the spot.
* * * *
Leichhardt made mince of White Sox
(6 —0) in the final of the long-hung-up Summer Base-
ball premiership. Fine fielding and the great
pitching of Robertshaw brought the honors to Leich-
hardt. With the Summer ’bailers off the diamond,
the Winter competitions launch out on Saturday
with 14 clubs in the first grade, 17 in the second
and 10 in the third. The season threatens to be the
busiest known for years.
* * * *
Germany against Hungary is something
new in the way of soccer football. But . the event
came off lately' in Berlin, before a crowd of 50,000.
Germany won by 1 goal to nil.
TEACHING THE YOUNG IDEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Child Welfare Association, Hobart, has decided
to ask the Speck racing clubs to provide accommo-
dation for babies at their meetings.
Behold where in the stand they sit,
With strained and starting eyes,
The while their parents do their bit
On Burglar or Surprise.
They shake the bars that hold them back
(Their little lips so blue) ; 1
And, as the horses take the track,
They shake each other, too.
In truth it was a fearsome thing
For every mother’s pet
To hear the shouting of the ring
And never have a bet;
To see the roughie Carraway
Cut down by half a head
The odds-on favorite Surprise,
And Burglar finish “dead.”
When mothers came in doubt and fear
Their offspring to collect,
Can you conceive the frigid sneer
Each infant face that decked;
The infant lips that strove to send
A message that we know,
The utterance of the all-wise friend—
“l dam’ well toldyerso” ?
Within that garden of the sea,
Where apples never cloy,
And Tatts’s sweeps (which had to be)
The Stigginses annoy,
The babies are of sporting blood,
A speculative strain
Which played “two-up” before the Flood,
And still will play again.
N.s.w.
H. C. H.


Health is the Greatest of
All PossessionsH
m
rom the earliest ages man has taken pride in his bodily welfare
and development. It can be acquired by regular and efficient
Physical Culture Exercises. Learn now to improve your body.
A Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen and unseen
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expell-
ing waste tissue, building up new muscle, benefiting every
part of your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let us send you a copy of the booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture.” It tells about the health-
giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three penny
stamps for postage. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement. We’ll know what you mean.
REG. 1. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
475 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
m
' X
DOUGLAS
MANUFACTURED BY
DOUGLAS MOTORS LTD., Kingswood, Bristol, England.
EASTER, 1921. —The “DOUGLAS” again proves its excellence, winning the Senior and
Junior Tourist Trophy of Australia Races.
The latest post war models of the famous British “Douglas” Motor-cycle can now be
delivered immediately.
4-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear, clutch and kick starter, either with or without side-car.
2J-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear (as illustrated above), but with large enclosed mudguards.
2f-H.P. SPECIAL, 2-speed gear Model.
The “patented” horizontally opposed “Douglas” twin-cylinder engine, as fitted to all
“Douglas” Motor-cycles, is so well and favorably know that it needs little explanation. The
horizontal twin engine is the most suitable for" motor-cycle practice. It certainly gives less
vibration than any engine, with less than four cylinders. Douglas Motors Ltd. have so perfected
this type of engine that it has become universally popular.
, The “DOUGLAS” is exceptionally easy to learn to control in congested city traffic, or over
rough, hilly, muddy, sandy or bush" roads, or across paddocks. It is very economical, giving
90 to 100 miles to the gallon, exceptionally light on transmission, chain, gears, tyres, etc., the
result of the even, steady pull of the engine.
Frame, wheels, etc., are exceptionally strong and reliable.
The new designed front forks are “the last word” in comfort and strength, and being adjust-
able to wear, are almost everlasting.
The “DOUGLAS” has ample power to take you where any motor-cycle will. It will stand
any amount of hard work, and depreciates less in value from hard riding than any other make.
More “DOUGLASES” were used in the Great War than any other make. They have won
more reliability and speed contests than any other British motor-cycles, and hold many world’s
records.
In justice to yourself you should get full particulars of the “DOUGLAS” before you decide
which motor-cycle to buy.
Sole Agents—
New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd., 213, 215, 217 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria and Tasmania: ACME CYCLE CO., 355-357 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Australia: GUARD BROS., 21-23 Gouger Street, ADELAIDE.
Queensland: WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO., LTD., 233-235 Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE.
n
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
Limestone
Coal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing Machinery
Stone Breakers, Portable Road Plants,
Elevators, Screens, Conveyors.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES:—
New South Wales: A. Replastrier & Co., Sydney; Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co., Dtd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co, Btd.,
Adelaide: West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie; New Zealand:
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: Dunn & George, I* td., Singapore.
Kruses
1 Fluid
Magnesia
RYNOCH
AMMUNITION
'22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
IS
Real
Comfort
You need it, too, this weather.
Neither cold, biting wind nor
frosty air would be in the least
formidable to encounter if you
were snug and safe within
this warm coat —Our “Winter
Special.”
In All-Wool
Textures
75 1-
Smart, Stylish, Correctly Cut
and Thoroughly Tailored —fea-
turing double-Breasted Fronts
—-All Round Belt, Deep Collar,
which may be turned cosily up,
to cover throat and neck—com-
modious pockets, with wind-
guards to Cuffs—this is the
Overcoat that will keep you
smiling in the Worst of Winter
Weather. - Unquestionable value,
too, at our Special Price, 75/-.
High-grade
English Coats
Just arrived—latest London
styles. Newest Burberrvs, the
popular “Regal” Coat, the
“Aquatite,” the high-class
“Dextile” and a big range of
John Barron’s famous English
Overcoats, all moderately
priced.
CALL—OR WRITE.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
\2
-a-
HD
wfl
LINCOLN, STUART § CO.
PTY. LTD.,
244-254 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


Permanent Hair Waving
Accentuates Attractiveness
The many advantages of softly waved hair are
too obvious to need much commendation. To
the smart woman, so important a part does it
play in her coiffure, that it has become quite a
fashionable craze. Farmer’s use a special, per-
manent hair waving process which produces
exquisite waves that remain the same ev«sn
after shampooing, and does not in any way
effect the growth, or destroy the natural sheen.
Appointments may be booked by personal
application in the Hairdressing Salon, Third
Floor, or by phoning, City, Eleven Thousand.
Farmer’s:: Sydney .
Box 497, Q.P.O.
jM
I
9
When the period kn-TCn as “the twilight of
Life” arrives, extreme care must be ob-
served to keep Colds, Influenza, and their
attendant -Is at a distance.
r
IRISH
IS BEST FOR COUGHS & COLDS.
If taken in time it wiU prevent serious developments. Insist
on getting Bennington's. Sold everywhere. BA 15
®fl
•''9OSSi !•
p)P*
rt*. ou**ju»-r«o vhur
( rooo ACT, **34, N.s W
Krnoro* 4 ooTtro. na.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
NOW
OPEN
Not half those who wanted to see popular
Violet Bowes Kelly married to Jack Hay
could squeeze into the Malvern Anglican
Church. Violet, clinging to the arm of her
big dad, trailed white satin and real lace
draperies up the aisle. The floating train
and lace veil girdled with orange blossoms
were lent by grandmama Hawley, and she
hugged a bouquet of white roses. A quin-
tette of maids, headed by stately sister Edna,
were picturesquely clad in pale blue satin
draperies, with flowing white net veils sus-
pended from headbands of silk flowers. The
other maids were sisters Lyeli and Sybil
Kelly, Doris Davenport and Jack Hay’s
niece, Myrtle Woodside. Brother Moncton
Kelly had the job of best man.
After the ceremony 500 guests fled up-
street to Moorakync for the second act. Mrs.
Kelly, still pale after her stay on the sick-
list, scored beauty honors in dark-blue satin
chiffons and a bouquet of red roses. Auntie
Isabel Millar struck an attractive note in
soft black trappings and flew a touch of
jade green from her little toque. Mrs. Hay
wore all brown with her red posy. The 500
sat down to champagne, cake, etc., in a
pink-lined marquee decorated with autumn
flowers. Among those who spoke their piece
were William Orr and Harvey Paterson.
When the newly-weds had vanished in clouds
of rose petals and confetti, the bridesmaids
with attendant swains and a few reinforce-
ments hurried off to a dinner at Menzies’;
then back to Mqorakyne to two-step until
the cocks crew.
Admiral Sir Percy Grant, who celebrated
his recent Singapore trip by parting with the
scrubby beard which helped him to ptesemble
the late Bigjohn Forrest, has gone home. He
got aboard the last Orient steamer with his
Kitchener’s gift dog. His naval nephew,
who used to command the Jervis Bay College,
is a bachelor, like Uncle. Ilis pet pup is a
fi.erce-looking bulldog, who likewise shipped
back to the Cold Country with his master.
Baroness von Ompteda, youngest of the
wealthy Winter Irving sisters—she lately
fluttered hack to the Wattle with a 10-year-
old Miss von Ompteda—has announced her
intention of jettisoning her Teutonic name
and nationality by tieing up with an English-
man, Captain Stringer, D.S.C., formerly of
the sth Royal. Irish Lancers. He is the
second son of a Northamptonshire property-
owner. The bride elect, a stunningly expert
pianist, was studying music in Germany be-
fore the guns began to shoot, and there she
met and married her Baron, who afterwards
fell on the battlefield.
Lady Forster, being in Sydney for Anzac
Day, deputed Mrs. Chauvel, the General’s
wife, to act as hostess at a tea-party given
at Government House to wives and
mothers of fallen Diggers. The party was
preceded by a service conducted by Dr.
Rentoul, while Mrs. Sellheim, a versatile
lady, called forth the necessary religious
music from a -piano on the dais. Mrs.
Chauvel, in a wonderful brocaded gown, was
in the chair, with her Light Horse husband
by her side. Senator and Mrs. Pearce and
the widow of General Bridges were also on
the dais. Dr. Rentoul grew dramatic and
poetical in his address, but the best effects
were spoilt by his store teeth. He had fre-
quently to break off in middle of a thrill-
ing period to push a peripatetic molar back
into its place. Chauvel gave a touching
speech relieved by some fine stories of the
bravery and eheeriness of the Digger.
The associations represented at the party
were the Sailors and Soldiers Mothers’ Band,
with president Mrs. Kent at the head ; the
Australian Imperial League of Sailors and
Soldiers’ Women Folk, with president Mrs.
Woodburn in the lead; and the Friendly
Union of Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Wives and
Mothers, which was organised by Mrs. SeiF
heim and kept together by Lady Ferguson.
Mrs. Knox Knight and all her committee
were there,
A memorial to fallen allied soldiers in St.
Martin’s Church grounds, Hawksburn, was
unveiled by State Governor Stradbroke. The
countess, who bore him company, dressed her
sombre part in black, with a long veil float-
ing from her hat. After his Ex. had un-
swathed the Union Jack from the handsome
granite cross—simply inscribed “To our
Glorious Dead”" —there was brief speech-mak-
ing. Then relatives of fallen soldiers filed
past and piled the cenotaph high with
flowers. _ The vicar being an unattached
dweller in a hash-house near the church, the
vice-regal pair, with aide Eric Anson,
motored ofE to tea with the John Grice pair.
Now Vicar Seaton is smiling contentedly
over the offer of a peal of bells.
General Monasli’s portrait in oils is being
hung in the National Gallery. Putting his
whole heart and best skill into the work,
Isaac Cohen, a former student of the gallery,
has produced a fine likeness. He presented
it to Nahum Barnet and his friend Jacobs,
who had given him a timely push-up when
he was climbing the art ladder. Barnet and
Jacobs, in turn, made the canvas over to
Monash, who, in asking the Gallery trustees
to accept it, said the artist would be gratified
if they consented. In his most courtly
manner Dr. Deeper, the chairman, undertook
to give the picture an honored place on the
walls “both as a high-class work of art by
an Australian and as a memento of a man
who had written his name so honorably and
deeply in Australian history.” The Chosen
are mightily pleased.
Dame Nellie Melba, having fought the ’flu,
comes home in July. If she can manage it
she will travel via Canada to avoid the Red
Sea and its heat.
Marjorie Ilatchard, cousin of the Wag-
nerian star Caroline, is the latest immigrant
warbler. She acquired her vocal tricks from
Sir Henry Wood —he of the tousled hair,
well trimmed beard and tapering orchestral
wand. Marjorie hope* to guide juveniles
into a pupils’ paradise, for she has some
special five-finger prescriptions from Mrs.
Curwen, a London expert in piano-teaching
without curses.
Captain Garrett O’Brien, the impulsive
airman whose- love-making on the voyage
out cost him £3OO and exes., which he will
pay up by instalments, has started back to
resume duty in the Royal Air Force. His
dad, Myles O’Brien, a Kerang lawyer, is
accompanying him as far as the Cold Coun-
try, and will return via America.
Hilda Brack, who came from the Cold
Country as an exchange teacher, changed her
plans shortly after arrival because sue met
the right man and said the necessary number
of “I wills” at the altar. The London County
Council, who lent her, will probably not
grudge her to Australia as a permanent
citizen. The Education Department is send-
ing a few women pedagogues to gain experi-
ence in London and the counties: and it is
pretty confident that if they land husbands
they will insist upon bringing them to this
country. «
Violet Peet, here pictured by Spencer
Shier, la<tely collected bouquets for her
charming work as a
ballad-singer. She
has a fine soprano,
great judgment and
intelligence in the
use of it, and good
looks. In Perth, her
native city, she was
something of a pro-
digy, and in her
early teens did well
at the Elder Conser-
vatorium, Adelaide,
where she spent two
or three happy,
valuable years.
Later on she re-
turned to ,P erth,
where her success at
concerts and Sa s-
siety functions en-
couraged her to dash for bigger prizes in the
East. Violet probably inherits a lot of
her talent from her dad. In earlier days
he was a member of the Melbourne Amateur
Comic Opera Co., which often gave Walter
Kirby’s young tenor an evening out.
The Manifold dame (who was before
marriage Fannie Smith, daughter of a
pioneering family) left personal property
worth £4,700 to her husband. There were no
children to share her little pile.
There were no moans of regret when the
message came that Dr. Cody, vicar and mem-
ber of Parliament of Toronto. Canada, had
refused the Anglican mitre. There never had
been any enthusiasm over the nomination.
The hopes of those who favor Bishop Long
(Bathurst) have again been raised con-
siderably. Archbishop Donaldson (Bris-
bane), would also be acceptable, though it
is felt that he might be only making the
Melbourne position a stepping-stone to higher
things—in England. Somebody who will
stay a good while, be a force, and live as
close up as possible to the Moorhouse stand-
ard is desired.
There is difference of opinion as to whether
“Pompey” Elliott should have aired personal
grievances in the Senate, but the public is
not sorry that a little publicity has been
given to British Army methods. One
thing made clear is that Elliott doesn’t re-
member Gellibrand, the Vic. Chief of Police,
in his prayers every night. Gellibrand, who
was a General too, has ignored the senator’s
references to him, possibly because he is a
State Government officer and a Federal divi-
sional commander.
Captain Hyde, of the Brisbane, gave a
fascinating kiddies’ party aboard his craft
a few days ago. He was gently assisted by
the charming Mrs. Hyde, who used to be the
hon. Mrs. Trefusis. There were a razzle-
dazzle and an aerial tramway and other
exciting incidentals, to say nothing of ice-
creams and things, and the youngsters had
a great time. Among others the Round
Turners brought their juvenile belongings,
and Mrs. Chauvel, elaborately gowned, came
with a dark-eyed damsel.
Evelyn Cooke, the decorative daughter of
the Herbert Cookes, is about to undertake
a journey to Ireland via the Fog under new
conditions. As a protest against the H.C.
of shipping, she is going in a freight ship—•
signing on as a sort of stewardess-in-chief.
She will have another of her sex to bear wit-
ness to all that happens.
All the feminine portion of the Marks
family, of Suva, set off for a European
jaunt on the Morea. They don’t intend re-
turning to their South Sea island home until
1922 is well on the way.
When the Niagara again steams hence it
will carry the Wertheim family towards
Europe via Canada. Meanwhile farewell
parties to the feminine side are the order of
the day.
Last Thursday morning Alexander Wat-
son took his wife and one of his short pro-
grammes to the Royal Institute for the
Blind. When he had thrilled his audience
Superintendent Hedger gave him food and
drink.
Anzac Colonel Robert Fowler has put up
his plate in Collins-street as a reminder to
suffering humanity that they may reap the
benefit of the F.R.C.S. he gained in London
after he got into mufti. Dr. Bob inherits a
first-class surgeon’s fist from a medical
father who for years bossed the Bendigo
Hospital.
Secretary for Labor Murphy has beamed
consent for the last of his fair daughters to
commit matrimony. Blanche has promised a
gilded Applelander in the squatter business ;
and already the bridesmaids have been called
together to discuss decorations and color-
schemes.
William Kirby, a returned Digger, who
died in Adelaide recently, was the brother of
tenor Walter. At one time he toured a
great part of the globe with dancer Duvalli,
who was a sensation in the early ’9o’s. Wil-
liam Kirby was something of a painter and
poet, and his verses are being published by
his brother.
Mrs. Harold Hunt is gathering a trous-
seau for a trip abroad. She and her large
husband are going a-ivandering through
Europe and America. The lady is sporting
the newest type of veil, which is a three-inch
wisp of lace coming just below the eyes.
Ex-Mayoress Hennessey will give an At
Home at the Grand Hotel on May 12.
Macalister Smith, the young Digger who
made a sensational try for the State House
in the Haw-Hawthorn election, spread him-
self on a dinner at the Savoy last week. He
was celebrating his 27th birthday, and
gathered together a big musical circle for the
feast. After dinner Vera Carew sang from
the inside of an icecream-pink frock, and
Smith himself aired a big bass voice. The
host had just been appointed vice-president
of the Hawthorn R.S.A., and president
Albrecht came to give him a hand with the
party.
At the last Royal Victorian Liedertafel
concert the .Timmy Dyers (he is president)
“received” the Stradbrokes. The Countess
sported Ireland’s national color, with a bed-
spread cloak-effect in cloth-of-gold. The
singing was neither better nor worse thah
usual. Perhaps if they changed their name
to something more British and a little less
redolent of the biergarten the Liedertafel
singing might acquire more vitality. The
two lady soloists provided bowing contrasts.
Irene O’Brien-Certo executed a mid-Vic-
torian curtsey in a terrifying 20th century
hurry. But Adelina Olympia Leon bows
like a rag doll doubling herself into a vicious
right-angle. Having safely and in toto re-
gained the upright pose she smiles benignly
as if to say “Good-oh!” The music was
serious enough in all truth.
Not being permitted to attend the sittings
of the State Houses, the Earl-Governor
dropped into the Reps, last week to_a.ee how
they do business there. Whether he con-
sidered the chamber better or worse than the
House of Lords he didn’t say when he came
out into the lobbies. To keep an appointment,
and not because the sequence seemed to be
correct, Ilis Ex. visited the sewerage farm
at Werribee on the following day. This
week he viewed the rich lands of Warrnam-
bool and heard some reminiscences of Jack
Murray.
If the word of a lot of women can be
believed the Mayoress’s Lucky Bag Day is
to be the biggest ever. The object is her
husband’s appeal on behalf of the blind, and
the lucky-bag idea intrigues the gambling
instinct. June 3 was the date mentioned a
while ago, so there is plenty of time for the
manufacture of bags and the preparation of
what to put in them. Every handful of
mystery is to contain “something worth hav-
ing,” in a charitable way of speaking, from
a packet of pins up.
The handsome Herbert Power widow was
caught in a frenzy of farewells before hand-
ing over her Toorak home to the new owner,
Mrs. Albert Miller. Son Reggie dashed
down from Albury to see his mother and
two elder sisters aboard the Jap mail-
steamer. Mother and one daughter go only
to Townsville; the second daughter has her
trunks labelled “Japan.”
One hears people recently from Britain
protesting vehemently against the cruel fool-
ishness of smallpox scares. The theory is
that ev£n as two emotional actresses were
frightened to death years ago by the sight
of a dense mob gathered outside their hotel
to see them removed to the plague quaran-
tine station, so are people scared to death
by all the newspaper talk about" contacts
and infection. Nobody will ever know the
exact proportion of smallpox cases that get
their infection from thet. imagination, nor the
exact proportion of contacts who escape in-
fection because they refuse to be afraid of it.
But what everybody does know is that cer-
tain contacts find the finger of publicity
pointing at them and hear the warning of the
press to expect “symptoms” in a few days’
time. It’s then only the mercy of God that
.prevents a funeral.
Deprecating a proposal made by Unsworth,
president of the St. Hilda branch of the
R.5.5.1.L.A., Premier Lawson said it would
only cheapen the Westminster burial of an
unknown warrior if a body were transferred
from Gallipoli or France to a Melbourne
grave. For aught we know, he added, the
Jack or Jim allotted a space among the
illustrious dead in the Abbey may be an Aus-
tralian. But the first reason was good
enough without the addition.
Richmond, South Yarra and Jlawksburn
easily rival Footscray in the matter of
smells. At times the destructor makes the
population clutch their noses and throw
verbal bricks at the Council; but the chief
smell for miles around is tomato-sauce. This
pungent odor impels inhabitants south of the
Yarra and Richmond to swear off tomato-
sauce for ever, though strangers to the city
are tickled to find factories of smellful condi-
ments right in the heart of a “classy”
suburb. Why do such things come between
the wind and our nobility?
Adelaide lias a word or two to say :
The two clays’ fete in the grounds of the North
Adelaide Hospital to raise money for a new wing
was a great success after Archbishop Spence had
given it a formal kick-off. Although run by the
R.C. sisters, the hospital is open to all creeds, and
the fete stall-holders, with two exceptions, were of
other denominations. Music was supplied by a
band of girls from the Largs Bay Orphanage.
A “The Dansant” will be held in the Osborne Hall
on May 17 in aid of the Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’
Club. These dansqnts made a great hit last season
with the sere and yellow, being afternoon dances
where elderly ladies, after jazzing together with great
solemnity and taking a dash of tea and a possible
cigarette, felt they were being positively naughty.
The annual dinner at the Grand Central on St.
George’s Day was a successful affair. In all 130
took part, and his Ex. and William Sowden made
speeches. But they were both put in the shade by
Coleman Phillipson, who spoke for 45 minutes.
W. D. Proctor, local superintendent of the Eastern
Extension Telegraph Co., is leaving by the Morea
for England on furlough, and is taking his wife with
him. He was given a farewell dinner by the staff
at the Grosvenor, and was also handed a presenta-
tion on behalf of the Sports Club. A. B. Scottowe,
who' arrived by the Orsova, takes his place. The
latter, while stationed here some years ago, mar-
ried an Adelaide girl.
On Wednesday Molly Gall and Dr. C. F. Drew said
“I will’' at All Souls’ Church, St. Peter’s, in the
presence of Canon Murphy and a lot of other people.
The bride struck an original note by wearing a
maize satin gown, and carrying a sheaf of pink
lilies. Nancy Gall and Thelma Coulter were brides-
maids, and Dr. Ellis Brummitt was best man. Both
M.D.’s wore khaki.
The Elder Conservatorium held its first students’
concert the other night, when Maude Puddv gave
an impressive rendering of Chopin’s Funeral March
in honor of Anzac Day. The director, Dr. Harold
Davies, is one of the many who lost a son in the
war.
Billy Hughes passed through Adelaide the other
day, en route for the Imperial Conference in London,
and there was the usual brass band and kow-tow,
recalling 11. G. Wells’s remark that Hughes “was
as much advertised as a new soap.” There was no
time for the Government to entertain him at
luncheon ; but lie had a pow-wow with the Chamber
of Commerce at the South Australian Hotel, and
was rather rude about it, too.
Harley Hooper, a graduate of our School of
Mines, who has been six years in the Tavoy district
of Burmah, is on his way home by this time.
Our Register, getting mixed between a military
inspection by the Governor and a trading-after-hours
prosecution, announced cheerfully that “Sir Archi-
bald was conducted over the camp by the licensee,
Mrs. .” But Sir Archibald’s lady is too utterly
devoted to him to make a fuss about it.


3SSI
tr*
Highest-grade Men’s Watch, with screw case.
Silver. £5/5/-, £B/8/-, £lO/10/-.
Gold, £ll/11/- to £25.
Watches for Men.
mn
HE Watch illustrated is without doubt the most
serviceable and finest-grade watch made for
men s wrist wear. The movement, by one of
the best-known makers, is of an exceptionally
fine quality, adjusted and compensated for all positions
and climates, yet sufficiently strong to withstand hard
usage and jolts. The screw case renders the watch as
dustproof as human ingenuity can make it, and a
luminous dial adds yet another advantage to this
accurate and reliable timekeeper.
Catalogue will be mailed post free to any address.
©Hm. Srummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BUCKLEY’S
HIGH-GRADE SUITS
at 10 Guineas.
We have just completed a special purchase of High-
grade Imported Suitings consisting of newest season’s
designs in real Scotch Tweeds, West of England Cash-
meres and fine Worsteds in Stripes, Checks, Diagonals,
Herringbones and various other suitable designs for
Autumn and Winter Wear, also Indigo Blue Serges in
rough and fine Twill Effects.
We are offering these High-grade Winter Suitings at the
special price of
10 Guineas.
These Suits will be hand-
tailored, and the trimmings
will be in keeping with the
high-grade materials, which
are from the looms of the best
Scottish and English manufac-
turers.
This is an example of what
the public may gain by taking
advantage of the selling policy
at Buckley’s.
Write for patterns and self-
measurement form. Sent post
free.
f
'Zrm
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY l NUNN LTD. BQURKE ST. MELBOURNE
WE ’PAY;CARRIAGE
The MASON and HAMLIN
TONE
NI3OIA V dO IVHI 3M13 SSttflQN
iVi ASON and HAMLIN PIANOS are universally
recognised as musically the most beautiful pianos the
world has ever seen. They combine extraordinary
beauty of tone with wonderful responsiveness and
a degree of durability never before approached.
MASON and HAMLIN
“The Stradivarius of Pianos
It is impossible to convey in words any idea of that
most vital part of any musical instrument —ITS TONE
—it delights the ear and lingers with the memory.
Full particulars will be cheerfully
forwarded upon application.
m
BRANCHES:—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.
m.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED
TO EXAMINE THESE REMARKABLE
INSTRUMENTS AT OUR SHOW-
ROOMS, WHETHER YOU ARE AN
INTENDING PURCHASER OR NOT.


Royal
Warrant
m
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
n
Champagne
Q »aiiesHeidsie&
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY IJMITEO, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
mn
BOND’S
k l
Australian-made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
Made in
Artificial
Silk Smart,
Comfortable and
Guaranteed to give
satisfactory Service ;
''Yellow Diamond" which
: sells at a very low price
tands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
Griffin
m fTmT
i—> ■
r
n
M
For the
Special
Party, o r
for the
cosy little
Dinner
Dance, the
rendezvous
PAR EX-
CELLENCE
is the
Wentworth Cafe
Book a table for to-night. City 9931.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hostery
The top place at the eleventh annual meet-
ing of ttie Bush Book Chib was tilled fly
Lady Forster. Many people know of the
B.B.C.—and a great many people don't. Its
simple job is to bring cheer into the lives of
men, women and children out-back by means
of books. In places where the coining of
the mail-man is art event and a visitor a
rarity, there does the 8.8. C. find its way; it
even sends illumination into distant light
houses. Letters of thanks come fron
shearers’ shed, cattle-camp, hawker’s cara
van and cocky’s homestead, so wide are its
ramifications. The necessity for more funds
and more books was again stressed. To helj
meet the demand for ready money, the mem
bers willingly agreed to double tire subscrip
tion-rate ; and to gather in books there will be
a continuous “at home” at the B.B.CVs new
headquarters at Mil Castlomigh-street ou
Tuesday from 13 a.m. to 5 p.m. Invitations
beg you to bring a friend and a book. In
vain have the womon-folk tried to interest
the opposite sex in the 8.8. C.: Ilanbury
Davies and Professor MacCallynr are gener-
ally the only breaks in the gathering of mil-
linery at the annual meeting. The 8.8. C.
has no right to be a purely feminine move-
ment, and Laidy Foster’s idea to balance
things a bit is to 1 lot the accompanying friend
next Tuesday be a mail- Neither the book
nor the man need be new. And, if you can,
make him bring an extra one for the kiddies.
In that old cupboard there are many of them
that are simply going to waste, while the
children out-back, who have no picture-slum,
no circus, no parties to fill in the long sil-
ences, are hungry for them.
The Musical Association gave Jascha
Heifetz, the. genius of the violin, a welcome
at I armor’s on Friday night. President
Gooud, combining the duties of Prime Minis-
ter, Premier and Lord Mayor, extended a
welcome on behalf of the Commonwealth,
“?e State, the city, and, incidentally, the
N.S.W. Musical Association. John Lem-
mone supplemented this with a message from
Dame Nellie Melba. The Diva being the
Sun of the musical world, naturally she can
adopt unto herself mere stars. Wherefore
she wrote: “My wonderful Heifetz is going
to Australia, and I shan’t be there to' wel-
come him.’ (Here the electric fans wailed
audibly and the guests Wept into their coffee-
cups.) Verbrugghen, who had departed with
his orchestra for Melbourne, sent regrets
for his absence, good wishes and hopes that
the violinist will play some day with liis body
of instrumentalists, but ventured upon no
adoption. Heifetz is a well-built, healthy-
looking chap, pleasant of manner, even
though dreamy of eye. The musical feast
served to him consisted of pianoforte pieces
bv How-ells and John Ireland played by
Arthur Benjamin, and songs by Bois Zucker,
who was robed in orange satin and chantill.v
lace. And John Lemmone described “The
Brook” with his flute. The violinist is
accompanied in his Australian tour by his
father and mother and his two sisters, who
are something of pianists. A couple of
friends are also of the party.'
A portrait of Rose Scott is likely to adorn
the walls of the National Art Gallery. She
has been prevailed upon to sit for John Long-
staff, and, as is fitting, when the portrait is
completed it will be offered to the gallery.
Miss Wearne (Department of Health) and
Miss Williams (Women’s College) are secre-
taries of the Commemoration Fund.
George Coates and his wife, Dora Meeson,
have a combined art show at Anthony Hor-
dern’s gallery, and it’s a joy. During the war
the astonishingly versatile Dora laid down
her brush and did some work in a munitions
iactory. As a tribute to the girls and women
who w-orked there she has designed a frieze;,
showing the whole process of cordite-making.
After the Armistice she put in a year getting
her hand and eye into play once more at a
London art school; and there is nothing
wrong about either organ now'. George
Coates shows various portraits of soldier-pals
and Australian war artists. The National
Gallery has purchased tw-o of them—“ Bill”
Dyson, and a fine “Polish Lady.” And the
trustees may yet discover something'among
Dora Meeson’s collection to secure for Syd-
ney—for instance, “The End of the Book,” a
candle-light study* w'hieh was accepted, by the
exclusive International Society of Sculptors,
Painters and Engravers in London.
Flying rival colors, Everybody who is Any-
body boated or motored the fledglings to
watch the “Head of the River” struggle
on the Parramatta last week. How the
boys (and girls, too) cheered the stirring
finish on Saturday! And when Newington
won the “eights" the usually complacent Dr.
Prescott found he had myriads of friends
who desired to simultaneously grip his hand.
Among the old-timers in the revelry were
Q. L. Deloitte (who would rather miss a
lunch than a regatta), Judge Backhouse,
David Maughan (a live wire of the G.P.S.),
lirp'her Edwin (just off the sick-bed) and
R. R. P. Hickson. But there were thou-
sands of others.
There are no philanthropic societies
doing finer work in Sydney than the
District Nurses’ Association, which has
a branch in most poor areas. These
branches undertake to maintain, if possible,
a nurse to visit the sick and convalescing in
their own homes, and only those who have
gone with ope of the angels on her daily
rounds understand what comfort and hope
she carries with her. Twenty years ago the
association was born, Nurse Mann, now
matron of the Home for Incurables at Ryde,
being the first to set out upon the great
work. Now nine are employed; but double
the number are urgently required, so it’s
pay, pay, pay! To help a special appeal
which is now being made (the only one in
20 years) the Town Hall was turned into
a gay market-place for two days last week,
the stalls being well-filled with things to wear
and things to eat. The opening was done by
Lady Iforster, but her voice was lost in tlie
din of traders and pedestrians.. A children’s
fancy dress matinee ball was an added
attraction on the second afternoon, when
Pierrots and pierrettes, Little Boy Bines and
Red Indians made uterry round lucky-packet
and sweet stalls.
The Society of Women Painters had a
frivol last week, when Mrs. Rix Nicholas
told about her student days in France
(mainly Etaples), and Mrs. Verbrugghen
arranged some music to harmonise.
Madame herself warbled folk songs, French
and Irish, and her husband, forsaking his
beloved Beethoven, played violin duets by
Benjamin Goddard with his second violin,
Jenny Cullen. Their offerings were six
little sketches in melody descriptive of the
moods of a lonely chap who, though he finds-
a best girl in . the fourth number, does not
cheer up till lie serenades her in the last
“sketch” in quite gondolier rhythm. Henri
and Jenny “plinked” their strings once
again in the last number as an encore.
*\lur iol Oakshott displayed a facile tech-
nique at the piano. Mrs. Rix Nicholas was
frocked in shot blue and mauve, with her
favorite scarf drapery in the same liues.-
Jolm Long-staff and Mr. and Mrs. Coates (a
study in blues) were of the painting ffa-
'ternity present.
A battery of press-women bombarded the
wife of Queensland’s ex-Agent-General Rob-
inson at Government House the other day.
The charming lady,
who stood the on-
si aug b t well, i s
English, but has had
nine years’ close in-
tercourse with Aus-
tralians, mainly Dig-
gers. During the
war she had charge
of the Australian
V.A.D.’s (mainly
nurses) who were
drafted to the vari-
ou s hospitals i n
Egypt, France,.
Salonika and else-
where. The first
artificial limb (other
than a mere stump)
for a Digger was the
result of a gift of
£lOO to her. The cheque was given for
war relief; it was not earmarked, so she used
it to set up a mangled Australian soldier.
Thence limbless soldiers became her care, and
private subscriptions aided her till the work
became too large for private handling. With
Major Busby and Mr. Bush she represented
Australia at the League of Red Cross Socie-
ties at Geneva. She and her husband are in
Melbourne now. but will spend a few days
here on their way to the Northern State,
where they hope for a two months’ holiday.
Rabaul, Java and the Pacific Islands will
be included on the road back to England.
The picture was taken for The Bulletin
by May Moore.
The V.A.D. Club looked the cheeriest spot
in Sydney when Dame Margaret visited the
premises and handed the Lady Helen Chal-
lenge Shield to the Western Suburbs V.A.
Detachment to hold till competition day comes
round again. The honor, which goes for all-
round excellence in first aid, drill, appear-
ance on parade, etc., was the gift of inestim-
able Hanbury Davis. Along with the shield
goes a Union Jack to be carried on parade ;
and winners of the shield are entitled to
wear a Red Cross under their war-service
stripes. The Public Service V.A.D. lost the
honor by two marks. As the winners had
a St. John Ambulance training on top of the
other, the P.S. may count itself a dinlhun
detachment all right. Dame Margaret, who
wore an aluminium silk jumper with her
grey cloth skirt and hat of grey panne, said
some tactful things about the Red Cross
Y.A.D.’s and the St. John Ambulance, and
an amalgamation of the Crusader descendants
and the twentieth Red Cross Society work-
ers was suggested. Matron Weston made a
dish of .tea for the guests, who thought the
Y.A.D. rendezvous just the nicest thing in
girls’ clubs. To keep finances healthy the
annual subscription for members is now 10s.
per year.
This girl of the Huffy hair and brown eyes
owns to the masculine name of Frank Payne.
She is an artist who came from Brisbane for
a fortnight’s holiday,
and has stayed four
years. Smith and
Julius saw her black-
and-white, and there
commences her ex-
tended stay. Four of
her charming little
figure-studies in color
were lately exhibited
by the Society of
Women Painters, and
they were all bought
before opening day.
Many orders of this
nature come to her,
and she hopes shortly
to devote all her time
to studies of women
and children. Her
art-training commenced under Godfrey Rivers
in Brisbane; then followed a year in Paris;
a scholarship gained her entrance to a school
where she and Whistler’s niece were then
the only English-speaking students; and a
year in Frank Braiigwyn’s school in London
brought more knowledge of life study (nude)
and another scholarship at the end of her
term.
Canon and Mrs. Charlton had good reason
to be proud of daughter Mary's performance
at her piano-recital last week : Yern Barnett’s
pupil is the most promising of the younger
students heard for some time. Pink-froeked,
with hair still pig-tailed, she gave without
mannerisms an excellent performance of the
Grieg Concerto in A Minor, some daintily-
played Chopin, and a brilliant Liszt Rhap-
sodie. A big audience enthused and started
her in the confectionery and florist business.
Gowned in white, Vera Tasma raised her
whiter lyric notes in “Orpheus with his
Lute,” some Italian numbers and sundry
encores.
Though the Sydney Choral Society fell
upon bad times last year, things have so far
righted themselves that a season's pro-
gramme is well under way. Popular taste
running at present 'to grand opera, the
Society will make this musical fare a fea-
ture of two concerts. “11 Trovatore,” in
concert form, will be the next attraction in
August; after which the Society will repeat
“Faust,” the success of last year.
Still further help for the Sacred Heart
Hospice for the Dying comes in a perform-
ance by Ye Playgoers at the Playhouse next
Wednesday night. Arthur H. Weston secre-
taries, a bright, varied show. And for the
funds of the same good institution a com-
mittee of ladies will run a stall to-morrow
(Hospital Friday) in Martin-place.
Women members thronged to the Reper-
tory Society Club last week, when the first
social gathering was held. Mrs. William
McMillan, clothed in black velvet, topped by a
toque of dark blue brocade, hostessed the
party, and Kathleen O’Connor aired a mezzo
soprano voice (which had its training in
Brussels) along with a black panne hat and a
shot-green taffeta frock. The club has not
yet it own chef, but a side-door connection
with a nearby restaurant enables members
to get a bite or sup without leaving the pre-
mises. The next performance by the society
is dated June 2 —“ Chains” (Elizabeth
Baker) and “The Lost Silk Hat.”
The Poms and Toys had an afternoon-out
on Saturday, and some 500 of them filled
the R.A.S. Ground with yelps. The lawn
in front of the grandstand was given over to
dogs—dogs on leashes, dogs in picnic baskets,
dogs proudly displayed by man, woman and
child. Behind the judging-ring proud
owners brushed baby Poms, whites, blacks
and sables, and prinked terriers, black pugs,
sleepy bulldogs and great Danes. All the
talk was doggy. “Jasper got his weak head
from the Douglases.” “Poor Nigger had no
bath this week—it was so cold.” Then the
judge’s “Mrs. Noehick, your Dolly, please”—
whereupon s|ft. of woman proudly dragged
Gin. of fluff into the circle.
The Newtown Free Kindergarten had its
slender banking account improved a little by
a fete last week at the Oxford Hall. The
Cullen lady, who brought daughter Ailsa,
opened the show, and received the unavoid-
able bokay. A cabaret and dance followed
in the evening.
On Anzac day Mrs. T. ,T. Ryan, wearing
the smartest of coat-frocks in navy gabardine
and black satin and colored cross-stitching,
with a black pa tine head-piece, gave an “At
Home ’ in honor of the Robinson lady. The
Carlton drawing-room tea-tables glowed with
glorious roses and carnations. The feminine
loik of the leaders in politics and law buzzed
round the guest, who wore black satin and
some relief of white, or put their cups down
gently while Ella Caspers raised her expres-
sive voice in song.
-News came by cable last week of the sud-
den death of Charles .Matthew, who a little
over a year - ago married Joan Champion,
only daughter of Canon A. 11. Champion
one-time headmaster of King's School. After
a tour through Europe and America, the
young couple went to their home in Java,
whence Mrs. Matthew was on the eve of
leaving for Sydney to visit her relatives
when the Reaper called.
There’s to be a dance to help Agnes
Greasier on her road to vocal fame—at Sar-
gent's on May IS. This youthful soprano,
who came from Bathurst and made a very suc-
cessful debut about 'two years ago as soloist
in “The Messiah” with the Sydney Choral
Society, is now studying in’ London. Critics
here praised her voice and lately- Melba
cabled that it was worth Australians’ kindly
attention and cash. So Mrs. Troflf has
been shaking up patrons of music to a sense
of their responsibilities. The mayoress is
president of the committee, and no sleeping
member of it either.
Mrs. Guthrie Harris leaves for Rabaul
this month. She goes to visit the grave of
her late daughter, who was the wife of Dr.
\ iears Gillies, and is said to be the only
white woman buried in the place.
A note from one of the shepherds:—
The Bulletin connected D’Arcy Irvine and Dar-
ling Point. I don't know whence the archdeacon’s
flock is drawn ; hut I do know that E. Howard Lea
and S. 0. Wiseman are the shepherds of St. Mark’s,
Darling Point—D’Arcy Irvine’s church is St.
Michael’s, Rose Bay. You can't always tell what
a parish is like by its name. Darling Point, lor
instance, sounds like affluence and “class.” But there
is neither at St. Mark’s. It’s a poor parish—if ' not
the poorest around Sydney, at least in that class.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Our Excellency, after a busy week in Toowoomba,
hurried back to keep an eye on the St. George’s
Society celebrations. The night before he went to
Toowoomba he" gave a small dance in honor of the
Hon. Mrs. Broderick.
Mrs. A. #M. Leslie, who leaves for England in May,
gave an “at home" at the National Hotel on Satur-
day. Roses and chrysanthemums are all a-blow just
now, and the tables were a picture.
The Exhibition Hall was packed for the Anzae
day celebrations. The Mayor and Mayoress (Aid. and
Mrs. Maxwell) received his Ex. at the door, and
the aldermen bodyguarded him to the platform.
Mrs. Broderick, Col. and Mrs. Parsons and Capt.
Harboard were tip there, too. Earlier in the day
his Ex. took the salute in Albert-square, when re-
turned men and cadets marched to a memorial ser-
vice in the Exhibition.
Crowds of men, women and children carried masses
of flowers to the Toowong cemetery early in the
morning to cover the graves of soldiers who sleep
there. No pallid, sickly-scented blossoms either, but
glowing roses, warm-tinted chrysanthemums, gerberas
and dahlias.
Lieut. Norrnan Cork and his wife (she was Sister
Jaeka) are staying at Sherwood. Lieut. Cork is now
with the railways in Havana.
At St. Andrew’s Church, Indooroopilly, Major J.
A. Robinson, D. 5.0., was married to Alice Morgan,
eldest daughter of the late Lieut.-Governor. Rev.
G. Neal, a cousin of the bride, wore his best gown
for the occasion. Mr. A. C. Morgan gave his sister
away, Marion Morgan was bridesmaid and Nornfan
Robinson next-best man. The bride was married
in her travelling costume, a grej r tailorunade, and
a grey felt hat. They have gone south.
Lieut. Malcolm McDougall, M.C., of Glen Eden,
Warwick, only son of the Malcolm McDougalls of Too-
woomba, left All Saints the other day beaming on
Miriam, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. O. W. Hill,
formerly of Fassifern station, Ivalbar, and now of
Torwood. The bride’s frock was of duchesse satin,
draped with lace that had been her grandmother’s.
Her Limerick lace veil also had been in the family
for over 60 years. Madge Blackman, Nell McDougall
(sister of the ’groom) and Leila Mackenzie (niece
of the bride) were three picturesque bridesmaids, and
Dave Butler and Harold Mort rallied round the
’groom. After a wedding breakfast at the Hill resi-
dence, Lieut, and Mrs. McDougall left for Sydney.
Our Excellency gave one garden party last week
and another early this week. As the vice-regal
grounds are not extensive, such things always have
to travel in couples. During the MacGregor regime
there were only two spare bedrooms at Government
House, and an agitated A.D.C. was distraught when
a lady, a bishop and a soldier, all unrelated, came
to the camp together. The A.D.C. lived in a tent
on the lawn for a week. But that is another story.
Tlie Hon. Mrs. Broderick wore mole satin and a
black hat. Mrs. Parsons (who helped to look after
the guests) was in champagne crepe de chine and a
black lace hat. The Mayoress (Mrs. Maxwell) wore
navy georgette and a navy hat with a crown of
cerise feathers; Mrs. Lennon, a tailored frock of
black satin and cloth, with a small black hat; Mrs.
Huxham, a navy blue coat and skirt, and a closely-
fitting hat of figured silk.
Ottley Butler, son of Mrs. F. M. Butler, of Hobart,
is to marry Bora Stephens, daughter of the late
S. G. and Mrs. Stephens of Toowoomba.


Wmm
-
■■PHI
mm
r>.
imm
fC
M... -J?'
fcf *2
.2
fed
1
ri
Ihßbl
1»»
w
I * ' .!
1
’ 1
wIiMISS
*Ws
# \W-
■ -'v
: .
V?
-■c'
g|ip
&c, .
/
|S|
JSfeti
1 >u*
wftft
HI 4pv
*&
vW
I
w
ffSjßMaWa. . .
■
9IWNiI
-<.; V *
PpiPP
s**
■I
■m
ur
:
#r s
I k&n?
mMmmmm
' ;■
Mi
f U.*
;
V
BR& **
■m m
1 . >i
W"
\ < < , ~; '' ,
>tf A );.; /( ' JBg
:3| » f ' 'iSlSi . / i
- i
Ms '■:• • !
***■ i
,|v
m -
11111
.V ,vv
a®,*®
.
IpifS
■
. "‘W>- -' - *,; \ * ' 1 -v ;: V' <•• '-•-,
a" '” ’' < !v ' , <. ; SI t*;#st\ *s&< (. &m £:
. • ’Ajf ■ ".'• '• . •
' ■ :
:‘''' ■ : - ■-■ ' "’<■ ' fi'X ,1
■ : :
' - . ■'/
• ' ■
■Hfe*
.■
WmmmtJ - . ’ "' i >
3*
' m ■
7
' i N* •*
■
■.' - |
1 “ . yzii'Sr
:1#- v
■i i
; !
The of Interpretation
With one’s mind attuned to the
spirit of the night, the longing
for a physical means of expres-
sion becomes acute. The Beale
Player-Piano affords this means
an universal language—that fits
in with every mood. With this
sympathetic instrument you are
able to concentrate on interpre-
tation unhampered by the fatigue
of indifferent technique. The
Beale supplies a perfect technique
in a perfect piano.
Write for ‘Descriptive Literature
BEALE 8 COMPANY UPI
"Head Office and Showrooms: Factories: 4f-47 Trafalgar
‘333 George Street. SYDNEY Street. ANNANDALE.
BRANCHES—N.S.W. : Bathurst. Orange. Lismore, Newcastle.
Coulburn and Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples'in all Melbourne
Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples. Launceston.
S.Aus.: John Evans Ltd.. Adelaide W. AUS.: J. A. Thompson
Co.. Ltd.. Perth.
BEALE * COMPANY (Queensland). LIMITED.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane. Toowoomba. Maryborough.
Rockhampton. Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.^
The better musician you are the more t
more you 'will appreciate the eale


*.*
m
MMm
a*
Wig*
r A
Y <
f"'
H°LEPR<PP
HoJIERYI
GOOD JUDGMENT
antf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of ■women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silh, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
Become an Artist.
“There’s Money
in %
L-vY
You can do
so, without
drudgery, if
you take up
the Weston
Postal Course of
Drawing.
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, the noted com-
mercial artist, places
within your reach
the means of mak-
ing your income
grow, and learning
a fascinating and
ever useful subject.
His series of les-
sons, based on his
own wide experi-
ence, covers the
whole field of
black - and - white
work, and takes
you on from stage
to stage rapidly
and easily.
Three stamps will
bring you Mr.
Weston’s interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,” which tells
all about the course
and gives ex-
amples of the
lessons. Write
for it and
learn what Weston students have accomplished.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
48 UNION HOUBE, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
ws
“BOULIA."
WRITE FOR
PRICE TO
OTHER
STATES.
HORSEHAIR
SADDLE-CLOTHS
36/6 posted.
WRITE for CATALOG
& RUG PRICE LIST
The “Boulia”
Stock Saddle
This is one of our high-grade saddles, making
our unrivalled reputation throughout Aus-
tralia.. It is a dippy saddle with pads 5Un.
high and set well up along the rider’s thighs,
giving perfect security. Note the long flaps
and how the leather points of the panel extend
beyond the flaps. The tree is our very best
“Fouright” steel-plated along bars and re-
inforced in the gullet. The stirrup leather
bars are forged steel. Fitted with folded
leather girth bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
m
Freight paid for Cash with Order
to any N.B.W. Port or Station on
N.B.W. Railway System.
K’burra Stockwhips.
AI,K KANGAROO RIGHT THROUGH.
Bft. Thong- and Plaited Handle, com-
plete. 12 plait, 31)/-; 16 plait 43/6 posted.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLERS, "Leather House," 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
;K’S —-The Ideal Liquid Dressing for
White Shoeware.
A perfect white—and doe 3 not rub off. It is
quickly applied, dries almost instantly, and makes
the shoes like new.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
BOSTOCK’S PODS
, ■
Saddle you
n
A SADDLE that keeps
minding you of its presence
gives you no chance to
appreciate the joys of cycling.
THE
ROOKS
oo
ooc
nc
00
§8
OO
Oi
oo
0000
00000
is designed and built to be
forgotten once you've fitted it.
Ask your dealer about this Brooks Model.
J. B. BROOKS f
Representatives n
H
CO,, LTD. 134 Criterion Works. Birmingham. England.
Scott & Holladay, Rtd.,, 31A Pitt St., Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE OF MICHAEL
O’SHEA (otherwise known as DUNCAN
late of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales in the Commonwealth of
Australia, Laborer, deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order made by a
Judge of the Supreme Court of New Zealand
all creditors and other persons having claims
against the estate of Michael O'Shea (other-
wise known as Duncan McCall) deceased,
who died at Liverpool, New South Wales,
on or about the 31st day of May, 1920, are
required to send in such claims to the Public
Trustee, Wellington, New Zealand, within
the period of six months from the date of
the publication of this notice and they are
further; notified that the Public Trustee is
authorised at the expiration of such period
of six months to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the persons entitled
thereto having regard to the claims of which
the Public Trustee then has notice.
Dated at Wellington this 18th day of
April, 1921.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
legal Notice.
TO JAMES EDWARD CLEARY, hus-
band of MARY CLEARY, deceased,
and formerly of Blenheim, New Zealand, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
11th day of April, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send into the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of October,
1921, your claim to the estate of Mary
Cleary, deceased, who died at Blenheim on
the sth day of November, 1919, intestate,
failing which the said estate will be distri-
buted amongst those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claim.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Fublic Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MOTOR OAR STEELS.
LARGE SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
CHROME NICKEL STEELS for AXLES and other highly
stressed parts.
CRANK SHAFT FORGINGS of CHROME NICKEL STEEL
IN STANDARD TYPES.
CHROME NICKEL AND NICKEL STEELS in Bars and Discs
for GEARS and similar parts.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE POSTED ON APPLICATION.
THE POLDI STEEL WORKS,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character} will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Old Banker: Your scheme is based on the
assumption that the market for the banked-up metals
will be better after those metals are released than
it was when those supplies were being kept out of
the market. Well, if this paper’s widowed aunt has
money in the bank that backs this assumption for
a few millions, it will certainly adyise her to get
0ut....H.8. (and others): Leason’s original of
“In for the Show’’ has been 501 d.... J.C.A.:
Thanks; but already well covered.... City P.:
Matter “freely rumored in Melbourne” or else-
where goes straight to a receptacle that is
free enough but isn’t a rumor Truth: “Explana-
tory articles on Bolshevism” rejected. It would be
necessary to explain your explanation.... Mulruana :
The Bulletin gave Esmonde justice, and it will give
you mercy—by returning your screed F.A.M.:
Hopeless to try to cover that ground in the space.
Inevitably you can only make it something for the
kindergarten class N.C.: Pity to waste this frag-
ment, anyway:—■
“I’ve filled in one," the lady said.
To the census-man with a smile:
“But the ‘Dwelling Slip’—here she shook her head —
“I’m blessed if I can compile.”
Then the census-man stood open-eyed
And shivered, though it . was warm.
As she said, “I wish that you’d step inside,
And I’ll show you my pink form.”
... .T.C.: “Passing Performance” has been worked
too often Ted M.: “Questions” ditto A.8.C.:
The pleasant little movement of it almost made it
worth while....Doon: There is a good article there;
but yours is much too slight Cuzenos: You’ve
missed the point. There never has been any doubt in
this paper’s mind about the natural advantages of
Bowen. All that was claimed was that the political
Labor party had been pulling Bowen’s 1eg.... Allan:
Uf course, Quamdiu se bene gesserit, The si was one
of those things that will happen in spite of reading
and re-reading Bulla D. ;• Yes, Bedford got his
tenses mixed there. But he surely didn’t spell it
“behive,” did he?....E.M.: “A Garland” doesn’t say
anything worth saying M. 8.5.: Nothing in it....
W.R.8.: “Ingratitude” doesn't strike us Tala-
wong: Don’t be so sad about it Twigette (as far
as we can read it under the blots) : Rqbzflmx
H.N.R.: Very bad....1.G. (Eulo): It’s on its way
back.... R. 11. (Enmore) : Don't try trick verses.
Write something with meaning.... Bellerive: Let the
“Blowfly” buzz: —•
In the golden days of summer
I hate the wafting sound
Of the buzzing, horrid buzzing
Of blowflies on their round.
Fiends of destruction upon
Our life’s food of the table,
They must have populated
Since the reign of Cain and Abel.
In the golden days of summer
I hate the wafting sound
Of the buzzing, horrid buzzing
Of blowflies on their round.
Cecily U.: Nicely done, but too slight Rebus:
That about touches the limit of futility Kayo:
Can’t find any mirth in it lI.G. (Melb.): “Sum-
mer” doesn’t work out well M.A.8.: No, thanks.
....Irene G.: You mustn’t let the metre run away
in that wild fashion... .E.V.K.: Not nearly enough
in those butterflies and far too many lapses into
commonplace. .. .Chunjoberree: “Amaryllis” won’t
do. You’re away in the wrong direction... .Hood:
No use.... Grey Lea: Haven’t the slightest idea till
we see the copy Henry G. Y.: You might have
stolen all that except the bad grammar at the finish ;
and even if you came by it honestly it’s no use... .
L.A.F.: A form of humor that makes no appeal
here... .R.K.M.: Tedious stuff ending in an absur-
dity C.D.C.: “Ti-tree” misses 11.C.H.:
“Prawn” gets out of tune at the start E.F.0.:
“Repaid” follows a well-beaten track... .M.S.D.:
Yarn doesn’t stir a pulse... .Mark Time: Not up,
....Dame Susan: Of course we believe you; but
there’s a Judge in Queen’s Square who mightn’t....
V oung Scribe: Try to get some idea of what you
intend to do before you write. . . .J.A.W.: No good.
... . A.L.8.: Not up. .. .W.J.D.: “Shadows” not quite.
Roberts: It doesn’t make a yarn....Rqx B.: “Indif-
ference” falls down in two or three places... .Pseudo-
Psatire: Not badly done, but not interesting....
P.8.P.: Neither B.D. (Glenelg) : No use....
F..T.D.: “The Confession” is well enough done, but
the idea is p00r.... Long: It doesn’t quite get there.
... .N.G.: “Red Riding Hood” misses.. . .M.E.L.:
This paper is published in Australian. Much as we
admire the French, their language is no use here. ...
Esdee: Might have made a sketch w'ith different
telling. Try again Paddy M.: Your verse has swal-
lowed the road to Dublin. .. .1.M.G.: Not much thrill
in the bald fact that a sparrow ate your peas and
lettuces. .. .E.G.P.: Feeble... .E.S.M.: There’s no-"
thing at all to prevent you taking the harp and
strolling along. P.S.—Please stroll a long wav....
E.D.M.: Old commonplaces in even, dull verse....
Hugh B.: Well, “Bravely flaunt life’s rigmarole” if
you like, but don’t do it here Rupert S.: It’s a
lame “chicken.” The best thing you can do is grow
up Svd S.: A long way off... .Dorothy F.: Very
thin stuff that goes all out of scansion in the second
stanza.... D.L.S.: One cut from your juicy joint:—
I started to work on a fowlhouse,
She came out and began to rouse.
“What s this? What’s that? . What you doing?”
I told her, “Go. do some sewing.”
Then she said she hadn’t got any,
I turned, said: “You ain’t got any?
Well, put on your things and go •out somewhere,”
She went home to ma, her grief to air,
I dam well wish she’d stop there.
But what’s a bloke to do?
.... H.McP.M.: All miss.... Elas: Been dealt with
in Abo. column recently K.L.: Much space, little
merit..».F.W.: Can’t read pencil scrawls on two.
sides of crumpled paper.... Sir S.: Dog yarn in
Bulletin only a few weeks ago... .Dot: No interest.
M.B.: Hopelessly long-winded Jonah: That
snake-yarn turns up regularly once a week.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) »
CORRESPONDENTS.
Will Mac: Nothing in it.. . .N.S.: Woefully
amateurish yet... .T.E.J.: Better take those lessons.
....Nick: Idea and drawing both wobbly A.G.T.:
Not up.... .J.W.: An amazing essay in anatomy....
J.W.S.: Hopeless. .. .S.C.M.: Pencil scrawls only
provoke profanity... .G.K.: Going back.... J.W.
(W.A.) : Not that sort of drawing.... C.W r .:
Elongated females ruled put... .G.G.: Then some of
the work w r as inexcusably careless... .H.W.: Your
hopes are blasted... .F.C.K.: Must use that stamp...
E.S.: No life in it, and drawing faulty... .A.S.P.:
Shows a glimpse of promise.. .D.J.Mc: Trite idea...
J.R.S.: Some drawing, but pen-work hesitant....
J. J.C.: Sketches hopeless, but will use one idea....
O’T.: All fall short.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE,
Xew and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares, .
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246. 2, 4> 6 Spring Street,
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 1,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE "~~
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. II
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP. K.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
IHE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £'Boo,ooo 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunuing, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
\V. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares... .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. •• •• £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 600,000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1.850.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
-with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office : 11 LEADEUHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
Niagara, Thursday, oth june, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to nny part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
TAHITI, 31st MAY.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 26th Slay.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mn
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
, .-> •. ' s
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£4,958,260
- - - * 3,350,000
4,958,260
£13^266^520
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, IC.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
' The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head ('(Bee —Georue Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
m
Established 1831.
Directors :
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
j. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H.. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: IS Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,336,402
£2,273,000
£44,000,000
£6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. *500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
; effected on all classes of
1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
and Other Insurances
of various glasses.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
Legal Notice.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
*Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
fCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
ICarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker LIE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week,
for full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUIvA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST-AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE "
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Cnter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address;
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOIt:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Heat) Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


n
LIABILITIES.
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate .. .. .. ..£27,153,311 S 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 6,482,831 7 6
/Savi.nus Bank Department--
Depositors’
Balances. . £34,791,877 0 10
(With interest
accrued) . . 515,078 16 5
35,306,955 17 3
Capital—Debentures Issued .. —•—
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1.524.161 17 1
Redemption Fund.. .. .. 1,524.161 17 1
Note Issue Department
71,991.422 7 7
58,972,536 12 11
130,963,959 0 6
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per Contra 3,996,609 15 6
7
£134,960,568 16 0
m
NOTE ISSUE DEPARTMENT.
.-.wen lieu M.v ihe Public
Notes Held by Banks . .
Interest earned dur-
ing the Half-year £94,947 18 '2
Less Working Ex-
penses and Com-
mission.. .. 2,981 i> 3
Balance due to Commonwealth
Treasury
Other Liabilities . .
£26,96f>..79f>
31,747,450
91,906 12 11
107,318 10 0
158,972,030 12 11
Gold Coin and Bullion .. ..£28,714,983 10 0
Debentures and other Securities 26.115,350 0 0
Interest Accrued .. .. .. 463,238 2 11
Other Assets 8,078,959 0 0
£58,972,536 12 11
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Ci-
To Reserve Fund .. . . ..£140,109 7 7
„ Redemption Fund 140,109 7 7
S i ' Sr - ‘ —— : —-4
£292.218 15 2
By Profits for Half-year ended 31st
December, 1920 £292,218 15 2
£292,218 15 2
■
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
■
Balance ..
.
WSifr.
024,101 17
£1,521,161 17
1
1
,378.052
.Msa*
Balance . .
Transfer from Profit and Lidas
Account of one-half of the Net
IVOtit* 140,109
■ ■ 1.--' , •
9 0
£1,524,1(51 17 1
Dr.
REDEMPTION tfUJTD.
Cr.
To Balance . .
jf & :
> . *
■
..■.£1,524,161 17 1
' ‘
•
£1,524,161 17 1
By Balance . . : . . ..£1,3*8,052 9 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the .Vet
Profits 140,109 7 7
■• ■ :
£1,524,101 17 1
Ir'e certify that the above Balance-Sheet, compiled
from Statements furnished by the several -offices
of the Bank, is true and correct.
H. T. ARMTTAGE, Secretary.
1). B. MURDOCH. Branch Accountant.
DENISON MILLER,
Governor.
Sydney loth April, 1921.
AUDITOR-GENERAL'S REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1911-1920, I have
to report that the Aggregate Balance-Sheet of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the half-year ended
the 31st December, 1920, has iieen examined by officers under my direction, as well" as bv myself. The
several items of the account, as above set forth, have been verified with the books and Vouchers! with
the Securities held by the Bank, and with Statements certified by the respective Managers and Accountants
of the Bank.
I have obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The said Balance-Sheet has
been prepared in the form prescribed by the Regulattions under the Act, and, in my opinion, it exhibits a
correct view of the affairs of the Bank.
1921. J. W. ISRAEL, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.
Public Notice.
TO. MARY THOMPSON HOSKINS (nee
McDonald) formerly of Nanango in
the State of Queghsland wife of Fred Charles
Hoskins.'
TAKE NOTICE that I FRED CHARLES
HOSKINS your lawful husband hereby
declare that I have not seen or heard of
you since the Twenty-Sixth day of May
1914 and that I intend to re-marry if I do
not see or hear of you on or before the
30th June 1921.
FRED CHARLES HOSKINS.
Yarriman Creek, Queensland.
We Desire
to Buy
nm
Platinum. Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for molting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS. LTD,,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX- & ROBERTS, DTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE BURMAN
POWER HORSE-CUPPING MACHINES
BRITISH MADE,
Will Clip Your Horse in 30 Minutes.
POINTS :
Featherweight Flex-
ible Shaft , 6ft. long.
All Gears Machine
Cut from Solid.
Total weight
3slb. Size
of case; 14 x 18 x
8 inches.
The Burman Clip-
per Head will take
a thicker coat and
leave a better finish
than any other
make.
Easy Running.
n
These machines
have., by perfection
of (lesigrn and
scrupulous care in
manufacture, o b-
tained an unrivalled
reputation through-
out the world.
There is the weight
of 50 years’ practi-
cal experience be-
hind every BUR-
MAX CLIPPER.
Rapid Clipping.
The Bur man No. 17 Power Clipper at Work.
GEARS Enclosed in Dust-proof Box.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES.
BURMAX & SONS. LTD.. BIRM.. ENGLAND.
3B*
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
ail metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
m
“SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, iJOin. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight aboutp lb. **
Delivered, V>
Delivered, &6/5I-
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
Send far copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman's
Mecuin.
‘‘SURE
Guide.
Vade
nm
ban-els, both choke, top
patent fore-ends, highly
”18. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.H.B.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
action, cross-bolt, spring, strikers, rebounding locks,
engraved, matted rib, weight about 7-Alb. Freight paid.
£l4/14/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
li&zsnim.
89. “Ithaca'
Pigeon Gun
dense Trogan nil
’ Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
(as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, tup lever;
;rol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Gm uer cr ossbo
igh file cut rib, pistol
Ri'ip, chambered for 2|ln. cartridges, walnut stool;, weight 7ll>. to 7ilb.
Tested for Xito Powders Freight paid,
£l6/16/
■HfIOB
f
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot (iun, 12-gauge* slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about Tib Freight paid,
n
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
l-ivight paid,
£.15/15/
m
AUSTRAL ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 106 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any. quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
PS
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun. 12-gaiige. top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 2S-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for
beautifully engraved, weight about 7jib
2jin. cartridges,
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus: whitens the teeth: hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
nm
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30m. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6|lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
1 Ejector, 65/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.IV.;
4/S Inter-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN'S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
. MlcfcSiTmnnns
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


MISS IVY SHILLING
Swears by REXONA.
Miss Ivy Shilling, Australia’s favorite
dancer, who has delighted all theatre-goers
with her graceful and versatile dancing, is a
true Rexona Girl, and writes us as follows:
I have much pleasure in recommend-
ing your Rexona, for I have been using
it constantly for some time. As a rub-
down after acrobatic dancing, and as a
magical reviver to strained muscles, I
have found it excellent. After surfing
it is invaluable as a protection against
sunburn and freckles. It is a wonder-
ful healer, and I always keep a tin of it
handy.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) IVY SHILLING.
w
MISS
IVY SHILLING
(from a photo
by M. and
May Moore).
ALL AUSTRALIA
USES REXONA.
Never a day passes but that Rexona scores another triumph
over those serious troubles of life —Sores., Sunburn, Rezeuia,
l'iinples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh and .Rheumatism. the
dainty little triangular pot of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, contain
a combination of ilie most curative, antiseptic, soothing and nea -
ing properties known to science. Rexona is the Skin Remedy o
the Age. because it destroys the harmful germs that may be pre-
sent in a sore, pimple or any abrasion of the skin, thus preient-
ing any contagion of the blood and at the same time causes a
new, healthy skin to grow. Rexona Immediately reduces the in-
Small
Size,
1/6
JgLoolmq.
kb'oollurvg. -
/ - Healing
pMisepiic Oinimem
S?tjrif |Ci $ flbiolnlely
P 6itteab j Reliable
Large
Size,
3/-
Rexona
THE IfAPIP HEALER
£•' a Reltaole Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of
Skin. Eczema. Pimples. Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands
Scialica. Itching or Blecdmg Piles, Cuts. Bums. Bruises Scalds.
Bad legs, flings of Insecfs and all kinds of Inflammahon.
///sss' Sole Pr opnerors
ft a in in a t i o n anil
pain; it acts as a
distinct stimulant
to the pores of the
skill, and sets up
a healinjf action
immediately that
increases day by
day. To obtain
skin perfection use
Kexona Soap daily,
and Kexona “The
Rapid Healer” on
any skin, affection.
Get the Kexona
habit; it means
health and beauty.
REXONA—
The Rapid Healer,
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA SOAP,
1/- per tablet.
m-
*
■
Vr- r
MM* O
l Q {
yB
REDUCE BEARING REPAIRS
Lost Production can never be made up
The vital importance of Scientific Bearing Lubrication
THE lubrication of a single bearing in a
plant may not seem important. But
bearings are scattered throughout every
plant by hundreds and thousands. Every
important machine must support its moving
parts on bearings.
And—if the bearing fails the machine
itself must stop.
Thus trouble with a single £5 bearing
may waste £5O worth of workmen’s time;
lay up a .£5OO machine and cut off £5OO
worth of producttion.
Production is the important point.
placed with little or no mechanical interrup-
tion. But worn bearings take expensive
time to replace. Operators are realising this
to-day as never before.
In the lubrication of machinery bearings
have too often been slighted. Too common-
ly the impression has been that “any oil
would do.” This mistake is now being
realized and corrected.
Mechanical troubles to-day mean serious
manufacturing interruptions and costly loss
of production.
If you are not using Gargoyle Bearing Oils
Burned out bearings do
not cost so much to replace,
but they do eat seriously into
production. And lost pro-
duction can never be made up
It always has been and
always will be cheaper to
wear out oil than bearings.
ot&OYie
Lubricants
the chances are that your
repair bills and operating ex-
penses are higher than need be.
We are helping manu-
facturers the country over to
ensure steady, uninterrupted
production through the use
of the right oil in the right
“Worn-out” oil can be re- A grade Jot each type of service wa y in the right place.
Write our nearest branch for free booklet “What is Lubrication?'
M6a
n
m
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Piunv R aiov
Craig & Aitken are Sole Agents for the
“Plum” Razor, and being practical trades-
men they know just the kind of edge
required for an easy shave. PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
YVc guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 357-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
A Ballad of Change.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I COUNTED the change of a talent of
gold
In shekels of silver fine,
With this shall I do that I dreamt of old
And this shall be mine and mine.
I furnished my soul with temple and book.
A carpet of rainbow wings
I bought in the mart where the great years
look
Far back through a light that sings.
I have seven green islands on amethyst
chains;
And'gladly I paid for all,
For the five good winds and the nine soft'
rains
That cool my heart as they fall.
At harvest I bought me a gross of kings
And a thousand sages that stand
Too wise but to speak of gracious things
That are written in books of sand.
I have hired fine angels to walk at night
On feet that are white and bare
Up starry ways and ladders of light
To the mountain tops of air.
And I have bidden the world away
To a simple place by the sea,
Where some might sit till the close of day
And be happy in hating me.
But the children young and the children old
I fed upon coin fits sweet,
Till in magic dances they rose and sold
The joy of their sunburnt feet.
And still I squandered my silver wide,
As you should understand,
When I brought you a bushel of rubies tied
In silk of Samarkand.
(For all that was mine was yours to share.
Let this be heard apart—
I bought you in the market square
With the large change of my heart.)
But, spendthrift still, the world I trod
With silver white and loose,
Till I came to the banking house of God
Which is of ancient use.
And there for the silver that I bore
They gave me talents seven,
Wherewith I bought the largest door
That opens into Heaven.
Come all ye faithful up the sea
And down the yellow land;
And I will sell a turn of the key
To dance in God’s white land.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Her Photo Gallery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KATE was a bush-girl with the happy
faculty of seeing the humorous side
of even a serious courtship. As
girls were not as plentiful as gum-trees
where she lived, she was not left, like the
desert flower, to blush unseen. Some of the
ardent bachelors who came to worship at
her shrine made her crimson violently. Others
provided fun and pleasant thoughts if they
did not give her thrills.
She had varied recollections to con over
in quiet moments when she opened up the
little old photo-album. Some were exasper-
ating, a tew brought a wjstful look to her
eyes.
Every young bachelor around who wanted
to see her contrived to arrive in her vicinity
whatever the sentiments of the old man
might be. The old man was generally a
disgruntled person when he suspected some-
body wanted to start courting. And having
been in the game himself at one time he was
not easy to circumvent. He assumed in the
initial stages that every male visitor wanted
to see him; and mostly the male visitor pre-
tended he did. But after a time pretence
was useless, and then progress depended on
whether the old man liked the visitor or not.
First in the little old album was Tom, of
Long Gully, a quiet, drawling, .young man
who had a reverential respect for father. He
sat on his horse, with one leg over the
pommel, or on the top rail of the fence,
with the bridle reins over his arm, talking
for the most part to the old man. whom he
came to see about a strayed cow. When he
got his horse tied up before being met by
the parental barrier, he squatted with his
back against a verandah-post, and grinned
through a haze of tobacco smoke every time
he obtained a glimpse of the adorable within.
Occasionally, when the old chap wasn’t con-
tinuously there to engage him in a discus-
sion on horses and dogs and the laying
qualities of hens, he would lean against the
doorpost with his legs crossed and make re-
marks about the weather.
Tom always showed that he was ah
admirer, but he never said so.
From the next page the big. dull eyes of
Sam, the timber-getter, looked out. Sam
was a friend of the family and wore whisk-
ers. He was accustomed to drop in after
tea. and liked the side of the fireplace, where
he squatted for hours, interspersing a few
words between silences and spitting in the
fire. His happiest evenings were when he
arrived early and helped Kate with the
washing-up. That was congenial for spoon-
ing: but Sam wasn’t a rusher. He dried
a tremendous heap of miscellaneous crock-
ery, and was a long while cleaning knives
and turning the mangle without material
developments beyond occasionally dropping a
spoon down her back or flicking her with
the towel. He was a homely, steady person,
but too slow.
Another turn of the album and the hand-
some face of Harry, the stockman, held her
eyes. Harry was an ardent but cautious
“boy” who cut the old people out altogether
and stole meetings at the sliprails. There
were thrills in Harry. He kissed her and
hugged her and teased her. without ever
making any serious proposals. There was a
lurking suspicion that Harry kissed other
girls. He bought her silk handkerchiefs and
chocolates, but never seemed to have any
money in reserve for marrying. Kate hung
on to him until he went away droving.
There was a sweet spice of adventure in
the. starlit meetings that relieved the mon-
otony of quiet bush days when she was see-
ing nobody and hearing nothing of the woild
bevond Dad Spinks s selection.
Very slowly she turned Harry over, and
brought up Dong Bob. of the mail change.
But she smiled broadly at Ins dreamy fea-
tures. Bob was a sentimental bloke with
not much go in him, addicted to writing
letters and amorous doggerel. Every event
in Kate’s life was enshrined in verse ; every
chance meeting was the inspiration ot a
mournful rhapsody. Kate liked riding down
to the road for the mail. She seldom saw
Bob. but he wrote her a very, loving letter
twice a week—until Dad Spinks met the
coach himself one day and discovered the
correspondence. The epistle contained a
slab of poetry that Bob had perpetrated
while grooming horses. The old spoil-sport,
after tearing off Kate’s name, handed it to
the coach-driver as something he d picked
up; and it made Long Bob so famous that
he left the district without saying good-bye.
At the next page Kate smiled again ; then
for a moment she wondered what had become
of Slocums’ Jim. who for awhile had made
a neighboring selection interesting.
Slocums’ Jim had a way all his own. He
called on all sorts of- pretences by way of
cultivating a desirable acquaintance. One
day he had lost his dog (which he had taken
the precaution to tie up in the scrub);
another day he reported that some ot
Spinks’s cattle were out (he had dropped
the sliprails the night before) ; again, he
came round to warn Spinks to look out for
his grass, as he’d heard there was a bush
lire about 40 miles down the road. ' But
his favorite trick was borrowing things he
didn't want, the returning of which pro-
vided him with a legitimate excuse' for call-
ing again. She admired his resourcefulness
in getting to see her, but his stolid, bovine
nature could hardly inspire a lively moment
in a week. If his schemes to meet her had
been coupled with a humorous disposition
the situation would have' been saved. Still,
Slocums’ Jim enriched her life by the amus-
ing memories he left behind.
Again she turned the page, and Jerry
of the Hills came up for review.
Jerry Avas a simple, affable chap; “good
fun” when waiting for the mail, but im-
possible as a husband. They met at a bush
dance, after which Jerry shifted his mail-
box to the same place as Spinks’s, which was
two miles farther for him to go. His only
mail was a weekly paper, for which he
called twice a week ; but he and Kate waited
together for the coach, sometimes on their
horses, sometimes sitting on a log. Always
when he went to town he rode round by the
outside of Spinks’s selection, and seemed
to derive immense satisfaction from seeing
the sliprails or the roof of her house. At
their meetings he revealed his sentiments
and made known his fondest thoughts with
conversation lollies. He had been known to ride
10 miles overnight to get some for mail-day.
When he had used and giggled over a
hundredweight of lollies, he said: “What
about it?” Kate answered that he should
provide for the future before asking ques-
tions like that. Next mail day he told her
he had made a start: he had seven dingo
scalps.
His counterpart was Dick, from the saw-
mill, who rode up to the house, leading a
horse with a lady’s saddle and bridle on it.
Kate was fond of horses, and a good hack,
well groomed, was a temptation hard to re-
sist, especially as she knew it was intended
to become her own private property. He
was a steady, saving fellow, almost a wow-
ser. In a long acquaintance the only pre-
sent he actually ever gave Kate was his
photo; but he contrived to give Spinks many
little things that Spinks valued, and which
Dick said he had no use for himself. Some-
times he left the hack and saddle with Kate
through the week —to keep him in remem-
brance. But while the turn-out was attrac-
tive Dick wasn’t. He had stumpy legs and
a crooked nose—and Kate hated stumpy
legs and crooked noses. Still she enjoyed
many a happy ride with him —until Bill
came.
Bill was the bad old man in her gallery of
wooers. He blew in from Casey’s pub.
ignored any opposition there might be on the
premises, and announced his intentions
straight away.
“I’m going to elope with your daughter.
Mrs. Spinks,” he said to Kate’s mother as
he shook hands with her.
“The devil you are!” Mrs. Spinks ex-
claimed, surprised and amused. “When?”
“As soon as Kate consents.”
Mrs. Spinks laughed. “Is that true, Kate.”
she called to her daughter, “that you are
going to elope with Bill Boney?”
“Indeed, it isn’t!” Kate said, with a saucy
pout. She remembered too the hot blush
that rushed right up to the roots of her hair
as the brute winked at her. “I don’t know
anything about Bill Boney.”
"You’ll soon know me,” said Bill, con-
fidently. “Everybody knows me. See here.
You’ll recollect Harry the stockman. I in-
troduced him to a girl o’ mine up country,
and we swapped.”
“What do you mean?” asked Kate with
reddened cheeks,
"He took her, and I’m to have you.” said
Bill.
“Well, what a hide!” gasped Kate, “I
like your chance.”
Bill was unperturbed. “Wait a bit till I
put my horse in the yard.” he said.
Here Mr. Spinks thought it time to assert
his authority.
“You’ll have a rough track home if you
leave it till dark.” he insinuated. “They’ l !
think you’re lost.”
“You lose yourself, old man,” said Bill,
“like you used to want your father-in-law to
do. If you don’t, there’ll be an elopement,
sure.”
“You speak for yourself,” snapped Kate
from the background.
“That’s all right, Kate,” drawled Bill.
“You and me’ll understand one another be-
fore long.”
Kate tossed her head and fluttered into the
house.
Bill put his horse in the yard—and he
stayed to tea. For Kate he was an alarmins
embarrassment. His cool impudence and
abrupt bluff and dominating ways played on
her feelings and kept her watching him. At
times his audacity took her breath qwav. He
gripped her as a big bear might a kitten;
(Continued on next page.)


U-
u:
m
mi
m
m
%
v
Too Young to Feel
So Old!
Don t let that bad back made you old! Get back your
health and keep it. You can detect kidney weakness
in its early stages, from the morning lameness, dull
backache, dizzy spells, nervousness and kidney irregu-
larities. Taken early, a short treatment with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will usually correct it. Kidney
weakness is too often brought on by irregular habits.
Practise moderation. Keep regular hours. Take regular exercise. Cut out useless worrying.
Avoid over-eating, over-drinking, over-working and all other excesses. A perfect balance of brain,
muscles and nerves makes work as sweet as play. You enjoy life, radiate good cheer, and feel
young at any age. Doan s have helped thousands. Here are some local cases:—
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Ben Spooner, c/o Mrs. Mitchell, “Alecstane,”
Alexander Street, Arncliffe, Sydney, says: “I suffered a
lot from backache and was often so bad that I was com-
pelled to lie up. Every movement increased my suffering
and the constant nagging ache just above my kidneys
seemed to be taking all the life and energy out of me.
The backache was bad enough, but that was not all; I
was subject to dizzy attacks and the secretions were thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I was really far from
well, but nothing I took did me any good and I was
fast losing hope of a cure. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were at last brought under my notice, and I bought
some at once. I am pleased to tell you four bottles abso-
lutely cured me. It's grand to be free of the torture of
backache, and I am very grateful to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for my perfect cure.”
Sjx years later, Mr. Spooner confirms his previous
statement: “I have had no return of my old complaint
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over six
years ago.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
rs - W- R- Ritzau, 64 Margaret Street. Newtown,
Sydney, says: “For years I have been a great sufferer
from kidney disease. I have been treated by doctors
YJd in hospitals, and have been tortured with operations.
After fifteen months in one hospital I came out a thorough
cripple; I was so ill I was advised to go back into the
hospital, but my husband would not let me go. I was
recommended by a friend to take Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills and commenced using them, carefully*follow-
ing the directions. These Pills have cured me. I can
now get about and do my work, and the pain has com-
pletely left me. My cure is wonderful for mine was
really a very bad case. Since my cure my uncle has
used the remedy and they have effected a complete cure in
his case also. Our experiences prove that Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are a positive cure for kidney troubles.”
Six years later Mrs. Ritzau says: “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills’
\vhen I feel a slight return of my old complaint I take
them and they never fail to put me right.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
yet, in odd moments, when alone, he talked
to her with the purring softness of a aid.
An impressive personality was Bill. He im-
pressed Mr. Spinks into a back seat, and
established himself as president of the com-
pany. His vigorous animal battery imparted
so many little thrills and sensations to Kate
that he established himself also as the domi-
nant factor in her thoughts.
So far as going to see her was concerned,
he was a pretty casual sort of bloke He
calied any time, and not often : but when he
did he know he was on the pre-
Ver .V soon Kate showed a great
aneetion for the nice horse he rode. She
wanted its photo, but Bill gave her his own
instead.
You old villain!” she muttered as she
turned the leaf. But Bill came up again
on the next page, and this time Kate was
standing beside him in a bridal dress.
E. S. SORENSON.
The Black Man’s Justice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
still was the night. Very. Quiet.
There was only the whisper of the
wavelets climbing on the beach.
Suddenly came the musical tinkling of a
horse-bell, very clear, very distinct, from
the grassy ridges. The camp-dogs instantly
lifted their heads, nosed the still air, anil
settled for sleep again, not making a
whimper.
Muri&nga, king of his tribe, crouched in
the darkness of his gunyah, staring through
the open entrance-way into the darkness of
the night. The white man had come that
afternoon, looking for gold, as all white men
do. It was the same white man who had
kicked him, Murrunga, on his last half-
frightened visit to Cooktown for the big
corroboree. And now the white man was
camped alone on Murruuga's own tribal
grounds.
Quite unconsciously Murrunga’s throwing
hand edged out towards the bundle of spears
beside him. His eyes distended; their
whites matched the gleam of ivory as his
thick under-lip dropped.
But Murrunga knew something of the
white men. He feared the police. Had not
Ins tribe already suffered, and only for
spearing a lonely stockman and a few cattle?
Slowly the black man relaxed ; his heavy
icrehead became* corrugated in thought.
Perfect was the day, with the warm sun-
shine that puts the joy of life in man and
bird and beast. Around the Smouldering
.ires lay the broken shells of mussel and
crab, relics of the morning meal. Old
aruma was already squatted Ivy the slow
lire busy with, his spear-makingf now pois-
ing the quivering weapon to test its balance,
now heating the tip, now cooling it, very
careful in this hardening process that the
point is not made too brittle; now poising
again for balance, perfect balapce, lavish-
ing as much care over the weapon as civil-
ised man does over his most perfect instru-
ments.
The gins were laughing and joking over
their dilly-bag making, the piccaninnies
playing in the grass with their reed spears,
the men squatting in the sunshine, when
suddenly every dog in the camp was up
and barking furiously. The gins gave one
hurried look, and instantly they and the
piccaninnies disappeared among the bushes.
The black men. sullen-faced, watched the
white man as he kicked his way through
the snarling dogs.
“Good day. Which feller king?'’
“Me king,” grunted Murrunga.
The white man handed him a stick of
mgger-twist tobacco and threw a stick to
the other men. Numerous relics of pipes,
burnt-out pieces of wood that might have
been pipes years ago, made their appearance
from the waist-cloths.
‘‘Me look about longa gold,” said the white
man. “Any you boy know him feller gold?”
Murrunga held a firestick to his pipe and
puffed thoughtfully. "Me know,” he said
at length.
;;y r es ! What feller you know about gold?”
“Me know where there plenty feller gold.”
“Where?”
Murrunga pointed a steady hand to a
group of islands about 15 miles from the
coast. One showed up very distinctly, but
the others were mostly mangrove-grown mud-
banks under water at high tide.
The white man gazed 1 across the sea.
“That is the Ilowick Group,” he said. “I
would have to go back to Cooktown and get
a boat to go there.”
“Me got canoe.”
“Yes, of course. What feller gold you see?”
“Gold longa white stone.”
The white man took a small quartz speci-
men from his pocket and handed it to Mur-
runga. The black man scratched at the
tiny yellow specks with his broad finger-
nail. “That feller gold,” he said.
“Right,” said the white man. “You savvy
gold, You take me longa island, show me
gold. Me give you plenty tucker, plenty
flour, plenty tea, plenty sugar. S’pose you
show me gold all right, me buy you longa
Cooktown plenty shirt, plenty knife, plenty
tomahawk.”
The black man looked up cunningly. “You
buy me plenty feller red calico?” he asked.
* Plenty calico longa whole tribe.
What time you take me across?”
“Longa night-time.”
“Night-time? Why not day-time?”
“Tide he no good longa day.”
“Tide all asame longa night-time!”
“More better tide longa night,” answered
Murrunga, stubbornly.
“Oh, all right. Have it your own way. But
what about debil-debil? You no more fright
longa him longa night-time?”
“Debil-debil he no more come near white
man?” asked Murrunga.
“No. Him too much fright. Him keep
away.”
The black man grinned. “Me no more
fright longa white man.”
“Oh, I see. You’re a shrewd old bird. Well,
you send him two feller boy longa my camp.
I send him up tucker longa you. You get
him canoe ready. Suppose him gold good
feller, I go back longa Cooktown, buy him big
feller boat, load him up plenty tucker belonga
you.”
The white man turned from the group and
made back towards his camp, followed by the
joyous grins of the blacks as the snarling
curs snapped at his heels. Instantly from
the nearby bushes appeared the gins, racing
to the men for a share in the white man’s
tobacco.
* * * *
Calm as a broad river was the sea, merging
on all sides into the blackness of the night.
Only the deep, steady breathing of Murrunga,
the methodical dip of the paddle, the hiss of
the breaking water at the canoe’s bow, the
brilliant phosphorescence and the glow of the
white man’s pipe, told of human life on the
vast still stretch of waters.
Murrunga had been paddling for hours, and
his heavier breathing now told of stronger
exertion against the outgoing tide. Presently
the white man spoke.
“What say you have ’im spell—wait here
longa daylight? Plenty feller time.”
“More better keep go,” grunted Murrunga.
“Close up longa island now,”
“H’m. S’posem you run canoe up longa
coral reef. What happen then?”
“Finish. Plenty feller shark.”
“Well, why the blazes don’t you wait till
daylight, and go in on the full tide?”
“More better go along now,” said Mur-
runga. “R.v-em-bye daylight, big feller wind
come along.”
“Oh, all right. You're paddling the damned
canoe, not me.”
The white man lapsed into silence, and
stared into the darkness ahead. Well be
knew that if there was a reef ahead the canoe
would be on it before he could see the coral.
And* he knew a little about the sharks that
swarm the coral reefs.
Suddenly an indistinct black blur loomed
up in front. lie. called out to Murrunga.
“Mangroves,”'came back the answer. “Close
up now.”
The white man felt much relieved. Soon the
canoe grated on a tiny beach, half-coral, half-
sand. The two men dragged the canoe well
up on the beach. The tide was already on
the turn. In the east the skv was greying,
and the white man looked curiously about
him. But nothing could be seen but the dark
water and the darker mass of mangroves
ahead that merged into the blackness of the
sky. The white inan squatted on his haunches
on the wet sand and lit his pipe.
Murrunga grunted, and. taking the two
days’ supply of provisions from the canoe,
walked towards the mangroves.
“Here, hold hard. You don’t get me going
into that hole while it’s dark. You’re in a
devil of a hurry for a nigger. You sit down
until daylight.”
“Daylight too late,” the black man said.
“Tide he come in quick feller. By-em-bye
we cross big feller creek. Water he little
feller now. Tide he soon make him big feller.
No can swim—too many shark.”
The white man stood up. “Go ahead.” he
growled. “I suppose you kuoiv best. Only
don’t walk too quickly. I don’t want to sink
into a blasted mudhole.” And Murrunga
turned into the mangroves, wading up a creek
knee-deep in water.
For a quarter of a mile the creek, with its
fairly firm coral sand-bottom, was good
travelling, but presently the open waterway
gave out where the million fantastic man-
grove roots had grown across the creek.
Thereafter the only walking was on the roots
themselves, which, cracking under the white
man's weight, continually landed him knee-
deep in slimy mud. The daylight became
stronger, but it only showed the countless
mangroves all around, the dense foliage over-
head, the tangle of roots and the mud and
water underfoot.
Murrunga, twisting between the trees with
his load, lightly stepping from root to root,
never made one slip, never trod on an under-
grown root that his experienced eye told him
would not bear his weight. His teeth show-
ing viciously, the most joyous feeling of his
life surged through him as the white man
slipped and fell, and slipped again, cursing
vehemently behind him. Already the man-
grove roots were gurgling, the swift king-tide
was surging through them.
“I say, when do we get on to high ground?
That damned island you pointed out didn’t
seem to be as thick with mangroves as this.
Where the blazes are the hills?”
‘'Soon feller now. Not far.”
“By Cmsar, it had better not be far. Look
at the way this tide is coming in. A nice
sort of place to be cornered in this would
be. Blast you, go ahead! Surely you could
have found a better place to land in than
this, you black swab!”
A root cracked undei - the white man. and
down be went into mud and water above his
belt. Cursing furiously, he dragged himself
up on to the roots again. Ilia oaths abruptly
ceased. Lying on the mud, covered by the
now swirling water, lay Murrunga’s load of
provisions. But the man himself was gone.
Could lie have been engulfed by the soft mud?
But no, the water was quite clear. The
white man called. He strained his eyes ahead
through the interlacing trees. He shouted.
But Murrunga was gone.
* # * *
Hopping, jumping, twisting, the black man
was hurrying back to the beach, his mouth
open in a noiseless laugh, his leg-muscles
quivering as he urged them at their greatest
speed over the slippery, treacherous roots.
Very soon he came to the creek, and found
the tidal waters rushing up it at a depth
that necessitated a strong swim. As he had
expected, down the creek came floating his
canoe, lifted off the beach by the tide.
Desperately working his paddle, he drove th°
canoe a mile out to sea: then, using his
paddle only to hold the canoe against the
tide, he sat and gazed at the water-wash»d
mangroves with the light of expectation in his
staring eyes.
Two miles to the northward the hills of
Howick Island rose rock-hound and solid from
the sea. But the mangrove-grown mudbank
Murrunga gazed at is under water at king
tide, only the branches of the tallest trees
showing. And presently the primitive man’s
keen eyes saw a breaking branch and a white
man struggling for foothold on the slender
top. As shots rang out Murrunga bent
low to the paddle in sudden fear. But re-
membering instantly that the bullets were not
for him, he ceased, and laughed, and watched
the last of the treetops disappear.
GOUGER.


't-v.
m-
: ■
fii
* V- '
SPs^Bvy
a
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BAI 414.
‘'an visvivuisnv jo ‘oo aMvaa ssnoHONixsaM bhi
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIII CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitab l e for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both,
your health andl
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
cartersl
■ ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small Pill-Small Dosa—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
n
A
1
kJ
©ECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
This is the compact little phonograph that you
can take with you anywhere and that will
stand the stress of travel and weather.
Went through the war with distinction.
HPlays all makes of records; clear re-
production and rich natural tone.
No loose parts —no case —ready
to play immediately opened.
3 Models:
Leather Cloth £9 10 0
Fibre II 10 0
Cowhide ... 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All
Music-dealers.
STANLEY E. GREEN
LTD..
Australian Agents i
23
m
in
PRES
r
c
-
A pair of Braces must be built evenly balanced. This is a
problem for the maker. From the first to the last pair of
Shirley President Braces made by the President Suspender
Company, care in making has been the watchword. Result:
The sliding swivel tubing automatically adjusts every single
pair to an even balance.
Millions of satisfied wearers the world over.
Guaranteed by the makers.
Look for the name on the Buckles.
For Sale by Good Dealers Everywhere.
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A.
Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PXY., ETD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
BEECHHM’S PILLS
the famous digestive medicine, have proved during three generations,
to be an unfailing friend to dyspeptic sufferers. They have brought
relief to men and women in all parts of the world for more than
seventy years. This is so unique a record that due importance should
be attached to its real meaning. This may be expressed in the one
word—Satisfaction. The people who have taken this medicine have
been satisfied with the results which have followed. Only in this way
can the continuous demand be explained. An important'point arises
here. A medicine which has given such long-continued satisfaction to
those who have taken, it must have properties of remarkable reliability.
And this consideration should prove of the utmost encouragement to
those who have yet to try Beecham’s Pills for the first time.
They have given satisfaction—general satisfaction —after the most
thorough test ; why should they not give the same to you? If then,
you suffer in any way from the distressing troubles arising from
impaired digestion, sluggish liver and irregular action of the bowels—
seek the aid of this great remedy at once. Give Beeeham’s Pills a
fair trial. They will not disappoint you. They will relieve and remove
your digestive troubles and abundantly assist you in every way to
SRFEGURRD YOUR HEftLTH.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10£d., ls-ljd and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
mn
HORLICKS^
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. ' Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKO.
SLOUGH, BUCKS
ENG.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wm Suppi.t—
J AIUIAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Files, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
eB}' PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ii ' ——
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasias,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without* charge.
Refrigerating U Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your;
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrii
Requisites
ked.
&
m
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
A
m
Shot Gun CatMftge;
r TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge—
Examine the brass base of the cartridge forj
the company’s own marking.
REMINGTON
smokeless
powder
NITRO CLUB
smokeless
powder
ARROW
smokeless
powder
NEW CLIJB
black
powder
mumm
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
1216
each
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
N t
/I
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
of the
Titan Manufacturing Company.
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


ff
BLACK „,d WHITE
- . '
/; ■. :-v* t
v:
>3®
I
H
>
m
m
M 1
La.
W&,
mm
Kf
m
m§
:
&
m
mm
■ .
m
m
■im
m
m
m
'=L^
m
* m
m
‘-U
ms
f,L|
&
'■■'
m
$3
m
i
:
.
fe'afii'l
Ilfs
m
■
£ii
. ' •’& tv— ; '
Hi
-
a
MKi
m
~ —... ......
12
REAL SCOTCH.
WHISKY
Guaranteed
the Produce ojf Scotland
ONLY.
