

Mill
I
M
\
m
wm
/ft,
Ihflil
'///
■ill!
mm
%
It
I
m
%
w,
m
m
,:M
m!
y/M
i
i
IHK
1
1
i
m
■Y
'////
S§
m
Jr*#
um
Xx
k-n
S?
sSS§§fH
tel
f
sS
fe
/*J
«s".ivsx;
s st
e.
as a
jistralian General Flectric Q
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY
S5B
116 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S.A. Charles Atkins 3C Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
BRISBANE, Q. The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH, W.A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House,”
894 Hay StiCet
TASMANIA Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2174
Thursday, October 13, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new. library
catalogue for 1021? It will he sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Advt..
SPS
tf
LOWER FACTORY COSTS
are the result of efficient equipment especially where
po\ver transmission is concerned.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAWHIDE BELTING
has a strong frictional grip on the pulleys that
sends every ounce of generated power "to the
machines. It is strong, durable and lasts longer
than other power transmitters. Our staff of expert
engineers is at your service with years of practical
experience in belting problems.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., 397 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Hem v Clark & Co., Ltd., Collins-street, Hobart.
"THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every
Stormproof you will find this Late
it. It identifies the genuine, or
"Mattamac" Stormproof. Refuse any
the Label. because it is not a
“ Mattamac”
L Look for
e-quality-only
Coat without
“ Mattamac.' ’
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
en
OZ.
WEIGHT
W@|»N
" _______
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21 Jo 2
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
The Mattamac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. 1 hough one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Malta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE >
hjkjh
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct c DraiV : ngs
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quently, truthful representa'ions of the Feather-
aright " Mattamac” Stormproof, Which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 2l\oz. weight; without
Belt, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
2 1 soz.
jk;ljk
MADE IN ENGLAND...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIFRS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If vour regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
1* irt T. . \\r !11 ] Rn/'.lrW nnd £OVeVOU the
else. Write to us. We will send you, post free, the “ Mattamac” Booklet, and giveyou the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted an n-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishmgto sea
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply
Free to Dealers.) _ _ _ .
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST-, SYDNEY* I*. • •
“lVUttamac” Ct StonnproofB {
The "MATTAMAC" TRADE MARKS are reentered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reset ved.)
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenchurc i
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney. -
.
Hudson’s
Jujubss
CAUTION,—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being' manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good’’ as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/0 ; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
Prevention ot Consumption.
hjkjh
A. The Larynx o'
Organ of Voic .
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
» sccted lung.
0 A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
On Games
Man is instinctively very wise: He is
brought into the world to work at a task the
end of which is utterly beyond his conscious
comprehension. He does not consciously
know why he lives, but he takes pleasure
from living; therefore he instinctively
knows that living is the right thing to do.
And he eats his food not in the first place
because he knows that it will give him
strength and keep life in him, but because of
the pleasure the eating gives him. It does
give him strength and keep life in him, but
only subsequently he consciously comes to
know this. Living he is doing what is right,
and eating food to keep life going he is doing
what is right. But lie does not do these
things because reason tells him that he
should. And when he laughs at the - absurd
he is doing what is right, for he is ridiculing
something that should be ridiculed, helping
thereby to define the conventional life-way.
He is making laws. But consciously he does
not know why he laughs. And he plays
games for the same reason that he laughs.
It pleases him to do so, and his instinctive
wisdom tells him that it is the right thing
to do. Playing games he imitates life and
practises the part he will take should any
life situation arise. lie trains, prepares.
The kitten tumbling about on the grass, or
with pretty clumsiness chasing the little
silver moth, or making such quaint en-
deavors to catch the piece of wool that
somebody trails along the ground—that kit-
ten,. so obviously enjoying itself, is instinc-
tively training and preparing to face what-
ever the future holds in store for it. It is
developing its muscles, keening its cunning,
sharpening its claws. For all instinctively
and unconsciously it knows that the day
will come when its life desire will take
shape, and that all the strength and cun-
ning it then has wall not be sufficient to win
for it the object of that, great desire. It will
then want to exdel in all the most highly
valued feline qualities all the other cats in
the world. So it trains now to excel then.
And the man does likewise. The little child
intent on its games, playing with the toy-
train, building block palaces, running and
jumping and dancing about with the other
children, is doing what the kitten is doing
with a like object—an object beyond its
conscious sight. It is training to excel. So
are the great athletes of the land engaged in
the great athletic contests of the land. So,
too, are the old cronies smoking their pipes
and sipping their nightcaps over the last
game of draughts. They are still training
(for hope never dies in the human breast)
for the life contest—they are still preparing
themselves to be able to excel.
Every game is a mimicry, and that which
it mimics is always life. I see spread out
before me an undulating field. Here and
there are clumps of trees, and parallel fair-
ways of close-cropped grass run betw r een
strips of scrub- and fern-covered land to
end in vivid green patches wherefrom flutter
little red flags. There are winding creek
beds and little ravines and earth-works and
gutters and man-made hillocks and. minia-
ture lakes. And scattered over this field
arc little intent groups of people, breaking
up and reassembling—now pausing for a
little while, then hasting on their purposeful
way again. They are not idle, aimless
fools and lunatics, these people armed with
strangely-shaped, ironshod clubs wherewith
they smite so ferociously or pat so cun-
ningly and wooingly at little wdiite balls.
Old men, young men, girls, boys—they all
seem to have one object, and for the time-
being, apparently, that object stands before
any other object in all the world. One of
them is a grey-haired Judge, another a lead-
ing city doctor, another an actress of fame;
there are tailors, soldiers, sailors, merchant
princes, bank clerks; and they all seem
equally intent, equally enthusiastically serh
ous. And what they are all bent on doing is
to drive little white balls into tins with the
fewest possible number of strokes. They are
playing a game.
The Judge takes his stand on the tee,
measures the distance, scans the fairway,
tests the free play of his arms, looks to his
stance, makes one or two preliminary prac-
tice strokes through the air, then smites
the ball. Then the doctor goes through a
somewhat similar performance. From this
moment these two are out to excel each
other. The Judge who yesterday sentenced
a living man to death and the doctor who
to-morrow will bring a dying man back to
life are now intent only on one thing. Their
great task is to get each his ball into the
hole in less strokes than the other. They
have been educated up to the game they
play. They have learnt how to hold the
sticks, liow to stand, how to place the ball,
how to hit, and the laws of the game. Bound
then by equal conditions they set out to pit
their differing selves against an equal com-
bination of elements. They must overcome
gravity, the friction of the air, and all the
natural and artificial obstructions on the
links. They match all their physical and
mental strength against all their physical
and mental infirmities. This they do also
in life. All the life-training they have had
wedded to their natural ability they employ
with but one ultimate object.—to excel. The
Judge seeks to be the most wise and just of
all Judges. The doctor operates to save the
patient’s life, but that is not his only object.
Hr wants to perform the operation more skil-
fully and more successfully than any doctor
lias ever performed it before. And in the
game they play both the Judge and the doc-
tor instinctively train the qualities and
faculties that will be necessary in the future.
Just as the kitten and the little children,
they mimic the part they will sooner or
later be called upon to play in life.
A game is a life lived in miniature. In
life circumstances direct and necessity lias
been the framer of the laws. And the man
must go as be is directed and abide by the
laws Tie will employ his physical and men-
tal ability to excel in the direction Cir-
curastanCe points out for him, all the time
conforming to Necessity’s laws. And front-
ing him as he sets out is always another
element. He ventures whichever way he
goes into the unknown. The better he is
trained and the more natural ability and
strength he has the less influence this un-
known will have with him. But it will
always be there. Waiting to take part in
his life will always be Chance. And there is
never a game played but Chance plays some
part in it. The game mimics life even in
this.
•To excel! The prize of life is to be a
somebody. To be a somebody we must give
all that is best in us to the world. So if in
our aims consciously we are selfish, instinc-
tively we are not so. There is a task of a
magnitude far beyond the ' bounds of all
human conception to be completed, and all
of us are instinctively struggling and striv-
ing to do pur best to help in this completion.
We are all engaged on the one task, and it
we were wise enough to see what we are at,
there would be no more fighting in the world.
But we are not wise and we are blind as
to what we do. So we struggle and pu.su
to get recognition for our part —to earn the
applause that will signify that our part has
been well done. And all our art-works are a
history of what has been done in the great
struggle that life is, and all our games are
a mimicry of what is still to be. We play
at doing what we instinctively know must
some day be done.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
The Ring and the Book
We are living in a Golden Age of poetry.
At least we infer so from the critical articles
in the more expensive London teviews. In
darker ages few people cared for poetry.
Nobody ever read Wordsworth or Coleridge,
Shelley or Iveats, in their own day, except a
few hostile critics who used the poems as
raw material for slashing reviews. As Shel-
ley once said to Lord Byron, “Contemporary
criticism only represents the amount of
ignorance genius has to contend with.
Nowadays the reviewers are not only toler-
ant, they are enthusiastic. This would seem
contrary to the laws of nature till it is
realised' that the reviewers are themselves
the poets who have brought back the Golden
Ag 6.
Just before the war Flecker, I think, was
the finest of the younger English pqets ; but
his French theory of poetry and his iestlieti-
cism appealed less to the imagination, or
rather the emotion, of the English people
than the romantic life and death of Rupert
Brooke. It was Rupert Brooke who created
in England a wider interest in poetry;
though, except for his last sonnets, his actual
writing was less important than the influ-
ence of his picturesque personality. I rom
him originated the idea of the 3 Georgian
books of modern verse which at once be-
came popular. Rupert Brooke still remains
as the symbol of the ideal young Englishman
who is a man of action as well as a poet;
but the master of -the younger generation is
Walter do la Mare. Writing in the Mercury,
of which he is editor, J. C. Squire remarked
that the most powerful tendency of the new
movement seemed to be leading away from
the realism, sometimes informed with, a con-
scious brutality, of Masefield and Abercrom-
bie, towards “passages of reality imagi-
natively seized and transfigured by passion.
The transfiguration is perhaps the most
important point. I)e la Mare was lyrical,
but in the hands of his followers the sim-
plest subject becomes something tremendous,
trees look as formidable as dragons, the
little fishes talk like whales. And the poet
is a seeker, ever looking for something we
feel certain he hopes he will never find. W.
J. Turner sighs for Popocatepetl, and J. L.
Squire gives a long catalogue of strange
rivers by whose banks lie would love to
dream; but when the reader an-
xious, fearing the poet will escape, his fears
are invariably allayed in the last stanzas,
when the poet realises that such a flight is
impossible: it is a dream, the past cannot be
restored, the beauty of remoteness exists
only in the mind. And then everybody knows
that he will not depart for the banks of the
Amazon or the peaks of Popocatepetl, but
will remain close to Piccadilly Circus.
Another poet-critic, who belongs to the
school that apprehends reality imaginatively,
considers that the poetical temper of the
present age approximates rather to that of
the earlier half of. the seventeenth century
than to any other period of English litera-
ture. It has not, of course, the first fine
careless rapture of the early Elizabethans,
the bird songs of Lodge or Greene or Dekker,
nor the gloomy power of the great tragic
dramatists; but Squire, Nicholls, Turner,
Shanks and the rest have close affinities with
the ‘‘metaphysical school” (they say so
themselves),'with Dr. Donne, one of Eng-
land’s very greatest poets;. with Vaughan,
Marvel, Crash aw and the subtle and bril-
liant Caroline divines and cavaliers.
Most of the poets are reviewers, and that
is the secret of their success; half-a-dozen
writers in about a dozen papers all write
enthusiastic notices of one another’s latest
book. There is not only the Book, there is
also the Ring; for a group of influential
poets have unconsciously formed a combine,
something on the model of an American
meat trust. It is baffling at first to discover
so much genius; but when one has a glimpse
behind the scenes it becomes first-class
comedy. For instance, we are told in the
Mercury that an original MS. of Robert
Nicholls which was sold by auction was pro-
bably worth its money; and another critic
recommended his readers to buy Aldous Hux-
ley’s first book, “Limbo.” a volume of prose
essays, because it would become valuable in
the future. A brilliant but artificial nar-
rative poem called “Leda,” also by Huxley,
was said to be the greatest work of its kind
since Marlowe’s “Hero and Leander” —
superior, therefore, to the narrative poems
of Shellev and Keats, of Tennyson. Arnold,
William Morris and other minor poets. It
is a wonderful age. A poem by Edward
Shanks, a graceful writer, is worthy, we are
told, of Coleridge. Edmund Blnnden, who
published a charming volume of rustic verse,
(Continued on page 25.)


'aae
«
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Cater for the Man on the Land.
»>
No.. 245.
Gang Plough.
For Orchard and Vineyard Cultivation.
With Chilled Mouldboards, Sloping Landside and
Cutter Points. Three-gang weighs 3001 b. Has
three Sin. (No. 212) bottoms.
PRICE £26/17/6
XT62.
“Wiard” Pony Plough.
Wood beam, weight 401 b. ploughs 3in. to sin. deep
6in. to Sin. wide Avith wheel only
PRICE 77/6
Extra shares, 1/5.
XTlB2a.
E. H. Bentall & Co.,
Chaff Cutter.
CDZ. —Rising mouth Sin. wide, cuts four lengths
Jin., |in., -Jin. and fin. Weight, 2cwt. lqr.
PRICE £lB/2/6
EIUMOI^
XT66d.
Myers* Bulldozer Power Pump
6in. Brass-lined cylinder, 3in. suction and dis-
charge. Capacity: 5800 gals. per hour.
PRICE £67/10/-
THE Man on the Land is always deeply
interested in a visit to Anthony
Horderns’. In the departments
which cater for y wants there are modern
appliances which vitally concern him in his
daily work, pointing the way to Increased
Production and Lower Costs.
We illustrate a few examples from our selec-
tion of Agricultural Implements in every-day
demand by the Man on the Land.
The Agricultural Implement Catalogue
contains a fund of information on Aids
to Farming Efficiency. Write for a copy.
It will be posted free.
XTIO.
The Morgan Patent
Spading Harrow.
We stock the following sizes: —
Sets of Size of
Style. Description. Spades. Spades. Weight.
A 3ft. —‘One Horse (XT10) 8 lGin.
PRICE £lB/17/6
4ft. —Light Two Horse 8 Klin.
PRICE £l9/10/-
sft. —Two Horse 3° 18in.
PRICE £2O/10/6
6ft. —Standard Two Horse
(XTlOa) 1-’ Hnn.
PRICE £2l/2/6
C 7ft.—Two or Three Horse 14 ISin.
PRICE £25
C Sft. —Heavy Two or Three Horse 16 18in.
PRICE £27
If with 2-wheel Fore Carriage, St/6 extra.
Harrows 4 feet and over supplied with 2 levers.
2001 b.
3501 b.
4001 b.
4501 b.
5501 b.
6001 b.
b!
H
XTISB.
“Rapid” Root Cutter and Pulper
Capacity per hour, slicing or pulping— -hand, 30 bushels:
power, 125 bushels. Size of pulley for power, 10 x 4 in.,
weight, 2151 b. with pulley.
PRICE £9
XTS.
P. & O. Canton Disc Plough
Turns furrow 10 to 12 inches. Hand control.
26in. Discs.
1- Disc Plough, weight 0801 b.
2- Disc Plough, weight 8581 b.
3- Disc Plough, weight 9791 b.
Extra Discs, 65/-
£3Q
£35
£4O
m,
XTI9.
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
Made in two sections of 25 and 30 teeth to the
section. The teeth are Biu. long by square.
50 teeth
60 teeth, including long bar ..... £l2/ lb b
XT2S.
Invincible Corn Sheller.
Capacity, 20 bushels per hour.
PRICE £6/17/6
ait
*¥■
- !
c V
XTB4.
“Challenge” Steel Windmills.
(Internal Geared.>
Net Weight, Inch Develops in For
Stroke. 1.5-mile W ind. tV ells trom
44, 54. 04 l-sh.p. 10 to 50ft,
PRICE £lB/15/-
5 0, 7 3-10h.p. 35 to 100 ft.
PRICE £25
6 7, 9 3-sh.p. 70 to 150 ft.
PRICE £35
• Size. lb.
Oft. 375
Bft. 460
10ft. 485
XTB6.
Four-post Steel Towers.
20ft. 30ft.
£2O/15/- £29/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


e
The Winning of Public Confidence.
In spending large sums of money
in seeking the goodwill of the
public for any article, unless the
quality is behind the goods the money is wasted.
It costs much more than the profit on any article
of common sale to induce the first purchase. The
profit comes when the person is satisfied and con-
tinues a customer. This is the secret of the
success of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. People
once try and then continue to use them regularly.
From time to time other so-called remedies are
boomed and tried, but soon found to be ineffective,
and prompt return to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is made,
with gratifying results. For many years this remedy has been
in constant use in Australasia. Families have grown up with
scarcely any other medicine in the house, and the present
generation looks back from childhood to having had their
mothers give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills if they showed
indications of being out of sorts. To-day the remedy stands
higher than ever before in the esteem of thousands as a good
dependable article Qf the highest class, sold at a reasonable price
within the reach of all classes.
Morses
iNinIAN
i
■■■■nFOß Tn£u^i«iJ
PILt.S
They Make You Feel Brighter.


PINKETTES
For
Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
keen expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter vyithout the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
01/_FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
»“7 Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
wm
I THE FAMOUS I
COD LIVER; I
OIL |
EMULSION |
and Wasting
Disorders k
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/" per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
For the Heads
School Children’s Heads in
particular.
Dands Nursery Pomade
Most effective for keeping scalps free
from nits and other unpleasant in-
truders.
Remember the name —DANDS.
If unobtainable locally, send 1/- to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Proprietary Limited,
i 849 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
Ihe
er
Elastic
T.
uss
If Ruptured-
Get a Good Safeguard
When the first signs of Rupture appear think immedi-
ately of a proper safeguard. Don’t, above all things,
wait until the trouble grows and grows until it
becomes a menace to your health —get a safeguard
at once, and in the DENYER ELASTIC TRUSS you
will find the Safeguard that will yield the utmost
service. Besides being a perfect support, the DENYER
ELASTIC TRUSS so comfortable that no wearing
inconvenience is experienced. It is giving great
satisfaction to-day to many hundreds of Ruptured
persons.
SINGLE, 30/-; DOUBLE, 40/-
Send for our Truss Pamphlet—mailed free to your
address.
DENYER BROS.
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOULD YOU FIGHT or RUN?
If you can’t fight, you must run away ;
with consequent loss of self-respect and
the shameful after-thoughts that will
haunt you like a nightmare.
Lack of confidence, more than lack of
courage, might be the real cause.
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
We can give you that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which will enable
you to act a man's part should the
necessity arise.
LEARN BOXING
BY POST.
We teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet. “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it to us, with three
stamps to cover postage.
%
■m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
601 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY (Cor. Crown St.).
ĥgkljhk
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHItISTO r H K It
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
I'or quick and easy shav-
ing use tins famous
lia/.or, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
ST^ Q
fej
Price 10/6 of s
representatives.
111 stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 YorkStreet^Sydney^
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engiueeriug Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should rend the British Australasian,
tid. weekly —an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.U.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
a£Afi.,OOOL. SPARKLING
KINO OF TABLE WATERS
Contains Limp.Sodd .Li Ihid * MdgKies id
AGENTS /°
,
MclbouniP Ballad & Vijdnw)'
PURVEYORS 10 VICE ROY AH Y.
Motor Car Steels
Large stocks on hand of
CHROME NICKEL STEELS FOR AXLES
and other highly-stressed parts.
CHROME NICKEL and NICKEL STEELS
in bars and discs, for Gears, etc.
CHROME STEEL FOR BALL RACES.
CRANKSHAFT FORGINGS.
HIGH-CLASS ALLOYED SPRING STEEL.
Descriptive catalogue on application.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8704.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lethe.
Noiseless and calm the stream of Lethe
flows
Through boulders by white desert wastes ot
sand, • .
And on its banks pale weary pilgrims stand
Knowing at last the promise of repose.
Deep, deep they drink, and as their eyelids
close,
Peace, stealing towards them, leads them
by the hand
Into the garden of the mirage-land
Where blows the marvel of Oblivion s rose.
And shut out from all memories they go
Where men may rest untroubled by their lot,
Knowing not love from hate, or joy from
woe,
Whether the sun shines or the great storms
rage....
Ghosts of themselves, forgetting and forgot,
They press their strange ecstatic pilgrimage.
MAOKII. A NO.
LOLA GORNALL.
Wisdom.
I sought the Wise Men for their dole,
High in the world’s great knowledge-mart;
There was a rebel in my soul,
There was a lantern in my heart.
“Lest vain desire should overwhelm
Pure thought,” they cried, “ere youth may
cease,
Go forth, go forth through all our realm
And gain, through understanding, peace!
Through weary years I followed wraiths
In jungles overgrown with words,
Where phantoms of forgotten faiths
Came chattering through the trees like
birds;
Or watched, in strife availing naught
By wells of Truth all choked with rust,
Tattered philosophers that sought
Like blinded dogs the prize of dust.
A shaft of Time and Age, a gleam
Pierced like a lance that misty noon:
I woke —the Wise Men’s realm of dream
Was barren as the bitter moon.
I reached once more that mart of Truth
Where the Wise sit in judgment high.
“You stole my faith, my hope, my youth—
Where is the gain? You speak a lie!
Bitter their smile from that high mart:
“Our peace is Age, and dust our doje.
Stilled is the rebel in your heart,
And quenched the lantern in your soul
N.S.W.
ANTON DENNING.
Amorette.
Once I roamed in the woods at dawn
Where the young gods press their milk-
white feet.
Dew on the mosses lay clustered cool,
Lilies were mirrored within a pool;
Here was the spirit of Music born,
And the leaves were whispering low and
sweet.
To notes that chimed like a faery bell
Straying along a fronded aisle,
A magpie fluted a clear refrain,
A stave of joy, and a bar of pain.
The lilting melody rose and fell
As I listened with finger on lip the while.
Noon, and the stilly, slumbrous trees,
Drowsing above tall spears of grass:
Here, even here, the eternal quest t
’Mid silence that broods, and invites to rest.
Butterflies, stirred by the faintest breeze,
On gossamer wings of sapphire pass.
There came from the woods a spirit fair.
Dimpled with laughter, and eyes divine;
It bade me drink from a golden bowl,
It charmed my heart, and it bound my soul.
Thistle-down dreams, woven light as air;
Amorette, with her grace, was mine.
Night came down in the old, sweet way.
Powdered with stars, and, all unbound,
Dim, thick clouds of her blue-black hair;
And the Moon, with one beautiful shoulder
bare,
Limned the dark beauty in silvery grey,
And the dew was sparkling on the ground.
Never again on the hills and dunes,
Or in leafy dells may she hear the thrush,
Or blue-grey pigeon, or gentle thrum
Of the bronze-winged pheasant on some
white gum ;
But, I hear her voice in the tender runes
Of Wind in the deep green woodland hush.
QUEENSLAND.
E. COUNGEAU.
Fear.
I have awakened deep in the night
To a sound of trumpets crying,
To the whine of arrows in curving flight
And the rattle of chariots flying,
To the neighing of horses wild and near,
Jangle of bridles and voices calling
And hammers of death with hollow fear
On the shields of brass falling.
This have I known in dawnings grey:
A smouldering fire on a low hill,
The wheels of a cart on a stony way
And a voice that grew suddenly still.
And there was a great fear in me,
For the red light shone on a gallows-tree
I have awakened when day was bright,
Awakened from no sleeping,
To hear a running river of light
Fall with a great weeping
Into a fathomless vault of space,
To the hollow of no returning:
And I feared, for the light had a man s fact
And a dream in his eyes was burning.
K.S.W.
DIAVIS McKEE WRIGHT.


' ' 1 ,*• ,
1 '■ t •* 4
11
-vim
, -o
' l ■■ .V . ,• '
1
•
k
II
’, -.
• •
- ■ ...... . •
* ; v
■ ii .S? k
nm
■ • tv ,
*
■
: . -■ .
.. IB
■ V \.v .
'v/vv^ j x/c-^
■
m mi
. .
J
* . ■ ,
\
,','£s3
'mm*
►i vffiSß
.
|]' -.Vs
gP' 11:1 "
1 ■
sia
. i£2m
V., VI ...
■■■
'* -\
<- $llllB
For 77 Years PENFOLDS have
taßen the “e” away from Wine
wherever exhibited.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.— N0. 2174.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1921.
Price 9d.
ON REVOLUTION DAY.
THEORETICAL REVOLUTIONIS: “It' s an awful big blaze. There’ll be a great deal of building to be done to occupy the site.”
PRACTICAL REVOLUTIONIST: “Oh, I don’t know that anything in particular will ever be built. But fellows like us'll pick up a lot of valuable odds
and ends among the debris.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
0-, 214 George Street. S.vdnpv. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £1 ids; 6' months, 18s. (Id,; 3 months,
9s. 6d.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £2; 0
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. (hi.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this payer are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Ths Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson arul Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.GJiJ
E. T. Hole, Holert-h Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 31* High
Holborn, London, AV.C.t.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ji-’/l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
B.C. : the- Boston Hut Works and News. Co., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets.
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. nth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, pnuauelpina, l'eun.
Egypt.- — Jacques. Horn Jk Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co.. Pexlder Street,
llong Kong.
Singapore.- —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.- — W. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom. All Sea Route,
160 z.. lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packed — otherwise: Soz., lid.; fcloz. to lOoz.,
3d.; 10oz. to 120 z., Sid,; elsewhere, \oz., lid., and
\d. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1921.
LEAVES PROM THE BOOK OF
SMITH.
The invaluable Smith, who gathers and
publishes official statistics for A. S. Wales,
has picked some fresh ones from the Tree of
Knowledge, and they are interesting. Dur-
ing the first six months of 1021, he records
that 3034 new buildings were put up in the
municipalities of X. S. W ales. There were
2436 in Sydney and suburbs, and it was a
poor half-year for these places, the number
for the first half of 1020, before the five-day
week set in, being 4310. In Newcastle and
suburbs there were 302 new buildings, and
in the great balance of the State there were
806. A large proportion of these 896 were
really suburban, Bankstown having 08 of
them, Cabramatta 10. Dundas 21. Fair-
field 27, Oranville 32, Ivatoomba and Black-
heath (which are suburbs in the sense of
being the big city’s pleasure resorts) 38,
Lidcombe 44 and Prospect and Sherwood 69.
The real country towns were deader than
Jonah’s whale, as they were intended to be
when the railways were marked out and the
railway rates were fixed. One horsey suburb
like Rand wick showed as much progress as
the whole area from Mullumbimby to Bom-
bala. Thirty-nine country municipalities are
not accused by the disinterested Smith of
having put up even a new hencoop in the
half-year.
* * * *
Speaking of N. S. Wales manufactures,
the versatile Smith states that last year they
employed 144,454 people, being 107,777 in
Svdney and suburbs (149 square miles) and
36,677 in the rest of the State (309,283
square miles). In 1901 the city was 18.600
employees ahead of all the rest of the State.
In 1911, when Labor Imd just come into
office with an assurance that the old iniqui-
ties were to be put away and that lost dog,
the Rest, of the State, was at last to get a
show, the city was 46,560 manufacturing
employees ahead of the other 309,283 square
miles. It was 71,100 ahead in 1920. From
1913, the year before the war, to 1920 the
number of persons employed in Sydney fac-
tories increased by 21,514. In all the other
parts of the Ala State put together they in-
creased by 2540. Even this simply means
that Newcastle has got new works; the rest
of the towns have done an unmitigated
perish. Even flour-milling, which looks a
country industry if there ever was one, is
directed Sydney-wards by that curious rail-
way rule under which grain is carried for
almost nothing towards the city and for a
deuce of a lot the other way, so that a
miller at Sydney can get his raw material
cheaply and conveniently from, say, Dubbo
or Parkes, while one at Bourke. if such a
fool existed, couldn’t. But for the wild-cat
fight put up by the Hoskinses, of Lithgow,
against some proposed new rates, which
would Imvo either compelled them to move
their works to the coast or ruined
them, there would have been practically no-
thing left in the country parts of Ala State
by now. It is worth noting that 21 per
cent, of the few factories outside Sydney
and only 13 per cent, of those in Sydney
are one-horse affairs with less than four
employees each. Also 164 per cent, of coun-
try “factories” and only 134 per cent, of
city ones are mere hand-power concerns. As
a possibly irrelevant side issue, last year
19.009 employees in Government factories
did work_ to the value of £241 per head,
while 125.445 in private employ did work
to the value of £271 each. Yet the Govern-
ment lot was almost wholly male, and the
private lot more than one-third female, and
the former had three horse-power of machin-
ery each to help them, while the latter had
14 li.p. apiece. This may be figured out to
mean that two women in private employ are
sometimes more than equal to two men and
three horses under present Government man-
agement.
* * » •
All the destruction of country towns and
country factories leaves, of course, more
room for agricultural and pastoral pursuits.
The extraordinary efforts at settlement that
have been made of late, in addition to the
usual and, ordinary efforts, are a matter of
history. Even now there is not only the
Federal Government s repatriation loan, but
J. Carruthers is working up a three-hun-
dred-niillion South Land Bubble of his own,
and is ready to put a million farmers on
the land in Alartin-placc, right opposite the
Sydney G.F.0., at any hour of the day or
night. It transpires; according to the reli-
able Smith, that there were, in N. S. Wales
last year, 126,909 male citizens “employed
permanently in rural occupations” of all
sorts, which is 2265 fewer than in 1912,
before the really heroic settlement boom com-
menced, and when the debt and taxes were
less, and the railways were fewer, and the
city wasn’t so big, and the country towns
weren’t so dead. Counting up male and
female factory employees and male and
female rural producers, the latter, despite
the expenditure of so many millions to put
people on the land, are 2839 less than the
former. Settlement is supposed to grow up
around the country towns; at least, it does
in other countries. It fails when there are
no such towns. Smith’s agricultural figures,
except as regards wheat, are only up to 1920,
but they show every crop to be less in area
and yield, and every kind of beast to be less
numerous, than at some previous date. Start-
ing from 1910, wheat reached its best record
in 1916, maize in 1911 (it has dropped about
one-half since then), oats in 1910 (it dropped
to less than one-third by 1920), sugar-cane
in 1915 (it also dropped one-half), hay in
1916, wine in 1912, potatoes in 1911, horses
in 1913, dairy cows in 1911, other cattle in
1919, sheep in 1910, hogs in 1918. Abso-
lutely nothing is at the top, and in some
cases the decline had been practically con-
tinuous over a series of years, good and bad.
Yet there is no lack of new settlement —on
paper. For the year to June, 1921, over
1,400,000 acres were “taken up” in one way
or another, and if these areas would only
remain, “up” great things should happen.
Also, more than 1,100,000 additional acres
were set apart and ear-marked for settle-
ment that the Department had in view. The
fate of some of this copious paper settlement
was recently epitomised in the report of 108
soldier settlors put on the land near Young
at a cost of £625 each. Briefly they put it :
“AYe haven’t got a bean amongst us.” In
the first quarter of this year, which was also
the third quarter of the present Labor Gov-
ernment, N. 8. Wales was losing population
to the other States and to Alaoriland by
excess of departures over arrivals. Later
information on this subject will be interest-
ing. In 1920, when the present Govern-
ment began, the gain by immigration
(13.977) was a little less than the average.
There was no mad influx of people, as alleged,
attracted by the glozing promises of Alinis-
terial candidates, to account for the fact that
the number of N. S. Wales unemployed
promptly rose under their regime of blather,
borrow and boom from 55 to 137 per 1000
unionists.
* * * *
It is mentioned casually by the eminentlv
readable Smith that one very big N. S.
Wales industry is as good as dead. In 1913
silver, lead and zinc, which were really
Broken Hill, were worth £3.808,125. They
were worth £5,131,167 in 1918. In 1920
they were worth £113,576. The Hill might
produce £4.000.000 a year now, for prices,
though less than they have been, are better
than they were in 1913. But the revolu-
tionary conspiracy which aims at destroy-
ing all industry so that out of the conse-
quent misery the revolutionary army may
emerge, issued orders to its industrial serfs
that they must not work except at a great
advance on the highest wage-rate possible
in 1918. As N. S. Wales’s output of gold is
now only about a quarter of what it was
in 1910, there is another perishing occupa-
tion on the list. One inference to be drawn
from the figures is that there has been no
justification, unless paper money and loan
expenditure can be called such, for the pay-
ment of higher wages in 1921 than in Iff 1 "'
Rather there is reason the other way. By
intense cultivation of the doctrines of loafing,
dissatisfaction and inefficiency, and by
patient listening to morbid imported per-
sons who talked to him in vague but violent
terms about Kart, Marx, the New South
AVales workman has been induced to cut
down his output by about one-third, and at
the same time make much extra fuss about
the remaining two-thirds. As a x’esult the
State is dependent on imported goods to a
greater degree than ever before in its history
—possibly more than in any State’s history.
These are the figures of Smith, and the
State pays him to produce them. They
ought to be tremendously valuable: they
ought to show us the way we are going and
the danger-signals. If they are not—if they
are merely a mass of figures, or if those
who are at the wheel refuse to take any
notice of the signals—then we might save
a few pounds by sacking Smith. But then
we shall go over the abyss; and the bump
at the bottom will not be pleasant. As a
matter of fact, a few thousands, called unem-
ployed. have been spilled over the cliff
already; and there is plenty of evidence that
they don’t think the experience is worth
encouraging.
POLITICS AS AN IMPORTED
VEGETABLE.
“Let us get back to the village pump,” says
the returned wanderer Louis Esson. The
phrase might perhaps be bettered; still, it
expresses well enough what is in the minds
of most Australians —the native-born, at any
rate. Let us busy ourselves with the con-
cerns of our own continent and deal with
world-affairs from that standpoint. Let us
develop a home-grown political thought. Let
us mould or remould our native institutions,
not by blindly accepting the hard-and-fast
doctrines of some hairy toreigner who wrote
for a dead Europe and never saw Australia,
but with proper regard to climate, history,
geography and, above all, the genius of the
race. Let us drop the pernicious habit of
asking what they will say of this in Eng-
land, Ireland, Russia, America or Timbuc-
too. Let us run the Commonwealth our-
selves instead of allowing hyphenates to run
it.
* * * *
It is time we returned to the custom of
doing our own political thinking. We have
got so used to lotting meddlesome foreigners
and foreign-minded persons ram their im-
ported nostrums down the public throat that
we have almost forgotten that there used
to be a fresh and vigorous Australian school
of political thought. Twenty-five years ago
the idea of going to a semi-barbaric country
like Russia for an Orientalised system of
socialism would have been laughed at. In
those days Australia devised political experi-
ments of its own; nowadays it. merely im-
ports them. The most enduring achievements
of Australian statesmen have been in the
direction of liberating the country from the
thraldom of old-world superstitions. Thus,
Cobdeuism was imposed upon Australia
until there was a danger that the people
would degenerate into hewers of wood and
drawers of water for more advanced nations.
When that was realised Protection became
the fiscal policy of the Commonwealth, and
Cobdeuism is now as dead as mutton. Along
with Cobdeuism came the old Exeter Ilall
doctrine—beautiful to read in copybooks, but
ruinous to a nation situated like Australia
—that all men are brudders and equal in
the sight of an immigration officer. In vio-
lation of all foreign precedent it was re-
nounced in favor of the White Australia
policy, a policy now menaced, not by the
big employing interests which opposed it in
the last generation, but by the self-styled
leaders of the workers in whose special in-
terests it was framed.
We need to get back to the mood in which
scientific Protection and the White Australia
policy took shape. Our aim should be to
tackle all our problems, social and economic,
in an honest Australian spirit. We ought to
recognise as a sober people that there are
no short-cuts to the Millennium. State
socialism on the French model isn’t one, any-
how. It is a useful expedient within its
limits, but its limits are narrow. The two
States which have overdone it—-Westralia
and Queensland—are paying the penalty in
huge deficits and armies of public servants
whose massed voting power is a source of
corruption and unrest. There is not the
slightest reason to suppose that “socialisa-
tion” of industry, with control by the
workers (which means the union bosses),
would be any more successful than “nation-
alisation,” with control by officials and poli-
ticians. And the notion of seizing the fields,
factories and workshops of Australia by a
communistic coup d'etat is utter madness.
The Australian workman is no revolutionary.
He is not even a socialist. He would be
cheerfully content with the present system
if ft gave him some security as to his job,
some obvious share in the control of industry,
some assurance that should he die untimely
or be permanently incapacitated the wife
would not have to send round the hat or go
out washing. When he takes up co-operative
trading as enthusiastically as the farmers
have done here and there, the Bolshies will
find their occupation gone. Co-operation suits
the Australian temperament and national
insurance against sickness, unemployment,
old age and death would be a reform of the
first magnitude. But the thing is to regain
the lost habit of constructive political
thought, to return to the frame of mind in
which useful and wholesome things get done.
Surely the spirit of humanism and honest
innovation in Australian politics did not die
out with Deakin, Kingston and Wise.
TABOO.
Politics do not come naturally to women:
they are bred in the bone of men. The
few women who have assimilated civics and
a working knowledge of the game of state-
craft will admit that they pursued their
studies initially from a sense of duty. And
that is the root difference of the whole mat-
ter.
Women are brave, they are adaptable and
they are conscientious. They will Hog
themselves pitilessly to the attainment of an
ambition. They will struggle and strain and
wrestle with the utterly incongruous if they
convince themselves that it is their duty—
or if the other women are doing it. And
they succeed in their pursuit so long as they
flog themselves to it. But, as in the case of
many a queer fashion or of a more earnest
quest, it does not come naturally: it is an
acquired taste.
With men, on the other hand, there is no
ettort. Ao doubt many public-spirited
patriots dedicate their lives to the honorable
service ot their country from a sense of duty.
ut they enjoy it; they follow a natural in-
clination. From the earliest days of the
world s civilisation men have gathered to-
gether in the market-place, the street the
forum, the pump-room, the court and the
bar-parlor, and discussed politics and public
matters. They cannot help themselves; it
is their natural impulse, delight, recreation
pastime, vice. It is no nobler for men to
be interested in politics than for monkevs
to climb, for birds to fly, for fish to swim.
l>ut women, in forcing themselves to study
politics, .show a high degree of resolution.
And their plucky grappling with matters of
Mate can only be realised by supposing a
parallel case on the part of men. Picture
average men schooling themselves to take an
active part in the minding and nursing of
babies, in the making of filmy clothing, in
the decoration and management of a home'
But since women here are invited, expected!
and at all events permitted to take their
part m politics, they gallantly have come
forward to play their part.
Dispassionately reviewing this great land-
mark in civic history, tin 1 entrance of Woman
into the game of politics, it is observed at
once that there is some fundamental differ-
ence in addition to that awkward matter of
th«' duty sense. There is something else
that blocks her in the easy assimilation of
pure politics. Women have tackled law.
medicine, literature and even science with"
success. Their attitude in studying these
subjects is little different from that of fellow
mon-students. But in politics there is a
difference that cannot be gainsaid. And
the whole mystery of the matter may be
summed up in that wonderful code of the
taboo, ever and always woman’s most deadly
and valuable weapon. This drags in the
social code, which man-politics do not recog-
nise. Men min be implacable enemies in
debate in the House, but out of doors, even
in the lobbies, quite friendly and amiably
polite to one another. Women find it almost
impossible to relax the social code. Flat
contradiction, the abuse of pet theories and
platitudes in the heat of debate are not easily
forgiven. Being sub-consciously aware of
this touchiness and the danger of rupturing
the social fabric, the more earnest, high-
minded women arm themselves with a great
over-larding of courtesy and precise for-
mality, for the most part, in their official
dealings with one another.
And in this matter of social relationships,
that wonderful weapon,, the cold shoulder,
plays its part with deadly effect. When
disapproved of, Mrs. Jones does not
exist. And the same method is applied
to facts _ and actualities. Just as young
ladies of the Early Victorian era ap-
plied the taboo to legs, stockings, trousers
and such fearful facts of life, so now women
in the world of politics turn the cold shoul-
der uiion .subjects that are questionable,
awkward or unpleasant. The dear ladies
do not see them, just as their great-great-
aunts cast down tlieir eyes and were blind
when passing naughty posters or scenes of
ribaldry. And if individuals, brave the
code and breast up to big ugly facts on their
own account, they must expect the cold
shoulder specially meted out to erring sisters
alone.
That gift of the cold shoulder and down-
cast eyes is woman’s most valuable asset in
the social and domestic kingdom which she
rules. It is the magic, often unsuspected,
with which she keeps her home nncon-
taminated and unassailed by the ugliness of
the outside world. But the home sanctuary,
whose portals are thus guarded from im-
purity by that alabaster shoulder —the best
shield for such a purpose—is not the hurly-
burly of politics. The obstinate uglinesses,
the “dead narks,” the wickednesses and vice,
the actual, cold, naked, indecent nation-
troubles, are in this dirty, dusty, rank-smell-
ing arena. Those who step into it must
handle and deal with all that lies there
beneath the glare of noonday publicity.
Mrs. Jones can be made to be socially non-
existent'. But all this muddle and mess and
foolishness of public business refuses to
quail beneath a snub or the threat of any
ostracism.
So if woman intends to take a band in poli-
tics, she must come to the fray, not as a
social queen or the mistress of the house,
with that cold shoulder and taboo ready for
action. It won’t work. Rather must she
approach in her character of bustling, busy
housewife, with sleeves rolled up, broom in
hand and eyes bright to detect cobwebs,
grease-spots, dirt and disorder.
Women are more intense, more fanatic
than men in tlieir devotion to anything they
once whole-heartedly espouse. They never
spare themselves, they shirk no drudgery if
the Cause seems real enough to demand it.
The instinct which burgeons and blooms at
its best in the miracle of mother-love is
always there, innate in a woman, ready to
be poured out to some extent in any vocation
that stirs her enthusiasm. According to 0.
K. Chesterton, “Modern [business] women
defend their office with all the fierceness of
domesticity. They fight for desk and type-
writer as for hearth and home, and develop
a sort of wolfish wifehood on behalf of the
invisible head of the firm. That is why they
do office work so well: and that is why they
ought not to do it.” That “wolfish wifehood"
can be a wonderful power in politics. But
it can be a danger and a wild menace to the
public weal when it is devoted to small
measures of compromise, to delicate diplo-
matic matters of State, to ordinary every-
day affairs that call for no emotion or senti-
ment. And women, by very reason of the
laws of chastity, are single-eyed and whole-
souled in their devotion to a Measure or n
Man, however small and unimportant that
Cause may be in the big whole of the politi-
cal world.
HATIIE KNIGHT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Rhapsody of the North.
The Federal Budget took a glance at almost
everything under the Australian sun except
the matter of most importance, which is
the construction of a 4ft. S4in. railway from
Adelaide and Tort Augusta to Darwin That
would involve the construction ot 1010 miles


of new line, mostly through easy country,
and the alteration of 868 miles of existing
line, all through easy country. It snouid
be possible, working from the south,
where communication is cheap, to do
the job with between half and two-
thirds of the' new repatriation loan,
and that would leave more than _ a
trifle for other purposes. If returned sol-
diers were given the first claim on the work
it would have the genuine repatriation flavor.
To make the atmosphere of the thing per-
fect every soldier who stuck to his railway-
building job for a certain time and gave rea-
sonable satisfaction as a worker could be
given a farm quite handy to the finished
undertaking. Then no one could deny that
it was a “dinkum” case of putting men on
the land, even if many of them sold their
farms afterwards, as most other settlers do.
The idea has all the brands and earmarks
of Carrutiiers’s Million. Farms scheme,
with the advantage that it would risk no-
thing. All Carruthers’s proposed “develop-
mental” lines would be waste iron if the
farms alongside them refused to remain
alive, but this one is wanted for a multitude
of reasons, and wanted in haste, even if
farmers should prove shy. It is wanted to
cut about 1540 miles off the distance across
Australia. (The Adelaide-Perth line put 560
miles on to the old sea-distance.) It would
open a new and alternative and shorter road
to Europe, North Africa and Asia. (The
western line didn’t.) It would cre.ate a new
State, a busy new port and a new city
which would be a Federal city; it would
develop a very large Federal property and
give access to a great and more or less
proved new mineral field, and it would have
every chance to turn two money-losing Fed-
eral railway properties into something pro-
fitable. (The East-to-West line did none of
these things.) It would end the ridiculous,
costly and dangerous chronic insurrection at
Darwin; would make the North infinitely
more defensible; would amount to a formal
taking possession of White Tropical Austra-
lia for the first time, and an intimation to
the world that it isn’t a No Man’s Land
waiting annexation. It would also make
an end of the expensive futility of trying
to civilise the country by sending highly-
paid experts round by sea, a voyage of many
weeks, to start isolated dairies and pumpkin
plantations in advance of the demand. The
Federal authority would own the whole line
and the whole of the great terminal harbor.
If only 500 miles of habitable country were
found it would be possible to settle . 1000
farming families on it, each with about 600
acres and each with the main highroad to
Europe, Asia and North Africa, to say no-
thing of the alternative new road to North
America, opposite his door and the. train to
all these storied places thundering past.
Behind the first line or rampart of settlers
on each side there could be 10 others, each
with 1000 acres, making 11,000 families
in all on 500 miles, and none of them 20
miles from the great artery. The quantity
of town population that could be accommo-
dated is a mere matter of conjecture. The
possibilities of branch lines are beyond con-
jecture. The one drawback among vote-
hunting politicians is the present lack of
voters along the route to throw up their hats
for the man who puts his name to the job.
But it is their very absence which makes this
one of the most promising and one of the
biggest settlement propositions south of the
line.
«.
State Socialism and Socialisation.
Ten • years ago a fresh young Westralian
Labor Ministry set out to wipe the “capi-
talist” off the earth (borrowing his money
for that purpose) and give everybody a job
“in the Government.” Its example was tol-
low’ed four years later by an equally enthusi-
astic Labor Administration in Queensland,
where the bright idea of destroying the “capi-
talist” with his own money has been carried
to even greater lengths. In the progress of
the experiment £15,000,000 was added to the
public debt in Westralia (five years) and
£28,000,000 in Queensland (six years), and
the results of this colossal expenditure are
now on record. They are singularly instruc-
tive. In Westralia last month it was
announced that the deficit for 1920-21
amounted to £686,000, and that it was
wholly due to unpayable State enterprises.
On the Government railways £454,000 was
lost and on the Perth tramways (highly pro-
fitable when they were taken over from a
private company) £3OOO. The State imple-
ment factory showed an apparent debit bal-
ance of £ISOO, but £120,000 of the original
capital (£231,000) has been written off. In
the Wyndham meatworks —the last legacy of
the Labor Ministry—£l,2oo,ooo has been
sunk, and the distracted Government has
decided that it is better to lose £65,000 a
year by closing them down than £1(5,000. a
year by carrying them on. These are strik-
ing figures, but Queensland can beat them.
In six years of Labor management the
Queensland railways have accumulated a
deficit of £6,664,000. Last year’s disgrace
was £1,739,400, and the returns for the first
quarter of 1921-22 were £182,000 worse than
those of the 1920-21 period. A State trawler
purchased for £32,000 was placed out of com-
mission after it had cost £15,000 to catch
£I2OO worth of fish. The same fate befel
the Government steamer Douglas Mawson,
which was bought for £19,600 and earned
£10,600 less than working . expenses. Four
State coal-mines, an arsenic-mine and two
batteries have made various contributions to
the deficit. At Chillagoe, where the Govern-
ment volunteered to show ignorant managers
how metal mining could be run at a profit,
the year’s onerations cost the taxpayer
£49,450, and the Irvinebank treatment
'works, which were acquired in October, 1919,
managed to lose £18,307 in 1920-21, or
£28,950 in 20 months. Even the Government
store at Irvinebank went £726 to the bad
last year. The Auditor-General notes grimly
that the store-manager gave credit, with the
result that £655 had to be written off as bad
debts; also that the business was started
with an overdraft of £4OOO, whereas £2OOO
should have been sufficient. And “the expen-
diture on outdoor relief for 1920-21 was
£120,519, as compared with £9152 in 1917-
18.” These are some of the fruits of State
Socialism in the two divisions of the Com-
monwealth which have gone in for it most
extensively. Yet the tale of misfortune is
only half told, for the taxes lost and indus-
tries ruined or strangled in the birth by
Government competition or the fear of it,
to say nothing of the concessions extorted by
battalions of Government employees, who
control at least three votes apiece, have also
to be taken into account. The marvel is
that the people responsible for this accumu-
lation of disasters refuse to admit that their
fool-policy has broken down. They are actu-
ally agitating for a crazy extension of it
called "socialisation,” the central idea of
which is that industries are to be purchased
(if they can’t be stolen) at the public cost
and handed over to the control of union
bosses. Under “socialisation” the people
would be denied even the melancholy satis-
faction of calling ruinous spendthrifts and
incapables to account. They would still go
on paying the piper, but inflated persons like
Garden and Willis would call the tune.
John Storey.
When people had time to “place” N.S.W.’s
late Premier Storey they concentrated on
the fact that he was the “moderating influ-
ence” in the Cabinet, and that was his own
description of himself. The Ministry which
he was supposed to lead couldn’t make good,
but he kept it from being as bad as it
might otherwise have been. Yet when its
complete obituary is written its record will
be that it left almost everybody, barring
members of Parliament, more miserable than
it found them. The people to whom it pre-
sented an extra half-day’s idleness per week
and more pay (if they can find a job) don t
look happier, nor do they sound happier;
in fact, the roar of the revolutionaries who
say that life is hell is louder than it was
18 months ago. Assuredly the uncertainty
of employment, arising out of the decay of
industries, because with many of them the
new wage-and-hour scale is impossible, isn t
an aid to happiness. The Broken Hill people
look at least as wretched with the dole that
is paid them to induce them to remain idle
as they could have looked if circumstances
had driven them back to work at the very
fair wages offering. The belief that things
would have been worse without John
Storey offers, then, a poor outlook for the
future. Even the fact that the term “Honest
John” followed the late leader to the end
carries a sinister implication. No one ever
troubled to pin such a label on Alfred
Deakin, who refused office at least as often
as he accepted it, was Prime Minister of all
Australia for far ■ less than Storey valued
himself at in a humble State capacity, and
died poor after 14 years of office, three.
Prime Ministerships and about 35 years ol
Parliamentary membership. But in the
crowd with which Deakin lived honesty was
taken for granted. Much is said, too, about
John Storey’s geniality and goodfellowship.
They may be excellent qualities, but they
are distinctly not the qualities for which
the State pays £2445 per annum. Such
qualities had, however, to be stressed, be-
cause the larger things that might be said
about him and about almost every other
prominent politician associated with him
had to be omitted. Neither Holman nor
Fuller could say most of those things; for
they, too, went on the simple principle of
spending all the loan money they could lay
hands on, and spending it pretty much
anyhow. So nobody even in the Opposition
camp could say that the remorseless pawn-
ing of posterity’s body and soul for the sake
of a little present ease is a sin bad enough
to outweigh all the virtues in the catalogue.
Dominion Status and Imported
Governors.
“It would be idle to ignore the fact that one of the
principal reasons for bringing our Governors from
England is that in those crises in which the exercise
of a personal discretion is required, that discretion
is more likely to be exercised impartially and cor-
rectly by those who have been trained in the tradi-
tions of Dominion Government, and who have no
local interests and connections, than by a locally
appointed Governor.”
In this phrase T. R. Bavin, N. S. Wales
barrister and M.L.A., put the whole case for
the perpetuation of the imported Governors
veto. It is not a novel point of view. In
fact, up to the passing of the" Stamp Act
in 1765 —the measure which cost England
the American colonies —most lawyers knew
no other. It is based on the legal doctrine
of the abject subservience of all colonies to
the Imperial Government. W. M. _Hughes
put the position concisely at Bendigo just
before he left for the Imperial Conference: —
Australia could make whatever laws she Phased
Yet there existed to-day another Parliament that
could take away from her every right and power to
legislate that she had. Nobody could deny it. Every
right and power in the Federal and State
ments was a British statute, passed by the British
.Parliament, and the British Parliament could also
N. S. Wales is still controlled
rigidly by the Rules and Regulations of the
Colonial Office, which lay down that m
every colony the Governor has authonty
either to give or to withhold his assent
to laws passed by the other branches or
members of the Legislature, and until that
is <*iven no such law is vaiiu or
binding.” In theory all the States of the
Commonwealth and the Commonwealth itselt
are political infants, whose halting and un-
certain steps need to be continually put on
the right path by wise men from England
“who have been trained m the traditions
of Dominion Government.” In theory these
officials are supermen, equipped mentally
and morally to wield powers such as no
King of England has even tried to assert
since the accession of the House of Han-
over. In practice, fortunately for the sta-
bility of the Empire, things are tar other-
wise Our imported Governors had tacitly
abandoned the last of their claims to inter-
fere in Dominion politics before tlie world-
war began. The five years of warfare
brought Constitutional changes as vast as
all those which had accrued during the pre-
vious 50 vears of peace. In his speech at
Bendigo, the Prime Minister indicated our
theoretical state of bondage only to stress
the complete independence which we actu-
ally enjov. About the middle of last cen-
tury Australian Governors and British Gov-
ernments freely disallowed Australian laws
dealing with immigration, divorce and so on.
During the same period, in N. S. Wales.
Governors Belmore, Robinson and t Ar-
rington successively refused dissolutions
and otherwise comported themselves as hold-
ers of supreme powers. But the day tor
that kind of thing is past. Mr. Bavin
assumes that Governor Davidson’s pliancy
over the appointment of the Storey Govern-
ment’s Council nominees was due to special
instructions from the Colonial Office, his rea-
son being that an idiotic statement to that
effect had gone uncontradicted in the
Assembly. It is a truism to every student of
modern Constitutional questions that the
orders of every oversea Governor in this
respect were really given in speech after
speech delivered by Imperialists like Smuts,
Borden, Hughes and Massey, from the
War Conference (1917) to the one from
which the Commonwealth Prime Minister
has just returned. Whether Mr. Bavin is
right in his view that if the Governor’s veto
is”obsolete then he also must be obsolete is
a matter for argument. In The Bulletin’s
opinion the logic of the proposition is irre-
futable But a point that admits of no
denial whatever is that the veto has finally
vanished. WEile as legal as ever, it is as
foreign to recent Constitutional developments
in Dominion autonomy as any of the checks
GrenvJljLE attempted to put on America.
Labor and the Spinning-jenny.
For utter ghoulishness and heartless effron-
tery an incident reported from. Queensland
has rarely been equalled. When the tra-
gedy of Mulligan pit was only a few days
old certain brass-fronted philanthropists
(unfortunately their are not avail-
able) put a proposition to Jones, the Min-
ister of Mines, “in the interests of the
widows and orphans.” The proposition was
that they should be licensed to tour Queens-
land, as' collectors for the relief fund, with
implements known as spinning-jennies, from
the proceeds of which they would deduct all
their expenses and 70 per cent, of the pro-
its, leaving BO per cent, net to be divided
among the dependants of tffie dead miners.
In the nature of things there could be no
check on the operations of the gentry behind
the spinning-jennies ; their honesty and bona
fides would have to be taken for granted.
Jones rejected the offer without saying, as
he might have done, that the authors of it
richly deserved gaol. He was evidently
pained at the thought that anyone could
have believed his Government capable of
entering into such a contract on such an
occasion. But in a sense the Government
only got what was coming to it. By the
reckless encouragement it has given to all
sorts of shabby and sordid gambling devices
it brought the humiliation upon itself. In
both. Queensland and N. S. Wales the pro-
fessional gambler has been set on a pedestal.
The Labor Governments have taught the
people that it is not only permissible to
raise money for hospitals, motherhood en-
dowment and party propaganda by means of
lotteries and games of chance but law-
ful and laudable to sfet a living thereby. It
is notorious that “art unions,” chocolate-
wheels, spinning-jennies and pony race-
courses supply a considerable part of the
A.L.P. fighting fund. In Sydney a corner
of a public park has been permanently de-
voted to this purpose, and the “rights” of
the spinning-jenny fraternity have been en-
thusiastically championed against prying
accountants and other inquisitive meddlers
by the Labor heads. Therefore, the Queens-
land chevaliers d’industrie had some justifi-
cation for believing that their ghastly idea
could not help being welcome tq a Labor
Government. But what a fall there nas
been when a Labor Government can even
be approached with such a proposition!
■■■ -»
Prohibition and Citizen Rights.
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin :
The Bulletin (29/9/’2l) prints a statement by a U.S.
business firm pointing out the beneficial effect of the
liquor prohibition law in that country, but com-
ments to the effect that “all this does not touch the
real issue, which is that Smith has no right to tell
Jones what his habits shall be, provided they are
not offensive.”
Will you allow me to say that civilisation really
depends on the right of Jones and Smith collec-
tively to tell individual Jones and Smith just this
very thing ?
There is, for instance, no more harm in Jones
smoking a pipe of opium than in drinking a glass
of grog; in fact, the free use of opium would pro-
bably be less hurtful to the nation than the free
use of alcohol. Yet The Bulletin does not main-
tain that in legislating to prohibit the use of opium
.the community is tyrannising over Smith and Jones.
Similarly, Smith and Jones collectively to-day
permit only about one individual Smith or Jones
out of every thousand to sell grog. What about
the interferences with the rights of all the other
Smiths and Joneses who are prohibited from doing
so?
I admit Smith-Jones as a community often do
silly and illogical things, but as the individual
Smiths and Joneses can, whenever they choose,
change all the laws, regulations and prohibitions
to which they object, there can be no question of
tyranny.
It certainly looks both illogical and unjust to
punish Jones for selling Smith a pound of tea or
a pair of boots at 8 o’clock on Thursday evening
while permitting him to do so on Friday up to 9
o’clock. Still, on the whole, this and a thousand
other interferences with the liberty of Smith and
Jones are necessary for the welfare of the com-
munity.
Smith may know half-a-dozen nice girls, all of
whom he would like to marry, and no doubt the
arrangement would be quite satisfactory to Smith
and the nice girls—at least, we are given to under-
stand it worked all right in Solomon’s time—but
Smith and Jones collectively have passed a “prohi-
bition” law against polygamy, and tell Smith that
if he breaks it they will, in the interests of the
community, put him in a place where he won’t
have any wife at all.
When prohibition comes in Australia it won’t be
through the Wowsers. They mean well, but they
don’t count. It will be the business people and
the more clear-headed of the working men who will
force it on the politicians, as they have done in
America. Smith and Jones may like a glass of
grog with their dinner —I know I do —but when they
come to realise that N. S. Wales alone is spending on
grog over £700,000 every month that ought to be
used to buy boots, clothes, food, houses and other
real necessaries, they will just decide to cut it out.
We send out of this country to buy grog every
year enough money to pay for running our railways
and tramways free, and we have as much capital
sunk in “the Trade” as would equip factories suffi-
cient to make nine-tenths of the things we to-day
buy from the foreigner.
L T pon which The Bulletin remarks: —
We probably also spend in amusements, jewellery,
unnecessary clothes, superfluous furniture and books
and papers that we could do without enough to
equip all the factories over again. We could pro-
bably pull through without botanic gardens, oyster
cocktails, art galleries and pneumatic tyres. But
we prefer to have all these things, because they git c
us pleasure and make life happier. That we could
buy something else with the money is true—and
also irrelevant.
Boots, clothes, food and houses may be “real
necessaries.” But the boots, clothes, food and
houses that we provide for ourselves are, as a rule,
not real necessaries. If we saved the money we
now spend on liquor, and spent it on these other
things, most of it would go in superfluous addi-
tions to the necessary —in things as unnecessary (in
the narrow sense) us beer.
The individual Smiths and Joneses cannot change,
whenever they choose, “all the laws, regulations and
prohibitions to which they object.” They can only
do it when they are a majority—and often they can
do it then only with great difficulty. The whole
question is whether a minority has any rights at all
—whether a majority is entitled to order man and
woman in every action of their lives. If this is
the claim that is set up in support of prohibition—
and apparently it is—then the majority will be well
advised to consider where it leads. Mr. Griffith's
friends, Jones and Smith, who are ready to com-
bine to prohibit Brown the moderate use of liquor,
may feel quite hurt presently when Brown joins
his non-smoking friends Robinson and Hodge to
prohibit them the moderate use of tobacco.
If a minority has no rights—if a majority can
order the whole private life of the minority-—then
we have got back to the period we thought we had
left when religious liberty was unrecognised. This
is a dangerous weapon some of the church people
are using.
Finally, The Bulletin doesn’t approve of “the
free use of alcohol.” Alcohol can be so easily mis-
used, and is so widely misused, that its sale must
be regulated. But prohibition, on the evidence, is
less likely to prevent misuse than regulation.
Opium-smoking can be pretty effectively prohibited,
because the sources from which opium can be derived
are strictly limited; and, further, none of it is pro-
duced in this country, nor can it be produced
secretly. On the other hand, alcohol of a sort can
be produced from a thousand articles in common
use and of local growth; and the production can
be carried on in any two-roomed shanty.
“Money or Your Life!”
At the present time Great Britain owes the
United States £97 2,000,000 of war debts, and
has "found it inconvenient” to pay the in-
terest for three years. The interest has
thus become new debt, but whether it is in-
cluded in the huge sum above mentioned or
is additional to it doesn’t appear very
clearly. The amount, whatever it is, is
payable on demand in gold—the United
States doesn’t believe in taking goods to
any extent from anybody—and under the
new U.S. Administration the demand has
come along, in dead earnest or semi-
earnest. Our part of the trouble lies in the
fact that Australia owes Britain about
£93,000,000 for the support of its troops,
and has defaulted consistently on the pay-
ment. It got into this condition for, disre-
putable reasons. Right at the beginning of
the war the Federal Government decided
that it wouldn’t put on any extra taxes to
help pay for its share, but would loaf along
as usual and borrow everything. It wouldn’t
pay anything early to keep down debt, but
it would pay awj/thing when it was late,
and go on paying for ever after to keep the
debt alive. So from June, 1914, to June,
1915, this country put £640,217 of its own
money and £14,471,118 of posterity’s money
into the big struggle, and on the whole three
years from 1914 to 1917 it paid less than
£13,000,000 of its own money. Even of that
hardly anything was for the war itself, and
almost everything for interest already fall-
ing due on the dead horse —the animal which
represented the nation’s moral cowardice
and shirking habit. Out of the £11,863,251
revenue money spent on war services m
1917-18, £532 was for actual, immediate
fighting. Of the rest £761,191 was for sink-
ing fund, which was at least paying some-
thing belatedly towards the cost of previous
fighting; £2,772,210 was for war pensions,
which were already beginning to grow; the
rest was partly office frill in this country
and partly dead horse. So the peace year
3919-20 ’found Australia paying about
£25,000,000 out of taxes for war purposes
because it wouldn’t pay taxes when the war
was young; borrowing £45,000,000 for the
war which is ancient history now; and
owing £92,000,000 to Britain for services
which it should have paid, for as it went
along. And at the very moment when
partly in consequence of this default of
ours,’ Britain is embarrassed by the Ameri-
can demand, various States are shouting
to Britain for more loans to avert the neces-
sity for doing productive work and to sub-
stitute unproductive public works instead.
In fact, one blatant Labor lion of the Senate
—there is only one now —declared the other
dav that if Britain doesn’t lend more money
to’ the two States that already owe it most,
the result will be “the disintegration of the
Empire”—presumably meaning that IV S.
Wales and Queensland will go away and not
nav at all It isn’t likely that Britain
will demand its £93.000,000 from Australia
even if “the other branch of the Anglo-
Saxon race” across the Atlantic is dunning
it for 10 or 11 times that amount. Such a
move would lead to nothing. But the situa-
tion suggests that J. Bull may be going
out of the big money-lending business tor
quite a while. He may renew loans, taking
new lOU’s for old, but even though the
blithering Gardiner (£IOOO a J eai i as ,
onlv Labor Senator and £2OO extra. for lead-
ing himself) should roar about disintegra-
tion” till the cows come home to roost, the
outlook for fresh dissipations is poor.
♦
The White-anting of Lithgow.
“Gunner” on the out-of-work Digger:
The Federal Government is still sacking men from
the Lithgow Small Arms works. Yet there is
plenty of work for them to do. Lithgow can turn
out telephones, of which there is such a shortage
that applicants for a service are often held up toi
months. It can make typewriters, cash-registers
and thousands of other articles which are m con-
stant demand, and which are at present mos >
coming in from abroad. For that matter i can
produce motor-cars equal to those in wic . -
Hughes and his Ministers tour the country; or
it is the justified boast of those in chaige o is
concern that it is equipped to make anything tne
B.S.A. factory at Birmingham can make. It the
Lithgow works were used for these purposes insteai


SAID A DEALER:
"Two Lines in a Daily Paper Advertising'
HOLEPROOF HOSIERY
brought me 350 Sales in Three Days/’
MR. MERCHANT—Is your Hosiery Trade slipping? Have you Holeproof Hosiery clients want?
MRS. BUYER—Realise what satisfaction, wear, sheer merit, and very exclusive advantages
Holeproof have. Once you wear a pair you will wear none other.
of being confined chiefly to the manufacture of rifles
turned out in such small quantities that their cost
it excessive, they might be the means of enabling
the Government to fulfil another duty—that of re-
patriating ex-Diggers. As it is, those men are
going out in platoons, not to say companies. The
recent case of a man named Qckleford is fairly
typical. Ocklefor!) is a returned soldier, married
and the father of two children. He got a job in
the burring and filing section on his return front the
war three years ago. No complaint was made about
his work. He is a non-smoker and a teetotaller.
For the last, year, believing his job to be perma-
nent, he has been putting his savings into bricks,
with the object of building a cottage. The other
day he was sacked, and he is now down and out.
That the Federal Government does not in fact
(whatever it may do in theory) recognise any obli-
gations in respect of men like Ockleforp is shown
in numerous directions. On August 8 last the
factory carried 800 employees, of whom 198 were
Diggers. Since then 215 have been dismissed, of
whom 66 were Diggers. And 13 of the 66 were
married men with families ranging from one to
four children. Of the 13 foremen employed in the
place, only one is an ex-soldier. What 1 claim is
(1) that it would pay the Government to
give the fullest preference to ex-soldiers at Lithgow,
and (2) that there is money in employing the
works to manufacture things for which there is a
large local demand. The only people who are against
the attempt being made are, firstly, the anti-social-
ists, who distrust any form of Government enter-
prise, and, secondly, the big importing firms, which
are at present indenting' at great profit hundreds
of the lines that Lithgow is fitted both by nature
and the possession of modern machinery, installed
at tremendous cost, to manufacture.
More Bottomless Pit Finance.
As N. S. Wales is applying- in London for a
three-million loan, offering 6 per cent, inter-
est and 5 per cent, discount, that triumphant
hsh-story about how the late Premier secured
millions right off at 54 per cent, with
13 millions to follow seems hardly worth
keeping alive any longer. Certainly there
may be some explanation, difficult as it is to
think so, but what the thing looks like at
present is a crude and silly fake. Certainly
£3,000,000 was secured last April for six
months because the Government “had to
meet certain financial obligations.” If one
of the obligations was interest on that part
of the State debt held in London, the amount
would lit pretty well; and at a time when
panic was in the air and had to be averted,
an obligation like that would make a strong
appeal to British financiers. The renewal of
the loan is a matter that could hardly he
refused either, for panic and suspicion are
still in the air. But all this doesn’t help
the public works policy much. It is a coin-
cidence that Theodore, of Queensland, being
refused his big permanent loan, also made a
temporary rise—a million for 12 months in
his case, for Queensland has only half
as much interest to pay in London. But he
didn’t present any unconvincing undetailed
tale of success. Rather he trumpeted like
an angry elephant and plunged round tramp-
ling down acres of vegetation. Now, co-
incident with the N.S.W. loan, various hap-
penings are reported from the North.
Queensland is announced as having, by a
brilliant coup, borrowed £2,400,000 in New
York, but the rate is 7 per cent., and it
would appear that there is to he a sinking
fund to secure the repayment of the loan in
20 years. If this is so it is a bitter pill
for a State which never repaid anything in
its life, and it makes Uncle Sam a prefer-
ence creditor. The amount, too, is wretch-
edly small for a State with such a huge
thirst, and especially so in view of some
revelations in the Auditor-General’s report
for the year to June 30, 1921. In spite
of all the weeping and wailing about how the
wonderful Two-up Government was perse-
cuted by capitalists and boycotted by finan-
ciers it would seem that it has been raising-
loans out of some mudhole or other, for
the report says that the Land of Bottomless
Pit Finance was £10,700,000 more in debt at
June 30 than a year earlier. That made
the debt over £80,000,000, or about £lOO per
head. But the only result is more wretchedness
and bigger deficits than ever. The railway
loss alone for the year was £1,739,475, which
was £509,896 worse than last year’s, despite
all increased charges. And in the quarter
since then (to September 30) the Queens-
land lines showed up £182,832 worse than
for the corresponding quarter in 1920
(revenue £130,466 less and expenditure
£52,366 more). Yet the wreck of a Ministry
is apparently afraid to sack any of the
thousands of superfluous employees whom it
foisted on the railways in return for votes.
We shall make little or no progress back to
sanity and solvency until we realise that the
borrowing policy has become a policy of
corruption.
Grandmother’s Eggs.
Dear Bulletin, —After a lecture in London
in which the usual Anglo-Australian speaker
had said that Australians should welcome the
criticism of English visitors instead of try-
ing to teach their grandmother how to suck
eggs. Will Dyson rose and remarked that,
though Australians would never think of
putting the old lady to such a disrespectful
use, it was hardly fair to expect them to
suck the eggs of their gran’mother’s genera-
tion. Australians have set too great a value
on these ancient eggs. Those whose parents
came from the Cold Country have been
brought up from youth to believe in their
supernatural efficacy. The old people see
everything through a mist of sentiment,
which is natural enough, but it is fatal when
the sentiment becomes mistaken for reality.
Everything English is superior to everything
Australian. England is the most beautiful
country in the world, more beautiful than
Italy; the trim meadows, the woods (often
about a dozen trees like walking-sticks), the
tiny farms and orchards, are regarded as far
superior to our Bush, a primitive, ugly bit
of nature with horrible gum-trees, though to
the true native it is the most beautiful, or
rather the most magical, landscape in the
world. English fruit is the best, though it
is small and scarce, for Australian fruit
hasn’t the “flavor.” Our country is silent,
for we haven’t any birds (magpies, kooka-
burras, thrushes, finches, etc., don’t count),
though if anyone hears a nightingale in Eng-
land he writes to the newspapers about it.
Our fish is no good either. Flounders, whit-
ing, Murray cod, etc., can’t be compared to
the bloater. All things English are the best;
the Englishman says so himself. There is
no navy like the British Navy; the Constitu-
THE TEMPORARY DIVORCE.
SPONSOR McGIRR (to the N.S.W. public) : “I previously introduced these two as a mar-
ried couple. That—ahem —was a mistake. They are really no relation to
each other”
tion is a masterpiece, though nobody knows
what it is, and Lloyd George, who is a
Welshman, pays no attention to it; all pub-
lic men act from the highest motives (the
modern Englishman smiles at this) ; the
English are the only true sportsmen ; Eng-
lish cooking is the best—solid and not frivol-
ous, like the French. It is all a question of
propaganda, so the highest ambition of the
young Australian, an entirely different type,
is to be like a purely imaginary character
he calls a Britisher. He imports his habits,
clothes, food, modes of life, ethics and poli-
tics; he has a pub instead of a cafe;, he
wastes too much time on sport; he despises
foreigners, French and Italians especially;
he has a Puritan Sunday. Of course, he
isn’t the least bit like his ideal model; but
he doesn’t yet consciously realise that, for
good and evil, he belongs to a distinctive
nationality. Yet without this consciousness
of nationality it is difficult to build up a
nation whose people are in sympathy with
one another, and have a definite unity of
purpose. Grandmother’s eggs have been
over-rated by our parents. Young Aus-
tralia must demand fresh eggs-—a fresh litera-
ture, a fresh social life, a fresh policy for
the Commonwealth. —Yours, Ganesha.
Pearce for the Washington Disarmament
Conference, Cook for London! Neither
appointment is unexpected, because both
are conventional; but they are none
the less thoroughly bad. Pearce as
Defence Minister has had but one.
redeeming quality: he lias always got up
his brief conscientiously. But tile mili-
tary men who instructed him found
at an early stage that he was a child in
their hands, and he has remained a child to
tin 1 end- —even to the extent ultimately of
trying to foist the Army Act on the C.M.F.
His docility in all that affected the Army
caused senior officers to talk of him as "the
best Defence Minister we ever had,” and no
better measure could be got of his unsuit-
ability for the American job. He is essenti-
ally a man who stands in awe of authority
and of the expert (real or bogus), and is
consequently easy to bluff. And even if he
goes pledged to stand solidly for certain
main principles, he. will be unable to bring
forward any heavy artillery of argument in
support, being unadroit in unfamiliar con-
troversy. Cook is so preoccupied these days
with the business of living up to his faultless
clothes and his reputation for utter respect-
ability that be is extremely unlikely to
attempt anything in the way of raising the
High Commissionership from the bog of
futility in which Andrew Fisher left it. A
veteran politician should be one of the last
men chosen for this office. It needs vigor,
imagination and sound business knowledge
along with the Digger spirit; and if the man
has experience of all grades of social life in
the Commonwealth, with an assured place at
the head of his profession or calling, so much
the better. But the party system calls for
the starring of faithful hacks, and against
such a claim the mere interests of the Com-
monwealth have no weight. . -
“Solomon Mala prop” : As easy a way as
any to get a reputation for generosity, large-
heartedness and the finer sentiments of
humanity is by weeping over another man’s
grave. If he was an opponent when alive
so much the better. Mark Antony made
lasting popularity and some evanescent for-
tune by doing it over the remains of Caesar.
Unless somebody is dead, the man with a
and he' oratory can’t get a chance
sequence kmdiv ot the deceased in con-
vague tiling o !l sast . aumber of pleasant
who h0,,1!K- ",’ ei - e i - ! a,d of John Storey.
imnossihte US ) - of office with more
m r bn * eu
-ethc,. T r.i. ais .. (.predecessors put to-
undertook L th( ' Stl ' Uggle of candidature he
“,”i 'gzs*
_ “ * 0 uo f only , absorb the unemployed, but to
a scat city ot workers (his Government's, “acti-
vities were only to be limited bv the available supi.lv
of labor”). ’
(3) To reduce railway freights and fares.
(I) To create new manufacturing centres and
to open up new ports north and south of Sydney.
(•>) To give bigger subsidies to local bodies.
(0) To maintain main roads at the cost of the
Treasury (not merely to patch Svdnev suburban
roads at the cost of posterity).
( 1 ) to supply farmers with Government waggons.
(8) To fix things so that all qualified settler-
could get “living areas of land,” and that all people
who so desired could possess their own homes (no-
thing about payment in either case).
(9) To grant loans to co-operative societies.
(10) Ditto to “co-operative enterprises.”
(II) To establish State wire-netting and agricul-
tural-implement factories.
He and his colleagues bought their way to
office by assurances that a thousand million
pounds would hardly have sufficed to carry
out, and kept office by robbing the people
of their right of protest at by-elections, and
by stuffing the Assembly with nominees. In
cold fact John Storey was the most disas
trous Premier the State has known; the one
to whom it owed least, yet the one to whom
(on his own motion) it paid most; the arch-
representative of that easy scattering of
borrowed money for the purchase of political
support which is the greatest of our curses
and will certainly lead to repudiation of our
debts and to national disgrace if persisted in.
“Gregor” : Although many must be inter-
ested, one way and another, in New Guinea
and the neighboring islands, no New Guinea
Society, similar to the Royal African or the
Royal Asiatic Society, seems to have been
suggested. Yet such an organisation would
be of value from the point of view of the
study of the natives, as well as from that
of disseminating knowledge as to conditions
there. In the way the Royal African
Society was founded to perpetuate the
memory of Mary Kingsley and her work
among the natives, so might there be a New
Guinea Society to perpetuate the memory
of William Macoregor, who did more for
the Territory than anybody else in its his-
tory. What about somebody with organis-
ing ability taking the matter up?
4
London Chronicle took the opportunity of
the truce to send an exploring expedition
of one through Ireland, and lie reported the
people outside the north-east as unanimous
for the republic. Some approved of more
peaceful methods than others, but their
unanimity for a republic was over-proof.
It would have been wonderful if an inquir-
ing stranger had found it otherwise. The
unanimity may be quite l real, but it certainly
would have looked real even if it wasn't.
Australia can see a faint reflection of the
same thing in its own N. Territory. There
the trouble is 10 years old at most —not TDD
years old. There is no racial dispute; no
religious dispute ; no national grievance; no
old conquest to be avenged. The crowd
which has Harold George de Valera Nel-
son for its figure-head and Grand Inquisitor
hasn’t even defined its object—republic,
transfer of allegiance, relapse into the abori-
ginal and ’possum-eating state or anything
else. Pending a decision as to its aims, it
is out in pursuit of Thingumbob. The
party, being very young, hasn’t quite reached
for a gun yet, but almost any annoyance
short of death can happen to the Australian
up at the top of the map who pays his taxes
or otherwise fails in the pursuit of Thingum-
bob. And that is one reason why public
opinion isn’t always what' it seems.
Mount Boppy, the last live mine in the
Cobar (N.S.W.) district, has closed, and
200 men have lost their jobs. The mine
isn’t exhausted, but “awards” and other
wild fowl have pushed up wages and cost
of materials far above the value of the out-
put, and the co.’s money is finished. It is
merely another illustration of the fact that
Arbitration Courts don’t finally fix wages,
though they sometimes think they do. All
their awards are liable to appeal. Over
and above every Arbitration Court and
Wages Board and Board of Trade is
an authority whose other name is the
market. If it decides that the wages
can’t be paid or the hours, etc., pre-
scribed can’t be observed, then the wages
are not paid and the conditions are not
observed. Wages which the markets say ar<
impossible can no more be paid, even
though an Arbitration Court has “fixed"
them, than an employer can get 10 pints
out of a gallon because a Judge has told
him to get them.


BRISBANE-SYDNEY RELIABILITY CONTEST.
'You Really Ride
on Goodrich Tires
Mr. Boyd Edkins, the WINNER, writes:—
“My success in the Reliability Contest, Brisbane to Sydney, has been?
largely contributed to by the wonderful behavior of GOODRICH Tyres.
Including the above contest these tyres covered in all 2000 miles, and also
had to stand the enormous stress of two hill climbs against the watch, which
is well known to be extremely severe on tyres. The tyres were unchanged
through the whole distance mentioned.
“The two rear tyres show no more sign of wear than is noticed in
ordinary tyres which run 500 miles. The front tyres could be sold as new.”
GOODRICH Tyres.
DUVAL- CO., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
George Washington, J. Bull’s brother
across the Atlantic, whose shooting and sud-
den-death tilms are so well known in Aus-
tralia, lias served the Old Man in London
with notice to pay up the £972,000,000 of war
debt he owes, and the three years’ interest
in arrear. (G. Washington lent in the
shape of goods, but he wants payment in
gold.) There is only one way Australia can
help its parent. The republic is such a brisk
seller to us and such a poor buyer from us
that the trade figures in 1918-19 were 27 mil-
lions one way and nine millions the other,
leaving 19 millions in cash to be raised by us
somehow 7 for settlement of the difference. If
the figures w r ere turned the other way about
we w T ould have some money to help out our
obligations to the Old Man beside the Thames.
We might even pay him his money sometimes
when it falls due. For instance, there is
£3,000,000 of N. S. Wales debt due in Lon-
don four months hence, and only a shirt-
button to pay with. It is time some of the
people who talk so much about king and
country and their loyalty to the Motherland
really did a bit to help it through.
On the shuffle in the N.S.W. Cabinet: —
N.S.W. Labor Caucus dealt with the Ministerial
vacancy created through John Storey's death by elect-
ing Jim Dooley to the Premiership and Carlo Laz-
zarini to the Ministry. Breezy Greg McGirr, the
motherhood endowment specialist, was a runner
against Dooley at the ballot, and polled two votes for
each three east for the other man. The main objec-
tion to Dooley was that he is not swift enough. His
election indicates the continued supremacy within
the Parliamentary Caucus of the soothing-syrup sec-
tion —a circumstance that is going to bring the
Ministry into violent conflict with the A.L.P. execu-
tive. Brother Lazzarini had 12 competitors and the
opposition of the section which worked against
Dooley. He had been Whip of the party since the
election; Dooley had been Acting-Premier while
Storey was in England. They are much alike, these
men. They are tailors by trade, short and podgy,
talkative and “genial.” Dooley is imported. Every-
bodv calls him Jim. He tells a good yarn, is smooth
of tongue and mild of manner, keeps the soft pedal
on in disputation and' does much damage with a
knife and fork. Lazzarini is Australian-born, sou
of a fine old Florentine. Carlo being an exotic re. ie
for an Australian bloke, he answers to Laz. l.n-
like Dooley, Lazzarini has a deep bass voice and a
habit of laying down the law with emphasis. He is
easily stirred to fury by the bark of the yellow
pup. Dooley listens to the animal with a benevo-
lent grin which only makes the pup more ferocious.
The N.S.W. Board of Trade, after mak-
ing the usual unscientific inquiry, has re-
duced the basic wage 3s. a week —from £4
ss. to £4 2s. But it wasn’t able to alter
the basis of the basic wage, though it knows
that that basis is thoroughly dishonest. What
the Board is supposed to find out is the cost
of maintaining a man. his wife and two child-
ren in reasonable comfort, and it is directed
to make that the wmge. But the worker
to whom the wage applies doesn’t average
even one child, wherefore the industries ot
the State are loaded with the maintenance
of tens of thousands of children that don’t
exist. It is an obvious case of getting money
by false pretences; but there apparently isn’t
a Minister ready to denounce the swindle
and take measures to stop it.
Nothing indicates with more damnable
emphasis the rapid descent wherein the
Theodore Government has involved Queens-
land than the figures regarding public relief.
The totals for 1920 passed all previous
records, but 1921 puts them completely in
the shade. This is how matters stand: —
Year ending June 30, 1919 . . £28,162 6 6
„ „ „ 1920 . . 77,938 12 11
„ „ „ 1921 .. 120,000 0 0
So that, judged by the official statement of
doles distributed, the number of out-of-
work and destitute in Bananaland has gone
up over 50 per cent, in 12 months. There lias
been no drought, no series of devastating
floods, no collapsing of banks to explain it:
it has been due simply to governmental in-
capacity, shirk and cowardice.
The help that was given to distressed
N. S. Wales farmers last year out of loans
amounted to £1,674,422. As the result of
a 17-bushel crop the Treasury, up to June
30, had recaptured £66,744. Farming,
though practised on a very small selected
area of the State, seems a precarious busi-
ness, and it looks as though something more
than the mere pushing of other settlers on
to the land is necessary to make it. any dif-
ferent —especially if they are pushed further
out where only drought is more reliable.
When the Queensland debt was a mere
£52,000,000, the exuberant Fihelly (he
wasn’t Treasurer then) wrote a pamphlet to
say that its magnitude appalled him. It is
now £81,000,000, and £29,000,000 will have
to be provided for within four years, and of
course there isn’t a sinking-fund, and Fihelly’s
Government hasn’t a shot in the locker.
What makes things worse is that most of the
maturing loans are 34 and 4 p.c. propositions
floated as far back as 1884. Agonised at
the prospect the Auditor-General has ap-
pealed to the Government to struggle out of
the chaos that is engulfing it, and present
such balance-sheets “as will appeal to the
State’s creditors and tend to the obtaining
of favorable renewal terms.” Treasurer
Fihelly has risen to the occasion heroically.
He has brought down another £9,185,000
Loan Bill.
Perhaps the most striking feature of the
Queensland Auditor-General’s staggering re-
port is a little table dealing with the in-
creases in population, receipts and expendi-
ture for 1920-21, as compared with 1910-
17. Increases on a percentage basis showed
up as follows: Population, 10.3 p.c.; income
tax, 218.7 p.c.; totalisator tax, 43.4 p.c.;
licenses, 2.0 p.c. ; land tax, 29.4 p.c.:
stamp duty. 105.7 p.c. The total pub-
lic debt at the end of 1919-20 was
£69,080,764, while at the close of 1920-21 it
amounted to £80,382,051, an increase of
£10,701.288. A leap of £l4 per head in pub-
lic debt in 12 months surely beats anything
this side of the equator. Incidentally, the
Auditor-General devotes a paragraph to
the Premier’s visit to England, and shows
that the little jaunt cost the country £4043
THE CHANGE.
SHADE OF OLD-TIME LABOR LEADER: “ This
is not the old home!”
INMATE: “Of course it is! Can't yer see
the name on the pate?”
SHADE: “Yes, and it's the only part I can
recognise.”
11s. 3d. When Wullie Kidston paid a visit
to the Cold Land, at a cost of about £9OO, the
Labor partv of the day called it extravagant.
But evidently Wullie didn’t know the ABC
of the game.
N.S.W. Works Minister Estell reiterates
the statement that he has no money (appa-
rently he never expects to have any) for
32 miles of line to connect the Canberra capi-
tal with the great Sydney-Melbourne rail-
way, and probably if the bit was built he
would find he had no trains to run on it or
none of the exact kind of coal that such
trains use. When a silly capital is sur-
rounded by the territory of a State that is
full of Estells, all the fury of Austin Chap-
man can't keep population (now two per
square mile) from leaving it.
The split in the Vic. Cocky party has
made things so safe for Lawson’s team that
its whip, Pennington, was able to go away
for the whole of last week to join in the
“Back to St. Arnaud” movement.
MODERN LOCOMOTION.
“Notwithstanding increased charges, the railways
of Queensland last financial year showed a loss of
£1,739,475. The accumulated deficit for six years
is £6,642,022. The expenditure in five years ba-
increased 84 per cent.”
THE NURSE: "Home, John.”
Prohibition in Maoriland ! Official returns
of alcoholic liquor sent into dry districts in
the past 12 months show that the latter
wetted their thirst with 270,078 gallons-r-
-an increase of 90,168 gallons on the pre-
vious year. Invercargill alone took 100,172
gallons that the officials know about, and
probably as much more that God knows
about.
Queensland is coming into line with West-
ralia in making it an offence to shoot birds
out of traps. By the same bill the Govern-
ment proposes to also abolish coursing. It
is an odd thing that the States which are the
most populous and regard themselves as the
most cultured should lag behind in such
matters. In N. S. Wales the usual tine for
ill-treating a horse is £l, and in Victoria,
the other day, a sadistic ' blackguard was
lined 10 shillings for biting a cat’s tail off.
The craving to suppress the N.S.W. Upper
House, which lay torpid during the six years
of former Labor administration, has flamed
up again, and there is an urgent demand
for the appointment of sufficient new
M’s.L.C. to carry the abolition with a rush.
The idea is good—so good that steps should
be taken to prevent its miscarriage. To
that end each of,the new nominees should
first put his signed and undated resignation
in the hands of some reliable neutral, to be
used if, when once safely in, the crowd starts
passing a Payment of Ourselves Bill, etc., and
quite forgets about Suicide. Otherwise, it
might forget for another 20 years and not
remember then.
Trouble began early for the new Dooley
Ministry (N.S.W.). While Caucus was
selecting the new Premier Captain Millard,
one of the members for Goulburn, was dying
at Bondi. He, A. G. F. James and Colonel
Rutledge were the Nationalist candidates
for Goirlburn at the general election; James
and Rutledge were returned, and when the
former was promoted to the Bench Millard
took his place in the manner provided by
the Casual Vacancies law. Now that the
Captain is dead his seat should go to. an-
other Nationalist candidate. But there isn’t
another Nationalist candidate left, and
the swindling Act, which ought to have pro-
vided for such an emergency, doesn’t say
anything about it.
Somebody is always discovering “new
wheat provinces.*’ The latest, revealed by
the Chief Inspector of Agriculture in N. S.
Wales, runs to “milions of acres,” and lies
between the Inverell-Moree railway and the
Queensland border. It really is a rich dis-
trict, traversed by head waters of the Dar-
ling, and it is only about 150 miles from two
good ports: but it can’t be connected with
either of them. So the local, farmer must
send his produce over 500 miles by ram’s-
horn route to Sydney, for there are no
focal industrial towns at hand worth calling
towns. The painful truth is you don’t find
“new wheat provinces” by merely finding
places that will grow wheat. An iceberg in
New York would be worth a fortune, but it
is merely something to bump against or
crawl round in the Antarctic.
Mount Morgan, which supplied more than
half the gold and nearly half the copper out-
put of Queensland before the stoppage, has
entered on its 24th week of hunger and
misery. It is the usual point of honor to
resist any reduction in wages, and wages
went up like , the skylark in the war-time
when copper touched £lBO. Now copper is
about £7O, and it may be 100 years before
prices return to the figure that will make
the war wages possible again—and few
people last without food so long as that.
In the United States copper-miners’ wages
have been reduced twice this year, but there
the Government doesn’t subsidise stoppages,
especially when, as at Mount Morgan and
Broken Hill, it is a case of hunger-striking
against the arithmetic-book, and against the
fact that there are only 12 pence in a shil-
ling. ' Some of the union leaders hope that
something will come of the Labor Conference
at Brisbane, where Labor is to be invited to
declare for revolution. But though Bris-
bane River runs red and the Enoggera water
supply is full of bodies, the world’s price
of copper may not rise much.
The Labor majority,in Sydney Municipal
Council has the conviction that most of the
electors won’t want it at the December elec-
tion, so a bill has been prepared to disqualify
the hostile majority and preserve for the
Labor aldermen the nominally unpaid bil-
lets which seem too valuable to be let go
without a great struggle. The people who
work in the city and pay the great bulk of
the rates are to be excluded from the suf-
frage, and it is to be confined to those who
sleep there, though they may pay no rates
and may work elsewhere. Any person who
merely toils in Sydney and pays a few lain
dreds a year to keep the place up but lodges
in a hotel at Randwick and pays nothing
there will be allowed to help govern Rand-
wick, but not Sydney. Such are the virtues
of sleep. Incidentally, the oldest and most
densely peopled parts of the city must be
cherished, for they are a perfect rabbit-
warren of votes —votes of the “right sort.”
Australia is littered with the fragments
of failed loans —the crusts and heel-taps of
the feast. The N.S.WI local loan which
Treasurer Lang launched in December.
1920, and which, when it went aground,
was disguised as the Good Roads JLoan and
re-launched, is lying about somewhere. The
financial mystery which the late John
Storey got hold of in London (the 194 mil-
lions which never begin to arrive) already
ranks with the bun.vip. The Sydney City
Council loan of £350.000 only tottered home
to the extent of about £105,000. whereupon
the almighty Mayor bellowed defiantly that
he could get £3,000,000 if it were wanted.
He might, too —at 171 per cent. The Bris-
bane-Ipswich (Q.) Water Supply tried to
raise £1,000.000 in London at £0 17s. sd.
per cent. : the public put up only £250,000.
Theodore’s land is now giving itself autho-
rity to borrow £9,185.915; but having sur-
veyed the wreckage the Government fix.es
no limit to the rate of interest.
Truth is like a long-sentence criminal,
inasmuch as it is always liable to come out
some day. In the case of Labor politicians
discussing each other it seems to come out
every day. Thus Catts, M.H.R., has reported
to his constituents that ever since theA.L.P.
Conference .at which he lifted up his voice
against Lambert he has been pursued inside
the party by “a Tammany gang, furious,
unscrupulous, vindictive and unrelenting."
He also speaks of “corruption,” “machina-
tions” and the “red herring of Sectarianism;”
At latest advices the A.L.P. wanted to expel
and victimise N.S.W. Treasurer Lang (it
expels everybody sooner or later), but it is a
serious matter to give its entire Parliamen-
tary majority the “boot,” and that is what
the ejection of even one Labor M.L.A. would
mean. The same consideration forced the
A.L.P. to bottle up its rage against Premier
Storey last year, so it merely went home and
broke some crockery.
The noble rage of Senator Gardiner at the
British investors’ refusal to lend Theodore of
Queensland nine millions was a feature of
the Sydney Eight Hour banquet. “It’s the
beginning of the disintegration of Empire,”
shouted the mourner at the .tomb of Free-
trade. But it has leaked out that country in-
vestors, for the same reasons—they are short
of the needful, and they have lost confidence
in the party with the inverted hat—haven’t
subscribed sixpence to the extensively-adver-
tised Sydney Council loan. It must be the
beginning of the disintegration of N, S.
Wales.
The cabled news that the Duke D’Aosta is
co-operating with D’Annunzio to oust the
King of Italy and form a republic is another
proof that Tories can be as vehement red-
raggers as the other fellows. A similar
situation arose in Ulster, just before the
war, in connection with the Parliament Act,
Carson and F. E. Smith being the leading
figures. The Duke is the idol of the Fas-
cisti —anti-socialists who go about assault-
ing the working classes in the name of
liberty. D’Annunzio, who is behind him or
any other immoderate Italian Jingo, is the
terror of the Royalist party, who realise
that bis hectic policies are likely to bring
Bolshevism on the country. So the curious
spectacle is offered of the Crown and the
Vatican, hitherto the two most conservative
forces in the country, in alliance on the side
of the Socialist Nitti. whose most prominent
followers are atheists or Jews. The Duke,
■who was in Australia 15 years ago on his
way back from the South Magnetic Pole,, is
a notable explorer and mountaineer. Like
D’Annunzio, he has “the lean and hungry
look” which Shakspeare gave Cassius as the
sign-manual of the dangerous man who
“thinks too much.”
THE DEMOBILISATION OF WORDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Nationalist party is thinking of changing
its name back to Liberal.” *
Now that the war-breeze milder blows,
And every voice the peace-note raises,
When brass-hats wear civilian clothes,
It seems the turn of words and phrases ;
Unless we’re to grow addle-pated
From seeing- like to unlike mated,
They must be soon repatriated.
Without a growl, without a sigh,
They’ve served the most exacting men ;
They never asked the reason why,
These little conscripts of the pen :
But if in truth we really prize them
Now is the time to recognise them
And hasten to demobilise them.
There’s “National” and “Loyalty”
Who’ve been in every scrap embroiled—
Their wasted forms are sad to see,
Their uniforms are torn and soiled.
At once plebeian and patrician,
It really does not seem their mission
To serve the peace-time politician.
Then let us give them their discharge
And thus restore them to the nation ;
Old Webster’s folios are large
And hold a teeming population ;
And surely it would be infernal
Should gallant words we thought eternal
Be killed by some mere Comforts Colonel.
VICTORIA.
V. P.


ANOTHER OF BILLY’S IMPERSONATIONS.
Mr. Hughes hinted in the Reps, the other day that he was the first to suggest the Disarmament Conference.


m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
There is a Pioneer
Leather Belt for every
power-transmission pur-
pose —a belt whose relia-
bility is backed by sixty-
three years of manufac-
turing experience. Pioneer
Leather Belting is made
and guaranteed by
J. C. Ludowici
& Son Ltd.,
Pioneer House,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification.
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne) :
Writ-
Pref. Def. Ord. Total ten Nominal
Julv, Profit p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. Off. Reserves.
1910 . . £53,596 12113 9 £31,700 £6,601 £61,878
No accounts issued for 1911. Surplus pro-
fits of that year plus amount by which
assets were written up, £110,622. . .. 172,500
fo. reconstructed ; reserves capitalised.
Pref.Def.Ord. Total To Re- Nominal
-July, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. serves. Reserves.
1912 06,768 10 910 £49,637 117,131 .if 17,131
Premium on new shares. . .. 00 17,191
1913.. 72 S9l 10 910 51,100 21,791 38.982
1914.. 77,003 10 910 51,100 25,903 64,885
191.5.. 95,601 12* 910 56,100 39,501 104,380
Co. reconstructed. Other reserves dis-
closed, .£130,614 235,000
Shares in new co. issued otherwise than
for cash, £235,000 .. .. ..
1-yoar to To Re- Nominal
duly. Profit. Div. on All Shares, serves. Reserves.
1916. . £38,063 10 p.c. = £36,197 .4-1,866 £1,866
Premium on new shares, £721 . . 2,587
Year ending
Julv,
1917.. 105,865 10 p.c. = 87,679 18.186 20,773
Premiums on new shares, £5064 ~ 25,777
1918.. 145,596 10 p.c. = 106,463 39,133 64,910
Premiums on new shares, £23,110 . . 88,020
1919. .177,066 121f342
Staff fund, £20,000 )
Co. reconstructed ; assets written up and reserves
capitalised. £292,000 bonus ordinaries offered.
1921. . 149,162 p - e - } 145,684 3,478 3,478 ,
’ Ord. 8 p.c.)
Three reconstructions within 10 years; and
that calls for explanation:—
When the Dunlop patents were brought to Aus-
tralia in ’99, the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of
Australasia was formed. Paid capital was
£170,000, and £125,000 of it represented goodwill.
The public put up £BO,OOO in 7 p.c. cum. prefs. ;
but there was no limit to the diys. they might get.
The ordinaries, issued in part payment for patent
rights, etc., stopped at 9 p.c. By 1910 the prefs.
were getting 124 p.c. There were then £200,000
of prefs. and £90,000 of ordinaries. By that time
considerable new capital was required; and it was
decided that a reconstruction was the easiest way
to get it. Assets (including goodwill) were written
up and reserves capitalised, and £57,500 of new
shares were offered at par. In the reshuffle the old
ordinary shares became non-cum. prefs., and 172,500
new bonus ordinaries were issued —three for every four
of the old prefs., and one for every four of the old
ords.
The war gave the co. new opportunities, and busi-
ness had so expanded by 1916 that liabilities were
becoming over-heavy. The management wisely de-
cided that the times made it “inexpedient to have
liabilities of any magnitude,” and to ease the posi-
tion and secure funds for further expansion it was
decided to again reconstruct. Once more the ordi-
naries were converted into prefs. (this time 3rd
prefs.). Then £177,500 of bonus ordinaries were
issued (Ist prefs. got one for four ; 2nd prefs., one
for 20 ; and the new third prefs. one for 10), and
200,000 ords. were offered at par. The prefs. were
to get 7 p.c., 9 p.c. and 10 p.c. respectively—‘but
all could, and did, go to 10 p.c.
The third reconstruction took place last year, once
more with the object of coaxing in additional cash.
The three classed of pref. shares were consolidated
into the same number of 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and all
got, in addition, one new gift ord. for each old
pref. The ords. got four bonus shares for every 10
previously held. Both prefs. and ords. were also
offered new ordinaries at par. to the number of
bonus shares issued. The writing up of properties
and plant and accumulated profits provided the
£292,000 of bonus ordinaries.
So over 20 years capital has grown in this
way :
Ist -2nd 3rd Ordi-
Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. naries. Total.
1901 .. £BO,OOO £20,000 £70,000 £170,000
1910.. 180,000 20,000 90,000 290,000
1911.. Bonus shares, £172,500
1912.. 200,000 90,000 229,677 519,677
1915.. Bonus shares, £177,000
1916.. 200,000 90,000 230,000. 340,396 860,396
1919 .. 200,000 90,000 230,000 595,553 1,115,553
1920.. Bonus shares, £292,000
10 p.c. cum. prefs.
1921.. £520,000 1,17}, 114 1,691,114
It has been a remarkable performance, and
the early backers of the co. and those who
picked up the $ p.c. prefs. at around par.
up to 18 years ago have had a great feast.
For every £lOOO of the original prefs. share-
holders have, in the the three reconstructions,
been asked to put up a further £l7BO of
cash, and in return for this total. outlay of
£2780 they now hold £2OOO of 10 p.c. cum.
prefs. and £2500 of ordinaries. In addition,
there have been the handsome dividends
shown in the introductory table.
In view of the adverse conditions of the
period, and particularly in face of the trifle
of profit shown by Barnet-Glass anti Per-
driau’s small loss, Dunlop’s did remarkably
well to come through last year with a net
profit of £149,162. That provided 10 p.c.
for the profs, with the greatest ease and
enabled the ordinaries to get 8 p.c. Profits
would have been larger, the directors declare,
if the management had not been misled into
believing that a cotton famine threatened.
Large supplies were purchased at high
prices; but, instead of rising, cotton goods
slumped, and this “involved heavy writing
down” of stocks. Not only did the cotton
market slip, but rubber prices crashed hor-
ribly. So that there may be no misunder-
standing as to how the profit was arrived
at, chairman John Grice went out of his
way to explain to shareholders that, pro-
perty and plant values had not been inter-
fered with to help the year’s figures. The
increases in these lines shown in the latest
balance-sheet were due to revaluations in the
reconstruction and to additions since. The
fixed assets, he confided, had been severely
written down in previous years. And in
view of the profits claimed for tin* past year
the reconstructed <-o. must have accjn'ired' the
old one’s stocks at conservative values,
otherwise there would have been other
niggers in the woodheap beside the cotton
slump. On what basis the very heavy stocks
were taken at the latest balance is not dis-
closed ; but it is unlikely that the big con-
cern has made allowance only for the drop
in cotton. The following table sets out Dun-
lop’s present position, the figures just prior
to the three reconstructions also being given
to show the rapid expansion of the eo.
1910. 1915. 1919. 1921.
Stocks . . £172.772 £305,108 £855,533 £1.487,343
Hook debts 51,793 118,908 186,087 290,857
Investments
and cash.. 7,890 6,559 5,345 10,130
£232,455 £430.575 £1,047,565 £1,788,330
Liabilities 89,703 123,947 214,733 829,255
Net liquid
assets. . £142,752 £306,628 £832,832 £959,075
Properties,
■etc. .. 33,167 82,840 171,109 307,380
Plant, etc. 42,285 85,400 186,186 329,264
Net assets £218,204 £474,934 £1,190,127 £1,595,725
Goodwill.. 137,524 180,000 180,000 180,000
There are now 520,000 £1 p.c. cum. profs,
and 1,171,114 £1 ordinaries. Net liquid
assets exceed the pref. capital by £439,000.
and the surplus of all tangible assets over
liabilities is three times the amount of the
pref. interests.
Weight, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Protits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
Jan., 'l5 . . £8,662 10 p.c. = £5OOO £3,662 £74,981
Written off. £3OOO 71,981
July, T 5 •• 8,203 10 p.e. = 5000 3,203 75,184
Written off, £ 1000 .. •• 74,184
Jan., TO .. 9,121 10 p.c. = 5000 4,121 78,305
July, T 6 . . 8,14.1 10 „ ~ 5000 3,141 81,446
Inter reserves disclosed, £14,195 .. 95,641
Jan., T 7 .. 8,526 10 p.c. ~ 5000 3,526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000 74,167
.July 'l7 -. 8,125 10 p.c. = 6250 1.875 76,042
Jaii., T 8 .. 10,460 10 „ 6250 4,210 80,252
Julv, ’lB .. 13,677 10 ~ ~ 6250 7,427 87,6i9
Jan.’ T 9 .. 14,663 10 ~ „ 6250 8,413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, £5OOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July, T 9 .. 13,067 10 p.c. = 6662 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes £BOOO . . . . 69,597
Jan., ’2O .. 25,878 11 p.c. = 7563 18,315 8<,912
Reserved.for taxes, £5OOO •• •• 82,912
July ’2O .. 23,275 12 p.c. = 8250 15,020 9i,93<
Jan >2l .. 14,030 12 „ „ 8250 5,780 103,717
July’ ’2l .. 12,225 12 „ „ 8250 3,975 107,692
Though after providing £1250 of bonuses for
employees the directors claim £12,225 net
profit'for the half-year, a comparison of
income and outgo for the period puts a dif-
ferent complexion on the performance:—
Gross revenue .. .. •• £53,582
Working exes. .. ..£39,772
Taxes . . . . • • 13,335
Employees’ bonus .. .. 1,200
Apparent loss • • • • £775
During the severe drought which broke oyer
a vear ago this old back-country carrying
eo.' had a very busy time and earnings were
unusually large. Activities have since got
back to normal, but during the past halt
the management was called upon to pay
taxes assessed on the profit-harvest of the
drought period. Commonwealth taxes took
£7510 and State £5824. These calls by the
Treasuries were anticipated by the hard-
headed management, so in the flush years
£13,000 was laid aside for taxation. By
transferring this reserve the six months are
made to show a profit, of £12.225, instead of
a loss. Since only £334 of taxation was
actually charged against the half’s earnings,
the co. may not have done quite so well as
the management claims. On the other hand.
Wright Heaton’s has been noted for the
large slices of apparent profit which it has
held for future reference on numerous occa-
sions. Only 18 months ago managing-direc-
tor F. W. Browne confided that “full pro-
vision has been made for any contingency
likely to arise.” and that there was an
accumulation of undisclosed profits amount-
ing to £40.000. The co. is in a line of busi-
ness which necessitates giving considerable
financial support to the producer in un-
favorable times, and nursing him until good
seasons enable him to wipe the slate clean.
Twelve months ago book debts totalled
£108.189, but they had been got down to
£l3B/910 bv July 33 last. “Most of the
agriculturists,” says the latest report, "have
paid up arrears of their accounts, but many
pastoraiists and carriers have not been in
a position to do so. However, the directors,
bv displaying a little patience, expect to re-
cover the greater part, if not all. of these
accounts.”
Wright Heaton’s is nowadays very well
placed to nurse its customers. It was not
always so • at one time the eo. was leaning
heavily on outsiders, and for a while the
bank was feeling so very nervous about its
money that a change of management was
manoeuvred. It was then that managing-
director F. W. Browne took control. As-
sisted by favorable seasons, he rapidly got
the concern out of the bog. It has since
done remarkably well. I‘aid capital is
£137.500. £45,000 of which represents re-
serves capitalised during the past dozen
years. In 3919 £25,000 of cash bonuses
were also passed but to shareholders. Never-
theless. the co. has done so well recently
that considerable surplus profits have re-
mained in the business after giving 32 p.e.
divs. The profits laid by since the co. was
led out of trouble have made it practically
independent of outside financial assistance
in hard times, such as were experienced
during the recent drought. Liabilities at
July 31 totalled £70.098 —apparently mostly
current trading accounts. On the other
side £40.058 of cash and gratuity bonds
were shown. Stock represented £52,318.
book debts £343.503 and £31,544 was
advanced to the McCulloch Carrying Co.,
the Vic. end of tin 1 business. Wright Hea-
ton’s thus showed a surplus of more or less
liquid assets over liabilities of £189.723.
euual to nearly £3 9s. per £2 30s. share.
There were, besides, premises with a book
value of £24,352, plant £3 3.903 and a
£25.000 holding in the McCulloch Co., to-
gether representing a further 225. 2d. per
share.
The Farmers and Settlers’ Co-opera-
tive Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.: —
Year to Net Net
July Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Profits.
1910.. £6,540 £1,171 £2,980 £3075
3917 11,910 4,911 6.400 1553
1918.. 24,024 8,282 14,713 2078
1919.. 25,868 7,62(5 16,321 2986
1920.. 29,858 7,281 18,055 5707
1921.. 41,425 12,133 23,444 7354
Four years ago there figured among the
assets 'an Establishment Account for £9319
—capital which had gone in giving the co. a.
start in life. At the balance as at July-31
the amount had been got down to £4ooo.
after giving shareholders li p.c. divs. for a
couple of years and 8 p.e. for the last two.
The surplus of the past year’s profits after
paying another 8 p.e. is being used to expel
the intangible item from the balance-sheet.
Notwithstanding the competition of other
young co-op. farmers’ insurance cos.—par-
ticularly the Vic. concern, which has secured
working agreement with various co-op. pro-
ducers’ cos.—this one made considerable
progress in its sixth year. Gross premium
income was £98,778, and of this the man-
agement laid-off more by way of re-insurance
than was collected in gross premiums
(£50,253) in 1920. Losses took 29.3 p.c.
of net premium income; that was almost
four points higher than for the previous
year, but a corresponding saving of expenses
was effected. The underwriting surplus
was £5848, to which interest, etc., added
£l5OO. This made £7354 available, about
£3300 of which goes to shareholders, and
the balance, instead of being put into a fic-
titious reserve, as is so often done in young
offices, is very properly used to write off the
establishment account.
The co. is'still doing a good deal of or-
ganising, but this work is nowadays charged
directly against revenue: hence the still-
heavy expense rate. During the year paid
capital was increased from £37, <2B to
£41,708; and that means so much more in-
surances which should drift in more or less
automatically each year. W lien most of
the business reaches the co. without much
coaxing the management hopes to reward
its backers. Though, because of the neces-
sity for maintaining re-insurance connec-
tions, it cannot fall foul of the Associated
Underwriters and cut rates, there is no
limit to the dividends which the co. may
pay. Costs are still heavier than in most
offices —that is inevitable in a young con-
cern —but later on. when organising takes a
smaller nart in the activities of tlie co.. the
management hopes to redlice them materi-
ally. How low they can be got in this field
of insurance has yet to be demonstrated;
there is, of course, no likelihood of the farm-
ers’ business being won so cheaply as
is, say, tlie city manufacturers’ workmen’s
compensation insurance, as handled by the
Melbourne Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance. Nevertheless, the saving of every 1 p.c.
in exes, by tlie F. and S. Co-op. means, on the
latest figures, 21 p.c. on capital. So when
the cost rate is got down, provided losses
are normal, there should be fine times for
nolicy-holders who have backed their in-
suram-es with a share interest. Even S p.c.
divs. are something to go on with in a six-
year-old concern.
Now that the establishment account has
been swept away, surpluses will be avail-
able for establishing genuine reserves. At
present there are funds slightly in excess of
last year’s net premium income, and though
that is not the strength usually sopght by
underwriters (capital and reserves 14 times
net premiums is the generally-accepted stan-
dard) this office differs from most others. Its
policy-holders have combined to carry their
own risks, and from the experience of other
underwriters over many years they can hope-
fully expect, under efficient management,
equally profitable results, and, eventually,
cheaper net insurance.
* * * *
The Millaquin Sugar Co. (Brisbane) :
.Tune, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £55,892 « p.e. C 30,000 X 25,892 £25,892
1913. . 30,394 5 ~ ~ 25,000 5,394 31,286
1914.. 72,441 S ~ ~ 40,000 32,44 1 63,727
1915.. 47,401 8 ~ ~ 40,0(10 7,401 71,128
1916.. 45,844 8 ~ 40,000 5,844 76,972
1917.. 31.746 6 „ 30,000 1,746 78,718
1918.. 6.5,470 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,476 94,194
1919 61,976 8 ~ ~ 40,000 21,970 116,170
1920.. 53,564 S 40,000 13,564 129,734
1921.. 29,022 8 ~ ~ 40,000 118,756
Queensland sugar-planters have had two poor
crops; from two years’ milling Millaquin
has shown only £45,(>57 of profit, after main-
taining property and plant in good condi-
tion, though nothing was visibly set aside
for renewals and depreciation. But though
£BO,OOO has been passed out. in divs., reserves
have expanded £l5OO or so. This was pos-
sible because in the 1920 financial year the
Bundabcrg Distillery Co., in which Milla-
quin is interested, presented it with a bonus
of £36,929. It was probably not a cash
bonus, though; that it consisted of shares
was hinted by the fact that all except an
exact £2OOO was added to the investment
account. Apart from this investment
account the liquid position has moved in
this way:—
1919. 1920. 1921.
Stocks £116,645 £57,122 £96,962
Book debts . . . . 58,268 37,426 40,653
Cash 3,533 52,439
War Loan .. •• 14,000 20,000 19,800
£192,446 £166,987 £167,415
Liabilities (inc. divs.) .. 76,271 84,340 97,034
£116,175 £82,647 £60,381
That probably gives a better view of how
the co.’s strength has been tapped to main-
tain the 8 p.c. divs.—l 2 months ago the
directors remarked that reserves had been
“specially arranged to meet such conditions.
The liquid position has to some extent been
also affected by additions to fixed assets,
their book value having been advanced in
this way: 1919, £469,797; 1920, £481,9oo;
1921, £496,246 —an increase of £26,449 over
the two years. Paid capital is half a mil-
lion, so the eo. has an amount nearly equal to
its paid capital in lands, mills, railways, etc.
Still, book values may not represent actual
values: the Millaquin is in the Q. N. Bank
stable —it was the co. formed to take over
sugar interests which had fallen on the bank
in the smash—and the Q.N. management is
one which may be depended upon to look at
values with a conservative eye. But the
actual worth of the various assets depends
wholly upon the use to which they, can be
put in producing sugar. And that industry
is not in an altogether happy position at
present. The current season, however,
promises very well, and the directors antici-
pate further' good yields in the succeeding
season, partly as a result of ‘ a fairly large
quantity of stand-over cane.” #
Australian Distiller? Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), manufacturers of tipples and in-
dustrial spirits. The deficit of £~066 with
which the co. began was made up of pre-
liminary exes, and a trifle paid for goodwill:
Net Toße-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit
1913 £135 £135 2,231
1914 l 232 1,232 999
1914.. Reserves.
1915.. 3,673 3 ’ 673 2 ’ 674
prefs.
(10 p.c.) Ordinaries. Deficit.
1916.. 3.670* *£6013 10 p.c.= £1449 1,118
Reserves.
1917 6,756 2000 10 „,, 2905 1,851 733
Pref. shares become ordinaries.
1918. . 22,747 12* p.c. = £9,653 13,094 13,82,
1919 11 758 10 ~ ~ 11,205 553 14,380
1920.’.’ 23,695 12J „ -16,8tt 6,834
War-tune profits tax, £12,600 8,614
1991 7 985 6 p.c. = 7,500 485 9,099
♦lncluding accumulations.
Bun«■ apparently got cold feet like a lot ot
other traders during the past year and re-
fused to stock up on the old scale, bo the
A.D.C.’s accumulation of tipples grew while
turnover slackened, and the, raw- materials
of the trade were extra-dear. This shows
how gross profits have behaved since the co. s
second year:—
1914. . £2,794 | 1918. . £41,997
1915.. 5,338 I 1919.. 29,320
1916.. 7,280 I 1920.. 47,566
1917.. 15,047 I 1921.. 29,829 _
Those figures are arrived at after taking
stock of fluids and raw materials “at cost”
(£107.466) and containers at valuation
(£23,043). Expenses, including deprecia-


Since the introduction of electricity for lignting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit lias been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write fov
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt. [1
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.E. trade-mark. These
rnalleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* * * •
When a Pioneer Pipe line is put down it is to
stay free from incrustation and algae and with a
capacity (normally 20% . greater than metal pipe)
that actually increases with age. Corrosion, electro-
lysis or frost have no effect on “Pioneer" Wood Pipe,
nor can the purity of the water it conveys be con-
taminated. Write for our 68-page book on the
subject. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bav Road, Lane Cove. —Advt.
* * * »
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Clialiis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison' & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester-, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers. Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Xo. Ptv., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
TO USERS OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES
You can effect a large saving by using
RENDROCK
which we are now selling very much below the prices of other high explosives.
RENDROCK ingredients, being non-explodable, are safe to handle and
transport, and may be kept in any dry store.
Our bulletin on this compound cannot fail to interest you. RENDROCK is almost exclusively used on
Government railway construction and by a large majority of quarries.
If you cannot get the compound from your storekeeper, apply direct to the Sole Manufacturers of Rendrock.
t.
\
m
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
FACTORY, LEICHHARDT.
to°k £21.844. so there was left only
±48;» more than was required for a 5 p.c.
div. Distilling is an industry different from
most others, in that the product is not im-
mediately saleable (uence the absence of
divs. in the co.’s first three years), und the
future depends a good deal on what stocks
bring later on. This shows how the enter-
prise has moved from the beginning:—
D ... .. 1913. 1916. 1920. 1921.
i • k ,«! pital . . £29,490 £45,033 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 8,916 17,483 34,870 54,602
freeholds . . 14,662 20,958 49,421 48,910
llant, etc. . . 5,595 8,164 18,818 19,548
htoclcs .. 13,221 21,548 113,798 130,539
«ook debts .. 2,495 10,664 29,531 8,547
Investments, etc. 203 63 5,126 6,157
Though capital is more than five times
larger than it was at the close of the first
year, growing stocks and distillery extensions
haye necessitated a £45,686 increase of lia-
bilities. Still, there is a surplus of more or
less liquid assets over and above all liabili-
ties of £90,641, assuming that the £7400 in
the contingency reserve (included with re-
serves in the introductory table) is not
tapped by taxation or other such calls. There
was ±20,000 in the contingency reserve 12
months ago, but war-time profits tax
snatched £12,6 of it during the year.
The South Aus. Brewing Co., at its half-
yearly meeting, merely told shareholders that
business is booming, especially in
bottled beer, so that the losses at Broken Hill
are quite neutralised. The usual 10 pe-
ls paid.
* * * *
North Broken Hill, Ltd.—Usually the
.North accounts give income in two entries:
(1) revenue from mine products and (2) in-
vestment earnings. But on this occasion,
so that there may be no misconception as to
how the co. manages to show a profit at a
time when it claims that production gives no
margin, more detail is given. Twelve months
ago the management valued concentrates on
hand at £6350, but the latest accounts de-
clare that the year benefited bv £70,371 from
metals produced prior to July'l. 1920. The
year’s mine production gave £83,305, unsold
stocks being taken in at £23 for lead and 3s.
silver. But against that credit is
±141,892 of mine expenditure, and after
charging up office exes, and £6016 loss on
marketing £30.000 of War Loan, the outgo
was £175,363. So there was an excess of
expenditure over the amount credited to
metal production of £92.058. Interest, rents
and divs. made good £29,816 of this leeway,
and the surpluses from realisations of old
stocks £70,371 more. So instead of crash-
ing badly as a result of all the Barrier’s
troubles, the accounts bring to light a profit
of £8129.
That the North has been drifting in the
wrong direction is made evident by this com-
parison :—•
1914. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets £240,615 £880,555 £842,986 £805,128
Liabilities . . 29,390 186,375 167,354 161,828
Surplus . . £211,225 £694,180 £675,632 £643,300
Thus, though the shareholders have got
nothing, in two years the liquid position has
been weakened by £50,0Q0-odd. Still
the North has something to show for it: in
April, 1919, the contract made in 1906 with
Amalgamated Zinc for the treatment of zinc
tailings expired, and the management, having-
acquired the rights to the De Bavay and
Minerals Separations processes, set about
putting down its own flotation plant. Alto-
gether during the past two years £78,860 has
been spent on new plant. So the whole
of the ore raised can now be converted into
marketable products on the spot, “with ex-
cellent results’’ says general-manager Weir.
Between February 7, when mining operations
were resumed, and June 30, 32,300 tons ore
were handled, giving 6461 tons lead concen-
trates, going 60.5 p.c. lead, 28.40 z. silver and
7*3 p.c. zinc, and 6010 tons zinc concentrates
assaying 48.1 p.c. zinc, 7.6 p.c. lead and
9.60 z. silver.
The future of North Broken Hill, like that
of all the others on the big lode, is in the
lap of the gods—chiefly the union gods, who
from their insecure city thrones demand that
the wages-tide must not be permitted to ebb.
There are already signs that the Barrier
unionists are beginning to realise that Willis,
Kerr and the rest are false prophets. Yet
there is not likely to be much for share-
holders unless metal prices recover consider-
ably. Meantime the North’s position is
snug. Paid capital is £600,000. The sur-
plus of liquid assets over and above liabili-
ties (including the £141,000 of debentures)
exceeds capital by £43,300, though the actual,
worth of some of the assets regarded as
liquid depends largely on the continuance of
mining operations. The tally of shares in
other cos. is £387,025, including £200.000 in
the Pt. Pirie smelters. £150,000 in Electro-
lytic Zinc, £20,000 in Britisli-Australian
Lead Manufacturers Pty.-—which is produc-
ing high-grade white lead in Sydney—and
£lO,OOO in the Barrier Roaster Co. But
there are War Loan, deposits and cash which
alone exceed all liabilities by £lOO,OOO or so.
For the rest, there is the mine with known
reserves of ore totalling 2,600,000 tons, and
equipped to produce high-grade concentrates.
Recently Comrade Willis, general secre-
tary of the Workers’ Industrial Union of
Australia (formerly the A.M.A.), has been
at the Hill either to straighten out a few
tangles or smother up a few scandals. For
a long time there had been talk of leakage
of union and strike funds, and at the end of
last month Willis opened an inquiry at which
specific charges were laid against several
officials. These included (1) the misuse of
funds; (2) faking of union books; and (3)
the accepting by several of strike coupons
while they “were secretly receiving £7 a
week each for alleged services to the Techni-
cal Health Commission.” Later Willis de-
livered “judgment” at an open-air meeting,
declaring some of the charges proved, but
deciding that the charge of book-faking had
not been sustained, though he admitted that
there were “several matters that appeared to
be highly suspicious.” But the Barrier
unionists would not accept Willis’s findings,
and with only a couple of dissentients declared
that they, were “satisfied beyond all doubt
that every charge had been proved to the
satisfaction of members of the branch.” That
is about the worst jolt that has been given
Comrade Willis of the One Big Union.
* * * *
Concerning the oil-hunt that has interested
a Professor: —
Professor David has returned from Westralia satis-
fied that there is a good sporting chance of striking
a payable oilfield in West Kimberley. At Price’s
Creek, inland from Derby, a bore was put down to
90 feet under the supervision of the cautious Blateh-
ford, assistant Government Geologist, who used to
be one of the Prof.’s young men. Samples care-
fully taken at various depths, carried to Perth
under seal (the bore was also sealed night and
morning) and tested by Dr. Simpson, the Govern-
ment Analyst, yielded mineral oil in every instance,
and in “quantities which, under favorable condi-
tions for concentration and observation, may be
sufficiently extensive to be of economic value”—
the Professor’s phraseology. According to Blateh-
ford (1) “the geological conditions aye favorable to
the storage of mineral oil,” (2) “mineral oil has
been found in the bore and, in one instance, in sur-
face seepage,” and (3) “I would therefore strongly
recommend that boring be undertaken.” Which is
sufficiently encouraging as far as it goes. Another
fact worthy of note is that the find has been made
in the part of Australia nearest to the Dutch
Bast Indies, which turn out 1,800,000 tons of crude
oil per annum, and that the oil recovered from
the samples resembles the rich Sumatra product,
which yields benzine and kerosene. There is no
need to get excited, of course, but it is satisfactory
to know that the least-known and most-neglected
region of the Commonwealth is going to have
something done for it at last.
* * * #
S. Aus; Oilwells Co. has made a start on
two bores at Moutfijup (Vic.) and has noti-
fied the Commonwealth Government that it
is a "possible claimant” for the £50,1)00
reward.
* * * sit
Development work in the Einasleigh and
Girofla, of the Chillagoe group (Q.), has been
attended this year by fine results. They
are practically the only mines taken over
from the Chillagoe Co. on which the Govern-
ment has done much work, and they have so
far supplied 70 p.c. of the ore treated at the
►State smelters. Einasleigh ore has averaged
7 p.c. copper and Girofla 10 p.c. lead. The
former has been pretty well cleaned up down
to No. 5 level, but between No. 5 and No. 0
there are reserves running into about 30,000
tons which should average 7 or 8 p.c.. copper.
At No. 6 a new ore body was located averag-
ing 12ft. wide, and this has been opened up
for over 40ft. with the ore still going strong.
Work at the Girofla has been principally
confined to the 200 ft. and 300 ft. levels. A
winze sunk between the two ran through ore
the full distance,, and at the top level this
was 14ft. wide. The ore reserves between
the 100 ft. and 200 ft. levels are estimated to
be 40,000 tons, and probably between 200 ft.
and 300 ft. the figures will not be far short
of that tonnage. Very little work has been
done at the Lady Jane owing to the state of
the workings, as a result of the fire some
years ago. This mine is destined to be one
of the biggest copper producers in the group
when developed. The Ruddygore is in a
different category. It resembles the low-
grade porphyry deposits of Arizona, and con-
centration will have to be carried to a fine
art to utilise the millions of tons of copper-
bearing diorite. It is hardly a fit subject
for State enterprise, as costs will have to be
cut nearly to vanishing point. The Muldiva
and Christmas Gift look like being the chief
sources of lead outside the Girofla.
• * .* *
Production of rare metals at once-prosper-
ous Wolfram Camp (N.Q.) has been at a
standstill for a considerable time, and there
is no likelihood of early revival. Some of
the richest mines, such as the Avoca. Harp
of Erin, Victory, German Bill and Val-
lely’s, have been under exemption for months,
and the old hands have left the field. The
low prices rulina for wolfram and molyb-
denite since April last compelled them to
quit. The Thermo Electric Co., which
started off with a big splash by purchasing
the Irvinebank Co.’s interests _ and other
minor shows, and which was going to show
the locals how to extract metals, and failed
miserably to do so, went into liquidation in
July, 1920. Its chances of disposing of its
cumbersome plant and its leases are very
slim. The partly-erected 40-hd. battery and
power-house stand out as another of the
monuments of folly which dot the Common-
wealth’s mining-fields. The English crowd
behind the show never got a decent run for
the pot of money sunk in the concern. Pig-
rooting and poor values, plus an indifferent
mill-extraction, were responsible. Pressure
was put on the Federal Government to pur-
chase the property, but it was not having
any. Liquidation exes, must run into a
nice sum, as half-a-dozen officials are re-
tained to guard the property and keep the
white-ants in check. Meanwhile, the busi-
ness people of the Camp, who cashed the
cheques with which the co. paid employees
for 31 weeks’ work before the shut-down,
are wondering when they will see the color
of their silver.
Clark’s, Charters Towers. (N.Q.). is look-
ing for fresh supplies of ore, as driving on
the Nos. 9 and 10 levels north from the main
shaft has been disappointing, and work may
be discontinued there. The management re-
cently connected up with the Hidden Treas-
ure workings, and is now going to explore
possibilities below, the old workings of the
Moonstone block, in which old plans show a
couple of stoped-out blocks.
Koorboora (Q.) has got a move on again
at the Two Jacks, further cash having been
raked in. The co. Closed down last year
owing to labor troubles, heavy water, etc.,
but tributors hopped in for a few months and
did well until water beat them. Adequate
pumping plant has now been installed, the
mill is being overhauled, and a rock-breaker
put in. Ore is being broken in the eastern
stopes at the lOOft. level, estimated to carry
0 p.c. tin, but that is better than the erush-
ings obtained from the tributes in the past,
and if it averages 4 p.c. from these stupe's
it will be doing well. One independent min-
ing authority in the northern State who
examined the Two Jacks last year expressed
the opinion that it was likely to turn out a
big mine with rather low-grade ore. Although
rich patches exist, indications are of very
extensive shoots of poorer stuff. The co.
also owns the Tennyson, but as this carries
zinc, nothing will be done with it for the
present, as operations would probably call for
a flotation plant.
* * * *
Anakie sapphire field (Q.) is in a turmoil
over the question of State control v. private
buying. The miners who welcomed the con-
tract with Rubin Bros, are dissatisfied with
the prices obtained, and very little business
is now being done. The output for the last
month was £l4OO, as compared with £5OOO
in the first week of State control. The
stones won in 1920 were worth £70,000
roughly, but it is doubtful if this year’s out-
put will come near that, despite the boom of
some months ago. So Anakie is no attrac-
tion for the out-of-work miner from Blair
Athol, Baralaba or Mt. Morgan, and the num-
ber of diggers on the field has fallen from
600 to nearer 400.
* * ' * * '
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) is going back to the
last trench owing to adverse market condi-
tions, and a crew of only about 30 men will
find employment for the time being on the
famous old producer. Since November of
last year operations have been carried on at
a loss, but with each successive fall in the
price of tin economies and reductions to cor-
respond have been effected, bringing the pro-
duction cost of metal downi from £226 per ton
to about £l7O. The main factor in this reduc-
tion has been the treatment almost exclusively
of the higher-grade Brown face ore (aban-
doned some years ago), and a follow-on treat-
ment by roasting the • low-grade pyritic
concentrates for the liberation of the oxide
content. The large roaster copes, with 400
tons of the 2 p.c. concentrate per month,
and averages a return of eight tons oxide at
a total cost of £2OO. This indicates large
possibilities for low-grade nyritie con-
centrate propositions, despite the old
Cornish dictum to the contrary. Difficulties
such as the absurd A.W.U. demand of £5
15s. for a 30-hour w r eek, the cost of opening
up the Brown face deposit—partly owing
to the spontaneous combustion propensities
of the marcasite (w'hite pyrites) when ex-
posed to an air current—and the objection
of some of the townspeople to accustom them-
selves to the slightly sulphurous atmosphere
so usual in mining camps, have only been
incidents compared with the sluggish market
conditions and the inability of the co. to
effect sales. At least 100 tons smelted
metal, representing £16,000, are held by the
co. awaiting purchase, but the world does
not appear to need tin, especially the 7 p.c.
which is produced by white- labor. The
major portion of the co.’s negotiable securi-
ties have been converted into tin ingots, and
the banks are shy of advancing against
future sales. Unfortunately metallic tin is
not a handy currency with which to pay
'wages, even under the “take and hold” prin-
ciple. While waiting for better markets
the co. proposes to proceed with the roasting
of the accumulated heap of pyritie concen-
trates and the completion of the clean-up of
the old bO-hd. mill tails. Development work
on a small scale will also proceed in the
Brown face.
Speck geologist Reid has been overhauling
the Douglas River coalfield. Excessive fault-
ing and distance from a port or railroad,
combined with only medium-grade coal of a
high-ash content, are not favorable. The
geologist thinks an average of 4ft. .may be
obtained under actual mining conditions, and
on this basis estimates the tonnage available
at 3} millions.
* *
iotas Oil Shale Co. (Tas.) is preparing
to go ahead with the testing of the Latrobe
deposits. Five automatic retorts, with a dis-
tilling capacity of 50 tons of shale per day,
are to be installed, also mechanical appli-
ances for mining 100 tons crudes daily.
On this basis manager Waucliope is confident
of being able to produce profitably at the
present Australian price of £S per ton re-
sidual oil.
* •* * *
Mt. Brown gold (Tas.) is commanding a
lot of attention lately, chiefly, on account of
the learned reports issued about: it. A lode
has apparently been cut, but the fact is con-
fused by such vague terms as “dissolving
traelito,” “.spillite-. nests” and “kaolinised
grave.” It may all mean something, but
fails to give the all-important assay values.
*•* * *
The asbestos deposits near Robertsfow/j
(S.A.) are to have a trial. A few tons
were sent to London nearly 30 years ago.
and the mine was being quietly worked, when
the war started, by a man who enlisted and
never came back. A local syndicate now
thinks its own tests justify a larger eo.


PRESENTED AT COURT.
Judge Curlewis asked a witness in the No. 3 Industrial Arbitration Court (Sydney) to-day, “Are you a specimen of the professional officer? I do not see," he
remarked somewhat testily, “why he should not button his coat, anyway, since he claims to be a professional man. I allow some excuses for those who have to
be a litte costumr, I don’t those who claim to be professional men should be careless!” The witness hurriedly buttoned his
coat, and the dignity of the Court having been attended to, business proceeded. SUN.
ft
" Prisoner jsV &»«. Ir^ve.
■you. ss>T>yH»mg to st*y >V }
" onor . Hows it /—i ====
/or ao-v awcijoummant ? 1 v<2. still grot 2* on ma..^


THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY,,
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA 'S
Management \
&TCJieeseirtan ft
li Jr,
K, B.
LAGER
has the TRUE lager flavor.
It is a most appetising
beverage with luncheon
or dinner. Keep a bottle
or two in the sideboard!
Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co., Limited, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
*
mmuiii
Slii CE.
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH’
TOWN'S & CO., Sydney. Agents, [.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
From an old Gallery hand: —
All the talk about Storey having “worked himself
to death” and being “a victim of devotion to duty”
is sheer nonsense. Storey was not a hard worker on
either the political or the administrative side; and
that for two reasons. One was that he had scarcely
any ideas ; the other that he had no powers of con-
centration. His speeches, like his conversation, con-
sisted of an elucidation of the obvious. Like most
Labor men he believed that all was well if the party
mustered a majority. Perhaps had he not been
pushed into the Ministry he might have lived a few
years, more, notwithstanding that his trouble had a
good grip before the general election. But it was
not the work he did as Premier—Parliament was in
recess for over nine months —that injured him. It
was his extreme susceptibility to exasperation, He
allowed himself to be worried by trifles, and was so
harassed by responsibility that he could hardly make
up his mind about anything. Living in an atmo-
sphere of intrigue and petty jealousies, and unable
to counter these by any large measure of construc-
tive political action or picturesque leadership, lie
was easily led by the nose into what were often
enough petty devices for keeping his job. To the
political section of Labor he was a great asset, for
the spectacle of the Opposition roaring “Bolshevik!”
at Storey caused derision even at the Union Club.
By the industrial section he was regarded with the
.suspicion of being even more irresolute than Holman;
and that assessment went very close to the bull’s eye.
Jack Storey probably died a poor man.
l T et in money matters he was always careful.
From childhood to manhood he lived On a
workman’s earnings, and the habit never left
him. Even in his most fruitful political
years—-when he was chairman of the Public-
Works Committee and, later, Premier—a
few shillings a week were sufficient to satisfy
his purely personal needs. To extract a dol-
lar from him was not difficult, but when it
came to a fiver the ore was very refractory.
Ilis single passion, apart from politics, was
the pursuit of winners at the ponies and
elsewhere, and here he was no luckier than
the average “investor.” Twice a week, in
rain or heat,_ John sallied forth to pick ’em.
Holman, Reid and Parkes all understood
how to “do themselves well”—were free, even
extravagant, spenders. Storey never thought
of dinner away from the cottage at Balmain,
except under compulsion. He never smoked
and seldom touched liquor.
Harrington Clare Lees is the new Arch-
bishop of Melbourne. More 11.C.L.
Of the 12 members who constituted Vic.’s
one Labor Government in 1938, only four
—-Prendergast, J. W. Billson. Lemmon and
J. P. Jones—remain in the fold. Elmslie,
the 13-days Premier, Evans (Attorney-Gen-
eral) and Fielding (Hon. Minister) are
under the sod. Plain, Outtrini, Dave Smith,
Hannah and McLellan have left the party—
or been left by it. There was no quarrel
with McLellan. He simply retired from
politics. Plain got into the Senate on the
National ticket. Outtrim’s trouble is a
matter of age; he is 76. Dave Smith sits'
behind Lawson in the Assembly, and Martin
Hannah is a private citizen. He had the
misfortune to displease Wren.
Of Premiers who have passed:—
John Storey was Ma State’s twentieth Premier, and
the first to die in harness. He was the sixth Aus-
tralian to reach the office; the others were Farnell,
Bibbs, Lyne, Carruthers and Wade. Of the remain-
ing 14 two (Stuart and Reid) were Scotch; three
(Martin, Jennings and Waddell), Irish; eight
(Donaldson, Cowper, Parker, Robertson, Parkes, See,
McGowen and Hol-
man) are claimed
by the English,
although Jimmy
McGowen was born
on the way to Aus-
tralia, and John
Robertson’s Scot-
tish parents were
only sojourners in
the Essex town
when lie arrived.
Forster was a
native of Madras.
Wanted - to-be-Hon-
est John was a
younger man (52)
than 13 of the," 14
Premiers who died
before him; the
other, Donaldson,
went over the hill
at 51. It is a co-
incidence that the
archiepiscopal son
of the first Pre-
mier should have
been on hand—he
was attending a
church conference
in Sydney—when
darkness fell on
the twentieth.
Senator
CRAWFORD,
of Queensland.
In a little, over 12 months 11 Ma State
Parliamentarians have heard the last division-
bell. John Meagher, the elder Robson, Bees-
ton, Hall and Jock Garland have gone from
the Council: Briner, Fingleton, Brookfield,
Ivearsley, Premier Storey and Captain Mil-
lard from the Assembly. The Captain, who
died on Saturday, entered the House at 50,
and, with a break of a few months in 1920,
remained there for 27 years. He used to be
its best ritie-shot and dairying authority, and
everybody liked the manly and benevolent
old chap, A native of Wollongong, he was
a volunteer for over 90 years, and was com-
manding a company at 60, when he retired.
JAMES DOOLEY, the new Premier of
N.S. Wales.
Spiked his lust sheaf of “copy,” Thomas
M. W arre, sporting editor (“Jack
►Spur ’) of the Sydney Evening News, and
for many years familiar to Bulletin
Poverty Pointers as' "Old Pot” and "T 1)
Emdee.” Born in Aberdeen ;t little over
halt a century back, he took the B.A.
degiee at the local ’Varsity, then got caught
by the glare of the footlights, and later
drifted to Australia, where he knocked about
the back country in varying capacities from
shearing-shed hand to president of the
General Laborers’ Union, arid, incidentally
joined up with the contingent that went to
argue the point with Fuzzy YVuzzy in the
Soudan. Then newspaper work called
him, and after feeling his feet on
the Inverell Argus he found a niche
for himself in the News office, where
he remained * for a quarter of a cen-
tury. A wide reader on a broad basis, De
A arre brought a sound mental equipment to
the craft, and developed into a fine all-
round journalist, though for the most part
he specialised in the stage and the turf. He
had a lovable personality, and the echoes
of his sonorous voice will be sadly missed
along the Inky Why.
Died in Adelaide, at 74, W. L. Ware,
accountant, auditor and business doctor. He
had long been ill, but to the end remained
chairman of the Bagot Shakes Co. He was
most prominent towards the end of the cen-
tury, when he built Ware Chambers, was
treasurer of the local Federation League, a
liquidator of the Commercial Bank of S.A..
auditor to the j City Council, Mayor of
Glenelg, a heavy investor in Westralian gold-
mines, prominent Freemason, and a good
supporter of rowing and other sports.
Major Qarr,. the airman of the Shackle-
ton expedrtio.n, first saw the sunshine at
Fielding (ALL.), but had to go abroad for
his wings. Frank Worsley, who sails the
Quest, wais one-time skipper of the ALL.
Government’s island schooner Countess of
Kanfurly, j and many men in the Western
Pacific have sampled his trade gin.
Julius Caesar is here again—this time as a
juror in Melbourne-’Criminal. Court. He had
to account for his lateness, and with a chuckle
said it was due to trusting to a train of the
most modem pattern. Whereupon the junior
barrister who played Cassius remarked : “Men
at some time are not masters of their fates.”
Joe Sheehy, who was admitted by the
Supreme Court last week, is the youngest
barrister En Queensland—he is only 21. He is
a Gympie hoy. He passed his Sydney junior
at 12, won a State scholarship a year later,
and was isoon dux of the Gregory Terrace
Brothers’ College. He passed his prelim, in
1917 while an officer of the Crown Law
Dept., the 1 intermediate a year later, and his
final this year.
Ernest Eglinton. P.AL, has passed over
the hill at 72. His father, the Rev. W.
Eglinton, came to Australia in IS7O. and his
son came with him. The youngster bought
a share in a station, but later gave it up
and was made first resident P.Af. at Boulia.
Charters Towers, Gympie and Brisbane all
know him well, and everywhere he will be
remembered as' a fine type. His brother
Dudley is an authority on the stars, another
brother owns Texas station, and his sister is
Mrs. Essex Evans.
8. V. Pennycuiek, whom Adelaide Uni.
has secured as lecturer on Physical Chemis-
tr\. is possibly the most brilliant student
Queensland \ arsity has yet produced. He
topped his year every time, and earned with
his science degree a gold medal and a re-
search scholarship, with results that are
already pronounced valuable by the Chemi-
cal Society of England. He will start on
his new job next year.
J- Luring, who was a partner with
11. C. Hoover in Bewick, Moreing and Co.,
and managed their Australian interests for
years, lias taken to polities like his brilliant
l>ai. He is a candidate for the Governor-
ship of California, his native State.
Frank H, ditchings, dead at Christchurch,
was Maoriland’s astronomical chimney sweep,
lie owned the biggest telescope in the
Dominion, and his delight was to interest the
thousands in the whims, of Venus and Mars.
Between jobs on his country’s Hues he con-
tributed some line articles to learned bodies
on sunspots and things.
Peterson, ALL.A. for Xormanby (Q.) f
who recently seceded from Labor to Cocky,
is 41. but doesn’t look it. When still in
his ’teens lie was secretary of the old Rock-
hampton Democratic League, but the strug-
gle for a crust drove him to N. 8. Wales.
There lie helped to found the Parkes Federal
Labor Council, and was sec. of Ashtield
P.L.L. More than once he returned re
Queensland at his own expense to belli in
Labor campaigns, and, invited to stand w
three electorates, chose the hardest, Xov-
manby. It had been held by E. W. Archer
for 40 years, but Peterson wrested it from
the ancient after a strenuous six months’
campaign, and it has been his ever since.
R. J. D. McCallum, Sydney Daily Tele-
graph’s new advertising manager, was a
messenger-boy in that office less than 14
years ago. At 20 he was gathering market
items for the paper, and during the
last four years has been running the S. M.
Herald’s commercial section. Incidentally,
he has found time to produce two monthly
trade journals, and managed the advertising
of a big Sydney house. Now at MO he finds
himself advt. manager of the D.T. at a
salary well up in the four figures.
“The Wanderer”: Here are two records
that will take some pulling down. George
Hodgson was appointed teacher to the Sher-
wood public school (North Coast, N.S.W.)
on A larch 1, 18SL and he is still whacking
the kids there: and Jacob Ivnopp stepped
into the Goulburn North (N.S.W.) public
school in January, 1874, and only the
other day retired from it.
Frank Cornwall,
proved land values
councillor, and
general good fel-
low, has been laid
in Brighton Ceme-
tery (Vic.). He
tried a. few times
to enter Parlia-
ment, but as he
hadn’t specialised
enough on the side-
lines that capture
the near-sighted,
he never came out
on top. The may-
oralty of Malvern
was the best thing
that came his wav.
and the city held
up its head proudly
while he ruled the
roost. .
lawyer, apostle of uniin-
rating, sound municipal
Vie. Treasurer
McPIERSON.
just home after
cisiting John Bull,
Moneylender.
Just died at Goulburn (N.SAV.j, Mar-
garet Kelly, who ran a school there for over
•10 years and missed only one day. And
that was when her mother died.
Veteran batsman Jack Lyons, though
hardly an old man, is retiring from the Gov-
ernment service (Statistical Dept.) of S.
Aus., and lately received a presentation from
his fellow-officers on starting his regulation
four months’ leave of absence. Cricket has.
always had a strong grip on the civil service
of the State. Somewhere about 1894 a
match was proposed to the officials of Vic.
The latter had the forethought to inquire
if they would be up against anything special.
The answer was a, staggering list of nearly
all Adelaide’s best: George Giffen and Reed-
man in the G.P.0., Lyons in the Taxation
office, Blinman in the Chief Secretary's
Dept., and “Jonah” Jones employed on ih
North Terrace plantations. Vic. inquired
sardonically whether Affie Jarvis couldn’t
be somehow included, and then scratched.
Jones, by the way, had no nasty pride about
his occupation. On tour in England in
1896, he told a Cambridge dinner-party: “I
was at Adelaide Cniversify myself.” ( Ap-
plause.) "Yes, I went there once with a
load of sand.”
MAROONED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y hen you’re flush with six months’ earnings on a
hard, unfeeling sea,
And your soul has wondrous yearnings for what shore-
life seems to be;
When your heart is all elated for the “time” you'll
have on shore,
And the sea life you have hated fully twenty years
or more
Melts away like sun-kissed dewdrops and the land-
air like a food
Fills your belly, whilst a lew drops of the stuff that
“seemeth good”
.Stirs old memories within you, and you do not care
a curse
If the barmaids dope and skin you till you've nothing
in your purse:
Then you’re drunk, drunk.
And it’s time to do a bunk.
And get out on clean salt-water where you are not
classed a “skunk” —
Get away upon the ocean to your scouse and dandy-
junk ;
For your life is clean and taintless on salt-water!
There are women who are splendid when a shore-
man’s work is done;
Who are glad when day is ended, and they greet
their dearest one
With smiles that soothe his troubles, and with words
that cheer and bless,
Till the life that froths and bubbles seems to froth
and bubble less ;
But the sailor is a rover, and his roving makes him
“weak,”
And whene’er his cruise is over loving hearts he
strives to seek;
And he grows much more than human, for his soul
goes on a “bend,”
And he spends his cash on women, be they sweet-
heart, wife or friend.
But he’s shick, shick,
And his thoughts are fine but thick;
And the woman who deceives him most just throws
the largest brick!
But stones and mud are nothing, though the mud will
sometimes stick.
Then he hears the call of distant, clean salt-water!
Oh, your thoughts are all Elysian, and your wits are
all astray.
Someone whispers in a vision, “Albatross comes home
to-day.”
And your heart, well-nigh to bursting, pickled well
with salt-sea air,
For the grosser things is thirsting—pubs and races,
women fair;
For the things so long denied you in your exile on
the sea.
Though the whole smug world deride you, you will
101 l in luxury.
You will sip life’s damaged honey, and your pleasures
you will mix—
From the wife who wants your money, to the pit of
politics 1
But y»u’re stung, stung!
Oh, this song has ojt been sung:
Fools and money quickly parted—equal blame to
old and young !
Whilst you link your life to Lais and you boost the
breed of Bung
Your inmost thoughts go soaring towards salt-water!
So the shore-life sheds its glamor, and the fleshpots
clog and pall,
And your twitching pulses answer to the Ocean's rest-
less call.
As you watch each weary day go....loaded down to
Plimsoll-mark,
Scudding swift to Santiago you will see a vision-
barque
Hull down on the broad Pacific, lower-topsails
“bunting” free,
’Fore a gale that howls terrific, and a curling,
chasing sea.
But you’re anchored in the city, to its gauds and
shams attuned ;
And I the shore-folk have no pity for a sailor-man
marooned!
For you’re tight, tight!
.Who can judge a shellback right?
Only those who know old Ocean, and have fought
him in his might!
“Drunken sailors!” mask the shore-folk; but our
hearts beat free and light
When ice hear the plaintive pleading o’ salt-water!
'longshore.
ALBATROSS.


'
* c|\r * **
Vv >
W
«®
mw?
PM
m
m
m
m
.
Tobacco and
Cigarettes
I?
m
& *Wf
m
•
m
I
&
m
mm
m
Mi*
mm
m
tUM
Wi«M
Raff
O.S H
1
-
BH
/)
a
>
CIYI c"
.m
Unique range
of Models.
Obtainable
of all
Tobacconists
THE PIPE THAT GIVES
DEPENDABLE SERVICE


r. &
oh
i
In this illustration Peapes show a suit that is ideal for
Summer Wear.
Of mid-grey English Elannel, made without lining or
padding, it is light, cool and washable yet protective
because woven entirely of wool.
The material has a soft finish, and is very strong, being
made of long staple yarn.
Coat has two buttons, three outside patch pockets, seam
only at back. Trousers have side, hip and fob pockets,
belt loops and permanent turn-up bottoms.
PRICE 80/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist
and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WB.ITJE - JPJI . PEAPftS* NEW CATALOGUE.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney,
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
apd Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
“Olinda”: Recently a teacher of Aussie
hopefuls, in a lesson on derivations, demanded
the root of and a sentence containing the
word “monotony.” Young Bright’s answer
ran: “Root: Monos, alone. Sentence': In
Australia a man is allowed only one wife ;
this is an example of monotony.”
•* * * *
“Minah”: The jazzing female has received
a serious check in Wellington (M.D.). A
young wife went to a hop while her hus-
band stayed home and nursed the baby.
When the youngster’s restiveness got past a
joke papa w T ent to the ball and asked his
fond partner to return. She told him to
go to Greece and leave her to her enjoy-
ment. Half-an-hour later a perambulator
containing a squalling infant was wheeled
across the dance-floor by a wild-eyed vision
of paternal exasperation, who said: “Mary,
here’s the baby; lie’s hungry!” and then
stalked out.
PROOF POSITIVE.
‘Yesterday was baby’s birthday.”
'Get many presents?”
“Crowds! Why, she’s got some of them
yet !”
“N. 8.”: Young Australia has a healthy
humor. I was on my way recently to a
college function, and in the tram were two
lads discussing the meeting. “Going to the
show, Jack?” said one. “No,” said Jack,
“I’m going home to have a bath.” “What
for?” “For about two months.” I had met
Jack’s sister, so opened a yarn with him by
commenting on the resemblance between them.
“Oh, I don’t mind,” was Jack’s submissive
response, “so long as I have good health!”
This sort of thing springs from the same
spirit that sent our lads shouting up the
cliffs of Anzac. Its relative value came
home to me as I watched a teacher strenu-
ously bent on ccmrecting the careless “o”
sound of her pupils. “Watch now, watch,
and tell me what you notice (nawtice).”
With wide-open mouth, lips protruded, she
jerked forth : “O ! O! ! O!! I” Jimmy
O’Brien was quick to tell her what he’d
noticed: “Please, Miss, every time you nod
your ’ead, your fringe waggles!” For my
part I wouldn’t worry over a lad missing
the point of a vocal sound if I were sure he
could always see the waggle.
“Jobber”: All the nerve of the A.I.F.
wasn’t shown in the line. I
struck a Digger in France
who had just blown • across
after six weeks a.w.l. He’d
had the time of his life,
staying at a pub in the
Strand. When asked how
he dodged the M.P.’s, he
said it was dead easy—•
every time he saw a Jack
he went straight up and
asked the way to Australia
House. The bluff worked.
and he was never once
asked for a pass.
When his cash cut out
he threw in the towel,
and took what was
coming to him like a
man. While I was a
patient in Mena Hos-
pital (Egypt) w<
missed Darky; and
when, in the fulness
of time, he lobbed
back he told us he’d
taken his “tabby” up
to Khartoum for
three weeks. Lack of
funds brought him
back, and he men-
tioned that he was
going to report him-
self to the C.O. I
told him not to be a
mug; as far as the
heads of Mena were
concerned, a man
could have stayed
away for the dura-
tion, for I never once
heard a roll-call there.
“Cleveland”: The war has left its marks
—and narks. A cobber of mine, going to
the Press Congress at Honolulu, bumped
into an application form for a passport for
“married man travelling alone.” He fixed
this up and g >t me to witness his declara-
tion that he is a fit and proper person to
be at large, y hich cost him several drinks
and me some violence to my conscience.
Then came a demand that his wife should
supply a declaration stating that he isn’t
bolting, and that she knows his little game
and is agreeable thereto. What I want to
know is, how does a man describe himself
who is bolting and who takes his typiste
to keep his diary?
* * * *
“Howitzer” : Greek tragedy was mere farce
compared with what a Digger in my battalion
landed into. He went to a nearby rest-
cainp to see his two brothers who had been
reported slightly wounded, and on arrival
found they had both gone west a few hours
before. On returning - to camp he was
handed a cable from Aussie telling him that
hi§ mother and sister had been drowned in
a flood. He went into action a week later,
hoping for death, but received a lovely
Blighty. Fate had his number, though, for
he went to the bottom when his hospital
ship was torpedoed in the Channel.
* * * *
“Rio”: Why is Edward VII. in the
statue to be erected in Sydney shown as a
field-marshal, baton-in-hand, on a prancing
charger? Who ever thinks of “Edward the
Peacemaker” as a soldier? Of course, he
held many bucksh.ee military appointments,
but he was never allowed to go near any
fighting, and with liis full beard and short
dumpy figure he didn’t even look the part.
Nor did he show any particular liking for
the service, except socially. Excepting the
tail end of the Boer War, there was no
serious fighting in the whole of his reign, and
the army he ex officio commanded was the
smallest'of-any first-class Power. I suppose
it’s hard to make a king look the part in
mufti, but surely something not so utterly
misleading as to the part King Ned played
in the world could be designed.
* * * Mr
“Fax”: The very latest reasoi for the
anxiety of Melbourne’s Gaud Mayor to
secure a new lease of office is that it will
enable him to avoid a struggle for re-election
as councillor shortly after his new term in
the»chair commences. How to keep Swan-
son in his billet has been a problem of great
interest to a section of Melbourne City
Council for months past; and now it has
been discovered that under the Melbourne
and Geelong Act, which is 80 years old, a
councillor who in the ordinary way would
have to retire and seek re-election is exempt
from that unpleasantness in the event of his
having been chosen as Mayor during the
year when his retirement came due. Owing
to this providential discovery one of Swan-
son’s colleagues will have to retire, prema-,
turely, by effluxion of time, and run the
risk of not being re-elected, tvhieli seems
rather rough on the colleague. Further-
more, it appears that a second term of
office for Swanson will keep him secure in
his councillorship for the next two years;
consequently another of his colleagues (one
of them has to retire each year) will be
pushed a year forward on the election list.
DOG IN THE MANGER.
“I don’t see why you make such a fuss about
me bobbing my hair. You could shave
all yours of and I wouldn’t say a word.”
And then many things may happen in two
years. An alderman or two may die, and
thus the irrepressible Swanson may expand
into an alderman, whereby necessity for
periodical re-election will be spared him.
Truly, there may be great virtue in an Act
exhumed from the dust of 80 years.
*• * * *
“Silas Snell”: Half-a-dozen of us went
out from Melbourne into the artists’ haunts
beyond Heidelberg to enjoy a pleasant
Spring day among the gums. The Pirate
went with us. The Pirate was a fairly
prosperous, middle-weight pugilist, who
earned his name by wearing a red handker-
chief tied about a hairless head. He was
built more like Adonis than Discobolus, and
had been serving as model to two or three
of the party. We camped on a hillside,
and presently, fell foul of a hefty, bucolic
youth who claimed that we were trespassing,
and offered to throw us all into the creek,
one down the other come on. He was par-
ticularly insolent to the Pirate, who, with
a bottle of lager in one hand and a sand-
wich in the other, continued to refresh him-
self, unmoved by the most scathing insults,
or even by ruthless reference to his bald-
ness. We shifted camp, and then Brusher
demanded: “Say, Pirate, why didn’t you
punch that fellow on the nose?” “Punch
him !” ejaculated the Pirate in a hurt tone.
‘Struth, ain’t we takin’ a holiday?”
* * * *
“El Verdugo” discusses sore throats: —
As one with a little practical experience I agree
with “Macquarie Street’s” views on the sensations
of hanging (B. 6/10/’2l). In my giddy youth, on
a sailing trip, the tackle being handy, a few young
Australians succeeded in hanging me from the mast-
head. They intended to leave me suspended a foot
from the ground only for a second or two, and I,
on my part, proposed to crack hardy. I did: —
mainly because I went out like a match and had no
more sensation until the artificial respiration pro-
ceedings were successful some time later. My con-
clusion is that hanging is not at all a bad business
so long as they do not bring you back to life. Resus-
citation is no fun and gives you a splitting headache
and something the same feeling that one has after
a dose of chloroform. As for the real, scientific
hanging, which is done with a scaffold and a gentle-
man in black whiskers, I can strongly recommend it
to those who desire to evade the income-tax. For
various sordid newspapers I have seen seven gentle-
men leave the world through the floor, and their
attitudes afterwards showed uniform unprotesting
content. I don’t know what science says about it,
but I have always noticed that the least controllable
portions of a man’s body under stress of great pain
or emotion are his fingers. Hanging by the neck
with a decent drop seems to produce instantaneous
and complete relaxation of the hands, which would
suggest a thorough blotting out of all sensation. By
the way, a little experience of executions soon teaches
one the depth of the fallacy that your big,
strong, bull-necked person with the mighty chest
is bravest in the face of death. One small and weedy
youth whom I saw depart this life (loaded down
with a shuddersome crime which ought to have made
Heaven a vain hope) protested smilingly because
Jack Ketch kept him waiting a second or two while
he adjusted something. “Y’orter bin on the job
earlier,” he remarked. On the other hand a big,
insensitive looking fellow once held me standing for
three-quarters of an hour on a cold, cement floor
while he repeated seven lines of one of the Psalms
over and over again in a perfect frenzy of terror.
I still have the rheumatism I got that morning.
• * • •
“Veritas”: Up Fassifern (Q.) way the
other day a man married his stepmother.
The lady had already been wedded twice
and had three children by her first husband.
Her second spouse, a widower, died a year
ago, and his son has now taken over the job
of husband to his father’s widow and step-
father to his bride’s children. Time won’t
tend to simplify relationships in that family.
* * ** *
“K. Spud”: “Macquarie Street’s” note on
the Arbuckle-Rappe case (B. 22/9/’2l)
calls to mind a form of torture rather popu-
lar in the Middle Ages. It was inflicted
almost exclusively on women,- one of them
being the historic “Marchioness of Death.”
The victim was spread-eagled on a sort of
wooden horse and secured by wrists and
ankles to the floor. A leather funnel was
inserted in her mouth and water poured
into her by the bucketful. In an old manu-
script the cheerful result is thus described:
After the second bucket the joints of the arms and
legs loosened and the flesh bulged around them. The
abdominal muscles lost shape and downwards the
distended stomach sagged, to almost hide the groins,
while bones and muscles of the shoulders and breast
became taut and sharply marked. The fourth bucket
ended the woman’s frightful agony. Violent convul-
sions racked her hideously swollen body and then
stopped, leaving her limp and quivering. No efforts
were taken to restore her senses, and she died
shortly after her removal from the horse.
The “Marchioness’s” crime was that she had
stricken a noble with a “strange private dis-
temper” by the use of the “devil’s magic.”
* * * *
From somebody who certainly knows: —
Dear Bulletin, —You said the other day that
“Base Records advertise cheerfully in the Adelaide
papers (8/9/’2l) : ‘Will the next-of-kin, or
anyone ' knowing the addresses of the follow-
ing deceased soldiers, please communicate direct
to Officer in Charge, Melbourne.’ ” I’m quite
sure you will be glad to know that the
advertisement in question did not emanate from
Base Records. The office discovered the inad-
vertency in a memo, couched in similar terms sent
from Adelaide, and took immediate steps to have
it corrected. The advt. is admittedly quite funny;
but “fair play’s bonnie play,” so please remove the
undeserved stigma from the Base Records Branch.
,** » . *
“S.C.M.”: I always admired Mac’s pre-
sence of mind in a crisis. A while ago he
got home from a particularly heavy lodge
meeting a little after daylight. He had just
reached the threshold after a rocky passage
from the gate, when he heard a sound like Mrs.
Mac. makes. That’s where my old pal’s nerve
came in. When the door was flung open he
was on his knees industriously tearing the
NECK AND NECK.
TRAVELLER : “Last week I sent a wire from
Bourke to Stickitt Brothers of this city”
POSTAL OFFICLAL: “Yessir, what about it?”
TRAVELLER: “Well, if you know where to
lay your hand on it I’ll take it round
to them myself.”
wool out of a sheepskin-mat on the veran-
dah. “What on earth are you doing there
at this hour of the morning. Henry?’’ amaz-
edlv asked Mrs. Mac. “Can’t .yer shee,
m’dear? I’ve jus’ come out to weed th’
garden.”
(Continued on page 18.)
NORTH WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind upon a pipe of burning brass
Blows music hot and sere;
Harsh sorrow sighs along the bending grass—
Dry suffering with no tear.
The skies are thin and blue and meaningless
As eyes of some dead god
Still open on the ways he cannot bless
Where once his cool feet trod.
A month ago mad spirits tore the trees
And lashed the world to pain—
I heard the winds in their wild ecstasies,
, The sobbing of the rain;
But after came a green and growing hour;
And on the moist still air
The drinking trees sent down a happy shower,
Like blessing called by prayer.
Pipe up, hot wind ! The top notes shrill to fire ;
Grey dust blows down the way.
Hard on your mouth the searing brass shall tire
Ere closing of the day.
The sun sinks low, a globe of scarlet peace ;
And in the scented calm
My love shall come to me when all winds cease
With white hands bearing balm.
N.'S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


ms
//
m
w
m
... *
*
S*3~.
/
fyi
J&S
ii
4NS
3 31
f• -
vv.
»s
&
\ ,
m
m
m
m,
SS"K
mi
ilsS
6K
ek
SWI
i
it
111
**
a
i
t¥
. ■ ■■■■'■ ■
'h
.
JL '1
SGISI
\
m
mo.
CHEAPER AND


Kxquisite Diamond aAd
Pearl Necklet, set in
pure Platinum an cl
lspt, Gold.
Price £1 7/10/-
No. 139—Pearls
and Sapphires, set
15ct. Gold.
Price £7.
No. Ill—s-Dia-
mond King, set
Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
Price £2O.
New Diamond Displays
Hundreds of different mountings in Diamond-set Platinum Jewellery comprise
Stewart Dawson’s New Display
And in
appeal.
all, those two factors—Character and Quality—make their irresistible
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our two Sydney
Establishments.
K 373 —Three-stone, fine-quality Dia
moral Brooch. Price £lO/10/-
I\374—Two-stone Diamond Knife
Brooch. Price £lO/10/-
’ Stewart Dawsok & (qcw)Ltd.
« Sj/c/ney fisfciblis men ts :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 412 GEORGE ST..*g
No. 147
All-Diamond Circle
Brooch, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold. Price £2O.
No. 116.—Four-
stone Diamond
Ring, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
K429—A1l Diamond
Necklace.
. Price £l5/10/.-
“Solomon Isles”: Some months ago the
distinguished Rev. Simon Sinful and his
friend Mr. Saul toured the Islands. Both
are leading lights in the prohibition move-
ment, but looking at the red face of the Rev.
Simon one would never suspect it. Piloted
by a resident missionary they hit Julius’s
place. Julius, not suspecting who the
strangers were, after a casual glance at the
red-faced one promptly made for the bottle,
pursued by the resident missionary, who
whispered in his ear —“No drink, Julius.”
The old chap took another look at the rubi-
cund one, then said pityingly: "Let the poor
have one: just one won’t hurt him.”
“Narrung”: “Invalid’s” conflicting evi-
dence of the joys and horrors of death by
strangulation (B. 29/9/’2l) reminds me of
another age-old fiction —the rapturous sen-
sations of the drowning. Whoever started
that had never been drowned. I tried it in
1914, and the rapturousness was severely
absent. As my best swimming efforts be-
came the futile paddle of a blind kitten, my
thoughts jerked like this; “Why did .Tack
Bondon’s hero Martin Eden find it so hard
for a swimmer to drown? Had I swallowed
more sand and water than I could float with?
Were sharks partial to dead men? Wha.i
was the good of lifesavers, anyhow?” Then
after a fit of black terror I went out. There
were no beautiful lights. It took a doctor
and an assortment of surfers half-an-hour to
get me alive again, and I lost several pounds
of pelt and found a fractured rib in the
process.
* * * *.
“Percy Pawnticket”: A recent Sydney sui-
cide was a man of appallingly tidy habits.
Among his belongings was found the exact
cash to pay his funeral expenses ; also a cal-
culation with quotations which showed that
he had been making inquiries among the un-
THESE PRACTICAL DAYS.
“Would you be satisfied with love in a
cottage, darling?”
“Have you got the cottage, dear?”
dertakers. His landlady said he had been
drinking. Apparently he had pawned every-
thing he could, done his little sum, paid his
rent, and then spent his surplus before going
out. The purchase of the last drink, .so
carefully provided for, must have been a grim
event.
WHEN IT STARTS TO GET DANGEROUS.
“How long do you generally keep your maids?”
“Oh, until they begin to shore how sorry they are for my husband .”
“Gat”: A Melbourne clothier has three
employees, and the wife of each of them
has presented her lord with twins during
the past two _ years. To make the coinci-
dence more coincidental, the boss is a twin.
“S. Gunn”; A word much, in vogue, among
certain gloomy patriots is “pommies.” Tre-
mendous is the scorn with which scowling
exiles, who will never be Australians in
spirit if they live for a century, speak of
“pommies.” Yet some of the finest fellows
in the A.I.F. were
of that bree d.
Simpson, the Man
with the Donkey,
whose quiet hero-
ism is one of the
precious memories
of Gallipoli, was
one. Pope, V. 0.,
who held his post
at Lagnicourt till
all hope was gone,
and who died with
his few remaining
men in a last
charge, wa s an-
other. A third was
Meysey Hammond,
the one-armed
captain of the
2 Btli Battalion,
who walked ahead
of his company in.
the attack on Mor-
lancourt, directing
the advance and
waving ardent
spirits back from
the barrage with a
stick. As a gibe of
general application
“pommy” has had
its day. It ought to be restricted to
the parroty type of immigrant who deco-
rates soap-boxes and who was a “conchy”
during the war and is mostly a Bolshie now
* *, * *
Notes by a gallery-lizard :
Melbourne Art Gallery has failed to obtain posses-
sion of the coveted Millais’s “Christ in the Carpenter’s
Shop,” the price ( £10,000) having been subscribed
in England; and it certainly can’t expect to secure
an example of the work of that hard old Scot, Rae-
burn (Reynolds said he couldn’t paint for sour
apples), for the paltry 14,000 guineas it has ear-
marked lor the purpose. The fact is, prices for authentic
Old, (British) Masters , have soared to unprecedented
heights. Lord Lansdowne, who recently rented Lans-
downe House to Gordon Selfridge, - the big shop-
keeper, has put up a record by disposing of a famous
Rembrandt—“ The Mill”—for. £lOO,OOO. The
nearest .approach to this huge, sum was the £72,000
paid to the Duke of Norfolk by the British nation
for Holbein’s “Christina, Duchess. of Milan,” which
captivates by its simplicity everyone who visits the.
National Gallery. The duchess is sombrely clad, in
black velvet, and her face; hands, collar and cuffs
look unnaturally pallid by contrast. Lord Sackville’s
disposal of his pet Gainsborough—-a. portrait of Miss.
Lindley—for £41,000, recalls the notorious Wallace
will case of 1913, when Lady Sackville (alluded to
during the dispute as “Kidlets”) won a victory, and
received from the estate ' £500,000 in cold,cash, free
of taxation. A famous Romney,- the, portrait of
Anne, Lady de la Pole, changed owners fop £41,87.0.
Needless to . say, America, being, able to bid .until
the cows come home, has secured most of the recently-
sold treasures. With these figures to serve as a
guide, Melbourne will have to raise its bid consider-
ably to secure an example of a famous British
Master.
* * * . *
“Tom Mot”: Recent pars, about casual
A.I.F. marriages remind me of the case of
a Digger of my battalion. Awakening on
Her Tag, he refreshed himself with - a nip.
then remembered that the best man was not
yet detailed. In Piccadilly he met a Barr,
cobber and proffered him the honor. After
the happy event, which took place about
5 p.m., the wedding-party, adjourned for a
breakfast consisting chiefly of liquid items.
Next morning when the bridegroom woke up
he found, in lieu of his Doreen, the brides-
maid delicately snoring at his side.
Barbara Matthews tries to get at the
American woman’s view of it,
Some will confess that the altruistic idea, appeals to
them —“Of course we miss, it, but for the workers’
and the children’s sakes I think we should deny our-
selves.” After stating that she is a prohibitionist in
principle—she thinks it will “be good for the: work-
ing class” —a woman will tell you that she still has
her champagne at dinner. Another is so glad that
her dear little boys will never know the smell of it.
I asked her if she intended her boys to travel abroad
as their parents had done, and what then? “Well,
you see, never having tasted it, they will never want
to.” I wonder.
■ Other women exclaim with horror at the dulness. of
dinners. “People are too argumentative now at meal-
times,” wailed a butterfly to me. But even she quoted
tiie same statistics about the. improvement in the habits
and the condition of the working-man. Yet there are
6,000,000 people unemployed in U.S.A. at the moment,
and half a million of these in New York, and
diead fills the souls of the charity workers for the
coming winter.
As a money-maker for the worst elements pro-
hibition has one of its worst features. A woman
was found to be the head of a $1,000,000 “ring” in
New York the other day; and the chief of a vast
Philadelphia organisation was proved to have made
$60,000,000 out of his operations since the “en-
forcement” of prohibition.
Certainly some don’t touch it who previously did.
But others now do who formerly never . did. The
home-brewing is a curse which has led to thousands
taking to the beverage consistently! And the “nips”
of debs, and first-seasoners (a flaskless partner is
generally partnerless) are an abomination.
Up here in Gloucester there has been a gay little
“booze ship” just outside the three-mile limit
supplying “anything at. all” at $l5 the bottle.
-Immune from capture as long as the. “three-mile”
is observed, dashing little devil-may-care boats and
launches ply their trade with great glee. I sup-
pose it is the same at a hundred little ports and
watering places.
“Prohibition doth make hypocrites of us . all” is
the new. proverb. They might write “law-breakers”
for “hypocrites” and still be true as to literally mil-
lions of people.
• “Maroro”: This very considerable stump
in the path of true love disclosed itself in
the Kawhia (M.L.j Settler (15/9/’2l)
NOTICE.
Re Our Daughter: We cannot consent to our
daughter becoming the wife of any Pakeha.
The tribe has fully decided upon the future of
this woman.
IvARAMU MAIHI.
But, true love or not, I send Karatnu Maihi
t’ree cheers.
“Pozzy,” writing from the Rue HalSvy,
describes the cocktail hunt: —
Paris is oozing Yanks. The hotels are full of
them, the cafe terraces along the boulevards are
crammed with men with their faces full of cigar
and gold teeth, and cocktails at four francs a-piece
go. west at express speed. At the races the Tote
queues contain a heavy percentage, of Yanks. Numer-
ous Yank dentists all over the city pull teeth out
and put others in at fabulous prices. Jazz-bands,
mostly Sambo, caper in dancing saloons and big
restaurants, and the latter are always filled with
Uncle Sam’s children. There are droves of Yank
women in the streets and when they pass Parisiennes
the contrast is not as a rule to the disadvantage of
the Parisiennes from a dress point of view. The
invaders are generally peeved about the way they
are exploited; but when I mildly suggested to one
that he should return to the joys of the States he
exclaimed, “Why, sonny, we are a godsend to this
country. Yes, siree. And, besides, one can get a
cocktail here.” The latest innovation on the boule-
vards since the invasion is a cynical placard in the
window of a big shop: “French spoken here.”
“Advance”: “Howitzer’s” recollections of
star A.W.L. performers (B. 8/9/’2l) may
not include the Digger who, when caught,
handed up for safe custody over £2OO in
notes, besides loose silver. He used to en-
gage a suite at a swagger hotel, then
telephone to a high-class furrier for an
expensive selection of skins to be sent around
for his nrn’s inspection. On the shopman
arriving he was shown into the Digger’s
apartments to display his wares, but uufor-
ONLY ONE OF A CROWD .
POFT (Spring variety) : “Orright ! If you
don't want it you needn't get haughty.
You're not the only editor who won't
print it!"
tunately ma always had a headache and
was lying down in her room, which made .it
necessary for the A.W.L. expert to take in
a. few samples for her to look at. The
shopman would wait awhile and then investi-
gate, only to find that the bird had flown
and that no fond mamma was on the
premises. The arm of coincidence pushed
into the job at last, and a Bristol salesman
who had lately arrived from a town that had
been visited by the hero recognised him. He
got 18 months in a civvy gaol, and numerous
firms all over Blighty split up the money
between them.
FROM THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Superfatted sopranos are seldom discreet,
Contraltos get flustered at times;
When the basso grows angry he uses his feet,
And the tenor sings small for his crimes.
Petted girls of the chorus, with nothing to wear,
Salt tears to their eyelashes cling,
And a raving producer dishevels his hair—
Yet the show seems to go with a swing.
Political terriers snarl in their sleep,
On the strength of his jaw each relies;
llow strange is the vigil these law-givers keep!
Hear a voice shouting “Lies and more lies!”
“A scandal! A scandal!” cry some in dismay;
“Gibbit backseesh,” the wail of the strong ;
But in spite of the dust and the heat of the fray,
Australia still struggles along.
For “God’s in His Heaven, all’s right with the
world” ;
Gay battle flags flutter on high,
Though millions of men to destruction are hurled,
And the “little ones” learn how to die;
Though cities may perish by fire and by sword,
’Twere foolish to count it a crime,
Such trifles don’t furrow the brow of the Lord,
With the Universe running on time.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


WHY NOT SUPPORT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY?
Miff*
fill!
HP
!H
Mill
•••
fU
*
o
o
□os
>s
□ □
r
in
p'
/
LOW
Every citizen should
help to make Aus-
tralia a self-reliant
and self-supporting
nation by buying
only Australian-made
goods.
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil
is an oil of Quality —
manufactured at
Parramatta by Aus=
tralian workmen to
suit Australian condi=
tions.
Its purity and matu=
rity are guaranteed.
AGENTS: Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty.,
Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King
Street, Perth. Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co.,
Ltd., Hobart and Launceston. Messrs. R. S.
Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Bris-
bane. Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street,
Adelaide. Messrs. Johnstone & Co., Ltd.,
Featherstone Street, Wellington, N.Z. The
S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
UNSEEooilffAl
EM
mecgitt u
I
F*RRAMATTA
OPieboyon the bay
guarantees quality ”
e
'itt jCimitecL
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST SYDNEY (W^lcs-.PaiTamattc^
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Meal, and Specialised Stock Foods.
GGITTS
UHSEEOOUMftI
n AECGITT l!
PARRAMATTA
fhij&nb saaquetwruj
ooqaift 1/0 fioq ayfo


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident § Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-139 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6. COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Cases containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIFS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5 - GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case
Liquid, 37/6 per drum
F.o.b. or
for. main
Australian
Ports.
Manufactured in Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne: Sydney: Brisbane:
497 Collins 7 Hamilton 239 Elizabeth
Street. Street. Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States.
King George IV
* un
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Billy T.”: If you are in the habit of
listening to '‘travellers’ ” tales you will come to
the conclusion that the meanest brood on earth
have taken to pastoral pursuits. Every second squat-
ter has a nickname that advertises his “tightness.”
There is a favorite yarn of one Western man who
had a visitor from the city staying with him for
a month or so. On leaving he gave Jackv, the black
boy at the homestead, a ten-shilling note. Jacky.
was disgusted. He had never had dealings with
paper money, and failed to recognise this. Showing
it to one of the men, he said: “That feller plurry
mean. He gib it ’bacea paper, no bacca in it.” The
hand condoled with Jacky. “Yes, that chap dirt-
cheap. Here, Jacky, I gib it two shillin’, you gib
it me that paper.” But Jacky’s suspicions were
aroused. He held off, and next day he confronted
the hand again. “You tink it you rob Jacky, gib it
two shillin’ that paper. Jacky too smart. Jacky
talk longa boss. Boss he say you plurry rogue. Boss
he gib it tree shillin’.”
* * * *
“JLi.D.D.”: For two months we have been
camped near a Queensland swamp, and have fared
very well for eggs —black cluck, wood duck and teal.
The nests of the wood cluck were found in trees
surrounded by water; those of the black duck and
teal by the edge of the water, in hollow trees in
the water, and in similar trees 'looyds. from water,
and, again, one mile and over .from the liquid. One
well-behaved black duck came to a hollow tree
within 50yds. of the tents and presented us with
our breakfast.
“Sherry”: In 1913 a friend of mine was
a post-office line foreman up-country in \V.A. While
out camping one night he awoke with a tickling in
his right ear. Then the tickle became a burning
agony. He drove 30 miles into the nearest town,
but the local nied. could give him no relief. The
patient insisted that there was some insect in the
ear, but the med. could find no sign of it. The
agony continued for upwards of a fortnight, until
one night the sufferer awoke to find some foreign
body inside the ear. He immediately visited the
doctor, who, with a pair of tweezers, brought out
a scorpion. Examination showed this ear-drum had
been eaten completely away. Needless to say, he is
stone deaf on that side. A Bunbury doctor lead the
insect in spirits when last I heard of it.
“De Oriel”: At Birregurra (Y r .) a crow
is raising a brood of young magpies, while maggie
is very busy tending the offspring of her fellow
shrike, the crow. This contretemps came about
through a village wit exchanging the eggs from the
nests in neighboring trees. In coloration they
are much alike, though the crow’s boast a little
more dark green than the magpie’s. A man in
Leith (Tas.) set a barnyard hen upon some quail
eggs. They were duly hatched, but the birds ran
for their life when they saw their mother, and
haven’t been sighted since.
“Isles of the Blest”: A schooner blew in
the other day, and after five months’ spell I again
saw a white face. Incidentally, I got my mail
and The Bulletin, and you can imagine how it
affected me to read “Raggedie Wun’s” description
(B. 2/6/’2l) of his lonely life in a camp where he
doesn’t get “more than one visitor in five weeks,”
and his mail is left 11 miles from his camp. But
personally I think loneliness is a matter of tempera-
ment. I never feel so lonely as when. I get into
a mob of fag-smolcing city knuts or when a “price-
less old bean” introduces me to a “tophole fellow.”
X- * -X- *
“T.0.P.”: Sparrows and ’possums having
developed a habit of committing suicide in my
tanks, the water supply isn’t what it might be. As
it is impossible to waste the water in this dry bit
of the bush, can anyone tell me how to again make
it wholesome for drinking after the suicides have
been fished out ?
* * 1 * *
“Mud”: A well-developed young tom-cat
became the father of a healthy young litter at our
place some months ago. He seemed very fond of the
kittens and would play with them by the hour. I
then gave him to Jones, who lived about a mile
away, but Jones complained that Tom was lazy and
wouldn’t rat. So 1 sent along one of Tom’s kittens.
Some weeks later, when X happened to be at
Jones’s place, my attention was drawn to Tom
stretched on the floor with the kitten sucking away
as happy as Larry. Jones told me Tom had
“mothered” the young ’un from the day it arrived,
and would “play up a treat” if parted from it. I
then carefully examined Tom and found that his
rudimentary teats were strongly developed, and to
all appearances Thomas was a first-class milker.
Strange to say about a month later Tom was found
dead from no known cause. I fancy I hear a
doubter say that I was the victim of female decep-
tion ; but the doubter lies. Tom was a Tom.
“Adrian”: Recently on a hill near here
(Q.) I came upon an old disused shaft about 30ft.
deep, and down this shaft was a rabbit. He hadn't
a skerrick to eat or drink. I tried .rolling down
rocks on him to end his misery, but he dodged
every time. I went back a fortnight after, and he
was still there, and lively enough to dodge more
rocks, though all he had to live on was the memory
of former feeds.
“Bad Australian” : It seems that “L.J.D.”
(B. 22/9/’2l) has got the idea of the “wire cart-
ridge” we used in the days when the old smooth-
bore muzzle-loader was our only weapon ; but his
application of the idea doesn’t seem to fit the facts.
The modern shot-gun is chambered to receive the
cartridge, and the chamber is considerably greater in
calibre than the barrel; consequently, when the gun
is fired the whole of the shell roust remain in the
chamber, even when partly severed, as described by
“L.J.D.,” and the pattern and penetration of the
shot would not be affected in the least. The limit
of the shot-gun even with a wire cartridge is about
80yds. or 100yds. The ideal weapon for a kangaroo-
shooter, although a trifle heavy 7 , is a d.b. gun with
one barrel bored for shot and the other rifled to take
the Winchester cartridge. With a charge of buckshot
in reserve ver,v few of the elusive though severely
wounded animals are lost and left to die a lingering
death.
“E.S.S.”: Tell “Jim Carew” (B.
15/9/’2l) that the eungevoi root, used by the
blacks for food, was roasted, pounded between
two stones and well washed. It was then made
into porridge or damper. It can be ground in the
home-made machine that farmers use for making
their own arrowroot, and washed in the same
way as that product. The blacks also used the
STIFF LUCK.
ONE : “ What’s the matter, Bill?”
THE OTHER: “Lost ’alf a dollar.”
ONE: “What! ’Ole in yer pocket ?"
THE OTHER : “No, the bloke ’card it fall.”
cungevoi lily, which grows plentifully along the
banks of rivers from the Manning (N.S.W.) to the
Par North, to poison their spear heads, and for
treating muscular rheumatism, The leaf, warmed
over a fire, is reckoned a magic pain-banisher and
healer when applied to scalds and burns. The
plant has a beautiful flower; but don’t give it to
your best girl. If unwashed hands come into con-
tact with lips after touching a flower the result
is an agonising, burning pain that lasts for a
considerable time. The beauty of the plant once
led me to grow a bunch in the garden, but I got
into so much trouble through kids fingering the
bloom that I had to cut it out.
* * * *
“Tim”: Re “Pick’s” assertion (B.
1/9/’21) that falcons can’t kill with their claws
while on the wing. I can assure him that the spar-
row hawks of M.L. can kill native-pigeons with one
blow of the claw when both are travelling at top
speed. I have seen it done on two occasions. Pick-
ing up each pigeon immediately after it fell I
found a hole just under the wing. A claw had pene-
trated deeply, in the thinnest place, between the
upper edge of the breast-bone and the lower edge of
the back-bone. Sometimes a hawk misses his blow
and can be seen casting a clawful of feathers behind
him.
THE TRIBULATIONS OF A TOURIST.
THE PARSON : “Pardon me, sir. but did you
happen to notice my horse?”
THE PERSON : “No, what yer done with it?”
THE PARSON : "I dismounted near a dwell-
ing to inquire my whereabouts, leaving
my horse tethered to a small tree. Now
I am afraid I have mislaid the tree.”
“Toby C.”: If “Camb” (B. l/9/’2l) pro-
dueed his first Abo. par at a cost of 16s. 9d. he
must be a Scot or a Jew or both Mv first attemnt
ran to higher figures. I borrowed pen and ink from
„„ vy ,Z TiIT “ Vrtk T,
village) ; cadged paper and stamp from another
banjo artist (further pledge to shout) - consulted 17
mor e railway builders about the spelling of hya
cinths (unanimous verdict in favor of “hiacynths”) :
sat on bunk on wet night in an old tent without a
iiy and completed par at 12.30 (caught cold) ;
walked 11 miles next day in rain to post letter
(several tonics at my own expense) ; returned to
camp same evening in darkness and rain and fell
into slimy creek, through an unfinished bridge,
developed influenza and lost 16 days’ work at 18s.
4d. a day; recovered, wrote several friends, rela-
tives and acquaintances advising them to watch
Bulletin for coming par; went in to see if it had
been printed and lent a chap two quid (still out)
and left my ten-and-sixpenny GBD on the bar
counter. Thank God, that par was rejected. Other-
wise I might have grown enthusiastic about writing.
“Pick”: When “Tin Hat” (B. 15/9/’2l)
wants earth-worms, let him excav ate under any loamy
creek bank. The thuds of his pick will startle the
slimy fellows, whose escape is always downwards, and
presently he will see them dangling like animated
bootlaces from the roof of the dug-out. That’s the
time!
**' * *
“Jim Carew”: If “Tin Hat” (B. 15/9/’2l)
wants a regular supply of earth-worms in the hot
weather let him sink an empty cask in a damp spot
in the garden and fill it with earth. Then spend a
Sunday morning catching a good supply of worms
and put them in it. Keep the earth in the barrel
moist during the summer; and whenever he wants
bait he can just dig a few out.
“Mack”: Tell “8.J.N.” (B. 11/8/’2l) that
to cure his prad of pulling away when tied up’ all
he has to do is to hobble him, then pass the reins
over a rail and fasten them to the hobbles. Two
or three doses of this treatment, and he will be
able to just drop the reins over the neddy’s head
anywhere arid the prad will be there when he comes
back.
* * * *
"Ophis”: "Tin Hat” (B. 15/9/’2l) wants
fo know how to entice earth-worms to the surface.
This worm is very timid, and will often come up
during earth tremors. A favorite method of Eng-
lish fishermen is to dig a garden-fork well into the
ground and then shake it. vigorously. This action
almost invariably causes the “worm to turn” and
make its way to the surface.
“R.R.” : It’s a pretty slow job getting to
Grafton (N.S.W.) even now-, but when the Ogilvys
and others were, piloted overland about 18.39 by
Richard Craig, the runaway convict who had dis-
covered the “Big River,” it took five months to get
from Maitland to the Clarence. In places the drays
were hauled up hills from tree to tree with block and
tackle, and let down in the same way. The over-
landers ate their dogs, and even then came uncom-
fortably close to starvation.
(Continued on page 22. )
OUR LIZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She oughten’ ter go,” her father said,
And I knew that he felt alarm;
But she would go down to Sydney town,
When she oughter stayed on the farm-
We both of us hoped she’d marry well—
There was nothing' she couldn’t do- —
But she met a crank
In a city bank,
And our hopes went all askew.
And now she writes that she won’t come back,
That she’s finished with cows and milk ;
I had to stop—l was fit to drop
IV ith her talk of satin and silk.
She learnt to drive when she was young,
And could handle a plough or drill,
Or take a load,
By a rough bush road,
Of heavy logs to the mill.
We taught her the way to kill a sheep
And to mother the poddy calves:
She could make a gate and hang it straight,
For she never did things by halves.
But now she has left it all behind,
And her chances are thrown away:
She’s lost her head,
And she stays in bed
Till twelve o’clock in the day.
At making cakes she was hard to beat,
But she’ll buy them now instead.
Why, six months ago ’gainst ’em all at the Show
She won with her home-made bread.
She was best of all at the Show-time ball,
And they said that she was the belle—
To and fro,
She was all the go,
As the music rose and fell.
THE RIGHT MAN FOR THE JOB.
“ Please , mummer says when you get your
machine started, will you come and
catch our canary? It’s got away.”
But what’s the good of it all to-day?
For the city has turned her head ;
She’s in and out and gadding about
When she oughter be in bed.
She sent us a photo of herself,
And her skirt is up to her knees—
(Oh, to hear dad swear!),
And her chest was bare
And her hair’s bobbed, if you please.
I think it’s hard on dad and me
For the trouble we always took:
He taught her the way to ride and drive,
And I taught her to wash and cook.
I know that she’ll soon forget it all,
As she did poor Ted Malone—
A decent bloke that seldom spoke,
With a home he can call his own.
K.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


Sheepowners Pronounce This the Finest Outfit of Its Kind on the Market!
The VERDICT is WELL FOUNDED!
In constructing this outfit, our Engineers and Experts have followed the valued suggestions sent
us during the past five years by sheepowners t iroug lout us ra ta. - , Carhuretter
The Outfit is compact, handy and efficient. The 2-h.p. Engine is fitted with float feed Carburetter,
Bosch Magneto, is water-cooled, works on the four-cycle principle, and is thoroughly reliable
The Pump has duplex cylinders of vertical design with drain p ugs at the base the most e cien
m
from start to finish, and last, but not least, the
Cooper Power Sheep Spray plant is so con-
structed that two shearing machines can be
instantly attached, if desired, and used for crutch-
ing. The machines stand well out on each side
of the undercarriage, and finish off one of the
most efficient and practical crutching plants that
can be constructed.
The
Power-driven Sheep Spray Plant
can be used for applying Dip by means of a solid jet under pressure
the tried, proven and most satisfactory method of treating the
sheep for the blowfly. ' It can be used for crutching, and, if
desired, can also be used for shearing flocks from 500 to
3000 head. . , n
Every station should be equipped with one of these Cooper
Combination outfits. A postcard will bring illustrated folder and
full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
U 54 Streep SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street MELBOURNE.
PLAYOTONE PLAYER PIANO
\
A
s? 5
Will give pleasure to everybody that
hears it, and its purchase will never
cause one single regret.
The Playotone Player Piano provides every
class of music to suit the varying ages from
the children’s nursery rhymes to the most
gorgeous and soul-stirring classic interpreted
by a world-renowned artist.
It is a mistake to think that a Player Piano
will cause the children to neglect their music
practice. It has been proved conclusively
that it is a great incentive to study, and
children quickly learn to play the same
music they hear on the Player Piano.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE,
PRICE LIST AND EASY TERMS.
YOUR PRESENT PIANO
CAN BE TAKEN IN
EXCHANGE AND ITS
FULL VALUE ALLOWED.
’S
in
a
e St.
338 Georg
SYDNEY..
BRANCHES
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.


Have you tried it with Soda-water?
Many people have acquired the taste for CLEMENTS TONIC
with soda-water! It is an excellent pick-me-up after a strenuous
business engagement or tiring shopping tour; also it is an
appetiser before meals! Moreover, CLEMENTS TONIC does
not contain alcohol or narcotics, and consequently it does not
form a “habit.” Try it with soda. You’ll like it!
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N,S«W.
Stumpy”: Does this often happenV The
other Thursday a cow up here (Walcha, N.S/W.)
calved, and on the following Tuesday she had an-
other calf—the first a roan bull and the second a
red heifer. Both are doing well.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Reynard” (B. 22/9/’2l) asks
why galahs and other spout-nesters pick off the
bark round their' homestead tree ? When the ques-
tion was argued in The Bulletin some years
ago it was carried by the majority of Abo-iteS tfeat
the ringing was done to leave a slippery hold for
gohannas and other ’ nest-burglars. ' Observation
since then has convinced me that it is a barrage
against ants. Young birds are given a shuddery
time when their nest is discovered by ants in
ms’s absence; but the invaders, will baulk for
several-days--ah the sticky sap of a ringbarked tree.
When, however, they commence crossing the ring,
the birds circumvent them with a newly stripped
area, and all goes well in the nursery.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
THE MAN IN BLACK: “Sorry to hear that
your wife has deserted you, old man.
Arc you taking out an order for resti-
tution?”
THE OTHER : “Not on your life, son! She
might come back.”
An Adelaide Register correspondent
21/9/’2l) has discovered a curly-tailed kangaroo on
Yorke’s Peninsula: —
It came close past where I was standing. It
appeared to have a lump on the end of its tail, but
on closer inspection this proved to be a curl at the
end of the tail, about the size of a dinner-plate. I
have been among kangaroos all my life, but this is
the first I have seen like that.
Bruzzer’s” bloodthirsty meditations:—
Let me quench “Barney’s” (B. 15/9/’2l) thirst
tor information about leeches. When an adult
leec li has had a good square meal it doesn’t require
another for between six and nine months. Their
lood consists of the blood of higher animals. When
completely gorged they have aboard three t.mes their
own weight of blood. The reason for “Barney”
being the object of their malice is, no doubt, his
A FAIR BIT OF COUNTRY.
PROSPECTIVE FARMER: “Is the soil very good about here, Billy?”
BILLY: “By cripes, yes, boss. You see th at tree over there?”
PROSPECTIVE FARMER: “Yes.”
BILLY: “Well, that tree plurry gatepost last month.”
size. Each leech has 10 eyes arranged around the
top side of its mouth, and if one of these couldn’t
spot a man within 20 yards or more, the vampire
deserves to lose his tucker. Blood ordinarily will,
coagulate quickly, especially if the wound is as small
as a leech’s bite, and to counteract this coagulation
the leech secretes in its salivary glands a substance
called hirudin, which prevents dotting of blood. The
smallest trace of this anticoagulin will prevent the
clotting of either shed blood, or that in a blood-
vessel. The leech has three jaws, with small, sharp
teeth thereon. When he bites a deep, triangular
wound is made, and, at the same time, this hirudin is
poured into the cuts so as to allow of a free flow
of the blood into the leech’s tummy, which is in
reality his crop, consisting of 11 chambers, . and the
stomach proper, just behind. This is where the blood
is stored. When this anti-coagulin is injected into
a wound, the blood may flow from two to four hours.
Upon which the man whose job it was to read the
foregoing in proof remarks that he has had leeches
applied to him on eight or 10 occasions, and that
the blood-flow has continued for as much as 22 hours
after the slimy horror has released itself.
* * * *
“Merlin”: Can any moderately veracious
Abo.-liar tell me the origin of the dogs of the Terri-
tory blacks? Are they tamed dingoes or white-
fellow mongrels? Or are they a separate type of
dog, like the little fellow that so many South Sea
brown brothers cherish—and devour when necessary ?
“Pecksniff” : A landholder in this district
(Girilambone, N.S.W.) hung his waistcoat on a tree
while working, and later found that Bs. 6d. had dis-
appeared from one of the pockets. Thirteen years
later he found Bs. in a bower-birds’ playground a
short distance from where the cash had vanished.
The coins were marked and scratched as if they had
been often carried from place to place.
“2.UP”: Re hybrid progeny of cats. If
“Exul” or “Merlin” will pay the. freight from up
here (Casino, N.S.W.) I will send him a real live
cat with a pouch like a kangaroo.
“\andorian” (London) : For how long
does a parrot enjoy life? Many of us remember
that forlorn, almost featherless old cockatoo at Tom
Ugly’s Point, outside Sydney, who occasionally made
ribald remarks at the alleged age of 100 summers.
But he looked a misery. In London I know a lively,
talkative bird, an African parrot, with about 67
birthdays behind him. “Polly” was bought about
42 years ago by the late Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N.,
writer of so many well-known boys’ stories. He
acquired the bird from people who had paid its seed
bill for 25 years. They said it was quite a young
thing when it came into their possession. “Polly”
is still the devoted pal of Mrs. Gordon Stables,
widow of the doctor. His eye is bright; he takes a
cold bath every morning (winter and summer),
splashing his body vigorously ; his plumage is good;
and his vocabulary extensive and to the point. Liv-
ing in a very large cage his chief hobby is to do
gymnastics on a swinging bar. At 67 or there-
abouts, lively “Polly” Stables is apparently in the
prime of life.
“Mac Alan”: “Merlin’s” arguments (B.
l/9/’2l) against certain animal crossings read con-
vincingly ; still— When I was serving on H.M.S.
Canada in the British West Indies (1889-92) mutton
was never purchased at the island of Antigua because
it was generally stated that dogs had so crossed with
the sheep that it was practically impossible to
obtain mutton without the canine taint. If‘“Merlin”
is correct, then 400 men often went meatless
through sheer ignorance. The baa-lambs I saw
there had a much more aggressive manner than any
I ever saw elsewhere, though I’m not saying exactly
that they chased us out of the harbor.
FILLING UP SOME OF AUSTRALIA'S
EMPTY SPACES.
“Eddyson” : I defy competitors to produce
a disappearance more complete, sudden and dramatic
than that of John Box, of South-street, Ballarat. It
happened within a quarter of a mile of the back of
the Ballarat Gaol, in broad daylight, in the pres-
ence of three people—Box’s wife, his sister and
another woman, a neighbor. They were all in Box’s
garden, the women sitting under a pear-tree within
three yards of Box, the man gathering gooseberries
from an enormous bush. Mrs. Box, startled by a
faint cry, looked up, and Box was gone. Three
seconds previously she had seen him in the goose-
berry bush, and thinking he was hiding for a, lark,
she pulled the limbs aside. There was no sign of
ox ; there was nothing to account for his disappear-
ance. He was not anywhere in the garden or in the
house. The rooms were searched, although the women
were positive Box had not left the garden. The terri-
fied wife called in the assistance of a man opposite.
e was a Methodist “local” preacher, and suggested
piajei. They prayed, and a voice was heard faint
and far, but recognisable as that of Box. The
' °* ce seetl ied to come from the gooseberry bush, but
a further excited search revealed no sign of the
lost husband. He had been missing two hours when
the police arrived. The police heard the faint, far
voice, and one attacked the gooseberry bush. He
got well under in quest of clues. Then a strange
thing happened—the constable gave a loud shout of
alarm, and the gooseberry bush began to sink into
the earth. The policeman’s boots were drawn out of
sight, and down into the bowels of the earth went
the huge shrub, dragged, apparently, by a weight.
The watchers saw it disappear into the darkness of
a small prospecting shaft, the existence of which
had not hitherto been suspected. Old slabs under a
foot of mould had given way under Box’s weight.
In falling he had dragged a big branch partly into
the aperture, effectually concealing it. The police-
man, hanging to the gooseberry bush like a para-
chute, escaped injury, but Box had concussion and
three broken ribs.
“0.M.E.”: “Mirrabillili” (B. l/9/’2l)
sajs he has heard of;only one case of a bitch mother-
ing a kitten. I have a blue cattle bitch which
reared a white kitten. The strangest part was that
she was the enemy of all cats and had killed several
of the white kitten’s relatives. The fostering seemed
to have a queer effect, for ihe kitten grew quite
savage and would chase and fight other cats just
like a dog does. She is a full-grown tabby now, has
never had any family of her own, but takes great
interest in the small /puppies which her foster-
mother now possesses,
*** t *
“Jackeroo”: A white wood-duck has been
shot near Doondi ■ station on the Balonne River
(Q.). The oldest inhabitant (Hod bless him!)
reckons it’s the first white specimen ever seen. The
feathered freak has been sent to the Brisbane
Museum.
* * * *
‘‘Tasman”: Let me chip in on this big-
turnip competition. “D.F.” (B. 8/9/’2l) is not
quite accurate. The weight he mentions, 901 b., is
correct within a pound or so, but that particular
turnip wasn’t grown at the Fishery on Maria Island
(Tas.). Just there it is all barren granite country,
which wouldn’t grow enough turnips per acre to
provide a square feed for a goat. The big fellow
came from a rich alluvial flat at the northern end of
the specldet, known as “the hop-ground” because hops
were grown there when the island was used as a
convict station. After the station was abandoned,
about 70 years ago, the whole place was, leased from
the Crown by one Rudd, who grew what must have
been a record yield of turnips. I believe the big
one was sent to Eugland, and ’tis said that Rudd
offered to bet that he could pull 40 turnips from the
same crop to weigh a ton.
“H.V.E.”: Some old-time tests of the
death-inflicting powers of the tiger-snake ( Notechis
scutatus) give the following results. A fair-sized
dog was paralysed within three minutes and died
50 minutes afterwards; a goat
gave up the ghost in 35 minutes,
a native porcupine in six hours
and a tortoise in five hours. As
the tortoise, like the snake itself
is cold-blooded, this last feat is
the most remarkable. The tiger,
by the way, is sometimes known
in Victoria as “carpet-snake,”
and in Tassy as “black snake,”
the body-bands not being appa-
rent in many examples, being a
very dark brown. But when
Master Tiger first sheds his coat
he is often a glistening orange-
red in ground coloring. I have
often met him about Monaro
(N.S.W.) river banks —a favored
haunt—thus attired, and where
his length ran to about sft. he
was usually ready, indeed anxious,
for unprovoked battle. As re-
gards the occasional interbreed-
ing or crossing of venomous
snakes with others of a different
variety, in one instance I hap-
pened upon a brown and a black
snake (lady) engaged in weird
serpentine coquetry, Romeo being
particularly savage when dis-
turbed. Other observers assert
that they have found broods of
young snakes which had the characteristics of
the black, brown and tiger all mixed. I have taken
the partly-digested remains (tail-end) of a brown
from the pantry of a black. Snakes are great canni-
bals, and always swallow the victim head first.
“FY7”: “Malleeite” and “Pick” sneer
at the references to the literature of hawking with
which I supported my contention that the killing is
done with the talon. Both profess to regard these
hawks as ancient history and the sport as one long
extinct. But hawking is a sport still largely prac-
tised all over the world, save only in the Americas
and Australia. In England to-day there are pro-
bably still 50 or more mews in existence. The
Badminton Library series contains a volume on
modern hawking, and articles on the sport fre-
quently appear in the English sporting magazines.
BILL'S DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He rises, and at 7 a.m. is digging o'er the garden
ground.
He plants some peas and waters them. Then comes
the low, melodious sound:
‘•I wish you’d reckon up this bill, and make the toast
for breakfast, Will.”
Bill has to be at work at eight, and blithely to his
job he comes,
Starts hauling carpets of great weight, and hefty
long linoleums,
And felts, oilcloths and rugs in rolls, to please capri-
cious female souls.
At six he faces homeward ; there he chops wood for
to-morrow’s wash,
Hangs out the lines and digs with care about the
cabbage and the squash,
Till Kate remarks with hints of ire of trouble in
the kitchen fire.
He helps to lay the board for tea, and minds the
baby while his wife'
Is frying chops and later he will dry the dishes ’mid
the strife
Involving four small kids who brawl about a kitten
and a ball.
Then Kate produces boots to mend. The kids will
have their dad repeat
A yarn. They tread his bust and bend his nose
absurdly with their feet.
They fight for him, his collar tear, and rub their
dripping in his hair.
Now there is not a thing to do, she says, but hold
the wool she winds
At ease into a ball or two. Alas! she recollects
the blinds
Have lost a cord, the oven’s choked, and yesterday
the chimney smoked.
Then there’s the rat-trap to be set, the lock to fix
that Tommy broke ;
The clock is stopped ai d Bill must get his tools' and
' all his arts invoke
To dig out springs and wheels. The lot must then
be boiled within a pot.
At midnight William rolls to bed beside his darling
stiff and sore.
With weariness he’s almost dead, but Willie’s trials
are not o'er,
I° r Katie has her theme begun—how woman’s work
is never clone!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE WORLD’S
MOST RENOWNED
sx
HIGH=CLASS
CIGARETTES.
Grades to suit all tastes but one duality only—the Highest.
VIRGINIA
No. 555
Absolutely Unique
in their Qualities.
25 for 2/6
No.
High-class Cigarettes
at moderate prices.
20 for 1/6
No
Extra Quality
Gold Tipped.
25 for 3(3
Billiard-room Size*
25 for 3|6
25 for 3/3
ASTORIAS
DE LBXE
Magnum Size.
MY DARLING
Gold Tipped
for Ladies.
20 for 2|-
HIS MAJESTY
Cork Band
with Gold Tip.
2 5 for 4/“
AD REVOIR
For Travellers’ Use.
:TURK.ISH====-
Pure Macedonian Leaf.
No. 444
No. 1
Extra Mild
Turkish Leaf.
25 for 316
QUO VADIS Grade 50 Turkish de Luxe. 20 for 3|6
H.R.H.
Patent Silk Absorbent
Band, Gold Tipped.
20 for 316
Also Obtainable in Boxes of 10, 50 and 100.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH "TOBACCO CO, LTD.* LONDON.


m
m
fa
%
&
%
4
r/if/'J ■/
i y
i
¥
r> «
La *
P//' "
' !\
c \.
y A
m
u\
■ f;#
i
If'
//, VSE '<
\S
X\
U> )
m
. ..,. 'i " ■ : -r$
SesWV-fSS 7
r/K
y/mZy/v
rmi
m>>
r'\<' ,’;c :i
msfm
4,
WMZm l \>,„.
Yrt
"/* y/v
fc. 'VII
V, , V;‘:
J?/
»
4^'.
<1
m
m
L. >
52
*»
;, *5
*5
STURDY '
M
'«'!i\;,i%- AUSTRALIAN
i,, n
4
'• iiJ
t
m
/
m
#f"U-
-2
/Kp*
,1
X
m
r
V,\
I
Sfe
3E* *=>
\\
1?
GREATER
AIR
SPACE
m
/
•k
c
111
'<ll//
aiyfi
KARST J
suasion
7
A,.
7/1
&
ttih-
'3*
#5
%
as*
/
f
‘inum
f l^'Zj&"
YOU RIDE
ON AIR
The air space ire
your Tyre forms the
Cushion.—the greater
that aip space the more
effective the Cushion
Because the air space in
the Perdriau Tyre is con-
siderably greater than
that of other makes, this sturdy
Australian Tyre minimises road
shocks to a greater degree.
Increased motoring comfort and
decreased engine strain are
noticeable features in a car that
is Perdriau shod.
Obtainable from
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
207 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Grenfell Street and Hindmarsh
Square, Adelaide.
212-4 Murray Street, Perth.


Spirit
intke
''X'’orW
hjkjhk
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's Kpt>e
S TAJVDS ALONFt
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
D
M
v SHOnOD
r.
Q
<23
&
f
N *
colds'
LUNG
TROUBLES
CROUP
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
simple and classical in form, and revealing
a deep feeling for English country life, is
at once dubbed Theocritus in Kent. And J.
G. Squire, an excellent all-round writer, not
a Swinburne or Anatole France, but per-
haps the Edmund Gosse of the younger
generation, is described as a Reflective poet,
the purely reflective poem, according to the
critic, being perhaps the most difficult of all
poems to write. But J. O. Squire can do it:
Into the pits of my heart and brain
My ears, eyes, nose, tongue, fingers, like five
gardeners
Are shovelling sights, sounds, odors, savors, contacts,
\\ hile I, their master, casually nod, and meantime
Stand idly by, looking at something else.
Robert Nieholls, who recently went to
Japan as lecturer in English literature, used
to review poetry in the Observer. He was
seldom severe as a critic, though he once
made rather a fierce attack on Ezra Pound,
who belonged to an enemy camp, finding
ever more to praise than to blame, especially
in the work of those poets who called them-
selves Georgian. But there are many vigor-
ous protests against the power of what has
been described as the “Squirearchy,” the
finest flower of Georgianism. An old-
fashioned critic, Charles Whibley, sees noth-
ing but anarchy in the present condition .of
poetry and his war-cry—which, of course,
nobody heeds—is “Back to Pope!” But the
very youngest poets, who have rebelled from
the established Georgians, not because they
are too revolutionary, but because they are
too orthodox, have their own little publica-
tions, a dozen or so, full of free verse,
usually so free as not to be verse at all, and
the wildest Futurist and Cubist decorations-
Their work is generally damned; but they
retaliate by savage satires against tlie
Poets’ Ring and add considerably to the
gaiety of literary London.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Bondage of Virtue
Though he has just followed up his “Diver-
sions” of a year or two ago with “Books on
the Table,” a collection of short essays,
Edmund Gosse belongs to the past
generation of writers of which Thomas
Hardy and George Moore are among the
sole survivors of genius. He was born at
the dawn of Darwinism, in the dusty trap-
pings of a back-parlor world in the half-light
of subdued thought and theological tension.
His parents were Plymouth Brethren: the
father a zoologist and writer on natural his-
tory, the mother a writer of religious verse
and “popular works of edification.” The
young Gosse was shielded from every danger
and delight. His mind was manacled in a
narrow creed: his adolescent life dedicated
to slavish intellectual and scientific pursuits
at the dictation of a bigoted father. The
inevitable clash of temperaments between
father and son when the latter abandoned
what Dean Inge has called "the sordid slut-
tery of fanatic conventicles” and filled his
lungs with the pure air of free thought, is
recounted by him in “Father and Son” with
a winning tenderness and respectful sym-
pathy which renders the work a classic. At
18 he was made assistant-librarian at the
British Museum. Later he had a lecture-
ship at Trinity College, Cambridge ; and as
a linguist he was employed at the Board of
Trade. An omnivorous reader with a pas-
sion for books and a writer of graceful if
insipid English, he has led the sequestered
life of a literary aristocrat, spending
10 years as librarian to the House of • Lords.
And it is as a sheltered aristocrat that his
friend George Moore always sees him, fra-
ternising with the peerage at exclusive clubs,
or helping his Grace the Archbishop into his
carriage and tucking the rich rug under the
episcopal breeches.
In a recent survey of the Victorian epoch
Gosse unwittingly wrote his own epitaph
as a man of letters: “Even in the suggestions
of change they preserved an impenetrable
decorum of demeanor, a studied progress, ; a
deep consciousness of the grinding restraint
of tradition upon character.” His books
number over HO, and he has worked over
the w r hole field of literature —criticism, fic-
tion, verse and drama. He has done some
good things and some important things—-
things in the way of pen-portraiture that
nobody else could have done as well. “The
Life and Letters of John Donne” is perfect
biography. And if there "is anyone nowadays
who really wants to know about Lady
Dorothy Nevill or Catherine Trotter, Mr.
Gosse will refer you to his “Diversions.”
But though half-a-century ago he acted as
Ibsen’s accoucheur in England, he was never
a pioneer in thought. He has admired w T hat
others admired before him. His criticism
is too often the restatement of current criti-
cal opinions focussed into line with his liter-
ary tastes. His facts are accurate because
they are the facts of extant history; and
his graceful utterance, the critical compen-
dium of established ideas, has the authenti-
city of the ages behind it. In a word,
Gosse has never slipped on the banana-skin
of inference, nor backed the wrong horse
in a critical sweepstakes. When, nearing
the age of 70, he issued the only biography
of his friend Swinburne, the fickle virtue
of restraint stayed his hand, causing him
to pass over the poet’s love of liquor, the
pagan intentions and dubious daring of ear-
lier days, with misguided middle-class right-
eousness. Yet some of the foremost authors
and Peers of the Realm saw fit to honor
the_ biographer by the presentation of a por-
trait bust of himself and a signed address.
Here he sits at the age of 72. seemingly
at the feet of fortune, yet we wonder whether
in the frothing cup of his happiness Edmund
Gosse tastes any of the vinegar of failure.
Perhaps we expected too much. His matu-
rity opened with the promise of creative
genius, but his life, has been a protracted
unfulfilmont. The artistic firmament of his
uay blazed with many dancing stars. Among
them he knew Swinburne and Rossetti; he
patronised the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood
—art oracles to a wondering world. YY it n
the declining century the western horizon
was shot with the efflorescent tints of the
Yeliow Book team, when men either stood
apart by their sheer genius or fell in with
the drift of decadence. If Gosse had joined
these intoxicated helots in their mad scarlet
sins of the spirit or the hectic utterance
of their song, instead of courting the house-
hold virtues of a scholar temperamentally
inclined to art. there might now have been
a plush seat for him in the reserved stalls
on Olympus. Poetry was his first passion,
and he put forth a number of thin volumes:
little formal things—villanelles, sestinas and
sonnets,. all scrupulously correct and neatly
turned, but with never a line to linger in
the memory.nor a thought that could stand
against time. His moods were meditations,
and though his diction is without defect,
damned by the faint praise of Pater as
“some of our best secondary poetry.” his
verse ventures remain untouched on the
shelves, embalmed in the dust of half-a+cen-
tury. Such is the bondage of virtue.
RKG. S. ELLERY.
The American Critic
As the best and most famous of them I
can take H. L. Mencken for the purpose of
this note. Mencken is really rather a notice-
able man. A mixture of Irish, English and
Berman blood, he seems to have inherited all
the fight and energy of each corner of his
ancestry. Only two things under Uod will
he leave unattacked —his own supreme lit-
erary importance and Joseph Conrad. All
other things he rends and demolishes without
fear or favor. He is the vandal, .the fervent
iconoclast of American current literature.
This last being pretty shoddy, lie finds plenty
to do, much of his labors haying a good air
of being services to letters.
He has the American “headline” genius.
He makes a good phrase in his title or in the
opening of his article which establishes
firmly, and more or less memorably, the par-
ticular fight he is going to put up. In this
the abiding sense of humor in Mencken’s
make-up helps tremendously, American humor
being as very rare in criticism as else-
wdiere in America. An article deploring
Wells’s abandonment of pure fiction for
moralist fiction is entitled “The late Mr.
Wells.” “G. 8.5.” is “The Ulster Polonius.”
“Criticism of Criticism of Criticism” is
another title. A sex-paper is called “The
Blushful Mystery.” A phrase or two : “Lured
to Chicago during the Republican National
Convention by a weakness for the obscene”
....“I was branded a liar, an idiot and a
slanderer of the dead, and more than one
indignant partisan challenged me to come out
into the alley and say it again. To this
onslaught I replied with a lordly gesture.”
A par. called “Monogamous Marriage” :
An institution founded upon the theory that the
girl who falls into the trivial (and obviously excus-
able) indiscretion of kissing me behind the door should
be punished for it all the rest of her life by being
forced to nurse my children when they have the
whooping-cough and" their pa when he is down with
Katzen jammer.
All that is small potatoes illustrating
Mencken’s headline style, which is obviously
most potent when he has something to fight,
.something to abuse. A third-rate, or even a
second-rate, man can run a sort of newspaper
reputation on the skill with which he can
dismember and destroy his subject, but it is
never a first-rate literary reputation such as
Mencken’s. To be taken seriously outside
the Dry Land the iconoclast must have some-
thing more than his hammer in his hand : if’
he has not the critical faculty as Chesterton,
.1. 0. Squire, Belloc and a dozen others, then
at least he must bring some judgment, some
opinion, to letters. Mencken has no critical
faculty ; the cheap, self-conscious matter he
publishes in his magazine, The Smart Set.
is one proof of that, and almost all his
pathetically violent critical utterances are
another. His personal judgments, the likes
and dislikes which can be made to do service
for the missing faculty, are too spasmodic
and reasonless, too inflated and prejudiced
to be worthy of print. Examples:—
The ease of Kipling illustrates the point. The
man, in his moments, is unquestionably a first-rate
artist; it would be silly to deny the fine quality
of some of his poetry, and even of some of his
prose....
Shaw....has made it his lifework to announce
the obvious in the terms of the scandalous.
More hopeless drivel is in “Not That It Matters,”
by A. A. Milne, a group of thin and pointless essays,
the worst sort of wrndy tosh from third-rate Eng-
lish weeklies.
He [Sudermann] starts off furiously, let us say,
as a Zola, and then dilutes Zolaism with romance,
and then pulls himself up and begins to imitate
Ibsen, and then trips himself up and falls head-
long into the sugar-bowl of sentimentality.
And so on, the worst sort of windy, clever
childishness. And this on good evidence is
“the clearest and often the wisest voice in
current American criticism.”
If it is so, things are worse with old man
Manhattan even than one had feared. Let
me take my chance excerpts seriatim. The
modern critic who puts Kipling’s verse
before his prose, and who allows the denial
of any fine quality in Kipling to be question-
able, has left the schoolboy’s knowledge of
the biggest force in modern letters out of
his equipment. Shaw, a power to be taken
as seriously as Kipling, is never scandalous
and hardly ever obvious, however neatly a
pungent headline may be turned. The type
of paper in "Not That It Matters,” “If 1
May” and Milne’s other books made bright
modern patches full of delicate humor and
naturalness in the dark pages of Punch ;
literary, graceful and full of life, they are
the hopefullest sign in modern English-
speaking journalism and letters —a baby-
critic could see that. I can do nothing with
Sudermann .in a “sugar-bowl of sentimen-
tality” except laugh feebly and w r ait to be
told the joke—which is uncomfortably un-
usual ; as a rule Mencken’s jokes come
gigantically at me in heavy type. Perhaps
Sudermann, the grim German modern, stand-
ing under so much of current literary
thought, is the wrong name: Mencken may
have been thinking of somebody else.
In some distant day perhaps all this in-
flation will be gone from the nation that
suffers it so gladly now. To-day they sit
round Mencken’s feet, solemn as otherwise
only the dollars of life can make them, eat-
ing up his fiery publicity, taking his word
for it that the balloons are full of food, and
not of the wind of ignorance. A nation “in
the making,” I suppose, putting out her ad-
vance publicity . campaign Things will
fail quiet in some distant day, perhaps, when
the work begins. Till then the Menckens,
the talkers, have the place at their mercy.
DENIS MAHON.
American Rhymes
When American inflections of our com-
mon speech (it is getting less common if not
less vulgar every day) are called upon for
rhyme, we get a'new terror added to alleged
poetry. Take these examples culled from
first-rate (if there are any such) American
magazines :—• .
The love you gave me yesterday,
When I at last had greatly dared
And you no longer said me nay,
1 take your kiss but not your word.
And this also from the same “poem” -
Blent with the sacrament we shared,
I take your kiss but not your word.
Can’t we hear that Connecticut lover mur-
muring “durd” and “shurd” into his girl’s
ear? The next is more allowable, because
the author really adopts the old English
pronunciation of “master,” but it has an
odd sound, nevertheless
In fear I greet my lord and master
With grave foreboding of disaster.
But the broad “a” gets full value in the
“stawrs” of this couplet:—
Marched to its mad music, underneath the stars,
All is very old, dear, love and life and wars. •
Probably one would not have far to search
to find other examples of Uncle Sam’s lin-
gual peculiarities. We can invent a few,
anyway. Let the reader experiment with
these, being careful only to see that he gets
the correct rhyme on the last word. For
instance, the lover aforesaid might be made
to sing:—
Nothing shall serve our souls to part,
Whatever be our earthly lot;
Or in a more reverent strain: —.
Let us give thanks for our daily fodder,
Our bacon and beans, corn mush and ice-water.
Let each sit down in his homeliest garb
To blueberry-pie and corn on the cob.
Or imagine one full of those things and pat-
riotism :
Shouting above the hurricane,
“Sir, I am an American!”
And as a final topical touch, the local tennis
“fan” may “cut loose” from the top of his
sky-scraper, per megaphone
See famous Tilden drive and hoyk,
.The admiration of New York!
I admit the last is local and dialectic, but
the Yanks are whales for dialect, which
covers a multitude of skins of varied shades
and a large area of the “best sellers.”
ALEX. SOMERVILLE.
A Satchel of Books
In Secret,- by Wm. Le Queux (Odhams). Half-a-
dozen “mystery” yarns, the plots slight, the con-
struction poor, the" writing very slovenly. Le Queux
shouldn’t have done it.
A Market Bundle, by A. Neil Lyons (Thornton
Butterworth). Forty-four short stories-—short, short-
stories most of them —and nearly 40 are good: sad-
ness in a few, grins and chuckles in most, human
nature in all. But when are these London pub-
lishers going to kill the printers who disfigure their
good books with horrible typographical errors?
Open this book’ at random, and the priuter-who-ought-
to-be-borled is liable to tell you that Mr. Rummer)
was a “dessicated” little man.
Sim,onett% by H. C. M. Hardinge (Odhams, Ltd.,
per George Robertson). Moving-picture drama of
Italian passion expanded into a story by - a skilful
hand. ft makes an absorbing little'yarn, and is
powerfully written.
Outwitted, by Oliver Bland (Odhams). German
spy novel, but there isn’t much thrill in it. The
incidental sketches of 1915 England making muni-
tions for dear life are worth more than the story.
Alaska Man's Luck, by Hjalmar Rutzebeck (Fisher
Unwin). Probably published by Fisher Unwin as
a shocking example. A Scandinavian, after serving
in the U.S. Army (before the war), decides to try
Alaska. He goes there, after falling in love, and
these are supposed to be his letters to the girl de-
scribing his experiences—enough of them to make
half-a-dozen books. They might, have had the
strength of simplicity-; but they miss even that. It.
was a great pity to waste the stuff.
The Garment of Gold, by Oliver Sandys (Hurst,
and Blackett). Painfully green young Englishwoman
runs away- to London- from cattish ’aunt, chums
up with uncommon chorus-girl (she lias rejected a
famous author and written the book, of the year),
and falls into clutches of (1) amorous theatrical
manager,' and 1 (2) - harpy who runs a low-class
Parisian cafe. Rescued from cafe by, Lord Snifter,
she is identified by that melancholy nobleman as
long-lost daughter. In 1 ' the end she marries ; the
vicar. Sloppy in the main, but now add then there
is a redeeming trace of honest, sentiment..
The Inky Way
“El Nido”: In “This World of Ours” (R.P.;
30/6/’2l), J. H. Curie refers to the wonderful pre-
auroral glows in Mesopotamia. 1 have seen a display
of these lights before several sunrises when passing
through the Red Sea. The eastern sky resembles
a grand transformation scene at a pantomime: start-
ing with a delicate glow of purple, it gradually
charges through all the - rainbow colors, finishing
with the golden yellow of sunrise. Possibly our
bush-dwellers in Australia have also seen them. By
the way, rhe Red Page reviewer thinks Mr. Curie
shows a greater interest in places than in peoples.
But to my mind the charm of the book is in his
description of peoples and their comparative values
in history, while his forecast that the South Sea
Islands will eventually be peopled by Asiatics with
the Buddhist religion is of special interest to Aus-
tralians.
“Adelaide”: Is Everard Cotes, historian of the
Prince’s tour,, unreliable generally in details, or was
S. Australian hospitality specially overpowering?
When we find him, in his new book, “Down Under
"With the Prince,” calling our Bundle and King Wil-
liam streets “Rendal” and “King George’s,” we
wonder whether his notes on other places are equally
puncturable.
“D.F.”: The Sydney Mail lately had a par. which
began by saying that Dampier cruised off the coast
of Tasmania in the 16th century. If he had he
would have beaten poor old Tasman by at least
40 years. The truth is, of course, that he was never
within 1000 leagues (or thereabouts) of the Speck,
and that his visits to North-Western Australia came
nearly at the end of the 17th century. Tljen it is
stated that Phillip’s people found several fishes new
to science, one of which Phillip did not then name,
at Port Jackson in 1798. Phillip had left Australia
for good in 1792. Another Sydney paper’s histori-
cal expert recently described George Bass as mak-
ing his voyage to Westernport in the Bft. Tom
Thumb. Bass may have been a hero, but he wasn’t
a fool.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
tibrolit^
W eatherboar d
Build .your new home- exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Hardin's
Australian-made “FIBROIJTK" Ashesto
Cement' Sheets, and Roof with “I'ibrolite"
Slater
“FTBROTjTTE" improves with age. is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air. and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode., “Fibrolito” Asbestos Cement Sheets
arc m ft/de in 36 sizes.
ATrite for Free Catalogue “11.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York Sc Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Weigh
Your
Stock
Results
in the balance.
.Do you feel
quite satisfied
you are secur-
ing fullest mar-
ket values? If
not’ make your next draft a trial lot.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Sheep and Cattle Salesmen,
Sydney or Brisbane. You will find Winoli-
eombe-Carson results on top levels.
I $
vm*
n
,/7 breath of
English Jfowers
No more delightful than a
Zenobia Christmas Greeting
Sachet. It awakens sweet
memories of an old English
garden.
These Sachets are made in book
form and daintily designed in silk
and other materials, with leaves
for in? cribing appropriate greetings.
They reproduce the natural frag-
rance of many favourite perfumes,
including: Violet,Sweet Pea Biossom,
Lily of the Valley, Wallflower and
Night Scented Stock. All are highly
; concentrated and lasting.
7ENOBIA
Zenobia Sachets are obtainable at most
high-class chemists, perfumers & stores.
Manufactured only by
■ Zenobia Ltd., Loughborough,Leicestershire.
England.
Sole Agents for New Zealand
(Wholesale only):
MEW,SOX &■ COMPAXV. LIMITED.
r.O. Box 1162. Wellington.
Sole Agents for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckmaster. 15 O’Connell St..
Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Ciilwulla Chambers.
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
i
iiiiiiiin
mi'll' 1 "
n.
I
rm
m
ritisb
The A 1
lim’d
light car
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The Standard Car has fulfilled
every demand expected of it. It
has unusual power, and is especially
economical in running costs.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street,
SYDNEY.
o
co
/
r\7
<1
vn
0
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.
Head Office, 5-7 SarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Ask your
Garage
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.F.”: At Mudgee. (N.S.W.) they have
discovered a scientific way of fixing the
price of a cow. The buyer agreed to pay £1
for every quart of milk that Strawberry gave
at a trial milking. She must have known
that there was something hanging to it, for
she squeezed out 2B quarts.
* * * *
“C.”: In ISOS kangaroo-skins were suc-
cessfully tanned with wattle-bark, and proved
useful for boot-tops in Tasmania. To-day
Too-skins are being tanned in Sydney, also
with wattle-bark, and the finished article
is better for binding books than is calf-
skin. It is expected to equal good morocco.
“Jobber”: A cobber of mine took a risk
and spent his leave in Ireland. On a tram
in Dublin he offered sixpence for his fare.
"It’s all right, Dig.,” whispered the conduc-
tor ; “you’re on a bakshish ride with us.
There’s an —-th Battalion bloke driving this
’bus.”
**•*•»
“ Sky rider”: There is a little industry at
Nelligen (N.S.W.) which promises to grow
much bigger. Starch is being extracted in
increasing quantities from the burrawang
or zamia palm. Already about two tons of
starch are turned out each week, and people
who have tried it say it is better than either
corn or wheat starch.
if X- * *
“Toby C.”: “Sirrah’s” par (.B. l/9/’2l)
re the six-weeks’ "wet weather cheque” re-
calls that two years ago, when the Targati-
Milla Milla line (N.Q.) was being con-
structed, 400-odd navvies never left their
camps or shelter-sheds for seven weeks, and
drew full pay all the time the shower lasted.
* * * *
“F.C.”: There’s nothing new under the
sun, but Howard Jolly, of St. Hilda (Tic.),
got pretty close to it. Jolly had omitted
to pay for something he had bought from a
Melbourne jeweller, and, as he was said to
be rhaking a good income, the Coiirt ordered
him to cash up forthwith. His occupation
was given as an “aviation insurance agent.”
“X.” • South Aus. pure olive oil is hard
to get in N.Q. I tried four places before
I ' could get it. and the grocer who had it
was surprised to be asked specially for it.
There is a moral here. It may be want of
enterprise on one side or prejudice on the
other, or perhaps greater profit is made- by
dealing in the imported oil. _ Whatever the
explanation, the S. Aus. oil is the best that
money can buy, and it’s up to us to ask for
it and use it.
“Booleroo”: When will Australia learn
the foilv of paying, high wages to boys for
unskilled work? One of my employees tells
me that at the age of IT he could have been
apprenticed to the engineering trade, but as
at that time he could earn, with overtime.
£4 per day, he wouldn’t leave his job; and
who could expect anything else of a kid
of that age? Now. at 28. he finds himself
with £4 10s, a week, liable, : owing to
absence of demand for unskilled labor, to
be fired at any minute, and his value as a
coolie growing steadily less with the years.
This, in a country calling aloud for skilled
workers, is a fair imitation of an industrial
tragedy. # *
“McNorth”: From a Chicago firm I have
just received a letter addressed ■ to. me at
Cape York (O.) stating that crocodile-skins
are bringing high prices and asking me to
send a few along. No, I’ve been stung be-
fore. and would like to warn others. . In
Papua some years ago, in response to a simi-
lar letter. I gathered a number of croc,
skins and sent them to Chicago. The work
of collecting was strenuous, but as £2O each
was mentioned I expected a decent return.
At the end of about a year a sum equal to
£4 10s. a hide arrived. The alleged buyers
were merely agents, and their fees and
charges had eaten up the difference; The
90-bob didn’t cover the freight.
*■■*■**
“Country Pod”: Some of these Farmers’
Union men make me tired. They all “de-
plore the drift to the city.” but the only two
businesses that the Vic. Farmers’ Union has
anything to do with—a manure co. and a
newspaper—hang out in Melbourne. And
how many farmers house their married
laborers? I have knocked around Victoria a
good deal, and know of none. When a land-
less farm-laborer marries, off to the city he
must go to make a home for the missus. A
farmer who can afford to employ a laborer all
the year round should be prepared to put up
a house for him and allow him a few acres
to run a couple of cows and a horse. . That
would stop some of tin 1 drift and give the
farmer the security of labor which under
present conditions he lacks.
BALLADE OF THE HAPPY ISLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is no such thing’ as profiteering in England
to-day.” —Lord Northcliffe.
A happy land is England, free
From all corruption, greed or guile.
Where people live in harmony
With friendly hand and genial smile,
Dustman and Duke in self-same style;
Where all men love to work, not play,
And only strike a little while —-
There are no profiteers to-day.
Now Whigs and Tories all agree ;
No Bolshevik pours pints of bile
On Beaverbrook or Bottomley ;
No callous bailiff-men defile
The workman’s happy domicile ;
The Idle Rich have gone, they say,
To Nice, or Norway, or the Nile —
There are no profiteers to-day.
For bun-shops, like the A.8.C.,
Make no more than a modest pile ;
And Leverhulmc boils soap, perdie,
Without one thought of profits vile
Or calculations mercantile;
Selfridgc would give his pants away
If Lazarus walked down his aisle —
There are no profiteers to-day.
Envoy.
Sceptics may scan each Northcliffe file
(Prince of a Hundred Papers, yea)
Nor find one Fat Man in the lslc^—
There, are no profiteers to-day.
VICTORIA.
GANESIIA.


-a
v
A
M
N
WILLIAM *A*HILL
WORLD'S WHITE JU-JITSU CHAMPION
The Great Tonic and
Strengthener for
Men and Women
a °urk e
Mea er a
■ £ * Bo na *
Streep
' V 2(
}
° 6&r Sirs .
r eat „ ow e ® P ® u - i i'e Un ,
m e . Ppre °iat/ 0 0 to l *' Jita u d Ch eate <i
n e i" 1 of ~*•< “f antf “! °fle a nd
a od s r a *P of ,*? ®tr© n Cjm a fl ° a -^J
-» <X‘ r /rr*
°PPo ne ” oo r ™ r s to„ ea « t 4a.
‘•’ S-fer, '4"£fss» Vi-
w roo u^e 3 r> jj cq
&*&. **., artlc «
6 kfcafc r ori6a ti v <
f„_ 0 <>®.
■°«fo for . 1 *° 6e -
Sed na t
The letter of testimony, facsimile of which
is here reproduced, is most weighty proof
of the value of 4 Sedna,” for supplying
bodily vigor and vim, wherewith to
“carry on.’’ It is important to notice,
too, that Mrs. Hill (professionally known as Miss Edna Davies), the
world’s greatest woman ju-jitsu exponent and holder of 126 medals,
altogether endorses her husband’s approval.
If YOU feel the strain of life’s battle, act immediately on the above
recommendation! Drink
.
m
1
:
o
-.vc
vein
itl j®
m
It will revive and strengthen the wasted or overworked system,
help to make good red blood, and put vim and zest into your
whole being.
For ladies, especially, Sedna’ can be heartily recommended as a
bracing and strengthening tonic without rival.
Obtainable from All Cbemists and
Stores tbroug'hout Australasia.
Distributors for Vic., W.A., Q’land, S..A, and Broken Hill: B. Seppelt & Sons, Ltd.
N.S.W.: John Woods & Co., Sydney. Tasmania: Gardner, McKenzie, Ltd., Launceston.
3 A
All*"' 1
>7
V
\A
Si
HIP.
SfEls;
if /////// i///\ /,
),-V/, V/
Llk
"i"//
Wi
UJ
ih.Wi
tom.
<r
JUS
50


72
r
Sf
S
sS=
3S
ws.
«?
■Kit
.
: : :"
M
.
/
a
:■
REMEMBER THIS!
It makes no difference where you go, or what price
you may pay, it is absolutely impossible to get a better
medicine for the treatment of coughs, colds, croup,
whooping cough, bronchitis or any other throat or
chest affection than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
mam
Gran ny Chamberlain
gasss m
m
What Comes After The Purchase Price
Dodge Brother? business was founded on the
conviction that the purchase price of their car
should be as nearly as possible the last expendi-
ture.
The world-wide reputation of this car to-day
gives ample testimony of the soundness of this
principle.
Dodge Brothers will continue to build their car
so well that the purchase price will be as nearly
as possible the last expenditure.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
“Alveolus”: Tell “Sixenate” ( B. 15/9/’-’! 1
that English, American and Swiss manu-
facturers are making dental cements equal
to the pre-war Fritz article. These, if mixed
and applied properly, produce no undue dis-
coloration. We are still waiting to see what
Australian industry (now in its infancy)
can produce in this line.
“.T il.”: Re those Aberdeen clippers (B.
l/9/’2l). The ship Mauldsden. leaving the
tail of the bank on March 3, ’S3, anchored
inside White Cliffs, Ilervey Bay (Q-), on
May 11-—7 O days. I do not know that this
record to the northern port has been
lowered. The Mauldsden’.s best in 24 hours
was 287, off the Cape, running east.
Juggling with “nominal” particu-
lars of between two and three hundred
infant girls the other day, the idea struck
me to discover the most popular name. I
found only two Alices in the lot; and most
of the other old favorites —excepting Mary
—were as infrequent. Vera was the most
common, with Doris a close second. There
wasn’t a Victoria; but there were two
Melbas.
“Ali Selim” : Soon after bushranger Mor-
gan was shot on April 9, 1860 —“shot, as
the Argus proudly proclaimed, “by a Vic-
torian upon Victorian soil”—he was asked
if a padre should |>e sent for or a prayer
read to him. "No,” he curtly replied, and
then added decisively : "I was born in N. 8.
Wales.” This was a clincher, of course;
the Victorians at once saw the absurdity
of their question, and thenceforth busied
themselves only about the doctor.
“T. 0.1.” : The tyranny of habit was comi-
cally demonstrated in the Sydney District
Court a few days ago. A solicitor com-
plained to Judge Scholes that the chatter
of some of his legal brethren was distract-
ing his attention from the case, and
’sHonor, looking up at the crier, said: “Keep
order.” Whereupon the official hurried to
the porch and called aloud three times “Keep
Order!” Returning he announced: “No
answer, y’r Honor’ —then looked as if'he
wondered what all the laughter was about.
“Sir Spen”: Some time ago a man
selected a block (No. 13) in the Warialda
(N.S.W.) district; and after three distress-
ful years he applied to have the number
altered:
My reasons are that 1 am forced to be • supersti-
tious. I can’t ever rear goats, fowls or pigeons.
They glow wild anywhere else. And 1 have had a
run of bad luck with my workmen. I hope you
will grant my request. It seems a silly thing to
ask, but the wife does not like it, and says I will
never get on while it is the unlucky number. . . .
It qost him three guineas, but he paid it
with a smile. And the smile still lingers,
for ever since things have been going pi’etty
well with him.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : The Cockneys reckon
that at least one lot of Australians are
lying. There are on the one hand the High
Commissioners and Agents-General loudly
proclaiming that Australia is the “golden
land of opportunity,” the ideal emigration
field of the universe, and on the other hand
bishops and parsons from Queensland
rattling their begging boxes in the streets of
London and publicly alleging that that quar-
ter of Australia is ,so poverty-stricken that
religion can’t keep its head above water
without the aid of British charity. Which
of the two pictures is the Cockney to regard
as true? The four Church of England
dioceses in Queensland joined the other day
in a united appeal for help and sympathy,
and put up a woeful coin-catching tale.
“D.F.”: While pearling on the Australian
coast itself, whether in Torres Strait or in
the Nor’-West, does not go back more than
about half a century, pearling vessels worked
out of Sydney long before that. In ISI4
one Garnliam Blaxcell, merchant, landed at
Sydney 169 tons of pearl-shell brought from
the "eastern islands within the limits of this
Territory”—Bo tons by the James Hay, 70
by the Governor Macquarie and 19 by the
Daphne. In 1813 the James Hay brought
90 tons of shell from the Paumotus to Syd-
ney, and that was not her first trip, for in a
letter written in September, 1812, her mas-
ter, William Campbell, claimed that he had
lately discovered what lie called the Pamoo-
toes and the pearl fishery there. South Sea
Islanders, mostly from Tahiti or thereabouts,
did the diving.
“Hamer” : Gwendoline, having achieved a
sort of education in “business subjects,”
rushes the genteel but poorly-paid job of a
typist; and meantime the factories, where
a superior class of girl is required for work
of a semi-skilled nature, are vainly offering
conditions vastly superior to those in the
ordinary office. But morning and afternoon
tea, free lunches, Saturday mornings free
and a polite deference from the boss fail to
remove the stigma of the word “factory.
One firm, in its desire to attract the girls
it wants, has issued a printed circular set-
ting out the privileges offered, and adds a
note: “When a young lady employee becomes
engaged to be married, a notice of her en-
gagement is forwarded to the press for pub-
lication.” The manager claims that that
item has done more good than any other
attraction the firm has been able to invent.
The latter days of an explorer:—
The discovery of Hovell’s field-books has set
many old hands reminiscing. James Hoghn,
of Bungonia (N.S.W.), says that some time after
the Hume-I-lovell overland trip Hovell was ap-
pointed Forest Ranger for the Southern District,
and took up his? 'residence at Goulburn, where he
lived for years in a little cottage opposite what
is now the railway station. One of his worst
jobs was an eviction at Bungonia Creek. In those
days, prior to John Robertson’s Free Selection
Art, no poor man had a hope of getting land from
the Crown, but one Latham took a risk, squatted on
a piece of land on the creek, built a house and
went in for farming in a small way. Then some
busybody passed the word to Sydney, and Hovell
was instructed to act. He went along with a squad
of John Hops, turned Latham out, set the little
home on fire, burnt the wheat stacks and drove the
pigs and cattle off the land. A stone chimney
and some garden shrubs remain to-da\ as lemindeis
of the tragedy. This was one of Hovell’s last offi-
cial acts: lie retired and spent the remainder of
his (lavs in cultivating his garden. A tin theatre
now stands where his house was, and the grass is
growing over his bones in the old Anglican cemetery
at Goulburn.


A comb for
en
cut
The MsTeb Standard A
81-INCH CUT.
Takes standard 1/- Cutter. The Comb
that has occupied the premier position
for many years.
4/-
The ItsTerj Flier
21-INCH CUT.
The widest Comb possible with stand-
ard 1/- Cutter. The widest cutting
Comb sold at
4/-
<==§<“^*sl3Bo=
The listed Medium
11 or 10 TOOTH—3I-INCH CUT.
Tlie widest Comb allowed by the
A.AV.TT." Requires Medium Cutter, 1/3.
5/-
FOR THIS SEASON WE RECOMMEND SPECIALLY THE “FLIER.”
TO THE SHEARER:
BECAUSE it represents bi gger tallies at no extra cost. It is
the widest cutting comb taking the standard cutter. It
gives more teeth in action in the wool at one time than
any other comb of same width. It is still the famous
Lister A quality steel and workmanship. It has
already been classed by big-gun shearers as “the best
comb ever put into wool.”
TO THE FLOCKOWNER:
BECAUSE you cannot afford to stock combs not in demand.
The Lister “Flier” has already been proved the most
popular comb this season, and your shearers will ask for
it. What is more, you are getting a comb which requires
less grinding and makes for better shearing than any
other. And it costs only 4/-. Order now from any
of us.
Chief Australian Agents:
DANGAR, GEDYE CO LTD.,
Interstate Agents:
SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Townsville.
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart & Launceston.
ROAD-MAKING MACHINERY
All Australian Made
im
V*
TP
■ . \ . 0
Kuwolt
toft
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT. TYPE “C ”
The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR >nd TROMMEL
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT”
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION.
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE
f Central - - 5993
l Hawthorn 1675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS:
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


\7i.
ST
Use Cuticura Talcum
To Powder and Perfume
An ideal face, skin, baby and dusting
powder. Convenient and economi-
cal, it takes the place of other per-
fumes. A few grains sufficient.
Soap ls.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointment ls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns& Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE^
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRiTJSH.
—all the year round.
At all seasons a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings is an in-
dispensable possession. The ex-
perienced cyclist knows the value
of the service for which B.S.A.
Fittings are famous. For easy,
smooth running they are unrival-
led, while reliability and long
service have made them world-
famous. See that your bicycle is
built of genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
ss
Send for Illustrated '
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
{Representing B'.S.A'. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
k
The Trade-
mark of the
world’s
most famous
Bicycle.
WRIGLEYS
I
rri
rprr
m
irr
H
rirr
am
m*
r
rprr
wrr
rrrc
iw
TTffl
in
raw
rirr
I
Fa
ire
1153
prp
He.
We are proud of our new daylight factory at
Rosebery, Sydney, in which all of Wrigley’s
for Australia and New Zealand is now made*
It is well ventilated and well lighted.
All the processes of manufacture are carried on
under conditions of absolute cleanliness.
The entire five floors, containing approximately
40,000 square feet of floor space, are used
exclusively for the manufacture of Wrigley’s
Chewing Gum.
The product is made clean and is kept clean
and brought to you in the same condition,
in our sanitary wax-wrapped package.
Sealed tight—kept right.
This delightful chewing confection is good
and good for you. Chew it after every meal
—see how much better you will feel.
It benefits teeth, throat, breath, appetite
and digestion. Soothing to jangled nerves
and thirst quenching.
On sale wherever confections are sold
Or send 3 penny stamps for a trial packet, of either flavour, to
WRIGLEY’S, (Australasia) Ltd.
Box 2602, G. P. O Sydney
M If -MLrW.
JUICY FRUIT
CHEWING GUM
re
ran*
2*t
to*
8120
3d
for packet
of six bars
Joy for the Pipe-smoker.
Whenever you light a GBD there s
smoke comfort and satisfaction.
Made from genuine French Briarwood
matured with age and shaped by
experts.
Fill a GBD with your favorite tobacco
—and smile —-awhile.
Many popular shapes.
GBD
On sale everywhere.
“Nufsed”: A neighbor of mine in the
Mallee (Vic.) has 12 youngsters, the eldest
13 years old.
“Narroc”: I nominate Digger G. Wilson,
of the Bland Council, as the youngest Shire
President in N. S. Wales, lie ‘has just
passed his 26tli yearstone.
“Nonne” : lie “Haku’s” pal (B. S/9/’2l)
who has 11 youngsters under 36. I know
a fellow who has nine, the eldest of whom
is 13. And he had four years’ holiday, too,
somewhere in France.
The N.S.W. Opposition, which brags so
loudly about its loyalty to Billjim, had little
to c-row over in a division taken on Minister
Gann’s proposal to further limit the Pre-
ference to Soldiers Act. In a House of 70,
the Opposition had 20 against the Govern-
ment’s 31.
“Sambowan”: “Ilaku” (B. 8/9/’2l) men-
tions a family of 11 kids under 16 years, and
calls for further champions. Here’s my
nomination from Victoria, the little dears
arriving in the following order: single, trip-
lets, twins, triplets, twins, twins, making a
total of 13 in 11 years. And that was before
the days of Fisher's bonus.
“G.” : lie Boehm’s “Bull and Herdsman”
in Melbourne National Gallery, instead of
sawing the stick of marble away, as “0.K.”
suggests, why not sell by public auction the
whole block to some monumental mason?
Boehm was a horrible sculptor, the laughing
stock of students for a generation, and toler-
ated only because admired by that connois-
seur of Hanoverian art, Queen Victoria.
A, son of ex-Senator Jim Long, who now
keeps a pub at Drouin (Vic.), has struck a
rocky patch. He enlisted on August 19,
1914, at the age of 174, was in the Landing,
was wounded in France, and was finally
discharged after 1648 days’ service. Now
he is in the Randwiek (N.S.W.) hospital
with spinal trouble and paralysis, and the
Repat. has ruled that he is not entitled to
a war pension because'it cannot be proved
that his disability is directly due to the war.
“W.E.F.”: Married life doesn’t always
kill initiative. I bumped a man in George-
street the other day who was carrying a big
thirst and a two-year-old nipper. Where
to leave the youngster while he went in and
sank a pint baffled him till his eye fell on
one of those wire waste-ticket baskets that
are placed at the city tram-stops. A fair-
sized crowd was gaping at the caged kid
when Dad came out with amber drops scin-
tillating on his whiskers.
“A.H.”: At Cairns (Q.) a little while
ago one well-known Torres Strait pilot,
who was returning to Sydney as a passenger
on an oversea boat, arrived at the wharf
with a slight list just as the vessel had cast
off. He jumped, missed, and flopped in
among the fishes. A young seaman imme-
diately dived to lii.s rescue. The pilot came
to the surface first, and, after wiping the
seawater from his beard, saw the head of
the other emerging. “What!” he gurgled,
“Did you miss the blanky thing too?”
The other day Mrs. Wiggins, of Young
(N.S.W.), who is 74, rose at 4.30 a.m., lit
a hurricane-lamp and left home. As she
hadn’t returned some hours later, a black
tracker was requisitioned, and he found that
her trail struck straight into the bush and
across a creek or so. Eventually the old
lady was discovered at her son’s house, 30
miles away. She had reached there at 5.30
p:nr. and showed no ill-effects frofn her little
stroll. Incidentally, she had not passed that
way for many years, yet she went straight
through the bush to the place.
“Kelso”: John Hughes, of Bleak House,
Kelso (N.S.W.), who recently went out at
97, once tried to persuade Ben Hall into the
straight and narrow track in a talk he had
with the bushranger just after Ben had set
up in business as an early Bolshie. Hughes
said he seemed to talk for hours, and then
when a chance offered Hall asked him what
would happen if he gave himself up and
sprinkled himself with the ashes of repent-
ance. “Ten years, Ben,” said Hughes.
Hall rose, shook his heau and said: "I’d be
an old man then, .Tack, and no chance o’
providin’ for the autumn.” Then he left.
Next morning he committed his first murder.
“Skipper” : Mike was the first Australian
to sleep in the Citadel at Cairo —lie got 14
days for reconditioning the face of a Tommy
M.P. and altering his uniform. When he
returned to camp the whole batt. was doing
seven days’ G.B. because the Brigadier
had spotted -801110 blighters smoking on
church parade. Mike was justly in-
censed; he got paraded to the C.O. upon
some imagined grievance concerning his
allotment, and when this was disposed
of he lowered his voice and said: “Phwliat
Oi really want t’arsk yez, Sor, is this: Is
it roiglit for the innercint to suffer fer the
guilty? Is it British justice fer me to lose
me lave because the others will not behave
thimsilves?” Colonel Asterisk was a strict
Methigationalist, with a deep dread of reli-
gious persecution, so Mike got eight hours’
special leave to Cairo —and laid out another
policeman.
“ J.G.”: Three or four years ago I called
attention in The Bulletin to the fact that
thousands of pounds of public money was
being spent in cutting alleged firebreaks in
the Mount Disappointment (Vic.) State
forest, the nearest of any size to Melbourne.
Local residents who understood said that
these breaks would be the very thing to
spread a bush fire, as the narrow tracks
would let currents of air all through the
dense vegetation. Less than two years later
the forest was burnt out from end to end.
' Since then a heavy growth of bracken has
sprung up; and now the Forestry heads
have a gang of men there planting pine-
trees 4ft. apart among the bracken, which
is nearly all 4ft. or sft. high. It only wants
a spark in summer to make this stuff burn
like Hades and destroy every pine-tree in
■ it. It wouldn’t have cost much to clear off
the bracken and scrub before planting; as it
is, we are going to see another large wad of
public money go skyward in smoke.


m
//
$8
ci
74
w
m
m
m
m
j
4
2
y.
-7/L
mi
NK3
Vr/2
See J-Kis brand
on each
sn.
$U$
m
'<9,
%
2?
2
EH
I
?z
S
St
3KS
2§? Maffii
L 4
* '
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you. the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS. LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept: No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
*Royal Cord' ‘Nobby’ * Chain ’ ’Usco'
THE WORLD S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
jSiruHTLruxXii
Portable Electric Tools-
CINCINNATI Portable Electric Tools are designed for every need
of the busy workshop, to handle to-day’s work under to-day’s
conditions.
Think of the enormous saving of time and labor in taking the tool to
the job instead of dragging a heavy job around the shop to the tool!
Then there’s the high speed—and positive accuracy.
Your choice from the “Cincinnati” family will put you on the high road
to “cut” costs and bigger shop profits. Ask us. We’ll gladly demon-
strate any of the following on your particular work.
Hand or Breast Drills, Heavy-duty Drills, Radial Drills, Tool Post
Grinders, Bench Grinders, Aerial Grinders, Floor Grinders and Buffers,
etc., for either A.C. or D.C. current.
Call and inspect, or write for catalogue and prices to
SOLE AGENTS:
Parke U Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery flerchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Showing as “Cincinnati” Jli.p.
and Jli.p. Portable Klectric
Tool Post (irinder. with Iced,
in operation.
Heavy-duty
Bench Grinder.
Portable Electric
Aerial Grinder
with end handles.
Portable Heavy;
Drill.


A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, comprising -1-dozen
each Rustless Table or Dessert Knives and
Forks, Xylonite Handles,. £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, daintily engraved, 25/-
mam
mm
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 55/-
JYallt ho: *
A 3unn wliJl -
o
Btesssi
A. Saunders' 2 piece Carving Set, selected Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated
Mount 0 and Ferrules, finest-quality Sheffield Steel,
30/-, 35/-, 10/-, 15/-, 50/-
WSm
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 1 doz. each Knives,
Forks- and Spoons, finest quality, Sheffield Steel in solid Oak Case,
£35. Others, £l5/10/-, £l7/10/-, £2l.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George St. (opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, daintily engraved, 25/-
Solid Silver, 70/-
A. Saunders' Solid Silver Salt Cellars and Spoons, in
case, £4/4/-
SRSI
A. Saunders’ Fruit Knives and Forks, in Silk-lined
case, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 70/-
V
i
m
o
Y
THE WHITE LIGHT of FAMILY HAPPINESS.
m
X
Power for the Separator.
I POWERSFARII ]
You can have electric light in your country home as well as the city man. No
need to tell you of the positive benefit of good light for the family circle, as well
as the comfort, cleanliness and economy of it. The family is the unit of
civilisation. More units—more prosperity, and more light on the great problem
of populating Australia.
M
hjklhkl
umm
The “PLIX” is a sturdy lighting set which, once
installed, starts or stops by pressing a button.
The switch emits a sound resembling “PLIX” ;
hence the name. With the “PLIX” the current
may be used while the generator is running, or
it may be used from the storage batteries only.
An automatic signal indicates when the storage
battery is nearly discharged.
In addition to lighting the whole house, and
outhouses, the “PLIX” will supply power to
run light industrial machines, such as Pumps,
Grinders, Clippers, Separators, Churns and
Electric Fans and Smoothing Irons. The
“PLIX” is doing excellent work throughout
the country. Owners find that it more than fills
their first expectations.
Has it occurred to you to instal the "PLIX”
like so many other country dwellers?
Please step in and see a “PLIX” working in
our showroom. We want you to see it just as
it would be if placed in your own home.
324-330
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
prr x *d-
"v/m
to
(/)
cxJL
0
c,
0
z
'/WIH/HIMUiIQ j
4 SF//
fiF/
W(w/
391-403
Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Easy Ironing-.
na.j
a
M
1250-watt capacity. Sup-
plies 60- to 70-c.p. lights
continuously. Occupies a
floor-space of 32.1 in. x
12.1 in.


Missing: Friends.
JAMES WILLIAM WARD formerly of
South Melbourne, afterwards of Queens-
land, and late of Sydney. Anyone knowing
address please communicate with
J. WOOLF, 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SYDNEY CLARK, son of Mrs. Christina
Clark, deceased, late of St. Peters, South
Australia. Send present address to your
sister MAY. Very important.
Business Notice.
Biliousness
Use a simple and effi-
cient corrective that
is mildly aperient and
safe in its action
The ideal medicine is
Kruses
fluid
Mass's
But be sure and get
genuine, which is nrc - de
by Felton, Grim wade Cc
Co. Ptjr,Ltd.. Melbourne
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
THERE
IS
NOT
% M /
S FAIRFAX A ROBERTS ITD
sydniy*lonoon
m
a better watch
made the world
over than our
“Super Fx and
R” Wfitch.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R.” fully-
jewelled lever, 84/-
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding.
For long life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After 81 years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax § Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Pla c"sh i oniy S : 23 8 25 Hunter Street.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
O VDNEY’S CHIEF TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
PADDY. THE NEXT BEST THING.
ELAN WILKIE’S SHAKSFEAREAN
I’KODI C'TIONsL
AUSTRALIAN TOUR:
THEATRE ROYAL, ADELAIDE, to OCTOBER 21.
Austi-i.l •-i.-iii lb IMTSOI' a: ne. HI'GII I). WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
U Nil) N I* IcTi; It E TIIEAT It K S
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELIIOIILNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRIC ROY \L.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 15.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
WEDDING BELLS.
lIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
FIREFLY,
With music that charms and a story that thrills.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’O THEATRE. \l EI.ItOu It N I.
Direction BAILEY &' GRANT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 15.
B 4T LEY & GRANT present a brief revival of •
Australia’s evergreen Comedy,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, M El.ltO li It N K
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
EVA NOVAK in
THE SMART SET.
Also
CLAIRE ANDERSON in
WHO AM I?
Prices as usual. )
IyjV.IESTIC THEATRE. 31 El.ltO li ItN E
. COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE JOYCE in
THE SCARAB RING.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QLI MPI Aj MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT. OCT. 15
(Caulfield Cup Night).
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A complete New Company of English, America!,
Continental and Oriental Artists.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- ( plus tax).
Reserved Seats: 6/- (plus tax).
Plan at Glen’s.
re KIT ANN IA THEATRE, MELKOL'KN I',
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day 29th October
Cup Day Ist November
Oaks Day 3rd November
Steeplechase Day . . sth November
Stakes will amount to over £38,000.
Tlie magnificent improvements add much to
the comfort of visitors.
H.* BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Bender’s.
The way to prepare Benger's Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Benger’s Food, and
special formulae, commenc ng w th babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
jhkjhk
Food
la • natural Food* always prepared with fresh new milk* or milk
and water, according to the age of the child.
Bengrer’s Food is more than an addition to milk. _ It is specially
prepar d to perfoim the important duty of mod.fymg cow s milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post free, from.
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., 117 > pit * Street, SYDNEY.
Bole Proprietors and Manufacturers BENGER S FOOD DTD., MANCHESTER, England.
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in th*
Commonwealth, viz: —
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels anti tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 467-
Post Pree all over Australia.
11/
i
n
CRAIG & AITKEN 5 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Factory.
“Always Reliable.”
The very name
EL E Y
is synonymous with
Cartridges
Obtainable from
all Dealers.
Agent:
ALBERT ADAMS,
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
hjkjh
jhkjhk
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected KapgarOo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft. 7ft. Sft. 9ft. 10ft. 12ft.
8-plait .. 10/- 11/6 13/- 14/6 17/6 21/6 each.
12-plait .. 13/- 15/- 17/- 20/- 22/6 26/6 „
16-plait .. 15/- 17/6 .19/6 22/6 25/6 30/- „
Mailed free all States. Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D.&'W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.
The Big Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZROY, VIC.
Five thousand audiences the world
over have listened to machine and
sinr/er as they stood side by side —
and admitted that they could detect
no difference.
1 f
At the Opera
-—nothing finer.
As you sit at home in a comfortable chair on the
verandah, listening to your “New Edison” as it
renders some favorite aria or recitative, you may
be sure of one thing—
—that the strains you hear are exactly the same as you would
have heard had the artist stood before you in person—tone for
one, expression for expression—not merely reproduced, but
re-created in all their original beauty.
Could you say as much for any other machine?
The NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a Soul.”
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
jhkjh
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plum Ratzov
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
We guarantee an easy shave with the
“Plum” Razor, as, being expert Hair-
dressers ourselves, we know just the kind of edge
required to give the best result. No other razor used
in our saloon.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years free.
'


ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
LI
Alston s
Parent Enclosed
Double-CLarad
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
M
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne. Australia
British General Electric Co. Ltd., Murray St., Perth,
HAVE FOR SALE
Large stocks of
Tangryo Centrifugal Pumps
made by the well-kqown firm, Messrs. Tangyes, Birmingham, England, namely .
TYPE “A.”—Suitable for 35 feet Head, 4in. to Sin. inclusive,
£lO/2/6 to £2O/15/- each.
TYPE “B.”—Suitable for 75 feet Head, 3in. to Sin. From
£l4/17/6 to £24/15/- each.
TYPE “C.” Suitable for 120 feet Head, 2in. to sin. From
£l9/10/- to £2l each.
STANDARD “D.”—Suitable for 50 feet Head, 3in. to Sin. From
£9/12/6 to £l2/5/- each.
PRICES F.O.R. PERTH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SUOVvS FOR COMING WEEK;
Halt Majesty’s “The Maid of the Mountains"
Royal “Oh, Lady, Lady!’’
Criterion “Daddy, the Next Rest ’thing”
Hoyt’s Moving I’ieLui‘es
Lmon Theatres Moving pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Wedding Bells”
Her Majesty’s “Fiietiy”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving- Pictures,
Melha (loving Duiures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦
“Firefly,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, disim-
proyes on acquaintance. It i.s so lacking m
situations that interest and melodies that
count —save, perhaps, on a Saturday night,
when judgment is on the jazz and a certain
measure of approval comes ready-made. To
begin with, the all-pervading name-part is an
entire misnomer for Miss Rene Maxwell. She
lacks the stage training and the personality
to .support a character that alternates be-
tween skirts and pants; there is little fire
and no fly about the unconvincing boy-girl.
Broadly speaking, she is pretty much the
same thing as Amy Castles without Amy’s
vocal charms. She has a “conservatorium”
voice, with a pronounced tremolo and a
•strength which appears to have been de-
veloped at the expense of native sweetness.
Even when Rene Maxwell is singing forcibly
in an undramatic finale one sometimes feels
that her efforts are hardly worth while. A
less strenuous prima donna with a slick pair
of feet could make a brighter effect. As for
Ralph Errolle, in the hopelessly colorless part
of a hero whose fiancee chucks him in favor
of his beefy, middle-aged uncle, he combines
a typical Italian tenor warble with a pro-
found inflexibility of gait, gesture and facial
expression. Lou Vernon is satisfactory in
a small way as a doddering, mushy old choir
master, condemned to drivel over the fact
that an obviously bogus Tony is really a girl.
Claude Flemming is a hearty uncle; Ethel
Morrison helps to show up the shortcomings
of less efficient performers; Nell Payne is
wasted in the small part of a winsome sou-
brette, whereas she might be valuable in the
character in which Edith Drayson cuts an in-
significant figure; and the comic relief pro-
vided by Hugh Stcyne and George Gee is a
bitter reminder to veteran playgoers, of days
when low comedy, even when dragged to full
tension, had to stop short of mechanical buf-
foonery.
& * * *
To Dorothea Spinney’s recitations of Greek
plays at Melbourne Playhouse it may be
reasonably objected that they are not worth
the reciter’s while. Walked through by a full
company of experienced mummers, a long-
winded Greek tragedy would be an interesting-
suggestion of the form of entertainment sup-
posed to have been carried out in a bygone
age when people took life slowly. Reduced
to a one-woman show by an artist who has
little besides a memory, a rich voice and a
sincere belief in her work to recommend her,
a Greek tragedy is a wearisome affair to any-
one possessed of a sense of humor. Perhaps
a few highbrows who rally to the banner of
the lady have a real liking for dulness; but
to an ordinary seeker after culture the wordi-
ness of old familiar “Hamlet” is less tire-
some than, say, the dish of mythological
horrors known as “Medea,” by the late Euri-
“The Maid of the
Mountains ,” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Arthur Stayant as
Governor of Santo.
p i d e s. This i s
really one of the
least antique in
fashion of Greek
plays, and the pre-
sent writer was
d r a w n to Miss
Spinney’s recital of
a curtailed version
of Euripides by his
early recollections
of some powerful
scenes between the
once - famous
“Leah” Bateman
and Charles
Warner (as hus-
band Jason) in a
poetic adaptation
of “Medea in Gor-
in t h.” Possibly
the powerful tragic
actress of long ago
put more passion
and shriek into her
impersonation of
Medea than would
have been approved
by ancient Athens,
but her thrilling de-
clamations were
more in keeping
with Medea’s
alleged relationship
to the Sun, and
her fairy-tale
reputation for
deeds of sorcery.
than the mild outbursts of Miss Spinney. The
painstaking lady at the Playhouse showed
no solid pretensions to impersonate the name-
part and a round of other characters.
The real music-lovers overflowed the
lower-priced portion of the Town Hall to
hear the Symphony Orchestra the other
night, whereas the more expensive concert-
goers were represented by several rows of
empty front seats. Melba, who had bought
a hundred tickets, was away on her Adelaide
trip. Zelman simply oozed inspiration, and
With his baton tore at the very soul-strings of
his band of girl violinists, while the wood-
winds and the other winds, led by the star
amateurs, Dr. Rudall and Weston Pett, were
roused to a frenzy of musical fervor, more
especially in Mendelssohn’s Italian Sonata.
Howett Worcester raised his fine but hard
baritone 'in the hackneyed Pagliacci pro-
logue and a Wagnerian item. Pianiste
Nellie Billings was soloist in a Schumann
orchestral concerto. She is so overflowing
with temperament that one never knows
exactly how good she isn’t going to be. This
night found her at her very best.
At Melbourne King’s the triumph of Jef-
ferson over his business rivals will terminate
on Friday; therefore anyone desirous of
seeing Bert Bailey as the identity aforesaid
must hurry up. Melbourne is speaking
kindly of “Jefferson Wins Through,” and
good report may be expected to give the
wholesome comedy a crowded last night. But
the stay of the Bailey co. is not for long,
“ Oll . LADY, LADY!" AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Field Fisher as the garrulous liftman.
and the forthcoming revival of “On Our
Selection” was inevitable. It had to be.
Dad is a hardy periodical, and now for more
than two years his well-beloved whiskers
have been out of the bill.
To-day (Thursday) the one and only Butt-
Rumford matinee eventuates at Melbourne
Town Hall, and on Saturday night the tre-
mendously successful season of Dame Clara
and her supporters will close in an uproar
of encores. Everything she sings is popular,
and, seemingly, the attraction would be just
as strong if Rumford were a less pretty
baritone, and Melsa not so good a violinist.
That the star artist is a lighter contralto
than of old makes no difference to the crowd
she impresses with her manner of rendering
her songs. The deepest notes she strikes are
in the public heart.
At Melbourne Royal the sort of worried
man that Coyne impersonates in “His Lady
Friends” (different from the theatrical kind
he stood for and toiled for in “Nightie
Night”) will be replaced on Saturday by
a further victim of matrimony in “Wedding
Bells.” Coyne’s colleagues in the new game
of complications will be much the same as
before, and laughter is again invited to come
along and hold both its sides.
The Cherniavsky trio, long strangers to
Melbourne, are not to be heard at the Town
Hall when they return with their fiddle,
’cello and piano on Monday next. The
brethren, who first came to these parts in
knic-kerbocker suits and large lace collars,
hut have grown older during the intervening
15 years, will perform this time at the
Assembly Hall.
Wirths’ Circus starts at Melbourne Olym-
pia next Saturday. Rumor declares that the
Caulfield Cup is mainly run as an advt. for
the Circus that always opens on Cup night,
whilst the advt. states that “the whole earth
has been searched for novelties” worthy, of
this annual visit. Anyhow, Melbourne’s im-
mediate section of the universe is ready, to
receive the Circus and make a fuss over it.
The leading feature of Melbourne Majestic
screen tins week is a Mack Sennett story
of how Ben Turpin tries to restore the for-
tunes of a stranded company of buskers,
whose rehearsals are an outrage on historic
Rome, and whose struggles with impecuni-
osity involve them in weird complications.
“Closed Doors,” in the same programme, fea-
tures Alice Calhoun as tne usual neglected
wife, and “Snooky” is a “comic” that trades
on the waning popularity of Charlie Chaplin.
At Hoyt’s De Luxe and Lyceum the exceed-
ing simplicity of Claire Anderson finds a con-
genial outlet in “Who Am IV” the answer
to the query being that the young woman
is a creature of card-sharping circumstances
who plays her last game with herself for
the stake. Claire is quite a new study in
artless guilt and movie marvellousness.
“The Smart Set,” at the same Hoyt-houses.
contains a trained goose and a cloud of false
suspicion. Eventually the in-no-cence oi
Eva Novak is proved, and the society cats
who called her no-class are conquered by
her blushing virtues. Her position as a
chorus-girl really gives her an unfair advan-
tage over ordinary ladies, but. thus far no
movie story has insisted on fair allowance
for the pernicious social surroundings of
non-professional sisters. “Tin* Heart of
Maryland,” late of the Majestic, presents
the horrors and consolations of American
Civil War at the Britannia this week; and
a principal subject at the Melba is the
elaborated version of Barrie’s ‘‘What Every
Woman Knows,” which is, as a matter of
fact, merely what most women have never
begun to believe. A Mack Sennett comedy
carries its story in its title—“ Roping Her
Romeo.”
“The Maid of the Mountains,” at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, is still carolling her way
into the hearts of a sentimental populace.
But the inevitable hour approaches for “Oh,
Lady, Lady!” at the Royal, Dot Brtinton
having been summoned to foreign parts.
Sydne.v Is conspiring to give her a great
send-off.
. Mild Anglo-Irish hulnor free from the
slightest suspicion of politics continues to
be retailed at the (Sydney Criterion by the
company responsible for “Paddy, the Next
Best Thing.”
** * *
Having found Sydney only spasmodically
interested in modern English comedy, Marie
Tempest and Graham Browne have unexpect-
edly curtailed their season and gone on their
travels again. It is a pity, but whether Syd-
ney is to blame, or the contemporary play-
wright, or the “star” system, or the fact that
the theatre, like the saioon-bar, is run on a
percentage basis, is matter for argument. In
fact, for a dozen arguments.
*!« tjc i’c }J;
The latest, acquisition to the fun-making
factory in Castlereagh-street (the ’phone
book calls it the Sydney Tivoli) are Claude
Dampier and a vivacious partner, Miss Atten-
boro. Their half-hour turn is so hilarious
that the promised 1800 chuckles are scored
from every male escort and the person he has
paid for. • Then stretching out to the
National Anthem is a long procession of
capable vocalists and comedians, with an art
poser and a reckless tumbler wedged in.
Ht * *
Harry Carey is the big-hearted adven-
turer at Sydney Hoyt’s who returns to his
own village weighted down with gold to
claim the sweetheart of his early youth. But
the lady, being modern and no Penelope,
nas cnosen as her suitor a local lad. Lit
is town sheriff, and is having a bad time till
Carey, because of the girl he will always
love, throws the weight of his arm and cun-
ning into the fray. Then hh fades off on
the long lone trail. “The Wallop” is a
strong mixture of sentiment, fists and gun-
play. At the Crystal Palace Sylvia Bremer
is the sorrowing wife of an Italian husband
so jealous that when he empties her over a
cliff he conceives a violent hatred for the
gallant English officer who helps her to re-
gain her feet and brush the dust off her
clothes. This story is “The Blood Barrier.”
The big attraction at the Strand is James
Oliver Curwood’s story, “The Golden Snare.”
The Canadian Nor’-West, an Antarctic out-
law with a ’eart of gold, a beauteous fur-
wrapped maiden with hair of the same pre-
cious mineral, a susceptible sergeant of
police, ice-packs, wolf-packs, dogs, sleds, an
abandoned baby, a bullying swashbuckler
attempting the honor of the golden-haired
baby doll, and happiness in the end —it
makes a dashing picture. Franklyn Bar-
rett’s Australian production, “Know Thy
Child,” has a D’Annunzio twist in it that
would make the onlooker believe it was a
story of Old Europe if it weren’t for the
gum-trees and the waratah background.
“Know Thy Child” is the story of the sow-
ing of a young storekeeper’s wild oats, the
crop thereof being an illegitimate and beau-
tiful daughter, with whom, wrapped in the
attractive character of his private sec., he
faljs in love much later, when life and luxurj
and his society wife have palled. Produced
and acted well, it merely proves the old, old
adage that “it’s a wise father,” etc. The
same palace of shadows shows Blanche
Sweet in the stupendous jewel mystery, “The
Girl in the Web.”
Melba’s delightful voice has been packing
Adelaide Town Hall, and she has been giving
generous encores to an insatiable crowd.
Allan Wilkie is
about to start
his annual
Shakspeare sea-
son at the
Royal. At the
P. of W., Leslie
Adrienne and
Gu y Hastings
continue to play
on the domestic
emotions. The
problem of the
frequent Un*
wanted Child is
under discus-
sion at the
moment; Yetty
Landa ti and
Walter Hunt
arevery sound in
support. Flora
Cromer, fresh
from a suc-
“FIREFLY,” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Rene Maxwell and Ralph Errolle.
cessful law-Suit, is at the King’s, where also
Ward arid the very popular Sherman present
a series of American sketches. In pictures.
Charles Ray does home tremendous fist-fight-
ing in “Scrap trofi” at the Majestic, where
also the late Virginia Ruppe figures in hilari-
ous comedy. Wondergraph has a contrast
of English methods and American—Arthur
Bourchier v. Thomas Meigban. West’s has
“The Foolish Matrons,” claimed to be “a
vital message to the married.” and the
Indian-massacre play, “Bob Hampton of
Placer,” is having a well-earned second in-
nings at the Pav.
Daryl Lindsay lias turned up in London
with a collection of etchings by brother Nor-
man ; and the earliest exclamations of sur-
prise and delight were being heard when the
last mail left.
“Macquarie Street” recalls pleasant days:
The famous Russian basso Schaliapin (that’s how
lie spells it) first thundered to a London audience
in June, 1913. He was then fresh from a triumphal
season in Paris. He is again in London, but under
very different circumstances. Ostensibly he is to
give concerts in aid of the Russian Famine Fund.
In plain words, being at their wits’ end for money,
the Bolshies have sent him forth to bring some grist
to the mill. In 1913 Beecham was enthusiastic over
the success of the Russian Opera Co. and Ballet,
and conceived the bold idea of bringing the whole
concern from Paris to Drury Lane. Though the
season was a great artistic success he must have lost
a pot of money over it. Schaliapin was the magnet
on the operatic side; Tamar Karsavina and Nijinsky
shared the honors in ballet and choreographic
drama. During the five weeks the operas “Boris
Goudonov,” “Ivan le Terrible” and “La Ivhovantch-
ina” were produced, the first-named creating a
furore and best suiting Selialiapin’s tremendous
basso. The operas were given twice weekly, as a
rule, the ballet filling the bill on the other nights.
Karsavina appeared in fully a dozen ballets, and has
remained a hot favorite in London ever since; and
Schaliapin is bound to be a great draw now in Lon-
don and America.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: I have treasured
playbills of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne —
“Sole proprietor, G. V. Brooke” —dated
June 2 and 3, 1859. In the co. were Lam-
bert, Ireland, Egan, Lawrence, Marsh,
Ryan, Dias, Fawcett, Rob Heir, Harwood,
Wigan, Johnston. Gladstone, Flint, Han-
cock, Tannett and Gordon ; Mesdames Heir,
Vickery, Lambert, Gladstone, Hancock,
Avins, Winterbottom ; and Misses Ellen Mor-
tyn, Mortimer, F. Morgan, Milne, Mordaunt,
Barnes and Naylor; the Leopold Family,
Madame Strebinger and a ballet. Winter-
bottom, formerly of the Lifeguards’ band,
was conductor, and had a full orchestra.
The first night there were a two-act drama.
“Time Tries All”; an address by G. 1
Brooke ; a ballet and a farce. On the second
“Two Gentlemen of Verona” was product
for the first time in Australia (Valentin
Brooke; Proteus, Heir; Julia, Mrs. Her
Silvia, Ellen Mortyn ; Lance, Wigan.
Speed, Lambert; Eglamour, Ireland). I va>
at both performances. Ellen Mortyn died
soon after, and I think Mrs. Gladstone,
whose end came a couple of years ago at
the Dramatic Homes, Northcote, was the
last of them.


mm
«p
Virginia
Cigarettes
PRINCE CHARMING cigarette is the Prince
A of all cigarettes, and sets a new standard of
cigarettes, and sets a new
excellent quality in either popular priced or ex-
pensive cigarettes. Perfect tobacco, manufacture and
packing go to the making of this Charming cigarette.
lO for 9
20 for 1/6
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
The more important Hupmobile manufacturing processes are identical with
processes applied to cars that cost a great deal more. Precision and watch-
fulness govern every manufacturing operation to a degree that recently inspired
a leading automobile publication to cite the Hupmobile factory as a model.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier —extra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain carriers
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
L PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
hjkljhkl


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Insist on CINZANOS.
Good To The
Lasr Drop
&
M
ABBOTS
LAGER
T/ießeer m/fioafafim/.
Tlrptipd from Pureffa/t iffopr On/y
MINIATURE MEDALS
m
■}
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/9:
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
w. CHORLEY & CO„ LTD.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Thole & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Thorold Waters”: Have the people who
marvel over Melba’s well-preserved voice,
now in its sixties, ever considered how little
“Oh, Lady, Lady!” at
Sydney Royal.
Cyril Ritchards as
Willoughby Finch.
work that voice
has done compared
with most others?
She never had
the ordinal - y
concert singers
gruelling scramble
to get in live or
six engagements a
week, with long
railway journeys
throw'll in, or even
the aspiring grand
opera artist’s con-
tract, which usu-
ally involves a
minimum of three
performance's a
w e e k. Whether
they are feeling fit
or not, less fortu-
nate vocalists have
to battle on in
order to win a
crust and keep the
other cats out. But
a Queen of Song
with wealth at her
back from the out-
set could always
afford to consider
her physical fit-
ness. and that is
half the battle in
feminine voice-
preservation. So
far as Melba is
concerned, I doubt whether she has troubled
to average more than 80 or 90 public per-
formances each year since she went to
Europe. Some of her less fortunate sisters
have to fit in as many as 250.
“Wilfrido” : Austin Strong, whose “Three
Wise Fools” is having a good run in Well-
ington (M.L.), is a Wellington College old-
boy. The Dumas touch in the play centres
round an actual episode of bis life. Athos
is a well-known military man, Portlios a
local doctor, and the three of them saw,
as boys, “The Three Musketeers” when it
came ‘round. At College Strong was best
known as a caricaturist, and he promised to
do well with his pencil. As a writer he has
found favor both in England and in America,
and during the war Cyril Maude took the
lead in one of his plays.
From a specialist in the ey.e business : —-
Not only do some of the moving-picture shows
cause eyestrain owing to the angle of elevation when
the picture is viewed from the front seats being
absurdly high (I notice, however, that the screen has
been lowered considerably in a rebuilt . theatre at
Mosrnan), but in many Sydney shows discomfort is
caused to those who sit in the front row side-seats.
From this position tiie images in the picture are
liable to become distorted, the faces being elongated
and tiie features flattened. Becoming tired of seeing
actors and actresses without noses, T personally have
given up sitting in the extreme side-seats. This
discomfort and distortion doubtless arise from tiie
lateral angle of view from this position being too
acute, and the remedy is the arrangement of tiie
front seats in (lie arc of a circle. Tiie angle of
elevation should be 35 degrees, and the lateral angle
oi view should not be less than 25 degrees, The
public will have pictures; and perhaps it is idle to
expect the people who build the theatres to consider
such a thing as their patrons’ eyes. But good eye-
sight is a matter of great national importance;
wherefore public authority should step in and lay
down certain rules to be followed in the construction
and seating of these places.
Joseph McCabe, lecturer and author, hav-
ing expressed a wish to again visit A as-
tral in, some interested Melbournians were
approached with a proposal for a visit in
1922 : but, the financial barometer not look-
ing favorable, McCabe was asked to knock
again 12 months hence.
“Oh, Boy”: Norah Delany, who is to be
the new Williamson panto, '‘buy.” is the
wife of a baronet. A former “boy”—and
one of the best—was Violet Loraine, who
has recently married into the British peer-
age, Her “boy” is a son of Lord Joicey, the
coal and shipping magnate.
The talk of the old circus boss :
The obi tradition of the wisdom of the elephant
got a nasty knock when the biggest-trunked brute
in the Home Zoo slew the doctor who was operating
on him for abscess. A big ourang-outang grasped
tlie situation in a moment when he suffered from
toothache, and was content to let the doctor do what
was necessary; but the elephant—the small-eyed,
small-minded, vindictive beast with the over-rated
capacity for remembering things—because the sur-
geon hurt him, grabbed his benefactor and smashed
him to death. A person who expects an elephant to
be grateful for kindness and discriminating in liis
judgment of strangers or acquaintances is expecting
far too much. Take the case of the late Carew Rey-
nell, one-time connected with the S. M. Hjsrald, and
elephant Lizzie, in Fitzgeralds’ circus. Reynell, a
kindly little chap, was in the habit of dropping
into-the circus before closing time to have a yarn
and a whisky with the Fitzes. In the ordinary way
he bought a bag of biscuits for Lizzie, and fed her
with them whilst she mooched around after the
audience had gone. One night Reynell had disposed
of his biscuits in the menagerie, or had forgotten to
buy any; so it came to pass that when the elephant
interrupted his conversation with Tom by sticking
her trunk across his shoulder, he had nothing to
give her. Lizzie associated Reynell with biscuits at
that time o’ night, and her trunk movements were
irritating to her friend. After the third or fourth
intrusion of the black proboscis the little journalist
administered a tap to it, with: “No biscuits to-night,
old girl; go away!” An intelligent, docile elephant
would have taken that as final; but the highly-
trained Lizzie quietly put her trunk around Reynell,
lifted him out of his chair, tall hat, umbrella and
all, and was about to put him down and stamp on
him when the trainer arrived. The beast practically
knew nothing, guessed nothing, cared nothing, except
that the little man who usually gave her biscuits
had this night tapped her on the trunk instead of
pushing something tasty into it.
George Marlow is plunging once more into
theatrical management. A co. under his ban-
ner -opens at "Pierrotland,” St. Kilda (Vic.),
on October 22.
“Stargazer”: In the midst of the chorus of
praise greeting Wilkie Bard, I have to say
that he errs. True, liis erring is on the side
of righteousness, but it is error nevertheless.
Bard is praised for his quietness only because
vaudeville performers, as a rule, are wholly
lacking in repose. Were these marked by
any reasonable restraint. Bpjrd’s mistake
would be so evident that everyone would be
crying out against it. In the turns in which
1 sampled him —as charwoman at a theatre,
as pantomine dame, and as caretaker on a
road job—he under-acted as flagrantly as most
music-hall comedians over-act. He so re-
presses himself that it often happens he has
no point at all where a point is urgently
needed, and the audience is waiting for the
joke to develop long after he has passed on. In
many instances Bard’s stuff is too mild, and
when a too-mild actor deals out too-mild
material it is all suggestive of a snow-
flake falling on to a feather-bed.
“Hamfat”: Frank Gorman, the Yankee
parson who came to Australia for a 20
weeks’ music-hall season, has broken out
in a new place, and is playing in melodrama
staged bv Fullers in Sydney. A commentary
upon the changed feeling towards vaudeville,
which 2r> years ago was a wickedness which
women might not patronise, was a remark
made by a lady at the show. “My dear,”
she Said to her neighbor, “it isn’t so bad
for a clergyman to sing a few songs in a
music-hall; but to go on the stage!” And
she trailed off into speechlessness.
“T.W.”: One of the most interesting
theatrical performances I ever saw was an
amateur show at Waverley. Sydney, at which
“Caste” was done mainly by the offspring of
the big pots in Brough and Boueieault’s
production of the same play. In it were one
of the young Ansons duplicating father
G.W.’s great performance as Eccles on lines
not so great, a young Titheradge and a
young Emery.
“Blaekfriars” : Clara Butt must have had
many a chortle over the first offer made to
her for an Australian tour, when an ingenu-
ous vouth who has since risen to giddy
managerial heights' sought to tempt her
with "twenty guineas a concert and all
fares paid.” Dame Clara was then netting
120 guineas for each appearance with her
husband. That was 16 or 17 years ago.
iWliat their terms may be now I’ve no idea,
but the musical and theatrical bigwig who
then made the offer laughs at it nowadays
just as much as the big lady does. In
these times he can afford to laugh at any-
thing.
“K.C.McC.”: Returning to New Guinea
from London, Clive Farnham, who thinks
his old job as patrol officer in mandated
territory more attractive than vaudeville at
presell t.
“T. 0.1.”: Fanny Wiseman (B. 29/9/’2l)
came to Australia with Dick and Emily in
1854, when siie was eight. In 1855 Dick
appeared in Melbourne as a child with tin 1
late Charles Young at the Old Queen’s, and
TWO OF A KIND.
“Just think, they’ve put me on directly after
those beastly performing cats.”
“And yet they hare the check to describe this
as a variety show!”
afterwards at the Olympic (“The Iron
Pot”) under Coppin and Brooke. Then at
the old wooden ex-circus building, the Prin-
cess’s, the Wisemans and the Lee Family
appeared in a juvenile ballet. In 1856 the
Wisemans went to Ballarat and played at all
the theatres on that goldfield-—Charlie
Napier, Montezuma, Victoria and Theatre
Royal—-until 1858, when they travelled
through Vic. as the Wiseman Family. In
1860 Dick left the stage to sell rags, but in
eight years he was back. Emily married
J. L. Hall, an excellent comedian in his
day, and Fanny became Mrs. Willie South.
In 1868 the latter toured India in a co.
organised by W. B. Gill, in which were
Rose Edouin (Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis), Julia
Edouin, Lizzie Naylor (Mrs. Charles
Edouin), Waddy Deering (Mrs. W. B. Gill),
Tilly Earle (Mrs. John Edouin), F. C.
Appleton, H. Richardson, W. South, Stone-
ham, John Edouin, Haygarth, C. Deering and
W. B. Gill.
“G.”: In the Bootshop sketch Wilkie
Bard has introduced a new ending. In the
original version, when he was left alone,
cheated out of his last note, it gradually
dawned on him that Jasper was the greatest
crook in London, and the curtain fell on his
resigned and rueful smile. Now he finds the
lady-crook’s bag, with pearls and notes, the
sort of false and happy ending that is always
necessary in America, and, seemingly, also
in Australia. It is a great pity, for Wilkie
is most humorous when he is most sad: a
happy ending doesn’t suit his style.
“Lud” : Hemmerde, Iv.C., the Recorder of
Liverpool (Eng.), who, a cable says, created
a stir by declaring from the Bench at the
prosecution of the leaders of a riotous unem-
ployed demonstration that the police had
used unnecessary violence, is a man of many
talents. He made a name at the Bar, has
been an M.P.. and has written many plays.
The best of the bunch was “The Butterfly
on the Wheel” (in collaboration with Fran-
cis Neilson, also a member of the House
of Commons), which was seen in Australia
with the late Lewis Waller and Madge
Titheradge in the leading roles.
“Snell” : Nance O’Neil had a hand which,
though well formed and carefully manicured,
might have served the giant Jack killed.
When she played Lady Macbeth at Melbourne
Majesty’s, and spoke her lines, “All the per-
fumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little
hand,” a gallery boy thrilled the audience by
crying sympathetically “My oath!”
“S.T.”: London playgoers are getting
very restive over increased charges, and visit
the sins of the management on the players.
Arthur Bourchier got hooted on the first
night of “The Trump Card” at the Strand,
and, not liking it, advertised for a frank
explanation. He got it promptly, and as
promptly met it by restoring the gallery to
its old price, a shilling; and all was well.
Donald Calthrop produced “My .Nieces”
( which is Pinero’s "Schoolmistress in musi-
cal form) with the floor of the Queens all
stalls, Australian fashion. Ihe people who
should have been in the “pit —now back
stalls— attended at the first night and booed
heartily. The question of restoring the pit
is being discussed.
"Tliorold Waters” : As one who has heard
Melba a score of times in Covent Carden tor
the modest half-crown, and for even less in
the Albert Hall, my sympathies are with
those Australians who want to hear then
grandest Dame under the dollar it it can be
contrived here without anyone being out ot
pocket —and that certainly should be pos-
sible, as there is only one pocket instead ot
several to be filled. . For the half-dollar 1
have heard not only Melba, but m the same
cast Caruso, Sammarco and Journet, and
at this price in Covent Garden thej even
threw in an elaborate programme.
“Old Heavy” ; Gulling ran the Urban en-
tertainers, a miscellaneous lot that did
stunts in suburban halls and country bains—t
any old place, in fact, into which a ten-pound
house could be crowded, and polling wag
two-thirds of the show’. He groomed the
horses, posted the bills, interviewed editors
and, if necessary, swept the halls, what
little scenery the co. carried Gollmg hung up.
lie took the tickets when he could, and helped
the orchestra at odd times, providing a flute
obligato to whatever was going. Every alter-
nate turn on the stage was his. He di
card tricks and coin-manipulating, sang,
danced, figured as a patter comedian, am
juggled hats. Then when the entertainment
was ended he stowed things away and locked
up and put in the spare hours between mid-
night and bedtime in writing up the ads. oi
sticking bills. Then one afternoon, when
the Urban Entertainers were displaying
their varied talents at Morwell, Golfing
called the artists together, and said: ln»
is about the end. I can lead tins lazy life
no longer. Here’s a wire to say Mrs. Golfing
has had twins. I must get something to
d °“S.S.” : Bland Holt in one of his great
English melodramas put on a farmyard scene
with all details. There was even a pet goat,
but it frolicked about the stage so egregi-
ously in the first night that a pen had to be
provided. One evening the manager as a
comic Hodge leaned on the pen, while he
made amorous play with a village maiden.
Then came his cue to exit R.L.E. He
attempted to get away from his leaning place,
but found to his alarm that something was
hanging on. He tried again with greater
effort, and dragged Nanny and her pen a few
yards up C. The situation called for a
lowered curtain. While the comic man was
discoursing with his lass, Nanny had masti-
cated and swallowed about bait a yard or
his smock-frock. .
“Film Up” : A comic “old woman m a
recent American photo-play brought back
“The Maid of the
Mountains.” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Phil Smith as Tonio,
the brioand, occupied
in knitting a cami-
sole for a hot-water
bottle.
memories ot the
II ar r v Rickards
days. The actress,
kno w n o n the
screen as Mrs.
Titus. was the
shapely and sweet-
voiced Lydia Yea-
mans. who charmed
the crowd a. quar-
ter of a century
and more ago with
“Sally in Our
Alley.” The movie
camera is rough on
old-time stage
favorites. In the
glare of the lime-
light, and with
enough grease-
paint and powder
cunningly applied,
the lines on the
middle aged face
are obscured and
years are taken of
a lady’s age. And.
after all, the local
audience is small
and its criticism of
su c h m atters
lenient. But the
camera’s eye sees
through the thin
disguise and pub-
lishes the latest
portrait all over
the world, wrin-
kles. lines, paint
and everything.
Wild horses wouldn’t drag- some passe
actresses to the photographer’s to have a
photo taken ; yet they dare the relentless
“pictures.”
“Pongo” : One of the most disgusted men
I ever struck was a ticket-taker of a
Bananaland theatre when the firm promoted
him to be stage-manager. “Why don’t you
want the job, Joe?” I asked. “It’s a bi?
lift, isn’t it?” “Lift be damned!” snarled
Joseph. “I’m making a tenner a week in
this job. and if I take on stage-managership
I’ll only draw six.” But he found a way
out by "securing his old post for a cobber,
who whacked the profits with him.
“CHU CHIN CHOW.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Summer lies on the ruins of Bagdad
Where the brown Tigris lips its walls to-day,
And all die regal colors of the Past
Into tiie screen of time are faded grey ;
Vet on the boards they leap again to light
And bring back Yesterday to grace To-night.
Here Zobeide beneath her cone-shaped tomb
Has hid the dusty, golden ages through;
And if her dreams were dreamed in Arabic,
She was a woman, dear, as fair as you,
And Haroun el Rasehid, the caliph, wept
A lover’s tears above her where she slept.
Here is the stone work of the Saracen,
And there the yellow walls conceal from sight
Gardens of olive and of purple vine,
Planned for some dark-eyed favorite’s delight;
Pomegranates scarlet as her hungering lips
And henna plants to dye her fingertips.
When from the desert comes the burning wind
Heavy with grains of sand, and dry with thirst,
It brings a tinkling from the camel pad,
Tale of an Omar, with a silence curst,
And the sweet voice to break that silence through
Of some dear woman who was loved- —like you !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AX IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Giariff from 16/- per .lay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
SpcßaHy constructed to use us fuel. Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors’
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries, !
valves or gears to get out of order. We j
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 (.oftus Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents, Ausi ralasia and South Sea Islands.
a
m
For Bells & Buzzers
1
I
S»W/'
1
I
i
m
i
/
\j
/2S>>
K2
Columbia
c Dry
c 'Batteries
For ringing doorbells, buzzing
buzzers, furnishing ignition power,
running toys—in fact, for every
use—you will find Columbia Dry
Batteries supreme.
Columbia Dry Batteries are
made by the world’s oldest manu-
facturers of electric batteries.
Powerful, long-lived, economical.
Have your electrical dealer fur-
nish you with the original Colum-
bia. Look for the name.
COLUMBIA
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inc.
30 Bast 42d St., New York, U. S. A.
COLUMBIA
Also Manufacturers of
Columbia Storage Batteries
for Automobiles, American Flashlights and
Flashlight Batteries, Carbon Brushes, and
Carbon Specialties F]22114E
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
WANTED
15,000 Australians interested in
the development of their country
to invest £5 each in a bona fide
Oil-development enterprise, backed
by well-known business men.
THE SYDNEY “BULLETIN”
STATES (15/9/’21):
“The Associated Oil Corpora-
tion, Ltd.—the best-equipped of
the crop of Oil floats, is getting to
work.”
INVESTORS.
An investment of £5 in the Wine
\A eller Well Oil Company yielded
in three months £l5OO.
AN
UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY
for the Australian Investor.
Can you visualise what it would mean to you if oil was struck in Australia? As with the wave of
the wand of a fairy the wilderness would almost immediately spring into a city. The supply of Petrol
and Lubricating Oil would suddenly be assured. Revolution in all Manufacturing Industries would take
place.
Texas was a barren land before oil was struck there. To-day Texas oil is the motive power
behind machinery worth countless thousands sterling. Think what this would mean to Australia
manufacturers and merchants would do more business. It would establish Australian manufactories for
ail time. There would be an abundance of employment for all.
j T her * is eVery “ d «; at j o n of oil on the properties taken up by the Associated Oil Corporation, Ltd.
and the Directors and their friends, all business men, have already taken up 25,000 shares. The
nature tke geological formation of these properties is vouched for by Mr. Guy Andrew
M jt .° S ? y i 4 ,j at he “ stakes the lasl shred of his professional reputation that they will prove a
wonderful oil field—and that there should not be only one bore, but at least 100 wells operating ” Will
you join forces with these business men in their legitimate efforts touring about this increased prosperity
m Australia? Show your faith in the future of Australia and become an investor. Prospectuses wUI be
forwarded to you on application on the form at foot.
The
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
Associated Oil Corporation
Limited
(Registered under the Companies Act of 1892, S.A.).
CAPITAL £250.000, divided into 250,000 Shares of £1 Each,
apportioned as follows:-
100,000 Share, to be issued to the public, payable 5/- on application, 5/- on allotment, the balance in
t.alls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than three months.
18,000 Shares have been issued to the Vendor Syndicate.
27,000 Shares to be issued to the Vendor Syndicate WHEN OIL HAS BEEN STRUCK.
2,000 Shares have been issued to Guy R. Andrew, M.E., Petroleum Engineer, in part consideration
of his having agreed to serve the Company as Superintendent for a period of two years.
3,000 Shares to be issued to Guy R. Andrew AFTER OIL HAS BEEN STRUCK.
100,000 Shares to be held in Reserve.
250,000
25,000 Contributing Shares have already been taken up.
DIRECTORS *
E. S. B A ILL IE Pi E, Esq., Grazier, Woorooma. West Deniliauin XS W G T T) TAMTf’si ircr, r<„». i*>' t*
Sydney. 11. O. MACFIE, Esq., F.C.P.A., Chartered Secretary Svdnev G V T> MOPf AKr . Cons “ lt l n S Engineer,
GEREOFF, Esq., Merchant, Mount Gambler. A. E. KNIGHT,' Esq'., Contractor Mount* ( AmbEr” ’ £ ydney - .\ A *
Investor, Hamilton, Vic. li. F. SASSAXOWSKY, Esq., Grazier, Mount Gambier ’ I A KTI SRV LV’ 6 - D ™mmond. Esq.,
BANKERS: National Bank of Australasia, Lilted. *SU PE RINTE NDENTPuy 3 R.^ANDREW^M.Eh m '^
SECRETARIES AND OFFICES:
.T. 11. SHEPPARD, F.A.1.5., Mount Gambier; SAMUEL A. C. CARTER, F.C.1.5., 14 Martin Place, Sydney."
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY. The Company has been formed for the ouraose of drilline- fm- Pntrnin, n i ,
by them. They have acquired the rights to operate over an area' of approximately 50 square miles Mount Cnnhicr s A o '™ under certain Licenses held
develop this oil-field with the utmost vigor. q 0 1 L "' mb,or - S - A -—and it is their firm intention to
DIRECTORS’ QUALIFICATIONS, FLOTATION. Etc.—The Directors of the Company are all well-known m-ncH fl , v •
and the fact that several of them are local residents of the Mount Gambier district is strong indication of‘the faith the/Wh + aetlcal business men.
the future prosperity of the Company. Their confidence in the prospects of the Company is evidenced bv the Li t proposition and in
NO REMUNERATION FOR THEIR SERVICES UNTIL SUCH TIME VS Oil, IS niicmvßvn 6 '^!™?l fa f that they HAVE AGREED TO ACCEPT
expenses incurred for and on behalf of the Company and its objects! None of the original' moneys expanded bv “ d /o r.• ^ n s)ens?tlon ? tlon for actual
of this prospectus in the preliminary investigations have been made a charge upon the Company and *5 000 ’ f f l ? nds pn ° r to the lssue
and their friends prior to the issue of this prospectus. oompanj, and -.>,000 shares have already been taken up by the Vendors
on va 11 tageous* iFsav ing* of liejooo ha s y alrL t dy d b(vn r ° t ff ected! ’' 'Thc’^vholp nl°is* no w "on * its wav'to the *? et *‘ aS been purchased
. THE COMPANY’S SUPERINTENDENT.—Mr. Guy R. Andrew, M.E., is a Mining Engineer and Petroleum n( + u
standing, and for the past twenty-five years has specialised exclusively on Petroleum. He is conversant wih manv nf tIT v P o-i s 7 ei 7 hi » hest
and Canada, and was instrumental in pioneering .the Athabasca Oil-fields in Northern Canada Mi Ed row EhS JntW Oil-flelds of the U.S.A.
being found upon the holdings of the Company, and the Directors have absolute confidence in his diagnosis of the”field Thf plmnv £ hc proapec ts .of Oil
contract with him to act as Superintendent and Resident Engineer for a period of two years, Mr Andre w thereby exnrcsxW nv ? W *> as entered into a
OIL IsTTRUCK thC 5000 SKarCS t 0 bC ***** *° him 2000 haVC been allotted > and the remaining 3000 WILL NOT BE ISSUED UNTII” A°S
GENERAL .—r” The world is searching for Oil. Modern civilisation depends on it Tile national and commercial ft f \ + v
Bits to locate it within our own boundaries is therefore not an ordinary commercial vent re u /Li U , Stra i ,a _. d< ? perld: L, on the
i- £YA iff 1L i x . v Jioucru ciMiisauon aepenus on it. The national and commercial sift
discovery of Oil and efforts to locate it within our own boundaries is therefore not an ordinary commercial venture Tt , T ‘“A
no country in the Empire so rich in oil possibilities as Australia, and surface indications of. Petroleum have long been known ® X -, cn * er P. n . se - . The . re }»
if any serious operations have previously been undertaken for the develonment nf the fid.l t lu? A 0 ..
near Mount Gambier. but little
I.u muuii.v ... Luc eiimue SO m:u 1.1 oii pussiuuiues as Australia, ana surtace indications of. Petroleum have lm
if any serious operations have previously been undertaken for the development of the field. Extracts from the sun™
have seen on our coast tons of bitumen in both solid and fluid forms. In the vear 1887 I counted ax maiw as ofl s - local r ®S dents state: “1
15 miles on our seashore.” Particular attention is ,1™,,,, in the <■„ „v... U... countea ax many as 35 Oil Springs within a radius of
J X.LU...CU ... uuui soiiu aria nuia rorms. in the year 1881 I counted ax manv -is 3
15 miles on our seashore. Particular attention is drawn to the verv favorable location of the Comnanv’x nrnnEti/ ; » *«
bore is nine miles from Mount Gambier. and two miles from the Railroad. When Oil is. found there is excellent harhm/o- - p P b o ". chose . n for the first
ninp linps. It must bp hornp in mi ml that mini no* fnv Oil io .... •/" . IId J UUI
bore is nine ......... ....... ........ .... m.nuu. me nauroau. nnen un ls .iouna ttiere is
pipe lines. It must be borne in mind that mining for Oil is different from anv other kind of mining
vhereas, with any other mining, expenses really begin after the mineral has been located.
otimne fnr limvirl r»tl nf mm fiW>n Ue J _r> _ ,
■ to which it can be conveved hv
regards Oil the main expense is in finding it,
has
witii ir 1 iiiuiiii n t.AjJEHM.iuanv i>Fi»in alter tne mineral nas been located. 1 iuiuui t' 11
Boring operations for liquid oil at one time had not even one per cent. *bf success, but.modern annlimfimi ~f . , , , . ,
s reduced the number of unsuccessful borings so enormouslv that to-dav the average number of success i's^V/ o^ t n w/* k "°"’ledge to geological survey
The properties secured by this Company are the most promising fields in Australia, .and now that "Australia w. i ~ ,
rid the possession of this Locality is very important. Other Oil Companies and Syndicates aremaking b «m'evs dd fh ly + Cllscov ® red / v the Oi
activities is foreshadowed. ‘ making geological surveys—the tremendous impetus to
FINANCIAL. Mhi Ist the initial capital required for the boring for Oil must be provided on an adeniiate !m i„ +i,„ u- v. -nr , .
vhen Oil is struck arc stupendous. As an illustration of this the following statistics are interesting- Comiianv- Calihnn profits which will be derived
iividends, £223,000 for the year 1913. Company: The Union Oil Co. Dividend, £2,480,000 for the year I9is!‘ ’ Oanl>oll 011 and Mining Co. (100 acres).
Post This Form for Prospectus.
The Secretary.
ASSOCIATED OIL CORPORATION. LIMITED.
I't Martin Place. SYDNh'Y,
Date
Dear SirSj
Please send Prospectus of the Associated Oil Corporation to
Name ...
Address
W.i.
The Associated Oil Corporation
Limited Means Business.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
The Secretary,
ASSOCIATED OIL CORPORATION. LIMITED.
V, Martin Place, SYDNEY.
_ Date..
Dr nr Sirsj — •
I hereby apply far .. Shares in the Associated
»l Corpora turn, Limited, and enclose herewith the sum of £. .
being
/ request you to allot me the above Shares, and I agree, to accept
the same or any less number that man hr allotted to me / ZthoX
r, \ ™. r *; fhr holder of the said Shares. a .nd I agree.
(Corporation. * Memoran,l " m and Articles of Association of the
Name in full
Occupation
A ddress
Signature
W.'2.
nf ,4, OT n ‘ c ‘ hw l ,, *‘- Monev Orders, etc., to be made to the order
of the Company—Mount Oambier or Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIT,P & CO- LTD., Perth and Ceraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redlern. Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS 00 ROU
LEWIS &WHITTY MAKERS
~y/u? finest Spirit in
UusiralianMisiorp
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED
SUTALSO BOTTLED UNDER
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
hjljh
m
g»9
m
®°<§> o
m
URE MALT S
TIU-EDfNAUSTW^
wtopfntToas
Oisnufl^^S
FHEUBOeW 16
Hiiii
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
None of the youngsters at the A..J.C. meet-
ing could compare with Salrak, a son of Woorak and
Sal, who ran away with the rich Breeders’ Plate.
Salrak had done an eye-opening gallop at Newcastle
a week or two earlier, and was backed with confi-
dence. He is owned and trained by Ivillick, who
introduced Beauford to Raiidwick, and has now
been put aside until the autumn. Salrak is a
medium-sized colt with splendid action, and may
develop into a first-rate sprinter. But the winner of
the Breeders’ Plate in recent years has often been a
disappointment later. AVolaroi, who won in 1915,
was the last winner of the Plate to take a decent
race after his second year.
Beauford won the Craven Plate w.f.a. just as casu-
ally as he did the Epsom. The opposition consisted
of Furious, Erasmus, David, Swift Shot, Fairy Bob.
Syce Knight and Fluency. Beauford, starting on the
outside, ran to the front in the second furlong and
stayed there. With six furlongs to go Wood sent
him along at top. None of the others could get
nearer than three lengths, while some were four times
as far away. Over the last half-furlong Wood let
him ease down, and even then the clock said that
the mile and a quarter had been covered in “3-j”—
a new Australian record for the distance.
Though David’s effort in the Metrop. was a long
way below the. form he had suggested in the Spring
Stakes his annexation of the w.f.a. Band wick Plate
(two miles) proved him to be, the best stayer now
racing in N.S.W. The . journey occupied “29f.”
Delaying his run until inside the distance, David
passed Swift Shot and Syce Knight without exer-
tion. Salitros did not argue the matter with the
big' horse ; in fact, when the barrier lifted he rushed
to the rear. Never reliable at any time this display
coming on top of his recent races suggests a soured
disposition.
Of the N. S. Wales horses the only
two worth consideration for the V.K.O. Derby
are Honey Bee and Furious. Honey Bee is
the more likely to improve in the meantime, and
about his ability to stay the distance there is little
doubt. On Saturday in the Clibborn Stakes, a mile,
Furious (Bst. 101 b.) beat him by a couple of lengths ;
but he was carrying 9st. lib., and put in a brilliant
run at the end after being badly placed most of
the journey. He does pot look a Derby winner, any
more than does Cupidon. But he seems to have
more than the average stamina and is honest. Inci-
dentally, someone ought to remonstrate with Dan
Seaton for giving the colt so incongruous a name as
Honey Bee. In the life of the hive the honey bee is
never a gentleman.
The victory of Demetrius in Caulfield
Guineas was oppressive enough to suggest that the
Sydney youngsters’are not going to have it all their
own way in the V.R.C. Derby. The gelding's pre-
vious attempt at Caulfield was a respectable second
to Eurythmic in the Memsie Stakes. On that occa-
sion Sefton, the runner-up in the Guineas, was try-
ing :to give De'metrius a stone, so iiis defeat was
not a disgrace. Demetrius is a Cool trim, and the
chestnut colt is by Land Of Song. He is probably
the better stayer of the two.
In reasserting himself against Tangalooma his
stable-companion Eurythmic did a good turn to the
books on Caulfield Cup. For the .week after his
downing of the champion at Flemington the effect
of Tangalooma was a stroke of paralysis to Cup
betting. The big fellow looked too easy. Now
that there seems just a possibility of his having-
staled a bit lie is. hardly the big thing he. looked on
paper. A great point in Tangalooma’s favor, all the
same, is that he, fan third last year when he cer-
tainly was not as good as. his. recent best, and the
lighter weight was little or no advantage to him.
Not half-a-dozen horses can be expected to beat
Holt’s “good thing” in .any case. Stare’s capture of
the Toorak Handicap is an additional credit to
Purser, who beat him over 10 furlongs at Fleming-
ton the previous Saturday. One is hound to give
Purser a bright chance for a “shop.” Even Arch
Marella is not too old to get a look in. although he
probably lacks the brilliancy required for a Caulfield
Cup finish. But what can beat the favorite, prespni-
mg' he will be cherry ripe for the struggle? The
writer gives best chance to Prince Sandy, not only
because the well-saved son of Prince Foote ran second
in the Metrop., but because his defeat by Cupidon
a while ago looks less unmeritorious than it did at
the time.
For the second time in succession a hot
favorite was downed in the S.A. Derby. Hesso could
not pace it last year at Morphettville with Pogo-
natuS, and this year Statton was only able to dead-
heat with The Storm. Leon won, and incidentally
paid the biggest dividend of the day—£ll Ss. for
£l.
*'* * *
Saturday was Guineas Day with the
Bananaland Turf Club, and followers of jockey Tucker
collected on four out of the seven races. Three
favorites got home in succession—a most unusual
thing on Bananaland courses, the average being
about one in six—and one of them. Armacre, in the
October Handicap, drew the handicapper’s attention
to his ability to carry liiore weight by leaving Pavior
six lengths astern.
For two years past Metropolitan form has
not gone for much in the subsequent Clips, hut if
neither Prince Sandy nor Erasmus gets into a place
at Caulfield or Flemington the present writer, for
one, will he disappointed. Prince Sandy, in fact,
looks quite the right sort of animal to beat the
best of the Victorians in the Caulfield Cup. Until
when there can be no judging between the present
relative form of the best of the N.S.W. and Vic.
horses. Tangaloonta’s defeat of Eurvthmic at the
recent V.R.C. meeting cannot be accepted as proving
him superior to all the horses Eurythmic ran away
from at Bandwick in the Autumn. And now there
are others from whom Eurythmic has never run
away, as well as Erasmus, who beat the champion
the only time they have met- —in last Melbourne
Cup. One of the little lot from Sydney should take
the Caulfield Cup this year. The latest sequence of
Victorian wins is three, and it never was more than
that, whereas the race in the past has been won by
visiting horses seven years in succession.
* * * *
“D.” : Tim “madman trick” of separating
the mug from his money, which has almost become
epidemic in the populous parts of the Commonwealth
of Tate years, is surely the crudest of all devices
jn its ancient line. For generations the three-card
trick did service. But it only called for the dupe’s
acceptance of the fact that the handler of the broads
was unaware that the “lady” had been marked. In
the .madman act the victim has to be satisfied that
a lunatic is Hinging away large sums unchecked;
and. still more remarkable, that total strangers are
anxious that lie (the dupe) should share in the wind-
fall. It is impossible to have any sympathy with
those who fall in on such linds ; though one fly flat
made a hid for something of the sort last week.
After he lost his money f he informed the Court, he
told the men in the carriage that he would have to
report the matter to the police, because their friend
was mad, and was not fit to be at large.
“Whitehall” : A photograph of Bertram
Maekennal’s equestrian statue of Edward VII. has
just come my way. Why do sculptors invariably
present horses of a breed that was apparently in
vogue in Greece as chargers or I lacks at the time the
Parthenon was built? That is to. say, a sort of
overgrown cob, with the high-stepping action of a
show hackney and the forehand of a heavy draught.
Having seen Edward VII, ride I am satisfied he
would have been able to do nothing with such a
mount but fall off it. He did not sit a horse as
Mackennal lias depicted him doing. With his short
legs and extensive waist lie resembled a bag of
wheat or flour precariously balanced on the saddle;
and he was notoriously nervous. r flie contrast
between' his hearing and that of tlie Kaiser (they
rode side, by., side) at tlie funeral of Victoria was
humiliating to the horse-loving English. As a matter
of fact, the only British royalty of the past two
centuries who could safely be portrayed on honest
lines aboard the; Friend of Mail is put* late visitor
the Prince; and even he is more game than capable.
* * * *
There are half-a-dozen three-year-olds in
Maoriland at present of about equal class, and yet
on two-year-old form two—The Hawk and Mermin—
stood out from the
others. The reason is
that Absurd’s stock
are -all so good. Tama-
tote won the Wan-
ganui Guineas, Gro-
tesque the Avondale
Guineas and Rational
the Flying Stakes
Handicap at the same
meeting, with Gro-
tesque second. Dur-
ing last week Gro-
tesque was a gain
second, but this time
to the Martian geld-
ing The Hawk in the
Tlawkes Bay Guineas.
The Derby, early next
month, is causing
punters a lot of head-
scratching.
G. D. GREEN-
WOOD, owner of
Cupidon, winner of
the A.J.C. Derby
at Randwick.
The annual Burra-to-Adelaide cycle race,
108 miles, was tough work this year, with heavy,
rain over-night and a strong headwind aU the way,
which favored the more experienced scratch men.
These two, O’Farrell (Vic.) and Robinson (S.A.),
gave away from 4 to 40 minutes to some 30 others.
They were in the lead at Gawler and raced eacli
other home. O’Farrell finished half a wheel ahead.
Another Vic., Ogle, from the Smin. mark, was a bad
third. O’Farrell and Ogle are gluttons. They
cycled from Melbourne to Adelaide, and from there
to Burra. They condescended to take train and
steamer to Tasmania a day or two later, and then
rode from to Hobart to study the track
for the race hack.
Sydney Grammar won their -•>''<! IVS.W.
Great Public School championship on Saturday, and
there have been only 29 of them altogether ; the other
half-dozen have been divided among C.K. Grammar
(three), King’s (21) and Scots’ (1). K- B. Moulton
(Newington) won the 100yds. (loisec.) and 220yds.
(23 4-ssee.). He has both style and judgment. 1.
W. Bayldon (Grammar) was second in both events.
K, W. Hanson (King’s) won the. 440yds. in 54sec.,
a good eli'ort considering the state of the track ; and
E. L. Macdonald (Grammar) took the half-mile in
2min. 7sec. and the mile in 4min. 49sec. Grammar
won the mile in all four divisions. S. J. Burt
(Sydney High) won the 120vds. hurdles stylishly
in 16 4-ssee., beating F. 1). Hixson in a finish to
the tape after the latter led over the final hurdle.
Burt is the holder of- the “under 16” All-Schools’
record (13 l-ssec.) put up in 1919. A. Cunningham
(Grammar) won the high jump with oft. 6in., and
with a longer run might-have done even better ; and
in the broad jump B. H. Croft (Armidale) did
20ft. Gjin. despite the heavy going. H. Pannifex
(C.E. Grammar) took the shot putt with 41ft. 24in.
GEORGE MENDIES (magnified ten dia-
meters), Flyweight Champion of Aus-
tralia, who knocked out Johnny Murton
on Saturday night.
In the lower grades, two records crashed when 0. P.
Haydon (Sydney Grammar) took the high jump (sft.
3fin.) and A. Cunningham (St. Joseph’s) the broad
jump (19ft. 2fin.). In the point scores, Sydney
GranVmar (53), Newington (47) and King’s (30)
were on top in the seniors ; and in the junior C.E.
Grammar (47) won from Sydney Grammar (38)- and
Newington (25).
* * * *
Last Thursday the Kangaroos totted up
28 points (6 tries 5 goals) against the 4 points
(2 penalty goals) of Widnes. Watkins (1) and
Ilorder (2) were the try-getters in the first half,
whilst Duncan Thompson raised the bunting at each
attempt. In the second, Horder, Fraser and Burge
crossed in and Thompson got. two goals in three,
shots. Australia followed up this victory on Satur-
day by walloping Broughton Rangers at Manchester
by 18 points to 6. At half-time the points were 15
to 2 in the ’Roos’ favor, but the second spasm was
very stubbornly contested. Cubitt captained the
winners, and played a fine game. Broughton
Rangers stood ninth bn the Northern Union competi-
tion, table last season. The tourists have now.played
seven matches, won six and lost one, scoring 207
points to 30.
* * * .
Adelaide football has finished excitingly,
Norwood, the old-time champion club lately under a
cloud, only just got into the final four on the sea-
son’s play, but have made things hum since. Their
semi-final match with Port (comfortably top on the
season) produced a tie, and had to be re-played,
when Norwood won easily. South Adelaide, (second
on the season) beat Sturt, and had a tremendous final
with Norwood, the hacks on each side being too
strong for the attack. Excitement lasted right up
to the bell, and after.; for a South forward was left
with a free kick and a goal wanted to make the
result a tie. But the stress of the occasion proved
too great, and it was only a behind. Port, as minor
premiers, claimed yet one more go at Norwood, and
this time, playing in a gale, got an early lead and
kept it throughout. North Adelaide, last years
winners, just failed this time to get into the final
four.
* * * *
Saturday’s Tic. League final between
Carlton and Richmond was a jest —in fact, a scream.
The Tigers’ system Was sparking superbly, and by
half-time thev had methodically scored 5 goals
5 bellincls. The Old Blues played their usual game
of high marking and long kicking. But Clover,
their star forward, had been injured in last week’s
strenuous game, and "was a casualty, and though his
understudy, Duncan, marked superbly, his kicking
was vile. So they owned only 2 goals 10 behind*
at the interval. They were about to resume play
when hail rattled down for 10 minutes. One man
was knocked unconscious by it, and many dilapi-
dated wrecks in the garb of girls left for home in
a state of hysteria. Thereafter, till the end, the
rain poured steadily and the players slid and plunged
about in hopeless efforts to capture and kick an
elusive ball. It wasn’t football, but it greatly
amused the hardier of the 40,000 crowd. When the
bell rang Richmond boasted 10 goals 7 behiiids to
Carlton’s 7 goals 17 behinds. Considering the handi-
cap the duckpoud placed on the heavier Carlton
•men and the absence of Clover aforesaid, they did
remarkably welP to run the Tigers to 8 points, and
with fine weather and a full team they should wm
when they meet again in the grand final next Satur-
day. _ . . , , ' .
On the practically shelterless East Melbourne
ground the same furious hailstorm caught the
10,000 persons watching Williamstown settle the
argument with ’Scray in the middle of the third
quarter. The playing area became a lake and the
match was abandoned. It will be replayed next
Saturday. ’Town had 65 points to ’Scray’s 61, so
there need be no heart-burning on either side, and
the Ass. will be £573 better off.
Jamito beat Tommy Noble in the latter’s
first Australian contest and repeated the perform-
ance in the return match at Melbourne on -Saturday
night. He is a shade too fast for the Woodbine.
The affair went 20 rounds and was interesting always.
Each lad weighed in at 9st. 341 b., which is too
heavy for the fedders and not heavy enough for the
next division. But no championship was involved.
“Machete” : I don’t agree with that con-
tributor (B. 29/9/’2l) who said that, outside the
crowds drawn to the M.L.-Springbok tests, little
enthusiasm has lately been shown for the Rugby
Union game. In the Dominion this year the crowds
that saw the Ranfurly Shield and other inter-
provincial matches broke all records. In X. S.
Wales the Union has certainly declined (largely
owing to mismanagement), yet a crowd of over
30,000 paid recently to see one game with the
Springboks. In its own home League football is
confined to a narrow strip across Lancashire and
Yorkshire, and even there the Soccer octopus
threatens to strangle it. The League code is not
played in a single English school, and its recruits
are drawn by cash offers from the Union ranks, as
most of the “Wallabies” were here.
* * * *
Little George Mendies. who met the Eng-
lishman Johnny Morton at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, abandoned his bored expression on
rising after the count of three in the first round.
Thereafter he gave the best imitation he could of
a maneater, and went after the new arrival with
fury. Murton won the 2nd round, but he lost even-
succeeding one, including the 12th and last, lie
has a hefty punch, but is too heavy down below,
and takes a long time to get into position to um
his dangerous right. Nothing but his effective
smother prevented the local boy finishing him off
much earlier. In the 10th scuffle he lay on the
floor for nine, and then covered up till the gong.
The 11th was a period of punishment bravely weath-
ered, and the end came in the 12th, followed by a
belated towel. Pat Mills, who has never yet tasted
defeat, is to meet Sid Godfrey at Rushcutters Bar-
on Saturday night. He gives Jimmy Wilde no
chance against Mendies.
Maoriland gathered in most of the ama-
teur boxing championships at the Australasian tour-
ney in Sydney. it won the bantam division with
J. Purdy, the lightweight with 11. May, the middle-
weight with D. Meale and the heavyweight with B.
McOleary; and provided the runner-up (M. Hatton)
to the fedder champion, the ancient Victorian A. C.
Kay. A rattling good performance. The Vic. repre-
sentatives contested three - finals and were next in
order in points to the Maorilanders. X. S. Wales
took welterweight honors with R. Finley, another
veteran, and was second in the heavies. But the
Queensland team was stronger than either, although
it had no luck. Very few of those in the Stadium
agreed with the judges that- the hard-fighting North-
erner M. Williams was outpointed in the middle-
weight final. The decision against Nolan, another
Queenslander, in the semi-final of the bantams, was
also disputable. Tasmania sent over a clever midget
in J. Pool, who was adjudged the loser in his one
.mill-—with Purdy. But it was a mighty close thing.
Rain interfered with the second round of
Sydney grade cricket half-way through Saturday
afternoon. Wells, who gave such promise two sea-
sons ago, was Paddington’s star performer against
Waver ley. Rupe Minnett was again in form for
Mosman, and with Chapman put his side in a non-
losing position against Gordon. Norths, at present a
starless side, were saved unexpectedly by Frendin
(41 ii.o.) against Manly. Randall bowled well at
first for the Villagers. Wests fielded a team below
full strength against St. George, thus giving Parnell
his chance. His 0 for 28 was the effort of the
afternoon. He was aided by wonderful fielding—for
grade cricket, ’Varsity ,kept. Balmain’s- scoring down,
but only managed to Shift two batsmen. The river
suburb is about the strongest of the grade teams.
Kelleway and '“Gar” Waddy captained Glebe and O.
■Cumberland respectively in a match which lasted
only," about an hour. Sydney looked like putting
Randwick out . cheaply - until Merchant and Smith
broke the spell.
* * * •
The storm ruined the opening day of the
cricket season for Melbourne on Saturday, all matches
having to be abandoned at an early stage. And
even before the rain began the wickets were tricky
and the light bad. The result was the bowlers had
a pleasant time. The most meritorious effort was
Fitzroy’s outing of Richmond for 54. Cannon took
four wickets for 9, Liddicutt 5 for 20. Uni. was
the only batting side to stand up against the weather
conditions. May made 50 (n. 0.) by free hitting, and
Porter, the Xavier crack, who opened with another
school champion—Bailey (formerly of Geelong
Grammar) —-contributed a useful 29. Souths crashed
before Melbourne (who have again elected Arm-
strong captain), Rodgerson with 4 for 28 doing most
of the damage. Prahran, the premiers, skittled Esseri-
don on the latter’s ground for 85, and Stephens and
Thompson, P’ran’s openers, were still unseparated
at 7 and 4 respectively when the deluge arrived.
Wootton got six for 27. Carlton put Hawthorn-
East. Melbourne in and dismissed them for 102 —
Truman, 5 for 29, doing most of the damage, even
though his first ball (to McAlister) was a wide.
*#* - *
G. B. Shailer (N.S.W.) beat W. Suther-
land (Vic.) in the Australian amateur billiard cham-
pionship at Sydney last week by 2000 to 1035. He
excelled in top-of-the-table play and red hazards.
Sutherland got the rep. label through defeating L.
McCutcheon for the Vic. championship.
Aero records shifted a bit higher last -{reek,
when Lieut. Macreadv, at Ohio (U.S.A.), climbed
to 40,800 ft., 2620 ft. higher than the previous best.
In the thin air the machine wobbled and dropped
perilously and the temperature was down to 58
below zero.
. * •* *
Appropriately enough the member for
Barwon is the latest Vic. M.L.A. to sponsor a
measure to legalise the tote. But “the bill has been
placed low down in the list of private members
business,” and “there appears very little likelinoo|
of it being considered .during the present session.
The announcement doesn’t surprise this page. It K
getting used to low-down methods where totahsator
bills are concerned.
CREDULITY'S LIMIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mrs. Edward Small, of Memphis (Term.), who
prefers to be known as liaziel, the astrologer, and
who predicted that Dempsey would be killed by a
blow from Carpentier’s right hand, hung- up a
record to-day in the Supreme Court when she
requested $5OOO a week temporary alimony and
$50,000 counsel fees in her suit for separation
against her husband, who is a fight-promoter.”
Lady of Memphis, as you sit apart
Seeking to read the riddle of the skies, 1
Or of the limpid crystal’s secret heart,
By means of Magic’s somewhat time-dimmed eyes,
One well can picture you an optimist
Without the further proof of your belief
That Dempsey by the Gallic has-been’s fist
Mould battered be past medical relief.
But when astrology' can undermine
Faith, Hope and Trust by means of forecasts rash
That persons in the fight-promoting line
Are to be torn from quantities of cash •
In fact, when visits to the firmament
Disclose that anything at all of worth
May so be got—ah, lady, you’ll assent
That it is time you drifted back to earth.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


\
/
v
n
(t
A
m
X
jS
(JIII'V
tllU.
1
m
A
O—f >
IA
if
s.^l
L ,
A<
*
i*
-j^+t
It is not hard to account for the great-
ness of the Wolseley.
Away back in the pioneer days of
motor-car building Wolseley was the
leader of the field —in engineering brains,
in experts’ skill, in designers’ artistry and
in scientific equipment.
With this support Wolseley forged ahead—giving
to rr.otordom surprise after surprise in refinement of
fundamentals and of principles, in steady, certain
improvement of engine construction and body design.
Then came the Great War—which proved to be
the vehicle to carry Wolseley even still further ahead
of its contemporaries. The Wolseley works were
commissioned to build the Vickers-Vimy Aeroplanes.
The tremendous value that this experience meant was
only realised with the advent of the Wolseley Post-War
Models. Then, when the eloquence of their perform-
ance and beauty was consistently apparent, the whole
motoring world knew that the Wolseley Engineers,
Builders and Designers had successfully piloted their
Dream-craft to Reality, that the ideal of those pioneer-
ing days was crystallised into the actual.
You are cordially invited to call on the nearest
Wolseley Representative, who will gladly demonstrate
to you why the Wolseley is called “The Quality Car.”
Illustrated literature and full particulars sent you on
request.
Wolseley Ten, Fifteen and Twenty
Models Ready for Immediate Delivery
REPRESENTATIVES
VICTORIA—DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke' Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO.. LTD., Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., 64 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE. LTD., 106 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR & CYCLE AGENCY, LTD., Hay ’
Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND
G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland.
INGLIS BROS., Wellington.
BETT k BAYLV, Palmerston North.
TODD BROS., LTD., Christchurch.
TODD BROS., LTD., Dunedin.
WOLSELEY MOTORS,
LIMITED,
xi t
K
Head Office for Australia, 125
William Street, Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.).
Works: Adderley Park,
Birmingham, England
REE
hjljh


Special TJalue in Shirts & Pyjamas
at Farmer’s.
Cotton Taffeta Shirts.
RRl —Cotton Taffeta Golf Shirts, with linen
neckbands, double cuffs, and Peter Pan collar
to match. All seams, buttons and buttonholes
are firmly sewn. In light grounds with various
coloured stripe designs. Price, 8/6 ; 3 for 24/6
Flannelette Pyjamas.
RR2—Flannelette Pyjamas, Farmer’s own make,
of superior quality ; well cut and finished with
strongly-sewn buttons and buttonholes, and' tape
at waist. In light grounds with a variety of
coloured stripe effeds. Sizes, 36 to *42. 44-46.
Prices 12/6 14/-
Farmer’s :
" The Store for Men.”
We Tay Carriage.
c ßox 497,- G.V.O.
m
IT
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are FREE FROM MINERAL OILS. They are of the highest possible quality,
and keep the uppers of shoewear soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and
prolonging the life of the leather.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. In Bottles & Tubes.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTCCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
A ferocious west wind whipped along a hail-
storm just as the Caulfield Guineas race
was about to start. The horses and jockeys
huddled under some trees and the event was
held up for a while, to be run eventually in
blinding rain. Vice-royalty was well pelted
in its pen, and G.-G. Forster got his lovely
spring suit wet —it was canard blue, with
red stripes, worn with a cardinal tie. Lady
Forster was muffled in a race coat, and her
ostrich-plumed hat was turned up smartly in
front. Lord Digby and Aide Crawsliay did
an improvised Sir Walter Raleigh act with
their greatcoats. The crowds caught in
the deluge had a bad time. Umbrellas were
slit to ribbons by the hail, race frocks
mashed to a pulp, and Sassiety generally was
just one damp, glued-together mass of woe.
Mrs. Herbert Lillies scored by having the
new waterproof ribbon binding her turban.
Mrs. Chirnside was muffled to the eyes in
furs. Mrs. Clive Baillieu had a smart, new
double cape, which helped to ward off frocky
disaster. Amateur meteorologists declare
that the unlooked-for deluge was caused by
conflicting visitors from Westralia, N. S.
Wales and Bananaland.
Intellectuals, both in bud and bloom, have
been flocking to Dorothea Spinney’s Greek
play recitals at the Playhouse. The Strad-
brokes were in the gallery front seats for
the Alcestis. There was a bit of a fuss, as
they had brought -along an extra, and all
the neighboring seats were taken; so the
attendant gent-help fled with a not unhappy
smile. The best-dressers, by the way, are
sniffing at the tweed-coated Rous sons, their
own public-school boys, of course, sporting
black coats when they are trotted out to
theatres and concerts.
Our Chief Inspector of Schools notices more
than we thought he did. At a conference of
teachers a few days ago he urged brevity in
speeches. “Make them on the model of a
lady’s skirt,” he suggested—“long enough to
cover everything that ought to be covered,
but short enough to be interesting.”
Lady Forster, a symphony in brown, looked
down from the chair upon the annual meet-
ing of the Soldiers’ Wives’ Friendly Union
at Government House on Friday. This
union was started during the war to cheer
Mrs. Billjim and the kids while Bill was
chasing Fritz, and when the war stopped it
was decided that the society should still
“carry on.” In fact, an attempt will be
made to get it to carry on more strenuously,
and the monthly socials, which last year
degenerated into quarterlies for lack of
funds, will again occur each month. The
committee, by the way, gasped a united gasp
when at the tea interval four wives of ex-
Diggers blew into the vice-regal parlor with
a collection of kids in white frocks and silk
sashes. A telephone message to the Lodge
checked further invasion. The new-comers
weren’t told that they had mistaken the
meeting for a party, but they were disposed
upon sofas while a footman fed them on tea
and cakes, ’ after which they were asked to
stroll in the garden.
Women motorists and their friends surged
into the Oriental in hundreds for the club
tea and sing-song last Thursday afternoon.
Pretty Mrs. Russell Gabb, the new presi-
dent, was in brown chiffonery and a fur
wrap, and ex-president Mrs. T. C. Lambert
looked as young as her own daughter in a
wide-brimmed headpiece topp.ng black and
gold upholsterings. The musical programme
was served up by Claude Flemming, Rene
Maxwell, Edith Drayson, George Gee, Nor-
man McCance, George Chant, Billy Burrell
and a whole string of others. But Walter
Kirby looked like a fish out of water stand-
ing by the stage with his silvery tenor corked
up.
The Alfred Hospital’s organising and pub-
licity sec. has so worked it that the stocking
of the linen, egg and other commissariat
departments will now be done by an auxiliary
committee with branches in every suburb.
At the first meeting- of the South Yarra-
Toorak auxiliary in the Bob Knoxes’ ball-
room, the Edward Miller dame met with a
frozen response when she proposed that they
should work with the Red Cross. One lone
pair of applauding kid-gloved palms were
quickly chilled into silence. Mrs. Stanley
Argyle was elected president, Mrs. Ivy Knpx
hon. sec., and Dr. O’Brien’s wife (Fred
Knight’s daughter) keeper of the purse. This
month members are making pillow-slips by
the hundred.
On Sunday night a big effort was made
for the Mount Mulligan Fund. Bert Bailey
gave King’s Theatre and Walter Kirby
organised a programme. Mills of Maffra
had two boxes, and Miss Monk bought two
others and sent the girls of her Occidental
staff along for a treat. The booking was so
heavy that extra seats were put in the
private boxes and sold to help the fund.
Kirby was in his Sunday-best voice, and Miss
Healy—just returned from abroad —called
delightful sounds from her violin. The gate
money amounted to £214, and Mr. Mills
added enough to bring the cheque up to
£220.
Having £12,800 left over from its War
Relief Fund, the Public Service Committee
controlling the money has given £7OOO to
Melba Hospital for an electrical and mas-
sage department, and £4OOO to the Child-
ren’s Hospital for an operating theatre. The
other £lBOO goes to relieve hard-up civil ser-
vants who served in the Big Scrap.
George Cowley, an old A.I.F. boy with a
delightful baritone, gave a recital before a
well-filled Assembly Hall last week. A fine
party helped him to bulge out the pro-
gramme. Maggie Stirling, large and Clara
Buttish in a black velvet gown, sang some
beautiful things; Gertrude Healy, in jade
green, put in some good violin work ; Natalie
Dawson was an amber-gowned important at
the piano for accompaniments; and Pearl
Evans, a very young soprano, wore pale
blue, and sported some fine high notes.
The Hughes family was welcomed back
to Sassafras last week. Billy has built him-
self a dinky little bungalette there called
Uplands, and the local populace made a great
greeting fuss at a picturesque spot near the
village and on the slope of a mountain.
Everybody turned out to the picnic and ate
food on the green grass or from emergency
tables, and then the Prinrnister made a
speech about France (in English). Mrs.
Rod Howe’s small daughter Nola presented
Helen Hughes with a posy of local flowers.
And Mrs. A. C. Mountain, another Sassafras
enthusiast, presided at the tea-billy.
Isla Chomley is busy picking up the
threads of a huge family connection of Chom-
leys and A’Becketts in Melbourne. Isla is
the daughter of the Brittsh-Attstralasian
editor, and herself “social” editress of Aus-
tralia’s journalistic semaphore in London
and a director of the concern. She came to
Australia with Barbara Baynton Headley.
From an Australian just home: —
David Low has not orly taken his place as one of
the world’s foremost political cartoonists; he has also
established a reputation as one of the best-dressed
men in London. His spats are the wonder and
envy and admiration of all the Australian Bohe-
mians, who sometimes foregather and make merry in
a Chelsea studio or a Soho restaurant; they cause
almost the same sensation as George Moore’s
opera-hat used to in Dublin.
Dame Nellie is not the only Mitchell
grandmother. Mrs. Frank, of the clan, is
proudly displaying a blue-eyed replica of
her daughter, who was married last year to
Rowland Walker, a Sydney young man.
This is Monteath’s view of Norman Mac-
george, who has succeeded the late Edward
Officer as president
of the Australian
Ai*t Association. He
is a landscape
painter whose indi-
vidual touch and
fine eye for color
always keep people
lingering over- his
canvases. A beau-
tiful impression of
white sand and a
shimmering sea,
wearing the title of
“Mother of Pearl,”
made a hit with the
critics a few years
bhek, and was imme-
diately snapped up
by the National Gal-
lery. Macgeorge is
a Gallery product, a contemporary of George
Bell, Max Meldrum and the late Hugh
Ramsay. He worked hard for some years
as the see. of the A.A.A., his energy and
self-effacement giving him a deserved shift
upward when the popular Officer passed out.
'Mrs. Sam Staughton is seriously ill at a
private hospital in South Yarra. Her
widowed sister, Mrs. Dyce Murphy, was to
have left this week for France, but may
now alter her plans. The two sisters were
the Hopkins girls who scintillated in Sas-
siety a decade ago.
Gladys Hay snatched the Vie. golf cham-
pionship once again this year, though she
had a mighty dangerous runner-up in Mona
Macleod, the slender, delicate-looking
daughter of the Sandringham club’s presi-
dent. Mona bagged the Australian cham-
pionship, though Miss Barclay, from Apple
Land, ran very close. Another links orna-
tnent to be numbered among the best g ; rl
bogey-beaters is the pretty little daughter
of ex-cricketer Tremble. She is scarcely
out of her teens, but you should see her
make-the ball fly off the tee, and the pretty
Wrist action she puts into it. She gets that
wrist from dad, presumably.
Victoria is so far innocent of bubonic rats
and J.P.-esses. All the mayors are mobil-
ised to annihilate the first rodent that dares
co nob up; but the J.P. question is different.
M.L.C. J. Sternberg is all for the J.P.-ess,
and on Oct. IS is going to tackle Attorney-
General Arthur Robinson about ordaining
a few nice, clean, winsome Dames of Jus-
tice. Mrs. Mary Rogers is a councillor now;
and if she should be made mayor (or Mayor-
ette?) someone says that would constitute
her an honorary magistrate, whether you
like it or not. So what about it? “Father”
Sternberg thinks it can’t do anyone any
harm, and it will cheer up the Vic. women
who hate the other States to have some-
thing they haven’t.
Owen Jones, Forest Commission chairman,
went to Sydney to bring over H. D. Tie-
mann, the U.S. timber-seasoning expert, who
arrived by the Niagara. Tiemann is a
homely, likeable sort of man, and the timber
industry should pick up some wrinkles on the
artificial seasoning of hardwood from him.
Intending to stay for a few months he has
brought his wife with him.
Mrs. Crosbie Graves’s girleen was married
last*week to Thornley Gibson, son of the Gib-
sons of the National Bank. The wedding
was smart but quiet, and the Occidental
housed the festivities.
The W. J. T. Clarkes are more important
than ever: for the Stork brought a son to
Col. and Mrs. Eric Harrison’s Toorak place
early last week. The lady in the case was
Roma Clarke before she married.
T. D. Chatavvay’s popular wife is taking
notice again in a private hospital after a
serious operation. Her ex-Senator husband
and his daughter have had a very anxious
time, as the elder Chataway son is in
Caulfield Hospital, an old Gallipoli wound
being the cause of his trouble.
Carlyon, of the Esplanade Hotel, invited
hundreds to tea in the ballroom last Thurs-
day afternoon. In an interval of Pekoe-
drmking and jazzing, Lilian Hill and a
partner gave an exhibition of special danc-
ing, she in a wonderful jazz-frock of sand-
colored chiffon fluffed at the edges with
ostrich feathers. The Thursday tea-dances
are to be an institution at the Esplanade
during the summer, and Miss Hill will con-
tinue to show what’s what in the jazzing
world. Hector Green is managing the show.
Mooralbeek, the old Frank Madden home
in Kew, was invaded last week by the com-
mittee of the Free Kindergarten Union,
which has the place under oiler for £5500.
The idea is to use it as a training college
and students’ hostel. You only have to
drop in some morning at the Burnley, Mon-
tagu, Fitzroy or Carlton Free Kindergarten
to grasp what these institutions are doing
in our aimost-sluins. Then you will get busy
with jazz dinners and theatre parties to
help raise that £5500. If you prefer some-
thing less 'wasteful than jazz-feeding and
farcical-comedy entertainment there is no
political economist to stop you.
James Houghton Berry, the stockbroker,
is .advertised for as respondent in his
wife’s divorce suit. Any time up till the
end of this month the lost Lothario may
enter an appearance to defend, says the
learned Judge. Seeing that James vanished
in August, and that his last letter to his
wife told her to sell his clothes, his tennis
racket and his tropsers-press, the chances
are that a decree nisi will ensue. According
to his young wife’s affidavit, Berry’s down-
fall was largely due to female society:
the more he got into hot water financially
the more he chased strange goddesses, in-
cluding the inevitable barmaid. Somehow
the early closing of hotels hasn’t made much
difference to inconstant husbands as regards
the bouncing bar-lady. She continues to
be a frequent thorn in lawfully wedded
flesh. Perhaps she can’t'help it. The bar-
lady stands at the recipt of unsober atten-
tions, and gets so into the way of smiling
upon infidelity that infidelity naturally turns
to her for consolation when it drinks itself
into difficulties. That, at any rate, is how
the matter is explained by a confirmed
bachelor, who loves to tell sad stories of
divorced people he has known.
The very crudest case of strychnine that
ever got into .print is surely that of Mrs.
Mary Jane Phillips, of Kyabram, who sent
her husband the means of sudden pains con-
cealed in a pie. They were married only
last year, she being a widow at the time.
Six months they had of successful matrimony ;
then the lady went on a visit somewhere and,
returning, told her eager husband that mar-
riage was a failure. She smashed her wed-
ding-ring, tore up the marriage eertif., did
likewise to an enlarged photo of the happy
pair, and then cleared out. Subsequently
she wrote to tell Francis she wanted to be
free again, and then sent him an apple-pie
and sponge-roll through the post, with a
letter of apology for the darkness of the
apples, and a word of advice about putting
jam between the sponge. Francis, thinking
that the pie tasted bitter, sent it to the
police, with the result that the Government
analyst found strychnine in it, after which
the iady owned up to the police that she did
put just a wee bit of strychnine m the f
of the pie, on account of her deserted husband
having been cruel to her. Up to this
the story lacks the spirit of romance. -»ut
when husband and wife met in the Kyabram
police court the glorious uncertainty
lovely woman was touchingly displayed. - 1 e-
leased on bail, she wept in hubby s arms,
himself being equally affected. Evident!
the extraordinary Mary Jane would ha
withdrawn the strychnine from that unroi-
tunate pie if she could.
Agent-General McWhae is to leave for the
Cold Country with his dame and daughter
Margaret on December 31 instead of January
14. The State members were his guests at
dinner the other night, and opportunity was
taken to welcome-home Treasurer Mcl her-
son.
It has been proposed to turn 1 < acres set
apart for a garden alongside Kew Cemeterj
into a recreation-ground, to be used probablj
for football every Saturday for half the year,
and to that end a bill was submitted to
Parliament. But Dr. Stan Argyle pictured
the unseemliness of mingling barraekers in-
junctions with the burial service, whereupon
Minister Oman had progress reported. It
looks as if that little measure is going into
cold storage.
Allen Gilfillan, who was dragged out of
his privacy to face Monteath’s camera the
other day, is the author of ‘ Cooeeville, a
good-selling novel which holds the mirror
up to a small \ ic.
town. He wrote the
yarn while practis-
ing as a solicitor,
and offered it to
various publishers
in London before
Andrew Melrose put
in into type. The
gratified but modest
author is now en-
gaged on another
tale of Australian
interest, and is also
trying his hand as a
playwright. He has
already finished a
one-acter, “Irish
Aid,” and a four-act
Australian comedy,
“The Minx and the
Man,” and those who have had a run through
the scripts regard him as having an eye for
a dramatic situation.
Ex-Agent-General Taverner has come from
the Cold Land to work up some agency busi-
ness, and may stay a year. No official fuss
has been made over him. It is difficult to
believe that it is nearly 18 years since
Bent made him A.-G., in order to give room
for Sam Gillott in the Cabinet. Mcßride suc-
ceeded him in Feb., 1913. Taverner refuses
to feel as old as he is. He is only about
63, anyhow.
Adelaide adds a few lines: —
Eight days of Tokyo Town exceeded the limit of
the public purse, and it was the 500 helpers and
their personal friends who practically kept the
thing going over the last day or two.
Ceylon’s newest knight, Ponnambalam Ramana-
than, K.C., C.M.G., the first elected representative
of the Cingalese in the reformed Leg. Council of
Ceylon, married a S. Australian, the eldest daughter
of tlie late F. D. Harrison, a commercial traveller.
One of Mrs. Kelsey’s old scholars, she went to Cey-
lon, and married in 1907. She lias one daughter,
and is also the author of “Western Pictures for
Eastern Students.’’
Henry Arthur Giles, one of the oldest and best-
liked residents of the Mt. Pleasant district, has just
gone west. In 1878 he acquired the Pines station,
north-west of Port Augusta, and he also had pro-
perty on the Murray. He bred high-class stock with
which he lifted many prizes in the show-ring.
Dame Nellie has been the guest of their Exes,
during her visit. The two concerts were packed
to overflowing, and the Voice was voted even better
than on its last appearance here. The Hon. Bernard
Yorke and Captain Eric Anson came over in the
wake of the diva, and they were also put up on
North Terrace.
Our Zoo Director's pretty daughter Annesley took
Captain Tom English for -better or worse at St.
Peter’s College Chapel a few days ago. Archdeacon
Ilornabrook tied the knot, and the bridesmaids were
Gwen Scammell and Leslie Stapleton, while the
bridegroom found support in Lieuts. Loudon and
Hayward. A huge reception was afterwards held
at the Zoo, and there was much mutual curiosity on
both sides of the wire-netting fences.
Brewster Jones is holding no less than six stu-
dents' concerts this month and next. At one of
them all the young musicians will play their veri-
own compositions; so you see Adelaide is rich
in Mozarts.
A flapper of ours has found a bright new reason
for telling the tarnished old tale of the naughty
man she met. in the gloaming. Rushing into a
suburban shop, heavily gagged, she gasped when
her mouth was freed that he had tied her bead
up and cut her hair off; Why he had d'one it >be
couldn’t even guess. He seemed to be a perfect
gentleman otherwise. It took two day's for the
inevitable confession to break out. She wanted her
hair bobbed, and her people wouldn’t let her. So
she took a short cut, so to speak.


hljhl
E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
HOW?
Because
the
GULBRANSEN
PLAYER-PIANO
is Nationally Priced.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS !
All the patents contained in this
instrument are owned by the manu-
facturers, therefore there are no
royalties to pay for.
Phrasing, Touch and Tonal Values are three
things that the hand pianist always strives for
—but hitherto have not been considered as
necessary adjuncts to player-piano perfection.
With this instrument we point out that all
three are just as important to our player-
pianists as they are to ordinary hand pianists.
The pedalling is so easy and the controlling
levers so amazingly simple that a little child
may play it.
We will take your own piano in part
payment, allowing you full value —or
if through sentiment you would not
care to part with it, we can convert
it into an 88-note Duo-Concerto
Player Piano.
The wonderful Pedal
touch of the Gulbran-
sen Duo Concerto
made possible this
childhood incident.
hljhl
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
MAPLES, Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart—Launceston.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUE B. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
V
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
A Cool Shady Panama,
and a Money-saving !
HESE fresh arrivals—cool, wafer-light
Models—are the finest we have
handled at the price; in appearance
they convey the impression of much
more expensive hats.
NOTE THIS
“Where the
Good Hats
Are.”
Wonderful Value
25 1-
AS IDEAL, GENUINE AMERICAN PANAMA,
of featherweight lightness, soft, even plait, con-
formable in shape to your every wish. Fitted with
grease-proof lining, and finished with Black Silk
Band and Side Bow. Smart City shape, with
2in. and 2% in. Brims. Sizes, 6% to 7H• The
value of this smart model is at least 30/- to 35/-
MURDOCH’S PRICE, 25/-
Be sure and state size.
Address your letter to DESK It.
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
M U R D Q C H»S
IN PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
<7£ySvovcY
9’
Look at it
AND SEE why “Rex’*
Luncheon Cheese is the
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how fresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex”—a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM IT With a knife “Rex”
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.


Charles
Vintage 1911
NE PLUS ULTRA
ST
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & CtfWPANY'I IMITED, Sydney.
u
CP
/
“BUY A BUNDLE”
PLYWOOD.
Genuine “NATIONAL” Plywood, made
from Queensland Hoop-Pine, Maple and
Silky Oak, is the HIGHEST-GRADE
PLYWOOD YOU CAN BUY. Buy the
best. Insist on “NATIONAL” Three-Ply,
and see the brand is on every sheet. It
is our guarantee. Sold by all leading
II ouses.
ALL Sizes —Sanded and
Unsanded.
THE NATIONAL
PLYWOOD CO. Ltd.,
Ipswich Road,
South Brisbane, Q’iand.
NEEDE.M
A-// Watch
The NEED-EM
WATCH
POUCH.
Only slightly wider
than the ordinary
w a t e h —slips on
your belt like the
ordinary pouch—-
hut holds the watch
securely, so that it
cannot fall ont or shake about. A double
thickness of leather protects the glass from
breakage under the most strenuous conditions.
To see the time, simply release button and face
of watch falls right into view. Fitted with a
iimt-class, fully-jewelled Swiss watch —a splen-
did timekeeper. The Need-em Watch and
Pouch, 4? / 6 post free. The Need-em Pouch
only, in solid leather, 6/6 each, post free.
FINNEY’S,
BRISBANE.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
A race-week so chilled that it seemed as
though the South Pole were slipping up
half-way to meet Shackleton ended in a
deluge last Saturday, timed just to ruin the
millinery madness of the Feckless tram-
traveller to Randwick. In the shifting
scene that helped to make up a meeting
which fluctuated half-hourly between the
temperature of the Antarctic and Samarang
her State Ex. changed the color-note of her
frocking. Her outfit on Wednesday was in
softest tones of mole, finished off with a
Rose du Barry ruffle. The children gam-
bolled in the vice-regal fold during that
afternoon. Mrs, Swinson bloomed out in
a black-and-white symphony in ninon and a
hat that-was a rose show in itself; mole
crepe de Chine and a hat of Chinese blue
clothed Judge Rolin’s handsome lady; Mrs.
Bertie Dempster’s head covering was of Im-
perial blue. Vera Pearce turned out one
day looking like a furrier’s show-case, and
on another wore a henna hat turned back
from eyes that hold the softness of a baby
kangaroo’s (Keats or Shelley would have
likened them to a gazelle’s, but what Aus-
tralian is on intimate terms with a gazelle?).
Tootles Williamson popped out one after-
noon with the McDonald girls dressed in
navy cloth heavily embroidered in red and
green; Mrs. Clayton and sister Rita Buck-
land were among the good-to-see; and on
Wednesday Mrs. Charley Jacques looked
like a nice cheerful piece of Beard-Watson
upholstery. The Hordern lady and Mrs.
Tony were consistently handsome frockers;
Mrs. Bertie Kelly brought daughter Bea-
trice to the doings; and Rod Quinn’s niece
philosophised on the hazard of life and the
totalisator. No less than five grey silk hats
were present on one day.
Mrs. Georgy Pilar wore dull green taffeta
embroidered with tiny rosebuds and exclama-
tions over the charming cloakrooms —nothing
so good in Paris, she says. Mrs. Bertie
Nelson’s girdle suggested a Mexican brigand.
Dr. Fraser brought his flapper daughter Isa-
bel and his psychics, but they didn’t help in
picking winners any more than the million-
aire who brings the bread. The Hon. Mrs.
Pitt Rivers bloomed out of a cloak and
frock as blue as a cornflower, and hand-
some Mrs. Fred Waley stuck to her usual
black or black-and-white effects. Singing-
girl Nellie Leach calls for a special cheer on
account of a trig turn-out that was soft
white satin as to its -short skirt and black
cloth as to its smartly-tailored coat. Rupert
Clarke’s fair young wife was another devotee
to the magpie coloring; while on Ladies’
Day the immortal Mrs. Sep Levy swaggered
like young Romeo with a rose above her ear.
Each day after the races the crowd surged
back to town and emptied itself into the
congested Winter Garden, man piloting his
best girl along the serpentine route which
the closely-packed tables necessitated, woman
preening her plumage, and cat-like eyeing
that of her neighbor, while the orchestra
seemed to specialise on the maddingly catchy
little tune that hums in every Paris cafe
and is known there as “C’est Mon Homme.”
The whirled of Sydney have been sunning
their wings in the same old butterfly-on-the-
wlieel razzle that is the Spring meeting’s
toll and society’s last spin' before getting
down to summer and the struggle with the
laundry bill, Everybody who owns or rents
a decent-sized house : —even if the ballroom
was locked up and the key mislaid—flut-
tered into a dance, the really elaborate one
being the Merioola turn-out early last week,
when the Arthur Allens, as usual, took the
credit and let the cash go. Son Dennis’s
young woman, Mollie Dangar, in a black
satin frock with gold embellishments, was
one of the sweetest things that bloomed in
the beautiful ballroom, which was otherwise
decorated with pink and white watsonias.
Mrs. Allen clothed herself in black satin:
black was Mrs. Ken Austin’s choice, and
daughter-of-the-house Margaret wore shot
taffeta that shimmered to blue and silver.
The Charley Jacqueses held their spree in
the Fairfax home, Fail-water, which they
have rented till the “J.O.’s” return from
England; and as the Fairwater gardens are
famous, the rooms were banked with roses
and pink peach-blossom. The younger set
that makes frocking a feature aired its
smartest, and there was a regular bag of
H.R.IT.’s old partners.
The prettiest decorations it has known
during the season made the Paddington
Town Hall a bower last week. The com-
mittee of the Mt. St. Margaret Hospital
had flung trails and arches of the Queen of
Flowers about the big dancing area, and
each guest was presented with a posy of
roses from the hospital gardens.
The Mark Foy household hung out the
glad eye when the cousins of young Mark
decided to jazz in honor of him and his
bride. Mrs. Mark, junior, wore a silver-
tissue dress that held rosebuds in its folds;
Mrs. Mark herself wedded black satin and
Spanish lace. Newly-returned Tootles Wil-
liamson was one of the belles of the evening
in silver-shot radiance that was grown-up
as to its side panels but schoolgirl length
back and front —and that’s the newest from
Paris. Shelagh Foy wore a dress that had
been made from the fins of a thousand silver-
fish ; and sister Maxine carried a cerise fan
in contrast to a dress of black lace and tulle.
The Greenwoods celebrated Cupidon’s win
at the Australia. The guests were seated
around two tables, one presided over by Mrs.
Greenwood, who wore the Derby decoration,
as though it were the Order of the Garter,
across her chest. Champagne (best im-
ported) was drunk out of flowing horseshoes
or thereabouts. The yellow-and-red of the
Greenwood colors made bright spots on the
tables, and, according to the menus, which
were the size of a draper’s catalogue, the
courses were of the same pedigree as the
Greenwood horses. In addition to each
guest’s name, the programme sported the
picture of the dashing Cupidon.
Governor Davidson in a sporty brown sac
suit joined the thousands of mostly mothers
and children flaunting the colors of rival
schools at the G.P.S. championships on
Saturday; and the obliging young Austra-
lians stayed their cheers to give him a hearty
reception. President David Maughan, K.C.,
looked after him, led him on to the ground
later, and gave him the chance to compliment
the blushing youths. Then the rain came
down and spoiled more than the face powder.
Edith Kilminster, who has been absent
from Sydney for some years, took to the
piano again at King’s Hail last week. Edith,
who plays with polished technique and sin-
cere feeling, had made a happy choice in the
Brahms Sonata in G Major, wherein Henry
Staell’s clever fiddle and singing bow did
their bit in creating the right atmosphere.
Three draughts of divine sound brewed by
old Sydney man George F. Boyle, now on
the musical staff of the Peabody Conserva-
torium at Baltimore, were offered by the
Hebe at the piano, and mopped up avidly.
George’s father is one of our oldest singing
teachers, and George was a well-known
pianist who did at least one tour with llaiQ-
bourg.
One of the cheering messages that
reached young Rex de Cairos Rego in his
wedding week was a word from Lismore
that baritone Richard Reading had won the
“Song by Australian Composer” competition
at the Northern Musical Festival with
Rex’s song, “Grief and Joy,” in a field of
10 starters.
Young Dr. Dom Cahalan has persuaded
Nurse Agnes Seymour, one of St. Vincent’s
Nightingales, to relinquish her job. The
middle of this month will see the wedding.
This is Monteath’s picture of Mrs. Alan
Saunders, better known as Topsy Doenau,
the brilliant little pianist who returned here
with Daisy Kennedy and of late has been
making music for J.C.W. audiences at the
Criterion, Palace and Royal. Born in Adel-
aide, Topsy at a mature four found herself
playing tunes and
supplying her own
bass accompaniment,
and later she stud-
ied with Bryceson
Trehearne at the
Adelaide Con. It was
on the advice of Tre-
hearne and Daisy
Kennedy’s father
that she left at the
end of 1912 for fur-
ther study abroad.
She later joined the
Godowski class in
Vienna, specially se-
lected therefor as
one of the 40 pupils
which this great mas-
ter takes annually.
(He now teaches in
America at a fee of 10 guineas a lesson!)
Returning to London she played at the
Ghappel Ballad Concerts and then toured
with her girlhood’s chum, Daisy Kennedy.
Mr. Saunders is a London commercial man
and his’ wife is trying to persuade him to
come to this country. She owns one small
son —David, a five-year-old.
Jean Edmunds, who was for a while asso-
ciate to her father, the Judge, forsook the
law for matrimony at St. Martha’s R.C.
Church, Strathfield, one afternoon last
week. Dr. J, Daly, of Haberfield, was the
other party, and Monsignor Byrne blessed
the vows. Cousin Mrs, Conrick (she used
to he Amy Punch) sang an Ave Maria while
the fatal Marriage Lines were being stowed
away. The bride, enveloped in the tradi-
tional white satin and lace, was escorted by
two bridesmaids —sister Rosalie in blue and
bridegroom’s sister Minna in white and yel-
low frocking. Dr. Yogel and Dr. Barrack
were the male supports.
Singing-girl Julia Caroli has married the
little singing-master, Fossati, who arrived
from Italy the other day to collect his Aus-
tralian bride and set up a studio in Sydney.
Besides Julia’s mother there were only two
witnesses to the ceremony—musician Truda
and Italian Consul Marano.
Ray Rayson, who is shortly to wed her
young landsman (he’s Shand Findlay, and
his selection is in Queensland), was given an
Early-Victorian dish of tea, well sugared
with congratulations, by Hazel Denham in
the lavender-room at the Macquarie. Ray is
the only daughter of bowling-man H. Ray-
son, whose epic deeds on the Summer Hill
green are worthy a Homer or some such
lyre-bird.
Iris Flower, whose picture by the Swiss
Studios adorns this page, has the distinction
of being the first
lady adjudicator at
the Ballarat compe-
titions : she is presid-
ing with Laurence
Campbell in the elo-
cution section. Miss
Flower is the daugh-
ter of the Addison
Flowers, of North
Sydney, and wa s
educated at Sydney
Girl s’ High—h e r
grandfather was that
eloquent Archibald
McNabb who in the
early days of Syd-
ney was headmaster
of St. James’s Model
School. Iris studied
elocution with Mr.
Campbell, who later appointed her as his
representative in the Newcastle district,
where she stayed five years, leaving to do
similar duties in Wellington, Orange and
Dubbo (three years). She is still with Mr.
Campbell as his assistant in the Sydney
studio. With Miss Wray, she was the first
Australian elocutionist to receive the gold
medal of Trinity College, London. Her beauti-
ful, voice has enhanced various amateur pro-
ductions —notably “The Importance of Being
Earnest” at the Cri. and old Royal—
and she has also written many stories,
sketches and monologues. Whilst in New-
castle she produced “As You Like It” with
a juvenile cast, herself playing Orlando.
Jennie Pollock, who in private life was
Mrs. Ross Simpson, slipped away from us
after only a three days’ illness. For 16 years
Jennie was with Bland Holt's companies;
then, after a rest, she began to do the
work she had always craved, and played
Portia half around Australia in Stanley
McKay’s production of the weather-worn
“Merchant.” Her husband died about a year
ago. Two small orphans are sorrowing.
Through the open doors of auctioneer
James R. Lawson comes the breath of
romance and adventure: in the big upstairs
room collectors are vying with one another
for works of art in jade, celadon, crystal,
amber and agate, fashioned some of them by
the Chinese artist of a thousand years ago.
Around most of these pieces a story or legend
lingers. As, for instance, that of the five
immortals who met by a certain river one
day a week, each reading aloud his poems,
the five becoming gloriously drunk. The
great beauty of the collection is the graceful
Famille Noir vase. Here on a black-
enamelled ground magnolias and lilies in
tones of green, coral and dull purple clamber
gracefully. A celadon dish looks down re-
mote and cool. Time was when these were
even more eagerly sought; that was in the
days of the Medicis, for the celadon was
then known as the poison dish—the glaze
was supposed to change hue if poisoned food
was served on it. Here and there flashes
the blue of the sky after rain, or a bit of the
famous ox-blood glaze melts mistakenly into
the even more prized peach-bloom. Amber
necklets send out fire, and crystal and jade
beads murmur little poems of happiness and
content. Each bit of glaze or porcelain,
each bit of lacquer or blackwood, is a per-
fect specimen of one of the five periods of
Chinese Art.
Captain Eedy, who made this collection,
was one of the five sons of that Captain
John Eedy who in his later years settled
down as teacher of navigation in Sydney.
The seafaring son was on service during the
Chinese Revolution horrors, and through the
lTite war. He was planning to return to
Sydney and settle down in the midst of the
Art treasures he had spent his lifetime in
collecting, when pneumonia killed him in
Shanghai last April. The whole of the col-
lection, except a small number of glazes,
bequeathed to the Technological Museum, was
intended for the National Gallery ; but some
indiscreet personage slighted one of the
pieces most prized by the captain, and he
added a codicil to liis will directing the
whole, with the exception of small bequests
to the Gallery and the Technological
Museum, to be sold, and the money invested
for the benefit of brother Harry and his nine
children, with reversion to the Renwick
Hospital.
Valerie Jamieson, who has a book to her
credit, as well as a number of short stories,
has descended from her retreat at Berowra
with a sequence of “Magpie Ballads,” set
to music which she has composed. The
ballads were given a trial in Paling’s music-
hall the other afternoon before most of the
musical critics, and the unanimous opinion
was that the songs held a simple charm that
was strongest, in the “Coo-ee” song. This
last would make a strong appeal in an
Australian pantomime.
Commencing at 3 o’clock on the 19th.
when Mrs. IT. R. Denison opens the
S’Saviour’s (Redfern) sale of work, and last-
ing until the end of the week, Sydney’s rich
Anglicans will be doing their annual pilgrim-
age to give this overcrowded and needy sister-
parish a helping hand.
St. Mary’s Bazaar (they call it the Therry
Fair, after the first R.C.,priest in Sydney)
will continue booming along at the Town
Hall till Saturday next, and that will be
your last chance to buy a ticket in the big
list of prizes the bazaar is offering.
The Royal Apollos are nearing their second
century. They give their 198th concert on
the loth in the Sydney Town Hall.
If Marie Tempest had been living her
triangle of “Tea for Three” up in New
Guinea, instead of the yellow roses from the
florist’s awaiting her in Philip’s rooms
there would have been a bunch of white
bowenia stuck in a vase. White bowenia
(there’s a deadly dispute as to the right
spelling of that, by the way) is a bell-shaped
flower that grows everywhere, so if the croton
crop of one’s Papuan neighbor is out of
season, one’s lady still need not go without
her bouquet. And, talking of tropic vege-
tables, Port Moresby, the seat of Papuan
Government, is getting most frightfully fes-
tive since there’s been a John Chinaman to
grow cabbages for the bachelor fellows and
the happily-married men of the settlement,
and since also some of the lasses have brought
back the latest ideas from the Wentworth.
Men give supper dances at the Club —and
what it costs them in ice would clothe a
temperate-zone woman for a season. Every-
where people jazz on the wide verandahs to
the intoxication of the gramophone. The
moon and the stars aren’t the worst things
about a dance up at Port Moresby. But if
you are from Sydney and your dress is tulle
it’s liable to be an absentee midwav through
the evening. Suddenly large patches of it
simply are not. If you are an unmarried
person you let the “boy” do all your market-
ing for you and don’t bother to check sup-
plies. After he has stolen everything that
he desires, and smashed everything you most
prize, you settle down to a semi-doze through
life. That is, if you aren’t Beatrice Grim-
shaw. If you are you go long and arduous
journeys up every hill within sight and decide
to build a native house on the very top of
one that calls for a climb of 2500 feet. And.
what’s more, live in it. This is the novelist’s
latest adventure.
Portia Geach drops a line from New York,
where a sister from Sydney has joined her.
She had just had an interesting meeting
with Alice Henry-—all the women who
worked for suffrage in Australia will remem-
ber her: she was one of the pioneers of the
movement. Portia and her sister have been
made visiting members of the Colony Club
(the Club of the Four Hundred). The
Chandler decorations in the Palm Court
luncheon-room riveted the artist’s eye, and
she longed to do something similar for the
women’s clubs in Australia. Here’s a quota-
tion she copied from the Colony’s board for
quotation by famous women
How happiness goes flaunting- by
As gaily as a butterfly;
And when we catch the lovely thing,
Alas, it has a broken wing!
A postscript from Brisbane: —
Alice, only daughter of Arthur Hobbs, is to
be married to Billie Robinson, the returned soldier-
son of the West Robinsons, of Toowoomba, on
November 2. West Robinson is part-owner of the
Darling Downs Gazette.
Our climate has accounted for Tom Collins, a
youngster of 88, who arrived in Australia from Kent
at the age of two. He spent his boyhood at Deep-
water, in the New England district, and in 1860
came to Queensland and took up land near Comet.
Spring Creek station, 500 miles N.W. of Bowen, was
founded by Tom and his brother Charlie. The
former married Mary Firth, whose father owned
Mt. Surprise station.
Ida Bourne, 8.A., has gone to Maryborough as
mathematical master of the Grammar School there.
Sister Eleanor, after doing war-work for some
years, is now health officer of a large town in North
England. She is a doctor. Brother Herbert also
can add a few letters to his name, D.S.O. among
them. He was O.C. of the 2nd Light Horse.
The Gilbert and Sullivan season- is being rusted.
Part of the lure, of course, is Queenslander Johnnv
Ralston.
Mrs. John Hides has issued invitations ior an
at-home at the Belle Vue on October 14, in honor
of daughter Beatrice, who marries Charlie Elliott on
the 19th.


m
SILVER TOILET SERVICE.
FINELY HAND ENGRAVED.
Solid Silver Toilet Service, comprising Hair Brush
with finest quality bristles, Hand Mirror and Comb,
in silk-lined case,
£ll 10 0
A comprehensive selection of fine quality, English-made
Toilet Services, in Silver, Ivory, - Ebony, Tortoiseshell.
% '
Illustrated Catalogues are posted free
on application, and selections are sent
on approval to any address in the
Commonwealth at the Company's risk
and expense.
Visitors to Sydney are invited to inspect Hardy Bros.’
showrooms, where large stocks of Jewellery, Gold and
Silver, Silverplate and Leather Goods in the highest
qualities obtainable are displayed.
HARDY BROTHERS
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JI6-118 Queen St,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Always Reliable!
“jftFECTIO I *.
ALLg V
. AOSTRA^
“Perfection”
Dental Alloy
A High-grade Alloy
for Amalgam Fillings.
Comparative tests place it on a level with
the very best Alloy that European or
American manufacturers have produced.
Samples on application.
Read what a Client says:
“I exclusively use ‘Perfection’ Alloy and find it
equal, if not better, than any other I’ve used during
my 20 years’ practice. I’ve been using it now for
a few years, and all Fillings I’ve examined since
are in perfect order.”
Manufacturers of
DENTAL GOLDS
SOLDERS
PLATINUM and its ALLOYS
PLATINISED WIRES, etc.
REDISTILLED MERCURY
Specialists in the economic and scientific treat-
ment of
DENTAL RESIDUES.
jkljhkl
“THE DENTAL
METALLURGISTS”
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Laboratories and Works : ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the States and New Zealand.
BUCKLEYS
EXCEPTIONAL OFFER.
AN
ALL-WOOL SUIT
Made to Measure
jhlhjl
Changing Conditions
Demand New Methods.
The sudden change of conditions has
presented some exceptional buying
opportunities, which we were in a
position to take advantage of for Cash
Payments.
As progressive merchants, we aim at
supplying the demand for a moderately
priced Suit.
Wages have not been reduced, but
helped by opportunities of securing
woollens and linings AT EXCEP-
TIONALLY KEEN "PRICES, and by
challenging every item of expense in
the manufacture, framing our esti-
mates with extreme closeness, WE
APE ABLE TO SUPPLY AN ALL-
WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED OR
IXDKiO-BLUE CHEVIOT SERGE
SUIT. MADE TO
MEASURE AT
£.5/5/-
SEND FOR SAMPLES AND
SELF-MEASUREMENT FORM.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
ON ALL CLOTHING.
$ 'lit
m
k
m
Q
itji
r* cc
/
Buckley 8 Nunn Ltd
■I
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
OF
%
v
3
%
©
Made Toda /
bold
Toda
0
mm
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6,
20/- and 30 -
Post free to any'address in Australia.
I n 2 Pitt Street,
Sydney


LEARN TO DRAW!
"There’s Money' 1
in
the Pen.”
4*
raw
You can
learn to
make effective
original draw-
ings in u short
period under the
Weston Postal
Course of Drawing.
Each lesson is
given under the
personal supervision
of Australia’s fore-
most commercial
artist, Mr. Harry .1.
Weston, who HIM-
SELF criticises and
corrects the exer-
cises.
Big salaries await
successful students
in the field of art!
Why not learn all
about this profit-
able hobby ?
Send your name
and address and
three stamps for
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,” which
tells all about
the course,
fees, etc., and
gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
81 Union House, SYDNEY.
Ease i^WkraNG
WtTHE BRUCE”
C'T’ir'm
STEEL
SHELL
PETMS
elected and recommended by
M® James Bruce." Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal ■
Schools of Sydney,N.S.W. & manu/actured
by the celebrated Penmakers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
< iold by all Stationers
ALEX. COWAN & SONS. L TD
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
o
JL
Showing
Bottle
de-inounted
Made in various
sizes and styles
from >2-P' at up
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment 'without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
■water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS aro extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
o
o
o
the
JP®GQ
Ask to see
the new
Streamline
Model.
UF-FIULINC SAFETY
The most up-to-date pen, elegant
in design and of handsome appear-
ance, the new Streamline Model is
an aristocrat among pens.
It lias all tlie advantages of Onoto the
pen—easily filled from any ink supply
and never leaks in the pocket.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every
handwriting.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all pens.
“• if any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
To Order
Lowe’s
Write for Patterns
LOWES £6|6|-
Worsted Suits to Order.
Remember that it is none too earlv NOM to
place the order for your Xmas Suit.
And remember that Lowe’s have re-stan-
dardised all Tailoring Prices in accordance
with the drop in the World’s prices for raw
materials.
Hence! This offer of a GENUINE ENG-
LISH WOOL WORSTED SUIT TO
ORDER at £6/6/- is something in good
Tailoring values you cannot get else-
where.
WRITE NOW FOR PATTERNS of this
Worsted, in Checks, Figures, Stripes and
Mixtures in Grey, Brown and Blue designs.
Lowe’s Guarantee
Satisfaction.
We please you or return your money!
Lowe’s do a £250,000 turnover by mail every
year, so you can see that we know our busi-
ness and* can please you.
Every one of Lowe’s Suits to Order is cut,
tailored and finished in our own workrooms
on the premises! We do not compete with
the so-called “cheap” or factory tailors.
Genuine Merchant Tailoring throughout at
the keenest prices in the Commonwealth.
WRITE FOR THE PATTERNS TO-DAY
To LOWE’S LTD., “Dept. B,” Box 1622, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Other
“Drop-in-the-Market”
Prices at Lowe's.
PRICES
WERE
£6/6/-
£7/15/-
£B/15/-
£9/9/-
£9/15/-
£lO/10/-
£ll/11/-
£l2/12/-
£l3/-/-
£l3/13/-
PRICES
NOW
£5/-/-
£5/15/-
£6/15/-
£7/7/-
£7/15/-
£B/8/-
£B/17/6
£9/9/-
£9/17/6
£lO/10/-
“Diggers’ Gratuity Bonds to the
face value of £3O accepted by
Lowe’s in payment for Men’s
and Boys’ Clothing. For par-
ticulars’call or write Secretary.
Please send mu patterns of your £6/6/- Worsted Suits to Order
as advertised in The Bhixetin ( 13/10/’2l).
'Name
Address
BullktiX, 13/1,0 /”21.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear .on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.P.A.: Thanks ; but the further we go into
that Wazzir affair the more hopeless it seems to be to
reach agreement as to the facts. ..H.P.: Hardly enough
interest. .. .1.C.: Merit in it; but when you drag in
a line to get a rhyme you’ll have to disguise it
better. They all do it: the art is to do it without
being found 0ut.... Lew C.: Very rough; can’t you
feel the jolt in those second and fourth lines?....
A correspondent wants the address of the widow of
J. S. Evison, writer of many Bulletin yarns. Will
somebody oblige?. .. .Jam T.: You’re getting on ; but
you’re still a mile or two from the camp. .. .David
S. : “Poor little me” ought to write about something
that at least looks as if it might have a meaning....
Pruno: Put your mind at rest—you have no idea
of writing verse... .Pyram: Misses by some dis-
tance... .L.G.S.: No earthly use here —might be
appreciated in Heaven... .8.P.8.J.: “Laughter”
sounds a solemn business... .Molly O’D.: “Spring
Blossoms” are weedy in rhyme and thought....
Lisbeth: Too slight.... Kat: You have a striking
method :
If lifted, the pall off Dawn
The vagrant moon, no more will mourn
For Morn. Shy, sparkling Elegantly kissed,
I By resplendent, Sun, They are wed
And are honeymooning. By Nature blessed.
Amiable mingles the white and blue
Off the sky, across birds valiantly flew.
. ...R.0.L.: Too conventional.. . .G. 8.5.: “Old
Town” no good. Can’t say whether we want articles
until we see them.... Rupert R.: The 77th address
to Spring received this season; and not a twitter
in it. .. . Queenie P.: We don’t publish books; and
the matter offered makes us sad. ... C.P.T.: No use.
.. . .Mollie H.: None of them up. .. .E.J.R.: A paper
which publishes that sort of stuff deserves to get it.
C.C.B.: Doesn’t strike us T.W.8.: Not quite
up... .M.8.P.: “Because” fails. . . .Slim Tim: They’re
on the road ; more care and thought would help them
through H.F.S.S.: The verse is fair but not inter-
esting. .. . M.L.C.: No good from any angle. .. . A.8.C.:
Sorry; but it doesn’t quite do it.... Vera
F. : Too young... .Peak: Thin and poor as
the ghost of Lazarus. .. .C.M.0’8.: Goes weakly
. ...W.M.8.: Ungrammatical commonplace in bad
verse. .. .Jack O.: Wouldn’t convince even pic-
ture-show experts.. . .S.V.D. : Not well enough done.
.. . .71)9 : Your yarn wants fattening. . . .E.H.G.:
Not for us L.R.: It rings false all the way
T. : Verse is more than language sawn into
stove lengths.... Stella B.: Not up... .K.A.R.:
Nothing in it Alice M.: Your little flutter gets
to nothing... .Ernest C.: Far too long in the tell-
ing.... A.S.: “Reincarnation” misses; but there
were moments when it had good prospects. ...
G. : Sketch too slight Frank W.: No use
D. : Doesn’t make us believe it’s true....
Rebus W.: None of them .get there... .J.0.R.: You
miss your chances and don’t make a yarn of it....
J.A.W.: Doesn’t get near J.P.8.: Not for us
E. : An old idea and not much in it.... Leo K.:
Well enough done, but not worth doing.... John J.:
No, thanks... .D.S.C.: “The Story of An Unknown
Artist” would move a wheelbarrow:
He was an artist, not yet known,
And to his sorrow he did own
That he aimed too high for public taste:
His thoughts he did upon them waste.
Many a picture he’d not yet sold ;
He’d have to wait till he was stiff and cold.
Oft times he sallied down the street,
And gazed with longing at things to eat,
Till at last he turned away in despair.
For his pockets were empty and his stomach was bare.
Ah, me! This world is callous and cold.
His art was not wanted, at least so he was told.
But he will be great, and his sorrows healed,
For ’neath the harbor’s blue waters his fate would
So to the world at large he will bid farewell,
For his soul shall travel in Heaven to dwell.
....James Mac: Just the old commonplaces in harm-
less verse W.E.8.: You’ve introduced us to much
nicer people than “Miss Skinner”... .J.M. (Mil-
son’s Point) : No place for it....Ewa: “Derelicts”
is too mechanical... Geoffrey N.: There isn’t any bud
yet to nip Twilight: It didn’t arrive; but it
got well on the way.... Drought-struck: Very lame.
....Mollie M.: Too slight E.W.M.: Lumbering
commonplace... .G. 8.5.: No use here. .. . J.A.D.:
No, a little of that will last a long while.
B.G.C.: Too long for the point G.11.A.:
Many cases of the kind on record... .Koo Wee Rup:
Too closely-written to be dealt with... .D.G.M.:
That yarn appeared in The Bulletin years ag0....
P.P.A.: Sorry, can’t reply to the thousands of pars
that come in every week... .A.E.S.: Too vague....
J.L.: Many black cockatoos have lived in captivity
in western N.S.W .Mac Alan: Let that poor old
joke die in peace.. .Neo-Lib.: Your charming idea of
financing the million farms with inconvertible paper
money is passed on to Jokerothers... Nem.: But there
is an enormous difference between registering prosti-
tutes and establishing yoshiwaras. Queensland
copied the registration system from godly Britain,
and neither country has ever been accused of running
a yoshiwara.... J. N. Mac (N.Q.) : In short,
£25,000,000, distributed among five new States,
would solve the problem of the North. If it were
only as mathematically certain as that 1.. . .L.P.F..
“The Voice” misses... .Rocky: Try again. .. .C.L.H.:
Variation of old Bulletin gag Sutlef: Rain
yarn too wordy.... Pan Yan: Why jamb the type-
written lines too close for interlineations —and leave
half an acre of bare paper below?....Bunya: Inter-
est too local. .. .Julius: It is so old that it had to
be given crutches to reach the w.p.b J.L.: ln-
relieved slime.... Lyons: Subject written to death.
. ...M.P.G.: Ideas all boxed up; do a little draft-
ing N.G.: Send clipping in verification......
J.J.O’S.: A “new party” with two adherents isn’t
worth all that space. Let it grow a bit L.G.
(S.A.): Rather brightly written, but the theme has
been done to death.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R. 11.5.: Weak from all angles. .. .R.A.P.: Ruled
out L.M.S.: Nowhere near publication mark
M.N.F.: Sketches show a glimmer of promise, but
the ideas are painfully weak.... J.11.C.: Been done
before. .. .A.F.: Just misses. . . ..J.K.W.: Going back.
.G.A.H.L.: Scratchy sketch on blue rustled into
the w.p.b K.K.: The dog-fight is over by the time
you get there. . . .P.A.8.: Out.
“Fereti”: At Normanton (Q.), in 1891,
there was a family of 11 children under 14.
and all their birthdays were in May. So one
gigantic spree did for the lot.


Shipping
ORIENT LINE-
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
I
'•'el.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2, 4. it Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days.
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 2.
SONOMA,
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
■yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger.due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further ■ particular's applv;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PFIILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, Jkc.
XHE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. II
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hor. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
All new business since 18'.)3 specially protected.
Directors- —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; lion. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney : E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —Condon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . . . £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ".. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagut, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
"BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Faihbairx.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY MUNCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares,. . .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250.000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits’ 1.886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shlppinr.
etc-.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONIINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 15th DECEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, Ist DECEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply-
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
fv ,
I
' 55
\ A
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAV EL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, .Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES
THE.MISTOCLES
DEMOSTHENES
‘SOPHOCLES
*DIOGENES
15,000 tons
11,250 tons
11,250 tons
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
1)A LG LTV ANI) COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I-'und
Reserve Liability
Directors
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,425,000
Tlie lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
iiuuert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, F.sq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL,
DeDUty Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Governor.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports:
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundu-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
(Carries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
Kuddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv throe weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
Monthly 0 - r -—
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & GO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
I’itzroy Estates Limited.
Blaeklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Erisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough. Bundabera, Bowen and Cooktown.
Tfearl Office: Mary Street. Brisbane,
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Ijargest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 192 p ,; £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. £44,000,000
Annual Income .. ... .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
iswiii
' v '‘ - A - - r XT S"'*, ''?‘ '? *-'<• '«■’?• \1? . '
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 8.11. P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.


tittuna
m
<0347
Foster Oil-Cooled
Transformers. .
Their standardised efficiency is as high as possible, con-
sistent with reasonable capital outlay. They show to
advantage in the initial cost, and also in the total cost
over a long period. Only the liighest-qualitv materials are
used, and great reliability has been achieved.
The insulation is not affected by moisture or hot. oil:
nor will it disintegrate under the influence oi vibration.
Windings are of “double-covered copper for small
currents, aiid rectangular wire* copper strip for
higher currents.
FURTHER PARtICn.ARS AND PRICES ON
REQUEST.
Manufacturers—-FOSTER ENGINEERIX(I
CO., LTD., Wimbledon, England.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
*»TY. LTD.
Head Office: lT‘t-6 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 355 George Street, Sydney.
Workshop N'o. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Eerrars Street. South Mel-
bourne.
T**
area**
SHOCK and STRAIN
Even on a smooth .surface a motor-car is under terrific
strain, but where the road is broken and shocks combine
with strain, only the excellence of the material used in
the vital parts will prevent a serious accident.
All work or repairs done with the famous
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Brand Motor-car Steel
will give entire satisfaction,
5.1).1f» Special Nickel Steel (to case-harden), speci-
ally suitable for Gear Wheels, Gudgeon Pins, Sliding-
Shafts, Countershafts, Ball Races, Camdan Shafts
and all small stampings.
jhkl
5.D.20 High Tensile Nickel
(Chrome Steel), for oil-hardening.
Suitable for Shafts, Axles, Spin-
dles, Gears. Very tough, and will
withstand great strain and shocks.
8.D.21 High Tensile Chrome Vana-
dium Steel, for Back-axle Tubes,
Axle Swivels, Crankshafts, Trans-
mission Shafts, Swivel Arms.
Stamping, etc. High resistance
to sudden shocks and to altera-
tions of stress.
Full stocks of all sizes on hand. For further details write Department “A”
telephone City 9803 or 7819.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-3*l Kent Street. SYDNEY.
266 Eatrobe Street, .MELBOURNE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Etc!., ADELAIDE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd.. NEWCASTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart,
StrOIX
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
r
8-H.P. unit plant
Special for speed-boating.
For immediate delivery.
Illustrated is the ideal engine for the private launch and small
t. PPd-hoMt Fitted with reverse gears on the same bed and perfect
Xnmmt is guM-Mteed. lMving a 20ft. by 4ft. Bin. hat,] bottom
hoa? turning a 16in. by 20in. propeller, this plant has recorded
2| 1 m.p.m- S We have stocks for immediate delivery. Call, phone
or write for all particulars.
We can supply an engine for every service
—Write for catalogue.
\ll “Caille” Perfection, world-renowned leaders in their class,
j- •> and 4-cylinder tvpes for light or heavy duty. Outboard and
Bantam (Inboard) Motors. Also one (5-h.p. Single and one S-h.p.
Unit Plant going at greatly reduced prices. Call and inspect, or
write for catalogues.
SOLE A CENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.” B .c. 206
POOTMfLES
UV.
* %
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
jhjlkjhl
“.4 marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle. calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb • ’ " ‘ ’
(Postage— N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26 =
hjljh
810.
short
plain
over
which
”Simple and extra strong in construction .”
Winchester Single-shot Bide, 1904 Model, 01 ~
or Ion" rim tire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
trig"”? boltaction, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
ill g 37«n.: bead front sight, with patent alloyed Up.
will not tarnish; weight, about 41b SJjfr
m
HIM. The Celebrated “Maine” RifH. designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb screw located underneath the fore-
•irm The action used is of the safety-bolt type? and is
exceed in glv simple. The barrel is round. 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 00/
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/C; other Stales. 2/S.)
jhkljhl
Remarkably aeenrate and hard hit tin a.
Plenty of range and paver.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
mf-idess Rifle. 22 High Power calibre, 6 , ..
shot. 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 6Mb., muzzle velocii y,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without chan» »
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullet, f
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1200 ft. pounds, carnag
paid
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
jhljhl
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 190(5
, ifi-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger.
Model, . rear sights, slide action, handles l
£6(6
Mm
■raiTrfr mm rtß
~o- Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
« i>*». •-« i%r%&X£ £7|io l-
hjkl
“A cheap and reliable weapon .”
U 2 Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
A * j barrel 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridees case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
t Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
4 51-
jhlhj
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
1538. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches Magazine bolds 15 cartridges. Weight s|lb.
Freight paid, r/IV//"
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
jhklhjk
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Darrel F " s * ht paW *
With Octagon Barrel 1 reight paid.
ni<j Winchester Repeating Carbines,' 1892 Model.
•Woo 6 ’ 32 38 or 4T.calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
ioS round barrel, weight, about BUb -Freight paid,
jfiB/15/-
;£9/10/-
£,7/17/6
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
jrijc/c Simmons M
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Hungry as a Bear
and Can’t Eat.
A great many people get angry when you tell them they’ve got
dyspepsia, but way down deep in their stomachs they know they’ve got it.
“I’d love to eat it, but 1 can’t,” is one kind of dyspepsia. “I hate to
think of it” is another kind. There are thousands of people to-day who
hate their meals and love them at the same time. They haven’t that
fine, empty-hungry, eat-everything-in-sight kind of feeling which goes
with every good, healthy stomach.
And then there are others whose mouths don’t water at meal-time or
at any other time. They sit at the table and go through the motions
only because it’s time to eat. These people, too, are dyspeptics. Poor
appetite, loss of strength, nervousness, headache, offensive breath, heart-
burn, indigestion and dyspepsia are all among the results of a disordered
stomach.
Every possible kind of stomach trouble can be remedied by taking
something which digests what you eat and will just take right hold of all
the food in your stomach and digest it alone without the help of the
stomach, and let the stomach take a rest. DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES do this very thing. They are composed of the best digestives
known to science, and are absolutely safe. They do exactly the work that
a good, strong, healthy stomach does. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
relieve all cases of dyspepsia, indigestion, burning or irritation, loss of
appetite, bloat, brash, belching, aversion to food, fermentation and gas in
the stomach. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules will make you feel ‘‘good”
before and after each meal, and make your stomach strong and healthy
again.
Make Your Stomach
Strong and Healthy.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere. Buy a tin, eat a good square
meal, and then take the Tabules according to directions, and note the result. You
will forget all about
it if you are not
careful, for there
will he no pain or
disturbance, and the
food will be
digested just as it
used to be when
your stomach was
well and strong.
Furthermore, your
stomach will soon
be restored again
if you keep on tak-
ing them, just as
thousands upon
thousands of other
stomachs have been
by the sole and ex-
clusive use of Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules.
q) rsh£U>on's
y
\) ige st
Dru& Company
3v<*r>cv Nw
hostoiM USA
Free from the haze of soot
There’s just one reason.
“Light of the Age” is pure.
That is why it has no disagreeable odor—and why it gives
the steady, mellow light you most desire.
And that is why it keeps your lamp chimneys so clean and
free from any haze of soot.
“Light of the Age” is pure Kerosene. It gives you the
satisfying artificial illumination, at once restful to the eyes—safe
—and economical.
Ask for it by name. Buy it by the tin —clean oil, packed in a
clean way—“ Light of the Age” is the Texas Company’s high-test
Kerosene.
THE TEXAS CO. (Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
With Branches at Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Launceston, Wellington (New Zealand), Auckland (New
Zealand). South Australian Agents: Harris, Scarfe,
Limited, Adelaide.
The Tyrants.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HERE lived a monarch long ago,
y tyrant, proud and gieat and giim,
Whose word was law, whose sword
was red,
Who loved the sight of blood, new-shed,
And ruined roof and shackled limb.
To free himself no man struck out.
For fear on lord and peasant trod;
No woman, bowed in grim despair,
Made prayer, lest he should hear her praj er
Before it reached the ears of Lod.
Nor meek nor strong nor high nor low
Escaped his red sword’s lightning stioke
When he rode forth in shining helm ;
And in the hell he called his realm
The dead alone were happy tola.
Yet let this much be said of him-
He loved right well the poet’s rhymes,
And loved he, too, with soul and heart,
The singer’s song, the painter’s art,
That tyrant of the ancient times.
He died, and Hell, ’tis said, leapt up
To welcome, him with scarlet flames ;
And ere his limbs grew stiff and cold
Men cursed his soul and straightway scrolled
His name among earth’s hated names.
He passed, and after years and years
Another tyrant rules the world —
A blacker, stronger, deadlier foe
To man than he who long ago
Red death and hot destruction hurled.
With grinding wheels and choking smoke
He desecrates our days and nights ;
His- engines roar on land and sea,
And flower by flower and tree by tree
He robs the world of pure delights.
Where song and quiet dwelt of old
The thunder of his chariot rolls,
As over Beauty’s corpse he drives;
The ancient tyrant took men’s lives,
The newer tyrant slays their souls.
Men do bis will like fated slaves,
Their hearts at times white-hot with rage,
Their spirits broken on his wheel:
A tyrant on a throne of steel —•
Behold the Spirit of the Age !
Jf.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Compromising Situation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was all the fault of the mailman.
He had met Pine’s daughter Char-
lotte riding over the range to spend
a day or two with friends on Logan River.
She was coming back, she told him, “on
Saturday or Sunday.” She also told him
that her father and long Alec Raven had
gone north some time ago with steers, and
she expected they would be home again
about the wek-end.
These items were, of course, passed on to
everybody along the mailman’s track, and to
Mat Conyers they were more important than
anything else just then. He reflected bitterly
that Charlotte might have been his sweet-
heart now if Alec Raven had not come be-
tween them and maliciously defamed his
good character. That he had done the same
to Raven was a detail he overlooked. Know-
ing that he was not welcome at the Pine
house, he had been trying to meet Charlotte
accidentally to clear the atmosphere.
That was why he was riding up the range
when Charlotte was expected to be riding
home. He had travelled slowly to the bor-
der, and his hopes were fading with the
waning day as he rode down on the Queens-
land side. He was making for an old
deserted hut that stood below the mountain
jungle, whence a little grassy valley led to
Logan waters. There his mate, who had
turned oft' to see about a horse, would pull
Mm up next day.
A cold night was closing m as he
approached the hut. Smoke rising from the
wooden chimney told that someone was be-
fore him. But that didn’t matter. The door
was closed, but just as he dismounted it was
cautiously opened, and a face looked out
that for a moment made him stare in speech-
less wonder.
The inmate was Charlotte Pine.
“You can’t come in here,” she said in little
more than a whisper. “And please don’t
make a noise, Dad’s asleep.”
“Why are you camping here?” asked Con-
yers.
“His horses knocked up,” she replied.
As he turned to leave she stepped out,
closing the door behind her.
“You needn’t go a mile away,” she said.
“I’m dying for a drink of tea. We intended
to be home to-night, so we brought nothing
with us.
The words acted magically on Conyers.
He stretched the horses’ necks in dragging
them to a camping-place near a clump of
bushes, where he threw off the saddles,
hobbled the mokes and flew about after fire-
wood. In less than half an hour he and
Charlotte Pine were picnicking together in
the firelight. It was night now. Mopokes
were calling near the scrub, and from a
wooded ridge across the valley came the
weird cries of bush curlews.
Conyers had never dreamed of a better
opportunity, of a more enchanted world
than that in which he found himself. He
was most attentive, and when tea was over
he concerned himself about her lodgings.
“Sure you’ve got enough bedding for your-
self?” he asked her.
“I’ve got some grass and a fire,” she
answered. looking straight ahead.
“Oh, that’s no good to you,” said Con-
yers. “Here, take these two rugs o’ mine;
I’ve got plenty without them.”
He had one thin blanket left, but there
was plenty of firewood. He placed the
folded rugs for her to sit on, and had settled
down beside her for a confidential chat
when hoof-beats sounded down the valley.
“Someone’s coming!” she exclaimed.
“Don’t let them know who’s in the hut.”
With that she snatched up the rugs and
bolted. Conyers was pondering over her
parting injunction when the travellers
arrived. The solution came with a shock,
and at the same time plunged him into a
quandary that bristled with misgivings and
perplexities.
The travellers were Alec Raven and Char-
lotte’s father.
“Hulloa, Conyers,” said the latter. “Camp-
ing out?”
"Yes,” Conyers drawled. “Nice an’ fresh
out here.”
“You’ll find it a bit too fresh before morn-
ing,” Pine predicted. "I think we’ll doss
in the hut, Alec.”
Conyers straightened up with quickened
interest. “There’s a married couple in
there,” he informed them.
“Oh, is that why you’re here?” said Pine.
“I might know them.”
“No; they’re total strangers about here,”
said Conyers. “Never been in the district
before.”
“I think I could put them on to a job,”
said Pine. “I’ll have a look at the bioke,
anyway.”*
“Don’t bother,” Conyers advised him
anxiously, “lie’s an uncouth sort. Don’t
want to see anybody, an’ keeps the door
shut.”
They unsaddled then at Conyers’s fire, and
boiled their billies. While preparing for
their supper, Pine picked up a tiny hand-
kerchief. Written across one corner of it
was a name that brought fresh fears to
Conyers.
“How did this come here?” asked Pine,
examining it closely.
“I picked it up on the road,” Conyers
answered.
“It belongs to my daughter,” growled
Pine.
“I know,” said Conyers. “I was going
to post it to her.”
Mr. Pine seemed to be more thoughtful
after that. Conyers was thoughtful too. He
realised that he had compromised the girl
if she had not already compromised her-
self, or he was an accessory to something
or other. As she had told him a lie about
dad, he really didn’t know where he stood,
except that he had made serious trouble for
himself if Pine discovered the girl there
or found her hack in the morning.
The horse was sure to join the others
if he was anywhere in the neighborhood.
This thought so alarmed him that he hardly
dared to close his eyes. Ilis companions,
who turned in early, had been used to get-
ting up before daylight. The intruding beast
would have to shift before then. He waited
till the drovers were asleep, then crept away
to have a look around. It w r as a natural
thing to do in the circumstances, but it only
led him into further trouble.
The hack was with his pair, as he ex-
pected, but it was saddled and bridled. This
staggered Conyers for a bit. He knew the
hack, so there was no mistake about that;
but what sort of game was Charlotte play-
ing against him? When he tried to catch
the beast he only set the bells jingling. For
two hours he dodged about without success.
Then he resolved to get a bridle and catch
the rogue on horseback.
On his way to camp he suddenly became
aware of an alarming blaze. The hut chim-
ney was on fire. A log had probably rolled
against the wall, and the fire had crept up
the dry slabs. With a creepy sensation at
the roots of his hair, his knees weakening
under him, Conyers ran and stumbled over
the intervening distance, and reached the
hut too late to do anything but watch it fall
to the ground.
Fine and his mate had been wakened by
the flare, and their eyes turned on him
searchingly as he hurried up.
“Where have you been?” asked Pine.
“Turnin’ my horses back,” gasped Con-
yers, breathing hard.
Pine jerked his thumb towards the ruin.
“Where’s the married couple?”
“What’s the good of askin’ me?” snapped
Conyers. His face was sickly white; a
deadly fear was in him as he thought of
Charlotte, trapped in the burning building.
Old and ant-eaten, it was soon a smoulder-
ing heap.
Then Pine and Raven started raking with
long sticks. They were looking for the
married couple, whilst Conyers stood by
with guilty conscience, fascinated with the
dread mystery of it, expecting them to find
Charlotte.
When they came to a blackened heap and
prized up a corpse from under charred slabs
he gasped audibly and his knees sagged. It
was burnt to the bones, and there was a
deep cleft in the skull like the mark of a
tomahawk. A pair of scorched and shrivelled
boots were on the feet, which had been
partly protected by a solid slab.
Conyers stared at them for minutes trying
to recollect what sort he last saw r Char-
lotte wearing. Then the split skull attracted
him, and at the horrors it suggested he
almost collapsed.
The other men continued searching till
every little heap of debris had been probed
and turned, and all the unburnt hits of
timber had been dragged aside and used for
lighting.
“There’s only one.” said Tine as he threw
down his stick. “That one was murdered,
an’ it looks as if the hut was burnt to hide
the crime.”
“That’s so,” said Raven, looking suspi-
ciously at Conyers. “Mat’s The only person
who can testify to two, an’ he came out of
the hush just after we discovered the fire.”
“What do you mean by that?” Conyers
demanded, aggressively.
“Oh. nothin’.” said Raven. “I’m only
just statin’ a fact.”
“It’s a dirty, insinuatin’ fact,” Conyers
snorted, and with the snarl of a kicked dog
he shuffled down to his camp.
To his astonishment he discovered one of
his rugs roughly bundled un behind his
saddles. That told that Charlotte had
escaped, and, wearing the other rug for a
shawl, had gone up the valley. That was
some relief, but it made no difference to his
position in regard to the tragedy. He re-
called her words, “Dad’s asleep.” Was that
her “dad.” that half-cremated thing they
had rescued from the embers? If so. he
must have been some wicked tramp, thought
Conyers, and the girl had struck him down
in self-defence. That supposition ]pft other
riddles unsolved, riddles that made his brain
reel. Only one thing was clear: he had
dropped into sr devil’s own mess.
The two men came down soon afterwards,
and Alec Raven at once went after his
horse. Conyers was not surprised when he
returned that be made no mention of Char-
lotte’s hack. The girl had caught the rogue
(Continued on next page.)


-Bilk
am
FIRST AID CHART
Cut This Out and Keep It
Handy for Any Emergency.
The following concise directions, com-
piled by a qualified medical man, will be
found useful in those emergencies of daily
life where an efficient and ever-ready first-
aid like Zam-Buk is indispensable.
While only a few typical daily mishaps
and common skin troubles can be touched
upon here for want of space, the efficiency
of Zam-Buk makes it suitable for many
kinds of superficial injuries and skin
troubles which come within the scope of
self-treatment.
1. ABRASIONS, SCRATCHES, I H3tc. —First cleanse
the broken surface of the skin with warm water; and, if
needed, with a little Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap. After
drying tenderly, smear Zam-Buk over the affected part and
cover up with a handkerchief or lint bandage.
2. ABSCESSES, BOIES, Etc.—After the matter has
been let out, either by lancing or by the application of hot
poultices, cleanse with warm water and dress with
Zam-Buk night and morning. Use fresh, clean lint
dressings.
3. ACHING AND SORE FEET.—Wash nightly with
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap and warm water, and dress with
Zam-Buk. Protect blisters carefully' with a clean rag or
lint.
4. BABIES’ SORES.—Night and morning apply a little
Zam-Buk Balm which has first been warmed aud diluted
with an equal part of olive oil. always previously washing
the part with Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap and warm 1 water.
Zam-Buk Soap is invaluable for babies’ tender skips.
5. BAD LEGS, ULCERS, Etc.---Anoint liberally with
Zam-Buk, after having first cleansed with Zam-Buk Soap
and warm water. Bandage up each ulcer after treatment
and apply fresh dressings of Zam-Buk and lint daily.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is a safe soap to use where the
chief object is to avoid anything with an inflaming or
irritant tendency. Avoid strain from standing much.
(>. BLOOD-POISON* —Apply Zam-Buk night and morn-
ing to the affected part, which must always be first well
cleansed. Take a reliable aperient pill at bedtime. Con-
sult your doctor if the case is a severe one, with great pain
and swelling.
7. BURNS AND SCALDS.— Cut off the clothing from
the injured part. Do not attempt to drag it off, and if
any adhere to the burn, soak it off in tepid or cold water
before attempting to dress the limb. Apply Zam-Buk
spread first on strips of lint; after the lint, place a layer
or two of cotton wool, and then bandage carefully so that
the dressing remains in place. Cover the wound with
3
I
m
k
Stef
JVC
few
DOCTOR
ZAM-BUK,
Everybody’s
Friend-
1/6 and 6/6
of All Chemists
<Vi d. iAiartm.
Zam-Buk as soon as possible after the accident:., to protect
it from the action of the air.
8. ECZEMA, ITCH, Etc. —Applying Zam-Buk night
and morning quickly allays the itching and inflammation.
Repeated application of Zam-Buk renders all the tissues
healthy. It is best to spread the balm on a piece of clean
lint cut to the size of the affected part (especially where
there is mattering), then gently bandage up. Before
re-applying, carefully wash off all the old dressing, using
for preference Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap. Avoid washing
with ordinary soap, the alkali in which may do harm.
9. PILES. —Apply Zam-Buk once or twice daily, having
previously washed over with warm water and Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap. The Zam-Buk checks bleeding, reduces
swelling, and will allay irritation. Further instructions
on the printed sheet found in each box. •
10. PIMPLES, RASH, Etc.—Bathe the skin frequently,
using only Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap and warm water.
Then anoint freely and gently with Zam-Buk. See special
directions round box. Zam-Buk clears the skin and
renders the tissue soft and healthy. Take an aperient pill
nightly to remove any constipation.
11. RHEUMATISM AND MUSCULAR PAINS. —Rub
Zam-Buk nightly into the parts affected, as it makes an
excellent embrocation, being warming, invigorating and
searching; then cover with warm flannel.
12. RINGWORM AND SCALP SORES. —It is usually
advisable to cut the hair, then shampoo the scalp
thoroughly with Zam-Buk Soap and warm water every
morning. * Afterwards apply Zam-Buk, either with the
fingers or on a clean linen rag. Another dressing of
Zam-Buk should be put on at night. Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap is the best cleansing medium for hair and scalp.
13. SPRAINS AND STRAINS. —Apply hot fomenta-
tions. and, when the swelling has subsided somewhat,
anoint the injured part liberally with Zam-Buk, tn en
bandage firmly but not too tightly as to impede the circula-
tion. Rest a few days.
ZAM-BUK is a valuable herbal discovery,
free from animal fat and noted for its reliability
and swift, clean healing. The amount of curative
value concentrated within a two-inch box of
Zam-Buk is remarkable.
SPECIAL NOTE : —-
In manufacture Zam-Buk is never touched by human
hands the whole of the processes being conducted by
delicately-designed machinery. This is most, important
in “First-Aid” work, and for the safe hygienic treatment
of skin disease.
Beware of cheap ointments and salves containing rancid
animal fat and infected by strange fingers. Each box of
Zam-Buk comes direct from the Laboratory to the user m
a box protected by a cardboard eontainei.
Free Offer to “Bulletin” Readers
A free Sample Box of Zam-Buk will be. forwarded fa
all Bulletin readers who apply, mentioning The Runr.v-
TIN October IS. Enclose stamp for postage to The
Proprietors, C.E. Fulford (A/ski), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street,
Kidney.,
and gone back to her friend’s to make an-
other start ana set up an alibi.
“Alec’s goin’ in to fetch the police,” said
Pine, “an’ you’d better stay here till they
come. ’Tvvouldn’t look well to go away.”
The words seemed to strike into Conyers’s
heart like a cold draught; his fibres tingled,
and he stared dejectedly at the departing
messenger, too miserable to speak. The
night had been a sleepless torment, and
when morning came his haggard look made
Pine feel sorry for him. Mr. Pine also felt
uncomfortable, and. kept always at a little
distance, as though lie suspected Conyers
of being a villain with a blood-stained toma-
hawk in his pocket.
Both looked down the track at intervals as
the day wore on. Pine was watching for
the police; Conyers was expecting Charlotte.
He wanted to see her first, and for once the
luck was his.
She cantered up as radiant as if she had
no nasty memories of Mountain Hut. She
did not seem to notice that the place had
changed.
"Hulloa, Dad! What are you doin’ here?”
she called out'cheerily.
Pine went to meet her with the air of a
chief mourner at a funeral. With liis hand
on her horse’s neck, he talked in undertones
for several minutes. Conyers saw the girl’s
face blanch, and when she glanced across at
him a horrified look was in her erstwhile
laughing eyes. She became excited, and fired
a string of questions at her father that
further puzzled Conyers. Then she dis-
mounted, and whilst her father led the horse
down to a shady tree, Conyers seized his
opportunity.
"I suppose he told you about the corpse?”
be said abruptly.
"Yes,” said Charlotte in a shocked drawl.
“What a terrible thing.”
Conyers eyed her keenly. “How did it
happen?” he asked.
Charlotte’s expression changed as if he had
hit her. "I don’t know anything about it,”
she answered.
“Who was in there with you last night?”
“There was nobody.”
"Why did you tell me ‘dad’ was there —
an’ asleep?”
"Because I was alone, and afraid,” she
told him. "My horse stumbled an’ threw
me at the crossin’. I was dazed for a bit, an’
when I climbed the bank the horse was out
of sight. I looked for him till I was tired,
an’ when I reached the hut, near sundown, I
decided to camp there till morning.”
"An’ what about the fire?” asked Conyers.
"I don’t know. The place was all ablaze
when I woke. I grabbed the rugs an’ rushed
out. I sneaked up an’ dropped one rug
near your saddles, so you’d know I’d left;
the other one is at the crossin’, under a lean-
ing tree. I knew Dad and Alec Raven were
with you. so I looked about for their horses.
I guessed mine would be with them, if he
hadn’t gone back to the border gate. Then
I went back to the friends I’d been stayin’
with, an’ arranged that I left there only this
morning. You’ll remember that.”
“Hm!” said Conyers grumpily. “But how
did you arrange about the corpse?”
“I know nothing about it,” she declared.
There was no one else in the hut while I
was there.”
"He was iu the lire, anyway,” said Conyers
grimly, "an I’m suspected of puttin’ him
there.”
, “Hut there’s no evidence against you?”
Charlotte queried.
"It’s all against me,” cried Conyers. "Only
a miracle can save me from being hung.”
The intervention of Mr. Pine prevented
any further confidences. He had put on
the billy in the meantime.
"You’d better push along as soon as you
have had your dinner,” he said to Charlotte.
"There’s no need for you to be mixed up in
this.”
‘TIow could 1 be mixed up in it?” asked
Charlotte, looking at Conyers. "I’d be afraid
to go through the scrub by myself now. I'll
wait for you.”
Conyers said he would go and round up
the horses. As he slouched along the valley
lie reviewed the ugly incidents again, anil
decided that, if he was on the jury, and Long
Alec was in his shoes, on the circumstantial
evidence against him, he would find Long Alec
guilty.
When lie got back to camp Long Alec
had returned, and two policemen were exam-
ining the head of the skeleton. They im-
mediately showed a marked interest in Con-
yers and his business. They asked him
awkward questions about his movements and
his intentions; they inquired at length
about a married couple that didn’t exist,
what the myths had said to him, and wlnit
he had said to them; and they wanted to
know liis reasons for separating from his
mate.
Conyers’s flustered and hesitating replies
were strengthening the base suspicions
against him, and leading inescapably to his
arrest, when one of the officers, looking again
for some clue to the victim’s identity, directed
his attention to the unburnt extremities.
He pulled off the boots, and at once the
whole thing was clear. The feet revealed
that the man had been dead for months ; and
the body had undoubtedly been hidden under
the slab floor.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Piper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the sudden spring heat the pines
hung motionless. Past the gate and
the listless garden the road drowsed
sleepily out to Bathurst in the faint hope
of a breeze to freshen the journey later on.
The earth had fallen silent; no children’s
voices from the apple-tree, no noise of carts
from the road, no whispering in the pines,
nothing to haunt the afternoon save the
silence and the heat. T put clown my life-
less pen and loafed out to the verandah ;
no good trying to force it. Perhaps a cup
of tea
The gate swung open and he shuffled,
limping, up the path. A lean man. brown
and road-tired. All brown —brown dun-
garees. thin brown face, brown hands;
even brown dust from the spiritless road
behind.
“Any chance of a bit o’ tucker?” he asked,
liis bright eyes gleaming up at me.
He was sitting on tlie verandah-steps
when 1 came back with the tucker and two
cups. of. tea. His liat was off, and the flame
of liis wild hair made a savage red note in
the sunshine.
“Come round to the back,” I said; “it’s
too hot here.”
He followed me in silence and sat down
at the ch ildren’s table under the apple-tree.
It looked good in the blessed shade, and I
changed my mind and sat down, too.
“Going far ?” I asked.
‘Aes, I’ve got a good bit to cover yet.”
1 here was a curious musical liuskincss in
his voice, like the rough sweetness in an
actor’s voice, but without being artificial.
He looked up from liis food and glanced
at the pines and the lawn and the vege-
table-garden behind. , , „ ,
• , OH , B °t , a nice bit o garden , eie, lie
said when Ins eyes came back to me. I
made fatuous noises, and smiled in answer
to Ins sudden, fascinating smile. Somehow
} seemed t° remember him ; somewhere his.
brown body and tawny head had crossed
my vision before, out of some forgotten book;
or some mislaid journey—l couldn’t place
him or what memory he embodied.
The heavy charm of liis voice broke- the
stillness again. “It reminds me o’ me
brother’s place at Aslifield. ’E’s a eornmer-
cial traveller, Ern is”—a hint of awe in
my visitor’s voice placed Ern for me—“and
’e’s done very well for ’imself, being a like-
able feller. Yer see,” he leaned over the
narrow table, liis wistful, elfin eyes on
mine, “from a boy Ern always ’ad a good
address, that’s what ’e ’ad.” He kept his
eyes firmly on mine while I assimilated liis
phrase
“An ; that brought ’im on.”
A redhead fluttered to an overhanging
branch of .the apple-tree, looked at us from
both points of view, swore softly, and flut-
tered away.
“But yourself, where do you”
“Me? Well, yer see, I started as a jockey
and they went crook on me over tbe ’orses,
all of ’em did. Course, Ern ’e’s somebody,
an’ ’e can’t afford for it to be known about
me. Not that there’s any ’arm in it.”
“In what?”
“In the Road.” He looked surprised at
my stupidity. “There’s ups an’ downs, but
they don’t ’urt anybody but yerself. It’s
bad when yer boots is bad”—he glanced at
the broken sole which had made him limp
up tlie path—“but that don’t ’urt Ern that /
can see.” He flashed liis smile at his half-
hearted joke. My dim memory of him was
crowding closer. Vaguely lie stood astride
of the stifling heat and the stillness. Surely
his brown face and piercing eyes had laughed
at me long ago; surely the liusky sweetness
of his voice liad sounded in my ears and his
red hair blazed before my hurrying feet.
“Is Ern your only relation?”
“My oath, no ! There’s 13 of us. I’m tlie
13th, so I was baptised Leo.”
The inference dodged me for a moment, but
I ran it, too, to earth, finally.
“But they’re all scattered now. Mum
kep’ us together while she was alive,
they all cleared out wiien she died-
’em did all right. There’s Bob, e s u.
councillor; 1 suouldu t wonder but what .
leaves a good bit o’ money. Laura l
the twins, she was —is a nun, Annulate way-
Very thoughtful she was even as a c , ’
Mum meant me for the Church, too, bent
13tli an’ all.”
"And it didn’t come off?” . .
"No. 1 was with the Brothers for a on,
but it was no good. Yer see, 1 never c
stand peoplej even as a nipper they used to
git on me nerves. I couldn’t seem to g
the strength of ’em. Animals, now > 0
1 cleared oil with the ’orses, and after a
while old Paddy Casey let me ride for ini,
just ’cos 1 ’ad such a way with ’em, e «aiu.
But not people. Course kills is all rxgn ,
but kids generally ’ave people belougm to
’em, so 1 steer clear o’ the lot. Once in a
while’s all right”—lie flashed his amazing
smile at me again—" livin’ a cup o tea an
a yarn, like it might be you an’ me. But not
reg’lar.” ,
tie stacked up his plate and cup anil
saucer, and wiped his mouth with the back
of his hand. .Leaning back in his chair and
pursing his thin lips he whistled a long
calling note, whimpering at the end. He
whistled again, and sat waiting, his head on
one side and his eyes twinkling. Watching
him, the memory came to me at last. lm
Piper—the Pied Piper of llamelin Ihe
fantastic figure in brown, with the flame of
red hair atop, thin-lipped, bright-eyed, wist-
ful and challenging, and the train of eager
children following him down the cobbled
street! ... ,
"No. it’s no use, Mister; you 11 ave to
stand farther away. They won’t come with
you there.”
The heat seemed to press on my over-
worked head. Damn it. who were “they V I
glanced quickly towards the bouse. W here
were the kids? He got up and walked to a
gum-tree by the fence, his red head a wanner
under the gleaming leaves. Looking at the
ground he began to whistle softly again, little
whispering notes that would tear the heart
out of a stone. All the sweetness on earth
was pouring out into the, drowsy, air and
calling for the world to follow him. The
Pjner! Like a fool I looked round for the
children again, but no voices came to me
over the shimmering heat. Looking back
at him, my heart missed a beat. The chil-
dren were fluttering round his head. Little
broken notes were merging in his long call:
little beating wings were fanning his brown
face where his eyes glowed and burned. Red-
heads, bush-canaries, silver-eyes, blue-wrens,
finches; from a bough beside him a grey mag-
pie peeved into his face; and a kookaburra
chuckled from the fence. Still his calling
whistle went out into the bush and still the
Piper’s children came fluttering and gossip-
ing till the pines and the garden were full of
them.
He looked across at me and smiled.
“They’re great comp’ny on the road,” he
said.
I nodded in a foolish relief and went m to
fetch my other pair of boots.
HILARY LOFTING.


jhljh
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents -HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street,Jj^ltaourne I___ 1 ___
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
rupture.
A FREE TRIAL.
If vou are troubled with this complaint, write
n« and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATIiNT Altt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, VBo.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling’’
Small Pill-
Small
Dose-
Small
Price
CARTER'S
W ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
by taking
Car tar ’a
Little Liver
Pill*, the
Great Liver
Invigorato r.
Thousands
have attained
success by their
timely help.
Just try one
after meals.
0
a
~V:
Shirley President Braces for Active Men
The elastic, resilient feeling of SHIRLEY
PRESIDENT BRACES gives you the
assurance that your wearing apparel has the
proper hang and grace
They give the needed support to the clothing
and to the contour of the figure
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look to. the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
Übe! “SHIRLEY PRESIDENT"
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
a
Hi:
C -5
Remington,
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
R5 m S$c oth
for Shooting Right
Ask your dealer to show you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25,30,32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request.
kj;ljk;
wfjgi
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
—are a pleasant corrective that keeps you
in good physical condition. When the stomach
is out of order, the liver not working properly,
or the bowels are sluggish, a dose or two of
Beecham’s Pills will have the desired effect. They
restore natural and healthy action of the bodily
functions, and very quickly help to
MAKE GOOD
digestion, pure blood and clear skin. Beecham s Pills
are not a cure-all, but a safe remedy that acts on
the stomach, liver and bowels, and through these
important organs tones and strengthens the
general health. These world-famous family
pills prevent many common ailments, correct
bilious conditions and quickly improve the
DIGESTION
Sold in boxes, labelled
SAf £CUA * , r *° w R HEALTH
qTJ.CoIHs Browne’s
CWorodyffC
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST .MEDICINE ID IS
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
aiul in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEIUSH- A well-proved palliative
NESS and effectually in the pa j ns 0 f GOUT,
cuts short all attacks NEURAL GIA. TOOTH*
COLIC P 8M S a " d ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery •
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 8/-.
Made in England.
“The Heart of the Automobile”
THE FAMOUS SCHEBLER CARBURETOR
The Vaporising Instru-
ment which 20 years ago
set the motor world agog,
and has been a leader ever
SjODEJj “D.”
Marine or Stationary Engine
Model.
“The Standard of the World.”
N.S.W. Prices from £4/5/- to £l4.
NEW MODEL SCHEBLEB
CAR CARBURETOR.
Absolutely the most scien-
tific Carburetion Device on
the Market to-day.
On American Motor Cycles
100 % standard, no other
Carburetor being used.
In the marine world 75%
used.
THE NEW MODEL “A”
SCHEBEER CARBU-
RETOR is a distinct ad-
vance in the science of
carburetion. There are
several new features and
principles' of carburetion
incorporated in this instru-
ment. It is built around
the Pitot Tube Principle,
which is an improved type
of gasoline nozzle. This
gasoline -nozzle . automati-
cally furnishes a rich mix-
ture for acceleration, and
thins out the mixture after
the maximum motor speed
has been reached.
\ very economical running
mixture at all motor
speeds, together with a
smooth, i>ositive accelera-
tion, is thus assured.
There are no “dead” or
“flat” spots.
This NEW SCHEBLER
CARBURETOR is made in
a number of sizes, to suit
practically any car.
Here are the names of some
cars and lorries to which
this Carburetor recently
has been most satisfac-
torily installed: “Hispano-
Suiza” (16-valve model),
“A u s t i n,” “Daimler,”
“Ford,” Republic Trucks,
International Trucks (60
supplied in one order).
NEW SOUTH WALES PRICES from £5/5/- to £7.
Owing to its ease of
adjustment
THE SCHEBLER
CARBURETOR
is particularly adapt-
able, for operating on
the various new motor-
fuels now on the market.
THE NEW MODEL “A”
SCHEBLER
CARBURETOR.
SPECIALITY FOR FORD
CARS.
With this instrument on
your good Ford you are
assured of
MODEL
FORD
jkl;kjl
Ridiculously Easy Start-
ing,
Dead Slow Idling,
With a i benzine and h
“Alkol” mixture, and
Sehebler equipped, you
will experience a wonder-
fully powerful engine,
with a delightful velvety
pull.
Rapid Acceleration, and
the elimination of a lot of
the typical Fordy Engine
noise.
N.S.W. Price: £5/5/-
INFORMATION GLADLY FURNISHED.
AGENTS IN AEL STATES, WHERE SPARE PARTS ARE ALWAYS AVAILABLE
SWANS LIMITED
SOLE AGENTS,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANKS & SON
Melbourne.
JAS. A. DIMMITT LTD.,
Perth.
CORNELLS LTD.
CANADA CYCLE CO.,
Brisbane.


:
V'l
' * * *** **& «
•:■ v
•• -TB
Hffei
K
COVERING
FOR
BOILERS
XM.3I
;3d!d-M^:
imioe
H 03
IH3AO;
loisias l
SWYGY
m m-m
I B - « 1
i/si
.
gpl l lf il mm m 1
W% II iffi mm m m
jk;jk
ADAMS
kSBESTI '?
OVERIN*
FOR
boiler;
EAM-PIPES
PREVENTS LOSS OF HEAT BY RADIATION IN BOILERS AND
CONDENSATION OF STEAM IN PIPES.
The many advantages of covering Boilers and Steam Pipes with a good non-conducting
material must, of course, be obvious to anyone who will give the matter a moment s consideration.
Covering your boiler means preventing the heat from escaping, and it naturally follows that, by
doing this, you are saving your fuel. Boilers exposed to the weather must, of necessity, suffer
most from bemg uncovered. In the case of a boiler in a very exposed position, experiments were
m a^t,^ lffe !' enCe " .«»“*■»«>*»■» of coal before and after it was covered. The difference
WaS , ~,.R CtNT - Jusf ‘magir.e at the end of 12 months the difference that would make in the
IN MANY INSTANCES BOILERS HAVE BEEN CONDEMNED FOR THEIR BAD
STEAMING QUALITIES, WHEN A GOOD NON-CONDUCTING COVERING WAS ALL THAT
WAS NEEDED TO MAKE THEM AMPLE STEAM PRODUCERS. Several such have
under our notice.
By covering your Steam pipes you can prevent the steam from condensing in them.
come
jk;ljk
jk;ljk
NOTE THE DIFFERENCE.
Ihe above illustrates the relative weights and consequent covering capacity
of good and inferior materials.
We claim to have the most efficient staff of insulating laggers in Australia; moreover, our
Asbestos Heat Non-Conducting Composition is the best obtainable; tbe raw material is obtained in
Australia and is manufactured entirely by us at our own Depot in Sydney, and is in no way connected
with tbe manufacture of other’ materials of like nature now on tbe market.
We shall at all times be pleased to receive details of your requirements, or, if you so desire,
send our Representative to inspect your plant, when we will submit our quotation at per superficial
square foot (according to thickness of insulation necessary) for material and labor. We will also
supply the material alone at lowest market rates.
We guarantee all work done by our laggers to be entirely to your satisfaction.
- ; * ... , y , j
/v ; ;... : . • •■■•■
17H75 Clarence Si
§2l-523 Collins St
fc
33-35 King St.
jk;jk;
NEWCASTLE;
Watt St, ,
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron St,
