

mm
.
i»£S
m
-v ■
■
1
Pi
IS
• V X
i »iMm
ip
few;
;v
m
-.*
m ■-:
I
I
■
•. y..;
i
*
*&p||p ll|
n SrniH>f
B
*
3 :
Mi
As refreshing as
a dip in the surf
Don’t you feel fine after a dip-
so full of life and so comfortably
cool that you hate the thought
of going back to the hot city.
The G-E ELECTRIC FAN,
with its cooling breezes, brings
pleasant memories of the seaside;
Quiet, soothing and tireless, this sturdy
device serves cool comfort to every mem-
ber of the family with equal attention---
from breakfast-time until the last eyelid
has closed for the night, and on through
the hot night if necessary.
See the in pur Showrooms
and get the fan that suits your needs.
G-E FANS
Australian General Electric 0 B d
Corner Wentwortk Avenue
an<l Goulkurn St.. SYDNEY
Corner & Little Collins
Streets, MELBOURNE
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE, S.A.--Charles Atkins 6C Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
BRISBANE, Q.--The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets
Ai Co. (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
TASMANIA Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCEST
The Bulletin
VoL 42.—N0. 2178
Thursday, November 10, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will bo sent post
frep to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE. r .TD.
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
A Book for a '
1922 will be
The Man of the Far Outhack
fry Stephen Sherry
(Tyrrell’s, Ltd.).
The Author, who comes of literary stock, has lived the life:
•‘2Ae past with its hardship and pleasure
Comes back with the mantle of night
And hoof-beats drum out a weird measure
His reminiscences, embodied in £££ fo&tyT. ■ w
wholesome era of Paterson, Ogilvie and Boak<T’ fn “Dead n al !” , elghtles ’ an 3 revive the fragrant,
riots on Lambing Fiat, and the r6Calls the
new light on the mystery of the stolen gold which has never been recovered ? 6 gang ’ throwin S a
The book, now in the printer’s hands, is illustrated thmm*nnt ui . , , .
Ussher, and a handsome colored cover depicts the purple-crested Weddin 1 * 6 b L Kath,een
naively tut, it. "ol a once great n,tion P .l
MANGfIOvITE
MORE MANCROVITE
BELTING FACTS
At a large manufacturing plant a Mangrovite Raw-
hide Belt 3* inches wide is driving a Lock Corner-
' rng Machine travelling 2000 revolutions per minute.
£he belt is running on three driving pulleys, and
two idlers, and the engineer states that it' is the
or.ly belt that will give satisfaction on this drive.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing: Director,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY
VITORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle
IASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Collins St., Hobart.
df
d
f
When you see a Pillar Box
remember to get an Onoto.
The Onoto is like the Pillar Box —always
ready for your letters.
A twist with thumb and finger releases the ink,
and the Onoto writes on without giving you a
moment’s worry. The Onoto fills itself too, and
when sealed by a turn of the hand it can no more
leak than you can get your letter back after
posting it.
And like the Pillar Box—the Onoto is a British
Institution—made by De La Rue of London.
THOMAS DE LA SUE & CO., LTD.
Bunhill Bow, London, E.C.I.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-BEST FOR ALL PENS
FT
! f
©ECC&
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
d
After a hard day’s work—a quiet smoke and some music.
“ Lift the ‘ Decca’ down from the Shelf.” No sooner said
than done. In a moment, the handy little £ ‘ Decca ”is on the
table— filling the room with jollity, driving away dull care.
As clear and as musical as the largest phonographs, and can be carried
with ease anywhere.
Wholesale Distributors : Stanley E. Green. Ltd., 379, Kent Street, Sydney.
3 Models—Leather Cloth .... £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide £l6
Obtainable all over Australia from All Music Dealers.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the "Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
MUSTDIE.
non roisoftoiD iwddl
TME6KMT 1/ttKT DOTKWGRL
(riics.
) F!ea\
«U 5 < „
1 Buqs.
V MovKjrtocu.
ďf
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward t/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. £3
The Red Pa ge
I have made no attempt here to write
Sapphics in English, but have merely tried
to catch something of the Sapphic cadence
while saying what I feel in the only way
I can say it about the exquisite memory of
a lost sweetness.
The mystery surrounding Sappho is far
greater than “C.McL.” (R.P. 20/10/'21)
would have it appear. It is known that she
fled to Sicily for political reasons and re-
turned when the danger was past; therefore
she must have been of political importance.
It is also clear that she was the head of a
kind of college; and the invention of the
plectrum is attributed to her, showing that
she was a musician. Groups of girls—
some of them known to us by name—attend-
ing a school of poetry in the sixth century
b.c. suggest a kind of civilisation utterly
unlike any that we know of in Greece or
elsewhere. Yet not only was there one
such school in the small town, but on Sap-
pho’s oAvn word there were rival schools of
the same kind in the same town. When, in
addition, we find that a head teacher of
these girls wrote mostly about love —not sex
in the sense in which the term is now gen-
erally used —the puzzle becomes still greater.
Yet this remote schoolmistress of JEolian
race stood supreme and alone as 1 lyric
singer in the minds of cultured Ionian
Greeks for BOO years ! What wonder if we
still dream that in her poetry human thought
reached a top-note of divine ecstasy?
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT
Sappho
Beep in the low, far-gathered twilight of
wonder— •
\ iolet mist of years over Grecian shores—
White-wailed houses cluster the battlements
under,
With a red rose at the doors.
Brown sails come from the sea like great
leaves blowing
Out of the autumn of Asia, the dawn of
the west; >
Silver and crimson the tides of life are
flowing
Round a song-bird’s nest.
Mitylene chaffers and changes weighed
money—-
Gold in the scales or a handful of uncut
gems—■ *
Amber out of the North or blue jars drip-
ping honey
To a music of thin reed stems.
Brown are the market-girls, and brown the
deep-sea farers;
The sun lies languidly yellow along the
street.
High to the hilltop walk terraced houses,
green bearers
Of grapes purple and sweet.
Somewhere a lyre is smitten and hot airs
tingle
Far from the market pulse of the shore-
ward throng;
Through dusks of cypress the tender sweet-
nesses mingle
Of strings and song.
Mitylene has white feet following after,
Clear thoughts pacing through shadows
to and fro—
Books curved on round arms, and mirth
too sweet for laughter
In the word’s ebb and flow.
Maids shall learn singing of dreams here
m a college
Of roses and grassy lawns and the smitten
lyre;
A.s love younger than morning shall be their
knowledge
Of the music whose heart is fire.
Sappho, the teacher, her exquisite dark head
drooping
Over the plectrum, touches the kindling
strings,
With loveliness linked to loveliness round
her stooping
While words take flying wings.
© girl—schoqlmistress and lover of song
and the singer—•
White Mitylene is yours by a magic of
truth!
You are the spring, the , glad wind of the
dawn that is bringer
Of beauty and youth.
Bead in the marble your goddess, lost in
her sleeping,
Bead the rose of your song in the pale
Christian flame;
Living and holier grown in your world-
lover’s keeping
Is your white name.
Never in Lesbos in that old twilight of
wonder
I walked in your garden to hear your
silver words;
Of yours these only I know: lines torn
asunder
lake feathers of lost birds.
Not from these have I known the touch
of your fingers
On all the strings that are strings of my
own heart;
Not from these have I felt the fragrance
that lingers
In the dusk apart.
But I have known fair Hellas under trees
shady,
Sitting dream-white, singing on a throne;
And she loved you, loved you, loved you,
O dear lady,
With a love outlasting stone!
Ever in Lesbos in your garden faint with
wonder
I walk through magic crystals of your
words—•
The bees are out with honey for their
plunder—
My heart is nine white birds!
The True Romance
"People want romances,” wrote Guizot—
why not look for them in history?” Why
not, indeed? The question is better worth
asking now than when Guizot wrote. For
the fiction-writer and -reader are always
increasing. A war or a shortage of paper
may stem the tide for a while; but it flows
again stronger than ever. On the other
hand, the biographer and the historian re-
main much as they were. The Frenchman
Lenotre, the Englishman Gribble and the
Anglo-Frenchman Belloc have done some-
thing to make history romantic; they have
colored real people with the light of their
imagination, or clothed them with proper
trappings of drama, not making them less
real in the process, but actually more so.
They have realised the elementary truth
that it is the human interest that matters
most, not only in novels, but in history.
Elementary as the truth is, about 99 per
cent, of British biographers have succeeded
in ignoring and evading it.
Taking biography as the most living phase
of history, it possesses what Guizot calls
“the supreme charm of reality.” No one
can minimise this charm. Ask any child
whether he would rather be told a true
story or one that was merely “made up.”
Of course, he would tell you that he wanted
the true story. Ask a grown man whether
he would prefer a tale of something that had
happened to one that had not, and he would
be half-inclined to regard the question as
a reflection on him. Why is it, then, that
the public taste runs to novels and more
novels while the solid tomes of the bio-
graphers mostly moulder on the shelves?
There can be only, one answer. The bio-
grapher has mismanaged his job. He has
given his attention to the things that mat-
ter least—the speeches, the letters, the
visits, the dry-bones—and he has left out
the things that matter most. It is not so
much what a man or woman does that mat-
ters as what he or she is. Lives of great
men never remind us that we can make our
lives sublime ; they bore us so intensely—
in the way they are told—that we rush to
the thin-spun stuff of fiction for a change.
It ought not to be so; it would not be so
if the biographer would only bring to his
task the sense of drama and sense of color
that the novelist knows he must bring to his.
So well established is the practice of writ-
ing dull biography—which is to say, ortho-
dox biography—that the reader who is look-
ing for thrills and human interest almost
invariably goes elsewhere. Offer the aver-
age patron of a circulating library the choice
between a novel of George Sand and a Life
of George Sand, and he or she (it is gener-
ally she) would grab the novel, though the
life of the real woman was far more dra-
matic and had in it far more of the pas-
sional and artistic quality than had any of
the marionettes she invented. What is
there in “Leila” or “Indiana” to equal the
thrill and passion of those episodes in Venice
and Majorca, when the greatest woman
novelist of her day was isolated with the
first romantic poet and then with the great-
est musical lyrist of his time? How many
of the tens of thousands who have read
“The Vicar of Wakefield” know or believe
that the romance of Goldsmith’s wanderings,
of his passage from European tramp to
Drury Lane hero, would make a story worth
50 of it? Who would read the story of
Dostoevsky’s life if you offered them* one
of his novels as alternative? Who believes
that the intense drama of the real man—
the man who climbed from death-sentenced
prisoner and Siberian exile to supreme crea-
tive artist—is infinitely more attractive read-
ing than any of the film stuff of his brain?
Even the Froudes and Humes and
Morleys, when they get on to subjects that
are really romantic, show a power of rising
to the occasion. Froude’s study of Caesar
makes you see that erstwhile Roman dandy,
"the inevitable co-respondent in every divorce
suit,” suddenly confronting with five or six
hastily improvised legions the tide of bar-
barian invasion at the flood. When the new
man appeared on the scene Barbarism, hav-
ing just destroyed five Roman armies, was
winning all along the line; when he had
finished, after a seven-years’ campaign, it
had been flung back for 200 years. If you
want the thrill of a real love-story, or series
of love-stories, w'ith a mystified world trying
to peer behind the curtains, read Martin
flume’s "Courtships of Queen Elizabeth.”
There is no lack of human interest there —
nor of divorce-court interest either. What
hero of fiction ever had such a career as
Rousseau? What imaginative girl, longing
for something stimulating (not necessarily
Glyn-like or nasty) would fail to be moved
by the recital of this man’s adventures —of
his struggle upwards from rouseabout to
shaker of thrones? No need to read his
Confessions ; Cribble’s “Rousseau” gives you
the facts and retains the romance.
Here, under the history section, is Bel-
loc’s “Last Days of the French Monarchy.”
Read the chapters dealing with Thermidor.
See in the room at the Tuileries, where the
Committee of Public Safety used to meet,
the enigmatic figure of Saint-Just, preparing
the speech he is to read in the Convention
next day—the day of his doom ! Has any
novelist ever invented such a character as
this, or set it against such a background (a
real one in this case) of revolution and
terror and death? At 23 a village scape-
grace; at 26 the second man in France;
with a face more beautiful than a Ouida’s
hero; with a heart more merciless than that
merciless time. After hounding to the scaf-
fold the Gironde, the Hebertists and finally
the great Danton. he rushes to the frontier,
wins the admiration of Europe for his amaz-
ing gallantry at Fleurus. returns to Paris
and is overwhelmed in the, fall of Robes-
pierre, going to the guillotine with the same
air and manner that he had worn when re-
ceiving the thanks of Parliament. Pick up
this hook of Lenotre’s, “The Tribunal of
the Terror”: watch Fouquier-Tinville and
the pageant of death be made to pass; then
read the scribbled note, his last word to
posterity, as he waited for the cart that
was to take him away: “I have always sub-
scribed to the laws: I am satisfied!” Or
so back to an earlier day and see three
little vessels, the smallest of them 20 tons
(Continued on pane 25.)


it
vae
i
REMARKABLE FURNITURE VALUE
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Seldom does such an excellent opportunity
as this occur to purchase Quality Furniture
at such a remarkably low price.
There are only a limited number of these
Suites —which were produced in quantity in
Anthony Horderns’ own cabinet works from
high-grade materials —and as these designs
will not be repeated, the examples in stock
are being sold at less than cost price. Take
advantage of this exceptional opportunity
NOW!
*■'
inn
tm
22
□□
25
□□
□□
□□
T^r
MP!
m
1
Compare the prices, and
you will be convinced that
these offerings are worthy
of special attention. Do
not delay—the number of
Suites is limited.
Bedroom Suite
comprising 4ft. Wardrobe, with bevelled mirror and
drawer; 3ft. Dressing Chest, with three drawers; 3ft.
Washstand, with marble top, made of Bornec? Cedar,
waxed finish, oxidised handles.
Price £.27/10/-
SIMILAR SUITE, with 3ft. Wardrobe .... £23/10/-
4ft. 6in. Bedstead to match £G/
3ft. Bedstead to match £5/5/
Dining-room Suite
comprising 4ft. 6in. Sideboard, with bevelled circular
mirror, two drawers and cupboards, 4ft. Circular Table,
six Small Chairs, and two Carvers, with drop-m seats
upholstered in Fabrikoid. The Suite made of Borneo
Cedar, waxed finish.
Price £.24/11/6
The fineness and dependability of make and
excellence of finish give to Anthony Horderns’
High-grade Furniture that standard most desired
but rarely achieved by others.
An inspection of the extensive Furniture Show-
rooms will be a revelation to those who strive
after the home beautiful.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY . Telephone: City 9440.


<v
t
It is the fashion among certain sections
of the community to sneer at Proprietary
Medicines, but in many cases there is
considerable self-interest behind the sneer. In spite of this
attempt to discredit all Proprietary Medicines, thousands of
people are using, for instance, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
and get just the results they are looking for; and no amount of
sneering and attempts to discredit them can alter the opinion
of people who know by experience that they are using a
useful and effective medicine, and at a fraction of what it would cost to
be -inning to a doctor or chemist. These pills are based on a sound
formula and produced by men of experience. There is nothing known
about pills that they do not know; there is no ingredient that is known
to be effective for the Liver for aiding Digestion and purifying the blood
that they do not know. It is their business to know. They not only
know these ingredients, but they know how to compound them so as to
secure the highest efficacy. Just as any cake, omelet, or any article of food
can be hopelessly spoiled because the cook is incompetent, and even when
given the best materials absolutely fails to make an eatable article, when
another cook, using the same materials, accomplishes a result that is a
delight. So it is in compounding Drugs, only even to a greater degree.
The ingredients used in producing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
of the highest standard, and they are selected to secure the best results,
and in proportions to doubly secure this. Some people are always sceptical
about a Proprietary Medicine, but does it not stand to reason that it
costs as much for machinery and labor to produce a poor pill as a
good one ? In one case satisfaction is given because the article is
good, and in the other dissatisfaction because it is valueless.
fsr THE
U
1
g
i
g
1
©
I
are a good Pill in every sense of the word, a fact that is abundantly proved by the thousands who continue to use them year after
year as their sole remedy for all the little ills of Life. They are prepared under the best possible conditions, and there is no
better Pill made in this or any other country for Biliousness, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Troubles, etc. The care taken in
the production of these Pills is illustrated by the manner in which they are packed. Instead of being put up in cheap wooden
boxes—that absorb poisonous and other substances—they are packed in glass bottles, at a cost of five or six times that of wooden
boxes. The extra cost is more than made up in the satisfaction of knowing that the Pills reach the public just as they left the
laboratory, unaffected by moisture or climatic changes, and free from contamination by contact with foreign matter. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a purely vegetable sugar-coated medicinal preparation, carefully compounded by experts, and are manufactured
on the premises under the direct supervision of the Proprietors.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA, BY AUSTRALIANS, FOR AUSTRALIANS.


PINKETTES
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
d
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a. Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
09
for Gas Engines
for Ford Cars
OTii
TB&?SS?7
for Motor Boat:
For all
ignition purposes
COLUMBIA “Hot Shot” Bat-
teries are designed especially
for heavy duty ignition work
of all kinds. They are a group of
cells packed in one moisture proof
fiber case, portable and ready for
instant use. Supreme for Ford
cars, tractors, gasoline engines.
Only two connections are neces-
sary. Loose or broken connections,
external short-circuits, etc., are en-
tirely eliminated. Columbias are
powerful and long-lived.
Made in 21 styles from 4 to 12
cellpower.
For sale by your electrical dealer.
For doorbells, buzzers, etc., single
cell Columbia Batteries last longer
and cost no more. Always insist
upon Columbia.
NATIONAL
CARBON COMPANY, Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
[COLUMBIA
Also Manufacturers of Columbia Storage
Batteries for Automobiles, American Flash-
lights and Flashlight Batteries, Carbon
Brushes, and Carbon Specialties F142114E
Healthy Scalps
for
School Kiddies
No longer need mothers have any
worry regarding their children’s
heads. BAND’S NURSERY POMADE
effectively keeps scalps free from
nits and all troubles that school
kiddies are liable to get. Always
keep a tin in the home! Obtainable
from chemists, or direct from DUER-
DIN and SAINSBURY, PTY., LTD.,
349 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Re-
member the name—
BAND’S NURSERY
POMADE
Htlashc
Truss
Ruptured Persons
Get the Right Safeguard
To ruptured persons it means much to secure the
I right kind of safeguard. Anxiety and worry are
eliminated, the danger of development of the rupture
is done away with, the mind is free and easy in the
knowledge that your rupture safeguard is efficiently
protecting your health.
Get DENVER'S ELASTIC TRUSS, and have all the
advantages of a perfect safeguard.
SINGLE, 30/-; DOUBLE, 40/-
Send for a copy of our Free Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.
Makers, of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Motor Car Steels
Large stocks on hand of
CHROME NICKEL STEELS FOR AXLES
and other highly-stressed parts.
CHROME NICKEL and NICKEL STEELS
in bars and discs, for Gears, etc.
CHROME STEEL FOR BALL RACES.
CRANKSHAFT FORGINGS.
HIGH-CLASS ALLOYED SPRING STEEL.
Descriptive catalogue on application.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8704.
ddf
1/
CI£ML,COOL. SPARKLING
f
KING OF TABLE WATERS
v p !^JT p P°S au4 H svi ! p 4 v<< o
AGENTS /*>
,
Melbourne & ftjdneij
PURVEYORS tO VICE ROYAL IY.
m
m
s
/
4
Ilf
vv
mi
hi
m\
N ATI
al
\
“Buy a Bundle
PLYWOOD
BUY genuine “NATIONAL” PLYWOOD and see the
trade-mark is on every sheet. It is our guarantee.
Made from Queensland Hoop-Pine, Maple and Silky
Oak. Available in all sizes. Sanded and Unsanded.
Sold by all leading houses.
THE NATIONAL PLYWOOD CO., LTD.,
Ipswich Road, South Brisbane, Queensland.
V
Benoer's booklet
is Jull of helpful
advice for mothers
with infants—post
free from
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd.
117 Pitt St, SYDNEY.
For partial feeding-
before and after weaning.
Throughout the wide world, Benger’s Food
carries the recommendation of the Medical
Profession for partial feeding, i.e., when
feeding baby begins to be too much for mother.
If one meal of Benger’s is given alternately
with the breast, the subsequent complete
weaning proceeds smoothly and without check
to the iniant’s progress.
ďf
Food
contains no dried milk, it is always prepared
with fresh cow's milk (or milk and water),
which it modifies perfectly to the delicate
digestion of infants (vide medical report).
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:—BENGEß'S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
A. to.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lark.
Listen! The song begins.
Up from the earth winging,
High, high, till the sense spins,
Singing! Oh, singing !
Delicate virelays
Thrill the soft sky-haze.
Only the song heard
Lost is the brown bird,
But the sky is singing!
victoria.
I. R. MAXWELL.
At the Last.
In the grey eventide,
When dune and lone lakeside
Grew drear and dim,
And, like an icy breath,
He felt the chill of death,
Who beckoned him?
From the grim cliffs and tall
He heard the sea-bii'ds call,
The waves reply:
Though folk a-nigh him dwelt,
This much he knew and felt —■
No friend was nigh.
As a worn ship was he
That seeks an unknown sea
Un piloted,
A ghost among grey ghosts,
To sail by eerie coasts
Through midnight dread.
In the grey eventide,
When dune and lone lakeside
Grew drear and dim,
’Twas one, long loved, long lost,
Who came with white hands crossed,
And smiled on him.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Dream of Inspiration.
Across the darkened spaces of my mind,
Like lightning, Hashed the illuminating
thought, , , ,
Revealing heights that men have left un-
sought
Because they are the heights no man may
find.
1 felt the coils of circumstance unwind,
Till soul and heart were free, and Time was
caught;
And, fetterless, my spirit soared and wrought
The glories which my quickened brain de-
signed.
And I seemed one with that great Architect
Before-whose skill chaotic tides retired;
My mind was lit with stars of Heaven’s elect,
Sun, moon and sea changed with my smile
or froivn,
And for one trembling moment I looked down
Sheer to the heart of all God’s uninspired.
ENGLAND.
S. D. LOOKER.
The Secret.
Only for this and this,
Heart of my heart,
Ages of men could miss
The crown and the mart
And the praise of men and books —
To know how a woman looks
When a man and woman- kiss,
Heart of my heart.
There are hidden dreams in your eyes,
Heart of my heart,
And the dreams have made me wise
In the moments apart.
Ah, never an age could fail
In the sweets of song or tale
That could hold a kiss for prize,
Heart of my heart.
But whisper the one word low,
Heart of my heart,
There was something they could not know
Of wisdom or art.
There is a secret we keep
Hidden as valleys of sleep
Where the magic rivers flow,
Heart of my heart.
And only for this and this,
Heart o’ my heart,
The gods would glady miss
Their starry part;
For only they can guess
In holy covetousness
That ours is the world’s best kiss,
Heart of my heart!
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
The Cable Car in the Tunnel.
A bell sounds very distant in the dark.
The car jerks, stops again, begins to glide
Creakingly upward on the tunnelled track.
And I Catch hold, swing back, and leap
to your side.
The moss-moist bricks move dazzling by and
down
A little way the daylight follows us.
I take one look at your grave, lovely face
And fold my hands. The blackness swal-
lows us.
Now is my heart’s dear moment. And my
eyes,
Dim with their long-repress&d tenderness.
Turn blind toward you. And my thousand
thoughts
Enfold you in a murmurous caress.
My blood moves suddenly swift along my
veins
And sings your nearness to my aching
heart—•
And all at once I know that never loved
And loving were so surely set apart.
M.v thoughts creep dumbly to my heart again.
My resolute eyes shut all their pain away,
And you have stirred. The brakes scrape
heavily,
The cable clanks. We fling into the day.
JtAORILAND.
A. J. M. G.


“FIRST-AID” CHART.
Cut this Out and Keep It
Handy for any Emergency
The following concise directions,
compiled by a qualified medical man,
will be found useful in those emergen-
cies of daily life where an efficient and
ever-ready first-aid like Zam-Buk is
indispensable.
While only a few typical daily mis-
haps and common skin troubles can
be touched upon here for want of space
the efficiency of Zam-Buk makes it
suitable for many kinds of superficial
injuries and skin troubles which conic
within the scope of self-treatment.
1. ABRASIONS, SCRATCHES, ETC.— First cleanse,
the broken surface of the skin with warm water
and, if needed, with a little Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap. After drying tenderly, smear Zam-Buk over
the affected part and cover up with a handkerchief
or lint bandage.
3. ABSCESSES, BOILS, ETC. —After the matter has
been let out, either by i ancing or by the applica-
tion of hot poultices, cleanse with warm water
and dress with Zam-Buk night and morning. TJse
fresh, clean lint dressings.
3. ACHING AND SORE EEET. —Wash nightly with
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap and warm water and dress
with Zam-Buk. Protect blisters carefully with a
clean rag or lint.
4. BABIES’ SORES —Night and morning apply a
little Zam-Buk Balm, which has first been warmed
and diluted with an equal part of olive oil, always
previously washing the part with Zam-Buk Medi-
cinal Soap and warm water. Zam-Buk Soap is in-
valuable for babies’ tender skins.
5. BAD LEGS, ULCERS, ETC. Anoint liberally
with Zam-Buk, after having first cleaned with Zani-
Buk Soap and warm water. Bandage up each ulcer
after treatment and apply fresh dressings of Zam-
Buk and iint daily. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is x
safe soap to use where the chief object is to avoid
anything with an inflaming or irritant tendency.
Avoid strain from standing much.
6. BLOOD-POISON.— AppIy Zam-Buk night and
morning to the affected p art, which must always be
/
first well cleansed. Take. a reliable aperient pill
at bedtime. Consul your doctor if the case is a
severe one, with great pain and swelling
7, BURNS AND SCALDS. —Cut off the clothing from
the injured part. Do not attempt to drag it off,
and if any adhere to the burn, soak it off in tepid
or cold water before attempting to dress the limb.
APPIy Zam-Buk spread first on strips of lint; after
the lint, place a layer or two of cotton wool, and
then bandage carefully so that the dressing remains
in place. Cover the wom d with Zam-Buk as soon as
possible after the accidei t, to protect it from the
action of the^air.
8. ECZEMA, ITCH, ETC— Applying Zam-Buk night
and morning quickly allays the itching and inflam-
mation. Repeated application of Zam-Buk renders
all the tissues healthy. It is best to spread the balm
on a piece of clean lint cut to the size of the affected
part (especially where there is mattering), then gently
bandage up. Before re-applying, carefully wash off
all the old dressing, using ier preference Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap. Avoid washing with ordinary soap,
the alkali in w r hich may do harm.
9. PILES. —Apply Zam-Buk once or twice daily, hav-
ing previously washed over with warm water and
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap. The Zam-Buk checks
bleeding, reduces swelling, and will allay Irritation.
Further instructions on the printed sheet found in
each box.
10. PIMPLES, RASH, the skin fro.
quently, using only Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap and
warm water. Then anoint freely and gently with
Zam-Ruk. See special directions round box. Zam-
Buk clears the skin and renders the tissue soft and
healthy. Take an aperient pill nightly to remove
any constipation.
11. rheumatism and muscular pains.—
Rub Zam-Buk nightly into the parts affected, as’it
makes an excellent embrocation, being warming, in
vigorating, and searching; then cover with warm
flannel.
12. RINGWORM AND SCALP SORES. —lt is
usually advisable to cut the hair, then shampoo the
scalp thoroughly with Zam-Buk Soap and warm
water every morning. Afterwards apply Zam-Buk,
either with the lingers or on a clean -linen rag
Another dressing of Zam-Buk should be put on at
night. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is the best cleansing
medium for hair and sca'p.
13. SPRAINS AND STRAINS.— AppIy hot fomenta-
tions, and, when the swelling has subsided somewhat,
anoint the injured part liberally with Zam-Buk.
then bandage firmly but not too tightly as to impede
the circulation. Rest a few days.
ZAM-BUK is a valuable herbal discovery, free
from animal fat and noted for its reliability and
swift, clean healing. The amount of curative
value concentrated withi n a two-inch box of Zam-
Buk in remarkable.
SPECIAL NOTE-
In manufacture Zam-Buk is never touched by human
hands, the whole of the processes being conducted
by delicately-designed machinery. This is most im-
portant in “First-Aid” work and for the safe hy-
gienic treatment of skin disease.
Bev r are of cheap ointments and salves containing
rancid animal fat and infected by strange fingers.
Each box of Zam-Buk comes direct from the Labora-
tory to the user in a box protected by a cardboard
container.
Free Offer to all
“Bulletin” Readers.
A free Sample Box of Zam-Buk will be fortvarded to all
Bulletin readers who apply, mentioning The Bulletin,
November 10. Enclose stamp for postage to the Proprie-
tors, G. E. Fulford (A/sia), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HEALING—SOOTHING—ANTISEPTIC
THE IDEAL SOAP
FOR BATH and TOILET
rttNCtt**'*
»N 0
-roW-E’
fOH
ill*
tfU*
is Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap,
because of its fulfilling the
long-felt want of a Soap,
not only with unique
medicinal value, but with
freedom from the harmful
skin-irritating properties
of ordinary soaps. It is
specially prepared to
meet the needs of those
people with a diseased,
tender or irritable
skin, and is invaluable
w'hen used with Zam-
Buk Balm for the
cure of skin troubles.
1/- per tablet, or
2/10 per box of
3 tablets, of all
chemists, or post
frea from the pro-
priet o r s, C. E.
Fnllord (A/sia),
I,td., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
In thousands of Australian homes Zam-Buk has
proved its superiority in healing many a serious wound
and Obstinate case of skin disease —even after all other remedies
had tailed- and the following two cases are typical instances of
Zam-Buk s healing powers:—•
( Mis. I. Walters, 214 Bathurst Street, Hobart, writes: —-
JJye got into a scratch on nry hand. From the resulting sore
poison spread: my arm went black and swollen to the arm-
h'f- y l } a friend’s advice I used Zam-Biik. It brought
wonderful ease, and all pain, swelling and inflammation quickly
disappeared.”
Mrs. A. Franklin, 114
Lennox Street, Sydney,
writes: —“Boiling milk up-
set over the leg of my little
girl, Marie, and her skin was
frightfully scalded and blis-
tered. We applied Zam-Buk
Avithout delay, and it proved
wonderful for taking the
heat out and easing the fear-
ful pain. More Zam-Buk
caused the leg to heal per-
fectly.”
1/6 and 3/6, of all chemists
and stores throughout Aus-
tralasia, or post free from
the proprietors, C. E. Fulford
(A/sia), JLtd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
n
a
SvO" u °
K
, COM MIMS 'Mi
00 AHIHAI Oil •* Mr
ffi/B
MINE
ft
/AT
✓r
Sp o*r s
7Vr*
«»r*
«//
l ft oCAT\o*
somj
U*EQVA£.£EO
ca/cxertns
crcusrs
rooraAAi
MATEAS
sroarsMe*
G£#E*AilV
ri°!t
a #OCA
The WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission b, Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —No. 2178.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.
Price Dd.
DISTURBERS OF THE PEACE.
“Adviees from America indicate that President Harding is working strenuously to create a suitable atmosphere for the Conference, but his efforts are hampered by injudi
cious newspaper despatehes. He deprecates the introduction of singke issues, snch Japan's Far-Ear-Eastern claims, as tending to neutralise the all-round reduetion of a[?]meuts.”
UNCLE SAM: “For Heaven's sake, clear out; don't be so-er-obtrusive!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Aiusgrave and -McLeod Streets, Mosinan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
°" 214 George Street. Syrlnev. N.S.W., Australia.
■Melbourne OFFICE: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(lii Advance, Only.)
Posted, to any address in Austualasia, weekly:
months, £1 His; G months, ISs. 6d.; 5 months,
!>s. 6d.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £2: G
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. Gd.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
re/ used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 2 he right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contribution's submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs’,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, lint
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions (ire observed, When MS. is ionccirded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for san
on acceptance. Any 'picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid jot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus; and If. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 31 High
llolborn, London, W.C.t.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.: The International Bool;
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., IGI East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevards, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Marl'd Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. 3th Avenue
and 2~th Street, Neiv York City.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn cO Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
PaPUA.‘ —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. —. 4. Barker, Sura: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Sura.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10o?.., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
IGoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid. ; Slog. to lQoz.,
lOcz. to Itoz., SW.; elsewhere, h 0?.., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
ffieT^xzZlefz/Ti.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.
INTERNATIONALISM SHOULD BEGIN
AT HOME.
Thirty years ago, when Labor first emerged
as a Parliamentary party in Australia, a
proletariat paradise seemed very near. It
looked so easy in those golden days of youth-
ful illusion to legislate poverty and hard
work out of a country like Australia. There
have been many Labor Governments since
then ; enough advanced legislation has been
passed to give the whole world leisure and a
competence if such things could be achieved
by statute ; and, what is more, there has all
the time been a passionate desire amongst a
vast majority of the people that the manual
workers should get as much out of life as
any other class. The investigations of the
almost inhumanly detached- Knibbs disclose
how tragically the theorists have failed. Syd-
ney comes next to Brisbane as the eitv of
soaring wages: in fact, in many trades —bak-
ing, brass-finishing, fitting, boiler-making—
the Southerner is better paid than his brother
up north. By comparison with the Perth
toiler the Sydney tradesman is a plutocrat.
A pattern-maker in Perth earns 119 s. 9d.
weekly ;in Sydney, 1355. 1 Id.; a blacksmith in
Perth Ills. sd„ iix Sydney I2Gs. sd. A coach-
maker is worth 104 s. in Sydney, in Perth 975.;
a brass-finisher 12Gs. sd. in Sydney, in Perth
Ills. sd. And in those callings 48 hours
weekly is worked in both cities. Three-fifths
of all the trades-unionists of Australia are in
N. S. Wales. This is understandable. With
such wages the State looks an El Dorado
from the outside. That it is nothing of the
sort, even from the standpoint of its most
fortunate workers, is shown by the fact that
about 14 per cent, of N. S. Wales’s unionists
are unemployed, despite the Dooley Govern-
ment’s efforts to make work for them. In the
days when “Governments by Labor for Labor”
were unknown the unemployment tally in the*
unions hovered round about G per cent, vear
in, year out ; and it has to be remembered
that industrialism, owing to the Ma State’s
historical attachment to Cobdenism, ‘was
. t ieu virtually unborn. But whereas to
buy ±1 worth of goods on a pre-war basis
now costs 36s lid. in Sydney, it costs only
o-s. 4d. in 1 erth. lo the Sydney unionists
m work, the situation, owing to their raised
wages, is about as satisfactory as it was
before the war, when they were paid in real
money instead of in notes. But what of
ie others. There is, first, the heterogeneous
crowd ot unfortunates who for various rea-
sons cannot belong to unions, and are more
liable to be unemployed. This class in-
cludes many disabled .soldiers whose pensions
have been docked on the dictum of certain
Government officials that they were unfit
lor enlistment when other Government offi-
cials declared them to be fit: it includes
hundreds, perhaps thousands, of clergymen
mostly married, who are earning less than
carpenters; tens of thousands of small
farmers; other thousands of widows (with
and without families) and elderly people
who, being past work, are trying to live on
pensions, compassionate allowances, or their
savings. Then there are the immigrants
who are not welcomed to the unions, and
native-born young men who have to face the
same disability, some of the more powerful
workers’ organisations being as exclusive as
a W est End of London club. Are these
people not also men and brothers? If it
is admitted that the sectional scrambles for
higher wages and shorter hours that have
been going on all over Australia of late
years have only added to the miseries of
these classes, without greatly benefiting any-
one else, is it not plain that there is some-
thing rotten about the foundations of the
system ?
,1 wo sections with but little in common
otter solutions of the problem which are in
effect, the same solution. The Bishop of
Bendigo, preaching at Gaulfield a couple of
Sundays ago, remarked :
No fact was more apparent in modern life than
tlie unity of the whole human race. The dav had
long passed when a nation could live to itself. Finan-
cial, economic, social, educational and scientific
spheres had no national boundaries. World history
had become one history. The modern world might
be likened to a series of reservoirs of different sizes
but all inter-connected. What happened if one reser-
loii was filled? Sooner or later the others were
affected, for they were all interdependent.
A day or so later a letter was read in the
-N. S. Wales Labor Council from one W.
Earsman, delegate to the Third Moscow
International, the purport of which was that
the workers of Australia would only find
economic salvation by combining with the
workers of the world regardless of race,
color or social standards, the problem of their
class being a world-wide affair. That both
Bishop and Bolshevik are right to an extent
is evident to whoever looks at the condition
of industrialism in Australia to-day. Be-
cause the workers persist in thinking in
terms of States, there is a kind of cyclone
of disaster in continual progress. A
State declares for a 44-hour and a 130 s.
week in a certain industry. Numbers of
men who desire more leisure and higher pay
cross the borders from the States which are
sticking to a 48-hour and a 105 s. week.
The industry either closes down or moves
to one of the States where conditions are
more favorable to it. The new arrivals be-
come unemployed, and the Government bor-
rows more money to keep them from starva-
tion. This presently pushes up taxation,
whereupon the taxed charge more for what
they have to sell, and the wages which have
by now become more difficult to earn are
lessened in their purchasing power. What-
ever arguments there may be for equality of
opportunities as between nations must obvi-
ously apply with greater force as between
the artificial divisions which we call States.
An Australian in Perth differs in neither
physique, social habits nor culture from
one in Brisbane. But intra-State Labor
refuses to recognise it and looks on approv-
ingly while the Parliaments with Labor
majorities create a helot class of their own
countrymen in a Commonwealth which
boasts of its democratic freedom. The only
possible effect of internationalism would be
to put every unionist in Australia into the
position of one of our present unemployables.
In obedience to the same law that brings
Australians to the 44-hour-week State, inter-
nationalism would bring Asiatics to Aus-
tralia for the advantages it offers by com-
parison with their crowded lands. So inter-
nationalism, carried to its logical conclu-
sion, is as unthinkable as universal suicide.
In the present state of world-politics it
should be enough for the churches as well
as the Communists if we started by apply-
ing internationalist principles within our
own borders. Nearly all our industrial
troubles arise from the notion that the rela-
tion between employer and employee in-
volves a permanent state of war. Accord-
ing to the rule as laid down by a frequent
type of leader in the industrial sphere, it is
an admirable thing to loaf on the job; to
exclude other white Britishers from the
chance of sharing in the job and so extend-
ing- its scope; and from time to time —by
strikes and so forth—to ruin the job alto-
gether as a lesson to the enemy behind the
pay-envelope. A reversal of these tactics —
which have failed more obviously everywhere
in proportion as they have been intensified—
may very well be the Grail which Labor
in Australia set out to find three decades
ago. Let the Trade and Commerce clause
of the Constitution be amended, in the first
place, to allow of a Federal award bringing
some sort of uniformity in the matter of
hours of labor and w'ages to States where
conditions otherwise are practically identi-
cal already. It would not matter much pro-
bably if such a Court then fixed a high wage-
rate and a short hour-schedule, provided it
was able simultaneously to satisfy the wage-
earners that they were the allies of their
employers. That is what they naturally are,
though the agitators cloud the issue, and
represent them as natural enemies, in the
interest of their own soft jobs. The real
enemy of the Australian worker is not capi-
tal, but coolie labor. That foe will only be
beaten, as the Mongol races are increasingly
westernised, by co-operation between all
classes, by more brotherliness on the part
°t the unions, and, above all, by hard, intelli-
gently-directed work. On the day those three
are round in operation together the indus-
tiial millennium will be very close.
UNTRODDEN PATHS OF RETRENCH-
MENT.
Standing fiercelv on the defensive in the
matter of his Budget, with the nearly-three-
million deficit therein, Joseph Cook, Federal
Treasurer and incipient High Commissioner,
took the usual line and asked his critics to
lay the finger of accusation on definite items
and say, as Nathan did to David, “Thou art
the man.’’ The response was poorer than it
should have been, for the Country party has
developed very little financial talent as yet,
while the Labor party has no financial talent
at all- —in fact, some of its members look on
the Treasury as old Bluciiek did on London
when he said it was a wonderful place to
loot. Yet it is almost a self-evident proposi-
tion that a vast number of savings could be
made out of a scheme for the spending of so
very many millions of revenue and loans for
so very few people, especially when six other
hard-spending Governments carry so many of
the responsibilities, and in view of the fact
that we have not yet cut out the extrava-
gances which are bound to spring up during
a period of tremendous war-borrowin' 1 ' and
hasty and insufficiently-checked expenditure.
In such a budget economies could inevitably
be made, provided the Treasurer was a man
who loved solvency like a brother, and would
a thousand times rather wipe off a deficit
and reduce the public debt than see the Mel-
bourne Cup. But Joseph Cook is just
the Old Parliamentary Hand —a perfunc-
tory, elderly dude going through his work
like the veteran whim-horse whose duty it is
to walk till sun.set, and who doesn’t care
how soon sunset comes, and counting a job
well done if it is done well enough to keep
it. There is no divine spark in him. So he
stood on the defensive, and the other people’s
offensive being poor and strictly orthodox,
the possibilities got no mention.
* * * *
One of the more obvious possibilities is
the abolition of the ravenous and ever-
growing, baby bonus which falls on the rich
and the poor alike, and falls so accurately
that it never misses a baby. In fact, there
are signs thatj it sometimes hits purely
imaginary babies. Unless the tales about the
richness of Australia and the people’s high
standard of living—on borrowed money and
otherwise —are 971 per cent, flam and 21
per cent, guff, £lOO,OOO a year should more
than cover all really necessitous cases (pro-
bably £50,000 would suffice), and the other
£OOO,OOO or £050,000, which is soon going to
be a lot more, would be available for some-
thing that would really give the infant a leg
up in life. At present he is born owing
about £BO of peace debt and £BO of war debt.
The peace debt varies from £3lO down to
£5O, according to States, but £BO is a moder-
ate average. This is £l9 more per baby than
in the year when the baby bonus began, and
the “assets” which the money is supposed
to represent are far worse than they were
then. Also the rate of interest on money
invested in money-losing railways 50 years
ago is being put up periodically, and the
process seems endless. When, therefore, the
father votes himself £5 of public money be-
cause unto him a child is born, and then
loads the infant with burdens, while dissi-
pating the infant’s slhare of the public
estate to boot, the baby bonus looks neither
more nor less than a scheme that has the
curse of blood money on it. It hasn’t even
justified itself by causing, or being accom-
panied by, a rise in the birth-rate, for that
dropped from 2825 per 100,000 inhabitants
in the first bonus year (1913) to 2472 in
the beginning of 1921. So the bonus is dis-
tinctly one of the matters which a brighter
< r bolder Country-party leader would have
dug up in reoly to Cook’s challenge.
Then he might have, suggested that Aus-
tralia House in London should be sold or
leased, and that the High Commissionership
should be either abolished or preserved on a
much reduced scale. And in the latter event
it should be definitely understood that Minis-
ters would have to get out of the habit of
going to London in noisy droves and taking
the pretence of work out of the High gentle-
man’s hands. For his use a four-roomed office
of the sort solicitors affect should be ample.
There are Australian banks handling mil-
lions whose London offices are at the top of
narrow flights of stairs; and nobody thinks
any the worse of them for their reasonable
economy. It is said that Joseph Cook,
being suave, plausible and well-dressed, will
make the High Commissioner billet look as if
it was worth while and as if it meant some-
thing—will give it a brassy radiance sug-
gestive of gold in a dim light. But it isn’t
worth .while paying big money for nothing
at all even if it is painted to look like
nothing much. A saving both direct and
indirect might also be made by the aboli-
tion of this country’s foreign trade commis-
sioners, agents, bagmen, drummers or am-
bassadors. Their good luck at selling our
goods to neighbors in the Pacific —to Ah
Snag and Hirimo Yoshiwarra and George
Coi.umbus Washington and Don Sanciio
Garlic y Bulleigiitero —is miserably scarce.
Their bad luck in divulging to these people
that we are a nice, easy, luxurious folk for
them to sell their notions to is miserably
numerous. Private enterprise should be left
to send out its private bagmen to sell its
private wares. Being salesmen pure but
not simple, they would be more likely to
avoid the disastrous side of the business.
Tenthly (or whatever it may be), the
busy reformer might suggest the abandon-
ment of Canberra, the crazy capital in
Two Pieces, which Pieces are sup-
posed to be joined some day by a Federal
railway, 140 miles long, with no Federal
land on each side to be developed. Next, he
might suggest the cutting to the bone of
the services on the East-to-West railway,
the inability of which disastrous show to
pay working expenses is relieved by few
glimmerings of hope. After which the re-
former might give attention to every new
bureau and department that Hughes has
started, in the sure and certain hope of
discovering: that two-thirds of them are
unnecessary and the other one-third wickedly
over-manned and over-jiaid. And, finally, he
might proceed to browse at large among the
ordinary expenditure items and begin to
economise in earnest
* * *
thoroughly practical reform is impossible
while the Commonwealth lias no control over
Mate finance.. If by any marvel it paid a
hundred millions off the people’s burdens
the State authorities would promptly put a
hundred millions on (or twice that amount),
using the plea that the people were the
better able to stand it because of the relief
they had just received. If the Common-
weaJrli added a hundred millions to the load
the State authorities would also add a hun-
dred millions, using the plea that imitation
is the sincerest form of flattery. The States
must be much smaller and humbler before
anything really comprehensive can he done.
But there is no reason why something com-
prehensive shouldn't lie tried —when the
right man takes the matter in hand.
THE BACKWASH OF WAR.
Although we exiles of the backbloeks of
Paraguay are far from civilisation, we feel
the ripples of the world's commotions
faintly, it is true, but we feel them. When
the Great War was on, “bully and bullets”
were the pressing needs. We had no bullets,
but we had some "bully”—on the hoof. So
the square-jawed buyers from the Yankee
1 efrigerators came along, and we rounded
up our little mobs, and gave them the pick
of the basket. But while that was our gain
we soon found that our losses were greater
that, though we were well out of the dance,
we have to pay for some of the music. To
a large extent—as regards the necessities of
life—we are self-supporting. We grow our
own meat, maize and mandioca; in fact
everything needed for the simple life. But
after a man has all he actually needs to
sustain life he is not happy—if he is a
normal individual—unless lie has a few
superfluities and luxuries. If he is a read-
ing-man he calls for reading matter; if he
is a woman he needs a cup of tea or an
aspirin—perhaps even a ribbon.
Then there is clothing. We don’t need much
in this climate, but decency forbids that we
should go without altogether. In the old
days, when Dictator Lopez was the leading
spirit of Paraguay, the natives made their
o\vn garments. When dad wanted a new
shirt the children got busy round the cotton
plants, the .Senora spun and wove and cut
and contrived, and El Senor was able to go
to the cock-fight on Sunday in all the glorv
of new raiment. But times have changed.
The hydra heads of civilisation have poked
their noses into Arcadia, and now the guile-
less natives must have Manchester goods,
made in Germany, in all the colors of the
rainbow, warranted to wash out at the
second time of asking. So we need a little
ready cash to pay for imported goods and
to facilitate trade.
In normal times we have raised the need-
ful by selling a steer to the butcher, or a
surplus of tobacco, etc., is grown, and the
residue beyond our own needs sold to middle-
men, who export to Europe. But since the
war those ways and means have evaporated.
There is no demand for bully-beef these days.
Leather, cotton, wool are hard to sell, and
now the bottom has dropped out of the to-
bacco market. Usually at the tobacco sea-
son the big middlemen appoint agents to
buy up the crops; this year they have given
us a bye. So Juan and Juanita are short
of cash to fix themselves up for the winter
season. Since the Peace currency has thus
become gradually less-—bank suspensions
didn't help matters—and now in many .a
country district a five-dollar bill is a curio,
and a 20 would attract a crowd. Thus neces-
sity' has driven us and millions more in South
America back to barter. Life is one per-
petual swap. We all have a surplus of some
sort. One man has a lot of little pigs, an-
other a big tobacco crop, or more maize
than lie can get through. Or a family is
milking half-a-dozen cows, and the milk of
two is sufficient for its daily needs. The
remainder goes into cheese, and that is cur-
rency. It is a bit complicated and cumber-
some till one gets used to it, but it works
out all right at the finish—it has to. My
wife has just swapped our storekeeper a bag
of wool for a bag of salt. Bueno! Next
along come a couple of native girls; one
has a little pig, the other a couple of laying
hens. The pig-girl wants salt, but we don’t
want pigs. The hen-girl wants the pig.
but the pig-girl doesn’t want hens; so, as
the missus can do with the hens, we swap
salt for them, and the hen-girl passes
the salt to the pig-girl in exchange for the
swine. And everyone is happy.
The storekeeper doesn’t lilie the system;
but there’s no immediate remedy, lie swaps
his goods for non-perishables, as tobacco.
Wool, cotton, etc. When the store needs
replenishing the Universal Provider packs
Ins swappings into carrettas, takes them up
to the market town and does a deal with the
wholesalers. Of course, there is a certain
amount of risk; by the time our man gets
his stuff to town, tobacco may be down a
few points, and, on the other 'hand, cotton
and hides may be on the up-grade. But as
he has not got all his eggs in one basket,
what he “loses on the swings he gains on
the roundabouts.” When a man’s beef-
account is up to, say, $4OO the butcher will
call round for a steer worth, say. $BOO. Then
the positions are reversed; the debtor has
paid his debt and the butcher owes him
$4OO to be taken out in beef.
Of course, it is all very uncivilised ; but
in that respect it probably agrees with the
period we are passing through. For surelv
what we have seen during the last half-
dozen years isn’t civilisation. Amid it all
you hear the man who knows everything say.
“Print paper money—that will see us
through.” But South America knows that
it will not see us through. It would only-
make us think we are better off than we
really are. And the future will be difficult
enough without pushing our present diffi-
culties on to it
PARAGUAY
T. MARTYN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Secession at Narrandera.
Unless Australia gets a complete outfit of
new habits, it is about as certain as any-
thing can be that there will be no progress
worth mentioning in the settlement of the
empty seven-eighths of the mainland until
it is provided with a number of new capital
cities. That means new States to put them
in, and new ports for the trade of the new
States. Australia raises a patch of real
close settlement round a capital, even if it is
badlv placed, and it raises no patch anywhere
else. Thus the tide of settlement climbs,
with breaks in between, nearly lialf-way up
the east coast, where there are three capitals,
including Melbourne, and only rises about a
tenth of the way up the west coast, where
there is only one, while along the north
coast, where no capital exists, there is no
tide at all. Thus also South Queensland is
alive (it began to be alive on Separation
Day), while the corresponding bit ot
Westralia isn't. Brisbane and Melbourne,
having escaped from Sydney control, are
cities, while on the other side Carnarvon and
Albany, still under Perth domination, aren’t
anything. But the urgent necessities of
the case and the interests of Australia don t
make the people and politicians of the exist-
ing big cities a whit more willing to_ sacri-
fice any of the pomp and plunder of their
huge, ill-managed and unmanageable estates.
There are thousands of people in Sydney
and Brisbane who are willing to die on paper
in the sacred cause of self-determination for
Ireland, but nearly die of rage when mention
is made of the much more urgent matter ot
self-determination for North and Central
Queensland, or for N. S. Wales’s Itiverina or
Northern Rivers. Yet under the clause
which (along with the equally bad
one about the location of the Federal
capital) was smuggled at the instance of
(iEO. Reid into the Constitution drawn up
by the people’s representatives, separation is
impossible by orthodox means unless the
present capitals consent. Their peoples
may, of course-, be educated up to a .sense
of justice in this case, just as they may be
educated up to the Sermon on the Mount it
the world lasts long enough, but the process
is too slow-. A Conference recently sat at
Xarrandera to meet these difficulties and to
plan out a new State, including X. S. Wales
between the Murray and Murrumbidgee, and
that bit of Victoria east of the Alps, of
which Twofold Bay (N.S.W.) is the natural
outlet. It resolved :
That section 123 of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion Act be amended to read as follows: —“That the
Parliament of the Commonwealth may increase,
diminish, or otherwise alter the limits of a State,
upon such terms and conditions as may be agieed
upon, and may make provision respecting the eftect
and operation of any increase or diminution or alteia-
vion in relation to any State, with the consent of a
three-fifths majority of the electors entitled to vote at
the Commonwealth elections in the area affected.
That section 121 be amended to read as follows-
“ V new State mav be formed by the separation of
territory from a State, and a new State may be
formed'by the union of two or more States or parts
of States, hut only with the consent of a three-fifths
majority of the electors entitled to vote at the
election's in the area so affected.”
That a new section be added to chaptei yk, as roi-
lows: —.“The Commonwealth Parliament shall, on a
petition being presented, signed by 10,000 electors
in an area comprising not less than the equivalent
in population of one Commonwealth electorate, praying
for a vote to be taken in such area on a matter
affecting such area, cause a vote to be taken without
That any proposed enactment for the alteration
of the Constitution, or matter of vital importance
affecting the welfare of the Commonwealth, or any
or either of the States, or part of States, contained
in the Commonwealth, shall, on the receipt of a peti-
tion signed by not less than 20 per cent, of the
electors" fn the part or parts affected, within six
months of the time when the petition is presented be
submitted to the electors in the part oi paits
Barring the absurd three-fifths vote the idea
is good, except for the awkward fafet that
the same selfish city influences which prevent
the State Parliaments using the.fr powers to
free the oppressed peoples may prevent them
giving the Commonwealth power to do what
they won’t do themselves. It isn t so much
a Question of giving somebody power to grant
separation as of showing everybody con-
cerned that separation must be granted even
if the power lias to be found or invented.
To this end all the separation movements
need to get together and form a committee
(with sub-committees), which will run State
and Federal separation candidates and no
other sort. It should hold the signed resig-
nation of every member it returns as a
guarantee of good faith and tireless mdusti \.
It should cultivate the habits of the hedge-
hog and the porcupine to keep its case betore
the Legislatures. It should refuse to. be side-
tracked bv bland questions as to how debts,
railways, ” etc., are to be allotted, replying
that after separation a w r ay will be found
under the spur of necessity, and that suffi-
cient unto the day is the fuss thereof. it
should have its agents in London to raise the
Question of how far the Commonwealth Con-
stitution does really “bind the Crown. In
the last resort, if a city-influenced Conven-
tion refuses to submit the Constitutional
amendments that will make the division ot
the unwieldy States possible, the dissentient
provinces can just secede and set up then-
own institutions, and present all parties, in-
cluding the Commonwealth Government and
the British Crown, with the accomplished
fact. It isn’t a desirable way : but those
who make it the only way will have to
shoulder the heavy responsibility.
♦
Senator Pearce’s Chance.
Australian representation at Washington
is bound to be little more than a farce. Yet
on one of the matters at issue Australian
opinion might really carry weight. Just
at present Britain is undecided on the ques-
tion of China, wavering between the Ameri-
can and Japanese points of view. As fai-
ns purely economic interests are concerned
the bias is slightly towards America. Since
the w-ar Britain has ceased to be a country
with great reserves of export capital, and
has nothing to spare for the industrial ex-
ploitation of China in alliance with Japan.
Not for another generation will British capi-
tal be hard put to it for areas to exploit.
Markets, on the other hand, are more neces-
sary than ever. With unemployment and
an overplus of goods on all sides, Britain
is forced to look at China from a new angle.
There are enormous markets in China that
could be stimulated to a still greater capa-
city for absorption. British industrialism,
then, as opposed to British finance, inclines
to the view that an open door should be
maintained. These are the material factors,
and it is a matter of opinion how - far they
affect diplomacy. But it is quite plain that
Britain is undecided and hesitating. What
has Australia sot to say at this juncture?
It wants to avoid doing anything to embarrass
Britain. It wants also to preserve courteous
relations with its neighbors. But China in-
dustrialised by foreign capital would mean
a Japan immensely more powerful than it
is to-day. established securely in its hege-
‘mony over a militarised Asia. And that is
something which we can only view with
disfavor. There is good reason to believe
that the diplomatic help it has received
from Britain has confirmed Japan in this
grandiose dream, which may very well prove
to be a nightmare to us. The Washington
Conference provides Britain with a good
opportunity to readjust itself to the tremen-
dous changes of the past few years. There
is, of course, a considerable body of opinion
in England which dreads that any weaken-
ing of our formal relations with Japan
would lead to a Itusso-German-Japanese
Alliance. But, even if that were practi-
cable. it would only bring Britain, France
and the U.S.A., a much more powerful trio,
closer together in self-defence. It is at least
as probable that Japan, deprived of its most
powerful backing, and seeing rto other ally
in sight, would shed its militarist aims and
devote its spare time to proving that it
never had any.
*
A Question of Self-interest No Bess than
J ustiee.
In the House of Representatives a few days
ago G. J. Bell (C.M.G., D. 5.0.) added to
the tally of war-pensions infamies which
has been piling up there for weeks:—
I have for the past six months endeavored to get
justice done to the soldier from whom 1 have a
letter in my possession now. He drew a full pension
for two years; and six months ago, when he was
lying on a sick bed and move in 'need of his pen-
sion than ever before, it was abolished on the
ground that his ailment was not due to military
service. .. .We have pleaded this man’s case before
the Repatriation Board, but we can get no redress.
Another instance is that of a man who was shot
through the stomach during the war. On his return
he submitted to numerous operations. The man
bears evidence of a fearful wound, and he has to
wear a truss to keep his bowels in position. At one
time he was granted the full pension, but it lias
been gradually reduced, until now he gets only
12s. Gd. a week. It is said that he is fit to work.
It would make any but a strong man weep to see
that returned soldier and to be told that he is
able to do manual work.
The Ilughesite counter to such allegations
is always the same; and the Assistant-
Defence Minister duly applied it to Mr.
Bell :
I Sympathise with the honorable member, but lie
should not in the same l-reath advocate the cutting
down of the Estimates.
So that members can take their choice be-
tween betraying the country and betraying the
men who gave their all to save it. In the cir-.
cumstances it is plainly less dangerous nation-
ally that the taxpayers should be let down ;
in other words, that M’s.P. should sell their
silence freely on the question of the Gov-
ernment’s extravagance on the chance that
thev may be given justice to disabled sol-
diers in' return. But if the Government
imagines that because the Melbourne and
Sydney dailies are omitting to report Par-
liamentary protests against the activities
of the Repat. Commission the public is in
the dark on the subject, it is making an
extraordinary mistake. Every country
centre, almost every village, has its horrible
example of the fruits of patriotism in the
shape of ailing ex-Diggers or the dependants
of the dead who have been virtually swindled
out of their rights. Each case represents,
until it is righted, a powerful weapon for
use by pacifists; each affords a valuable
object-lesson for those who are working to
overthrow society as at present constituted.
These men offered their lives for society,
and now that the danger is past society
bilks them. Does such a rotten institution
deserve to live? That is the argument the
Hughes Government, through its precious
Repat. Commission, is presenting to Bol-
shevism. On only two assumptions is the
Government’s pension-docking policy justi-
fiable: (1 ) that there will never be another
war, (2) that the revolutionary wave now
sweeping over Europe can never reach here.
And even then there remains the stain put
by the swindle on the national honor.
Abandoned Hopes and Mortgages.
Next to the imported Bolshie, Australia’s
worst calamity these days is the promoted
lawyer with a passion for reducing hours of
labor, or fixing the price of sweetbreads, or
giving everybody a quart of beer out of a
pintpot, or borrowing a billion to put a
million strangers on the land. The last is
the scheme of Joseph Carruthebs, and
.Joseph, an elderly solicitor who has worked
up an enthusiasm for farming, of which he
has just that amount of knowledge that is
dangerous, is a perfect specimen of the type.
Joseph’s assumption is (11 that the unem-
ployed and landless Briton is born with a
genius for growing things in Australia, and
(2) that once you dump him on one of the
million loan farms nothing but the under-
taker’s horses will ever drag him away from
it. There is a fine commentary on these
theories in the latest report of the Westralian
Agricultural Bank. Therein it is stated
that during the year 1920-21 367 properties
carrying an indebtedness of £128,254 were
“found to have been abandoned.” In other
words, Westralians who took on the loan-
farm business on the advice of some local
Joseph have been rushing out of it at the
rate of one a day. And the £128,254 men-
tioned is only a portion of the permanent
and unproductive debt incurred in respect
of the vanished 367, since for every £1 lent
to the hopeless variety of cocky by the Agri-
cultural Bank £2 or £3 has been advanced
by the Industries’ Assistance Board. Three
or four years ago about 80 per cent, of the
Westralian wheatgrowers were “on the
1.A.8.” Not only were they provided with
seed, superphosphate, horses, eornsaeks,
machinery and parts, but the majority of
them received weekly wages. For at least
two years the cost of growing wheat on this
basis was greater than the return obtained.
Things have been better since prices began
to soar, but even so the Agricultural Bank,
on .Tune .‘10 —that is to say, after the two
most profitable harvests the present genera-
tion of ’Groper cockies can remember —had
701 abandoned farms, on which £239,386 was
owing, on its hands. And with wheat down
to about half the price realised for the
1919-20 crop, the prospect of the bank’s get-
ting back a lot more alleged “securities,”
particularly those taken over recently in
the hope that 1919-20 prices would continue
(there were 474 of these gambles against
the market in 1920-21). seem excellent. The
Carruthebs agitation has started at the
wrong end. Australia’s immediate need in
the agricultural line is not another wild
and unscientific boom, but a method of grap-
pling the farmers to their farms with hoops
of steel. It is easy enough' to put people
on the land; the difficulty is to keep them
there.
The Punter ami the Pharisee.
The Lawson Ministry, while shrinking
from its duty of legalising the totalisator,
lately imposed an additional tax on book-
makers’ betting tickets, whereby the State
Treasury derives exactly as much revenue
from a half-sovereign wager as from the £lOO
"investment” of the big gambler. And even
this under-states the injustice of the
tax, seeing that it derives positively nothing
of revenue from the gamblings of very big
bettors —‘owners, trainers anil other persis-
tent followers of the game—who book their
wagers and take no ticket whatever. Nor
was the action of the Government improved
by the excuses offered for the hasty imposi-
tion of the additional tax just before
Cup Week. The Premier complained that
his Government didn’t derive nearly as much
revenue from the gambling vice as was
achieved in N. 8. Wales. But he carefully
camouflaged the point that in N. 8. Wales
the tote yields an increasing proportion of
the total amount raised, and would yield
the whole of it but for a shameful law which
conceded to Isaac Buortodds the right to
ply his calling in unfair competition with
the machine, instead of making bookmaking
unlawful on the racecourse, and thus forcing
the clubs to provide every possible facility for
the cleaner and more democratic form of
investment. The truth, of course, is the
Lawson Government stands in unnecessary
dread of losing the wowser vote. The wow-
sers, not being reasoning citizens, protest
against the alleged iniquity of "legalising
betting” by one Act of Parliament, yet
by another Act of Parliament, against
which they make no protest, the bookmaker
is legalised and taxed. Thus with the tacit
approval of wowserdom the vice of betting
gets legislative encouragement in Victoria.
For, by maintaining Brother Biiortodds
in business as a prosperous parasite on the
community and a legal source of revenue, in
lieu of the machine ( with its limited staff of
workers) which would be a more lucrative
source of revenue, and by thus feigning to
safeguard the morals of the people, the Gov-
ernment makes itself responsible for the
continuance of that most pernicious of
gambling evils—the betting-shop in town.
The police everywhere can testify to the
dangers of the betting-shop. It attracts the
potential petty-larcenist and embezzler with
its easy facilities for "getting on” the “good
thing” at starting price as long as Short-
odds and not the totalisator regulates the
s.p. Where bookmaking on the racecourse
is permitted, the betting-shop supplies a
lamentable demand ; where the tote is the
only authorised fixer of the odds, there are
no betting-shops prepared to lay full total-
isator odds against outsiders. The easy
facility for “getting on” ceases to be attrac-
tive when the town punter finds himself
ridiculouslv disadvantaged. So the intro-
duction of the tote, together with the pro-
hibition of racecourse bookmaking in Vic-
toria, would be a gain in moral welfare to
the State. But a hypocritical Government
chooses to leave control of the inevitable
betting market in the. hands of a mob of
licensed bookies, who rob a great multitude
of small gamblers in order to pay the ticket
tax with which the large backers are not
concerned, and which is altogether evaded
by the army of illicit starting-price book-
makers in town who issue no tickets at all.
Consider the farcical injustice, then, of the
system protected by the Premier with the
approval of his ignorant supporters. Con-
sider the single tax on all bookmakers’
tickets, irrespective of the amount of the
transaction recorded thereon! Consider the
reduction in starting prices to meet increased
taxation, which reduction affects only the
little punters! Consider the gain to law-
less starting-price layers in town, for whom
the odds are somewhat reduced as the re-
sult of the ticket tax, whilst they continue
to dispense with the use of tickets ! Con-
sider the encouragement of betting-shop
temptation because Lawson, whilst pro-
testing that the Government needs money,
is afraid to draw a larger revenue from the
tote! And consider the deadly silence of
Labor members who appear quite willing to
let the “poor working man” be further
robbed on the racecourse, and at the betting-
shop, because John Wren is king of pony-
racing and Brother Shortodds is one of
their bright particular friends! What a
tissue of anomalies is here presented !
♦
Good Enough for Australia.
“It’s good enough for Australia,” says the
smart young man in a furniture-shop as he
unpacks some third-rate imported desks to
be sold to people who have got into the
habit of “putting up” with things. And in
Tokio a Jap merchant who had shown some
very fine goods took his client upstairs to
a big room filled with the crudest, most
hideous-looking crockery. “They are for
Mr. — —, in Melbourne,” he announced. A
Jap retailer would not have looked at them,
but they were good enough for us. Any-
thing is good enough for us. Even our news.
Our cables are superb in their fatuity. Any-
thing will do, anything except the truth. We
can be fobbed off with expurgated, flavored,
wonderful news that is unknown to the rest
of the world. And then there are our im-
ported officials. In ,T. C. Squire’s parody
of Hilaire Belloc there is an amusing
account of a British “publicist” who failed so
lamentably in every position that nothing
more could be done for him, and “They made
him Governor of South Australia.” It is
much the same in art and literature. Pic-
tures that disfigure the Sydney and Mel-
bourne galleries would never have been
bought for Glasgow or Dublin; but they are
bad enough for Australia. Europeans be-
lieve we really like pictures like that. Plays
are often selected on the same principle.
So-called Broadway farces (that don’t
always see Broadway) and silly “West End
comedies (sometimes from “the provinces”)
are considered suitable for our curious men-
tality ; while the best plays—say Drink-
wateh’s “Abraham Lincoln” or Lennox
Robinson’s “White-Headed Boy,” great
successes in London and elsewhere —seem
to get rejected on the principle that they
are too good for Australia. Indeed, we are
frankly told sometimes that that is their
only fault. National modesty of this kind
is not a merit; it is an ineptitude. Any
country that wants to do anything, be any-
thing. should have a good conceit of Use If.
“The best to him that wants the best.” A
continuation of the “good-enough” policy
will certainly lead us into the ditch. It is
really becoming dangerous. For instance,
the Argus deprecates the idea that Aus-
tralia should ever have a fleet of its own.
“It would be madness for the Commonwealth
to undertake the building and maintenance
of a fleet on her own account for the sake
of gratifying a feeling of pride in possession.
What Australia wants is an assurance of
safety, not a small fleet to boast about.”
Australia must not “boast,” it mustn’t have
any “feeling of pride.” To make an “ade-
quate contribution.” and then let Britain
do everything and Australia nothing, and
thereby forego our right to have any foreign
policy at all or even a say on our own de-
fence —it is a proposal that would have been
howled down in any little country known
to history that had a spark of independent
feeling. But it: can be solemnly put forward,
without apology and without shame, as quite
good enough for Australia. And the policy
has an almost equally serious consequence
in another direction. We get so used to
the indifferent that we don’t realise that
others are not necessarily like us—-that they
may want the best. So complaints pour in
that the few products we put up for export
are hadlv packed, poorly labelled and weighed
carelessly. Even our wheat can manage to
get us an odious reputation in South Africa.
Pigeon Murder and Devil’s Advocacy.
The Tories, Labor and anti-Labor, gave a
pitiable display in the N. S. Wales Assembly
last week, when the non-party Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals (Amendment) Bill
was brought forward. Without exception
the critics of the measure were concerned
to defend pigeon-shooting. M. F. Bruxner,
who “knows thousands of pigeon shots,”
considers it a manly sport; but, then, in
his opinion "there is nothing very much
wrong with cock-fighting”—a pastime which
has been too barbarous for that part of the
civilised world which lies outside the North-
ern Tableland for nearly a century. Simon
llickey, whose electorate holds the N.S.W.
Gun Club, considers that the bill is “over-
done.” After suggesting that it is more
humane to shoot pigeons out of traps than
“let them die of senile decay,” he put in a
good word for the coursing of hares. But
Weaver, the North Shore patriot, supplied
the gem of the debate; he claimed that
“pigeon-shooting was a far less cruel sport
than shooting duck, quail or snipe,” and
that “the N. S. Wales Gun Club was one
of the best clubs in the State!” In extenua-
tion of the buffoonery which disfigured the
discussion there was the evident fact that,
with the exception of Bruxner, hardly any
of the members had seen a pigeon-shoot.
They should rectify this before Shilling-
ton’s Bill comes before them again. At any
ground they will find a score or more of
crates containing closely-packed birds which
have travelled hundreds of miles. (In Mel-
bourne recently a whole consignment was
found dead of starvation and thirst when the
club took delivery.) During an entire after-
noon the visitors will probably not see half-
a-dozen failures to at least do some damage
to the fleeing “rocks.” The technical
“misses” are the unfortunates which have
not had enough lead pumped in to keep
them from struggling off to die elsewhere.
The amount of agony inflicted depends on
the man behind the gun. “Captain” Carver,
of the U.S. (where clay birds are now used,
by the way), in three consecutive matches
killed 100, 99 and 100 birds off the 30-
yard mark. So much for the sporting aspect
of the business when an expert is compet-
ing. An inferior performer “misses” {i.c..
merely wounds) three or four birds out of
every 10. llow preposterous to try to
justify this sort of foul play by comparing
it with the shooting of snipe—the snipe
being notoriously the hardest bird to hit and
almost the easiest to kill, when hit, that
flies! ' Pigeon-shooting has been barred at
every reputable out-of-doors club in Britain,
the U.S.A., France and Germany for about
15 years —roughly, ever since the Hurling-
ham trustees did away with it at the in-
stance of Queen Alexandra. It has just
been made illegal in the United Kingdom,
where for years, anyhow, it had only been
persisted in by the dregs of the population.
Under the French Loi <le Grammont it is an
indictable offence. And now, in response to
a threatened boycott amongst the civilised
patrons of Monte Carlo, it has been aban-
doned even there. Queensland abolishing
it; W.A. has already done so. Is N. S. Wales
going to allow a few unimaginative oafs to
block a reform which is already long over-
due?
«
On the Shores of the Beautiful Harbor.
Though it pays not to say much about it at
the moment, when the lottery disease is
fairly ooing the Sydney Government expects
to fill one big gamble every week, or 52 per
annum, and to make more —if possible, a
great deal more—than £300,000 a year out


vr
Pm
$
Centre 0
V
%
OTf
111,
“G/dustralia''
Wfnter Garden
d
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
SALON DE LUXE—The most up-to-date Hairdressing, Massage and
Manicuring Rooms in Australia. All work personally supervised by
Miss A. IvELLIHER, qualified London and Australia, second floor.
QUICK SANDWICH LUNCHEON served in the Winter Garden only.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed The Manager.
of the business. If that means 10 per cent,
the idea is that at least £.1.000,000 a year
will go into the thing to begin with, and
it is difficult to see how more than 10
per cent, net can be looked for. The
salaries of the unsuccessful Labor candidates
who will be provided with jobs on the man-
agement will be a big item, and there will
be stationery and some advertising to pay
for, and a heap in the way of commission.
Some allowance must be made, too, for em-
bezzlements in the Sweep Department, for
in a great city of lotteries, betting-shops,
two-up, pony races, fights, slums and Tam-
many politics the standard of morality isn’t
on the rise. As the machine will be always
going the drawing will be a lightning affair.
Perhaps it will be done on Sunday, which is
an off day. Then the person who put in
his own money on Friday or his employer’s
money as late as Saturday may get his prize
on Monday. With drawings on Sunday and
prompt Monday settlements many timid
thieves would invest, and it isn’t likely the
organisers will care who invests. It is in
the scheme to establish a new crime .and
make the sending of Cornstalk money to any
lottery save the State one a punishable
event. This is calculated to be a shock to
Queensland’s Golden Casket, which lias its
agents all over Sydney and the N.S.W.
country towns, and gets much of its sup-
port from there, as the prize lists show.
Whether the other States will start their
own lotteries to prevent the proud Ma com-
munity living on their savings; whether
they will outlaw Ma’s lottery ; whether the
Postal Department will outlaw Ma’s lot-
tery ; and whether decent folk wfill outlaw
Ma—all these are open questions. Certainly
with races several times a week, a pony
course every mile or two, a lottery every
week, two-up 365 nights in the year, slums
which have been condemned regularly for
years, but which can’t be pulled down because
the slum vote supports certain aldermen, and
with lottery-ticket shops and betting-shops
and Saturdav loafing, Sydney bids fair to
become a raffish sort of place, with a shabby
sort of raffishness suggestive of a person in
evening dress who has been out all night.
But it may get sick of the houri business
through overdoing it, and then it will pro-
bably reform at so furious a rate that it
will make Sunday church compulsory.
A Small State’s Large Baby.
Instead of having the usual wiiirling debate
on Treasurer Lewis’s Budget, the Speck’s
Assembly treated itself this year to a wordy
feast on the motion of no-confidence aimed
at the Lee Government by Opposition-Leader
Lyons. Though the Government won on a
party division by two votes, the mover had
a strong case against Ministers for the lat-
ter’s handling of the finances, and their
failure to achieve anything but a 40 per cent,
increase in the .National Debt shrieked for
condemnation. Confident of the party vote,
they nevertheless hardly considered it neces-
sary to formulate colorable excuses for their
exploits. They pleaded guilty to a deficit
of £BO,UOO on the year’s transactions, and
to having increased the floating deficit from
£104,000 to £404,000 in five years, and plain-
tively asked Lyons to tell them how they
could have avoided the result. Whether
Lyons can tell them or not, such things as
Ministers confessed to simply have got to
stop. They just can’t go on. On the
Treasurer’s own figures, with nearly a mil-
lion pounds more revenue than their Labor
predecessors, they will be a quarter-million
worse off at the end of the current financial
year. And the real position is probably
worse than Ministers said it was. The
accumulated deficit was, as just mentioned,
set down by the Treasurer at £404,000; but
£168,000 loss on soldier-settlement transac-
tions, which is properly chargeable to
revenue, has been hidden away in Loans ac-
count. Also £lO,OOO or £12,000, represent-
ing an arbitration verdict given against the
Government for repudiating an agreement
made by the Premier with a shipbuilding
company, does not appear among the items
making up the admitted deficit. Lyons,
indeed, goes further and declares that, through
the Treasurer having over-estimated local
revenue, and because of the certain diminu-
tion of Commonwealth contributions to the
State’s exchequer, the floating deficit may
easily be nearer £1,000,000 than £404,000.
For a Government which was placed in
office because it was an “Economy” Govern-
ment —whose sole and allegedly sufficient
wardrobe consisted of a figleaf embossed
with a “square-the-ledger” legend—this
looks like horrible failure. The position is
of interest to the whole Commonwealth,
inasmuch as with an election looming there
is no likelihood of a serious attempt being
made to square the ledger by increased local
taxation or by drastically curtailing salaries,
etc., in the public service; consequently there
will be a strong claim put up for further
Commonwealth grants to the Speck. Which
means, of course, that the citizens of those
States who.se Governments are deplorable
will be expected to contribute towards the
roTief of tlieir Tasmanian fellow-Australians
whose Government is calamitous. The
circumstance surely brings nearer the hour
When the Commonwealth will secure at least
some control over the financial management
of the States.
—
Sinn Fein by the Nile.
I F the outcome of the negotiations that are
now coming to a head between the British
and Egyptian Governments is substantially
the same as the Lloyd George Ministry de-
sires, the ancient land will have done better
than any in the world’s history out of occu-
pation by the foreigner. When Lord
Cromer went there it was bankrupt. To-day
—partly owing to British finance admin-
istrators, partly to British engineers—it is
rich. The fellaheen were slaves: they are
now as free as any Briton who is afflicted
with their ineradicable habit of patronising
usurers. Egypt used to be continually men-
aced by Mahdist invasions; the Soudanese
are unlikely to move again while the British
are in evidence. Nor could it ever run to
the fleet which is so necessary for its pro-
tection as the link between Europe on the
one side and Asia and Australia on the other.
A great deal of the country’s affluence and
comfort is derived from the tourists who
flock to Cairo, Luxor and the towns be-
tween ; and none know better than the
Gyppos that without the security represented
by some form of European control this
source of revenue, which is shared in by
everyone from Sheik to donkey-boy, would
THE NEW DEVILFISH ( Octopus dollaris).
vanish. During the world-war the Egyptians
were not called on to fight—in itself, from
their point of view, an inestimable boon. As
soldiers not even a Potsdam Guards regi-
ment is superior to them: as fighters few
are more gun-shy. So long as a British
garrison remains in the land and a British
squadron in the waters adjacent, the Gyp-
pos should never again be called on to do
anything more martial than mount guard in
front of the Khodivial palace; and no
arrangement could suit their tastes better.
Meantime British medical men arc tirelessly
showing the inhabitants how 7 to avoid dis-
ease ; British sanitary experts are replacing
the manners and customs of the Phakaohs
by modern methods of drainage and garbage
destruction; and British town-planners are
gradually eliminating the Wazzirs, which
arise wherever a few low-class Asiatics are
gathered together. It is a freedom mere
complete than the Egyptian people enjoyed
under Mahomet Ali; a luxury greater
than they knew before the arrival of the
Shepherd Kings. The opposition, with a
platform which demands the ousting of the
British, even if insolvency, invasion and
ruin result, consists of a night-gowned crowd
of dreamers who call themselves Nationalists.
Nationalism used to be a sane and inspiring
creed; but since President Wilson tabled
his Fourteen Points a variety of the old
Nationalist article has appeared who is
SaKSc I .' iu m “ nv ™ VK,s f ™'“ “
♦—
Canberra Finds Its Level.
The Canberra* capital has found its level at
ast, being classed as a relief work. But
the objections to the Place with the Curse
on It increase rather than diminish:—
. (1) the only capital on earth that is in two
pieces 140 3 nnles apart, which is a sillv thin<>- for
any metropolis to be. ' § 0
(2) Though the place is sometimes called “cen-
tral, because it is nearer to Sydney than to Mel-
boiirne U is so completely down in a corner as to
be further from any part of the Northern Territory
than Melbourne is. The N.T., being a vast Federal
piopeity looking out on Asia, is a good test of
centrality.
(•1) A capital at ’Berra will he under State influ-
ence and control, being surrounded and imprisoned bv
the territory of one State and dependent on it and its
railways for permission to exist—unless the railway
is built to the Federal allotment on Jervis Bay,
when there will be an inlet and outlet) (provided
the Federal Government has its own rolling-stock)
bv small coaster or ketch. A metropolis escaping by
ketch will be an interesting spectacle. In every
other capital the central authority either owns or
has legislative control over the lines. Already
the boss State Government has told the Common-
wealth that if it wants a connection with the main
Sn dney-Melbourne-Adolaiilc-Perth line it may whistle
for the same.
(4) Canberra isn t in the Federal Constitution, all
lies to the contrary notwithstanding.
(5) The people of New South Wales show no signs
of wanting Canberra now. The holding- of big
public meetings in favor of it has been abandoned
because people won't attend.
(6) The founding of another capital (the seventh)
inside the skimpy triangle defined by a line drawn
from Brisbane to Perth amounts to definitely reject-
ing the entire tropical and sub-tropical and half the
temperate sections of the Commonwealth as unfit
for white habitation, or at least for white legislative
habitation. The triangle inside which all the country's
capitals are situated is so narrow that the line
drawn from Brisbane to Perth —the line which cuts
them off from politically undeveloped and rejected
Australia—runs for most of the way south of the
East-to-West railway.
(7) 'No one really professes that Canberra has any
special advantages in the way of minerals, water-
power or manufacturing or commercial prospects. It
has pleasant scenery, just as Woolloomooloo had before
Woolloomooloo was built, and otherwise it rests
on the statement that it is a solemn, binding, consti-
tutional obligation, which it isn’t.
Aud now CornerbeiTa is a pauper-relief or
sand-shifting job. But Australia can't
afford relief jobs which cost a heap of money
(probably loan money), stop dead and cease
relieving as soon as the money i.s finished,
produce nothing to eat, drink or wear,
and don’t relieve the country from the
necessity for paying for that incredible heap
of imports which is doing most to make us
insolvent—jobs which, moreover, don't teach
anybody a trade or make anybody less unem-
ployable. The kind of relief works required
are woollen factories, linen factories, cotton
plantations, cotton factories, iron and steel
works, and plain, permanent things like
these.
*
The Million Farms.
S. XT. llekald the other day laid out the sites
for the Million Farms on which the Million
Farmers are to be planted at the orthodox
cost of £lOOO each to grow wheat for a
distant market where it sometimes fetches
4s. per bushel, and sometimes not so much.
And this was the lay out: —
For the present the Northern Territory may be
left out of consideration. Attention may be "con-
fined to the Northern Rivers districts of N. s.
ales, the Atherton tableland and the Burnett
region in Queensland, the south-west and north-west
coastal areas of Western Australia, and, chief ol
ail, the valleys of the great Murray Hirer system
The N.T., which is the Federal Government’s
own property and represents a sixth of the
Commonwealth, is always “left out of con-
sideration” in these jaunty little billionaire
schemes, there being no votes there—only
lots of Government land. Queensland and
Westralia have a casual mention, else it
might look a purely one-State affair. But
N.S.W., down in the south-east corner of
Australia and already fairly populated as
Australian standards go, is to have a lot
of tickets in the lottery. The Northern
Rivers district takes in the north-east. The
valleys of the Murray system which are to
have money spent on them “most of all’’
take in nearly all the rest of the State west
of the Dividing Range. In it are Went-
worth, Euston, Hay, Booligal, Broken Hill,
White Cliffs, all the waste places out to-
wards Milparinka and Ilungerford, every-
thing eastward, including Bourke, fill almost
in sight of the Brisbane-Sydney railway, and
everything inside this crescent —Cobar, Bath-
urst and Lithgow with the rest. Between the
blessed rivers and the blooming valleys about
DO per cent, of Carruthers’s State' is thus
marked down for loan development with the
money o ’ at least the credit of all Australia.
The Murray River basin, as shown on the
orographical maps, begins in the Blue
Mountains and only ends where the rivers
(so-called) begin to drift towards Lake Eyre
in S.A., and it includes fragments of
Queensland and Victoria. A really enter-
prising spendthrift could bury as many loan
millions there as Napoleon buried soldiers
in Russia. And while the big creature licked
its lips and looked up for more, the empty
Northern Territory would continue to hold
out its invitation to the crowded people of
Asia to come and take the lot.
—
When Queensland Treasurer Fiijelly an-
nounced his little surplus of £9830, old
hands sniffed ; but it was reserved for the
Auditor-General to burst the legend with a
bombshell. Prevented by alleged tardiness
on the part of sub-departments from present-
ing his regular annual report on State enter-
prises, the Auditor-General sent in an
interim report in which he drew attention
to the “very marked increase in the trust
fund on the working' account of State enter-
prises and the financial position of State
enterprises generally.” (The “marked in-
crease” was £385,274.) “It is questionable,”
he said, “whether under the circumstances
it is prudent to continue the prac-
tice of charging interest and redemp-
tion, and thereby benefiting consoli-
dated revenue and loan funds, at the
expense of the trust fund, especially as from
present indications it would appear unlikely
that within the next few years at least
State enterprises collectively will be in a
position to meet interest charges in addition
to working expenses.” Interest and redemp-
tion to the extent of £101,752 were debited
to the State enterprises trust fund and paid
in to consolidated revenue, so that the nlleved
surplus of £9830 was simply the result of a
piece of financial juggling.
From: Senator De Largie:—
Tiie Bulletin’s apology for Senator Givens’s
maladministration of a public department contains
many false assertions. So far as they affect myself
I do not mind, but the misrepresentations prejudice
the case of a working- man fighting against great
odds for justice—a man that a large number of mem-
berg here knew as a well-behaved public servant for
II years, and whose work was done in the full
gaze of these members. His offence is that he
insisted on being paid what the Wage Board of this
State and the Federal Arbitration Court awarded.
The Bulletin has read the evidence of Mr.
De Largie’s protege, and also the report of
the select committee and the two debates in
Hansard. It remains of the opinion that
it isn’t his job, as a Senator from Westralia,
to rage interminably in the National Parlia-
ment about the grievance of a Melbourne
liftman.


BRISBANE-SYDNEY RELIABILITY CONTEST.
'You Really Ride
on Goodrich Tiros
Mr. S. C. Otto way writes: —
“The Goodrich Tyres and Tubes I obtained from you for the Brisbane-Sydney
Reliability Contest have given me phenomenal results. They have covered 2000-odd
miles, including the Brisbane tour, and the back wheels show no signs of wear, and
the front ones would pass for new.
“They are the Best Tyres I have ever had, being fast and resilient, giving a
good, firm grip on the wet black soil of Queensland, making the use of chains
unnecessary, and I attribute my two fast times on hills largely to them.”
GOODRICH Tyres.
DUVAL (SL CO., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery ;
It is unlikely that Joe Cook will leave the Treas-
ury to become High Commissioner before the 'Esti-
mates are passed; but already speculation is keen
regarding his successor in the Reps. Senator Flat-
ten, who is determined to enter the Reps., has an
eye on the Parramatta seat, and is assured oi
strong support, even if, on dropping out of the*
Senate, he fails to get the Nationalist nomination.
Senator Millen is also known to cherish ambitions
of entering the other Chamber, but he won’t try
for Parramatta and leave another Senate vacancy.
The Dooley Government is bound to nominate a pal
for Senator Jupp Gardiner if Flatten retires, and
on that account the little Senator’s prospective
resignation is considered in Nationalist circles as
unpatriotic. It is not impossible therefore that he
may be opposed in Cook’s constituency by some
“Independent” expressing the same views. Lately
ex-Premier Holman has been mentioned as a possible
candidate.
From the N. S. Wales Gallery:
It was a poor affair, that cne-hit scrap the other
night. Attorney-General McTiernan, pale and timor-
ous, had been trying to bullock the Wheat Pool Bill
through committee by chopping oft' debate with the
closure. He had a majority of one, but when the
Opposition discovered that the majority had strayed,
and that something had simultaneously gone wrong
with the pairs—something that still left the Oppo-
sition one down-—Hell broke out in 15 places.
Stuart Robertson, the chairman, has a roar that
easily develops 100 h.p., but though he strained it
to the limit the noise was swamped by the howls
of rage and defiant bellowings from 71 £l6-a-week
democrats surging about the floor. Into a brief
break in the uproar cut the remark of one gentle-
man to another, “You’re a old cow”; but
for the rest it was just plain riot and howl. Jim
Onslow, foaming with passion, his face livid, leaped
round like a poisoned cat. Suddenly Molesworth
attracted liis notice, and, striding with outstretched
chin towards that attenuated youth, the warrior
threatened to annihilate him. Molesworth, stepping
hack, met the chin with a right chop. Instantly
the crowd fell upon them. There was a full-sized
sermn, a rocking to and fro and a general falling
back into places. “Order!’’ thundered Robertson.
Onslow stalked over to the table and told him he
was a liar. “Order!” It sounded like a burst of
artillery this time. Onslow slunk away. Every-
body was out of breath. There were apologies.
Some wandered out for a drink. McTiernan, terri-
fied at the rumpus, had looked on with his teeth
chattering. Lang, the Treasurer, brushed the poor
youth aside and got the Bill hustled away from
danger.
After providing £BB,OOO for arrears of
railway classification awards, Mel/herson,
Vic.’s careful Treasurer, had a surplus of
£74,336 last year, and expects to be £22,000
to the good at the end of 1021-22. About a
third of the surplus is to be devoted to
redeeming old-time deficit bonds and £40,000
will he spent on technical‘schools. The rail-
ways are still the bugbear of Vic.’s finance.
They are overmanned, and the Commis-
sioners don’t feel strong enough to weed out
the men they can do without.
A Commonwealth audit inspector who spent
some time in the N.T. has been setting down
a few reasons why the Government pubs
didn’t pay. Though 000 citizens (one-
seventh of the total male population) had
gone when lie was there, and others were
going, the Darwin caravanserais still em-
ployed the same number of toilers (51) as
in the boom days. Moreover, wages had in-
creased. A memo from the supervisor of
hotels to the Administrator explains that
"Bird Day was celebrated last week."
WHAT ABOUT A LITTLE MORE PROTECTION FOR THIS ONE?
Nelson, the A.W.TT. secretary, had said that
hands were not to be shortened, and, of
course, no one would dream of disobeying
Nelson. Darwin being a hot shop, the Gov-
eminent grog used to melt away furiously
in the mile journey between the wharf
and the liquor-store. Once 20 cases of beer
started on the trip, and only about a dozen
bottles reached the appointed place. Ihe
lost stingo was debited to the war account
or something of the soit.
g 0 f ar the present outbreak of plague has
j K>on confined to one State; and this may be
p ( ft down to good luck rather than to the
precautions taken. But good luck- has a
nas ty habit of exhausting itself just when
ft ft needed most, as any punter can testify,
an( j the Commonwealth should take steps
to be independent of it. An excellent start
might be made by abolishing the State Health
Departments and transferring the powers
they now have to a Federal health authority,
which would end the system by which one
lot of officials pursue the plague rat under
the wharf and another lot chase it on top
of the wharf. Such methods of combating
a threatening epidemic are only calculated
to produce scorn and derision.
Sweetly artless are Melbourne newspaper
comments on the prospects for the totalisa-
tor in Victoria. For instance:—
The most experienced members of Parliament
doubt whether any private member, however influen-
tial, can carry a Totalisator Bill through the
House. ... The fear which some Ministers and mem-
bers still entertain is that giving consent to the
passing of a Bill may appear like sanctioning
gambling. They admit, however, that the Betting
Tax Act, which authorises the collection of stamp
duty for the consolidated revenue on every bet, is
to xome extent an admission of the same principle.
To some extent! llow much further could
they possibly go in sanctioning gambling
than in taxing tickets issued by bookmakers
in preference to taking a percentage on
tickets issued by a totalisator? And does
any intelligent voter imagine that a majo-
rity of the Victorian legislators are afraid
to appear as though they were sanctioning
gambling? It isn’t “conscientious objectors,”
or professional hypocrites, that block the
passage of a Tote Hill. The wirepullers of
the anti-tote movement are adherents of
pony-racing and Parliamentary protlgls of
the betting ring. They also are the men who
will fight for the legalisation of bookmakers
in competition with the machine when it
comes.
For the first time in five years the Pri-
minister has been praised by a representative
Labor politician. When lie returned from
London one of the Labor papers courteously
likened him to a plague rat, but as soon
as Gregory McGirr, of N. S. Wales, got
back from the Premiers’ Conference a solemn
eulogy of the man so designated was handed
to the Sydney press. The explanation is
that Hughes has helped the Dooley Ministry
out of a hole it got into by refusing to
gazette the Board of Trade’s reduction of os.
a week in the basic wage. The Priminister’s
proposal that a Court of Commonwealth and
State Judges should be appointed to fix a
basic wage for the continent will give Dooley
and McGirr at least a colorable excuse for
tearing up their scrap of paper. And
McGirr, at least, is grateful.
The character of the so-called _ socialist
administration of Queensland is indicated by
the trickery recently practised whereby the
Auditor-General was prevented from sending
in bis report on State Enterprises, necessary
documents and balance-sheets being withheld
from him. So Theodore got into recess, and
now current gossip has it that a trip to
America is in prospect that the balance
of the nine million loan recently authorised
may be raised. Whereupon the Bowen Steel
Works and sundry other fantastic tricks
may be operated before high Heaven and the
country loaded up with more unproductive
debt and more unspeakable interest bill.
Though the Tas. Opposition had no chance
of shifting the I.ee Government on the no-
contidenee motion of a few days ago, it was
not an altogether purposeless stunt. Three
or four Nationalist members of the Minis-
terial party of 17 have been criticising Min-
isters. and in certain working-class locali-
ties have even repudiated some of their
actions. Lyons’s motion of no-confidence was
an application of the acid test to these political
Jnnuses. Whitsitt made the least successful
effort to bluff through the unpleasant situa-
tion. He declined to cross to tin* Opposi-
tion side, despite his declared lack of con-
fidence in Ministers, explaining that his soli-
tary vote could not result in the defeat of
the Government, and would, therefore, be
thrown away. But if the disgruntled Hobbs
or I’ollard or Newton, or any one of them, had
the pluck to defy party and cross the floor
with him, together they would assist the
Opposition to oust tin* Government and
bring about a dissolution. Of course, Whit-
sitt’s challenge was not accepted, and lie
fled the Chamber before the division was
taken. These party politicians are amusing
little cusses.
When the nude cannibal is threatened
with exposure In* is able to reply that, hav-
ing been exposed all his life, lie doesn’t see
that it would make much difference among
those that know him. Possibly this in some
way expresses the attitude of the Syduev
Municipal Council majority, which has re-
ceived more passionate, not to say insulting,
queries on more subjects tlmu falls to the
lot of the average body of its size, and has
not even looked as if it was worth while to
reply or explain or be more than virtuously
indignant. The latest weekly insult came
about when Alderman Meagher asked why a
council with only one month’s life left in its
carcase should hasten to give*, without publicity
or competition, a contract for 2(i months’
supply of coal of a little-known brand, at a
price said to be higher than that which the
favored capitalists charge to petty customers,
and to do this, too, in the face of a probably
falling market. Questions of that sort
would make some men angry, as hinting at a
threat to undress them iu public. Some men
would become so wild as to demand a court-
martial at the first time, let alone the
twelfth time, of asking, and would plunge
about saying that their honor was involved
and that their garment of impeccability was
being taken away from them. On the other
hand .some prideless and grubby persons
wouldn’t. It is all a matter of having, or
not having, the nude feeling.
The roar of Queensland Minister Jones
that Oppositionist Fowles offered him a
bribe of £2OOO two years ago is the mil-
lionth argument that the thing known as
Parliamentary privilege should be abolished
—certainly as between members. A certain
restricted exemption from libel proceedings
might be necessary so far as the general public
is concerned, lest a member should be shot at
in court by 1000 dairymen or wineshop
keepers for being too careless in his words
when trying to reform the cancered cow or
the basement drinkery ; but wholesale privi-
lege merely gives the politician license to
be the most scurrilous and least dependable
person in the community.
“Bilbad” on telegraphs and defences: —
Australia’s telegraph service is altogether too vul-
nerable. For example, the other clay one pole some-
where between Sydney and Brisbane collapsed, and
inter-State business relative to the three States
directly concerned (Victoria, N.S.W. and Queens-
land) was hung up till late in the afternoon. East-
West traffic 'was also hampered. Luckily when the
line “came right” it was in splendid order, permit-
ting the last notch of speed from the streaking
automatic telegraph. But from every point of view
it is a bad business. The Hawkesbury bridge is
the weak point in Australia’s railways, and in the
telegraph service every pole over thousands of miles
of lonely country is a Hawkesbury bridge. Future
construction should have an eye on alternative
routes.
In N. S. Wales no place except Sydney
has its own Harbor Trust or Board. Among
places which are not capitals, Geelong
(Vic.) has one. So have Bundaberg, Cairns
and Rockhampton (Queensland) ; Bunbury
(W.A.) ; Launceston, Burnie and Table
Cape (Tas.). Newcastle, a bigger and older
port than any of them, has been denied this
scrap of self-government, lest a Trust or
Board should fit up the place for wool and
wheat export and compete with Sydney.
Under pressure, however, Treasurer Lang
has agreed, not exactly to grant a Harbor
Trust, but to appoint a Royal Commission
to brood over the matter, and he suggested
a Sydney official to do the brooding. As a
decentralising Government, the present one
is as unique as the tree-climbing shark.
WHAT SAY THE STARS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sower sows, the Reaper reaps;
The sower Life, the reaper Death.
In them alone is certitude;
For no man drawing mortal breath,
Though all success and fortune crown
His little deeds, can tell the hour
When, shaken by some earthquake-power,
His ancient gods may tumble down.
To him who thinks upon the Past—
Its sorrows, failures, hates and wars —
And seeks to know what lies before
The anxious world, what say the stars?
Since first beside some ancient sea
The cave-man slew his shag-haired foe
With jagged flints, all things they know —
What say they of the things to be?
From peace to war, from war to peace,
The pendulum of human fate
Swings to and fro; and though we dream
With eyes aglow and hearts elate
Of days when he who sows and reaps
Shall sow and reap in endless peace,
And strife in. all its aspects cease,
The pendulum its motion keeps.
To drag a beast from out his den,
To pare his claws and draw his fangs,
Mankind has dabbled deep in blood.
Enduring death and deadly pangs
Of pain and hunger, grief and strife,
And all that War the Tyrant gives,
To free the age wherein it lives
Of something foreign to its life.
And yet, when clawless, toothless, bound
The beast lies bloody in the dust,
And sword and banner, bright and bravt
Are food alone for moth and rust,
Shall every hawk become a dove? •
And every wolf forget its breed?
And shali there be no hate, indeed,
But only universal love?
What say the stars? No word they say.
A miracle may loose their speech,
But, lacking that, the stars are dumb ;
A watcher through the ages, each
Has seen the earth made red by war
So many times, since time was first,
That it must seem a sphere accurst —
A blood-drenched planet set afar.
What say the stars? If speech they had—
Because so many hearts have dreamed,
Because so many knees have bent,
Because so many tears have streamed—
The stars would say, though drear and dull
The future seem to mortal scope ■
“Dream on, dream on, 0 Sons of Hope,
The dream, at least, is beautiful!”
N .S. W .
RODERIC QUINN.


A Bush Broiher
on the
Wav - p &tfx .
Seeking Converts.
Now , 1 wonder i/ iharl girl
is a Nun in disguise."
" Girl , swear +o me. That
you Kava not drugged
t»y pic* * v
A Sunday
Morning Two-op
va.id .
6 P. rA ,
Oh whzkt
5h2.1l iha-
bo,
TrAppe-cI !?
A RELIGIOUS REVIVAL.
“The kidna pping of ex-Sister (M i s s P artri d ge) a t Kogarah by a large body of men was only short lived. Miss Partridge was discovered in
Hunter-street, Sydney, and brought to police headquarters. Remarkable scenes followed, amd a tense air of excitement pervsded the building for the three
bours that the ex-nun remained there. The dramatic climax was reached when she publicly made her choice of friends-and went home with the Rev. Mr.
and Mrs Touchell. Action has been taken to prevent Miss Partridge from being further molested.”-Sydney TELEGRAPH.


8
-V-
-fir.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
There is a Pioneer
Leather Beit for every
power-transmission pur-
pose—a belt whose relia-
bility is backed by sixty-
three years of manufac-
turing experience. Pioneer
Leather Belting is made
and guaranteed by
J. C. Ludowici
Son Ltd.,
Pioneer House,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Loyal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) ;
To Re- Re-
l’roflts. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1912. .£22,464 8 p.c.= £12, 000£10, 464 £184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 „ ~ 12,000 11,052 195,459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 „ „ 12,000 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1814.. 23,069 8 „ ~ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed . . 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 8 p.c. = 12,000 S,lBO 240,345
Mar., 1915.. 19.316 8 ~ ~ 12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 ~ ~ 12,000 5,255 252,916
Mar., 1916.. 19,485 8 „ „ 12,000 7,485 260,401
Sept., 1916.. 19,590 8 ~ „ 12,000 7,590 267,991
Mar., 1917.. 22,164 8 ~ „ 12,000 10,164 278.155
Sept., 1917.. 22,307 8 „ „ 12,000 10,307 288,462
Mar., 1918.. 25,256 8 „ ~ 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918.. 26,180 8 ~ „ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Mar., 1919.. 29,413 8 „ „ 12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept., 1919.. 41,489 9 ~ „ 22,500 18,989 352,300
Mar., 1920.. 46,696 10 „ ~ 25,000 21,696 373,996
Sept., .1920.. 55,230 10 ~ „ 25,000 30,230 404,225
Premiums on new shares, £40,000. . 444,226
Mar., 1921.. 59,194 10 p.c.= 37,500 21,694 465,919
Sept., 1921.. 58,216 10 ~ ~ 37,500 20,716 486,635
Three years ago paid capital was only
£300,000 ; reserves were slightly more. Paid
capital is now £750,000, and premiums on
new shares and profits since accumulated
have taken reserves to £480,035. The Royal’s
business lias expanded very rapidly during
recent years, and it has found such profit-
able employment for all the new funds that
10 p.c. drvs. are now being paid as easily as
8 p.c. was found on the smaller capital. This
shows the development since the war began :
Liabilities.
Sept., ? l4. Sept.,’2o. Sept.,’2l.
Notes .. .. £1,014 £859 £845
Bills, etc. . . 241,497 540,023 657,927
Free deposits . . 845,781 2,201,745 2,283,889
Fixed deposits . . 1,414,121 2,218,549 2,310,096
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 1,288,004 1,707,145 1,719,336
Advances . . 1,704,154 4,204,297 4,652,206
Premises, etc. . . 62.600 155,580 155,350
And, going back further still, here is a
record of how gross earnings and expenses
have grown in September terms (the bank
started in 88) :
Sept.
half, Gross Profits. Exes.
1900 .. .. £8,930 £3,067
1910 .. .. 28,731 9,887
1914 .. .. 35,309 15,129
1919 .. .. 69,525 28,036
1920 .. .. 89,995 34,765
1921 .. .. 97,095 38,879
The new capital has preserved the relation
of the bank’s funds to its debts. After pay-
ment of the latest divs. the Royal showed
£1,236,035 of shareholders’ money in the
business; total liabilities to the public at
Sept. 30 were £5,252,757. Thus only £4 ss.
of the public’s money was held for every
£1 of shareholders’ funds. From that point
of view the Royal looks strong, and the man-
agement is in a position to accept new busi-
ness without calling on shareholders to put
up more protecting capital. The strain of
abnormal trading conditions during the past
32 months is, however, reflected by the volume
of advances. As a result slightly less than
one-third of all liabilities was in liquid form
at the balance. The strain was even greater
six months ago, when nearly £200,000 more
was out in advances, and from a banker’s
point of view the loans of a few months
ago looked very different from those now
on the books. The dumping of huge sup-
plies of high-priced goods at a time when
prices were slumping heavily, and when the
public’s spending capacity was also a doubt-
ful factor, gave many anxious moments for
the banker. However, traders have come
through better than might have been ex-
pected ; there have been crashes (mostly
amongst gamblers in exchange) and sub-
stantial losses have resulted in numerous
instances. But, generally, an all-round re-
duction of profits has been the worst that
has happened, and there have not been many
instances in which the banks have had to
put in the bailiff, though in some cases they
have had to become as insistent as a t.-p.
collector in pursuit of arrears. The worst
of the troubles created by the deluge of
costly imports have been passed, and, pro-
vided a good season and fair markets are
experienced, and Governments keep out
of the loan market, the Australian banking-
position should become more sound than it
lias been in recent abnormal years. But we
are not ouite out of the wood yet; the wheat
and wool outlook is certainly brighter than
it was a few months ago. but in other direc-
tions, particularly in metals, the future is
uncertain. Our dependence on markets the
other end of the world precludes a return
to normal conditions until the purchasers of
our produce first straighten out their affairs.
Meantime, prices and wages are all in the
melting-pot, and the Commonwealth’s
domestic position is, consequently. un-
certain and troublesome. One of the
greatest problems of the moment is the pre-
servation of the numerous industries which
have been established locally during the
world uproar, and which are now threat-
ened by the cheap-labor dumper. For the
rest, a firm hold on the public and private
purse is necessary, and a determination to
set about re-arranging our affairs so that
when the world does become settled once
more we can make the most of the oppor-
tunities offering.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in
Sydney and elsewhere, and do much of it on
a time-payment basis :
Dividends.
f — A - ——\
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1911.. 43,482 8250 8 p.c.= 15,000 2788 37,738
1912.. 51,430 9000 8 „ ~16,000 2946 61,222
1913.. 36,121 9000 8 „ ~16,000 3379 68,964
1914.. 38,660 9000 S ~ ~16,000 4171 78,453
1915.. 34,868 9000 8 „ ~16,000 4066 84,255
1916. . 39,607 9000 8 „ ~16,000 4873 93,939
1917.. 45,271 9000 10 „ ~20,000 4148 106,112
1918.. 49,787 9000 10 „ ~20,000 4233 122.666
Reserves capitalised, £87,500 . . 35,166
Ist 2nd
Prefs. I’refs. Ord.
6 p.c. 74 p.c. 10 p.c.
1919.. 54,193 9,000 3,281 20,000 4,771 52,307
£60,000 (in snares) received tor
goodwill of Bon Marche business.. 112,307
Less £3026 Bon Marche flotation
exes. . . . . . . . . 109,281
84 p.e. 74 p.c. 124 p.c.
1920.. 78,174 12,750 6,562 25,000 4,861 138,282
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1921.. 58,820 9,000 11,43,1 20,000 15,071 141,600
Before extracting interim or final divs. the
11,I 1 , and L. account showed a credit of
£57,980; but £15,356 of that was brought in
from tlie previous year. So apparently only
£42,630 was available to provide £40,431 of
divs. for shareholders —the ordinary div.
going back to 10 p.c. and no bonus on this
occasion being voted the prefs. But that
does not present actual results quite fairly :
£lO,OOO of the period’s net earnings went
in writing down the book value ol shares
in other cos., and £lll9 also found its way
to an insurance fund, which, barring acci-
dents, may also be regarded as a genuine
reserve. Net earnings were thus £53,749,
assuming that the £lO,OOO written off shares
in other enterprises was not actual depre-
ciation experienced in that quarter during
the year. The £5071 written off leaseholds,
plant, etc., makes up the £58,820 shown
by the introductory table. Marcus Clark,
therefore, did very well despite the collapse
of prices. That the figures are all they
should be is vouched for by the directors’
assurance that “stocks have been carefully
valued, having regard to existing conditions,”
and by a further statement that recent stock
replacements have been at prices “lower
than those ruling to-day.” Fortunately for
all traders, during the slump the spending
capacity of the public was almost as great
as ever-—so what Marcus Clark’s dropped in
price-curtailment it partly recovered from
increased turnover.
Though the ordinaries’ div. goes back to
10 p.c.. that is a very satisfactory return
in view of all the circumstances. To old
holders the yield is even better. In ’l9
£87,500 of reserves were capitalised, but in-
stead of issuing bonus ordinaries 2nd 74
prefs. of £1 paid to 10s. were allotted. Dur-
ing the past year the balance of 10s. per
share was got in. So those who got in at
par received 11 p.c. last year on the cash
they have put in—a reward for patience in
bygone years, when only 8 p.c. divs. were
paid, though profits warranted better. This
self-denial was a big factor in expanding the
business. Between 1909-19 the co. was
visibly strengthened by £136,000 of stored
profits. Though £87,500 was converted into
scrip, reserves are now £141,600 ; but about
£57,000 of that came from the sale of Bon
Marche, a side-line business, to a separate
co. which handed the parent a big swag of
shares for goodwill. How healthy are the
substantial reserves shown depends to a
considerable extent on the health of the sub-
sidiary. Bon Marche balances in January
each year, and when last heard of was shaping
well. But the Marcus Clark management is
doing a wise thing by writing off £lO,OOO
of the book value of its interests in the sub-
sidiary and thus strengthening the parent’s
position. Balance-sheet figures have moved
in this way since 1910: —
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Mortgages. . . . £54.000 £69,500 £70,000 £57.500
Other debts .. 103,187 47,064 213,710 311.874
Stock .. .. 179,357 158,758 228,475 320,325
Book debts .. 171,402 192,802 304.735 337,177
Freeholds . . . . 90,556 93,604 123.189 154,758
Leaseholds.. .. 18,929 72,825 68,738 65,677
Plant, etc. . . 18,724 21,633 22.860 24,080
Shares in other cos. ■ —- 9,993 120,493 119,689
Cash, etc 7,343 13,702 19,533 35,234
Though £87,500 of new capital was got
during the year, liabilities have expanded
almost as much. Stocks have taken most
of the additional funds, but new premises
and large book debts have also put a strain
on finances. The business has developed
very rapidly; last year new premises were
completed at Wollongong— "the finest on the
South Coast,” say the directors —and the
co. has also been developing at Newcastle.
Much of the co.’s business is on t.-p. terms,
hence the magnitude of the book debts. Paid
capital is £525,000, in 150,000 0 p.c. Ist
prefs., 175,000 71 2nd profs, and 200,000
ordinaries, all paid to £l.
Colton, Palmer and Preston, Ual.,
hardware merchants, leather manufacturers,
etc. (Adelaide) -
Dividends.
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. Ordinary. off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1914.. 26,670 5160 7 p.c. = 12,600 8,946 7,800
1915.. 32,968 5345 7 „ „ 12,600 12,990 9,833
1916.. 44,657 5345 8 „ „ 14,400 20,343 14,402
1917.. 44,603 5345 104 „ ~ 18,900 12,589 22,171
1918.. 52.961 5345 10* ~ ~ 18,900 24,288 26,599
1919.. 32,777 5345 104 „ „ 18,900 8,532 26,599
1920.. 66,959 5345 104 „ „ 18.900 24,630 44,683
1921.. 61,809* 5345 104.. ~ 18,900 21,540 60,707*
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
This co. took over two old concerns—Har-
rold, Colton and Co., Ltd., and Palmer, Pres-
ton and Co., Ltd. —10 years ago; and they
themselves were amalgamations. The pur-
chase price was £15)8,000, satisfied b.v
£llB,OOO of cash, £30,000 of 5 p.c. prefs.
and £50,000 of ordinaries. The public was
invited to take up 70,000 prefs. and 100,000
ordinaries. The co. apparently began with
£15,375 of its capital represented by good-
will, preliminary exes, and patent rights,
but these intangibles have been written down
until at the latest balance the only goodwill
entry was £l5O, book value of patents. The
table gives results since the co.’s second year,
but the profits are not those shown by the
individual accounts. The latter exhibit
results before paying taxes; in the table
profits for any year are shown after deduct-
ing taxation revealed by subsequent
accounts. These clippings have varied
widely: £7704 of the 1017 profits shown by
the directors dropped out; £15,000 for 1018 ;
£7909 for 1910; and £2454 for 1020. How
much of the £61,509 shown in the last line
will have to go cannot be ascertained until
next year’s accounts are available, so both
the profits and reserves for the last year are
subject to adjustment. The feature of the
table is the magnitude of the amounts writ-
ten off annually, and as the co. does not
appear to inhabit extensive leaseholds, the
reason for such large provisions is not clear.
The co. is not at all talkative: beyond the
stock phrase in the reports that “the busi-
ness has been successfully conducted” and
a line in the accounts that the amounts
written off are against “leases, horses and
vehicles, patent rights, trade-fixtures and
plant, and provision for bad and doubtful
debts, etc.,” the directors are silent. It
appears, though, that, besides freeing the
balance-sheets of practically all goodwill and
other intangible items, and accumulating
substantial visible reserves, they have also
taken advantage of good profits to provide
for contingencies.
This shows balance-sheet movements since
the second lot of accounts were presented;—
1913 1920 1921.
Liabilities .. .. £100,u35 £102,967.£180,671
Freeholds and leaseholds 81,595 89,369 89,822
Machinery, plant, etc. . . 15,755 8,622 7,669
Stocks 209,943 207.559 308,068
Book debts . . . . 93,858 134,438 134,484
Investments . . . . 1,405 11,701 2,924
Since 1013 only £4OOO of new capital has
been got in. But, meantime, with the assist-
ance of only £74,636 more from outside, the
book value of stocks has expanded £98,125,
book debts are £40,626 larger and £1660
more other tangible assets are shown. Thus
besides paying good divs. on the ordinaries —
the 5 p.c. prefs. have, of course, proved very
cheap money in recent abnormal years—
the management has strengthened the con-
cern considerably. There are £lBO,OOO ords.
and £106,903 prefs. After payment of final
divs., and.assuming taxation will take £7OOO,
there were net visible assets equal to about
265. per £1 ordinary share.
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney), which started in May, 1911, with
a deficit of £7064, represented by goodwill
£5OOO and preliminary expenses £2064: —
Bonus
, —Dividends—to Cus-
Aug., Profit. Pref. Ord. tomers. Defif.it.
1912.. £1375 6 p.c. 5 p.c. £726 £9O £ 6514
1913.. 1549 6 ~ 5 „ 995 Nil 598 ft
1914.. 1173 6 „ 5 ~ 1064 Nil rpf4
1915.. 415 6 „ Nil 259 Nil 66 fin
1916.. 983 6 „ 4 p.c. 088 Nil 6079
1917.. 1184 6 „ 4 „ 996 Nil 54§§
1918.. 1403 G „ 5 „ 1187 Nil 5266
1919.. 1507 6 „ 5 „ 1188 Nil 4947
1920.. 2934 0 „10 „ 2158 Nil 4171
Forfeited shares, £220 . . .. (
Unclaimed divs., £8 .. .. j
1921.. 1021 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 1389 Nil 4305
£lOOO of goodwill disappears .. 3305
It now -definitely appears that the Farmers’
Fertilizers Corp. has missed the ’bus. It
started out 10 years ago with ndfflii’fiblo
intentions: promoter Arthur 11. HaSfiJl,
whose business had been acquired (he had
been importing 20,000 tons super annually),
anticipated handsome profits, which would
be whacked with Cocky, and thus give an
air of co-operation to the enterprise. He
had visions of a £50,000 co. which would
manufacture fertilisers locally instead of
depending on foreign crushers and blenders,
though, of course, it ‘would still have
to go abroad for the bulk of its
raw material. At the time of flota-
tion there was only one factory at work
in ,N. 8. Wales. HasqlPs appeal brought
forth less than £28,000 of capital, and £5OOO
of that represented goodwill shares issued
for the old connection. The co. got to work
at .Merrylands, but it has failed to give
shareholders anything but very mild divs.,
and £99 in the first year is all Cocky has
had in bonuses on purchases. Nowadays,
besides the Sulphide Corporation’s big super
plant at Cockle Creek, there is the half-
million Australian Fertilizers Pty., which,
incidentally, took over the Shirley and Elliott
manure businesses, at work at Port Kembia.
Meantime, from a profit-earning point of
view, liaseH’s co. continues sick. During
recent years difficulty has been experienced
in securing supplies of raw material, and
for one reason and another sales have be-
haved in this way :— :
1914 .. £38,107 1 1918 .. £12,778
1915 .. 44,387 ! 1919 .. 10,658
1916 .. 80,102 | 1920 .. 30,276
1917 .. 19,547 1 1921 .. 17,445
The year’s net profit was only £lO2l. Never-
theless, the directors have distributed £3OB
more than was earned. Portion of tins came
from the 'previous year’s carry-forward of
£329, but a further £234 made available for
divs. was derived from forfeited shares and
unclaimed divs. It is an ugly entry in the
accounts, and the inclusion of forfeited
shares as distributable earnings is a highly
questionable proceeding. The amount is, of
course, trifling; but the principle is wrong.
A further mystery in the latest balance-sheet
is the unexplained disappearance of £lOOO
of goodwill—that item now stands in the
books at £4OOO. Apparently, since the writ-
ing-down has not been effected out of actual
earnings, there has been a writing-up of
other assets. The Merrylands property —
some of it vacant land which the co. pro-
poses to subdivide—now has a book value
of £7981, against £7025 12 months ago,
and that increase considered in conjunction
with the directors’ statement that the pro-
perty “continues to increase in value” pos-
sibly explains how £lOOO of goodwill has
been displaced. If the new book values of
the property are right, there can be no
objection to replacing the intangible (and,
for all practical purposes, valueless) good-
will with something that does actually exist.
The co.’s position from the viewpoint of
creditors is very snug: at August 31 it
owed only £993 and had in cash alone
£5512. Divs. have since cut into that for
£1389. The freehold, etc., £l4Bl of plant,
etc., £4174 of stocks and £3lll of book debts
make up the balance of assets.
The Austral llat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne)
f— ——-Dividends Ro-
June. Profits. Pref. Ol'd. Off. serves.
1910.. £2559 7 p.c.=£ll9o 10 p.c.=£soo £269 £1,924
1911.. 2678 74 „ „ 1275 104 „ „ 525 412 2,390
Premiums on new shares, £BOO .. 3,190
On all shares.
1912.. 5019 9 p.c. =£2201 999 5,009
1913.. 4460 9 ~ „ 2700 1018 5,751
1914.. 968 4 „ „ 1200 318 5,201
1915.. 1512 Nil 435 6,278
1916.. 3629 10 p.c. = 3000 425 6,482
1917.. 4144 10 „ „ 3000 517 7,109
1918.. 4798 10 ~ „ 3000 812 8,095
1919.. 4551 10 „ „ 3000 725 8,921
1920.. 6964 10 „ „ 3000 1514 11,371
1921.. 4112 8 „ ~ 2400 1096 11,987
As a rule the accounts are left to tell their
own story; but on this occasion the direc-
tors’ silence is broken:—
The falling off of business during the second half
of the financial year, combined with other adverse
causes, is responsible for the diminished profits.
The prospects for the coming year, from the manu-
facturers' standpoint, are not encouraging, although
the well-known recuperative powers of the Australian
market are such as to exclude an unduly pessimistic
outlook.
The accounts show a trading profit of £2293
for the year; but £722, apparently net re-
turns from investments, went directly into
reserves. The year’s net profit was, there-
fore, slightly more than £3OOO, after writing
off £lO9O for depreciation of buildings and
plant. So 10 p.c. was earned on capital,
which was not at all bad considering the un-
favorable conditions. The hat-manufactur-
ing industry got its first large opportunity
when the war shut out imported chapeaux
and the Digger had to lie equipped. Since
1915 divs. have averaged 9n p.c. p.a., and
meantime £5700 (19 p.c. on capital) has
been visibly laid aside. This gives another
view of the co.’s position at various dates: —
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. ..£9,566 £484 £4,493 £3,442
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 9,759 11,917 8,480 7,516
..Stock 20,864 18.264 12,286 14,961
Book debts . . .. 3.645 2,832 3,239 2,586
Cash and investments 316 3,748 23,359 21,266
Of the co.’s £30,000 of capital and £11,987
of reserves only £25,000 is tied up in free-


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It coats but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
,". e 1 tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkablv
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tin
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
ompany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney : and corner Queen and Little Collins
streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. r 2
Before you instal your new water-supply system
you would be wise to investigate the merits of the
economical and efficient Pioneer Wood Pipe. It is
extremely durable, and, being non-corrosive, resists
the action of acid fumes, brine and alkalies. Pioneer
Wood Pipe is low in first cost, and entails prac-
tically no maintenance charges. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.
* » » —Advt.
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Kassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office, tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt,
• * » #
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants-’
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models’’—-“National’’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
# —Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s Ss Oertlinn-'*
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv ft Co
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb —Advt
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Svdr> o v.— Advt.
WE DIDN’T ASK FOR THIS.
It did not astonish us, for it confirms what all other users of
Wichita trucks have told us:
To Guthridge, Limited, Camperdown, Sydney.
your fl™ tzrt P,eaSU ; e f “!■ SMin fi, tha , t the , tW0 ,-‘ 0n Wichita Lor 'y that purchased from
be carried wifh eat n Sa “ sfactlon ' We load tons, but we are sure three tons could
be carried with ease. On one occasion we took two tons from the Womboyne River (7 miles very
d) “W r rcat Itonulv y ‘ f ° rmed j t w T f thra ' a dis ' an , ce of evenly (70) miles without any trouble.
We can strongly recommend the Wichita to anybody wanting to purchase a truck.
“The Wichita U^ Ptl0n a Tf rd f g ? S l-ii PCr ga ,^ on l° ac bng both ways, over very hilly country.
1 he Wichita is a wonderful hill climber, and most reliable.
“Yours faithfully, McKENNA, DELLOW and BULLOCK,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES- “Motor Lorry Proprietors, EDEN.”
8*
7*
mat
£
“IR It
sW'l
9S%
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
Chancery Houss » Chancery Lane, Melbourne. Red Trams stop at door.
hold property, plant, stock and book debts.
After payment of the final div. there was
a surplus of War Loan (market value), de-
posits and cash over liabilities of £10,924.
So 11s. 3d. per £1 share is at hand in safest
ot securities. As there is 10s. Sd. more in
fixed assets, apparently well written down,
the position from shareholders’ point of view
is very snug.
N. S. Wales Premier Dooley rubbed
elbows during Cup week with big Broken
Dilutes in Melbourne. The lid is kept very
tight down to prevent any leakage of the
words of wisdom that passed, but there are
no signs that the Hill situation has been
helped by the conference. Dooley no doubt
wants to get out of providing relief money,
blit the cos. cannot see their way to extend
work while it does not pay to do so. The
zinc concentrates contract is the main factor
in keeping about a couple qf thousand men
at work ; as for lead, it doesn’t seem possible
that we can compete under present condi-
tions with foreign production. One ship-
ment of leadies has gone forward, no doubt
for treatment on the Continent, and others
are on the way. This concerns Port Pirie
more than Sydney, though it means curtail
mg orders for coal from X. S. Wales mines
tor the S. Aus. smelters. The market got
the idea that Dooley would undertake to do
something with the Edmunds award, but the
reaction in prices shows that the general
opinion is now otherwise.
r*. . * *
\V estralia’s first oil boom has burst, but
toitunately it was of small dimensions, and
casualties have been few. The collapse is
attributed to: (1) Dissatisfaction at the
delay m allotment of Frenev's shares and
the consequent inability of intending profit-
takeis to get out before the market broke-
~l}. tho uncalled capital risk in connection
Wlt i A', ene * v s 7~it's a limited liability co.;
and (3) realisation of the extent of the
promoters’ grab both in Frenev’s and in
Cakes. The market slump began when,
after the first excitement, the fact dawned
rVi?mo th f ~üblic that *lO.OOO cash and
"iVi 1 -nrt ar , es "T re in one case, and
xli.oOO cash and 85,000 shares in the other,
tor what, after all, were outlandish conces-
sions on which only traces or indications of
oil had been proved. Having got in early the
promoters of Frenev's had an over-sub-
scribed flotation, but Hake’s has not be >n
rushed.
“Walking Beam”; Geologist Blatchford’s
report on Bremer Bay (W.A.) oil prospects,
on the top of Wilson’s report made a little
while before, might possibly at last convince
the promoters of the South-Western Oil and
Go. that it has a dud. Dr. Pritchard,
ot Melbourne, and oil-man Ivessal. after a
close inspection of the district, told the direc-
tors what their chances were as far back
9 s , last. But some people take a
lot of convincing. The actual seepage occurs
some 60 miles from Bremer Bay. and in a
quartzite cliff in the valley of the Fitz
gerald liiver. This cliff is called Jona-
coonac, a name given by the aborigines and
meaning the “Devil’s dunghill”—so even
Binghi forestalled the geologist.
* * j t jj.
American Beach Oil, the S. Aus. concern
which intends to prod Kangaroo Island, has
most of its machinery and gear in position,
and is almost ready to set the drill at work.
* * *
Though Ive’s Reward (W.A.) cannot yet
claim to have got beyond the prospecting
stage, the directors still persist in declaring
that “it appears to be undoubted that the
co. has a highly satisfactory property.” Fol-
lowing upon N. E. Giblin’s report, develop-
nient lately lias been concentrated on the
Main lode. No. 3 shaft is down 68ft., and
a crosscut going east to link up with No 6
shaft has averaged 17dwt. over the 35ft
where it went through the lode. Mean-
time a crosscut from 118 ft. in No. 6 and
f oin ?>< 'y esb has got into 24ft. of ore, assays
lor 20ft. averaging loMlwt. The draw for
treatment at the State battery put the Re-
ward last in the queue, so no' stone will go
under the stamps until early next year. A
third call. (3d. this time) is being made and
should bring- in £l3Ol. This with -the cash
0f.£1580 in hand—the auctioning of
at Is. helped—will give the
co. about £2600 after sundry accounts have
been paid. But £2OOO has to go to vendors
on December 15, so £6OO will be all the
working capital available until the State bat-
tery hands over the gold won from the ore
ready for treatment. A further £2OOO cash
is payable to vendors in September next
l nder the varied agreement £14,500 of 8 p.c.
debentuies which were to have been repay-
month are being converted into
x 10,1)00 or non-interest debentures maturing
in December, 1024. This debt has, how-
ever, been reduced to £SOOO by holders part-
ing with £2OOO of the paper to the co for
£044.
* * * ' »
Having abandoned alleged riches at Mt.
Monger (W.A. 1, Lass o’ Gowrie directors
were planning to take over the option held
by McCahon’s at Castlemaine (Vic - .). How-
ever, a meeting of shareholders in Adelaide
the other day would not agree: a ballot
found 17,200 votes in favor of the move and
14,(»00 against, but a three-fourths majority
was required. Having previously aban-
doned the option on Nature’s Reward, the
co. is now still without a property, and so
is “in recess.” There is left £1650 in cash
and War Bonds, and an account for £6535
in the name of the late secretary also figures
as an “asset.”
* * *
Hampton Celebration hopes to have a
plant capable of treating 3000 tons a month
installed by March, but until an improved
water-supply is available only about half
that quantity will be handled. The mine is
better at the No. 3 level than at the No. 2.
* * *
Dick Osborne lias had another look at the
Mutooroo, Hampton Plains, and, having re-
turned to Adelaide, he expresses himself fully
convinced that the show has prospects to
the west, which hitherto has not received
attention.
* * * *
Three cos. which tried and failed at
Hampton Plains—Hunter's Pernatty, Bril-
liant and Celebration North Blocks—have
lately again come under public notice. The
first-named, claims to have secured 2000 sq.
miles of oil and coal concessions in the
Northern Territory; the second, with only
£470 in hand, states it has taken an option
on a lease adjoining the Lass o’ Cowrie’s
cast-off at Mt. Monger, and the third an-
nounces that after 13 months’ prospecting
at Widgiemooltha it is still not down-
hearted, but neither has it found anything
worth while.
Colden Hope has a promising shoot of ore
exposed at 100 ft., and is now looking to
shareholders to provide the wherewithal to
prove the lode at 200 ft. The show has
prospects, but Hampton Plains does not so
far hold out much hope of pay values at
depth.
* * * *
The importance of Collie (W.A.) has been
added to by a local boring party striking
several seams of coal in new ground. The
three best have a total thickness of 27ft.
extending over an area of about 2000 acres.
Ibis gives a workable quantitv under pre-
sent conditions of nearlv 36.000,000 tons,
which at the rate of 150,000 tons a year
would take 240 years or thereabouts to
extract.
* * * «
Somebody in London has asked Westralia,
through the Commonwealth Bureau of Com-
merce, for specimens of its Nulla gin e dia-
monds. Years ago several were found in
the battery boxes by a British co. when en-
gaged in the hopeless task of profitably ex-
tracting gold from the local conglomerate-
beds. The stones obtained were too small
to blow about. Nevertheless, State mining-
engineer Montgomery expresses the opinion
that the occurrence of diamonds at Nulla-
gine warrants a lookout being kept for their
presence in the matrix, as in S’Africa., and
for “neck” formations similar to the dia-
mond-bearing pipes of Kimberley.
Little Devon still plugs along at Linden
(W.A..), but it is a slow job, as only 1400
tons tailings were handled in six months
for £1550. That kept calls from the door,
but as mining is to be resumed cash will
have to be got. Then the loyalty of share-
holders will be put to the test—as well as
the policy of erecting plant on such a small
show.
* * * *
Having got through the preliminary work
of opening out at Associated Extended, New
England district (N.S.W.), manager Smith
is sluicing in earnest. He expects to handle
1000yds. per week and to recover not less
than the 4.71 b. got in the trial run—2l44yds.
gave 44 tons concentrates worth about £450
net at a cost of £344. At present it is pro-
posed to confine operations to one shift, but
a second plant is contemplated, and with
two at work the manager sees 15 years’ life
for the show. Leases under option have
recently been brought under wing by issu-
ing reserved scrip.
E. W. Stringer, finding things dull with
t in > has taken on the old United Gleesons
and Sailor Bill mines, which formed one of
the best of the group of the old Gaffneys
O ) Properties. Capital is to be in
60,(AM) shares of 10s. each, and for their
lease, plant, etc., promoters and vendors
pocket a third of the issue. The induce-
ment to re-open the old claim is that the
A.L, Morning Star and others of the moun-
tain shows have proved to be good for a
second round at depth. The old Gleesons
gav , e u £ at 4 ? oft - after « hard chase for
cash. The prime adviser for a resumption
of work is geologist O. A. L. Whitelaw, who
has outlined a scheme of prospecting. The
Treasury is to be approached for £lO,OOO.
as in the case of the Morning Star.
* » * #
The time is fully ripe for Victoria to
establish a briouetting plant on a commercial
scale. Thus Mr. H. Hermann, the engineer
sent to Germany by the State Electricity
( ommission to buy a briquetting machine
for Morwell. The time has been ripe, mel-
low, mature and almost over-ripe since
clXst „7n b , ery ’ a . Victorian oi£mS
a J °y- nde to Germany in
.'- SO, and used the same expression and said
tori-fn m h,' t UngS a l bout the excellence of Vie
b r™ W t?£°r al * s Hermann is now
•Stiyiiij,, In 1885 tlio liitf l Tgitiaw qe* i*
reported fully and admirably on
?/ Vm.brown-eoa l and the ease with which
And H 'the Tat^T^T^- b ’ V Herman methods.
Vustr /l Hv V J ‘- I n ie ' 0,1 bel >alf of the
, ustial-Utns Engineering Co., gave evidence
S ?SW h n ¥ J “> CommiSloS on Zl
a . nd * IIS lu'm afterwards made 4000
tons rjf briquettes at Morwell and sold them
m Melbourne for £1 a ton. The French
i uu Germans have been making briquettes
for 50 years, and there is really nothin*
plant°t (l ° b’! 4 i rn t n 1 a dryins and Pressing
plant to make 500 tons a day at Morwell
and go ahead. The time is always green for
talking, and never too ripe for acting.
The hand of Labor blotted out Cecil
Tulv n * The° n \'WTT TaS ° fr ° m Gct °ber to
l,. ly - Ihe A.VV.TT. was not the sinner on
tn lS H?° CaSl + n ' tbe fine PH.V having been left
to the motor attendants, who in the end
went back to their jobs on worse terms than
they were getting when they switched off
the current. The output for the c*o’s °lst
year was considerably curtailed:
Sluiced. Costs. Tin won
1 non c -vd. per yd. (Tons),
loo? 481,200 6.97 4d. 2601
-V •• 235,500 12.330.1. 93“
lotal output, 1900 to
. , 1921 . • ■ • ■ 10,031,000 6.067 d. 7381
Adding Argonaut and
South Pioneer .. 11,734,600 0.120 d. 7782
The increase of costs from below 7d to
inure than Is. demonstrates what effect the
hold-up had on Pioneer. The old mine is
nowadays practically in the last ditch, and
with the tin market where it is Ryan gives
the show only another 12 months. ‘ He will
have to abandon the old programme of wash-
nig off the upper and poorer drifts and
drawing on the reserve of rich stuff on the
bottom to maintain a regular average dur-
ing the slack summer months. Only an un-
expected rise in tin can prevent him pulling
out the balance of the bottom drifts. In its
21 years of life the Pioneer drift has aver-
aged 14851 b. Now it is down to ,8831 b.,
and while that will pay with tin at £250
a better grade is wanted when costs are
high and the stuff is worth only £l6O.
xoor*o°' b * a Hulling div. last year, taking
J™"?: Hut as the year’s profit was only
£••(>■ >8 a transfer of £4400 from reserves was
necessary to square accounts.
* * * ,
“Awaruite”: The Bulletin’s contention
that osmindium was selling at a fictitious
puce due to the demand created by Austra-
lian firms using the metal as a means of
establishing credits in the U.S. is borne out
b.v the decrease in price following the cur-
tailment of purchase of U.S. goods, and by
inquiries made through Speck Agent-General
Ashbolt, who cables that the price there last
week was only £l2 per oz. on a very limited
demand. The price on the diggings to-day
is £l5 per oz., but any easing of the rate
of exchange, or lessened purchases in U.S.
by Australian firms, will effect a reduction
m the price. The diggers are not taking the
news too well; still they have no option but
to accept present facts, especially in the
face of Russia’s re-entry into the market.
* * . ’* *
A new gold show has been discovered on
toe I orester settlement, near Scottsdale
(Tas.). So far work done has exposed two
promising-looking lodes, which, Govern-
ment assays show, average l|oz. gold and
about the same silver. A tunnel is now being
driven on the No. 1 lode preparatory to float-
ing a co.
* * * it
Queensland lias yet another potential coal-
held in the Carnarvon district, between
Roma and Springsure. The Bowen coal
measures have been proved by recent geologi-
cal field work to exist there, and to contain
valuable seams which can be utilised if the
proposed connecting railway between the
western and south-western systems is built.
Two seams outcropping on Consuelo Creek
are Bft. and aft. thick respectively, and
samples analysed to 4 p.c. and 2.7 p.c. ash.
The measures here contain oil shales appa-
rently. of very fair quality as outcrop
material from one yielded 54gal. per ton.
This seam is 3ft. thick, about the biggest
yet struck, although the distribution of
numerous shale bands gives promise of better
things to come. The district around Carnar-
von Creek carries a lot of coal, and one
seam there is Bft. thick, a representative
sample carrying only 4.3 p.c. ash. Another
outcrop shows a distinct seam 3ft. 6in.
Much of this area has scarcely seen the pros-
pector, and there is little doubt that it
carries, much coal that can be located only
by boring. It serves to emphasise what a
wonderful lot of virgin coal-country the
Northern State possesses.
* * * #
The divination of ore underground by
means of rods could scarcely be more dis-
credited than it is around Brisbane at pre-
s .“heTAta s : ho TheS
; wi,fs?!' v as
vvilcl tit some months back The litout
comes from the suburb of Coorparoo where
a d nuner starte'J a wild rush among beHeveJs
of me°ta a is y Tw Were 110 iudi cations
and 70fV | wo shafts were sunk 120 ft.
and i Oft., and not even a speck was found
f well-known Brisbane firm dropped flcti
“to two bores near Ipswich because? meta
dowser said there was coal there. 1
Ihe continuation of the old Silverstream
crosscut (now out (536 ft.) is bd ? S
the idea of exposing the Camoola fi
-00 ft. below existing workings. So far sev!
oral ore bodies have been met which indicate
persistency, but the main attraction. the
( amoola, is still ahead, in close proximity
to such famous lodes as the Queen. Rovd
”n-d J, H ia ’ whic I h . are thought to pitch Jto-
waids the area being prospected. Ex-super
intendent Stansfield, of the old Talisman
mine, is guiding the show.
* * *
Option-holders of the recently-discovered
gold lodes near Keefton (M.L.) are pronos
ing a 00., the Recovery (fold Mines ltd
with a capital „f £250,000, to onen u D and
equip the new field. Vigorous development
is to be put in hand prior to exercising the
option and equipping the show, which is nn-
usual in Maoriland, where generally the first
move has I wen to erect a battery'and then
look for ore. Old hands speak highly of
prospects. •’


THE HATCHING.
“Though the recent close division on Dr. Earle Page's motion showed a strong demand for economy in the Federal Administration, it is expected that the
Budget will not be greatly reduced in Committee.”


or
i>r
an
zoJMfci
Wft?' \
%/£Z.
v\ >
[ 0
scrninir
mi
_“- T
L f\
W==
-«*q .
~ SzsyTcgs» J MI
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
The people who like a light,
refreshing 1 with
luncheon or
dinner select
TB. Light ALB
when they want
the best liquor!
>
H
r
0
r
pinOO
“ The 'drink of good taste.”
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
i
llil*
■MBpB
PLUG SLICE
Mmmsm
SP
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH”
K. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents. [4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Of two northern aristocrats:—
B. B. Moreton, who succeeds to the Ducie earldom,
has been interested in many things during his long
life in Queensland, from squatting in the roaring
days of Gayndah and the Burnett to
mining, finance, speculation and politics. He was
on Brisbane Stock Exchange for years and held many
a company director’s job. I recall his venerable
figure, with its black velvet skull-cap, in the Leg.
Council, but it hasn’t been seen there for many a
year. His young brother Mat Moreton was of a
more adventurous type. A subaltern in the extinct
Rosshire Buffs, Mat, on coming to Australia, had
a shot at sugar-planting, swamped it to the Palmer
rush, and then took a contract for the construction
of the telegraph line to Cape York through the
peninsula of that name. Afterwards he went to
New Guinea with Macgregor. Bingham Hely was
made R.M. of the country, from the Dutch border to
Suai, and Mat from that point north to the German
border and east to the Solomons. He was the first
white man to ascend the Mamba River, and his his-
tory for the 25 years before his death in 1913 was
the history of British New Guinea. He retired in
1908, and the strain of doing nothing in Brisbane
after those strenuous years in the malaria-haunted
islands proved too much for him.
The doyen of the R.G. hierarchs who
assembled to celebrate the centenary of 6t.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, was Francis Red-
wood, who at three
years of age was
brought to Well-
ington (M.L.) by
his parents, and is
now in his S3rd
year. He was
ordained priest in
1865, got his mitre
as Bishop of Well-
ington in 1874, and
became an arch-
bishop in 1887.
Henry Redwood,
who owned so
many fine race-
horses, was his
brother.
BERNARD
O'DOWD, poet
and Parliamentary
Draughtsman, of
Melbourne.
‘ Jaded’ : The new Earl of Ducie is an
unassuming old aristocrat. I have had many
a “bob in” with him—and others, of course —
in the Maryborough and Wide Bay (Q.)
Club. His eldest son, Barclay, who becomes
Lord Moreton, is a splendidly-built son of
the State which the Times considers unfit
for British immigrants. Years ago he and
another 6ft. 4in. man, R. W. Cran, now
wool manager of Dalgety’s, Brisbane,
drove in a fancy-dress procession as
the “Two Little Girls in Blue.” Bar-
clay married one of the Bryant girls—
Bryant was many times Mayor of Mary-
borough—and is a farmer in the Burrum.
I he other son, Algy, is (or was) also a
y . At the Maryborough Grammar
fcchool Barclay was known as “Shark,” and
when Algy arrived they used to be distin-
guished as “Big Shark” and “Little Shark.”
ihere may be more polished specimens than
, a relay among the old nobility, but in phy-
.suiue and the liner qualities of manhood
he will have few equals.
Grocer’s boy in a Scottish town, bursary-
winner at Aberdeen Uni., Oxford graduate,
Maryborough _ (Q.) school-teacher, “Minis-
ter of Education” in Lane’s New Australia
journalist and teacher of languages in
Japan, Professor of Oriental Studies at
Sydney Uni.—such was the astonishing
record 0 f James Murdoch, who died the
other day, at 65. What is more, he mas-
tered Japanese and Chinese, was an autho-
rity on ethnology, and began a monumental
history of Japan, two volumes of which
were published. Not many Australians wefe
acquainted with the modest Professor. But
Mungo MacCallnm, who is well qualified to
judge, declares that he had no rival in his
department of study and has left no suc-
cessor.
Charles Willcox, the Adelaide merchant
lately dead, left his family £85,000.
Australian ex-Premiers now hovering about
London (where the Boards of directors sit)
include Newton
Moore, Cornth-
waite Rason, John
Cockburn and John
Greenley Jenkins—
the first pair from
W e s t r a 1 ia ; the
second from the
bit that surrounds
Adelaide. Andy
Fisher will make a
fifth. All got their
“Blighties” by be-
coming London
agents. Frederick
Young (Soustralia
again) and John
Taverner (Vic.)
are other politi-
cians who pinned
themselves down
to the Hub when
the time came for
deciding.
SID KIDMAN,
cattle king.
Dr. Robert Logan Jack, for many years
Government Geologist of Queensland, died in
Sydney last week, aged 76. An Argyllshire
fecot, he came to Australia in 1877 and did
a lot of exploring in the Cape York Penin-
sula, where he was speared by blacks. The
doctor s fame as a geologist and palaeonto-
logist extended beyond the Commonwealth
and the Westralian Government engaged
him to report on the Collie coalfield in 1604
and on miners disease at Kalgoorlie seven
years later. He was a prolific writer. One
son survives—Lockhart Jack, of Adelaide.
Captain J. L. Fawkes, R.N.R., of Sydney
has sailed into the uncharted sea. Formeriy
™ the Royal Navy he saw active service in
China, after which he joined the Blackball
Merchant Service. But he was better known
to Australians as a Torres Strait pilot.
During 50 years, he got to know everv
beneath-water rock in the Strait, a know-
ledge which would be handy to-day, as
lones Strait charts are still notoriously
inaccurate. On one occasion, whilst lie was
travelling to Thursday Island in the steamer
Catterthun, the ship foundered and “Guy”
hawkes was one of only three European
survivors. He was a cousin of Admiral
hawkes, one time nabob on the Australian
station.
• 1 ™ }}■ Webber, who went west
kidney on October 30, was in command
°L tde Dy-ee-moon when she was wrecked
oft Green Cape in March, 1886, 76 lives
being lost lor 28 of the years thereafter
he was the devoted secretary of the Royal
Shipwreck and Humane Society of N. S.
\Vales and one of the best known Ancient
farmers. 1 here were many grey beards at
the interment at South Head.
jading' of Revelation has convinced
Walter Marks, M.H.R., that the real Arma-
ofrZZ' InCi°ooC 1 n C i°oo C , lde T itl / the Second Coming
Chust in 1934. Marks published his con-
victions to the House of Reps, last week,
elaborating his prophecy to the extent of
promising Britain a terrific conflict against
Germany Russia and another Power which
f! m re U n to name ’ h \ the region of Jerusa-
iem. There were other details of Revela-
tion for which Marks professed to find
of pmnt- Paral rI S ’ bl,t he was in s,u ' h a state
of emotion,on the matter that members kindly
retrained from comment which might agi-
tate him further. The subject came up
uung a complaint by Fowler regarding the
propriety of allowing a lecturer to talk in
’ f n t le Pacific problem, and
p K ® lJ y® tall successor sprang his views
on the dazed House without any warning
to the outburst Marta* was
siaered to be a normal citizen of average
opmions but lately he has taken to bowls
. 1 arhamentary green, and it may be
that Ins failure in the dashing game has
driven him to Bible study.
A note from the N. S. Wales lobbies:—
A standing joke amongst the Laborites in the
N. S. Wales Assembly is Macarthur-OnsWs atti-
tude to Connell, of Newcastle. Onslow persists in
treating Connell as a fellow-warrior who, through
some perversity of fate,; has become the associate of
persons who are neither officers nor gentlemen. The
idea is that he and Connell have fought side by
side upon the tented field. The horrors of battle;
grim scenes of carnage; risks cheerfully run for
King and Flag—these attach them to one another.
And so whenever Connell is in danger of violating
mess-room traditions Onslow rallies to him with
soldierly advice. That, Onslow explained to the
House last week, amidst roars of .daughter, was his
sole intention when he crossed to the Labor benches
and was hit on the jaw by Molesworth—a fellow
.yjh e ,<iP a ble of appreciating the blood-bond which
exists between pukka King’s Men. Now, Connell
is one of the most profusely-decorated fighting Dig-
gers in N. S'. Wales. Onslow, though he has held
a commission since early youth, has no decoration
but the humble one which is granted for long ser-
vice. The late war found him a Lieut.-Colonel
several years younger than many a working-man
who enlisted and died as a private. His service
was as C.O. troops on transports. The Diggers
classed Transport officials well below Remount de-
tails and Red Cross and Comforts Fund workers.
Hence Connell’s restiveness in face of the insistent
advances of the well-meaning owner of Camden
Park, A pretty general idea exists that if the troop-
ship colonel doesn’t stop trying to teach the front-
line major how to behave as a soldier there will
yet be a real row instead of a mere sctiffle in the
Assembly.
E. W. J. Millhouse, S.A.’s new Crown
Prosecutor, is barely 30, and must be easily
the youngest man in his job in the Com-
monwealth. Shierlaw’s resignation to go
into private practice gave Millhouse his
opportunity, and his work in court has fully
justified his appointment. He served in
France with the Bth Battery and played
lacrosse last season with East Torrens,
runners-up for the Association premiership.
The death of H. B. Marriott Watson, at
something under 58, is - a loss to fiction.
Melbourne-born, M.L.-trained (his father
was a Christ Church rector), but perma-
nently settled in England at 22, his work
did not owe much to this .side of the world,
only the beginnings of it, “Marahuna” and
“The .Web of the Spider,” reflecting M.L.
conditions. His stories mostly carried on
the Stevensonian tradition of exciting ad-
venture told in a carefully-polished literary
style. Barrie thought enough of him to
collaborate with him in a play on the sub-
ject of Richard Savage. Watson wrote
too many books, no doubt; but at the top of
his form he had a distinct touch of Steven-
son.
A. E. Morgans, of Perth, has been visiting
the eastern side of the continent. For a
quarter of a century he has been a foremost
mining man in the western State, and 20
years ago come Nov. 21 he was Premier.
But his Ministry, although unusually able
—it contained, besides Morgans himself,
Frank Wilson, Moorhead and Nanson, all
three men of talent and all now dead —fell
in a month before the unreasoning clamor of
a duped multitude, and Morgans abandoned
politics in disgust. A Welshman who has
travelled widely—he was in Mexico for years
—Morgans has a theory that the Austra-
lians eat too much. At 71 he keeps himself
fit by taking one meal a day, and that break-
fast.
T. Thomson Flynn. Ralston Professor of
Biology in the Speck’s Uni., lately earned
his doctor’s degree for work on the'anatomy
of the marsupials, and is going to Europe
to continue his studies. He will take with
him a fossil whale, called Austrosqualodon
Uavidi, which he dug out of the tertiary
fossil-beds at Table Cape (Tas.). A new
genus had to be created for this whale,
which is supposed to be 2,000,000 years old,
and dates back nearly to the time when the
carnivorous ancestor of all the whales first
took to the water for keeps.
One man who has been following the
Tariff discussions with unremitting attention
is F. L. Ashby, secretary of the Vic. Cham-
ber of Manufacturers. From early after-
aoorL to late at night he has perched in
the Federal Gallery through dreary reitera-
tions of ancient arguments and taken copi-
ous notes. A pale, whiskered little man
who peers at life mildly through a pair of
spectacles, Ashby has been secretary of the
yF'- Manufacturers for 16 years, and for
10 of them has done the head-work for the
fedeiated associations. Before he joined
the Manufacturers he was an A.N.A. man,
proving his capacity as chairman of the
vr branch, and subsequently becoming
M.C. of Melbourne’s old-established Founda-
tion Day fete.
f J** December, 1821, Governor Brisbane
- ■ ™ w hat appears to have been the first
scientific society in Australia—the Philoso-
“cal Society of Australasia. The lion, sec-
( aiy was Dr. 11. G. Douglass, whose son,
so a medico, is in Brisbane jnow.
l<\- 0 a b<> 7!-' ,■ was named after Henry
„ . 6 Gisborne, a man of ancient family
Vc-h 1 e 111 teens, arrived in Sydney
n 18-J4, and while still a young man be-
JELLICOE of
Jutland, who now
wears the Cocked
Hat of Maoriland.
came third police
magistrate at Syd-
ney and filled other
official positions.
He was a sports-
man. and owned a
racehorse or two,
and after being ap-
pointed Commis-
sioner of Crown
T.ands at Port
Phillip, selected the
site at Flemington
which has become
historic as a race-
course. The Maori-
land Gisborne was
named after a
cousin.
The great old Halsbury, thrice Lord Chan-
cellor, has gaily entered upon his 97th year.
He is the sole survivor of the barristers who
feasted on the juicy joints provided by the
Wagga butcher, Arthur Orton. Halsbury,
then Ilardinge Giffard, was counsel for the
Claimant. He still walks and is fond of
motoring. He doesn’t smoke, but he is par-
tial to a glass of wine; goes to bed at 10
and sleeps for 11 hours.
_ Finn Bernard Clissen, Judge of the
\ ic. Supreme Court, who will be G 2 years
of age on the 29th, is a native of the State;
he was born at Portland. He was not
always in the law. On leaving Melbourne
Uni. after an engineering course, he joined
the Railways Department; having decided
to turn to law he took his 8.A., LL.B., and
then his M.A., gaining honors in his-
tory, political economy and law. He was
called to the Bar in Melbourne in 1886, and
went to the Bench in 1906. Some part of
the way his career recalls that of another
brilliant Victorian' scholar, Arthur Lynch.
He, too, was an engineering student, who
became an M.A. of Melbourne Uni.; but
instead of law Lynch adopted medicine—
only to leave it for politics and literature.
When Northelift'e passed through Thurs-
day Island he made a fuss of Corran, pro-
prietor of the island’s miniature newspaper.
In return the Press, with other residents,
invited his Ludship to a public dinner; But
difficulties arose. No ship had called at T.I.
for some time. And tinned meats, tinned
butter, tinned biscuits, whisky, wines and
beer were scarce. The island’s stores were
actually aboard Northcliffe’s steamer as
cargo, and there was no time to catch turtles
or dugong. In editorial confidence the guest
w r as apprised of the situation. He com-
promised by letting T.I. dine him on board
his own ship at his own expense.
Blamire Young, who will be the next Aus-
tralian artist to have a book about himself, has
been reminiscing in Melbourne. “A dis-
cerning- trustee of the Adelaide Gallery
acquired some examples of my work,” he
recalls. “They were bought from a grocer,
who seized them for debt. I remember re-
turning to ,our unlovely house in Coburg
(Fie.) to find a cab at the gate, and a big
policeman loading it with my masterpieces.
What are you going to do with them?’ I
asked. ‘Sell them,’ replied John. Splen-
did force, the police. I’d been trying to do
,it for years.” Young came into liis own with
an exhibition be held at the Guildhall, Mel-
bourne, in 1911. lie was then 50. He next
went to Adelaide, where Barr Smith came
in on the last day and saved a fiasco by buy-
ing two big works, and the Gallery did the
right thing by buying one direct from the
artist for a hundred guineas.
The Bulletin is not going to be ashamed
ot its Christmas number. The verse isn’t
as good as it might be: Australia is pro-
ducing a tremendous quantity of verse at pre-
sent, much pretty good, but not much verv
good. The short stories —25 of them —are
however, better than the average of even
Christmas Bulletin stories, and the
humorous yarn is more conspicuous. The
drawings—always a feature of the number
—are satisfying, and include pages by
Norman Lindsay—one of his inimitable
“Bear” pages—Minns and Leason; and
striking contributions by Low, Souter, Mab
Treeby, McCrne. Lionel Lindsay and 30
others. It will be published on Saturday,
December 10.
GOO'S COUNTERPOINT.
[FOR THE BULL ETIN.]
“When they sang ‘God Save the King’ they meant
not only the King but the Empire, and they meant
not only for God to save all who stood for these
things, but also for God to damn those who did not.”
*. —W !/. Hughes.
Let God Almighty’s anger fall,
Like hailstones on the tree,
On all the Empire’s foes —that’s all
Who don’t agree with Mel
Empire and Hughes! Let secret foes,
Yank, Finn or Czech or Russ,
Be dead and damned, and spread in rows,
’Neath one colossal cuss!
Let Labor-men be shovelled through
Dark holes to Hell’s abode ;
Unscrupulous opponents who
Would try to block my road!
Let extra-special horrors blast
The venial journalists
Who rake the records of my past '
To dissipate the mists!
Scoundrels who watch with jealous eyes,
Rebellion’s bloodstained pack,
Disloyal men who Criticise
Me or the Union Jack—
Anathemas confound such folks
On land, in air, on sea!
Let God’s own anger damn the blokes
Who don’t believe in Me!
VICTOIUA.
GANESHA.


Q
-
i
o
■'V
w
v -v.
I
•••*>,
IB
BllMlfSi
Hi
■
ii
«
»w
V
■L -
■w-
X
V' *
1
lllPii
* •
S% ;
&@'£ '<■' /'
Vp
< : x-i .
:;■■
B r ♦* i
4
u
i
J
I
p : .:
ii
v r
I i
Ah|W'X«»w:p -j . p lr | ~-
J. .-ggiS-Kv-'- WmW*OOO^S^> : -'
-
P
V
GOOD
ii?
CIVIC
d
LONDON
MADE
THE PIPE THAT
STANDS THE TEST
OF TIME
AND CONSTANT USE


A Peapes' “Warrigal” Hat
—Australia's Smartest.
The exclusive quality, shape and finish of
this Felt Hat—sold under Peapes’ “Warri-
gal” Trade-mark—distinguish it as one of
the finest produced in Australia.
It is of smooth-finish felt, with medium
crown, 2}-inch well-rolled brim, with bound
edge and 2-inch band with bow at side.
Colors: Light Grey or Steel.
PRICE 35/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
d
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney,
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Cngines.
All at sacrifice prices.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Bombardier”: It was a rare thing in
I 1 ranee for a situation to be perceived and
summed up in all its aspects in a single
Phrase; but a well-known lawyer-journalist
who never claimed eminence as a soldier
accomplished it during the last bombard-
ment to which Ville-sur-Ancre was sub-
mitted. He was with a padre of another
denomination than his own in what was
left of a cellar, when a couple of 5.9’s landed
IJLACING1 J LACING THE RESPONSIBILITY.
CONSTANCE: “No more confidences with you,
my dear. You can’t keep a secret.”
YVONNE: “Yes, I can. It was only a bit
of hard luck that I told it to a girl who
couldn’t.”
in quick succession in the shattered yard
outside. “Padre,” he said, as the debris
gradually yielded to the laws of gravitation-
I fancy the moment has now arrived for
you to administer spiritual consolation to
me, and for me to give you legal advice.”
* *• * *
TAN .”: In Piccadilly I met a Digger
who was cursing himself with fervor. When
asked _ what ailed him, he said bit-
terly: "Shot a fox. I was out' yesterday
with some people gunning hares when I
spotted the damned thing, and, although I
knew it wasn’t the cheese to shoot foxes in
•Lngland, I couldn’t help letting fly. My
host and all his gang blazed at me worse
than if I’d shot the King, and if I was in
their blamed army I suppose I’d be court-
martialled.” A few days later I met some
of the witnesses of the episode, and they
expressed all kinds of contempt for the
transgressor. “But that man has proved
himself a hero in France,” I told them.
“He shot a fox!” snapped the little baronet,
and that closed the discussion.
“Billy T.”: Is it entirely coincidence?
In Ballarat I knew a
family, three mem-
bers of which broke a
leg in one way or an-
other in the course of
two years. At Smea-
ton I came in contact
with another family,
one son and on e
daughter of which had
lost the left eye. A
cow had destroyed the
daughter’s, and the
son’s had been taken
out by a blow from a
piece of quartz. The
father of these had
an injured left eye
that necessitated the
wearing of a colored
glass. And now I am
in contact with a
well-known St. Ivilda
family with a similar
run of ill-luck. One
daughter lacerated her
arm terribly by thrust-
ing it through a bath-
room-window. Another
daughter, as a little
girl, attempting to
climb a fence, fell, and
was spiked, the sharp
rod going through the
muscle of the left arm
and tearing it shock-
ingly. Later, a son
playing football fell
into a glass cover
over a queumber-
frame and gashed his
left arm, opening an
artery. And an elder
brot li e r died in
S’Africa a little while
back as a result of an
injury to the left arm,
ALL THE LATEST.
THE NEW BOSS: “You see, we’re quite up-
to-date loose-leaf system and every-
thing.”
THE NEW TYPIDT: “Oh, but that's not so
new—Eve started it years ago.”
followed by blood poisoning.
* * * *
“Jimmy Jamtin” : Under Vic.’s new vac-
cination law parents objecting to the Jenner
treatment are expected to notify the autho-
rities. During Cup-week an elderly cocky
meandered into a Government department
(the wrong one), and announced that his
objections to vaccination were many and
various. Disregarding expostulations he
called upon us all to witness that he would
not have his first child, nor his second, nor
his third poisoned by any blank.v Govin-
mint. We found out afterwards that he’d
been married only the day before.
“Sixenate”: A Sydney man’s application
for restitution of conjugal rights was strenu-
ously opposed the other day by the ladv.
who alleged (1) that her husband was
habitually unfaithful, (2) that when she ob-
jected to his infidelity he assaulted her, (3)
that he was accustomed to .strap her about
seven times a week, and (4) that he had
attempted to murder her. Above all, she.
declared the brute had made absolutely no
attempt to find her when she stole away from
his board and bed —a point which weighed
more with the feminine mind than the
cruelty. But at this crisis in the proceed-
ings the husband became indignant. He
passionately informed the Court that he had
advertised for his missing spouse, and pro-
duced a clipping to prove it. The ad. ran:
“You are forgiven; return home at once.”
“D.”: A published cable about atrocities
committed on Yankee soldiers by Uncle
Samuel’s disciplinarians reminds me that
there was nothing curatical about some of
our own G.M.P.’s. When the inhabitants
of the “clink” section of a certain dermato-
logical hospital started to throw their d xies
over the barbed wire, smash the hutments
and refuse to wash, the C. 0., who knew all
about V.I). but little of discipline, communi-
cated with Horseferry-road. Vim Hind 311-
burg arrived by return of post. The harassed
medico described it to me later :
He was a milcl-lookiiig little cove—a W.O. He
reported to me late and said he would get to busi-
ness in the morning. Meanwhile he mostly stood
about saluting and springing to attention. After
breakfast he took the two underlings he had brought
down with him to the “clink.” There was a cas-
cade of dixies, and one of the boys chucked a bucket
of water at him. He was looking through the
gate at the time. It seemed to encourage him.
He signalled to his off-siders, drew a revolver from
each pocket and walked in. “If anyone moves
without my permission,” he remarked affably, “I’ll
shoot him dead.” “Now, lad,” he said to the one
Who had thrown the water, “ pic k up that broom
and lets see you sweep the yard.” There was no
i espouse. He nodded to his two supporters. They
grabbed the man and dragged him outside.
Re-pocketing his revolvers the disciplinary expert
approached me, slammed his feet together, banged
his hand to his brow, and said suavely • “Have I
your permission, sir, to adopt my own measures
with this man?”
“Boil him, if you like,” I replied.
It was snowing at the time. He tied the poor
devil up after a style of his own—the left leg
somewhere round the right shoulder, as far as I
lemember and dropped him on the cement path
just outside the cage. “I’ll give you a couple of
houis there, lad, ’ he said kindly; and went in
after some more. By the time he had about half
a dozen trussed up outside the men inside were—■
well, slaving is the only word for it. He walked
about pointing his revolvers at places that needed
polishing and so forth, and they leapt to it like
greyhounds.
He stayed three weeks, and we were all sorrv
to lose him. As one of the boys said to me the
day he left; “Well, anyhow, the bastard knew what
he wanted, all right.’’
But there were others who, with bigger
odds in their favor, used methods more
cowardly and less mertiiul. Poor Keg
Sproule, who, as a lightweight, licked Herb
McCoy, and as a welter settled Tommy Ureil,
got into holts with one of this class. As a
result of the handling a crowd of them gave
him he came home to enter an asylum.
“Dido”: A well-known Melbourne painter,
who had his studio in a city flat,
has shifted to a locality where
pert young mercantile gentlemen
with much spare time on their
hands do not abound. One after-
noon, when Brusher was busy on
his yet-to-be-famous “Judgment of
Paris” (every painter of nudes has
to do a “Judgment of Paris”
sooner or later), there arose a
sudden, shrill cry of “Fire! Fire !
Fire !” and Athene and Aphrodite
were half-way down the com-
mon stairs before they were re-
minded that they were in their
professional costume as models.
They returned, and order • was
restored., “It came off once,”
the artist explains, “but there
were alarms of fire on the
stairs at least once a week for
months after that. It was too disturbing.
I had to get out.”
* * * *
The plain tale of a mate:—
Arthur Campbell, bushman and successful cattle-
man, tall and athletic, goes out mustering on the
Glencoe run, in the wide Cloncurry district. He is
absent fn a V "° such a man might be
, , * * without much comment. A few
allv rmn 1 • * ,C '’ t^le ** nes nian’s blackboy, accident-
al,.'] hvirU S aC !,°^ S a stra y horse carrying a saddle
does Hi 6 " v )tflout wasting time the aboriginal
thing. He makes for the shooter's
nnteii fn. u • la b- caste named Fred Lucas. Lucas,
0 ... i l . lls flow Q f refined English, is, by instinct,
,■ _ U 10 '} ail< * training, a superb bushman. He
noses e case in a flash. The rider of the stray
• e as met with a mishap, and lies waiting for
ln the bush. The task of running the
c s ack is at first easy; but in the gravelly
ndges and stretches of loose sand it soon becomes
u... . Besides there are numbers of loose horses
on ie iun, and this does not improve matters. At
imes the men are obliged to dismount and search
on their hands and knees. At last a faint coo-ee is
icard from the gidya bushes close beside them
ere lies Campbell in a dying condition but still
conscious. For three days he had been without food
oi water. He had jumped off to get clear of his
rearing horse. His broken leg is bandaged with
strips torn from his shirt; the withered branches
beside him represent his efforts to extemporise a
pair of crutches. On a grass patch, at a short dis-
tance away, there is the sign- of an attempt to start
a signal fire. He had set fire to some dry rubbish
in a sock and hurled it from him. After a few sips
of water Campbell makes a wonderful rally. Lucas
lises to the situation like a hero. Mick is at once
despatched to the West Leichhardt Telegraph sta-
tion, and soon Campbell is on a motor-car speed-
ing along the 50 miles to the Cloncurry Hospital.
*
“Percy Pawnticket”: The record of an
unusually thoughtful man has leaped to light
in N. S. Wales. When he decided to desert
his wife it occurred to him that ladies can’t
live on air, so he advertised in the ’Erald
that a housekeeper wanted employment. And
a number of gentlemen who wanted house-
keepers had called on the astonished woman
before the letter arrived in which the con-
siderate man explained the provision he had
made for her comfort.
“Bill o’ Costs”: A . recent Bulletin par
about a Sydney man who prosecuted his
own son for embezzlement and then decided
not to go on with the distressing business
reminds me of another sort of father. He
was a wealthy S.A. squatter who, rightly or
wrongly, was keeping his son under disci-
pline on his station. The young man at
last made a desperate bid for freedom by
driving a flock of his father’s sheep to the
nearest town, selling them for cash, and
going on a jamboree. The deliberate old
man laid an information against the son for
fraudulent conversion and had him com-
mitted for trial. Then, relenting a little, or
a sporting instinct coming uppermost, he
paid a lawyer a liberal fee to defend the
accused. The situation now had its comical
aspect; for the prosecution was out of the
hands of the old man and in those of the
Crown, and the real, but unwilling, prosecu-
tor was providing for the defence. The
legal man suggested that the father should
either state in the witness box that he was
satisfied that the son had no criminal in-
tent, or forfeit his recognisance as a wit-
ness (£100) and absent himself from the
trial. The old fellow would not hear of
either expedient, and, turning up at the trial,
gave evidence again, extenuating nothing
nor (one hopes) setting down aught in
malice. Nothing remained for the son’s advo-
cate (with no real defence) but to employ
all his resources of invective in appealing
to the jury’s prejudices with denunciations
of the father, “this shocking disgrace to the
name of parent who would vindictively send
his own son to a felon’s cell” and so forth.
It was not until two juries had considered
the case that the young man got his acquit-
tal. The two principal actors in the tragi-
comedy are dead, but the lawyer lives to tell
how he flayed the old man alive at the old
man’s expense.
NO CAUSE FOR ANXIETY.
“Aren't you ever afraid of going out of your
depth?”
“No. All the men here think I’m an heiress .”
(Continued on page 18.)
LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Skirts are shorter than ever. This is the age of
Legs. Legs are de rigueur, but to be in the mode
you mustn’t show even the tiniest scrap of ear.”
Legs are in and ears are out. Hearken to me, dears:
Publish ye your underpins,'but cover up your ears!
Ears are most improper things, menacing to Man,
But Legs are quite innocuous, deny it if he can:
Bare legs, rare legs, on the beaches shown;
Slim legs, trim legs, ballerinas own;
Magic legs, tragic legs fearfully arrayed,
Everywhere in evidence, daringly displayed.
You see them on the ferry, and you strike them in
the train;
In cafe, chapel, office you encounter them again.
The posters as a subject their pre-eminence confess ;
They’re more than even murder to the post-meridian
press-:
Propsticks, chopsticks maiden aunt reveals:
Jolly legs, lolly legs, beef to the heels ;
Old legs, bold legs, legs of little worth —-
Roll up, roll up, cheapest show on earth !
Of comedy and drama they’re the universal theme,
The draper’s consecration and the modern poet's
dream,
And, shorn of non-essentials, what’s the movie’s
fabled “art”
But picturing the nether limbs and trappings of
a tart?
Sad legs, glad legs, straight legs and bent,
Haughty legs, naughty legs (doesn't cost a tentl),
Fairy legs, canary legs, mutton-hams and pegs,
Who will free the nations from the tyranny of Legs?
N.S. \V.
WODGIL.


jCVWOC
a
\iCao
■
■■'■
:
m
m
,
k
t.
-■
ipi®
11
.
■
m
■>:
m
m
—I
■ ■■ : :.V/
■ MM|
fei :'«
m
P®
11
■
%
>
nV
o
«***>
o
M
w
■
■
"I^S-
;; v; :
II


. —Elegant Diamond Brooch, pet plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114. —Three-
Diamond Crossover
King 1 , set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K-144.—Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
No. 100. —All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
ristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelet*
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Prices
vStEWAKTDaWSOK & (Q(Aast)LTD.
J'wo Sydney Sstiblisments ■
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR KING ST
STRAND CORNER 412 GEORGE ST.'
K375.-—Fashionable Diamond Btooch, set
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129.—Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18et.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
King, set Platini in
and 18ct. Gold,
£14/10/-
No. 155. Five-Store Diamond Brooch.
£l5/10/-
Sixenate ’: AA hen Australia starts a real
immigration policy, hereditary disciples of
Alai thus will have to be blocked. The im-
portation of such people won’t pay for the
cost. An odd bit of family history concern
to S dH- y ? riend Blank recently prompted me
to dive into dusty records, and the result
rlnch.i e T? able -- The original Blanks
leached Sydney in 1S07; the Dashes fol-
A CASH DIAGNOSIS.
SQUILLS, M.D. : “What did you operate on
old Goldsox for?”
BILLS, M.D. : “Fifty guineas”
A QUILLS. M . D. “ N .I mcan whot has he
BILLS: “Well, he had fifty guineas.”
anTin lS2o B th' • Each c £ uple had one child
Of this mi inn ' t-f Was a Blanlt ‘Oash wedding.
vji inis union there was a man-child
married in 1849, and left one son This son
pi .°. hfic Emilies, the child of one died
without issue, that of another had a daughter
who never married, and the solitary conse-
quence of the third wedding is Blank. In
tact. Blank is the sole descendant of the
original four settlers of a century ago That
sort of immigrant is a dud.
THE RIVAL SHEPHERDS.
VILLAGE CURATE: “I trust, Mrs. Mrs. Jones, that I have beem able to gice some consolation
to your husband. Did the poor fellpw wish particularly to sce me?”
MRS. J (Mcthody): “Oh, no, sir. You sce. the doctor suys it's something catchin' he
has, and we didn't like to call in our own minister.”
“Hanno”: The number and variety of
occupations in which some men engage be-
fore finding the one in which they settle
down is nothing short of astonishing. I
know a schoolmaster in one of the best
public schools who was by turns bricklayer’s
laborer, - bookmaker’s clerk, law clerk, re-
porter and sailor. Another, a barrister with
a fair practice, started in life as an under-
study to a butcher, from which he graduated
to ship s steward, then to hospital wardsman
and Public Service employee—it was during
this last period that he studied for the Bar.
Perhaps the most variegated career of all,
however, is that of a successful medical
practitioner in one Australian city. Be-
ginning as a station-hand, he next went to
sea, left his ship in the United States, just
roamed round for a couple of years, then
joined the police force in the city in which
he is now practising, and had been "flogging
the beat” for three or four years when a
nearly-forgotten relative died and left him
about £2OOO. Immediately he resigned from
the force, spent six months matriculating,
then did the medical course, and emerged
with honors in his degree examination.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The N.S.W. lady who told
the Divorce Court how she hatched eggs in
her buzzum (B. 27/10/’2l) didn’t pioneer
the art. I can vouch that it was common
among Yorkshire farm-girls a quarter of a
century ago, when aristocratic eggs were
in question. Delicate young chicks of high
degree were similarly treated in severe
weather, American incubators and steam
heat in fowlhouses being unknown in those
parts. Norwich canary-breeders have long
been famous for the same pleasing custom.
Finally there is a classic case in Hardy’s
“Jude the Obscure.”
* * * »
“X.0.C.” : Has anyone recorded the deeds
of “the Big Drunk Draft,” as some Kipling
lover christened the first batch of Anzacs
that struck on active service abroad? They
were convalescents after the early Gallipoli
fighting, and had left hospital with wonderful
dreams of the big splash they’d have in
Cairo or Alex, before being re-consigned to
the Peninsula. But for some inscrutable
reason the Tommy heads decided to limit
their pay to a couple of Egyptian guineas
per Digger, regardless of the big credits that
had accumulated. The insurrection was
admirably managed. Even that king of
narks, the paymaster, though compelled at
last to hand out on a lavish scale, was ten-
dered each pay book for entry, although the
rebels had him and his cash at their mercy.
An attempt by one or two hoodlums to
make the compulsory pay buckshee was
summarily and drastically punished. True,
of a thousand hilarious
A uacs scared the assorted population of
uVeu a f o° in the stl 'f ts for a whole day, but
little damage was done and nobody was hurt
Subsequent drafts who dre- to the full limit
of credit during the brief holiday allowed
them after their discharge from hospital had
a lot to thank the B.D.D. for.
* * * *
Bomba” : Let me fire a round in support
o Jaded s statement concerning one’s
thoughts when dying (B. 20/10/’2l). In
the push at Ypres, 1917, the' Aussie gunners
were covering a Tommy advance—at least
it was to have been an advance—and got
into a warm corner. After Fritz had
knocked out all the other batteries of our
divvy, he turned his attention to ours. We
were in an old communication trench, and
his second h.-e. landed on the parados imme-
diately above my head. I was dragged for-
ward and partially buried. A moment be-
tore 1 had been in hell; guns were booming,
shells bursting, machine-guns rattling and
aeroplanes flying low above our position,
ihe next instant I slid into infinite peace.
Ay first thought was “I am dead”; the
second I am in Heaven.” Then I opened
my eyes and saw the dead bodies of two-
cobbers, who had been crouching on either
s.de of me, and I was back in hell again
Sometimes the torture of that moment
returns as 1 am about to drop off to sleep.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”: Near my trade store at
Hula (Papua) resides a youthful savage
who has been to Sydney. For weeks after
his return he was the hero of the village
and his envious cobbers never tired of h s
stories of high adventure in the mysterious
land of the white man. He slipped badly
in the end, however, and his services as a
popular entertainer are no longer in demand.
Ihe village policeman puts it this wav:
laubada, this fella boy tellum too much
B pose he talk true ’longa Sidini, all
right I hear him; but what for he humbug
me longa this big fella bullamacow gotti m
two fella tail?’ The elephant at Taronga
I ark had proved the traveller’s downfall.
Car tot : One result of the progress made
m surgery during the war is a new system
of treating burns, based on experience gained
with flammenwerfer injuries. The essence
ot this is the discovery, made by a couple
ot professors m Paris, that one effect of the
damage to the tissue by heat is the forma-
tion of poisonous substances which consider-
ably retard healing and the growth of fresh
tissue and, on making their way into the
blood-stream, set up what is known as “burn-
rever. ihe new treatment, therefore, con-
sists of removing, by scrubbing with wire
brushes, every piece of burnt skin and tissue
as. soon as possible, the patient, of course
being anesthetized. In cases that have been
treated practically all traces of the symp-
toms which usually follow a severe burn
ronffl been abse “t and the sufferer has made
? ra r reSS K t 0 recovery, this taking , !
m about a third of the time that
method 1- hfcf h VOUkI ; • ?°. far as 1 know, the
Han hosnftal b< i en t Vv! ed “? , only one Austra-
11-l 1 -° Spita ’ but the quickness with which
new tissue succeeded the old has greatly in
terested general practitioners a 3
* * *
X.° C.” : That par. about Feisal, King of
Mesopotamia (B. 27/10/’2l), reminds me
ancT^Hooshtah
stoush was frequent 'mcf'villinj!"' 1 'A US sie
t • f, 3 ’ ,^ ran spoi t eamelier, was even more hos-
tile than his cobber in the Light Horse
wav' S / xy PPb-driving had made him that
, , ay \ Damascus a eamelier from the
Arabs IG at h fell foul of small cavalcade of
)f a . nt a cross-road south of Tripoli
Aussie Bey s convoy was long, and the mr
-dad Arab leader insisted on cutfhw
“ is imperative demand S
backed up by an intelligence officer who
accompanied the circus. The eamelier prow
wrth° b n U - ate ' th ? r ( {- drew him aside, P and
vcith an impressive glance at the boss Am '
Wi- SO r ethll i 8: '"i a s °i emn undertone. The
shS ra^ St r fl o a I, the K° r & e °us one ml
®„??k his head. Its no good, cobber
said ; it s no good !. One nig.’s the same ms
another to me.” The “nig.” was Feisal
ft n °m, m . §ns in the cit.v of Haroun Alras-
hUld ‘ / Jdl . e mtelll sence officer was the illus-
trious Colonel Lawrence.
._* * #
‘It.O’M.” : In my pedagogic days I asked
what the Lord answered when tempted by
batan in the desert. Minnie answered cor-
rectly as far as “Man shall not live by bread
alone.” But there she froze. Gladys came
fftHe'water.” hnishe6: “ He have a
* *
* *
“X2X”: An instance of the puzzling
phenomenon know to medicine as anaphy-
laxis came to light recently. It is a condi-
tion of extreme sensitivity caused by the
introduction into the system of some protein
substance, as a result of which the further
introduction of the same substance is likely
deJh' m Twi COllapSe > and in some cases
death. In the present case a woman, while
orrdn , conflned ’ suffered greatly, and in the
Y COUrS< ; °J treatment the medico
injected normal horse-serum, a recognised
method of treating shock. Alarming
symptoms promptly followed; the lady
collapsed, and it was just touch-and-go. In-
vestigation traced the trouble to an injection
°t anti-diphtheric serum administered over
Jo years before. The protein in this injec-
tion had rendered the patient’s system highly
sensitive, and, instead of this sensitivity pass-
ing away in time, as usual, it had remained •
then when the horse-serum came along ana-
phy axis occurred. Such a thing would be
liable to happen m about one case in five
millions. It was the patient’s bad luck to
be the one. It also shows what slippery
places the general practitioner can find him-
self on occasionally.
BETTOR OR WORSE.
THE BOOK: “So you’re to be married?”
THE GIRL: “Married! I'll bet you what you
like I'll never marry.”
THE BOOK (quickly) : “Righto! I’ll take
you.”
THE GIRL (still more quickly): “Oh, how
sudden! I needn't bet at all, then.”
TRILBIES IN THE STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well out of doors my bed is spread,
Where only one great lilac-tree
Obscures me from the folk who tread
The asphalt path from twelve to three,
These laggard homers well I know
From stories that their feet confide,
If dribbling wearily they go,
Or pass on with a martial stride.
I mark the fumbling step of one
IV ho falters, flickers, and is still,
then starts to make a rolling run—
When one foot will not, one foot will.
*' 10111 what his boots have said ’tis clear
VV hat taint his breath abroad has sent;
It is not needful that 1 hear
Him with the hedge in argument.
There comes another in pursuit.
His tread is slow, deliberate.
I know the number of his boot,
I feel the measure of his gait.
It is the Law that wanders there,
Contemplative, and all the reps.
Who hear know well just how and where
Authority is taking steps.
Pass tripping footsteps, rap, tap, tap,
With click of heels she hurries through;
From supper with her latest chap
She’s making home at ten to two.
And softer, panther-like, in shoes
That squeak as with a hint of laughter,
And leer or wink, as one construes,
The street Lothario goes after.
Now comes the tread of bluchers stout,
At steady pace, with force behind ;
A trace of weariness about
Their slow uplift, the pavement’s grind.
A lumper homing from his job,
With swinging billy, in his grime,
And fingering the thirty bob
lie s drawn to-night for overtime.
Six feet together—pitty-pat
Of baby Helen ; shove of pa,
111-tempered, nursing close his “rat” ;
The sloven, slipshod step of ma.
The family from a party go;
The child walks in her sleep, and with
Hot cheeks mum nags at well-bored Joe
For flirting with “that Annie Smith.”
And now the sly, soft touch of Dunn,
Belated, sneaking to his wife.
He 11 tiy the windows one by one;
His step foretells long hours of strife.
Let others lead the palm of man,
And trace therein his story whole,
But for my part I rather plan
To read the secrets of his sole.
VICTOIiIA.
S. S.


Summer Time is Feeding Time!
The average home-mixed ration is not
efficient. It is not economical and usually
limits production.
Experimental research has found that
many of the most popular farm-mixed
rations are insufficient to produce
maximum milk yield. Therefore if you
feed a mixed ration at all— feed the best.
Home-mixed rations satisfy for short
periods, but are not made for continuous
results.
Efficiency, combined with economy, is our
aim in manufacturing Meggitt’s Cattle
Food. This effects a saving of grain and
holds production at its peak.
Meggitt’s Cattle Food is the choice of
discriminating feeders and breeders
because it helps their herds maintain
maximum production year after year.
This efficiency, secured with perfect safety
to your cows, enables us to honestly offer,
by correct feeding of Meggitt’s Cattle
Food, “more milk each day for more
days.’’’
Ask the Man Who Feeds It.
Write to Department A
for pamphlet, Milk Yield
Increased. Immediately.
&
* 'w
*
o
/
nEGGITT L TO
PARRAMATTA
99te boy on the bag
guarantees quality
i
e
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST SYDNEY
A.QEKTS-
Messrs Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. William Adams
d Go Ltd. King Street, Perth;’Messrs, R. S. Exton d Co., Ltd., Queen Street Brisbane;
Messrs F. W. Heritaae d Co.. Ltd Hobart and Launceston; Messrs .Johnston & Co. Ltd.,
Feather ston Street, Wellington, N.Z.; S.A. Farmers' Co-op. Union, Ltd., 26 Franklin Street.
Adelaide, S.A.
IJNSEEIIOIIffAI
[Mi
AEGGITT U ro
V RARRAMATTA
m< yAe boy on the baa
guarantees quality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN 15RANCH-
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE S '
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Cases containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5 - GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case)
Liquid, 37/6 per drum f £orts. a ' iaa
Manufactured in Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne: Sydney: Brisbane:
4!)7 Collins 7 Hamilton 239 Elizabeth
Street. Street. Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States. I
King George IV
IUI
tHE TOP NOTOTscotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
*
Pit "V iper : A Gippsland fisherman re-
cently caught a 7|lb. eel and on opening it found
a small rabbit in its tucker bag. Was that bunny
alive or dead when the wriggler got him ?
GETTIN’ COLONIAL EXPERIENCE
WHAT!
“What are you doing, old chappie?”
“Grubbing.”
“Ah, do you use them for bait?”
1.G.8. : The crow is a wily cuss where
poison is concerned, but I hit upon what was to me
a new way to get him the other day. Finding a
freshly-dead ewe just at sundown, I skinned her back
to the rump, smeared the carcase with SAP then
pulled the skin back to make it look as undis-
turbed as possible and left it. After treating two
or three like this (always in the dusk so that the
birds wouldn’t see me at it), I commenced to pick
up defunct crows all over the paddocks. They’ve
given up eating the treated sheep now ; but nothing
will induce them to go near any sheep that is down.
Unfortunately a few maggies took the bait too
* * *
“Aneb”: All the tips given to “8.N.J.”
(B. 11/8/’2l) to cure a bridle-breaker I’ve seen
tried, and I discarded the lot years ago. There is
only one way to tie a horse up, and that is by the
head. That is how he always will be tied in after-
-1 e, so why bring his tail into the argument at all’
You can teach him to tie up by the tail if you like’
but some casual vendor w.ill forget to tell the secret
to a purchaser, and Few careful breakers
attempt to tie up a young ’un till the second or third
day; then an empty chaff bag is folded in four,
lengthways, tied behind his ears, round the neck,
joined to a length of plain inch rope which is passed
through the nose-band of a halter (don’t forget that)
and (allowing 4ft. or less of slack) secured to the
padded panel of a fence too high to jump. Let him
have his pull. Like all beginners some learn
quicker than others; but for 30 years I’ve looked
for a better way than this, and I haven’t found it
yet.
* * *
“D.F.”; Home-made red or purple ink can
be got wherever you can find the red-ink plant or
Virginia poke, and it is as common as blackberries
on the South Coast and elsewhere in N. S. Wales.
All you have to do is to gather the ripe berries and
squash them. You can dye cloth purple with the
juice, but the color doesn’t last. Botanists call the
poor wretch Phytolacca decandra. A tincture made
from the berries is said to be good for rheumatism
and the root is something of an emetic. In parts of
L'.S.A. the young shoots used to be boiled and
eaten like asparagus.
“Bill R.”; The present season’s lamb-
docking at Currandooley (N.S.W.), where 40,000
jumbucks are barbered annually, revealed that 95
p.c. of the ladies had done their whack towards the
birthrate. If any squattage of equal flocks can put
that record in the shade, let’s hear about it.
“D.F.”: What the real use of the spur
on the hind-leg of the male platypus is no one
seems to know. There is still a widespread belief
that it is a poisonous and deadly weapon, but the
evidence against that is strong. Dr. George Bennett,
a careful observer, as far back as 1831, tried hard
to get platypuses to wound him with the spur,
but they would not come at it. He did accidentally
get a few scratches, but they never worried him.
Bennett recorded that the platypuses were most
abundant in the spring and summer, and raised the
question whether they do not hibernate. It seems
likely that they do in some cases; for instance, they
are found in Tasmanian plateau lakes which freeze
over in the winter.
“Orney”: Re “Stumpy’s” cow (B.
13/10/’2l), which had one calf on Thursday and
another the following Tuesday. A cousin of mine
on the Mitta River had a cow which gave birth to
a second calf one month after the first. Both lived
to maturity, and ma still greets new arrivals each
year, but there have been no more syncopated twins.
» ♦ * »
“Echap”: The pigskin experts have told
“8.J.N.” (B. 11/8/’2l) many ways of ensuring his
moke’s patient sojourn at
the hitching-rail while he
goes in for a lemonade;
but evidently no shooters
have come to his rescue.
Here’s the tip to hold
him without tying up.
Attach to the loose end of
a spare length of bridle-
rein (say, about sft.),
secured to the bit in the
usual manner, a weight
made by coiling a piece
of fencing wire in a 2oz.
tobacco tin and then fill-
ing the tin with molten
lead, leaving a loop of
the wire projecting above
the level of the lead.
Hook this weight to the
breast-plate staple while
riding and just drop it to
earth on dismounting. The
wildest nag will be an-
chored by this means be-
fore he has gone half-a-
dozen lengths, as the
weight will swing round
one of his feet and take a
hammer-lock for which
there’s no break. If this
fails, I suggest carrying
an axe, bar and shovel
M „,o^. !hlt! _ ria . h rr i S ! 4r rou, ' d
»., ■ #
“Delhi”: I didn’t note the dimensions of
the I , ar * est ’ ro ° 1 shot asked for by “Bill Bow-
~ang (B. 29/9/’2l), but as to weight I calculated
ho left the 1501 b. mark well behind, as I was un-
able to lift him on to my horse to bring him home.
«v r * *
ALolongulli : As I was galloping after
a " lage ' oty ewe recently the shears flew out of my
saddle ' ba £> sprang open and stabbed my horse (about
a ” lnCh and one ' half deep) just above the fetlock,
1 , pulled hlra U P inside 10f t. When I told a
neighbov he said he could beat me easily. He was
°" bl °° d mare ’ gallo P in g through timber, when his
Prad trod °" the end of a shal 'P stick > which flew up,
erit . ered * be mare ’ s stomach, and came out in the
gion of tbe crupper. She lived for a fortnight,
“™." •»» »*•
“t> „ TT *
“Baree”: How’s this for luck? In the
’ eighties a party of min ers at the Lady Alice (N.T ),
a ver T profitable crushing, packet] a big parcel of
g° 1( ' 011 a ™re for transit to Darwin. Then the whole
party went on a wlld and whirling spree ( those were
° f ]amb °? ees!) ’ and ™ the midst of the
a‘“l got away and made mto the bush.
« folt . l ? ght later she was recovered, grazing on a
flat, with every ounce of gold intact in her packs.
in t the hawking hawk °S2
net mlf tove"b lds )
-t. He adds that i* hawfsS
ROUGH IMITATION OF A GHOST.
BOSS (to Jacky, who says he is too sick to work) : “But yore don'l look sick, Jacky!”
JACKY: “By cripes, me fcelum sick! Feelum plurry pale alonga face, boss.”
he caught her last • summer, and that she now
catches ducks for him. I wish “Bream” would give
us some more particulars. A man that 'can train
a wild passage hawk to hand inside 12 months has
clone something new in the history of falconry, and
is dead certain of a well-paid job as master falconer
iom such people as the Salvins, of Lincolnshire and
others, who still maintain mews for hawks, and
fishing-cormorants. But meanwhile a photo of that
falcon at hand would do me.
* * *
“N. 8.” : I was with a party that was dis-
cussing Minns’s joke (B. 13/10/’2l) about the gate-
posts that grew to trees, and someone thought it
far fetched. A couple of Wandiligong (Vic.) resi-
dents took the wind from his sails. In “Wandy”
is, an avenue of perhaps the finest poplars in Australia.
It’s worth the drive out from Bright to see them,
and everyone praises the foresight of the man who
planted the trees. Yet in the course of the argument
it came out that one Lloyd years ago set up fences
along the road, using split poplar for the posts, and
those fences are the beautifully regular avenue of
to-day.
* * * *
Gouger”: The old hatter, squatting on
a log stool, sat staring at the fire. His gingery
sheaf of tangled whiskers, a ruddy copper color
in the firelight, encircled all his face, his neck,
his head, without beginning or end. The bald pate
above the forehead, like a cleared patch in the scrub,
was furrowed to the eyebrows with excessive thought.
Picking up a month-old paper with his toes from
where it lay on the hearth, he studied for the two-
hundredth time the ominous advertisement.—
Ref. lady, 30, wld like corr gent, with good home
Must be gent. View mat.
The old man flung down the paper, fossicked out a
pencil from a treacle-tin, and, spreading the reverse
side of a tea-wrapper, began a long and painful com-
position :—•
, nu *m, I see be th’ paper ure lookin’ fer a
'usband. I m ’im. Send erlong yer foto. I don’t
want no old piece. She must B* hefty an’ tough,
becos th shaft is down 80 foot now, an’ haulin’ th’
mullock on a hot day ain’t no joke. I ain’t per-
tickler if yer a bad hand at makin’ dampers. I’ll
dish them up. I’m a bit of a ipicure erbout me
tucker. But yer must be a good ’and at stoos.
There s whips uv galars erbout ’ere. They goes
down great stooed. Fetch up a pound er shot an’ a
flask er powder. Mine’s run out. Don’t fetch er bio-
swag. It’s a 40-mile walk ter my camp, an’ ther
range is a bit ruff. An’ ther crik might 13 up I’ll
meat yer in Molloy. Watch out fer that station
bloke there e s a bad ’and with wimin. Yer dootiful
usband, Gorge Steal, mount Molloy.
“That’ll fetch her,” murmured the old man; then
stretching himself on the bunk he drew the bag-
blanket to his ears and fell asleep.
“Paul C”: “L.McL.” (B. 6/10/’2l).
ga oping in to advise “8.N.J.” to be careful when
lying my method of breaking the bridle-breaker of
us ad habit, says it has a tendency to injure the
ack, that it doesn’t hurt as much as tying the
rope round the horse’s body, and that it makes
him kick. Well, I have seen a score or more bad
pullers cured by my plan, and not one has injured
his back. Common-sense suggests that the throwing
of a horse s full weight on a half-inch rope under
his tail will hurt more than if it wenj tied round
his body, even if he didn’t break it in the latter
case, which he would. As to the yarn that my plan
makes the moke kick, if “L.M.L.” can explain how
a horse can pull back for his life and kick at the
same time be may put me in the rat-house right
away.
“Aragun”: Queer catches? What about
* ot ? 1 was Ashing for perch in the Orara
, when a fair-sized water goanna rushed
the colored floater. Pie was five minutes in mid-
air before he decided that cork isn’t good tucker for
hungry go’s. In the same stream, while after dog-
sharks with a whole mullet for bait, I had quite an
argument with a hefty black shag. I didn’t hook
him, but landed him before he disgorged. A mate,
fishing at night for eels, raw meat for bait, threw
THE TALE THE TAIL TOLD.
THE YOUNG FOXY: “I’m blue-blooded!”
THE BULL PUP: “Gam, liar — why, I was
there when you had your tail docked!”
light across to the other bank. He hooked a dog.
Next morning an angry and very profane ’possum
shooter wanted to know who was the dirty cow
that gave his best hunter a feed with a fish hook
in it.
(Continued on page 22.)
BUSHLAKD BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Boom!” they sound from far away
Like strange bells of yesterday.
“Boom ! Boom ! Boom ! Boom ! ”
From the distant scrubs of gloom,
Bells of bullocks still unfed
In the ranges parched and red,
Bells that beat a hunger-song
Round and round the kurrajong.
“Clang! Cling! Clang! Cling!”
All across the swamp they ring
Where the tired team-horses feed
On bush grass and water-weed,
Crashing through the lignum boughs
With the cobwebs on their brows,
Drinking at the long lagoon
Silver-maned beneath the moon.
“Ting-a-ling-a-ling-a-ling!”
Down the bend they lilt and swing,
Busy bells that wake the plains
Keeping time to chink of chains
Where the hacks in hobbles go
Through the bluegrass, cramped and slow.
“Tink-tink-tink!” then “Ting-a-ling!”
Round the camp I hear them ring.
louder than the wheels of Change
Clang those tongues from ridge and range,
Nearer still than voice of friend
Sounds that call of camp and bend;
Distant neigh or nightbird’s flight ’
Sets them rippling down the night;
Dark to dark each shadow tells
Tales that move the bushland bells.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


f
AS NECESSARY
AS YOUR HEADLIGHTS!
mm
WHAT THE Stewd/ib SEARCHLIGHT MEANS TO YOU!
The iMmaUb Searchlight is something more than an accessory. It is a
necessity for safe country driving and invaluable for -finding house numbers
in town. Enables you to pick out ruts, sharp turns road signs, and all danger
spots, thereby increasing the pleasure and safety of night driving. It is because
motorists have come to realise its value as a Safety First proposition that
the Stewart Searchlight is seen on such an enormous percentage ot cars to-day.
The f&igWWib Searchlight is an excellent example of the Policy
of “Built-in Quality and Service.” It is handsome in design and adds to the
appearance of any car. Has fewest parts of any light on the market and
operates in the most direct way. Light can be focussed 1 000 ft. in any desired direction—bracke s
any windshield standard.
You cannot afford to U without the STEWART SEARCHLIGHT—have it installed to-day.
STEWART SEARCHLIGHTS, VACUUM TANKS, SPEEDOMETERS, WARNING SIGNALS, etc , ARE OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL LEADING ACCESSORY DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, including the following Interstate serv.ee stations:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street,
Melbourne; Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane; Cornell, Ltd., Pine Street,
Adelaide; Arthur Christian, Hay Street, Perth. ___
usic in the Home.
p
' k
I
\
x
I
3
F
r>
y
\
«
1
v'
aHE old idea that Music is a luxury is happily
fast disappearing, and in its place the true
conception of Music’s functions in Education
and formation of taste and character is daily
gaining ground. Music benefits not alone the
individual; it benefits the home. Gather your
children and their friends about the piano in the
evening—let music draw the family closer together
—let it make the home a centre of youthful happiness.
What a splendid adjunct to hospitality is a little
entertaining music—and what a cure for loneliness
and sadness.
What prestige does a good instrument of music bring
to the home —with what justifiable prides does the
happy possessor show it to his justly envious
neighbor ?
EVERY HOME SHOULD CONTAIN SOME MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
—and Paling’s Easy Payment System makes it possible for everyone
to secure the instrument of their choice for their home.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR CATALOGUES AND
PRICE LIST OF OUR PLAYER PIANOS,
PIANOS AND GRAMOPHONES.
in
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY.,


When you can’t take a holiday to
recuperate take CLEMENTS TONIC
and rejuvenate!
For thirty years CLEMENTS TONIC has main-
tained its popularity as a safe remedy for relieving
blood and nerve ailments. Try it —you’ll like it!
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
“Wandi”: A heavy fish mortality hap-
pens now and again in the Richmond River (N.S.W.),
though not in neighboring streams, mostly through
spawning mullet being caught by a sudden flood too far
up .to get down to the cleansing sea water before
their gills get clogged with mud. One such holo-
caust happened not long ago, when the river was
covered with dead fish for miles like a silvery
carpet. But the strangest fish mortality occur: ed
many years ago when there had been no fresh for a
long time. Millions of dead floated in the river
above tidal waters, and collected in humming heaps
against logs and banks, giant eels being particularly
prominent. What caused the great snuff-out is still
a mystery to the riversiders.
THE BITTERNESS OF DEFEAT.
UNSUCCESSFUL CANDIDATE FOR THE BAG-
CARRYING JOB : “ Don't spill ther pretty
lady’s face-powder, Stinker!”
“Wessel” : The closing of the Darwin and
Wyndham meatworks is giving- a boost to real long-
distance droving, not jaunts of a few hundred miles.
A. Ross and Tapp have just brought 2000 head of
cattle from Newcastle Waters right across the centre of
Australia, following the overland telegraph line. Before
that 1000 head from W ave Hill, out near the border
of the Territory and W.A., were brought right across
the Territory into Queensland, and then down the
Birdsville track to be trucked for Adelaide at Maree,
On the Oodnadatta line —a walk of over 2000 miles.
<(TV* 1 %y T -,, .
b;t J. p f^ ay : lah ® r . ty v , and were
bittei enemies. They had blocks on opposite sides of
a strongly-flowing, steeplv-banked stream Flahertv
had a son and O’Brien a daughter and when thLe
grew to ° old to poke faces at each other across the
“ critk >” they decided that it was time they set up
ONE OF THE TREE-CLIMBING SORT.
FAIR ONE (to pent, who is hawking ladies’ handbags) : “Arc you quite sure you made
tins out of a real skin of the Australian crocodile?”
HAWRER: “Positive, lidy. I shot that crocerdile meself up north.”
FAIR ONE: “Fancy! But it's a bit scratched here,”
HAWKER: “Yes, lidy. That’s where it struck the ground when it fell from the tree,
lidy.”
house together. But old O’Brien said “No.” He
wouldn’t dhrame of having that young scamp of
a Terry Flaherty as a son-in-law. He chuckled
when he recalled that the ford was 10 miles down
stream and that young Terence couldn’t swim. But
Flaherty, jun., felled a tree across the “crick” and
used it as a bridge. O’Brien put an end to that
caper In' chopping his end away from the bank. A
few nights later he discovered lis Molly and Terry
on the front verandah, listening to the summer
locusts as ardently as ever. O’Brien set a watch on
the enterprising Terry. At dusk the next evening
he saw the heir of the Flahertys descend to the
river’s edge, grasp a stout vine hanging from the
limb of an iron bark, and climb with it to the
top of the steep bank. Down this Terence ran for
all he was worth, and the impetus carried him out
and over the river. In mid-air he let go, and
landed almost on top of O’Brien. “You win,” said
that worthy man. “Go home an’ tell y’r father-r t’
come along an’ discuss the weddin’ over a bottle
av th’ real shtuff.”
* * * *
“E.M.Mc.” : A sow belonging to E. C. J.
Wearne, Back Creek (N.S.W.), gave birth in Novem-
ber, 1920, to a litter of 15, all females. It is be-
lieved to be a record for the whole of such a litter
to be of one sex. There was a second litter of 10
sows and one boar pig in June last, and another lot
is due at the end of December.
* * * *
“Med” : I quite believe the yarn -that two
families are frequently carried by the lady rabbit.
The event, though rare, is not unknown in humans.
In 1904 an unmarried Georgian (U.S.A.) negress
gave birth to a full-blooded black (full term) and
four months later produced a full-term half-caste.
* * * ,
“Ganesha”: Where do the greatest axe-
men come from nowadays? i don’t mean pros.,
wonderful as they are, with their fancy strokes, who
win prizes at the w-ood-chop exhibitions in big cities,
but the genuine splitter who does his day’s work
with the axe. I met an old splitter in the Dan-
denong Ranges (Vic.) who reckoned it was quicker
to use only an axe, and never a saw at all, making
notches to divide the log, and turning two processes
into one. Till he was about 40 he said he could
do two cords a day, and every day, to keep the mill
going.
"Billy T.”: I have just read a thrilling
Australian story in an unpopular English magazine,
describing a fight to the death between a man and
"a wild wombat.” The man triumphed after a
sti uggle lasting over an hour, when he succeeded
in getting a stick, sharpened at both ends, wedged
upright between the huge jaws of the wombat.
Then comes a convincing touch. “John’s lost watch
was found, the chain twisted securely in the crea-
ture’s long matted mane.” Obviously it is all a case
of mistaken identity. The animal John fought was
not a wombat, but podargus, the marsupial lion, in-
digenous to Bungaree, a ravenous creature the size
of a horse, that eats Presbyterians.
“Pick”: The N, S. Wales South Coast
districts hold the worst insect stinger of the uni-
verse (B. 4/8/’2l). He is a hardshell, shiny blue,
with an inch-long narrow body and wings that he
encases in horny coverings when afoot. On the
ground or a-wing he is a lightning artist, restless
and darting in his movements, and so tough that
heel-stamping into the mud is only a joke to him.
Get him inside your shirt on a summer day and you’ll
have a most realistic foretaste of uncomfortable
things to come.
“R.A.Ii. ~\\ hy all this noise about
whether birds do or don’t leave their nests after
being disturbed? Nine birds near where I write
have their nests robbed every day, and yet they
come back every time. I think you call ’em white
leghorns.
“Six and Eight” : When “Exul” and “Mer-
lin” get that .cat from “2UP” (B. 13/10/’2l) it is
a thousand to a pinch of snuff they’ll find it only a
common native-cat. This animal (which is not a
cat at all, but a marsupial) has been for so long
called a cat that it would be quite hopeless to
attempt to bring any other name into general use
now. The case of the Australian phalangers, mis-
called opossums, is similar. Because first applied
to the American Didelphidae, carnivorous polyproto-
donts with long pointed muzzles, short legs and
scaly tails like rats, the name “opossum” properly
belongs to that family.
* * * *
“Bream”: There were recently washed up
on the bank of the Glenelg River (Vic.) two native
perch locked together in death. A five-pounder had
started to swallow a one-pounder head first. Finding it
beyond him he had tried to eject his lunch. But
the spines on the back of the small one passed
through the soft skin of the jaws of the other and
became locked there.
F.C.L.”: At Charleville (W.Q.) I sold
a dog to a carrier. He went to Adavale, 116 miles;
thence to Windorah, 140 miles. There he sold the
animal to a rabbit inspector, who took him to
Jundah (40 miles) and then to Warbrecean (25
miles). After an absence of a week and three days
the dog turned up at my home. But he’d plainly
had a struggle to do it; the weather had nearly
knocked him out.
Caley”: Can any Abo. lay the wheat-
fanner oil to a sure cure for sore shoulder in
horses? The prescriber must take into consideration
that the cocky has limited time in which to do his
ploughing, and a limited number of horses; so any
treatment involving “complete rest” is barred. The
ideal cure should take the form of an ointment,
which could be slapped on during spells, and act
in spite of or in conjunction with the pressure of
the collar. As I intend to direct the attention of
the S.P.C.A. to the wheat belt before next plough-
ing, anyone supplying a remedy will be doing not
only the man’s friend but the man himself and the
industry a good turn.
“Ivirk”: Re “L.J.D.’s” cut cartridge for
roo-shooting. For holding the charge of shot to-
gether, so that it hits hard and solid, it is a good
plan to remove the top wad and pour liquid candle-
grease down among the pellets. The bunch of lead
then slips out of the barrel without imposing anv
strain on the weapon or the sportsman’s shoulder, as
would be the case with a cut cartridge in a choke-
bore.
+ + M.
* *
“1897”: I showed a local stockowner
“Stumpy’s” par. (B. 13/10/’2l) re cow calving on
Thursday and again on Tuesday. He knows from
experience that it isn’t impossible. He had a ROW
that had two litters with an intervals of sp-en
weeks between. n
* * *
“Cog”: Tell “Adrian” (B. 13/10/’2l) that
it was dead easy for his rabbit to live two weeks
on “the memory of former feeds.” During last
drought three sheep inadvertently left yarded man-
aged to hang out for 21 days without anything to
eat or drink, and a jumbuck will pass in his check
at least three weeks before bunny begins to feel the
pinch.
“Echap”: “T.0.P.” (B. 13/10/’2l)*wants
to know how to convert a mild 'possum soup in his
tank back to plain water. A piece of lime thrown
m will work wonders; so will kopai. Failing either
of these, shovel some of the surrounding landscape
into the water and stir it up to a rich cocoa
appearance, then clear with Epsom salts (about
1 packet to a 400 gal. tank). There are more scien-
tific methods, right on up to distillation; but one
of these on-the-spot remedies ought to suffice.
* * * #
“Janus”: “T.0.P.” (B. 13/10/’2l) is ad-
vised that the best way to deal with his tank-water
in which ’possums make a practice of suiciding is
to bail it. He might try a little Epsom salts’ in
a bucketful, and if the result is satisfactory use
them in the tank. This will necessitate frequent
cleansing of the tank bottom. It would be better,
however, if he devised a wire-netting arrangement
to keep the suicides out.
* * *
Zantbus” : We haven’t yet found every-
thing in Australia. The other day H. L. White of
Scone (N.S.W.), sent F. L. Whitlock to work ’the
western edge of the Nullarbor Plain, and he soon
found at Naretha, 205 miles east of Kalgoorlie, a
new species of parrot, the Naretha (Psephotus nare-
tliae). He got on to it through seeing at Zanthus
a caged parrot of a kind that he had never noticed
before. The new bird is a noticeable Australian, mostly
pale-brown and yellow, with red patches on the wings
and tail, and bright blue cheeks. It is not particu-
larly rare about Naretha, for Whitlock spotted eight
nests, all in holes in desert oaks (casuarinas).
WELCOME INFORMATION.
PARSON : “Ah, my friend, I see you're on
the road that leads to drink.”
SWAGGIE : “Thanks for fellin' a bloke, mister.
I was scared to death the pub on this
track had been closed.”
SPEERO’S BIRTHDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Da day was Speero’s birthday, an’ so da boss he say:
“Speero, we giff you half-an-hour for annual holiday ;
An’ as da holiday come round but only once a year,
Tak’-a da fourpence from da till an’ buy yourself
da Beer.”
An’ Speero raise his hat an’ bow, an’ light da
stumpy fag,
An’ go to corner pub to have what Engleesh call
“da jag.”
By Kri , dey scarce had served his beer when great
big drunk called Pat
Snatch quick da glass an’ dreenk it up, den smash
his boxer hat,
An’ “shape up”—fight da box—an’ yell “Come on,
you greasy Dago!
I’H % ht yer fer th’ nex’ one! I’ll pulp you up to
sago! ” ,
An' Speero look around, an’ see no door or window
handy,
So say “Ah, yes, I fight, by Kri’—but first I drink
da brandy.”
“’lou’ll need it!” roars the drunk. “I’ll wait. Jus’
get it down your gizzard,
An’ den I’ll smash you up to H—ll, you b’ack-
faced Dago lizard!”
Speero he tak’ da brand in mout’ —den make da
big surprise!
He roll it round den spit it out —an’ straight in
Patrick’s eyes !
An’ as he stagger roun’ all blind—not know which
way to come—•
He t’row da bottle in his face an’ kick him in da
stum’,
An’ scr-rr-atch da face, an’ bite da ears, an’ tearr-rr
da coat an’ vest,
An’ knock heem steeff with water-bott’ an’ dance
upon his chest,
Den look roun’ fierce all eyes an’ hair, an’ dust da
trouser-knees,
An’ draw da carvin’-knife an’ say, “Come on! Who’s
next-a, please?”
Da crowd it melt like ice-a cream, so Speero give
da grunt,
He shrug da should’, an’ spit da floor, an’ walk out
back-to-front,
An’ go back, veree, veree tame, jus’ like a little bird,
An’ open-a da oyst’ again an’ neffer say a word,
Till Jortch he ask “How birthday-jag? You have
goot time with such?”
An’ Speero glare him in the eye, “Yiss, t’ank you
very much.
Da jag ver’ nice, but too much rush—too much like
fight da Turk; - '
I t’ink more quiet stop at home an’ do da bletty
work.
An so I t’ink I take da pull, I cut him out nex’
year—
Too much da box-a fight, by Kri’, and not enough
aa beer!”
N.s.w.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLYOPOULOS.


THE WORLD’S
MOST RENOWNED
fVjgS
mi
m
. \\
3)
HIGH=CLASS
CIGARETTES.
CIGARETTES
Grades to suit all tastes but one Quality only—the Highest.
VIRGINIA
No. 555
No. 333
No. 999
ASTORIAS
DE LUXE
MY DARLING
HIS MAJESTY
AU REVOIR
Absolutely Unique
in their Qualities.
High-class Cigarettes
at moderate prices.
Extra Quality
Gold Tipped.
Billiard-room Size.
Magnum Size.
Gold Tipped
for Ladies.
Cork Band
with Gold Tip.
For Travellers’ Use.
25 f.r 2/6
20 for 1/6
25 for 3/3
25 for 3|6
25 for 3/3
20 for 2/-
25 for 4/"
50 for 7/6
TURKISH
No. 444
No. 1
QUO VADIS in*
H.R.H.
Pure Macedonian Leaf.
Extra Mild
Turkish Leaf.
50
Turkish de Luxe.
Patent Silk Absorbent
Band, Gold Tipped.
25 for 3f-
-25 for 3|6
20 for 3|6
20 for 316
Also Obtainable in Boxes of 10, 50 and 100.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON


£r£rS
/
\
EE
m
D3DH
r-
m
o
tm
1
hi
V
Cr
m
3
St
v x
J
c
C'
Cr
((3
rr
J
nmn
d
IfIJOLSELEY
Ten • Fi fteen
and Twenty
VERY prospective car-owner is human enough to
B*. desire t car which demands—and wins—the
t unstinted admiration of all who see it.
But, together with such distinctive beauty must go
real, solid worth—reliable, steady and staunch service
always- which embraces powerful yet responsive action,
a consistently high standard of performance and economy
of upkeep.
Choice of the Wolseley as the right car to buy is
always based upon such knowledge—either through the
earnest assurance of the friend who owns one, or throuuh
intimate knowledge of the Wolseleys of old and an
extended, critical trial of the newest productions of the
famous firm which proudly presents to the world such a
classic car.
If you anticipate purchasing a car, we suggest you
call on the nearest Wolseley representative, who will gladly
demonstrate to you the Wolseley as the well-bred car it is
and looks.
The Wolseley Ten, Fifteen and Twenty Models are
ready for immediate delivery.
Illustrated literature and full information
furnished on request.
REPRESENTATIVES:
TICTORIA DALGETY & CO., LTD., 661 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO., LTD., Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., 61 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LTD., 105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR & CYCLE AGENCY',
LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS BROS.. Wellington;
BETT & BAYLY, Palmerston North; TODD BROS LTD.,
Christchurch; TODD BROS., Dunedin.
WOLSELEY MOTORS, LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia, 125 William Street,
Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.)
Works: Adderley Park,
Birmingham, England*


Tke
Purest
Spirit
irvtke
'XirkL
iffls
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schn
Stands aloh®-
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
w. G. HEARNE & Co* Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA-
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
COUCHS.
CHEST/
AFFECTIONS
and the largest 100 tons, sailing out of the
Spanish port of Ralos one August afternoon
in 1492. Notice a tall man peering out
westward over the ship’s side. And ® ee
the anxious, sorrowing people on shore, in-
eluding the priest, who has been making the
sign of the Cross! YV ell, they know that
the tall man is possessed with the mad idea
that he can sail through the Sea of .Dark-
ness (which no pious soul would think of
doing), and find land on the other side. He
is going to his doom, of course ; but perhaps
God will have mercy on his soul, and those
of the foolish, trusting ones lie has per-
suaded to go with him! Read this story in
Clement Markham’s “Columbus” ; and
pick up Fiske’s “History of America” and
see that, other superman, Magellan, stagger-
ing across the Pacific with three of his five
ships gone, and all but 18 of his crew of
90 dead or down with scurvy. “The greatest
uncharted voyage ever made,” says I iske.
It was. And after reading about these
events and people go back to novels, if you
can!
ALFRED BUCILANAN.
A Famous Editor
He did everything in the grand manner.
His fiat in Washington-square, with its
books and pictures and souvenirs, was one
of the most attractive places in New York.
He used his bedroom as a study; and it was
an adventure to meet the editor, probably
the most famous of his time, who used to
work in bed, with a telephone at his side,
amid a litter of papers, books, MSS., letters
and proofs, and received his contributors at
this unconventional levlie like a literary
Louis Quatorze.
Frank Harris had been the editor ot the
Saturday Review in its palmiest days
the days of Bernard Shaw, Runciman, Mac-
Coil, Cunningliame Graham, Arthur Symons
and the rest —and had succeeded John Mor-
ley as editor of the Fortnightly. And
he was still a great editor. lie had the
grand manner. I doubt if at first he was
fully appreciated in America, where, he once
said, “the heights are uninhabited.” He
selected a high and prominent position for
himself, for he knew his own value. His
great knowledge of the world, his wit and
satire, his erudition, his good taste in art
and literature, and his love of truth and
hatred of humbug, provoked for a time ran-
corous opposition from the Philistines whose
most approved prophets were financiers from
Wall-street. But nothing daunted him, and
he cut through American conventions like
cheese. In body he was a small man, but
he always gave the impression of great phy-
sical as well as mental energy. He was
dark, sanguine-complexioned, with eyes that
could see through people; he had a vivid
personality, passionate, pugnacious, in-
tensely alive; it was difficult to realise that
he had been a great figure as far back as the
’eighties. He was not an old man; he never
would be. ■ , . , „ ,
One night at a little restaurant called
Polly’s in Greenwich Village, the Bohemian
quarter of New York, I had been introduced
to a young Australian, Jack Flanagan, a
black-and-white artist and a worthy pupil
of Norman Lindsay. Flanagan was doing
some work for a new magazine, or an old
magazine in a new form, and it was through
him that I first met Frank Harris, his
editor. The man whom George Meredith
had praised long ago, a disciple of
the friend of Whistler, a legend of the Cafe
Royal, had lost nothing of his enthusiasm.
He was as reckless as ever, a hero-wor-
shipper, generous and warm-hearted, though
his satire was savage and his language, as
Shaw knew, sometimes sulphurous. # But
there was nothing petty or mean-spirited
in his most violent onslaughts; they, too,
were in the grand manner, for he attacked
the strong, never the weak; and on all occa-
sions I found him a man of fine courtesy
and generous sympathies.
He was the greatest worker I have ever
seen. He would do a serial in a fortnight,
besides writing the best part of a monthly
magazine, important articles on literature
and politics, elaborate portrait studies,
sketches, miscellanies, everything, as well
as editing his contributors’ copy, which, in
his case, meant re-writing the bulk ot it.
He had a passion for work; yet he found
plenty of time to talk. I think he liked
to talk. And an admirable talker he was;
for he knew everybody worth knowing—
statesmen, lords, poets, artists, wits, Bohe-
mians, men of the world, actresses, singers,
fashionable beauties, . all the celebrities of
the last two generations in every country
in Europe; and he had racy, often unpub-
lishable, stories about everybody. His
powerful personality attracted me more than
his books; I doubt'if his books do him jus-
tice. , „ , .
I think he regarded himself as a prophet,
perhaps even a saint, but he was never the
success he hoped for in this role. One day,
leaning forward from his pillows, he said:
“The world has looked too long towards
Athens for light; it should turn its eyes to
Jerusalem.” He had a great belief in the
Christian religion, and told me he was going
to write a fifth gospel, with “the under-
standing of love,” he explained, much in
the same way as he had written the life of
Shakspeare. Christianity was his special
subject, and he would allow nobody else to
touch it. He was very angry with George
Moore for daring to write “The Brook
Kerith.” One day in Fleet-street Harris
met Moore, who was then engaged on his
new work. Harris made his protest about
Moore writing on such a subject. “But it
won’t be like other books,” replied Moore;
“I’ll make Christ live.” Harris laughed
scornfully. “I know your Naturalism. Make
him live! I suppose you’ll have him stretch
out his hand and crack a flea under his
robe.” “And, by Jove,” said Harris, as
he told this storyj “he did!” Harris showed
me the proofs of a portrait-study of George
Moore that I thought was not sufficiently
appreciative; and he admitted that it was
a toss-up between “Esther Waters” and
"Tom Jones” for the first place among Eng-
lish novels.
He had a kindly feeling for the memory
of Oscar Wilde, whom he watched over dur-
ing the last dark days in Paris. The famous
death-bed jest, “I am dying beyond my
means,” was preserved by Harris, who said
that Wilde was the most whimsical, delight-
ful person, and the greatest talker of his
time, a greater talker than Meredith. He
liked, too, Ernest Dowson, a poet who has
few admirers nowadays, and wrote a sym-
pathetic account of his life. Instead of writ-
ing of Paul Verlaine, whom he knew ( well,
he interviewed Madame Verlaine. “It is
useless,” he said, “to write a criticism of
Verlaine, whose poems will be an essential
part of the culture of every educated French-
man. Nobody will want our opinions; but
perhaps the future would be interested to
know how the great poet appeared to his
wife.” He took great trouble over this
article, but with slight result. Madame had
little to say about Paul, who was less admir-
able as a husband than as a poet.
Among Harris’s many admirable qualities
—his courage, his sympathy, his generosity
—not the least attractive was his vanity.
He liked to be looked upon as a great man,
a holy martyr for preference, but a great
man, anyway. Neglect and loneliness would
not have suited him; he was social, flam-
boyant, a lover of applause. If certain great
ones were being praised he would say: “And
there was Frank Harris!” He never liked
Frank Harris to be overlooked. He startled
a friend of mine by once stating “I am im-
mortal now.” I remember him comparing
the London ’nineties with the epoch of Eliza-
beth. He went solemnly over the names,
making comparisons. There was Huxley,
the Bacon of the period. And Cunningliame
Graham the Walter Raleigh. There were
H. G. Wells, Oscar Wilde (“perhaps as
good a talker as Ben Jonson”), Bernard
Shaw, the mighty Meredith. “But there
was no Shakspeare,” he said sadly. “There
was no one to compare with him.” He re-
flected a moment, and then added: “No, I
haven’t his felicity.”
LOUIS ESSON.
The Genius Destructor
When man discovered that his thoughts
were liable to run in some sort of order,
his first impulse was to preserve them. This
he did, and has been doing, ever since, in
several ways. The easiest and most obvious,
perhaps, was by means of whatever system of
symbols he was capable of at the time. Tnen
came the idea that a truer and richer por-
trayal of his imaginings would be the actual
fashioning of them, distinct from a descrip-
tion. So mankind began, to model and
carve his thoughts, and picture them in
colors, and set them to music. And then,
when these windows, as it were, of his intel-
lect were thrown open, through any of which
those around admired, criticised or con-
demned that intellect, he began to take a
pride in the exhibition and perpetuation of
his ideas. Soon those whose thoughts were
worth looking at, and who were sufficiently
skilful in their presentation, were making a
living from them and their exhibition.
Literature, art, music, anything which is
the product of the mind alone, are but win-
dows through which we gaze at its imagin-
ings. Ever since man realised he could
think he has been airing his thoughts; the
world would be an uninteresting place if
people didn’t, in some form or other. But
the trouble is that these thoughts or concep-
tions, the accumulation of centuries, have
not been exhibited, stared at, and then
passed on to make room for the next —they
are on view for all time. And since man-
kind’s knowledge, although it must forever
be on the increase, is nevertheless finite, and
imagination is but the distortion or exaggera-
tion of knowledge, the time must come when
everything which man is possibly capable of
conceiving will have been presented in every
possible way ; knowledge must be overtaken
by imagination at last. Some minor, tran-
sient thoughts, due to passing causes, will
of course always be new, but the field of
original thought, vast as it is, must some
time be thoroughly covered, so that every
idea and every conception will be trite and
hackneyed.
The only way to avert this intellectual
deadlock seems to be to institute a Genius
Destructor, into which all gems of thought,
up to, say, the eighteenth century, would be
cast and lost to the world. Lesser works
would not matter, as they would be
done again, without the necessity for their
destruction. A time limit would be placed
on the exhibition of intellect, and at the
end of that time there would be a spring-
cleaning of genius, leaving a clear field for
newcomers. Fame would not mean immor-
tality then, but the knowledge that within
a certain period the idea, in whatever form
it was, would be consigned to the Genius
Destructor, as something too precious, too
wonderful, to be monopolised by the one
mind. Surely a greater incentive to thought
than the knowledge that it would be left in
the world’s shop-window to become dusty
and mouldy, and, in many cases, eventually
to rot!
There would be objectors, of course —
people who would hold up their hands in
horror at the suggestion that the works of
the Old Masters, the one-time giants, should
be lost to posterity. That every trace of
the works of men like Socrates, Shakspeare,
Michael Angelo and Beethoven, with hundreds
of others, should be lost would appal many.
It would only necessitate the destruction of
the work of these men, however. Their
names and biographies, perhaps, could be in-
scribed on a kind of universal roll of honor.
Then, these men’s works obliterated, others
could write on the same lines without fear
of plagiarism, artists would be unfettered
by the haunting dread of trespassing on
ground already trodden, and musicians and
others would not be held down by the iron
hand of precedent. Apd what has been
done before might this time be done better.
Now, thoughts, great thoughts which have
already been portrayed by recognised thinkers,
will never be shown to the world through
clearer windows, for the reason that no one
dare attempt the same thought in the same
way again. Or, if an idea is tentatively
essayed once more, its true worth is lost in
the cry • “It has been done before.” Every-
one is too intent on looking at the idea as
exhibited in the second century. And what
a boon the Genius Destructor would be to
the hard-pressed thinker of to day, \\l.o etci
nally seems to be considering whether he is
emulating previous works, and whose brain
is flowing with wondrous thoughts which he
dare not give birth to, because, 20 centuries
ago the same goods happened to be put on
L , , , i„ft ainpp l
show, and have been lett theie evei since.
ALAN BURROWS.
A Satchel of Rooks
.
My Memoirs, by Prince Ludwig Windischgraetz
(Allen and Unwin). The war-book of a fiery Hun-
garian who was Food Minister when the crash came
and who must have been a trying person to get on
with. Being a good hater with a gift for picturesque
writing lie contrives to be interesting even when
dealing with the mediaeval politics of South-East
Europe. The war came, it seems, because Germany
wanted it ; the Hapsburgs fell because the Austro-
Hungarian system was rotten through and through.
When the Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assas-
sinated, “there was a feeling ot ’ ehetthi oughout
the country”—the country that
loose, ostensibly to avenge him. liszas paitv
[Tisza was Prime Minister of Hungary] made no
attempt to conceal their joy.” Windischgraetz
fought as a captain in the invasion of Serbia, did
secret-service work among the Albanians, a set of
mercenary impostors “whose fighting value is ml,
and witnessed the success of the attempt to conupt
money and a rum™ y After August’s, 1 1918 (Ludemtorff’s
;;' 3l f lC *“t l ay ' ta strophe” h ad° ta ken WVS*
At Vittorfa Veneto, lie says, “the actual break-
through was the work of two English divisions,
which were almost wiped out in the operation.”
When the catastrophe arrived he went to Switzer-
land to negotiate with the conquerors, was exiled
laiiu to h , , , 1 dth ; 0 f
by his e emy } , moused of beiim con-
power in Hungary andl was accused of bein. con
cerned ii sweet xs well is bitter
adversity the P.ince has sweet as well as bittei
recollections •
“When I was in the trenches I saw bow noble and
self-sacrificing, what gentlemen, the masses are; as
a statesman 1 had an opportunity of learning from
experience the devotion, the humility and stiength
of precisely the lowest and poorest classes. Hence
my optimism for the future. ’
His optimism, however, is only momentary. He pre-
diets a plentiful crop of new wars.
The Unlatched Door, by Lee Thayer (Century Co.,
via Whitcombe and Tombs). All ingenious specimen
of U S detective fiction. Not much above the aver-
age but an agreeable anodyne for a jaded mind.
jzttjzzsters KZTJ&
who came to Sydney two years ago and got a job
on Smith’s Weekly. Some of his work is rather
taming eighteen-penn orth.
The Inky Way
“Albatross” : Alex. Somerville's essay (R.P.
13/10/’2l) on American rhymes recalls an American
bard I met in 1916. He was a customs clerk to a
New York firm of shipbrokers, and a real N.Y.
“cockney.” On board my ship I shewed him some
of my Bulletin sea-jingle, and he confided to me that
he too had once perpetrated some verse, the outcome
of a sleepless night. In his own words, he kept
“toining an' toining” in his bed until at last the
inspiration seized him, and switching on the elec-
trie light he penned the following love-spasm. I
don’t know how he spelt it, but this is the way he
del ™ ed the ***> dialectically.-
a fo |°t sight me" hoft'has stricken!
she hikes to woik each moining oily,
with poily teeth and hair so coily;
Tho’ my love boins hot, she shews no moiey,
And looks with scoin on her love-loin Poicy!”
He asked me if it were possible to oin good money
writing voise in Australia and was quite surprised
when I assured him that Walt Mason would starve
here
“,Jim Carew”: As a young man, Henry Kendall,
Australia’s sweet singer, was employed by one
Lionel Michael, a solicitor of Grafton (N.S.W.).
During that period Kendall arranged to give a lec-
jn the town on “Australian Literature.” The
p oe t came on the platform in front of a fairly large
au( ]j ence> coughed and stammered for a minute or
and tjieti fled. Michael, Kendall’s employer, was
something of a versifier, and some lines were found
011 ottice-table the morning his body was hauled
oia 0 j Clarence River. There was some suspi-
cjon 0 f f o(d play, but the verses (which were later
carved on his tombstone) suggest suicide: —
“Truly mv trial has been sore;
inL.Zv have I vvoke ami slept
And held a face 0 f calm before
The world that guessed not that I wept,
“And yet somewhere, somehow, I know
There must be mercy yet for me:
Man will have none for me, 1 know—,
My Father, I will go to Thee.”
R G Russonl) black-and-white artist, lately back
f rom U.S.A.: —
Onfe of the most successful of Australian artists in
can exhibitions. Pictures of his are hung in most
or the leading galleries. Jack Flanagan Norman
Lmdsay s protege, got m from the very first with
* ns pen-and-ink diawings. His woik is not seen 111
magazines often, but the large publishing houses
Harpers and Scribners—make good use of him for
their book illustrations and editions de luxe. Horace
Brodsky has been influenced by Cubist doctrines, and
shows no inclination to break away. It is necessary
hjm tQ 6xplain some of his pictures. He
has now crossed over to London. The work of Nor-
man Lj n( j ga y all( ] Leason attracts much attention,
and Gle j,. Bulletin drawings are constantly repro-
duced Low is becoming better known through the
repl . oduetion 0 f his cartoons from London Star, but
b . g WO rk, being done on very bold lines for daily-
paper use, doesn’t show up so' well in the magazines.
“ K .S.”: Louis Esson’s “Ring and the Book” (R.P.
13/10/’2l) has a parallel over a century old. Sydney
Smith wrote in the Edinburgh Review in 1810:
“There is a set of well-dressed, prosperous gentlemen
who assemble daily at Mr. Hatchard’s shop—clean,
civil personages, well in with people 111 power dc-
“vil HsrEHrirS
then one ot these W»Res a mt e book
and the rest praise that little hook, expecting to oe
in London to-day.
“Hamer”: One of the minor coincidences. A
letter of congratulation recently received from Cal-
o-arv. Alberta (Canada), by a Sydney writer, in
re f erence to some Bulletin verse, is signed “Frank
or t on Secretary, Canadian Authors’ Association.”
“Russell”: The late Alt' Vincent used to tell of a
EM*™? xTS?
“ lhe


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
Hbrolif^
%
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build }'Our new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
? ‘FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY•
Courier B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
f
The Flag
for
Woo I growers,
and no strong puff is needed to attract
owners to it.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
give such good service and so consistently
secure top results, that sheepmen find it
invariably pays to consign wool —-
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON,
Sydney or Brisbane.
w
A
VwF'
./7 'Breath of
'&nstLsh Jfowers
No more delightful than a
Zenobia Christmas Greeting
Sachet. It awakens sweet
memories of an old English
garden.
t
These Sachets are made in book
form and daintily designed in silk
and other materials, with leaves
for cribing appropriate greetings.
They reproduce the natural frag-
rance of many favourite perfumes,
including: Violet, Sweet Pea Blossom,
Lily of the Valley, Wallflower and
Night Scented Stock. All are highly
concentrated and lasting.
TENOBIA
Zenobia Sachets are obtainable at most
high-class chemists, perfumers & stores.
Manufactured only by
Zenobia Ltd., Loughborough,Leicestershire.
England.
Sole Agents for New Zealand
(Wholesale only):
NEWS ON & COMPANY, LIMITED.
. P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agents for Australia
(Wholesale only):
Kenneth Buclimaster, 15 O’Connell St.,
Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
m
&
n
m,
turn
ill Ml! [PI
*c-.
'yy ’
Jl
The All
d
B
lighV car
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The most reliable and ever-
ready Car is the Standard—
that is the opinion of Owner-
Drivers all over the world.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agents:
1. PHIZACKERLEY,
108-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
u
r*_vt
?’.«
mm®.
mm
Mas
}*«
•T?*>v.
tframagpiiaa
a&»a
ItfS
te
IT JUST
CANT LEAK!
The Colo Tube and
the Newsom Valve
form a strong combination. The valve
does not depend alone on air pressure
for its efficiency.
Exclusive devices effectively seal the
valve, and maintain a constant stan-
dard pressure.
Aslc your garagt
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., Head Office: 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court; Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Binglii” ; The Maulesden’s 287 miles in
24 hours (B. 13/10/’2l) was no great
shakes for a clipper. I was aboard the City
of Madrid when she did 336 miles in 24
hours. The Maulesden left seven days before
us in ’B3, and we passed her in a fortnight.
* * * *
“A.E.H.” : “Fife Rail” (B. 22/9/’2l)
gives Thermopylae’s run from London to
Melbourne at 63 days; it should be 60 days.
This was eclipsed in 1882 by the Maulesden,
which sailed from Glasgow to Port Phillip
Heads in 52 days. The Thermopylae was
sold in 1890 to a Canadian firm for £SOOO.
* * * *
“Red Gum” : Requiring a 22 cal. rifle for
rabbits, I found only Yankee or Belgium
makes on the market at a price fully 150
per cent, above pre-war rates. As these
and similar rifles are used by thousands
yearly, couldn’t Lithgow turn out as goad
an article? Anyhow, I am going to po.son
my rabbits and wait for the Australian
weapon.
* * * #
“F.J.8.”; “J.H.” (B. 13/10/’2l) is right
about the Maulesden’s 70-day passage from
Aberdeen to Hervey Bay (Q.). No other
ship has equalled her performance during
my 45 years’ struggle for a living on the
Brisbane wharves. The craft in question
was built in Dundee by A. Stephen and Sons,
and was owned by D. Bruce and Cos., of
that city. Another ship of theirs, the South-
esk, made a 74-day passage to Brisbane in
1878. These fliers carried immigrants, and
were consequently in first-class trim for
making a decent run. The Maulesden must
have had very favorable winds, because her
best day’s work running her easting down
was not much to write home about. Never-
theless, all Bruce and Co.’s ships were fine
specimens of naval architecture.
“Tomb” : “J.G.’s” attack on the Vie. For-
estry Department (B. 13/10/’2l) for its
methods of protecting forests against fires
is unconvincing. Regeneration and plant-
ing sites must be absolutely protected
against fires, especially where conifers are
being dealt with, and the efficacy of the fire-
break has been proved a thousand times.
The Forestry people are going the right way
about the business, the local residents not-
withstanding. The only sure way to re-
forest with pines is to piant the seedlings in
low cover, such as the bracken mentioned by
“J.G.,” so that the young plants may have
protection against insolation and drying
winds. _ If “J.G.” knows a better way of
protecting forests than the old and tried fire-
line, let him trot it out. ,
* * •* •*.
From a man in Nauru
On the strength of a brief stay in Ocean Island
years ago “Te Babarantiko” (B. 18/8/’2l) suggests
that white laborers should displace Chinese and
Kanakas on the phosphate fields of that island and
Nauru. It is quite impossible. This is not a white
man’s country like Australia, and I for one should
not like to see any fellow-Aussies doing that particu-
lar kind of work. All the jobs here that can be
filled by white men are held by British and Aus-
tralians, a large proportion of whom are ex-A.I.F.
men. They are doing their best to supply ; cheaper
phosphate to the man on the land, but this object
will never be achieved if any attempt is made to
create a couple more Darwins up here on the
equator. And “Te Bab.” ought to know better than
to compare the climate of Broken Hill with that of
these islands. There is an enormous difference
between the dry heat of inland Australia, as bracing
and healthy as any in the world, and the equatorial
humidity of Nauru.
UNPRUNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
*'o^ e half of the world never knows how the other
half lives.” —Well mumbled proverb.
I know not how the person lives
Who stands in trams upon my feet,
Though I suspect that someone gives
The scoundrel bread and chunks of meat;
Of him who in the crowded train
Spreads out his fat ungainly knees
I know no more than that the strain
Of fourteen stone is in his squeeze.
I meet at times a man of talk
And try to shoo his tongue away;
lie takes insurance for a walk
And has ten thousand words to say.
But how he lives I cannot guess,
Nor do I very greatly care;
About him moves a keen distress
In all the hot and broken air.
Fat women waddling in a line
Block up the pavement as they go;
They gush and roll with eyes ashine.
Repeating all the things they know.
They may have homes —I cannot tell —
1 only see their heavy fat
And grimly hear the burbles swell
Beneath expensive wastes of hat.
The boy whose hands are plain manure—•
Unwashed from birth he ‘seems to me—•
Whose yell the streets must needs endure
While evening papers mix with tea,
I cannot think how he exists
And is not poisoned on his feet;
For judged beside his grimy wrists
Bubonic plague is lily sweet.
The person who has come to call
Without a thought or wish or aim,
Who cannot take a hint at all
And does not feel a sense of shame,
But sits and sits and will not go—
I wonder that he still can live
While every bored but eager toe
Feels the large kick it ought to give.
Yes,_ half the world is unaware
Just how r the other half may thrive;
But that is neither here nor there—
Why should they want to keep alive?
If half the world with gentle dope
Were sent to its eternal sleep,
Huge jolts of most astonished hope
In each remaining breast would leap.
The howl for population shakes
The old and wise and winking stars,
While heavily the morning wakes
To pushing throngs and crowded ears.
Bring me an axe and let me be
The Lord High Murderer for an hour ;
hen I have done the world shall see
A well-pruned nation break in flower!.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE CHARM OF MYSTERY
f JTIS
" r.'
7
i
&
h.it
%
? t »4
mm
St
f . Ws.^£
Front Lacing
f
are to be found at those stores distinguished by a corset
department that offers a real service .
Trained corsetieres who will ma\e your satisfaction a
matter of personal pride, assure you the models best
suited to your needs. When you buy a Gossard, you
buy a SERVICE: a style service , a comfort service and
a wearing service that must be unquestionably satisfac-
tory to you.
Gossard Corsets are fairly priced within the reach of
every Woman; and their superior quality which for years
has been consistently maintained above imitation, assures
the economical buyer a thrifty and lasting pride in
ownership.
Lady Duff Gordon , the world-}amed
Lucile, recently wrote, “Essential
to womans allure and charm
is the Veil that half hides her
from the world, stimulating the
imagination to fancy for itself
the harmonies that it may hide.’*
Reflect but a moment upon this truth and
its relation to becoming dress —particularly
becoming corse try.
The art authority, Millet, has said that
“Technique should hide itself modestly be-
hind the thing to be expressed.The .chief
danger nowadays lies not so much in our
failing to appropriate art’s little aids but in
being too lavish with them. After all,, we
live in a very subtle and sophisticated
world, and the corset that J through ( one
fault or another obtrudes itself upon the
observer, defeats its purpose and quite
spoils the illusion of desirableness.
The mystery of the modern corset lies in its
skillful adaptation to the natural lines of
the figure. Its self-effacing artistry en-
hances a woman’s points hides
her disharmonies, and creates, the impression
of a gracefully poised pro-
portioned by nature. So Gossard technique
hides itself discreetly behind the beauty it
expresses.
Individual solution of the problem|of cor-
setry is the only method that
success. Study yourself/and be -mindful
that violent contrasty between rwaist and
hips and bust, not only^‘makeA becoming
dress impossible, but violates that! charm of
mystery that proper corsetry enhances.
And this alluring mystery beauty is for
every woman, for Goss>ard| artistry has
made a study of every figure need from the
little lady of slightest figure' to the matron
of full proportions. Youjwill be delighted
with the self-effacing Gossards that seem
to have been created for you alone.
Because of the naturalness of its healthful
support, your Gossard is relieved of all un-
due strain and so will wear far beyond the life
of the average corset. Its original grace and
shapeliness will remain unchanged to the last
day you put it on. In the economy of this
superior wearing service alone, these original
front lacing corsets are worth their cost.
Chicago
THE H. W. GOSSARD CO.
Ne c w York London 1 ovonto Sydney
Buenos Aires


Better
than Pills
*
\\
2l
fOU will never wish to take another dose of pills
after having once used Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They are easier and more pleasant to take, more
gentle and mild in their action and more reliable.
They leave the bowels in a natural condition, while
the use of pills is often followed by severe con-
stipation, requiring a constant increase in the
dose. You will find that your general health
will be greatly benefitted by a course of
1
e Stomach and
B
Dependability First -Then The Purchase Price
Dodge Brothers have never solicited
patronage on a basis of price.
They have chosen rather to build their car
so well that its intrinsic worth would be
unquestioned.
Dodge Brothers will continue to build their
car so well, that it will always be depend-
able and the purchase price will be as
nearly as possible the last expenditure.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Of late a vision came to me
Of Gabriel in grey,
Time-keeper he and referee
On Resurrection Day,
Who stood o’er men who lay in doubt,
And counted prostrate sinners out.
victoria. DIDO.
138 Bengal”: Clippers? When theTitania
was 19 years old she did her 437 miles in
~7 hours. I was aboard and helped to coax
ler to do it. Her fastest long-distance trip
was 81 days from ’Frisco to London, under
the flag of the Hudson Bay Co.
‘‘1 riday Island”: There’s no need for the
crimper in these days of shipping slump. A
ship recently sailed out of London with a
fo’c’s’le full of “extra masters,” each of
whom at one time had actually had a com-
mand in addition to his ticket. Imagine
them filing aboard each with his precious
sextant—that is, if the poor devils hadn’t
pawned their sun-shooters while looking for
berths!
“Tenunsix”: Of course the law isn’t a
bass. One Puddlewater resided in Sydney for
six years, then left. Now an affidavit is
demanded by a certain Court that when
Puddlewater came to reside in Sydney lie
had the intention of adopting N. S. Wales
as his domicile. After pondering deeply over
the matter I’m with the Court. Puddlewater
was a dirty dog who adopted the State
merely as a place to work and live in.
William Forster, one-time Premier of N.
S. Wales, seems to be the only Australian
politician to give his name to a fish, though
some of his opponents suggest that W. M.
Hughes may yet have an eel named afiet
him. Having tried the Clarence (N.S.W.),
Forster went squatting on the Burnett
River in Queensland. In the early ’sixties,
before he returned to N.S.W. and went into
politics, he got some specimens of the lung-
fish, or Burnett salmon, and sent one to
Ivrefft, of the Sydney Museum. The fish
was eventually named Nco-ceratodus For-
steri. Lung-fish ; politician—there is a cer-
tain aptness about it.
“C. Coral”: Pearls are nerve-racking
things to have your fortune in. On top of the
recent “culture” scare comes news from Liver-
pool that its health officer has discovered
pearls in a consignment of frozen tripe from
U.S.A. Should the cow go in for pearl-
producing (and apparently the medical offi-
cer mentioned thinks it quite feasible that
the same process should work within Straw-
berry’s tummy as in the shell of the oyster),
then dairy-farmers are offered a profitable
side-line. Oyster pearl-culture, by the way,
isn’t confined to Japan. It has been tried
up Thursday Island way, and a good deal
of time and money has been sunk in experi-
ments.
“Big Ack”: When Briggs and Birtles
’planed over Centralia they astonished the
native to some purpose. On Crown Point
station, near Alice Springs, they flew low
over a black gin who was tending the goats
that provide the homestead with milk. She
crawled and hid in the saltbush, and the
milk-supply scattered in all directions.
Frightened out of her wits, Mary left her
nannies in the scrub and ran the whole three
miles back to the homestead. “No milk to-
morrer, boss,” she panted. “Big feller eagle-
hawk come down from sky, pick up one-feller
goat, pick up two-feller goat, pick up lot-
feller goat. All gone finish. No milk to-
morrer.”
“No. 199” : Cosh, Moderator of the Presby-
terian Church in Queensland, put his class
three seats higher up in public estimation
when he refused to take from teachers in
Presbyterian Church schools the increase in
salary that a new industrial award had just
granted them. In some Church schools the
teachers who benefited by the award had
signed a statement to the effect that, “for v
the good of the Church,” they were donat-
ing the extra cash to kirk purposes. Cosh,
briefly remarking that it seemed as though
some compulsion must have been brought to
bear on the signatories, and that his Church
didn’t want money like that, ignored _ the
“statements,” and the teachers are rejoicing
greatlv.
“Weiry”: In 1917 Diver Tucker under-
took to recover about 40 tons of ammuni-
tion from a sunken barge in the Saltwater
River (Vic.). The bed of the stream was
pretty rough with sunken trees, but the job
went well till near the end, when Tucker was
startled by an inrush of water, the face-
glass in his helmet having somehow become
displaced. He frantically signalled to be
hauled up, and as, luckily, his lines _ were
clear, they had him on the surface in no
time; but he was unconscious when he got
there. A couple of minutes before the face-
glass fell off —a most mysterious happening
—the diver had gone among the branches of
a half-sunken tree to get a few cases of the
ammunition, and had his little window
dropped there his lines would have fouled
for a certainty. Tucker reckons he had a
near view of the Golden Shore that time,
and as he can “take the office” as well as
anyone he now sells wood and coal to the
residents of Balwyn.
“*3ack Pew”: Still another Commission
was lately appointed in N. S. _ Wales —by
the authorities of the Methodist Church,
this time “to ascertain the causes of the
prevailing shortage of candidates for the
ministry.” I found that “the primary
cause is the low spiritual vitality and the
lack of evangelistic enthusiasm in many
churches and homes.” There is a perma-
nent Commission sitting on this question
and evidence is forthcoming almost daily
Thus on Friday at a meeting of the Metho
dist Synod in Newcastle a Dungog delegatt
put forward a scheme designed to give all
ministers “stipends on a basis of £300 a
year”; and in support “the Rev. F. Cur-
wood said he felt deeply for what some
ministers had to suffer in absolute poverty.
He had seen young men crushed and their
wives dispirited.” Simultaneously in Syd-
ney, during argument in an industrial mat-
ter. T. R. Bavin, a parson’s son, remarked
that “clergymen have borne a very heavy
financial burden,” and Judge Rolin added
cheerfully: “It is a notorious fact that
clergymen are underpaid.” It is not so
much “low spiritual vitality” that is keep-
ing men out of the ministry as the prospect
of low bodily vitality, the outcome of star-
vation suffered not only by parsons but by
their families also.


Oil once a month
en
is
d
en
is
the Engine does tHe rest
HAVE we put it plainly enough? Do you realise
that we really mean “Oil once a month”?
Technically speaking this unique Lister feature
is known as “Automatic Lubrication,” but we want
to put it in the simplest way we can, because once
you understand this point you will see how far the
Lister Engine is ahead of all others.
Just think! You wouldn’t like to have to oil
your motor-car engine every time you used it, would
you? Then, why do it with a farm engine? With
the Lister there are no oil holes, no lubricators, no
grease cups to look after. You cant forget to
lubricate any part and you can’t waste oil.
And the lister is dust-proof! That
means that even when you are chaffcutting in
L the shed or using your engine out of doors
during a dry spell in summer, when the least puff
of wind raises clouds of dust, every moving part of
your Lister Engine is absolutely protected against
that greatest enemy of long life in machinery—dust
and grit. Compare this with the ordinary open-
crankcase engine! Is it any wonder that Lister
Engines are handed down from father to son? Is
it any wonder that Listers, even after 4 and 5 years
use, bring almost the price of a new one? Anyone
who has seen one working knows that the Lister
costs nothing in lost time or repair bills. It’s the real
trouble-proof farm engine.
There are other features in the Lister just as valuable; let us tell you about them by letter.
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Malloch Bros., Perth.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
m
i
THE “RUWOLT” CAST STEEL STANDARD ROCKCRUSHER.
TYPE RA, SIZE 16in. x 9|in.
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
THE “RUWOLT”
STANDARD
ROCKCRUSHER.
Made in Two Sizes.
THE LIGHTEST, STRONGEST AND
MOST EFFICIENT ROCKCRUSHER
ON THE MARKET.
I
ALL the Essential Parts, including the
MAIN FRAME, PITMAN and SWING-
ING JAWHOLDER are made from the
finest-quality Toughened CAST STEEL.
The JAWS are made from our high-grade
MANGANESE STEEL.
Hundreds of these Jaws in use.
INSPECTION INVITED; SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Listed on Lloyds Register, London, as Manufacturers for Steel Castings.


SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel. Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors’
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITiSH.
With your Friends.
Cycling companions are the hap-
piest associations it is possible to
make. The healthy exercise and
pleasure gained make cycling the
one pastime without equal. Relia-
bility and long service are specially
studied in the construction of
B.S.A. Fittings, and the purchase
of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
will ensure care-free cycling for
years. For business purposes the
convenience and economy make a
bicycle built of genuine B.S.A,
Fittings a real necessity. Look
for the world famous Trade Mark,
the “Three Piled Rifles.”
A
B.8.A.
All B.S.A. Part%
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A Sign o(
Quality.
Sendfor Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. V. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WRIGLEYS
d
a package
before the war
a Package
during the war
and
a package
NOW
The Flavor Lasts
So Does the Price!
send3?fortrial RacketfoWrigleys
Box 2602 G.P.0., Sydney.
&
>5
O
K
m
A-151
IGLEYSw
Bg^ns»
CHEWING GUMT
lie
*7*
#
mm
'u
r / V
/'n
ss
-C,
ii
3Lxj
Our new Illustrated Catalogue wilt
be posted to you on application.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD,
13<4. Criterion Work*, Birmingham,
* England.
BROOKS
SADDLE
makes every ride a joy-ride.
TUST imagine a ride of a hundred
miles or more —started perhaps
in the early hours of the morning
and finished late in the evening,
and all thought of the road surface
forgotten —your only wish that the
day had been longer so that you
could go still farther. This imagi-
nation becomes actual retrospect
after a day on a BROOKS Saddle.
Representatives in N.S.W.: Scott & Lt<l._, 31A Pitt St.j Sydney.
KILL WITH KYNOCH
d
Cartridges
Made in England and
loaded in Australia
with the highest grade
Powders
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to:
KYNOCH Ltd.
90 William St.,
MELBOURNE.
277 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
fd
“Eko”: The secrets of the charnel house.
During a reading lesson I came upon the
word “veneer,” so I explained how a thin
slice of mahogany was glued on pine to give
the sideboard the appearance of being made of
the more expensive wood. The son of our local
undertaker took up the parable and told us
that his father had very pretty paper that
he pasted on his pine coffins to turn them
into oak or cedar.
"Riom” : The Gould League, which lias
its Bird Day on October 2S, was founded to
educate the youngsters in bird-lore, and is
doing well at it. The Audubon, a similar
and flourishing league in U.S.A., helps to
carry on the good work of John James
Audubon, the "Father of American birds.”
A grandson of Audubon resides near Yass
(N.S.W.) ; a great-grandson was a dinkum
Aussie, and left his right arm in France.
"T. 0.1.”: They had a short way with
V.D. patients in the goodole days. When
Philip Gidley King, naval lieutenant, ruled
Norfolk Island (D’Arcy Wentworth was
assistant surgeon) he issued this order: “If
any man or woman has the venereal disorder
and does not immediately make it known
to the surgeon, such person shall, upon the
first discovery, be put upon short allowance
of provisions for six months and receive
corporal punishment. God save the King.”
From what?
A. G. ("Smiler”) Hales to The Bulle-
tin
You once prophesied that I would be collecting a
halo in Heaven before I was 50. I’m a lump over that
mark and still have a good grip on this-old planet,
as attached par will prove. I have just finished my
32nd novel.
“Attached par.” certifies that Hales, who lias
added golf to his numerous recreations, holed
out in one at the eighth hole on the Edding-
ton (Herne Bay) links. In truth, a rare
smite. "Who’s Who,” by the way, insists
that the inexhaustible “Smiler” is still a mere
youth of 51; but that’s one of the very rare
errors of “Who’s Who.” He was well on in
his twenties when he did a little carpentering
and a little prospecting and a little writing
and a little of a dozen other things at Sil-
verton in the middle ’eighties.
The sudden and violent misuse by press-
men and politicians of the term “slogan”
reached a sort of climax in a Sydney Tele-
graph leading article which began:—
In Melbourne the slogan is raised that no girl
who trenches on the masculine privilege of drinking
whisky or other intoxicants be invited even to the
smartest of social functions.
A slogan is or was a crisp roar like “Faugh-
a-ballagh” or “Erin-go-bragh” or “Indi-go-
blue” —never an essay nor an expression
of calm resolution nor a paragraph. It was
a war-cry (literally an army cry) only
used while in rapid motion and in the open
air, and no more suited for the tea-table
or the platform than a war-horse would be.
It went with bare knees and often with
bare legs and feet, and no hostess could
dress the part even if she wore only a two-
piece bathing-costume.
About a Plot that Failed:—
Grant Hervey, who was tarred and kapoked last
week at Mildura, needed this experience to round off
a singularly free life. But he missed another adven-
ture that might have been equally bizarre. Sore
years ago, when the Liberals were making strong
play with the sectarian ticket against the Fisher-
Hughes-Pearce combination, somebody suggested a
Consistent Protestant candidate, and Hervey saw good
fun in it. The platform was devastatingly logical.
Plank 1, the total destruction of St. Peter’s, Rome;
2, the deportation of all R.C. clerics from Australia;
3, no R.C. to be allowed to vote, sit in Parliament,
go to Government House, address any sort of
public meeting, or congregate on Sundays to the
number of more than four. The money was up:
hope ran high amongst the supporters of Billy
Hughes (it was in West Sydney that the Consistent
Protestant was to make his debut). And then the
shattering news was given out that the Consistent
Protestant had gone over to Rome!
“0.K.” : While he was in Melbourne Lord
Northcliffe summoned black-and-white artist
Wells to the presence, explaining that he
had heard the young man desired to go to
London and serve under the Northcliffe
banner. It was the first Wells had heard
about it, but he held his tongue whilst the
Great Man dashed off a letter of introduction
to the manager of the Times to the effect
that tile bearer was an Australian artist who
was to be given some work on appro. He
explained to his unimpressed auditor that
the trip would have to be at his own expense.
Formerly, it appeared, he had been in the
habit of paying the passages of overseas
artists who caught his eye, but so many of
them had been utter failures that he was
not taking any more risks of that sort. This
admission of the magnate’s inability to pick
an artist struck Wells dumb, and he was
nearly paralysed when the magnate, to give
an example of how Australian talent may
wither under the supreme London test, said:
“Look at David Low —what a failure he is!”
The deep Wells answered not a word—
merely reflected that it was the Cocoa press,
not the Northcliffe combine, that had secured
David Low.
“Wendy” : Renmark, the irrigation patch
on the Murray, has the only pub in Aus-
tralia run on Gothenberg lines. It is for
the “good of the people," and the people
bless and curse it in turns. For the vear
to June, 1920, it supplied £1702 towards
the maintenance of the local hospital; and
as there is nearly £3OOO to distribute for the
past year the committee called a round-
table conference of local bodies to get help
in the cutting up. All held out grimy paws
—the_ boy scouts, the agricultural bureau,
the council, the soldiers’ memorial, the in-
stitute, the hospital, the irrigation trust and
the cemetery. The scouts wanted monev
for a swimming-bath, and pointed out that
it would be near the police-station—“when
boys and girls are bathing together they
need watching.” The agricultural bureau
wanted a library, the council drains and
tennis courts, the soldiers a memorial, and
the institute a larger hall. The hospital
asked for £I2OO to pay its debts, the irri-
gation trust longed to do some tree-plant-
ing, and the cemetery wanted water laid on
to help the sleepers push the daisies up.
When it was all reckoned there wasn’t
enough tp go round by £500; so Renmark
is loosening its belt and preparing to drink
harder this coming year, and so satisfv
everybody.


mx
iiii
■
■
i
H
m
'>
■Hi
■
H
■
IHHH
p
m
■ 1 . .
MW
H : ' :
f fe«*
■
m
BS
■:
■
i i MU
mm •■> ,: ;
'
l 2
SOLE AGENTS
“DODGE”
Transmission
Equipment.
DODGE Independence Iron
and Wood Split Pulleys.
Self-oiling Adjustable
Hangers.
Post Bearings,
Pillow Blocks.
Couplings, Collars,
Countershafts.
Bearing Metals, etc.
It’s just as easy to specify “DODGE”
—and protect your plant from power-
losses. Ask us about DODGE Transmis-
sion equipment to-day. Write now for
catalogue. p. 1.3.
PARKE and LACY C° L ro
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St SYDNEY
*1
The Hupp Motor Car Corporation began manufacturing operations in 1908. This
long experience is embodied in the present Hupmobile, and is one of the main
elements of the car’s unusual value.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring ear, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3 % in. bore x s%in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable:
Fuel System.—Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch. —Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clinchers or 32in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color. —Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, comprising 1-dozen
each Rustless Table or Dessert Knives and
Forks, Xylonite Handles, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, daintily engraved, 25/-
I *ll \
m
II
flFu i
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plat cd, A 1 quality, 55/■
A. Saunders'
piece Carving Set, selected Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated
Mounts and Ferrules, finest-quality Sheffield Steel,
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 1 doz. each Knives,
Forks and Spoons, finest quality, Sheffield Steel in solid Oak Case,
£35. Others, £l5/10/-, £l7/10/-, £2l.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George St. (opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, daintily engraved, 25/-
Solid Silver, 70/-
i
%. *.'■ 'V
va) (A~~^
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Salt Cellars and Spoons, ia
case, £4/4/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Knives and Forks, in Silk-lined
case, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 70/-
f
1
22s
as
SK
rOXS
■ -
— c
1
Given an adequate source to draw
from—river, creek, dam, or bore-
hole—a “BILLABONG” Wind-
mill Plant will put an end to all worries
connected with your water supply for
stock or household use. It will give out-
and-out satisfaction to every owner,
everywhere, and all the time.
If you are contemplating the purchase
of a Windmill, investigate the merits of
the “BILLABONG. “BILLABONG”
Troughing and Fluming are other mem-
bers of the same family, that are equally
reliable in their service-giving qualities.
The “BILLABONG” Windmill is built to ensure
the utmost reliability under all conditions. Its effici-
ency is due to a number of patented features not found
in any other Windmill, while its simplicity of construc-
tion permits of it being sold at the price of an ordinary
mill.
The “BILLABONG” is fitted with a patent governor
and regulator, which automatically controls the wheel
in heavy gales, but leaves it free to work with the
lightest breeze. It is a usual sight to see the “BILLA-
BONG” at work when other mills are idle.
It would need a book to tell you all we would like
you to know about the “BILLABONG” Mill. That
book is available for the asking—write to-day for
Booklet “W 65.”
“BILLABONG” Troughing is made with a patent
interlocking, leak-proof joint that cannot pull apart. It
is set into a heavy Angle and T steel frame which forms
a rigid bed for the trough, and enables it to withstand
rough usage and hard bumps.
We can supply “BILLABONG” Troughing, in any
length, for sheep or cattle. Write for descriptive leaflet
“W 27.”
“BILLABONG” Fluming is designed to prevent the
waste of water by soakage and washaways in irrigation
channels. It is much cheaper than tubing, and may
be used above or on the surface, or set into the ground.
We manufacture “BILLABONG” Fluming in a number
of styles, with fittings to suit various ordinary require-
ments. Write for descriptive leaflet “W 28.”
391-403 Bourke Street
MELBOURNE.
r tJOHN e
AM
& SON-Ply. Lid
324-330 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.


Amusements.
YI) \- lovs ClTi E F TIIEAT R E S.
J * c" WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
11 Kit MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
CRITERION.
PEG O’ MY HEART
(SATURDAY).
THEATRE ROYAL.
THEODORE AND CO.
LEAN' WILKIE'S SILUisI 1 LA KLi X
I’ROD LOTION'S.
Australian Tour, Short Season only. To November 19,
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, PERTH.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Ranking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
y NIO N I* lOT UK E TIIEAT It E S
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
-MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
" ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
FIREFLY.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
KING’S THEATRE.
MAUDE HANXAFORD and FRANK HARVEY in
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
Pia ns at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
B_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
WILLIAM RUSSELL & FRANCELLA BiLLINGTON
THE MIDNIGHT TRAIL.
CARMEL MYERS in
A DANGEROUS MOMENT.
Prices as usual.
jy|A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
OTHER MEN’S SHOES.
A LEWIS PRODUCTION.
Matinfes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
L I JI P I A,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A Complete New Company of English, American,
Continental and Oriental Artists.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- ( plus tax).
.Reserved Seats 6/- (plus tax).
Plan at Glen’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
MELBOURNE’S BIGGEST MUSICAL FESTIVAL.
HENRI H. VERBRUGGHEN
and the
N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10 ; FRIDAY, NOVEM-
BER 11 ; MATINEE and NIGHT on SATURDAY,
NOVEMBER 12 ; and MATINEE, THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 17.
O N T O U ' R . ~
DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World's Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring South Australia.
DHITAKMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
[VI
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
World and set.znick.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF front 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
THERE
IS
NOT
a better -watch
made the world
over than our
“Super Fx and
R” Watch.
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding.
For long life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After 81 years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Pln cUhte 23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R” fully-
jewelled lever, 84/-
f
How io make Australia
Cool in Summertime
IT’S an easy receipt. Thousands of Australians have
done it for years past by just wearing Aertex Cellular
Underwear next the skin.
No matter how hot it is outside your clothes, it’s always coo!
within because Aertex is full of air-cells that ward off the
heat and that let your skin pores breathe in healthy freedom.
To wear Aertex Cellular is to be clothed in air. Just try
it and see how vigorous and alert it keeps you when other
folks are helpless in the grip of a burning sun
LO Th
AERTEX
Garments
AERTEX
CELLULAR
UNDERCLOTHING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
To be obtained from all eading Outfitters. If any difficulty in procuring,
please write, Cellular Clothing Co., Ltd-, 313, Flinders Lane, Melbourne-
Meerloo
Men’s Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies’ * • 4/-
iSoles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
„ Light 2/*
Ladies’ • - 1/3
(Heels only .
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN-
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PATENTS Ltd..
London. Eng.
f]T THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
j to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
|| THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
ul give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
A* worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N S WALES, QUEENSLAND and VICTORIA:—.
*>62 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S A., W.A. and TASMANIA: —C. M. BANSFOED,
Street, Adelaide, S.A ,
r. M. ROHAN,
22 Waymouth
Manufacturers:
ELECTRICAL APPARATOS
CO. LTD., London.
Further inquiries from:
HOMEWOOD
& O’NEILL Em
Head Office and Warehouse —172-
176 William Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. I—Somerset1 —Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2—rerrars Street,
South Melbourne.
Sydney Office —375 George Street,
‘ Sydney-.
Ironclad
Oil-Break Switches.
These Oil-Break Switches are designed to stand up to
the severest working conditions met with in industrial
service, and their reliability has been proved in
numerous installations throughout Australia and in
other countries. They fully comply with the latest
factory regulations, and can be easily and safely handled
by unskilled attendants. The Switches are of the loose-
handle pattern, with drum-type contacts, and can be
supplied in either watertight, flame-proof, or explosion-
proof casing for wall or floor fixing, and with or without
draw-out isolating features. They can be supplied
singly, as illustrated, or any number can be combined to
form a complete switchboard, with busbar chamber,
instruments, inter-connections, etc.; or they may be
combined with drum-type starters to form self-
contained motor-control units.
.BRITISH.
SLURPS
*w
Tenders.
r T' ENDERS are invited up to 4 p.m. on
-L Tuesday, the twenty-ninth day of
November, 1921, to be delivered at the Office
of the undersigned, for the Purchase of tho
Stock-in-trade, Plant, Fittings, Goodwill
(but not book debts), Lease, Licenses and
Tools of Trade of the established Business
of the late F. M. Marwedel, carried on at
Russell Street, Toowoomba, as a Wine, Spirit
and Produce Merchant, under the firm name
of F. Marwedel & Co.
Inventory, etc., may be inspected at the
Office of the undersigned.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
A deposit of 10 per cent, must accompany
each tender.
HAMILTON & GARDE,
Solicitors to the Estate of the late F. M.
Marwedel, deceased.
Central Chambers,
Margaret Street,
Toowoomba.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
Cronulla Seaside
Residence.
CALIFORNIAN BUNGALOW, built of
brick, extensive verandahs, 9ft. wide, on
three sides, beautifully situated, with fine
views of Gunnamatta and Burraneer Bays.
Contains 3 Bedrooms, Kitchen, Motor
Garage, Inglenook, Music-room, Breakfast-
room. etc., Electric Light and Telephone.
LAND —2 acres, with absolute water frontage
to Burraneer Bay, grounds laid out in lawns
and gardens, sea swimming bath, etc. Situ-
ated in best residential area of this charming
district. Make an ideal home for retired
gentleman, being within an hour of the City.
Price £2250. Further particulars from
JAMES WILSON & CO.,
Tramway Arcade, Rockdale.
Also at Cronulla.
Tels.: Kog. 335, and Cronulla 115.
Public Notice.
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE Transfer Books will be closed from
the 10th to 24th November inclusive,
preparatory to the payment of the half-
yearly dividend.
M. It. MACRAE,
' Manager.
Missing Friends.
Florence lyons, daughter
of Edwina Croswell, who died
at Adelaide in January,
1914, is requested to communicate
with
MILLER & MILLER,
Solicitors,
Launceston, Tasmania.
t OHN THOMAS (known as JOHN MORGAN), son
J of John and Mary Thomas, of Glanmorgan, South
Wales, England, brother of William Henry Thomas,
David Meyrick Thomas and Mary Thomas, last heard
of in Brisbane, Queensland, or any person knowing
his whereabouts or particulars of his death (if de-
ceased), kindly communicate with—
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
J.egal Notices.
tN the Matter of the Estate of WILLIAM STOD-
J- DART, late of Bingara, in the State of New
South Wales, Shire Engineer, Deceased, Intestate.
David Arthur Stoddart or any person knowing his
present whereabouts is kindly requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned concerning the Estate ot
his late brother, the abovenamed deceased. THOMAS
WILLIAM GARRETT, Public Trustee, 67 Gastle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Biliousness
Use a simple and effi-
cient corrective that
is mildly aperient and
safe in its action
The ideal medicine i9
But be sure and get the
genuine, which is mi do
by Felton, Grimwade &
Co. Pty.Ltd., Melbourne


THERE IS NO EXTRAVAGANCE IN WEARING THIS BEAUTIFUL HOSIERY, IT
WEARS SO WELL.
ffoleprcofffasiery
OFFERED IN SILK, SILK FACED, FIBRE SILK AND LUSTERIZED LISLE.
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS EVERYWHERE.
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD., 50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA, DISTRIBUTORS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heii Majesty’s “The Maid of the Mountains"
Royal “Theodore and Co.’
Criterion “Deg o’ My Heart”
Hoyt’s . , Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal , “Firefly'
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan’s Opera
King’s “The Sign on the Door”
Princess’s N.S.W. State Orchestra
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
——♦
The Verbrugghen Orchestra was heard in
a medley of strange and familiar composi-
tions on its first appearance at the Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday. Among the
old friends was the graceful introduction to
"Freisehutz,” and the "Poet and Peasant”
Overture was given as a final selection. A
moderate house was not greatly enraptured
by the Suppe classic, but it wrenched an
encore from the conductor for the lusty play-
ing of Alfred Hill’s "Waiata Poi.” This
number is no picnic to the Go-Slow player,
but it has soft crooning interludes which
enable the majority of the band to wipe the
perspiration from their heated brows. Also
it contains castanettic accompaniments
which, while calculated to make a musical
epicure squirm in dismay, are more accept-
able to the ear than the tinkly xylophone
effects in the Variations and Polacca from
Tschaikowsky’s No. 3 Suite. The shaggy
Russian’s music has many fine moments,
but there are also passages suggesting that
thoughts of his mother-in-law had ruptured
his inspiration. Anyhow, Verbrugghen’s
crowd did justice to his clamor, and worried
its way through the Liszt Rhapsody No. 1,
which leaps and swaggers in the Abbe’s best
Hungarian manner. Dukas’ “L’Apprenti
Sorcier,” which is presumed to picture a
magician’s foreman monkeying with a
miraculous broom, was also well handled,
the impressive pauses and shuddery cadences
adding to the fancifulness of the theme.
First violinist Jenny Cullen was the culti-
vated soloist in the suave and beautiful
“Melodrame” from Guiraud’s “Piccolino” ;
and Lilian Stott’s soprano showed its color
and careful training in “Deli! vieni, non
tardar,” from “Le Nozze de Figaro” and the
old Shadow Song from Meyerbeer’s “Din-
orah.” But Antonio Notariello, a chubby
Italian singer who has a large repertoire of
heartfelt gestures, failed to paralyse the
congregation. An excess of breath and emo-
tion somewhat ruffled his tenor in an
excerpt from Donizetti’s “L’Elisir d’Amore.”
The orchestra becomes audible again to-
night, to-morrow and twice on Saturday.
Gilbert-Sullivan opera moves quickly at
Melbourne Majesty’s these times, and any
old favorite there to-night is quite likely to
be gone to-morrow. Unfortunately no changes
of bill bring rest to the principals, who have
been more or less on the sing since this com-
pany was formed. Hay’s light tenor is worn
and weary, and his best acting part—Colonel
Fairfax, in “Yeomen of the Guard” —-seemed
to worry his throat on Saturday night. Also
Walenn, who has been a sick man lately,
was off-color in ail respects as the Jester;
the bright, sweet voice of Patty Russell, as
Dame Carruthers’s niece, was missed in the
famous unaccompanied quartet; and the
Dame, formerly played bv Ethel Morrison,
had lost the personality that is only partly
compensated for by Molly Tyrell’s larger
contralto. Miss Tyrell, all the same, is get-
ting along nicely, and will gather repose of
manner as she progresses. Strella Wilson,
repeating her Elsie Maynard, is better than
ever, Kavanagh and Hobbs are good as be-
fore, and Thelma Carter shows more appre-
ciation of the fact that Phoebe at the finish
is intended to be almost as pathetic an ex-
ponent of blighted hopes as .Tack Point.
To-night (Thursday) the bill is “Princess
Ida”; to-morrow brings “Patience”; “Trial
by Jury” and “Pinafore” are the double bill
for Saturday and Monday; then “The
Pirates” and “lolanthe” to close the season.
“Merrie England” is due on the 19th.
H: H: H:
The Prologue.
Most marvellous the in-no-cence of unsuspecting Ann,
Who meets the Vile Seducer in a room
Where all the innuendoes and the manner of the man
Are warnings of sweet innocence’s doom.
But ere the “joint” is raided by a captain of police
A waiter has informed her it is bad ;
When taken into custody her modesty’s at peace —
Ann tells the Vile Seducer she is glad.
He is mad.
Then Ann becomes the happy wife of Helen’s dad.
The Play.
The Villain, five years later, comes seducing as of
yore.
Young Helen is the victim he selects.
Ann tells not Helen’s pater what has happened long
before,
Yet that sternly upright citizen suspects.
Oh, wonderful the silence of the lady re her past
(Such silence helps an author with his plot) !
Grim Nemesis o’ertakes the Vile Seducer at the last —■
He was looking for the punishment he got.
He was shot.
'Tis the melodrama villain’s common lot.
Dad Regan put. a bullet in the bad man’s wicked
breast,
Which ended his disreputable life;
Regarding Ann and Helen all his sins were uncon-
fest,
But he’d “victimised” another fellow’s wife,
So Regan came to thrash him for the other fellow’s
sake,
And somehow chanced to murder him instead.
Impulsive Mrs. Regan took the blame for his mis-
take,
Her hubby having left her (when he fled)
With the dead.
She always in a crisis kept her head.
Oh, marvellous, twice marvellous, and oftener than
that,
The folly and the wit of one and all !
The cuteness of a woman, though she's blinder than
a bat,
And recklessly is riding for a fall !
Oh, wonderful, most wonderful, the villain's simple
schemes!
His company e’en silly girls would shun ;
He acts the lurid “rotter,” and is truly what he
seems:
He’s the doer who is fated to be done—
He’s, “the one.”
Of all unreal creatures in our melodrama dreams,
Maude Hanaford and Halved take the bun.
“The Sign on the Door.” staged at Mel-
bourne King’s last Saturday, has less conver-
sational truth in its story than "Scandal,”
which it suggests in the prologue. The un-
suspiciousness of Maude Hanaford’s unmar-
ried Ann is as incredible as her reticence
when she’s married, nor could the quick-
thinking of herself and her husband Regan,
in their successive dealings with Frank Har-
vey’s corpse, have any color of probability
outside American melodrama, where miracu-
lous presence of mind is a ruling character-
istic. The young, red-hot minx, played by
Dorothy Seacombe, must be phenomenally
wayward and gullible to think of bolting
with Frank Harvey as soon as he is forbidden
the house, where he rarely presents himself.
How she ever became infatuated with the
gentleman outside the house is not made
clear. Neither does William J. Kelly, as
the husband, act half as wisely as he talks,
though his style of acting, especially his
discussion with an outraged other husband
through the ’phone, makes a pleasing first
impression. The most convincing part of
the play is a dialogue between Frank Harvey
and his faithful old servant (John BedoUin),
who sorrowfully desires him to cure himself
of the habit of leading ladies astray. For
the rest, there are H. It. Roberts, too seraphic
as usual; Doris Duande, as a graceful flap-
per ; and others. The situations being
“The Maid o, the
Mountains,” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Harry Ratcliffe, as
head gaoler, thinking
out a special punish-
ment for the
comedian.
mostly unconvinc-
ing, none of the
principals can be
said to have a
good par t, and
there are moments
when Maude Ilana-
f ord distinctly
fails to give even
a gloss of truth to
the foolishness, or
unnatural cunning
of her action. An-
other weakness in
“The Sign on the
Door” is the repel-
lent nature of the
purely stage char-
acters. Nobody
commands any
sympathy to speak
of, save the villain.
Frank Harvey has
every right to com-
plain that he has
been fooled by his
girl in the pro-
logue, and he is
eventually killed
while trying to get
rid of a meddle-
some intruder who
proposes gratui-
tously to thrash
him for his mis-
conduct with his
(the intruder’s)
neighbor’s wife.
Kelly, as Regan
aforesaid, cannot
pretend to be
moved by virtuous
indignation. Fie
is merely the prac-
tised boxer, the unconscious bully, seizing
an excuse to punch a man rather smaller
than himself.
* He
At Melbourne Tivoli, where Claude Dam-
pier is the longest turn, and the “thought
reading” of the Trees is remarkably accu-
rate, as a rule, the leading lady next week
will be Ella Shields, an opposite-sex imper-
sonator. who supplies an antidote to panto-
mime dameness.
“Firefly” is announced to be on the' verge
of its last week at Melbourne Royal.
A youth who is accused of massacring his
father is responsible for another outburst
of mother love in “Mother o’ Mine” at Mel-
bourne Majestic this week. Of course, dad
is a brutal financier who looks like cutting
off his boy with a Ford, whereas mother is
the usual picture 0 f piety and devotion who
is often absurd in
her sentimentality.
“Sunken Rocks,”
the follow-on, is a
conventional melo-
drama of British
manufacture which
hardly takes its
pleasures gladly,
but is not so emo-
tionally crude as
the average Yan-
kee film. Hoyt’s
latest detective
yarn, "The Mid-
night Trail,” is a
lesson in sagacity
to Melbourne’s
bloodhounds. An-
other effusion, “A
Dangerous
Moment,” relates
what might happen
to an innocent
maiden who, scam-
pering over sky-
scrapers to dodge a
charge of murder,
drops through a
skylight into an
artist’s studio.
“Sacred and Pro-
fane Love,” at the
Melba, provides
Elsie Ferguson
with some practice
in both emotions.
At the Britannia
Clara Kimball
“Paddy, the "Next Best
Thing,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Doris Kendall as
Eileen.
Young is learning in “Hush” that many a
forty Past is better left unsaid.
H< sfc Vfi
Streeton takes Sydney to Melbourne:—
He is evidently impressed by the picturesque pro-
file of North Head. It figures in three of his 10
studies of the harborside capital at the Melbourne
Athenseum. There is a distant view of it from
Darlinghurst, another from Spit-road (this includes
the smiling curves around the mouth of Middle
Harbor), and the great cliff also dominates the
background of a sunny snapshot from Vaucluse. Sun-
shine gilds the crowding roofs of Cremorne and
intensifies the blue of the bay below in No. 6, and
there is a glimpse of Bradley’s Head and the
adjacent Zoo (No. 3) that looks like a suburb
of Heaven. Two snapshots of the city itself are
extremely interesting, though the perspective in No.
9 is not always convincing. Among Streeton’s other
efforts in the exhibition are a couple of large, well-
painted canvases wherein he looks down on Adelaide
and Melbourne. In bush landscape he excites warm
attention with his picture of sleepy 001111011 called
“Yarra Flats.” Another subject, “Seaside Pastoral,”
decoratively reveals a tranquil sea through an arch
of twisted trees. Not the least feature of the show,
by the way, is a plan for removing the portraits
of past and passe Gaud Mayors from Melbourne
Town Hall and filling in the vacant walls with sym-
bolical frescoes of the Arts, Science and Industry.
Streeton’s designs for these frescoes are roughly indi-
cated in wash, and picture the usual graceful group-
ing of classically-garbed females which tradition
demands.
* Hi Sl: Hs
The Butt-Rumford alliance flung out its
banners of song in a final two Sydney con-
certs eariy in the week ; and in response to
the conch-shells and big drums of sound,
Town Hall audiences worked themselves
almost into a frenzy of applause. The well-
tailored Kennerley Rumford had some lapses
into pure artistry, but it was to hear him join
his wife in the great revivalist number, “Land
of Hope and Glory.” that Suburbia flocked.
Now that General Booth is sitting on pillars
of cloud beholding all things that pass upon
the earth, how he must gnash his immortal
teeth as he watches Dame Clara with out-
spread arms leading the congregation
through this hymn! What a chance he
missed of roping in the Salvation Lass of
all the World !
>:« * $
Gladys Moncrieff, otherwise “The Maid of
the Mountains,” notched another century at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Tuesday, and
there was the customary profuse distribution
of counterfeit presentments. But the Maid
is not to surpass her Melbourne record of
188 performances. Her last two weeks are
announced.
** * *
“Paddy, the Next Best Thing,” will retire
from Sydney Criterion on Saturday in favor
of “Peg 0’ My Heart.” Presumably the com-
pany’s next-best.
#
On his way back from the Premiers’ Con-
ference, Premier Theodore, of Queensland,
tarried in Sydney to see “Theodore and Co.”
at the Royal. He is understood to have
been disappointed at finding no personal
allusions in it, nor anything half as droll
f, s - planting of Queensland’s nominee
Gfiamber, with Randolph Bedford reading
the burial service. Otherwise his opinion
was favorable enough.
The Cherniaysky brothers threw another
two concerts into Sydney’s musical menu
before sailing this week for Vancouver;
and they justified the faith Australian audi-
ences have had in them since the days when
they made their bow dressed in knicker-
bockers and frilled shirts. The Arensky trio
lu ., Minor stirred Saturday afternoon’s
wilted audience into a thunderstorm of
applause, and Jan’s Chopin group was as
tender as falling rose petals.
Sydney Tivoli continues to beat the Million
F arms Committee as an immigration agency.
New arrivals at this house include Kelso
Henderson and Dorothy Hawtree, prancers
to jazz music; Charles Zoli, an imper-
sonator ; and Donald Stewart, a comedy con-
jurer. And last week’s newcomers and the
old brigade still collect applause.
Harrison Owen's “Mount Marunga Mys-
tery,” which has become “The Blue Moun-
tain Mystery” on the film, is steadily packing
Sydney Lyceum this week. It is real
Australian, acted by healthy, good-looking
Cornstalk men and women. The mystery,
as the picture knows it, flutters between a
Darling l'oint home and the Carrington and
Hydro, thus allowing of both Harbor and
Mountain-mist effects. The views of Echo
Point are a masterpiece—in the valleys a
mist breaks like a surf and curls against
the rugged fissure of the rent tableland.
There are moonlit views and sunlit views, and
against their background the rather grim
mystery is played to its close. Though
the “heavy” villainess work falls to Marjorie
Osborne, an equal share of emotional acting
is in the hands of Bernice Vere; both are
temperamental without being tempestuous.
Marjorie Osborne as the adventuress looks
her handsomest in the Court scene, and does
her most thrilling turn when she punctures
the chest of her husband, the supposed Henry
Tracey. Bernice as the ingenue daughter is
natural and pretty in the opening care-free
scenes, and as Lady Macbethish as her inches
will allow in a sleep-walking act. The
almost continuous work of John Faulkner is
close to high-water mark throughout, and
much the same applies to the smaller parts
of Vivian Edwards and Billy Williams, and
to the short but arresting appearances of
Detective Redmond Barry. Raymond Long-
ford produced the picture.
* * * *
At Sydney Hoyt’s and the Australian the
drug habit gets another knock-out in “The
Truant Soul.” It shows Henry B. Walthall
as a famous surgeon who nearly wears out
his hypodermic on his own arm, a false
friend keeping him supplied with the drug
so that his wicked half-brother; —also in th •
medical business —may work out his nefari-
ous designs on humanity. A good-looking
nurse and a speedy cure for the brilliant
bone-kneader send the audiences away some-
what cheered. The Globe and Haymarket
present a thrilling moment| when Mae
Murray is unwound, bit by bit, from mummy-
like wrappings of ninon; then just when
front gallery-seaters are on the point
of falling over the barrier there’s a cut in
the film. Mae is the poor drugged victim
of a vicious rich body, and the story with
a~moral is called “Idols of Clay.” “A Mid-
night Bell” and “The Big Town Round Up”
keep the night busy at the Strand, and Had-
don Chambers’s “Passers By” flit across the
sheets of the Empress and Majestic.
»f »!• V
Levitzki, full of soul and devoid of tricks,
is raising enthusiasm (at popular prices)
at Adelaide Town Hall. The Royal de-
clined upon a very ordinary melodrama, “The
S'm on the Door,” for the end of its Maude
Hanaford season, and Joseph Coyne is just
coming in. Pictures are all over the place,
a new York in Rundle-street having been
added to the list. The Majestic shows the
Dempsey-Carpentier fight, West’s have
Henry Lawson’s stories worked up into a
“While the Billy Boils,” Wondergraph in-
troduces Sydney Chaplin—brother to Charles
—and views of the Melbourne Cup are
everywhere. Also a record heat for the
time of year has brought up a crop of out-
door shows.
* i|; * ;i!
From an Adelaide critic
At the Preece gallery three Victorian painters
have combined to make an attractive show with a
dozen pictures each. M. J. McNally takes the eye
most with his suggestions of Hilder. His prices are
moderate, and “The Chalk Cliffs,” which was
promptly bought at 20 guineas, will be worth more
in a few years. H. B. Herbert seems to specialise in
gum-trees, carefully done in individual specimens
or dashed in in the mass. George C. Benson is
less attractive. He makes a feature of 18th cen-
tury costume-groups ; but the Watteau idea demands
careful finish, and this is just what he does not
take the trouble to give. The show has drawn
many visitors, and Adelaide, which previously knew
little of these visitors, is showing its appreciation
in the most practical way.


SKETCHES
that
SELL
Mi
V
&
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
If you are fond of drawing you can"®
easily' be taught how to make money in
your own home. There is such a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr. J. 0. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by his easy
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexes are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks himself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don’t
YOU Learn?
The Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Pays” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks will be very pleased
to write you his opinion of it—-free.
But write for the book now, and judge
for yourself.
J. C. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
NEEDEM
The NEED-EM
WATCH
POUCH.
Only slightly wider
than the ordinary
w a t c h —slips on
your belt like the
ordinary pouch —•
but holds the watch
securely, so that it
cannot fall out or shake about. A double
thickness of leather protects the glass from
breakage under the most strenuous conditions.
To see the time, simply release button and face
of watch falls right into view. Fitted with a
first-class, fully-jewelled Swiss watch —a splen-
did timekeeper. The Need-em Watch and
Pouch, 42W6 post free. The Need-em Pouch
only, in solid leather, 6/6 each, post free.
FINNEY’S,
BRISBANE.
MINIATURE MEDALS
m.
m
rir
i
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/9;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
W. CHORLEY & CO., LTD.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.; Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
fyrmrTf
■
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Minin". Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and S>eed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
PERFORATED ZINC.
D. RICHARDSON g SONS PTY.LTD.Jootscray.Vic.
d
f
TWIST DRILLS that are GUARANTEED
Because they are made from the finest of steel by workmen who have
specialised in this class of work,
‘Capital” High-Speed Twist Drills
are guaranteed by the manufacturers. “Capital’’ High-Speed Drills
give long wear and keen and accurate cutting.
Large stocks of Morse Taper and Straight Shanks.
Write for full particulars of speeds and feeds in all classes of
material. Supplied free on application to Department “A.”
THE EAGLE &. GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
879-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
266 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
<8 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE
Cliarles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
•John Keiil & Nephews, BRISBANE.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellflCo.Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
110! I
'"'amts in**' 0 :
%
tI®ANOTRAVtIiI
... *2l maltcd
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Erink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send id. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLSCK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C°
Slough. Bucks. Eng.^
#■l. ''i
ft:
gn:
srTTi ■’
rr
3a
Jiar"
'C I
r
gS'iifeC-i*
p*
ri
gofers
a}?
Ki
i .i'l
rfir-
:3*«S
■": !*!l
S!*
- Ss
l.=
- „ -S' '•^V
ru
:!•.:«!!
sksx
X;
wf
<*»- $
GOLD
SEAL
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR YOUR MONEY BACK ,
REMOVE. SEAL WITH
s;: r
Gold Seal
(ONGOLEUM
They Lighten Housework
Spring-cleaning time is
round again with all its sweep-
ing, dusting and scrubbing—
yet how much less work there
will be for the Gongoleum
housewife.
With no carpets to take
up and beat, these room rugs,
so durable, sanitary, and easy
to clean make her task ever
so much easier.
They require but little
sweeping—an occasional
going-over with a damp mop
leaves them fresh and clean.
They can be laid down or
rolled up in a moment. No
tacking down is necessary,
they lie perfectly flat without
it and will not kick up at the
edges.
There are patterns and
sizes for every room, and at
prices which anyone can
afford.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
or write
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth
Gongoleum Representatives for Australia


THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.'—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Insist on CINZANOS,
The Best Gift for Your Boy
Home or Overseas.
“PALS” ANNUAL
BRIGHT, ENTERTAINING, INSTRUCTIVE.
The special annual supplement includes an 80,000-word stirring story
of adventure, by one of the greatest boys’ writers of our times, Eric W.
Townsend. The colored frontispiece, by H. Septimus Power, entitled
“Anzacs,” from the painting in the Melbourne National Gallery, is one of
the finest plates so far issued in Australia. These are just two features
of the special annual supplement. There are many others of equal interest.
ALL LEADING NEWSAGENTS, BOOKSTALLS & STORES.
TWELVE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
By Post: In any one State, 13/9; Interstate and N.Z., 14/8.
Publishers: The HERALD and WEEKLY TIMES, LTD., MELBOURNE.
o
SITUATED
"■
E
tS , ' AND --.
- aMent iSN^ to
Thole & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“T.W.”: Neither Marie Tempest nor
Wilkie Bard would have indulged in their
recent outbursts against their public had
they been in London theatres. It is the
rule there that once an artist has slanged the
playgoer from over the footlights his chances
of re-employment go down to zero. G. W.
Anson tried it when a play that he was in
had been guyed, and he spoilt chances which
were doubly good from the fact that he was
about the best of rising low comedians and
that he was carrying on the family tradition
started by Johnny Anson, his father. It
led to G.W.’s long sojourn with Brough and
Boucicault in Australia.
“0.K.” : “Merrie England,” the opera by
Basil Hood and Edward German, which, ac-
cording to J.C.W.
“Paddy, the Next
Best Thing,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Madge Herrick us
Mrs. Single, a lodge
patient.
ads., is about to
have its first pro-
duction in Austra-
lia, was staged at
Melbourne King’s
in 1912, and played
by a company of
amateurs, of whom
George Tutton, the
tenor, was the
most experienced.
It had a fi v e
nights’ season, just
prior to the first
performance o f
“On Our Selec-
tion.” Consider-
ing that a Mel-
bourne society
cro w d is now
working up a big
farewell benefit to
Miss Violet Somer-
set. for the pur-
pose of sending her
to London to get her
notes “finished,” it
may interest th e
friends of the lady
to hear that this
paper once credited
her with “a fairly
good voice which
she so used that the
words of her songs were at no time audible.
She was a dark secret.” Miss Violet Somer-
set sang the leading soprano part in “Merrie
England” nine years ago.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos that stage-hanging (B.
3/11/’2l), I witnessed a peculiar incident
in connection with “Shamus O’Brien,”
played in a Sydney suburb some years ago.
As the play goes, Shamus stands upon a
scaffold, hands bound and the rope round
his neck, when the good padre in attend-
ance cuts the cords and frees the man. The
actor who played the part of the man on
the scaffold was the son of one who had been
hanged for murder in Sydney in the first
’seventies. I begged the actor not to do it. as
his mother and sister were still alive, but
he persisted.
“Patricia B.”: While Annette Ivellerman
was at the Sydney Tivoli she received a
courteous challenge from Pazakos, “the man-
fish,” who used to run an oyster-shop at
Albany (W.A.) and is now in the show
business. The massive Greek stated that he
yearned to meet the lady in a series of
under-water feats, and would be particularly
charmed to try conclusions with her in a
banana-eating competition against time.
Annette declined the invitation on general
principles. Besides, she wrote, bananas
always gave 'her indigestion.
“Mirridong”: Night-time in the shearers’
hut in the rollicking days of 50 years ago
was beguiled by “ante up” and “pass the
buck,” swapping lies and sing-song. In
retard to the songs, it was an inflexible rule
that every one of them must have a chorus,
and if this all-important requirement was
lacking one was
supplied wlii c h
generally li ad no
application to the
burden of the song.
On one occasion a
traveller pu t u p
for the night at
our hut. and being
ca 11 e d upon t o
oblige he responded
with the old favo-
rite, “There is a
Flower that
Bloometh,” in a
plaintive little
voice. He nearly
fell down de a d
when, at the con-
clusion of the first
verse, the whole
company broke into
a thun d e rin g
chorus, the first
two lines of which
r a n —“T he ele-
phant walked the
rope. Th e band
begins to p 1 a y,”
with an infernal
obligato acc o m-
paniment on th e
concertina. Despite
the agonised pro-
tests of the singer
the chorus was re-
gularly forthcom-
ing after each
verse, with ever-
increasing volume
of sound. Other
popu 1 a r an d
equally soul-inspir-
ing choruses of the
“The Maid of the
Mountains,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Rugini Hilliard get-
ting romantic about
the Governor's
daughter.
period were, “After the opera is over,”
"Two old blankers met down in Piccadilly”
and “What would you do if the billy boiled
over?”
“0.K.”: Pinero’s old farcical comedy of
“The Schoolmistress” has been adapted to
a musical setting, as “The Magistrate”
was, with uncertain results. “The Magis-
trate” was transformed into “The Boy,” and
“The Schoolmistress” reappears as “My
Nieces.” The earlier comedy was long
remembered in Australia through its origi-
nal Brough and Boucicault production:
“The Schoolmistress,” a fairly sparkling
play in its- time, has long passed out of
Australian recollection, and many old
theatre-goers would bet that it never had a
fashionable metropolitan production. But
it had. Minnie Palmer produced it here
five-and-thirty years ago. Minnie was just
a little bit of Yankee fluff and bluff who
travelled as the mock damsel heroine in an
artificial concoction called “My Sweetheart.”
George Cop pin and Juo. li. Rogers ran the
show, the lastnamed being the star’s hus-
band and busy boomster. But how they
mangled Pinero in order to enlarge the size
and importance of Minnie Palmer’s job!
The public mostly perceived the unfitness
of fluffy, dolled-up Minnie for the natural
young-woman character of the pupil teacher.
It, was her farewell to Australia, and the
country soon forgot her in the part she had
murdered. It couldn’t soon forget her as
“My Sweetheart.” Boomed ere she came,
boosted whilst on tour, her name lived in
persistent paragraphs til} Time struck the
middle-aged girleen off the roll of notoriety.
“E.F.” : E. W. Crooke, now revisiting his
native land in a commercial capacity, is
something of an Australian link between
turf and stage, for he is a younger brother
of the proprietor of Aspendale (Melb.)
racecourse. A much-travelled actor-man
ere he settled down to less picturesque busi-
ness, he claims to have been the only Aus-
tralian addition to the imported company
which Mrs. Bernard Beere took from this
country in ’92. Another turf-and-stage
link was Ethel Ilaydon, daughter of the
late Tom Ilaydon, proprietor of Elsternwick
(Melb.) racecourse in the very long ago.
Ethel Ilaydon got a show in comic opera
from the original J.C.W. firm before she
went to England, and there she laid the
foundation of a fine theatrical position by
marrying George Robey. The racing world
was, perhaps, rather more individually
stage-struck in those days than it is now.
A notable novice with the J.C.AV. forces
was Maie Saqui, daughter of John, a popu-
lar bookmaker.
“E.”: Arnold Bennett’s amusing comedy,
“The Title,” given in Melbourne by the Mer-
maid Play Society, justified the Australian
distrust of “honors.” It showed how a
title may be conferred on an innocent man
simply to confuse the issue of the other
hundred titles handed out to the replenish-
ers of party funds, often duds and duffers,
who pay heavily for the “honor.” Bennett,
who wrote with inside information, may
have got the idea for the play from Gals-
worthy’s refusal to he put among the honored
nonentities. Australians sometimes wonder
how the deuce somebody or other got into the
list. The comedy explains how it some-
times happens.
“C. Ockney” : Nina Boucicault is making
one of her rare appearances on the London
boards in the new Belasco play "Timothy,”
which Cyril Maude acquired from the Ameri-
can manager. Nina’s role is Mary O’Flynn,
and the accomplished actress should have
little difficulty in “feeling” a part with a
name like that. Maude plays Timothy, who
is also an O’Flynn. The comedy is running
at the Shaftesbury, and is one of the many
pieces under the Grossmith-Malone manage-
ment.
“Jeune Premier” : It isn’t often that you
find a pro. dividing his activities between
the stage and the front of the house. In
fact, I’ve only come across one case of the
kind—that of Willie Driscoll, the quaint
Uncle of “On Our Selection.” When not
appearing in his .old part—which it may be
truthfully said he “created” —the droll little
mummer takes up a job on the staff and
helps attend on the brilliants and fashion-
ables who patronise Melbourne King’s.
Although he has had plenty of experience
as a performer in various parts of the world,
Driscoll is not called upon to make many
appearances on the boards these days. On
the whole, he seems to prefer the steady job
of ushering.
“Yarra Ben” : According to the ad. they’ve
got “a heart-breaking picture” at one of
the Melbourne movie shows just now. They
had an “emotional” play at the Theatre
Royal a few years ago that was said to be
also a heart-breaker. A local critic looked
in one night and leant over the of the
well-filled circle alongside the manager.
“Seems to me you’ve got a success,” said
the paper-man. “Look how it’s affecting
the crowd. I can see half-a-dozen crying
their eyes out.” “Ah,” returned the boss —
“those half-dozen paid to come in.”
“Canto”: Rosina Buekman’s narrow
escape from drowning the other week must
have had a comedy side to it. She was out
boating with her husband (Maurice d’Oisley)
on an English river, when the boat over-
turned, probably in consequence of the lady
wanting to change seats and take a hand
in the rowing. Her husband and another
man had the greatest difficulty in saving
Rosina, said the cable, and that is easy to
believe. The songstress these times weighs
about twice as much as she did when she
sang with Amy Castles in “Butterfly” and
took the heroine part in two matinee per-
formances of Marshall Hall’s “Stella.” A
stout lady in a small boat is a perilous re-
sponsibility. Out of it she is just an awful
calamity.
“Micawber”: Dead at 27, Frank Uren,
Australia’s best club juggler and straight
man in the team of Frank, Lank and Alice
for years. He had been ill a long time, but
the night before his death he insisted on see-
ing his cousin Tommy Uren fight Burns,
went out motoring next day and returned
home to die in his sleep.
“Blackfriars”: Sound-emperor Sousa has
gone deaf, and his affliction is stated to be
so bad that he cannot bear the cacophonies
that he conducts. Beethoven’s disposition
soured when he couldn’t hear his own com-
positions ; Sousa’s ought now to sweeten
daily. -
“Tod” : When Dr. Ethel Smyth lately con-
ducted her overture to “The Boatswain’s
Mate,” the opera in which .she strives to
clown it musically with the lightsome W. W.
Jacobs at London Queen’s Hall, she was the
first woman to figure in the rostrum there.
Dr. Ethel is thh most formidable of all
feminine composers to date, but she just
misses blending poetry with her originality,
and that is, after all, the only real way to
catch the musical ’bus.
“Blackfriars” : The title of Ivor Novello's
new musical play, which was being produced
at London Adelphi in October, was altered
from “The Golden Moth” to “The Bad Boys,”
which sounds inane enough to kill the thing
offhand. The change was made in deference
to a superstitious kink subscribed to by the
whole cast, who said that no play with the
word “Golden” in it had ever succeeded.
People who haven’t enough confidence in
their show to override a small point like that
ought to go out and get real work.
“0.K.”: The gentlemanly, rarely-excited
Shylock tvpe whom the late Henry Irving
created has been
“The Sign on the
Door,” at Melbourne
King's.
Edmund Duggan as
“Kick” Callahan.
rather put out of
favor in Britain
by Dutch trage-
dian Louis Bouw-
meester, who pre-
sents a reversion
to the loud ges-
ticulating sort of
Jew that Shaks-
peare was probably
thinking of when
he wrote “The
Merchant.” Bouw-
meester, a mag-
netic personality,
utters an awful
roar of euchred
malignity on find-
ing himself beaten.
The Shylock who
shouts and screams
in the face of a
staggering blow to
his expectations is
hardly true to
nature, but he is
certainly true to
stage tragedy of
the old, traditional
kind. Tbe ,T e w
whom Xhakspeare
drew was not ex-
pected to behave
like a thunder-
struck citizen suffering from blighted hopes.
He was intended to act like a scandalous
infidel gone suddenly mad.
“T.W.”: “E.L.” (B. 27/10/ ! 21) mentions
the Ohauve-souris, now at London Pavilion,
but does not relate how this interesting Rus-
sian combination evolved its turn of 15 plays
ranging in duration from two to eight
minutes. They were originally part of a
“spoof” show put on in a cellar in Moscow
by the lesser students of the Art Theatre,
who used to invite the star performers to see
them. When Bolshevism decided that nothing
but its own tragedy was to happen anywhere
in Russia, the more harmless prankers
cleared off to Paris, becoming the rage first
there and now in London.
“Jobber”: “Ancient Prompter” is off the
track when he says it was “Resurrection”
that introduced Arthur Wontner to Aus-
tralia (B. 20/10/’-1). I saw him in “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” at the old Syd-
ney Royal some time before Julius Superbus
got on my nerves in “Resurrection.”
“S.T.” : The organ which Beerbohm Tree
had built long ago for use in the church
scene in his “Much Ado About Nothing ’
has been in his house ever since, and met an
odd fate at the recent sale of his furniture.
The Cremation Society bought it for 270
guineas, and the old stage “prop” will find
a home in the crematorium at Woking.
“Thorokl Waters”: While Louis Esson
tells some interesting .things (B. 27/10/’2l)
about composer Stravinsky and the Bolshie
Noise School, he neglects to mention that
the Scriabin-Stravinsky boom in London is
already petering out, the worthier Scriabin
having been carried down by the chief
offender. London’s concert programmes for
the season just beginning have little more
time for these Slavonic crotchet-janglers
than they would have for Lenin and Trot-
sky. Even the arch-propagandist on their
behalf among the conductors, Albert Coates,
who is able to do far more practical service
for them from his rostrum in front of the
Royal Philharmonic Society and the London
Symphony Orchestra than’ Serge Diaghileff,
Stravinsky’s John the Baptist, can accom-
plish, has had to hark right back. A season
or two ago Coates rushed musical whiz-
bangs into the ears of his audiences without
compunction ; this time the names of Scria-
bin, Stravinsky and their fellow-destroyer
of harmony, Prokovieff, appear only once
each in the course of 16 programmes. The
truth is that their success has never been
more than one of curiosity. It has never
resembled the real appreciation which fol-
lowed, for instance, on the first hearings in
London of Debussy’s “L’apres midi d’une
faune” or Strauss’s Domestic Symphony,
much discussed as that was in some sections.
It is notable that at Henry Wood’s orches-
tral concerts the all-Wagner and all-
Beethoven nights are easily the most popu-
lar. And the public is a sound enough judge,
for an all-Stravinsky night would really
contain about as much beautiful meaning
as a complete evening with a circular-saw,
a sledge-hammer and an octette of cats.
D. W. Griffith, the American film colossus,
is talking of rehabilitating ex-President M il-
son in the eyes of the world by doing a pic-
ture of his official life during the war.
THE THEORETICAL ACTRESS.
[FOR TH E BULLETIN.]
She’s excellent as Juliet
And great as Mrs. Tanqueray—
That is, she would be, but as yet
She’s not appeared in either play.
She dotes on Rosalind —don’t you ?
She thinks Ophelia is sweet;
And Nellie Denver’s charming, too,
And Portia is neat —•
So delightful, so complete,
There’s a part, now, that she’d really love to do.
She’d act the Tempest women well
if she had only half a chance;
On films her perfect style would tell -
You’ve marked the archness of her glance.
Her figure, too, is rather good ;
She’s cut out for the Bernhardt parts;
George Shaw, hs understood
By this little lady,, would
Take the town by storm, and captivate all hearts.
She just adores Candida. Yes,
As Mrs. Warren she’d lie fine.
Her favorite? Now you’d never guess.
’Tis Desdemona. She’s divine.
She has not figured in “Othello,”
But that would suit her up and down.
She’d be just glorious in yellow—-
A pretty, waistless gown
With a darling touch of brown.
Oh, the speeches she would make to that fellow!
She’s lather good in opera, too,
And has a splendid singing voice;
As Yum Yum—she has tried it through—
She’d be found extremely choice.
In “Faust” she never did engage,
But had she shown as Marguerite
She fancies she’d surprise the age.
A triumph most complete
She is quite prepared to meet
Should she ever get a foot upon the stage !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


...
: Vr--' ' -■ ■; : ■■ ■ ' . ■: ' ■: ' : ■
;
t V'vsN
fi " • 'j ' ' ;
■
■
■■
■ .
i
■i
m
a
■ .
'ins-
m
:
m
§1!
■
5...
B
■ ■ m
mgSMmSmm:mkm
MMfcj* I
IBl#' -t •
a
V
.
«
pp
PE
m
i
§§m
«f*ii
H)
;
H
1; H
:
#%■
H :
.
%
;
mm
: .?
:
m
:r;\
1
I
V ;;
H
.-'V-'
I ■
■ --.
■a
m
r
M
■I
■
m
■
wM
m
■
i
■■ i
mM
■*
m
: -
AI
elSuUf-
Barnet Class Rubber C? Ltp
Founders of the Rubber in Australia.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
soie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, RecJfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNJS?
IZCCO&
LEWIS & WflITTy MAKERS
X±J,
\
J-HC
l
sioaav
LAGER
“ Beer
Without a Rivtal™
BREWED FROM PURE MALT & HOPS ONLY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
YV it Limit suggesting that Sister Olive was
specially lucky to win the Melbourne Cup as the
race was run, this writer shares the opinion of
many old stagers that it was a “muddling” race,
comparatively slow' on a course which had hardened
since the fastest Vic. Derby on record was scored
on it three days earlier. There was thunder in
the lair, and some horses no doubt are more subject
than others to the deadening effect of sultry condi-
tions. The climate that is always supposed to
have an enervating influence on mares in general
was j quite to the liking of Sister Olive, it seemed.
The | filly was as festive as a flapper before a ball.
Of course it had to he her day out, otherwise she
would not have been so spry, but there can be no
reasonable question that if flic same field had been
on the job two days later the race would have
resulted rather differently. Amazonia might have
been less incommoded in the last two furlongs of
a fatter two miles; also The Itbver. Harvest King,
one of the leading four from start to finish, needed
only! another gallop and a Munro on his back to
have changed his “close fourth” to a “clever win,”
perhaps. The boy Bevis, on Harvest King, had to
ride 6»t. 101 b. instead of 6st. 71b., whereas Munro
could have done it at 6st. 91b. Sister Olive was
one ;of a likely lot of winners, and not more than
that-? —no cert even with a good. run guaranteed.
Tub Bulletin, in a paragraph apropos to the
Mootiee \ alley Cup, remarked that several owners
seemed to like their Melbourne Cup chance. The
race: looked fairly open to a number of capable
ones! Nine likely ones and three or four unlikely
were; named in that par, and all the placed horses
bad a mention, though only the winner, the fourth
and :the fifth were included in a final selection of
seven, of which the topweights Eurythmic and Vio-
loncello were favorites that failed badly. How about
the rest of the field of 25? Ethiopian (6th) and
Smbad the Sailor (9tli) were the only unlikely ones
to finish in the first ten. Sinbad was worth a bit
tp the books on account of his name. Every Cup
visitor from the navy or mercantile marine had
something on the off-chance. Another favorite with
the small investors was Tangalooma.
It was a pleasure to see Sir Ibex bolt
away from the other three in the mile race at
Fleniington on Oaks Day. The old chap had a much
better record as a weight-carrier and w.f.a.-battler
than Molly’s Robe and Demetrius, who were quoted
at about a fifth of the odds offered against him.
Though not his old self, he is by no means a has-
been, and a year ago he ran second to Greenstead
in the same race. This time he waited on the two
leaders till they were nearing the distance, and
then ;he shot away -from them as only A 1 sprinters
can shoot on days when they feel invincible. Sir
Ibex: won by eight lengths. Not bad for an 11-
year-old.
The Oaks victory of Furious made Cup form look
very:fluky, it hardly suggested that the daughter
of The Welkin could have won the Cup under her
comparatively light weight, even though her luck
had been in. She seems too flashily brilliant to be
a two-miler. But her manner of repeating her Derby
victory over the speedy Bassi, who never was less
than two lengths ahead of Sister Olive, was an
eye-opener to backers of the Cup winner. Sister
Olive looked merely a pretty little thing compared
with the well-grown Derby victress. A light weight
and good luck enabled Olive to pull off the Cup.
With another two stone to carry she made no more
show than Lord Nolan, a little three-year-old Cup
winner of yore, could ever make in a w.f.a. race.
She may do better than this under Bst. 101 b., but
the odds against her developing into another Wake-
ful are enormous. In the race following the Oaks
another slur was cast upon Cup form bv the igno-
minious performance of Amazonia in the Veteran
Stakes. Of course this deadly slow beginner was
coming on a bit at the end of the 12-furlongs race,
but the aged gelding, with a stone more than his
Cup burden, couldn’t came along nearly fast enough.
Starting with the victory of a 33 to 1
chance in the first race, and ending with the turn-
up of a 20 to 1 outsider in the Final Handicap,
racing at Flemington on Saturday was another tri-
umph for the books. Also an unexpected win by
King of the Sea in the V.R.C. Handicap set the
stewards inquiring into the horse’s inconsistent
conduct within two days. Like all, or nearly all,
such inquiries it made no difference to anybody, least
of all to punters who had tried to follow form.
The 33 to 1 chance, Heir Apparent, whose stable
companion, Yaeainuuda, was the surprise in the. Pinal,
robbed Harvest King’s backers of a win under rather
singular circs. Bobby Lewis had the mount on
Harvest King for the first time, whilst Duncan, his
Derby jockey, was on the rank outsider that got
the best of the run home. With Otaere a poor
third, and Bassi, Honey Bee and Lionel Attwill
among the also rans, the winner’s performance was
respectable. Harvest King ran another second dur-
ing the afternoon, with Lewis again aboard, splitting
Tangalooma and Purser in the C. B. Fisher Plate.
'1 lie sturdy three-year-old galloped six miles in all
during the meeting, scoring two seconds, one third
and a fourth (in the-Cup) and earning the solatium
of it 750 for his owner.
Humor says nasty things about Melbourne
Cup race. Admitting that nothing bar Eurythmic
suffered very conspicuous interference, and that no
special charges can be sworn to even in the case
of the champion, the fact remains that none of-the
most heavily backed horses, in singles and doubles,
got a very good run. The winner was almost as
good as a rank outsider for the laying fraternity.
About half the owner’s winnings proceeded from his
own book on the Cup, whereiu Sister Olive was
“saved.” How came it then, asks Rumor, that the
comparatively unbacked mare started at only 16 to 1,
although the best public fancies were quite liberallv
priced in comparison? Did Bookland in general
“know something”?
*** * .
.Tangalooma finished the round of meetings
in a blaze of glory. On Saturday, starting favorite,
lie beat Harvest King, Purser and three others in
the w.f.a. C. B. Fisher Plate, worth .£1137 to the
winning owner; and two days later, carrying Bst.
131 b., he brilliantly accounted for the Williamstown
Cup m the fast time, for the 12 furlongs, of 2min.
Slfsec. Wirraway (Bst. 131 b.) was second, and
Yacamunda (7st. lib.) third, but in the run home
nothing had a chance with the big Linacre horse,
who credited his owner with a £1370 stake and a
trophy worth '£loo. His backers got s’s and 9’s
to 2, Wren’s horse The Rover, who ran badly, going
out favorite at 2 to 1. Tangalooina’s trouble is
that he doesn’t like a big Held. At Williamstown
there were only 11 starters, and he had a good
run all the way.
* * * si*
“Groper” : The latest about Eurythmic is
that his injured leg is mending so rapidly that he is
likely to be put in training for the w.f.a. events at
Flemington in March. McLachlan, who rode the cham-
pion in the Cup, swears that if the mishap hadn’t
occurred he would have come home “on the bit.”
The same view is expressed by Lee Steere, in whose
colors Eurythmic runs, by Sam Macka.v, owner of
Lionel Attwill, and by the shrewd Connolly, who
brought Blue Spec over from the West to win the
1905 Cup.
* * * *
The two principal Maoriland racing clubs
clashed with the opening days of their Spring meet-
ings on Saturday. At Auckland Loyal Irish was a
bad third to the Absurd filly Thespian in the G. N.
Guineas. The Mitchelson Cup (1 Am.) winner, Stork,
is by Hallowmas ; and the Welcome Stakes winner,
Mountain Lion, by Mountain King. At Riccarton
three geldings were placed in the M.L. Cup (2
miles) ; Royal Star and Vagabond, both by Martian,
first and second, and Almoner, by Boniform, third.
The two-year-old Welcome Stakes saw Epitaph leave
a gap of two lengths between herself and Green-
wood’s two—Farceur and Veil. All three are by
Absurd.
ROWLEY BANKS, the well-known Vic-
torian golfing professional.
Cupidon, winner of the A.J.C. Derbv,
failed badly in the M.L. Derby at Canle bury on
Monday. The Clifford baronet’s Autumn us colt
Winning Hit took the race in 2min. 3 4 l-ssec„
which is equal to Desert Gold's record for the
course. The Hawk was second, and the conqueror of
Furious third.
Derby Day with the Bananaland Turf
Club was disastrous to punters. Fairy Bob, at odds on,
repeated last year’s second in the nine furlongs
Spring Stakes. He was chasing Tom McCarthv,
the winner; the field were five lengths astern, in
a close race the Polybius (imp.) colt Loganius sur-
vived a protest from the filly Walfortis, bv AVolawa,
in the Two-vear-ohl Hopeful Stakes. The Derby
favorite Ladomond was easily beaten by the Flying
Machine colt Lawn Mower. Only two favorites in
the seven races got home.
*
Solly, M.L.A., looks more than ever fool-
ish over his Violoncello charges in the Vic. Assembly.
At Caulfield the English horse ran a rather poor
sort of race on the Wednesday, but an apparently
first-class race in the Cup three days later. At
Flemington he ran an undoubtedly good race behind
Eurythmic in the Stakes, but in the Cup he was
just a little more badly beaten than the two horses
—Purser and Lionel Attwill—that were placed be-
hind him in the Caulfield Cup. Would Solly suggest
that Violoncello did not try when he “ran like a
goat - ’ for a stake of eight or nine thousand pounds V
Billy McDevitt and D. W. Ripley (holder)
met for N.S.W. sculling championship on the Parra-
matta on Saturday. Ripley led to Uhl's Point,
Where McDevitt spurted and bumped him. Both
claimed a foul. After argument the umpire sent
them away again, and at Cabarita McDevitt was
fully six lengths to the good. Then he began to
tire, and Ripley drew up till the boats again clashed
at Henley. The umpire again disallowed the foul,
and McDevitt went on to win by two lengths. No
official time was taken, the stoppages upsetting-
even the watch-holders. There is to be another
match. McDevitt came from Peter Kemp’s shed
and scaled 12st. 21b.; Ripley, who boated from
George Towns’s, was 161 b. lighter.
York licked the Kangaroos on Wednes-
day of last week by nine points to three. The Aus-
tralasians fielded what was practically a second
XIII. Latta notched the Australasians’ only score.
The second Test match at Hull on Saturday was
watched by 25,000 people, and the ’Roos won by 16
points (4 tries, 2 goals) to 2 points (1 goal). For
Aussie Duncan Thompson hoisted two goals. The
try getters were Blinkhorn (2), Border (1) and
Vest (1). Australasia fielded a N.S.W. Kill skip-
pered by Fraser; the game was strenuous from the
boot off; and there were many casualties. William
Batten, the famous wing three-quarter who visited
Australia with James Lomas’s 1910 Northern Union
tourists, played for England, vice Wagstaffe, who
is on the injured list. The Test scores are now
one all.
In the Test game which began at Durban
on Saturday the Australians (minus Armstrong)
batted first; and for some strange reason the
S’Afriean attack was opened by a couple of bats-
men. Neither the elderly Nourse nor the youthful
Marx is a bowling star, and Collins and Gregory
were well set by the time Carter came on with
Blanckenberg, who is the only front-rank performer
with the ball that Africa possesses. He is fairly
fast and breaks both ways. His five wickets for 78
was a creditable effort, three of those whom he
clean bowled being Gregory, Bardsley and Andrews.
Ryder stopped what was beginning to resemble a
rot. After giving one chance early in his innings
he knocked up 78 (n. 0.) before Mailey fell to
Blanckenberg, with the score at 299. S’Africa had
bad luck to lose Taylor—their best bat and the equal
on his day cf any in the world —in the few
minutes that remained before stumps were drawn.
Frank, who had opened with Taylor and is in the
nature of an experiment, went as soon as the game
was resumed on Monday, and the veterans Nourse
and Zulch got together. Zulch eventually top-
scored with 80. The total would have been rather
paltry had not Carter (who had bowled Collins and
two others for 68), Blanckenberg and Ward, the
wicketkeeper, amassed 60-odd between them. The
innings closed for 232.
Frank Iredale’s testimonial match is to
be between the returning Australian XI and the
pick of Australia at Sydney on Feb. 3—7.
* * * *
Rain in the early morning affected the
wickets in Melbourne district cricket on Saturday.
The result was a bowlers’ picnic,- Truman and Bowen,
of Carlton, sharing the honors with 6 for 6 and
4 for 4 against Richmond, who faded away for 15.
Richmond, winning the toss, had previously sent
in Carlton to bat; and the old Blues had registered
8 for 137 before they declared. Essendon, losing
the toss to ’Roy, totalled 50, a colt named Jones
getting 7 for 20, including the hat-trick, whilst
Liddicut assisted with 3 for 18. ’Roy, reaching
5 for 55, then surrendered the pitch to ’Don, whose
second hit realised 6 for 44. ’Wood, ordered to
bat by ’Cote, unexpectedly put up 216, ’Cote reach-
ing the bell with none for 9. ’Cote’s ex-skipper,
Ilartkopf, who captured 5 magpies for 49, had
several catches dropped off his bowling. Hawthorn-
East, playing against University at Glenferrie, man-
aged to make 169, Eltham, of the students, downing
8 for. 52. So far ’Varsity are 2 for 60, and with
reasonable weather next Saturday they should over-
haul the enemy’s score. The South v. P’ran engage-
ment became a battle of tactics. South, opening
first, declared with 8 for 57. P’ran dittoed with 7
for 58. South, having another try, finished the day
with 1 for 3. Lampard was P’ran’s bowler (7 for
15). Gray, for South, collected 5 for 17. St. Kilda
have a good chance of beating North outright: North,
with 46 and 3 for 39, are still 21 behind Saints,
who declared with 4 for 106. Jacobson (5 for 18)
and Watson (5 for 22) were responsible for North’s
collapse in the first innings.
* * * #
In Saturday’s Sydney grade-cricket, Dia-
mond, of Gordon, put Norths in, and for the most of
the afternoon had his side chasing Punch, who stepped
straight back into last season’s form with a fault-
less 112. For Mosman v. Waverley consistent Chap-
man collected 98. The rest failed badly against
first-rate fielding and the length bowling of Forss-
berg. Balmain also ran a one-man show in the per-
son of Andy Ratcliffe (70) against Marrickville.
Russell (5 for 37) and Grant (4 for 28) did the
damage. Wright, of Sydney, got 5 for 31 against
Manly, Bubb (41 n. 0.) who went in second-last
alone averting a collapse. Sydney’s fielding was
again slack. The metropolitans had made 190 for
five (Wright 61) when stumps were drawn. Kel-le-
wav (116) plodded characteristically for Glebe, who
piled up 236 for four against St. George. Mair’s
51 was more attractive. Both Petersham and Wests
had a knock, and the former are at it again. Clem-
enger (3 for 21) and Parnell (5 for 50) got rid of
Petersham cheaply, and fast-bowler Everett (5 for 39)
did most towards putting Wests out. Randwick’s
fielding was loose, but Dowd (3 for 36) and Shea
(3 for 17) were too much for Paddington, all the
same. Achurch (43) was again Randwick’s batting
star. C. Cumberland amassed 207 against ’Varsity,
though the students’ leg-break bowler Sturt kept his
head and length and averaged with 5 for 46. ’Varsity
have lost Rock and Ilesslein cheaply.
11. L. Roberts, editor of the Richmond
(Vie.) Guardian, has won the reputation in Moorab-
bin of being a demon bowler. Playing for Mentone
against Bentleigh the other day, he outed the
market-gardeners in 21 balls, incidentally doing the
hat-trick and finishing up with the remarkable aver-
age of 10 for 10.
The Australian XI has taken its century
habit to S’Africa. Against Natal Collins (captain
in place of Armstrong) got 101 in the first innings
and Macartney 125 in the second. The S’African
climate evidently suits Collins. With the returning
A.I.F. team in 1918, he scored a brilliant 235, and
in a dozen innings made 007 runs averaging 50.58.
Macartney’s previous best was 137 in a Test r.
South Africa.
At National Park (N.S.W.) hill-climb on
Saturday Boyd Edkins won the formula event (time
in seconds and h.p. multiplied, divided into weight
of car in pounds) with 266 points (Vauxhall 20.16
BOYD EDKINS.
h.p., 82sec., 43961 b.) from W. Stuart, 244 points
(Essex 18,98 h.p.,, 88 2-ssec., 40881 b.). In the
speed test, Edkins (Vauxhall 30.98 h.p.) won in
60 3-ssec. from A. V. Turner (Itala), 70 3-ssee.
*,* * *
Tommy Benstead (7-h.p. Ilarley-David-
son) outdistanced 14 others in N.S.W. motor-cycle
championship (5 miles 1100yds.) on Saturday by
half a mile. Time, smin. 40 l-6sec. He thus averaged
nearly 60 m.p.m. on the oblong Victoria Park
track with its sharp turns. W. Conaulty (31-h.p.
Norton) was second. Benstead (with side-car)
also won a challenge race (3 miles 660yds.) against
H. Ward (16-valve Ford) in 3min. 45sec.
* * * *
H. Hodgson (N.S.W.) wrecked the Mel-
bourne-Sydney motor-cycle record last week when
he traversed the 566 miles in 18hr. llmin. This
was 2hr. 27min. better than the previous best by
Fred Beilry (N.S.W.). Although Hodgson was
22min. behind the 18|hr. schedule he had set at
Holbrook (229 f miles), he managed to get Smin.
ahead of it at Goulbum (432 miles), and there had
a 20min. spell. The rest was easy. Hodgson rode
a Harley-Davidson, shod with Dunlops.
John Boyd Dunlop, the inventor of the
pneumatic tyre, who died the other day, made the
first air-filled tyre for his son in 1888. It was
fitted to a wooden rim, and a year later, when it
had been improved in various ways, it had become
a big commercial possibility. England first recog-
nised the virtues of the Dunlop when R. J. Maeredy,
an Irish racing cyclist, crossed over from Dublin
and won all the championships from his astonished
competitors, who had irreverently referred to the
new tubes as “German sausages” and “road-rollers.”
Jerry Sullivan got the decision against
Ernie Symonds at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. The affair was on the lines of the preceding
Legislative Ass. bout between Jimmie Macarthur-
Onslow, the Eastern Suburbs’ smasher, and Volly
Molesworth, the pride of Cumberland. Both lost
their tempers and made a deal of noise, but little
damage accrued to either. Sullivan scored more
fouls with his head and elbows; on the other hand
Symonds had a substantial lead as regards hitting
and holding. Such legitimate points as were regis-
tered by Symonds were at long range—chiefly lefts
to Sullivan’s ribs. The fair hits delivered bv Sulli-
van were practically all made during the infighting.
In allotting the points at the finish of the 20-rounds
scuffle Speaker Joe Wallis is understood to have
found that Sullivan was minus 96, Symonds minus
98, and decided the match on that basis. The fact
that legislators’ license was allowed accounts for
neither of them being disqualified.
* * * *
By trouncing Jack Green, of Sydney, at
the Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night Bert
Spargo made himself feather-weight champion of
the Commonwealth. The mill went 20 vigorous
rounds, but after the first three minutes’ boxing
the Victorian was always well in the lead. He
had too great a variety of punches for Green, albeit
the headwork of that serious youth justified the
encomium' of a supporter that he' was “the cleverest
bloke in Australia with ’ees ’ead.”
* * * ¥■
In the M.L. golf championships on the
Shirley links at Christchurch E. S. Douglas, of
Miramar, won the open and professional titles with
302. This was nine strokes better than the effort
of his fellow pro., E. J. Moss (Auckland). Douglas
has won the title four times in five tries, and he
was runner-up to Kirkwood when he failed last year.
The honor was hung up in 1915-18, when Douglas
was away at the war. A. G. Sime (Greyraouth)
beat J. L. Black (Hutt) for the amateur title by
5 up and 4.
THE AFTERMATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 bought sweet hopes, and paid the market price;
And now, indifferent to cynics’ sneering - ,
I try to judge the value of my vice,
hre yet its joys have finished disappearing,
this sin, methinks, like all my sins, is nice,
But much too dear. The “books” are profiteering.
Still, that complaint applies to clothes and food,
And other needs which make life interesting;
AA ho gratifies an appetite or mood
Supplies a chance for what is known as “besting.”
Enjoyment of all naughty things is good,
But oft too costly, 1 am now suggesting.
Well, what’s the odds?—-a question apt and terse
In this connection. Death the chapter closes
■For'him who squanders cash, or fills his purse—•
A jock’s last ride is in a gloomy hearse.
I’ve pricked my fingers, but I’ve plucked red roses ;
Counting the cost, 1 think one might do worse
Than render tribute to friend Ikey Moses.
Vo the false “dead birds” spread their wings to fly
And disappear, like brief regrets infernal?
May not the Punter, with a kindling eye,
Recall to mind bright hours that flitted by—
Pond recollections of old Cup times vernal—-
When days are drear? Regret is born to die,
Bpt gladness lives in memories eternal.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


A Skilful Boxer Has No Fear!
ďf
A skilful boxer is a man to be envied and admired. He has himself
under complete control. He has been taught to be patient and
tolerant. He is not easily “put out” and usually is the last to
seek a quarrel. When he is forced, however, to defend himself, he
does it with a quiet calm that breathes self-confidence in his every
action. He is not flurried in the least. He has a set plan and adapts
himself to circumstances. He reserves his strength until the other
fellow is getting “groggy.” He is always doing the right thing at
the right time.
Would you like to be a skilful boxer —to be able to give aggressive
individuals a couple of stone ar.d a beating? Then, why not learn
Scientific Boxing in your own home?
LEARN BOXING
BY POST.
We want to tell you all about the methods. How
simple and interesting they are. What rapid pro-
gress you’ll make, and what healthful exercise you
will secure from this instruction.
Write for the illustrated booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which gives full particulars and
cost of tuition, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and post it to us.
We'll know what you mean. Send three stamps for
postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
622 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
d
f
u
Perfection at last
No More Nicotine.
at *
d
THE “NIKKO.”
The Perfect, Patent Pipe. Why?
BECAUSE—
It sets up no Nicotine or Moisture in
the Bowl.
Saliva, reaching stem, is at once re-
moved by extracting tube and shaking
it.
However long in use it is Clean and
Sanitary.
There is no treacley accumulation of
Nicotine as in other pipes.
It is used and recommended by the
Medical Profession.
It is invented by an Australian.
Tobacco can be smoked to last atom,
leaving only dry ash and no moisture
in the bowl.
SMOKE A “NIKKO” and enjoy
a cool, healthy smoke.
Made in two qualities, of High-grade Briar.
Prices: 10/- and 13/6.
Should your tobacconist not stock the “Nikko”
pipe, write a. McINTYRE,
34 y z Paling’s Buildings,
Ash Street, Sydney.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before -
and prices -are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock s press-
ings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Nigger Brown Cream in Bottles and Tubes, Nigger Brown
Paste in Tins, now on sale.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
f
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Roils
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AGENCIES:
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
FOR ROUGH and HEAVY JORS
THE
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOR
RUNS ON KEROSENE —Does the Work of 8 Horses at Twice the Speed.
- t
r
- & SSS
Cletrac
r
TANK-TYPE
TRACTOR
Whatever the nature of your haulage work the CLETRAC will
do it at a saving over all other motive power. The CLETRAC
is a time and labor saver.
It will give you a cheap*, dependable and complete haulage service.
The CLETRAC Tank-Type Tractor can do any and every job.
Mine surface haulage -
Road Haulage -
Road Making - - -
All-belt pulley work -
- Draws 70 tons on rails.
- Draws 8 tons.
- Draws 8-foot grader.
- 2 7 horsepower.
Tank sinking, bore drain cutting, ploughing, cultivating,
harvesting, etc.
DOES ANYTHING-
-GOES ANYWHERE.
For further particulars:
d
PACIFIC COMMERCIAL CO.
Pomeroy House,
16 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne.
SSrUOiX
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
A TYPE TO SUIT EVERY HULL.
Now’s the time to buy if you want your
engine this season.
I
ftRFKTIO«rWW
2£ to 8 H.P.
H.D. Type.
The Engine for
the Workboat.
This Caille is a sturdy,
reliable, s in g 1 e-cylinder
model, evolved for heavy
duty where plenty of hard
work in the most exposed
weather conditions must
be met. An ideal power-
plant for the light launch
where engine-space is
limited. Equipped with
weatherproof igniter that
gives a certain spark in
all weathers. If you
have hard work to do you
need this Caille. Ask
prices and particulars.
We have stocks of Caille Perfection Marine Engines for
immediate delivery at the following prices.
2H.P.. . £37/10/- 4H.P... £6O
6H.P.. . £BO BH.P. £lOO
All plants complete with H.T. Magneto, Bronze Shaft,
Propeller, etc. Outboard Motors in 3 types. Other
sizes up to 14H.P. Write, ’phone or call.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
B.C. 205


oAdvice on all Foot Ailments free,
at Farmer’s,
EVERY bushman knows that
tender feet will quickly cause
the best-fed horse to lose con-
dition. Man’s foot troubles present
an exact parallel, for the nervous
strain imposed by tired and aching
feet soon undermines the strongest
constitution. No matter what your
foot ailments be Dr. Scholl’s ap-
pliances effectively relieve, and, in
most cases, permanently cure them.
f
d
Farmer’s, Sydney.
We ‘Pay Carriage. ‘Box 497, G.P.O.
Farmer’s certified practipe-
dists will diagnose your
trouble and advise you, free
of charge, as to the ap-
pliances necessary to meet
your individual case. Dis-
tance makes no difference.
If unable to call, ’phone
or write for illustrated
pamphlet and order form.
ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
m an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
mouths.
Send for Free Catalogue.
f
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS, Queen's Bridge, 1 Melbourne, Australia
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
pomp ,, of . the Gov.-General’s arrival
old-time flavor to the opening
at /’ lemington on Cup Day. The khaki
UJS™ ° f Lance ?,' s ’ with their scarlet-and-
wiVn 6 P e “ nants fluttering; the open carriage
r^ S 1 l horse - ; , the Postilions in brand-new
M . these made an imposing prologue
lhe wigs and breeches of the postilions were
spotless white; thev wore dark-blue jackets
braided in gold ; and their black velvet caps
bobbed to the green of the Straight as the
judge’s box SWePt aloUg t 0 the Sate at the
•md a hm- w Bter w 9 re clin gy. clay-colored silk,
a d her hat was draped with a heavv silk
lace veil to match. Dame Margaret David
son chose the colors of the galah—grey tailor-
iDgs with a big feather ruff of pink. Lady
Allardyce was in brown. Our Countess was
m pale pastel silk fitted close to neck
and wrists with narrow mink-fur, and her
as covered with straight ostrich-
feathers in their natural color. Mrs Pitt
wTt S u too i k v t , he eye in embroidered glace
and Lady Digby had a little mushroom of a
hat over her brown hair and wore a soft
startlfn^ 11 !' Lad .v Weigall was hatted in a
staithng bow of silver ribbon, and wore a
TFW? ared gowaof blue charmeuse. Mrs.
was with the vice-royal party and
her tiny toque of tawny leaves was ’most
effective above her fawn jersey silk gown.
boy 110 Rm a a ' ,so P ai *nded in the special
P ox - . Her outfit was theatrically impos-
A black b »t all velvet and a yard
wide, was lined with canary yellow, while a
large tropical bird with golden plumage
swung from the edge of the brim Dei-
was cloth of gold covered with black
Spanish lace and banded with seal, and it
Hung back to show a golden shirt-of-mail
across her magnificent chest
Edith Hill (Sydney) visited the box
ring the day. She wore nigger-brown
with a rustic hat wreathed in flowers. The
three young Knox matrons—Mrs. Bob, Mrs.
oil and Mrs. Gregor—w r ere turned out in
I ansian frocks of georgette, foulard and
pussy willow. Molly Dowling, over from
Apble Is r lai )d, came out with the Murray
white° n frn i Talma ? ? st A r ’ in the P re ttiest
white frock, was with Aunt Askin Foster.
Mis. Stuart Macdonald, down from Queens-
a ’ was exquisitely frocked in white, with
a big black hat. Mrs. Agar Wynne perched
in the committee box and looked at the world
through a monocle. Eileen Webb (Q.)
came with Mrs. Norman Armytage. The
. red Grants (she was Mary Mclntyre) blew
m from Hobart. The Peter Mitchell widow,
from the Riverina, watched the chestnut
Eurythmic, and was reminded of their bril-
hant Trafalgar of old days. Harold
Hawkess young bride took the lawn in a
pale-tinted lace frock. Gerty Dix had
peacock eyes on her scarlet foulard, and
.Beryl b itz also challenged the scenery with
a scarlet georgette turban above a gleaming
black frock.
Melbourne stewed in a Turkish bath all
the morning while thunder growled threat-
eningly. At lunch-time the floods descended,
lhe parties that were safe under the oaks had
a merry time. Mrs. Geoff Syme, in a simple
trock of tinted blue lace, hostessed one party.
Dr. Lane s wife, frocked in foulard, with a
duck of a Tuscan hat, looked after the cham-
pagne and chicken of another jolly crew
Mrs. Whiting and daughter Claire were
other hostesses, and George Allan had got a
large and very happy lot together. Mrs.
Lauchlan Mackinnon, in sapphire blue, had
her party well under shelter. Mrs. Alister
C larke, in blue georgette and cherry-red
trimmings, made her table gay with prize
roses from her garden. Mrs. Sam Mac-kav
glinted with steel beads ip the heart of
another crowd. The Chauvel dame’s lemon
and blue gown showed up in the dark of the
rainstorm. The huge crowd that was not
lunching under the naieest rooftrees huddled
on the stands or got under a canopy of um-
brellas on the lawn.
The vice-regal crowd grilled nicely in the
stewards’ room at lunch, after which the
weather tired of its little joke and left
things fresh and fine for the big race. There
was no more rain until just home-going time
and then it doused the just and the not-quite
indiscriminately. The Terrace was a sop*->v
sight as the frockiest waited for their call;
and there was a ballet show of pale silk legs
they dived into the motors from the steps.
The trains were Black Holes, and the trams
looked like angry swarms of bees. One
tram got derailed in the rush, and a huge
char-a-banc tried to pull it together again
with ropes.
On Oaks Day the weather provided a
lurkish bath—“ Soaks” Day somebody called
it—and obligingly kept the wind off the filmy
gowns. Girls came out in no-sleeves-at-all ai d
bodices made of one layer of beaded georgette.
An exquisitely-gowned flapper swung along
the lawn in a little close-fitting garment of
chocolate chiffon with layers of bronze-bead
fringe from waist to knee. Another frock —a
black, filmy thing—hung precariously by crys-
tal points to an invisible tulle bodice. ' Guv’-
ment House wore its best tropical frock. The
Countess was in white Limerick lace. Lady
h orster’s big black tulle hat topped blue
and gold on black grenadine. Lady Helena
was in Frenchy pink-and-blue. Dame Mar-
garet put a big sash of turquoise blue
round a clingy black frock. Lady Allardyce
was in corn-color with a transparent brim
to her hat. Lady Weigall, in black lace,
perched two huge white ostrich feathers on
a white satin hat.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald was among the best
Mockers: her clingy draped silks were topped
hk i e a , diminutive belltopper.
M Macdonald aired another envi-
able lingerie frock, I)r. Joyce was with his
bnde—she wore navy-blue with the daintiest
ot white organdie fixings. Mrs. Norman
henner—that very fair lady—had a Paisley
mixture of chiffons and a droopy feather hat.
Une plump little girl from the Western Dis-
trict looked like a delectable apricot souffle
in shining yellows and cream.
Though the crowd was not large on Steeple-
chase Day, Sassiety was pretty well repre-
sented. The Government House party made
qmte a frocky .spread—Lady Forster in
blue-beaded fawn georgette, Lady Strad-
broke in a striped coat-frock and a black
Jiat, and Lady Allardyce in the daintiest
crepe de Chine and Limerick lace, with a
sash of black and gold. There was a con-
spicuous group of fresh-complexioned Apple
Islanders young Mrs. Fred Grant, all in
grey; Mrs. Tom Murdoch, with black and
red currants growing round her hat: Mrs.
i ft in champagne color; a Lyons
(ot Tatt. s) daughter, in fresh ’broidered mus-
lin and a sash; Kathleen Agnew, in apple-
green, with a prettv hat of gold cherries.
Among our people Mrs. Clive Baillieu cap-
tured the most eyes with a wonderful frock
of black, with water-lilies in her shady hat.
The Government House ball of this Cup
season was the old Cup ball with a differ-
ence. Instead of a hopeless crush there was
a rather sparse crowd. Fresh arrivals
could parade the length of the ballroom in
tull splendor. Under the canopy at the far
end the vice-regal party made a splash of
spiemhd color. Lady Forster’s robe was
ot beautifully-draped jade greens, and dia-
monds blazed in her hair and necklace. The
Countess’s frock of deep sapphire-blue ranged
alongside, with gleaming tunic and fringes
ot sapphire beads, and rubies glowed richly
m her tiara. Daughter Lady Helena got
a delicate effect out of a pink taffeta sash on
a white dress. Dame Margaret Davidson
suPP ied the rich cream of parchment in her
gold-brocaded gown, which flared from an
mu ei( H' ess P ur Ple and tourmaline tints.
“ there was the gorgeous effect of Ladv
neigall’s dull-gold and cut-jet elaborations.
Her noted pearls were hung over the jet
tunic, and she carried pints of diamonds.
Lady Allardyce got a fine contrast from her
Duaker-grey gown and pearls. The two
handsome young matrons of the Government
House party, Mrs. Pitt Rivers and Lady
Digby, contributed brilliant turquoise and
soft old-rose to the color scheme.
Mrs. Billy Hughes had white georgette
draped over silver, and the Chauvel dame
added a splash of cherry color to her black
satin. Mrs. Groom’s carnation-pink frock
was veiled in silver tulle. Dame Clara
Butt trailed a train of white satin lined with
black, and her satin frock was bediamonded.
Mie_ waved the plumage of an entire purple
ostrich in her fan. Mrs. Tonv Hordern
from Sydney wore a striking frock. It was
elaborately intricate in red, black and gold.
Mrs. George Landale was effective in salmom
tinted silk cr@pe, trailing fins of satin. Mrs.
Pearce, the Senator’s wife, in jetted black,
brought a rose-pink frilled daughter.
The youngsters had a great innings after
the sedate official lancers. Very few naval
men were present—and probably they had
not dared to hope for so much dancing space.
Tears had been shed in many a home when
the quite-usual-you-know cauls did not ar-
rive. . Equally, no doubt, there was secret
rejoicing on the part of many a husband-in-
the-case.
The vice-regal garden-party on Friday dif-
fered little from its predecessors. There was
the usual march-past, with the G.-G. and
Lady Forster—she in blue and white foulard,
with grapes in her blue tulle hat—taking the
salute on the lawn, to the accompaniment of
a band stationed in the middle distance. A
second orchestra accompanied the tea clatter
in the ballroom, where pink and red roses,
assisted by sweet-peas, blossomed in huge
gold tripods running down the buffet tables.
The dining-room was equally decorative but
unmusically restful. Dozens and dozens of
people who have rarely missed a vice-regal
event were conspicuous by their absence,
and dozens of others who haven’t enjoyed
vice-regal patronage hitherto were equally
conspicuous by their presence. Money talks
loudly in these days. Of course it always
did ; but its old possessors were used to its
talking, whereas its new owners look un-
accustomed to the sound of it.
Lady Digby was a vision in shaded grey
and silver, and Lady Weigall cut a dashing
figure in the same colorings. Dame Margaret,
who left early to train back to Sydney, was
all ivory net and lace, topped by a black hat.
with a pink feather neck-ruffle. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers, in black and ivory lace, trailed off to
the Mother State under the vice-regal
Davidsons’ wing.
Neither at the ball nor at the garden-partj
d.d the G.-G. and his lady promenade
amongst the guests in the traditional
manner.
There was no garden frivol on vice-regal
Stonington’s lawns this Cup season; but
last Monday night Lady Stradbroke enter-
tained the gilt-edged at a small two-step-
ihe fact, of course, is that Stonington is
too small for “official” ball-parties. So
Lady Stradbroke mostly ignores officialdom
and just worries along cheerfully as first
member of a small group of Toorakians.
Rear-Admiral Dumaresq gave a dance on
“-M-A.S. Melbourne on Saturday night.
Ihe Countess was there and nearly danced
her slippers through. She was in all-black
with some starry diamonds in her hair.
Lady Helena glowed in deep crimson. The
accompanying aide, Captain Iveppel Palmer,
looked pretty as a magazine cover in two
shades of blue and gold. The Melbourne was
buckled alongside the Brisbane for the sake
of the extra deck space—it was a breezy
evening, and there were exciting moments
when billowy feminine frills crossed the
led carpet of the intervening gangway.
Supper was elaborately served below deck,
but the youngsters who could not stop
dancing for more than five minutes at a
time supped just as happily on the deck of
the Brisbane. Officers of the Sydney missed
the party. The boat—due that day—was
delayed until Sunday.
A visitor to the naval dance was the Com-
mander of the Chilian training boat —just
l n ?°, rt , He is a Castilian who stands five
feet high in half an acre of gold lace—a
beautiful young man with languishing black
eyes and a perfect pair of jazzing feet.
Lady Stradbroke, in fur-trimmed fawn
draperies, with a miniature flower-bed in
her hat attended Mrs. Alec Landale’s Cup-
We l k T af l ern^ n party with daughter Heieua
and Lady Allardyce. The Aroona parlors
were a swirl of roses, lilies of the valley and
the Best People. After pekoe and sand-
wiches at a flower-decked table in the tea-
room, the Countess hastened to the drawing-
ih-(i?rd jdager George Brookes and
piamst Cahill. They so delighted the ladv
tnat she has promised them letters to musi-
wl!- t h ? Fog. And a damsel
well °d * ke piano not wisely nor too
Mrs. Theodore came with her husband to
the I remiers Conference, but, as she is just
convalescent from ’flu, she has been taking
the race festivities quietly. She was out on
Gup Day in the vice-regal box, dressed in
neat tailorings of blue, with a blue band on
her heavily-veiled hat, and she was one of
the party to battle through the crowd to the
vice-regal luncheon. That battle will not
be so fierce in future. All sorts of re-
building plans are in hand.
This shows pretty little Stella Ross, men-
tioned a while ago as being- in charge of
the front of the
house at the King’s
Theatre—the only
one of her sex to
hold such a billet
in all the Common-
wealth. She is in
her early twenties,
and was trained in
the Tait offices by her
big dad, Irwin Ross,
for years connected
with the Tait broth-
ers’ musical activi-
ties. Miss Stella’s
charming smile is
worn in front of a
very level head, and
the fiercest on-
slaught on the box
office cannot ruffle
her. Her finest testimonial is that the
ushers and programme-sellers all swear bv
her. J
Lambert, a golden-bearded vision in pale
grey, has been spending most of the race
days in the birdcage and saddling-paddock
busy with a sketch-book, and oblivious of
everything but the horses.
Bride Lesley Madden Nelken has been
wearing some wonderful trousseau frocks at
the festival. Grey georgette with tender
Pmk trimmings was her Oaks dress, and she
wore the difficult lily-white with great suc-
cess at the Government House ball —bridal
lily-white in ti knee-length satin dress, silk
socks and satin shoes.
Kingsley Fairbridge, the owner of the in-
tellectual face portrayed by Shier, belongs
to W estralia. At least, lie does now. Years
ago he was a S’Afri-
can Rhodes scholar
and a writer of
verses which figure
prominently i u the
anthologies of that
country. While he
was at Oxford his
contemporary Rho-
desians hit upon the
notion of establish-
ing, at their own ex-
pense, a school in
which British waifs
might be trained to
become Dominion
farmers. Westralia
was selected as the
site of the interesting
academy, and Fair-
bridge was appointed
to manage it. That was the genesis of the
Fail-bridge Farm School, of which the people
in charge of the Barnardo Boys had heard
so much that they invited the principal over
to give them the benefit of his experience.
At present 60 little Britons are being trained
to become good Australians on the well-
equipped 3200-acre farm, through which a
pleasant river meanders, and 35 others have
passed through the school to take up farm-
in? on their own account.
Solicitor John Williamson was over from
Sydney this year with the boast that he has
not missed a Melbourne Cup meeting in 30
years. But his old-time racing pal, Marich,
of Paling’s—they had attended most of the
30 meetings in company—is a sick man in
Sydney, and was missed by many a friend.
Fred Norman, the quiet man who sud-
denly came into the limelight with Sister
Olive, was being congratulated on the Ter-
race. "Yes, of course I'm glad,” he said.
"I have a wife and six children who have
been simply hanging on this. I’ll be quite
popular when I get home.”
Mrs. Mills managed to find time between
race days to visit the McLeod hospital
where so many Diggers are. One dav she
motored Walter Kirby and a concert partv
out, and another visit saw not only her own
car but an extra taxi packed with parcels
of good things for the boys who were incur-
ably injured in the war. Incidentally,
Mrs. Mills gave a luncheon-party at the
Occidental to Tom Skeyhill. The ex-sig-
naller had in his days of blindness been a
guest at Powerscourt, but this was the first
time he had been able to see his kindlv
hostess.
Several of C. J. Dennis’s friends backed
Sister Olive for the Cup last week. Olive is
th e name of Mrs. Dennis, and the fact that
the filly was sired by Red Dennis was re-
garded as completing an omen too unusual to
be treated with scorn. The tip was mailed
up to the poet, but it arrived too late to be
turned into a Rolls Royce.
From Adelaide in a heat wave:—
Last week saw a steady departure for Melbourne,
whither the whole business of the Commonwealth
seemed to have suddenly shifted, and even five ex-
press trains a day failed to cope with the crowd
that wanted to help do it. It was a record exodus.
Great preparations are being made for Henley-on-
Tonens, to take place on November 12. A new
feature this year is to be a King Neptune entertain-
ment by the Port Adelaide naval cadets. Also the
association has made up its mind to give a firework
exhibition that is to cost £1 a minute. We don’t
know how long it will last, but it sounds daring.
There was a big crowd at the Prince Alfred College
f@te when his Ex. and Lady Weigall attended and
were received by all the heads. The capital arrange-
ments had been carried out by J. H. Chinner.
Levitzki struck a note of originality by advertising
in large type that he would play the “Blue Danube
Waltz.” It was a wonderful bait to catch the old
gentlemen. And sometimes Adelaide seems to be
mostly old gentlemen.
Minda, a home for the weak-minded such as Sydney
.hasn’t got the home, not the weak-minded —held its
23rd annual meeting a few days ago. There are 161
inmates now, and it says much for the generosity of
the public that the receipts for the year exceeded the
expenditure.
Sister McLean, who has just been appointed matron
of the Myrtle Bank Sanatorium, was given a send-off
by the sisters and nurses of the Adelaide Hospital.
Matron Harrald said many nice things about her, and
presented her with a wristlet watch.
Early next year “The Ugly Duckling,” a fairy
comic opera, will be produced in aid of Lady Weigall'a
consumptive home appeal. Lyrics and libretto are
by the late Sam Welsh, who died of consumption
resulting from war service. The music is by Winsloe
Hall. Nine or 10 pros, will put ginger into the show;
the balance will be “enthusiastic amateurs.” A
feature will be the juvenile ballet, with his Ex.’s
little daughter Priscilla in the lead.
It is not often that mother and son appear in
tennis championships, but Mrs. W. T. Rowe heads the
list of ladies selected to represent S.A. in the Mel-
bourne matches, and E. T. Rowe is in the men’s team.


E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
IF YOU I
care;
For all that stands for
Player-Piano Perfection,
YOU MUST
PLAY
the
GULBRANSEN
(THE PLAYER WITH A SOUL)
Before You Decide on Your
Player-Piano.
When you play this instrument the
amazing difference between it and
other Player Pianos will become
immediately apparent.
Phrasing, Touch and Tonal Values are three
things that the hand pianist always strives for
—but hitherto have not been considered as
necessary adjuncts to player-piano perfection.
With this instrument we point out that all
three are just as important to our player-
pianists as they are to ordinary hand pianists.
The pedalling is so easy and the controlling
levers so amazingly simple that a little child
may play it.
The wonderful Pedal
touch of the Gulbran-
sen Duo Concerto
made possible this
childhood incident.
p
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
MAPLES, Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart —Launceston.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUE B. OPEN FRIDAY EY ENINGS.
317. 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
d
“ Murdoch's
Unrivalled
Sports Service
If You Play Cricket
You will enjoy a visit to Murdoch’s!
The enlarged Sports Section now permits a display
of Cricketing Materials unequalled in the Austra-
lian Commonwealth.
For the man who can’t come—there is a neat little
Sports Catalogue—free for the asking.
Here are the latest arrivals:
JUST LANDED!
MATTING.
A shipment of Cricket Matting.
Two-piece Green, Leathe'r Bound, £l2
each.
SOMETHING NEW!
YOUTHS' BATS.
Youths’ lints, autographed by J. B.
Ilobbs. England’s greatest batsman.
“FORCE” XX, Size 5 32/6
“FORCE” XX, Size 6 35/-
AUTOGRAPHED
BATS.
A wonderful selection of Cricket Bats,
full size, selected and autographed by
.T. B. Ilobbs, Frank Woolley, William
Gunn, Arthur Shrewsbury.
A full range to select from by the World’s
most famous makers.
We Pay the Postage.
If ordering by post address your letter to DESK R.
MU R D O C H’S
In PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY w
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
w
m
*
m
m
v
*
P.J. 87
OJNC Hr.
0/v
m
g^JMSSi
Look at it
AND SEE why “Rex**
Luncheon Cheese is the
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how fresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex’ '-a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM ll' with a knife—“Rex’*
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.


Charles
Vintage 1911
CfMfIPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
d
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT a COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
SAFETY FIRST I
LIFEBUOY SOAP
Xb tvt «X
m
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
THE NAME
IS 'ysJi
' J, JS&H
,\
srws
oO*
£>
H***
T^ t 0
6M
Affi*
fffOH ACID C*
k w' P»Tt
PxatmfiHQ
J o^ . t *!!?
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
It became quite a habit with our Best
People last week to drop into the exhibition
in the Education Gallery arranged in the
interests of the starving infants of Europe.
Perhaps because it had been fixed up in a
week it was a curious affair that resembled
a pawnbroker’s shop. On the right-hand
side was the left-off clothing or jumble de-
partment where gay Bulgarian and Russian
embroideries laughed to the eye. In the
middle of the floor stood a brass-bound trea-
sure-chest —a bit of seafaring Denmark
that sux-ely once hoarded Shylock’s ducats.
A Polish lady’s woodcuts had been moved
from Anthony Horderns’, and helped to form
the background against which Prince Obo-
lenski in a dark-brown suit spoke the dedi-
catory blessing. The thin young man with
the agonised expression and the smile of
greeting that creeps no higher than his
mouth declared that if he had not been
asked to open the exhibition he would have
felt it a privilege to spend the “two-bob”
admission fee. Lady Loughborough’s
small-size fairness was nearly extin-
guished under a drooping hat; the
consular Earp lady wore sophisticated
yellow ruffles on her nigger-brown taf-
feta dress, and sang in a minor key
something that echoed as plaintive as hunger
through the long gallery. Dr. Danes, the
genial-looking consul of the Czecho-Slavs,
brought his graceful better half and a pride-
ful eye for his own cabinet of Bohemian
glass. Everybody looked at the Prince’s
gold-mounted l walking-stick which lay in
almost Royal seclusion in a case set amidst
some astounding Biblical drawings by a
young Viennese. Mrs. Domerschikoff, who
was a Fussell of North Sydney, was active
in the interests of her husband’s Russian
people ; Aubrey Williams mused on his lec-
ture billed for that evening; Stefan Proto-
nyski supplied a musical interlude, and
Gladys Marks brought a new Spring hat to
the venture.
The Millions Club draped one of its mid-
day feasts about Mrs. Charlotte Cameron
last week, when that woman of many jour-
neyings dropped in to Sydney from Fiji to
powder her nose before presenting herself
to the head-hunting Solomons. Everybody
knows of Mrs. Cameron’s wanderings
through darkest Africa, Alaska and the
Ivlondyke, and of the propaganda work in
America which brought her an 0.8. E.; but
what only those who have seen her realise
is that through all her wanderings in tropic
sunglare and Arctic blizzard she has pre-
served a skin as smooth as a cherry. The
red and yellow parere and the necklace of
sharks’ teeth which was her principal adorn-
ment on her Island trip haven’t spoil'-' 1 her
civilised clothes-sense, for she presented to
the Millions Club an edifice of black satin
and Chantilly obviously designed by a Paris
architect. When the Solomons'and Society
islands have been traversed Mrs. Charlotte
returns to London and Fisher Unwin. After
that she hopes to come back to Sydney and
put us under her microscope.
The episcopal wing hovered protectingly
about the fete for the G.F.S. hostel at
Bishopscourt; last Saturday afternoon; and
no doubt it was fear of the archgaiters’ ban
that kept the weather-man from delivering
the storm he’d been threatening since early
morning. In sweltering heat Dame Clara
Butt opened the doings, and received a
pretty enamel box for her pains from Diana
Davidson; then she judged the trays of a
bevy of small-girl peddlers, and handed the
prize for the most artistic arrangement to
a round-limbed, pink-and-white Marks child,
whose tray was a water-lilies pond. Per-
haps even this mirrored coolness helped the
outwardly cool but inwardly seething con-
tralto to her decision. Among the peddlers
were the two Davidson chicks, quiet and
demure-looking with tiny mushroom hats,
blues sashes of a very grown-up shade bind-
ing their muslin frocks. Two small Hor-
derns wore attractive poke bonnets; sweet
little. Joan Bundle traded largely in smiles ;
and Rachel Morton was another of the
group of peddling rosebuds. The Dame
was dove-grey from her hat to her shoes, the
quite long dress being a mixture of crepe de
Chine and georgette, with a beaded panel
back and front; her millinery dripped grey
lace, a tangle of green grasses and pink buds
over the right brim almost to the shoulder-
blade. Her well-tailored husband, the Jus-
tice Gordon couple (his mother helped to
found the G.F.S.), Mrs. _ Albert Littlejohn
and the Archbishop Wrights were among
the friends who kept an eye on Clara for
fear she might be mislaid in the crowd,
although even if this did happen her dia-
mond breastplate, “C. 8.,” would always be
an identification disc. Crowds of girls from
Ivambala and the C. of E. Grammar threaded
quaint dances on the lawn; and hot-faced
young women in the übiquitous striped fuji
dashed to and from the tennis-courts where
a tournament was under way.
That writer of fascinating Island
romances, Beatrice Grimshaw, dropped into
Sydney last week, at the call, so to speak,
of the gum ; and her stay in this city will
be mainly regulated by her dentist. After
that it’s Kosciusko and Tasmania for a vag-
rant nip of cold before she faces England
and her publishers. Miss Grimshaw is a
tall lady with ivory-fine skin, and, like all
Irishwomen, a keen eye for tailor-mades. Of
the wonders of her experiences she doesn’t
talk, except in her books. After pythons
and Island flora and fauna and the ups and
downs of copra planting have been one’s
daily round for years, one is perhaps keener
about the newest thing in sweets, Pitt-street
on Saturday morning, and the fascination
of white kid gloves. The Metropole harbors
the lady of a thousand and one romances.
Early this week, before the rush of work
had gripped them, a handful of sister-pen-
women entertained Beatrice to tea and high
talk at the Mary Elizabeth, when the visitor
from New Guinea proved herself the right
sort of feminist. “If you can do a tiling
go out and do it, whether you are a man or
a woman,” said she. And somehow that
puts the case in a nutcracker. Somebody
asked Beatrice if she thought us a wicked
city. “Oh no,” she said in a sleepy voice
with a twinkle in her eye, “why, in Pata-
gonia, they tell me, everybody is a murderer.”
While Australia was still thrilling with
uncertainty about its half-sovereign on the
Cup, and Sister Olive was keeping her little
joke all to herself, Olive Mort, the youngest
of the three good-looking daughters of Arthur
Mort, of Franklin Yale (Q.), stood quietly
alongside Rowan David Hixson Merewether,
of Newcastle, at All Saints’, Woollahra, and
allowed her uncle, Canon Mort, and Canon
Langley to bind her hard and fast in wed-
lock. The shimmering whiteness of her frock
was intensified by her black lace hat, and
bridesmaid Kitty Circuitt wore the same-
toned dressing, but carried blue delphiniums
instead of the bridal white roses. Those at
the feast were mainly relations and intimate
friends. Bridegroom’s brother Ted saw
him through, and the bride’s aunt, Mrs.
Crase, supplied the liquid and cake accom-
paniments to the toasts at Walton, Wool-
lahra.
Another who slipped into the matrimonial
coil was Ruth Manning, of Moss Yale, who
became Mrs. Roland Harrison in the pre-
sence of mother and a few friends of both
parties at St. James’s. The groom’s brother
Lancelot, the biologist, and Mrs. Lancelot
purred approval, and the Mary Elizabeth
supplied the feast. The bridegroom (who is
an ex-A.1.F.-er) and his bride take possession
of a wheat-farm in the North.
While a thunderstorm was in full blast
last week, Clifford Lathlean made his bow
to Sydney audiences in the small hall of the
Conservatorium. Clifford, who comes from
Adelaide, was at once discovered in posses-
sion of a bass voice of rich singing quality, an
ingratiating appearance and an impeccable
manner. In the Handel numbers the young
man’s tone was mellow and dramatic; but it
was when the “Maud Cycle” was reached
that woman turned the roseleaf of her cheek
and the pearl of her ear entirely to him,
and at the last note of “She Alone Charmeth
My Sadness” only doubts as to the effect of
her disarranged locks prevented her from
tearing the near-diamond tiara from her hair
to fling at his feet.
Margherita Bedford Young, whose picture
is herewith, has made good with her theatri-
cal studio in Bris-
bane, having sound
technique to back
up her energy, vital-
ity and cleverness.
Engaged to provide
the programme for
the Children’s Hos-
pital benefit, the
preparation has dis-
covered two score or
so of her pupils to
be children of much
promise. The lady
is also founding an
opera society, the
late Brisbane oper-
atic society having
foundered ; and the
first opera goes into
rehearsal shortly.
Gladys Verona, who went off to London,
is likely to pluck more than fame from ad-
venturing across seas. Before the lights
of Tilbury were sighted she had plighted
her promise to become the true wife of Cap-
tain Charles Erard.
The only daughter of the Gordon Smiths,
of Tenterfield, who rejoices in the name of
Heather Ray. has accepted the usual dia-
mond token from Frank Cardigan Googan.
The young man with the woollen-jacket
middle name is the youngest son of the
F. B. Coogans, of Harris Park.
Ilis Ex. and Dame Margaret leave for the
Riverina on Sunday. They will, among
other things,, inspect the Hume and Burrin-
juek reservoirs, and get back to town the
following Saturday.
Just-engaged, sparkling-eyed Muriel Carter,
youngest chick of R. S. Carter, the curio-
dealer who in his later years made Claines,
at Darling Point, his treasure-house. The
man in the case is Keith Bain. Muriel is
five feet nothing, and Keith is over the six-
foot measure.
Mrs. Townsend, the cheerful commandant
of the Enmore V.A.D., who put up a big
record of Red .Cross work, and took charge
of a depot at Erskineville during the ’flu
fiend’s visit, leaves this week for Uncle
Sam’s Land with her husband and two sons,
to visit the eldest son. She regaled the girls
of her detachment at a dinner-party last
week at the V.A.D. Club.
Annette Kellerman, who left for Tasmania
recently, will miss the lawn of Bayard that
is sheer above the waters of Point Piper.
Annette had her slack-wire stretched across
one corner of the green place, and here every
morning she practised balancing. She says
she is going to buy or build a house about the
Harbor edge in which to pass her declining
years, and sister Marcelle, a real Australian,
declares that never again will she leave this
Continent’s blessed shores. ‘‘lf there wasn’t
one kindly person left in Australia,” declares
Marcelle, “the country would still be good
enough for me.”
Annette’s sister, incidentally, is an in-
spired garment-designer. Everything that
Annette wears is drawn and shaded by
Marcelle, and the materials to be used speci-
fied to the smallest detail, and then the
color-plate is sent to the clothes builder.
One imperial-looking cloak in the swimming
lady’s wardrobe is built of Chinese blue and
silver, has a silver tissue and lace founda-
tion, and is veiled from the high collar to
the hem in long knotted royal blue ostrich
fronds. Marcelle has been many times
tempted to Paris, but Annette and her own
inclinations have held her back.
If any Digger who is still with Jacko has
a look around Constantinople he will find a
good Australian girl, Cushla Connolly, who
first wore bootees at Beechworth (Vic.),
trained at St. Vincent’s Hospital (Melb.)
and heard the call when the guns began to
shoot. She served in Egypt and Salonika ;
then Cupid stepped in, and she is now the
wife of W. W. (5. Weale, secretary or some-
thing at the Consulate in Constanetcetera.
Her brother, Tom Connolly, has settled
down Jaffa way.
Two perfect ladies had arrived at a
disagreement about the division of the Cup
divvy. The one whose hat had stolen
its inspiration from the kitchen (it had
a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a cab-
bage and a bunch of celery) was dis-
tinctly peevish with her companion —her
hat had snatched the forbidden fruit, along
with a mandarin, a baby banana, a peach
and a pear for its adornment. Said the
Carrot and the Cabbage, turning away in
disgust: “Keep the filthy money ! But I’ll
never come to the races with you again.”
“Call me a thief, would you?” shrieked the
Peach Melba. “I’ll let you know.” “My
Gawd,” whispered a male onlooker —“looks
as if the vegetable and the. fruit salads are
going to be a dirty mix-up before the meet’s
finished!”
A waltz with just the right name for the
weather is “Kosciusko,” by Stefan Proto-
nyski, a Polish composer of experience who
has drifted to Sydney on the great after-
war tide. It is graceful and melodious, and
whets the appetite for the big orchestral
work, “The Legends of the South Seas,”
which Stefan promises.
Dorcas, who stayed at home, has been
building a monument of good works to her-
self during the weeks when butterfly sisters
fluttered about the Cup. Meetings and
garden fetes for worthy causes have been
tire showcases for the newest tub-frocks and
shady millinery. Among the layers of the
golden bricks of Charity is the National
Council of Women, whose aim is to fill the
starving children of Europe with food to
cooing point. The Council’s hat so far
holds £l5OO, and its latest money-spinner
is a cafe chantant to be held in the new
Mockbell rooms next to the Theatre Royal
on December 1. A feature of the proceed-
ing will be the pretty girls who will peddle
sweets and home-made cakes in the lulls
between song- and story. Mrs. MacCallum,
Hilda Caro and Mrs. Lyster Ormsby are
the angels who are tucking up their wings
in this chase for baby-foods.
Mary Cochran, the sympathetic music-
teacher who makes lesson-time for the kiddie
a whirl of delight with her piano games,
has had a display of her scale-ladders and
so on in Paling’s window this past week.
The inventor of the method of buying time
(you can only buy it in piano-beats—heart-
beats and the fleeting hour of happiness
are beyond even this necromancer) had a
disappointment early in the year, when her
scale-ladders were destroyed by a fire at the
printer’s. Now the damage has been re-
paired and the games are for sale. Miss
Cochran is a teacher on the Conservatorium
stall.
Tom Courtney, of the Telegraph, and his
two daughters, May and Valerie, are just
back from Japan ; and in a frenzy of enthusi-
asm May has designed a gorgeous w’ardrobe —
a replica of that which stores the Royal gar-
ments at the Imperial Palace in Tokio. Of
course, a few changes were essential. The
red and gold lacquer were just a bit beyond
the Australian girl, but the Japanese maple
that she brought home with her is stained to
a delightful red, and she has inlaid a gold
design on the doors and the middle oanel. On
this panel sits a Japanese lady fanning her-
self, done in the manner of 300 years ago—
all greys and greens.
Every Digger in Egypt and France at
least heard of Ettie Rout. Interested at
first in Comforts work she soon found an-
other task that not one woman in ten
thousand could face, and she stuck at it to
the end, incidentally winning from The
Bulletin the title of “the bravest woman
in France.” After
the war she still
worked on; and
lately she received
from the French
Government the pre-
mier decoration for
women, the Recon-
naissance Francaise.
“for work done dur-
ing the war as head
of the Anzae Sol-
diers’ Club in Paris
and in 1919-20 as
head of the Ameri-
can Red Ci’oss
Depot and Canteen
at Villers-B reton-
neux, where she
helped a great many
French soldiers and
rendered precious service to the civilian
population.” Miss Rout, now Mrs. Horna-
brook, is a Maorilander, ana had done both
nursing and newspaper work before she set
out for Egypt with the N.Z. Volunteer Sis-
ters in the earliest months of the Great
Trouble. The photo, is by Vandyk, of
London, where the courageous lady continues
to do eminent social service.
To-morrow is Warriors’ Day, so please
slip something out of the pay' envelope to
help the out-of-work Digger. You can buy
badges from one shilling upwards. All the
old collecting tricks and some new ones are
going to be let loose on a city that this time
doesn’t want to defend itself from the rat-
tling box and the fascinating chocolate-
wheel.
Jerome K. Jerome’s comedy “Cook” is
getting a happy introduction to Australia
next week, when the clever Vagabonds pre-
sent it on the 15th, 16th and 18th at St.
James’s Hall to help (1) the Surry Hills
Kindergarten, (2) the War Memorial hospi-
tal at Randwiek, and (3) the Vags’ Cot
in the Renwick Hospital.
If you haven’t booked your table for the
Armistice Dance at the Wentworth in aid
of Furlough House, don’t forget to do it
to-day. Your guinea will mean a week’s
holiday for some good Digger’s widow or
kiddies. Funny-man W. S. Percy is com-
ing in after eleven.
The specially-gilded ginger-bread of the
matinee in aid of the Day Nursery that is
to be held on the 17th will be the curtain-
raiser by Charles Bryant which has been one
of the successes of the Playhouse, London.
Plan opens to-day at Paling’s and the Aus-
tralia, and those enthusiastic canvassers,
Mrs. W. H. Drew, Mrs. Dunlop and Mrs.
Eric Broughton, can breathe a sigh of relief
over the success of the first part of their
labor of love.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The Voice that Breathed is working overtime.
On Wednesday Billy Robinson, of Toowoomba, was
married to Alice Hobbs. Alice Hawthorn was the
bridesmaid. A few days ago Hector Neilsen, who
was for some time a prisoner of war in Germany,
married a pretty English girl, Alice Culm, who
came this way by the Ormonde last month. Young
Neilsen’s chum, Tom Oliphant, who also put in a
weary year in a German prison-camp, likewise had
an English bride arrive by the Ormonde, Miss Edith
Crawford, of Durham, and the3 r faced the padre a
day or two after the Neilsen wedding.
On Friday afternoon, at Lennon’s, Mrs. Malcolm
Cameron gave a big tea in honor of Mrs. A. Moyes,
who will shortly many Mr. N. Thomas, of the
Commercial Bank.
On Thursday night the Governor went to the
Grammar School Old Bo.ys’ dinner. Brig.-Gen. Jim
Cannan was in the chair, and about 50 old boys
gathered round the table.
If all goes well for the next few weeks, one
white woman and four white men will be released
from the leper station on Peel Island, cured by the
chaulmoogra-oil treatment. For the last 18 months
the five patients have responded satisfactorily to
various tests, but to make assurance double sure
they are to report regularly for examination.


w
FINE DIAMOND JEWELLERY
The Diamonds are of fine quality, set in Pure
' Platinum, and the Workmanship is of Highest
Standard.
Diamond and
Platinum Circle
Brooch,
£ll5 0 0
Diamond Three-
stone Ring',
Diamond and Platinum
Cluster Pendant, on
Platinum Chain,
£lOO 0 0
Diamond and
Platinum Shamrock
Brooch,
£lOO O 0
Diamond and
Platinum Hoop
Ring,
£7O 0 0
Selections
sent oil
approval,
Diamond 1 and Platinum Arrow
Brooch,
£lO 0 0
Five per cent,
discount
for cash.
Fancy Diamond C'lusler, on Platinum and loot.
Gold Bar,
£3O 0 0
The company announces a general reduction in the prices
of all goods. Stocks have now been re-marked at revised
present-day values.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JJ6-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
here
s?
WSmm
m
Wa
The responsibility of
lubricating your motor
Do you leave it to chance or to choice?
Do you buy “motor oil” or Texaco?
Consider the requirements.
Cylinder walls, exposed to tremendously
high temperatures, should be thoroughly and
continually coated with a film of oil having
the highest possible lubricating value. It
means more power and longer life to your
motor.
In the crank-case, your motor oil —the same
oil that goes to the cylinders and pistons—
must efficiently lubricate and cool the bear-
ings.
Texaco Motor Oil takes care of all these
features. It is worthy of the responsibility.
Texaco Motor Oil does not break down
under the heat of the engine. It does not
deposit hard carbon. It preserves its efficient
friction-reducing cushion between all moving
parts—high temperature or low, at all speeds.
Choose the right oil and insist upon it —
Texaco Motor Oil.
THE TEXAS CO. (Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
With Blanches at Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Launceston, Wellington (New Zealand), Auckland (New
Zealand). South Australian Distributors: Harris, Scarfe,
Limited, Adelaide.
AN ALL-ROUND CAMERA
The British Made
Film Pack Klito
0
Daylight-Loading Camera.
ď
Takes pictures 3.} x 4|
CAMERA of lliia type is an all-round instru-
ment that can be recommended to those
photographers who want to have one camera for
all purposes. It can be used on a stand for
■architecture, portraiture, still-life, copying and so
on, or held in hand for snapshot work. The design
is marked by extreme compactness—the whole
Camera folding into the thickness of the body—
and exceptional rigidity when extended. A
focussing-screen with hood is fitted, and the user
has the advantage of being able to focus the object
before each exposure, and thus ensure clear, sharp
pictures.
Tiie “Holborn” Film I'aek Adapter, which is
supplied with these Cameras, is nicely made in
Aluminium, oxidised, with nickel fittings and
designed to accommodate Film Packs.
PRICES:
No. 000 a, Rectimat Symmetrical Lens,
FB, £2/15/-
(In England this Camera is sold at £3/1!)/-)
Film Packs, 12 exposures, each 3/9.
Postage within each State, 1/3.
lIP
The House for
Good Cameras.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 4la Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
43 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Packed always in
red boxes.
PRICES:—
3/-, 5 6, 7/6, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
1 62 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
ran
It
»
~'v
■ ' ~ -V»~ -
EB
■
•K
Iff
v
H
:
■


LEARN TO DRAW!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
tA
J 9
m
You can
soon mas-
ter the prin-
ciples of draw-
ing if you follow
the simple system
laid down in the
Weston Postal
Course of Drawing.
This series of les-
sons, prepared by
the noted poster
designer, Air. Harry
J. Weston, takes
the student on by
easy steps without
any laborious drud-
gery, from the very
rudiments of art
up to its higher
branches.
exercise is PER-
SONALLY criti-
cised by Mr. Weston.
Send for Mr.
Weston’s Boiklet!
A copy of “There’s
Money in the Pen.’’
an interesting book-
let by Mr. Wes-
ton, describing
the course, giv-
ing examples
of the lessons
and samples of
students’ work
will be sent on receipt of your name and ad-
dress and three stamps to cover postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTQN
Postal School of
BB Union House, SYPNEY.
s£/-True Ease
ZtoTTHE BRUCE”
STEEL
PENS
SHELL
fU elected and recommended by
James JBruce, "Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal.
Schools of Sydney,N SW. o manu/acturea
by the celebrated Penmaßers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
<Sold by a/t Stationers
\X4olesale -ALEX.COWAM & SONS.L™
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
T
| THE FAMOUS I
I COD LIVER, [
y oil t
I EMULSION 1
Hnd Washing
, Disorders i
m
u
o
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint U P
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS aro extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifctime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy,. write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
/
ti
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
.JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor., which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
99
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
5
f
d
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft. 7ft. Sft. 9ft. 10ft. 12ft.
8-plait .. 10/- 11/6 13/- 14/6 17/6 21/6 each.
12-plait .. 13/- 15/- 17/- 20/- 22/6 26/6 „
16-plait . . 15/- 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/6 30/- „
Mailed free all States. Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY, LTD.
The Big: Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZROY, VIC.
ART
> ■. r '
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calli
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,330,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
■ Policies of about .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
£2700 for 1/-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens' Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £llOO
£sooSecond Prize valued £5OO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 2fith. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 19<:2.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/-Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may posdbly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N S W, Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
Stare an t Samuel T. Green, Hon. Secretary,
Council C ambers, Blackhfaih, N.S.W-
FOR A CHOICE CIGAR
CALL FOR A—
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing 1 0
cigars, 6/-
25 cigars, 12/6
50 „ 23/9
100 „ 46/-
Post Paid to Any Address in the Commonwealth.
f
Club Reil
Sold by all first-
class Hotels and
Tobacconists.
64. each
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St, Sydney.
Distributors for Club Roil Cigar Factory.
■Kejgs
m :
BLH
5000 Audiences
—like this one —have now heard the famous tone-
tests in which the voice of the living singer was
contrasted with its re-creation on the ‘ New Edison.
And every one of these five thousand audiences
was amazed at the result of the test —there was
no difference at all; no one could distinguish when
the singer stopped and the machine took up the
running.
Here in Australia there are, at your disposal models of the ‘‘NewEdisord’
exactly the same as those that sustained these wondeiful tests musical
instruments of perfect realism.
You should hear one and judge for yourself—the most discussed, most
tested, most praised phonograph in the world —a Christmas gift that
appeal to every member of the family. Booklet post free, on reques
The NEW EDISON
‘‘The Phonograph with a Soul/ f
'THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H.H.8.: Can’t find any later English
translation of Rousseau’s “New Holoise’’ than one in
1794, and the chance of picking this up in Aus-
tralia is very slender. Mosoeh doesn’t seem to be
listed in English at all; both English and American
catalogues have been raked in vain... .F.W.M.: Too
diagrammatic C. 8.: Can’t be done 7-12-3:
Queensland won’t get salvation merely through being
down on its uppers. It will have to come down
on its two-uppers as we 11.... Dad: Our private
opinion is that ex-sister Liguori disguised herself as
a large party of men and a motor-car and kid-
napped herself, and that she has been her own
brother all along. But please don’t mention it to
anybody else... .Paragot: Pretty well done; but
we’re rather overwhelmed with that sort of thing.
Poley: Not direct enough. This paper isn’t big
enough to wander in.... 1921: That dog’s tail has
been pushed into so many pars, that there isn’t a
hair left on it... .Levinski: “Shock”-“talk”—that’s
a horrible one. And is it advisable for Australia
to throw bricks at a nation which is establishing
2 the right of a country to control immigration ?....
D.M.: if the verse were equal to the sentiments it
would be worth a whole page... .S.J.S.: Very ragged
sort of “Dance”... .John C. L.: Chopped up prose
masquerading as verse R.M. (Dalby) : Cannot un-
derstand the second stanza in “Clay”... .M.W.
(Coogee): “Poppy-Day” and all the rest sent are
a bit immature. You have picked up other people’s
phrasing and put it in a wrong setting. For in-
stance, “gin-shops” will do for London, but gin-
shops in Darlinghurst utterly misrepresent the tre-
mendous beery floods of that Hebrew suburb....
R.T.T.: The metre is very mad. .. .Brutus: You didn’t
make half such a mess 0 f Caesar as you did of that
attempt at rhyme... .Oliver B.: “The Lameroo Show”
rises to Homeric flights of description:—
Ilullo; here we are again!
How is things, Dick ?
It shows that we’re the men,
Stick to it like bricks.
Ah 1 this is wonderful,
This is a downright proof;
Who can say this is addle,
When we show the best of hoof.
Look! look at that lovely hack 1
.lust a perfect mover,
Bred a little outback;
Not a patch in the city like her.
Yes, and by the holy smoke,
Have you been in the pavilion?
Thnt’ll stop all their croak,
Vegetables, I should say by the million.
. ...E.0.H.: Our passionate interest in archaeology
hardly extends to si desire to know what you had for
dinner in 1867. . . .Mary: “Oakey” is very rough. . . .
M.B. (Coopernook) : “Mr. Piper” narrowly misses
distinction as a shocking example... .Walter B.:
“Sentiment” too machine-made. .. .Anchorite: We
don’t reprint; and that is not worth reprinting, any-
how .... Helen C.: Can’t find the mirth and not very
sure of the meaning-.,. . .Arthur R.: Wireless yarn
the usual play round the supposed occult.... V.C.H.:
Very poorly done; and we don’t want verses you
“heard years ago,” even when you sign your own
initials to them... .C.H. (Dubbo) : The ideas are
good ; see if you can’t improve the verse to match
them.... Heather: Doesn’t say anything. .. .C.Y.K.:
Heavy verse struggling to reach commonplace....
Simon: Wooden... .Edwin W.: “Lowest Rung” is
incredible; “O’Doon” is incomprehensible. .. .B.G.
(Bankstown) : Not up to standard... .Alice M.: No
market here... .C.K.8.: Too crude.... S'aaedi: It
was worth brighter telling... .W.M.M.: Needs a.
much finer touch. .. .L.L. (Burwood) : Hard to tell.
“Moonbeams” has bits that are all right; but you
seem to start out with nothing to say. Try putting
real feeling in.... Rex: The old “morn”-“dawn”’
rhyme for a start! A.J.N.: Glad to have your
good opinion; but the verse is hopeless. ... Rasmus:
“Coldfoot Ballad” can’t quite manage it....G.N.
(Edgecliff) : The “Victory” sonnet moves heavily... .
John W.: crude. .. .Ken K.: Heavenly adven-
tures qf that sort had been worked to death years
ago..."an Dus: The verse is too rugged for that
subject... .1.L.1.: “Warning” must go back. ...
A.J.W.: No use to us. . . .W.E.R.F.: Yarns built up of
old commonplace material constantly in magazine use
are no g00d... .F.F.L.: Very long, dreary and un-
convincing. .. .8.P.J.: “Dream Ship” was wrecked
early in the voyage... .L.L.L.: Don't like it....
F.A.R.: Can’t find the alleged mirth.... Gipsy E.:
What would you have the rich man do? Is he
less likely to die if he sits in melancholy silence and
mourns the sins he is about to commit?.. . .H.R.V.:
Theme small and verse bad.... A.11.K.: Doesn’t
strike us. .. .Maux-ice B.: Old commonplaces re-
hashed. .. .H.8.M.: “Snakes” gets to nothing and
takes a long time to do it... .L.G.8.: The sporting
item touches us to the heart:—
They were just coming in to the straight,
“Purser, Purser, come on!” I was crying;
Although we knew it was far too late,
The jockey was still trying.
A fellow near me was heard to mutter:
“I did my cash on Purser, but I had a good run;
I suppose I can doss in the gutter,
That’s a thing I never have done.”
I don’t think the judge made any bloomer.
’Struth they told me Purser would Win.
But he could only get second, and where was Tanga-
looma ?
Now the wife and I are done in.
. ...G. (S. Brisbane): Post printed pars; to account-
ant. Or quote columns and dates... .E.L. (W.A.) r
The “good, humorous Australian stories’ 1 ’ which you
“propose to work up if they are of any : value” may
be worth anything from ten guineas to tuppence.
Probably tuppence Jim C.: A good copy of
“The Felonry” ought to be worth £2 2s.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.H.: Improving - ; but you’ve a long way to go
before you get into metal... .D’A.L.M.: Off our
beat; try the new boy’s paper published in Mel-
bourne... .R.T.: Some promise.... Tol: We don’t
deal in puns... .ff.L.: Brushwork is slapdash; line
efforts not nearly good enough; and most of the
jokes have whiskers... .Monty: Not up.... S.H.:
Misses, and the idea is not new. Political effort also
out of order... .D.T.: Has been going the rounds of
the dubs for years... .W.M.C.: Now produce the
“few good sketches.”... .J.W.C.: Hopeless.... F.C.;
Crude.


ShipßlßK.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
and
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 7,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H fi North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OKARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 0 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.in.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking;, Public Companies, Jtc.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLES 7 ,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. II.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hop. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253.George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Lip . . .. . . 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . • • 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Slock 8.091,069 4 5
Directors — James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; Janies Love, Esq.; W. II. Hart,
Esq" ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. IIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS. j
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. ... ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ... ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund • ■ • • • ■ • • £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, O.B.E., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarwood, F.O.P.A, ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir.
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. II. Brown.
Manager: G. II. Howell.
.vouches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairhairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,088
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,880,27o
CP,AMTS DRAFTS
on Australia-, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Baukiag business.
Shipping, ete.,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 15th DECEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
. R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £50.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 1st DECEMBER, 10 a.m.
MARAMA, 29th DECEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply
T7NTON STFAM SHIP CO. UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SIDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
m
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENEKY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars
White Star Line
Only One Clas-' Cabin Accommodation.!
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
SUEVIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 13,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals- A
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
* SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
-DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
D ALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
lteserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,425,000
Directors:
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie. Ksq.
Kouert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors - W H Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, 1 apua and London,
Agents and throughout the world. . , rNTT , T ,„,_ _ .
B Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTBECr. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
JBanHuMta
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaui (New Britain); London (2)
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 8049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific,
3a% Intereston Deposits up to fIiOOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Denutv Governor. Governor.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
| Sails from] Sails from
Sydney. |Melbourne.
Sydney Agents.
Melbourne S.S.
Co., Ltd., cor.
Clarent e & Bar-
rack Sts.
(Tel. 8213).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
Huddart.. Parke' 1 .
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
(Tel. 9568 ).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
LEVUKA...
WODONGA. .
BOMBALA..
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd.. 350 George
St. (Tel. 0221)
Huddart ParkcrLlsi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— Regular sailings
from Svilnev and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appu-
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings __ , cn
For full nil rt i cula rs apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Co lins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
S! THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA MANILA,
MOIIUII.V q}lliliis» l uui p<i i ia i .
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp anti Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footseray, Victoria.
High Tension Magnetos
The world’s most dependable ignition.
Prices are now one-half of what they used
to be, and will never be lower.
Special Trade Price to Garages, etc.
Invincible Motor Construction Company
Limited,
35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Abridged Prospectus of
Automatic Perfume Fountains,
Limited.
(To be registered under the Companies Acte 1809-1918 of the State of New South Wales.)
Capital:£so,ooo, Divided into 50,000 Shares of £1 each
■40,000 shares to be offered for subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allot-
ment, and the balance in calls of not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than one
calendar month.
10,000 shares fully paid to be allotted to the Perfume Fountains, Limited, of New Zealand, and Messrs
Low and Thomas.
50,000
WILLIAM HENRY EYRES, Esq.,
Managing- Director, De Meric’s, Ltd.,
Sydney and Newcastle
E. PHILPOT-CROWTHER, Esq.,
Hydro-Electrical Engineer,
The Banking House, Sydney
Provisional Directors :
EDWARD STEDMAN, Esq.,
Stedman, Henderson’s Sweets, Limited,
Kent Street, Svdncv.
IRWIN SMITH, Esq.,
Licensed Survevor, Woolwich.
BASIL C. LOW, Esq.,
Mechanical Engineer,
The Bunking House, Svdnev.
JAMES HENRY CHARLESWORTH, Esq.,
Sydney Brick Works, Sydney.
Bankers:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.
Solicitors:
JENNINGS and JENNINGS, Challis House, Sydney.
Auditors:
IYO AY. KERR, F.1.C.A., B.Ee., A.C.1.5., 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
„ Secretary and Registered Office:
H. ROACH, A.1.C.A., 1 wyford House, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
JAMES ERIC MACALISTER, Esq.,
jendent Mea
Featherston
Independent Means,
i, New Zeah
aland.
Yet
fly, and
PENNIES.
“Some of the great fortunes of modern times were founded on pennies, nickels and dimes
only one person m a thousand knows the possibility of pennies. Pennies have wings—thev simply ;
you never know where or why. • — A men can magazine.
OBJECTS (inter alia).
“The Prefume Fountains, Limited,” a Company duly registered under the Companies Acts of New
Zealand is the proprietor ol New Zealand Letters Patent No. 34012 and Australian Letters Patent No
11(16 toi an invention intituled Coin freed apparatus for vending perfumes and other liquids.”
„ ® y T a document m writing and under the seal of the above Company, dated 30th June, 1921, David
Jo ' in Jolley Thomas were granted an option to purchase inter alia all present and future
Patent Rights m any part of the world held or to be held by the Company in a certain invention called
iho for ve,Kh, f Perfumes and other liquids,” of which the New Zealand Company is at
present the registered owner under and by virtue of Australian Letters Patent Number 11716 and New
Zealand Letters Patent 34012, and all fountains, machines, equipments, patterns, and appliances owned
by the New Zealand Company in connection with the invention or in anywise relating thereto. The
purchase price is fixed at £12,000 by the option which the New Zealand Company will accept as
may "be floated 1M <IISI a,K a^ance £ Booo in 8500 fully-paid one pound shares in a Company that
The Company is being formed to adopt and carry into effect with or without modification an agree-
ment (an approved draft whereof has been signed by the parties thereto for the purpose of identification)
sho , lt C 1 t 0 K,? 011 *? 1 and made between David Brown Low and John Jolley Thomas of the one part
and Edward Edgar Jennings (as trustee for and on behalf of the Company) of the other part for the
sale and purchase of the rights and interests as abovementioned of David Brown Low and John Jollev
I nomas, under and by virtue ot the abovementioned option and then in fNVOTnikl/i fhn AnflrtK nrwl (I nm, I 4-1, „
IV. w vjuuiitiies or me worm wiui respect to the invention and all
improvements thereon, and to manufacture slot vending machines for perfumes and other volatile spirituous
shares in the cimpiny ' 0 " f °' th ® SalG ° f the °P tion is £lOOO in cash, and 1500 fully-paid one pound
The Company will as soon as practicable proceed to carry on the work of manufacturing, selling and
leasing Perfume A ending Machines, and supplying perfumes to the public by means of penny-in-the-slot
machines thioiiglioiit the Commonwealth and New Zealand and elsewhere, as may be decided.
, An application for Letters Patent for improvements has already been prepared, and will be lodged
by the Company as soon as practicable.
The abovementioned Letters Patent and option and the approved draft of the Agreement above
mentioned may be inspected at the office of the Company’s Solicitors on any day from Monday to Friday
inclusive, between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. .
DIRECTOR’S QUALIFICATION, 250 Subscribing Shares.
The machine is perfectly simple. A penny is placed in the slot, a knob is pulled, and 20 drops of
pertume aie at once recened on the handkerchief or sachet. The machine can be made with any number
of containers, each giving different perfume.
AUCKLAND DEMONSTRATION.
For a period of 25 .working days the following return was shown:—
MACHINE (2-SLOT) AT AY. R. COOKE and SON, LIMITED, RESTAURATEURS, QUEEN STREET
Aljy.. IvLAJN D, i\.A -
Lavender Water ~ £ i 13 4=, 4n o pence.
Perfume Extract 19 5 m 233 pence.
£2 13 9 = 633 pence.
SYDNEY DEMONSTRATION.
After the Auckland demonstration, the machine was placed in the establishment of Mark Foy’s Ltd
and the result for 2o working days—between Wednesday, 14th September, and Saturday, 15th October
1921, was as follows: —■ ’
MACHINE (2-SLOT) AT MARK FOY’S*, LTD., SYDNEY.
Lavender Water £3 10 9 = 849 pence.
1 ertuine Extract 13 1 11 = 3143 pence.
£l6 12 8 =5 3992 pence.
ANALYSIS OF THE DEMONSTRATIONS & ESTIMATE OF ANNUAL PROFITS.
The tests given by these two machines arc certainly convincing inasmuch as no advertising of any
kind was done. AY hen run commercially, and the public told where the machines are located, and other
facts about them, such as the high quality of the essences used —in short, educated to the use of expensive
perfumes at a penny a tune—then the returns are reasonably expected to show still better results. The
returns from each Fountain will be constant and more likely to increase than decrease, especially in
view of the current high price of the superfine high-grade perfumes.
The profit shown as a result of these 25 working-day tests is as follows:
EACH DISCHARGE TS 20 DROPS.
60 drops—l dram 3d. 20oz. —1 pint £2
8 drams —1 oz 2s. 8 pints—-1 gallon £ig
According to quotations received from both British and Australian perfume manufacturers-
The average cost of perfume Essences is 80/- per gallon.
The Auckland test showed an average taking in 300 working days of £3l/13/-
The Sydney test showed an average taking in 300 working days of £199/12/-
On Perfumes' from the natural flowers the profit is £l2 per gallon.
The approximate gross profit is, therefore, not less than 300 per cent, on cast of perfume
The average for these two extreme tests is, therefore, £ll5/12/6 per annum, equal to 7/8 (9=>
pennies) per day, per machine. ' v
With this definitely-arrived-at average of takings and profits obtained in two Capital cities in widely-
separated countries, it is safe and reasonable to take it as a basis to calculate the future profits that the
proposed Company may derive from the machine. From present indications, it is estimated that 500
machines will be sufficient to supply Australia and New Zealand requirements: these alone will i-«
sufficient to provide a good dividend on the nominal capital of the Company, as the followin'*- figures will
show: — ■
500 machines, taking an average of 92 pence per clay for a 300-working-day year will produce :-
Gross revenue per annum.
Deduct 25 per cent, for cost of perfume
25 per cent, for site rental
15 per cent, for collection and maintenance, office
and overhead charges
Net revenue
£14,453
14,453
8,671 17 6
£57,812 10 0
37,578 2 6
£20,234
This is equal to 400 per cent, upon the cost of 500 machines, and would provide a dividend of 4f
per cent, upon the nominal capital of the Company, and 80 per cent, in the event of only 7/6 pei
share being called up as hereinbefore anticipated. j / V
It is easily seen from these figures that the Australian and New Zealand business alone would be
sufficient to pay a handsome dividend to the shareholders, but it will be the policy of the Company to
get as many machines built as possible, so as to tap the overseas markets as soon as the patents un-
completed for other countries. It is estimated that Great Britain, with its populous centres and -re-it
seaside resorts, will easily absorb 4000 machines, while France, Italy, The Argentine Brazil India lava
and other warm countries will be great users* of the machines. It is easy to calculate what the nit/mato
profits will amount to. In Great Britain and America at least 10,000 maehines will be sll
bringing in quite the average profit obtained in our local tests. Taking those figures as a liasis and
multiplying the result from 500 machines bv 30, the approximate return from the "two ‘aWn,mVmn«i
countries would equal .a dividend of 1000 per cent, upon the nominal original capital of the CW,m
The tests have proved to the entire satisfaction of the Provisional Directors that the public approve and
require the convenience and pleasure the machine affords, and a constantly increasing turnover in the
machines indicates that as the public becomes informed and educated about the perfume fountain the
demand by the public for its services will steadily increase.
Applications for full prospectus or shares: —
To the Provisional Directors.
AUTOMATIC PERFUME FOUNTAINS. LIMITED,
26 The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
As applications for 11,000 shares have already been received, it has been decided to close the
subscription list at 4 p.m. on Monday, 21st November, 1921, and proceed to allotment. °' U °
28th October, 1921.
11,000 SHARES APPLIED FOR.
s*:
2*
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RiGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/« post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
&
a 'a
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with .V bolt Delivered,
£5/12/6
£6/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS g RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
f
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
, , . „ English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-incli
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding' locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7Mb. Freight paid,
£l4/14/
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. lOd. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
ftha
Fif'd
JB9. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D. 8.8.8.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener erossbolt, high file cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7ilb. 1 r it r I
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, 0/10/"
d
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 46 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
d
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.Lc
Pigeon Gun. 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7£lb Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
MYRROHL Ki", TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
f
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
walnut stock; weight about 6llb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. BB ~Ej6Ctof 65/“ Frei & rllt paid,
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS.
DC
• •
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


•*K
m
l \
mm
Another Tribute to Rexona.
Miss Marian Marcus-Clarke, the favorite actress, is the youngest daughter of Marcus Clarke,
whose thrilling novel, “For the Term of His Natural Life,’’ has made him world famous. Miss
Marcus-Clarke made her name in America as “Mrs. Whipple” in Jack Mason’s success, “The
Witching Hour,” and as “Martha” in “The Holy City.” Returning to her native land, Australia,
she played all the principal character parts with the Fred Niblo-Josephine Cohan Co.
Miss Marcus-Clarke writes us as follows: —
I am dropping you a Hue to tell you how good I have found Rexona Soap. As a
skin beautifler and as a shampoo for the hair I have never found anything nearly so
good, and it is delightfully refreshing. Everyone I have recommended it to has been
so pleased xvith it. I have also used Rexona Ointment. It is excellent, and I think
there is nothing on the market that in any way approaches the Rexona Remedies.
I wish you much success with them. Vours faithfully,
(Sgd.) MARIAN MARCUS-CLARKE.
REXONA—EVERYONE’S FAVORITE.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be to care
for it. Delay may result in Eczema. Psoriasis. Ringworm. Running Sores, or some
of the many and unpleas-
ant forms that skin
trouble so often assumes.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
and Rexona Soap are sure
preservatives for the
health and skin. Rexona
Soap keeps the skin soft
and pure, and Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, will imme-
diately eradicate any dis-
ease which may be appa-
rent, for it "rouses the
skin to healthy activity
so that it quickly recuper-
ates, and the diseased skin
becomes once more sound
and healthy. Rexona is
sold everywhere, in tri-
angular pots at 1/6, or in
larger pots, holding nearly
four times the quantity,
at 3/-. Rexona Soap is
sold at 1/- a tablet.
MISS MARIAN MARCUS-
CLARKE ( from, a photo).
I
1
1
i
m i
II
►
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney. N.S.W.
es«
il*
■
$
Shirts
W 3
|4u7~ brand
eacK sHirt
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AO 63
Liberated.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIKE soft air from the south
Is your love unto me;
The delight of your mouth
From myself sets me free.
Like a captive released from his fetters, and
given the sky and the sea.
Yes. the sea. woman-white
On its bride-bed of sands
That are naked and bright,
Is uncurbed of all bands —
Oh, nothing shall trammel or chain me, who
am held by the strength of your hands!
The calm of far mountains,
The peace of wide plains,
The mercy of fountains,
The respite of rains—
All these are in you, and I know them, but
the ultimate wonder remains.
The fair stars above me
Are star-flowers for me ;
With your love to love me
My own love is free
To wander on earth or in Heaven, or find
rest ’twixt the breasts of the sea.
For your image is deep
In the heart of all things ;
Where the rock waters sleep
And a forest bird sings,
You draw near in the love-breath of violets,
elusive as faintly-touched strings.
Life, death and forever
Lie bared at my feet:
No sword-stroke can sever
The whole and complete:
And the past and the future are mingled, as
lips become one when they meet.
N.S.NV.
DULCIE DKAMER.
“Gated—Six Weeks!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f | THIRTY-TWO years ago—which is
nearly one generation as the life of
man goes, but is equal to at least six
as schoolboys are reckoned —The King’s
School .at Parramatta looked a good deal
different from what it does to-day. The anci-
ent building of yellow sandstone, with its 12
big windows —six on each side of the Greek
portico at the main doorway, and another
one above it whence the school-sergeant sur-
veys the scene of his police activities —is
just as it was in IS9O, and has been for
these 85 years past. Four-square and grim,
it has something in the severe primitiveness
of its architecture that has always seemed to
indicate a little of the spirit of a school
where, above all eLse, the hardier virtues
have been instilled into young Australians
by many eras of masters and many more of
contemporary school-mates. It is not the
sort of place, from its looks, where you
would expect boys to be trained in the soft
amenities of mollycoddleism, the refinements
of little lads who shine most luminously in
their mothers’ drawing-rooms, or, to any
great extent, in the virtues of turning the
other cheek and giving the soft answer that
averts the black eye.
The tall, stark, ugly old building has some-
thing of the appearance of a gaol, or an
asylum, to the apprehensive New Boy w r ho
walks over the dam spanning the river in
front of it for the first time: it is only with
the years that he comes to recognise it as
the kindliest place he was ever in, and to
wish that he could “do time” there once
again. But to-day it is flanked on the west
by a great pile of brick buildings that were
not there in the ’eighties, and that seem to
soften a little the austerity inherent in the
aspect of the older building. Great weeping-
willow trees grow along the bank, and give
the playground something of the look of a
park. The Headmaster’s garden at the
eastern end is no longer fenced and barred
from the remainder of the grounds. The
narrow strip of bare, red earth —the “hard-
stuff”—that used to stretch east and west
halfway between the “Parapet” before the
school and the river, is grassed over. There
are flower-beds, in positions where the boys
can get at them, that appear to be let alone.
In some queer fashion, not easy to ex-
plain, the boys look more “civilised” than
they did three decades ago—though it is
quite likely that the grey-and-red uniform
still covers a multitude of youthful sins,
subterfuges and subtleties similar to that
which it did in the year when the Moncrieff
Push Avas inaugurated, practised its law-
lessness, was flogged and persecuted, and
suffered the grim sentence that gives a head-
ing to this tale.
About this time there had appeared in the
ranks of the assistant-masters a tall, weedy,
effeminate and highly-gifted gentleman who
held .some astounding mathematical degree
conferred upon him at that ancient Univer-
sity of Oxbridge which Thackeray speaks of
—a gentleman who was as pre-eminently
unsuited for the control of boys as it was
possible for any gentleman to be. George
Moncrieff Blatman, M.A., he was called, and
the combination of talent from Forms
lIIA and IV which decided that his perse-
cution was essential to the interests of the
school, and its own recreation, joyously dis-
tinguished itself under the title of his second
name.
“This chap,” said Hawkes 11., “is a new-
chum, and doesn’t know B from a bull’s-foot.
We’ll give him beans, and chance the ducks.
Look at his togs!”
Mr. Blatman’s raiment was the latest
thing out of Bond-street, he was over six-
feet-three in height, as thin as a lamp-post,
very young for his high scholastic attain-
ments, looked and was extremely nervous,
and had no more idea of disciplining boys
than of riding buckjumpers or branding
calves. His incompetence in this direction
was apparent when he took his first class.
Thenceforward, for the 12 months he re-
mained at the school, it is to be regretted
that the school generallv made hi.s life a
misery, whilst the collection of young devils
known as. the Moncrieff Push devoted itself
to his rum in the profession which he had
unwisely chosen.
This society was essentially a criminal
organisation, which ronbed orchards, broke
bounds, lit illegal fires below the river bank
tor the purpose of cooking questionable food-
stuffs, dodged drills whenever it was able to
do so, and did a great many things it should
not have done. All that may be said in ex-
tenuation of the characters of its individual
members is that they were all members of
the 2nd XV. You cannot play strenuously
at Rugby football, and train assiduously for
it, without possessing some redeeming fea-
tures. And as The King’s School won the
championship shield for six years, from 1890
onward, it will be recognised that school foot-
ball in those days really was a pretty strenu-
ous business.
* * • • '
liawkes 1. and 11., Sippy Pratt —so named
because he had white hair like the matron’s
poodle—Tom Kerl, Monk I. and Sammy
Budden stood in a row in Upper School after
evening prayers, and sheepishly endured the
Headmaster s lurid description of their fail-
ings in the present and their probable destiny
in the future. They faced the desk on the
dais at the top end of the room beside which
stood the stern, spare, bearded and impres-
sive figure of the Rev. Edward Harris, D.I).
Dr. Harris was a man with a burning eye
and a sarcastic tongue, an amazing know-
ledge of the wiles of youth, and a gift of cold
anger that was appalling. "These six boys,”
he said to the rest of the school, seated at
the carved and mutilated desks that run back
in rows to the door, "are a disgrace and
discredit to The King’s School. I should
despair of my task if I thought that there
were others among vou of such a sort as
they are. They have been caught red-handed
robbing the orchard of an industrious farmer
at Toongabbie, who was actually obliged to
threaten them with a gun in order to bring
them in here to hand them over to the pun-
ishment which they richly deserve, and will
undergo. lam not sure that I should not send
them back to their homes. However, Mr. Hagel-
bauni has been good enough to intercede for
them, so far as expulsion is concerned, and I
have promised him that they will be given
another chance. I intend to flog each one
of them in turn this evening”—the school
Joyfully anticipated the delight of this execu-
tion by the slightest shuffling of its feet —
“but will not pain you by inflicting this
degrading punishment in public.”
It was a strange delusion of the Chief’s
that the school disliked witnessing the caning
of its fellows. There was little that gave
it greater satisfaction.
“You are gated—six weeks. Follow me
into the study.”
The school shuddered in sympathy. A
flogging was merely a flogging—six weeks’
gating was simple hell!
Dr. Harris, canped and gowned, swept in
his stately fashion through the little door-
way leading into his house, and the six
appalled and unhappy wretches straggled
after him to receive that portion of their
punishment which they least regarded.
They came out, one by one, at intervals
of about three minutes, each of them grin-
ning in a fashion that was heroic, even if it
was sickly. Because that eminent discipli-
narian James Dunmore Dalgety was the
master on duty, there was no demonstration.
But, in the interval before bedtime, they re-
ceived that measure of public appreciation
which was due to those who had been cap-
tured by armed force* and had earned the
unprecedented sentence of six weeks’ con-
finement to barracks-—which being “gated”
meant. War was formally declared by The
King’s School against Prussia, as represented
by Mr. Axel Hagelbaum, of the Dusseldorf
orange-orchard at Toongabbie. That veteran
of 70 might have been induced to shudder
had he heard the fearful threats that were
uttered against him during that evening in
the dormitories. No enemy can be so re-
lentless, in theory, as the boy who has not
yet begun to shave. His foe is one to be
exterminated —not mercifully, but with
cruelty, violence and ignominy.
“You wait till our gatin’s up!” said
Hawkes 11. with compressed lips. “My
colonial!” darkly muttered Tommy Kerl.
“He’ll wish he’d never been born!” asserted
Sippy Pratt. “We’ll show him!” said
Sammy Budden.
The grim silence of Hawkes I. and Monk
I. was even more awesome than the cryptic
threats of the other members of the Push.
All who observed the heroic six felt that it
was better to be anybody rather than Mr.
Hagelbaum, of Toongabbie.
A weary month passed by, only relieved
of unbearable monotony by the presence of
Mr. George Moncrieff Blatman. That gentle-
man suffered excessively as a result of the
confinement to the playground and the school
buildings of the enterprising society which
had been formed in his honor. He' handed
out to them lines and detention on Satur-
days by the many hundreds and hours—
punishments which they could nearly always
evade by telling, him some sorrowful tale, or
feigning a contrition which was as false as it
was well acted. But even Mr. Blatman
failed them when a committee of his col-
leagues interviewed the Push, and told it
that it would receive such a handling by the
committee as would cause the Chief’s efforts
to seem feeble and insignificant, if it did not
leave the unhappy man alone. The Push
was almost driven to hard work as a relaxa-
tion from its boredom. A fortnight before
the sentence of six weeks’ gating was to
expire, it was in such a condition of de-
moralisation as might easily have led to its
collapse as a society.
The eagle eye of that fine old soldier, the
Sergeant—-who was known for 37 years at
the school as “Clobs”—was ever upon the
six dejected young gentlemen. If they so
much as looked over the western fence into
the park, or over the eastern one towards
the town, they knew that he watched them
with suspicion. During the mid-term week-
end. when all the rest of the school departed
on leave from Friday till Monday, he had
been able to devote his complete - attention
to them, and they had spent the most miser-
able 48 hours of their younar lives strolling
up and down the “hard-stuff” or whistling
dismally about the empty class-rooms and
corridors.
So at length the breaking-strain was
reached. September was well advanced, with
the scent of the wattles in the air, and all
those impulses of springtime to energy and
(Continued on next page.)


THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
nr Wegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMA1NE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLE MAINE, VICTORIA
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. p and 113,
We Specialise in the Design and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping Machinery
and Complete Installations
under guaranteed efficiencies for
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
W aterworßs
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining
Dredging, etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
•Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fenchiirch Street.
action that are stronger in a man’s blood
at 15 then they are at 15. The prisoners
knew that the bush out Westmead way and
about Toougabbie was just now at its very
best. The orange season was ending, and
it seemed deplorable that they should be
missing six weeks of as good a one as any
of them had known in his life at Parra-
matta. Only ten days remained of their
sentence, but that space of time loomed be-
fore them like 10 years. It could not be
endured. Whatever might be the conse-
quences, they must be risked. Human boy-
hood could stand it no longer.
So, on a bright Saturday afternoon, hav-
ing slipped b,v devious ways out of bounds
-—some along the river bank and others from
behind the old gymnasium, which stood near
where the swimming-bath is now—they met
in the Outer Park, opposite the Hospital
for the Insane, where a little gully fringed
with ti-tree runs down towards the river.
Here they held their rendezvous, and cele-
brated a sort of thanksgiving service for a
freedom that was not less sweet because it
had been stolen in the face of fearful risk.
Each one of them knew that he was chancing
what would have been equivalent to a sen-
tence of death —expulsion from the school.
“Great!” said Monk I. “Spiffin!” re-
marked Sammy Budden. “Golly, what a
lark!” observed Haw-fee's II- “My word!”
grunted iiis taciturn brother. “A 1!” chortled
Tom Kerl. “My colonial!" cried Sipp.v
Pratt. The noble word “bosker” had not
arrived in 1890, but that is what their
litany and jubilation was meant to express.
Presently a survey of the financial situa-
tion .was held, and it having been ascer-
tained that the wealth of the expedition
averaged more than dd. per head, it was
decided that Mother Mick —whose place was
beyond the Big Waterhole —should be in-
vited to provide a repast of tea and scones,
which she was always willing to do for the
above-named sum. Subsequently the orchard
of Mr. Ilagelbaum would be defiantly raided
—not so much for the sake of his oranges as
for the honor of the Push, whose prestige
had faded a little in the school during the
last month. No men can be prisoners and
glorious at the same time. A daring feat
of this kind, would restore much
ground that had been lost.
Suburban, villas have encroached upon
what 30 years ago was a belt of almost
virgin forest, lying some two and a half
miles westward of The King’s School —a
romantic place where were bird’s nests and
ring-tailed ’possums and a creek with canes
on its banks, and little, deep waterholes, and
all that was attractive to bush-bred boys.
Who does not remember Flat Rock and
Nigger’s Cave, and the orchards beyond the
creek? One of these —the best of them—
belonged to that stout Prussian of 70, Axel
Hagelbaum, and there was a tradition that
he alone of all the Parramatta orange-
growers, had any real objection to The King’s
School boys making free with his fruit. Most
of them would merely sool a dog on when
thev saw the grey jackets dodging about
aniongst the trees, but the German was re-
puted to be ready for anything in the nature
of reprisals.
Four o’clock saw the masterly attack on
Dusseldorf in full swing. With great c-au-
tion the paling fence along the creek had
been surmounted by each hardy and proud
adventurer in turn, and presently, out of
sight of the white cottage on the further
side of the orchard, six greedy little boys
were stuffing the linings of their uniform-
jackets with mandarins. A pen-knife used
effectively on the lining provided a capacious
pocket that would hold at least two dozen,
Fifteen minutes of this, and a dog barked
near the house, whilst a deep voice boomed
Teutonic curses down the aisles of the trees.
There was a run for the fence. Tom Kerl
tr i pped in a rut and fell, so that he was
Gie ] aS (- reac h the boundary and scale
Gie palisade. As he hung for a moment on
y k e top, a gun banged amongst the trees,
o thers crouched in the fern beside the
( .reek, paralysed with fear, when Tom yelled,
-pm shot! » he howled, and dropped back
j n^(> tke orchard.
n j s to the credit of the Moncrieff Push
that IJO member of it sought safety in flight,
They all crouched outside the fence and
watched Tom in his agony as the huge Ger-
man approached, a breech-loading gun in his
j iand and something of concern in his heavy.
t - at j OW p
*• A.ch . mine yoong yriendt,” he said in his
guttural fashion as he approached the
squirming boy. “Zo I haf shood you, eh?
Ged ü b, little schweinhnnd, or I will kick
y ou where I haf sliood you.”
To the amazement of his companions Tom
scrambled to his feet, his two hands clasp-
j n ] dg buttocks and moaning a little as he
f,' d u r Tlaeelhanm
* “Murderer!" he gasped,
The b{ g German burst into a roaring bel-
j ()w . laughter.
“Ob, lio—ho—ho!” he guffawed. “Mur-
derer> id 7 My poy, you are sliooded vere
you s jj- s down with fife grains of zaldpeder.
Maybe drie haf brogen der skin. You are
badly murdered, eh? Now, you oders beyind
der fence, I see you. Duke dis Tom Kerl
borne, an’ pe glad dat he is sliooded. For
j ka f watch you all der time, and know you
ad Dogdor Harris lie lias told me you vos
‘ ga t ed >—j s j d y—f or s j x week. Ja—and if
be know you gome out here pefore der time
i s o op, you leaf der school. Is id nod zo ?
y e ll, since I haf sliooded one of you I vill
nof ] be hardt. Dake him home and be gare-
fuj ‘Globs’ doesn’t see you goom in. Dake
de r oranges, too. My poy, you vill not z’d
down gomfordable vor a week or two. Ber-
baps you vill goom der vront way in negxt
gime you gome to gall on Axel Hagelbaum,
e b y Goot-bye! A.uf iciederschen! Gome,
Tommy, I will lifd you ofer der fence.”
The giant of a man picke d Tom Kerl up
ag . f he had been a kitt en. and dropped him
in the bracken. With the rest of the Push
he shmk away . T hey reached the school
boundaries and entered undetected just be-
, .
' 1 ' , .. .
l >r days or so lom Iverl took itt e
comfort from hard benches, but the authori-
ties never heard of his wounds And the
Moncrieff Push had found its \\ateiloo.
J. II. M. ABBOTT.
Rattray’s Ghost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD-TIMERS, recalling the stories
their fathers told, speak of Ben
Rattray as the hardest case on Cur-
lew Creek. lie fought like a devil when
the bush grog was in him, and he fought
as readily in his moments of sobriety. He
handled and rode horses superbly, and felt
a chronic antipathy to acquiring a fancied
animal by the respectable method of cash
and receipt. But plenty of other men had
similar qualifications*—in a time when a
man was hard put to it to gain exceptional
notoriety—and Ben Rattray would certainly
have dropped speedily into oblivion along
with the rest but for one thing. That thing
was Rattray’s Ghost.
Because of his method of doing business
Ben Rattray’s visits to various localities
were brief, and his night rides frequent and
hurried. But with all his shrewdness the
troopers yarded him at last, and he spent
five years behind the bars.
When he came out he seemed to be con-
siderably changed. His hair was iron-grey,
and he was quiet in his manner. But it
was only the quietness of accumulated cun-
ning ; and Rattray had still the instincts of
the natural thief.
He drifted into Marung on a weedy, anci-
ent horse, and camped in a bend below the
township. People noted his quiet way, and,
quick to show pity, spoke kindly to him, and
agreed among themselves that the old chap
was cured.
Jim Daley, on a beautiful black colt, rode
by the camp on the way to his selection, and
the old horse-hunger arose in Ben Rattray.
By the camp-fire that night he made his
plans. Next evening ho rode into Marung
and bought a supply of rations. die spoke
of making up country, and asked about the
ford above the township. The locals tried
to dissuade him from attempting the cross-
ing. The creek was fairly high, and in the
last year or two snags had made the passage
dangerous to one who was unused to it. But
Rattray laughed, rather wearily, and rode
off with a parting remark that he wouldn’t
be much loss, anyway, if he went under.
Next morning the old horse walked soberly
into the township. He was without the
bridle, but still carried a well-soaked saddle,
from which the pommel D’s had been
wrenched. A search party found a hat on
some snags below the ford ; but Rattray and
his swag were gone, and two days of search-
ing failed to reveal the body. Because of a
miserable finish his misdeeds were instantly
forgiven, and he was “poor old Rattray” in
the conversation of men on Curlew Creek.
A fortnight after his passing, as the dis-
tant thunder of a coming storm rumbled
along the creek, a man emerged about mid-
night from a deserted, tumble-down hut a
few miles from Marung and strode in the
darkness in the direction of Jim Daley’s
selection. As he went he muttered his
thoughts : “I ought to get him to-night. This
storm will make it easier to get away un-
noticed; an’ it’ll wipe out the tracks, too.
Then it’s good-bye to this part of the coun-
try.”
Standing at the fence of Daley’s horse-
paddock he waited till the lightning showed
him the horses sheltering at the edge of
gome serul) _ Qvrietlv be drove them along
to a cornei .. and> working with the patience
a practised hand, he caught the black colt
a nd slipped 011 the bridle. The storm vyas
on him now with crash on crash of deafening
thunder, and sudden, dazzling flashes of light-
replaced the ] og and mounted. The animal
move d off quietly under the rider’s caressing
hand, and at a'canter they headed for the
creek, in the first of the rain. „
*
Almost as he spoke there was a flash and
a crash, and the lightning found its mark in
a big dead box-tree a little distance away,
The colt plunged sideways.
steady, boy. 0 l - , ,
-1 P 1 of shattered limb, liui ti ng fiom
the stricken tree, thudded against the lider.
He him
rlle a a J sat erect .again. 1 One
iSkt was
crne j] y shattered; and down his face tlie
blood coursed from a long gaping gash in
the forehead. Only the instinct of the born
horseman kept him mounted. He was prac-
tically unC onscious of everything; but his
left b aild lle ld the reins, and, the colt grovv-
ing calmer, they went at a walk towards the
cree k. Three men on the box of the Cobb
and Co.’s coach saw the thing that night.
j n the light of a prolonged lightning flash it
went past as tlie coach moved slowly in
the blacksoil behind the straining team—an
upstanding, splendid black horse bearing a
ghastly form, with bloodstained face and
staring eyes, that looked neither to left nor
to right as it passed from sight,
“Ben Rattray!" said the driver, and his
f ace wag w liite.
“But Ben Rattray’s dead !” whispered tin-
man next him.
“He was drowned a fortnight ago !” The
third man’s voice was shaky,
“Yes,” the driver spoke again, “but that
was Ben Rattray!”
111 the creek the colt blundered over m
sunken snag and the rider dropped forward,
With a flicker of strength he clung to tlie
bridle, but it slipped from tlie colt’s head,
and a floating log bore the battered man
away. .
Next morning Jim Daley s colt was feed-
ing quietly among its mates m the horse-
paddock, while up at the township men gath-
ered and discussed the thing tlie driver and
t' vo others liad seen.
In the bush places when they tejl the eerie
tales of old-time mysteries, men still speak
of Rattray’s ghost and of how his body
could never be found. For Ben Rattray s
bones were silted over 40-odd years ago in
a bend of Curlew Creek,
RIVERINA.


d
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offloe—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
S3IVM S N ‘IS3M QMOONOO
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life— to think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling”
y taking
Carter’s
Little Liver
Pills, the
Great Liver
In vigor at or.
Thousands
have attained
success by their
timely help.
Just try one
after meals.
Small Pill
Small
Dose —
Small
Price
CARTER'S
WITTLE
IVER
PI LIS
m
ff
rw>
<ar
y]
M
"sSt
Shirley President
Braces
The human muscles and nerves
are under a tension like a sus
pension bridge. There are days
on which the strains and de-
mands are greater than on other
days.
One should investigate the im-
portant part correct clothing
plays in the comfort and success
of a day
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES allow of no chafing or retarding
of the muscles or nerves. They give with the body at the slightest
movement, and they are so flexible that one scarcely realizes he
wears braces
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look tor the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee IabeI -
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
df
Quality counts
in the long run
f
THERE are days when your shooting is
not what it should be —you return
home disappointed with general results —
you were not as keen as usual —you had
many chances, but something was wrong.
It makes a big difference what cartridges
you use. A good-looking cartridge is not
always what it appears to be. Are you
sure you are getting your money’s worth
in shooting value ?
Even if you are obliged to pay a little more,
why not have the best that can be bought and then see if
you don’t enjoy your day’s shooting to the utmost.
Remington, cartridges give entire satisfaction
o-i and YOU can prove it.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT. Australian Representativ* P. 0. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
d
msm
f
for voter own
health’s sake
the one remedy yoa tos$
and feel safe —safe that the good
expected or promised will be accomplished-*
gafe that -at will spit you. Beecham’s Pills meet
Universal need for a safe and speedy medicine to rebevti
the headaches, low- spirits, restless nights, Jbad
dreams, bitter taste, mental
dullness? muscular
fatigue
caused
by indi-
gestion.
Beecham's
Pills haveproved beyond
cavil or doubt their beneficent power
to correct defective or irregular action of the
stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels. The very first dose
will make you feel better and with judicious use as
occasion requires there will come to you
a buoyant feeling of health and
strength. In body, brain,
blood and nerves a trial
will show you what a splen-
did change for the better
Beecham’s Pills can make
Sold is boxes, labelled 10Jd., ls-14d and 2s-9d.
• (original English prices.)
*v>
r
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street. SYDNEY.
The Plum Razov
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
We guarantee an easy shave with the
“Plum” Razor, as, being expert Hair-
dressers ourselves, we know just the kind of edge
required to give the best result. No other razor used
in our saloon.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years free.
i 'T” =_ f"
Swans’
Patent
Extra Air Outfits
nave many advantages possessed by no other Extra Air Device.
In the first place the tap itself is attached direct to the manifold
and operates from the dash by a lever, consequently when used
as an engine brake there is no outside suction noise, such taking
place under the bonnet.
Secondly, the tap is provided with a bye-pass, thus allowing Extra
Air to be employed to thin out the mixture after the engine is
warmed up.
Thirdly, the price each outfit is sold at proves it to be
THE CHEAPEST EXTRA AIR DEVICE ON THE MARKET,
while its high efficiency as a petrol and brake saver enables us to
confidently assert that it is
THE BEST EXTRA AIR DEVICE ON THE MARKET.
SIZES and PRICES:
fin., 20/- each; fin., 25/- each; fin., 32/- each.
Min
Section Swans’ Patent Extra
Air Tap, showing universal
joint.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.


Front George the Third
To George the Fifth
Qne Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong.
4*
N
m,
Ms
%
\
m
V
A
&
fizz 1
f \ I '2CSST j\
'i „
r 1 . I .. r =i~^
■4i s |O ”S i j§ _*
yf
N
;K
:
ZT^~
-orV
?
%
r
*
'jvN
Nr"
A
77
A \>
f A
\
«
)
\
(6»c*<6)m&v
JM4NNIK WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. NO. X 2. —BRAZIL.
Ist Tourist : “ There is a fine view for you ! ”
2nd Tourist: “ This is the view tor me, Johnnie Walker/
l
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD., Scotch Whisicy Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
