

■»!
mi, i - v,iii'ii
■ 11 | Him i.i n> I H Hr m l
ii," i,i 1 is m ii n hi mi 11 ■ ‘ | > ',,i,,;. 11 ,
\ "i" 'i Mm i' lll 1 !!'i >" u 1 1' 1 : i
Sil l
11 || N ’X!■ ’iVivi'ii" '"ii'.i i. It 1 ", 1 1 nil *i;l
'I 'HI 1 li '1 m 11*! '.'"i I U'-• ,, |i I t,t, i, i 1"! V't!* * m'l t'! ,:, l
i'4 : teSi#!!!^
llJiiii z si «! feiii
:«
Hlrll'
I'll
;ii'j
Ii I .*i' ' I'irTT
i'i '' M||l I
iillliilii
iili! i::: • : i ir.r l; ■ • I" n
!!!;!!!•!
ijiiHi.'.'f
m
Ji
PICTURE your home equipped with mod
ern electrical conveniences—electric light
in every room, a fan to keep you cool in sum-
mer, a vacuum cleaner to sweep the carpets
and remove the dust from furniture and drap
ings, a motor-driven sewing machine, and
cooking devices that permit the preparation
of meals on the dining table. All these, to-
gether with the electric iron and machines for
washing dishes and clothes, are within the
scope of elec-
tric service.
You can secure this comfort even though your
district is not reached by electric wires.
The G-E HOME LIGHT 8c POWER
UNIT has been specially designed to furnish
electric current for every use in the country
home. Its engine wil] also drive pumps,
churns,'separators, and other light machinery
IVrite to-day and learn bow easily and economi-
cally you can bring electrical service into your
asdg
Australian General Electric 0
35 45 V.i.Vi wORTh AVENUE i^SiXia a ?i 16 QUEEN A' TREET j|
SYDNEY' _ AIEIyBOURNE jj
v IW - City 9510. Box 2517 G.P.O,
BRISBANE—'The Engineering Supply Go. of Auv
erali* ltd. (E.S.C. A.) Comer Edward' and Charlotte Sts.
tJASMANIA—OIiver Sc Oliver, Hobart & Launceston
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins S£ Co. Ltd- 88 Currie St.
AGENTS
Pits at: Central 2646. Box 538. G.P.O.
' - *
PERTH - Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Limited,
" Mazda House,” 894 Hay St.
N.Z.-The Hational Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2168
Thursday, September 1, 1921.
Price, 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAYFI you had a copy of tjiornew libra i\\
catalogue" for 1921? It will "Be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. bp>. ; ,12S
George'Street. Sydney. Tele, 6431;—Ann
Kiiiliimiire
ill
WMK
bUs
i!
i riTt-^i^
mm®;,
i
iii;i;i;i<
Mangrovite Rawhide Belting
has considerable elasticity and high tensile
strength and is particularly adapted for
intermittent loads, small pulleys running at
high speed, and where the arc of contact
is insufficient.
Try it on your generator, motor or main
drive. Our expert engineers have vears of
practical experience and will glad'lv help
you with your transmission problems.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Victoria: Corbett, Derham &Co., 397 Little Collins St. Melb.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright &Co , Fremantle.
Tasmania: Henry Clark & Co. Ltd . Collins St., Hobart.
Rounding the Buoy on Plume
Flume has made good on all types of motors, from the
big cruiser to the portable motor on the row-boat.
Satisfactory motoring depends upon
freedom from engine troubles; therefore
the question of Motor Spirit quality is a
most important factor with motor-boat
ftMim££'*' ■ : - I I I - ’"^rSliS
mm
Motor experts agree that
PLUME
is ideal for motor-boat owners
Plume vaporises instantly—that means easy starting.
Plume forms a perfect gas, leaving no trace of raw
fuel to cause carbon troubles. Plume is uniform ;it
gives svreet running and steady, reliable power
always, and a gallon takes you further.
Whether it’s a motor boat, a car, or a motor cycle,
Plume will give you maximum engine efficiency.
When ordering just—say Plume.
AußdmcQ |i() urnnoßy^
Pty. Ltd.
P 10 A
%
i
>•
a
m ■' '
' . =
~v _
o*
' -
ritisn.
The A 1
ra
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Comfort in keeping with its appearance
of quiet elegance are features of the
Standard Light Car that have won the
favour of the Owner-Drivers throughout
:: the world. :: ::
2 and 4- Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
J 08-171
Street,
Elizabeth
SYDNEY.
5
4
&
m
uiiuimimiiHi
i
m
dfg
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition. . .
Suited, -for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
.ILJUpES do,lidf-interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they ,liave- r a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
SoM Everywhere in Tins, Price If 6. 16
w
A. The Larynx
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchia*
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
n? The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Nature and the Dramatic Artist
Nature is a great dramatic artist. Won-
der in man is like a rocket that soars up,
flares into a great light, bursts into a thou-
sand fading stars, and all too quickly linds
the night darkness again. But every now
and then Nature conceives a , masterpiece,
takes hold of the interest and imagination
of man, fires his wonder and holds it burn-
ing there like a star, sometimes even for
the full nine days. She has a way of stress-
ing the quite commonplace, touching it dra-
matically, and all in a moment it ceases to
be commonplace, and soars towards the sub-
lime. One man dies, and be is only one of
the million who yearly so die. Out of the
multitude he is buried, his passing awakens
no wonder, he is forgotten. But when men
die as Captain Scott and Oates died
•u the great ice-desert, or as men died when
the Titanic went do. n, or as so many men
died on sensational occasions during the
(>rreat War, then the world sees not only
the man struggling feebly to draw a few
more painful breaths, but mankind engaged
in fts heroic and endless conflict against man-
kind’s implacable and remorseless adversary
Death. So the passing by of these men is
dramatised. They face the end with the eyes
of the world upon them. They reach the
gateway to the Beyond moving Jn a great
light. And sometimes Nature sets men to
live out (heir lives in the light in which
these men died. Then, though they still
remain men, they cease to be individuals.
We cease to see in them and about
them the sordid littlenesses that beget every-
day life—the little aches and pains. They
are lifted up to great heights, extracted, as
it were, from the multitude to be epitomes
of that multitude. Whilst they are still
themselves they become all of us. They
become representative types of mankind.
Mentally, we men are all, it/seems to me,
greatly blind. The most imaginative and
sensitive of us can only see a very little way
before and behind. We are all inclined to
take it for granted that the immediate end
is the ultimate end. But man does not live,
though he all' too often comes to believe that
he does, merely for the achievement of his
own little day-to-day affairs. He has a pur-
pose far beyond any he knows. He does not
eat food merely for the pleasure of eating. He
eats food to keep life in him. He keeps life
in him—for what? He is, whatever he be-
lieves he is doing, playing his tiny part to
bring about the grand final achievement that
is the instinctive aim of mankind. A man
Walks down the street to buy a pound of
apples. That is his conscious purpose, but
Nature has a purpose for him beyond that.
He meets a woman and the drama opens.
In a moment they are taken up and whirled
this way and that way. 'They who went forth
to face the daily domestic round are brought
face to face with the tremendous, unconquer-
able elemental forces against which is spent
all the vital energy of man. They stand
there now immensely suggestive, as Nature
in her solemnest moments herself is, of the
vast secret that is just beyond the senses
of man. These people do not see what is
coming to thorn. Then time and their sur-
roundings kindle the light that makes them
what they are. The Scott party, for in-
stance, sets forth to make history. Fate de-
crees that it will provide a world-drama.
Scott plans and sets forth to carry out his
plans. But Fate has other, ulterior plans,
and Scott’s plans she wrecks as a man steps
on an ant wrapped up in the idea of crossing
the»road. So Scott fails, but Nature’s minion
Fate gives the ’world a story that will last
for all time.
' And in every way and in all their methods
fhe great human dramatists copy the great
master-dramatist Nature. A man goes by
in the streets. For us he is one of our-
selves. He is slightly stronger, slightly
Weaker, slightly more clever, but still he
% one of ourselves. And he will remain
so unless Nature or the great human dra-
matist has a set purpose for him. Perhaps
Nature is just getting ready her great light
to throw upou him. Perhaps the great poet
has already marked him down. We will
suppose he is a rather gloomy-looking man.
We are rather contemptuous of him, because
he is worrying over a task that we could
easily .do. He thinks too much ; he makes
difficulties.’ Then a Shakspeare comes, con-'
cpives a picturesque situation and sur-
roundings that kindle a light and throws the
magnifying beams of this light on all the
span's motives and movements. He becomes
: Hamlet. Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth, Lear—
men with the qualities of these characters
.pass us by, talk with us, live .With us, and
jwe do not see anything very great or very
iaiuch out of the ordinary in them. But
Siurkspeare, seeing them through his genius,
sees all mankind in them, and. as it were,
’projects them, greatly magnified, upon a
■screen. Nature does likewise. Captain Scott
'2s just one of a thousand seafaring men
us, until Nature conceives her master-
piece, throws her magnifying light upon him
;*nd shows all that is best, all that is weak-
est, all that is strongest, all that is most
intensely human, in the man.
Mankind is great, indomitable, firm-pur-
infinitely wise. Mankind is God-
directed. and aims at an ultimate achieve-
ment ages beyond the vision of the indivi-
dual man. The individual man is weak,
feeble, cowardly, but he is part of mankind;
and all that he does to aid in mankind’s pur-
poseful advance will be recorded andi car-
ried on. It is to show him that this is so
fftat Nature every now and thofi gives her
j-jreat dramas to the world. Lost in the mul-
titude of his kind, the individual man' loses
his perspective. He becomes blind to wliat
he is. But Nature seizes on . one of his kind
and throws her light upon this one, and
shows the individual man what he is and
ie part he really plays. So Nature preaches
'Great Hope. So ever, too, does the
really great human dramatist who always
but copies Nature’s /ways.
A. D. M.
Keats
- Towards the close of 1919 a wh&per went
round literary London that the house in which
Keats lived at Hampstead was likely to be
purchased by a speculative builder. At once
a combined effort was made to save the old
place; and a large memorial volume ap-
peared a few months ago with contributions
by authors of all sorts and sizes. The poet-
laureate sent a tolerably wooden translation
from the Greek; Marie Corelli wrote much
better verse than might have been expected:
eight or nine times over Frederic Harrison
said that Keats was young, and contrived to
prove in two pages that his appreciation of
the poet was second-hand; Sluiw was clever;
Clutton-Brock was thoughtful in a brilliant
way; a dozen present-day poets supplied
more or less sincere tributes in verse; brown
, persons wrote in various languages of Asia
brief appreciations which, translated on the
opposite page, showed that they felt quite
sorry he died so young; a Serbian or
two, a few Swedes, a German, a Bohemian
and one or two eminent Frenchmen, Italians
and Spaniards helped the cause along; and
a number of others, including Oscar Brown-
ing, now 84 years of age, had interesting
things to say about the growth of his fame
and matters connected with his life. But
there was very little Keats feeling in the
book, very little sense of exquisite delight
in his work. Pages of his manuscript were
reproduced, showing alterations he had made
from the first draft and bad spelling even
in tho revised copy; the catalogue was
given of Leigh Hunt’s collection of locks of
hair of great men, which included the hair
of Milton on which Keats wrote; and one
woman-writer of verse fiercely denounced
Fanny Brawne as a murderess. All this
made an exceedingly interesting hotch-potch
of exactly the kind that could do least honor
to the memory of Keats; but it also raised
a danger signal and showed the tendency to
praise and neglect, which is the curse of
modern letters.
Yeats frankly admitted that he had not
read Keats for live years; most magazine
editors, judging by the verse they publish,
have never read him at all. Yet Keats is
the most loved of all the poets; and there
are probably 10,000 users of the English
tongue who on the subject of his poetry
could grow eloquent and even inspired as
they could about nothing, else. To speak of
comparative greatness in verse-making is
generally foolish. Most people who love
Milton and Shakspeare and Coleridge would
accept Tennyson’s dictum that had Keats
lived he - would have been the greatest of all;
and to countless thousands who would hesitate
on the use of the word “great” he is, without
rival, the most magical of all. On his lips the
English language has a. sweetness like the
perfume of a La France rose; in his vision
all life has a clear beauty as of morning in
the garden of the gods. To turn away from
all this and keep saying “Ah, if he had not
died of 'consumption at 25!” is to
miss something intensely vital and real. It
is not the promise of Keats that moves us;
it is the achievement. Every mention of
his death is by way of apology for the emo-
tion he stirs, in us —an emotion that needs
no apology. When people bracket Keats’s
name with that of Chatterton they offer
proof positive that they have never in any
real sense read either. Keats left us a
legacy such as no other man left; that is
his real glory.
Every now and then some person with a
school-masterly soul wants a definition of
poetry; and no definition worth mentioning
is ever forthcoming. Nothing is more cer-
tain than that the person who satisfies him-
self with a. definition of poetry is beyond
the reach of poetry. But if the fresh mind
really seeking for something worth while
asks the question, it is always safe to answer
“Read Keats —that is poetry.” In the
great mass of rhythm and rhyme there is
such variety and scope that the music of
human thought can drift far by deep oceans
and dangerous shoals without finding any
very safe or sure anchorage. Shakspeare
lapses; Milton jars; Wordsworth hobbles to
a cowyard strain; Coleridge babbles in
doggerel; Byron mistakes noisy rhetoric for
inspiration; Tennyson falls into common-
place and imitates George R. Sims; Shelley
becomes sawdusty; Browning stumbles into
an evil sort of prose; but Keats is always
a poet. He, too, stumbles and falls; but
he is a poet all the time. Some of his work
is childish, much of it immature; the
sweetness at times becomes sticky; the
thought does not always soar; but in the
worst he has done there is always a hint of
some that makes it different—a
subtle tone, a daring intimacy of language,
a lift and glow, something of finer air and
richer color. It is for this reason that
he becomes a standard of judgment, a sure
place in the changing ocean, of literature.
Read 50 modern poems in qpiclc^-succession
and your sense of values becomes chaotic.
Turn back to Keats and the balance rights
itself as if by magic; for that sweetness of
sincerity that is in him measures.. all truth
and falsehood by comparison.
The loss of the house Keats lived in
would not he a national calamity; but the
loss of Keats himself would be serious
indeed- Looking at the treatment of tlie
man by the adoring literary admirers who
have contributed to the memorial volume,
the feeling that he is being lost'forces itself
upon me. Most of these people do not feel
him. If lie offered his verses to them now
they would reject the “Nightingale” and dis-
parage the “Grecian Urn.” ' But he has
become a classic; it is the proper thing to
worship him —always with the painful regret
that he died so young. Yeats, more honest
than the rest, says that he lujs pot read him
for five years. It is a good deal more thar
five years since Yeats ceased to write poetry.
But after all, Keats is ih no danger
(Continued on page 25.)


A
XL
DISPLAY OP BATS AND CRICKET RE QVISITES AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'.
PURCHASE YOUR CRICKET NEEDS
FROM ANTHONY HORDERNS'.
Here you have the choice of the world’s best at prices that sweep away all competition
SYKES’ BATS.
Gold Medal 50/-
Vorkshire Driver 427-
Special Driver 32/6
AYRES’ BATS.
International 42/6
Macartney Autograph 47/6
GUNN AND MOORE’S BATS.
Special Star, with rubber grip 587-
Autograph, specially selected 457-
Autograph, extra specially selected. .. . 50/-
C'annon, treble spring, with rubber grip. 37/-
NICOLL’S BATS.
Patent Automatic, rubber-covered handle 42/6
Auto Bats 307-
Triumph 23/-
Palace, all cane handle 19/6
STUART SURRIDGE BATS.
Oval Driver 247-
Standard Driver 30/-
Rapid Driver 40/-
Rapid Driver, especially selected 45/-
SPALDING’S BATS.
County Special 48/6
London Club 457-
Single Rubber 40/-
SHAW AND SHREWSBURY’S BATS.
Empire Match, with rubber grips 357-
Rattler Match, with rubber grips 30/-
WISDEN’S BATS.
Crawford Exceller, ex+ra special 52/-
Crawford Exceller, selected 45/-
WARSOP’S BATS.
Imp. Conqueror 457-
Extra Special • 427-
Superior Match 37/6
SUMMERS BROWN BATS.
XXX Force 47/6
XX Force 42/6
X Force 34/-
Write for complete list of Cricket
Requisites and Outfits for Cricketers.
A copy will be posted you free on
request.
OTHER FAMOUS BATS.
T. M. Gardiner’s Special Match Bats. ... 57/6
Wyndett, all cane handle, with rubber
insertion 30/-
Dye’s Special XXX Champion, specially
faced, for Australian wickets, Aus-
tralian made 42/-
CRICKET BALLS.
.English Six Seam Leather Cricket Balls . 14/6
Australian Six Seam Leather Balls . . 10/-, 13/-
Duke’s Renowned Cricket Balls, Match . . 20/-
Picked, Stamped, “P.K.D.” ... 21/-
Wisden’s Match 19/-
F. Swale’s Leather Balls 15/6
Stewart’s Leather Balls 16/6
CRICKET MATS.
For Double Wicket (Imported).
In two pieces, each piece 9% yds.—l9% x 2 yds.,
with bound ends, strong metal eyelets,
with spikes, complete. Green, best quality,
leather bound £l2
ANTHONY HORDERN s Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


f/Ct
-f 5
mw
%
%
ft
r
9
r
>
s
i
y
i
r
o
A
\
2r>
*
*T
* V
7
£
S
*af?
i-V
s
Meggitt’s Poultry Food
Start Right by
Feeding Right.
Four essentials for Healthy, Husky Chicks —•
1. Parent Stock*
2. Incubation.
3. Brooding.
4. Feeding.
Feeding is last in logical order, but FIRST IN
IMPORTANCE.
Meggitt’s Chick Food is made from wholesome,
pure, nourishing ingredients; properly balanced;
economically mixed to give maximum results at
minimum cost.
No Mixing No Waste.
Quality First Quality Always.
Sound in Principle Sound in Value.
MeggittY Poultry Food contains all the necessary
requirements for maximum egg production at a
minimum cost.
Once tried—always used.
Upon application to Poultry Food Department A, Booklets con-
taining instructions how to feed will be sent free.
AGENTS—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane;
Messrs. V. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd,, Adelaide, S.A.; Messrs. Johnston & Co.,
Ltd,, Wellington, N.Z.
\
cZJ HIOCQW
! iflWl;oQ33S.N'fl
t SUOD3W
H
Ofieboy on the bay
guarantees quality”
HX-,AD 01-FICL KING ST SYJJNEY
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal and Specialised Stock Foods.
m
GGrrfS
yusteo oii^
SSssS
' on the bag
guarantees qualify


PINKETTES
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
dras'ic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
Hie Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
r'-* -
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine,
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/G Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. I-lennessy.
ren
m
p
m
. m
K6A Kfi
<• *v
4-Ji, vV.Vi ’«£>;
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
Made in various
sizes arid styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi.hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last a lifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
For the Heads
School Children’s Heads in
particular.
Dands Nursery Pomade
Most effective for keeping scalps free
from nits and other unpleasant in-
truders.
Remember the name—DANDS.
If unobtainable locally, send 1/- to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Proprietary Limited,
349 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
Scientifically Constructed.
Triple Crush Emasculator.
Price 607-
Postage 9d. extra.
DUE to its scientific construction, quicker,
easier and better results are obtained
from the use of the DENYER
TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR. This
instrument is hand-forged from the best steel
and is thus .extremely durable. Its use saves
time and money and eliminates the danger of
hemorrhage. Keen-thinking stockowners,
this instrument shows many advantages over
other patterns—why not include one in your
Veterinary Kit?
send you our Free Catalogue of Modern Veterinary Instruments and Appliances.
DENVER BROS.,
The House for Modern
Veterinary Instruments.
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Engineers 9 Files Reduced
Here is an excellent opportunity to replenish your stocks of
Engineers’ Files. We are stocktaking, and to save handling we
have decided to reduce the cost to effect quick sales.
You know the famous
“Aft Eagle oft a Globe ’ Brand
These files are made of high-class steel and are guaranteed to
give long and satisfactory wear.
Send in your specification, and let us fill your requirements at
these reduced prices.
lor full details address Department “A." Svdnev inquirers
can ring City 9863 or 7819.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital Hi K li-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney;
266 Lalrobe Street, Melbourne;
48 Cliff Street, Fremantle;
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane;
Paul & Gray, l,td., Newcastle;
R. R. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart,
THE POPULAR
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest
Commonwealth, viz:—
TRIO
Blended Cigars in the
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price Gd. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 467-
Post Free all over Australia.
111
W
CRAIG &AITKEN , 654 George St., Sydney
_ Distributors for the Club Rei/ Cigar Factory.
a
Made by its inventor.
Thomas A. Edison invented the New Edison, spend-
ing £600,000 in the task. To-day, in his own factory,
he makes the New Edison on a commercial scale
and guards its quality with zealous attention.
Think a moment! What other talking-machine is made and protected by its inventor ?
And what other talking-machine can sustain the remarkable test of direct comparison
with living artists?
If you love the best music in the world, you should investigate the New Edison and
hear the story of famous tone-tests.
An interesting booklet is sent post free by Thomas A.
Edison. Ltd.. 364-872 Kent Street. Sydney.
The NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a Sou/."
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.l
Woman.
She loved him for his lazy, laughing ways;
His youthful scorn for all routine:
His brooding eyes that ever seemed to gaze
At things beyond her, things unseen;
Because he knew what flower had breathed
to flower
When softly fell the tears of God;
Because he laughed at wealth and fame and
power,
And, laughing still, coukl kiss the rod ; •
Because he spoke in tender, touching tone
Ot “silent voices" in the trees :
Because he lived in poverty alone' —
For these and futile things like these.
Because he loved her—as a loyal friend
To whom his dreams could be confessed —
She loved and married him, that she might
mend
His ways and make him like the rest.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
CARLYLE COX.
The Widower.
She shone, clear sunlight, through my life:
Music she breathed therein;
She was my perfect mate and wife,
My spirit’s happy twin.
She was my body’s joy; she seemed,
A.s she moved smiling through
My life, all good of which 1 dreamed,
All blessedness come true.
She was, as in my arms she lay,
All promises fulfilled,
And from her lips still day by day
Was dear delight distilled.
She was my hope, my joy was she,
My polestar shining bright;
She made each day a heaven for me,
A paradise each night.
Till came the day of dark despair
When all the heavens fell.
I knew her false as she was fair;
She brought my heart to Hell,
So with her chosen oaf went she,
And down with shame sat I :
My tender love was torn from me,
And I had seen her die.
In every smile she dies; her grave
Fills all the world with gloom;
And every kiss she gives her knave
But desecrates her tomb.
There is no health in woman’s flesh
That holds her soul in fee.
(She caught my faith .within her mesh
And made a mock of me.)
Woman’s a creature fickle, light
And of inconstant breath.
(She tore me from my royal height
And stung my soul to death.)
God! how her eyes were gay and fond!
And how her lips were sweet!
How beautiful all words beyond,
Her white slight little feet!
N.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.
If I Could Gather Little Shells.
If I could gather shells in golden pools
Along the edge of the sun-spangled sea,
Where rioting red pig-face streaked the sand
And arching ripples rolled in lazily;
If I could gather shells from out the store
Of unstirred caves the tides had whispered
o’er,
And stand in waters lapping to the knee,
I’d ask no more.
Long, limpid pools there were, in ochre sand,
And weedy rocks that deepened fold on
fold
To blackness where the brown sea-forests
caught
And held the dancing sun in netted gold.
All languorous the tawny branches swayed,
And spotted starfish sought the sombre
shade,
While down the greenish gloom of depths
untold
The shadows played.
They slept in purple-hollowed grooves, the
little shells ;
They hid among the shining grains of sand,
And studded all the waving stems with bloom
Of Detailed pearl; they lay within my
hand,
Snow-white and crimson, tipped, with edges
pale,
Deep-hearted, golden, exquisite and frail;
More delicate than rose-cups dewdrop-
spanned.
Or dawn’s blown veil.
The lazy crab was there behind the stone:
The speckled fish swift-darting flicked his
fin :
The beaded bubbles luminous and large
Among the forest stems winked out and
in;
And deep and deep into the jewelled sea,
The creamy clouds built piles of ivory—
Pale palaces that paved their fronts" with
thin
Anemone.
Dear God. to gather little shells in golden
pools—
In golden pools as clear as summer rain
I loved them long ago, a laughing child!
The years have gone—and could I go again
And find these pools as fair, the flower-bells,
The speckled fish, the sands, the deep sea
spells !
Ah. keep for me undimmed by joy and pain
The little shells!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


REXONA-THE TRIANGULAR
SHAVING STICK.
Another Rexona Triumph.
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time which will be
appreciated by men wherever beards grow.
In half a minute Rexona Shaving Soap softens the beard, and the lather will remain on the
face with all its softness for twelve minutes, but Rexona shavers do not require this, for Rexona
Shaving Soap makes the beard so soft that a Rexona shave really takes not more than two
minutes.
A Rexona shave is a luxuriant yet an economical shave, for the lather is over 150 times as
great as the soap used, and a 1/6 triangular stick is sufficient to last the average man at least
150 shaves, which makes over 8 shaves for a penny. Then, too, consider how much easier
Rexona Shaving Soap makes the beard on the razor, and how soft, smooth and antiseptic it
leaves the skin, and protects it from all weather conditions.
Being an antiseptic Medicated Soap it has a tendency to quickly heal any cut you may
have the misfortune to get, and if troubled with pimples or blotches of any kind will daily tend
to improve them. Men, try Rexona, the new triangular shaving stick—we can promise you
a new satisfaction.
Rexona Shaving Stick Produces a Rich, Creamy lather
v n „ ..
"•hi
"""MO
I I
j?
m
u-LLU-U
\\\t
5?
liiiitt
,
//v
2@tB x 3 *
•V Wr-O X 3 £
I'vN'OXda
V/2
m
m
V •
'/..
-~-"r ~
'iiwpiiy/iup/^
zS'/l’i
W'/
/& D /cj o)ifiyj\
eft
o
5$K
u
o
Kf
i
-v
'x'-'s
p
VS
iIM
\V\
MW
iff
•:r;
Xvv
sa -
SKVSS
MM
'■V
•*•-
MS
\\
‘*-4^
\\\v
iC
\s»
SVN'-
uvinoNwia
N\Y>
sr
am-'
It
NW
;'/Mtr
x>:
S 0
Rexona
vShaving Soap—
The Triangular
Stick, 116


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2168.
TllU US DAY. SEPTEMBER 1, 1921.
Price 9d.
“AND THE TOAST IS ANZAC!"
“The younger soldiers who enlisted early in the war are the first to become unemployed. They are handicapped by in S. M. Herald.
EMPLOYER: “You see, if you’d stayed at home and got experience, instead of wasting four years at the war, I would have employed you.”


The Bulletin
the. NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Mau.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
T<, U f?^ aVe McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
HULLEriN ewspa p er Cos., Ltd., at the Office of the
W*,»A."; 4 < ?f orare Svdnpv. N.S.W.. Australia.
STreeL* VE ° FFICE: Errl P ire Buildings, 208 Flinders
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SURSCRTJiERS.
.(In Advance, Only.)
, , £l , 16s ■ y can have The Bulletin sent
gulatrly to you every week for a year , to any
overseas 11 '^ USTRALASIA ; P ost P aid - To any address
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
Communicaiions to be addressed to the
_ . Special Notice.
refused' 016 ' slam Vcd letters are liable to be
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
c ° n t rl butions submitted , whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say
SOOO words are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters br Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bullbtw will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return ii will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance .. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch,Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.OJf;
E. T. Hole. Holurth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, F..C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Hoiporn, London, W.C.I.
SpuTir Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co.,' Jjl/1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C. ; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.; the Boston flat Works and News Cos., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Cos., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Cos., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neiv York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Quaker News Cos.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia. Penn.
Eqypt.-— Jacques, Horn & Cos., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llqno Kong. —Brewer and Cos., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Cos., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—TK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Cos., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
lav.d, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. fOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route j:-
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, I/oz., lid., arid*
id. each additional 2oz. "j
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
Fqr any unsigned matter in this paper?
which needs a signature under the
wealth Electoral law, S. H. Prior, J. Ej.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1921.
THE CHADBANB TOUCH.
‘•The people of Russia had ploughed through a
bloody morass of murder to a wilderness of famine,
iI C was P^\hat e was the done° r ;o
the bodies of the Russians that, had destroyed them
but what had been done to their minds. Religion
had been cast out. If he were asked how Russia
he would s *y.the Church must save
fsm” in Lond^ GUES The UhQht of Bolshev '
’ . ‘ . .
Phis is the disingenuous stuff which, accord.-
ing to some people, helped to win the war,
and, according to others, did a lot to prolong
it. It is propaganda—like the story of the
c e ., ;r factories that rendered dew/corpse,
tor their fat. The basis of all such allega-
tions is the theory, that one way to defeat
an enemy is to misrepresent him. Whatever
value there may have been in the method for
the. purposes of the world-war, it can only
assist Bolshevism now that an era of more
or less free discussion has been entered upon
again. Rational people are not going to
believe that the casting out of religion, or
any particular form of government, or even
a morass of murder, can of itself produce
famine. Ethics have little bearing on fapi-
ine. People are starving in Russia because,
among other things, the railways are diSor-
ganised and food cannot be moved about .the
country; because most of the factories are
out of commission; and because practically
nothing is being either exported or imported,
Leninism is, of course, ultimately responsible
for all these things, as it is for the restric-
tion of farm output; but the proximate cause
of most of the starvation is probably the
international trade boycott. Certainly Mr.
Hughes’s smug suggestion about religion is
singularly ridiculous —as he is quite liKely to
know it to be. A vast majority of the Rus-
sian peasants—and they constitute the bulk
of the population—are far more religious
than the late general-secretary of the water-
side union ever pretended to be, and 90 per
cent, of them are innocent of blood-guiltiness.
But they have come under a form of govern-
ment which the civilised nations—the nations
with the real money, the railway engines,
the farming implements and so on—will not
stomach, and they are suffering accordingly,
* * *
Considering the libraries that have been
written in every language on political eco-
nomy and kindred subjects, it is interesting
to remark how comparatively little it appears
to matter to the general welfare of a nation
what form of government it works under.
The vitally necessary things are that it
adheres to a few broad principles, such as the
need for a fixed standard of national and
commercial probity, and the admission of the
competitive spirit which is as much a part of
our human nature as the desire to eat. In
a country like Australia a Labor Govern-
ment supplants a Conservative Administra-
tion amidst loud threats of consequential
doom from the ousted office-holders. Given
equal administration, nothing material hap-
pens. The Laborites are thrown out in their
turn. The country earns its living much as
before. In Europe, during the half-century
of change which followed the Paris Com-
mune, every reformer’s nostrum was tried
somewhere at one time or another without
either adding vastly to the happiness of
those concerned or doing the latter any par-
ticular damage. Pure communism was tried
in. Britain, America and elsewhere on the
principles laid down by Robert Owen and
before him by Fourier. The little communi-
ties faded out despite the fact that many of
them were buttressed by strong religious
principles. The anti-capitalists returned to
the competitive life unharmed but for the
shattering of their ideals. At the opposite
end of the scale Spencerian individualism
was given a reasonable trial. True, Spencer
never saw all government abolished save
that represented by the law courts and the
police, which was his particular notion of the
way to bring' hapniness to mankind. But
England in, say, Disraeli’s last Prime Min-
istership . was as nearly anti-socialist as
anyone might wish. That the policy did not
produce a paradise may be judged from the
tact that a little later came a time when a
British statesman said in the House of Com-
mons : “We are all socialists now,” and no
one denied it. The guilds of the Middle Ages
disappeared ; and to-day a school of theorists
is advocating a return to Guildism. The
war period had its harvest of State
socialism; and the incompetence of
many of the officials who administered
it has produced a revulsion of feeling
everywhere ' .in favor of individualism.
Leninism is merely another, though rather
more complicated, experiment in millennium-
lt rejects a State Church with
the anti-socialists, though it is strong on
State education with the socialists. It hates
the despotism of a Czar or a Parliament, but
it approves of the despotism of an alien
Jew masquerading as the Russian prole-
tariat. It is theoretically pacifist and inter-
nationalist, like the Owenites, but it has
organised an army to protect the integrity
of Russia. Inconsistencies of the sort are.
however, to be found in every political
scheme, new or old, and they have little or
n 0 bearing on the production problem of
themselves. Provided the despotism in
Moscow was in a position to foster manu-
factures, get the trains running, build ships
and export raw materials, and so improve
the national exchange, it w'ould not matter
much to the Russian workers what experi-
ments in government were attempted. But
the vital difference between Bolshevism and
every other political creed, and the point
which distinguishes its communism from
that of Plato, the Early Christians, the
Paraguay settlers and all others is the
admitted fact that if successful in Russia
it is to be spread by the sword over the rest
of the world. The Bolshevik says: “Be my
or I ,ywill cute your throat.” The
rest of the y.wpHd. vvliich does not desire
brotherhood' oijHpfach Terms and has no in-
tention' Of 'being coerced by anv political
Maitomets, has adopted an obvious means
of discouragement. And anv other people
who are rash enough to deliver similar ulti-
matums may rely on being disciplined along
the same lines, self-preservation being the
first law of all Governments.
, No country can afford to be abandoned by
civilisation less than Australia. Like Rus-
sia it should be self-supporting; but iu
practice it is not. Being a land of vast
distances it requires a complex transport
system by land and sea. A transport failure
would mean, as in Russia, starvation for
thousands. In other respects Russia is
much more favorably situated. It is too
big to be effectively invaded. It possesses
an enormous population and the means and
material for the manufacture of guns and
munitions. This country exists, nationally,
by the grace of anti-Bolshevik Britain, inas-
much as it does not own one modern capital
ship, nor even a dock capable of taking one:
nor a population large enough to resist an
unchecked invasion ; nor arms nor ammuni-
tion for such a population if it was ever
acquired. The Commonwealth is not only
unable to afford to talk Bolshevism itself; it
is bound to feel apprehensive at the spec-
tacle of the doctrine being advocated in the
United Kingdom. Let the outcast creed be
once established there and the situation of
Australia will automatically beapme as
perilous as that of Kent.. The world of
capitalism, which is the world of organisa-
tion and wealth and resulting strength, has
a method as logical as it is effective in
this matter. To the would-be destroyer it
says: “Make money and gather power some-
where else if you propose to use such assets
against me. But if at any time you should
decide to end your doctrinaire hunger-strike
say so, and the business blockade will be
lifted.” And that is the real argument
against, the adoption of the new Russian
superstition. It may have desirable features.
Every reform that was ever mooted has
something of the sort. But the price is too
big. It is national suicide.
OFFICIALDOM IN EMPIRE
POLITICS.
These two things are notable about the
British Empire: (1) Wherever self-govern-
ment exists there also is loyalty to the Crown,
the Union Jack, cricket, the Navy, and all
else that symbolises England; (2) wherever
dt is absent a demand for it arises, varying
in intensity from a vague discontent, the
outcome of humiliation, envy and sucn-like
emotions, to a tierce hatred of the Imperial
tm, expressing itself often in open warfare.
Before self-government has been granted
the Conservatives (including always bo per
cent, of the official classes) fear it, or ahect
to do so. as soon as it materialises they
hnd it an excellent thing and give it their
hearty support, and try to secure billets
under it. In Australia to-day our most
enthusiastic imperialists are soldiers of high
rank, Governors and the members of their
stall's, ahd wealthy British tourists. About
the middle .of last century such people were
the strongest opponents of Responsible Gov-
ernment here —as they were in Canada dur-
ing the Confederation debates of the ’sixties,
and gs they were throughout the Empire
when the Campbell-Bannerman Adminis-
tration first talked of giving the Boers Home
Rule.'
* * * *
The objectors to every new instalment of
self-government that is proposed for any part
of the Empire not only belong largelv to
the same class-party; thev also rely on
the same argument to defeat each fresh case
for freedom which presents itself. The men
who were responsible for the Stamp Act
which cost England the American colonies
were the political ancestors of those who
later opposed the Canada Bill and still later
tried to deny any kind of autonomy to the
colonies of Australia. They claimed that
any part of the Empire which was not held
nrml.y in the grip of Downing-street officials
would drop off from the parent tree “like
rotten fruit,” with disastrous economic
and strategic results to the people of
Britain. And so it is to-day. The
official class claimed to be in Mesopotamia
as lately as last year “as a necessary
means of safeguarding the Indian frontier.”
the British taxpayers had to find
±80,000,000 per annum for several years to
pay for a precaution which the Lloyd
George Government, by its recent action in
evacuating Mesopotamia, has indicated was
never necessary. Scottish Home Rule Bills
have been introduced into the House of Com-
mons six times in the past 20 years. On
each occasion three-fourths of the Scottish
members voted for the measure, but the Con-
servative objection was that a self-governing
Scotland, would be a strategic menace to
the Empire. And that, of course, has always
been the master-argument against Irish
Home Rule. “She lies across our seaways,”
cried former Home Ruler Lloyd George
last week amidst cheers from every Tory in
the audience. As though every country did
not lie across some country’s path, and as
though the way to make a community harm-
less was to make it angry!
* * * *
The war showed every man with an eye
in his head the tendency latent in all officials,
and more especially in military ones, to
confuse the highest and most altruistic patri-
otism with the perpetuation of their own
soft jobs and the jobs held by members of
their family. But when Colonel Smith’s
was taken over by Colonel Brown
nothing happened to the fabric of Empire, nor
did the moving of General .Jones and his
glittering staff from one part of the country
to the other materially affect the march of
Imperial events. In the estimation of those
concerned such changes are of earth-shaking
importance; so if any indication is given
beforehand as to their imminence an earth-
shaking protest is got up, based, of course,
on any reason but the true one. In every
century we thus have dark forebodings and
passionate threats from soldiers, Judges,
bureaucrats, Governors and office-holders of
all descriptions whose positions are men-
aced, together with whatever volume of public
prejudice their energy and abilities are able
to create. But the inevitable reform comes
in spite of them; whereupon they subside,
muttering gloomily; and a new generation
of office-men appears with a vested interest
in maintaining the new order. Full
Dominion status for the Transvaal
Boers seemed a tremendous experiment
two decades ago. It arrived, despite
the .murmurs of the gentlemen who were
administering the country for Downing-
street, and their’ friends and relations in
Britain, and other interested parties. And
it proved to be the solution of a dangerous
Problem. The arrangement worked in
b’Africa, as it has in Canada and Austral-
asia, because it was a sensible business pro-
position. And that is the best hope of an
eventual settlement on amicable lines of the
Irish question—perhaps even of the Indian
one, too. The cold business aspect of the
matter is that Ireland certainly, and India
Probably, cannot afford to be outside the
British. Empire, and Ireland, at any rate,
knows it. In the last year for which’official
figures are availaffie (1919) it sold England
over ±90,000,000 worth of foodstuffs. Its
vast horse-breeding industry depends on Eng-
land ; and without the presence of the sporting
Sassenach from the other side of the Channel
Irish hunting and racing would languish. Its
factories live on the coal of the mainland.
In short, Ireland is wedded by the bonds of
self-interest to England more closely than
the Transvaal or any Australian State ever
was; but it suits the old official caste—true
to its traditions—to stress only the other
features of the case.
“POMPEY” ELLIOTT’S EYE OF
PROPHECY.
One recently Senator and Brigadier-
General Elliott spoke a few candid words
before the Public Questions Society of Syd-
ney Uni. about the habit of nations that
are too accessible to each other of getting into
I. H mv • , vi ui gciujjg uuo
n°_ts. ims happens especially if one has
something that the other wants badly, such
as goldfields, diamond-fields, oil-fields, a Kiel
or Panama or Suez isthmus that is handy
for a canal, a port like Fiume or a wide
area in which an overcrowded race can ex-
pand and thus save itself from arrested de-
velopment. If the nation that owns the nro-
perty isn t able to defend it single-handed
or isnt a valuable member of a defensive
league (valuable m the sense that it has
a good force to lend the other fellow when
his trouble comes), the trouble comes. It
may arrive suddenly without much scheming
or it may arrive suddenly without much de-’
sign and simply because it was coming. People
of British descent recognise that they aiv
m Australia because they took the “plane
from a weaker Power; that they are in
other places for the same reason; and that
most nations Weren’t born where they now
stand but migrated from somewhere and
ousted somebody. They don’t expect human
nature to change, or other nations to be liess
sinful than the Anglo-Saxon, especially as
he has never regarded his capture of Aus-
tralia as a crime, it being done without
undue ferocity and according to the rules of
the game. He conferred the blessings of his
civilisation on this country, and if any other
race which lias a civilisation to confer is
supposed to think of doing likewise it isn’t
impolite to mention the matter. Nor is it
impolite to say, yndisguisedly. that we should
prepare to give the owner of the new civil-
isation a hot time when he does arrive.
“There will be war and an attempted in
vasion,” said “Pompky” Ej.liott cheerfully
and without any anger except at the traitors
and dupes inside the gates. He suggested
famine in Japan as a possible deciding
factor-—the one that might fix the date of a
great movement. The same thing has started
a great movement in Russia, but this
would be an organised, disciplined, pur-
poseful one, not a tumult of starving
wretches armed with clubs and bricks.
And what are our prospects of meeting
it? .The Labor party in Britain is grow-
ing in size, and also growing more in favor
of peace at any price. With the idea that
India is a ponderous nuisance, that it and
the Boer provinces and Ireland are all wrong
from the point of the new doctrine of “self-
determination,” and that Canada is drifting
Unct.e S.A.M-wards, there is in it little of the
old Imperial fervor. Australia is known to
the British toiler largely through the medium
of Australia’s own pacifists, who are strongly
against giving any assistance to Britain in
any future trouble. That, naturally, doesn't
arouse much enthusiasm in our cause. In
any case, the British navy is weaker in pro-
portion it has been at any time since
Louis XVI. was king in France, while Aus-
tralia’s own defences are feeHe and its ships
obsolete. And at this ill-selected time
the Australian Government looks on with
indifference at the establishment, within its
territory, of a Labor Council of Action which
in an early manifesto announced
The necessity for first overthrowing the capitalis-
tic class State —press, police, naval and military—
which rest upon the economic foundations of capi-
talism and function directly in their class interests.
If quite a third-rate invader arrived in the
midst of these weltering polysyllables the
defence might be somewhat weak, even if
the Council of Action didn’t meet him on
the beach with a bouquet and an invitation
to assist in overthrowing the Australian
“press, police, naval and military.”
* * * *
And while we are doing so little to meet
the possible, even probable, invasion, what
are we doing to avert it? There is a weak
sovereign power whose dominions are mostly
divided among six vassals, one or two of
whom are big enough to almost disregard the
sovereign. His own demesne, the exposed
Northern Territory, is empty, undefended
and neglected. Papers of the true local type
like the Age treat with contumely the idea
of building a strategic railway across Aus-
tralia to make, the Territory more defensible
and more habitable, and to show that this
country really claims it, really owns it, and
really means to keep it. The Age now goes
so far as to suggest that the Commonwealth
estate should be abandoned in three pieces—
one to Westralia, one to Queensland, and
one to S. Australia. The last gave up the
whole place on condition that the trans-
Australian railway was built, so it would
merely get back a fragment of what it gave
and the wreck of a broken promise. This would
make the three biggest and most thinly
peopled States still bigger and more unman-
ageable and less defensible. There is still
not one State capital in all the tropical
section of this continent by way of assert-
ing ownership and providing a centre of
population. Minister Poynton has drawn a
miserable picture of the Commonwealth’s
own vast Northern Territory, and others
have drawn worse ones. It is an iso-
lated place where boys demanded £2
a day and men £2O a week for little work
till most industries, • barring Government
ones, closed; a place that ship captains
avoid to the best of their ability, and which
the scanty white population began to aban-
don quite a while ago. The idea of annexing
it to Australia by a railway being apparently
abandoned in the scuffle about Austin Chap-
man’s Federal capital and such-like trifles
down south, and there being every sign that
things in the North are to remain as they
are till they get worse, there is little appa-
rent reason why the Japanese whom “Pom-
pey” Ei.liott sees with the eye of prophecy
shouldn’t begin to take account of the place.
The earth has always belonged to him who
could take it and been lost to him who let it
slide. The rule is so well established that
the loser has only a right to complain if the
winner is needlessly coarse and violent. Even
then it matters little that he does comnlain.
Nor has the nation ■which is accused of any-
thing so ordinary as a design on its neigh-
bor’s estate any cause for anger save in the
sense that it is annoying to arouse suspicion
in advance.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A New World-Peril.
“ ’Flu” sounds a warning :
Ominous is the news that malignant cholera has
arrived in Russia along' with the famine. Cholera
is endemic in Asia and at intervals of 10 or 20
years, sometimes longer, it is carried to Muscovy,
a semi-Oriental country with primitive notions of
sanitation, by the land route. When that happens
the contagion generally spreads to Western and
Southern Europe and North Africa, and thence to
countries beyond the seas. Almost every decade of
the last century had its cholera pandemic. In the
’fifties the disease raged with special virulence in
North and South America. In the ’eighties there was


an outbreak which cost 250,000 lives in Europe
(120,000 of them in Spain) and 50,000 in America.
In 1592 there were 601,000 victims in India and
288,000 in Russia; in 1893 41,000 in Russia, 14,000
in other European countries, 70,000 in Persia and
50,000 in Arabia; in 1894 30,000 m Russia and
8000 in Galicia. . .
That was the last great European epidemic, and
the present visitation is not likely to be any less
virulent, however circumscribed its area, because
there has been an intermission of 26 years. The
longer the interval between outbreaks, generally
speaking, the severer the incidence of the disease.
An ill-nourished and insanitary population will suffer
far more than a well-nourished population with a
fairly efficient system of public health. In Russia
and some of the neighboring countries the quality
of the water and drainage services, never very high,
has deteriorated since 1914. There is a shortage of
doctors and medicines ; the hospitals are understaffed
and ill-equipped; in the general disorder and slack-
ness filth and flies abound. And hot baths being
an almost unpurchaseable luxury owing to the fuel
supply having given out, the hungry and shivering
Muscovite has almost abandoned the habit of wash-
ing his emaciated body. In the gospel according
to Karl Marx there is no mention of hospitals, public
health departments, drainage, street-sweeping, rub-
bish-tips or- soap and water, and to the hairy and
untidy rulers of New Russia nothing matters if it
isn’t in Marx. Now famine has succeeded to mis-
rule and misery, and, in the grim chant of an
early-Victorian poet, ’“the cholera comes; the cholera
comes!” In the circumstances it will be surprising
if Russia escapes a repetition of the horrors of
1830 (when “despite the strictest precautions the
disease spread rapidly through the whole empire,
causing great mortality and exciting consternation
everywhere”), of 1847, 1855, 1869, 1892 and 1893.
Perhaps the western nations and Germany will have
to place the stricken country in quarantine to save
themselves.
Cholera is a deadlier scourge than the influenza
which smote the world in 1918 and 1919. In severe
epidemics it has been known to kill within an hour,
and in Austria-Hungary 29 years ago 57.5 per cent,
of the patients provided work for the undertakers.
In Germany the mortality was 51.3 per cent. (Ham-
burg alone lost 8605 of 16,956 persons attacked),
and in European Russia 45.8 per cent. The disease
is unfamiliar to the present generation of Austra-
lians, but their fathers knew all about it. In
1845 it killed 53,000 persons in England and Wales;
in 1854 20,000, and in 1866 14,380. Distance
alone, as was shown when the influenza raged, would
not save this country if cholera broke out in Europe;
in 1886 the infection was carried from Italy to
the remotest point of South America. Nor would
the climate be any safeguard, for the micro-organism
of cholera flourishes best in high temperatures, and
has a special fondness for low-lying, imperfectly-
drained cities sprawling about a river. If Australia
were visited, Brisbane, with it's rudimentary sewerage
system (it is certainly better off for water than
it used to be), would be in particularly bad case.
But none of the other capitals would be exempt from
danger: indeed, one of the many objections to the
massing of nearly half the population in six over-
grown coastal capitals is that it widens the oppor-
tunities of imported pestilences.
Cholera is one of the water-borne diseases, and
there is no better preventive than a pure water-
supply. This has been proved over and over again.
The Hamburg outbreak, already referred to, was
traced to water from the Elbe, which was distributed
to the Hamburgers in the unpurified state; at Altona,
a contiguous town which filtered its water through
sand, the mortality was slight. In some cases where
the dividing line between Hamburg and Altona was
the middle of a street, the Hamburg side was rotten
with cholera and the Altona side was clean. The
disease is also spread by bad drains, flies, soiled
clothes and rags and sewage-fed shellfish. Since
the British went in for scientific sanitation they
have managed to keep it in check. Australia in this
respect is far below the British level. The possi-
bility of cholera reaching the Commonwealth and
establishing itself in favorable places—-and once
established it takes years to shift —must therefore
not be overlooked. The local authorities should be
instructed to see to their water-supplies and sani-
tary systems, their drains, back yards, manure
depots, rubbish tips and so forth. Samples should
be taken, and analyses made, of the drinking-water
carried in foreign ships, and the medical inspection
of passengers from Baltic, Levantine, Indian and
North Asian ports should be as strict as can be. In
the conditions that obtain over a great part of
Europe anything may happen. Out of Russia, in
which the machinery of civilisation has virtually
broken down —Russia, with its hordes of hungry
half-naked, 1 dirty and despairing people—may come
a pestilence the like of which humanity has not
experienced for centuries. And Australia had enough
of imported pandemics two years ago, when 11,989
citizens went under to influenza and the authorities
were caught desperately unprepared.
Millions of Notes and Henry Ford.
That unsound expedient, the commandeer-
ing of the money of Australian banks in
return for £IOOO Federal notes which bear
no interest, grows worse in peace-time,
though it was professedly a war measure. On
July 25 the quantity nominally in circula-
tion, though actually they do not circulate,
was £23,995,000. That was a growth of
£4,457,000 in seven months. The banks
have found a certain use for them in settling
accounts with each other, but they don’t
want a special, unrealisable, irredeemable
poker-chip currency for that purpose. Dur-
ing 1911, 1912, 1913 and most of 1914 they
settled their mutual accounts with real
money. That was before this unreal or
diseased money was invented. Among other
features of the case that present themselves
are these:—.
(1) The people require fewer notes than they
did, perhaps because borrowing, strikes, price-fixing
and unwise legislation are making them poorer.
Between March and July the notes in actual circu-
lation fell from £26,952,958 to £22,930,592.
(2) The notes held by the banks increased to
£35,209,420. Of this £23,995,000 was, as already
mentioned, paper that the banks didn’t want and
could make no profit out of —a sort of compulsory
gratis loan. To that or about that ridiculous extent
(nearly 24 millions out of 58 millions) the issue'
was inflated.
(3) The inflation is now a million more than the
active circulation.
(4) If the whole note issue ( £58,140,012) was a
legitimate one and represented the public needs
only, then the gold reserve (which is £24,037,643,
or £4l 6s. 9d. per cent.) is large and wasteful, and
a few millions might be used to reduce foreign lia-
bilities.
(5) If it isn’t intended to redeem the £IOOO
notes at all, then the gold reserve of £24,037,643
stood, at July 25, to protect a msre £34,145,012 of
circulation, and that, being £7O 7s. lid. per cent.,
is absurdly wasteful.
(6) At the same time, if the thousand-pounders
were redeemed out of the reserve there would be
only £42,643 of gold left as a protection against
£34,145,012 of notes. That would be less than
half a crown per £IOO. It would also be a
tragedy.
(7) If by any chance it isn’t proposed to redeem
the inflation at any time, the news might as well
be broken to the banks, so that they could see about
writing off capital and reserves.
(8) If it is proposed to redeem or do something
definite with them, some information might be gi' en
as a matter of public interest.
Meanwhile the existence of this peculiar
currency puts the bunks in a false position.
Every few days somebody howls about the
vast sums which the banks are in. a position
to advance in order to ease this or that
situation, and about the extent to which
they should “make credit available. And
when they don’t do the impossible when
they don’t lend the millions of “money
which consists of the Commonwealth s non-
interest-bearing IOU’s —they are accused
of being malignant partners in some vague
“conspiracy.” The Federal Government
ought to clean up this mess. If Minis-
ters want to know how it can be done
they might ask their representative m
the TJ.S.A. to tell them how people like
Henry Ford got rid of their very similar
difficulties. Ford told the N. York Times
recently (July 23)
Back in 1919 we had borrowed $70,000,000 on
notes with which to buy out all other interests.
Of this we had paid back $37,000,000, leaving
$33,000,000 still to pay and falling due on Aoril
18. Then because of adjustments pending we still
had the final instalment of the 1920 Federal income-
tax to pay $18,000,000 due to the Government.
All in all, between January 1 and April IS. we
ha<l to meet obligations totalling $58,000,000. And
we had only $20,000,000.
When the time came Ford had .587,000,000
to meet his required $58,000,000; and the
Commonwealth Commissioner in U.S.A. may
begin to earn his pay if he tells the Gov-
ernment how Foro did it. Three words will
really tell the tale —“liquidation and econ-
omy.” As to the economy:—
We cut the office forces from 1074 to 528 per-
sons. Telephones were cut about 60 per cent.
Interesting but useless systems of statistics were
abolished, as well as the forms made necessary by
them. We went through the shops in the same
way....A comparison of our operating costs before
and after the housecleaning is really a startling
lesson in what manufacturers can do if they look
sharp to economy.
In November, 1920, costs per motor-car, not
including material, averaged $146 a car. In
June, 1921, they were $93 a car. It looks
to me,” said Ford, at the end of his story,
“that we are at the beginning ot a long
period of prosperity.” The Federal Govei n-
ment is in much the same position that 1 ort)
was. It can clean up in much the same
way. It can have the same sort of pros-
pects. Or it can drive deeper into extrava-
gance and lay such burdens upon the people
that industry will be crushed. Few things
are surer than that that will be the story
the future will tell if the utterly unpractical
Hughes is given his head. It is time the
bankers of Australia made themselves heard
on this question.
Where the Compass Has Only One
Point.
The rather pathetic appeal of Premier
Theodore to the A.W.U. and other fierce
organisations to rally in the name of free-
dom against the revolutionary Beds who are
in practical possession of the North Queens-
land sugar-fields hasn’t, so far, produced any
visible results. Considering that the A.W.U.
is largely responsible for the ruinous work-
stoppages all over Australia an appeal to it
against a crowd that is a shade madder
than itself is like relying on the Goth
for protection against the Hun. That method
seldom pans out as well as relying on one-
self. In various places the O.P>.U. or revolu-
tionist crowd has got ahead and taken charge,
and if it is allowed to develop without inter-
ference some still wilder push will get ahead
of the 0.8. U. The essential is that the
teaching, preaching or disseminating of revo-
lutionary doctrine in Australia should be
declared treason against the people—the
people being the only institution against
which treason is really treason and be
treated as such. Should the treatment fail
it is at least better to fail than not .to try.
There are two places in the world where
there is only one point of the compass in-
stead of the orthodox 32. At the North Pole
—the top of the map—the one point is south,
which, for the person who has arrived there,
is downward or backward. When a com-
munity has got to the point of giving every
adult citizen or citizeness the same share in
the management of things, regardless of birth
or wealth, it has got as far as the machinery
of self-government can go. There is no track
for the revolutionist to take except down-
ward and backward. He may set out to vio-
lently and murderously deprive the majority
of its share of power by raising an armed
minority against it. (The revolutionists
must be a minority or they wouldn’t need to
use violence, and in the absence of a privi-
leged class there is nothing save the majo-
rity to use violence against.) It may set to
work to manufacture a new plural voting
class. Or it may deprive the majority of its
vote, or the value of its vote, by strikes and
terrorism. The transfer of much of the
reality of power from the legislatures, in
the making of which men and women are
equal so far as the law can make them, to
unionist bodies in which the unionist s wife
has no voice, is in itself a movement to put
half the population back into a state of ser-
vitude. Whatever the means employed, all
the revolutionary tracks are back tracks
leading towards the rule of the few and the
re-establishment of a privileged caste. One
hesitates, no doubt, to demand repression m
the name of liberty, to limit freedom m free-
dom’s cause. But there are plainly limits
beyond which “free speech” is a crime. W e
would not allow anybody to openly advocate
the murder of, say. the Judges or the Bishops,
or the burning of the banks or the trades-
halls. And the teaching of revolution when
there is only the nation to revolt against is
crime in the same sense as Fagin s academy
for the training of juvenile thieves, onlyTt
is crime in a greater degree, for the revolu-
tionary school is a training place for mur-
derers' and tyrants as well as thieves Any
one who in Australia signs himself Yours
for the revolution” convicts himself of these
things on his own evidence. So does any-
body who openly subscribes to the doctrine
of “the workers uniting in one class-conscious
organisation to take and hold the means of
production, distribution and exenange by
revolutionary industrial and political action
and such-like fulminations. Human liberty
is worth fighting for —it is one of the few
things that are worth fighting for. I he
purely defensive fight or passive resistance
game is a poor business. And if, by action
in defence of liberty, revolution is cut out
of the list of possibilities, it will be every-
bodv’s affair to make the best of our free
institutions. At present it is the revolution-
ists’ aim to make the worst of them and
bring them into the greatest possible disre-
pute. Anyone can compile a fairly long list
of members who were apparently sent to
Parliament for that purpose and none other.
Law Reform.
From a table in a dull court: —
Of course it is possible that costs in the Liguori
case, instead of being £6OOO, might, as “Lex” says
(B. 25/8/’2l>. have been reduced to a tenth or a
twentieth of this sum if the legal unions (barristers
and solicitors) were fused into one. Experience in
Maoriland, however, where the professions are not
separated, discounts the probability. Anyway, a
controversy about what might happen to a bill of
costs under certain hypothetical conditions seems
fertile of nothing but guesswork.
To some people it will seem that the direction in
which reform is most needed has been overlooked by
learned brother “Lex.” The leisurely administration
of the thing is a classic example of go-slow in
practice. Three-fourths of the Judges approach the
hearing of causes as a retired merchant might sink
a posthole. All of them approach an appeal prepared
to split hairs to the millionth of an inch. The
waste of time sanctioned by the Courts in irrelevant
cross-examining and blithering addresses to the Bench
is the cause of a monetary loss to litigants that is
each year stupendous. The habit of giving decisions
designed to provoke appeals is with some of them
as shameless as their laziness.
And even where there is the best of intention the
wretched machine moves so slowly that it really
matters nothing whether a Judge is a hesitating
muddler or an alert-minded person ready to do his
work with at least as much energy as Tom Trowell,
Esq., bricklayer. Eight months ago a N.S.W. Judge
started to find out if there had been victimisation
in connection with the settlement of the 1917 railway
strike. He is still finding out. Cost to date: Over
£IO,OOO. As another instance, in 1914 a citizen
died leaving £2500 to build a church and parsonage
at a bay close to Sydney. In 1915 application was
made to the Chief Judge in Equity to divert the
trust to the enlargement of a church in the next
fiay upon the ground that two churches so close
together would be a joke in the eyes of Providence.
Clearly the thing was absurd. But the Judge who
first wrestled with the problem died long before
the last affidavit was filed. For six years the
wretched suit was dragged to and fro. Last week
it was finally settled by Harvey, J., telling the
parties to go away and seek communion with the
Synod and settle the blessed thing among them-
selves! And four wigs bobbed up and said “If
y’Onor pleases,” and all was well.
I should be stoned to death for saying it, no
doubt; but perhaps old Hoiti Grey was on the
right track when he protested against any barrier
being set up against any citizen pleading the cause
of another before the Law. He would have given
every man the right now monopolised by Gent. One.
At any rate, a few dozen truculent slaughtermen and
boilermakers scowling about the premises might be
as much of a stimulus to the Mandarins of our
Courts as the very doubtful recipe of “Lex.”
Pauperism at £414 per Day.
When this glad year was 231 days old a
newspaper paragraph mentioned that so far
as 1921 had gone the pauper relief distributed
at Broken Hill by the Storey Government
amounted to £95,669. That was rather
over £414 per day. The doles to keep the
strike alive began about 13 months ago
almost as soon, in fact, as the dodgy com-
bination took office by the grace of Daniel
Levy —but for the last half of 1920 the sub-
sidy was at the average rate of only £1231
per week, or a little more than £175 daily.
So the place grows more ravenous as it
grows older. It seems to have settled down
in frowsy, Domain-dossing contentment to be
a remittancer to the end of time, provided
its remittance isn’t stopped and the sturdy
vagrant told to get busy. Presumably this
gigantic act of pauperisation was the price of
the late Percival Brookfield’s vote —the
vote that kept John Storey and his dozen
fatted colleagues in office and enabled Honest
John to put up his salary to £2445 a year.
Percival was not a pledged Laborite. In
fact, he got in despite fierce Labor opposi-
tion. So he was at perfect liberty to with-
hold his vote and let the Ministry slither to
non-financial oblivion, unless he got his price,
and he got it. There is no special moral
beauty or unearthly loveliness about this set
of mostly able-bodied people to put them on
the Civil List. They have just got there,
and apparently they are willing to live and
die there—they and their children after them.
They have really less claim to public alms
than the people of Cobar, for Cobar was
Struck by genuine misfortune when the reefs
gave out, while the Hill simply left off work
when the world was full of fair prospects,
and never started again. At the instance
of unproductive parasites it demanded much
more wages, hardly any hours at all, men’s
pav for boys and a few other trifles, and
beyond sticking out its chest it hasn’t labored
since, though the price of everything that
the district produces is still far higher than
it was just before the war. As for the plea
that the isolation of: these people justifies
special treatment, a place that is 328 miles
by rail from Australia’s third-biggest capital,
not much over 200 miles by rail from a good
port, and 60 miles by rail the other way
from a big river, isn’t isolated in the same
sense as Inverell, Moree, Cobar or Bourke.
The whole truth is that the population de-
mands a wage scale and conditions of labor
which the present prices of metals cannot
support: and there is absolutely no more
excuse for keeping them there, if they can
not or will not accept other wages and con-
ditions, than there would be for
ment to pension a manufacturer who couldn’t
make a do of his venture, or a squatter or a
farmer or a gardener who had found that
his patch of soil wasn’t good enough to sup-
port him.- 1
The Destroyers in the North.
From a Queensland sugar-planter: — ,
Premier Theodore has excommunicated the I.
Won’t Woritsi of Bananaland—east ’ them out, in
Hughes’s" tremendous phrase, “like devils out of
swine.” His denunciation is the outcome of the
tragic farce at Innisfail, the centre of the South
Johnstone sugar district in the Far North. At Innis-
fail is a Government sugar-mill, erected at a cost of
half a million. There have been more strikes in that
mill than in all the other Queensland mills put to-
gether. If the manager sacked an incompetent, or
shortened hands, or did anything which failed to
please the A.W.U., a wire would go to the Treasurer
at Brisbane (Theodore was Treasurer), and things
were put right. That is to say, a union secretary
would walk into the manager’s office next day with
a telegram from Brisbane that Bill was to be rein-
stated. No manager ever lasted more than one
season.- To manage a plant worth half a million
and manage the local A.W.U. at the same time
became a job for two men.
This mill is set in the midst of a vast area of
splendid land, much of it undeveloped. It is capable
of treating 150,000 tons of cane in the season, but
the supply was never more than 50,000 tons. The
farmers, who had mortgaged everything they pos-
sessed as a guarantee for the mill, declined, like
Lenin’s peasants, to produce any more. To them
the mill was known as “the I.W.W. mill.’’ The
situation became desperate, and finally Theodore
took a desperate step —he told the last of the batch
of managers that he would really be allowed to
manage. That gave the growers a bit of confidence
in the future, and this season prospects were fairly
bright. Crops were good, prices reasonable, and a
grant of preference to the A.W.U., to be withdrawn
if there was a strike, promised to ensure continuity
of operations in the fields and at the mill. At least
there were optimists who thought so. But the cus-
tomary trouble began with one of the cane-cutting
gangs. It was haled before the industrial magistrate
and fined for breach of contract. The subsequent
proceedings became mixed, so much so that nobody
has been able to disentangle them. To all appear-
ances there was a general strike. But the A.W.U.
said there was no strike; only a little difficulty
with the 1.W.W., which body it repudiated. Hqw-
cver, mill-hands came out, and the mill stopped
crushing, leaving a lot of cane, lying on the ground.
Then the farmers had no doubt about there being a
strike, and a disastrous strike at that. To save their,
cane they left their farms and manned the mill.
Then fires started on the farms. Four of the
extremist section were promptly arrested. This was
something new in the history of the Johnstone; fires
had occurred in previous years, but nobody had ever
been run in before. The A.W.U. decided to take a
ballot as to whether there was to be a strike. The
I.WAV. issued a command that there was to be no
ballot. Police were sent into the district to enable
unionists to vote without violence or intimidation,
but there weren’t enough constables to go round,
and only a fraction voted. Meanwhile the wharf-
lumpers dashed into the controversy and declared
the mill sugar “black.” The A.W.U. countered this
with a proclamation that the pub in which the'
direct-actionists put up was also “black.” Then the
president of the A.W.U. arrived from Brisbane and
his inn was announced to be “black.”
It is a black business altogether. The methods
of these industrial maniacs, the outlook for the
sugar farmers, for Queensland, for the Commonwealth
.—all black. And so things will remain until the
inert majority takes a stand against the demented
blatherskites who are mining Australia and smashes
their nefarious power, once and for all.
«.
The Invisibility of the Obvious.
The comic-opera failure of Prohibition in
the United States becomes almost as hard
to disguise as the failure of Bolshevism in
Russia. Barring professional teetotallers
who have to keep the flag flying and patriots
who feel bound to uphold the purity and
efficiency of their country’s law and admin-
istration, recent travellers hitherward from
Washington’s country have smiled sardoni-
cally when the thing' has been mentioned.
The latest ot them is Premier Storey, who
isn’t the sort to go sleuthing for liquor
or round whom “boot-leggers” would natu-
rally congregate, and he laughed aloud, a
smile being insufficient to express his view
of the position. Now it appears that a
vast number of the special anti-grog detec-
tives have been sacked as not very useful
and impossibly expensive, and the sly-grog-
geries have thrown off some of the veil of
disguise and moved into' more conspicuous
streets. Also, the liquor quotations (there
always were quotations after the first
stunned feeling had worn off) have dropped.
The price per case is almost reasonable.
True, Prohibition still has plenty of friends
—and isn’t likely to lose them.. All the
people who live by evading a law or who get
payment for professing to enforce it, or col-
lect tips for not noticing the breakage of
it, love that law as if it were a brother, and
wish there were more like it. Thus the old
English “Freetrader,” who was simply a
smuggler and evader of the Protective Cus-
toms law, was madder than a wet hen when
what is now called Freetrade was mentioned.
And the stalwart Prohibitionist will swear
by his paradise amid a sea of grog just
as the hard-shell Communist will attest to
the triumph of Bolshevism even though an
enraged Soviet nation hangs all the Com-
missaries on a sour-apple tree. With the
aid of the “moonshiner” and “boot-legger”
vote and the police influence, the anti-drink
policy may have quite a long run. Now
and then stern believers will make a spas-
modic effort to suppress the groggeries. and
will realise how hard the most visible things
are to find. That is shown by the betting-
shops of Sydney. They are illegal, and the
eye of the law is worn out and swelled up
with looking for them.; also, the boots of
the statute are worn off its feet seeking
them in the most unlikely places. Yet the
butcher’s shop is almost the only one where
you can’t back a horse. Quite a library
might be written on the Invisibility of tb*
Obvious.
’Berra A.gain.
Dear Bulletin. —There are these peculiar
features about the case which its advocates
try to make out for Canberra, down in
Austin Chapman’s political country; the
metropolis in two. pieces. 140 miles apart,
the seaside piece being too small for a port:
practically surrounded by the territory of
ope State; situated alongside a branch line
which has been losing money for 34 years;
situated itself on a branch of that branch
line: short of minerals and water-pow-er;
and located amid a group of cold-weather
capitals in the extreme south-east to further
emphasise the theory that Tropical Australia
(in which there are no capitals) isn’t White
Australia at all. but a hot dependency or
colony to be ruled from outside because
white politicians can’t live in it: —
(1). It is alleged that there isn’t and can’t be
any opposition to Canberra except frbm Melbourne,


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
ASSETS EXCEED £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
and for the benefit of Melbourne, and from people
> who have sordid material or political interests in
or about Melbourne, as distinct, of course, from
disinterested people who have political interests in
or around the Eaen-Monaro electorate. This view,
I presume, is based on the assumption that nobody
can, by any human possibility, have a patriotic
desire to do something for the good of Australia.
Said view has possibly some connection with the
vulgar old saying about measuring other people’s
corn by one's own bushel. The Melbourne yarn
d rops up as usual in the West Sydney election con-
test.
(2) It is alleged that the Canberra capital was
the condition on which alone N.S.W. accepted Fed-
eration. Canberra isn't mentioned in the Constitu-
tion any more than Tamworth or Armidale. And
according to the terms ot the contract on which, at
the instance of the N.S.W. Premier and Parliament,
the Federal Convention was created, N.S.W. accepted
the original Constitution by which the Federal capi-
tal site could he in any State. The N.S.W. Legisla-
ture of that day, by a mean and .shabby breach of
faith, nullified the popular acceptance of the original
Constitution and got a fresh deal, including a special
concession with which the people's elected Convention
had nothing to do. But that doesn’t alter the fact
that any statement to the effect that the people of
V.S.W. insisted on the Canberra concession is a lie.
The statement only suggests that the middle-age of
the Federal capital movement is worthy of its youth.
(3) It is alleged that N.S.W. is clamoring for
Canberra note. Considering how much the same hand-
ful of battlers turn up at one skimpy' meeting after
another, I hardly think the bulk of the N.S.W.
people take the trouble to know Canberra from a
crow.
This is the lirst recorded chance in history
to (-rente a metropolis for a whole continent,
with one language, one Hag. one color. The
lirst race which has asserted that the tropics
may be a white-man’s land has to select
the headquarters from which to maintain
that unusual proposition. And the selection
should he based on something better and
higher than the glaringly false assertion that
certain people (mostly dead now) of one
State demanded Canberra almost a genera-
tion ago when it only appeared in the gazet-
teer as a hamlet with 1(54 inhabitants.
(N.B. —I may mention that I have no land
or interests at Canberra or any other pos-
sible capital site, nor have I relatives by
marriage or otherwise to my knowledge who
have any, and I don’t expect a Federal or
State or municipal nomination for any place.
I only write this now because the reappear-
ance of the old Canberra business at the
West Sydney election annoys me). —Yours,
etc., James Edmond.
Work.
"L’Fou’’’ has some thoughts about, it:—
The grudging admission of Australian Labor that
it’s better to work than to starve reminds one of
St. Paul's ungracious,, contemptuous reply, “ ’Tis
better to marry than to burn.” Early Christianity
revolting from Pagan licentiousness : Labor st.ill
smarting from the slave-driver’s blows —the attitude
of one is as warped and untenable as that of the
other.
The story goes that man, being under a curse,
was set to earn, his bread by the sweat of his brow.
Not so! .Man groped’ round and made tools and
used them because ho wanted to. Humanity, the
last triumph of evolution, could no more find life-
happiness in an idle paradise than it could as an
ascetic celibate.
Yet a loud churlish element paints labor—work-
as a vampire, an unclean, body- and soul-racking
evil. A necessary evil, perhaps, but to be securely
shackled and shunned as much as possible; to be
performed as a punishment rather than as a natural
function. Early explorers labelled many now pros-
perous, fertile tracts as “Desert” and “Full of
levils” because they knew not the land. So Labor
organisers who know not work paint it as degrad-
ing. O Labor, what crimes are committed in thy
name!
The long-hour bondage of other days may yet be
rivalled in bad results by the bondage of set-time,
iron-ruled shorter hours. Freedom to work may
yet be accounted as much worth fighting for as
religious freedom, haying a vote, or a fair deal in
taxation, or home-rule. For go-slowism as affect-
ing production is not such a menace to the com-
munity as to the individual; through the moral
deterioration oi the go-slower much may happen.
There is more hope of the man who knocks off work
to go home and mend the family boots or tend the
family garden, or qualify for the job higher up, even
spruik for a picture-show, than of him who takes
the 124 hours left by a 44-hour week as a “holiday.”
Shorter hours have come to stay—were urgently
called for in most jobs. But the shorter hours
were needed as a way to more and larger jobs.
Universal training for skilled work is needed; per-
haps vocational training in more than one occupa-
tion. Short hours supply the opportunity. Ilow
often does the enthusiasm of the new broom balance
his want of experience? And square pegs that have
got into round holes would have another chance to
fit their angles. A super-race of craftsmen might
be evolved, each man taking to his chosen calling.
Not work but monotony deadens.
Better that a man give his best to the work in
hand, even if he be exploited or robbed of the
difference between his best and the merest pretence
at work. The exploiter may be worthy of being
crucified; but we crucify ourselves when we become
loafers. For the withering paralysis of work-inhibi-
tion there is scarce hope of cure. We turn in dis-
gust from the Indian monk seeking to acquire merit
by holding an arm in one position till it atrophies.
To short-ration our allowance of work will produce
worse—a degeneration of the mind that is the sup-
port of the body.
♦
Flats.
“House-Agent’s Clerk” tells secrets: —
I see it coming—the tragedy of the tenement
house which is at present called “flats,” though it
will come into its own rightful and.,squalid desig-
nation in time. During the last five years the multi-
plication of the tenement has been marvellous. It
represents three-fourths of the new accommodation
in my district. The desire to put all the population
into one city renders this heaping-up process neces-
sary, l suppose. It makes one foundation and one
roof do the work of three or four or five, and it not
only makes the bit of dust the house stands on do
the work of several bits, but it saves cottage gardens,
and, the garden being often bigger than the cottage,
this is economy. For some reason people put up
with slummy conditions in a flat that would be
abhorrent in a cottage. They even do without a
kitchen, and have instead a “kitchenette” with a
girlette in it because it isn't big enough to hold a
whole real girl.
There was money in the flat-building business at
first. For one thing taxes were different then.
THE HAPPY STEERSMAN.
“The important point in my announcement was that the supply of loan money for the two following
years was assured; the rate of interest and the exact date of issue are secondary considerations.”
—John Storey.
THE NERVOUS PASSENGER: “But, Johnny, won't there he a terrible smash at the bottom?"
JOHN THE JOYRIDER: “ Don't worry about the finish. Think of the wonderful ride before
we get there."
Thu flats cost a deuce of a lot, but then each rat-
hole in it fetched a deuce of a rent (£1 per room
per week often), while the famine in rat-holes lasted.
So fierce competition set in. Many were fearful
run-em-ups, for any sort of incompetent builder was
employed as being better than none, and if he forgot
the mortar or even the bricks it wasn’t safe to tell
him so, lest he should leave. There was a race, in
fact, to get the rattletraps ready and catch the wily
tenant.
One building I know was put up by Simpkins,
who got in early on the game. He sublet the whole
thing unfurnished to Mrs. Jobkins, who had sold out
a profitable business and wanted a quiet money-
making investment. Mrs. Jobkins was liable for
repairs as well as for a heavy rent. She furnished
partly for cash and partly on terms. With the first
wet spell the rain came in, and there was a gay
and riotous morning when Mrs. Jobkins was missing,
the sodden mausoleum havflig eaten up her little
fortune, and Simpkins was fighting with Biffkins,
the furniture man, for first claim on the sticks —
much deteriorated by rain. It was impossible to re-
cover damages from the contractor, for there was
none, it being a day-labor job. Simpkins bought a
new roof, and manages the place himself now; but it
has never quite recovered its good name, or quite
lost its fish-like, tomb-like, ghost-like smell.
A second place I know was also sublet to a san-
guine woman with savings. She went the same finan-
cial road, but she isn’t missing. Her address is the
hospital, because she took things too seriously.
Another place, was third in a race in which six
flats started—thatistosay.it was the third to be fin-
ished, but there wasn’t much between any of them.
A blanket would have covered the lot, for they
arrived on an overflatted market almost abreast.
Briggs, the owner, let this place empty to Brayharh,
who should have known better. He realised that or
got tired and sublet to a pair of young people (sis-
ters, I suppose) of the kind who look as if they had
just won a big sweep prize or lost a rich uncle, and
had all the bright summer world before them. They
have furnished the place, and because they are nice
folk 1 hope they did it entirely on credit and kept
uncle’s legacy intact. Then they sat down to wait
fov sub-sub-tenants, so that they could satisfy Buev-
hard and he could pay Briggs. So far thev have
had one tenant, and she left because she couldn't
stand the loneliness. Possibly sin- went into a cor-
vent for excitement.
Incidentally, my boss latclv sold the well-known
Battleaxe Flats for the fourth time. They- are always
on the market after heavy rain, for they are post-
sensed with seven devils of leakage, and no repairs
seem to get at the root of the trouble. Not poppy
nor mandragoras nor all the drowsy syrups in the
world will make Battleaxe Flats a place for sound
sleep after the third day of a wet spell, though rum
helps a little and brandy isn’t bad. The mug was
a man named BrownbeaK. It happened that one
of the tenants had once been sold some mining shares
by Brownbeak. When he heard the name of the
new landlord he waited for the next rains, and then,
instead of simply asking for repairs, he rooted out
every available legal and sanitary authority to in-
spect. The building was run up years ago by
Breathless, a well known building speculator of
those days, so it is old, as flats go. I expect it will
be condemned.
After another year or two of this game what I don’t
know about flats —-the building, letting, leaking, sub-
letting, sub-sub-letting, and time-payment furnish-
ing of them, also the grass-widows (to say nothing
of men with grass-wives) who live in them —won’t
be worth knowing.
The Argus, always quick to plead the cause
of its clients, and fierce in resisting the
assumption that any other class can rise
superior in any department, moral or
material, has declared against Abthu •
Streeton’s demand for better represent
tion of artists, sculptors and architects h
connection with the nation’s war memorial
and these were the words it said:
The people who inspired the idea of the mem<,>
and who will find the money for its erection, iim ■
have the first and the last word on what i-’ p,
done.
The cheeky assumption is that the people
as a whole, would consider themselves better
represented in a matter dealing with art bv
bacon-lords, tea-merchants and cheese-
mongers than by artists. Even if this wer-
so, the use of the city streets is not open
to every Tom and Dick. Citizens ate not
allowed to build as they please, but must
submit to what is assumed to be higher
authority. This memorial is to stand in'th-
at reet to be a beauty and a joy, or an encum-
brance and an eyesore, and it is absurd m
assume that, while a man may not build an
oyster saloon without the permission 0 f tin-
expert authorities, a number of them, with
out experience, judgment, taste or training,
may inflict the metropolis with a hug-
memorial built in accordance with their
limited idea of what a national memorial
should be.
“D. Jay”: At present there are few white
men who know anything of the passages
through the reef-strewn waters between our
continent and New Cuinea, but they are
well-known to llie Jap. I have sailed these
seas tor some years, and have met luggers
manned entirely by Japs, threading their
way through some of the intricate by-paths,
even on the darkest nights, when most whites
woujd hesitate even to try. If our White
Australia policy is ever to he anything hot
a, farce, then something needs to In l done and
soon. The Jap has gradually been getting
his griji on the pearling industry, till now
he can practically make his own terms. Ib-
is allowed to go to the islands of the Strait
and to the mainland recruiting, and that re
eruiting is assisted by his open assertion
that he will one day be boss here, and the
bluff works. T. 1). Chataway’s suggestion
(B. 12/5/’2l) is an excellent way out, and
an early start should be made in introducing
the white diver. I would recommend, how-
ever, that Thursday Island be the head-
quarters on this side of Australia, and not
some southern port. Climatic conditions in
the island are nearly perfect, infinitely better
than in many of the coastal towns to the
south. There are a number of married
white couples who were born and bred there,
and there is nothing wrong with their health
or that of their children. The Bulletix
went to some pains (24/3/’2l) to show
statistically- that life in the tropics is not
detrimental to white women and children; s ()
why fix headquarters which yvould entail the
trouble and expense of annual migrations?
The pearling- fleets do not lay up for any
length of time during the nor’-west m-»-
sdon—they are mostly occupied then in refit-
ting and recruiting. White men can do the
diving in these waters; there is not the
least doubt of it. I know- several who have
done it. Certainly the scheme is worth try-
ing, and would most surely be a first step
towards making our front door safe.
♦
The lectureships in Medicine and Surgery
at Sydney and Melbourne, after exist-
ing for years, during which they have
been highly successful in training hundreds
of medical students. have been abol-
ished under somewhat different circum-
stances. In each case the innovations
introduced, or to be introduced, are progres-
sive and in accordance with the spirit of the
times. Sydney, as soon as it had sufficient
funds, converted the lectureships into profes-
sorships at £llOO per annum, with pickings,
each professor being allowed to see patients
at his rooms, and elsewhere in consultation
with other doctors. Melbourne, on the other
hand, in farewelling its lecturers in Medi-
cine and Surgery— Maudsi.ey and F. D.
Bird, after a service of 13 and 25 years
respectively—has decided to adopt a scheme
similar to the one advocated by Baron Daw-
son in his Cavendish lecture oil “The Future
of the Medical Profession,” delivered in
1918. His remarks chiefly referred to the
management of hospitals, and he advocated,
“team work,” which was such a success din-
ing the war, especially in Sir Robert Jones’s
department. “Bart’s” and other leading hos-
pitals promptly adopted the proposed system.
Under it the Director of a Medical De-
partment will have a “team” in which will
be included a bacteriologist, a radiologist, a
chemist, a surgeon, and possibly a dentist
and an ophthalmic physician. Melbourne is to
have a chairman in Medicine and one in Sur-
gery, each of whom will have a “team” of
assistants who will lecture on special sub-
jects. Medicine, for instance, may have lec-
turers in infectious diseases, tuberculos : s
etc. Surgery will be similarly subdivided. Of
the two schemes the Melbourne one appears
to be the better, since in these days no mini
can expect to grapple successfully with all
the complexities of either medicine or sur
gery. Certainly it does away largely with
the personal element which counts for s-
much in education, but the net gain to th<-
practitioner, and to the public, ought to be
great.


DORR PATENTED MACHINES
FOR THE
MECHANICAL WASHING, REMOVAL, RECOVERY, CLASSI-
FICATION OR TREATMENT OF FINELY-DIVIDED SOLIDS
SUSPENDED IN LIQUIDS.
DESIGNED BY THE DORR COMPANY, ENGINEERS,
NEW YORK, DENVER, LONDON, MEXICO.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
DORR PATENT AGITATOR.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
Electrical and General Engineers,
10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Under the preferential or proportional
system there isn’t the slightest need for pre-
selection to prevent a party losing on a split
vote. There is no split vote. No matter
how many candidates of one party go to
the poll the party’s choice of winning isn’t
diminished one whit. The only reason why
the pre-selection game is kept up is that
it enables the big bully or the clever under-
ground engineer to get all other applicants
for the party vote declared bogus and
accursed. There are 30,683 voters in West
Sydney, which has always been a gift to
Labor. By the votes of 668 against 667.
at a ballot taken without any of the legal
precautions against manipulation which
accompany the official poll, the gift goes to
Bill Lambert, the Boanerges of the C'ty
Council. Every proportional system should
be accompanied by the disqualification of pre-
selected candidates.
We have in this young democracy got be-
yond all the old nonsense about heredi-
tary legislators. Nobody becomes a peer
and entitled to say “No” to the people’s
“Yes” merely because he is somebody’s son.
The Labor party is—or, at least, used to be
when there vjos a Labor party—strongest
on this subject. But even it can’t apparently
get away from the idea that there is virtue
in being somebody’s brother. Among 10
men selected by the N.S.W. Labor Caucus
for nomination to the life membership of the
Leg. Council are a brother of John Storey
and a brother of MeGirr; and, though the
McGirr brother is a little known in politics,
all that is forthcoming about John Storey’s
brother is that he is a brass-finisher em-
ployed at Cockatoo Island.
The pose that “the capitalist” or any per-
son who looks “capitalistic” is a god and
can work miracles, only his cussedness won’t
let him, is sometimes amusing, sometimes
pathetic. An unemployed meeting at Syd-
ney Towm Hall ended with a resolution that
capitalists should be visited, in a city which
is Labor-ruled both in the State sense and
municipally, and requested to call jobs from
the vasty deep for the 12,000 men who want
them. Also that the manager of the Com-
monwealth Bank, a .concern which began
without a penny of capital, should produce
the necessary millions right off. Minister
Dooley started his political career with the
theory that, if the Railway Commissioners
can’t meet all increases of wages and charges
■without raising their own charges, they
should make way for men who weren’t
“blithering- idiots.” Queensland Minister
Jones has ukased that Mount Morgan must
keep working, even if wages at prescribed
rates are several thousand pounds per week
more than the value of the output. Yet if
someone kidnapped Lang or Fibelly into a
cellar and told him he would get his next
meal when he produced the money for his
own child-pensions schemes and not earlier,
he would be almost hurt.
Theodore of Queensland survived the
Cocky party’s no-confidence motion, but his
position is almost as shaky as that of Storey
of N. S. Wales, who is kept in office by a
Nationalist Speaker. He has a nominal
majority of four, including the gentleman
who says “Order,” but at least one of the
four is ready to cross the floor, and there
are doubts about others. Sectarianism, re-
distribution of seats, the probability of a
split at the A.L.P. Conference, and the
certainty that the crowd in office will be
routed whenever it goes to the country on
a clean roll, are all contributing to weaken
the allegiance of these worthies to a Govern-
ment which can’t command success and
doesn’t deserve it.
Frank Anstey, M.11.R., failed in his ambi-
tion to become a Brunswick (Vic.) coun-
cillor last w’eek. Standing for the north-east
ward, an alleged Labor stronghold, he just
missed the booby prize by 29 votes. Of the
other two Laborites outed the best scorer
was 84 behind the worst of the Liberal three.
In the other municipal elections around the
city Labor won a majority in the South
Melbourne Council, but couldn’t persuade
the electors to give an affirmative vote in
a referendum regarding Sunday picture-
shows. In the adjoining suburb of Port
Melbourne Labor also lost in a referendum
to decide who will next year wear the
mayoral clothes. Other defeats in Coburg
and Footseray leave the Trades Hall influ-
ence weaker in Melbourne’s municipal
affairs.
A deputation representing 14 religious or
well-meaning societies waited recently on
Premier Storey to protest against his idea of
turning the Ma State into a shoddy Monte
Carlo in aid of his new Poor Law scheme.
Seeing that already about 10 per cent, of the
Sydney suburban shops keep betting lists
and let you back your fancy, while the city
streets are lined with women selling art-
union tickets, the objection was reasonable.
Honest John simply said that he had to get
the money. Whereupon the inevitable
“voice” cried “Put a tax on land values.” At
present there are only three main taxes on
land values (municipal, State and Federal),
and the occupant of the land pays only two
income, taxes. Carruthers proposes to' build
thousands of miles of new railway and speci-
ally tax the land on each side; but this
hasn’t come yet, so these and constantly
AFTER Tim DOGFIGHT.
“Oh, you wicked hoy—to attack your own brother —and in the company of a common
street dog, tool Never you disgrace me like this again!"
increasing railway charges on the produce of
t he land are about all the burdens. Any
light-hearted city theorist naturally spots the
i and as a fit subject for taxation. Another
idea would be a luxury tax of, say, £25 per
annum on every animal used for sport. That
wou ld be more of a city impost, and if the
p i oU s elements concentrated on it they might
do something towards ridding the cities of
almost their deepest pitfall.
m, , • T , „ ,
The hectoring Labor majority m Sydney
City Council owes its predominance to the
ar y magistrate who has been overhauling
™ e . municipal rolls dismissed 861 Labor
claims for the enrolment of lodgers or casuals
aE 9 disallowed 3441 Labor objections to
claims lodged by the other side. It was the
ar st time, this “other side” ever troubled
about purifying the rolls, and in the process
it discovered, on the one hand, that votes
had been sought for unqualified people who
didn’t even know that apnlication was being
made on their behalf, and on the other that
there had been attempts to rule out ancient
and possibly forgetful ratepayers -who bad
lived or owned oroperty in tlieir wards for
30, 40. even 50 years. Costs amounting
to nearly £2OO were granted against Labor
aldermen and other enthusiasts in the matter
of lodging frivolous objections or claims. But
twice £2OO couldn’t buy enough carbolic to
extinguish the smell of it all.
The final census returns show the N. Ter-
ritory’s population to be 3870, which is below
even the low estimate. The great meat-
works alone once employed nearly 2000 men.
Savings-bank deposits, which reflect the con-
dition of the working class, are less than
half what they were before the work-stoppers
were allowed to take charge, less than half
as much per inhabitant as the average of
the other States, and not much more than one-
third as much as in S. Aus., over the border.
In fact, the one place where the Bolsheviks
got control is the poorest wreck in Australia,
and if it had no “capitalistic” fairy god-
mother in the shape of the Federal Treasury
to fall back on, the dead bodies of hunger
victims would probably be lying about the
streets as they do in Russia.
The Federal Senate has now worried
through about half the Tariff schedule, and
already has a good list of alterations for the
consideration of the Reps, when that
Chamber resumes business this month.
Among the items that the Lower House will
be asked to agree to are reductions on reaper
threshers, stripper harvesters, milk-churns,
ploughs, chaffcutters and numerous Cocky re-
quirements, and as the duty in each instance
has been considerably lowered the Senate is
evidently looking for trouble. Anyhow, the
Reps, shouldn’t consent to see the harvester
importer enlarge his footing in Australia;
but everything depends on the Government,
which will probably strike on a compromise
inadequate to Protectionists, if the old Free-
traders in the Cabinet have their way.
When the last Westralian Labor Gov-
ernment was in , its hot youth it bought the
Perth tramways for about twice as much
as they were worth. The consequences were
as usual —that is to say, the service drifted
from bad to worse, profits dwindled until
they reached the disappearing point, and
since the last massive increase of wages
there has been a chronic debit balance. But
the Westralian experience is wasted on the
present rulers of Queensland. Those extra-
ordinary persons, not satisfied with p : ling up
a railway deficit of about £6,000,000 in five
years, are bent on “nationalising” the Bris-
bane trams, and nothing but “the present
deplorable condition of the money market”
stops them. For a country in Queensland’s
position to pay a fancy price for a seedy old
tramway system would be an act of madness.
It is to be hoped that the condition of the
money market will remain “deplorable.”
There remains one Premier who hasn’t a
hope of being admitted to the union of his
trade. Barwell, of South Aus., says :
They '• could meet the position, perhaps, by in-
creased taxation, but that ought to be their very
last resort. There was a limit in direct taxation
beyond which the Government ought not to go.
What does the man think citizens are for
then?
Joe Cook is a most unfortunate humorist.
Speaking of the Lithgow miners’ passive re-
sistance to income-tax unless the exemption
is raised to at least £3OO, Joseph said he
“would himself be a passive resister if he
thought it would be any good.” What an
inspiration to public-spinteclness! How well
calculated to make a Lithgow miner feel
ashamed of himself to be told that the
Treasurer of the Commonwealth would
gladly evade the income-tax if he could!
“Government notes secured on the whole
public and private wealth of the country”
but without any gold reserve is a favorite
nostrum amofig the cranks and crooks. Of
course, all Government notes have been
secured that way since they first existed;
but with insufficient gold reserve or none
at all things have invariably gone wrong.
For years the familiar horrible examples
used to be Colombia, where 4s. (nom-
inal) in paper was worth and Guate-
mala and Paraguay, where 4s. (nominal)
was worth 3d. Now those records have been
torn to rags. In Petrograd a fashionable
physician made £150,000 of paper in a year
—and then only kept alive because some
wealthy patients paid him with food. When
the really bad time came all trace of that
fashionable physician was lost. He is sup-
posed to have eaten himself to keep himself
alive.
In opposing in the Senate the formation
of an Army Legal Corps—
Senator “Pompey” Elliott mentioned that at Salis-
bury Plain there were 200 men once waiting trial
by court-martial. Mr. Elliott’s acquaintance, acting
as prisoner’s friend, got 25 or 26 acquitted. He
was afterwards informed by the authorities that
they had wanted those men convicted, and he was
removed elsewhere. The affair had no relevance to
either side of the controversy, but was given as an
anecdote to amuse his colleagues.
The “controversy” was as to the necessity or
otherwise of a change in the present system,
under which an officer may be “removed else-
where” because, as “prisoner’s friend,” he
does his duty and secures certain acquittals.
And in General Elliott’s opinion the episode
is irrelevant! And amusing !
Thrice blessed is that vague password
about “making credit available.” The wind-
un of a great unemployed meeting at Syd-
ney Town Hall was this resolution:—
That this meeting of citizens, recognising that the
growth of the army of unemployed in N. S. Wales
can only end in national and social disruption, call's
upon the Government immediately to make available
the, necessary capital for the developmental work
which will absorb our unemployed, by demanding
through the Federal Treasurer the rightful working
of the Commonwealth Bank in making available suffi-
cient credit.
Australia has already put salt on the tail of
eight or nine hundred millions of credit —
whose other name is debt —and is worse off
than at any time it can remember. But
faith is immortal. It can move mountains.
Only it never does.
The setting up of a basic wage with no
corresponding provision for any basic work
is producing the usual result, by leaving
no wage at all. The N. S. Wales Board of
Trade has just evoked the information that
“the majority of the [metal] mines are
either closed down absolutely or restricting
employment to a number of hands sufficient
only to man the mines”: —to potter rouhd,
in fact, and keep the leases alive. In Emma-
ville district employees numbered 250 or
300 last December, but are now down to 50.
Tin, which was worth £6l Bs. per ton in
1897 and £153 in 1914, flew up to the neigh-
borhood of £4OO during the war, and wages
and other costs naturally rose. Now it is
down to £l5l, but the fizzy feeling of the
days when it was near £4OO still lasts, and,
worst of all, is reflected in the basic wage
and the general conditions of labor —includ-
ing the spirit with which a job is attacked.
A scrap of reading which doesn’t make
life any happier is the report that some
foreign potentate has been written to or
sooken to on behalf of Labor to know if there
is room in his country for poor, wretched,
distressed Australians. The very latest
appeal has been for a show in New Cal-
edonia, a French island less than one-third
the size of Tasmania, lately a convict settle-
ment and with a mostly colored population.
Probably no one really wants to go to these
places any more than the habitual, well-
advertised, well-nourished leader of unem-
ployed processions—he with a voice of brass
and the hope of a Parliamentary nomination
—wants to be furnished with a railway con-
struction job west of Darling. Still, the
attitude of affliction and desperation is ex-
pected to drive somebody to “do something.”
In effect, the story put forward is this: —
Wo have had at least 20 years of the most abso-
lute rule by the people that anybody could devise.
At one referendum after another we have refused con-
stitutional alterations and declared we didn’t know
how to make the system better. And with all this
power we have made such a hash of our fair and
spacious land that we want to get away to almost
any sort of region, whether it be cold or crowded
or capitalistic or all three. We want to go where
we will be aliens without votes or Parliamentary
seats. For self-government isn’t in our line. We
were meant to be subiects.
And perhaps the crowd which engineers
these sham emigration stunts has struck a
great truth without knowing it.
A MAN’S JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I feel like a boy among boys.”— Joyous out-
burst of De Valera, re-elected President of Dail
Eireann after rejecting the British peace terms.
He feels like a boy among boys, and they cheer
him again and again.
Better it were for the world' if he felt like a man
among men.
For a boy may fight and destroy and let his resent-
ment live,
But it takes a man to reflect and conquer his rage
and forgive.
And what is this midnight war that his militants
want him to wage,
When peace can be had with honor in a carnage-
surfeited age?
It’s a war of ambush and firestick and frightfulness
everywhere,
Burning a barrack here and derailing a loco, there.
Daring, without a doubt, and it makes a deuce of
a noise,
Clever, cruelly clever, but only a game for boys—
Idle, impish, malevolent, reckless, pitiless boys.
For “victories” won in the night on the ragged
guerilla plan
Let boobies and bumpkins strive, but this is a
task for a man:
To bring peace back to a world that’s weary of
senseless strife,
Sick unto death of war and the blind destruction
of life,
Longing for love and laughter and the friendship
of mate for mate
(The Celt’s forgot how to laugh and the Saxon’s
learned how to hate) ;
To join indissolubly those, as of old has been said
and sung,
Who pray to the self-same God in the same magni-
ficent tongue;
To lay down the bomb for the ballot, the gun for
the plough and the pen—
The other’s a game for boys, but this is a job for
men.
No grander work in the world, a task for a man
among men.
N.S.W.
TUART.


1.
, tain’
jflusH now, i’ll
"buy •fr»2kt ttene,
Separator 1 and a
"pi anna v" foy yep
wKile Im down .
2.
On fea "train
" avcouf>lc of -
decent Soirk 0 f tlokc-S lei him join in their
of card s.
3.
> ” i tow** , ha. goes to H*a- faces .
K»V>d stranger (jn the" know") :’'Now wait ikarc.
Ive just got tima. t”o Q'czt it on far ya.* ”
' He. waits .
**’ TVs®. £>a**--nr-va>.i<l a*t
Kis hotel offers to
imlnd some,&nd
let him khoyv whan
it funs out .
He. sans a chance t-o
retrieve every
by buying
2kjb6uv<dly chcaya
he/±y gold
nugget /rom
a £s<2.rvH<z.*-ni^r'i
who is
i _ <2.vr»pcsra l »*jly
emharrasscc!
.
w 4 ./A
' Just _for toq expamnce
He tries ''fhush" c.&.f<z, 2>r>cl j
'‘She- 1 ' intro duces ha.Y6a.[f batauSa
really £»V>e <£id tkiriK ba was
X<z.r uncle -
5
Koma a.gjvin , Vi a. f *-ies
"tatl iha. missus 'Huvt kxzki
ihvastcdl +h«.
irt th«, Big flair’s
tot .
Hi <z
dt d'rrt maka
Hv <3, a.ffa.cA'ivG.
t-ntr fiKc. •
Jid •,
BILL WOOLSHED AND THE FLESHPOTS.


Telephones:
Central 10173, 2473.
Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY,” Melbourne.
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD. ALEXANDRIA, N.S.AV.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford-, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909. . £27,413 9 p.c. = £14,300 £13,113 £60,475
1910.. 29.357 8 ~ ~ 13,600 15,707 81,232
1911.. 33 727 9 ~ „ 15,300 18,427 99,659
1912.. 9 „ „ 15,300 15,568 115,227
Premiums on new shares .. 6,800 122,0-7
Written off, £5OOO .. ••
1913.. 28,822 74 p.c.= 15,003 13,819 130,846
1914.. 38,130 74 „ „ 15,300 22,830 153,676
Pref. Ord. Total.
1915.. 46,780 6p.c. 114p.C. 24,542 22,238 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51.000.. 124,914
Bad debts reserve, £5OO, taken in . . 125,414
1916.. 65,478 6 p.c. lOp.c. 27,060 38,418 163,832
1917.. 56,799 6 „ 10 „ 27,060 29,739 193,571
1918.. 81,416 6 ~ 10 ~ 27,060 54,356 247,927
Transferred to capital, £85,000.. 162,927
1919.. 62,611 6 p.c. lOp.c. 33.435 29,176 192,103
1920.. 102,527 6 ~ 10 „ 35,560 66,967 259,070
1921.. 88,363 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 52,803 311,873
The Melbourne S. S. Co. used to balance
twice each year, bill the latest lot of accounts
cover the 12 months to June 30. For pur-
poses of comparison the table has been re-
modelled to show results over terms of 12
months each. The £88,303 shown in the
last line is far in excess of what the directors
claim as the year’s net profit. They say:
“As was anticipated, the strike of stewards
and seamen and consequent loss of trade for
the two months January and February materi-
ally affected results from shipping: fortu-
nately the profits earned by other depart-
ments of our business, arid income from in-
vestments, helped us to tide over the loss
entailed thereby.” According to the Profit
and Loss account presented the amount
earned was £35,(524 —only £64 more than
was required for the 10 p.c. dividend. The
balance of £52,739 shown in the table is
accounted for in this way : net additions to
a reserve for “depreciation, special renewals
and replacements, bad and doubtful debts
and contingencies,” £40,518; addit'on to in-
surance reserve, £12,221. The £88,3(33 can-
not, however, be definitely regarded as net
profit. From that amount has to be de-
ducted whatever is a fair allowance for
depreciation, and nobody but those with
intimate knowledge of the co.’s fleet can
decide that amount. But it is pretty obvi-
ous to the outsider that, after maintaining
the fleet in good order, an allowance for the
year equal to nearly 13 p.c. of its book value
is much in excess of the amount required for
depreciation and special renewals and re-
placements. Allowances on the present scale
Wovild cover the entire book value of the
fleet in less than eight years. The insurance
fund position is even more obscure; what is
a fair provision in that direction* depends
entirely on the risks which the co. itself is
carrying. All that the post-mortemist can
discover is that more than four times the
allowances of a few years ago are now being
made.
The book value of the fleet is now £312,569 ;
wharf plant at various ports is set down at
£2663. In the depreciation, etc., reserve
there lies £239,186 ; in the insurance reserve,
£46,689. Premiums (£6800) on an old share
issue, a general reserve fund of £5OOO, and
£14,198 balance of P. & L. after paying the
year’s divs. make up the reserves shown in
the table. They are labelled as “nominal”
because the fair set-out for depreciation, etc.,
is not ascertainable. A view of the changes
which the accounts have undergone since
the co. purchased its last new steamer, the
Woolgar, years ago, is given hereunder:
Dec.,’l4. June.’2o. Jure,’2l.
Liquid assets .. . . £68,819 £500,073 £509,022
Liabilities ... .. 63,830 166,298 128,600
Surplus .. .. £4,989 £333,775 £380,422
Steamships and other
non-liquid assets .. £393,450 £309,076 £315,232
Paid capital is £366,000; and the surplus
of more or less liquid assets at the balance
exceeded it by £14,000-odd. This liquid sur-
plus was assisted by the sales of old vessels
when abnormal war values were ruling: in
this way the Sydney, Melbourne
and Kapunda, aggregating 7944 tons, left
the fleet and have not been replaced. The
handsome profits from shipping operations
during the past few’ years have thus
been won with a much smaller fleet
than the co. used to employ. Despite
the sales mentioned above the book value of
the vessels and other fixed assets is only
£78,218 less than at Dec., T 4. The extent
to which the co. has improved its position
during the period since cannot be stated
from the published accounts, again for the
reason that no idea can be got as to how
much of the £375,433 additions to liquid
assets (all piled up with the assistance of
only £3147 of new capital) should be. re-
garded as genuine depreciation provision.
Anyhow, after payment of the year’s final
div., the excess of War Loan, deposits, cash,
shares in other cos., stocks, etc., over and
above all outside liabilities was equal to all
.but 3d. of every fully-paid £1 share. In
addition there is whatever the fleet is worth.
The huge liquid reserves will, however, pro-
bably be s.oon cut into; managing-director
D. Y. Syme is now in England "to purchase
replacement tonnage should sufficient induce-
ment offer.”
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Dec., Net Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1908.. £6,935 I*o p.c.= £2500 £4,435 £58.059
1909.. 7,322 10 „ „ 2500 4,522 62,881
1910.. 10,168 10 „ „ 2500 7,668 70,549
1911.. 15,241 10 ~ „ 5000 10,241 80,790
1912.. 14,344 10 „ ~ 5000 9,344 90,134
June,
1914.. 21,427 10 „,, 7500 13,927 104,061
1915.. 14,290 10 „„ 5000 9,290 113,351
1916.. 13,381 10 5000 J 6>BBl U9>2 32
Written oft.. 2500)
1917.. 16,316 10 p.c. = 5000 1 9 055 12 8,287
Written oft.. 2261 )
1918.. 15,619 10 p.c. = 5000 7,572 135,859
Written off. . 3047 J
1919.. 20,644 10 p.c. - 7500 13,144 149,003
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 134,003
Provident fund .. £5,000 129,003
1920.. 20,564 10 p.c. = 8753 ( u 19C 140,199
Written off.. 615 )
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO 130,199
1921.. 23,495 12J p.c.= 12,250 ]
Written off. . 530 \ 9,716 139,914
Provident fund, 1,000 j
Within the past two years paid capital has
moved from £15,000 to £90,000 as the result
of reserve-fund transfer, and, though the
customary div. would have given shareholders
a. bit more than hitherto, on this occasion a
bonus of p.c. accompanies the 10 p.c., so
altogether they get 10 3-5 p.c. on their capi-
tal of two years ago. That is very fat when
you consider the gilt-edged quality of assets.
Still the Perpetual did not rush things; 32
years elapsed before the first transfer of re-
serves was made. There are 100,000 shares
of £lO each paid to £l, and 15s. of that was
cash actually put in. After extracting
£25,000 from the reserves to make paid capi-
tal £lOO.OOO, there is still almost £140,000
left.
Partly because of appreciated values, and
partly because old private trustees have re-
linquished control of estates formerly
entrusted to them, the business of this biggest
of Australian trustee cos. has grown very
fast during recent years. This comparison
shows how the value of trusts has moved
in this century :
1900 .. £3,928,520 1918 .. £14,057,148
1905 . . 5,758,222 1919 . . 15,115,563
1910 .. 8,157,990 1920 .-. 16,492,113
1915 . . 11,890,941 1921 . . 18,432,417
During the past five years the net additions
have averaged £582,773 p.a.; over the pre-
vious five, £375,081 p.a. This expansion has,
of course, assisted corpus commissions—the
initial and single charge, ranging from 2J
p.c. to 1 p.c., made on the capital value of
an estate when put into the co.’s hands.
Earnings of individual estates also improved
during the past five years, and they have
assisted commissions, too. The Perpetual,
however, does not at once take credit in its
P. & L. account for the whole corpus com-
mission, but spreads it over the period
accupied in the winding up of the estate.
There is now £51.496 in this “commission
reserved account”; £2352 was dropped in
during the past 12 months, and that amount
has, in the introductory table, been added
to the £22,143 profit claimed by the manage-
ment. (Incidentally, £lOOO set aside to
establish an officers’ fidelity insurance fund
has not been treated as profit.) Not includ-
ing the corpus commission reserved, the Per-
petual’s latest profit-earning experience,
compared with that of five and 10 years ago,
has been as follows: —
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911.. £8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1916.. 12,604,680 37,818 28.328 74.9
1921.. 18,432,417 77,404 55,261 71.4
A feature of that comparison is that exes,
in relation to income are less now than they
were five years ago, though taxation and
other problems were then not so knotty. No
doubt, higher earnings of individual invest-
ments have affected the figures, and the enor-
mously-increased investment of funds in
cheaply-handled War and Peace Loans has
worked in the same direction.
Shareholders’ funds at June 30 were in-
vested in this way : War Loan, deposits, cash,
etc., £104,625 ; premises and office furniture,
£115,000; mortgages, etc., £26,692; book
debts, £2871. Only £774 was owtog; so
assets of a book value of £248 414 were
available for the protection of clients. In
addition, there is £900,000 of capital call-
able.
*.**•*
Henry Berry & Co. (Australasia), Ltd.
—The public is interested in this co. to the
extent of £405,640, but is told very little
about its investment. The present co. is
merely a holding concern; it was floated in
June of last year, when the public was in-
vited to take ud 125 000 7 p.c. prefs., and it
controls the Henrv Berry wholesale salt and
dry-goods business in S. Aus., N. S. Wales
and Vie. The first balance-sheet now pre-
sented shows these assets: shares in subsi-
diary cos., £390,911; deposits with subsidi-
ary cos., £207,139; cash, £31,222 —a total of
£629,272. Without information as to the
state of health of the subsidiaries —the
amounts of goodwill regarded as assets there-
in, and so on —no satisfactory statement can
be presented as to what stands behind share-
holders’ capital in this parent concern.
There are 125,060 “A” prefs. carrying a
cumulative 7 p.c.; 180,640 “B” prefs.
with the same dividend rights; and 294,000
fully-paid £1 ordinaries. Should the last-
named get 12 p.c. or more in any year the
prefs. are also to go up a point, but they
cannot go beyond 8 p.c. Both lots of prefs.
rank together for a return of capital. After
payment of the year’s divs. there remained
net assets with a book value of £603,875 to
protect £305,640 —or 395. 6d. per £1 of pref.
capital. So things would have to go very
badly with the subsidiaries before the secu-
rity for the public’s money became imperilled.
It was apparently a lean year for the co., for
after making “ail necessary and reasonable
provision,” disclosed net profits were £40,330.
This easily prov ded the pre . divs. (£21,395',
but only £18,935 was available for the ordi-
naries. They got 5 p.c., calling for £14,700,
and leaving £4235 untapped. The apparent
mildness of the ordinaries’ div., however,
depends on what goodwill consideration they
took in the subsidiaries, and no information
is ascertainable on such matters.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —•
. Reserves
• Transferee!
June, Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
J 909. £13,845 10 p.c. - £6,500 £6,000 £15,177
Property written up, £lO,OOO .. 25.177
1910.. 19,859 10 p.c. = 6,000 15,000 24.036
1911.. 17,509 10 „ „ 7,500 16,000 24,405
1912.. 14,793 10 ~ „ 8,500 5,000 25,338
,1913.. 20.438 10 „ ~ 9,000 10.000 26,776
1914.. 25,316 10 „ „ 10.000 ■ —42.09 L
1915.. 26,366 10 „ „ 10,000 20,000 37,457
1916.. 21,700 124,, „ 15,000 44,157
1917.. 24,210 124., ~ 15,000 - 53,367
1918.. 27,752 121 „ ~ 15,000 66,119
1919.. 26,276 124 „ „ 15,000 10,000 67,395
1920.. 33,970 124 „ „ 16,250 20,000 65,115
1921.. 15,310 10 „ „ 14,989 65,436
Like all others in the pastoral-agency busi-
ness, this co.—-the biggest of the live-stock
salesmen at Ilomebush —has had a lean spell,
and profits are the smallest for nine years.
Net earnings from wool, live-meat and other
handlings were probably a good deal less
than in any other year of w’hich record is
given in the table, for, compared with 1912,
there is now £lOO,OOO more funds earning
something. Last year’s yardings compared
with those of the previous three in this way :
1917-’lB. 1.918-T9. 1919-’2O. 1920-’2l.
Cattle .. 146,906 175,553 281,233 250,962
Sheep 1,754,303 2,667,914 3,962,551 2,254,970
Meantime the wool market was in the dol-
drums ; sales were suspended for some
months and offerings later were severely cur-
tailed. So this co. had 16.500 bales on hand
at June 30 compared with 70 bales 12
months earlier. The market for skins and
hides was even worse. The all-round col-
lapse of prices, with no corresponding reduc-
tion of costs, naturally left only a small
margin of profit. Nevertheless this old-
established concern was able to pay a 10 p.c.
without calling on reserves, and that rate
of div. is very sweet to old holders.
Ten years ago paid capital was £75,000;
it is now double that, and the whole of the'
additions have been reserve transfers as
shown in the introductory table. Even after
making these transfers £41,000 has been
added to visible reserves. So profitable has
the business been that since 1911 net earn-
ings have totalled £235,134, equal to 23| p.c.
p.a. on total funds at the beginning of the
period; though probably there were some
recoveries of written down assets in the
earlier years. How the surplus profits have
aided the concern over 10 years is shown
next: — ‘
1911. 1914. 1920. 1921.
Overdrafts .. £29.272 £23,378 £5,912 £17,664
Other liabilities . . 23,205 11,814 43,258 30,230
Advances, fore-
closures, etc. . . 41,459 55,282 98,943 84,873
Freeholds, etc. .. 123,813 127,000 125,092 124,867
Liquid assets .. 50,000 60,980
The co. nowadays is in a particularly com-
fortable position. The liquid assets of
£60,980 now held are wholly Commonwealth
securities and alone exceed all outside lia-
bilities by £13,086. The co. may have done
even better than its published accounts have
admitted, for during the prosperous run over
many years it is almost certain that props
have been provided for weaker 1 securities in
the advances branch. Concerning that busi-
ness chairman Buckland declared the other
day that “although liberal advances have
been made to our clients from 1914 to date,
no bad debts have been made, and we have
every reason to believe the amounts outstand-
ing will be paid in due course.” The co. has
stood out of the pastoral-finance business for
many years past, and such advances as have
been made have probably been mainly on
account of stock and other produce offered
or to be offered for sale.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1913. . £3565 10 p.e. = £2832 £733 £7,794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 8 „ „ 2266 7,655
June, 1914.. 1719 7„ „ 1982 7,392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7„ „ 1982 7,261
June, 1915.. 2023 7„ „ 1982 41 7,302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 „ „ 1982 417 7,719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ ~> 2832 7,130
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 „ „ 2832 7,130
June, 1917.. 2832 10 ~ 2832 7,130
Dec., 1917.. 3116 10 „ „ 2832 284 7,414
June, 1918.. 3135 10 ~ ~ 2832 303 7,717
Dec., 1918.. 3206 10 „ „ 2832 374 8,091
June, 1919.. 3071 10 „ „ 2832 239 8,330
Dec., 1919.. 3614 10 ~ „ 2832 782 9,112
June, 1920.. 5088 10 „ „ 3021 2067 11,179
Dec 1920.. 4905 10 „ „ 3965 940 12,119
June, 1921.. 4098 10 „ „ 3965 133 12,252
Eighteen months ago paid capital was
£">6,644: there is now £711,300 to feed. But
though nearly £27,000 more funds have been
laid out on a new factory and on remodelling
the city premises, and though hides and
leather prices have crashed, the flow of
10 p.c. divs. has not been interrupted. Each
half’s profits have been ample, so the £3OOO
or so of reserves accumulated while leather-
goods were climbing to record prices are still
intact. The management of this old con-
cern —it has beeh going nearly 30 years—
cast an eye full of suspicion on war-time val
ues, so when the market disturbance arrived
the co. was in a position to declare that
the unpleasantness had been “anticipated and
provided for,” and that there were no seri-
ous punctures to attend to. Nevertheless, the
directors in disclosing little more than suffi-
cient on this occasion to meet the 10 p.c.
div. hint that results would have been
better but for unstable market conditions,
turnover having been “adversely affected,
both in volume and value,” while wages
awards and other heavier charges influenced
net earnings. Also, practically all the new
capital has been earning nothing, but now
the four new floors of the city premises are
tenanted, and when the new factory is com-
pleted another two floors will be earning
rent. So, one way and another. _ better
results can again be hoped for. This com-
parison shows the development of the busi-
ness since 1914 :—•
1914. 1920. 1921.
Capital ..£56,644 £68,727 £79,300
Liabilities . . 1,001 10,240 16,004
Freeholds .. 17,308 19,916' 42,913
Plant, etc. . . 3 896 3,835 4.304
Stocks . . 37,839 48,287 40,293
Book debts .. 7.024 18.101 18.689
Cash, etc. .. 951 5,174 6,869
The position is very comfortable, the surplus
of more or less liquid assets over liabilities
being nearly £46,000 after payment of the
latest div.
Concerning a new float, Commonwealth
Cables, Ltd.:—
This is an attempt. to establish a new Australian
industry, and again it is an importing firm which
has decided to reform and give the Commonwealth an
opportunity to manufacture more of its requirements.
Early this year Gibson and Sons, engineers’ indentors,
of Sydney, were the successful tenderers for
648,000 yds. of lead-covered cable for the P.M.G.’s
Department. The price was £217,606, and the
contract protects the co. from fluctuations of the
metal market. The Gibsons —senior-partner C. A.
Gibson, was assistant-director of British Munitions
during the war —have decided that the cable can
be manufactured in Australia, and they propose that
a co. should be established which will be given
this substantial contract as a start/ The Com-
monwealth uses approximately £700,000 worth of
cables and insulated wires per annum, and the pro-
moters believe that all of it can be turned out
locally, and that the manufacture of all classes of
cables and wires is possible, and, further, that
Maoriland’s requirements can also be supplied from
a Sj'dney factory. The new tariff gives the industry
from 30 to 40 p.e. protection, though, of course,
the duties do not apply to Government purchases.
The proposed co. is to have a nominal capital of
£200,000 in shares of £1 each. The prospectus
is the most straightforward which has been placed
before the public for a long time, and there are
no hungry promoters threatening large bites. For
passing over the contract holus-bolus, and for costs
incurred over the contract and the establishment of
the co., 10,000 fully-paid deferred ordinaries are
asked —slightly more than 4J p.c. on the contract
price. These shares are not to be eligible for divs.
until the ordinaries subscribed by the public—
-150,000 are offered —have had 10 p.e., but when
the public has had half of its money returned by
way of divs. the deferreds will rank with the other
shares.
To equip the co. to fulfil the P.M.G.’s contract
an outlay of £45,000 on land, buildings and plant,
etc., is anticipated ; and £40,000 more is reckoned
as necessary for working capital and to coyer, pre-
liminary exes. From the initial contract —provid-
ing 18 months’ work —a profit of £38,400 is expected.
That would give a return of 20 p.c. p.a. over two
years on the £95,000 of paid capital proposed. So
that this may not seem tall talk from the pro-
moters, accountant Alex. Jobson and engineer M. C.
Timms (he has had 22 years with the largest Eng-
lish cable-makers, and is now with the Vie. Rail-
ways) were called in. Both declare that estimates
are conservative, Timms adding that there “are no
technical difficulties likely to arise to prevent the
successful manufacture of electri cal cables of all
kinds in Australia.” The enterprise deserves sup-
port.


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many home 3 in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G. IC. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General F.lcctric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
# * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
*** » .
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe is light, strong, very dur-
able, and carries 16 to 20 per cent, more water
than metal pipe. Machine-banded wood pipe in
diameter from 2in. to 24in. can be supplied at short
notice. For these very good reasons progressive
engineers specify it for water-supply schemes,
domestic and otherwise. All inquiries to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove.— Advt.
* » » *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M, Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
OUice ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis Bouse, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— ; Advt.
• « * •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Slreet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for inventors' Guide. — Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— AdVt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * *. *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies.'Ainsworth’s & Oertling’?
Ba’ances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun'9
Sample Crushers. Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write Tor particulars. 11. B. Selby Si Co.,
Ltd.. 205 George Street (between limiter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Ptv., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and 'chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * # *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
R. G. WATKINS <& CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR MACHINERY
AND HARDWARE.
, % t mm%mm w %
■
•9 wmk
i m-m
i
j ;; '»-«
*
The Largest Driving Beits
in Australia.
The illustration shows portion of the
Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Rod Mill at Newcastle, equipped w : th
three 34-inch and one 48-inch
“Pioneer” leather belts —the largest
driving belts in Australia. These were
specially manufactured for the purpose
by J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, Ltd.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street,
Sydney.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 P»tt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Tosses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident. Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Bates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOM NS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
A taint echo of the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation debacle at Wolgan Valley
(N.S.YV.) was heard in London recently,
when accounts were presented to show how
.John Fell had got through the first year of
liis 10 years’ management of the big busted
concern. The eo. passed into the hands of
receivers 10 years ago, but in 1919 there was
a reconstruction, in which John Fell under-
took to put up £50,000, half of the working
capital required, and run the show for 10
year if losses were not made, any profits to
be shared equally by both parties. During
the 12 months to Sept., 1920, 16,090 tons
shale went through the dozen retorts in com-
mission, and 1,282,158ga1. of crudes and
naphtha were produced. Increasing, costs
and strikes upset Fell’s anticipations, and,
notwithstanding the £12,000 paid in bounty
by the Commonwealth Government, after pro-
viding for repairs, directors’ fees, 6 p.c. on
working capital and interest on debentures,
a loss of £15,689 resulted. The receivers’
old credit balance of £11,068 was, however,
brought into the accounts, so the current
year opened with a debit balance of only
£4625. Working conditions have improved
since last year’s accounts closed, higher-
value shale has been handled, and a “steady
monthly profit” is claimed.
* * * *
“M.”: Another, and perhaps truer, version
of the genesis of the Australian Fertilisers
Pty., Ltd. (B. 18/8/’2l) can be given. The
co. was formed in the first place to use
Laloki (Mew Guinea) pyrites to make acid
for the refinery cells and super., handing on
the cinders to the Electrolytic Co. to extract
the 5 p.c. of copper, etc. This is essentially
an economical process, as the Electrolytic
Co. wanted the cheap acid for itself and also
the iron in the ore to replace expensive
barren tiux. Haynes, g.-m. of the Mount
Lyell Chemical Works, suggested buying out
Elliott’s old plant and goodwill, and he was
asked to arbitrate. Haynes’s co. and its
Vic. associates are thankful he acted in this
manner. If this had not been done there
would have been an unmanageable surplus of
chemicals to sell in Victoria when the inevit-
able fight for the trade arrived. But the
. amalgamation job must have been a tough
one. However, the old Shirley and Elliott
concern made way for the mining and smelt-
ing interests, and that is economical and
good business for everybody interested.
* 4 * *
Last week the Gold Producers’ Associa-
tion distributed £300,136 balance of pre-
mium on gold handled during the half-year
ended June 30. The Association marketed
by the end of - July the whole of the
444,636£0z. produced by members during the
six months, the total net premium being
£462,254, equal to 225. B.lBd. per oz. (fine).
* * * *
Marshall’s Hill End (N.S.W.) scrip has
been having another flutter in Sydney. It
is the same old story of pig-rooting: "Three
men were started (on tribute) at the bottom
level to prospect from a crosscut put in by
Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd., several years
ago a reef about which certain informat on
was received recently.” A reef 3in. to Bin.
wide is claimed to have been found in virgin
country—“probably Paxton’s east reef, but
enough work has not been done to know
which reef it is definitely”—-and a first firing
is declared to have given a lOoz. prospect.
On the strength of this shares went to 55.,
the public apparently having not yet learned
its lesson from previous Hill End experi-
ences. Marshall’s Hill End wants much more
than a lOoz. prospect in an isolated patch to
get it out of the bog. While the share
flutter was in progress several miners were
suing the co. for £l3l wages alleged to be
owing; but the co. apparently settled the
claims before being hauled before the
Warden.
* * * *
This is the sort of thing which hinders
the much-needed search for petroleum in
Australia. The Roper River Oil Conces-
sion Co. advertises for £750 cash, while pro-
moters take £750 in paper, to send a pros-
pector, whose fitness for the job is left un-
said, to look for oil on 1000 sq. m. on the
Roper River, in the Northern Territory.
This is tne information by which the expedi-
tion is justified :
This man camped at a certain spot for about a
week some four or five years ago, in a large
swamp, and on pulling up some roots to put on
the fire the roots blazed up as if they had been
soaked in oil, and smelt of kerosene. He also said
that the water about the swamp had an oily coat-
ing on the surface, also that when lying on the
ground at night he could hear rumbling sounds
underneath, similar to what might be heard in
coal country or where there was gas escaping.
The prospectus is more than fantastic. It
is incredible.
* * * *
Little else but oil is talked of in Perth
just now, and co. promoters are busy on the
Terrace. One lot of samples taken by a
Government expert from “hot springs, seep-
ages, etc.,” in the Nor’-West are now
being tested, and another lot of “oils, shale-
sands, rocks and oxidised petroleum” from
the recently reported find near Bremer Bay
in the south are waiting their turn. The
latter discovery is in a locality with an
odor—but oil has not been responsible. The
abos. blamed their devils; a parson who
surveyed the district in 1875 described a so-
called seam of coal-shale as “the centuries-
old deposit of bats”; and some Melbourne
scientists who were sent to secure samples
declared the deposit was not of bats, but of
’possums or wild cats. The laboratory-man
of the co. which is prospecting at Bremer
is positive an oil seepage has been unearthed.
Now the Government analyst is getting ready
to have his say.
* » *
“O.B.”: Perth is at present pestered by
co. promoters who claim to have oil seepages
or other indicators, and by others who merely
declare that they can get petroleum any-
where between Eucla and Wyndham if money
is found to go deep enough. Chief Govt.
Geologist Maitland, in his annual report,
points out that if depth were the only re-
quisite to a producing well, Perth investors
might just as well sink in a suburban back
yard. He applauds the Government’s de-
cision not to grant monetary assistance until
undoubted indications of oil are produced,
and adds that if the Government did other-
wise it would enable designing promoteVs to
delude the public into the belief that official
backing was being given to the promoters’
claims.
•* **■*
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is officially reported to
have got a lift —though it was not altogether
unexpected. Years ago, when the deepest
workings were moi-e than 1000 ft. less than
they are to-day, a porphyry bar came east
from the Boulder and depreciated the value
of the main lode to almost vanishing-point.
The Board called in geologist Dr. Maclaren,
who reckoned that the ore-body might leave
the porphyry and become enriched again at
a depth of about 3000 ft., or 1500 ft. below
where the intrusion was first met. Now, at
2870 ft., lodestuff worth nearly 50s. is being
opened up, and according to manager McDer-
mott there is a good chance of payable ore
continuing for a further SOOft. to the Horse-
shoe boundary, as a bore put in from the
Gt. Boulder some time ago showed that
values were all right in that locality.
* .* * *
Oroya Links (W.A.) still relies almost
wholly on tributors for a living. Last year’s
revenue, including premium, was £126,074,
and the net profit £9538. Shareholders re-
ceived a 3d. div. The co.’s assets include
cash, shares, Government securities, ad-
vances, etc., totalling £156,340. The Board
still has hopes of resuming operations on its
own account should operating costs ease.
♦ * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.), which recently
passed into 8., M. and Co.’s almost-empty
Westralian stable, has been closed down and
applications for tributes are being considered.
High costs and low-grade ore are respon-
sible for the stoppage.
* * •* *
Only one or two mines on the Norseman
field (W.A.) are now employing labor', and
but for them the town would be practically
deserted. It is the old story of worked-out
patches and shoots going wrong at depth.
Mining remains flat at Daylesford (Vic.),
for the Buchanans, Bells and others of the
old Ballarat crew are gone. Ajax, once the
best of mines, is still trying for gold at No.
9. Except perhaps • Cornish United, no
claim on the field has done well below 800 ft.
A bit of gold is forthcoming from some of
the old upper levels, but generally results
are poor. Ajax North’s entrance into the
favorable belt of slates put up yields and
brought a few divs. to light. Either Hansen
now has got out of the gold-bearing zone, or
it isn’t true to name, for yields keep low.
Macmillan’s reef is more of a frost than ever,
yielding plenty of mixture but no gold. All
other Ajax claims have fluttered out, and
prospecting on other lines still fail£ to add
lustre to the field.;
* * * *
The seasons bring Balaclava Hill (Vic.)
into view again. Chairman Whimpney now
declares that development work has nearly
reached the stage at which the mine should
be able to produce crushing material to keep
the battery running. That is the usual
method of Cabbage Garden mining—erect a
battery, then open up the mine. So far there
is not much underground to become excited
about: a bit of a reef with some veins in
the country has shown up north at 435 ft.,
and south on the Balaclava reef is a similar
fahlband occurrence. The nick has to prove
these runs of stone as much to-day as when
Macgeorge said good-bye to the old stringer.
* * * •
New Langis (Vic.) had another spasm
last week over a bump in that show’s reef.
Old alluvialites would have dipped out on
such news, but the fledglings took “the reef”
to mean a shoot of stone instead of an island
spot in the old river lead. Naturally, some good
gold was got near it, but it was a rim pros-
pect which may be duplicated when the rock
is cut through and the normal lead bottom
re-entered. The sample and the bump were
struck when driving north, and were nearer
the western bank than where another north
drive ran into poor stuff. The market
gambled on hearsay that a soz. truck-
sampling was in the machine, and as
promptly settled down when the scales
stopped at Such occasional samplings
never are of much value: 10ft. away from a
drive that averages 3oz. wash may go only
ioz. That is why the Langi South boost
snuffed out. Truck-load lots went nicely,
but bulk-feeding to the machines exposed the
general poverty of the ground. Anyhow, New
Langi shares have been edged close to the
10s. mark, and plungers accept odds on a
further spurt when the rises midway between
the Catheart junction and the far north level
touch wash. Perhaps so, but, after all,
isn’t it only a patch'/ About £150,000 has
been dropped into the New Langi mine by
callpayers without a penny return, and
until a fair length of wash is proved to
average lloz. there will not be much joy
in New Langi. Rumors are again afloat that
George Klug intends to don Hebbard’s
mantle at New Langi. But there’s no
guarantee that he would be more lucky at
alluvial work than either Hebbard or Hoover.
He may make the claim more classy, and of
course that is something in these hard times.
•SI *• * #
The “Wild Cat” (B. 18/8/’2l) stated that
Brookstead tin, Avoea (Tas.), was again
being offered the public, and that, though it
had been turned down several times since
Bowes Kelly and Gordon Lyon tested it in
19Q4, the present owners were asking £50,000
for the property. Now comes the news that
Badak has decided to have a look, and is
paying £3OOO for an eight months’ option.
It looks a good deal of money to pay for an
option over a property that has so many
unfavorable reports and other unattfactions
attached to it.
* * ' * *
Mt. Cobalt, Cloncurry (Q.), has just
shipped 80 tons cobalt concentrates to Swan-
sea (U.K.) worth about £20,000, this being
the largest tonnage in any lot yet sent. W.
H. Corbould. of Mt. Elliott, who holds the
main interest in the mine, evidently intends
floating it in London, and is going to make
a fight with the American producers to con-
trol the market. Geologist J. H. Reid’s
highly favorable report, made in January,
1920, was not published in the Common-
wealth until a few months ago, but it was
sent to London at the time, and copies of
it got to the two big American cos., the
Coniagas and the Deloro Smelting Co., which
have controlled the cobalt supply for years.
Both have attempted to secure an interest
in the local show. The success of their
plans would probably not be to Australia’s
interest, it looks as if they fear competi-
tion from this mine, which can produce a
much higher-grade concentrate. Corbould
last year was prepared to spend £20,000 on
development work alone, as prospects looked
so good, with a view to proving whether
the show was strong enough to stand up to
the American cos. Evidently he is entirely
satisfied, as £30,000 has already gone into
treatment plant and machinery. It is appa-
rent that the American cos. have suffered a
rebuff in their attempts to secure a holding.
Anyhow, an interesting duel is certain. Cor-
bould is one of the few men who can still
command capital in London for mining ven-
tures, even if* money is tight.
* * * •
Sardine, Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), is out
with its third half-yearly accounts and
cheerful talk of progress made in develop-
ment. The tin market has been so sick that
no production has been attempted, but de-
velopment has been pushed ahead, and that
work gave 34 tons black tin from 147 tons
stone crushed. Also 78 tons seconds added
nearly 24 tons to the yield. During the six
months 340 ft. of driving and sinking was
done. At No. 4 south the shoot was picked
up and driven on for 36ft.; it showed an
average width of about 2£ft. and gave 25
p.c. black tin. From 73 tons stone 18 tons
tin was got, so every foot of the level is set
down as “worth roughly £50.” The body is
making well underfoot, so the Towers is an-
ticipating equally good things when the next
level is opened up. The 25,000 £1 contribs.
were paid to 12s. 6d. at the balance, £9375
of capital still being callable if required.
* * * *
The old Vulcan, Irvinebank (N.Q.), which
was unwatered recently, is now being sys-
tematically tested by driving along the lode
and boring across it at intervals. At the
1400 ft. level one lot of borings sampled 4 p.c.
tin, but this formation proved to be a narrow
vein only, and so far the new work on this
level has proved the lode to average, only
about .75 p.c. Still the real work in hand
has only been started, and the mine was such
a fine producer in years gone by that it is
worth an extensive prospecting campaign.
* * ' * *
Operations are active at the Styx River
coal-mine (Q.), where during the past 18
months boring has proved one of the most
valuable fields in the State. At a depth of
IGOft. a 7ft. seam is now being worked, and
it averages about 7 p.c. to 8 p.c. ash. The
Commonwealth Government is taking 200
tons for a naval test, but although it is a
line, clean, steaming coal it is not smoke-
less. Three other seams proved in the bor-
ing campaign can be worked later, and there
should be a bright future before the held
in the export trade, as the railway to
Mackay cuts through the field, and ‘it is
close to the seaboard. The measures are
younger geologically than those containing
the semi-anthracitic coals of Baralaba and
Dawson .River.
* * * *
The Tivoli, of Ipswich (Q.), has been
boring for the Balgowan seam on the Dar-
ling Downs, and has cut a 4ft. seam of good
fuel close to the railway. There is prac-
tically no demand for coal on the Downs
beyond that required for raibvay consump-
tion, and even with normal traffic the supply
has always been well ahead of requirements.
Balgowan coal, however, shares with Tanny-
morel the reputation of being the best on the
Downs, so operations there will curtail pro-
duction at mines with inferior seams.
* * * *
“W’gabba” : The S. Aus. White Marble Co.,
whose flotation was recently mentioned by
the “Wild Cat,” will find strenuous competi-
tion from the Ulam cos. in Queensland,
where the marble now' being taken out is
better than anything previously sent south.
Large imports of Italian Carrara early this
year have hit Ulam to some extent, for it
seems difficult to overcome the prejudice
against the local article even if it is of first-
rate quality. The Ulam Carrara Syndicate
recently opened a new quarry, and the qual-
ity is an improvement on that from the
old one. Also, there is no visible limit to
the supply.


jO .O
TERE.NCC. , , Aa _ N
O’HOGBE.S
t* /
[Ai.ro* sc
OE HUGHEJ
WII»HG,LM UOftf HUGHS $
DON
PtORO
HU&HC6
IVAM
WUGH«TSKI
AGOUjI
4AM
VAnr
Pon Men cft ho «y(,HCS
r 3UfT/UO
v. situy
HUGHG.S
JL. 0 . MORfO 5
HUOHCS
THE PROTEAN BILLY.
The Age in commenting on Mr. Hughes’s statement that the Commonwealth should have an effective voice in all matters of foreign policy, declares that
the Prime Minister perhaps “wants such a voice” and may be “fitted with a quartet from Dryden:
‘A man so various that he seemed to be
Not one, but all mankind’s epitome;
Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong,
Was everything by starts and nothing long.’”


m
A
'A
A
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
S atncnn Store /Vk 102 Daking House,
Servicc Vll., Svdney,
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor 200 High St.. Christchurch
W A.-H. Little &■ Co., 851 Hay St., Peith
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines. ,• •
All at sacrifice prices. .
The BULLY"
|7| c POST
r=II|U-FREE
Usually
25/-
sdfg
Here s a good-looking long-service boot in
C,_ace Kid, exactly as pictured, now being
offered during our Sale for much less than
it is worth. Sizes, sto 10..
MAIL YOUR ORDER FOR A PAIR TO-DAY '
FINNEYS,
BRISBANE.
MWORfu
“EXTRAHIGH GRADE 4 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] It. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
‘‘We’re hungry, Bill,” the, unemployed say
to the Lord Mayor of Sydney. “Excuse
me,” says tire Lord Mayor of Sydney-— “l’m
hungry Bill.”
Freddie North, for years We'stralia’s most
affable and decorative Under-Secretary,
didn’t draw his pension long. He arrived
at Perth in 18S6, a youngster fresh from
Rugby, where he had played with the school
eleven, and married the youngest Hamers-
ley girl—Forrest had espoused the eldest.
He was Forrest’s secretary for 10 years, ,ard
before the big man laid down his Premier-
DAVID BARKER, Sydney etcher and
painter, who is off to London (Sept. 6)
with an invention to improve the film
business.
ship and left for Melbourne in 1901 he saw
that brother-in-law was provided for. North
was a connection of the Earl of Guilford,
and critics mordsel.v taunted him with the
fact that one of the Guilford Norths —the
second Earl —helped George 111. to'lose the
American colonies. His aristocratic preten-
sions were greatly ridiculed —there is a tra-
dition that he once advertised in the West
Australian for a “valet, able to milk”-
but he was a good fellow at heart and excel-
lent company.
Those persons responsible for the selec-
tion of Anglican archbishops for Melbourne
seem to be flat-owners of the most bigoted
description. No minister with a family has
received the call in the last 30 years.
Priminister Hughes spoke in French at
Amiens last week. Before he made his first
trip to the Cold Land as head of the Labor
Cabinet he was credited with having taken
gramophone lessons to improve his pronunci-
ation. But the French are a polite people,
and Billy will never know just what they
have suffered from his tongue.
Concerning a strange old nomad: —
The call of the desert will come to Frank Hann
no more. Forty years ago Hann was a Queensland
squatter, but the bank got his run during a drought.
After that the leathery little Englishman—he was
from “Darset”—became a wanderer over the waste
lands of the continent, and no man knew them bet-
ter. From Carpentaria to the Kimberley he went,
travelling with horses and black boys; the Terri-
tory knew his tracks from Cape Wilberforce to
Oodnadatta; the Lake Torrens region was as fami-
liar to him as Sydney to the kerbstone gun; and
Westralia he traversed from Hall’s Creek to Starva-
tion Harbor. About 20 years ago he settled down,
after a fashion, in a camp beyond Laverton (W.A.),
but in time it became merely a starting-point for
numerous, and apparently aimless, journeys towards
the S. Australian border. A curious character was
Hann. He was a prospector of sorts, but never dis-
covered anything valuable. A peerless bushman, he
lacked science and system, for which reason he will
not be ranked among the great Australian explorers.
The probabilities are that he did not even keep a
diary of his travels, immensely interesting though
one would be; and he hardly ever contributed to
the “Aboriginalities” column except to contradict
somebody else. A modest private income enabled
him to indulge his taste for “going bush”; it' was
said that his squattagb prospered in other hands,
and that the bank did not forget him. The end
should have come in the mulga or spinifex, in
which the greater part of his strange life was spent,
among the abos. who accompanied him in his wand-
erings. But the grim old man died decorously in
a suburban holpital, with blue-gowned nurses fuss-
ing round him.
Scully, the Sydney chemist who, accord-
ing to his own story, taught the I.WAV.
how to make "fire-dope,” died in the War
Memorial Hospital on Sunday. lie gave evi-
dence against the 12 I.WAV. leaders charged
with sabotage and other pastimes, and found
life a thorny business after that.
Exit at 68, Henry Deane Walsh, sometime
Commissioner of the Sydney Harbor Trust
and one of Australia’s foremost engineers.
His name and work are commemorated in
Walsh Island (Hunter River) and Walsh
Bay, between Dawes Point and Miller’s
Point. His father was Attorney-General for
Ireland in the ’sixties, and his only son fell
in France.
James Guy, recently a Senator and afore-
time M.H.Ai, and otherwise prominent in
Speck Laborism for a score of years, went
out at Launceston the other day. He suc-
ceeded W. A. Woods in ImJ6 as gen. sec. of
Tas. Workers’ League, and three years later
followed Woods into the local Parliament.
Altogether Guy held the sec.-ship for 15
years, and his mild personality and devoted-
ness would have carried the office probably
another 15 years if the Reaper had not
butted in. His term in the Senate began
at the double dissolution and ended last
year. In politics he was handicapped by
his gentleness. He finished at 60.
T. Harvey Johnston, recently appointed
Professor of Zoology at Adelaide ’Varsity, is
anotner man whom the N.SAV. Education
Department lost because it wouldn’t pay
extra As a teacher at Fort-street
(Sydney*-) he was paid less than the de-
paFtipcntal janitor. His main interests
outside teaching were life-saving societies
and zoology. As- his prospects were dimmed
by the shadow of seniority, he resigned.
His main economic value to the Common-
wealth lies in his knowledge of priekly-pear
eradication, blowflies, ticks and the parasitic
worms of sheep. Beinw only 39 there’s a
chance that he’ll live to see these pests
eradicated.
Another “snake professor” has
gone under to a serpent overseas. This
time it is Morrissey the younger (Thomas
Joseph Wanless). He was working his way
towards India with his eye on the big re-
ward offered by the Government for a cobra-
antidote, and was showing in Durban when
he heard his last hiss. He had had rather
a bad time for a week or two from the bite
of a puff adder. Then, with his finger still
bandaged, he allow'ed a green mamba to
nip him. Two days later he was buried.
One of Adelaide's best-known citizens was
P. A. Howells, who died last week at 68.
He entered the Marshall music warehouse
as a boy, and gradually grew to specialise
in the introduction of fore'gn singers and
musicians. At his Town Hall “pops” 30
years ago a lot of Australians received recog-
nition when they needed it —Lemmone, Lalla
Miranda, Ada Crosslny, Agatha Miller and
others. He was musical director for various
exhibit : ons, ran an oratorio season (with
the late C. J. Stevens) in Sydney. Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, organised a.500-voice
chorus (for Williamson and Musgrove) to
support Albani, and was manager for Sant-
ley. Foli and Paderewski.
William Freeman Nott, secretary of the
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, who
passed out the other day, was a S’Australian.
He was the youngest son of a Gawler medico
and was in the Commonwealth Bank in S.A.
before crossing to Melbourne
E. B. C. CORKER, M.H.R., of Wide Bay.
The man who invented sugar.
Brisbane is about to hand a parcel of
paper currency to John McMaster, who
was outed at the municipal elections after
aldermanning for about half his 91 years,
lie began the habit in 1871, but had a rest
for a term or two.
Not often do you see two barristers, father
and son, appearing in the same case as joint
counsel for petitioner in a divorce suit. Still
less often do you find a third member of the
family, a brother of the older gent., instruct-
ing the other two. But it happened in Mel-
bourne this week. Lou Woolf and son Harry
Woolf appeared for the lady; Joseph Woolf,
brother of Lou, prepared the case and handed
out the briefs. The two brothers, Joseph
and Lou, have both passed the 60 mark, Lou
being the older by four years. Both have
been in the business well over 30 years.
Joseph sticks to the solicitor side; Lou is a
mighty pleader. They belong to a race
that never grows old.
Ex-naval airman Erskine . Childers, one
of the constitutional and drafting advisers
of the Sinn Fein executive in Ireland, is a
Sassenach incensed with England. He is a
son of that Hugh Culling Eardley Childers
who was Auditor-General, Collector of Cus-
toms and nominee Leg. Councillor in Vic.
in the days before Responsible Government,
and a member of the first Leg. Assembly in
1856-59. Entering British politics later, the
elder Childers became Gladstone’s Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. Erskine Childers,
the son, has a Boston wife.
Gone to Abraham’s bosom J. J. Wright,
an old traveller on the Inky Way in Mel-
bourne and editor of The Patriot, a trade
journal circulating in the country districts
of Vic. Wright was on the staff of the
Daily Telegraph, and when it expired from
monetary marasmus he became proprietor of
a paper at Brunswick. In recent times he
worked hard to establish a business to
handle the abalone (mutton-fish) on the
coast of Vic. He was ahead of the times,
however; but the enterprise will arrive
directly the Californian abalone beds are
worked out.
Passed out in Wellington (M.L.), W. J.
G. Hunt, known as "’Samoa” Hunt because
he claimed to be the adopted son of Malietoa
Talavou, who used to rule the mandate
territory before the white chiefs interfered.
Hunt was intimately connected with Samoan
affairs when Tamasese, Mataafa and
Malietoa were bothered about the kingship.
Subsequently he became involved in political
intrigue, and Germany asked him to move
on. The old man was always a battler for
Britain’s rights, and prophesied that Ger-
man influence would be curtailed. It was
a long wait, but he saw his prophecy come
true.
Paris Nesbit, Iv.C. of Adelaide, has em-
barked on a series of sensational lawsuits.
He is demanding the imprisonment of
surgeons of the Adelaide HoSi Li
case m which a patient dipa , ~ r a
anaesthetic, is prosecuting a und ,s r , an
her husband commTtteTto*,?™”,' ho “
he had threatened armed v“, M 'S lu . m nd af “ r
charged half-a-dozen prominent J * a
women with having “c P ons?ired toTause to
be certain animals, namely, hare*”
I am here,” said the K.C. of these eonrstn-
enthusiasts, "to deal with these miserable
wretches as they deal with the
with a little more ipercy. If they will com.
into court and say ~that they were wrong I
will drop the prosecutions. I don’t want t..
punish them. God will do that.”
A note from the Gallerv •
The dulness of the Tariff debate in' the Senat,
is now and then relieved by some flashing remark
from Lyneh of Westralia. Lynch has some of
O Halley’s flamboyancy, but his rich Hibernian in,
promptus carry more wit than any of the Kink -
gorgeous verbal inventions. The other night Lynch
called another member’s demand for something or
other “the high-water mark of barefaced effrontery ”
and “in saying that,” continued Patrick, “1 a’ m
amazed at my own moderation.” Every pressman
aloft wishes a long life and a bright tongue to
Patrick Lynch. With him chiming in at appropriate
interr als, even Jupp Gardiner becomes supportable.
After 53 years in the job of handling pas-
sengers across the Derwent (Tas.), James
O’May has retired. In spite of the ohe
was born in Paisley, Scotland. liis brothers
started with a 20ft. rowing boat in 1863 and
he joined them as soon as he was big enough
to pull an oar. In 1870 they graduated from
whaleboats to a little steamer, the Enter-
prise, and put the rising sun on their flag
They followed this up with the Success, the
Result, the Silver Crown, the Endeavor, the
Derwent and the liosnay. They also bought
the old vehicle-ferry Kangaroo, designed by
Sir William Denison when Governor of the
Speck, which has been running on the Der-
went since 1855. The first ferryman on the
Derwent, by the way, was Urias Allender.
one of the s : x convicts who manned the
whaleboat which carried Collins’s despatches
from Port Phillip to Port Jackson in 1803,
and were pardoned as a reward.
After spending 50 years as a Government
officer, mainly in Bananaland, R. H. Lawson,
Commonwealth chief electoral officer for Vic.,
has retired at 65. He is a. bachelor, and is
pretty comfortable, although he is not going
out with a pension. If the amalgamat.ou
of the Federal and Vic. rolls is decided upon
J. Gilder, the State’s chief electoral officer,
may get Lawson’s job.
Sydney ’Varsity recently handed the degree
of mining engineering to W. Keveral Mcln-
tyre, who is 42, a son of Mclntyre, J„ of
Tas., and son-in-law of Prof. Dav.d. Keveral
-McTntyre saw active service in the S’Afvican
war (mentioned in despatches), and was an
officer in a Tas. Corps at Edward’s corona-
tion. From the latter shivoo he returned to
Sydney and completed his mining engineer-
ing course, gathering in a few scholarships
in the process. Later he thought he’d study
medicine at Edinburgh, and there he cap-
tured the L.R.C.P. with honors. He was in
the thick of the unfriendly business in
France and Belgium for a couple of years,
and was selected to go to the Balkans and
struggle with typhus, malaria and other hor-
rors. Incidentally, he got the M.C. and a
Greek decoration for dressing wounded under
fire. When the guns stopped shooting he
returned to Scotland, and wrote a thesis on
THE ARCHRISHOP OOMES HOME.
tropical diseases, for which he was awarded
the M.D. degree with honors. He is now
practising in Launceston (Tas.), and between
whiles plays cricket and tennis, and has an
occasional rough-up with the gloves.
SMITH, HATE VERE DE VERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“England has as a war legacy a new rich and a
neyv poor. The new poor are mainly England’s
aristocrats. In many cases their stately homes have
been sold to the new rich. Indeed, a man by
the name of Smith seems to own all England.”—
Lady Headley, who used to be Barbara Boynton.
Lady Clara Vere de Vere,
Your ancient pride has tumbled down.
The daughter of a hundred earls
Is vending rags in London town.
Your highborn dad reverses had—
Hit; debts were more than he could pay.
A coarse and pimpled profiteer
I nhabits Castle Broke to-day.
Lady Clara Vere de Vere,
You’ve flown with all your kin and kith.
The Castle ghost has gone on strike
Since Broke was bought by Simpson Smith.
The latter’s clothes and bulbous nose
Affront the caste of Vere de Vere.
He eats his vittles with his knife.
He made his boodle out of beer.
Tell me, Clara Vere de Vere,
What is the worth of long descent?
It doesn’t help, at Golder’s Green,
To pay the butcher or the rent.
No, I’m afraid, patrician maid,
Nobility is now a dud —
Jam-tarts are more than coronets
And brewery shares than Normaq blood.
Clara, Clara Vere de Vere,
Your old renown’s become a myth.
The hall in which the spectre stood
Is paced by massive Mrs. Smith.
She queens the house—your fatted grouse
Are slaughtered by his loathly gun,
While in the “hats” or “haberdasli”
You murmur “Saign,” or- “Fahward one!”'
N.S.W.
WODGIL.


a ,
vs
'.•’'•v:•'■•;•.•• "rWii- i
Kf
PWBSifWSTOiI
D
„ :
mixsi
L%‘J. ...' ?!1
i
if
V
I
m&r.
. ■VA 'ul
m ■-• ■
25*
I^IISS#
■
1
m
m
■ V
■
-
•V • ■
%k'M, ■
S’ .
!#' f
HB
&
-
■v
■•-
-i-jw
'■
.:-
28P
«r
.
... -i
■f*
"■ k* *{ - ’ “’ ‘-'-:;*,wv
.•■■V - "
*
.
Vs _ _
'
WILLS
*
I
>v
-r&m
*s.


£
Peapes’ “Warrego” Shirts
for All Outdoor Workers.
These Shirts have heretofore been made mostly in
plain fawn, blue and grey shirtings. A shipment
recently arrived shows white stripes on blue or
grey grounds.
A reduction in cost of materials enables Peapes
to quote these new “Warrego” Shirts at 11/6 each.
At the price, they represent the best value in
working shirts obtainable. Peapes give them their
unqualified recommendation.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINIATURE MEDALS
as wr-
> -S'
m
vS*S
/
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/9:
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
W. CHORLEY & CO., LTD.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Dr. Nil” : Nature is a wonderful surgeon.
It is astonishing how many operations she
can cure.
* * * *
"Steve Hart”: There’s a bit of comedy in
most tragedies. Up at Tuncurry (N.S.W.)
the manager of the butter and ice factory is
liable to be called up at all hours of the
night by fishermen wanting ice in which to
pack their catches. When the Our Jack and
Fitzroy foundered recently Olaf Johansen,
“BENEATH THE DEEPEST DEPTH A
DEEPER STILL.”
“They' say the cause of the quarrel was a
letter his wife found in his pocket.”
“One he had forgotten to post, eh?”
“No; one he had forgotten to burn.”
after swimming in an icy sea for 13 hours,
struggled ashore on the beach nine miles
from Tuncurry. With a bitter sou’-easter
blowing on his wetness be walked to the
manager’s house and knocked feebly at the
door ; whereupon a cheery voice came from
within: “Righto! Want some ice, I sup-
nose ?”
"Skipper”: Pongo Jones was the slickest
Lewis-gunner in tlie Nth Battalion, but he
had one fault; when uplifted by the wine of
the country he would demonstrate his prow-
ess with his service revolver. He’d open
rapid tire at a liy on the ceiling, or loose off
a few rounds at a rat scurrying along the
edge of a neighboring bunk.' His mates
knew him, but it gave strangers the jumps.
One day Pong was souveniring in a shat-
tered chateau when he hit upon three bottles
of the best under some rubbish in the cellar.
Stumbling into the ruins he suddenly came
face to face with himself in a large gilt
mirror, “drew” with the speed of a movie
cowboy, and emptied the whole six with'
crashing effect. The next minute he was
put under arrest by a badly-scared adjutant
who had been souveniring in the next room.
When the Old Man asked him what he
meant by it, Pongo explained confidentially
with a disarming grin, "Well, to tell you the
truth, sir, I got an eyeful of the blighter
that’s been spending my money for years,
and—well, I lorst control of meself.”
“Captain Spink”: The old Cutty Sark,
now the Ferreira, of Lisbon, is not the last
of the Aberdeen clippers, as alleged by
"Arthenice” (B. 18/8/’2l) ; and I am will-
ing to take my davy that he never read the
inscription, “Cutty Sark, Aberdeen,'’ e.ther
on the brass work of her wheel or on her
bell. She never saw Aberdeen, for she was
built on the Clyde in 1869 to the order of
Capt. John Willis, of London, and her port
of registry was Glasgow. Named after a
witch she could sail like a witch, yet under
similar conditions of wind and weather the
difference in her speed and that of some of
her rivals, say, the Thermopylte or Sir
Lancelot, was trifling. All the same, the
Cutty’s passage of 68 days from London to
Port Jackson has never been beaten by a
windjammer. The next best performance
over the same course was that of the Aber-
deen clipper Patriarch —69 days. The
Samuel Pl msoll. of the same line, which I
last saw doing duty as a coal hulk in W.A.,
made the run in 71 days. The best day’s
run ever made by a shin under canvas—
barring the tall yarns about the Flying Cloud
and other Yankee heelers—was, I believe,
that of the Clyde-built Sir Lancelot, when, in
crossing the Indian Ocean with a cargo of
tea aboard, she did 354 knots by observation
in 24 hours.
* * * *
“Bav.” hears of an old pal:—
Cabled that the Bolsh is sending more troops to
the Finnish frontier, including 10,000 Siberians,
and that four armored trains with 3-inch and '6-inch
guns have gone to Murmansk. I fancy one of
those armored trains is an old cobber of mine. In
the Russian Relief Force we had two with us on
the Archangel-Vologda railway. One was manned
by Russian sailors and they were a pretty slick
crew. They always had
steam up in their engine,
and when word came to
move off they would run
up the line, uncouple
and space out the gun-
trucks, bang away a few
rounds, then couple up,
move on a bit to prevent
8010 getting the range
too accurately, and repeat
the dose. The big train
consisted of an armored
locomotive, five gun-
trucks and a few box-
cars for quarters for the
gunners. There were
three 6-inch naval guns,
each in a long, open,
armored truck, and about
six or. seven 3-inch quick-
firers. The spaces between
were filled with Vickers
machine-guns. Sometimes
the train would work
right up alongside the for-
ward blockhouses, and on
these occasions the six-
inchers were left behind
and the engine pushed the
train, which was pre-
ceded by a flat waggon
covered with barbed wire
to prevert enemy infantrv
from shinning up on to it
—not that they often
wanted to. Once a
strongly-held village was
holding up our advance,
when “Kolchak,” as wj
called the train, blew on
to the scene. In a couple
of hours that village looked very 'sick and "wj just
walked in. The Bclsh got “Kolchak” when he over-
ran that part after the British withdrawal.
“J.F.H.” (1.0nd.) : One good thing about
the translation of Archgaiters Donaldson
from Brisbane To Salisbury will be the end
of the “Brisbane Fund” in the parish church
of Hornsey, a northern suburb of London.
Donaldson was rector there when he was
promoted to Brisbane, and his parishioners
started a fund to provide him with some
of the necessaries of life and a few of its
luxuries in the wild to which he was going.
Brisbane, you know, is an island somewhere
off the coast of Australia. Communication
with the mainland is difficult at times, and
supplies of tinned salmon, condensed milk
and preserved fruits might come in handy
at any moment. So into a box labelled
“Brisbane Fund” at the entrance to the
church, the Hornsey congregation used to
drop its superfluous coppers for auld lang
syne, and breathe a prayer that the former
beloved rector might not be devoured by
cannibals. Donaldson’s appointment to
Salisbury, by the way, is cheered by the Lon-
don C. of E. papers. The Record says it
OF TWO EVILS.
“But bigamy, my dear — bigamy !”
“Why not? Quite a number of us have conscientious objections to divorce .”
occasioned no surprise in view of the bril-
liant reputation he made at the Lambeth
Conference—“by general assent he was one
of the strongest personalities that emerged
in that remarkable assembly.”
•***•*
“Jofubo”: “Murkah” (B. 16/6/’2l) care-
fully explains how Awanui Radio warned
the German shipping that a war was on.
Whether that’s true I don’t know, but I do
know that the German vessels on the S.W.
coast received their warning from the Navy
Office, via Radio Perth, which sent out a
broadcast to all British ships to leave trade
routes and douse lights, thereby informing
them that England was at war. Within five
minutes of this message all the Germans
were using code calls (“Gasm,” “Gaso,”
etc.), instead of their international calls,
and were working in code between themselves
and going for" their lives for the Dutch East
Indies.
* *. * *
“Billy T.”: At the fight that night there
was an extra preliminary between two husky
young volunteers to fill in an unavoidable
pause. “If you’ll throw the lads a few bob,
gents, all, when the scrap is over,” said the
official announcer, “they’ll be dooly grate-
ful.” The lads put up a very willing go of
five rounds, and then the shower was in-
vited. My friend Crowe leaned over the
ropes and said to the winner: “Are you a
teetotaller?” “Yessir,” was the reply. “And
the other lad, does he drink?” “Never
touches it, boss,” responded the second nug..
“Oh, very well, then,” said Crow’e, and he
tossed in half-a-crqwn. Now, Crowe is a pub-
lican with a bar hard by. and I probed him
about his illogical action. “Why did you
reward them for temperance principle's ?”
said I. “Well,” Crowe replied. “I’ve had
that half-crown back in my till three times,
and I don’t want to see it again. It’s a
crook ’un.”-
*-■ * * *
A proud pedagogue speaks (or if he isn’t
proud he ought to be) :
' (B. 18/8/’2l) about bush
State-school teachers don’t apply to Victoria. In
this State every country school runs a kitchen-
garden as a matter of course. To-day I watched
my kids leaving school, each boy with a huge
cabbage grown by himself, each girl with a bundle
of rooted chrysanthemums for mum. Our school
garden supplies most of the lettuce-, cabbage- and
cauliflower-plants for the surrounding cockies, and
practically all the flower seedlings. My youngsters,
with the aid of an axe, spokeshave, broken bottles
and sandpaper, lately attacked a lightwood tree near
the school, the bigger boys making axe- and pick-
handles and the little chaps hammer-handles. Further,
I’ll back my older boys to splice a rope, plait a
whip, make a halter or finish a rope’s end with a
“turkscnp” with any cocky in the district. In a
school close to mine broom corn is grown, and the
youngsters turn out brooms far superior to any
“American” that the local store provides. Every one
of my eighth-grade girls compiles a “Cook Book”
from tried recipes that she collects. These, with
illustrative pictures and drawings, are indexed in
a book, and, as a rule, Mum allows her to trv
them on Saturdays. For some reason the cockies
here send their girls (not the boys) to Melbourne
colleges to “finish off.” They come back having
learned to powder and paint, and with a pile of
art work, but they have forgotten how to milk and
cook, and are chary about soiling their manicured
hands. I move that the Education Deoartment vote
be increased sufficiently to provide boarding-schools
where the sensible work begun by the State schools
might bo carried on, and each child trained for his
or her life work, even if it’s only milking cows.
“Friday Island”: You can judge the value
of using prophylactic typhoid vaccine among
hospital staffs by the fact that at Prince
Alfred (Sydney) there has been only
one case in nine years among doctors
and students, and he was a sawbones whose
blood contained enough bacilli typhosi to
scupper a battleship’s crew. Thanks to pre-
ventive vaccine he pulled through to win a
D.S.O. in the recent unpleasantness.
“M.D.’s” advice might well be directed to
the general public of inland N.S.W. towns,
which, thanks to antiquated water and
sewerage systems, are generally typhoid hot-
beds. These folk would not be so shy of
hypodermic immunisation if they knew that
during the Boer War (when vaccine therapy
was not practised) the number of deaths in
the British Army (strength 557,653 officers
and men) worked out (a) from battle
wounds 7582, (b) from typhoid 8225, where-
as with vaccine therapy in the recent
world’s war the British losses from typhoid
were practically nil.
* « * *
“Fereti”: As “Spare Corp” says (B.
18/8/’2l), the Repat. has been appointed
trustee to handle quite a lot of gratuity
money earned by Diggers now dead. Some-
times the money is to be held to give the
Diggers’ youngsters a start in life; in other
cases the Repat. has to use its discretion
about payments for education, etc. In many
cases in which it gets the job there is no
reflection on the mother: she may have re-
married, for instance. Children born out-
side the wedding-ring have been as tough
a problem as any that has had to be dealt
FRANKER THAN MOST OF US.
“What an awful gash you have on your fore-
head!”
“Oh, next to nothing—next to nothing.”
with, and it has been specially tough where
there has been a legitimate family. No hard
and fast rule has even now been laid down.
The Board controlling the distribution of the
gratuity gets at the facts first and then just
gives the best deal it can.
(Continued on page 18.)
CHEERING THEMSELVES UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“People did not necessarily come to church tor
information any more than they read books or
poetry or went to the theatre or social parties for
information. The motives were to cheer themselves
up—to get away from the drab monotony of life.”
— Rev. T. Tait, at Sydney Scots’ Church.
The pre-war Sydney cleric, with mien and tone
choleric,
Would damn the fads and foibles of the age;
He hated ballroom dancing, and scorned the pagan
prancing
Which (so his flock informed him) shamed the
stage.
He disapproved of flirting, girls’ legs in scanty
skirting,
The racecourse, two-up, drinking and the tote;
Surf-bathing caused him anguish; his faith in man
would languish
Each time he travelled on a Manly boat.
But now the times have altered: divines who never
paltered
With any sort of merriment at all
Can watch with joy abiding a boxer take a hiding
Or face the worst that happens at a ball.
No rag, however festive, makes modern parsons
restive;
No music fills their souls with righteous hate—
Though this, perhaps, no test is: the sound they still
like test is
The pleasant chink of money on the plate.
N.S.W.
D. B. J.


From then till voter
' - ;'
> *)
j
SiJPiiS. ■■■l II
* i,.
fryya»tt>W&*&****<Vf t -wyy <,-«^.>•*>
iwK s * f * $q ' *
/ •,
1 V ' 4 . . * *>/ ;- v :♦
' 5 < - .. : ■ '
;i ■
ljl§£
•• • '**
■•'• v; -■' 4.
.& Si •
■
tmWfr.
< .
B/fA 'CT € r-,^..
II *
'
~,.. x>uf<4im
!, <
Mz
m 4.
sV;yj
. , ' „
;
Bi t.
' V#sv' ' * >/<
4®L • >/; ;v^ >!
\ ‘ ;-:L. J
. ;; - *>
jm*V;
p,f * HV-
» *«£> . „
II v f * • «^% v . . j - j/**
' ' 1
w*# •'< sm


Exquisite Diamond and
Pearl Necklet, set in
pure Platinum and
15ct. Gold.
Price £l7/10/-
No. 139—-. Pearls
and Sapphires, set
loot. Gold.
Price £7.
No. Ill —5-0 ia-
mo’id Pins-. set
Platinum and
18ct. .
New Diamond Displays
Hundreds of different mountings in Diamond-set Platinum Jewellery comprise
Stewart Dawson’s New Display
And ill all, those two factors —Character and Quality—make their irresistible
appeal. Wc cordially invite you to inspect at either of our two Svtln^i-
Establishments. y ey
K373—Three-stone, fine-quality Dia
rnoml Brooc-h. Price £lO/10/-
K374—Two-stone Diamond Knife
Brooch. Price £lO/10/-
Stewart Dawson & (pcw^td.
.ywo Syc/n&tf &stablismenta\
385 -187 PITT ST. 7NTAR KIPyG ST.,
CORNER 412 GEORGE ST.!
So. 147
AH-Diamond Circle
Brooch, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold. Price £2O.
So. 116. —Four-
stone Diamond
Ring, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
K42E>—All Diamond
Necklace,
Price £l5/10/-
Jimmy J. : The way the public service
is made. Blank replied to a reprimand say-
ing that as the case was an exceptional one
he had used his discretion, etc. The boss
replied : “The regulations state definitely....
the use of your discretion was unwarranted
I lease note.”' Blank replied: "Xotod. I
regret having tried to take an intelligent
course. I will not do so again.” As Blank
has about 30 years’ service ahead, no doubt
he will turn out an ideal public officer.
"J.C.”: The Czar butchered, Kaiser Bill
sacked, and now this advt. in the Welling-
ton (M.L.) Evening Post (5/S/’2l) :
Young gentleman, descendant King Edward 1., is
looking for a job. Public school education, 3 years
English Army; can do anything from domestic
duties to company promoting. Write 130, Eva
Post.
“Spare Corp”: A cynical cobber of mine
reckons that the Battle of the Wazzir was
started by a Digger’s argument over prices;
but even so the Four Apostles had a lot
to do with the mix-up which swept away
a part of the worst quarter of Cairo. These
' apostles” were a companionship of clean-
Jiving Aussios who, without affecting any
religious beliefs, set themselves strongly
against the perverted nastinesses of Egypt.
Their method was to wipe out a moral
plague-spot whenever the/ found the boys
m a mood to wipe out things; and, landing
on the scene of a purely local disturbance
in the Wazzir, they grasped the opportunity
and spread the outbreak. Only one of the
apostles was killed in action ; the other three
got some wounds, but are back again.
One is still under treatment for T. 8., the
other two are not much the worse for war-
One of them has been admitted to
the Bar since he came home.
* * * #
“Pips”: The A.I.F. was probably the
cleanest body of troops in the war; but it
bad to deal sternly with some to keep up
its standard. On our transport a handful
had such an aversion to water that the boys
applied for permission to hold a bath-
parade. There were five men marked down
for attention. Four of them, when brought
tace to face with the dread affair, agreed
to disrobe and wash themselves. The fifth
who fought like a frightened cat, had to be
ducked, clothes and all: and the same thing
happened to him weekly without inducing
him to voluntary cleanliness. In one bat-
talion the dirty man of the crowd was an
M.A. His father, who had no pretentions
to culture, was in the same batt. and one
of the cleanest; but his ’Varsity training
seemed to have developed hydrophobia in
the son. At last his exasperated G.O. stood
A WET AND STORMY NIGHT.
"Whersh moon from, ’Erb?”
“ S h nose it's blown out. Dunno ’ow the
shtars keepsh their (hie) place in thish
wind!”
him out in front of the parade for his whole
company to admire; and then, dismissing
them, said: ‘No. 5 platoon will have an
fh?t' a <i JOUr ® u* ty to-day.- I would suggest
HWMirf m i lSh , occupy it in making Private
ieim'” uu <,0k somath ing like a human
being. The enraged platoon carried out
the suggestion; and Blackdirt. M.A. got
such a doing m the course of the cleanin'*
operatmns that he went to hospital for a
IT MERELY PROVED HER A TOP-LINER.
MANAGER: "I am not at all pleased with your acting this afternoon."
DULCIE: “ That's one to me, old dear —stars never shine in the daytime."
: .“N.li.”; The trouble is we are over-run
Avith “specialists” in education. I suffered
course of training under some of them.
The hour-bell would ring us from harmonic
progressions to folding bits of paper, from
some cant on “literature” to making window-
wedges .' What avc seem to have forgotten
is that the exercise of the boy’s brain is of
more importance than whether the exercise
shall be Moral ms, Kamschatka or Rule of
Three. Jf it be Horatius, let the boy get
a solid grip of Horatius; if rule of three,
make him master of rule of three. Where
there are so many crumbs from so many
loaves, a youngster's brain becomes debili-
tated for want of a square meal. A thorough
course of study even on Kamschatka will
train you a '•workman that needeth not to
be ashamed.”
* *• * *
“Court Cat” : The simple faith with which
people assure the Bench that, having heard
their husbands or wives had contracted
alliances Avitli other people, they had them-
selves re-married, has as-
tounded several N.S.W.
Courts this year. In one
recent case an offender’s
first wife, v having been
brought in to give evidence
against her husband on a
charge of bigamy, cheerfully
admitted that she also had
married another man. It
further transpired that the
other man had a spare wife
somewhere in the world;
and as this woman had come
from England it is quite pos-
sible that she may have left
a husband there. Very often
in these cases justice vindi-
cates itself by warning them
not to do it again. Perhaps
it considers that marriage is a sufficient
punishment.
* * * *
“Concession”: “A Mere Woman” wrote
recently to the Argus to complain of the
indignity she had been subjected to at the
hands of a policeman who had moved her
on while she was talking to tvvo lady friends
in Swanston-street, and who afterwards,
when they had taken refuge in a shop door-
way, reiterated the command of the Law-
in a loud and offensive tone. I sympathise
with the mere woman. Nobody has been
moved on in the past oftener than I; but
I know better now. Since I disguised myself
as a bookmaker I find I can take up as much
of the thoroughfare as I like, and stay as
long as I like.
King Pomare, of Tahiti, was a long way
before Priminister Hughes as shipbuilder and
diplomat. In ISO 4 he dropped a line to
Governor King:—
From the frienship you shewed the late King my
lather and the expence the English have been at
in sending Missionaries into the parts for the im-
provenung of myself and ignorant people I’m sure
it will give you pleasured find it, has not all been
thrown away as it has enabled me to address myself
to you by letter which I should have been Incapabell
ot but for these gentlemen ; the purpose of my letter
is to inform you T am building a large Schooner
for protecting myself and the English from a party
of rebellious Subjects who have frequently threat-
ened me with war, for which Vessle l am in want
of Two guns, a Quadrant and a Compass and as I
have no friends but the English, to you, Sir, I
apply for these things, and in return will assist any
English ship that should happen to call here with
every thing my country affords or if you please
should your place be in want of Pork will give you
Hogs in return.
* * * *
■‘II.R.”: A woman was recently dragged
out of a N. s. Wales gaol, where she was
serving a, sentence for performing an illegal
operation, to answer a further charge of
conducting an unregistered private hospital;
and she was fined. But an occasional inci-
dent like this is not likely to interfere seri-
ously with a brisk business, whose practi-
tioners are bold in their methods. A young
man I know has a habit of meeting a girl
near a street corner and taking her for a
walk in the park. He had noticed a woman
m a near-by house regarding him with in-
terest ; and the other day, as he was waiting
on the usual spot, she came over to him,
introduced herself with a smile, and thrust
a card into his hand. It mentioned that the
lady was a nurse, and had accommodation
in her own home for patients. “You might
find it useful,” she said.
* * * *
“Morob” on the titular grab:—
Evidently “Ratio” (B. 4/8/’2l) is not aware of
the attitude of the Australian branches of the
B.M.A. towards those who adopt the title of “doctor”
when their degrees only entitle them legally to
plain “Mister.” (I use the word “legally” because
Statute 21 of the University Act of Vic. provides
that no person who is not the holder of a doctor’s
degree in any of the Faculties shall use the title
“doctor”; and I believe there is a similar provision
in the Acts in other States.) The view which this
body takes is, briefly, that the laity has for so
long associated the practice of medicine with the
title of doctor that the medical profession has a
right to it by usage. The main point, however, is
that the M.D. degree is much harder to obtain than
the M.B. degree, the latter calling for the perform-
ance of a certain amouiit of routine work and the
former for original research work; anil because ot
this it was originally intended that the man who
made some contribution to the knowledge of hi<
profession should be distinguished as such by bein '
called “doctor.” In the Faculties of Law, Dentistry
Art and Science, this is faithfully observed. The
idea of a mere Bachelor of Science calling himself a
doctor is almost unthinkable. The Universities make
a half-hearted attempt to stop the practice by print-
ing only the names of those who possess the M.b.
degree as “doctor” and calling all other graduate
in Medicine “Mr.” ; but that is as far as the attempt
goes, and lecturers and demonstrators who have the
bachelor’s degree are addressed as “doctor” and
look for it. The University Senates have the pown
of ending this unlawful assumption of a title, and
they are the only bodies who can do it. If “Ratio”
waits for the B.M.A. branches to help in the matter
he will wait a long time.
*** i •
“Riverina”: The “threes formation’* men-
tioned by "Bat” (B. 7/7/’2l) may- have
been an innovation to his battalion in Decem-
ber, 191 S, but our crowd used it in Belgium
well over a year before that. (I was with
the Maorilanders.) It should not have
caused company oulcers much trouble, as it
is a simple movement, easily worked out even
without a drillbook, and was used right
through by the French. Incidentally, I
learned it in my schooldays in Aussie;
* * * *
“D. Frost”: There was a cbahce of some
fun in going to church at old St. James’,
Sydney, 90 years or so ago, according to
Mudie, about; whose "Felonry of N. S.
Wales” the Red I’age people have been writ-
ing lately. Archdeacon Scott wanted to evict
a certain pewholder, who, however, refused
to be turned out. So Scott put a guard on.
The holder did a kangaroo hop into the
pew over the back when he saw a chance
and dolled them to pull him out. Then Scott
checkmated by putting a roof over the pew.
*• * *• «
“0.K.” on Crown Law lopsidedness:—
In the Melbourne Criminal Court lately a middle-
aged citizen named Griffin was charged with
having stabbed James Kane in the neck and face
while travelling in a train from Morwell to the
metropolis. The stabbed person had a Crown Prosecu-
tor to tell his tale of how, in a “somewhat boister-
ous” mood, he bumped against Griffin and got so
badly stabbed in three places that a surgeon had to
insert a stitch in each lyound. Griffin was left to
defend himself—and in the Criminal Court, remem
ber. He stated that several men in the carriage
consumed much beer, and Kane became wild drunk.
He bundled his pals into the corridor, and then came
at the stranger, pushed him partly through a window,
and would presumably have pushed him out of the
train if he had not drawh a penknife and scared
the mad bull with the three jabs aforementioned.
Judge and jury lost no time in acquitting the out-
raged Griffin, yet nothing was said about the injus-
tice of the prosecution, or the advisableness of call-
ing Kane to account for it. What compensation is
due to Griffin for the wrongs *he suffered from the
TRUE, TOO TRUE.
THE ARTIST : “No, there's no forty-four
hours' work a week for me, worse luck!"
THE STUDENT : “ It's a shame. I suppose
you paint more than you can sell in
much less than that.”
Crown’s client? And when is the Crown going 1o
prosecute drunken roughs who assault respectable
railway travellers?
AUGUST-SEPTEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Last night a shouting wind arose;
It broke the trees and burst in squalls
Against the roof and timbered walls,
Drumming so fiercely that it froze
My very heart, and thoughts withdrawn
From that bleak world without the blind
Sought out dim corners of the mind
And huddled shivering there .till dawn.
Xow I awake and feel the sun;
O rain-washed hills and springing grass,
How has this wonder come to pass!
Shy rabbits through the bracken run,
On bush and bough bright opals shine,
And in the filmy wattle-brake
A thousand singing-birds awake
And pour their life-blood into mine.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.
PINPRICKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no sense in getting mad
When women prove untrue;
Though one should be a Galahad,
There is no sense in getting mad.
Though skies to-day are lowering sad.
To-morrow’s may be blue.
There is no sense in getting mad
When women prove untrue.
x.s.w.
JOSEPHUS Q. H.


THE GREATEST
BUY
IN THE WORLD
TIFT,CO
Compare the Service rendered by these
various Machines used on the Farm
with the Service rendered by a
DELCO-LIGHTim POWER PLANT
\
YE
t
Y
mm
m
■
f
m i
TWO
USE
AVERAGE
WEEKS IN
THE
mm
AVERAGE use
Six
WEEKS IN THE YEAR
mmmm
II
I AVERAGE USE ONE
1 WEEK IN
FIRST COST TEMPORARY.
BENEFITS PERPETUAL.
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF.
IT SAVES ITS COST IN LABOR
SAVING ALONE.
YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO BE
WITHOUT ONE.
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE.
IT INCREASES FARM
EFFICIENCY.
Washing, ironing, housecleaning and a hundred
other tiresome tasks are made easy by
Delco-Light, the complete electric light and
power plant.
Delco-Light furnishes plenty of bright, safe
electric light for any part of the house or
barn. It furnishes power to pump the
water to any part of the premises.
It will turn the cream separator and tumble
the churn. It will run the washing-machine
and other light machinery.
In these, and many other ways, Delco-Light
is saving time and labor on thousands of
farms every day.
It is solving the “retired farmer” problem by
bringing to the farm home the conveniences
which the retiring farmer had hoped to
enjoy in the city.
The farm equipped with electric light and
power also affords conveniences that attract
hired help and offset city attractions, saving
valuable labor and valuable young manhood
and womanhood to the country community.
150,000 SATISFIED USERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
We Invite You to Write for Catalog
to the Agent in Your State.
Messrs. Smellie & Co.,
BRISBANE.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
MELBOURNE.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.
• < ADELAIDE.
Messrs. Geo. Wills & Co.,
PERTH (W.A.).
DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. Crowle, Ltd., SYDNEY.
—■
VC
""
■
m
f-
m
m
> *
WSm
WMM
mm
w
Wr:
giSiS
w«
c J
G 9
;
- •■^ :
IiSM:
il
v %
'.:• ■ r
®ss
MM
SSI
:« :
"
DELCO-LICHT
WORKS FOR YOU
365 DAYS IN THE YEAR.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. 8. & A. BANK CHAMRPr«
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE S '
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS* FUND BUILDING* GREN.
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN ID,E^l D , E^£ ESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND,
lels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
King George IV
11111 5k WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH"scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
INC UBATOR SASSIETY.
"Terribly low-caste, that rooster !”
"Well, can you wonder at it,—he was hen-
hatched, y'know.”
Dinktim : There is not a drug in the
pharmacopoeia that will cure alcoholism(B <, B/7/’ 9 l)
Strychnine given in doses that are nearly fatal will
temporarily allay the craving. Confining patients
amongst felons only manufactures criminals. The
gradual and finally complete cutting off of all forms
of alcohol for 12 months is the only sane and proved
remedy The curse of most institutions that claim
to treat this disease is that the staff can be bribed
to supply grog on the quiet. Even after 12 months’
abstention there are periodic and rhythmic cravings
or one or two years. Every encouragement should
e given the dipsomaniac to persevere with a cure
whatever tommy-rot lie feels disposed to take. By
continually attempting a cure the will power is
strengthened. Among men who try success is assured
to 80 per cent. Among women the cures do not
amount to 15 per cent. I speak after 11 years of
liquid hell and eight years on the water-waggon;
*** * '
“Murkah”: “Bill R.” (B. 28/7/’2l) Asks
why mildewed ensilage killed the milkers. Mildew
is a bacterial growth upon over-ripe foodstuffs
wherein there is an excess of the sugar or starch
content. The bacteria decomposes the sugar, split-
ing it up into carbon dioxide and alcohol. The
excessive generation of carbon dioxide would distend
■ co 'j vs internal machinery, and this alone could
cause death. Also, under certain conditions alcohol
turns into acetic acid.- Probably the animals died
ot a complication of these causes.
“Alex.”: -‘Steve Hart” (B. 28/7/’2l)
calls for a drink cure. One is “Ingar Pee,” a
Chinese headache raiser. I worked in a Chinese
general store (N.Q,) which specialised in o.p. rum,
and I got so soaked in it that if I went near a
naked light I caught fire. One day I took a six-inch
arulp from a bottle and it turned out to be “Ingar
I ee. Ive never oiled my stomach with spirits since.
* *
“C.”: Re “Jimsey's” inquiry (B. 21/7/’2ll
about the word “ringer.” In the old days the fastest
shearer acted as rep., and at smoke-oh and
knock-off time he used to ring a bell. This is
noted in J. R. Graham’s book “The Australian
Merino,” published about 50 years ago bv Massina.
of Melbourne. In his foreword “J.R.G.” said he was
born within eoo-ee of a sheepfold, and had lived
among the jumbucks all his life.
“X, Gilbert”: Alstonine (B. 9/G/’21.)
is the active principle derived from the alstonia-
tree in N'.Q. It was a favorite remedy for malaria,
and, in fact, for any of the Gulf fevers in the mining
days. Old-timers still swear by it, and use it not
only for fever, but also for dysentery. The fever
incidence is so low now along the Norman and Gil-
bert rivers that it is not easy to give the stuff a
thorough trial. The writer’s experience has been
that it reduces the fevdr and cuts short the attack,
but does not possess the same activity as quinine.
Perhaps lack of precision in preparing anil stand-
ardising the local vegetable may account for this.
Hut it is certain that alstonine has the power effec-
tively to scotch the malaria parasite, and it has
the merit, of being cheap, while quinine is compara-
tively dear. The old gents up here pulp the leaves
as much as possible, boil them for several hours in
enough water to cover them, strain off the leaves,
and evaporate the residue to about half its bulk.’
The dose is about a tablespoonful every couple of
hours.
* * •* *
“Hawkesbury”: “E.C.L.” (B. 11/S/’2l)
wants to know what a large wasp does with a cicada
that she captures, steer's to her nest and kills. The
alleged wasp is probably the large orange-banded
hoi net. She does not kill the locust, but stings it
in a nerve centre that should paralyse it, lays her
eggs in its body, and makes it living food for the
.offspring. That is the theory; but. as the writer has
seen, the hornet sometimes fails to sting as she
intends, and the cicada, after a lot of hauling to
the bole in the ground, may prove to be only partly
doped. The hornet does not sting again, but, goes
after a fresh victim. A dead cicada would not suit
her purpose. A smaller hornet of the same kind
and making a mud cell specialises in spiders; and
there is a wasp that specialises in caterpillars, as
described by J. H. Fabre.
# * <* . x .
“Saaedi ’: “E.G.” notwithstanding (B.
11/S/’2l), “Jim Carcw” is partly right in his con-
tention that wild ducks rarely establish a home near
water. I have found several nests belonging to
different species of this bird, but none within 300
yards of sufficient moisture to float a young duck.
“E.C.’s” instance of the birds’ habits on the Dia-
mantina ( Q.) would seem to indicate that environ-
ment has something to do with it. Maybe Queens-
land’s general proximity to liquidation has affected
the duck’s domestic arrangements in that State.
* * * *
“Ophis”: Re “Major H.V’ request (B.
11/s/’2l) for the name of the snake which bit and
killed his dog in two and a half hours. The only-
venomous snake 1 can call to memory which is
marked anything like the carpet-snake is the white-
bellied. water-snake (Fordouia Ivucobtilia) . This
species is yellowish-white underneath and variegated
above, with yellowish-red, white or black markings;
but the color of different specimens is very variable
indeed. It is one of the back-tanged snakes, and has
always been considered harmless to any of the larger
animals: hence my surprise when I heard of the
death of a dog from its bite. The size is also of
gie.it interest, because I know of no ■ specimen
exceeding about 3ft, ,6iti. Of course, I may 7 be wrong
m my guess at the identification, but the facts that
the snake was met with on the Langlo River and
that the color of the specimen approaches that of
F. leucobalia point that way. If “Major H.” could
manage to send a specimen to the Museum at Sydney,
any remaining doubt would be cleared up.
‘ Alex.” : I, too, knew an old rudderless grey
at Bundaberg (Q.) who appreciated prawns. He
stole a bob’s worth of mine which I had left for a
moment on a verandah. This cuddy, however, was a
well- - known “soak.” He got his beer in the back
yard of Steindel’s brewery every day, and I never
saw him without bloodshot eyes and a stutter in his
footsteps.
* * *
“Monaro”: “8.N.J.” asks (B. 11/8/’2l)
how to cure a horse that pulls back. A mate doc-
tored his this way. He reeved a piece of steel
wire into a length of worn-out rope. Then selecting
a springy sapling he tied the horse up. For a minute
or so it seemed that if the sapling stood it and the
tackle held the horse would pull his head off. But
everything held. We left him there two days. After
that you could have tied him up with a piece of
cotton and found him there that day week.
# »
“Bitter End”: “SSB” (B. 4/8/’2l) asks
how to turn lambs’ tails into food. Directly they
are cut off, rub them well with salt and lay them
on a cold damp floor and leave several days until
the outer skin peels off readilv. Stew them
thoroughly and place them to cool in the same
water, and the concoction forms a jelly. This is
then made into pies in the ordinary' way. I can’t
cqme at them -myself, hut there are thousands in
the Cold Country' who do.
“Nor’-West”; Poor old “Rooinek” (B.
didn’t quite settle the argument as to
whether pa or ma quail does the hatching. Among
the hemipodes, or three-toed quail, is the mountain
or dotterel quail. This bird frequents the ridges and
scrubby country along the offshoots and foothills of
the Main and Nandewar ranges. Compared with
THE REVELATION.
MRS. JONES (weepingly): “Ah, Bessie, I never knew how good John was Lift I ceud it
on his tombstone.”
other members of the tribes it is solitary in its
habits, generally going about in pairs, and more
than four or six are rarely to be seen together. It
is one of the most beautifully-marked of all the
quail, the coloring of the male being dark orange
on the back with rich ■ brown .stripes, silver-grey on
the wings and under the neck with white spots
edged with black, and light buff underneath. The
bird builds at the foot of a small shrub—wild hop-
bush and so on. The eggs are large and much
lighter in color than other quails’ eggs, being almost
white with small bluish and purple freckles. In the
case of these hemipodes the female sits on the eggs,
or at least does her share of the hatching—l have
found her doing it.
* * * *
Six and Eight’ : If “Mum-inuk”. (B.
4/8/’2l) saw a lung-fish (Eu-ceratodus forsteri) in a.
N.T. creek the statement in Lucas and Le Souef’s
“Animals , of Australia” that its only habitats are
the Queensland rivers Mary and Burnett is busted
up. The former distribution of the luftg-fish was
widespread,, fossils of the genus or one nearly iden-
tical having been found in Germany, Britain, South
Africa, India and North America. Those of a closely-
allied genus have been found also in the Hawkes-
burv beds (N.S.W.). If “Mum-muk’s” fish was 4ft.
long it was a boomer, for 3ft. is a large size. But
as the size he mentions was only an estimate he
may easily have been considerably wide of the mark.
The interesting point is that he saw a ceratodus
away from the Mary and Burnett rivers.
* * *
J.11.A : Some fool said a corkscrew was
the greatest invention. He must have been drunk,
because the greatest invention is to
be seen on a returned Digger’s block
on the Stanhope (Vic.) settlement.
In a little calf-paddock there stands
a life-sized imitation cow, hollow in-
side and finished off with an udder
and four rubber teats. When feeding-
time comes round, Billjim lifts a lid
and pours in the milk, whereupon
poddy grabs a teat and wags his tail
in enjoyment.
Janus”: Three years ago at Koo-wee-rup
(Vic.) three men dug 1021 bags of spuds between
Monday morning and Saturday midday, ' working
eight hours per day. That’s the most consistent
performance I know of in the profession.
“H. McL.”: Re “Bill Bowyang’s” (B.
21/7/’2l) black snake family. At Flynn’s Creek,
Cippsland (Vic.), some time ago, T. Y. Anderson
(famous as the breeder of the_coursing dogs Comedy
King, Shady Spot and others), his brother Dave and
myself killed a black snake 1 post-mortem re-
vealed 25 young ones, each in a separate sac.
“Dido”: During the long drought M r .
Creel had bundled Creel off to bring up a barrel of
drinking-water from the spring at Little Bridge five
miles off. Creel harnessed the big bay to the can
hung a bucket on behind, and drove off. This was
at 11 in the morning; at 5 that evening h*
had not returned, and the sky was black behind a
driving wind. The cloud-burst came at 6, but nc
Creel. Rain drove down in long sheets, slapping
the earth, barrels and tanks were soon running ovpi.
and the creek was beginning to race. Creel came in
at a quarter to 11. I saw him when the kitchen
door was opened to him, wet to the hide, and a rivu-
let falling from every angle. He stood there smiling
drunkenly. He had not brought the barrel home,
arid tin' bay horse was Heaven knows where, but he
was offering his wife a bucket of water which, as
Dayton assured me next day, the man had carried
through Hie storm all the way from the pub at
Little Bridge. “Here you are, Lily, me dear,” lie
said with fatuous satisfaction, “you see I didn’t
forget the drop o' warrer you wanned.”
“H. Murray”: “Bouragi” (B. 21/7/’2l)
exaggerates re the crabs at the Samarai cemetery
situated near Kwato. I have been to funerals there,
and often passed through on my way for a surf
bathe on the far side, and never clapped eyes on a
crab, or saw signs of devastation about the graves.
In fact, as crabs are considered a delicacy after the
•eternal bullamacow, the cemetery would be a happy
hunting-ground were the crabs to exist in the num-
bers “Bouragi” suggests.
TRADITIONAL HOSPITALITY.
LADY ON VERANDAH : “Well, well! Bless
my soul! Gome in, all of yez, and make
yerselves at ’ one .”
“Mirrabillili” : “Peter Pan” (B. 14/7/’2l)
says he has never heard of another case of a bitch
mothering a kitten. Neither have I ; but I have
seen at our station homestead a little pig go from
the mother to a cattle bitch and then to a goat and
suck each in turn.
(Continued on paye 22.)
LAZYLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
wili Th nnt fl roo ,"\ terS k O /” the nort hern watersheds
.V not _, leach here before ten days at least.”—
«eecii, Bourke news item. '
~r ise river in the far north of the
should arrive here in about another three
iiei.ks time. —ltem from further down the river
i he laziest of lazy lands—the laziest by far!—
Where lots o’ time—and lots o’ lots—its folk’s
possessions are.
a land where almanacs don't count the dates that
creeping go—
A land where watches lag behind, and all the clocks
are slow.
" raincd up north a month ago, the skies are
cloudlostf now;
In (act, a drought has come since then, the northern
people vow.
What odds!—another month may pass ere, south of
t urther South,
The dawdling waters reach at last the far-off Mur-
ray’s mouth.
A lazy land of let-it-slide and let-it-wander-past,
fart/ 8 * IOW the sU,Hn K <*. the wandering not
A land where all things come to pass, i„ spite of
lack of speed,
' ’chastened by the folk who wait, unflurried bv
•their need.
Oh, lazy, loafing, level land, I envy you your wav-
mr dozy, dreamy, doldrum nights arid lotus-laden "
days;
,r < breathless fJle fevmd ’
.v.s.w.
R. CASSIDY.


MOTORISTS!
"
SUMMER WILL SOON BE HERE
I
■ 3
Si;
■ V ,
and with it the long, pleasant days that
make motoring well worth while.
X
YOU WILL DERIVE FULLY 50 PER CENT.
MORE SATISFACTION AND SERVICE
FROM YOUR CAR IF IT IS i3lewmb
EQUIPPED.
SHC’ 1
■
THE SPEEDOMETER tells with absolute accuracy how fast
and how far you go. Keeps a check on tyres, oil, etc. is o y
Speedometer built on the magnetic principle, and is universally acknowledg
the most xeliable Speedometer ever constructed.
THE tSteWWlb VACUUM SYSTEM is the one system that ensures
an even, automatic flow of fuel to the carburetter on all grades.
For safety’s sake you need a fSteUWfr SEARCHLIGHT Projects a big
brilliant beam of light that illumines the road far ahead—mvaluable for picking out
signposts and house numbers in towns.
CffielOtVlt? WARNING SIGNALS (both hand-operated and motor-driven) stand
alone as the most substantial, efficient and serviceable signals on the market.
0 0
416
OBTAINABLE FROM
RETAIL ACCESSORY
TRALIA, including the
ALL LEADING WHOLESALE AND
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUS-
following Interstate Service Stations: —
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Hay Street, Perth.
CORNELL, LTD., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
sdfg
The MOST CHERISHED POSSESSION
of the great singers and instrumentalists is their art, and
their greatest desire is that under all circumstances they
shall be heard at their best. This is the reason why the
world’s greatest artists
MELBA, CARUSO, RUFFO, SCOTTI, HEIFETZ,
GALLI-CURCI, ALDA, ELMAN, PADEREWSKI,
KUBELIK, and hundreds of others
have entrusted the recording of their art to the
His Master's Voice
and is the most conclusive evidence of its artistic
superiority.
WE STOCK ALL MODELS, EACH ONE IS COMPLETE
WITH EVERY EFFECTIVE DEVICE FOR THE
PERFECT REPRODUCTION OF RECORDS.
CD
(Q
si
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
WITH ALL MODELS DE-
SCRIBED IN DETAIL AND
PARTICULARS OF OUR
EASY TERMS.
e St.
338 Georg*
SYDNEY?-
WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF
RECORDS TO CHOOSE FROM.


FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
Keep your nerves and blood in good order by taking
CLEMENTS TONIC
Build up your system now in readiness for the fatiguing summer days.
CLEMENTS TONIC will help you; keep a bottle handy and take an occasional
dose when you’re feeling off color.
“11. Murray”: I agree with “Bouragi”
(.)*• 28/6/’2l) that the L.M.B. was the worst offender
as regards clothing the mission pupils, especially
the boys. In 1918 1 had the job of passing a
Customs entry for a case of second-hand wearing
apparel sent out by some tools in the Old Dart.
Strictly speaking, the case should have been dumped
overboard, as the Tariff prohibits entry of second-
hand clothing. Evidently outside influence won, and de-
livery was given after the lot had been fumigated.
The case contained six dozen mouldy leather belts, a
lot of caps, some knickers, a few’ shirts of divers
colors, a pinafore or two, and last but not least a
print of the late King Ned with his Derby winner.
* * * *
“Merlin” plays noughts and crosses:—
l am glad to see “Country Drummer” (B.
14/7/’2l) revealing the true nature of the Wauehope
cat-rabbit. “Aussie-ite’s” creature must have been
cither a deformity or a product of imagination or
alcohol or both. 1 should very much like to see a
photo of the Glen limes family’s pet, and if “Aussie-
ite” could get a skull of one of his half-breeds and
send it to a museum he would settle the question
for good. I should also like to know how “Pon-
go’s” monkey-cat love-match came about, as ana-
tomical differences would stand in the way. “Alex’s”
cat-wallaby is impossible for the same reason. I
also beg to doubt “f’.H.M.” and “John D.” with
their corella-galah mixtures, though these are easily
explained as being -serpi-albino galahs.
It is a fact well knowirto biologists that separate
species never cross in the wild state. Aristotle
knew that, and he didn’t seem to regard it as a new
discovery. Modern biologists declare that the onlv
natural hybridisation is that which sometimes takes
place between wind-pollinated plants, and even this
is very rare. This for a start squashes all the above
yarns except “Pongo’s.”
On the other hand, in captivity, with artificial
conditions and artificial stimuli, many animals will
contract mixed marriages. The developing egg will
divide a few times and then die, except in the case
of very closely-related species. Anybody sufficiently
interested should look up Lillie in “Problems of
Fertilisation” (any public library). Cross-fertilised
frogs’ eggs die at various stages of development, but
F. O. B.
MILD LUNATIC : “I notice you sweep chim-
neys. So I’ve brought mine.”
nearly all before they have any semblahce of tad-
pole shape (P. 200). In preceding pages a similar
result is arrived at with lower animals. The ovum
will often, fertilise and divide, but sooner or later
proves to be non-viable. It has been shown by
Loeb that in cross-fertilisation of sea-urchin eggs
the male element exerts only a developmental and
no hereditary effect. The larva produced by the
action of a mollusc spermatozoon on a sea-urchin
ovum is a typical sea-urchin form. It soon dies
however.
To get back to our animals. I might have be-
lieved the corella-galah story if the birds had been
in captivity. Everybody' has seen mules and cross-
bred pheasants. But in every case, except in a few
species as nearly. related as some of the oxen the
offspring l are sterile. Who ever heard of a cat-do 0 *
cross? Yet this and the old and oft-ridiculed sheep-
pig mixture are more likely (though still impos-
sible) than the Abo. naturalists’ weird yarns.
Last,. but not least, how did the parties arrange
the period of gestation ? Did they take the average
or what? And did the cat and the wallaby come to
an amicable agreement as to whether the infant 'was
to have an umbilical cord or not? Also as to its
possession of a. pouch? It is all about as sensible
as the popular song which wants the hippopotamus
to lay an egg because the ostrich docs.
“Te Whare”: Most birds build afresh,
season after season, seldom renovating an old nest,
although a barrowful of material may be necessary,
as in the case of the lyre-bird. But there are ex-
ceptions. The wedge-tailed and the white-bellied
sea-eagle add a few* sticks annually to their clothes-
basket incubators until the structure becomes im-
mense. In another instance a pair of black fantails
(willy wagtail) had just finished their cup-nest
when about 28 inches of rain fell in 36 hours.
THE FLY IN THE HONEY.
PROHIBITIONIST: "Whisky has played havoc with many good men."
DRUNK: “low bet it has — it’s ruined my taste for beer."
After the downpour they inspected their dishevelled
premises and calmly built another nest on top of
the remains which still held to the branch. Result,
an incubator nearly twice the usual size. Similarly,
birds, when robbed or after incubating-, rarely lay
again in the same nest; but in one case a pair of
despoiled cranky Fans (white-shafted fantail)
laid another clutch, and a pair of black fantails
produced a second brood in the old incubator. In
the latter instance, of course, a chick from the
first brood may have married and commandeered the
family mansion. The yellow-throated scrub-wren
also renovates old nest".
* 4 * * *
“Billy Boy”: “Haken’s” dog (B. 18/8/’2l)
couldn’t beat one that used to be a well-known
identity in a N. S. Wales South Coast mining town.
A Pommy miner, whose habit it was to leave half
his wages at the Miners’ Arms every pay-day, had
his sprees cut short by a shrewd missus. She
taught the hound to bring home the pay-envelope
each week.
* * * *
“Sirrah”: I was in the bar of a Western
Q. pub last shearing, just after a big shed near by
had cut out, when in staggered a big
chap, who thumped the counter and an-
nounced that he would shout for the
mob. The drinks being served he tend-
ered a cheque with a flourish, and roared
to some rouseabouts across the room, “A
day’s wages, boys!” One of the rousies,
not to be outdone, called for another
round, and, walking across to where the
big fellow wa9 standing, planked down
a cheque with the remark: “Six weeks’
wet weather, boys ! ”
Dixie” : A claimant for the record lacta-
tion is Cherry, a red shorthorn-Jersey, owned by
F. W. Tweedie, of Tumut (N.S.W.). Her fifth
calf arrived in December, 1910, and for the 10£
years since she has been stepping into the bail.
With the spring of each year the flow freshens.
# * * *
“Talawong”: The beautifully-marked
riflebird of the N.S.W. North Cbast, now rarely
seen in its old habitats, was extremely shy, and its
nest was difficult to locate. During 15 years in the
district I saw only one nest. This, excepting for
some small twigs and moss, was built entirely of
newly shed snakeskins; and it was a popular belief
that all their nests were similarly constructed. I’ve
often wondered since whether there was anything
in it.
* * * *
■‘Exul” : The origin of the word “kan-
garoo” recently quoted has a historical parallel in
Prescott s “Conquest of Mexico”: “On landing and
asking the name of the country, he [Hernandez de
Cordova, 1517] was answ'ered by the natives, ‘Tecte-
tan, meaning - I do not understand you,’ but which
the Spaniards, misinterpreting into the name of the
place, easily corrupted into Yucatan.”
“Pick”: Let me deal another hand to
“FY7,” who (B. 11/8/’2l) persists that a falcon
slajs a flying duck with his claw. When the hawk
picks up a crouching victim he does so with his
claws, but even then he kills by nipping off the
head with his beak. When, however, it is a matter
of overtaking and killing on the wing a swift flier
like a wild duck, the falcon could not deal a death-
blow with his talons. To do it, he would have
to kick back at his prey while passing over him at
a much faster speed, which, as Euclid used to say,
is absurd. I plainly saw how the finishing touch
was delivered when a blue falcon knocked a magpie
off a gallows, not two yards over my head. The jolt
came, from the partly-folded wing. “FY7” says
such an impact would break the wing. Any bird
anatomist will tell him that the single bone of a
bird’s leg is more easily fractured than the double
bone of the wing.
* * ■» *
"Quey”: Can any Abo.-liar give the deriva-
tion and meaning of the words “Cowal” and “Warr-
ambool” as used on the Darling River and its
tributaries ?
“Paul C.”: Tell “8.N.J.” (B. 11/8/’2l)
that he has been tying up his moke by the wrong
end. if he desires to cure a chronic bridle-breaker
get a half-inch rope, double it, and put the loop
under the prad’s tail like a crupper, cross the rope
on his back and bring both ends forward and tie at
his chest. Put the bridle or halter over a round
rail or through a ring and tie the end to the rope
at his chest. Then “8.N.J.” can put in half a night
at courting or the pub, and when he comes back
he’ll find his quadruped standing with his head over
the fence; and 19 devils wouldn’t make him go back
from it. The cure lies in the fact that when the
horse pulls he finds the pull on his tail instead of
behind his ears as heretofore. The rope saws into
his tail, and he decides to give up the effort before
he loses that part of him altogether.
* * # •
“Riom”: One 65ft. long is my entry for
the longest whip stakes. It was made by Thos.
Small, of Erskineville (N.S.W.), who had big money
waiting for anyone who could crack it. It was
“mislaid” at the Panama Exhibition.
Archie Meston’s wanderings in the North :
Near Restoration Island, the point near Cape York
at which Captain Bligh first touched Australia after
the mutiny of the Bounty, is Pascoe River, scene of
one of the saddest tragedies in Australian explora-
tion. The water of the bay here is shallow inshore
at low tide, the bottom covered by the splendid
marine grass mat-tha on which the dugong feeds —a
majestic grass like tall bright-green submerged
wheat, waving perpetually with the undu-
lation of the sea. Behind the bay (Weymouth), on
the head of the Pascoe, rise magnificent granite
mountains, two of them, Moombang-oor and Coom-
boolgabam, showing in the intervening ravine a
glorious cataract falling 1500 ft., seaming the dark
mountain from base to apex with a broad band of
flashing silver. Near to the mouth of the river is a
small wooded granite island known as Pigeon to the
whites and Ochohlo to the aboriginals. Opposite, on
the mainland, half a mile away, are two very small
streams, three or four yards across, called Leewa-
binda by' the blacks. Here is the tragic spot
where the doomed Kennedy, the explorer, left the
eight men of his equally doomed expedition in 1843,
My visit to the site of their la§t camp was fraught
with mournful thoughts. It lies back half a mile
from the beach beneath the shadow of a small hill
covered by dense scrub, from which the scrub-hen-
called at intervals through the lonelv night when
two old aboriginals and myself camped there—tw o
old. warriors who were present at the last scene-
they had gone through their third bora ceremonv
and would then be about 18 or 20 years of age
They had seen Kennedy ai d his party arrive, and had
seen him and three men and Jack}-, the Hunter River
aboriginal, cross the Pascoe going north, leaving the
eight men camped at Leewabinda. They had seen
six of those eight die one by one of fever and starva-
tion, while armed blacks looked on da}- after dav
waiting for the end. They had seen Jacky bring
back the relief party and remove Carron and God-
dard, the sole survivors, and were two of that for.
midable party of spear-armed blacks whose serious
menace was such that Jacky warned the whites to
"get two men ’long boat and go away quick.” That
aboriginal from Patrick’s Plains on the Hunter
River is one of the grandest characters in Austra-
lian history. His native name was Galmarra, a
poet or composer of corroborees, and at my instiga-
tion the late F. M. Bailey, Queensland’s grea,
botanist, gave the name of Paspalum Galmarra to a
splendid new grass he and I discovered on the Kus-ell
River in 1889, so that the heroic aboriginal is im-
mortalised in botany as in exploration.
* * * *
‘‘II.J.” :R C “B.J.N.’s” (B. 11/8/’2l) horse
which has developed the habit of breaking away
when tied up. Take the cuddy to a dam with a
good slope towards the water. Put in a substantial
posf just at the edge! of the slope; then get the prad
down the slope and tie him to the post. When he
gets a good strain on cut the rope. This is a
guaranteed cure.
* * * *
“Murknh” : This happened near Numurkah
(Vic.) in 1905. A Buncle chaffcutter, weighing,
with etceteras, close-up two tons, was travelling along
the road, when a bag-sewer who had been perched
on top dozed and fell off and one rear wheel went
over his right forearm. Result, a trifling bruise.
Within an hour he was “closing their mouths'’ as if
nothing had happened.
* * * *
“Znmia” : One enemy of the white ant is
the little feather-tailed ’possum. All sorts of food
were tried for one at the Sydney Zoo. He would
eat sugar, though he was not specially keen on it.
Meat he didn’t care for, nor did grubs and such
things attract him. An old log was put down as a
house that he might feel at home in, and when he
found that there were white ants in it he decided
to board as well as lodge there. For dessert’the
manna from the white gum was his favorite dish.
“Bill Ironbark”: When travelling between
Casino and Tenterfield (N.S.W.) we camped a night
at Piaora in the cow and bullock-team country, and
were invited to a dance. During the evening I
noticed a young couple on a form on the verandah
just outside a window near which I was sitting,
and presently I heard the young fellow say: “You
can’t guess what I’ve got in my pocket.” She
guessed everything from a pocket-knife to a bit oi
string, then gave it up. His triumphant announce-
ment was: “It’s the keys of the yokes belonging to
Smiler and Doughboy.”
* * * »
“Gad ’: Returning from a shooting excur-
sion with a .303 rifle I saw a rabbit's head above
some ferns, and fired. On investigation I picked
up two dead bunnies, one with the head smashed
by the bullet, the second killed by the jawbone of
the first.
CHRONIC.
“ One-time me bin poor, hungry Mary, boss!”
“Dear me, when was that, Mary?”
“All poor Mary boss.”
“Janus”: About as much arsenic as he can
put on a threepenny-bit is enough for each bait for
the dingoes that “Wit Ruv” (B. 11/8/’2l) wants
to deal with. He will need, however, to lay all
his baits about the same time, as the pests are
nearly as cunning as foxes where poisoned baits are
concerned.
A TALL STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Pete the Snorer: “I bin told
Yous blokes is lookin’ for big trees.
Well, one I knew in days of old
At Barren Gap would dwarf all these.
To look her over strained yer eyes ;
Her branches served to dust the skies.
When I went there they chats to me
How once a feller named McLean
Had started climbin’ up this tree,
And never since had he been seen.
Twas years afore, they said. Mayhap
They bred some liars at the Gap,
But this was true enough. One day
For. curiosity I clumb
That tree meself, and by the way
1 feels a foot upon me thumb.
And lookin’ up what does 1 see?
V queer bloke squintin’ down at me!
He’s dressed in rags, his hair is grey.
He wear's a zitf like Moses had ;
He’s seventy years if he’s a day.
He started up when quite a lad,
And, s’elp me, 1 had crossed the track
Of old McLean a-climbin’ back!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


m
tl
n
TTE
GIG
>*
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
Under New Tariff. a :
»
v*.
f * * •
c
■3O/
vi'
%
<0
r7xv
Q&
o <<
o?
Co'O
o<s>
I \ 1
A
GO
AC
rac
So
'fl
aiiu
•»
dfg


...
. >.
s\
: v
m
1
/;
~. . vu,-
8r
«.?*:
c
M!
IB
■
aiii
M
m
*■
:
. S f
l
■—
JS*
/l
->S?
a
As much as you want wherever
you are!
WESTERN Electric Power and Light
has banished the idwa that complete
electric service is only possible for
city dwellers. If you could consult the
world-wide users of Western Electric
Power and Light ( there are over 100,000 )
you would fiud them miles from a town
electric supply, yet enjo zing' equal benefits
~ wonderful services that brighten the
home, imnrove the property value, and
make possible a ha py, comfortable life,
free from drudgery.
Western Electric Po wer and Light gives
three separate services with success.
Other plants seldom give more than one.
FIRST. The Western Electric Plant
provides electric current for lights in the
house, at the gateway, in drives, barns,
stables and sheds—a wonderful advance
on dirty, dangerous kerosene lamps.
SECOND. The Western Electric Plant
provides extra current so that you can
use appliances that clean the floors, wash
the clothes and iron them, wash the
dishes, drive a sewing machine or run
the separator, churn, feed mill, or grind
stone.
THIRD. The Western Electric Plant is
operated by a h gh-grade 3X H.P. engine,
kerosene, with automatic fuel feed and
lubrication. This engine is fitted with a
pulley from which all kinds of machinery
can be driven —a wonderful farm service.
If you want real electric supply service
at lowest cost, buy Western Electric
Power and Light. The price is not great
and it’s easy to buy. Write now for 20
page book (post free) to the agent for
for your state shown below.
Western Electric Company (Australia) Limited
Street. PERTH; Win. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 33 King Street HO PART MFMlimli
ELECTRIC CO Argyle Sheet. WELLINGTON, N Z : A d! RILEY &CO LTD
Quay, also at Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin. ’’ - ’’ Lambton
The man shown on the
left holds a Western Elec-
tric handy motor which is
widely used for operating
the separator, churn, feed
mil, grindstone, etc. The
importance of West rn
Electric Power and Lit ht
to you is that its size and
strength enables such labor
saving appliances to be
used.
The Western Electric bat-
tery is 288 ampere hours
capacity (S.A.E. rating)
nearly double the size of
most other plants. It is
specially designed to resist
strains and automatically
charged in such a way that
you are always protected
from repair expense. No
other battery is protected
in this way—ro other
plant is so simple, econ-
omical, and free from
trouble. W.E. 633
and Li<2
O


Purest
Spirit
irv tke
UWd
dfg
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schna?^
m
m
f.,/
'/i ////.
\\
N
. X
c *csr
T *o
■X x
C.O v
CROUP
w.
EVERY Drop of
Neame’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
VV. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
because a generation of the alleged leaders
of literary thought take him as read. He
is a classic, but he is a living poet, too. The
best minds will go back to him in spite of
all passing fashions and hollow memorial
volumes. What a pity he died at -5.
Thank (Jod he lived so long.
D. M. W.
A Plea for the Ultra-Simple Life
Arthur J. I’cnty, whose “(Juildsman’s
Interpretation of History” was discussed on
this page, returns to the attack on modern
industrial methods and Roman Law in
Guilds, Trade and Agriculture (George
Allen and Unwin, Ltd.). Rut only as a
side-line. lie is concerned chiefly with a
remedy for Europe in chaos. He begins by
assuming that the situation is desperate;
that the disease which has smitten Russia is
moving rapidly westward :
The effect of the war was to shatter in every
possible way the cycle of trade which upheld the pre-
war economic structure of Europe. It dammed the
pre-war flow of exports from Europe. It. reversed
the pre-war flow of interest which formerly paid for
j-ome of Europe’s imports. it disorganised the
means Europe hail of rendering services to the world.
It used up and destroyed the stocks of raw materials
which Fairope possessed. And finally it artificially
inflated the currency and credit of Europe and by
depreciating her exchanges rendered it even more
difficult for her to obtain those raw materials she
needed to restart her flow of exports.
, All this is indisputable. The war tilled
' America and Japan with new factories; it
forced Britain and France to sell the cream
of their foreign securities ; it hit the British
ennying trade hard ; it reduced the value of
the £ to about 14s. and that of the franc to
about 4d. Yet London is still the financial
centre of the world ; the British mercantile
marine is still supreme; the £ is recovering,
and the world is rushing British goods as m
pre-war days. An Anti-Dumping Bill was
passed in the House of Commons a few days
ago. It is directed, according to the Opposi-
tion leader, against France; according to the
Government against Germany. In other
words, there is no ruinous shortage of raw
materials or the energy to make them up
even in those stricken countries. However,
it suits Mr. Peuty’s argument to take the
sensationally hopeless view'; the sensational-*
ism of his scheme demands it. Under the
Gnildism of the Middle Ages money was re-
stricted to what he calls “its legitimate use.”
It was, so far as the Church which was
virtually the State could achieve —by penal
laws against money-lending at interest and
so on—no more than a token for the ex-
change of goods. But the serpent of the
Justinian Code entered into the ecclesiastical
paradise and modern commercialism began:
The merchants and middlemen, because they
specialise in market conditions, find themselves in a
position to exploit the community by speculating
in values. Standing- between producers and con-
sumers they are in a position to levy tribute from
each of them. By- refusing to buy they can compel
producers to sell things to them at less than their
real value; while by refusing to sell they can compel
consumers to buy things from them at more than
their real value. And by pocketing the difference
they become rich.... All commercial operations par-
take of this nature. Their aim is always to defeat
the law of fair exchange by manipulating tallies.
By so doing money- is made, as we say, and the
problem of riches and poverty is created.
Before the war Europe could stand this sys-
tem. Industrialism was expanding. Now, how-
ever, “Europe is dying for lack of our goods.
But Europe cannot produce the goods she
needs in order to pay for ours.” (Shade of
last month’s Anti-Dumping Bill!) “So our
export trade is going, our industries are
being slowly strangled, and our men are
being thrown out of work.” The way out is
to revert to Guildism; improve the lot of
the farm-worker and so make England self-
supporting, as of old; and (the first condi-
tion and basis of all economic and social
reform) “fix the price of everything; for
when all prices are fixed there is no room
left for the speculator.” >
Penty carries this fantastic idea to the
length of advocating the regulation of the
use of machinery. He does not suggest that
it should all be scrapped; only that “we
should forbid large machines in production,
on the principle that large machinery tends
to enslave man because he must sacrifice
himself mentally and morally to keep it in
coinmission, whereas the use of small
machines has not this effect, because they
can be turned on and off at will, as, for in-
stance, is the case with the sewing-machine.”
He seems to feel, though he does not say it,
that any country which took to the simple
life on this heroic scale might be imposed
on by the outside world, if not invaded and
destroyed. But “once the guildisation of
industry takes place in one country, the ex-
ample will speedily be followed by others.”
Which is the fallacious argument that Cob-
den and Bright used in support of Free-
trade and disarmament in the middle of
last century. As an example of the queer
reasoning by which his case for national
renunciation is supported, the author quotes
Thorold Rogers (“Six Centuries of Work and
Wages”) to show that the 15th-century
laborer was paid for every day of the year
(about -Gd. a day), while “food was so
abundant and cheap that it was sometimes
Thrown in with the wages.” This to prove
that it only needs a trifling change of system
to bring the old well-fed and contented con-
ditions back again. But a modern laborer
could not stomach tire food of a mediaeval
baron, much less one of the baron’s villains.
And then there are the modern requirements
in tobacco, beer and picture-shows; garments
and bedclothes which a 15th-century king
would have envied; and a thousand other
comforts and luxuries in the production of
which the whole world shares. In short, for
good or ill we have complicated our lives
and the thing cannot be undone (unless by
way of very minor economies) without a
reversion to a form of savagely—a condition
which in the more desirable countries can
only be a prelude to slavery.
“Guilds, Trade and Agriculture” is per-
haps a more skilful piece of special pleading
than is suggested in this ppcessarily briet
notice of it. But it never convinces at any
stage. Where the premises pass muster the
conclusions are questionable, and in many
cases both are glaringly false.
J.B.D.
Huneker
When James Gibbons Huneker died in
America the other day, the world lost one of
its most brilliant critics. A man of vast
industry, his keen appraising eye ranged over
the centuries to the Renaissance, picking out
the supermen of literature, music, drama and
the depictive and plastic arts, with an
urbanity and scholarship that gave additional
rank to his critical competence. Looking
over the results of his labors, packed into a
dozen or more volumes, it is difficult to
believe that this mass of opinion was the
work of a busy journalist who was often
called upon to issue hot and hurried judg-
ments for the entertainment of the everyday
reader. Yet one cannot say that he was
guilty of shallow work. To begin with, he
had an intuitive perception of mediocrity-
even in painting, in which he was least quali-
fied to judge—that saved him from the
absurdities of certain of his countrymen
who presume to make their worst decisions
acceptable by a professorial pretence of in-
fallibility. Moreover, Huneker owned a
graceful style which was never yellowed by
the journalism of the papers that employed
him. Lacking the butterfly wit. of Edgar
Saltus, and the trenchancy of his able juniors
Mencken and Nathan, who occasionally blare
their enthusiasms in an orchestra of adjec-
tives, he wrote an English that was always
equal to expressing the nicest nuances of
critical feeling. But he surpassed all his
contemporaries in the extraordinary num-
ber of great men that enthrall! him. It is
not a contemptuous appreciation of his
achievement to call him a consummate
Baedeker of genius.
Born in Philadelphia in 1860, the grand-
son of James Gibbons, an Irish poet and
Fenian, Huneker tried to bury himself in
law and conveyancing, later turning to the
study of music, which was afterwards to
become an overmastering passion. He em-
balmed his first musical impressions in
“Mezzotints of Modern Music” and “Chopin,
the Man and His Music,” and he was to re-
turn to the same subject in his “Franz Liszt”
and “Mary Garden,” the last, which appeared
in 1920, being conspicuous for its gallantry,
force and fire. From his youth Huneker
was the friend of all the arts, but his
dearest cronies were musicians, and he
exposed and explained them with a gentle
charity for their human infirmities. In the
late ’seventies he made his first trip to
Europe, and there gathered the material for
his “Iconoclasts, a Book of Dramatists,” and
“Egoists, a Book of; Supermen,” the two
sound volumes in which he catalogued his
ardors in the literary and theatrical worlds.
The art of Monet, Manet, Renoir, Cezanne,
Gauguin, among modern Impressionists; of
many Old Masters, Botticelli, Rembrandt,
Franz Hals, El Greco and Velasquez; of
such etchers as Mery on and Hops: and of
sculptors like the incomparable Rodin is
discussed in “The Promenades of an Impres-
sionist,” a book so full of knowledge that
it has become a reference work in the U.S.A.
He was ever the explorer discovering new
facts about identities that had long since
dropped to dust; the herald, too, of the com-
ing man —in the ’eighties he was introducing
to New York a young critic named Bernard
Shaw \vhen that writer was unknown out
side a small coterie in Loudon. Further-
more he was early writing about Samuel
Butler, of “Erewlion” and the famous “Note-
books,” to the wonderment of literary
America, which could only recall the Samuel
Butler who was the author of “Hudibras.”
• To the literary fancier, Huneker’s best
book is his “Egoists,” • wherein Beyle, Bau-
delaire, Flaubert, Anatole France, Huys-
mans, Stirner, Nietzsche and others of the
same philosophic school are pictured without
flattery, without prejudice and without a
sign of a borrowed critical standard. His
opening essay on Beyle, covering 65 pages,
is an admirable, examination of a hedonist
who found food for sententious reflection in
the contemplation of his faded pleasures. The
tribute to Flaubert, which includes a fac-
simile of a corrected-nroof page of “Madame
Bovary” in Flaubert’s handwriting, is rich
in superlatives, but Huneker proves that
every one is well deserved. And here is an
extract that shows a clear understanding of
Anatole France: —
This modern thinker, who has shed the despotism
oi the positivist dogma, boasts the soul of a
chameleon. He understands, he loves Christianity
with a knowledge and a fervor that surprise until
one measures the deptli of his affection for the
antique world. To further confuse our perceptions,
he exhibits a sympathy for Hebraic lore that can
only be set down to a remote lineage. He has
rifled the Talmud for its forgotten stories; he
delights in juxtaposing the cultured Greek and the
strenuous Paul; he adores the contrast of Mary
Magdalen with the pampered Roman matron. Add
to this a familiarity with the proceeds of latter-
day science, astronomy in particular, with the
scholastic speculation of the Renaissance, mediaeval
piety, and the Pyrrhonism of a boulevard philo-
sopher. So commingled are these contradictory ele-
ments, so. many angles are there exposed to numer-
ous cultures, so many surfaces avid for impressions,
that we end in admiring the exercise of a magic
which blends into a happy synthesis such a variety of
moral dissonances, such moral preciosity. It is magic—-
though there are moments when we regard the opera-
tion as intellectual. legerdemain of a superior kind.
We suspect dupery. But the humor of France is
not the least of his miraculous solvents; it is his
humor that often transforms a doubtful campaign
into a radiant victory. We see him, the protago-
nist of his own psychical drama, dancing on a tight:
rope in the airiest manner, capering deliciously in
the void, and quite like a prestidigitator bidding u-
doubt the existence of the rope.
Such criticism makes “Egoists” a stimulat-
ing book. Perhaps because of the character
of the writing, Huneker’s heroes tower higher
than the saints of Saintsbury and the rather
humdrum idols of “Claudius. Clear.”
In point of bulk Huneker’s biggest effort
is his autobiography, “Steeplejack,” two
volumes of anecdote and gossip which closelv
hold the mirror up to the natures of many
prominent men.- Shaw, he suggests, is nor
free from the snobbery which he denounces
as England’s cardinal. sin. The American
had mentioned orally to a magazine editor
to whom he had sold an article on Shaw that
the famous Irishman was of humble origin.
The appearance of the article under the title
of “The Kise of a Peasant Lad” drove Shaw
and his sister to furious remonstrance, and
the cables almost bowled with their protests
for a couple of days. Many other genial
peeps into the souls of the mighty are not
more candid than the author’s self-revela-
tions. If he knew the vanities of his con-
temporaries, he was not afraid to disclose
his own : —
Life has been the Barmecide’s feast to me —-you
remember the Arabian Nig] its. No sooner did 1
covet a rare dish than fate whisked it out of my
reach. 1 love painting and sculpture. I may look at
but never own pictures or marbles. I would fain
be a pianist and a composer of music. 1 am neither.
Nor a poet. Nor a novelist, actor, playwright. 1
have written o£ many things, from architecture to
zoology, without grasping their inner substance. 1
am Jack of the Seven . Arts, master of none. A
steeplejack of the arts. An egotist who is not
ashamed to confess it.
C. R. BRADISH.
The Inky Way
“0.K.”: It seems to me that “5.5.,” whilst com-
plaining- that Hattie Knight makes too loud an out-
cry about the cant of art, does not view the matter
from the lady’s standpoint. He argues as one inti-
mately connected with artist tradesmen whose talk of
art is businesslike. The lady spoke as one who had
dabbled in art-class work, and mixed with mock
artist-s whose talk is mostly pretence, and ven
pretentious at that. So far as the “cant of art”
means merely “talking shop" in all seriousness, it
serves a useful purpose, as “S.S.” maintains; but in
the mouths of attitudinisers, who are but incom-
petent apprentices in the shop, it becomes affected
jargon, like the talk of sham poets about various
set forms of verse. As for technical terms used in
factories and warehouses for convenience of converse,
they are surely not cant terms within the meaning
of Hattie Knight’s diatribe. Nor can the dog Latin
of the medical profession, nor the legal language of
the lawyers, be rightly included in the category. I
take it that the vain pretenders Hattie Knight was
thinking of are in the habit of discovering non-
existent beauties in pictures, and of babbling accord-
ingly, whereas the “tinker, tailor, soldier, sailor”
of whom “S.S.” is thinking are workers concerning
themselves about actual facts. When a tailor asks
me to appreciate the quality of a West of England
cloth I know what he means, but when a Bunthorne,
holding his head on one side, demands my admira-
tion of the “quality” in the left-hand bottom corner
of a smudgy landscape painting l —-well, I’m hanged if
I know what it means, unless that he takes me for
an ass.
“(Jamb”: I have just totalled up the hair-raising
cost of my first par in Tub Bulletin. Let it-be a
warning to others: —
s. d.
Stamp for sending par
Pick-me-up on receiving news of its insertion I <>
Second pick-me-up, ditto . . . . -. I 0
Purchase of 10 Bulletins (for distribution.
to friends) . . - - • • • • T 0
“Shouts” to fellow-laborers in office (their
idea 1) • .. . . - ■ ■ • • •
Box of lollies for our typist who typed par
(her idea I) .. .. •• • • 2 0
Stamp for sending account
Stamp for sending receipt .. . .
Total 16 0
“U. McL.” on Jeanne d’Arc, etc. —
Mr. Henry Moloney (11. P. tl/8/’2l) probablj
failed to see that 1 expressly said that “no serious
reply was possible" to “La Vie de Jeanne d’Arc,'
though 1 know and like Andrew Lang’s “Maid ot
Prance.” Let Anatole France speak for himself, in his
own laughing way: “My English critics have a
special claim on my gratitude. To the memory o!
Joan of Arc they consecrate a pious zeal which is
almost an expiatory worship. Mr. Andrew Lang’s
praiseworthy scruples with regard to my references
have caused me to correct some and to add several.”
To appreciate “La Vie de Jeanne d’Arc” properly
one needs a severely sceptical historical spirit; A.
Lang and A. France could no more understand each
oilier than Don Quixote and the windmills or, say,
Renan and the Pope. M. France says that he does
not believe the things that Andrew Lang found it
possible to believe; there is no more to be said. The
real head and front of his offending seems to have
been the Introduction, in which he tried to show that
the chronicles were unreliable because they were
written by interested agents; but it would need the
whole Red Page to state his gigantic argument. Ido
not feel responsible for what he believes, though it
seems to me probably not far from the truth. But
the great advance in pathological psychology since
“La Vie de Jeanne d’Arc” was written rather blunts
the point of some of his banter of the Mediaeval
Church, though it rationalises the Maid still further
than he did.
“Te Pana”: Maorilanders are loud in praise of
Jane Manders’s novel, “The Story of a New Zea-
land River.” Jane is the daughter of the M.P. for
Marsdeb, and at one time was associate-editor of
AVhangarei Advocate. The gum-diggers used to
swear by her leaders- —when they didn’t swear at ’em.
LOGIC TRIUMPHANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Sport of the Gods’ (De Garis), by Ada A.
Holman, has some commendable features. Cecil
Eucalyptus Mapeson, reared in a poor bush home,
reaches Sydney, aged 19, determined to challenge
fortune, and becomes mixed up with politics. The
story plainly indicates a woman author.” —A ok.
The minute I detected that the scribe’s first name
was Ada.
I said, “I question if this book’s been written by
a male.
The name, like Jane, is feminine. One cannot well
evade a
Conclusion such as that, however else one’s mind
may fail.”
Proceeding on that train of thought I struck the
one word “Sydney”:
It checked my eager brain as droves of sheep arc
stopped by rails.
“A clue!” 1 said. Like Conan Doyle and others
of his kidney.
1 then heard voices breathing: “Sydney is in New
South Wales.”
But “Holman”—what of “Holman"'! One of New
South’s politicians
At whose disgraceful deeds the AG* and Ainas
used to roar
Before he spurned the plebs. and won the hearts of
the patricians,
Was called Of course! Of course ! I knew I'd
heard the name before.
And so we get, to this: The, writer’s probably a
lady,
And one who's on familiar terms with legislative
strife.
She knows, like Mr. II., New South: she knows its
morals shady.
By Jove, 1 think 1 have it! Ada A. is Holman's
wife !
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
broTTffe
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build your now home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with llardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot
or corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement
Sheets are made in 36 sizes.
Write lor Free Catalogue “11.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., BYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-3 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
< *
mmxX
\ is s
Wl
i
Ti •
THE CALL OF THE YARDS. /
TRUCK YOUR FATS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney ; Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane. Top market results constantly
attract sheep- and cattle-owners to consign
to the firm.
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland-
Zenobia
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley— dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night*
Scented Stock—
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
2ENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
K. BUCKMASTER,
15. O’Connell Street*
Sydney.
~1
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Ciilwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
~ ths, ClutbmoCcU
fllabttaTof tfiz (t/oxld,
The Society of Motor Manufacturers and
Traders, Ltd., announce the Organisation
of the following Exhibitions :
OCT
14-22
1921
THE sth INTERNATIONAL
COMMERCIAL
MOTOR EXHIBITION
OLYMPIA LONDON
comprehending the world’s largest display of petrol,
steam and electric motor vehicles, for goods and
passenger transport and general utility purposes, as
well as the latest novelties in equipment, etc.
NOV.
4-12
1921
THE 15th INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR EXHIBITION
(PRIVATE CARS)
OLYMPIA & WHITE CITY, LONDON
comprehending the widest range of private motor cars
ever staged, including over 180 makes, priced at
£lOO to £4,000. The exhibition will also include
equally representative display of carriage work, equip-
ment, tools, tyres and accessories.
THE SOCIETY OF MOTOR MANUFACTURERS
AND TRADERS. LIMITED,
83. PALL MALL. LONDON. S.W. 1. ENGLAND
CltTYfr
OUOld
The Pipe of his choice!
Smokers who choose their pipes with
discretion invariably decidie on a GBD.
The reason is plain—there’s never a
trace of annoyance in this genuine
French Briarwood Pipe, Ibut a cool,
sweet smoke at all times.
Shaped and finished by experts, a
GBD puts the O.K. into smoke.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Honesty may be the best policy; but one
for £5OOO payable at 60 is not to be despised.
* * * *
“Nelson” : Last week at a small homestead
in the Gulf Country (N.Q.) I saw a couple
of rows of cotton-trees, every one of which
was bearing profusely, and the cotton was
pure and soft. The owner told me that years
ago he grew cotton on his farm in South
Aus., and his sisters used to spin it on home-
made looms.
* S * •
“Rounds”: When an insurance agent was
sued for debt in the Melbourne Petty Ses-
sions Court the other daj% a clerk of the
L. I. Co. of A. went into the box and swore
that the defendant had drawn £2lOl in com.
since March 1 last, and that his total since
June, 1920, was £4296. The Court’s mouth
watered, and no violent sympathy was ex-
pressed Avhen an order to pay up was made
and imprisonment was fixed as the alterna-
tive.
“William Ernest” makes a confession, and
writes a sermon in the last nine words: —
Technical education in the Ma State is noted,
for the number of tradesmen it does not turn out.
1 commenced a technical course with a mob of 40.
Only 12 of us finished the allotted period. Of that
number four are clerks and there are a dentist’s
assistant, a salesman, a pastrycook, an unskilled
factory-hand and a fish-market employee. Only
three have tackled a mechanical trade, content to
remain on low wages for five years.
* * * *■
“Wessel”: That State enterprise in liquor
which Alec Poynton wants to get rid of
applies only to part of the N. Territory.
There are four State pubs, three at Darwin
and one at Pine Creek, but outside the mon-
opoly zone there are private pubs at Booroo-
loola, on the McArthur River, and at Alice
Springs, There is no pub on the Victoria
River, but it is possible to get a drink there
at times. Of the Darwin pubs, The Terminus
holds the record of having sold in one day
2240 bottles of beer, or about one for every
man, woman and child in Darwin.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A lawsuit threatened trouble
at the beginning of the larger prosperity of
the Sargent catering business in Sydney. It
was in a shop in Hunter-street that Sar-
gent’s made a long stride forward. Then
Dance bought the business, and when Sargents
reopened in Pitt-street near the Post Office
he raised trouble. He claimed that he had
bought the name with the business; but after
a good deal of legal negotiation the matter
was kept out of the courts, Sargents paying
back the purchase-money and again taking
over the concern. But by this time they
had three shops and the repayment could
easily be made out of the profits.
■***•*
“Adelaide”: South Aus. apples have re-
ceived a good ad. through Governor WeignlT
sending cases of them to selected friends,
mainly agricultural experts, in England.
The trade agents in London report favorably
on all six varieties sent, and especially o.n a
Huon pippin, which they compare with the
best that Tasmania produces; “but we do
not recommend the use of paper shavings in
packing: in our opinion fruit carries best
with a lining of corrugated cardboard, top
and bottom.” All were grown in the S.A.
Experimental Orchard at Mylor, in the Adel
aide hills.
* * * *
“Fax”: Beechworth (Vic.) seems a most
desirable place for woollen mills, breweries oj
other decentralising forces to be established is).
A charming old mining town, in a beautiful
district, it cries aloud for something to restore
it to notice. At present it lives largely upon
a lunatic-asylum containing 1000 patients
and 100 warders or so. The fine gaol, of
Beechworth’s golden age is closed. An im-
posing post-office building is a satire on
present requirements. The solidity of the
dull old place, Avith its sparkling water-
resources running to waste, invites confidence
but attracts no enterprise. A .great place for
the investment of half a million in clot}i
manufacture, where living would be cheap
and healthy, the tOAvn all ready for expan-
sion and the outlook conducive to content-
ment ! God never intended Beechworth to
be merely a paradise for lunatics and a ceme-
tery.
AN OLD HAND SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In this motor-age the traveller on the humble
e \. push variety, is a curiosity. At the shed from
which I write we have but one who travels per the
flash method of walking. AVe others make the jour-
neys to and fro by car.”—B. 7/7/’2l.
Oh, the cheery camps at night
When the stars seemed extra-bright
And the horses cropped the clover in the bend.
\\ hen the “mulga wires” went round
As we rested on the ground,
While we watched the smoke from fresh-filled pipes
ascend!
And the chap who humped his drum
To the big camp-fire would come—
He was welcome to the damper and the tea;
For the bush had kindly ways
In those far-back, spacious days,
And our mateship was the thing that it should I e.
We had races—and a Cup—
Ere the season finished up
(Oh, the skite ran high as pedigrees were traced!).
And we raised a joyous grin
When the ringer’s horse —rung in— *
Was defeated by the nag a rousie raced.
But a change was on the way,
And at last there came a day
When pneumatic tyres defied the latest drought,
And the lads with wheels a-vvhir
Cursed the bindyi and burr
As they sprinted for the stations further out.
But their day has passed as well.
Now a dust-cloud and a smell
Are “the office” that the motor days are here;
And the bush-folk by the way
All look forward to the day
When swift aeroplanes to Northern sheds will steer.
We have moved along of late
And we must be up-to-date
If we’d have our land grow greater still. And yet
They were grand, those saddle days,
With their kindly, careless ways,
And for them I voice an old hand’s keen regret.
MAOKILAND.
RIVERINA.


m
m.
fa
'fa
&
The First Symptom of Most Forms of Disease
Headaches are but symptoms of other
ailments to which they are merely sympa-
thetic, such as Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation or some other irregularity of the system. Head-
ache is an everyday occurrence with many people, and in its
visitations is no respecter of persons, rich and poor, man,
woman or child, under all climatic conditions —and knows
neither age nor color. - Many women habitually suffer from
headaches, which make life a daily purgatory.
There are many everyday causes of headache depending on
digestion. One very fertile source is over-eating, partly caused
by changes in the blood, but partly also by the nervous
influence transmitted from the outraged digestive organs.
Abuse of alcohol produces a headache much in the same way
as excessive indulgence in food. Other headaches in this
category are the bilious ones, from the use of food which is
too stimulating.
To overcome headaches it is absolutely necessary to get at the cause. Drugs
which act on the heart and reduce the pulsation only have a temporary effect.
Ifyou suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness, Constipation, Disorder of the Liver
and Kidneys there is no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
D
R
MORSES
t
T
FOR
Pills
w/mmmmm?zzz.
££££
They Make You Feel Brighter


■ p
r.
jf
1*
&
V
$$
S>
o
sSggS:;.
:=: ••:^ : ':-i^...-.-.-.■•■•-•-•- ■ ■ ■ ■••:■•:•■*:•:*■• :!■.■ .-v-ix-xiv- ;'•• : :v::v;:: : :v:-:::v..
•Xv--.:-
as
:■
P"
g
BE WISE BUY EARLY.
Buy your winter medicine early. Many a cold and
serious sickness has been warded off by having just the
needed remedy on your medicine shelf at the beginning
of winter. No need for coughs, colds, croup, influenza
and many other minor afflictions if you will only
keep handy Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
tyfouM fin
(Cranny Chamberlain
[ COPYitiGHTED
Dodgeßrqthers
MOTOR CAR
That a car so light should also be so
tremendously rugged and strong is
evidence of the thoroughly fine way in
which it is built.
The very first cars built are still ren-
dering steady, economical service.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
,ts
ft
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) l*ty., Ltd., Melbourne. Standardised Motors, Limited, Sydney.
Cheney Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottoni Motor Co., Ltd., Perth. Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd., Brisbane.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member oj the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
“J.H.A.”: InAhe Mooroopna (Vic.) district
I have seen a pear-tree which filled 42
bushel-cases and a fig-tree whose total yield
was 81 bushels in one season. Is this a
record?
“Haragigi” : Recently I saw a striking
poster in an English garrison town inviting
the adventurous to “Join the R.A.F. and see
the world.” Underneath, some wag had
scrawled: “Join the R.I.C. [Royal Irish
Constabulary]—-and see the other.”
“Storekeeper”: I wonder if “Phil
Hamm” (K. 11/S/’2l) lives in Cobar. 1
had tea-packages filled with sawdust for
advertising purposes and show-window dress-
ing, and when I left a few on the counter
they disappeared marvellously as soon as my
back was turned.
“M. Mac”: Anything, they say, can hap-
pen iu Townsville <Q.). Well, I dunno; but
at last Supreme Court there a “civilised”
abo. owned up to having killed a selector’s
wife. He gave full particulars, and stuck
to his story right through ; but lie couldn’t
convince either of two juries, Ihe first failing
to agree, the other finding him not guilty.
“Dido” : She has come, the washerwoman
who drives her own motor-car. And not a
Ford, either. She attends numerous families
iu St. Hilda, driving between jobs. I know a
man, formerly in a good billet in an account-
ant's office, who threw it up to work in witli
his wife—she does washing for Hat residents,
lie and she can knock out £l4 per week
between them.
H. D. Tiemnnn, Superintendent of Forest
Products in the U.S.A., who has, with Uncle
Sam's permission, been engaged by the Vie.
Government for a few months, is one of
the world’s front-rankers on artificial season-
ing of timber. He is to spend till the end
of the year in Australia. One of tile water-
spray drying (seasoning) kilns invented by
him is in use at East Brunswick.
“Ex-Dig.”: A couple of months back 1
tipped it. To-day an ex-soldier blew in to
see me with the inquiry : “What’s this gra-
tuity that some of the boys are talking about?
Is it through yet; and where do you get it?"
He has been battling with a selection far
off the railway line, and only came down to
town to see about getting spine money for
improvements, lie has missed the 'bus, of
course.
“D.” : Many a Digger is still looking for
the medals he earned in the late war, and
there are Australian soldiers who have not
,vet got their B’African decorations. But
the record for belatedness is probably held
by the Count of Eu, son-in-law of the late
Emperor of Brazil, who, according to Uon-
don Times, has just applied to the Govern-
ment of Uruguay for the decoration issued
for the war of 1865-1870 against Paraguay.
“T. 0.1.” rises on behalf of Sydney:—
Archdeacon Boyce recently called • attention to a
••great gift." bestowed by Sydney on Melbourne in
having sent Surveyor Robert Hoddle to lay out the
southern town. But the Venerable Boyce does not
go back far enough. To Macquarie and his sur-
veyors is probably due the design in which Melbourne
is. laid out. Bathurst, discovered by Surveyor Evans
and named by Macquarie, is laid out in 10-acre
squares, with streets at right angles, and Hoddle
adopted the plan for Melbourne.
After 19 years as organising secretary of
the Rhodes Trust, Sir George R. Parkin, now
75, has decided to take a rest. Since he
started on the job he has visited every State
in Australia and U.S.A., every province in
South Africa and Canada, and all sorts of
corners like Maoriland and Newfoundland
to fix up the machinery for selecting 100-odd
Rhodes Scholars every year. He is a lean,
dried-up looking citizen, with a surprising
lot of enthusiasm, and some humor hidden
under a very unlikely exterior.
“D.F.” : One of the queerest crimes even of
the bad old days is mentioned in the reminis-
cences of Mark Jeffrey, the burglar. Jeffrey
was at Norfolk Island when .)onn Price was
commandant, and he worked with a convict
named Minns, .who had been transported for
biting a girl’s nose off. Minns had been in
love with the girl, but found that she pre-
ferred someone else. So he asked her to
meet him one night, and begged for a last
kiss. Instead of taking it he bit her nose
off, and got four years at Norfolk Island for
doing it. Jeffrey, for his part, expresses
high approval of his friend’s way of punish-
ing infidelity.
“Rounds”: Queer things happen in some
Government departments. A fuss was made
at the end of June because the yarn got
abroad that a cheque for £250 had been sent
by the Vic. Lands Department to a railway
employee to whom the Department owed no-
thing. The Department showed that no
cheque had been forwarded, but merely an
intimation that one could he obtained if
called for by a contractor of the same name
as the railway man. So cocksure was the
Department that it wanted an apology from
its critic. Now it transpires that the cheque
should never have been prepared at all, as
the contractor had not built the house that
was supposed to have been erected. The
genuine-looking file of papers which caused
an accounts officer to make out a cheque
in the usual way has disappeared, and at
latest the ’tecs were trying to find it.
“Variometer”: Surely "Murkah” (B.
11/8/’2l) could have thrown his bouquet
to the P.M.Gi’s Radio Department over the
maintenance of the connection between main-
land and Tasmania when the cable was
interrupted without also hurling a well-
undeserved brick at the Navy. In his efforts
at glorification of the present Radio control
he attributes the “record” performance of
maintaining the communication with a small
continuous-wave set entirely to the P.M.G. s
service, whereas actually the set in question
is one of the ordinary Navy types (and by
no means one of their best), which vas
handed over to the P.M.G. As regards the
performance of receiving two different mes-
sages simultaneously on one aerial wiie,
this (known as double-reception) is quite
the usual procedure on board every mamo-
war, and has been in regular use for at least
five years. The same remarks apply to
“remote control,” only more so 1
kah” knew of the wireless wonders that aie
being evolved in the Naval Signal School at
Portsmouth he would not such eier
day performances ns the best thin? m t
history of Australian radio.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
m
r
<os
mi
)
i
B.S.A. FITTINGS arc
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
“pattern fittings,” but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
t
~T' (representing B.S.A. Co, Ltd.).
Australian Buildings,
TRADE MARKS
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They. ar6 ,a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


CUTICURA
PROMOTES THICK HAIR
Cuticura Soap shampoos preceded
by touches of Cuticura Ointment to
spots of dandruff, itching and irri-
tation are most successful. These
fragrant emollients save the hair,
clear the skin and meet every want
of the toilet and bath.
Soapl s.,Talcum ls.6d.,Ointment Is.andZs.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
SMTCuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
OOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mullet! Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Fear not to-morrow! Laugh such myths away,
For when to-morrow comes it is to-day,
Urge gaily on. God loves a cheerful soul,
No servile serf shall gain a worthy goal.
Fear, not the “flu,” its grip grows faint indeed
If you but take the remedy you need.
Fear not gastritis, nor its pangs endure,
Promptly take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
Trom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to ■ The Manager.
ERICAN
Why American
flashlights are best
' | ’HEIR non-short-circuiting construc-
tion prevents wasting of the battery
current.
There are no movable parts within the
case to cause damage or breakage.
They all are equipped with exclusive
shock absorber to protect lamp against
breakage from dropping or rough usage.
The dual contact permits either a flash
or a continuous light, each independent
of the other.
American Flashlight Batteries, too, are
best. They last longer and give a brighter
light. Always insist upon “American.”
Made in many styles and sizes. Ask your
electrical dealer.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY,Inc.
30 East 42d Street, New York, U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of Columbia Dry
Cells, Automobile Storage Batteries, Car-
bon Brushes, and Carbon Specialties
COLUMBIA
F3321X4E
o
yisis
co
m
0
Ask youiT
Garage
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. TO.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-900 h.p.
A South African Owner says: —
. . After all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR C<? Ltd.
Wolverhampton, England^
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address: “Subeamoco,” London.
mi'.n
\X\N\\\\\\\\W^
fl*
Inn
inn
irnmii
u
24 h.p. 6 cyl. SPORTING MODEL.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., LTD.,
822 George Street,
Sydney.
3*
Eight-hour Art Union S Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE,
2nd PRIZE,
3rd PRIZE,
value £750
value £3OO
value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
Chance tor 1921,
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 won by W. M. Neilsen,
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
Tickets from Local Agent in all Towns, or direct from
Arthur W. YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A Ilugby League record was established
on August 13, when Goulburn (N.S.W.) wiped the
earth with Va-s by 70 points to nil. Every man in
the winning team stored.
* * * *
Adelaide lacrosse .premiership goes once
*° ®turt, * or the 7th year running, and the
1-th out of the club’s 17 seasons of existence. Uni-
versity came with a late run, showing something of
the form of years ago, and finished a good second.
* * * •
Gloaming heads the list of winning MX.
nags tins year with £5630. Maioha 1 £5480) is
next. Mermin, the crack two-year-old, earned
£4570 ; Duo, a candidate for the big Australian
handicaps, £4550, and the great fencer, Coalition,
£4020. The leading sires were Martian (44 winners
for £30,735), Demosthenes (35 for £24,679), and
Absurd (25 for £21,215).
The last game of cricket has been played
on East Melbourne oval, and with the close of
the football season the E.M.C.C. ends its lease of
the ground. The Railway Department has claimed
its own, so the shabby old grandstand will soon be
an eyesore of the past. Thus disappears one of the
oldest cricket reserves in Victoria, which also for
many years has been the home ground of the Essendon
League footballers. The E.M.C.C., having amal-
gamated with Hawthorn, will shift to Glenferrie,
where extensive alterations will be made to the
ground.
* * * *
“8.E.”: Walter Marks, M.H.R., is fol-
lowing Joshua Slocum and Jack London in an attempt
to sail the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian oceans in a
50-ton yacht. Slocum sailed the world in a 37ft.
boat, all by himself, and it was his narrative of the
voyage that set Jack London sailing out of the
Golden Gate aboard the Snark in April, 1916. The
Snark was 43ft. on the waterline, and was built
primarily for sailing; but was fitted with a 70-h.p.
auxiliary gas-engine. She cost £6OOO, and for that
amount Jack London got as far as Sydney. Marks
proposes to spend £7250 on his yacht, and if he
sails the Pacific as far as America he will have done
something that only men with the grit of Slocum
and Jack London have dared to tackle.
* * * .
Mrs. Arthur Hamilton made her second
unsuccessful attempt to swim the English Channel
last month, being lifted out of the water when
within three miles of Deal (Kent), after 20 hours’
swimming. She started from Cape Grisnez (France).
Last September she took the water at St. Margaret’s
Bay, directly opposite Calais, but was forced to
retire six miles from France after swimming all
night. During the same month Mrs. Hilda Willing
got within six miles of France after an 11-hours’
struggle. Since Captain Webb swam from Dover to
Calais in 1875 only one man has succeeded. T. W.
Burgess did the trick in 1911 after 15 failures.
Wolfe failed 15 times, Holbein eight, Heaton six,
Holmes four and Mew three. By swimming continu-
ously for 20 hours Mrs. Hamilton claims that she
has established a world’s record ; but hers is a long
way short of Miss Edith Johnson’s 31 hours’ swim at
Blackpool in 1880.
* * * •
Exactly half a century ago John Darling
moved in the S. Aus. Assembly to allow Adelaide
corporation to lease a bit of the city park-lands to
the newly-formed Cricket Association. He brought
in the bill as a city member, and naturally without
an idea that he had in his own nursery a future
captain of Australian elevens. The bill was carried
with only one voice against it, but was nearly wrecked
later on a point of detail. No rent was stated in it,
but the general idea was that it would be a “pepper-
corn”—the old legal jargon for nothing at all. The
City Council, however, on getting down to details,
named £2O a year, but was met with a general
outcry that this was “terrific” and '“prohibitive.”
Finally it agreed to £7 for seven years, and £l4
after. The present figure is £lOO, and for a renewal
now being arranged the Council says it must have
£2OO for seven years, jumping afterwards to £3OO
and £4OO. But, then, the membership, which began
with 58, is now over 1600.
* * ♦ •
“Smike”: A. A. Mailey’s moderate succesa
on English wickets seems to bear out the ancient
Spofforth’s suggestion that the googly bowler has had
his day. Mailey has had good enough conditions to
show off his bowling, but he hasn’t been so effective
as Australian critics expected, probably because the
business of chucking up the occasional “wrong ’un”
in a series of safe lobs has lost a lot of its novelty
in a country that raises almost as many googly mer-
chants as mangelwurzels. The great trouble with the
googly is that the necessity of concealing his break
from the batsman means that he never has absolute
control of his length, and the consequence of his
delivering “short-pitchers” and full tosses is the pre-
sent of many runs to the enemy. Another thing is
that his ball is so slow and high in trajectory that
a confident, punishing batsman like Hobbs can step
out and smash it like a net-rusher hammering a soft
pat at tennis. Armstrong plainly didn’t persevere
with Mailey. McDonald and Gregory made the big
fellow recognise that in the long run it’s pace that
tells.
* * * •*
A lurid light is thrown on English prize-
fighting in the ’sixties by the latelv-published remi-
niscences of “Pendragon” Sampson. The game was
then illegal, but big fights were still common. When
the word was passed round ;ill parties gathered,
usually on a steamer on the Thames, and ran up or
aown stream to some quiet meadow supposed to be
free from interference. Often, however, the police
came on the scene, and then there was a wild
scramble across country or back to the boat. Natu-
rally enough the criminal element, gathered stronglv,
and the wealthy patron who had paid several pounds
to be present was quite likely—unless he had thought-
fully hired a personal bodyguard—to be stood"’on
his head in a ditch and relieved of all he carried.
As for the sport itself, Sampson relates that one
Ryall, a good-natured bruiser, had his career abso-
lutely ruined because he refused to take his second’s
advice to blind his man by “rubbing some of the
wet mud in his eyes at the end of the round, when
both would probably be down together, and both so
plastered with filth that the foul could not well be
detected. (This was under the old rules in which
each round lasted till a man was knocked down.)
bo Ryall’s own friends put it about that he was
not cruel enough” to make a champion, and he had
to emigrate to Australia.
* * * #
“Ex-Englishman”: Three cheers for Arm-
strong, for turning the drawn Test into the farce
which any draw in a fixture so important deserves
“% b ;,Vi,f 0U T Wl ui ha , Ve 11 sa ” he in effect;
all ri B ht, I will play up to vour lead.” That
Warner, most open-minded of men, should have re-
he^vin^h 18 ; it just shows that even
i l been fought up m the English tradition,
regards the county programme as the main business
in cricket, whereas the Australians regard their
whole tour as made for the purpose of the Tests
lhe English summer holds only about 18 weeks fit
of cricket; and a county such as Yorkshire, whic h
pr . ldes °n playing home-and-home matches
witn ail other first-class counties, and one or two
extra with the Universities and M.C.C., can only
Pist cram them in, with three days for a game
The old sporting fixtures North v. South have been
dropped lately, and of the two Gentlemen v.
Players only the one at Lord’s can rely on getting
all the men it selects. When Tests come, a county
has either to let five half-weeks lie fallow (or five
whole weeks, if the Australians had their way), or
carry on with its best men absent, and risk a defeat
which may affect its standing in that all-important
county premiership. So I am afraid Armstrong’s
practical protest, even though Fry approves of it,
*Jot induce England to alter its ways. And
-J ot > * f . 14 i» ad let the county programme Vo hang
for this summer, a few trial matches might have
built up that effective side of the two last Tests
in time for the first three.
i Continued on page 88.)


’A
Virginia
Cigarettes
*7\ "VTR.OITTIA.
Cigarettes
moustafa ltd.
P I C C A D 1 LLY, W.
manufactured by
GODFREY PHILLIPS 'J.°
LONDON , ENGLAND.
"THE PRINCE CHARMING
cigarette is the Prince of all
cigarettes, and sets a new standard
of excellent quality in either popular
priced or expensive cigarettes. Perfect
tobacco, manufacture and packing go to
the making of this Charming cigarette.
Q -
or
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.


A. SAUNDERS
m
1. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Ginks, daintilv engraved,
20/-
loot. Gold, £2.
Kmeiald and
louble-out Diamond
RnilC. t Set. Gold,
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, 15ct. GolJ,
£3.
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18cC.
Gold, £ 15.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-,
A. Saunders' fine
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, 15ct.
field, £2O.
A. Saunders'
■jouble-cut Diamond
Crossover King,
A. Saunders'
line Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15et
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-J heavier
85/*, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2
£2/io/., mi
fj.#
A. Saun(ier>'
(Jouble-cut Diamond
Hire, 18ct. Col.!.
A. Maunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Oold,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, 1 Set.
Gold, £3/1«/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com
pensation balance, £l2/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£l7/10/-. £2O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunderr.’ doublc-out
Diamond Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
Diamonds and Pearl,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil RiriK, IHct
'■old, £l2/10/-
' Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ fine-
quality, double-cut
Diamond Cluster
-Necklet, 15ct.
; Cold, £5O.
Shialler Diamonds,
£35.
A. Saunders' double-cut Diamond Bar Bui
loot,. Gold, £lO.
Smaller Diamonds, £7/10/-
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Milgrain Setting.
£23.
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
Hi use, 18ct. (.fold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’
Gent's fine
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18cv. Gold,
A. Saunders’ fine, double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £3O. Larger Diamonds, £4O, £5O, £6O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond ( lust
Brooch, Isft'. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamon 1
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
Crossover King;
18ct. Gold, £25,
WE SEND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SaurideiV Urc.
Gold hand-made
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, £4O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£33.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
THE ECONOMY OF
MECHANICAL DRYING.
Rapid and efficient drying is an essential
feature in the large-scale production of many
Australian manufactures. Not only is time
saved in fulfilling orders, but there is also a
valuable economy of space where a compact
drying plant handles your material expediti-
ously, regardless of weather conditions.
Kven when the product itself needs no drying there is often on the wrappers
and labels a moist adhesive, which must be dried quickly to save time in
despatch and also to prevent damage to contents of package.
“Ideal” Radiators and “Vento” Hot Blast Heaters can be
adapted to practically every drying need. Temperatures,
humidities and air circulation can be accurately adjusted for
the treatment of even the most difficult products.
A Vento Battery—3 rows deep—similar to that shown in
the illustration at the right, will heat air travelling through it
at a velocity of 1 000 feet per minute from an initial tempera-
ture of 60 degrees to a delivery temperature of 120 degrees,
using steam at 51b. pressure. A lower velocity, a higher steam
pressure or a larger Vento Battery will result in delivery
temperatures up to 220 degrees or more.
Mi
■irztm
K, .1
*
Encased Battery of “Vento” Heaters with fan.
“VENTO"
Hot Blast
Heater.
Mechanical Drying covers a
wide field. Here are just a
few examples:—
Leather
Timber
(Including the difficult hard-
woods)
Chocolates
Pastilles
Drugs
Macaroni
Paint & Varnish Work
Oilskins
Foodstuffs
Laundry Work
Write us about your drying problem. We will
gladly send suggestions and sketches to suit
your particular requirements. The simplest and
smallest plants, as well as the jriost elaborate,
require careful design, and OUR ADVICE IS
FREE.
JOHN
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“IDEAL.’*
Low Prfsso
Boiler.


Tor Sale.
Hawkesbury district; permanent
able grazing-; general farming; hve-i
v 'ith offices. Particulars, etc., J. if.
Hunter Street, Sydney.
A MOST COMPLETE COUNTRY RESIDENCE,
‘-THE SHACK.”
BUND A NOON, SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS.
Situated one in le from Station, on the
WIN CELLO ROAD.
MODERN BUNGALOW of fibro-cement, lined
inside and out, containing large living-room, «s bed-
rooms, kitchen (modern stove and wood boxes),
tS serveries, up-to-date bathroom, hot-water cnip-
heater, and every convenience, closed-in back veran-
dah, large front porch entered by sliding doois.
Garage, man’s cabin, bush stables, containing cart-
house, stable and cowshed.
The grounds are tastefully laid out, giving the
property a park-luce appearance. Ihere is also an
Orchard of 50 trees
The water service is laid on to house and garden.
LAND has an area of about 10 ACRES.
CASH OR TERMS.
Further particulars may be obtained from
HARDIE AND GORMAN PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Ocean House, Martin Place, Sydney; or
C. H. BARNETT & CO.,
Bundanoon.
Amusement*.
SVDX K Y’S CHIEF TIIISAT It E S.
J. U. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
AI.A C 15 TIIKA T It K.. SVI)A E V.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
ON OUR SELECTION,
STEELE RUDD’S GREAT WORK.
BERT BAILEY’S INCOMPARABLE DAD.
EVERY NIGHT. MATINEES WEDS, and SATS.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Alban wilkie siiaksi’eakean
HOI) LOTIONS.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE, WELLINGTON, N.Z.,
FROM 27th AUGUST to 17th SEPTEMBER.
Austral *ian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
T il K A T It 15 h
JJNIO N I* ICTL It 15
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE; LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
• ATT It ACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.'
LAST NIGHTS OF
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS in
LONDON and 155 Nights in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
K
IMJS Til 15 AT It 15. M E I. It O I II N 15.
Lessees: BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Cosmo Hamilton’s Daring and Fascinating Play,
SCANDAL.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
H
OYT’S THEATRES, MELItOLKNE.
Also SYDNEY.
)E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
EDITH ROBERTS in
THE FIRE CAT.
Also
JAS J. CORBETT in
PRINCE OF AVENUE A.
Prices as usual.
QLACIA It I U M. MELBOURNE.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
|y|AJKSTIC THEATRE, MELBOUItNI
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MONTE BLUE in
PERFECT CRIME.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
' KIXANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PinURKS.
Continuous Sessions.
IVI
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD am! SKI.ZNICK.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
CL p>
7*o'.
V
f.ST? 163/TT
Remarkable
Orient
Suit Values
Ready=to=wear
Styles for Summer.
c
'V
tfi
)
/■
m
SS3
m
m
m
i
i
r\
vL4!
Plh
/“'S.
£_E
Remarkable—firstly because the cut and finish are the best expert
labor can give, secondly because these suits give the fullest
degree of service and satisfaction to the wearer, and thirdly
because they are offered at the exceptionally low price of 75 -
Roth styles shown above are made in our own workrooms from
mid and dark grey mixture Australian Tweed. Our excellent
range of sizes ensures a satisfactory fit no matter what your
build. We pay carriage,
=David clones =
opp. G.P.O.
for Service
SYDNEY.
Tel. City 6336.
Katoomba Annual Eisteddfod
October 5,6, 7, 8 and 10.
£5OO PRIZE MONEY £5OO '
Largest individual Prizes in the State.
Conservatorium Scholarship, £B5.
Given for the best female voice, age 17 to 25 years.
“Come to the Mountains to be rejuvenated.”
Syllabus from Secretary, Box 27 Katoomba.
Entries Close September 14, 1921.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Surn,! —
JAHkAh jukl Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
I* ji ving Blocks, 15 u i 1 d er s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PIN NICKS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
1,01! D STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE. MET.BOURNE, VIC.
68* PtTT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Missing Friends.
BOARD —WARD.—If Frank Board, son of Frank
Oliver and Mary Ann Board, or brothers and
sitters of said Mary Ann Board, nee Ward, will cojn-
municate with THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY DO., LTD., of No. 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, they will learn something to their advantage.
legal Notice.
fTIO ROBERT JOHN NESBITT, formerly
J- of Timaru, New Zealand, father of
ROBERT JOHN NESBITT, Deceased, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
Pursuant to an Order made •on the 17th
day of August, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of March,
1922, your claims to the estate of Robert
John Nesbitt, who died intestate on the 20th
day of October, 1918, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto, disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 18th day of
August, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington,
New Zealand.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
rr«pd since 1506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FAILING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lamoeth Road, London, Englasd.
insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
■ p.NDLfc^
cfcr ‘
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft. 7ft. Sft. 9ft. 10ft. 12ft.
8-plait .. 10/- 11/6 13/- 14/6 17/6 21/6 each.
12-plait .. 13/- 15/- 17/- 20/- 22/6 26/6 „
16-plait .. 15/- 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/6 30/- „
Mailed free all States. Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.
The Big Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZROY', VIC.
dfg
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street. SYDNEY,
The Ptunv Ro^or
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
We guarantee an easy shave with the
“Plum” Razor, as, being expert Hair-
dressers ourselves, we know just the kind of edge
required to give the best result. No other razor used
in our saloon.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years free.
Legal Notices.
T N THE SUPEEME COURT OF VICTORIA.
1921—N0. 706.
Between ATHOL MASON COX Plaintiff and
JAMES H. BERRY Defendant.
To JAMES H. BERRY late of Carlyon’s Hotel
Esplanade St. Kilda Stock and Sharebroker.
Pursuant to an Order of His Honor Mr. Justice
Cussen made herein on the 24th day of August 1921
notice is heiebv given that a Writ has been issued
out of the said Supreme Court of Victoria against
you the said JAMES H. BERRY claiming the sum of
£250 for money had and received being the total
value of War Bonds 33817, 149413 and 149414 of
which the Defendant was the bailee for the Plaintiff
and which the Defendant wrongfully converted to
his own use AND take further notice that unless you
the said Defendant JAMES H. BERRY do cause an
appearance in the said Supreme Court of Victoria
to be entered to such Writ on or before the 16th day
of September 1921 the Plaintiff may proceed therein
and judgment may be given in your absence.
COHEN & HERMAN,'
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
285 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND,
WELLINGTON DISTRICT,
No. 2148—1 N DIVORCE.
Between MARGUERITA WOOLL of Blenheim m
the Dominion of New Zealand Married Woman
Petitioner.
And MICHAEL LESLIE WOOLL formerly of the
Cities of Wellington and Auckland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Butcher but now of address un-
known Respondent.
To MICHAEL LESLIE WOOLL formerly of the
Cities of Wellington and Auckland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Butcher but now of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Well-
ington citing you to appear and answer the Peti-
tion of Marguerita Wool 1 of Blenheim in the
Dominion of New Zealand Married Woman wherein
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion and such Citation
intimates that in default of your so doing tpe
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition and
to pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding your
absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within sixty (60)
days' after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington New Zealand and there to
enter an appearance and file an answer without
which you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. A copy of the
said Citation and Petition will be supplied to you
on your applying for the same at the Supreme-
Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 18th dav of August,
1921.
G. S. CLARK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward t 6 him the - 1 foregoing advertise-
ment.
Herbert Linklater is the Solicitor for the
, Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
offices of.--Messrs. Perry, Gill -& Linklater, Solicitors,
Featherston Street, in the City of Wellington.
I (This is the first advertisement.)


dfg
Wears Longer
Looks Better
Why Take Risks?
5?
1
1
‘jtf&i r
\'
S 'I , i
rme
( .
ypc.
>4
:r>>
Safe to Buy
Safe to Sell
Sure to Please
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Maid of the Mountains”
?° YAL “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
P*r.~ IOK “The Great Adventure”
Hnvtv 2 "'* “ 0n our Selection”
rv.W »i>‘ Moving I'ictures
Lmon Ijieatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
tta MAJBmil “The Lilac Domino”
King's *.*.*.;;;;• ■; •• ••• “Nightie Night”
Hoyts De Lush & Lyceum Aloving Pictures
BA Aloving Pictures
m b "™‘ Moving Pictures
OimnarM Moving Pictures
Glaciarrm Ice Skating
• ♦
"Outcast,” the central figure in which is
a man with two girls on his hands and who
could he unhappy with either were the other
ofi the map, was revived at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday. This dramatic restatement of
an old truism was first introduced through
Yankee noses, and a comparison of English
and American methods of handling a familiar
situation is entertaining. On the whole the
English do the thing better. They contrive
to convey the impression that a worried re-
piobate, struggling between his waning pas-
sion for a mistress and his flickering inclina-
tion for an old flame who wouldn’t mind
running away with him if she was sure her
husband didn’t object, would behave just as
Graham Browne does, and that the rejected
tart would comport herself in the manner
of Marie Tempest. Where the Yanks ranted
and were unreal, Miss Tempest and Graham
■ in their subtlest and most effective
work. Browne’s acting, indeed, is as good
as anything he has done in Sydney, and
Miss Tempest’s grief in the separation scene
mi? 11 - rmikf ! even . a resting barmaid weep,
the interesting pair are excellently supported
by Dorothy Hamilton, Frank Alianby, Ash-
ton Jarry and Herbert Millard. “The Great
Adventure” begins on Saturday.
For the past fortnight, at the King’s Hall,
Sydney, Dorothea Spinney has been drawing
fairly substantial audiences—the best Blue
Stockings and the best Silk Stockings in about
equal proportions. With a voice of many
melodious notes, and a grace of gesture, she
has triumphantly brought her listeners
through realms of dramatic art, Greek,
Elizabethan and modern. But it is particu-
larly with the Greek plays Miss Spinney
would have us better acquainted, and if
Gilbert Murray’s translations were often so
fittingly served, young Australia might even
learn to enjoy the grace of the eurhythmies
of the ancient Greeks as well as that of the
modern jazz.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Bert Bailey as Dad Rudd, M.P.
-In “©h, Lady, Lady !” at the Theatre
Sydney, Dot Brunton continues to do
impressive .work in an unusual part—un-
usual, that is, for Dot. And the impression
grows that the alluring young Australian
woman is fated to make a name for herself
in straight comedy.
Dad, Mum and the Ruddlets are prosper-
ing on their new selection, which its name is
the Palace, Sydney.
* * -s *
Everybody in Sydney, except the Noncon-
formist clergy, is humming the, love-songs in
“The Maid of the Mountains.” Many a
baker’s boy with a ha If-note, a tabby and
Saturday afternoon off is turning down
JNationai Park for the superior attractions of
t\v° gallery seats at Her Majesty’s. It is
the time of year when bakers’ boys feel the
neea of a voice like Gladys Moncrieff’s to
express the passion that burns behind then-
colored shirts.
** * ❖
Before the next Bulletin blushes into
print Sydney will have said so-long to Wilkie
Bard. The harmonious and well-nourished
humorist has been packing the Tivoli for five
weeks, a noteworthy achievement consider-
ing that most of his stuff is old—the writer
heard him in “I Want to Sing in Opera”
and the Welsh railway-porter song 10 years
hgo -and much of it had been cruelly
mangied before he came. The opera ditty,
“ T Jje Night Watchman,” and “On Sentry
Go were the favorite Bardian offerings on
Saturday night. Other agreeable items are
an original dog turn and a First National
picture, “Not Guilty,” in which Sylvia
Bremer shows that she has added cubits to
her stature as a movie actress.
$ * s;:
Dame Melba s two concerts at Melbourne
lown Hall were so enormously successful
even before they came to pass that John
, en ' mf ’ l ? e ! advertised a third appearance of
Australia s famous daughter in response to
an overflow application for tickets. The
overflowants’ concert is announced for Satur-
day week.
Though Phe Lilac Domino” was almost
a record-breakei in Sydney its last weeks
at Melbourne Majesty’s are already spoken
ot. All the same, the managerial warning
has not yet gone into details, and the exact
number of last weeks remains open to doubt,
hor the present Gaston Mervale will con-
tinue to stroll into the tuneful frivolity at
odd times, and reiterate his expressions of
remorse concerning the tell-tale effects of
strong driiik, lie being the only person in a
cast of thirsty characters who ever feels
sorry for having talked too much.
v sj6 'l'
Thus far “Scandal,” at Melbourne King’s,
has failed to disturb any public body outside
ot a certain newspaper office. A deputation
1 1 oni the Amalgamated Saints was eagerly
expected to call public attention to that large
double-bed where the sleep of innocence
neer villain dared to mar (in a Claude Mel-
notte way of speaking), but the looked-for
protests have not been forthcoming. Save
for one shriek of shocked journalism, the sin
of a somewhat sultry show is left to adver-
tise itself. This it is doing very efficiently.
Its naughtiness is nice, its foolishness is
tunny and its manners are distinctly good.
Moreover, the soul of Melbourne in the fire
of Spring its winter garment of repentance
wants to fling, and, if the weather provides
no fire to speak of, a little bit of something
sultry at the King’s suffices to light the
long, long winter garment with.
At Melbourne Royal the strenuous exer-
rJ i on s “Nightie Night” will be’discontinued
at the end of next week. Meanwhile the
well-meant lies that Joseph Coyne tells to
Marjorie Bennett, equivocations which drag
him deeper into the domestic mire, and
feeble repetitions of pertinent queries which
have left lam no legitimate avenue of men-
dacious escape—all these characteristics of
husbandry in distress continue to remind
lawful married women in the audience of the
wrigghngs of their own particular prevari-
cators when the connubial cross-examiner
would fain pin him down. Also the fact
that Joseph aforesaid starts humming a song
when he reaches his wits’ ends convinces the
matrons hereinbefore mentioned that the two
authoresses of “Nightie Night” know what’s
what in the’ deceitful ways of Man. Pro-
bably they learned a lot of it from careful
study of a hundred previous farcical com-
edies, all of which dealt with erring Man’s
decent desire to keep himself “unspotted”
before the world. The object of all farcical
comedies this journal ever encountered has
been to awaken suspicion in the breast of
one sex or the other, and in nearly everv
case it was Man’s fault.
Melbourne Tivoli programme has lost Ivy
Mulling and gained a Bed, and Miss Beau-
i? 0 ?! 11 <^°Dlng! and George Blunt figure as
Bedfellows. The lady’s character in the
vaudeville sketch, is that of a mock hospital
nurse with the same murky brogue which
marked her in “Irene,” whilst Blunt is a
mock patient whose unnecessary sleeping-
draught is swallowed by the fair broguey im-
postor in mistake for a tonic. Assisted by
I rank Dunn, as a husband who backs a
winner, the broad bed-comedians keep the
farce fires burning pretty brightly. Nina
Gordon is back on the bill, and half-a-dozen
other turns show a collective tendency to-
wards the Rickards form of old. Also a
movie picture—“ Not Guilty”—starts with
the advantage of a printed synopsis of the
story, which gives adequate value to the 3d.
programme that tells it, by sparing one the
trouble of struggling to understand the com-
plicated story of Sylvia Bremer’s affection
for a twin brother.
Two uncommonly presentable amateur
shows happened in Melbourne last week—
‘When Knights Were Bold,” by the Scots’
College Dramatic Society in aid of the
V lllers-Bret. fund, and “Niobe” by the Vic.
Railways Institute Dramatics. F. E. Lear
directed the first, and Victor Trotman the
second, and both hit the mark. The railway
people threaten to develop some notable tal-
ent, anci they are sho\ ,ng a wise judgment
in the selection of plays.
* sfc
Ex-pug Jim Corbett is ‘-The Prince of
Avenue A” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week.
Jim is apparently engaged to “use his dooks”
for the refinement of savage places. One
of his jobs is to clean up a nefarious dancing-
saloon and give it the atmosphere of a Plea-
HARRY G. MUSGROVE, of the Tivoli
Theatres.
sant Sunday Afternoon. “The Fire Cat”
introduces Hoyt’s audiences to the wilds of
1 eru where Edith Roberts is not more spec-
t!’,e a n B' r y volcano which blots
out most of the population. Hoyt’s also
screen a new beauty, Edith Bailor, who
works hard in “Just Outside the Door.” The
Majestic s latest star is Australia’s Sylvia
xSremer in “Respectable by Proxy.” Sylvia
poses as an allegedly dead' man’s 'widow 1 and
deftes the probabilities in passing off her de-
ception as an innocent girlish freak. “Rio
Grande, which also has a place in the Maies-
m progrannne, Js the tale of a feud on the
U.S.-Mexican border, and the shortage of
coroners is something sinful. At the Melba
the question of mixed marriages is melo-
dramatically argued in “The Church and
the YV oman. ’ The Britannia is featuring the
loneliness and big spaces of Canada in the
wintry backwoods romance, “Isobel.”
, r ?® w t ell °r who warbled promisingly
at Melbourne City Council’s latest concert
was Tennyson-Smithers; Jean Ilambleton
revealed a mezzo which she had no reason to
be so nervous about; and there were others,
including Dr. Price, the organ specialist,
lelboui ne s musical apostles seem never to
remember that the artist who gets all sorts
ot effects out of the organ-p'pes has done
“ore to educate the multitude to an appre-
ciation of high-class music than any con-
ductor of orchestral concerts from which the
multitude largely stays away. Philistines
drop into these organ recitals because it costs
nothing, and remain because they are im-
pressed by a piece of Gounod or somebody
more classical.
A little show in Melbourne:—
Jo Sweatman’s landscapes, hung in thq old supper-
room at Melbourne Town Hall, invite attention to
the fact that she has overcome the old influence of
Fred McCubbin and is now painting in a manner
that should earn a diploma from Meldrum in another
few months. To be sure, her restrained studies of
Bylong (N.S.W.) scenery haven’t the challenging
realism of the Meldrum school, but still the tendency
is there, despite the evidence that her brush finds it
hard to forget its Gallery training. Her By]on."
canvases are her best. Nos. 30 and 31 are cleverly
handled, and Nos. 12 and 15 are almost equal in
merit, but admirers of her former style get some
quiet enjoyment out of such efforts as “The Visitor”
and “July Evening” which are invested with a mild
human interest and are painted with a brighter
palette.
Adelaide shows have had a. quiet week.
Ihe fuller Co. continues to act social-
problem discussions at the Prince of Wales*
it is just turning from the Unmarried Mother
to the unemployment Question—i n “The
Labor Leader.” At the King’s Gus Raglus
mixes clever ball-bouncing with incident
music, Palmetto and Bessie Slaughter a' ;
still singing like assorted angels, and Or-
Mitchell does all there is to be done with
banjo. In pictures a bright spot is Monti
at \\ est s undergoing astonishing ad-
ventures to replace the Broken Doll of
small girl. Real lions, chasing humans ai
over a building, have been a feature at
YVondergraph, and Mack Sennett is n.
exploiting the same or similar beasts at the
Majestic in “Love, Honor and Behave,” in
which he is a bit more serious than usua’
A “sweet” story is that of the little Eason:
girl at Wondergraph, posing as a vagabond
boy; and at the Pav. Viola Dana as an heir-
ess gets abducted by friendly pirates with
satisfactory results.
The Naldera took away from Sydnev on
Tuesday the C. G. Whytes— he is a director
of Farmer’s. The week behind the sailing
was full of good-byes, amdng the entertain-
ments to Mrs. Whyte being a tea-party given
by Mrs. Ilarrie Vale. At the tables were,
among others, Mrs. Henry Gorman, Mrs.
Walter and Mrs. Percy Arnott, Mrs. J. 0.
Meeks, Mrs. E. S. Littlejohn, Mrs. N. Pag.
and Miss Watkins; and the guest carried
a basket in which forget-me-nots nodded
among the violets.
“Floater”: Two or three people well
known in Australia figure in Robert Court
neidge’s “The Rebel Maid” at the London
Empire. William Cromwell, first here in
“Miss Ilook of Holland,” is the principal
comedian, and the musical director is How-
ard Carr, who was one of the Firm’s batons
some years back. Walter Rignold, nephew
of “Handsome George,” is in command of
the stage, and two or three Australian-born
actors have small parts.
Captain Jack Phillips, who owns the
D. 5.0., the D.C.M., the M.M., the Croix de
Guerre and the Mons Star, is back in Syd-
ney with his wife —she is the eldest daughter
of Lottie Collins, whom “Ta-ra-ra-boom-
de-ay” made famous. Arnold Sydney Gram-
mar and King’s School boy, and a crack foot-
baller, Phillips went to England in June,
1914. When war broke out he enlisted in
the Royal Artillery and served for the dura-
tion, being wounded five times. Since the
Armistice he has been in the pensions branch
of George V.’s army.
“Whitebait”: There are not enough
cigarette boxes to go round among the
plutocrats in “Scandal” at Melbourne
King’s. Sutherland York’s big silver box,
into which his pals dip for fags in the first
act, is borrowed to complete the decorative
effects of Beatrix’s bedroom in the next
scene. Hereabouts Pelham Franklin takes
a liking to it, for it turns up in his house
in Connecticut and becomes once more a
conspicuous part of the furniture. The
amalgamation is plainly keen on making its
props work full time.
"Namoi”; The British National Opera
Co. is the outcome of the awful discovery
that Sir Thomas Beecham was no longer
worth a guinea a box. The members of the
defunct Beecham co. have pooled their re-
sources and started on their own. All singers
and orchestral players will be shareholders,
according to their former earning capacity.
They have agreed when the takings of
the new eo. are small to accept proportion-
ately small salaries. It sounds Utopian, but
we may yet hear of members of an opera co.
living on the plan of taking in each other’s
washing.
“Glen Huntly” (London) ; In “The League
of Notions,” the expensive Cochran revue at
the New Oxford, nothing wins a bigger laugh
than a series of clever burlesques of old-time
music-hall turns. The best of the “cod”
artists is a stuffy baritone who perpe-
trates a ditty, “Good-bye, Australia,” aided
and abetted by magic-lantern views. The
song concerns an exile on the gold diggings
who, having found a stray nugget, is about to
return to England and bis old-fashioned
mother. A reference to the home be left
behind brings on to the screen a colored slide
of Windsor Castle, carefully placed upside-
down. . The song itself, with its frequent
repetition of the useful line, “The scene is
changed,” is such a wickedly clever burlesque
that there is no reason why it should not be
sold as a legitimate contribution to the class
of sob-ditties it satirises. This is a brand of
facetmusness which both English writers and
English stage-performers handle very cleverly.
The most genuinely artistic thing of its kind
I have yet seen is a burlesque of Amurean
drama with a cowboy hero and — an angel
cbeild as its leading insrredients—in which
Nelson Keys appears in “London, Paris and
Kew York.” Keys is a comedian of the re-
strained type such as we have not had the
good luck to meet in Australia for manv
venrs; he goes for chucL.es rather than loud
In whs. and gets them from the judicious
every time.
There’s a frankness in the W r est thaf
you don t get in the effete East. As witne?-
(2/8/’iT) in the West Australian
Unfurnished front room, fireplace, use kitchen.
Central X y’z p‘” ghter ’ Permanent if suitable.


Just Like
Silk.
5)
Murdoch's Fuji-Luxe
Golf Shirts
ERFECT shirt comfort for the warm days—ln an
economical way. “Fujl-Euxe” is a soft, shimmering:
fabric of rich texture, with all the. appearance and
features of silk.
V?
Made by Murdoch’s experienced shirt designers in Golf
Style, with soft gauntlet cuffs and soft collar to match, it
is the perfect embodiment of all that is cool, comfortable
and refined in Summer shirt-wear. Specially reinforced at
neck.
Murdoch’s Splendid Oil
Value - - - - - -
“Fuji-Euxe” offers many beautiful, highly-toned striped
effects—Black, Helio or Green of varying breadth, making
a pleasing contrast over cream grounds. Also in plain
Eight Cream shade only if desired.
When ordering, please state size of collar usually worn.
Address your letter to DESK R.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
MURDOCH'S;
IN PARK STREET LTD.. SYDNEY.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
,c v
.
m
te %
« t
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating feet.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE,
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
_ . BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Anst. Etd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
SlcAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fencliureh Street.
dg
WEATHERPROOF.
Texaco Roofing is Weatherproof. It
resists the action of the elements. It is
durable and permanent in heat or cold—
rain or snow.
Just lay a Texaco Roof—you can do
it yourself—and you don t need to fear
the weather.
Texaco Roofing protects everything
beneath it; whether it’s tools, plows,
livestock or grain.
It comes in four weights; a weight for
every purpose, from outbuildings, cattle
sheds and barns to warehouses.
Texaco Roofing is low in first cost and
it wears indefinitely.
It comes in rolls of convenient size,
complete with cement, nails and printed
instructions. It can be easily laid by
unskilled labor.
Office Addresses of
The Texas Company (Australasia) Limited
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.—Auto House, 143-145
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE. —Carrington Chambers, Watt Street,
Newcastle.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Chancery House, 444 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRISBANE, O’LAND. —Exton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
PERTH, W.A.—St. George’s House, St. George’s
Terrace Tcrtli W
LAUNCESTON, TAS. —10 St. John Street, Launces-
ton, Tas.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—22 Customs House Quay, Wel-
lington, N.Z.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Richards-Upton Buildings, 53
Customs Street East, Auckland, N.Z.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —South Australian Agents—Harris,
Scarfe, Limited, Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
On Wd
M!
B
Rmcd
" ec -u. 3. Mr. ofr
i *3
i*'L\
"‘'♦'act
P 0 '? ,O '» K S AT i! *
im
- •
TEXACO
hEG-TRADE MARK”
A
m
Y Use
Fu Her o Johnson
Power y
dfg
Built Right
Easy to Start
Fuller & Johnson
Throttling Governor Petrol Kerosene
ENGINES
are known for their dependable work. “Easy to
Start,” they operate smoothly and steadily on
either kerosene or petrol and can be depended
upon to deliver more than their rated Brake
Horse Power on continuous load. They are of
the most approved design and built in desirable
sizes: 3,-5, 7,9, 12, 15, 20 and 25 B. H. P. Can be
furnished in both stationary and portable types.
The Genuine
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
By its remarkable performance in every climate
dfg
and under every possible pumping con-
dition it has won recognition as the best
direct-connected pumping engine for its
size on the market. It is the original
Farm Pump Engine so well and favor-
ably known throughout Australia for
the past 10 years.
A post card to any of the following
distributors will bring full particulars
on FULLER & JOHNSON engines.
DISTRIBUTORS
Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
The S. A. Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Ltd.,
Adelaide


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Insist on CINZANOS
\%r the Summer Ca
4&9a
mp
ABBOTS
LAGER.
the beer withoutatjTvaL
m
a
wont
Sj
iri!
M
OF
an
■mm.
iwTnini
4 11
IK ,
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
6 T Cheeseman
POVERTY
POINT
m[?]oet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
“1-lal”: Well-liked Jim Anderson, formerly
general manager in Sydney for Fox films,
and for the last couple of years holding a
similar position for First National in Wash-
ington (U.S.A.), died suddenly there on
out Hoart failure brought the black-
TIVOLI THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Willie Bard as the faithful sentry who was
forgotten by the War Office.
“Lud”; One doesn’t come across the name
r i tt^L l Brune very often these
days. Ihe erstwhile star of Australian boards
is at piesent touring the English “provinces”
in the well-worn but still profit-making
American play “Romance.” Tittell plays
the tat leading part, La Cavallini. of which
Madge I abian gave an effective interpreta-
tion when the piece was produced in Aus-
tralia.
“E.T ”; Robert Courtneidge’s Savoy suc-
cess, Paddy, the Next Best Thing,'” has
been acquired for Australia by the Firm, and
several members of the cast selected in Eng-
land have just been sighted. In the London
production a comparatively new actress,
i-eggy O’Neill, has made a remarkable hit
33 the Paddy of the title. Courtneidge re-
cently commissioned Australian artist James
Quinn to paint her portrait.
Stargazer”: For a long time before he
abandoned the stage Alfred Dumpier was a
sorely ailing man. Any kind of hurried
action was practically impossible to him, and
the progress of the play had to be modified
to suit the gait of the actor-manager. One
night the sprightly young villain of the piece
persisted in forgetting what was expected of
him, and put a great deal more vivacity
into his movements than Alfred could live
up to. In act 4 the actor-manager, as the
guardian of youthful virtue, had to slav
the wicked man in combat; but the latter
put in such energetic footwork that at length
Alfred collapsed into a chair, and was heard
by half the house when he interpolated : “Oh,
well, if you’re going to hop and skip about
like that, live on, and be damned to you!”
“Mel”: “Hamfnt” (B. 4/8/’2l) was
wrong m saying that of the performers in
•Daisy Farm” at the opening of the original
Theatre Royal (Syd.) in 1875 only Ilarrv
Leston is alive. Kate Douglas, who was
also in the cast, is teaching dramatic art in
Brisbane, and when last I heard of E. B.
Russell he was well and strong in
Melbourne.
“Mel” : The north of Queensland, where
the good sugar money is, has been well sup
plied with amusement this last month. Some
or the tourists: Taylor-Coleman Panto Co.
Rude rick Sundowner Co., Mother Goose
J unto Co., Italian Grand Opera, L.vtton
Dramatic Co., hypnotist Dr. Braemar,
Coleman Vaudeville Co.. Newton Carroll
Dramatic Co., hypnotist Pro. Raymond and
I erry Bros.’ Circus. Their agents had their
work cut out dodging one another. Inci-
dentally, there are at least three circtjses in
Queensland at present.
“Steve Hart”: How’s this for a record
tour? Sam Edwards with his vaudeville co.
(mainly his own family), starting from the
south worked right up to Thirsty Island,
then back south to Harrington (N.S.W.
.North Coast), where he is now resting
among the oysters. Total time on tour, four
years and five months.
“Mon” : I can endorse “Stargazer’s” re-
marks (B 21/8/’2l) re George Rignold’s
Little brother Bill. His circumference at
waist-line was 72in. I have his Falstaff
costume, together with the whole of George
Jiignoid’s wardrobe, and can vouch for the
measurement.
Pink”: The world doesn’t realise what
picture-producers have to put up with from
piayers; I know one Australian who had
half-finished a film when his leading Jadv
turned up with her hair bobbed. Before that
she had vyorn it long. There was a bit of
trouble with the innocent child of the pic-
ture, too. Its mother had its two front
toeth extracted between scenes. Another
Australian film was nearly complete when
the hero pawned an overcoat he was sun-
posed to wear right till the end. That man
knew what he was doing, though. He had
drawn all his pay in advance, and the direc-
tor had to redeem the coat.
‘Dotted Crotchet”: “Amateur Musician”
(B. 11/8/21) says he has always
possessed the gift of musical memory:
?° _ h as never had need to acquire
it. , This does not qualify him to say it
can t be acquired. The experience of men-
tal scientists shows that if a person already
gifted pursues his studies by ordinary means
i.e., by conscious effort as, opposed to the
subconscious and apparently effortless exer-
cise of the gift-—then he is apt to lose the
gift in proportion to his progress by the
ordinary means. , “0.K.” evidently, if a
musician, belongs to. the conscious effort
class, or, as mentalists say, concentrates
objectively; “Amateur Musician” to the sub-
conscious class, i.e., he concentrates subjec-
tively. The latter does use an effort in re-
membering, although he is not conscious of
it; and if the “remembering” is continued
long enough, the drainage of nervous force
will make itself felt in the lower brain,
where the memory cells are.
‘C. Ockney”: The English summer has
been a scorcher, *5 the theatres have not
been insistent with regard to the stipulation
usually printed on their free passes: “Even-
ing Dress Indispensable.” Boating flannels
in the stalls have not been uncommon, while
at a first-night of the Russian ballet, in
which London’s new dancing idol Lydia
Lopokova appeared, pretty well every man
m the gallery divested himself of jacket,
waistcoat, collar and tie. Incidentally, the
ballet was “The Fire Bird.”
“Moeb” also for the prosecution:—
Duiing half-a-dozen professional visits to dressing-
rooms of metropolitan theatres, I have been aghast
at the absence of simple hygiene. My last visit
was to the “back” of one of the largest theatres
where a popular musical comedy was in progress.
In a 10 x 20 cubby-hole three actors, each of some
prominence, dressed, smoked, ate sandwiches and
expectorated on the floor. One of them was a sus-
pected tuberculosis case (he has since developed the
disease), and one shudders at the millions of organ-
isms he must have distributed there. A specialist
friend with a large dermatological practice tells me
that actors , ar.d actresses seldom have a square inch
of healthy-skin anywhere on their faces and necks,
and that they frequently develop most painful
zymotic skin affections. This is due to their habit
of rubbing a little of some proprietary preparation
with a vaseline basis on the parts in order to re-
move make-up and wiping off the whole < lot with a
dirty towel. This towel generally goes Unwashed
for days or weeks, being allowed to lie about on
chaii or table when not in use, and in many cases
the rag is used by more than one person. The
natural result is that the fatty substances that they
use for cosmetic purposes fill up the pores of the
skin, which in time become clogged with a mixture
of grease and dirt. It should be ‘obligatory on
e\ery theatre before getting a license to provide a
hot-water service and washing appliances in every
dressing-room.
If ax”: Herman Klein, who has prepared
a lecture on the long late Patti, illustrated
by gramophone records, would get interested
audiences in Australia if he were to happen
tins way. The reputation of. Patti as a
mistress of her business still holds good
although she hadn’t the throat of a Melba.
JNor does a gramophone record, taken when the
little woman had turned 60, give an idem of
what a dainty, winsome figure of a prima
donna she was when her voice was at its
best. Rut it tells just how she phrased and
aiticuJatea her words and controlled her
breath. Theories of voice-production did not
trouble Adelina Patti. She spoke of “re-
gisters as things she had heard talked of,
hut knew nothing about. In fact, she was
practically an intuitively correct vocalist,
like Melba, who was accepted by many musi-
cal people as the finest singer in Australia
long before she went to Europe and Mar-
aS s^e not been to Europe
other feUow-Australians heard nothing won-
derful in her song.
“0.K.”: In the drab, dull Victorian age,
when stodgy Respectability had a strangle-
hold on Art and wax-flowers and antimacas-
sars helped make life hideous, public idea of
the beautiful .was mostly expressed in fancy
names for mummers and vocalists. Dickens
and Thackeray satirised the tawdry theatri-
cal custom in Vincent Crummies, Miss
Snevellicci, Miss Fotheringay, etc. But
the age of the gaudy alias has passed, mid
realism is now the thing. Recent London
“ON OUR SELEC-
TION,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Maloney (Harley
Edwards) dressed for
the dance, and Sandy
(Roland Conway).
papers record that “Miss Carrie Tubb was
enthusiastically applauded for her render-
ln& Elizabeth’s Greeting from ‘Tann-
hauser. ’ “Tubb” would have been forbidden
by the rules of the game in the days when
the favorite Juliet was beautiful Adelaide
Neilson, whose real name was Elizabeth Ann
Brown. The songstress Tubb has a truer
sense of things that matter than the com-
edian who introduced “Charley’s Aunt” and
“The Private Secretary” t 0 this country.
His name was Tubb, too, but he billed him-
self as Frank Thornton.
“Old Pot”: What is an Australian actor
an Australian born, who becomes a mum-
mer, or an immature thespian from over-
seas, who sets up his mia-mia here and
eventually becomes one of us? Probably the
best example of the latter was Cecil Ward,
tie arrived in Sydney in the late ’eighties
under engagement to Brough and Boucicault,
a I 'c! rr, l ' ca^ow actor. Association with
O. S. Titheradge, Phil Beck, Myra Kemble,
! attie Browne, Robert Brough and that
prince of stage-managers, Dion Boucicault,
polished him. Perhaps the best instance of
the other sort, bred and born in this countri-
es Walter Baker. He began in the early
eighties with W. E. Sheridan < who now
lies in Waverley Cemetery), and learned his
business in Shakspeare. Baker , was for
\ ears Bland Holt’s leading man, and it is
a pity he did not try his luck on the British
stage.
“T.D.M.”: Augustus Glover— real name
Sidney De Fivas and bom in Edinburgh—
had a much less stentorian voice than E. B
Russell (B. 25/8/’2l). Glover’s was powerful
i - make it silky when playing a
polished villain. Russell was in his element
"SCANDAL,” AT MELBOURNE KING'S.
Maude Hanaford as the spoilt young lady
teases her bogus husband (Frank Harvey).
as a rough bull-neck ; and what a time he had
as ( ripps, the locksmith in “The Silver
King”! Glover’s father was Victor De
Fivas, M.A., LL.D„ author of many well-
known French educational works. Gus
made his iirst appearance in June, 1864, at
the new Royalty, London, as Bassanio in
“The Merchant of Venice.” He then acted
under the name of Gilbert. He supported
Walter Montgomery, one of the best Hamlets
Australia has seen, when that star opened
the New Theatre Royal at Nottingham
(Eng.), on December 26, 1871.
“G. String”; Bertini (David Burt), a
Wallsend (N.5.W..) native, just now fiddling
in 1 uller vaudeville, was one of three
Newcastle district violinists who were
caught up by the Great War. Dr.
Ludlow’s son Godfrey, four years in-
terned in Ruhleben, and Joe Vial, who
succumbed to cruelties in the same camp,
were the others. Burt had just finished his
studies at the Leipzig Conservatorium under
I’rof. Decker when war was declared. He
joined the 2nd King Edw r ard Horse, later
transferred to Ist Canadian Div., was gassed,
then wounded at. Festubert, and in 1916 was
given a commission in the Royal Flying
Corps. He ivas wounded while scrapping
against a Fokker, and after 16 months in
hospital, went into the balloon section of
the Flying Corps, only to be injured in a
parachute descent. So he got his full issue.
O. Blin”: A feature of the charity foot-
ball match mentioned by “B.” (B. 18/8/’2l)
was the crowd of mashers that hung round
the divinities in charge of the various stalls.
Nell Stewart, bewilderingly lovely as a tea-
and-cake merchant, gathered in the sovereigns
by every artifice that she could think of.
One beautiful youth who professed to know
her intimately handed up half-a-sovereign
and said: “A cup of tea, Nellie, please.” To
ins complaints when he received no change
she answered pertly: “The charge is quite
correct. One shilling for the tea, and nine
for the impertinence.” Jennie Lee did
even better with an elderly adorer. He
cheekily asked the price of a kiss, and she
smartly urged him to test his affection in
an impromptu auction for one. Two or
three other sports competed for the fun of
the thing, and it eventually cost the aged
Lothario a tenner for the favor of a moment
at Jennie’s lips.
“Royce Rolls”: Bunty is still Pulling the
Strings for Graham Moffitt, and at the latest
was helping his bank account in S’Africa.
Ihe Scawtch comedian, who brought the play
to Australia, has carted it everywhere and
found it a winner. He is now ready to
launch another effort, which will bring his
compatriots clustering round him like Bol-
sheviks round a ham sandwich. It is “In
the Days of Bobbie Burns,” and Bobbie
plays a part.
“Namoi”: Robert Lorraine, actor and air-
man, once engaged to our own Marie Lohr
and whom every well-known unattached act-
ress in London has at one time or another
annexed, if Rumor could be believed, has at
last tied the knot with W inifred Strangman,
daughter 0 f the Advocate-General of Bombav
Lorraine is 45 and a Colonel. He has just
visited Asia and goes back holding a brief
for John Chinaman, whom he calls “the
gentleman of the world.”
PARADISE LORST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evrybuddy’s got their trubbles;
Mine was wonce jist piekin dabbles;
Now they’re thicker ’an the bubbles
In a tub on washin day.
Oo’d er thort this movin picksher
t raze ud act jist like a st.ricksher
On me appiness? It licks yer
Wot sum usbands as to pay.
Wen we itched up, me an Josie,
AH the bloomin world looked rosy;
In our little shebang cosy
We was like two turtle doves,
Evry day went by like Sundy,
We feared nort frum Missus Grundy;
life in Eden meant to Gundy ’ .
Bein irn wot Josie loves.
Then wun night the serpint crept in,
Climbed up on the bed we slept in,
Wispered she ad talents kept in-
side er ead—an started strife;
Told er in a voice like unny
She cud make a pot ov munny
Writin plays. Struth, ain’t it funny
Wot them serpints kids y e r wife?
Cud we only see the sorrer
Stickin out for us tomorrer
Ow we’d squash them serps in orror.
Wen they furst comes to our door;
Stead, I tells er like a mellin
That I’d elp er with the spellin.
“Ave a go, dear, there’s no tellin
Wot the futcher olds in store.”
Truer wurds was never spolcin,
Tho’ I sed em jist arf jokin,
For to-day me eart’s nigh brokin
An me Eden’s filled with pain;
Josie as no time for cookin,
Sewin, mendin she’s forsookln,
To a tin-fish meenoo tookin,
Ses it stimerlates the brain.
.But wot fairly knocks me bandy
All er eroes fine an dandy
Sport black air (my top-nut’s sandy),
they re all tall (I’m five-foot tnreei.
Though er eroines ain’t prosy
They all tork an look like Josie
M ilst the villun—stone the crows he
Alwus seems to look iiKe me!
SIAORILAND.
J. A. DOUGLAS.


How to Double Your Income
£9/12/- deposited in a Savings Bank, and allowed to accumulate at 3 2 per cent,
compound interest until December 15, 1930 (the period of the Diggers )
would grow into £l2/17/8, thus showing a a profit of £3 5 8.
By investing £9/12/- in a Commonwealth “Digger Loan Bond (and allowing the
INTEREST to be paid each half-year into your Savings Bank account), you would
have returned to you on December 15, 1930, the sum of £l6/2 4, thus showing a
profit of £6/10/4 —NEARLY DOUBLE.
(The above calculations have been officially compiled.)
Savings Bank Depositors of Australia!
Your Money Works Harder in a
Commonwealth Diggers’ Loan Bond
This message is directed, not to the depositors in any particular Savings Bank, but to Savings Bank depositors
generally throughout Australia. In the various Commonwealth and State Savings Banks the total credit balances of
depositors amount to £147,288,554. In the various Trading Banks the total eredit balances of customers amount to
£243,976,031, and a BIG APPEAL IS BEING MADE EVERYWHERE T 9 THESE CUSTOMERS to do their duty by
the “Diggers’ Loan," but the purpose of this advertisement is to show Savings Bank depositors how they can help the
country to meet its financial obligations to the Diggers, and at the same time help themselves by subscribing at least a
little to the Loan.
You may say: "But if I invest in a Digger Bond I lose the free use of that money for 9 years, and at any time
1 might need the money badly.”
Now, nobody expects you to transfer the whole of your Savings Bank credit balance into the “Diggers Loan.
Your Savings Bank money is already being used for the development of the country. What every citizen is asked to do
is to invest a portion of his assets in the Loan.
Don’t say: “My little £lO Bond will not make any difference one way or the other.” Do you know that if
only one out of every three Savings Bank Depositors were to invest £9/12/- in a “Diggers’ Loan” Bond, the £10,000,000
would be more than subscribed, without the need for appealing to depositors in general banks, or to Insurance Companies,
or any other financial institutions? Of course everybody is being appealed to, but these figures are given just to show
the citizens what a simple matter it would be to raise the “Diggers’ Loan” if all were prepared to do just a little for
the cause.
There are 3,163,592 men, women and children in Australia who have Savings Bank accounts in one or other
of the Savings Banks.
If you do not want to put down the whole £9/12/- immediately you can pay a deposit of £l, and the remaining
£B/12/- can be paid in instalments extending over four months.
Above All—Remember
It is your duty as citizens to subscribe to the “Diggers’ Loan,” which is required wholly and solely for the purpose
of keeping Australia’s promises to the men who went away and fought.
The Commonwealth Government has made your duty a pleasant one to carry out, by making the interest rate
particularly generous. The nominal rate of interest is 6 per cent, (paid half-yearly), but as the Loan is being issued
at £96 per £lOO, which means that £96 buys a £lOO Bond, or £9/12/- buys a £lO Bond, the average yield of interest
over the period of the Loan works out at £6/12/- per cent.
Remember, too, that the security is absolutely gilt-edged. There is not, and cannot be, a safer investment in the
Commonwealth of Australia than a Commonwealth “Diggers’ Loan” Bond. It is a loan you are absolutely sure will be
REPAID IN FULL on its due date.
The Loan Closes on MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 5.
You can apply at any Bank, or Savings Bank, or Money-Order Post Office in Australia.
Prospectus and Application Forms are available at all these places.
Yon Can Convert Bonds in Previous Loans.
Bonds in previous War Loans, or in the First Peace Loan, can be converted into Digger Bonds by taking up
an equal amount in the “Diggers’ Loan,” and you will thus be able to increase your interest on your old bonds up to
6 per cent, instead
Whenever the Diggers were asked to Give a Little More THEY GAVE.
YOU are NOW asked to Lend a Little More WILL YOU LEND?
This page has been donated to the CornmonweaUh Loan Authorities by the
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, Mazda Home, Sydney and Melbourne,
who trust that the Government’s appeal for the Ct Diggers’ Loan” will radiate throughout the length and breadth of
Australia, and that the vital spark of gratitude and honor will not be found missing from the National Dynamo when the
final figures go up on Monday next—the closing date of the Loam.
The Australian General Electric Co. hope that the magnitude of the people’s response will electrify the world,
for it would indeed be a nasty shock to our national credit and prestige among the other nations if we failed to honor
our pledges to the men who fought for us, and who established such a magnificent reputation for our country.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIL.P & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3. LlfllTED. Redfern. Sydney.
Goldfinder Goap
LEWIS&WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
II
“VALLO”
WEED, SCRUB OTREE KILLER
m
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
/' ra Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form—Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £!b., 1/3.
Postage within the State :11b., 9d.; Jib. (id. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; Jib., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “ VALIjO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
And at SYDNEY & BRISBANE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
The days when Somerset was a notable
cricketing eounty—the period of the Palairets and
“Sammy” Woods—have long since vanished; and
now with the exception of J. C. White this team
hardly possesses one class cricketer. White failed
to come off against the Australians last week
(though he did clean-bowl Macartney for 19) and
they knocked up 831, Ryder and Collins getting
centuries. McDonald, with seven for 31, did the
bulk of the damage in Somerset’s first innings, and
Armstrong (seven for 55) was the destroyer in the
second. Australia won within a minute or so of
the drawing of stumps by an innings and 58 runs.
The match that followed exemplified the oft-
mentioned uncertainties of the game. It was against
a team of amateurs not one of whom figures in a
leading place in the average-table, as either a bowler
or a bat. It was not strange that when the veteran
Archie Maclaren won the toss he should lave decided
to go in on the fast and easy wicket, nor that
McDonald and Armstrong* between them should have
gone through the side for the miserable total of 43
the lowest of the tour. But nothing could have been
more unexpected than the subsequent collapse of the
undefeated visitors. Bardsley, with 70, was the only
man to score, and the side could do no better than
174. The Englishmen decided to take chances, and
Hubert and Gilbert Ashton' went for McDonald as
though they had never heard he was a superman.
The former got 75 and his brother 36 before Arm-
strong took them, and then G. A. Faulkner (who
had reaped four good Australian wickets for 50) hit
up a sparkling century.
G. A. Faulkner, who bashed the Austra-
lian bowling for 153 on Monday, has been met
before. He came in the S’African team to Aus-
tralia in 1910-11, and with A. Nourse (he of the
big hands) put on 318 for the third wicket v.
N.S.W. at Sydney. Faulkner was S’Africa’s great
all-rounder in those days, and at 40 has still to be
reckoned with.
Clem Hill lias been the greatest century-
getter in Australian cricket, but his position is
threatened by both Warren Bardsley and Warwick
Armstrong. Clem’s tally in representative matches
was 45. Bardsley’s 127 against W. G. Grace’s old
county was his 43rd, while Armstrong has made 42,
or, if two against M.L. provincial teams are counted,
44. Victor Trumper’s tally was 43 and M. A.
Noble’s 37.
Malley s 10 lor 66 v. Gloucester was bet-
tered by Howell, who took 10 tor 28 v. Sussex in
1899 Albert Trctt (Vic.) swept the board for
Middlesex against Somerset in 1900, and George
Giffen did likewise for the Australian XI v. The
Itest at Sydney in 1883. Mailey nows holds the
best match figures of the tour (13 for 87), the next
being Armstrong’s 12 for 77 v. Surrey and Mc-
Donald’s 12 for 104 v. Leicestershire.
I na Clift’s TJnacre horse Gilray pulled the
lady and her friends through in the Liverpool Mile
at Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday. He carried
71b more than his Epsom weight and won front
Gambler’s Gold mainly through getting an opening
on the false rails. That nice filly Furious was close
up third. Old “Baron” Brown’s Richmond Main,
still on the burly side, started favorite, but was
interfered with when Pickles fell, and finished well
back.
Horses from Fred Williams’s stable are
not in the habit of winning at outside races, but it has
now happened twice on successive Saturdays. Green-
stead, unbacked and carrying a big load of flesh, ran
away with the Lurdas Handicap at Rosehill on the
20th, and on Saturday at Warwick Farm Salitros,
almost friendless at 100’s to 7, took the distance
handicap in rather easy fashion. For the race White
Phast was a red-hot favorite, the only others in the
betting being Red Deer and the Maorilander Insurrec-
tion. White Phast ran wretchedly. Salitros, with
9st 51b. on board, registered the best Metropolitan
trial seen in public.
Fust year Randwick trainer Dan Lewis
acquired fame and fortune with Speciality, winner of
the Doncaster and All Aged Stakes. The colt win-
tered well and was looked on as a certainty for
some of the bigger races this year. In the next
box Lewis had a brilliant sprinter in Pickles (by
Aryan), whose work lately caused his owners to
throw for a big stake over the Epsom. A few days
ago Speciality retired with an injured fetlock, and
on Saturday Pickles fell at Warwick Farm and was
pulled oft' the course with paralysed quarters. Such
is the luck of the great game!
'* * * v *
S Sum Hordern’s Wyndbam (favorite for
the A.J.C. Derby), Pelaw Main, Otacre, Linita and
Braehead were among the three-year-olds given a
run at, Warwick Farm on Saturday. Brafehead,
owned by J. J. Garvan and trailed by Richard
O’Connor, was the only one to reach the limelight.
He won the second division of the Pace Welter like
a racehorse, among those behind him being Even
Song and Easter Week. Pelaw Main looked rather
backward. Braehead is by Mountain King from loli
and cost 1450 guineas as a youngster. He is a
distinct possibility for the Derby.
** * .
The Maoriland colt Loyal Irish made one
act of the Maitland Cup on Saturday, winning from
end to end and setting up a course record (2mim
21see.) for the mile and three furlongs. Assuming
he has the remotest chance in the A.J.C. Derby, for
which Paddy Nolan is getting him ready, the ’race
was obviously a gift for him at 6st. 71b. Inciden-
tally, t.his run rather upsets the prevailing suspicions
about Loyal Irish’s stamina (his sire, Absurd, is not
in the habit of getting stayers), and makes his Derbv
chance look proportionately healthier.
V'. A. Zed, the previously unsporting Adel-
aide capitalist who bought all contractor Timms’s
string of racehorses a year ago and has had fair
luck as an owner, has tired of the game and disposed
ot the whole stud, running to nearly 40. The main
item was the Hungarian-bred sire Aides, which went
to Sid Kidman for 1500 guineas; Two was
withdrawn from sale. The horses in training were
a moderate lot, 150 being the highest price realised •
but Kidman gave 205 for the brood mare Gorgeous!
COLIN BULL,
the giant
heavyweight.
Adelaide Hunt Club’s point-to-point race
was won by Paul Teesdale Smith, on Capture, from
a small field. The same rider took the last event
ot the kind before the war. The big 1 suburban man-
sions, which used to take it in turns to lunch the
huntsmen, are now mostly hospitals, convents or
schools; and the old fields are now all house-and-
garden. So the club mostly has to take train to
somewhere outside—Strathalbyn, Smithfield or Rev-
nella.
* * * *
Polycrates, winner of the Newmarket
Handicap only four years ago, had a three-year-old
son to the fore at Williamstown last Saturday. The
Tyrant, owned by Stuart Brunton and trained by
Bradfleld, won the Maiden Plate from end to end,
with ‘2O others behind him. There looks to be a bit of
father’s class about The Tyrant, who is well engaged
for the Spring. As a two-year-old the best he could
do was to split Salatis and Sefton when they were
both giving him a lot of weight, but he ran only
three or four races in all.
Consider what the totalisator did for
punters at Adelaide last Saturday. In the Eastwood
Hurdle (12 runners) the divs. were £7 and £3 18s.;
in the two-year-old race (IS runners), £l3 10s. and
£l7 10s.; in the Grand National, £4 17s. and £2O
Is. A matter of £37 9s. for three tickets on
runners-up. A punter, risking a pound on each of
those three seconds with a fine, openhanded Ikey
who lays short odds with a “concession,” would hare
got—his money back! No wonder Ikey’s bedtime
prayer is “God bless all kind wowsers who oppose
the totalisator! ”
Haoma’s capture of the G. N. Steeple at
Adelaide doesn’t prove that he could have beaten
Gazonip for the four-miles steeplechase at Caulfield
if he had stood up, but it certainly suggests that
he w#g unlucky to fall when he had gone not more
than 21 miles and was lengths ahead of the field.
Haoma carried 12st. 21b. at the A.R.C. meeting and
stayed the three miles at a respectable pace. On
damp going 6min. 7sec. was fast enough' to bring 10
ot the 16 starters to grief.
-Jack Jannesse, who used to be bantam
champ, of the continent, tried' to come back in
Melbourne on Saturday night at A 1 Moore’s expense.
He failed. At the end of the 16th round his
seconds intimated that he had had enough. The
spectators had had enough long before.
Charlie Moy, of California, got his second
chance at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night—this
time against featherweight ehaiiipion Jack Green.
There was a good deal of delay while Moy had 12oz.
of superfluous avoirdupois removed in order to save
a £5O forfeit. He proved to be defter at shedding
weight than at scrapping. The visitor looks a fighter
all over, and the state-of his face indicates that he
lias had a lot of experience, but Green .was as
much of a puzzle to him as Jamito had proved on a
previous occasion. He must have m.ssed the Syd-
ney boy a couple of hundred’ times during the 20
rounds that the wearisome affair went. Green boxed
below his usual standard, but was never extended.
At Melbourne last week Vie. lacrosseurs
met and walloped N.S.W. by 18 goals to 2. The home
team excelled at all phases of the game. Wilson
(5) and Lampard (4) were Vic.’s chief goat-
throwers. Against a Vic. 11. team, N.S.W. went
down by 10 goals to 9.
* * * #
Sydney G. P. Schoolboys beat ’Varsity in
their annual Rugby Union tussle last week by 24—8.
% or v. Lud °wici (captain) played a great game
at half-back, and Galli (wing three-quarter) and
Gureton and Dixon (forwards) were excellent. Uni.’s
best were M. B. Hesslein and R. L. Raymond (cap
tain) in the backs, and Friend in the forwards.
* * * «-
• Sydney Rugby Union “knock-out” competi-
tion started on Saturday. ’Varsity, Easts and Old
Roys have finished their season. Glebe-Balmain, for
whom Mayne, Stevenson and Buchanan glowed bright-
est. easily downed Newtown ; and in the only other
match Wests did the same by Norths. Whi'pp and
Prendergast stood out for Wests, and in addition to
scoring the former booted four goals. Manly had
the bye. J
The Springboks, now’ at their top. heat
Maoriland in the second Test by a field goal after
the game had stood five all at half-time. Teddy
Roberts was included in the All Black team, in-
stead of H. E. Nieholls, as half. Van Heerden was
not playing, and W. Sendin, who took his position,
scored. Weight was a great factor, especially in
the forwards. The visitors averaged half-a-stone
more than their opponents.
* * * *
The only game in the Vie. League tournev
that really counted on Saturday was South v. ’Wood
on South’s ground. South played heftily, but lacked’
pace and skill, so that when all was over they owned
only 40 points to ’Wood’s 55 —and the umpire duly
suffered for it at the hands of their barrackers.
the Magpies have now only to beat St. Kilda, last
“!,“ e hst, to reach the finals'; but the same St.
Rilda are apparently a contract, inasmuch as Geelong
vvent down before them on Saturday. Incidentally,
the men from the Hub played like schoolboys, and
at lemon-time were no less than 8 goals ‘behind.
By the time they began their case was hopeless, and
they ended with 63 points to Saint’s 82. On the
heavy, slippery ground the big Carlton men showed
badly against the lighter and swifter Essendonians
and at half-time the “same old” had scored thrice
as many points. After that they wearied; the old
Blues put up a series of determined rushes and
saved the game. Final scores: Carlton, 7 goals 19
behinds; ’Dons, 7 goals 11 behinds. The Blues
deserved a licking for their rotten kicking, which
was m strong contrast to that of Richmond, against
Melbourne, the Tigers at one stage having kicked 9
goals without a behind. They wound up with 12
goals 6 behinds to Melbourne’s 8 goals 11 behinds.
Ag in their earlier encounter this season the
Fuschias outplayed the Tigers, and onlv the latter’s
accurate shooting saved them.
The big game in Sydney Soccer this week-
end was Pyrmont v. Corrimal at Wentworth Park
Oornmal’s goalkeeper. A. Shipton, played a great
game. A. Jones (Corrimal) scored first, and then
Maitland, the crack inter-State inside right, equalised
with a beautiful first-time angle shot, after which
Loveridge put the Blues in front per a penalty
In the second half V. Williamson and Cob Jones
netted in succession for Corrimal, and just on the
whistle A. McLean, the speedy Blue right winger,
made a 3-all draw of it.
* * * *
On Saturday in the last match of the
first round of Sydney City Cup competition Souths
overwhelmed ’Varsity at the S. C. Ground. Scores,
39 points '9 tries 6 goals) to 8 points (2 tries 1
goal). The students drew first blood, Hanrahart
crossing in with Gillespie aboard. Courtenay’s shot
hit the bar. Horder next ran over in the corner
for Souths, scored, and hoisted the bunting. A
couple of minutes later Horder get in again, but
failed with the boot. ’Varsity presently equalised,
McClosky getting across and Courtenay hoisting the
flags. At about this stage the Rabbitos started to
sneak away, the scorers being Gillespie (2), Law-
rence (2), Wearing (2) and Horder, who also con-
verted four. ’Varsity sorely missed Conaghan, for
whom McClosky was a poor substitute. The other
games provided one surprise, North outing the
leaders (Glebe) by 22 to 15. Easts had a lucky win
over ’Mains by 18 to 9; Wests headed Saints by 16
to 5. Newtown (the bye) visited Wollongong, where
they walloped ah Illdwarra NIII by 16 to 9. The
four leading teams —Glebe, East, South and New-
town —will contest the Cup semi-final next Saturday.
In the match to decide whether
J£.ps should meet the U.S.A. f or the Davif
Hawkes went close to victory in the first Z
singles, and Anderson did the same in LT‘ d ° f
Hawkes made Kumagae look simple
the first two sets at 6-3, 6-2. Then the V.Vtn
6°3 6°9 n f Th Gd hil "> a ', ld the Ja P
6-3, 6-2. There are only two kinds of Barnes tn n vl
against the Japanese. One is to ti.
volley for clean wins with every stroke th £"*
r t 0 S P° il „ the drives with chops
slices. Wallace Johnston, of America, does the w*
tei, and Vincent Richards, the 18-vear olrl v i
crack, the. former. Unluckily Hawkes W
game at his command. He is a baselinm- ',J e i? er
one of these meets his like, the wd,mf r ’
endurance of a Marathon runner. Hawkes lacks In
duranefe, and he has a style that throws a / i
stiain on him. He strains - himself on his backhand
and pulls his weight off when on his forehand
Anderson evidently lost his block ao-iinst U-
ness of Shimidzu. He still hfto acouir
peramei.t of a champion. a ° qUlre the te,n ‘
In the doubles our men started badly, but Tim
n A«- i’t st ' and th r , - Todd eototlZ
1 rT,i * Attu this it was good-night for the Jane
Our men went out at 4-6, 6-4, 8-6, 6-0. They wot
the hast nine games in succession. ' 0
HORACE RICE,
the veteran tennis-
player, who won two
additional tennis
titles recently.
In thr> second round of
die singles Kumagae again
mlled the fat out of the
ire. From the cables it
is evident that Anderson
had the Jap beaten and
then went to the pack
After winning the first
xet by brilliant play of
the Johnston brand he
tried to beat the Jap at
his own game—safety.
. on so, he got within
two points of the second
set. and then going quite
wild lost the game and
the next two also. The
Jap was again outplayed
in the third set, and then
Anderson lay down and
Kumagae walked over him.
storing by attacking his
weak backhand, taking the
net and finishing with
easy volleys. The full
score was 3-6. 7-G, 2-6
The last rubber
& -d not matter; but
Shimidzu beat Hawkes at
d-G, 6-S, 0-2, 6-2.
E. E. D. Clarke lind a profitable trip to
Adelaide for the S.A. Grand National meeting at
Victoria Park. His Cyclus (Cyklon—Soa) romped
away with the Fulham Park Piate for youngsters;
but his Gnat, backed as if she couldn’t lose for the
Adelaide Guineas, got home by only a nose from the
local Leachim, who was giving her 51b. as sex allow-
ance. Bobbie Lewis rode both these winners. The
G. N. Hurdle was a great turn-up. Flannagan’s
Bottle King was thought much of two years ago, but
had done little lately, and his owner much preferred
Haoma. Argosy Boy was absolute favorite, but
jumped badly, and Haoma was nowhere. Treen, who
rode Gazomp in the Australian Steeplechase, had a
rough ride on Bottle King, but got him home com-
fortably, with a £l2 3s. dividend.
■»*-**
Toni Kendall, whose fellow-employees on
the Hobart Mercury made him a presentation on
his 70th birthday on August 24, was one of the
Australian XI that licked Englard in the first Test
match, played in Melbourne away back in March,
’77. Eight of the Englishmen fell to his left-
handers for 108 runs. Australia lost the return
match, though Kendall bagged six for 106 in it.
The first intercollegiate girls’ sports-meet-
ing for S. Aus. drew a big crowd to Adelaide Oval.
There were 16 events, with seven schools represented.
Winnie Murphy, of St. Peter’s, was the star of the
occasion, winning the hurdles, hundred and both
jumps, and helping her team to take the flag-race
by a. big margin.
In the Tas. 10-mile cross-country cham-
pionship last week R. Lucas (Hobart) defeated his
brother, T. M. Lucas, with 82sec. to spare. Time,
61min. 13sec. Lucas, who recently won a six-mile
cross-country event in 36min. I7see'., will be Tassy’s
rep. in the Australasian 10-mile this month.
Although 20 started in the Manly (Syd-
ney) 12-mile Marathon on Saturday, it really was
another match between the top-notchers. H. L.
Sheaves (Souths) took things easy- in the early
stages, but over the final miles he romped away to
win with 3 , sec. in hand from H. Grandemange,
J. L. Bell and W. Porter—the same placings as in
the 10-mile championship event. The winner’s
time was 70min.
, A ■ strong Vic. baseball team has visited
Adelaide for a series of matches. The first
well fought out, except that in the fifth inning?
S.A. broke away with five, and so won 11 to 5.
Ihe next was a struggle all the way, Victoria win-
ning 5 to 4 with an innings to spare; the
losers’ four were all made in the second. This left
the last matt h to decide the rubber. Carefully
building up their own usual five, Vic. kept S.A‘.
from scoring at all in the whole nine innings. Inter-
State wicket-keeper Schulz was prominent during
the week as a catcher, and Stirling, of the A.I.F.
team, played once. It was a fine sporting series of
games, but Adelaide stayed away in vast numbers.
* * * *
Some veterans were prominent in the
figures presented at Adelaide Cricket Club's annual
meeting. Joe Travers headed the bowling list, with
Albert Wright second. Travers has developed lately
as a batsman, and headed the batting averages, too:
which is not bad for a man who was at the top of the
tree in South Aus. bowling 20 years ago.
THE TEA CHAMPION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
1 found Mr. F. R. Spofforth, the ‘demon bowler’
01 bygone days, in liis office in Old-street, E.C.
where he presides over one of the biggest tea com-
panies in the world, a huge concern that occupies
the whole of one side of a block. ‘What do they
teach the boys at English schools to do?’ I asked
they teach them to do this.’ Mr. Spofforth, the
chairman of the vast commercial company in Old-
street, rose from his chair.” —Johnny Sondes in
Sydney Telegraph.
Standing in his marble halls, my mind reverted to
the past.
(‘I ope you’ve ’eard,” the liftman said. “E’s
now a Merchant Prince.”)
I envisaged him while batsmen dodged his bowling
lightning-fast
("you know ’im!” sneered a,porter in a voice
that made me wince).
Yes; in fancy T discerned him, knocking English
wickets flat,
While familiarly I shouted, “Good old Spoff!” and
cries like that.
But my confidence departed as 1 neared his gilded
door
(“What namet” a typist coldly asked, and looked
me up and down).
Now, I wonder what he’s worth? I mused. A mil-
lion quid or more?
(“Wait here, she snapped.) 1 quailed before
the lady’s haughty frown :
And I felt a sudden yearning, one that almost
made me sob,
That the Tea-King might be Spoff once more—old
Spoff without a bob.
In an hour or so thee called me, and I followed
them inside.
’Twas he! And yet quite different from the sport
I’d known of old.
There was something that all trace of easy friendli-
ness denied—
Not rude. No! No! I'd rather say monarchi-
cally cold.
Round his splendid brow an aura, bright as fire, I
seemed to see,
And it winked and glittered at me the inscrip-
tion “ C s. d.”
How I strove to glimpse the features of my boyhood’s
idol, Spoff,
Behind this shining vision of a Gregory of Trade!
It was not to be, however. Let the Socialistic scoff —
I failed before the evidence of all the wealth he’d
made;
And the Demon of the ’eighties, who had been a pal
to me,
Stayed concealed behind the form of London’s Open
Champ of Tea.
x.s.w.
10-2-4.


LEARN BOXING BY
MAIL
—and by the aid of the Baker
Course you will be able to hold youi
own with your fists anywhere. Every
man who is able to box has a valu-
able asset, and
ANY MAN
CAN LEARN
by this system the whole of the fascinating art of
self-defence from the very rudiments up to the
highest stages of the game. The Baker System is
simple and explanatory. It is based on the per-
sonal experience of this famous athlete amongst the
world’s greatest exponents of self-defence. It takes
the student by easy stages, and teaches him all the
“ins” and “outs” of boxing.
If you want to learn simply write your name and
address across this advertisement, enclose three
stamps to cover postage, and you will receive a
copy of the fascinating booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which describes the course in
detail, and gives all particulars as to terms, etc.
1
38$!$
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
569 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
dfg
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
1> y CItItISTO P II E It
.JOHNSON & CO., at tlielr
Western Works, Sheffield.
Eor quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Kazor, wliich is of tlie
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
fcj
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Lomrhurst. f>o York Street, Sydney.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are FREE FROM MINERAL OILS. They are of the highest possible quality,
and keep the uppers of shoewear soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and
prolonging the life of -the feather.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
COLORS: Black, Brown, Bark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. In Bottles & Tubes.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
SvqwyWOYrn
OSNC//*
NFS
X^o
iro
ir
Spread;
like
Butler
This is the sensible, sanitary way to buy Cheese,
You are always sure of getting the same high
quality. You know it has never been exposed
to dust or flies —never handled.
“ Rex ” Luncheon Cheese has the most tempting
flavour —mild yet piquant. It is economical,
handy, a valuable digestive aid.
Be sure you get “ Rex. Sold everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon.
Cheese
“Laugh, and the world laughs with you!”
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh ?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health.
EttCH CHIWHII
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
r jKitlilU
Don’t let ill-health discourage
you.
HYPOL
can do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially chest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sold at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
3
So**.?
Foster Oil-Cooled
Transformers.
Their standardised efficiency is as high as possible, con-
sistent with reasonable capital outlay. They show to
advantage in the initial cost, and also in the total cost
over a long period. Only the highest-quality materials are
used, and great reliability has been achieved.
The insulation is not affected by moisture or hot oil:
nor will it disintegrate under the influence of' Vibration.
Windings are of double-covered copper for small
currents, and rectangular wire copper strip for
higher currents.
FURTHER PARTICULARS AND PRICES ON
REQUEST.
Manufacturers—FOSTEß ENGINEERING
CO., LTD., Wimbledon, England.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 172-6 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street, Sydney.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Mel-
bourne.
sdf
sf
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
8-H.P. UNIT PLANT
The Speed Boat Engine.
Delivery from Stock.
The “Caille” 8-h.p. Unit Plant is fitted with reverse gear on the same
bed. Perfect alignment is guaranteed. Ideal for private launches
and small speed boats. Its speed record up to date is 2U m.p.h.,
driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in. hand V-botton boat, turning a lbm. by
20in. propeller. We have stocks. Call or write now.
NOW’S THE TIME! BUY NOW!
Prepare now for the coming season. Waiting will perhaps mean delay
in getting just the engine you want. We can supply “Caille’’ Per-
fection Outboard and “Bantam” Inboard Motors, also 1-, 2- and 4-
cyiinder types from 2to 30 h.p. for light or heavy duty. Catalogues
and particulars post free from
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne: 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address —“Brosbenson.”


Stylish Hats—at Farmer’s.
Latest arrivals from Tress 8C Co. Ltd., London.
Smart Model Riding Hats now
showing at Fanner’s represent
the newest shapes and latest
innovations for comfort and
good service. The makers are
Tress 8C Co., the renowned
London firm, who are special*
ists in high-grade sports hats.
Black Fur Felt Riding Hat, entirely
new shape; light weight, possesses
exceptional head comfort and is
luxuriously finished throughout.
Other shapes, having a slight-roll
br m and little narrower than fa 'X j
the style illustrated. Price...
Farmer’s : Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
New Model
63/-
MM
iCS
H
When the period kmrcv,, as “the twilight of
lie arrives, extreme care must be ob-
served to keep Colds. Influenza, and their
attendant --Is at a distance.
r
IRISH MOSS
IS BEST FOB COUGHS & COLDS.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
LIe u t, ' Governor Irvine is really giving
the show away. Besides taking his full
share of court work as C.J., he is actin-'
as deputy for the G.-G.. as well as forour
wn State Lari. While presiding in the
tu P dn?v at r Gend , i S° was his pain
p' n 1; ty to fane Jude, Labor candidate for
Bendigo West, a guinea for ignoring a sum-
mons to attend as a juryman. As an old
politician, who had to run a whirlwind ele»-
dSsohS aiB iq him Self When he got a penal
dissolution 19 years ago, ’Sonor and
™th’ e en m n T USt have lu ‘d some secret sym-
pathy with Jude, but the bass of a law had
made no allowance for such special circs
T' n t. h e new State session
himself on September 6, and will not leave
„, t 0 Lieut.-Gov. Irvine as was expected
ern State EX ' b ° Sail hiS holiday in th e north-
The local committee which is appealing
for contributions to keep up the Verbrugghen
orchestra gasped at Melba’s edict that Vic-
tona mustn’t lag behind Sydney in having
an orchestra of its own. The longer we
?w e Verbrugghen financial support, says
Dame Nellie, the longer we will be in get-
ting an orchestra of our own. That’s a
staring fact. Lots of people have been, say-
i 1? ? 8 j| 3S , n ?, u ■ > but no one would listen to
Pt-m while an ultra-fasliionable committee
idea by vlce ' royalty was boosting the other
Alderm a n Davey took unto himself a third
wife the Other day, Miss Beatrice Smith,
St. Ivdda, being the No. 3, and Christ
Church, South Yarra, the scene of the un-
heralded event. Ex-mayor Weedon, who died
the cither week, left a widow who was his
i\o. o or 4, so it appears that Melbourne
V- ‘ty council is a thoroughly good marrying
institution and ought to be encouraged.
' c V da J» man Havey, now a smart young fellow
, a b°ht half through the ’sixties
when his previous wife, a blonde, buxom
goer withi ja happy smile, had the time of her
life as Mayoress. She made quite a hobby
ero-worship, and one of her heroes was
mil Stopben i Lwart, Ethel Irving’s leading
man. She lived for a few years after her
reign at the Town Hall, but as merely Mrs.
JJavey the handsome dame grew inconspicu-
ous whilst hef health was failing.
Sister Greer, superintendent of the Bush
Aursmg Association, has just given a satis-
factory reply to a leading question put to her
by solicitor W. Id. Flood.
ru Dor . ot ,v7 Sc , hl esiuger, who was married at
Christ Church, South Yarra, did the deed
in unorthodox fawn charmeuse, and made an
athletic but still attractive brdle A
treasured greeting came by wire from Melba
who used to be interested in Dorothy’s s'ng-
i«g when she was a Con. girl. Rowland
Hope, of C amperdown, is the tennis girl’s
lucky partner.
I. P. Chase, a son of the Toorak canon
and nephew of the Rev. Selwvn Chase, who
took to matrimony a while ago, is following
u ™e s example. Doris McLaurin, daughter
of Mrs. McLaurin, of Caulfield and Denili-
qum (N.S.W.), is wearing the usual half-
hoop.
Hazel Walker, daughter of the David
Walkeis of Ballarat, is to wed Eric, grand-
son of old squatter Sam Staughton, now
departed. Hazel distinguished herself in
v.A.H. work during the war. Scots’ Kirk
September 1.
Hie star feature of the St. Hilda’s mayoral
return ball was the all-Australian decora-
tive scheme. Huge kookaburras, cockatoos
and magpies perched on a backcloth round
the balcony, from which floated baskets of
red flowers. The front of the stage, with its
mossy bank and special reserve for the civic
notables, was a scintillating design of
colored incandescent bulbs in which Mayor
Alford’s initials figured. Refreshment time
was a sort of sheep-and-goats affair, and
the best eaters, who had regaled themselves
with cream-puff and claret cup, stifled an
envious pang as the guests of honor pro-
seshed solemnly down the floor to feed on
turkey and champagne. This touch provided
food for sad merriment among the cynics.
Mrs. Alford, armed with a large pink nose-
gay, moved round in black ehiffonery girdled
above the hips with unreal grapes. Gold
roses wandered over the panel-tail, which,
instead of floating as a tail should do, was
slung over the wearer’s arm. Alderman
Cabena and his wife were there; also ex-
May or ess Stein,, airing black chiffonery—
last year the civic queen, this year just one
of a crowd scrambling for a ham sandwich.
-The dancing, like the dressing, was mixed.
A few young things showed a startling
amount of bare flesh and silk-clad calf, and
there were acres of naked backs and arms
with mere floral sprays for shoulder straps.
The Camberwell return mayoral ball was
a joyous romp. Less food and fuss and
decoration than usual, but more fun. The
Mayoress, in gorgeous raiment, scored with
diamond ear-rings that shone like search-
lights. All the young things carried gay bal-
loons tied to their wrists, and jazzed joy-
ously on one of the best of suburban dance-
floors.
Listen to the sort of tragedy that is liable
to happen to a poor girl in these degenerate
days:—
’Twas the night of the hospital ball.
Desdemona was I. I was charming,
So he said. My Othello was tall,
With audacity almost alarming.
But I feared not his manner. Indeed,
I thought all his actions delightful.
Though his praises might vanity breed
In a goose, gave I little of heed.
To resent them with anger were spiteful.
He was big, and his eyes were sublime,
While his conduct was, may I say, “toffy” ?
With a burnous quite true to the time
And complexion suggestive of coffee.
He was jazzing with me all the night—
He was fine in the waltz Hesitation.
His teeth were his own, and as white
As blanched almonds. I think I was quite
Reconciled to his chaste salutation.
For he kissed me out there on the seat
’Neath the palm in the tropical garden,
Then attempted the usual’ repeat;
Though 1 may have pretended to harden,
Nought was hard in my heart, to be sure,
For, my dear, I admit I’ve not known a
Dearer chap with so wondrous a lure
In his eyes—all too much for his poor,
Little, tender, demure Desdemona.
When we parted at morn at the gate,
Still a stranger he was, the dear fellow;
His disguise I could not penetrate,
He remained my splendacious Othello.
At these masques keep a guard on your heart,
They beguile a poor maiden to gull her.
f bought apples to-day at the mart
Of my Moor still sustaining the part,
With, alas! an indelible color.
Mrs. Lane, the sweet little woman pic-
tured here by Alice Mills, has had a pat
on the back from
the King of Bel-
gium, as well as a
decoration. Early in
the Big War Mrs.
Lane instituted the
Belgium Babies’
Milk Fund, and was
organising secretary.
She herself dis-
patched the first
£5O, then worked up
the affair to a swing-
i n g organisation
with crowds of other
women drawn in to
help. After that the
organiser sat back
awhile to atterd to
her own babies —
she has seven of
Hiem, and the eldest has only just tumbled
into her teens. The little lady packs a lot
into her life. She has the manuscript of a
hook in hand, and has written thoughtful
articles for Highbrow magazines. She was
a Sydney girl—a daughter of the Wharton
Kirkes—and left her convent-school life to
marry a Melbourne medico. Her major
brother Errol was killed at the war.
Professor Laver, of the divinely classical
profile and intensely artistic hair, is back
on his Uni. Conservatorium job. For seven
months he was away, studying the Pacific
problem at first hand. Or perhaps he was
only holiday-making among the islands.
Last week the students gave him a great
reception at Melba Hall, when he led the
orchestra through a pretty tough programme.
The name of Nellie Ormonde as vocalist of
the occasion was quite in order at the Or-
mond Professor's welcome. But why re-
quire her to sing “Je Suis Titania” 'from
Mignon”? Is it regarded only as a lesson
in florid soprano artistry, or are there
people who really love the showy, trilly,
heartless composition for its own sake, even
as there are some who make a fuss over
the Waltz Song from “Romeo and Juliet”
and the Jewel Song from “Faust”?
Talking of melody, Alberto Zelman had
to cancel a chamber-music concert in order
to g.ve all his time to his orchestral forces
tor the Melba concerts. Time was when
the Lady Magnate was not the easiest auto-
crat in the world for an orchestra to please,
but now that she’s a dame her justice is
tempered with mercy, one supposes.
Handsome Horace Stevens has been sing-
ing Wagnerian baritone parts at the Woods
promenade concerts in London, and many
provincial engagements he hath booked,
saith the came. In Melbourne, before the
war, when Horace was still combining den-
tistry with the gentler art, we were taught
to think of the rather stern Apollo as a
basso. He had a leaning towards “The
Village Blacksmith.” But in London he
“ as got them talking about his “.Star of
Lve,” and at concerts round the’ country
he will have to include the “Pagliacci” Pro-
logue in his contract. Stevens, who came
to be a dentist because his father before
him had been one, grew up to be a plat-
form baritone-basso because he had been a
star choir-boy soprano. Until the war
came he had hardly moved out of Mel-
bourne, and then he was getting on for 40.
Oft he went to the more exciting field,
recame Capt. Horace Stevens, and got a'
hearing in London after the Armistice. The
result of all the nice things said about him
was that he came back to Melbourne, gave
two or three concerts, and took his wife and
children off-fo the Smoke to live.
h his profile by Buskin belongs to Norman
Bradshaw, who shortly intends to see if
Sydney endorses Mel-
bourne’s opinion of
his voice. Norman
owns a tenor that
has been heard at
the Liedertafel and
Philharmonic con-
certs. A while back
it received an ova-
tion id Alberto Zel-
man’s production of
Cesar Franck’s “Be-
atitudes,”a work that
calls for competent
soloists. Norman’s
warble is the natural
development of a
juvenile alto that
soared in the choir
of All Saints’, St.
Kilda, a few years
J- h e songster,. who is still making the
oabbath beautiful at the same address, is
one of the pupils of A. C. Bartleman, who
was trained by Charles Santley, no less.
The scientists had a party at Cliveden
one night last week, to which MacFarlaud,
Chancellor of the ’ Varsity, had invited the
members of the National Research Coun-
cil. Mrs. Masson wore a frock cut round
and low over the shoulders, a la Queen
Victoria. Mrs. Norton Grim wade was in
plum-colored velvet and her , pearls. John
Monash left all decorations at home and
chanced the burglar epidemic. Dr. Pat-
terson’s wife wore mauve shot taffeta to
her knees, and looked ready , for a jazz floor.
Mrs. Mclnerney was sombrely clad, and had
the weight of the British Empire Order on
nei chest. She was the only woman to
sport her decoration. The Miller lady was
m imposing dignity and black brocade.
nr. e n d Mrs.; Groom and the Mackey
and Mitchell ladies were among the frocki-
est women. The lounge was so congested
that it was hard for mere .spectacled
scientist males to move without treading
on one of the dinky little fishtails.
Risking the frowns with which Curzon
may greet him when he goes to London as
High Commissioner, Acting Priminister Cook
cabled a warm welcome to Northcliffe in
M-F-> ? sked him t 0 iuach with the
f ederal Ministry when he strikes Melbourne
Vic. Government will follow Cook’s lead.
The William Petersen widow, who went
with her niece, Miss Willoughby, to
her native log in June intending to remain
there for years, is already returning. Ir
was a sad visit. A loved sister died just
before the widow reached home. And, apart
trom that, England is not what it used to
be, she says. The new poor are a distinct
success; but the new rich are simply awful
for the present. The gilding, overdone, must
have time to mellow.
Alice Crawford, the Bendigo girl who
e located her way to fame, has travelled far.
. e » now Mrs. G. Valentine Williams, and
3 n the English press as the
distinguished journalist and war correspon-
dent. Her latest is a leading part in a
movie, The Glorious Adventure.” Lady
Diana Duff-Cooper plays the heroine, and
our Alice is the wicked adventuress.' The
pictures were filmed at Witley Court
Surrey.
Mrs. Pilar, a French journalist, is taking
a flying tr.p through Australia, to see what’s
worth wnt.ng home about, and to provide
local color for two novels, no less. Madame
tells how she nursed at the Front tor three
years, and when she got in touch with the
-Luggers she was so impressed that she wrote
a poem entitled “Australia,” and a Paris
paper featured it.
Mrs. Henry Gullett gave a party at Men-
z:es to introduce her mamma, Lady Headlev
Ihe flavor was mostly literary, with \a
soupy on of Toorak. Son-in-law Harry D
Director of Immigration, sq there was a good
showing of consular folk, among whom the
Italian Grossardi lady showed up attrac-
tively in black velvet.
Artist Mary Allen has moved the date o'
her picture snow in the Fine Arts G'allen
to September 2, because Dame Melba woulii
have been unable to open the affair as origi-
nally fixed. Varsity Chancellor MacFarland
will act as master of ceremonies and hand
the diva in.
A lot of congratulations have befallen tv
F. Garden, of the D.C.L. Whisky Co., on lm
appointment as the firm’s general manager
tor Australia. Always identified with th<-
Melbourne office of the D.C.L., the popular
citizen will make it liis headquarters.
Pretty Peggy Manser, Mrs. Agar Wynne's
eldest grand-chick, nearly fluttered off last
week as the result of septic poisoning
caused, it is thought, by a cut finger.
Although still in hospital she is now out of
danger. The little lady, who has started out
to be a doctor, just managed to fill in her
third-year exam, papers before the serious-
ness of her case was discovered.
Last week Agar Wynne followed his sten-
grand-daughter on to the sck list. The X-ray.
are being called in to diagnose his case.
Golf is raising its eyebrows in haughty sur-
prise. A while ago Sabbath football iu
Albert Park was prohibited by the authori-
ties, and noisy leather-hunts were discon-
tinued. Then the baffled gamesters kicked
against the license enjoyed by golfers who
still recreated there in ampler costumes and
unstriped stockings. Why should they be
permitted to have “games” in Albert Park
on the. Day of Rest, immune from regula-
tions and swollen with proud class-conscious-
ness V The question worried the authorities
for weeks, and finally, seeing no way out
a veto was issued against Sundav golf, and
now everything in the park is holy on the
Seventh Day. Yet nobody seems to be
much happier—except perhaps the canood-
lers. They must find themselves much less
disturbed. *
Details regarding those 14,994 empty
houses recorded in the Vic. census returns
are eagerly awaited. Nobody knows where
the places are, and 14,994 people are franti-
cally limiting them. All .sorts of subterfuge;
have to be resorted to in Melbourne to get a
roof over a family’s head these days. If a man
builds a house for himself he keeps dark about
it. When he is ready to shift he smuggle;
out his furniture, and a friend who takes
over the old place sneaks in his traps. The
rent is paid in the outgoing tenant’s name
till the new one digs in well.
A little Adelaide gossip ;
The found of suburban mayoral balls has been
negotiated successfully. At Norwood the gathering
suggested that some of the guests, although aged
were making their debut, but at Unley the feature
was the way the Town Hall had been converted into
a Japanese village by an artistic caretaker. The
vice-regals went to Unley, and his Ex. charmed
Mayor and Mayoress Richards by fox-trotting with
their only chick, who made her debut.
The church fraternity, with Mrs. Bishop Thomas
as president, netted a nice little sum in aid of the
Girls’ Friendly Society from a dance at the Palais.
Six hundred-odd jazzers jazzed.
At the annual dinner of the bagmen of S. Aus.
president H. S. Beaney was in the chair, his Ex„
Mayor Moulden, Agent-General Lucas (on a flying
visit to S.A.) and other celebrities were present,
and “For he’s a jolly good fellow” struck fearfully
upon the night air several times. They are a
generous lot, the bagmen, and are working very
energetically in the interests of the Children’s Hos-
pital appeal.
Edmund Bowman, pastonalist and sportsman, who
passed out the other day at Kensington, was one
of the _ first to introduce polo into S.A., and he
rowed in his college eight at Cambridge. Rumor
has it that as a young man he once lost a sensa-
tionally large bet, which he paid in full, even to
the half of his kingdom, and thus earned tremendous
respect as a sport.
r F le vocalists at the Methodist Ladies’ College gave
The Messiah, ’ assisted by the Adelaide Orpheus, in
the Town Hall, and the 300-odd girls did their
director, E. A. Daltry. proud.
The Lansdowne stud property of V. A. Zed passed
under the hammer the other day. Prior to the
sale the Mayoress stepped into the box and boosted
the appeal for the Children’s Hospital. The auc-
tioneer then announced that V. A. Zed had donated
Lady Lansdowne to the fund, and he disposed of the
mare on what we S. Australians call the Bugler sys-
tem, which netted £260.
The dentists of Australia have been getting to-
gether here in their first Congress since 1912. (This
one should have been held in 1915, but the war
stopped it.) The local Dr. Counter was president,
and there were varied hospitalities'by the Uni., the
corporation of Adelaide, the School of Mines, the
Governor, the Dental Board and Dr. Josenh Verco,
dean of the faculty of dental science at Adelaide Uni.
The old military camp at Mitcham is being laid
out as a model suburb, to be known as Col. Light
Gardens. It is at present a bare flat slope, looking
over the sea. The 300-acre area,' laid out by the
Government town-planner, has been placed under a
Garden Suburb Commissioner, with building restric-
tions, and, in general, curves instead of straight
lines, and with special “utility ways” for electric
wires and posts. About 230 blocks have been thrown
open for selection as a start, at. fixed prices, and
on terms extending over 10 years.


WWI/l ffMM
m
jtßd
1>
\
&
&
<S
\
\\
V\
/,
(A
V)
V.
'/s
V.
w
I
Zam-Buk bears wonderful resemblance
to those precious herbal balms upon
which the Gladiators of old depended
to heal their wounds and keep their
skins free from disease. Like them,
Zam-Buk owes its wonderful success, and its high
soothing, healing and antiseptic power to its herbal
character and complete freedom from the animal
fats and mineral impurities of common ointments.
When Zam-Buk is applied to a cut, burn
or scald,smarting pain is stopped, germ infection
prevented, and the- broken tissues speedily
knitted together. Zam-Buk soothes away the
burning irritation of eczema, pimples and rashes;
it goes to the root of such skin disease. It draws
poison and inflammation out of ulcerated and
poisoned sores, and heals when nothing else can.
Mothers also find it invaluable for healing ring-
worm and other children’s scalp troubles.
ZAM-BUK
FREE!
For a limited period only the
proprietors of Zam-Buk are pre-
pared to supply, free of charge to
each reader, one sample box of
Zam-Buk. Simply send a post-
card asking for sample box.
Give your name and address, and
state clearly the name and date of
this paper. This is essential.
There is no charge to you whatever.
Zam-Buk has such a
wide range of usefulness for
everyday accidents and skin
diseases that noAustralasian
home can afford to be
without a pot.
Unequalled for all
WOUNDS & SODES
1/6 and 3/6 of all chemists and stores throughout Australasia, or
post free from C. E. Fulford (Aus.) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, .Sydney.
Conclusive Evidence from
All Parts of Australia:
NC M 7 “For four years,” writes Mrs. Una Rus-
■ NJiVVi sell, of 4 McQuarrie Street, Annandale,
—Sydney, “I suffered tortures from piles.
The intense pain and irritation at times nearly drove
mo mad. Each treatment in turn proved absolutely
useless, and I got so bad that I was advised to go into
hospital. #
“Then my brother persuaded me to try Zam-Buk,
which he and his family had been using successfully.
The very night after using Zam-Buk l was so free
from pain that I got my first complete night’s rest
for nearly four years. As Zam-Buk proved the only
real remedy in my case my advice is ‘Get Zam-Buk
and don’t experiment with useless ointments.’ ”
VIC.
“My son Edward had ringworm on the
head,” writes Mrs. E. M. Taylor, of 32
Cameron Street, Richmond, Melbourne. “He
suffered three months, though we consulted two doc-
tors and a chemist, who prescribed lotions and oint-
ments.
“On my husband’s advice I began to treat the
child with Zam-Buk. Systematic use of this wonderful
healer speedily took away the irritation, and caused
all the ringworms to die away.”
Q*l A Wft Mrs. R. Battersby, Terrace Street,
L/AItU New Farm. Brisbane, writes: —“When
■ quite little, my son Bert was badly
scalded with a boiling cup of tea over his right firm. It
was a terrible wound, and in getting off his little shirt
the skin was torn atvay, leaving the flesh quite raw.
“Zam-Buk took out fill ‘fire’ and greatly toothed
the pain, bringing ease instantly. The inflamination
all subsided under continued Zam-Buk treatment, and
soon the scalds were completely healed.”
SA "1 contracted rheumatics in both ankles,”
■A» writes Mrs. U. Conqlly, 247 Franklin'Street,
" Adelaide. “The complaint settled in niy feet,
and the pain was intolerable. In all I used about
eighteen different remedies without result.
“At last a friend advised me to get Zam-Buk. I
massaged my ankles frequently with Zam-Buk when-
ever I felt even the slightest twinge of pain. . Soon
the inflammation was drawn out. Perseverance with
the balm banished the long-standing pains completely.”
WA “Having spent many years on farms in Wes-
■Aa tern Australia, away in the BackblockS clear-
■ ■ ing and burning-off for farming purposes, I
have met with accidents of various kinds—burns,
bruises, cuts, festers, barcoo and wounds of all descrip-
tions,” says Mr. John Young, of 285 Lord Street,
Perth. W.A. “In all of these cases I have found
Zam-Buk a valuable remedy, and can confidently
recommend it to others.”
TAS.
“Dye got into a scratch on mv hand and
poisoned it.” writes Mrs. F. Walters, 214
Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania, j “The
resulting sore proved so serious that the first firjjger on
my right hand was threatened with amputation.
“On a friend’s recommendation I
began to use Zam-Buk. From the
very first application it brought won-
derful ease, and it took out all the
burning, throbbing pain. As I kept
up the Zam-Buk dressings all swelling
and inflammation were overcome, and
it w-as entirely due to Zam-Buk that
the terrible poisoned sore was splen-
didly healed.”


CIMRLES
IEIDSIECIfi
Vintage 1911
OflMff
HE PLUS ULTRA
P*L\
« -
wm
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cj
tv!
Looks Like
a Guinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-made Lever
Filler. Made as well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
11/6 and 12/6.
SOLD AT ALL
STATIONERS.
H: The
CONWAY QTEWART
LEVER W FILLER
PEN.
SOLD AT ALL
JEWEL! ERS.
Missing Friends.
TO THOMAS RIXON formerly of Syd-
ney, New South Wales, nephew of
Thomas Rixon, deceased, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
15th day of July, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are here-
by called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the Ist day of February, 1922.
your claim to the estate of Thomas Rixon,
who died on the 25th day of May, 1910, fail-
ing w'hicb the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding
your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 18th day of July,
1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
ANYONE having information as to the
next-of-kin of OWEN McSORLEI,
alias EDWARD PRICE, late of Waipori,
New Zealand, laborer, deceased, but formerly
of Sydney, Australia, is invited to communi-
cate with the undersigned.
G.-H. ELLIjFFE,
Local Deputy Public Trustee,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeprof
Hostery
, , on ,.Sunday the preacher preached upon
the hhcs of the field” before whom Solomon
in all his fine clothes made such a poor
showing, and once again we swore repen-
tance ; but on Monday there was Spring,
with fashion teas and mannequin parades,
and we strayed from the path which led
bly wards. The woman is not in Sydney
who could withstand the temptation of the.
materials and the colorings thereof of this
season’s clothes. Voiles of every shade of
the past have returned after the years of
war, and new ones of lemon and heliotrope
hues, dower-scattered, hold hypnotic spell
within their soft folds; and the colored
organdies are as alluring. Crowds linger
with bulging eyes, in front of David Jones’s
window-displays. _ This firm chants the
charm of organdie for frocks and millinery
—some of it much eyelet-embroidered, mostly
white, with colored taffeta or satin beneath,
banners’ barely whispered “Fashion Teas”
when Society rushed with its 3s. 6d. to
secure a ticket for the tea-drinking while
the mannequins wandered under rose-decked
pergolas and among the tables. Summer frocks
show less leg than has been seen of late and
the skirts are somewhat fuller. The warm
weather will see the funny-bone also once
again covered. Grace Rros. had parades
and packed houses; and the parades on
Brickfield Hill hold much more than a
‘clothes interest” for the hard workers who
arrive with babies and small children. For
here the mannequins range from five years
onward, and little Mary wears all the airs
of her bored elder sister. A wedding group
(minus the bridegroom) concludes this show
of clothes, which is varied by an extra
turn” in the way of a song or some physi-
cal-culture exhibition. Gowns of paralysing
prices are not shoivn, and there are no
reserved seats.
Dame Margaret has been suffering from
tonsilitis, and though convalescent has yet to
cancel many engagements.
The Society of Artists’ exhibition, which
opens on September 10, will be a starry
show. One picture that will cause some
talk is Lambert’s “Important People,” the
group including a hefty woman, a baby, a
boxer and a man with a top-hat. This modern
allegory is supposed to represent mother-
hood, the future generations, the man who
fights his way with hands and brain, and
the man who only uses his hands when sign-
ing cheques. Gruner will hang the fJOO
landscape commissioned by the trustees of
the Sydney Gallery, and Norman Lindsay
will be strongly represented by pen-drawings,
etchings and water-colors. Max Meldrum,
who divided the Melbourne artists into the
Meldrumites and the antis, has been invited
to send some portraits; and Streeton and
Longstaff will provide the latest samples oi
their work.
. Six hundred pairs of feet tried to crowd
into the ballroom of the Wentworth for the
Mater Misericordise Hospital ball, and the
overflow jazzed in the gallery above and
along the garden paths outside. The prize-
winners in the jazz competition (Misses
Viles and Christian, Messrs. Stacey and
Gates) were handed their cheques by Mrs.
Gregory McGirr (President) in black, with
a Mephistophelean cloak and head-dress of
scarlet and a bouquet in the same vivid
shade. She had the support of Mrs. P. Leahy
and Mrs. Murray Curtis, who gave the
guineas.
The flowers that bloom in the spring filled
St. James’s Hall when the N.S.W. Horticul-
tural Society drew the city—generally to
admire, here and there to criticise. ‘The
exhibits were charmingly arranged, foliage
plants from the Botanical Gardens filled the
stage from floor to ceiling and 3000 Iceland
poppies made a footlights’ glare four vases
deep. Sweetpeas, daffs, carnations, stocks
and some early roses blended color and ner-
*'uhie below. Once again Dr. Ralph Parker’s
champion sweetpeas added a bit of
E.-l. ware to the sideboard ; and a card as
large as a royal invitation above the exhibit
of Alister Clark (Melb.) announced his
superiority above all others in growing daffo-
dils from seedlings. N.S.W. horticulturists
hung over these big blooms, which ran from
ivory to orange, and wondered how ’twas
done.
There was revelry at the Glaci. on Thurs-
day night, when patrons went carnivalling
in n. final dash and variegated clothes. Deco-
rations were extensive, and crimson shades
amid sham icicles shed a soft light on the
brilliant ice-scene below. In the grand pro-
cession honors went to Miss McEnnally
with her sextette of white peacocks. The
costume of the harem was favored of many
women. Man shoved a much wider choice":
the rational dress suggested by Miss Max-
well was exploited by a few heroic souls.
One fair skater of amazing industry pro-
duced a dairfty frock and hat of pink, green
and white tram tickets. There were exhibi-
tions of fancy skating at intervals. Dunbar
Toole and May Hodgson (a powder-blue
butterfly) did some turns, the former with
a dainty watteau shepherdess. Graceful
and buoyant Miss M. Reid floated in a waltz,
and Charles Maclurc-an and the Ramsay
Salmons also showed what wonders can be
done on skates.
The Prince Alfred Hospital benefited by
a dance held last week at the Town Hail
by the employees of David Jones. There
were (500 jazzers on the floor, and their
sisters, cousins and their aunts watched from
the galleries. Miss Shoesmith (in pale pink
satin and tulle draperies) and W, H. Jonas
were the secs. Exes, were cut ,to the mar-
row, decorations of the hall running merely
to colored-paper streamers and gay butter-
flies made by the window-dressing staff.
Mrs. Gore Jones and Mrs. Walker, in black
gowns and powdered hair, represented the
R.P.A. auxiliary.
Coronation Hall, Waiver ley, was invaded by
an outsize audience when Nellie Ravens (she
was Stephen Mavrogordato’s show contralto
pupil), General Rosenthal, Cecile Adkins,
Dudley llellmrich and others raised their
voices for the funds of Clovelly sailors’ and
soldiers’ memorial church. The soldier-
knight, in a well-worn sac suit, won loud
applause for “Crossing the Bar’’ and “Off
to Philadelphia.” He is probably the only
titled male singer who comes out into the
open in Australia. Nellie Ravens will soon
be taking her organ tones to the Cold
Country, where she will again, place them
under Mavrogordato’s care.
The Grammars and their chums’ best
sisters jazzed in the Paddington Town Hall
under the pretext of doing something for the
school’s rowing-shed. The school colors,
black and yellow, helped in the decorations
of foliage and palms; and Iceland poppies
glowed over the supper tables. Frocking
was charming—running mainly to taffeta of
every hue—and the arrangements generally
were' excellent.
Mrs. Harry Woods (Maud Fitz-Stubbs),
after spending years away from Sydney, is
coming home to visit her only son, Val. The
twins, Eileen and Doris, are doing well in
Hongkong. Probably Maud Fitz-Stubbs was
the first woman in Sydney who made money
out of a musical composition. The fine
swinging waltz she wrote was so popular
that she took a trip to London on the pro-
ceeds, had the thing scored for Godfrey’s
band, and it was played at Buckingham
Palace. The twins were not a marvellous
success with their musical turns in Sydney,
but have done well both in S’Africa and
China.-
Annette Ivellerman is back in Sydney
from Adelaide. She leaves for the Ricketty
Isles within a couple of weeks: after a tour
there she will hesitate at South Africa
cn route for London. Annette and her hus-
band (James R. Sullivan) have again taken
up their abode at Point Piper.
Judith Fletcher made this picture of
Marie Bjelke Petersen, who bids fair to be-
come the M arie
Corelli of Australia
as far as book sales
go. Two or three
years back she sent
"The Captive
Singer” to a Lon-
don publisher, and
ever since then her
fountain-p e n has
been exuding best-
sellers. Her latest
novel, “Dusk” (pub-
lished by Hutchin-
son), has been
placed by English
literary guides in the
list of the books of
the season ; her pre-
vious one, “The
Immortal Flame,”
published by Harper’s, is being filmed with
the dashing -J. Warren Kerrigan as the gal-
lant hero. Miss Petersen place; all her
stories amid the beautiful scenery of the
West Coast of Tasmania; the “horizontal”
being featured in “The Immortal Flame.”
Dame Clara Butt and Kennerley Rumford
will be given the glad hand by the N.S.W.
Musical Association on Friday. There is a
possibility, by the way, of the two English
artists being heard in oratorio with our
leading Choral Society during their Sydney
season. »
When those earnest few who are trying
to make firm the foundations of the State
Orchestra finish that job, there will be
another awaiting them—to whip up the pub-
lic to the orchestra’s concerts at the Con-
servatorium. At present the patronage is
miserable. Last Thursday night musical
fare fit for Olympus was presented, yet an
Arctic air swept along rows of empty .seats.
Vaughan Williams’s “London Symphony”
was given for the second time, and made a
much more definite impression upon a re-
hearing. Alfred Hill’s Pdi Song in orches-
tral form was given a first Outing. And
Adelina Leon, in a gown of royal olue tulle
over gold tissue, played the Symphonic
\ ariatioiis for ’Cello and Orchestra. (Boell-
mann) with a force that was alluring.
Timothy Coghlan, probably the most bril-
man who ever climbed high in the
N. S. Wales public service, has been re-
appointed to his old
job of N. 8. Wales
Agent-General. lie
has been paying his
home Btate another
brief visit, and left
again for London a
week or so ago. In
London Coghlan, as
retiring as he is
brilliant, is iittle
known outside “the
C i t y”—that’s t h e
musty part which
smells of money—but
his lady presides
over a home where
J’ou are liable to
meet the most-talked-
about people. There
was an at-home
there the other day With Mrs. Hughes and
Mrs - Winston Churchill as the principal
guests, ana Mrs. Asquith was among the
crowd “and not hearly so ugly as her pic-
uH!i es her,” a Sydney girl writes.
( Ihe hostess and her daughter,” she adds,
\Vere most handsomely gowned, and they
played their part ehartningly in charming
surroundings,” 'The picture of S’Timothy
herewith i 8 photoed from a bust made by his
old friend William Macleod during the recent
visit.
Elocutionist Harry Thomas is enjoying the
Pleasure of something accomplished. A
concert visit to Waterfall Sanatorium re-
vealed that there was no general library
there tor the patients, so he set out to collect
500 books to start one. On Saturday night,
at a dance at St. James’s, given by Mrs. J.
Elliot of Leichhardt, and Mr., Thomas, the
last of the volumes was gathered in. The
jazz drew many young people, and between
dances there was singing, and the host sup-
plied monologues. Assistance was given the
library appeal by entertainments hostessed
by Misses Playford, Lambert and Fullerton.
Further donations of books will result from
an at-home next month, to be given by Mrs.
Herbert Field, of The Bunyas, Ashfield, and
contralto Lilian Gibson. The Bunyas has
long had a light in the window for maimed
soldiers.
The effort to make the lives of those suf-
fering from lung trouble less drearv does not
stop at the library. Mrs. R. R. Mack in non
and Mr. Thomas are going to organise a
small fund to send a teacher of handicrafts
(leather-work, wood-carving, etc.) a day a
week to instruct the men, and a teacher of
needlecraft for the women. Send your dona-
tions of money and materials to Mrs. Mac-
lannon at Red Cross Headquarters.
When Ethel Macdonald, daughter of J. L.
Macdonald, of Wallandabah, Quirindi, went
to St. James’s to marry George F. Wigan
of Connemara, up Longreach (Q.) way,’
she wore raiment of cream lace and
georgette, with a feather-wreathed hat of
mole georgette. Isabel Kemp and Betty
Wilson, nice, bobbed-hair girleens, were
bridesmaids, in pink georgette frocks and
leghorn hats. Bridegroom’s father owned a
well-known red lamp i n Armidale. Miss
Macdonald, in draperies of grey and mil-
linery to match, was hostess at the after-
celebration at the Australia.
May (Jean) MacCallum. a Nightingale
who trained at St. George’s, Ivew (Vic.),
and is'now nursing in Sydney, has engaged
herself to L. Don Snellgrove of McMahon’s
Point, formerly a captain in the Field
Engineers. Bride-elect is a daughter of the
MacCallums of Hamilton (Tas.), and
’groom is a son of the Snellgroves of Bever-
ly (W.A.). He was at the Landing and
the Armistice found him still shouldering
arms.
One jday in July George' B. Wimble, son
ot h. T. Wimble, the printing-ink maker
was married at St. James’s to Kathleen
DriscoH, of Cowra. George was with the
A.b .O. m France, and was wearing two pips
when the Armistice came. The new home
is at Huntley’s Point.
The ladies of the Church of Stella Maris
rsorth Sydney, are holding a week’s sale in
St. Aloysius’s College Hall. The jovial Apos-
tolic Delegate pronounced the opening for-
mula on Saturday afternoon.
The powers that be are not any more
careful about Sydney’s feelings than that
poor boy Beauchamp was when he cabled
that he was coming to govern us and re-
minded us of our birthstain. In the struggle
to get us out of old habits, they have sten-
cilled the city pavements with a‘broad arrow
as a hint that that’s what great-grandpa got
by avoiding the right path. The Spring
show in the shop windows was just abou’
the last straw in the unhappy life of the
policemen with their unending refrain “Keen
to the Lett Keep to the Left!” ’
rs - Ernest Watt was operated on for
appendicitis at The Terraces on Mondav
morning Another well-known invalid is
bheila Chisholm Loughborough, who has
gone for a rest-cure to the paternal station
near Goulburn.
Mrs. Favenc and daughter Amy returned
last week from a tour which took in Eng-
land and if ranee, and a bit of America.
Madame has brought back with her many
new ideas for novelties in artistic stitchery,
though she found that several articles
marked “New” abroad are already familiar
to Pitt-street.
Captain Jolley, of the Administrative staff,
Rabaul, who has just recovered from an
operation in Randwick Military Hospital,
left on Saturday, accompanied by Mrs.
Jolley.
Have you heard the story of the husband
who has been holding the balance pretty
evenly for. some years between his legal lady
and another? Finally, to put things to the
test, wife was sent overseas while th*
Charmer remained on the spot. One day the
wife received an urgent cable to return to
her home and lord. She missed a sailing, atid
by the time she reached her native shore the
scales were weighing heavily in the other
lady’s favor. Wife on being informed by
husband that her rival was “on deck once
more,” replied brightly, “Oh, well, I’ll stay
ahd keep the dog watch —the aog-in-the-
manger watch!”
The girl in the ticket-box of the pictufe-
show told the story. For the past 12 months
every evening about 5.30 a young man has
been calling in, buying a ticket for the
show, and getting no further than the en-
trance. Here under the electric globe he
stands, pulls out the evening paper, and
starting at the front page reads steadily
through to the last. Then he folds the
paper and walks out. The girl in the ticket-
box could endure her curiosity no longer,
and one night last week she said to the
patron: “Doncher like our show that you
never go in?” “Oh, it isn’t that. Miss,” he
replied meekly, putting down the usual
amount plus tax. “It’s this way. Once I
get home I never get a charnce to what I
call read the paper, me missus talks that
much.”
A pretty little blonde lady dropped into a
winter-garden party the other day, clad all
in black. Immediately a chorus of admira-
tion burst forth. “Darling, you look lovely!”
“•I’ve never seen you in black before, you
ought always to wear it! But perhaps you
don’t like it?” “Oh, yes, I like it all right,
only it has its disadvantages. I’ve just
been calling on my lawyers, and the liftman
never said a word but carried me up to the
Probate floor!”
To George Black’s words of “Rosemary,
Rose-Marie,” Esther Kahn has supplied an
accompaniment like cream and honey. It
makes a song that any mezzo-soprano and
baritone will be pleased to own.
A Brisbane postscript:—•
Half a train-load of Brisbaneites went to Too-
woomba to a bazaar at the Glennie School. Major-
General Bruche opened it, and his wife helped
him. Old and present girls had set their heart-
on raising £3OO, to be divided between the funds
of Toowoomba Memorial Hall, St. Martin’s Hospital
and the Old Girls’ Scholarship Fund. They got
£270. Marjorie Scholefield, who V.A.’s at Simla
Convalescent Home when she isn’t busy with some
other useful work, was an invaluable sec.
Wyndham Pike, a successful air officer in
straScg days, married May Biggs at St. Andrew’s,
South Brisbane, one day last week. The bride
wore white “taffety,” as our grandmothers had it,
and a priseless Limerick lace veil. Hetty Graham
was bridesmaid, and Colin Lind bridegroom.
Eva Danaher, the capable lady who has private
sec.’d for three Ministers (Blair, Hardacre and
Huxham), will leave the Education Department at
the end of this month, and begin the trivial round
and common tasks of all mere married "women.
A well-known hostess recently gave a dance for
her flapper daughter, aged 16, and decided, as most
of the guests were boys and girls, to produce
nothing stronger than claret cup and coffee. But
some of the youths, fearful lest they shouldn’t be
thought men, ordered up a large supply of other
things in their motors, and before the night was
over a few were staggering nuisances. One hostess
at least will never give another “juvenile” dance.
Carl Fristrom, son of late artist Oscar Fristrom,
was married a week ago to Miss Ruby Rooke of
Caloundra.
Merna Gillies, our little pianiste, has packed her
trunks and departed for Melbourne, where she will
study under Edward Goll.
Unless someone produces a good wad, the Women’s
College will close at the end of the year. Yet
Miss Bage has done splendid work there.
Ivy Tritton (sister of poetess Nellie) is to marry
Roy Shaw, a returned soldier, at any minute now.
Appropriate scarlet and black decorations clothed
the South Brisbane City Hall when the Law Stu-
dents gave their first annual dance. There were
no programmes, but “Minutes of Proceedings,” on
which “W. E. Fox” and the like largely figured.


s
Christening Gifts
in Sterling Silver.
Spoon and Pusher, in case,
£2/8/-
...
n,~ r "-"
m
Spoon and t’ork, in case,
£2/8/-
Silver and
Ifother-ojf-Pearl
Rattle,
£l/5/-
a-^SK
Egg Gup and Spoon, In case,
£4/ 157-
Mail orders receive
prompt and careful
attention, and goods
are sent on approval
to any address in the
Commonwealth at the
Company’s risk and
expense.
“Nursery -
Rhyme” Hair
Brush,
£2/12/-
Five per cent, discount allowed for cash.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
L^=J
me.
Big Reduction in Price
of
Ansco Vest Pocket
Camera No. 0
(For Daylight-loading Roll Films).
The only self-opening camera in the world, and which is small enough to
carry with you as you do your watch —in your pocket. Takes pictures
Ifin. x 2Jin., and they are so clear and sharp they can be enlarged
successfully.
With Single Achromatic Lens
With Rapid Rectilinear Lens
With F 7.5 Anastigmat Lens. .
With F 6.3 Anastigmat Lens. .
Price. Reduced to
£2 17 6 £276
3 10 0 3 0 0
5 15 0 4 17 6
8 17 6 7 0 0
SEE THE DISPLAY OF THESE HIGH-GRADE
CAMERAS IN OUR WINDOWS.
L™
“The House for GOOD Cameras,**
SYDNEY, 386 George Street.
MELBOURNE, 266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE, 93 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, 41A Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND, 144 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, 43 Willis Street.
For the Peace that We Enjoy,
For the Prosperity We Desire,
Subscribe to the Diggers’ Loan.
BUCKLEY’S
(Melbourne’s Leading Clothiers)
IMPORTED SUITINGS
■
M
U
MADE TO
MEASURE
£515
Changing Conditions
Demand New Methods.
Our effort to meet the public
demand for a Suit cut to indi-
vidual measure and fitted with
every care has met with unpre-
cedented enthusiasm; therefore
we have decided to make it
still further attractive by including
in this Exceptional Offer a large
consignment of
IMPORTED SUITINGS
in Neat Designs
Also an
All-Wool Indigo
CHEVIOT
of Excellent Value.
For the benefit of our customers
who live at a distance we have
arranged to reserve a quantity of
these Suitings—both Tweeds and
Serges—but you must act quickly.
Remember the price is the same, no
matter where you reside, as
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Send for Patterns and Self-measurement
Form, which will be sent post free.
BUCKLEY’S
(Buckley & Nunn Ltd.),
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
m
a □
Fresh from
the
Factory.
Mailed to you on
the day they are
made.
ALWAYS IN RED BOXES.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/-
and 30 -
Post free to any address
in Australia.
ERNEST
HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
can
taafcr
V
p
SP
m
miMm
>
N..S
r •
<xs*r
IW
~4
E*
,~V^
.
ne
**
fi £--i.l.V.'\ <rf
ismmmm
■ ■
j&0&»#$&' r
SSl**#* »i* ‘ 4 ' !
■HAW (IN


LEARN TO DRAW!
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
sd
fdf
The above
is the title
of our booklet,
which tells
about the possibili-
ties of drawing-
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Wes-
ton tuition is the
most successful.
Send t h r e e
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“ There’s Monej
in the Pen,"
THE HARRYJ, WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
73 Union House, SYDNEY.
SJ/Triie Ease inWriting
ZZa? tTHE BRUCE”
STEEL
SHELL
PETMS
elected, and recommended by
M* James Bruce. Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal,
Schools of Sydney,N.S.'V. & manu/actured
by tiie celebrated Pen makers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
’Sold by all Stationers
WholesaleAljEX ■ COWAN & SOMS. IjTP
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
'Twas a new-blown bud in a jardiniere blue,
Near a lattice flung wide, where a bee buzzed through,
A-roving for honey, and honey was there,
Concealed in that beautiful rosebud rare.
“Little Toodles” sat by in her tiny cot,
Entreating “dear nursie” to “mix it hot!”
Tlie bee was a judge of the good and the pure,
So he sipped the Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
df
In your pocket a
sealed tube.
Dozens of Onoto Pens are sent
every day through the post full
of ink, often in silk-lined cases.
They get shaken and tossed
about in the mail-bags. But it is
perfectly safe to send them in this
way.
For the British-made Onoto
cannot leak. When you close it
with a _ turn of the finger and
thumb, it becomes a sealed tube.
Not a drop of ink can possibly
escape.
When you open it again, you find
the finger - hold dry, though the
sdf
ink in the nib
r emains fresh and
moist, so that
you can start
writing at once.
And when you
want more ink
the Onoto fills
itself instantly
from any ink
supply. It is the
simplest pen to
use.
When you see a Pillar-Box
remember o get an
LNOTO.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK
Best for All Pens,
Thomas De La Rue
8C Co. Ltd.,
Bunhill Row,
London. E.C.I.
Ma naging Agert 3
Norman, Baker &
Longhurst,
Sydney <k Melbourne
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio. Barcelona, Spain.
Motor Car Steels
Large stocks on hand of
CHROME NICKEL STEELS FOR AXLES
and other highly-stressed parts
CHROME NICKEL and NICKEL STEELS
in bars and discs, for Gears, etc
CHROME STEEL FOR BALL RACES.
CRANKSHAFT FORGINGS.
HIGH-CLASS ALLOYED SPRING STEEL.
Descriptive catalogue on application.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITV" 8704.
'/£>
\'4
“Buy a Bundle.”
PLYWOOD.
When buying Plywood insist, on
“NATIONAL” Brnnd and see the
trade-mark is on every sheet. It is our
guarantee. Made from Queensland Hoop-
pine, Maple and Silky Oak, and available in
all sizes. Sanded or Unsanded. Every satis-
faction guaranteed to users.
Sold by all leading houses.
The National Plywood Co.,
Corhda, Brisbane,
Queensland.
ƒd
BROOKS 890
A caddie that will increase
your mileage by reducing fatigue.
You realise how
truly enjoyable
cycling is when
your saddle is a
sdf
A fully illustrated
Catalogue will be
sent on request.
J. B BROOKS & CO.. LTD.,
134 Criterion Works,
fcw Birmingham, Eng
sd
Itw 2
3:
4:;
TV s>:
6 V
140 feet of Shafting
Turned as Easily as
Winding Your Watch
Ever tried to start 140 feet of 2tV in. shafting with a
pull of your hand ? Would take “some” grip and a good
big heave, wouldn’t it? And yet, —it seems hardly
creditable—but that same shafting, equipped with
SKF
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings
can be turned with no more effort than is required to wind up a
watch; in fact, by actual test, an Boz. weight placed on the end
of a 30 in. pulley spoke started rotation of the entire length of
shafting.
Equip YOUR line shafting with SKiF" Ball Bearings, and
you will save from 15 to 35 per cent, ot your power bill.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
tJ9f
m
K
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
-Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily• submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Emward: To be as candid as you ask us
to be, the office cat can purr as good verse in her
sleep. .. .H.G.L.8.: Not enough substance in “Re-
actions” .... Paula: “Sleeper” has good color; but
its extravagance mars it Good A.: Glad to have
those bonds discussed; but can’t follow your descrip-
tion'. lim Domino: You want to oil its bearings.
It nearly jerked us out of our chair several times.. .
Basil L.: But the kindergarten class knows that
much about him Collins: Come in here with your
testimonial:—-
It’s a great hotel is the State hotel.
To stay there you must be a swell;
There is no serviette, and you’re lucky to "et
Away from the-place safe and well: '
Aou get robbed in your sleep, but the tariff is cheap
And that s why 1 stay at the State Hotel.
. ...E.V.K.: “Vale” doesn’t strike us 0.11. (Glen
" •): Not well enough done... .Raven: “The
Medium” has good lines. It would be a pity to
waste them. Make the others better J.K.8.:
Goes very clumsily Annie L.: You have some eye
for color. Now cultivate an ear. .. . A.ILL.: Can’t
even guess what you mean by a hammock being
"crooned.” William M.: Terrible stuff, William.
9 I’.O’K.: Verses not. badly clone, but they onlv
state the very obvious. .. .E.L.D.: That cut has had
more resurrections than its. share.... Harry D.: No •
use Ole B.: Your “Wattles” can’t “blow”’here
tins spring.... Alf H.: Hasn’t a pulse in it....
A.R.N.: Aou can’t hack out a sonnet with a saw.
M.8.P. : The emotion is altogether too sentimental
and drawing-roomy Lilac 1).: The verse limps
rather painfully to say something that is not worth
while Bollerive: It would move the heart of a
sentimental wheelbarrow:—
1 was standing on a corner
In the busy heart of town,
Gloomy and dejected, in
My pocket not a browu ;
Sadly 1 did realise and
Dame Misfortune curse,
When upon the footpath
Lay a lady’s leather purse,
i thrust it in my pocket
To evadeth prying eyes,
Down a lane I hurried
( To overhawl my prize.
I’d deserved what I discovered,
Had I’d been a roguish scamp—•
The contents of the treasure
Was threepence and a stamp!
....Eric B.: Can’t work up any enthusiasm over
the kissing of flounces and piano-stools... .Wilfred
L.: “Ghosts” can’t walk here J.A.L.: “Dust”
bumps too much. .. .C.G.T.: “Ballade of Fever” not
up to print 1eve1.... 11.J.8.: Your stanzas make us
dizzy with their whirl.... W.N.D.: So thin and
weak we’re afraid they’re quite past human aid
Sunnyuele: “Carnival” is poor stuff of a poor kind.
....Moonshine: Well, if it’s not quite as unsub-
stantial as that, it certainly isn’t beefsteak
Lang Syne: There is an idea, and we wish you’d
work it out better....A.B.C.: Sorry; but the vase
hi too slight. .. .A.E.G.: He wasn’t much of ari
unconscious poet” anyhow. In four wooden lines
he managed to insert one false rhyme that
would raise the hair on the hack of a maraud-
ing dog. .. .C.L.M.: The manner of the verse is bet-
tei than the matter; the yarn gets to nothing: and
to scrawl on both sides of the paper is to ask for
curses J.P.D.: Sorrowful Couper : Not bright
enough... .Buffalo: Bad verse ; bad grammar....
T.S.G.: Not enough interest N.D.P.F.: The yarn
runs very thin. . . ,T.T. (Adelaide): The mirth is
forced ... .F.J.G.: The name idea doesn’t startle
Ken K.: “Martha” is a wildly impossible person in
an absurd setting. .. .Y.U.: “The Stranger” doesn’t
bold the interest to the end H.C.8.: The first
part, well-told, would have made a yarn ; the heroic
death in Flanders is unnecessary and irritating....
Frank M.: Doesn’t get near A.C.S.: Too thin and
wobbly A.M.H.: “Brown” is good enough of its
kind ; but this is a poor market for red-nose and
slapstick humor Bunny: Too long-winded
L.N.C.: Not enough in it for the space... .A.L.8.:
All have an ancient flavor G.F.: Would appear if
it were accepted; sign everything Alle: Send
claim to the accountant. We prefer to pay for
what we print.. . .T.A.8.: Who said it was a desert v
Why, on one day recently 300 boxes of flowers
were posted at Broken Hill. Practically the whole
of the parcels were filled with Sturt’s pea, which
just now is making a glory of a thousand hillsides
in that part of the country Faceplate: It doesn’t
realise its possibilities 0.8. (Ballarat): A’ou’ve
fallen into all the old ruts on that road. .. .Fred. F.:
Another man did something of the same sort on the
same theme a few months ag0.... C.AV.: Every verse-
writer, hunting for a rhyme, throws in now and
then a line he’d rather do without. One difference
between the good verse writer arid the bad is that
the bad writer’s superfluities are so outstanding that
you trip over them. That’s the matter with “Tax.”
... .P.C.C.: Never a Spring without that song - . .. .
Dig-gall: “He made a clean get-away.” Not in this
paper. He can only make an escape here.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
•J. 5.8.: Below the mark A.E.L.: Woeful draw-
ings 8.D.: Promising, but a long way to go
yet T.T.: This being your first offence you shall
not be hanged R.H.S.: W’hat does it lack 9
Drawing T.A.: Misses T.L.W 7 .: Wooden...
R.M.: No hope H.W.T.: All fall short 5.T.8.:
An inartistic nightmare G.H.: Going back
P.W.S.: One may do as a suggestion... .Nel:
Nothing in it Ero: Don’t know those men here!
August 22 was the 81st anniversary of
the cessation of transportation to N. S.
Wales. The last convict was landed on Nov
18. 1840.
T. 0.1. : A bit of earth running between
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney, was
sold recently in London to the Atlas Insur-
ance Co. for £70,000. Seventy years ago
Dan Cooper, the first baronet, had a resi-
dence there; but in later years it is under-
stood to have become part of the Levv-
Cohen estate.
"Kay See”: “0.K.” (B. 18/8/’2l) pleads
for a statute of limitations applicable to
criminals. Boiled down, it amounts to this.
If a criminal is clever enough to dodge
the law* for a number of years, exempt him
from punishment. My own view is that the
cleverer the criminal the greater his menace,
and the more reason for putting him where
he can do society no harm.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New rind Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
<vith Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de *
hnxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
uirnte Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Kleetric Lifts and Laundries,
tor ali information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
,rU c Ry <246, o, 4. (i Spring Street.
4 81 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great. Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING OCTOBER £i.
VENTURA.
10.000 Tons, IT Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO„
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
"yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY ANI) THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
\YeatVier and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULQANBAU SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 pan., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 pan.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 pan.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.rn.
'Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Sccond Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
lhe speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of pas-engers of tiiese steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars applv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IIEAI) OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STIiEET, SYDNEY'!
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES- E h’
MAC ARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hon. \. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Gf.nf.ru, Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
Condon Office: I Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
incorporated under the Companies Act 1 SOB.
"übscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
' Apital Paid Up 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. . . 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.000 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors — James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. VV.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Ksq.; A. C. Luya, F.sq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £250,000
directors; H Hubert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Tod.man ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.c!;
Dcncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Head OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin<*
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodif..
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director ; A. Dodds Fairbairn.
j Bents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
‘jaland, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
JWery description of Banking Business Transacted.'
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and VVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. 2,250’000
Reserve Fund a Undivided Profits 1,886,275
QUANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australia, New Zea-
-1 ® ! 0 laud, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and Ireland, and other places.
Receives deposits a
all other usual Banking business.
Shipping:, ete,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.) f Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THU LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, Bth SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER.
Excursions to Honolulu—“ The Paradise of the Pacific.”
A smooth-water trij» over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 2!)t li SEPTEMBER.
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
-r 'KH
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAV EL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Syflney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One ClaE3 Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OP THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC ; 12,500 tons
SU E VIC 12,500 tons
MEIIIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
TH EMISTOCLES 11.250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
'SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
'DIOGENES 12,500 tons
'Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application ,to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817,
mm
Directors
; > V. .
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,425,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles liinnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. : S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. Hendon Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street. E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTBECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collet.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■AI. Utei'!
Jank» f ßmtrclta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3019 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
ShinDlng.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.^
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACICAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports ).
'“Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
(Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY). '•
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage hioiiey,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald. Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co.. Limited.
I'itzroy Estates Limited.
Blackiieatb Collieries Ltd)
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Go. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P, & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritime*: Co. (at Melbourne),
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktowh.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for
Yielding Reversionary
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income . ..
single year 1920 £1,336,402
Additions to
.. £2,273,000
£44,000,000
£6,375.000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
thk
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
i effected on all classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
JPassage Monev. etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.


NEW BOOKS
The, prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
bookseller ***** mmt be by t,le im P° rtin ff
Australian Campaigns in the Great
Har being a Concise History of
the Australian Naval and Mili-
tary-Forces, 1914 to 1918. By
LIEUT THE HON. ST ANI FORTH
kMIAH. F.R.G.S.. F.Z.S.
(44th Battalion, A.1.F.), Adminis-
L r r , r t ® r n the Territory of Papua.
ar£vsn A - PREFACE by ERNEST
SCOTT, Professor of History. Uni-
versity of Melbourne. With Maps
and Illustrations. Ss. Cd.
Australm Economic and Political
Studies. By VARIOUS WRITERS.
Edited by MEREDITH ATKINSON.
Us. bd.
The New Social Order: A Study of
Dost-War Reconstruction. By
MEREDITH ATKINSON. M.A.
(Oxon.) Director of Tutorial Classes
and head of the Department of Soci-
ology in the University of Melbourne.
Second Edition, completely revised, its.
Men and Thought in Modern His-
tory. By ERNEST SCOTT, Pro-
to ßS or of History in the University
of Melbourne. With Portraits. 12s
6d. net.
. The New Statesman: “Mr. Ernest Scott’s
judgment of what is important and interesting
is sound; however brief his treatment of his
subject, it is never dry or superficial. He tells
his readers a great deal and quieklv, never in
such a way as to tempt them to think that there
is not much more to understand. In short, it is
the book of a stimulating teacher.”
Fijian Society: or the Sociology and
Psychology of the Fijians. By
W. DEANE, iVi.A. (Syd.),
B.D. (Loud.). Illustrated. 16s. net.
The Queen : “The legends of the Fijian?,
their customs when fishing* and net-making*,
the lives of thfeir children—these provide
countless details which are interesting to
read, and which Mr. Deane has not obscured by
technical language or too severely scientific an
attitude.”
RUDYARD KIPLING'S works.
DOMINIONS EDITION. 18
volumes. 6a net per volume.
UNIFORM EDITION. 22 volumes.
7s. Od. net per volume.
POCKET EDITION. 23 volumes,
printed on thin paper, with gilt
edges. Limp- leather, 7s. 6d. net;
blue cloth, 6s. net per volume.
THE SERVICE KIPLING. 26
volumes. Blue cloth, 3s. net each.
The Sadhw: A Study in Mysticisn
and Practical Religion. By B H
STREETER. M.A., Hon. D.D.; A. J
APPASAMY, M.A. With portrait
Bs. 6d. net.
Dean Inge, i a the Evening Standard, says
It is one of the most fascinating books tha
I have rend for a long time....l urge ri
readers to read ‘The Sadhu.’ ”
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
os. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR JUNE:—
A SPECIAL ARTICLE ON IRELAND.
MEETING OF THE IMPERIAL CABINET.
THE UNITED STATES AND THE OLD
WORLD.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE: Reparations and
Restoration—The Internal Condition of
Germany.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Macmillan’s
NEW AUSTRALASIAN ATLAS.
With 41 Maps and 8 pp. Index, Manilla
cover, 2s.
W. «S; A. K. elohnston’s New Atlases.
A NEW EDITION OF THE HANDY
ROYAL ATLAS. 53 Maps, with
many inset Maps and Plans, and full
Geographical Index. £3 10s. net.
WORLD-WIDE ATLAS. 128 pp.
Maps, 99 pp. Index. 15s. net.
MULTUM IN PARVO ATLAS. 100
Maps and full Index, , 3s. 9d. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers »
MACMILLAN §CO LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
fr.Uiu
nn
,ii,Will
/
Baby should grow
in weight daily.
The weekly progress should
be easily measured. A stand-
still in weight is usually the
first sign of unsuitable food.
If it is thought that the
breast milk is not sufficiently
nourishing (tiiothers feel the
strain of nursing at such
times) feed partially on
Benger’s Food.
d
pooj;
so easily supplements the
child’s natural food that it is
usually *he one Food Doctors
recommend for partial feed-
ing'. For the same reason
Infants hand-reared of
necessity thrive on Benger’s.
NOTE.—Benger’s is always pre-
pared with fresh new milk (or
mi.k and water) which it modifies
exactly for infants, and greatly
enriches for growing children.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most
helpful to mothers, post free, from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietori and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD LID., MANCHESTER, England
A. 9
THERE
IS
NOT
a better watch
made the world
over than our
“Super Fx and
R” Watch.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R” fully-jewelled
lever, 84 /«
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country,
For rough riding.
For long’ life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After SI years’ experience with watches we
write the. a Dove, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PL cash 1 onTv.’ 23 825 Hunter Street.
\o* J
**TS IKVKV
ď
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
đ
ALWAYS USE M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
“Made For Better Service.”
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match 8/6
C.B.B. Special 12/6
M.S. Champion 15/6
Service .. ti7/»>
C.B.B. Quad Centre 25/-
C.B.B. Double Strung 27/6
Ilaymarket 30/-. 40/-
Haymarket Special 40/-- 45/-
Ilaymarket Selected 45/-, 50/-
Haymarket Extra Special . 68/-
Spalding’s Tournament 40/6
Spalding’s Continental 55/-
Spalding’s Cold Medal 70/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27/O
Slazenger’s Player 30 /_
Slazcnger’s Wimbledon 30/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw i5/-
Slazenger’s Demon 55/-
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 03/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 85/-
Slazenger’s Doherty 37 /({
Slazenger’s Stadium 00 /-
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers 00/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 05/-
H. C. Lee’s Seneca kk /_
H. C. Lee’s Church 00/-
II. C. Lee’e Monogram 105/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation _/($ 5/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 3/7 30/-
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Cypress 2/4 27/6
Ayres Champion, 1921 3/_ 35/-
Slazenger’s Champion, 1921 3 /_ 35/-
(Ppstage on one doz.: N.S.W
• \
1}
\
■ii fsntrips
Davis Riseley
Haymarket Champion, 1921
1/-: other States. 1/8.)
Each. Da?.,
8/- 85/.
2/4 27/6
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
. ; 55 /-’ 4 °/-» 50/., 60/., 70/.
Champion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle " j
jviu-Kcc covers
Tennis Ratchet
The “Grip” Racket Press
Racket Handle Grips
Scoring 1 Books
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils .,
2/0, 6/0
7/6
3/0. 4/0
• 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
1/6
2/-, 6/6
6/0, 8/0, 15/.
sdf
Ail Prices subject to market fluctuations,
without notice.
BOXING.
Our OloTes are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed ; for durability and effectiveness
„„„ , MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4
' -<».!*., real leathejr, special value 12/6
l ’fMl” FiglUing '’ ! )est tan na P a > laced palms, 6or 8 0z... 13/6
,i> Flghting, > superior napa, laced palms, 6orB oz 18/0
C. 8.8., napa, leather lined, 6 or 8 oz 21 /- 23/.
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded
wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz 05 /. 30 /.
, ,f v *>l' 1 FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, leather
lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz .35/. 40/.
THE “UGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Re?. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/.
(Postage on one set: N.S.AV., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
a . BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed 8/.
„ Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-
„ Tan leather „ .. .. ..9/6
■V. 12/9
Tan
(Postage on one set: N.S.AV., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 7/6
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight-about 3soz. (Post 6£d.) 15/6, 17/6 pair.
each
MYRROHL
MADE IN
AMERICA
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC -CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
sdf
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
I>alis. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY. Swinging’ Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 10/6, 12/6, 17/6
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine leather, stared
seams, very fast 18/6, 22/6, 25/-
ARM! , Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest napa leather,
welted and stayed, very fast and lively 30/- 35/*
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, special/
designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and pcn’cot
shape; made of highest-qualitv brown mocha kid. Ids
finest made 45 .
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6 and 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather.
double-stitched, verv light 21/ 25/- 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALE, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete .... 75/.
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States. 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-. 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6, 5/6
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
•Specialty
, fttidfc Simmons fflj
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers,
Headquarters: 7208 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Be Dainty, Be Pretty,
Be Attractive,
Be a Rexona Girl.
.1/ ISS MARCIA RUTIIVEN (from a 'photo).
1 am sending you
one of my photo-
graphs, for I am a true
Rexona Girl, anti use
only Rexona Soap.
I find that it is de-
lightful for use on the
skin; and as a shampoo
for the hair I am sure
it has no equal, j. ;
I have been using
only Rexona Soap now
for some years, . and
like it better every
day.
Wish i n g Rexona
Soap every success,
I am,
Yours truly,
(Sg'd.)
MARCIA RUTH VEX.
34 Rayswater Road,
Darling-hurst.
Rexona Soap gives Natural
Beauty to SKin and Hair.
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin anil
destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse; they
cannot heal and protect the skin. .
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona
the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known
throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or
twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
Rexona Soap, 1/- per Tablet,
I
*#••• •••••••••
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
&
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seelcs distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims cali
for.
Neatness of patterns —a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory VV ear and
Service.
A. 8 61
See rnia
brand on
each shiri
m
&
%
<3
$
Manfe:
<>o
mg*
i
§s
Hr
1
Si
s
1
N,\
(mss
'A
A
'A
A
VA
S:
//
/i) / J
vm
m
The Heritage,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
jr- -y- 7 HERE the deathly ice-floes glis-
/ S 7/ ten and Western gales ure born,
A'r i nd the right whales pause to listen
to the laugh of Daddy Horn;
By the belt of the torrid Equator, within
the doldrums' span,
To the utmost spread of Mercator you'll find
an Englishman.
The glass had been steadily falling, the air
was as hot as Hell,
And a cyclone’s track was heralded by a
sinister ocean swell.
Loaded with Nauru phosphates that made
her sluggish and dead,
Giving no thought lor the morrow, the old
tramp nosed ahead;
“Sunderland” stamped on her nameplate;
“Cardiff” writ on her stern,
And a set of triple-expansions that grumbled
at every turn;
A skipper who hailed from Llanelly, with
wits as keen as a knife,
And an engineer frae the lang toon that
nestles in canny Fife.
The storm burst forth in the morning, hell-
bent from the s’ou’-south-east,
And it shrieked with a demon’s fury and
lashed the sea into yeast.
The lifting bank of wind-clouds enveloped
the sky as a pall,
And the cyclone marshalled its shock-troops
and struck in a fiendish squall.
The old tramp reeled at the onslaught, and
strained and shivered and quaked.
And she swallowed great gulps of ocean, with
ever her thirst unslaked.
For the well-decks —filled to the railings—
were taking more than their due,
And the wash-ports whined to their rusted
doors to let the water through.
Under the lee of the “dodger,” alert, keen-
eyed as Fate,
Evan Thomas, the skipper, gave the law to
the second mate:
“I’m not in love with our loadin’ —the
cargo’s as dead as h—ll! —
So ye’ll keep the sea a point to port and
watch the steerin’ well.
The relievin’-tackles, mark you, will call for
your constant care,
And a bag of spare hatch-wedges ye’ll stow
in the wheelhouse there.
And send word down to Macfarlane for an
extra turn or two—
We’ll have to keep our steerage-way to see
this hell-broth through.
“And this is the main thing, mister: the
shift o’ the wind ye’ll mark
To give us our semi-circle. We must shun
the danger arc.
And a man ye’ll send, whateffer, each hour
round the steerin’ gear,
And sound the wells when ye get a chance,
and keep the wash-ports clear!”
Crisp and curt and forthright the orders
were, quickly told,
Gemmed by inherited sea-lore, passed on by
the tars of old.
Tenacious, strong, resourceful —the wonder-
ful salt-sea breed
That made the ocean an open road to solace
old England’s need!
Down in the sweltering engine-room, his
hand on the throttling-gear,
With a soul obsessed by engine parts stands
Mac, the engineer.
“Increase the turns?” he says with scorn.
“I canna gie ye more!
There’s a guid three-feet o’ watter noo a-
' swill on the stokehold floor.
The crosshead-gibs are slackened and the
thrusts are unco’ frail,
And the tailrod’s dancing the Divil’s dance,
tae the lilt o’ the feed-pump’s wail.
Gin the shaftin’ haungs togeither, an’ the
cranks due their duty well,
Te mieht see th’ lichts o’ Sydney this side o’
the coast o’ Hell.”
Boxed in a wet inferno ’midst steam that
is hissing free,
Stokers from Tidal Basin, ‘Whitechapel and
Bermondsey
W’ith courage are doing their duty. One
cracks a joke with a laugh:
“Gorblime, we’re gittin’ our wiges chucked
in wiv a Turkish barf!”
Drunken and aye abusive when the lights
o’ the pubs they scan.
But Britishers to the backbone when danger
calls for a man ;
Cursing the name of their Maker in oaths of
a sapphire hue,
But doing their very damnedest to battle the
old tramp through.
When the truculent voice of the tempest
was still and the sea was calm,
The old tramp breasted a lazy swell that
came as a soothing balm.
Her boats no better than splinters, her fun-
nel put to rout,
And her pumps playing a merry tune to
usher the water out.
Old Fran Thomas, the skipper, spake soft to
the engineer:
“Now. mark you. Mac. we all should thank
the tear Lord we are here!”
But the grimy lips of Macfarlane moved
slow, and his words were terse:
“Aye. mon. it was an ahfu’ blaw, but it
mieht ha-' been much worse!"
Round the belt o’ the torrid Equator where
the dead winds go to seed.
To the utmost span of Mercator you’ll find
the British breed.
Down to Antarctic coldness, up to the north-
ern floes,
The Britisher in his boldness will go as his
fancy goes!
longshore.
ALBATROSS.
Asking for More.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
IN every place where work is done there
are ‘passengers’-’—chronic work-avoiders
who have gradually slipped their share
of the day s burden from their shoulders
but continue to draw their salaries for
being seen about the office or warehouse
wherein they are supposed to toil. They
“appear,” like actors or barristers, do as
little work, and in time come to believe they
are hideously underpaid.
Joseph Hourglass was the most distin-
guished member of the passenger tribe j I
ever ran across, lie yawned anu shirked tor
£2 per week in the bosom of the Hades Steel
Corporation—an othce of U.S. origin, which
imagined it was getting the very last ounce
of energy out of its staff, and had all sorts
of checks and precautions. Joe was a joke
to all his fellow-clerks, but the heads were
too wrapped up with their elaborate returns
and analyses to go and size him up as a
human being always ougnt to be sized up by
personal inspection and observation of his
habits. Joe had so much time to burn that
he obstructed traffic in the office ; he would
hold up anyone short of the chief clerk to
have a yarn, and he even borrowed books
wherewith to while away the working hours.
When depressed he would start on the subject
of rises and wonder why the firm didn’t
“spring a few more bob.” He really con-
sidered himself a valuable member of the
staff, and longed for a chance to bring him-
self under the notice of the general manager.
It never seemed to strike him that the best,
method was to be seer; working steadily at
something useful. None of his brother-
clerks thought it worth while prompting Joe ;
every one of them had given him a trial or
two at some time or other, only to find that
his mental machinery was so rusted that he
was practically obsolete. Mick, the tall, red-
haired bookkeeper, drove him from his desk
with the remark. “Go away, for God’s sake!
You bring the flies about.” Rut Joe didn’t
resent it; he just slouched away grinning
and fell back into his accustomed corner —
the one he got £2 a week for occupying.
Now, when a company is part of a great
international trust, it is sensitive to all the
shifts and changes of business diplomacy.
A new anti-trust law in the far-away United
States necessitates a new move on the part
of the Rockefellers and Pierpont Morgans,
and straightaway the horizon changes for
thousands of managers, clerks, salesmen,
travellers and mechanics in holes and corners
all over the world. Some such financial
earthquake shook the Sydney office of
the Hades Steel Corporation about two
years after Joe Hourglass had joined its
staff. Following the receipt of a brief cable
from New York, the general manager issued
a typewritten circular to “all employees”
informing them that they were now brothers-
in-robbery with the employees of four other
steel companies who had been the deadly
rivals of yesterday, and that the massed
forces would shortly pour themselves into
the new offices which had been intended for
the employees of the Hades Steel Corpora-
tion alone. Another manager would take
charge of the “merged” companies, and the
writer would be chief-of-staff. While the
men who had been toiling good and hard
for the Hades people were wondering what
their prospects were now, Joe was heard
singing a sweet song of thanksgiving. He
took the cheerful view that for him it was
a great and glorious chance to shove himself
into the foreground and invite the new heads
to size him up and give him a f lot more
salary.
The mobilisation of the five companies in
the building which had been designed for one
was a horrifying experience which took up
the best part of a hot month. Weary,
sweating men, as they bent over their ledgers
in odd corners, were dimly aware of heavy
desks going past on the shoulders of agonised
storemen. Preoccupied strangers wearing
spectacles and American accents hurried
backward and forward inquiring plaintively
for other strangers, on finding whom their
whole life’s happiness seemed to depend.
Lorryloads of old and accursed account-books
full of strange names and figuring were
escorted into the cool warehouse by leaping
dervishes in shirt-sleeves, who refused to let
their sacred writings out of their sight. One
perfect stranger whose attention had been
distracted for a moment from his holy vigil
sought one lost cash-book for five whole days
wfith candles and curses, discovering it at
last underneath a plough.
Joe Hourglass thoroughly enjoyed the
confusion of the change. Moving freely
through the nightmare and helping nobody,
he was like a paid spectator at a wreck.
Here instead of the ordered activity of a
quiet office was a sort of circus in which a
man of leisure could move round and enjoy
himself, instead of having to sit quiet at a
desk and put up some sort of a bluff. It
was even possible to go out for long walks
round town, for nobody had time to ask
questions or check the plausible explanations
of an expert explainer. It was as good as
a holiday to Joe while it lasted ; but at last
out of chaos order began to emerge. The
available rooms were first alloted in order of
seniority to the tramload of managers and
departmental heads, and then the regrouped
clerks and typists w T ere ranged carefully in
their order of battle. A day even came
when there was no office furniture in transit
and all the dungareed storemen and ware-
house employees had vanished. There was
even a desk for Joe, with all his hated jobs
piled handy. He sat down at it with a deep
sigh of regret and wondered sadly how long
it would be before New York had another
financial spasm.
Presently a sort of Royal Commission
started to drift round and collect evidence
about the work performed by each employee.
When it arrived at Joe’s section, the head-
clerk detailed for the recorder the minor
duties Joe was supposed to perform; and
the recorder took it all dowm very gravely
and spoke respectfully to Joe, using the
prefix ‘“Mister” and otherwise showing that
he regarded Joe as a working human being
who was doing his best for Rockefeller and
the rest of them. Joe was immensely
cheered by this, and began to make plans
for the future. If he had ever suffered from
doubts as to his place in the financial esti-
mation of New York, they were dissipated
by this proof of New York’s regard. He
determined to make New York pay for it on
the highest possible scale.
Now*. Joe had had it pumped into him by
an unfinancial uncle when he was a very
young bov that it was no use going to sub-
ordinate managers when you wanted a rise.
So one day when the office was quiet he
walked straight into the office of the new
general-manager and issued an ultimatum—•
(Continued on next page.)


V
One reason why a Hupmobile commands the enthusiastic loyalty of the man
who buys it is because it constantly gives him even more than he expects
in power, performance, economy of operation and durability.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw. J
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
1. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC..
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
sf
either the firm must give him a substantial
increase of salary or he would have to tliink
of going somewhere else. The general-
manager was so new and Joe was so obscure
that the interview was conducted and con-
cluded as if it had been a serious one. There
were men younger than Joe who were doing
valuable special work, and the g.m. knew it;
it he took Joe for anything at all, he pro-
bably took him for one of the bright voung-
sters.
“Ar-right, Mister Hourglass,” he said,
at the conclusion of what w T as really a
side-splitting farce. “I’ll look into this and
get a re-port. If things are as you say, I’ll
certainly see to it that your pay envelope
is a bit bigger. You understand that this
company don’t want to get any man cheap.
Vou leave it to me.”
Joe gravely left it to him and went back to
his desk grinning. He told himself that he
hadn’t made any mistake in following uncle’s
advice and going right to the head.
There was no visible or audible result of
the interview for a week or so; but Joe
wasn’t impatient. He knew the routine of
the office with its system of filed typewritten
memos, designed to “keep tab” on every atom
of the work. A great part of the staff’s time
was taken up in drafting, dictating, reading
and filing the minutes concocted on every
conceivable subject by the men working
around him. If an inquiry or .demand fol-
lowed the proper course, it might take a fort-
night to get across the office and back again.
At last Joe got the pleasant surprise he
was waiting for. The g.m.’s chief-of-staff
appeared before him one morning armed with
a handful of memos, clipped together. “Oh,
Mister Hourglass, there seems to be some
doubt as to what dooties you attend to. Will
you please detail ’em on the back of Mr.
bpec’s memo an’ let me have it as
soon as possible? Thank you.” He dropped
the clip of rubbish on Joe’s desk and hurried
on to attend to something else; and, as soon
as he was safely out of sight, Joe licked his
fins and read them all through carefully.
There were about 10 of them and they were
very soothing to his vanity. Their strict
departmental tone may be gauged from the
one on top of the file. It was as follows:
G.M. Memo., No. 28746. Jan. 14, 1914.
To Cyrus G. Freedom, Esq., N.S.W. State ’Manager.
URGENT.
Mi- Joseph 1. Hourglass, a. member of your Sales
Dept., has just made application to the writer for
an increase in salary as from Jan. 21. Would be
obliged if you would go thoroly into this matter
and see if we can meet him. lie has informed
writer that he cannot consider any offer that does
not give him an increase of 25 per cent, on present
salary. As Head Office insists that the organisation
Of this branch be disturbed as little as possible, it
would suit us well if the services of this experienced
officer could be retained. Will you investigate and
report fully to me within seven days from date?
Ebenezer O. Hustle, Gen. Manager.
The department replies to this trumpet call
from the All Highest were couched in the
best office English and were very respectful
in tone, both to the g.m. and Mr. Joseph T.
Hourglass. The writers all knew Joe more
or less intimately; but, at the same time,
they were all good politicians and were not
taking any chances. The despised Joe had
either acquired a “pull” or else the g.m.
was inexperienced enough to imagine that he
was a valuable part of the organisation.
Otlier clerks who heard about doe's move
began to reproach themselves for not taking
the same step; the clip of memos, looked so
rosy that it seemed impossible for Joe to
miss what he was after.
\\ hen he had quietly shown the official
and confidential papers round the office, Joe
sat down again at his desk and detailed with j
great care his absurd round of small duties,
beginning with the ruling-off of the time-book
at sharp to the sorting of the outgoing mail
at o.dO p.m. He had to rack his rusted
brains to find enough to fill in the long
official day; but it looked well enough on
paper—“good enough for three quid, any-
way,” was Joe’s own private comment.
week of joyful anticipation followed.
1 hen without warning of any kind arrived
a sub-manager still smarting from an official
rebuke on the subject of departmental extra-
vagance and, in his wake, a worried-looking
head clerk.
“See here!” barked the manager in Joe’s
ear, and slapped the impressive file of
memos, down on the desk, “I want to get a
few perticlars from you ’bout this applica-
tion. What work d’ye do, anyhow?”
Joe looked at him blankly. “It’s all there,
sir! I detailed all my duties on the back
oi the general manager’s memo.”
The sub-manager made an impatient ges-
ture. “I know! I know! But I want you
to tell me right here and now jus’ what you
do. I want to get at the facts, you under-
stand. Naow you go ’head an’ toll me what
you do when you come in every mornin’!”
Joe commenced his futile recital of trivi-
alities, the sub-manager meanwhile hanging
over him and fairly quivering with sup-
m-essed scorn. The head clerk in the back-
ground looked uncomfortable.
When Joe had quite done, the red-faced
manager, who had never much patience at
time, erupted in passionate speech.
Well, my (lard, if you ain’t got a neck!
You beat the band! Why, over there in
iSioo Yarlc City I can hire a boy that’ll do
your little chores in lia’f-an-hour, an’ then
go 'way an’ do some real work. [ can hire
that sort of boy for jus’ ’bout haf what you’re
gettm now! An’ here you are boldin’ out
your hand for more! My Card, no wonder
this department is losin’ money! Here have
I been studyin’ how to pay your dam’ sal’ry
an’ you go worryin’ th’ g.m. to give you
another hatful! Mv Card !” And with that
ho snatched up the file of papers and stormed
away to make his report to the All Highest.
They didn’t dismiss Joe; they just sorted
out some more unimportant duties and gave
them to him to save his soul with. But Joe’s
heart was broken and one morning his desk
was unoccupied; lie had left of his own
accord and gone elsewhere to seek his for-
tune. Followed a dark period during which
his work-mates occasionally inquired for
him. For a long while nobody could supply
an answer. Then, quite suddenly, a ray of
chance intelligence flashed athwart ’ the
office ; he had become a lighthouse-keeper on
a lonely part of the coast where time didn’t
matter.
KODAK.
The Greater Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f I HE old man ascended the stairs care-
fully and knocked gently on the half-
opened door.
“Is that you, Dad?” inquired a faint voice
from within the room.
"How d’yer feel now, Mary?” said the
old man as he entered and closed the door
behind him.
“Oh, don’t ask me,” replied the girl with
a breathless catch in her voice. “Did you
find anybody?”
The old man laid his hat awkwardly on
the ricketty washstand and walked past the
bed to the window. He thrust his head out
and shook a menacing fist at someone below.
"If I come down,” he said savagely, “I’ll
take the hide off yer. Keep quiet !’’
He turned to the girl in the bed. “Those
kids’d fair drive yer mad. If I 'ad young
George in the wash’ouse for 'alf an hour with
a stick I'd deal with him! Mrs. Gunn says
she'll come round in the mornin’. She’ll get
'ere before I go to work and stop with you
till I get ’ome. She’s sent ’er three kids
over to ’er sister’s in Red fern for a week
or two. Better ’ave another dose of that
stuff. It’ll ease you ’till the doctor comes
again. Mil’ll be ’ere early to-morrow, ’cos
it’s Sunday. This is the bottle, ain’t it?”
lie put his arms round his daughter’s
shoulders and supported her back whilst she
drank the medicine. As he lowered her
head again to the pillow she squeezed his
lingers affectionately. “Best in the world,
ain’t you, Dad?”
The old man laughed uneasily in a vain
attempt to smother his embarrassment.
“ ’Ave it yer own way,” he said, and an-
nounced his intention of having a smoke
in the kitchen for a few minutes.
After he had gone down the stairs the
former weariness returned to the face of
the girl. She turned her head a little on
the pillow and gazed through the window
at the blank wall of the house next door.
From the next-door yard below came the
sounds of juvenile arguments, punctuated by
the frenzied efforts of some amateur on a
mouth-organ. Gradually the girl became
blind to the view and deaf to the sounds, for
she was visualising her own crucifixion.
The old man was abruptly awakened out
of a dose by a knock on the front door. He
picked up his fallen pipe and stretched his
arms wearily. Then he went to the door
and looked inquiringly at the tall, youthful
figure which confronted him.
“I called to see how Mary’s getting on,”
said the young man, and his gaze was curi-
ously alert and intent.
“She’s a hit easier,” replied the old man,
mechanically fingering the door-knob. “Who
might you”—
“I work down at Simmonds’s,” said the
young man quickly. “Some of the boys and
girls—we was talking about Mary this morn-
ing—-was wondering if she was getting on
all right. I said I’d slip down and see.”
The old man pulled the door wide open.
“Come in,” he said. “P’raps you’d like to
see ’er % She's been worryin’ about ’er job
too. Says Ssimmonds won’t take ’er oil
again. E'll give er ‘er job back when she’s
right again, won’t ’e? Simmonds can’t pick
up girls as smart as my Mary every day
in the week. There ain’t a girl in Sydney
can beat ’er at labellin’ them tins. She’s” -
"I don't think I’ll disturb her," inter-
rupted the young man, and he half-turned
in the doorway. "I only just wanted to
know”
"Xo,” insisted the old man obstinately
“She’d be so pleased to talk to you. You
needn’t stop more’n a minute or two.”
“Mary,” announced the old man from the
bedroom doorway, “there’s a young gent
come to see yer from Simmonds’s.” Then
he turned to his companion. “Sit down,
young feller, for a minute. There’s a chair
alongside the bed.”
The young man walked across to the indi-
cated chair, sat down and listened to the
old man’s descending footsteps. At last he
turned to the girl. “He made me come up,"
he began in a nervous undertone.
“He can’t hear you,” said the girl calmly.
“Speak up.”
He looked for a moment at the shabby
furniture and the discolored wallpaper, and
shivered involuntarily.
“You usen’t. to feel the cold, once,” said
the girl significantly. “Perhaps you’re afraid
of dad?”
The young man’s form became tense, and
then as quickly relaxed. “You didn’t pin
me away,” he said with assurance.
“What have you got to tell me?” demanded
the girl. “Look me in the face.”
For a full minute man and girl stripped
tlieir souls in that silent scrutiny.
“Kiss me!” said the girl abruptly.
The young man hesitated for a second and
then leaned over.
“Now I know!” said the girl. She reached
down with an effort and knocked sharply on
the door. “Dad will let you out —you
coward!”
Twenty minutes later the old man mounted
the stairs once more and entered the silent
bedroom. He sat dowYi beside the bed with
a sigh of relief.
"Nice young feller, that,” he said, address-
ing the darkening window. “Quiet spoken,
too. Good of them down at Simmonds’s to
think of yer. ’E lives out Marrickville way.
*e said. Walked down to the terminus with
’im, I did. Never asked ’ini ’is name, neither
—•must’ve forgot. Who is ’e?”
“That’s the squib I’m going through this
for !’’ came the reply in a venomous whisper.
And the thin, restless fingers clutched sav-
agely at the colored quilt. •
The old man stared vacuously at the white
face with its blue-tinted nostrils and blazing
eyes. Then lie stiffened suddenly in the
chair as though inspired by some appalling
recollection. “By God!” he grunted, and
the veins in his temples thickened into
purple cords.
“What’s wrong, Dad?” whispered the girl.
The ferocity in her voice faded into anxiety.
God !” repeated the old man “An" l
bought the swine a drink whilst we was
waitin’ fer the tram !”
HAROLD LINDSAY.


'll
niK
WESTIN GHO USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offios—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-9fl Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A. FREE TRIAL.
It you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE .posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
< 349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails- Low spirits and irritability or'
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid l
liver. Wake up yon. liver with
Small Pill-
Small
Dosa—
Small
Price J
•rtar’i Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
your health and
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young—purely
vegetable.
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PIUS
Vi
■f.
I
MS*
\\-
:::
The Comfort of Shirley
President Braces Stretches
Across the Sea
The yearly production of the looms which man-
ufacture the webbing for SHIRLEY PRESI-
DENT BRACES amounts to 3,000 miles of
this material.
Because the manufacturers make their own
webbing they can be confident of the unvarying
quality of their braces. Confidence in their
product has given the users confidence in them.
But the greatest tie between the maker and
wearer is the comfort and satisfaction that
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES give all over
the world.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
label 2
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
8-10-12 Smail Street, Sydney, Australia.
nr
“Wetproof” and Dependability
iZt*
ARROW
Z
1
pa
Re
tri
“WETPROOF” is a coined
word; it is a RE-MINGTON
word and stands for the special
atented process with which all
emington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
tridge cases have long been made
of so-called waterproofed paper but
this exclusive “WETPROOF” pro-
cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
gun cartridges.
The wetproof compound of special oils
is applied, not only to ihe body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
loading, effectively sealing it against
moisture and giving to the contents that
protection which insures uniformity of
ignition, pattern, speed and penetration.
Sportsmen need not fear the effect of rain
or damp weather on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
brands treated with this special, patented
‘‘WETPROOF” process.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Ik.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian
Representative, Bos 686,
G.P.0., Melbourne
/
PILLS
are a pleasant corrective that keeps you
in good physical condition. When the stomach
is out of order, the liver not working properly,
or the bowels are sluggish, a dose or two of
Beecham’s Pills will have the desired effect. They
restore natural and healthy action of the bodily
functions, and very quickly help to
MAKE GOOD
digestion, pure blood and clear skin. Beecham s Pills
are not a cure-all, but a safe remedy that acts on
the stomach, liver and bowels, and through these
important organs tones and strengthens the
general health. These world-famous family
pills prevent many common ailments, correct
bilious conditions and quickly improve the
DIGESTION /
Sold in boxes, labelled J
ls-lid and 2s-S
(original English prices.)
safeguard your health
Broome's
CWorodyue
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Hud in the Cough of BIiONCHITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEBISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
cf SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IS
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and */■•
Made in England.
sdf
for
FORDS
No. I.—The Peerless Radiator for Ford Cars.
The popularity enjoyed by
this prime favorite conclu-
sively proves that it is what
we have always claimed it to
be —
A Superlative Cooler
for Ford Engines.
Could it be otherwise., when
you read the brief specifica-
tion?
df
Upper and lower tanks drawn
from one piece of brass —no
seams, consequently no leaks.
All brass honeycomb type of
core., heavy-wrought brackets
at base, and heavy steel rein-
forcements. As constructed,
THE TEEBUESS is 400 per-
cent. more efficient than the
ordinary tubular radiator,
having 5600 inches of cooling
surface as against 1211 inches
of the ordinary type.
PRICES: RADIATOR ONLY, £lO.
RADIATOR, WITH STREAMLINE BONNET AND SHIELD, £l3/15/-
Descriptive Leaflet with Pleasure.
No. 2.—The Standard “5.R.8.” Roller Bearing
for the Front Wheels of Ford Cars.
These bearings easily with-
stand strains that destroy the
regular bearings, and greatly
improve the steering.
They overcome side strain, at
the same time preventing
undue tyre wear. Altogether
a magnificent improvement.
df
PRICE 50/- per set of
4 Bearings.
Sufficient Equipment for
the 2 Front Wheels.
No. 3.—The Splitdorf High-Tension Magneto,
with Impulse Starter, for Ford Cars.
A Ford with a magneto is indeed a Ford improved out of sight. It means
easier starting, more regular firing, better pulling and no tinkering. Frice
of whole outfit, magneto, including silent chain drive and gears, and solid
mounting platform, £29/15/-
No. 4. —The G.N.Tv Engine-driven Tyre Pump,
which is the Only Gearless Motor-driven Tyre Pump for Fords.
It can be installed in 30
minutes. With it, when
your tyres want pumping,
you don’t have to disturb
your passengers to get your 1
pump from under the seat,
nor do you M*ve to look for
a free-air stand. You have
the most dependable air
station with yon.
df
Once Installed tlie G.N.T.
Engine-driven Tyre Pump
becomes a permanent fixture
that will outlast the life of
the car. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it
is most reasonable in cost.
Price complete with
Hose and all Connec-
tions, £4/4/-
df
304 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY,
Supplies.


ti IlilpipiSg
. i,
£&BxHBB
-
Hill
m
s*
*5
icr
»i«
SiS
#
' V ' >:.
Hi
ii
"W
cu&>
%
©
PW
11
■ i§
;: -
* -1-:
V I: : .i
Af^ss* s '' •& it, v;&s&
|P 4 ’ >J
■:.;»■ A
mv
'WATTS ON’S
