

a
-V'
m
1
i
i
r
The Brighter Outlook
The practical fulfilment of a happy,
prosperous New Year depends on
your Health. Calm nerves and pure
blood are essential to the success of
your resolutions and ambitions for
Nineteen Twenty-one.
Here is where Clements Tonic will
prove most helpful. It is a decidedly
effective medicine for nerve and blood
ailments. For thirty years Clements
Tonic has been a popular family tonic,
and whilst it is not a “cure-all” you
will find it a most beneficial remedy
for weak nerves, insomnia, loss of
energy and similar ailments.
CLEMENTS TONIC is sold every-
where throughout Australia. Keep a
bottle handy for your Health’s sake.
“It puts the ‘Vital’ into Vitality.”
The Bulletin
Vol. 42 —No. 2135.
Price 9d.
Registered at, the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Thursday, January 13, 1921.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be posted free to any
address on application.
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
miiimimmmiiiiiiiiiniiimm
ritish.
All
The
m
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver,
Every part of the STANDARD LIGHT CAR is built
not only to perform its own particular function well,
but to harmonise perfectly with every OTHER part
of the car.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
1
, w
i
M
111
fbxf
Headac
is
/
' The Little Nam
for Little Ills'*
ET Mentholatum
soothe and cool
that throbbing,
aching head! Simply
rub Mentholatum
on the ache. You’ll
like its cool, clean
“ feel.”
Just as widely used for all forms of Skin Diseases,
The First Aid in thousands of homes for over 24 years.
luHiHlmfiil’lll
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
-a Healing Cream,
FASSET!’ & JOHNSON', LTD., SYDNEY
ersil'l s
SEASICK
Cl^RES
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes.
Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd.
204 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MON E V RETURN ED
VJ)
1 DRESS
Add a Finish
and Wash Well
They are a boon to all for the attrac-
tive trimming of Washing Frocks
(especially children’s). Kimonos,
Dressing Jackets, Bathing Suits,
Blouses, etc. Supplied in a large
Variety of Artistic Embossed Wo-
ven Designs in Fast Color. Sup-
plied in various widths.
For Marking Linen—Use
CASH'S Woven NAMES
Sold by All fßeit ‘Drapon
J.&J. CASH Ply. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
NO/1 ratSONOUJ POWDER
THE GREfIT INSECT QESTKOyER.
(H-
-) fleas.
) Bugs.
S Mosquitoes.
xcb
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney.
£4
The Red Page
Margot Asquith’s Memoirs
At last her own account of her life—
for she issues a second volume this year—
appears under the title The Autobiographg
of Margot Asquith. It came out in bits in
the English and American papers, and the
demand has been so great that Australia,
as usual, has had to wait some weeks for
this volume. Two or three small errors
have been detected, and a great outcry
raised, as if a woman who knew half the
people in London could not be pardoned for
a slip or two of the • pen. The publisher,
Thornton Butterworth, is a new one.
and he decidedly scores. He,' is said to have
paid Mrs. Asquith £13,000 cash down for
the book. If so, he got a bargain. Before
It the firm published “The Last Days of
the Romanoffs,” and after it comes Sir
Charles Townshend’s “My Campaign in Meso-
potamia,” which will show what the lieir-
presumptive to the 6th Marquess Towns-
hend (who has no children, though married
to the daughter of a company-floating bar-
rister) thinks of the English Government.
The Tennants, a large family of 12 child-
ren, are very good types of the aristocracy
of the day. On the .outer edge of Glasgow
they had huge factories which turned man-
ure into gold, and allowed Charles Tennant
tq build a baronial hall, named “Glen,” and
copied from the famous old Glarnis Castle in
Forfarshire. Further floods of manure pro-
vided the needful to work on the London
Stock Exchange, and transfer the family
to 40 Grosvenor-square, where are' the
immense habitations of the newly rich. Then
the fun began. The Tennants were a pretty
family, quite aware that they would be
hated by the older residents, and knowing-
very well that their good looks and millions
only wanted to be used by clever wits to
take them to the top. And clever wits they
had.
I remember being taken to the Aberdeen
races when quite a schoolboy and falling in
love with a lady’s face which seemed to me
of the rarest beauty. On inquiry I dis-
covered that the owner of it Was Mrs. Duff,
of Drummuir Castle, Keith, who was the
eldest of the Tennants, and was dying of
consumption. A dozen years later I was
quartered at Woolwich, and saw the second
daughter, the wife of Lord Ribblesdale, who
was stationed there with his battalion of
the Rifle Brigade. She, too, died young,
and her son, a Socialist by conviction, was
killed in the war. The third sister mar-
ried a country gentleman, Graham Smith,
and hid herself and her undoubted
genius for water-color in West England.
There were two brothers—one, afterwards
Lord Glenconner, took for wife the beauti-
ful Pamela Wyndham, very well knQwn in
the world of letters and sister to the late
George Wyndham, M.P., the luckiest and
most unlucky of men (he was most hand-
some, looked like the coming Tory Premier,
married into the Westminster millions and
died most miserably) ; the other became a
Liberal M.P. Then came the fourth daughter,
Laura, who married the Hon Alfred Lyttel-
ton, the cricketer, and lived but a year,
but would have made a bigger mark than
any of them. Then came Margot.
She did simply as she liked. Never so
good-looking as her sisters, she claimed the
attention of dozens of men. Of course, the
manure-tainted millions lured some. But
she had worshippers amongst women also. She
made other friends by her reckless riding to-
hounds —“I have broken both collar-bones,
my nose, my ribs and my knee-cap; dislo-
cated my jaw, fractured my skull and had
five concussions of the brain,” she casually
remarks. I got a glimpse of what her real life
at Downing-street was. The verdict was stag-
geringly good. The confessions of her many
attempts at marriage and the failure of the
fits of her “falling in love” are eye-openers
only to those who keep their eyes tightly
closed. Revelations like the Flower episode
are startling, yet I do not suppose would
startle us if the truth about their little
affairs were disclosed by the uncandid girls
of the day> My opinion of Mr. Asquith’s
courage is not very high, and I fancy that,
in the dead, unhappy hours beyond midnight,
he trembles occasionally when he thinks of
what may be the revelations to come in the
Second volume.
Mrs. Asquith is possessed of what is
termed “a pretty tough skin,” and on read-
ing the extracts of the reviews which have
piled on her doorstep during the past few
months she will have looked in vain for
any hint that she has done something which
is sure of imitation. You see that her
bold adoption of the bifurcated saddle, a
novelty only 30- years ago, has already been
followed by the most modest of women. Who
knows -that the remainder of her “blazing
indiscretions” may not be an every-day
occurrence amongst British Ministers’ wives
in 1950 ?
No one has yet suggested that her book
should be burnt. Under the most scathing
lash of criticism nothing appears more clearly
than that the reviewer has perused it with
a chuckle from end to end. It will be
very widely read, indeed, and so I think the
public will not be disappointed in jvol. 11.
H. H. CHAMPION.
Carl Sandburg
Carl Sandburg is alleged to be “the most
American of American poets!’ and an Ameri-
can writer says of him: “To some of us he
seems the chief spokesman of the world's
dreams to-day.” With such an introduction
the reader is prepared for something unusual,
something strong and fascinating. It might
have been said with perfect truth of James
Russell Lowell lialf-a-century ago; and
Lowell would not have disappointed us. He
did sing America, did sing the world’s
dreams of that day and perhaps of our owni
also; and if his voice was hoarse and his
method to stress the commonplace too much,
that also w r as the reflection of the life of a
real people in a striving age. But here is
Sandburg’s book, a book of the usual alleged
vers Hire, containing multitudes of sawn-off
liues of the sort grown so familiar, without
form, without beauty, generally without
meaning. There are hints and suggestions,
of course, for you cannot jumble up a mass
of phrases without making some of them
fall out of the bag in connections which give
a notion that the author is painfully attempt-
ing to say something; but there is no con-
nected thought, no indication of ‘purpose,
nothing that could by any process of
reasoning be called skill. Smoke and
Steel (Harcourt, Brace and Howe, New
York) is simply a crude and noisy at-
tempt to cheat American readers into the
belief that behind all the emptiness of
phrasing there is a tremendous soul working
to some great and hidden ends. What the
critical reader finds is a lazy person work-
ing a literary swindle and possibly in the
process swindling himself.
Yet the book is humorous in its way. and
its very pretentiousness makes it. the more
so. Here, for instance, is a delicate little
gem called “Shirt” :
My shirt is a token and symbol.
More than a cover for sun and rain,
My shirt is a signal,
Aiid a teller of souls.
I can take off my shirt and tear it,
And so make a ripping razzly noise,
And the people will say,
“Look at him tear his shirt.”
I can keep'my shirt on.
I can stick around and sing like a little bird
And look ’em all in the eye and never be fazed.
I can keep my shirt on.
That is the whole “poem,” one of the sublime
efforts of “the chief spokesman of the world’s
dreams to-day.” Or try this on “Letter S”
The river is gold under a sunset of Illinois.
It is a molten gold someone pours and changes.
A woman mixing a wedding cake of butter and
eggs *
Knows what the sunset is pouring on the river here.
The river tvvists in a letter S.
A gold S' now speaks to the Illinois sky.
That’s all; but the impudence of literary
fraud can go even farther, as witness “Man,
the Man-hunter” :
I saw Man, the man-hunter,
Hunting with a torch in one hand
And a kerosene can in the other,
Hunting with guns, ropes, shackles.
I listened
Arid the high cry rang,
The high cry of Man the man-hunter:
We’ll get you yet, you sbxyzch!
I listened later.
The high cry rang:
Kill him! Kill him ! the sbxyzch!
In the morning the sun saw
Two butts of something, a smoking rump,
And a warning in charred wood:
Well, we got him
the ' sbxyzch !
“The spokesman of the world’s dreams” !
But why worry to read such stuff? It
is so confoundedly easy to write. Try this,
called “Cat’s Waistcoat” :
The golden cat forgetting.
Nine stripes of red upside down,
Softly sloping at nine o’clock.
Buzz. Margaret.
Sins of scarlet and crimson
And a harsh call.
We should worry!
The street is down below.
Harshly at nine o’clock
Nine Spots, that might be stripes
Because it is dark.
We should worry !
Buzz. Buzz. Margaret!
Carl Sandburg did not write that; but his
genius inspired it. We are prepared to
back it against “Shirt,” “Letter S” or*
“Man, the Man-hunter,” in a race from
scratch, as being equally beautiful, musical,
intelligible and useful in interpreting the
“world’s dreams.” Also, we are prepared
to enter into a contract with Sandburg’s
publishers to supply 50 dozen of the lovely
things per week for 10 years at current
American verse rates.
There are one or two passages in the
dish of slops called “Smoke and Steel,”
.which gives its title to the book, that hint
at better things. This gets nearest to a
sort of crude, incoherent poetry.:—
Once when 1 saw the curves of fire, the rough scarf
women dancing,
Dancing out of the flues and smoke-stacks —flying
hair of fire, flying feet upside down;
Buckets and baskets of fire exploding and chortling,
fire running wild out of the steady and fastened
ovens;
Sparks crackling a® harr-harr-huff from ,a solar-
. plexus of rock-ribs of the earth taking a laugh
for themselves;
Ears and noses of fire, gibbering gorilla arms of
fire, gold mud-pies, gold bird-wings, red jackets
riding purple mules, scarlet autocrats, tumbling
from the humps of camels, assassinated czars
straddling vermilion balloons;
I saw then the fires flash one by one: good-by: then
smoke, smoke;
And in the screens the great sisters of night and
cool stars, sitting women arraying their hair,
Waiting in the sky, waiting with slow easy eyes,
waiting and half-murmuring:
“Since you know all
and I know nothing,
tell me what I dreamed last night.”
The man who put those meaningless phrases
together could write good descriptive prose
if he were honest enough to do it.* He
might even write verse and possibly touch
poetry if he were prepared to leave the
ranks of the literary sharpers and patiently
study his craft. The author himself strikes
the keynote of his whole effort in the won-
derful lines:—
Buy shirts
to sleep outdoors when May comes.
Buy me
something useless to remember you by.
If the American public responds by buying
his book —the most useless thing that could
be imagined— ; he will no doubt remember
and pour out his fancy again with the same
“mystical tenderness” that some of his
American critics profess to find in this
volume.
Fixing His “Place”
What is the ultimate standard by which
literary effort is judged? Certain points
of agreement seem to be arrived at now
and again by which a man’s “place” is fixed;
but even that fixing is always a trifle uncer-
tain, always there is a danger that his
memorial tablet may be unscrewed from its
prominent height in the Temple of Fame
and carried down to the basement. At ran-
dom, most people would be inclined to say
(Continued on page 25.)


JL
w aae
“THE HOUSE OF ECONOMY.”
Economies in Sportsmen’s Weeds at Anthony Horderns’.
Anthony Horderns’ great business stands out as a monument to their merchandising ability and is the natural result of
their policy of supreme value giving. This policy has been steadfastly maintained by The House of Economy through
nearly one hundred years of trading, and continues faithfully and decisively. To-day Anthony Horderns’ strive to serve
a discriminating public better than it has ever done before. Compare our values—Quality and Price, this test serves to
demonstrate why they are never equalled elsewhere. The examples of Sportsmen’s Requisites listed here are representa-
tive of our extensive and varied selections, and the world-famed names of their makers is sufficient guarantee of their
absolute dependability and efficiency.
xcb
YTs7l.—Winchester S.S. Rifle, Model
1902, to take .22 Short, Long or Extra Long
Cartridges, Round Barrel 18 inches long, weight
about 31b •• • 48/-
As above, with Elevating Sight 54/-
xcb
Fishing Tackle
No. 703.—Ash Fishing Rod, 9ft.,
3 joints, with Lancewood top, 10/6
No. 706. —Hickory Fishing
Rod, 12ft., 4 joints, 2 Lancewood
tops 317-
No. 7 11.—Greenheart Rod,
10]ft., 3 joints, Raised Cork Grip, with
Rubber Cushion and 2 tops. . . 47/6
No. 712. —Greenheart Heavy
Sea Rod, 9ft., 3 joints, Ash Butt,
Cork Grip and Rubber Cushion, 47 / 6
English Split-cane Trout Rod,
90/6
English Split-cane Trout Rod,
£7/18/6
Fishing Reels, Gunmetal check, with
revolving handle-plate, trout or perch
reel (No. 4).
spinner for Trout and Perch.
ljin. ljin. lfin. 2in. Ziin.
3/6 3/6 4/- 4/3 4/9
m
Automatic Pistols
Colt’s Automatic Pistol, 22-calibre.
Magazine to hold 8 cartridges; no re-
coil ; fitted with 2 safety devices; well
balanced; good grip (YT62O),
£9/17/6
Colt’s Automatic Pistol, 25-calibre.
Magazine to hold 6 cartridges,
£7/2/6
Webley and Scott 32-calibre
Automatic Pistol. Magazine holds
8 cartridges £6/6/-
Webley and Scott 25-calibre
Pistol. Magazine holds 6 cartridges,
£5/5/-
Savage .32-calibre Automatic
Pistol, Model 1917. Magazine holds
10 cartridges, 3iin. barrel, £B/17/6
Savage .380-calibre Automatic
Pistol, Model 1917. Magazine holds
9 cartridges, 4jin. barrel, £9/10/-
Extra Magazines for .32 and .380 Pistols,
9/- each
xcb
YTs73.—Winchester Repeating Rifle,
1906 Model, designed to take .22 Short, Long
or Long Rifle Cartridges, “Take Down,” extra
light weight, 20in. Round Barrel, Magazine
holds 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cart-
ridges, weight about 51b. .. ... £6/17/6
MAIL YOUR ORDER.—Our Mail
Order Service attends to your every
need expeditiously, efficiently, sat-
isfactorily.
Freight on Guns is extra. Ammuni-
tion, excepting Gunpowder, can be
sent by rail, but not posted. Gun-
powder can only be sent in a
magazine train.
8
A
, •
A
H
A:
m
A
Nd
A
m - g
?s : ?
■/*»
m
J
<3^
f
=£3k
ft
A A
<3:500
ftfM
y o
% '■%
500. —Men’s Black Box Calf Lace Shoe.
as illustrated, neat, straight last, perforated
golosh. Similar style in Tan. PRICE, 27/6
Men’s Cricket-Tennis
Shirts.
White Twill Mercerised Tennis Shirts,
as illustrated, all sizes. PRICE... 11/6
White Mercerised Drill 16/6
White Mercerised Twill (X 102),
12/6, 16/6
Cream Celona 12/6
White Matt H/6, 12/6
The above have collar and pocket attached, or
with neckband only.
White Aertex. Cellular, with collar and pocket
attached, or bands, made to order only 20/-
Men’s Sports’ Suits
Two-piece (Coat and Trousers), in summer-weight
Tweeds. Coat is fashioned with four patch
pockets, stitched-down belt at' back. Trousers
have hip and side pockets, loops for belt, . cuff
bottoms.
Dark Fancy Tweeds 63/-
Light and Dark Grey Tweeds 67/6
Brown and Grey Mixtures 75/-
Eng'lish, Scotch and Irish Tweeds,
110/-, 115/-, 120/-
Fawn Gabardine (Wool) 110/-
Men’s Bathing Costumes
One-piece All-wool Surfing Costume, as
illustrated. Navy, with, facings.. ... 12/-
Also in sizes 32in. 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in.
Prices 11/6 11/6 12/- 12/- 12/6
Men’s Navy One-piece Stockinette Swim-
ming Costumes, the A.S.A. neek-to-knee.
Men’s 5/-, 9/3
V-shaped Trunks to wear with above, 1/10 each
t=3aa.
Calico Tents
6xB. Bxlo. 10x12. 12x14.
Walls 3ft. 3ft. 3in. 3ft. 6|in. 4ft.
AX.. 48/9 68/6 94/6 122/6
cx.. 55/6 78/- 108/- 140/-
DX.. 71/. 98/- 129/- 167/6
Flys to Match.
11x9. 12x12. 15x15. 18x18.
AX.. 27/- 38/6 61/- 87/-
cx.. 30/6 44/- 68/6 99/-
DX.. 37/- 53/6 83/6
119/-
Duck Tents
EX 109/6 151/6 204/- 260/-
Flys to Match.
EX . 58/6 83/6 130/- 186/-
Freight will be extra on Duck Tents.
O
BLACK GUNPOWDER
AMBERITE
CURTIS'S & HARVEY
y HOUNSLOW, -^*
Shooters 9 Sundries
lies! Shot 9(1. lb.
Curtis and Harvey’s Amberite
Smokeless Gunpowder,
5/- 41b. flask.
Eley’s No. 1 Breech-loading
Caps, for smokeless powder, in box
of 100 10/- 1000, 1/3 100
Eley’s No. 2 Breech-loading
Caps, black powder, in box of 100,
10/- 1000, 1/3 100.
Eley’s No. 4 Breech-loading
Caps, 410 cartridges, in box of 100,
10/- 1000, 1/3 100.
Eley’s 12G Grand Prix Cart-
ridge Shells, 106/9 iooo, 10/9
100.
Eley’s 12G Universal Cartridge
Shells, 91/- iooo, 9/6 ioo.
Eley’s Grey Felt Wads, 12G,
16G, 20G, 410 G 9/- lb.
Eley’s Thin Card Wads, 12G,
16G, 20G, 410 G, 4/- 1000, 2/- box
Eley’s Grease-proof Card Wads,
12G, 16G, 20G, 410 G, 4/- 1000,
2/- box.
YT572. Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1904 Model, to take .22 Calibre Short, Long or
Extra Long Cartridges, Round Barrel, 21 innhes long, weight about 41b., with
Elevating Sight 60/-
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
YTsBs.—Remington Auto-Loading Rifle, Model 24a, easily assembled and
taken apart for cleaning or carrying, solid breech, hammerless, will fire Rim Fire .22
Calibre Short Smokeless Cartridges of any make, 20in. Round Barrel, weighs 4ilb.,
Magazine holds 11 cartridges -gg
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Save your
happiness
this year
KODAK
■ I
a
m mmm m
M 9
B .
f *
MB
* *•>
V V* • >
>♦ « V, :
jvy.vv
‘viv/v
;
♦ *
Make a resolution—not to waste any happiness this year, but
to save it for future enjoyment in Kodak or Brownie pictures.
Tlnree Popular Cameras
The No. 2 Box Brownie will delight a child. In this model the utmost
simplicity and reliability ax-e combined in an inexpensive camera, a model that
has stood the test of years. Pictures 2i x3£ inches. Price 18/6
The No. 2 Autographic Folding Brownie is more compact, while retaining
all the simplicity of the Box Brownies. Well made and carefully finished in
every detail. For pictures 2| x inches. Price . 58/-
Of all Kodak dealers, and
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is a compact, reliable camera of
high efficiency. Its ease of operation commends it to the amateur. For
pictures 2\ x3J inches. Price 987-
Other Brownies from 14/6 to, £5/15/-, and Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-,
are described in the Kodak Catalogue. Ask for a copy.
KODAK. (Australasia) PTY LTD.,
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide ; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
All the
Gilbert 8 Sullivan Favorites
recorded by special artists.
As a Gilbert and Sullivan season is always welcomed with delight by all lovers of bright, melodious music, so
always will these records be greeted with enthusiastic applause by you and your friends.
They reveal what Gilbert and Sullivan music can be when interpreted by artists who have made their respective
roles their own.
“His Masters Voice
Complete set of “The Mikado/* comprising 11 12in. double-sided
records in handsome album £6/17/6
Complete set of “The Gondoliers,’* comprising 11 12in double-
sided records in handsome album £6/17/6
JUST LANDED.
Complete sets of “Pinafore,** comprising 9 double-sided Plum
Label Records £3/10/-
Complete sets of “Yeoman of the Guard,” comprising 7 double-
sided Plum Label Records £3/13/6
10in. double-sided Plum Label, 7/>
THE SULLIVAN OPERATIC PARTY.
&522&
Che
&
#»
i
♦
♦
rt
I
*
#
♦
♦
A
M
LA
5
c
&&&
%
m
a
( E&g
8396
! A Regular Royal Queen, “The Gondoliers.’
(. Dance a Cacucha, “The Gondoliers.”
8399
j In Friendship’s Name, “lolanthe.”
I None but the brave deserve the fair, “lolanthe.”
8400
Where Britain Kules the Waves., “lola-nthe.”
With Cat-like Tread, “Pirates of Penzance."
8401
Pour, O King, the Pirate Sherry.
“Pirates of Penzance."
When a Foeman Bares His Steel.
“Pirates of Penzance.”
8402
) The Judge’s Song, “Trial by Jury.”
( The Golf Scene, “Three Uttle Maids.”
12in. double-sided Plum Label, 10/6
LIGHT OPERA COMPANY.
C 517
J “H.M.S. Pinafore”—Gems from, Part 1.
I ‘‘H.M.S. Pinafore”—Gems from, Part 2.
And many others from the complete cata-
logue, which will be forwarded together with
nearest dealer’s name on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“His Master’s Voice,”
Beg. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone
Reg. Trade-mark
"His master's voice"
REGISTERED TRADE MARK


PINKETTES
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
GOLFERS
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.Q., Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
xc
5716
37/6
Dr
Hand Embroiderer
Sold by DAVID JONES, ETD.
FARMER & CO., ETD.
ANTHONY HORDERN &
SONS, LTD.
GRACE BROS., LTD.
HORDERN BROS.
BALL & WELCH.
See daily demonstrations at
W. T. WATERS & CO., LTD.
Free instruction given.
3
bcx
A
3
n
Grey hair
can now be
t r ansformed
to the youth-
ful color of
walnut. Per-
m a n ently—
harmlessly 1
ALL CHEMISTS.
1
MEXICAN
il
FACTS
concerning Queensland
Government Bonds
OF INTEREST TO BUSINESS MEN, PROFESSIONAL MEN,
FARMERS, PASTORALISTS AND WORKERS.
1. The loan is to be expended entirely on
reproductive works; for railways, for water con-
servation, and for loans to local bodies to enable
these latter to improve the public services.
2. This work is all of a developmental
character. It will improve the value of your
holdings; will ensure a ready means to transport
your produce; provide employment; improve the
already comfortable standard of living estab-
lished in this State. In other words, it will
increase production and ensure prosperity.
3. The rate of interest payable is higher than
has ever before been paid on an investment of
this class in Australia.
4. The interest is free of Income Tax,
thereby securing permanence of return notwith-
standing variations in taxation. No other invest-
ment offers you this advantage.
5. It is secured upon the Consolidated
Revenue of this State, which means that the
whole of the vast resources of the community
are pledged to secure its redemption at maturity.
INVEST IN THE ,
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT LOAN
6£% Interest, free of Income Tax.
A SOUND PROPOSITION—BACKED BY YOUR COUNTRY. Full
particulars regarding the Loan may be obtained from any Bank in
Queensland, or any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teefb without scratching
rhe breafb;bardens fbe gams
SB
MADE
Si
IN
AUSTRALIA
> If your chemisr or storekeeper
cannof* supply, send \/z> in stomps
Rocke.TompsittsCo. Melbourne.
V>/
/
-said me toilers step grows
filer- Gdin^ilome!
His day’s work done-
A sweet,.cdoPsmoke, from paj ch and tongue-bite free.
e smokes his CG.B.D
from
it
mm
0
—the perfect pipe.
Many popular shapes. On sale everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shadows Passing.
The rain is falling on tall gum-trees
And shadowed flowers by the river,
When whispering, whistling, a sudden breeze
Sets all the leaves a-quiver.
As great grey clouds part, a sunborn ray
Like the faery touch of story,
Changes the dark hue of the day
To a dream of golden glory.
Young raindrops glitter on grass and tree,
Yonder a bird is singing,
Uttering his soul in melody
On his way through the sunlight winging.
Grey, indeed, was the heart o’ me,
And torn, like the dark clouds flying;
But now, as I look to the lit gum-tree,
Done is my hour of sighing.
N.S.W.
MARJORIE QUINN.
Two Winds.
All day the hot winds bustled in and out
Among the weary trees with scandalous tales,
Heard in the tropic north when Asian gales
Put the discretion of the skies to rout
And gathering cyclone voice began to shout
Their infamies behind seraglio veils.
A story often told by frequence stales;
My trees stood bored, but too polite to doubt.
Then came a merry whisper from the south —.
A singing whisper on a wind that climbed
Panting with hope the last low ridge to gain.
The clean, fine laughter in that,breeze’s mouth
Set the trees dancing, and their grey leaves
rhymed
With a quick lisp' to the cool green of rain
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Lilith.
Eve, whom God gave him, how he tires of her
In the hot summer days, amid the whir
Of tiny insects buzzing in the groves
And ardent butterflies serene with loves!
Then flushed, as is a man who tastes the
grape,
He follows, through the brush, a glimmering
shape
To bruise her with his kisses, drink her up,
As though life held no other food to sup !
Together how they laugh, and watch the
blue,
Careless the while did God Himself look
through!
He brings great poppies for her dusky hair.
And with his trembling fingers plants them
there,
And swears Love couches in her dimpled chin.
But on the days when rain blows grey and
thin
And drips its minors from the slanting leaf,
And the fair fountains are grown thick with
grief,
And the wind chills him and keeps low his
fires,
His love for Lilith is with his desires;
And back he goes to hearthstone and to Eve,
Suddenly virtuous, big with make-believe
That wife and home are best —while Lilith
lies
With aching breasts and hunger in her eyes,
And finds the birds all silent. Lips he kist
Blue with the cold, and lithe limbs pearled
in mist,
With no broad breast to shelter in, no arm
To shield a tasted loveliness from harm !
Like some frail Springtide moth blown down
by storm,
There is* no love-lamp to keep Lilith warm.
Spring, when the rain goes, will leap forth
again
All rosy-heeled from poppies on the plain ;
And one wild bird will rhyme its pulsing
might,
And Adam will remember, soft and white
(Though not so white as Eve), with redder
blood,
How Lilith answers to a tropic mood ;
And with impatient feet will creep again
Through the green marvel of the sugar-cane,
Where by the palm the yellow tiger lies
To seek gold welcome in glad Lilith’s eyes.
Eve can remain to pray within her bower —
The sun’s at noon, and this is Lilith’s hour.
Will she remember then, poor butterfly,
The wet, dark leaves, the grey and lonely
sky?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Incantation.
Poets old and poets young,
That in other dawnings sung,
Where’s the muse and where’s the fire
Hovered o’er your happy lyre?
Struck the strings with sweet accord,
Knight and lady, knave and lord
Turned to song as fountains flow
Many hundred years ago.
Milton, making doom resound
Clarion-clear, as round and round
Dancing Phoebus lifts his bow,
Where’s the mirth he used to blow
Up the hill and down the dale,
Till the muses turning pale,
Passion-struck with revelry,
Died upon his melting plea?
Where’s the wine that Bacchus drank
On the green enchanted bank?
Pipe it! Breathe it! Earth’s as glad
As it was when maid and lad
Laughed in Thessaly or ran
Up the path with piping Pan.
Poets old and poets young,
Pipe the songs by Orpheus sung!
Squandered spilth of summer gold
Fading on these mountains old,
Where will you be gone to-morrow,
From what old suns do vou borrow
All the light and warmth you spill
Over stream and glen and hill?
Stay, for by your power they’ve sung,
Po«ts old and poets young'
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


From Georoe the Third
7o George tke Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820.' Still going strong.
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. NO. 8. —SINGAPfc
Johnnie Walker: “You ‘tap’ the tree for rubber.”
Planter: “Yes, and you ‘top’ the tree for whisky.”
IA
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1921.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2135.
Price 9d.
THEY WANT BREAD AND THE DEVIL SUGGESTS A STONE.
THE MAN: “A loaf of bread, please.”
THE BAKER: “Sorry, only got half a loaf.”
THE BOLSHEVIK DEVIL: “Don’t take it; don’t take it! Be a man and go hungry. What’s that? Kids? Well, let ’em come and throw stones at the shop.”.


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
-Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONGE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
lor £l 16s. per annum you can have The
bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
d° any address overseas, £2 per annum.
it n^ u . es ’ drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
ail Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejused.
T/(e contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political , Social or other Articles 3 Verse , Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable),' Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
Hrect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drqwn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.J,\;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., 7)7
Howard Street, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 7) West Madison Street. Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington. U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, )2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — -Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
dnd News Stores , Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co.. Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Ratfes.
Single copries of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1921. §
THE DREAM AND THE REALITY.
It is suggestive that the countries which have
done their best to kill the League of Nations
are the newly-rich, the strong and the com-
paratively stable. A few weeks ago the
Secretary to the U.S. Navy, commenting on
desire for decreased armaments, said
that “the decisions of foreign Governments
with regard to naval programmes would not
affect the United States programme” ; while
Viscount Is mi remarked that Japan “objected
to observing the conditions for disarmament
proposed by the League while other great
Powers were outside the League and would
not observe the conditions. Japan would in-
crease her armaments in accordance with the
programme already settled for 1921 and pro-
bably for 1922.” The leading pro-League
nations, namely Britain and France, have
not been remarkable in the past for altru-
istic idealism. The Exeter Hall or mugwump
touch never yet made a country great or
rich. It would be a form of futile hypocrisy
from which straight-going Britishers and
Frenchmen recoil to argue that the descend-
ants of the Elizabethan sailors and of the
men who added India to the Empire, and the
heirs of those who marched behind Napoleon,
have suddenly changed their racial spots.
France, riddled, like Italy, with revolution-
ary socialism, wants that relief from ex-
penditure which only disarmament can give;
and Britain, with three times the direct
taxation of France, and, in the words of the
Bishop of Durham’s New Year pastoral, “all
the sinister symptoms of social disintegra-
tion,” is in an equally embarrassed position.
Besides, these great countries have no more
worlds to conquer: though, unlike the man
of whom it was first said, they are not
weeping about it. They suggest rather an
elderly peer who owns great estates and all
the distinctions he wants, and wishes to keep
them unmolested by upstarts and outsiders.
Lord Lansdowne, who is just that sort of
peer, incurred the execration of fighting Eng-
land in 1917 by proclaiming himself a
Leagueite before the time w r as ripe—before,
in fact, the idea had been born. He wanted
what was then called “a premature peace”
for the same reasons that thousands now
want a League of Nations —because he knew
there was nothing more to be gained by war
and because he feared a revolution and the
destruction of his order unless the war
stopped. Leagueism is, in fact, the inter-
national equivalent of Toryism. It is the
policy of the “haves” ; and no one but the
possessor of an ostrich’s mentalitv is going to
deceive himself into the belief that the “have-
nots” are ignorant of the fact.
The .admirable, principles inspiring the
League idea have inspired endless other move-
ments which have failed, at any rate as re-
gards universality; and every one of these
movements—possibly because the opposition
of the unrighteous never allowed them to
become universal—has brought more misery
than happiness to the human race. No more
beautiful ideal has been offered to humanity
than the Christian religion, and no institution
has provoked so much dissension, hatreds,
controversy, injustice and bloodshed. Rous-
seau s “Social Contract” is as much praised
by moralists as (say) MaciiiavellTs “The
prince is damned. The .Italian cynic’s
theories never harmed anyone; the teachings
or the I renchman, who was humane to an
f , U(^in degree, led to the most dread-
ful triglittulness France has known, and when
it ended, though an emperor ruled instead of
a king, there were still wars, anguish snd
starvation. Cobden practised a completer
and hence more logical Leagueism than any
modern politician. He wanted the world to
disarm fiscally as well as militarily; and he
believed that if Britain— which then led in-
as well as on the sea—followed his
advice, the other nations, appreciating the
sense and virtue of such an action, would
follow suit. Britain tried the experiment of
. reetrade. It could afford to then, just as
it can now afford to cease expanding over-
seas. The upstart peoples of the period,
notably the German, did with their tariffs
what the. Japanese of to-day threaten to do
with their defence forces: they increased
them. Simultaneously the British proletariat
began a hideous era of low wages and un-
limited hours. The political religion designed
to give peace and happiness to mankind in
general was rejected by all but the few to
whom it brought, on the whole, misery and
loss. Kropotkin’s “Mutual Aid” was
written to shatter the IwW of “tooth and
claw. ’ The author contended that it was
leaily the lion’s nature to lie down with the
lamb; that the civilised races only needed
good will and a little elementary machinery
much the same Parliament of Nations which
is now being proposed at Geneva and ivhich
A C - t J?>* y existed a t the Hague when “Mutual
Aid first saw the light—in order to slough
off unworthy ambition, pride, arrogance and
greed and become like well-dispositioned
brothers. Kropotkin’s great work, which
teaches peace and trust, rather than Marx’s,
which advocates unceasing war and even
terrorism, was the direct inspiration of the
Russian revolution. This revolution began
in an atmosphere of communal love and fair-
dealing which extended even to the German
pnsoners. There were no more enemies in
the world, only brethren. The situation
resembled for a time that forever dead epoch
when a pagan was impelled to cry. “How
these Christians love one another >” How it
ended the who’e world knows.
* t i
Nationalism lias always proved stronger
than .internationalism. Is there a single in-
dication, outside the pronouncements of such
doubtful prophets of sacrifice and fair-
dealing as the leading statesmen and dip-
lomats of Europe, that things have changed
since the war? It is nationalism that impels
England to cling to Ireland— the country
which can’t be allowed to be free because it
is its. neighbor’s buttress. It is nationalism
that is driving the French to oppress the
Germans, that keeps U.S.A. in the Philip-
pines and Samoa, and turns the eyes of
Asiatics in the direction of Australia. The
emotion is as natural as pride and as com-
mon as the desire for wealth. But if
nationalism is a strong man, individualism
is a giant. It is individualism that has de-
feated the best intentions of every dreamer,
from the Saviour down to the man to whom
He was freely compared barely a year ago.
The first act of the Bolshevik Government
was to abolish the death-penalty; the next
to declare war a crime and disband the
army ; the third to announce that work was
only for slaves and might be discontinued.
“The lowest estimate of victims of the re-
volutionary tribunals,” according to Karl
Kautsky, “puts the number at 6000; others
give the total as double that number, others
treble ; and over and above these are num-
berless cases of people who have been
immured alive or ill-treated and tortured to
death.” The same man who had broken up
Russia’s White Armies was forced to organ-
ise its present Red Armies. And, now,
according to a cable of December 29’
“Trotsky (People’s Commissary for Military
Affairs) is favorably considering a scheme
to establish a great system of militarism
under which all men up to the age of 50
will be trained as soldiers. Trotsky,” the
message continues, “urges that Russia
should be turned into a great mili-
tary camp. This would cause her to
be respected throughout the world.”
The men who abolished work had to reim-
pose it in the form of slavery extending from
daylight to dark. They were guilty of these
contradictions as individualists. Had they
stuck to their principles they would have
perished. There would have been no need
for executions if all had played the strict
revolutionary game; no need for armies if
the outside world and the dispossessed in-
side Russia had accepted Sovietism ; no need
for compulsory labor if the arrival of com-
munism had been sufficient to exorcise idle-
ness. But in practice nothing of this sort
ever happens, the reason being that the
world is not ethically able to live up to
such notions. Nor. does any large section
of it seem likely to live up to the League of
Nations, There are countries which can
afford to toy with the vision splendid, though
even these seem determined to keep their
powder dry during the process. But Aus-
tralia is in the same box as Canada, inas-
much as while the great Pacific Powers re-
ject Leaguism it seriously can’t consider the
subject either.
A BATTLE IN WHICH ONLY ONE
SIDE IS ALLOWED TO FIGHT.
The New Year opened with a hold-up of the
Victorian coal supply, of the Westralian
State-owned railway system and of the
coastal shipping. It was the third glad year
which had opened with a shipping stinke,
and unless the community takes stock of its
powers and responsibilities there may be
many more such openings until people give
up having New Years, and the race loses
count of time and relapses into savagery and
chaos. For this is the new creed taught by the
new leaders, some of them blatant semi-
criminal cast-offs from overseas, whom Labor
has taken to its bosom, or who have taken
Labor, bosom and all, and made it their
chattel: —■
(1) Labor Shall Not Fight for Australia. —
Very reluctantly its bosses sometimes admit that
defence—untrained and undisciplined defence —
should be compulsory when invasion actually takes
place, the invader choosing his own time, oppor-
tunity and place of landing. But they hold that
when an enemy arises like the Hun with the avowed
intention of wrecking the Empire and stealing its
outlying sections (including ourselves), we should
hold aloof, if not actually turn traitor and favor the
enemy, and leave our allies to be beaten in detail.
Then, when the defeated Empire has ceded us to
the stranger as the price of peace, it, is suggested
that we should (possibly) put up a hysterical and
hopeless and belated single-handed scrap among the
ruins of Melbourne or Sydney or Canberra, and be
afterwards banged as rebels, when we might have
kept the disaster half a globe away and scrapped
successfully amid the ruins of Ypres. The one sin
for which Political Labor grants no pardon is not
blasphemy against the Holy Ghost, as old Scrip-
ture has it, but advocacy of service to keep the war
from our hearths and the men of rapine away from
our daughters.
(2) Labor Shall Not Pay for Australia. —The
classes which have an alleged indubitable right to
tax exemption include especially the manual worker
even if he is well off, and with him are lumped the
soft-handed leather-lunged talkers who have installed
themselves as leaders because they can make more
and easier money that way than any other.
(3) Labor Shall Not Work for Australia
unless the factories, mines, workshops, machinery,
railways, etc., are handed over to it —not to the
natifin, but to a privileged section thereof. Then it
will work, not for Australia, but for itself, giving
such service or lack of service as it pleases, and
allowing no one to intrude on its close corporation
and do the work it leaves undone. Its alleged griev-
ance against the private employer has become a
sham, for it rises against the State employer as
readily as against anybody else.
(4) Labor Shall Not Love Australia. —lt may
love Ireland, the Church, Trotsky, the Hun, the
International or Paul Freeman, but not its mother-
land.
This poisonous creed has developed during
the last handful of years—since it became
worth the while, first of Huns and later of
both Bolsheviks and Huns, to “white ant”
the Empire and its industries, institutions
and liberties in South Africa, Australia, Eng-
land and elsewhere. In England some efforts
have been made to stop the rot, and among
other things our imported Tom Walsh’s
sister-in-law was accommodated in gaol on
the charge of taking money from a foreign
enemy to run an organ of treason. In Aus-
tralia little or nothing has been even
attempted.
1 * ' •. * %
This country, especially Queensland, N. S.
Wales and Westralia, where the non-British
element is strongest, lives now from strike to
strike and from loan to loan. In the days of
the early shearing and Broken Hill troubles
and of the Victorian railway stoppage of 1903,
the strike was a legitimate protest against
the lack of arbitration laws. Now Australia
possesses the most' enlightened arbitration
laws that a long series of Labor Govern-
ments could devise, and in the two most
troubled States Labor Governments exist to
improve them wherever necessary. Strikes
under these conditions are sheer brigandage.
In the big upheavals with which 1921 opened
the. strikers were, as usual, standing out for
their “rights,” these being whatever the
strikers liked to ask and as much as they
could take. The “rights” of the pirate,
burglar and brigand are exactly the same.
But the man who refuses arbitration, instead
of robbing an individual here and there while
leaving the fabric of society standing, revolts
against the community, and against the prin-
ciple of one adult one vote, and against the
self-governing rights of the majority, and
against the public peace and against civilisa-
tion. He has secured for the time the
amazing privilege that he doesn’t pay when
he loses. To make him do so even in the
smallest way would be “victimisation,” which
is set up as a cardinal sin like parricide,
only to be mentioned with shudders. Yet the
burglar, brigand and pirate who define their
own “rights” and reach out for what they
want are not spoken of as being “victimised”
because there is something to pay when the
grab fails. While the bulk of the community,
in which every man and woman is suppos' d
to be equal, assumes a purely passive attitude
towards any small section that chooses to do
the hold-up act, there are three possibilities:
(1) The people who defy their own laws, and
throw numbers besides themselves out of
work, and blockade State and private enter-
prise just as a foreign invader might, and do
their utmost to force the community by
misery and starvation to buy them off. may
get their blackmail in full. Whereupon they
show no gratitude and give no guarantee
that they won’t promptly demand more. (2)
They may get part of what they want (there
is generally a compromise), whereupon they
make no disguise of the fact that the peace
will be broken at the first opportunity and
that they will come back for the rest. (3)
They may fail for the moment, but as they
pay nothing for their breach of faith and of
law the hold-up is always worth trying. To
exact any penalty, no matter how unreason-
ing the breach and how enormous the loss,
Would, as already mentioned, be “victimisa-
tion,” which word, by dint of much im-
pressive iteration, has become as blessed as
“Mesopotamia.” To remember a past sin is
a dreadful thing unless, it is the sin of pro-
posing that when war is forced upon us we
shouldn’t wait till the enemy comes here, and
loots cities and dishonors women, but should
keep him at a distance. That sin is to be
remembered till past Judgment Day, and it
has been so ever since the baser sort of
Labor leaders began to take Hun and other
alien pay.
* * * *
The strikers lose not so very much even
while the fight lasts. Their landlords lose.
Their hard-worked, ill-paid, long-hour wives
(who have no vote in union matters, for the
union leader of the inferior type has a poor
opinion of the female drudge) are sure to
suffer. Tradespeople may be unpaid. There
is great trouble for a multitude of folk quite
outside the orbit of the original shindy, who
aren’t allowed to make use of the buildings,
machinery, vehicles, etc., which belong to
them because people to whom they don’t
belong will have it so. But the average able-
bodied striker, if he has chosen his cam-
paigning season wisely, can scramble along
without any real tragedy for quite a while
in a balmy climate. If he succeeds in col-
lecting his claim then the original offender
is the only one in the mix-up who doesn’t
lose. Incidentally, there is always an appeal
to the harmless, helpless neutral who has
n 0 blackmail to collect that he shall, per-
sonally or through the Treasury, put up
money for the women and children, and thus
indirectly help to keep the movement going.
Unless he is a dog or a worm or both he
is supposed to do something of the sort.
One way and another it seems up to
allegedly brilliant Labor Governments like
those of Storey and Theodore, which hold
office for the special purpose of doing full
justice to Labor, to find a remedy, no matter
what it costs, and end the uncertainty. If
they won’t, then they apparently propose
that the community shall always live in the
midst of alarms which grow continuously
worse—Jive like the early settlers by the
Mississippi, with the savage always lurking
over the horizon, only without their privi-
lege of shooting back ; that it shall drag out
existence never knowing what ruin a day
may bring forth ; and dwell always in fear
of some vulgar, capricious tyrant who is full
of furious threats about “taking over” the
results of a life’s Work, and who must
be approached with bated breath and whis-
pering humbleness. Unionism has been made
by its new leaders a one-sided game. It
has extensive privileges, but it doesn’t pro-
fess, even in rare times of peace, to have
any particular duties in return. While it
lays down the theory that only unionists
should be allowed to work, it doesn’t in the
least undertake to supply an adequate num-
ber of them to do the necessary work. Nor
does it undertake that those it does Supply
shall be capable. The chief qualifications
are that one shall pay dues and levies, even
illegal ones; shall obey the strike order with-
out question ; shall disregard the law when
ordered (shearers who declined to break the
4S-hour award were refused renewal of their
membership until the courts were invoked,
and it has been seriously suggested that the
names of all such law-keepers should be sent
through the country so that they may be
persecuted and victimised to the limit) ;
that he shall be hostile to the defence of
Australia; shall hate all employers, and be
a nark generally. But it is not stipulated
that he shall be good at his alleged trade,
and while ■ the merely professing Christian
matters only to himself, the merely profess-
ing boilermaker matters to the industry of
the country. Then the leaders of the newest
unionism claim freedom from any obligation
to observe treaties ; hence perhaps the open
admiration of some of them for the Hun
with his cynical scoff at a mere "scrap of
paper.” Also, they expect that no resist-
ance shall be offered them when they declare
war on the community unless passive en-
durance and hunger strike are resistance.
Any attempt to enforce the law and the
keeping of treaties is “coercion.” When
strikes were few and far between the pas-
sive attitude answered more or less. But
now they are daily or hourly events, and
schemes are mooted to make them chronic
and universal, all unions being one union
and one imported adventurer being author-
ised to press the button. So the position is
changed. There begins to be a danger that
industry, except such primitive sorts as can
be done by the solitary worker who is his
own employer, will dodder friendless to the
grave. A possible remedy lies in making the
fight two-sided —in the community going on
strike against illegal strikers. It has as
much right to forbid them the use of its
post offices, railways, tramways, banks, hos-
pitals, cemeteries and even its police and
law courts as they have to forbid it the use
of its railways. It has as much, right to
intercept their contributions and to seques-
trate their funds as they have to intercept
its mails and sequestrate its steamers. And
to black-list professional strike-raisers—
bravoes who have no interest in indus-
try, but murder industry for hire—to black-
list them as voters and politicians would be
far less outrageous than their attempts to
black-list non-strikers. It is a poor, unin-
spiring battle in which one side fights and
declares that the other is a hound if it hits
back.
WHEN THE STATE WENT WHEAT
DEALING.
It is now clear that the N. S. Wales farmers
will never learn the whole truth about the
manipulation of their war wheat. Weary of
waiting for Georgeson to recover his health
and memory, Justice Pring has returned his
commission and left the tale half told. Suf-
ficient, however, has been elicited to show
that while the farmers who grew the wheat
lost heavily on the transaction’ the mice and
the middlemen and the weevils and the con-
tractors had the time of their lives. Plain
it is also that the operations of the para-
sites who fattened on the grain were made
easy by the rottenest sort of State mis-
management, the most fatuous that has
come, to light even in Australia, where such
ineptitude has grown familiar. To “manage”
a 60.000.000-bushel harvest, worth at
least £16,000,000, the Government of the day
appointed a clerk at £4OO a year. The
gentleman “had had no experience in dealing
with' wheat.” His first assistant was a


book-keeper at £4 a week, and there was also
a clerk at 10s. a day. Presently, when
the work became overwhelming, they were
reinforced by junior clerks, "the flotsam
and jetsam of the departments.’’ One of
these bright youths didn’t know the differ-
ence between the debit and the credit side
of a cash-book. In the result there were
“a great many” errors of calculation in the
invoices for oversea shipments.' “A great
many” accounts were not entered in the
record-book. Double payments were made
to creditors; short payments made by debtors.
There was no record of the number of
bushels in each stack, nor of the amount of
wheat deposited by each farmer. Neither
was there any system of checking the quan-
tity of wheat received at the port
with that consigned from the country; con-
signment notes were not sent down. In
short, the accounts got into such an appalling
condition that the Auditor-General refused
to have anything to do with them. A public
accountant retained by the Farmers and
Settlers’ Association reported that the muddle
was inconceivable, and “the utter laxity and
ignorance that prevailed in the office” are
emphasised by Justice Pbing,
* * * *
In the general disorder and haphazardness
other things happened. Gbahame, Minister
of Agriculture, broke a contract with
Lindley Walker and Co., and the breach
“cost the State” (i.e., the farmers) £BlBO.
T. Smith and Co. bought twine for bagging
wheat at from 12s. 6d. to 245. 6d. per dozen
pounds, and sold it to the State Wheat
Office at from 365. to 40s. Other
firms were prepared to do business at prices
ranging from 16s. to 225., but they weren’t
invited to quote. R. H. A. Riieuben, an in-
spector in the State Wheat Office, arranged
the contracts, and T. Smith and Co. made
“a profit of 100 per cent, and over,” and
so gratified were T. Smith and Co. that
they cashed open cheques for large sums in
favor of “Commission (various) ” and “Petty
cash.” A day or two after these cheques
were cashed large sums found their way
into R. 11. A. Rheuben’s bank account.
The same gentleman received £3OO from one
Siieedy in circumstances which, according
to Justice Pbing, “point to a conspiracy to
bribe a public officer in the execution of his
duty.” Sheedy was a liquidator of Pubdie
and Co., sub-agents for Lindley Walkee
and Co., to whom they owed £1285 in respect
of the handling of wheat, and Lindley
Walker and Co. owed the Wheat Office a
still larger amount in their turn. But
“Rheuben remitted from Lindley Walker
and Co.’s debit a total of £3837 17s. 3d., the
result being that Pubdie and Co., instead of
being indebted to Lindley Walker and
Co., were in credit with them to the extent
of £2552 12s. lid.” Lindley Walker and
Co. sent Sheedy a cheque for £2552 12s.
lid., of which Rheuben got £3OO and
Martin, his brother-in-law, £lOO. But the
heavens were fairly raining affluence at this
time. It was the period when Geobgeson
and Talbot struck it lucky in wheat con-
tracts, and Gbahame was so uncommonly
successful in spotting winners. About the
only parties who didn’t share in the general
contagion of good fortune were the farmers.
Apart from the profits gathered in by
Geobgeson and Talbot and the amounts
overpaid to operators like Smith and Co.,
about 3,500,000 bushels of wheat, represent-
ing at least £1,000,000 in hard money, were
wantonly wasted. Some of this grain was
stolen from the stack—Justice Pbing notes
that “there has been considerable thieving”
—and more was destroyed by mice and
weevils. Respecting the mouse plague in
particular, the Commissioner finds “a sorry
record of inefficiency, both on the part of
the Wheat Office and the Advisory Board.”
But it is not intended to compensate the
growers of the wheat, part of whose pro-
perty was ruined by inexcusable neglect,
part stolen by siding-thieves and other rob-
bers, and the remainder sold for prices which
when all charges, legitimate and otherwise,
had been met, yielded less than the cost of
production.
* * * *
If all the facts were set down the
manoeuvres of Geobgeson and Talbot would
form the most interesting chapter of a sordid
history, but it is actually the least inform-
ative section of the Pbing report.
Geobgeson was unable to appear, and of him
the Commissioner says nothing. Of Talbot
he saw enough “to satisfy me that he was
quite unreliable and that he would not hesi-
tate to descend to corrupt practices to gain
his own ends” ; but this merely excites curi-
osity without satisfying it. Nor has Justice
Pbing dispelled the mystery enveloping Tal-
bot’s present of £5OO to Carl Johnston, one
of the Labor members for Bathurst. He is
“unable to say whether or not the money was
given for the purpose of closing the Wheat
Commission.” It is clear to him that neither
Dooley, the acting-Premier, nor Mutch, the
Minister of Education, knew that money had
passed between Talbot and Johnston, and
that no pressure was brought on the Storey
Government to bring the wheat inquiry to an
end, but he is “by no means certain that
Johnston has given a full and true account
of what took place between him and Talbot.”
Which presumably means that the Judge is
unable to conceive of any good reason why
Johnston should have taken Talbot’s
money or why Talbot should have been so
lavishly generous to Johnston. At the
time Johnston was fingering Talbot’s
£5OO the Labor party was saying the harsh-
est things about the other side’s alleged
kindness to Talbot. With one hand, as it
were, it was blackening Talbot’s counten-
ance ; with the other it was clutching his
money. It made capital out of the man by
heaving rocks at his reputation and at the
same time converted portion of his capital to
its war-chest. It is fortunate for the party
that, amidst the roaring cataracts of invec-
tive that assailed all ears in those days, the
public had no-suspicion of the truth/
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mad Dog.
Thebe is an element of probability about
the statement that Russia is to be organised
into a nation of soldiers or an armed camp
with military service up to the age of 50
(Under the Czars the age-limit was 43 )
The nation has already been organised as
a compulsory-service, low-wage industrial
army, which was very much the way Sambo
was organised on the cotton plantations in
the slavery days, and the Government which
could carry through such an extraordinary
scheme as that should have no trouble over
a simple, matter-of-course, business-like mili-
tary service. The cable simply announces
that Trotsky is fixing up the busi-
ness. Trotsky and a couple of colleagues
apparently fix up all business. Sometimes
somebody remembers to mention the Soviet
as the nominal ruling body; quite as often
everybody forgets. The ostensible purpose
of this gigantic army is to make the coun-
try respected and safe from attack; but
when account is taken of the weak or broken
surrounding States, from Finland round to
Bokhara (annexed the other day), it seems
rather that the mysterious monster is on
the warpath. Bolshevism is avowedly a
missionary faith, with a self-appointed
errand to conquer the world, and a self-
given right to the bodies and souls of the
unbelievers and of the believers also. It
consists really of a handful of men whose
extirpation would probably make an end of
it, backed by the strangest big nation on
earth —one that combines more than the dog-
like submissiveness of the Bengali with
fighting qualities which are' not often
surpassed. The average Russian, as dis-
tinguished from the rare “intellectual,
is lost without a master, and would still
doubtless be following a Czar wffth' canine
fidelity, only a more masterful master came
along and called Towser with a more strenu-
ous voice. Whereupon Towser obeyed;
and if his new proprietor knows how to
direct him as well as he imagines, great and
terrible things become possible. The new
oligarchy is fortified by the godlike doctrine
that it is a moral law unto itself and that
no faith need be kept with heretics. . What-
ever it does is right, for being god it can’t
do wrong. In this respect it is faithfully
reflected by its agents, including those of
the 0.8.TJ. in Australia, who hold no
promise binding and no faith sacred and no
conduct vile so long as it tends to the
destruction of the present state of society.
It is merely a question whether the resources
of the new movement are equal to the bad-
ness of its intentions —the mental resources
chiefly, for the physical ones are certainly
considerable. The fact that the physical
resources are hungry may even help the
crusade, for the thought of food ahead is a
great influence. It ,is all a mad-dog busi-
ness and only to be met by the methods used
in countries where rabies is understood. So
it looks as if the world will have to stand at
attention a while longer and not be in too
much haste to beat its sword into a motor-
car. The roar of fresh armaments alto-
gether drowns the platitudes of Wilson,
still talking faintly and interminably on his
political death-bed.
Syndicalism and Summer Diarrhoea.
From the State which, when the following
was written, had neither ships nor trains:
The railway strike, or rebellion, in Westralia for
255. per seven-hour day, with 50 per cent, more for
overtime and night work and double pay for Sun-
days, has some relation to the fact that a State
election is due shortly and that in the ordinary
course of events the Labor party would lose. It
was decided upon, and is being run by, the disputes
committee of the Perth Trades Hall, which is largely
composed of Labor politicians and would-be Labor
politicians, and when these worthies voted for a
strike they had one eye on the union and the other
on the ballot-box. The conception of a short, sharp,
well-advertised dispute closing in the capitulation
of the Government and their own election to Parlia-
ment by an admiring populace appealed to them
strongly. But there are extremists on the committee
as well as political aspirants, and, once affairs
reached a crisis, the Bolshies took charge and the
politicals were perforce driven much further than
they meant to go. It is the familiar experience in
these matters, but the pronunciamentos of the hector-
ing persons who assumed control of the strike and
brought the industrial life of their State to a stand-
still are unusually insolent, even for Australia. The
loco.-men struck irj defiance of the Arbitration Court,
under whose awards they have been working for
nearly 20 years. They are, nevertheless, alleged to
have been “forced out of work by the obstinacy of
the Commissioner of Railways,” whose “obstinacy”
consisted in wanting the Court to adjudicate; and
payment to them of full wages for the time they are
idle in consequence of their own lawless act is, they
insist, to be a condition precedent to their return
to duty. Full wages are also demanded for the
other railwaymen who have been put off because the
engine-drivers, firemen and cleaners refuse to toil.
“Immediate relief” is likewise insisted upon for
“all who are, or may be, thrown out of work by the
dispute,” the strikers included. In short, the Govern-
ment is commanded to support the strike against
itself by feeding the men who won’t work for it.
Wherf the process is complete—that is to say, when
the Government has exhausted itself by supplying
the rebels with their commissariat —the triumphant
and well-fed faction will receive the first-fruits of
victory—2ss. a day for the time they absented them-
selves from toil.
These engaging proposals are new features of “the
industrial revolution.” By way of popularising them
with the taxpayers, who will have to find the money,
the disputes committee refused to run trains for the
convenience of passengers stranded 400 miles from
their homes. It haughtily declared that it, and
not the Government, would attend to the necessities of
Outback communities, which, without food trains from
the coast, would starve in a week. It also announced
that, provided the “obstinate” Commissioner was
forthwith sacked, the unions were prepared to take
over the railways and “run them for the people,”
having the necessary knowledge, skill and enthusiasm
to do the thing properly. The Government has de-
clined this remarkable proposition, which in some
respects is a pity. It would be an interesting ex-
periment, and conditionally upon the users of the
railways being adequately protected—there have
been two massive increases of freights and fares in
12 months, and Westralia, a country of low-grade
industries in which the margin of profit is small,
can hardly stand any more—it would be bound to
have salutary results all over the Commonwealth.
In 1918-19 the loss per train mile on the Westralian
railways was Is. BJd., the total deficiency being
£359,794. In December, 1919, the employees got
rises of from Is. sd. to 2s. lid. a day, and their
hours were reduced, in most cases from 48 to 44
per week; moreover they were awarded 41 months’
back pay. The total increased cost of this award
was £200,000 per annum, and although the Depart-
ment cut out return tickets and raised freights all
round the 1919-20 deficit amounted to £399,215;
loss per train mile being Is. 7-Jd. In August, 1920,
there was another appeal to the Arbitration Court,
and this time an individual rise was granted of 2s.
4d. per day, per annum all told, to-
gether with £93,000 back pay. Again the Depart-
ment bumped up fares and freights, the new
schedule being calculated to bring in another
£337,000 per annum. But in the first half of 1920-
21 the new revenue was exceeded by the new
expenditure; in other words, the deficit continued to
grow.
The demands of the drivers are, of course, addi-
tional to the increases granted in December, 1919,
and September, 1920, in which they shared. Distri-
buted throughput the railway service as the others
were, this new levy, on the Westralian taxpayer
would bloat the wages-bill to the extent of another
£1,500,000 a year and raise the annual deficiency
to about £2,000,000. In the pre-war days, before
Australian trade-union leaders had been corrupted
or demoralised by foreign incendiaries, the Westra-
lian railways paid their way. In the last four
.recorded years they have piled up a deficit of
£1,262,848. Nevertheless Kenneally, of the
engine-drivers and firemen, is positive that this im-
poverished and decrepit undertaking can stand a
rise of wages to 255. a day and a decrease of hours
to 42 a week, and Haynes, of the other railway
union, talks with equal assurance of the burning
need for a further reduction to the six-hour day.
One regrets that these exuberant persons aren’t to
be allowed to show how it can be done. The
attempt to make a bankrupt concern payable by
doing the minimum of work for the maximum of
wages wouldn’t last long, but it would be exciting
while it did last. It would be a practical experiment
in syndicalism on which so much theoretical gas is
expended, and would subject the strange economic
beliefs current among the Australian trade unions—
e.g., that the less work a man does the more em-
ployment there will be, and that in the most desper-
ately insolvent condition of a business, or a country,
there exists, somehow, an inexhaustible wage-fund
—to the test of experience. Railway strikes are
generally of brief duration, and this one may not
extend beyond a fortnight. Even so its probable
effect will be the closing down of a few more gold-
mines ; another the killing of a few score of “bottle”
babies. For it is summer-diarrheea time in the
West, and nearly all Perth’s milk supply comes by
train from the country.
Polluted to Make a Politician’s Job
Secure.
On December 1 the N. S. Wales Ven-
ereal Diseases Act came into force after re-
maining in abeyance for two years. Many
reasons, all futile, were given by the Holman
Government for omitting to make the
measure operative. The true explanation
was bound up with political tactics: the
Nationalists were afraid of the V.D. vote.
Labor also baulked at the fence for as long
as it dared, but finally had to take it. Inside
three weeks 1500 cases were notified. And
then the press was informed that “the Min-
ister for Health is not rigidly enforcing the
compulsory notification clauses. An amend-
ing Act will be introduced next session which
will delete the clause in question and provide
for greater facilities for treatment.” There
are two ways of attacking disease —by pre-
vention and by cure. Many thousands are
saved from disaster every year because the
doctor or civilian who failed to notify a case
of diphtheria or typhoid or small-pox would be
regarded as a lunatic if not as a criminal.
When the plague visited Sydney 20 years ago
some of the wealthier citizens protested
against the drastic measures taken by the
Government. They thought it outrageous
that the foundations of their properties
should be torn up, and they protested against
being sent to a lazar house at Long Bay
when it would have been more comfortable
to be ill at home. But the Executive was
adamant. Executives always are in respect
of every class of disease but one. All six
Australian States now have V.D. Acts; but
because under the Party system of govern-
ment no Administration can afford to offend
any very large section, not one of these Acts
is being obeyed in its entirety. Thus while
about 20,000 infections have been notified to
date in Australia, no one has been proceeded
against for “knowingly spreading infection.”
Still, outside N. S. Wales, notification has
been going on freely, and in some of the
States —particularly Westralia—with ex-
cellent results. In the case of syphilis and
gonorrhea, as with the plague, notification
is the basis of the whole preventive campaign.
If every venereal disease-centre were only
notified and treated, as every plague-centre
was in Sydney at the beginning of the cen-
tury, one of humanity’s greatest scourges could
be eliminated in the Commonwealth as
surely as small-pox which ravaged western
Europe in the Middle Ages has been
eliminated there. Even under existing con-
ditions, when many doctors are lax about
notifying V.D., and when notified cases
manage to evade treatment altogether or to
discontinue it prematurely— 'even under these
unfavorable- circumstances much good has
been done and incalculable misery averted.
But if Health Minister McGirr gets his way
N. S. Wales will be transformed into a
venereal subjects’ refuge ;it will become the
only State in the Commonwealth where no-
thing of a hostile nature is done to V.D. and
it is certain in consequence to be inundated
with the most undesirable of immigrants—
those who are too polluted to be acceptable to
the otligr States. Citizens of the Mother
State, while still debarred from having
noxious drains, will be at liberty to be as
filthily infective as they like personally. They
will continue to be punished for destroying
their neighbors’ fences or fowl-houses, but
they will be licensed by statute, as it were,
to destroy their neighbors’ daughters’ health
for life. All very illogical, the plain man
will say. Not at all! It stands for the
highest form of logic some politicians ever
acquire—that which is bound up with votes.
* ‘Parliamentary Blackguardism. ’’
“A.E.M.”: The Bulletin’s recent remarks
on the cowardly habit of stabbing people
from - behind the shelter of Parliamentary
privilege have been good strokes for decency
in public life. But let it not be thought that
the evil is confined to Australia. Two in-
teresting examples of it were reported in the
London Spectator of July 10 last. An
English M.P. made or implied in a question
in Parliament a serious accusation against
one of the members of the Indian Caliphate
Delegation then in England. The Indian
invited the member to repeat the accusation
outside, so that he might bring”"an action
and arrive at the truth about “a wicked and
malignant libel.” The M.P. refused, where-
upon the Indian appealed to the Speaker
and asked for protection. Would he be per-
mitted to refute this accusation before the
Bar yf the House? The Speaker could do-
nothing for him, and there the matter stands.
The Spectatok added that its editor had
twice been “grossly libelled” by name on the
floor of the House, and on both occasions
his invitations to the members concerned to
repeat their words outside were declined.
Apart from the shocking injustice of this
privilege, does it never occur to members of
Parliament that their immunity weakens
their influence? As the Spectator pointed
out, if the privilege were abolished, the
greater responsibility that would attach to
a member’s charges would give them more
weight. Jones reads in his paper that
Blatherskite, M.P., has accused a promi-
nent citizen of being a Hun spy or a white-
slave trafficker. But Jones knows Blather-
skite and is aware of the effect of Parlia-
mentary privilege. “That’s only Blather-
skite,” he says to himself; “he knows that
he cannot be called upon to prove what he
says; it’s probably all bunkum.” If Jones
knew that Blatherskite talked with the
law of libel round his neck, he would sit
up and take notice. There is still more in
this shameful plea of privilege. It is the
sort of thing that weakens the plain man’s
belief in politicians and helps to make him
disgusted with the political system. Blather-
skite puts his hand on his heart and casts
up his eyes, and declares that it is incompre-
hensible to him and to all right-thinking men
that anybody should prefer Direct Action
to Constitutional procedure. But Blather-
skite is himself partly responsible for the
spread of the Direct Action doctrine, simply
because he does not play the game as it is
played among decent men.
The Sawbones Trade.
“C.M.” erom another consulting-room:—
“Macquarie Street” (B. 6/l/’2l) did not say half
what he might have said about the rush to- enter
the medical profession. Not only are the schools
turning out a half-educated proletariat of doctors,
but those attending clinical classes are far more
numerous than can be properly accommodated. Five
or six years ago the glory of Sydney Medical School
was that every graduate had been thoroughly coached
in the ABC of his profession. It turned out com-
petent men who could be relied on not to make silly
mistakes. But that is not the case now; for there
are far more students than the hospitals can possibly
accommodate. Last year the classes in clinical
surgery at Prince Alfred were divided into divisions
of 1G each, who remained five or six weeks with
each lecturer. Imagine a crowd of 16 hanging over
one bed, with teacher, resident and sister—not to
mention the somewhat interested patient—all
struggling for air together! And imagine what a
perfect farce the teaching must become! Surgery
is an art- founded on a science; medicine is much
the same; and like every other art it must be taught
by personal exemplification. Not only are the poor
students crowded out of the clinical teaching by their
own numbers, but they are so harassed by endless
lectures that they have no time to attend to their
proper work, which is the observation of disease in
hospitals. The ideal medical school should have no
lectures whatever; a student should learn his anatomy
in the dissecting-room, his physiology in the practical
room, and his medicine, surgery, gynecology, and mid-
wifery in the hospitals. I believe something like this
is done at John Hopkins, in Baltimore, which turns
out some of the best doctors in the world; but we are
so deluded with the worship of the printed word that
we have no time for practical work, and compel our
poor boys to bury their brains beneath tons of
medical books.
In clinical surgery you teach boys—and a few
girls—to handle, observe, listen, measure, feel and
see. You cannot possibly do that to a crowd which
is pushing to get a glimpse of a sick man. You
cannot do it satisfactorily to more than three or
four students at once. You want them to be able to
feel an enlarged gall-bladder, for instance, in a fat
old man; and it is difficult enough to get one
student to feel it for himself, let alone 16. Yet no
man ought to be allowed to pass the final unless he
really can feel such a thing. But how can you
expect him to feel it when the poor wretch has
never had a chance, but has only read it all up out
of books.
The trouble at the University is that every teacher
considers his own subject as the most important one,
and insists on its thorough study. Every faculty is
cramped by the pedantry of the specialist; and the
medical is no exception. So it follows that in the
fourth and fifth years a man learn as much as
he can of four gigantic subjects, with heaps of by-
products, each of which is in reality a life-work,
and it is no wonder that they come before the
examiner sweating, pale and mentally paralysed.
Suppose a man is just on the border-line in mid-
wifery, the most important subject of the whole lot,
are you to fail him? There will be a howl if you
do, if he has done fairly well in his other work.
Yet would anyone like to have his own wife attended
at the most important period of her life by a doctor
who could only just scrape up 48 per cent, in his
final ? And if you ruthlessly fail him, you fail a
man who has been working at his profession for
years, and is too old to take up anything else. The
proper time to fail medical students is during their
first or second year, while they have still time to
try some other business; and then they won’t»thank
you for saying that they mustn’t take up medicine
because they don’t know enough botany. Yet if
you let them plug along with mediocre talent for
five years it is very hard to fail them in the final
and possibly ruin their whole lives. The real blame
so far as N. S. Wales is concerned is to be laid at
the door of Mr. Carmichael and his bursary system,
which has spoiled scores of good artisans and is turn-
ing out second-rate doctors, few of whom will ever
earn more than a bare living, and none will ever
advance science, because' they cannot be properly
grounded.
The Barren Conservatism of the Clergy.
Bishop Welldon, of Durham (Eng.), said
in his New Year’s sermon that “only a
miracle could save the British Empire from
the fate of all other empires, because the
sinister symptoms of social disintegration
are apparent.” It is the attitude of the
man who, seeing a bogged vehicle, holds
forth about the rotten state of the roads.
Not without cause is the militant prole-
tarian nearly always an anti-clerical. From
the days when every financial magnate had
liis private chaplain down to the present
time it has only been necessary to scratch
a Churchman in order to find a Tory—
there have been and are exceptions, of course,
but hardly enough of them to matter.


f Farmers’ & Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ stra,ia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Bishop Weixdon, for example, is a typical
rich-man’s man. Educated at Eton and
Cambridge, headmaster of Harrow, Bishop
of Calcutta and now of Durham, it is un-
likely that he has spent a day with wage-
workers in his life, and it is certain that
he has no sympathy with their policies.
There is no stronger opponent of the Buck-
master Divorce Bill in the United Kingdom.
There has always been divorce in England,
though before the Matrimonial Causes Act
(1857) only the very rich could enjoy the
privilege, since it required a special Act of
Parliament. The Bishops never raised their
voices against Parliamentary divorces to any
notable extent, and all that they protest
against now is that divorce is being democ-
ratised. Likewise the clergy did not begin
to denounce drunkenness roundly till it
ceased to be a gentleman’s pastime. Thus
there was no talk of prohibition when a
Prime Minister of England had to go behind
the Speaker’s chair to vomit in the middle
of the Opposition-leader’s speech. Nor was
gambling attacked when noblemen lost their
estates in a night with half the vim that
is now put into the denunciation of chocolate
wheels and raffles. Betting at races and
patronising prize-fights are immoral and
degrading when indulged in by the working
classes, but do not call for adverse comment
when princes of the blood or Governor-Gen-
erals are concerned. Yet the Founder of the
faith turned from the rich, and arrogant
and sided with the wretched ; and only by
following in those steps will the clergy have
any power to stop that social disintegra-
tion whose sinister symptoms alarm his lord-
ship of Durham.
A Rat in a Corner.
When the A.W.U. served a sort of ulti-
matum on Prime Minister Hughes re the
stewards’ strike it had a misfortunate and
clumsy way of putting things, but it told
the truth by accident all the same. Pos-
sibly it felt ready to eat its head oif with
anger when it realised how it had put its
foot in it, but the thing was done. It in-
formed the representative of All the People
that unless he caved in abjectly to the
present unlawful demands made on him
(and, of course, to any future demands) he
would be “hastening the hour of general up-
rising." Not causing it, with the horrors of
murder, arson, rape and destruction that
almost always accompany that sort of thing,
but only hastening the calamity. It is to
come, anyhow, however much any cowardly
Minister surrenders the people’s self-govern-
ing powers and their control over the
nation’s property and their own, and other-
wise betrays his trust to a handful of
oligarchs, and however much, he grovels.
The presumable reason why the A.W.U.
knows this is that it is the moving spirit.
That is to say, the thing prophesied is to
come unless Australia’s hesitating Keren-
sky or Louis XVI. or Etiielked the Un-
ready or King Roderick' of Ireland or ’Bus
Misser (which his present name is Hughes)
abandons the attitude of passive suffering
and does some fighting on the nation’s be-
half—does something for his wage, in fact,
besides finding jobs for supporters. The
present is as good an issue as any to join
battle on, it being a question of selecting
the best time and the best course for the
inevitable (the A.W.U. says it is inevitable)
trial of strength. The stewards have got
everything the Arbitration Court, a valu-
able Labor device, awarded them. They
have also received a great deal more. The
final hold-up is over the question whether
the eight hours per day (not ten, though
the law says ten) should be worked at any
time inside a 13|-hour or 15-hour period.
The steward is a male housewife at sea,
not by compulsion but because he chooses.
He has never found or attempted to find
a way whereby his own female drudge by
marriage, the housewife on land, can do
her duties, however light, in eight hours’
actual working and strictly within a period
measured from 7 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. Being
assured that the great wreck and butchery
will come, whatever concessions are given
to the male housewives at sea, unless the
great conspiracy of the modern Caxilines
against the self-governing rights of the
people is squashed, the nation is in
the, position of a rat in a corner. If it
doesn’t fight it will die; if it does it may
live. One method is to deprive illegal strikers
of the use of any public utilities which they
haven’t alrady deprived the public of —
posts, telegraphs, banks, trains, trams, etc.
This could easily be done if our Kerensky
was equal to the occasion, which (unless it
was a talking occasion) he never yet has
been.
—— ♦
Dear Buleetin, —Mr. V. C. Thompson
mentions in his yarn about “Practical Decen-
tralisation” (B. 30/12/’2O) that when the
N.S.W. Assembly was asked for a Select
Committee to inquire into the claim of the
Northern Rivers to Home Rule within the
Empire, it gave a blank refusal. Though
Select •Committees and Badly-Selected Com-
mittees and Royal Commissions are as com-
mon as rabbits, to say nothing of all the
reports about secret commissions which are
said to be a good source of income to some
people, this simple and legitimate request
was treated with lofty scoff. And out of
the 18 members who constituted the friendly
minority two were Laborites. The parties
being equal in the House, nine of the friends
of Home Rule would have been Laborites
if Labor was as honestly democratic as
alleged Toryism is—not more democratic,
but just a dead-heat. The figures showed
it to be eight times more narrow, bigoted,
tyrannical, unreasoning and coereionist than
its opponents. It was Edward Carson over
again, with signs of Oliver Cromwell and
Castlereagii. What frauds and shams
most of them must be —the clan of Buckley,
the two Burkes, Connell, Cleary, Doo-
ley, Doyle, Dunn, Dwyer, Fitzgerald,
Flannery, Ivearsley, Lougiilin, McLel-
land, McGirr, Mclvell, McTiernan,
Minahan, Murphy, O’Brien, O’Halloran,
O'Hearne and Scully, M’s.L.A. of the Ma
State! A possible explanation is that they
don’t care twopence about the Home Rule
and self-determination principle, or about
Ireland or the Church or anything else, and
that the whole business is merely an asset,
a stalking-horse and a .source of profit, also
a pretence and a mockery and a profana-
tion of sacred things. So I hereby move
that all sympathy and consideration and
help for the Irish self-determination move-
THE FINAL TEST
“Mailey's arm is not improving as quickly as anticipated. Gregory’s feet are still sore. Oldfield
bas a poulticed finger. Macartney is still confined to bed. Hearne is in bed with lumbago.” —Sydney
TELEGRAPH.
ment shall be off and remain off until men
with names and manners similar to the
above show their bona fides by reciprocating
with a trifle of friendliness towards the
Home .Rule demands of Tamworth, Graf-
ton and Armidale. Reciprocity that is all
on one side has no appeal for me, and prin-
ciples that only apply at the other end of
the world have no appeal either. I once
had a profound respect, almost love, for
Ireland and its warm-hearted and oppressed
people. Now I am in a state of suspended
opinion, reserving the right, unless the
warm-hearted sons of the race here become
a little less oppressive and intolerant, to
denounce the isle all I know and to hold
the view that Brian Boktj never existed. —
Youi's, etc., Northerner.
+
The N. S. Wales Bureau of Statistics dis-
closes that there were 890 deaths in the
State during December, an easy winner
being diarrhoea, which accounted for 172.
“Epidemic diseases” came next with a tally
of 86, and the once-dreaded phthis : s, which
is slowly but surely going under to the re-
lentless medical campaign against it, scored
only 31—or 12 behind Bright’s disease. The
mortality from diarrhoea —a regular annual
occurrence —is due almost entirely to pois-
oned milk. All milk begins to get poisonous
from the moment it leaves the cow, and
where the weather is hot and the stuff is kept
for hours if not days, and then dealt out
in an atmosphere of flying dust and manure
by a possibly germ-laden carter using pro-
bably unclean utensils —in such circum-
stances it represents for infants in particular
as lethal a beverage as can be imagined.
New York has one of the most perfect sys-
tems of grading and distributing milk in the
world ; and a result is that, while the deaths
from infant diarrhoea in Sydney during mid-
summer average about 17 per cent, of the
total deaths from all causes, in New York
they average less than 3 per cent, for the
same season of year. It is a fair conclusion
that the people of N. S. Wales are thus
morally responsible for the death every
year of several hundred infants through
neglecting to take in their behalf precautions
which the New York experience indicates;
and if that is not murder The Bulletin
leaves it .to the liquor-prohibitionists and
other professional reformers to give it a
name.
♦
A woman-teacher on one more aspect of
the centralisation curse:—
Mutch, N. S. Wales Minister of Education, ad-
mitted the other day that the Teachers’ College at
Sydney (always Sydney) wasn’t turning out “a
sufficient number of teachers to meet the demands
laid on the Department.” The truth is that our
school system, our educational results, are handi-
capped by the insane plan of training all our bud-
ding educationists in One Big City. In other days
nearly every country school was training, up a bright
young dominie. Many of the present heads were
taught their ABC in a little humpy that held about
a dozen boys and girls. In my time the small bark-
roofed structure at Wondalga turned out six
teachers, and good ones, too, though I say it as
shouldn’t.
How different nowadays! I’ve; been teaching in a
suburban school for five years, and we haven’t evolved
one embryo dominie in all that time. Either teaching
doesn’t attract the youth of the suburbs or the qualify-
ing process is too expensive. If expense is the consider-
ation, how much worse off is prospective material
in the country! With reasonable-sized classes a
teaching body 50 per cent, greater than at present
would be required to staff our present schools. In
any case, the number of teachers must be greatly
augmented owing to the growth of population and
the opening of new schools, but it won’t be done, it
can’t be done, under our present regime. Why not
let each big country centre have its own training-
school? Wagga, Albury, Armidale and Tamworth,
above all Broken Hill, could easily supply their own
teachers, and why in the name of all that’s
reasonable couldn’t those teachers be trained
in their own district ? They could pass out
from the primary through the high and into the
local training-college, to the University at the fin-
ish, but not until they had reached years of dis-
cretion and were earning a living wage.
The old-time pupil-teacher, such of him as remains,
is the present-day enthusiast. Teaching was bred in
him (and in her too, mind you), and he works for the
love of it, with the salary coming second in his
thoughts. That spirit is dying out. It cannot be
bred in the mechanical young man or woman who
starts to teach at 21 or over. With some bright and
admirable exceptions the tendency under the present
regime is to do just enough to earn your salary. Make
it possible for the country boy and girl to come in as
freely as they did in the past, and our teaching spirit
will revive.
The publication at this time of day of ex
parte statements alleging that Sinn Fein
was implicated in a German plot during the
war gives color to a charge which has been
frequently made —namely, that, though
England and the Empire are longing for
some sort of friendly settlement with Ire-
land, the present British Government isn’t.
It is inevitably fatal to negotiations of anv
sort if, in the middle of them, one of the
parties suddenly shouts, apropos of nothing
in particular, “Yah ! What did you do dur-
ing the war? Pro-German! Traitor!” And
that is exactly what Lloyd George, under
the inspiration, no doubt, of Carson and
the Ulster interests, has just done to Arch-
bishop Clune and De Valera.
A cry from “CuchulAin” :
To the list of the tyrannical Saxons and North
Britons who have got it in the neck from the N. S.
Wales Labor party, add the name of Scott Camp-
bell. A man with a patronymic like that doesn’t
deserve any consideration, and Campbell didn’t
get it. Before the general election he was one of
the selected Labor candidates for Eastern Suburbs,
but at the last moment his endorsement was with-
drawn and conferred upon one Dwyer, whose ances-
tors were born in the right island. Campbell’s
offience was the same as P. J. Minahan’s —he refused
to give the party a pledge regarding his attitude
to the I.W.W. prisoners—and he was narrowly
defeated at the election; the exuberant bootmaker
scraped in. But whereas Minahan’s disqualification
was more or less a caucus joke—within a month of
being returned he was doing diplomatic work for
the party that had “expelled” him, and within six
months he had been formally re-admitted—Camp-
bell was outed in grim earnest, and has been kept
out. And, it having been decided that the late
James Fingleton’s seat is to be awarded to the
Labor candidate next on the list, the honor and
emoluments are to go to Danny Dwyer, although
Scott Campbell polled IjTOO more votes and other-
wise his credentials are as good as Minahan’s. Sup-
pose Dwyer had been the culprit, and not Campbell,
what an almighty rush there would have been to
remove the ban before the mode of filling the
Eastern Suburbs vacancy was settled! Still, on
grounds of expediency, one feels rather disgusted
with Campbell. The foolish fellow has had all
these months to change his nefarious name to
Shanahan, and he hasn’t done it. Let his fate
be a warning to other tyrants and oppressors who
may be similarly circumstanced.
“Murkah” : The most impressive and far-
reaching vehicle of German propaganda dur-
the war was the great radio station at Nauen,
near Berlin. This giant thunder-house, far
and away the most powerful extant, was the
first station to make itself audible the world
over. At two in the morning (Sydney time!
precisely Nauen held his key down for a
couple of minutes, thus radiating an endless
wave to permit of all stations “tuning him
in.” The world of radio fell silent then to
listen. Sitting in Svdney Radio (Carling-
ford) I used to hear his gong-like note com-
ing from round a world. It gave out in Eng-
lish an account of the deeds (real and
alleged) of the various German army-groups
the previous day. At six Nauen closed and
was followed by Eiffel Tower. The war
never extended to radio-working. Each
nation had its hours for high-power trans-
mission and no one encroached. Once when
through some mistake Eiffel Tower had
“come in” too soon I -heard an apology going
from that station to O.C. Nauen. So far be-
hind were the Allies, Britain in particular,
m radio-engineering that they hadn’t a
station capable of “blanketing” or even in-
conveniencing Nauen. That station, with it«
onnn h-P ” its flyin S fi ve-ton rotor that whirled
0000 revolutions per minute in a space only
l-.-L.nd part of an inch larger than itself, its
two-miie-wide “umbrella” aerial, the “handle”
i l l feet high and the “ribs” supported bv
mere sticks of 400 feet, was unique and un-
approached. It is still the most powerful in
the world, but nowadays it has three only
slightly inferior brothers, one at Hanover
Germany, and two in TJ.S.A. Britain has
advanced but little since 1914. And Aus-
tralia hasn’t a station that could safelv be
guaranteed to do 1000 miles.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
;ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
N S W MONT de PIETE
IM? I C?r LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 5,200,000 ‘Fhone Cit,y 9325
Branches <?A 29 King St.. Newcastle. N-SW- 71517 Swanstoh 5t
40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.*). [97 A Castlereagh 51.159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill. Genera! manager.
rv
i
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the ».S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
From one of the oldest of women-residents
in the Territory :
After all these years I’m getting frightened. We
haven’t an army in the N.T.; we haven’t even a boat
or a gun. A northern enemy could have half the
N.T. in his hands before Sydney or Melbourne heard
about it, and we couldn’t fire a shot in our own
defence. White men and women are leaving Darwin
by every boat. As a white woman walks along the
street colored men look at her with appraising eyes
and whisper significantly. That never happened till
lately. It’s a white man’s land, and a time man’s
land, but where are the white men and the true men
who will help us to hold it?
As things looked early in the week: —
Cook’s acceptance of the High Commissioner’s job
(if he is offered it) will probably be followed by
the retirement of the ambitious Millen from the
Senate, so that he may capture the seat in the
Reps, and get a bit nearer to the coveted Prime
Ministership. Whatever happens, there will be
another Cabinet vacancy, for which Fleming and
Burchell are regarded as likely candidates.
But apart from that, the Cabinet may be further
increased by the creation of one or two portfolios,
whereupon another bill will go through to grab
another couple of salaries from the Treasury. It
seems that the Minister of Customs is overwhelmed,
and wants to turn over some of his duties to a
new Minister for Marine. Likewise Hughes is said
to yearn for a special Department of Foreign Affairs
under his own control, which is alleged to mean
that he will drop the Attorney-General’s portfolio
and ask George Maxwell to take it on.
There was something in the air at the be-
ginning of the year akin to that which Noah
diagnosed on the day the Ark was launched.
Thus :
Treasurer Lang’s N.S.W. loan ( £3,000,000 at
per cent.) failed. It was the fourth in seven months,
so something was due. The size of the failure
wasn’t immediately stated, but it was decided to
keep open for another month.
The N.S.W. financial half-year closed with a
deficit of £3,337,387, though the Bottomless Pit
Government had had £1,909,000 more revenue to
spend than ever before.
Queensland, which lately failed to raise
£9,000,000 of gold in London or New York (though
it got a million for one year to pay interest with),
came south with a plea for £2,000,000 at 6J per
cent, free of tax.
The Westralian Government, having given up the
pretence that it will pay off its deficit (created by
shirking taxation), added last year’s to the perma-
nent debt. It was a New Year’s present to Posterity.
The steamships, the Victorian coal mines and the
Westralian railways were all held up by strikes. The
W.A. railways are State-owned aind four-fifths of
the Victorian black coal output comes from the
State mine. It was at the State’s new brown-coal
mine that the strike started.
The Westralian railway employees requested that
the people’s railways should be transferred to them
as a sort of syndicate (transferred without any
form of payment), they to take their pay, fixed by
themselves, as a first charge and hand over the
balance, if any.
The banks made no disguise of the fact that they
have no spare money to put into Lang’s loan or
Theodore’s either, it having gone away to pay for
goods we should have made ourselves. Even solvent
old customers with heaps of security to offer are
being cold-shouldered. ,
And the newspapers, like the nocturnal
boy who whistles in a graveyard to keep off
ghosts, were strenuous in their New Year
leaders about the country’s illimitable natu-
ral resources, as though they were in ques-
tion at all. There is enough mud in Aus-
tralia to make a million brick-houses; but
that doesn’t make brick-houses.
Another Government railway strike 'is
threatened in Queensland, the loco.-men there
being as dissatisfied with arbitration as
their Westralian brethren and as anxious as
they to try direct action. In both States
the Government is desperately hard-up, the
railways are notoriously overmanned and are
being run at a ruinous loss. Under the cir-
THE FEEDING BOTTLE.
cumstances strike is the last thing that
should be thought of, but a certain new kind
of union official is never satisfied until he
makes trouble.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Andy Fisher has again become a live subject in
the lobbies. Despite the cable announcement that
he will return to England after visiting Australia,
intimates talk of his standing for the Senate or
giving Hughes a rim for Bendigo. Hughes’s con-
sistent , neglect of his constituents has certainly
caused irritation, but it doesn’t seem reasonable
for Bendigo to boil with sufficient fury to get
Fisher a billet in 1922, assuming that no election
happens meantime. Nor is it likely that Fisher
would beat Ryan in a popularity vote for the leader-
ship of the party. The bij? fellow is now planted
too solidly, and the claims of his vigorous intellect
and debating power will probably hoist him higher
than anybody else when the next man is selected
to take the helm. Talking of electing leaders, the
Hayseeds are considering the selection of their
Napoleon for the coming 12 months. McWilliams,
the present head, was appointed for last year, but
as he is a trifle too progressive for the stodgy Tories
of the party—he has occasionally voted with Labor
against the bulk of his own crowd —it is not im-
probable that he will be replaced by Gregory when
the ballot is taken. Gregory is a combative little
person who will preserve his political color and
Cocky’s independence by following up every brick
at Hughes with two heavier ones at the Labor party.
The gilded mockery of our finance reached
its climax in December. The Customs
revenue was something glorious, like the
glitter of Belshazzar’s crown just before the
fall. It was over £2,800,000, or at the rate
of £33,600,000 a year, or almost exactly
twice the amount collected the previous De-
cember. That meant: —
(1) The country bought nearly twice as much abroad,
and therefore had less work for its own people to do
here. (2) As the imports vastly exceeded the exports
there was a stupendous balance to be paid in gold.
As we hadn’t the gold, loans were floated abroad, and
these will be repayable in gold and the interest on
them will be payable in gold. (3) And in all the
glorious £16,729,098 of customs revenue collected
on six months’ imports which have to be paid for so
largely in gold, there was probably not 10s. in yellow
metal. The whole lot of paper revenue wouldn’t pay
a half-hour’s interest on the foreign (gold) debt
owing in London, or buy a nieat-pie in Paris.
In fact, all this “prosperity” consists of our
own lOU come back to ourselves and come
back drunk. And every time the country sees
more of its own lOU than usual it feels so
rich that it incurs a heap of new liabilities,
for meeting which lOU’s are of no more use
than dead leaves.
The Kalgoorlie election produced some gor-
geous mixed-metaphors. Tweedledum evolved
this in Kalgoorlie : ,
The decoy ducks of the profiteers have for weeks
been endeavoring to confound you with acres of
newspaper clippings and oceans of lies, wherein they
have let loose the carefully-preserved sectarian snakes
and red herrings they duped the people with on two
previous occasions.
And Tweedledee rose to the occasion in
Perth: —
All who are not tinged with the malice of Mahon
will rejoice that Kalgoorlie has purged the Federal
Parliament of that sinister flea on the back of Labor.
It must have been a record swallow that —
preserved snakes,, red herrings, acres of paper
and oceans of lies. But it purged the flea.
The statement is made that De Valera may
resign the headship of the Irish Republic,
he having lost the confidence of Bail Eirann.
Irish Kings seldom die in their royal beds.
Daniel O’Connell’s party had practically
broken up before he passed out in Italy.
Isaac Butt, who established the Home Rule
movement in 1870 and led the party, was
pushed out and replaced by Shaw. Butt died
disappointed in IS7B. Shaw was pushed out
by Parnell. Parnell was pushed out by the
Nonconformist conscience. Redmond saw
his party suddenly desert him when he
thought Home Rule was won: when Sinn
Fein took away 73 members out of S 3 it
amounted to deposition. Then came De
Valera. Next D’Annunzio, of Fiume, may
piake for Ireland. He seems to be the kind
of poet who would take any king’s job so
long as there was limelight in it.
Ex-Senator O’Keefe is a Labor starter for
the Derwent seat in the Speck’s House of
Landlords, vacant through the death of Ellis
Dean. The recent Leg. Council enfranchise-
ment of returned soldiers, many of whom
are employed at the Great Lake hydro-elec-
tric works, is thought to give a mild sort
of Labor candidate a hope. If the cart-
wheel ferninst his name doesn’t attract the
attention of the at-present drowsing sectarian
worm, O’Keefe, who is personally popular,
may annex the £3QO-a-year job, and make
the loneliness of A.W.U. official McDonald
(the only Labor man at present in the
House of Gloom) a shade less dreadful.
From Arthur Griffith, one of N.S.W. Labor
Premier McGowen’s first colleagues:—
The interjection by Brown, M.L.C., during the
debate on the Meagher Restoration Bill, to the
effect that on the Conscription issue “Meagher had
only backed the wrong horse,” is probably the mean-
est political utterance on record ; and that is saying
a lot! As a matter of fact, most of the Labor men
who advocated conscription, especially those of us
who represented industrial metropolitan constituen-
cies, knew we were risking our political lives. I
remember discussing this very question with both
Meagher and McGowen and expressing the view that
it was hardly possible that the people of any coun-
try, not actually invaded, could be induced to vote
to conscript themselves. But we realised that with-
out conscription we would not be able to keep our
lads at the Front properly reinforced, and felt that
when other men were risking their lives the least we
public men could do was to risk our seats. It’s
pretty rotten, though, after having thrown away
safe seats, to be told by men who never risked any-
thing that we were “only backing the wrong horse.”
Victor Harbor, the S.A. port just outside
the Murray mouth, sang its own praises at
the usual New Year’s day regatta. Ritchie,
State Treasurer, gave hopes of six or seven
ships loading wheat there this year. It seemed
to him “scandalous and unaccountable that
the whole of the river trade should be dragged
from sea-level, over a mountain range, to sea-
level on the other side. You must enjoy the
privilege which Nature has provided for you.”
But; old Simpson Newland, whose father was
the pioneer of the district, and who has
always worked for it in the city, talked like
this :
Mr. Ritchie has spoken in his usual hopeful strain.
It is good to be hopeful. I personally have been
hopeful for many years; but the force of vested
interests at Adelaide and Port Adelaide is working
against you as it has worked for the last half
century.
And will continue to work until the States
are carved up into smaller ones. What else
could you expect with the Adelaide metro-
politan area holding 53 p.c. of the entire
State’s population?
Randolph Bedford comes to the rescue: —
The Bulletin, in condemning Queensland Govern-
ment’s expenditure, might justly notice that the debit
of trust funds account has an item of £899,400 for
Closer Settlement Act Fund, and that the bad con-
dition of this fund is a legacy. The Closer Settle-
ment Fund is in a bad way because of the bad pur-
chases made by the Philp, Kidston and Denham
Administrations. One of the estates so purchased'
has not been charged any interest on purchase money
since June, 1910. It stands in the books at £32,000
and it must be written off as a total loss. If the
fathers have eaten sour grapes the children’s .teeth
can’t help being set on edge ; blind criticism charges
the young man with the grandfather’s sin, and
incidentally hopes that incompetents like grandpa
shall return to govern.
Many parochial liars still struggle to
persuade the Commonwealth to break the
agreement on which S. Aus. handed over the
Territory, and bend the railway round in a
vast curve through Queensland (or abandon
it and build a new line altogether), so that
Federal money may be spent to develop State
lands instead of Federal lands. The per-
petiial argument is that, though the Federal
railway can easily be carried east to join on
to the State lines, no State line could pos-
sibly be carried west to join on to the
straight Federal line. The reason of the
impossibility is probably something in the
Book of Daniel. The argument could
hardly deceite a child, but then most people
take Lheir facts ready-made, like children.
Of course it would be a pleasant thing for
N. S. Wales and Queensland politicians to
avoid building their own railway extensions,
and it would be a lovely thing for them to
beguile the Commonwealth into abandoning
the development of most of its own territory
and constructing 1000 or 1500 miles of line
to increase the value of State lands. But
it isn’t business nor patriotism—only petty
huckstering. And, so far as S. Aiis. is con-
cerned, it is a dirty breach of faith.
THE STRIKE SEASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This year’s list of December strikes includes those
of the Victorian coal-miners, the marine stewards
(it is the third Christmas strike in the shipping
trade) and the Westralian loco-men. Further trouble
is expected in Queensland.”
When the old Pacific rollers
Tempt the one-piece belles to frolic;
When tlie rinks are thronged with bowlers
Sipping Scotch in case of colic;
When the fish are large and greedy,
And the thought of toil is pain,
Comes our organiser Sheedy,
Doolan, Brannigan or Reidy,
Or, it may be, Finucane;
And, aroused to recognition
By that practised rhetorician
Of our desperate condition.
We decide to strike again.
When the cricket match entices,
And the races are incessant;
When the flapper pines for ices
And for liquids effervescent;
When you think you’re feeling seedy,
And you find the boss a bane,
There’s a call from Comrade Sheedy,
Doolan, Brannigan or Reidy,
Carty, Burke or Finucane;
Then you learn (with some digression,
Touching Ireland, Greece and Teschen)
You’re a victim of oppression,
And you vote to strike again.
Comes a not-so-languid season
When the girls wear warmer raiment,
And there seems some cogent reason
For a job and weekly payment;
But, as sure as weeds are weedy,
In the sequent Summer’s train
Will be organiser Sheedy,
Doolan, Brannigan or Reidy,
Murphy, Shea or Finucane:
Then you’ll hear (what you’d forgotten)
That the Government is rotten
And you’re treated worse than Hotten-
Tots —and then you’ll strike again.
N.S.W.
D. EMPSON.


DCmmS—->
‘The Argus” says that cricket is an
Imperial game and must be played on
Imperial lines. Well, let us have an
Imperial uniform to start with.
"What arc you taking
for your insomnia now?”
• “I- find Kelieway at
the wickets a wonderful
cure.'”
; Of . course Australia has now a fairly
good side, but according to the Methu-
selahs of the daily press the last team fit
to play England perished about 1880.
•What it feel? like te be Maileyed.
The .Englishmen tried a match*
before the Deaf and Dumb'
Asylum to dodge the barracking
nuisance. But a mute/ was dis-
covered frantically signalling
'Get a bag,” whereupon vice-
captain Wilson stopped the play,
for 10 minutes to cable a protest,
to Lpndon.
SOME ASPECTS OF THE GRAND OLD GAME.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS op
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
ZINC DUST.
Also of LITHARGE —(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-LEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie, South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales,
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY: \
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AFSTIN FRIARS. E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
Adelaide:
63 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE. JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL.
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
“AUSTRAL”
REGISTERED BRANDS:
<BHAS> “B.H.
P. AUSTRALIA.
i
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost
production by using the famous
1
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINi
Made in
J. C.
Pioneer '
Australia to suit Australian working conditions, and
guaranteed by
LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Makers, 117 Yiy-k St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents;
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Fane
and Market Street.
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co.. Edward
Street. Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis. Ltd.. Elizabeth
Street. Hobart.
W.A.: IJorace Summers.
Howard Street. Perth.
S.A.: John McKell.
Timpson Street, Port
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office. —Nearly live years have passed
since the Queensland Labor Government
launched this office to undertake the State’s
workmen’s compensation insurances. The
Queensland Act differed from others in that
it not only made insurance obligatory on
employers, but gave the State office a mon-
opoly of the business. At least, only insur-
ance cos. “approved” by the Governor-in-
Couneil were to be permitted to write poli-
cies, and since the Government refused to
approve any other office (and the Privy
Council upheld the Government’s right to do
so) the State enterprise had the field to
itself from the beginning. In theory there
was much to commend a State monopoly
which would undertake these compulsory in-
surances at bedrock cost and prevent profits
going to middlemen. In practice everything
depends on management, and it is too early
.yet to say whether the public gains anything
at all by cutting out competition.
Four years’ policy-writing has worked out
this way:—
Workmen's Compensation Department.
Voted to
Ex- other Re-
Income. Claims, penses. Branches, serves.
1917. . £192,477 £91,292 £22,284 £3,000 ]
Bonuses, £18,717 ; preliminary f- £50,204
exes, written off, £O9BO J
1918.. 249,303 132,169 28,049 6,000 ( lin9ro
Bonuses, £23,030 j nu.zoy
1919.. 284,794 175,644 36,778 15,000 107,031
1920.. 299,189 213,111 46,255 12,199 195,255
Tile first year and, to some extent, the
second were experimental. As his premium
basis Insurance-Commissioner Jno. Goodwin
adopted the rates formerly charged by the
associated cos. for the very much lower bene-
fits provided by the 1905 Act: he reckoned
that the new Act was 75 p.c. more liberal
than the old. Even so, everything worked
out so satisfactorily for 1917-18 that em-
ployers were granted a 10 p.c. cash bonus
on their premiums, while in the case of
household-workers business, which had been
wholly experimental, the Commissioner
decided to reduce his rates by one-half. The
Queensland Labor Ministry has since the
Act began to operate made further benefit
concessions. For instance, in Sept., 1919,
the weekly compensation to married workers
was increased from one-half to two-thirds
wages, though the allowance was not to
exceed £2 per week, and this concession
alone, the Commissioner reports, resulted in
an estimated additional £lO,OOO outgo for
the 10 months in which it operated during
the past financial year. These additional
benefits, in conjunction with the invariable
experience of all workmen’s compensation
underwriters that the claims ratio tends to
expand as the benefits of an Act become more
widely known, have resulted in losses having
increased by practically £Bl,OOO in two years,
while income has moved ahead by less than
£50,000. The losses may also have been
swollen to a slight extent by a too-sympa-
thetic recognition of claims: since the Act
came into force only two claims have been
contested in court. Insurance cos. rarely
seek litigation for the mere sake of side-
stepping an individual claim —with them,
owing to inescapable heavy law costs, it is
generally a matter of if-you-win-you-lose—
but, as in other lines, underwriters of work-
men’s compensation insurance are liable to
be made a target of by the unscrupulous,
and an office which has contested only two
of its 37,000-odd claims has achieved a
record which suggests that either Queens-
land employees are more conscientious than
those elsewhere in the world or that this
State office prefers charity to justice. The
Labor Government has made much political
capital out of the enterprise, and since Labor
Ministers have had the oversight of the
State office’s operations it would not be sur-
prising if the settlement of claims has to
some extent been affected by political influ-
ence.
The additional benefits granted and the
growing claims otherwise suggest the pro-
bability of an increase in rates before long.
The 10 p.c. cash bonus on premiums no
longer continues: it has been replaced by a
5 p.c. discount to employers who render re-
turns expeditiously and pay premiums
promptly. The Commissioner shows the
ratio of claims on earned premiums for the
past year to have been 75.1 p.c., compared
with 68.9 p.c. for 1919 and 66.6 for 1918.
But not only have the outgoings on account
of claims become heavier; the expense rate
is also mounting. Though neither commis-
sions nor taxes are paid in this department
of the State office, administrative exes, swal-
lowed 15.5 p.c. of earned premiums. In the
first column of the table above interest and
other earnings have been included with pre-
miums, and including ’flu figures—’flu appa-
rently resulted in a loss of £1075 which is
being charged to this department—the claims
rate worked out at 71.2 p.c. of total income
and the expense rate at the 15.5 p.c. given
by the Commissioner. But these did not
represent the full calls on the branch. What
amounts to a levy on all employers is made
by the Act to provide compensation for occu-
pational diseases. The Workmen’s Compen-
sation surplus was tapped last year for
£7199 as a subsidy to a miners’ phthisis fund,
while another £5OOO went as a “compassion-
ate grant,” providing allowances, not exceed-
ing 10s. per week, to workers disabled by
miners’ phthisis, or to their widows, but
who do not legally come within the scope
of the Act. These distributions (£2029 last
year) are made on the Minister’s say-so. The
calls on these two accounts last year took
another 4.1 p.c. of total income; that is to
say, the general body of employers are re-
quired to pay that much more than should
be legitimately charged upon them. In
effect, then, from the point of view of policy-
holders, the State office expense rate is 19.0
p.c. The question thus arises whether cer-
tain sections of policy-holders—manufac-
turers, for instance —would not be better off
in a co-operative concern of their own. For
instance, the, Vic. Chamber of Manufactures
Insurance costs, including taxes, etc., are
only slightly over 10 p.c.
The reserves of £195.255 shown above are
subject to two qualifications. No less than
£BO,OOO has been transferred from the branch
to the general reserves of the office during
the past four years, and not even the in-
terest on that £BO,OOO is credited to the
department which earned it. The interest
earnings of the Workmen’s Compensation
branch are shown as £3617, which on aver-
age funds actually accumulated by the De-
partment represent a miserable return of
under 2 p.c. The other qualification concern-
ing the reserves is that £25,000 has been
set aside in a “default assessment reserve.”
Some employers fail or refuse to render
returns, and the Commissioner has the power
to bill them with the premiums which he
estimates they should pay. If they fail to
appeal against the assessment they become
liable for the amount determined by the
Commissioner. This £25,000 represents the
accumulation of these default assessments
during the past couple of years, and the
reserve was created by the ex-Commissioner
to cover the possibility of the debts proving
bad or the Crown failing to take the claims to
court. This £25,000 has necessarily swollen the
premium income shown recently; but as a
set-off against that the Commissioner says
he is “satisfied that in view of the increase
of the number of claims intimated during
the year (indicating a large increase in the
number of men employed)” any amount
which may have'to be written off on account
of these default assessments will be mode
good by the adjustment of premiums when
wages returns for the year are presented.
Besides Workmen’s Compensation the
State Office also writes life, fire and marine
policies. Of these and other matters the
“Wild Cat” will have something to say later.
Stanmore Preserving Co., Ltd., Sydney,
jam manufacturers, fruit preservers, etc.
The co. began in 1914 with a deficit of
£9605, made up of goodwill, £8956, and
preliminary expenses, £649 :
t —Dividends—.,
Pref. Ord. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves. Deficit.
£9605
1914.. £3,693 £794 £1,600 £1,299 8306
1915.. 4,571 1587 1,600 1.384 6922
1916.. 5,390 1600 1,600 2,190 4732
1917.. 7,543 1600 1,600 4,343 389
Oct., All shares. Reserves.
1918.. 6,851 10 p.c. =£4583 2,268 1879
1919.. 9,997 12),, „ 6875 3,122 5001
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £15,000 9999
Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 121 p.c. Reserves.
1920.. 30,441 5000 11.250 14,191 4192
This has been one of the most energetic of
young cos., and among Australian concerns
handling foodstuffs its growth has probably
been unparalleled. It is only seven years
since £20,000- in ordinary shares was paid
for a business then eight years old, and the
public was invited to put up another £20,000
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. to equip a new factory
with modern plant. The co. was getting
along nicely when the war assisted with
some sweet contracts. Since then there has
been a steadily-growing demand for Oakleaf
products and gross profits moved from
£9055 in 1914 to £28,699 for 1919, and to
£63,943forthepastyear. Meantimethe£4o,ooo
of paid capital has expanded to £140,000, of
which £15,000 represents reserves trans-
ferred during the past year. Paid capital
12 months ago was only £55,000, but £70,000
has since been got in in cash to enlarge
the factory and warehouse, erect and equip
a case-making factory and instal improved
packing-planl. None of these new funds
were revenue-producing during the whole of
the year, yet on the £140,000 of paid capital
the disclosed profit gave a return of over
21 p.c. And the £30,441 turned out pro-
bably did not empty the bag, for though
all current taxes are shown as having been
already provided for £O5OO went to a reserve
for taxation. Also, £lOOO was set aside as
a protection against bad debts. In view of
the fact that book debts were thus' written
down and that depreciation equal to 10 p.c.
of the book value of machinery, plant, etc.,
was allowed, no doubt a conservative valua-
tion was placed on stocks. In the beginning
£8956 was paid (in shares) for goodwill,
and until that intangible item was replaced
by something more substantial the ordi-
naries’ div. was limited to 8 p.c. p.a. There-
after all shares ranked alike—a lmndsome
gift to the prefs., who for 1919 (got 121
p.c., and for the past year the same rate
on their old holding expanded by their share
of the £15,000 bonus issue and by the Mew
money they put in. Of the mew cash issues.
£50,000 was in 10 p.c. prefs. Now 60,000
new shares are being offered shareholders
at par, and of this new scrip 50,000 repre-
sents additional 10 p.c. preference shares.
Thus, of the £200,000 paid capital in future
no less than one-half will carry 10 p.c.,
a high charge to set against future earn-
ings. Things may not always go so well
with the co. as they have lately, and the
investor with an eye on the prospects of
the ordinary shares needs to take into con-
sideration the fact that £lO,OOO p.a. will
have to be found for the prefs. before the
ordinaries can get a penny.
Another view of the Stanmore Preserving
Co.’s remarkable growth is provided by this
comparison of the latest balance-sheet
figures with those presented in the first
published accounts: —
1014 1010 1090
Liabilities.. ..£14,883 £45.131 £69,437
Freeholds,' etc. . . 17,602 19,662 51,778
Plant, etc. . . 8,491 14,278 37,392
Stock . . . . 12,655 11.031 73,607
Sundry debtors, etc. 10,154 58,336 61,802
Cash & investments 11,200 14,300
Of the £70,000 cash got in from shareholders
during the past year over £56.000 went into
fixed assets and another £3OOO Went in
acquiring interests in fruit-supplying con-
cerns in the Speck and in Queensland. The
balance of the new capital was not ample
to finance expanded trading, so to carry
heavier stocks and book debts, the. co. at
Oct. 31 had gone £24,306 deeper into debt
than 12 months previously. Nevertheless,
the position is quite comfortable: excluding
the interests in other cos., the book value
of liquid assets totalled almost £lll,OOO,
and there was thus a liquid surplus of
£41.562. and net tangible assets with a
book value to cover every penny of the cash-
paid and bonus capital.
» * * * *
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney)
Nominal
Business Profit To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits, on Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1910.. £5,015 £367 5 p.c. =£2858 £2524 £14,712
1911.. 6,485 1220 5 „ „ 2858 4847 19,559
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 10,030
1912.. 6,885 1056 5 p.c. = 3335 4606 14,636
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 20,636
1913.. 9,134 571 5 p.c. = 3335 6370 27,006
Reserves transferred to capital, £9,529 17,477
1914.. 10,114 2091 5 p.c. = 3812 8393 25,870
1915.. 9,721 824 5 „ „ 3812 6733 32,603
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 23,074
1916.. 9,897 493 5 p.c. = 4289 6101 29,175
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 19,646
Loss.
1917.. 10,301 727 5 p.c. = 4765 4809 24,455
Profit.
1918.. 10,362 1627 6 p.c. = 5718 6271 30,726
1919.. 10,674 430 7 „ „ 6671 4433 35,159
Assets written up, £6OOO . . . . 41,159
1920.. 10,840 2600 10 p.c. = 9531 3909 45,068
That is a record of remarkable performances,
and by taking the table back only a couple
of years further the recovery looks more re-
markable still. The co. crashed badly in
the ’nineties, and until 1908 every penny of
profit was used for patching. In the boom
days in addition to its own capital St. Joe’s
was working on about £330,000 of other
people’s money. When the bubble burst it
could not meet the demands of its creditors,
and found itself badly left with a lot of
depreciated bricks and mortar. But the
management did not attempt to side-step its
liabilities: shares were written down from
£lO each to £3, and depositors were pre-
vailed upon to accept 3 p.c. interest. As
opportunity offered, foreclosed properties
were sold, and by 1907 debts had been
reduced to £73,218. In that year an arrange-
ment was come to with creditors by which
this balance was to be met by 20 annual
instalments, thus enabling the co. to resume
ordinary building-society business. About
the same time the management decided to
ascertain precisely how its assets stood, and
on valuation it was discovered that things
had worked out better than had been anti-
cipated, and that the writing-down 15 years
earlier had been too severe. So £3 per share
was restored, and on this enlarged capital
the payment of divs., at the rate of 5 p.c.,
was resumed.
The co. got back into trading at an oppor-
tune time, for shortly afterwards the influ-
ence of Labor borrowings began to be felt,
and ever since business has been brisk and
property values in the congested city have
steadily moved upwards. So favorable have
been conditions that the whole of the capital
thought to have been lost has been replaced,
and for the past year shareholders have had
their divs. raised to 10 p.c. Few of the
boom-time building societies have come out
so well: this one has not only replaced its
written-off capital, but its old creditors who
have not yet been fully settled with are
assured of 20s. in the £. As opportunity
offered old , foreclosed properties have been
unloaded, the amounts received in excess of
the written-down book values being shown
separately in the table. The book value of
properties oii hand is now £64.201, and evi-
dently they are giving excellent returns.
On average total assets of £182,094 last
year’s £15,200 from rents and interest showed
£8 6s. p.c. A lot of additional funds have
been put out on mortgage recently, the book
value of the total loans having moved from
£55,553 in 1917 to £80,550 at Sept. 30 last,
£15,836 of the increase having taken place
during the past 12 months. Until recently
the co.’s freehold premises stood in the
books at £12,000. but they have now been
written up to £lB,OOO, the £6OOO having been
credited to the realisation reserve, which
apparently also benefited by £2600 profit
from the sale of foreclosed properties. At
Sept. 30 there was £19.946 in cash and War
Loan, and apart from the old deposits the co.
owed only £9689.
* * %■ *
J. Fielding and Co.. Ltd., cardboard-box,
carton and corrugated-fibre container manu-
facturers and printers (Sydney). The co.
began with £5OOO of its capital represented
by goodwill :
Towards
Sept., Net Trofit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
New share premiums. . £32 £4908
1911.. £2,750 10 p.c. = £1577 1173 3795
. New share premiums.. 38 3757
1912.. 3,018 10 p.c. = 1801 1217 2540
1913.. 2,268 8 „ „ 1445 823 1717
New share premiums.. 250 1467
1914.. 2,441 8 p.c. = 1445 996 471
Reserves.
1915.. 2,456 8 „ „ 1685 771 300
1916.. 3,714 8 „ „ 1925 1789 2089
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £7000.. 4911
1917.. 4,768 8 p.c. = 2567 2201 2710
Reserves.
1918.. 12,167 15 „ „ 5407 6760 4050 ’
1919.. 9,760 10 „ „ 4000 5760 9810
Reserves dnitalised, £13,334
-7 Pref ' n a- ■ [ 10 > 1 02
7 p.c. Ordinaries.
1920.. 22,059 933 15 p.c. = 7500 13,626 J
It i.s only a little over 10 years ago, when
the business was passed over to a public co. T
that the old proprietors “confidently antici-
pated” that 15 p.c. p.a. could be earned on a
paid capital of £20,000. During the past
year disclosed net profits gave a return of
almost 30 p.c. on a paid capital of £75,000.
Big opportunities for cardboard have offered
during recent years owing to the shortage of
tin-plate and the higher cost of all con-
tainers. Early in the career of the co.
managing-director Fielding set about modern-
ising plant, so when the day of paper-board
arrived he was in a fair position to cope with
rapidly-increasing orders. Progress has since
been swift, and to-day plant and accommo-
dation to facilitate output is three times that
of only four years ago. The factory last
year was working at full pressure, eating
up stocks more rapidly than the local paper-
board mills could replenish them. The re-
sult has been that whereas stocks with a
book value of £42,416 were held 12 months
ago, at the latest balance they had been
reduced to £27,021. When the rush of busi-
ness set in the management decided to make
certain of supplies, and plunged heavily in
stocks: and its judgment proved good, for
prices rapidly ascended. As a result of these
opportune stock-purchases and the manufac-
turing activity, gross profits have moved in
this way: 1916, £14,636; 1918. £28,285;
1919, £24,964; 1920, ~ £52,998. The profits
shown in the first table are the figures dis-
closed by the directors, but it is clear that
the recent profits claimed do not represent
the full measure of net earnings. In addi-
tion to the reserves shown in the table there
is £26,801 in “specific reserves,” which have
expanded by £13.845 during the past 12
months, and that addition certainly repre-
sents a good deal more than provision for
current depreciation of plant, etc.
A more satisfactory view of the progress
made by the co. may be got from, this com-
parison of the balance-sheet figures over the
past two three-year periods:—
1914. 1917. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. .. £3163 £17.598 £51,982 £29,129
’Premises .. .. 9057 17,879 31,324 32,313
Plant, etc., .. .. 5416 11,024 21,230 23,171
Stock 5652 13,880 42,416 27,021
Book debts .. .. 4385 9,053 17,394 38,764
Cash and War Loan 324 107 2,384 19,713
Between 1914-17 the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities (which, in the table above, in-
clude unpaid and accrued dividends) shrank
from £7198 to £5442. but by Sept, last had ex-
panded to £56,371. Meantime the book
value of fixed assets had moved forward


The whole of Ulu Yam’s Ruwolt plant
has reached the Malayan mine, and the
dredge is now being erected.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many home 3 in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
.enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
* * * «
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000. fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
It has been proved that “Pioneer” Wood Pipe
conveys pure water at a lower cost than does any
other kind of conduit. Also that it is more dur-
able, cheaper to lay, lighter to handle, and has
a 15 to 20 per cent, greater carrying capacity—
which does not decrease with age. “Pioneer” Wood
Pipe is actually the cleanest water conveyer known
to modern science. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
* * * »
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * •
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ • * •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’- Guide.— Advt;
* * * *
Just landed —“1920 Models” “National” Suction
Gas Engines and Plants of 36 to 39 B.H.P. constant
working load, and 43 to 46 B.H.P. constant working
load. Immediate delivery. Arthur Leplastrier and
Company, Circular Quay (East), Sydnev.— Advt
*** ' *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’«
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
™\ es - ° r write for particulars. H. B. Selbv St Co.,
Ltd., 260 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
Airostyle Paint-Spraying Outfit
120 per cent, quicker than brush, and better
for big works.
Get particulars.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Dalgety $ Company
Limited—
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C,”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate.,
besides providing: the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing: existing: investments,
or necessitating: heavy borrowing: for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAB VAN,
Managing Director..
&
boord&so n
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
to
DT
- Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney'
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
m
£14,430 and £26,581 respectively over
the two periods. New capital has helped,
but of the increase of £11,148 between
1914-17 £7OOO was bonus scrip, while of the
£42,909 increase since then £13,334 repre-
sented transferred reserves. These figures
show that irrespective of the new money put
in by shareholders the co.’s position was
improved during the three years to 1917 by
£B5OO after paying £6177 in divs., and by
nearly £48,000 over the three years since after-
giving shareholders £16,907. Though some
of the liquid surplus of £56,371 may be called
upon for taxes, it is unlikely that anything
will be immediately required to provide for
plant renewals, etc. In view of the recent ex-
pansion of the business and its bright pros-
pects the co. has decided to reconstruct. Plant
has been re-valued and also buildings, and
with the exception of the amount required
for taxation the whole of the reserves are to
be capitalised. Precise particulars as to
the basis of reconstruction are not available;
but the proposal is to double the ordinaries’
paid capital by the issue of 55,000 fully-paid
£l shares. i
Vic. Attorney-General Robinson said the
other day that it was obvious the coal-mine
owners as well as the coal-miners of N. S,
Wales are not unwilling to prevent the de-
velopment of the Morwell brown-coal elec-
tricity-generation enterprise. Robinson has
said too little or too much. If the coal-mine
owners of N. S. Wales are assisting the
miners to kill or maim the Morwell power
scheme, plainer talk is called for. If the
N. S. Wales coal-mine owners are innocent
they ought to press for explanations. To do
Robinson justice it should be added that he
has voiced a view held pretty generally in
Melbourne.
Owing to the drought that we’re forget-
ting about, Mt. Boppy, nowadays the Ma
State’s biggest and most reliable gold-
producer, went £13,520 to the bad in its
working account during the financial year to
June 30 last. Gold won gave only £25,258,
£lOO,OOO or so less than the pre-war average
value of production. The dry spell provided
one compensation, though: 14,000 c. yd. of
silt were removed from the reservoir. Since
June the 60-head mill has been in continu-
ous operation, and to October 31 22,341 tons
were crushed, reducing visible ore reserves to
165,714 tons. But developments are con-
tinually adding to tonnages, and favorable
lateral developments on the western ore
body are expected to continue. Since the
English co. got to work in 1901 Mt. Boppy
has produced over a million tons ore for
more than 410,0000 z. gold worth almost
If million.
* 1 * *
When the prospectus of Federation tin,
South Heemskirk (Tas.), came from secre-
tary Stringer’s office, those who were invited
to subscribe were told that the “Mt. Bischoff
under no more favorable conditions than
those at the Federation mine had paid its
shareholders over £2,500,000 in dividends to
date.” That bit of tall talk went ahead of
J. B. Lewis’s estimate of ore available —
1,000,000 tons of 1 p.c. stuff. On that basis,
and taking 70 p.c. oxide as worth £126 anl
with 250 working days per year, a net profit
of £70,000 yearly was calculated. Now, after
18 months’ development, Lewis advises 57,700
tons of proved ore and 450,000 tons of pro-
bable 1 p.c. ore. This estimate excludes the
eastern workings, Grey’s lode and other out-
crops. So Lewis is confident that his original
estimate of 1,000,000 tons can stand as well
within the mark. This assertion clears up a
lot of marked doubt about resources. A fur-
ther settler to criticism comes from the pen
of State geologist Loftus Hills, who puts
proved ore down at 60,000 tons and possible
at 400,000 tons, all of 1 p.c. grade. He also
opines that both lodes and their tin contents
will continue to considerable depths. This
double-barrelled report places the Federation
as a decent mining possibility, though no-
thing more till the proved ore is considerably
above 57,000 tons. It has cost £6OOO to get
to the present mining stage and £3300 to
float the show, find rents and pay administra-
tion costs. The 40-hd. mill from the Tas-
mania mine at Beaconsfield was picked up as
a bargain lot at £3600. Another £l5OO or so
has been spent on buildings and plant.
Against cash on hand of £2034 the co. does
well to be able to show debts of only £2638.
The worst item in the accounts is “calls in
arrears, £1848.” In a 60,000 contrib. show,
which has called up only 6s. per share
(£18,000), this looks like a lot of forfeitures;
but the Loftus Hills and Lewis reports
should straighten out that kink. For the
rest, everything depends on the tin market.
* * * *
Badak director Harry Abbott, of Bendigo,
is out with a circular to shareholders of that
odoriferous concern advising them to wind-
up and distribute the £25,000 of remaining
assets “rather than risk the money being
squandered.” Abbott was not an original
shareholder, but got in at a stiff price on
the strength of the Wilson-Orton alleged
bore results, and later, at the request of
Bendigo holders, took a seat on the Board.
He throws a further sidelight on the tangle:
Dr. Ffrost and I found that our efforts to get on
with the work were consistently blocked by the other
directors, for reasons which are now quite apparent.
Ultimately it was only through my threat to call a
special meeting of shareholders that we succeeded
in obtaining the appointment of a general manager
and expert in Mr. Raleigh. On receipt of the mutilated
wires relating to Mr. Boadle’s bores [a director]
was asked could he explain same, and he then denied
having had any private word from Mr. Scarborough,
when, as it now appears from Mr. Scarborough’s
statement at the meeting and reported in the press,
that he had sent the now-famous wire to [the
director], “Charlie ill,” some time previously.
Failing liquidation, Abbott intends to drop
off the Board, since he feels that in justice
to himself he cannot continue to be co-
llected with a co. “in which such unsavory
matters have occurred.”
• • • •
South New Moon, Eaglehawk (Vie.), still
retains the old regal headline: “Dividends
paid per share, £l6 Bs. 6d.; total, £525,600,”
and tells visitors that they can get below
every Tuesday morning. But underground
work now is very modest and yields
poor. Stoping goes on where a bit of gold
shows down to 1200 ft. To the north, at the
740 ft. level, work had to be stopped, while
south the spurs became so narrow and un-
profitable that manager Williams left to
have a go at 875 ft. and 900 ft., where 25ft.
of spurry country is being tackled and fair
gold got. On this a report goes round that
better yields are to come along. Even so
the grade is so far below the old records
that the best that can be expected is an
odd div. or two, if gold remains at an
abnormally high price.
* * * *
Mt. Monger Proprietary (W.A.) has had
its option extended by handing the vendors
£lOOO and taking back £750 in settlement of
their outstanding calls. The Government
has agreed to try to locate water, and if a
supply is obtained the co. proposes to instal
a small mill and crush one week a month
on its own account and the remaining three
weeks for all-comers. To date £4OOO worth
of gold has been won from the small rich
patches exposed in the shallow workings of
the property, and the co. is hoping that
values will go down. Most experts hold out
little hope of good things at depth, and the
past records of the field support their
opinion.
a a s; k
• Last April or thereabouts White Hope,
Hampton Plains, had a market valuation of
over half a million, and its boosters reckoned
that backed by Clark, Robinson and Daly
shares would go much higher. But after
eight months’ work down to 100 ft. only a
small tonnage of payable ore has been de-
veloped, and shares are not worth a tenth
of what they were in April last. It is the
old story. The public in the race fob
wealth came a cropper. Some shareholders
want to know why the co. doesn’t get a
move on and instal a small boring plant to
test the mine at depth, instead of penetrat-
ing the hard ground at the present slow
rate of progress.
* * * *
Princess Royal (W.A.) has had another
disappointment. This time it has been com-
pelled to abandon an option on what the
Board reckoned was a likely show outside
Kalgoorlie. Shareholders jibbed at paying
calls, and the vendors of the show refused
to wait on the off-chance of their doing so
later on.
From J. L. Strevens: “0.8.’5” remarks
on alleged Westralian oil finds (B.
23/12/’2O) are a trifle mixed. Whilst the
Pingelly show was never taken seriously,
that near Bunbury was sufficiently interest-
ing to have led one of the big oil trust’s
experts to the opinion that the indications
afforded fresh evidence on the vegetable
origin of petroleum. How “a few scattered
lumps of petroleum” were ever allowed to
wander about the deck of a passing ship
until they were “washed overboard” and
thrown ashore, is an inexplicable pheno-
menon. Anyhow, petroleum is a liquid, and
what “O.B.” refers to is probably the lumps
of bitumen occasionally washed up on the
shores of the Southern Ocean, not from
passing ships, but from submarine eroded
oil strata of unknown location. State Geo-
logist Gibb Maitland has examined a sample
of a black organic substance taken in North-
Western Australia and pronounced it to
be a true asphalt akin to glance pitch, and
therefore a surface indication of petroleum.
Simultaneously, the Government reserved
the whole of the State north of latitude
19° 30 ' and the W.A. Mines Department
publicly advertises that “oil search is being
made and concessions by loan of plant and
reserved rights to prospect given areas are
offered those with enterprise.” The South-
Western Oil and Shale Co. has a prospecting
license for 10 years over an approximate
area of 10,000 square miles in the south of
Westralia, and geologist Dr. Pritchard, of
Melbourne, and oil-man Kessal, of Mt. Gam-
bier, have gone to examine and report.
Finally, the Anglo-Persian Co. has offered
to form a separate co. to prospect for oil
in W.A., so it looks as if J. J. East is not
the only believer in the existence of oil in
that State.
Queensland Minister for Mines Alf Jones
recently appointed an advisory committee to
keep an eye on the development of oil and
gas at Roma. The committee comprises
Government Geologist Cameron (chair-
man), J. C. Henderson (Government Ana-
lyst) and A. E. Moore (expert driller at
the bore). The question of the commercial
manufacture of nitrogen compounds is down
for discussion by the committee, and it is
understood that it will have the assistance
of Professor Steele, of the Brisbane Uni-
versity, whose experience in making nitrates
in Britain during the war will help.
* * * *
While the drillers have been working over-
time at Roma (Q.) endeavoring .to get the
obstruction out of the bore, the Queensland
Mines Department has had a geological
party, headed by Dr. Jensen, at work on a
survey of the country to the north. Their
special job has been to look for anticlines
and likely spots to test for oil by drilling.
The country north of Roma and Mitchell, ou
the South-Western railway, through the
Carnarvon Range and up towards the head
of the Dawson has been covered. The
boundaries of the oil-bearing Walloon sand-
stones and the marine cretaceous strata
(which are supposed to be non-petroliferous)
has been mapped in, and it is considered that
a likely anticlinal fold has been unearthed
at Amby and Tinhorn Creek. Camp has been
struck, but the work will be continued after
the wet season is over.
* * # #
The reported gold find in the Crow’s Nest
(Q.) district, over which the Brisbane press
made a filss in July last, has quietly sub-
sided. The publicity induced a mild rush,
but nothing more was found than a few
leaders, which certainly carry good gold
values, but there is little prospect of decent
tonnages from the work so far done. Two
leaders have been sunk on for less than 20ft.
and nowhere does the quartz make more
than Sin. thick. Several official samplings
have given over 2oz. and private assays have
given 270 z., but free gold is the explanation
of the divergence in assays. It is only a
.small man’s show, and is likely to be nothing
more despite the newspaper boosting.
Silver-lead mining in the Brisbane suburb
of Indooroopilly has steadily grown in im-
portance. The Indooroopilly S. E. Mines
Co. holds the original ground, and has ab-
sorbed some of the surrounding leases,
notably Bogan’s, where the extension of the
ore body was found. Finney’s Ilill United
Co. is on ore, but is marking time while the
mine is equipped with headgear and steam-
winding plant. Rumors are rife that the
two cos. are about to amalgamate. The
deepest workings are down 120 ft., and cop-
per and zinc have come in. Outside of the
two cos., Moorhouse Bros, have about the
best show, and their 70ft. level passed
through 20ft. of a good lead- and silver-
bearing formation. Altogether about 80
leases have been applied for, but the holders
of many of them apparently cannot raise the
necessary to do much prospecting. It has
been proved pretty conclusively that the ore
has been brought in by felsite dykes,
which are abundant in the vicinity of Fin-
ney’s Hill. It is apparently not a fissure
or series of fissures, but irregular lenses oi
ore replacing crushed schist and slate. The
latest development is a reported find of
galena over the river at Yeerongpilly, in simi-
lar schist, and the suburbanites have got in
early and applied for three mineral leases.
Springleigh bore, Central Queensland, is
down over 6700 feet and borings from that
depth give a good Dercentage of crude oil on
extraction with ether. The borings at 5400 ft.
gave mineral wax and asphaltene, so that
there should be petroleum somewhere handy.
It looks a good thing for a really decent re-
servoir of the liquid fuel if porous sand be-
tween the clay shales can be struck.
* * * *
“T.S.”: Koorboora Mines (Q.) have not
been working for three months, but the gear
has not been transferred to the Two Jacks,
as stated in a recent Bulletin. All the
machinery is lying at the railway station ex-
cept one boiler dropped along the line below
the Two Jacks. After the owners shut down,
a party of four took a tribute on the Dal-
notta, crushed 37 tons, which did not give
wages, and then threw the tribute in. The
late manager of the Jacks and Joe Millican
had a tribute on the Jacks (more to hold the
ground than anything else I fancy), but they
also have passed in the tribute. The Tennyson
is a dead letter. All available cash was spent
on the surface, and all that the new poppet
legs saw was about 60 tons lead ore broken
by tributors years ago. The co. did no work
underground except to bail the water. The
ore raised was full of zinc. A tribute in an-
other shaft was let subsequently, but after
raising and crushing four tons tin ore the
tributors gave up on account of the lead con-
tents and its low grade. The best mine on the
field is the Neville, a wolfram show, but not
now working on account of the low price of
the metal. Hundreds of tons of wolfram have
been taken out of this mine. The only re-
maining pub and the store adjoining were
burned down a couple of weeks ago ; the other
store was burnt out some five months ago.
The Government offered the co. £5OOO subsidy
on condition it raised a like amount, but the
scheme collapsed. The field is deserted except
for a few scratchers at Bismarck, three miles
out.
The sickness of the metal market threatens
to play havoc with the Speck’s mining in-
dustry. Zeehan, long in the doldrums, now
seems likely to become a total derelict. Mt.
Bischoff is said to be likely to close down if
the market price of tin doesn’t make a rapid
recovery, and even Mt. Lyell is contem-
plating copper quotations with serious mis-
giving. Electrolytic Zinc, at Risdon, dis-
charged about 150 of its hands on New
Year’s Eve, and will probably shut right
down on actual production of spelter until
the market recovers. It intends, however,
to push ahead with general construction
work, so that when it resumes it will be pro-
ducing on a large scale—probably 100 tons
per week. On the Savage River osmiridium
field a few miners are making wages or a bit
better, but the decline of £7 10s. an ounce
(from £42 10s. to £35), together with the lock-
ing up of a lot of allegedly alluvial ground in
mining leases, has sent a number of diggers
looking for a happier New Year elsewhere.
Stalwart miners plucking raspberries and
hops threaten to be a not uncommon sight
this summer in the Speck.


*l>>«. Rev Wowser
of Melbourne pays
Visit to the
City of Sin-
The lady hoarders
at his hotel hit things
up at dinner
He goes to Church __
and discovers how the
Sydney Clergy brightens
up its Sermons.
He ventures into a. caf<z
where the girls compel him
to jazz
Rushing into the v
street to get help
from the police , he-
He goes in
Search of a flat
but is daunted
art the out seT
—. horrified
the things he has Seen ,
hits the trac-W for home .
Wh«r« g&Wring of the. governiiog classes
of Melbourne coograitula+cs him on his escape.
A MELBOURNIAN IN MODERN BABYLON.
Melbourne Age publishes an article on “Vignettes of Sydney: A Study in Wickedness.” The writer says of this “modern Babylon”: “Mammoth hotels,
with lounges and dining-rooms filled with gorgeously-dressed spendthrifts, tower to Heaven with insolent pride, and in the suburbs chastity, maternity and
sober thinking are chased into oblivion by huge terraces of sky-scraping flats, where the latest sin plays hide and seek with the tradesman’s bills collector.”


J-HC
f
l
‘Righi off ike Ice
ABBOT’S
LAGER
“ 3he Boer
Without a Rival"
I BREWED FROM PURE MALT &HOPS ONLY
■4900-
*
Are you imprisoned in an invisible <age?
Do you experience that awful loneliness o. ly
known to those who cannot hear ?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Meal's Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney,
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNQ ROOF GARDEW
/
Management F. T. CHKISSEM| 4 jj
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The worst —in fact, almost the only—bit
of ill-luck that ever entered the prosperous
existence of just-dead Peter Stuckey Mitchell
was when a relation published a book in
which the sporting pastoralist figured. The
author gave himself the highest of characters
but disclosed a poor opinion of the rest of
the family. The object was to disclose to
an indifferent, world the scurvy treatment
the writer had endured at the hands of his
wife ; and the Mitchells were pilloried fox-
helping her. Old Frederick Darley is
alleged to have sided with the author —who,
by the way, pursued his wife clean round
the world without catching her up—but the
evidence on this point was unsatisfactory.
The row, and more especially the book about
it, worried the cheery little owner of Dyed
Gai-ments and Bringerbong so that he fled
from Sydney to America. It would have
driven many a man further than America.
Con Wallace, who gave up his sui-e Federal
Labor seat at West Sydney to make room for
T. J. Ryan, Queensland State Premier, then
fleeing from the wrath to come, is a dis-
gusted man these days. His reward was
the job of shipping master at Brisbane with
£225 per yeai\ which rose to £250 when the
new Public Service classification made it
impossible to pay him less. Meanwhile Ryan
had £lOOO a year and the right of private
practice. People in Ryan’s old State seemed
to regard Con as something between a dupe
and an interloper, so he has quitted in dis-
gust.
NEVER. SO SORDID.
"Did she marry him for his money?”
"Oh, no. girls never do that —she just took
him for whatever he was worth."
Hubert Parker, a son of the retired Chief
Justice, has been appointed Crown Prose-
cutor of Westralia. a job held before him by
his brother Frank. The Parkers are a fight-
ing family- Both brothers got into khaki
in 1914 and became majors in the artillery ;
but whereas Hubert saw the thing through,
Frank, who had- fought in Boerland, died in
Egypt before the Gallipoli days. Another
Parker in the artillery was their cousin
Ernestj in his time the State’s finest batsman
and tennis-player; he also sleeps in a foreign
grave. The new Crown Prosecutor is pre-
sident of the Westralian R.S.L.
X John Hunter, who shod more Australians
than any man of his generation, died sud-
denly in Sydney last week. Iventish-born
and the son of a bootmaker, John came to
N. S. Wales as a youngster and began selling
brogans at Gulgong. With the money he
made there he moved to Sydney and into the
manufacturing part of the business, and in
time the name became familiar throughout
Australia. Sport was the fine old man’s
diversion until he grew too aged—he was 79
at the end—to care about it. He was twice
married, and the second Mrs. Hunter and
seven children of the first marriage survive
him.
The news that D’Annunzio is going to
Ireland inspires curiosity as to whether he
will appeal there as nationalist or as
empire-builder. Of course, he is a revolu-
tionary by temperament; but, then, he hates
the R.C. Church, which has excommunicated
him and put his books on the Index.
E. T. Drake, Vic. Sec. of Public Works, is
going on six months’ leave prior to retire-
ment. He did well as Chief Clerk of the
Audit Department and as Government Sta-
tist, but his reputa-
tion as a big officer
rests on his reorgan-
isation and tactful
control of the Public
Works Department.
Clowser may succeed,
but if Kermode, Chief
Engineer, who has a
liking for administra-
tive work, pushes his
claims, he would be a
hard man to beat.
There is a precedent
in recent years for
selecting a profes-
sional officer as per-
manent head. J. M.
Reed, Surveyor-Gen-
eral, was made Secre-
tary of Lands.
A. S. RODGERS,
Honorary Minister in
the Hughes Govern-
ment, who is getting
ready to take Joe
Cook’s place when
Joe goes to London.
Melbourne Argus continues to be a nursery
for the Sydney Sun. Thomas Dunbabin, an
ex-Rhodes scholar from the Speck, who has
had a roving commission for the Argus for
four years, in the course of which he has
represented his paper in every State of the
< ’ommonwealth and in both the Territories, is
to flit across to Sydney very shortly. His
chief recreation is digging up long-dead facts
about Australasia that might most times as
well be left buried.
Gone west, Charles Bath, sportsman and
man-about-town. for many years a member
of the committee of Sydney Tattersall’s Club,
lie had gone into hospital for an operation,
but death semaphored his number before
the surgeon had time to make an incision.
Bath, the son of a Bridge-street wine and
spirit merchant, and educated abroad, figured
in the land scandals of a dozen years ago.
and, although exonerated, was never the
same man again.
General Monash has been duly installed
by Order-in-Council as Chairman of the
Electricity Commissioners (Vic.), and will
have, greater powers than he had as general
manager. He null continue to draw £BOOO
a year, and his fellow-workers, Gibson, Lyle
and Swinburne, will drop in occasionally,
like company directors, and lift £5OO a year
each. Hermann, who has charge of the
research and briquetting work at Morwell,
is going to Central Europe to pick up
wrinkles. Like Monasli he is one of the
Chosen.
Angas Parsons, Iv.C., the new S. Aus.
Judge, has crowded more and more varied
mental effort into his 48 years than most
men. He is a descendant on his mother’s
side of George Angas, one of the founders of
the State, and so felt it his duty to learn
about sheep and farming. He is a solicitor
and barrister and an LL.B., has been an
M.L.A., and is a notable law-lecturer. A
quality which has always endeared him to
the Judges is his gift of clear and logical
expression. With that went a sober fair-
mindedness which was also helpful. No
Judge ever thought of checking a case that
was cited by Parsons. Like George Murray,
his chief, he is rich; his wealth came from
the Angas estate, and he is married to the
moneyed Langdon Bonython’s daughter. His
father was a clergyman of flowery eloquence
turned politician ; he served a term as Gov-
ernment Resident in the Northern Territory.
Malcolm Shepherd, who has been ap-
pointed official sec. to the High Com-
missioner in London with salary and allow-
ances that tot up to £2OOO a year, has had a
heap of litck in the Commonwealth service.
Alfred Deakin lifted him out of the Postal
Department and made him private sec. at
under £4 a week. Then Shepherd, who was
more remarkable for industry than bril-
liance, began climbing. Ten years ago he
went up three rungs at once when he be-
came head of the Prime Minster’s Depart-
ment —a new tentacle of the service pro-
jected by Andy Fisher. And again people
on the inside gasped when his pay was
raised from £9OO to £1250 from July last.
No doubt he has been sorely tried by
Hughes; all the same, his manner of re-
cent years has made him many enemies, who
will suggest that he has been now shunted
to allow of the advancement of somebody
else. Something, of course, has to be done
for Deane.
Commissioner Pope, wfio has struck
trouble with the Westralian railwayman,,
was chief clerk to J. T. Short until the end
of 1914;, then he went north as C.O. of the
16th Battalion, which included Harry Mur-
ray, “Fat” McCarthy and their equal in
daring and resourcefulness, the late Percy
Black. Under Pope’s command the bat-
talion made a great name for itself; it
seized and held Pope’s Hill, one of the
bastions of Anzac, and its machine-gun
section was famous throughout the Penin-
sula. After Gallipoli the 16th was re-
organised and Pope was transferred to the
Fifth Division, with the temporary rank of
brigadier. He returned to Australia after
the tragedy of Fleurbaix, but went back to
Europe in time to be wounded at Messines.
When Short retired Pope was lifted over
the heads of several officers senior to him in
rank and with much greater practical ex-
perience, and the memory of this still rankles
in the railway service.
W. R. Anderson, Sec. of Vic. Crown Law
Department, who has been a generally-useful
man in the service, is to go out shortly, as
he is now in his 66th year. A. T. Lewis
(Chief Clerk), Cohen (P.M.) and a few
more are nibbling at the £lOOO-a-year job.
W. T. Seabrook, who passed out the
other day, was a stalwart among Austra-
lian apiarists. He shifted hither from
England over 30 years ago. and with him
came business methods and expert know-
ledge. He was secretary of N.S.W. Bee-
keepers’ Association in its infancy.
Mulcahy, of the Speck, was just beaten for
third place at the last Senate election, and
at the official declaration the grievously-
disappointed little man let his capable
tongue go in a speech which stands as one
of the finest denunciations of sectarianism
in politics ever uttered in the Common-
wealth. The protest (or something) has
just resulted in a public subscription of over
£6OO as a sort of solatium.
“ Jeames”: The sentence which has just
been passed on Countess Markiewicz, whose
father was an English baronet, recalls that
the Irish republicans by no means rely for
leadership on peasants and priests alone.
Harry Boland, De Valera’s secretary, who
has been talking to the N. York press about
his leader’s movements, had a distinguished
career at Oxford. John Boland, for years
Nationalist M.P. for S. Kerry, who married
a daughter of Dr. Pat Maloney of Melbourne
(not the long-haired M.H.R.), is a member
of the same well-known Dublin family, and
a barrister of the Inner Temple who was
called while at Christ Church (Oxon.).
Captain White, who is a brigadier in De
Valera’s elusive force, is a son of the field-
marshal and V.C. Like his father, he was
educated at Sandhurst and fought in South
Africa.
.T. R. Macfarlan, Melbourne’s new K.C , is
another lawyer afflicted with political am-
bitions. He had a sprint for the Federal
electorate of Henty (Vic.) when that seat
was created, and tried hard for St. Hilda’s
approval for the State Assembly when the
old member, li. G. McCutcheon, died in 1917.
Me is a product of Wesley College, and after
teaching classics at Geelong Grammar for
a while was called to the Bar 24 years ago—
he started his reading with Justice Cussen.
A good constitutional lawyer, he pecked so
assiduously at his chosen subject that he was
considered good enough to follow Professor
Jethro Brown in the chair of law at Hobart
University.
“Centurion” on the petticoat in the Army:
The late Lady Roberts was debited by'the soldiers
in Africa with a passion for directing the military
as well as the social activities of her husband.
After Diamond Hill, when the Boers showed strong
signs of throwing in their marble, Lady R. was
asked by Mrs. Loins Botha at Pretoria to use her
influence with Bobs to permit Mrs. B. to visit
Louis, whom she hadn’t seen for months. The lady
went out on parole, and gave Louis such an account
of conditions among the British—enteric and horse-
sickness were rife, and De Wet was making a wreck
of communications—that he decided to continue
the row, which lasted a couple of years longer. Inci-
dentally, the ribald derived some joy from the fact
that a son and heir was born to Louis some time
after Mrs. B.’s return to Pretoria. A captain of
artillery, who had been on a brigade staff in India
while Lady • Roberts was Commander-in-Chief—
that s how he put it—told me that when the last of
the C.D. restrictions were removed owing to Lady
R. s influence, V.D. began to play the devil with
the troops in cantonments. The gunner captain’s
SENATOR RICHARD BUZACOTT
(W.A.).
0.0. got desperate and resolved to beard the chief
on the subject. Up to Simla he went, taking my
informant with him, and the pair were ushered into
the presence. Beside her husband sat Lady Roberts
placidly knitting. The 0.0. blurted out that he
had come to discuss a matter too delicate for
feminine ears. “I am entirely in the General’s con-
fidence,” the lady with the knitting observed. There-
upon the exasperated C.O. burst into a recital of
the most blistering details, but although Bobs was
ill at ease Mrs. Bobs never dropped a stitch. The
deputation retired baffled, not to say broken.
“Skyrider” : Michael McCool, who passed
out on January 7, at SI, was another of
Goulburn’s earliest, though his first venture
in Australia was gold-digging on the Araluen
field. He came from Donegal, and when he
landed at Sydney the railway southward
had not been built. Mick secured a passage
in a ketch to Jervis Bay, and was landed on
a practically untrodden shore. Shouldering
his pack, he struck out westward until he
reached the diggings. Even in his later
years he never appeared to think that this
was a wonderful feat, but he was fond of
recalling it. “I walked and walked,'’ he
said, “and, by the powers. I began to think
I had struck a big bit of land. I says to me-
self. ‘Well, the man that owns this place ’s
got a hell of a fine park; what sort of a
house will he have?’ ” But Mick never got
to the “house.”
With Speaker Mackey a K. 8., each Vic-
torian State House now has two knights—
Manifold and Weedon in the Uppah Cham-
bah ; and Peacock (who has the Michael and
George decoration) and Mackey in the
Assembly. Mackey, while plugging away at
the Uni., helped to earn his fees by working
as a compositor at the temporary Govern-
ment Printing Office at the Exhibition, just
about where the Assembly now meets. He
got his M.A. and LL.B., but has not prac-
tised much at the Bar. He was one of
the Kyabramapootra. members (1902) who
proved a stayer. Bent lifted him out of the
ruck in 1904, making him an honorary
Minister, and then promoted him to the
Lands Department when Murray resigned
dramatically on the floor of the House in
August, 1906. He went out of office with
Bent in January, 1909. While honorary
Minister he made a bid for a Supreme Court
judgeship, but Cussen was selected.
Justinian Oxenham, secretary to P.M.G.
Wise’s Department, who has been holding
Australia’s end up at the Postal Union Con-
ference at Madrid, will visit Washington.
U.S.A., on his way back. A conference is
to be held there on communications and
cables, and something may be said about the
alleged freezing-out of Uncle Sam from a
share in the control of the ex-German lines.
Justinian is one of the few Federal civil
servants who have a nodding acquaintance
with Spanish.
RUPERT BROOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He loved the winds, the sun, the sea,
The world of sight, of sense, and speech.
Cool palm shades by Tahiti beaSh
Wrought in his blood an ecstasy.
He gazed on life through • dream-smoked glass,
And ate, and breathed, and loved as we.
Youth’s castles did he build, and see
Tall knights in gleaming armor pass.
All joys were his, for he was young,
And did not wish to wound or slay,
But only knew that life was gay,
And many songs were yet unsung.
Harsh bugles blew and Lemnos owns
War’s too-rich yield of fiery clay,
Where blood-splashed poppies sway apd sway, *
And mournfully the sea-wind moans.
VICTORIA.
NEVILLE SOMERS.


Seaplanes
and Aero Engines.
-
• ifi
m I ■ mu $ h
I f |5 f l fl' 3“ H ; ' “
m
L ->■
>%
imiT<
: ::.::v
rft. Vi
, M
I I ; 4
i
M
SPPP^P
■
V
itt
■
VICKERS-VIMY COMMERCIAL.
VICKERS-VIMY TRANS-ATLANTIC.
The machines illustrated can be supplied immediately from England. Also all makes of aero
engines, ranging from 75h.p. up to 400h.p.
Prices for complete machines ranging from £650 upwards, v
* A
AVRQ. 304. K.
OK HAVIEEANB. No. 8.
BE HAVIEEAND. No 6
P gpP«siwsBi y
BE KAVIEEANB. No. 4.
OE HAVU.EAND No. Ba.
RRISTOLr FJCHTSEB. F 2.8
H
re ,2 8
S.E 3 a
.... 1
BE
2 e
SOFWTM SWIPE
wm
Wtigm
F.2.A. FLYING ©OAT.
'
- ' L * ?-J'
mm
r.% aoA.T«
mmmm
MMH
m
NORMAN THOMPSON FLYING ©OAT m.T.Z»
For full particulars write to
WILLIAM ADAMS
Corner of Ring Clarence
BRANCH OFFICES:—
CO. LTD.,
Streets, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE:
Wm. ADAMS & CO., Ltd
521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie Street.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
NEWCASTLE
.
Watt Street.


m
Socks That Will Last
British Pare Wool Cashmere,
There is one kind of sock in particular that men
may unhesitatingly select for service. That is the
genuine Cashmere; but pure wool cashmere has
been scarce and expensive.
Wool and cotton substitutes have in some instances
been advertised and sold as cashmere. The real
cashmere is all-wool. Peapes’ have a plentiful
stock of British Black Cashmere, guaranteed genuine
pure wool texture.
6/6 pair; 37/6 half-dozen pairs.
This is unquestionably one of the best values in
reliable hosiery offered during recent years.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO. t LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Vigorous Health
in Sal Hepatica.
No other preparation provides such a
pleasant way to perfect health as Sal
Hepatica, the bubbling medicine that
is so good for young or old. Million's
of people throughout the world keep
fit by taking Sal Hepatica every morn-
ing. It has been the standard family
remedy in countless homes for a
generation. Don’t confuse Sal Hepatica
with fruit salts. Sal Hepatica com-
bines laxative and tonic properties
similar to the natural mineral water
of Europe. All chemists. Price 2/-> 4/-
L 276
su
/j
SAL HEPATIC A
‘Pleasant to taße.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
BEFORE THEIR TIME.
“Perhaps we have started a hit too early,
dear."
“Of course we have! Not a soul has seen
us this morning"
“Murkah” describes how it was ushered in:
At midnight in Fiji (though it was a mere 10
p.m. in Sydney) the droning note of the Marconi
rotary-spark at Suva stole across the ocean to wish
the world of wireless a Happy New Year. From
Samoa came the high-pitched wail of the Telefun-
ken system thanking Suva. Then calling C.Q. (all
stations) he sent forth “Best wishes from the staff
at Apia.” As from a world afar came the fainter
piccolo note of a steamer, the Levuka, bound Syd-
ney to Suva, announcing his position on the waste
of water and conveying seasonable greetings “to all.”
The musical note of the French system (every nation
has its fancy in wireless systems) next came in—
Tahiti wishing the world a bright New Year. And
since that station was designed for communication
direct with Paris and was using his limit of power,
that greeting actually covered the earth. He
repeated it next evening to coincide with New Year
in Paris.
The spinning world then brought the latest birth
of time to Maoriland. The curlew-howl of the station
at Awanui on North Cape came across the Tasman,
•call by call, to the stations in M.L., and Australian
chips from Bass Straits to the Coral Sea responded.
An hour and a half later the 400 ft. aerial at
Sydney Radio flung greetings into the darkness. And
so 1921 slowly crossed Australia and travelled around
the globe. Next evening the great arc-stations of
Europe and America were breaking off in the middle
of the endless streams of messages that pass to
exchange compliments on the advent of another year
charged with enormous possibilities to humanity.
High over all came the singing-arc of the greatest
of all stations, that at Nauen in Germany, calling
Tahiti—“ Germany reciprocates.” When San Fran-
cisco reached across the Pacific to Japan the girdle
of the New Year was completed—it had been wire-
lessed around the world.
* * * *
It happened the other day at Windsor
(Vic.). He was a grass-widower of 21,
having married at 17, but left his very
young wife because her cooking was bad.
She (not the wife) was 18, and he promised
to marry her when he got a divorce from
the bad cook. Her stepfather (age not
mentioned) told him he was “a rotter,” and
he said he was; also, that he had no
brains. Then she blew out hers in her bed-
room with his gun, making an awful noise
in a confined space. Medical evidence was
to the effect that there was nothing wrong
with her in the conventional sense. It was
merely that, at the age of 18, life was a
blank to her without her grass-rotter. A
week’s consideration would have shown her
that there were thousands of rotters to
choose from. . Which goes to show the folly
of hasty suicide. The Deputy-Coroner said
he hoped the case would be a Warning or
something like that.
* * * *
“Peter Pan”: Vic. Railway Commissioner
Clapp is making use of the coal and
stewards’ strikes to begin a revolution of
practice. He has cut out dozens of trains
as a prelude to cutting down the personnel
and saving coal, rolling stock and material.
For instance, Bendigo has enjoyed four trains
a day for years beyond memory, two of which
have run almost empty. These have beer#
cut off, and soon they will not be missed ex-
cept by commercial travellers who want to
get to the Murray the same day. Many
“political” trains, a legacy of the dim past,
have been struck out. There is £IOO,OUU a
year to be saved on free passes, and the
next railway ukase will wipe most of them
out. The best feature of the present
drastic restriction of traffic is the practical
abolition of race trains, especially to the
Melbourne suburban courses. Mr. Clapp
has informed the racing authorities that if
they persist in holding meetings during this
coal crisis he will cut out every train on the
line involved. Many thoughtful people believe
this to be the beginning of a needed reform
of the racing industry, which is upas-like in
its poisonous effect on public morality. It
may be the opening of a crusade to throw
down from his pedestal the fiddle-faced god
Horse.
» * * *
“Karae”: My brother came back later
than most of the homing Diggers, and his
reception was unique. Unable to join the
A.I.F. in 1914, and anxious to be in it, he
sold his farm at a loss, went to France at
his own .expense, and joined the French
Army. In France he made several more
attempts to enlist with Bill and Jim, but,
failing, he served till the Armistice, after
which he fought in the Moroccan hinterland
till the beginning of 1920. He acquired,
among others things, a skull wound, the
Croix de Guerre and three stripes. Being
an Australian de lege for 12 years and de
facto for 17, he applied to the High Com-
missioner for a passage back by A.I.F. trans ?
port, but hearing from this canny Scot that
it would cost him over fifty pounds (to be
paid out of his franc a day, presumably), he
accepted, instead, the steerage passage
granted by the French Government. On
reaching Fremantle he was refused a land-
ing- until an Alien Registration card was
filled in. He vainly protested that he was
no alien, showed his naturalisation certifi-
cate, and stated that he was a grazier and an
elector of Wide Bay (Q.). But the saga-
cious official smiled uncivilly, marked him
as a 1920 immigrant, put him down as a
laborer and ordered him to report regularly
to the police as a common Fritz or Stinko-
vich, or else return to France by the same
boat. After that the R.S.L. intervened, and
the alien registration business was cancelled,
but there has been no apology from that
day to this.
* * * *
“Lex” on a great Hebrew:—
There are two sorts of Jews, and they differ as
widely, mentally and physically, as Oxford profes-
sors and Oxfordshire yokels. The commercial Jew
who becomes a bookie, a pawnbroker, a money-lender
or an old-clo’ man is usually paunchy and flat-
footed with heavy eyelids and thick lips and nose.
His taste in all but food, drinks and tobacco is
poisonous, and he despises culture as an interfer-
ence with business The other type is spare and
MORE MAN-MADE LAW.
“Oh, my dear, your skirts are creeping up!"
“Well, you know how it is—man wants hut little here below, nor wants that little
long."
ascetic, with thin, tight lips, a hawk-like -nose and
a lean, thoroughbred-looking head. Such a one is
Lord Reading, who has been' asked to throw up
the Lord Chief Justiceship of England and become
Viceroy of India. The offer is a tribute to his
wonderful tact, charm and wisdom, which qualities
made him the best-liked ambassador England ever
sent to the U.S.A. ; and he will need all his virtues if
he accepts the Indian job. The situation there is
as delicate as it is in Ireland, and about 40 times
more dangerous. Rufus Isaacs began one of the
most sensational legal careers on record after going
bankrupt in the City. He was called to the Bar
at 27, and within five years was earning £5OOO
a year. When he went on the Bench he was reputed
to be making between £20,000 and £25,000 per
annum, his hours during term-time being 6 a.m.
to 9 a.m., work on briefs at home; 10 a.m. to 5
p.m., work in chambers and court; 9 p.m. to 11
p.m., work on briefs at home. He never made his
mark in the House of Commons, though he repre-
sented Reading for many years. (He was eventu-
ally defeated in this constituency by. Leslie Wilson,
who was A.D.C. to Governor Rawson of N. S. Wales
17 or 18 years ago.) As a Judge he displayed all
the great qualities—an Olympian impartiality, pro-
found knowledge, and a mind of dazzling clearness.
FRISKY FINANCE.
THE ELDER ONE: “Can you put me on to a
cheap typewriter, Joe?"
THE RISING ONE: “ Better wait till the jazz
season’s over, old hoy. Mine’s nearly
broke me.”
He has never been “in society,” as the phrase goes.
Most of his friends are Jews, and many of them
rather poor Jews. Various members of his family
have been a trial and a severe handicap to him,
yet, as is the way of his race, he has stood by them.
He listens to music or plays golf when he is not
working.
“Kopai’’: It was a licensing case and the
presiding P.M. a newcomer to the district in
the west of Victoria. The defence’s plain
and fancy lying was founded on the intricacy
of the hotel’s architecture, and it had the
new P.M. puzzled. There was a whispered
conference on the bench, as a result of which
the chairman saw the light. “I don’t know
this house,” said he ponderously, “but one of
my colleagues, I find, knows it very well—
very well. A conviction will be recorded.”
And a slow ecstatic smile spread over the
assembled hearers.
* * * *
From a trooper who is there yet—
All Light Horsemen will remember Rafa, scene
of one of their hardest fights, and of their last
camp before the Embarkation. The Turkish ammu-
nition dumps there were sold in November to a
party of demobilised English officers, who contracted
to remove the copper and brass and blow the
shells up, after first removing them five miles. The
dismantling was done by a party of Gyppos, at
5 P.T. per day, and, not realising the risk, Abdul
cheerfully belted the bands off the B.s’s until the
middle of the second verse of “Ivam yulla, Kam
yom.” Then a shell went off and 50 Gyppos
travelled skyward with the rest of that dump. In
the subsequent 14 hours the other dumps, one
after another, did the spontaneous-explosion act;
the flames were visible from Gaza and the detona-
tions were heard at Bir Salem. Five kilos of tele-
graph-wire were obliterated from the landscape, and
the railway line ceased work. An Australian major
happened to be there and took charge of the
wreck. He could not stop the exodus of Jews and
Gentiles that set in towards Egypt, but he collected
a few Indians, kept guard over the cash and held
G.H.Q. on the wire. “Where the row is you will
find an Australian” still holds good in the land
where Samson' bashed the Philistines.
* * ♦ *
A Maoriland compositor probably got it
right at the first attempt:—
YOUNG LADY, 24, good-looking, well educated,
wishes to meet young gentleman, view patrimony.
Of course, something depends upon the old
man’s age; but she would no doubt make
oral inquiries about that.
* * * *
JANUARY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Wantonly naked all her dimpled toes,
Tickling her hot earth-mother as she lies
Fainting with heat beneath the fire-blue skies,
The pink child-month kicks her bare legs and crows.
And while she burns her body golden-brown
In surf and sun or sleeps of coverings free,
She dreams of some old lady by the sea
Baking sedately in a new silk gown.
N.S.W. ADELAIDE STREET.
(Continued on page 18).
CHRISTMAS DINNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A silence holds the hot, suburban street.
The hour has passed; the feathered things that died
To make the yearly carnival complete
Have served their purpose, roasted, boiled and fried.
By now no heart remains unsatisfied
Save mine, for whom black Fate prescribed a pill,
A glass of pure cold water and a grill.
This is the hour that recompenses me,
For as the tide of gluttony abates
I look across my neighbor’s fence and see
(A loathsome spectacle my spirit hates)
Pile upon endless pile of greasy plates,
Where in the broiling kitchen, lobster-pink,
A woman stands beside the steaming sink.
And through the sultry heat of afternoon
Go slow processions to the rubbish-bin,
Where tired and listless girls with knife and spoon
Scrape out the empty dish, and empty in
The fleshless limbs of fowls, banana-skin,
And similar remains of pla«t and beast,
The gruesome remnants of the finished feast.
And lo! Behold the gorged and sated brute!
With deck-chair on the cool verandah placed,
Paterfamilias with cheap cheroot,
His waistcoat slightly opened at the waist
(As if it could not hold what it embraced),
Presenting to the dull, incurious street
A picture of the utterly replete.
And now there is no stir of life at all;
On lawn and garden heavy shadows brood;
Still is the swinging bat, the flying ball —
All, all, is peace and holy quietude.
Past is the annual carnival of Food,
And while the myriad feasters drowse and bask
Digestion struggles with its hopeless task.
VICTORIA.
VANCE P.


% V „ v
gg
-
I 1 ■ jmajKZ ■
mKKUNHBF* dfX&fc'
■iiiMHiL J|r '|H
iwia
l.i/4
m
1 X-:
7
• I;’
HlMSl' f; I
Mh - §* r.
1
m :■:
fill#
Of I
I
'
Mpajifc» ' v '>■' is? •• '
ji|
Mfe.'-f ;.l
r-f
■'
i
SSr I ; ffell J ■ yiy/ B^g,^fcJi2
I** 1 "" mini»l*^^wlm- Jll '”>- f ff* g, - $u f .f „j
*^ el ■...;' .:- '-■A -
y fi :”|« <i
f < ■ Sirf I » .t*
35
«i
■*»
a u»*4Nlti&* f
j»i *T*i • jiprf Ibi.
-■ | B
*#!
f *, HI. 8 _£ ■«
X I
I: I:
vtX .'" ;.*:■
HPI
V #4.
4
iM
SS'lf
jt
Hi
. mm■
m
:
m ■{*? W
lllilM
h
€' VM?"
p*Z«'
■ j^p
" lv
<■ ', ,j
’ti (■'*" 'g|
mm', '■ -
DO PLAY IT AGAIN!
HOW the latest “musical hit” appeals to your friends, and how well
it sounds on the ever-popular Pianola Piano. What a delightful
diversion at your tennis or croquet parties! How jolly to dance
on the verandah to the Pianola, too!
INSIST ON SEEING THE WORD
PIANOLA ON THE PIANO YOU BUY.
PIANOLA PIANOS are made in the STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD
and the English-made WEBER. All models can be obtained on terms
and are illustrated in Catalog “B.” Pianos accepted in part payment.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(“AEOLIAN” registered trade-mark),
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne. 436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Corner Gawler Place and Rundle Street, Adelaide.
CUT OUT AND POST NOW
Please send me PIANOLA PIANO
Catalog “B.”
Name -
Address-*-
&
cx


bxc
Consult IM ° n Water Supply
yvm&UH US, and Irrigation.
We have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery
Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Hercules Windmills. 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping
Plants.
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Deep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Kods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
b
have also good stocks of Ball Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
St antiwar (11** Van,Sed aD<i ’^ tea,n; “National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors.
418-424 & 450-460 Ann Street
xcb
(Trains
pass
nea r by).
Brisbane.
Works: Yeerongpilly
[3
STA<£
LA6ER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
From a Digger who is still a war casualty:
The heads in Melbourne sent a Christmas greeting
to all ex-A.I.F. men in hospital. It set forth that
“Payment of difference between war pension and
military pay and allowances to ex-members of the
A.I.F. undergoing treatment in military hospitals
ceases on December 31, 1020.” There are Diggers
still in hospital who have failed to take this exquisite
pleasantry in the right spirit, but wheti they realise
that the Commonwealth and the two most populous
States have had to find largely increased salaries for
members of Parliament, they will surely be recon-
ciled to the loss of their paltry few shillings. Let
them consider how fortunate they are to be receiving
■pensions at all.
* * # *
“Seno” on a queer complaint:—
Recently the mental complaint known vernacu’arly
as “latah” and to medical science as echopraxia or
echolalia, according to the form which it takes, has
made its appearance in Australia, two well-marked
cases and one not quite so clearly evident having
been reported from the north of Westralia. In the
Malay States it is fairly common, and, so far as
medicine knows, does not occur anywhere else. It
consists wholly of an inability on the part of the
sufferer to do anything else but repeat either the
actions or the words of another person, echopraxia
being the name given to the former phase of it
and echolalia to the latter variety. In well-marked
cases of echopraxia the patient will duplicate every
movement of the person who has his attention, even
A LITTLE MATTER OF TECHNIQUE.
“Madam is so delightfully composed.”
“ Well , as long as people don’t know that you
composed me I shan’t mind.”
to the extent of imitating him by picking up
a painful object, such as a piece of hot metal. Gen-
erally the trouble seizes the patient in periods, which
? je r aS far apart as two or three years. A case
which I saw a.t Samarang, in Java, was. of over
20 years standing, and furnished during his periods
of echopraxia a source of amusement to the native
,-ou.h, who wool,, place in front ,h, .offerer a
small piece of iron which had been heated. So long
as the peison opposite him remained still he had
no interest in the hot iron, but when his vis-a-vis
stretched out his hand as though to pick it up, out
would fly the brown paw of the latah to grab the
hot metal. As a result of this trick having been
frequently played upon him, his hands were covered
with scars, and his employer, a Dutch doctor, had
a standing reward of 30 lashes for anybody whom
he caught exercising his perverted sense of humor.
Of the cases reported from the Nor’-West, one is
a Malay and the other a Chinese.
'j* * * *
“Audio”: Some of the officers promoted
from the ranks became sticklers for mili-
tary discipline and the courtesy they con-
sidered due to their rank; but the greater
number never forgot their
Digger origin or mates.
This is one reason why the
unit was always “home” to
its members. I was in the
orderly-room one day when
the Colonel sent a runner
for Captain Murphy, fami-
liarly known as Spud, and
the most popular man in the
battalion. When he arrived
the C.O. froze the smile on
his face and proceeded to-
adm inis ter <a tongue-thrash-
ing. “Two years ago, Cap-
tain Murphy,” he started,
“you were a private in A
Company and known to the
men as Spud. I made you a
lance-corporal, and they still
called you Spud. Then you
were promoted successively
sergeant, 2nd lieutenant and
lieutenant, and you appa-
rently made no effort to
obtain a greater show of respect.
Now you are captain,” he thundered,
“and this morning you took no objec-
tion to a Digger addressing you 'as
Spud in my hearing. You must sec
this ceases at once.” “Yes, sir,” re-
plied Murphy, throwing a stiff salute.
He had not taken half a dozen steps
and was still within sight and hear-
ing of the Old Man when two or
three voices from a crowd of Diggers
standing near bawled out: “Spud, you
, come here!” He threw a wild
look at the Colonel; then his head
turned, and with a grin of recogni-
tion he sauntered over to the group.
“Blacklip”: When the British G.H.Q.
decided to experiment with dogs as message-
carriers, would-be tyke-trainers, in quest of
cushy jobs, were numerous. Bill, of our
battalion, was one of the unsuccessful appli-
cants. “They want blokes that understand
dogs,” he snorted contemptuously. “Why,
I have kicked more blanky dogs out of the
pub than any blank in the British Army.”
* * * *
On the idiosyncrasies of A.I.F. colonels:—
The battalion diaries kept by the C.O.’s of A.I.F.
units and now part of the War Museum
will enable posterity to perceive what
manlier of men the diarists Were. There
was the mathematically-minded chief who
ran to figures and regarded war as an
exaggerated kind of profit and loss
account. There was the C.O. who was
obsessed with food supplies, and who
gladly recorded about one rest area that
“Here, fortunately, the men are able to
easily obtain eggs and chips in the
estaminets.” Others gloried in the im-
pression that their boys were aching
for fight and could not have too much of
it. One of these enthusiasts mentions
that during the Ypres operations in 1917
the arrangements for a large hop-over
were postponed owing to the impossibility
of supplying a sufficient artillery pre-
paration. “I immediately requested that
the attack should be allowed without
artillery support,” the exuberant one re-
marked, “as, otherwise, the men will
be keenly disappointed.” For that and
other reasons the gentleman was known
as “Old Blatherskite.” An anti-prohibi-
tionist noted triumphantly that “owing
to wine being plentiful in the area, and
the canteens having adequate supplies of
beer, there were no cases of A.W.L.” In
general the diaries have a fatherly touch
and convey the impression that the Old
Man regarded his men as the finest
crowd in the A.I.F. and was prepared to
pit them against anything their weight
in Europe, not to mention Asia and a
few other continents.
(mamma . The most tactful woman I
evei knew was the wife of an Australian
Premier, now dead. He was an amiable old
boy aQ d there wasn’t a particle of vice in
him, but one wild night at the end of the
session he got too much whisky aboard and
went for a frolic with the young fellows,
The graceless ruffians conducted him to the
residence of several ladies who hadn’t the
pntrpp to (TOVPrnmpnt T-Toimp But it fi
S hi „nlleShSoS. Sd «" I chap
was seen to enter, and before he had been
there 10 minutes a telephone message had
.told his wife all about it. She didn’t faint,
or ring up her lawyer, but calmly put on her
hat and ordered out the family coach,
Arrived at the abode of impropriety, she
opened the gate, knocked at the door, and
icily informed the startled chatelaine that she
had come for the Premier. When that erring
statesman tumbled forth, looking precisely
like a boy who had been caught pinching the
jam, she gave him her arm and conducted
him home, without a word, or even a look,
of reproach. And thenceforward until the
day of his death there wasn’t a more devoted
husband in Australia.
“BENEATH THE DEEPEST DEPTH A
DEEPER STILL.”
“And note I suppose you are going to ring
up your mother and tell her all about
it!”
“I am going to ring her up, but I won’t
tell her a word about it till she comes
here.”
“O. Blin”: He followed me up three flights
of stairs and came in twisting his hat in his
hand. “You will excuse me troubling you,
sir,” he said. “I know you must ’ave many
claims on your generosity at this time o’
year, but I’m very ’ard up, as you can see.
I used ter be corporal in the Salvation Army,
but lorst me place through laryngitis. You
may ’ave seen me, sir, workin’ for the glory
o’ Gawd and General Booth in Bourke-
street.” “Well,” I said, “how much do you
want?” At this his faded eyes burnt with
the old Salv’army fire, and he said with a
return of the accustomed manner: “Glory
’Allelujah ! I ’ave now 4s. lOd. Will you be
the kind friend who’ll make it up to 55.?”
I gave him a thrum, and he thanked me with
further Hallelujahs. As he went down the
stairs he bumped into the fattest capitalist
in the building, and started to relate how he
had gathered ss. Id. to provide a Christmas
treat for his wife and children, and now
wanted only lid. to make it 6s. But he
did badly this time. All the same, I heard
him say : “God bless you ! ’Allelujah ! I
’ave now ss. 2d. Is there a brother who’ll
gimme lOd. to bring it up to six bob?”
* * * *
“Bovay” recalls a happy moment: —
The item (B. 30/12/’2O) about W. O. (Lieut.-
Colonel) McClean brings to mind an unpleasantness
that befell our C.O. He had the dramatic sense
strongly developed and loved to call unattended on
the bosses of strange units with a private’s over-
coat, worn over an issue tunic, which frequently
lacked badges of rank, but was never without his
ration D.S.O. ribbon. Many a time did he turn up
at a battalion H.Q. where he was unknown,, and,
having been treated contumeliously by sentry or sub-
altern, fling his mangy old overcoat open and,
pointing to his decoration, say coldly: “Tell your
C.O. that Lieut.-Colonel Horatio Bangs, D. 5.0., is
waiting to see him.”
During the second Ypres stunt a Tommy Division
moved in near us. The Old Man reached for his
Haroun al Rasehid garment and set forth. What fol-
lowed reached us through the bird who struck him,
and who happened to have done a school with some
of our lads.
“Take your hands out of your pockets,” said Cap-
tain de Vesre, as the chief pulled him up outside the
Loamshire’s mess.
“I want to see your colonel.”
“Stand to attention when you talk to me, my
man.”
It was the histrion’s cue. With a sweeping ges-
ture he indicated his status.
De Vere was unimpressed. “Damme! you’re mas-
querading,” he said. “Where did you get that
ribbon ?”
“Just tell your C.O. that Lieut.-Colonel Bangs
would like to see him, and you’ll learn fast enough,
young man. ”
“Don’t you ‘young man’ vie, blast you! You’re
under arrest.... Sergeant Briggs! Take this man to
the guard-tent. I’ll have him examined in the
orderly-room when the Colonel gets back from Bail-
leul to-night—if he does get back to-night. What’s
on his identification disc ? Ah! as I thought. He’s
got none. He’s masquerading as an officer and is
quite possibly a spy. March him off now. I’ll have
the guard doubled.”
It was fortunate for Horatio that the other C.O.
got back four or five hours later. He didn’t trouble
the Q.M.’s store again for the rest of the war.
“Seuo”: One of the problems that social
reformers in Australia are going to face be-
fore long is the drug-habit, which within the
last five years has increased enormously in
both Sydney and Melbourne. Introduced
originally from the United States, it received
an impetus during the war years, and now
there are few general practitioners who have
not at least one addict to morphine or cocaine
among their patients. To the public these
unfortunates are out of sight, but thtTaverage
chemist can tell a story of pleadings for
morphine and other narcotic preparations
which would sound well-nigh incredible to
those not acquainted with the extent to
which the habit has spread in Australian
cities. Both State and Federal Governments
have awakened to the state of affairs, with
the result that hosts of regulations, having as
their object the checking and accounting-for
of every grain of morphine and cocaine com-
pounds from the time they leave the importer
until they reach the ultimate consumer, have
been introduced, while the .Vic. State Gov-
ernment recently passed a bill providing-
heavy penalties for the dealer in fake* pre-
scriptions, of which there are hundreds in
existence in Melbourne alone. And victims
of the drug habit are still able to obtain
supplies of dope. Various chemists’ shops
have been under suspicion, but surprise visits
have failed to reveal the presence of unduly
large supplies of morphine or cocaine, with
the result that the authorities, knowing to the
half-grain the amount of alkaloidal drugs
which have been legally imported, are failing
back on the theory of smuggled shipments.
Meanwhile, the pharmaceutical journals con-
tinue to publish warnings to chemists against
making up forged prescriptions, with de-
scriptions of some of the more glaring and
of the people who present them.
“Dr. Nil” has an idea: —
The medical profession isn’t on a practical footing.
If a person can’t or says he can’t afford to pay for
attendance it is regarded as the right thing that
the doctor should attend him and his family for
nothing. Why do the doctors give their services
free, and even compete at hospital elections with
each other for the chance to do so ? The public says:
“It is a good advertisement and helps to augment
their highly-paid private practice.” Well, then,
why don’t the lawyers do the same?. And why is
NO NEED TO WORRY.
“Bobbie, you're very naughty. I heard you
tell your sister to go to the Devil.”
“You needn’t worry, mother. She never docs
a thing I tell her.”
there rot a public legal hospital open to all and
sundry who cannot, or simply won't, pay private
legal fees? Would the legal profession stand
it? Not much. Brother Horsehair is not out to
pose ras a public benefactor. But it is quite as
reasonable to expect it of him as of us.
BALLADE OF GOOD MAIDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A derelict I drift to-day,
Des.erted by my splendid maid,
For tall Rose Ann has gone away.
And faith is once again betrayed.
To cherish longer were it wise
The trust that they delight to kill ?
Ut I must seek with longing eyes,
For surely there are good girls still.
Gone Maud; gone Ernestine; and May
Has from my fond allurements strayed :
And Katie too refused to stay
M hen one mild censure I essayed.
Fair Lucy was a sad surprise,
She left me with such happy will.
Now Hope out to the country hies—
There surejy are some good girls still.
Cornelia yemed of finer clay;
When she forsook me, all dismayed
My heart turned to another fay,
And for Jane’s fealty I prayed ;
But Fortune flatters and denies--
She offers one that swears to' fill
The aching void, who swiftly flies.
But surely there are good girls" still.
Envoy.
For one more I will advertise,
A maid with some domestic skill;
The scrubbing, washing I’ll excise—
For surely there are good girls still!
VICTORIA.
S. S.


7
Fl
r 4
A
S.
fm
Wm
m
'
IP
jH M g j -
'
n
S»wwp
TI
Tl
I ri
w
:
f«n
fv
rs
Wmm
4
fe
«»
7n
■ c.
■
at
■
v '' • , . .
*...
~ V ■ ■ :
;. . v-. ; ..., .
...> . • _v, '" . .
itfll
¥;~ *s i
>* i
■
:
i
■
:
«
v; i
,
'■•;■. v
m a
:
■
;:-5i
:
. ■
i i
* * '
JL
* wm*
■ ■ ...
m
-i
4i
o
C s *
11
i
"W
-M
w
mr—
■lll
“There and Back” is not merely a
slogan when used in connection with
BOOMERANG TYRES, but a fact. No
matter the condition of roads—good,
bad or indifferent, BOOMERANG
TYRES will get you to your destination
without punctures, and with the ADDED
VALUE of LONGER WEAR, greater
resilience, FULLEST TYRE AND
PETROL ECONOMY. Assure a pleasur-
able motoring tour by fitting only
Barnet Glass Boomerang Tyres.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“Founders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia.’’
All States and New Zealand.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
mm
mim
1] R. TOWNS & CO.j Sydney. Agents.
ECZEMA
CURED!
Sufferers from ECZEMA or any of the
numerous SKIN TROUBLES that cause
such pain, anxiety and worry will wel-
come the wonderful news of the marvel-
lous discovery
LIGMOLLIENE
Its miraculous healing power has brought
happiness to numbers of homes through-
out all parts of the Empire. Praised by
eminent doctors. Prices 5/6 and 7/6
tin, or send now for SPECIAL SAMPLE,
enclosing 1/6 to
LIGMOLLIENE CO.,
Malyon's,
STURT STREET, BALLARAT.
the TOP-NOTCH ScotA
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Two Seas” : Apropos death-traps in the
bush (B. 16/12/’2O). I was riding along the top
of a ridge on a squally day. My dog put up a
domestic cat “gone bush” and chased it to twin
saplings. As puss darted up one my dog made a
spring at her and, missing, fell back in the fork of
the twins, which swayed apart in a gust of wind at
that moment, and closing again before he could
struggle out, crushed his ribs in. A bullet from
my Winchester put my old pal out of his misery, and
a second shot sent the cat after him. I have fre-
quently found kangaroos hanging to a fence with
a hind leg twisted in the two top wires—the result
of a miscalculated jump. But the cruellest death,
and one that stirred my imagination to the utmost,
was told by the dried carcase of a sheep-dog
chained to a tree many miles from the nearest
habitation. The why and wherefore has always
, Puzzled me more than any other mystery of the bush.
* * *
“Murkah”: “Paul C.” who asks (B.
16/12/’2O) why the lightning dug a hole in the
ground, puts a poser. Theoretically the thing is
an impossibility, because lightning possesses energy
(i.e., the power to do things) only while there is
a difference of level or pressure, which remark
applies to everything on earth. The instant the
charge reaches the earth a level is established.
Thus not only is its job done, as “Paul C.” sur-
mises ; it is incapable of any further job.
Momentum has to be ruled out because, strange as
it sounds, lightning hasn’t any, being in fact
merely a motion of the impalpable ether, like light
itself. The only way I can account for its tank-
sinking freak on the Occasion referred to is by
supposing there was considerable water in the
ground, and that a particularly violent flash heated
it, producing steam pressure and consequent explo-
sion. If, as is likely, a tangle of juicy roots
connected the two trees mentioned, they would tend
to concentrate the flash and make this theory more
feasible.
* * * *
“Yabugatnom”: “Six and Eight” (B.
£>/12/’2O) says he made a garden roller for 30 bob.
That’s nearly a pound and a half wasted. Watch
me make mine. An oil-drum (I had it, so it cost
nothing). A hole in each end. Into this hole a
piece of pipe. Twenty pounds of slag cement mixed
with sand emptied into the drum per bung-hole.
While wet filled up with small stones. After a week
the cement, etc., had set, and the ' drum was as
heavy as the cost of a ltoyal Commission. Then I
got some Mn. iron piping, shoved a spindle through
the pipe in the drum, screwed the bits of pipe one
into the other, and behold the handle. The roller
completed would massage the wrinkles off the face
of Billy Hughes. The total cost was Is. Bd.
“A.R.C.”: Jason, one of the stockmen on
Langmorn station (Q.), never carries a stockwhip.
yet he can get a move out
of a mob of Herefords
on the hottest day. I
would be wearing out my
whip, saddle and the floor
of my trousers trying to
get the cattle away from
the shade of the box-
trees on the river bank;
then Jason would jog
quietly towards them, and
the mob, holding its tail
in an agitated mark of
interrogation, would go
for its life. I suspected
Jason of black magic, as
he would not let me into
the secret, until one day
I caught him making a
sound like a bot or March
fly, or a combination of
both. But the discovery
did not end my troubles,
for although I practised
hard and acquired a buzz
of extraordinary malig-
nancy, the stockwhip still
remained my best argu-
ment for getting the cattle
to take their ticks to the
dip. They treated my
buzzing with silent (and
motionless) contempt;
and still, as far as my ear
could detect, it sounded
just like Jason’s. Come to
think of it, the approach
of a real bot or March fly
did not seem to cause such
a stir as Jason’s buzz. Is there any other winged
pest calculated-to strike more terror into the heart
of an ox than these?
* * * *
“Rang”: If “Johnny Cake’s” experience
of brumby-running has been considerable, then I
cannot understand how he does not agree that the
brumby stallion invariably travels in front of his
mob. Always when we have struck a mob* it was
being led by a stallion, ever tossing his head and
scenting the breeze. Occasionally he would mingle
with the mob in. frolic, but never have I known
him to round up delinquent mares —the mares didn’t
need it, for one thing.
“X.Y.”: “Paul C.” (B. 16/12/’2O)
advises Hoof and Horn” to use a decoction of
smartweed to keep the flies out of the eyes of cattle.
If the smartweed in “Horn and Hoof’s” locality
is similar to that growing on the N.S.W. North
Coast he had better put up with the flies; for
this weed is capable of producing blindness. The
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“I see Chicker’s up for pick-pocketin'.”
"Oh, yes—case of mistaken identity."
“What, ain't poor old Chicker guilty?”
“Yus, he's guilty enough. The cove 'e tried
to lift a watch from was not the fool
Chicker thought 'e teas.”
blacks on the North Coast rivers used to capture
fish with it. When creeks and rivers had dried
into a succession of holes, Binghi procured a quan-
tity of the weed, which he pounded into a pulp
between flat stones. This he threw into a hole,
with the result that the fish, 'became blind, and’
rushing about wildly, ran ashore. A safe appli-
cation which will repel the attack of any kind of
fly is iodoform ointment. A 5 per cent, compound
with vaseline is quite strong enough for this purpose.
The writer has used it for many years, and always
with perfect success, when all other non-irritant
applications failed. Raw castor-oil will keep flies
off in ordinary circumstances, but, at times, they
pay no respect to it. This is especially the case
with harvest teams wearing winkers. The clinging
little devils eat great holes in the eyelids of the
horses, if not evicted. The application recommended
will clear out every fly in two seconds. There is
no need for great accuracy in proportions. If you
can buy an ounce of iodoform and a pound tin of
crude vaseline, just mix the smelly yellow powder
into the jelly, and do it thoroughly so that it
will be of uniform strength. Only a small quan-
tity should be applied to the parts attacked. To
put it on thickly would be to waste it, as it would
be rubbed off in no time. Not only is the odor
hateful to the fly tribe, but the drug is one of
the safest antiseptics known to science.
Delhi”: “Mac” (B. 18/11/’2O) errs in
stating that the sugar-’possum builds a nest. It is
the ringtail that builds the nest, and it is so frail
that the owner can make an exit from any side if
intruders arrive. The sugar-’possum, being po larger
than a mouse, is hard to find ; but its taste for sweets
is the cause of its being often a captive, as it will
enter a busjiman’s tucker-bag and make itself at
home if it finds the product of Queensland’s Knoxious
weed.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: “H.J.J.” (B. 16/12/’2O)
asks if there is anything a ’possum won’t try to
eat. I don’t think there is. Let old Dan, of
Menindie, give his testimony. “ ’Possums?
S’truth! ' ’Ave I ever told you about the blighters
at Lambin’ Flat ? Me mate an’ me wus workin’
a claim that wus just payin’—just payin’, that wus
all. We used ter keep our few specks o’ dust in
a canvas bag, an’ one night we comes ’ome to find
the blessed bag busted open, lyin’ in the middle of
ther tent, an’ specks o’ dust everywhere. We
thought a dawg ’ad done it. I went outside to
’ave a wash and, strike me! lookin’ casual-like up
into the trees, I sees a ’possum sitting on a limb
licking shinin’ specks from off his chops! I
rushes in, grabs me gun, ’ops out, and bang!
all that ’possum’s fam’ly goes ihto black. We
cut him open and must ’ave got a ounce of gold
from his gizzard. We never worked our claim any
more —paid better to collect the stuff from ’possum-
gizzards. That’s the reason there’s no ’possums
round Young now.”
•Baree : Apropos Black Brother and
cannibalism. Even as late as 1913 a lubra told me
—l’m a Northern Territory woman—that she wanted
the white people to go away, as her camp was hungry
‘Tonga young feller piccaninny.”
* * * *
“Ellenbee”: The habits of Papuan ghosts
are peculiar. Along the Viviri River, Aird Delta,
one can see many platforms high up in the trees
on the river banks. The whole bush here is said
to h@ a notorious
haunt of “vata-vatas.”
The natives who are
night-bound there-
abouts climb on to the
platforms to sleep,
and are then safe, as
the ghosts roam only
on the ground. On the
other hand, in the
Mekeo Mountains the
ghosts usually live in
the trees, as the Mis-
sion Fathers found
when making their
road to Mafula. In
many cases they had
to fire shots into
specified tree-trunks
to kill the in-
habiting ghosts before
the natives would cut
the trees down to
clear the path. The
Motu people think
that anyone walking
about late at night,
without a light, is a
vata-vata, of which
fact any young buck who has stayed over-late with
his lady love is likely to be reminded by a spear
in his ribs.
* * * #
“Pick”: In the blue peppermint forests
west of the Dividing Range in N. S. Wales trees
almost branchless and dying give evidence of the
destructive work of a small grub that buslunen have
named the sawyer. He is dull yellow in color, soft-
bodied, with a hard black head no bigger than No. 4
shot, but in that miniature frontispiece he carries
an effective sawyer’s outfit. Emerging from eggs
attached to the bark by a handsome reddish-brown
beetle he cuts his way transversely into the wood and
continues ringing the limb until it falls. That done,
he pupates among the decaying leaves, and if lucky
flies forth again, the mother beetle of new generations
of woodcutters. Whole forests of peppermints might
be destroyed by sawyer grubs did they not assist in
their own destruction. But the debris heaped under
the trees provides ready fuel, and when a bush fire
occurs the devastation of the sawyers is checked for
years.
“H.V.E.”: Re the red snake with black
spots killed at Belford woolshed (B. 16/12/’2O),
the only catalogued serpent answering at all to this
description is the brown tree-snake, which is salmon-
colored, with dark brown bands on the upper sur-
faces, and lighter salmon beneath. But as this
arboreal crawler runs to 7ft. in length, and “Gaba
Tepe’s” specimen was a two-footer, it may have
been a young brown tree-snake, in which the dark
bands would be less pronounced. This snake homes,
so far as is known, in Eastern and Northern Austra-
lia, and, being mainly a night prowler, is some-
times known as the moon-snake. No other, so far
as I am aware, is upholstered at all like the Belford
one. Juvenile serpents of some species masquerade
in strange attire. The young brown snake, for in-
stance, is said to have whitish rings around its body,
but I have a young brown in pickle which is
colored much like an adult, only lighter.
AFTER THE FUNERAL.
DOCTOR: “Poor old Johnson! Chopper and
I had both given him up a month ago.”
RIAL DOCTOR (who hadn’t been called
in): “ That’s the trouble. You didn’t
give him up soon enough. He hadn’t a
chance.”
“Bouragi”: “Coringa,” in discoursing on
ticks, doesn’t tell me what I want to know—how to
cure a dog of the effects of a bite. Or isn’t there a
cure?
(Continued on page 22.)
I WONDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are the troubles just as'l'ife
In the old selection life
As they used to be when I was on the farm?
Do the big rains hash the wheat
To a crookedness complete,
Does the thunder-storm do lorry-loads of harm?
Does old Dobbin smash the fence
In his equine innocence—
Or what passes for that virtue, anyhow?
Is he followed by the rest
In a crop-devouring quest?
Is he followed by the whole collective cow ?
Is the saddle-horse a ghost
Not envisioned when he’s most
Demanded for an urgent trip to town ?
Does he, camouflaging, stray
To the thickest scrub away? V
Is he still opposed to being, hunted down?
Do the ever-patient cows
Still indulge in stubborn vows
To return as little profit as they can?
Do the poddies get so thin
That they’re only bone and skin ?
Do they still buttinski Rose and Mary-Ann?
Are the sliprails broken still?
Do the mud and rubbish fill
All the dams, and does the water break away ?
Are the gates still dragging hard
On the gravel of the yard?
Are the posts and rails still victims of decay?
Does the kitchen roof still let
Every shower through in a jet
That falls upbn the table and the stools?
Is the old axe just as blunt ?
Do the pigs still loudly grunt
For their tucker, in the slimy, stinking pools ?_
Are the grubs still waxing fat
’Midst the ’taters on the flat?
Are the cockatoos still ravaging the corn
And refusing to be shot—
Shrieking that they’d sooner not—
In the very early dim light of the morn?
TOO MUCH TO EXPECT.
THE PARSON: “ Why don't you stop this
thieving and love your neighbor—lead a
quiet, honorable, upright life, work for
the good of"
THE BIRD: “ 'Ere, 'old 'ard, parson—I'm
only a 'uman being."
Do the dogs espy a boon
When they see the silver moon?
Do they keep the sleepy folk awake at nights?
Do the fowls decline to lay
In the proper, routined way?
Are the combs of cock-birds i-ed from many fights?
Is the old man up at four,
Bumping at the new hand’s door —
Even though that early hour is sopping wet?
Is he searching high and low
For the adze thieved years ago?
And has he found that long-lost hammer yet?
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


Australian Novels
Notable Successes in 1920.
The past vear has been a memorable one from a publishing point of view. In
no other year since the N. S. Wales Bookstall Co.. Ltd., first commenced the
publication, of novels by Australian Authors at popular prices have so many
new volumes been offered. And in no other year has the average quality been
so high.
Practically ever novel added to the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
during the year has been an instantaneous success.
Here are a few of the year’s most popular novels, copies of which should be on
every Australian bookshelf :
“The Doings of Dave 9 ’ - - - by Con Drew
An excellent volume of humor.
“The Mount Marunga Mystery” - by Harrison Owen
One of the best murder-mystery stories ever published in Australia.
“The Maker of Pearls” - - - by S. W. Powell
The extraordinary adventures of a Professor who sets out to manufacture
pearls.
“The Shanty-keeper’s Daughter” by Vance Palmer
A great story of the Outback.
“A Game of Chance” - - by Arthur Wright
The latest novel by one of the most popular of Australian authors.
“Queen Vaiti” ----- by Beatrice Grimshaw
Another great story of adventure in the South Seas by the famous authoress.
“Harry Dale’s Grand National” - - by Jack North
A first-class sporting novel.
“The Savagery of Margaret Nestor” by Jack McLaren
A splendid story of North Queensland.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers
throughout the Commonwealth.
1/3 each ; 1/4* posted.
Write for a Complete Catalogue of 100 Australian Novels—-over 2,000,000
already sold.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George St,,
SYDNEY.
THE
RIGHT
“TACK”
•—for every outdoor meal,
is “ Rex " Camp Pie.
It is prepared and packed
in Australia with a special
knowledge of Australian
needs and tastes. As a
picnic delicacy it is simply
great. You serve it straight
from the tin. It is always
tender and tasty —always of the
same high quality.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. •
Send for your copy of the interest-
ing “Rex” book, “A Little Journey,”
enclosing 1 d. stamp to cover postage.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
BENDIGO, MELBOURNE, PERTH, »
FREMANTLE. ,
J 3964
ffiumey
P^REFOOt
WffIATNAN
TAILORING
IVrite for Patterns To-day.
m
y:r-
-m
! PWM
: ■
Iffrr*
Smartest Summer
Suitings—
E’Ag
“Quality” Suit
9818^
Tailored-
to-
Order.
Men who know the value of well-tailored
clothes will appreciate the distinctive cut and
lit of the Leviffthan Tailored “Quality” Suit.
Materials show exceptionally smart patterns
in New Season’s grey and brown All-Wool
Tweeds and Navy Cheviots.
HOME-MEASUREMENT CHART ANI)
TAPE ON APPLICATION.
RETURNED SAILORS
AND SOLDIERS
ALLOWED
10% DISCOUNT.
RETURNED SOLDIERS
NOTICE!
Material obtained from the
Repatriation Department Cut
and Tailored in Our Best Style.
Linings, trimmings, buttons,
etc., supplied.
SPECIAL PRICE, £4/10/-
This price is strictly net.
Order by Post—We Pay Carriage.
1
T*e
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner SWANSTON
and BOURKE STS.
MELBOURNE.
For Differentials, just use enough Thuban Compound for the
lowest teeth to dip into.
Texaco Thuban Compound
Follows the Gears
A small quantity of Texaco Thuban
Compound is far superior to heavy grease
packed in a Differential housing.
Thuban Compound is a rich, adhesive lubricant that follows
the gears, and cannot be flung off or squeezed out.
The fine film of Thuban Compound cushions the blows of
the gear teeth. Noise and cutting are eliminated, and the
cost of gear lubrication is considerably reduced.
will pay you to use Texaco Thuban Compound for
Differential and Transmission. Get a trial tin from your
garage or store to-day. If not obtainable write to nearest
branch of
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
A
TEyACO
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston.
South Australian Agents—
Geo. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., I,td., Adelaide.
“There is a Texaco Lubricant for Every Purpose,”
TEX'ACO


ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
lor Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
3Mi
JAMES ALSTON# SONS , Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia
C-A'C-
c-a-c-
C-AC-
fl
WM c-a-G' Qua
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
■»""> (j CAC' [~~~l —a BEANO
brass, copper; nickel silver
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
Ovo
I
criQcv^-c?~|g
o-vo rr
“Toe”: Apropos many suggestions for re-
juvenating stale pipes some Bulletins back, here-
with my account for damages to my three best
guns. For the benefit of those who have waited
to hear results, let me say that the best
remedy is chloroform. Purchase Is. worth of the
dope. Remove the stem and block up the end
of pipe. Fill the bowl with the liquid, making
air-tight with a good cork. Let stand for couple
of hours. Then remove the gags, swill through
vvith cold water, and if your pipe does not taste
like dew on honeysuckle I’ll subscribe £lOOO to-
wards the Kaiser’s restoration.
* * * *
“En Zed” : Re Jim Kennedy shooting 35
ducks -with one shot (B. 2/12/’2O). To put an end
to a colony of starlings that used to roost near
my house, and, incidentally, to put an end to all
records of big kills with one shot, 1 made a special
cartridge. The shot were ball bearings from bikes
and anything like that. I cut the wads so that
when expelled from the gun they would split into
four parts. Number of shot in cartridge, 28 ; num-
ber of wads, 2 (eight when subdivided). I stood
about 20 yards off and fired. Result: Birds killed
with shot, 28 ; birds killed with wads, 8 ; total, 36.
P.S. —Is this a record? If it isn’t I will send
another.
* * * *
“Ragar”: The Fijian medicine-man has a
wonderful know'ledge of herbal poisons and remedies.
But he’s as close as a clam, and declines to make
public anything of what he knows. The secrets are
handed down from family to family and from
generation to generation. No one family' will pass
along a useful bit of information of this sort to
even another of their own race, much less to a
white man. They have a remarkable cure for
ophthalmia—a well-known white resident in Fiji
was cured completely of this trouble by the father
of a girl he had befriended; but nothing would
induce the old chap to give the Secret of the cure
away. Fijians and Samoans both possess a cure
for all inflammatory troubles of the mucous mem-
brane, but they are mum about that too.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Want a rain gauge? Well, get
a bottle —a clear-glass pint bottle is very suitable.
Then send to the chemist’s and buy a measuring-
glass marked to show fluid ounces and fractions
thereof. Next get an ordinary funnel 44in. in
diameter. (Be very careful that the funnel measures
the full 41in. inside the rim.) Make a wooden
three-sided box large enough to hold the bottle.
Nail this on top of a post away from the shade
or drip of trees. Nail a small piece of wood to the
top of the box; then bore a hole in the centre of
this top-piece large enough to take the spout of
the funnel. Place the bottle inside the box from
an open side, and push the spout of the funnel
through the hole in the top of the box and into
the neck of the bottle, and the gauge is complete.
Every fluid ounce of rain that this funnel collects
will be equal to 10 points of rain. The water col-
lected in the bottle is measured by the marked glass ;
but by means of a diamond or small file the bottle
itself can be marked to show every 10 points of fall.
“The Baron’’: Re “8.N.J.” (B. 18/11/’2O)
on spraying sheep with arsenic to cope with the
fly-pest. We had one of the after-effects on Saltern
Creek this year, when the shearers refused to work
sprayed sheep for fear of arsenic poisoning. It took
a week to persuade them to start, and then they did
it only on a guarantee that their average would be
made up should anything go wrong. On the same
place, previously, seven men got a mild dose while
crutching, and after seeing what they suffered I
blame no man for refusing to take a risk.
“Wal”: I support “Bouragi” (B.
28/10/’2O) in his opposition to “J. Carew” (B.
16/9/’2O) anent the Aghaiambo, the alleged swamp-
dwellers of Papua. The imaginative old-time R.M.
who “discovered” the Aguaiambo (to use the more
common spelling) had many such flights of imagina-
tion, and often got credence for his wonderful
“explorations”—until good-Australian Chris Robin-
son took over the Cocked Hat. Robinson was not
impressed with such stories, and wanted proof “that
the Aguaiambo were flat-footed, abnormally short-
legged, almost amphibious folk with no knowledge
of dry land,” and this was not forthcoming, so
the R.M. was gently told not to do it again.
But there have been lake-dwellers in Papua, similar
in many respects to the prehistoric folk who lived
upon the lakes in Switzerland. The people who
lived in olden days on Lake Koena, a large area
of deep water between the Mamba and Opi rivers
A GREAT NIGHT IN ISRAEL.
“Veil, Isaac, haf a good time at der glub last night?"
"Oh, mg goodness, yes! Vy, dere vas ten of us, all pawnbrokers, sitting round der
table pledging von anoder!”
in the Northern Division, were true lake-dwellers,
for they had their homes on rafts away out on the
face of the waters, mooring their floating palaces
out of reach of their enemies, and living on fish
and the lily bulbs that grew around the shores.
Relics of their former villages can be seen at the
present day, and, so far as the memories of the
Binandele folk can be trusted, they were not finally
exterminated and eaten until about 40 years ago.
Around the lake the writer has seen several middens,
which, on digging, produced specimens of pottery
quite unlike those in use at the present date among
the Binandele, and the blackened shells of countless
mussels, and fragments of stone adzes and clubs.
Where these vanished lake-dwellers came from is
a mystery which, perhaps, will never be elucidated,
like so many other tantalising subjects of the olden
days—the origin of the Bula-a fisher-folk of Hood
Peninsula, the craft of the canoe-builders of Murua
and of the spear-makers of Kuaipo, the strange
Egyptian-like pottery of the Uiaku middens in Col-
lirgwoocl Bay, and such anthropological mysteries
as the migration of the true Papuan peoples from
the coast to the crags of the Owen Stanley Range.
Papua keeps her secrets well.
“Dimdam”: Only that the nearest J.P. was
away getting married for the third time to a
widow, my informant would have made an affidavit
on this. A snake nearer oft. than 4ft. got down
into a dry underground tank at the 'fcack of the
house, out 10 miles- from Dimboola. The family
pelted the snake with stones, bits of old iron and
other missiles that were handy. The only effective
cover available was a lib. baking-powder tin, and the
snake crawled into that and coiled himself up in
it. And he makes this solemn declaration, etc.,
before me because the J.P. preferred that widow
with 11 children to shopping at his office waiting
for things to sign.
* * * *
“Te W.”: Besides the swifts (spine-tailed
and Australian), which visit China and Siberia
annually to breed, the common or dusky wood-
swallow and the nankeen kestrel are numbered among
the birds of the Flowery Land. Barring those which
are edible, however, John Chinaman seems to take
little interest in his birds, and leaves their history
and figuration to foreign scientific devils. In a
Chinese-English phrase book produced in China, I
could only find, so far as birds are concerned, the
equivalents of fowl and duck. Yet the Chinese culti-
vate and pet the beautiful golden carp, while the
Japanese confine the strange rifle-fish (sometimes
found in Australian salt waters) in large bowls, so
that they may watch him bag his fly with a watery
bullet ejected with marvellous accuracy.
“IIC”: The yarn about the two snakes
which, in an attempt to swallow each other, coiled
themselves about a tree with such pressure that it
died in a fortnight is not regarded as over the odds
where I live. A few days ago I myself was lucky
enough to witness what I have since been assured is
an almost daily occurrence. I was resting in the
scrub a short distance from Tim Hogan’s shanty
when I saw two tremendous snakes striped red and
green and carrying an umbrella apiece—one tango,
the other a light puce. After some time an argument
arose between them and, as is usual with snakes up
here, they adjourned to a pine to settle their differ-
ences. After folding their umbrellas and laying them
aside they ranged themselves abotft the trunk and
began to swallow each other. At first one and then
the other would gain the advantage, until finally
they spun around the tree like a circular saw, the
buzz of -their hard, razor-edged scales on the wood
deepening the impression. Within a bare five
minutes the great tree crashed to the ground. In
the fall both of them were killed instantaneously.
While inspecting the tree I was astonished to find
another large snake coiled about the top and also
dead. It is surmised that he crawled up in order
to get a better view Of the struggle and had com-
menced to swallow himself in his excitement. The
fact that he had fallen well over a hundred feet
accounts for his death. The tree then resembled an
enormous axle with a solid rubber tyre at each end,
and it was the work of a moment to lop the boughs
and roll the immense trunk home. I have since met
at Tim Hogan’s many men who have seen much more
remarkable things.
* * ~
* *
Manu Manu ’: How long does a shark
live ? There is a patriarch of the man-eating tribe
which haunts the waters of Redscar Bay (Papua).
When in 1873 Moresby traversed the coast from
1 ule Island towards Basilisk Passage, which is the
sea-gate of Port Moresby, he noticed prowling about
Redscar Head a giant shark almost as long as his
galley. Romilly, writing in 1889, records a similar
fish which took toll from a lakatoi (trading canoe)
that was smashed up while crossing Redscar Bay on
her return from the annual sago voyage to the
Purari Delta\ In recent years a cutter capsized in
the bay, and four of her passengers (Papuans)
were scoffed by sharks. One of the survivors, who
got ashore on an oar, spoke of a shark “as long
as the cutter.” The latter was 35ft. over all. Many
local mariners have at different times reported that
they have Seen an outsize sea-lawyer cruising around
these waters, so it seems highly probable that the
lhonster that Moresby and Romilly saw has been in
the neighborhood ever since.
* * * 0 #
“Ellenbee”: “Don Mac’s’’ theory (B.
2/12/’2O) that Papuans use powdered lime to blind
their opponents or to frighten them away is un-
sound. Lately, whilst 1 was visiting the Ipiko
tribe, Purari Delta, howling canoe-loads of frenzied
men met me in the creek leading to their village.
I got a horrid shock when I saw what looked like
smoke-puffs, and fancied for a moment they had
opened fire on us. However, when they raced
alongside the boat, shouting words of welcome,
and deluged us with lime, I found their arms were
nothing more alarming than the lime-pot gourds
which are the inevitable companions of the betel-
nut chewers. inquiries elicited that
lime-throwing is a sign of peace and welcome, as
the lime is hard to obtain and consequently very
valuable, though the welcome is difficult to appreci-
ate when eyes are blinded and lungs choked with
the fine powder.
* * * *
“Ragar” : Best cockroach trap I know is
a condensed-milk tin with about half an inch of
the stuff left in the bottom of it. I used to always
keep such a tin going on the lugger up north,
where the ’roach runs up to three inches long.
At sundown they start out on the hunger-trail. The
first one to reach the milk-tin goes in, gorges him-
self and gets stuck. The second follows, and repeats
the performance. Number three manages to squeeze
in and does likewise. The next one, finding he’s
crowded out, makes a meal of the sweetened bodies
of his mates. This goes on till the last of the
condensed milk has vanished, and in the morning
there is a clean and bright tin with sometimes as
many as 40 or 50 'roach legs lying at the bottom,
the. odd scraps that the survivors didn’t consider
worth the trouble of clearing up.
“Baree”: The Northern Territory black
never makes serious use of bows and arrows. I
have frequently seen the bucks contrive bows as
playthings for their children, and some kids are
particularly clever with them; but I never met an
adult nigger who used a bow save in the way of
amusement. Why the womera never was developed'
into a bow I cannot understand, as the principle of
the womera and of the crossbow is the same. It’s
useless to say that it was for want of brains. The
average nigger, in the making and especially in the
balancing of spears and boomerangs, in the weaving
of mats and dillybags, in the spinning of short fibres
into thread, exhibits not only manual skill but
very considerable intelligence.
“Baree”: Nearly all Binghis are imita-
tive, and quite frequently astonish newchums with
their apparent knowledge. I had a boy working for
me recently, an absolute myall, whose favorite cor-
roboree tunes were “Adestes Fidelis” and “Sun of
My Soul.” He never made a mistake in a note, yet
could not speak half a dozen words of intelligible
English. Another nigger, out on the Daly, used to
hail newcomers with .“Well, sir, and what is your
unbiased opinion of our country?” It was" the one
and only English sentence he knew. Another black,
wearing an expansive smile and a curtain-tassel,
astonished a newly-arrived woman visitor by remark-
ing, “Good day, Mrs. ; quite unprecedented
weather we are having, are we not?” He had been
a missionary’s favorite protege, but had “gone bush.”
Down at Anson Bay the bore party had a gramophone,
which gave great pleasure to the niggers. Harry
Lauder was chief favorite, and nearly every black
knew the chorus of “Stop your tickling, Jock,”
“We parted on' the Shore,” and “Mary, my Scotch
bluebell.” Night after night we could hear them
swinging. Yet when the mob takes them up like
that the songs are soon mutilated. Once the chief
officials of Empire Day in the N.T. carefully taught
the blacks the Empire slogan. They went away
saying:—
I love my country, the British Empire.
I honor her King. King George the Fifth.
I salute her flag, the Union Jack.
I cheerfully obey her laws.
A few nights later it ran something like this:—
I give my hunter a new camp-pie.
I holler and sing and gorge in filth.
I shoot her glad the Banyan black.
I carefully shave her lords.
BY A GREEN CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day I said: “Away with work—
Let what will happen come to pass;
For where the quiet shadows lurk
In green, cool waters, smooth as glass,
There shall I charm and leisure find
And sylvan peace and freedom seek!”
And so lightfooted, gay of mind,
I left the toiling town behind,
And came to this green creek.
While ripples ran and waters purled,
From thought of toil and care released,
I, lying here, forgot the world
For one untainted hour at least;
But back it came, and back it comes,
Like mud that sullies some clear pool,
My dreams of quietude to spoil
With thoughts of aching men that toil
At bench and lathe and stool.
Yet once upon a time, ’tis said,
’Neath happier laws than rule us now,
Men sang the while they earned their bread,
And turned the mill and drove the plough,
And digged and delved, and built and hewed,
With honest eyes ashine with health,
Through Summer’s heat and Winter’s cold,
And did not crave, as we, for gold,
Nor barter peace for wealth.
The lazy tides flow in and out
Like things that have no earthly care;
The winds that put the clouds to rout
They know not passion or despair;
But men who wait on wind and tide,
Tired toilers of the yeasty seas,
Who sail the straits and scan the stars,
And dare the rage of growling bars—
What know they of heart’s ease ?
Though round about me shadows glay
And -birds make melody and mirth,
All Nature seems to sleep to-day
In this green corner of the earth;
But, though melodious thrushes sing,
And though the shadows come and go,
This much I know—that there are towns
Where Famine scowls and Fortune frowns,
And Grief goes to and fro.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


' •
*. '* 'V, • , Js / •• <• < v '
' ’> -■ ’ v .< V
; 'v" ■ ' - t :
. "' ' .
4;.j JpjySf 4 ,
Xu \> & ** * -4&6 ' rffl; ' V|j
■
• »
.* *j
» * * W • :'
f?m ih —: , :
■*mauM
SOW® * • v*
;
■
IS
i
HH
f| i f|iP
: . jp % :>i .
vi,k^
•
i v - iL k?M
w,sh*W>f
B«& A]
Bjjfoi.-. • 3i
* Ww- 'i
sftfpwM. V 4 ' '”'’ 3
jlp' '"' . *
■?
*• | 4 3
' ;
Y t
,
a
«: a
m
mmm*
w:
. &*
4 94*!
ti
<
p 4&V" 4'
jfc ' '• *
fc
’ I- Wj
a
«! ■ . -
* *1
as.." :
■
m
:iS'tT
ii£®S?Bra:«V - ' A
i a
§. Ji
H..
:4. 4:4 >,
ms */ 3% m v*, {> jlr«!
imSIfIiSSN
■
■; : ;. ‘ ■
nb ; v ;;'Ht i % 14^ , ;> A;
off Home !
Ever watch a long string of cars pull up-one
by one-after a big social function or a theatre
“first-night” to pick up the happy groups and
carry them “offhome”? It’s a vividly ani-
mated scene. As car after car draws into
the curb, you note with interest the different
makes of automobiles, the varied types of
bodies, then a striking fact obtrudes itself,
and that is, that nearly every car features the
well-known red patterned “Railroad”
D
D
Their popularity is unmistakable, they out-
number all the other brands put together.
Why such dominance? Are they cheaper
or better than other makes? The answer
is-the “Railroad” owing to its great service,
mileage, and economical running, has won
the confidence and patronage of the majority
of motorists. For value and dependability
“Dunlops” have no equal, and motorists
know and appreciate the fact. When you
want real tyre satisfaction you can obtain
it in “Railroads” at the nearest garage.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
all states
AND N.Z.


bcx
asooyo n oh
jynomyaiym
jpdjynsuoo
jon doi % Ly^
i . ’ """ * ''"'^
« ,««^
>f " \4
■■ -\
*x
mm
iii ■■■
LI
K. Mi
I SIhIIh
mi
n§ i m i
«****•**»«
§■■
li
■:>,
mm
M.
; #1
■
I
With the factor of price elimina-
ted, no musician could choose
anything but a small horizontal
piano for his home. First, beauty of line
alone would dictate that choice.' Secondly,
the superior tone which is an inherent
quality of grand construction would
demand such a choice.
The Beale "Home Grand” is the first
short horizontal to be sold in
Australia for the same price
asked for a high-grade upright
piano. We call it a "home” grand
because that is truly what it is. It meas-
sures but 64 in. x6l in a size that is
proportional to the furnishing of even
quite moderate sized rooms.
Amongst the most interesting of the
technical reasons for tone superiority in
horizontal pianos is the fact that the
strings vibrate evenly from end to end. In
an upright, the vibrations in obedience
to the law of gravitation—tend to run
down to the end of the string.
There are other reasons which
we would be pleased to explain'
either personally or by letter.
Costs no more than a
Measures 64m. x 61 in.
high-grade upright,
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE AND SHOWROOMS;
333 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
FACTORIES:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES: *
N 5. JF.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania:
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans Ltd.- Adelaide. IV.A.: J. A. Thomson Co.' Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


FAMOUS PEOPLE PRAISE A FAMOUS PLAYER
THE AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO is the chosen instru-
ment of many of the world’s most famous artists, and the
following are a few of their opinions:—
CARUSO
DESTINN
McCORMACK
CAVILIERI
BASSI
PASQUALI
SCOTTI
ROTHIER
SLEZAK
PLANCON
TETRAZZINI
“Only Player Piano 'purchased for my own use.”
“My Autotone is a real joy to me.”
“Perfect tone quality.”
“The ‘accentor is a remarkable invention.”
“The singer’s delight.”
“The only satisfactory Player Piano.”
“Inspires my enthusiastic praise.”
“This finest instrument in the world.”
“Increased my children’s love of music.”
“Charming for accompanying.”
“The Autotone is my choice.”
gin SS* »**c
■■■Hi
■iiiiiE ' .
JIBB
: : ■' J~:
m
•‘AUTOTONE
The Pinnacle of Perfection.
COME IN AND HEAR IT. WE ARE SURE THAT
YOU WILL READILY ENDORSE THESE OPINIONS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
BRANCHES—
NEWCASTLE—BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
TOOWOOMBA
LISMORE.
0
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
You can exchange your present
piano for an AUTOTONE—we
will allow you its full value and the
balance can be spread over a period
that will allow for its purchase by
moderate monthly payments.
that the public opinion of one age fixes
the esteem in which the men of the previous
age are to be held; but th'is is not. exactly
in accord with fact. If I write here that
ol all the poets of the past two centuries
John Keats is the greatest magician and
most perfect singer i shall find very few
verse-makers to challenge me ; yet the great
general public does not feel that, and on a
wide ballot would not endorse it. It was
not the opinion of the critics of his own
time nor of the poets of his own time;
while so little did the general public of that
age think of his writings that none of his
books got into a second edition. Half a cen-
tury went by and there was still no con-
sensus of critical opinion in his favor —he
was still the wonderful makings of a poet
snatched away from full fame by his early
death. But his younger brothers of the
writing craft came to know him. All around
were fading verses of the same period; his
did not fade, could not fade. No bold and
outstanding man of v letter's gave him his
crown; no sudden twist of public taste —
as in the case .of Fitzgerald’s “Omar”—
made a demand for his “Nightingale” and
“Grecian Urn.” He grew into the heart of
our literature sweetly, naturally and without
explanation. If any poet’s place is fixed
it is surely his. We cannot imagine the
march of the ages treading him down. But
where is that ultimate standard of judg-
ment? Why is John Keats what he is?
IViilton, his great master, declared that
human fame was finally assessed by the
“perfect witness of all-judging Jove” ; and
there would seem to be big spiritual signi-
ficance in the phrase. If you say a thing
often. enough somebody will believe you;
that is the keynote of advertising. If you
feel a thing deeply enough somebody else
will feel it too; that appears to be the
secret force of the propaganda of immor-
tality. In numbers, the admirers of Keats
have never counted very greatly, do not
count very greatly to-day; in spiritual force
his lovers have been tremendous.
Something of the same kind is continu-
ally going on in relation to all writers;
and in it is the great hone of literature. A
thousand men may describe dog-fights and
coral islands and the British navy and the
manner in which Jane got her husband ; an-
other thousand may sing of love and spring
and war and wine. Some of them rouse a real
but passing emotion; some of them only
tickle a public ear pleasantly and supply it
with a little information. They all have
their place; for even to tickle the large
ear of the public is a better thing than to
tickle its palate or elbow it out of the way.
The poorest sort of intellectual entertain-
ment is better than no appeal to the intel-
lect at all. But among the great throngs
of eager and useful writers there are a few
who say the finer and sweeter thing and say
it with their souls. They use the same inli,
the same paper, the same words; yet they
are wholly different. Naturally, they do not
appeal to a large public; but the hope of
the world lies in the fact that they appeal
to an intense public. The yeast of their
beauty and force works too slowly in the
human bread of letters ; but the great thing
is that it does work. Once the intense
public has become a large public, mental and
moral evolution will take another stride. It
is the true line of progress; and in spite of
the multiplication of wheels it appears to
be the only line.
D. M. W.
Constantine, ’Bus-misser
Ex-King Constantine and the War, by
Tino’s one-time secretary, Major Melas, is
a tine view of a king from the inside (not
that his Majesty swallowed the secretary),
and the unexpected reinstatement of the
mongrel monarch gives it extra value. Mra
Tino, the ex-Kaiser’s sister, is the first
riohenzollern to get back, and her husband
is the first returned king since the Euro-
pean deluge. Also, he is the first known
sovereign whose son died through being
bitten in the stomach by an ape, leaving
his father as heir. Major Mdlas sums up
Tino as an unspeakable babbler; when
Crown Prince and commander-in-chief lie
even told important military plans to girls
and strangers. He was credulous and be-
lieved everything the last man told him
unless he disliked the la.st man, and then
he believed nothing. He was a long-range
and inveterate and petty hater. When an
ex-Minister who had years before refused
to find a job for one of the palace creatures
stood for election as Mayor of Athens the
infuriated Caesar tore down some of his
placards with his own royal walking-stick.
His hatred of Venizelos, which developed
into a mania, was that of a crooked
and rat-like character for the biggest and
most patriotic statesman of his day. The
feeling was fanned, of course, by the Queen,
who disliked Greece, tajked German to the
Greeks just as Maximilihn and his wife did
to the Mexicans, and considered herself
merely a Hun princess on outpost duty for
Berlin. The hard Hun frau who would have
dropped Greece into Tophet to help Brother
William, and the big man who would have
dropped most of the world into Tophet to
help Greece, were misfits. Tino was a born
intriguer but a poor one, and an instinctive
autocrat who always autoed in the wrong
direction. As a ’bus-loser he holds the
world’s record, for there came to him the
chance, waited for since 3453, to recover
Constantinople. It was his namesake city.
Partly because a Constantine died heroi-
cally in losing it there was an inspiriting
prophecy that another of the name, born on
Greek soil, would regain it. Tima -6 came
the wonderful and unbelievable chance with
Austrian and Russian competition out of
the way; there came also the born organiser
of victory (Venizelos) ; and there came the
Constantine—but the wrong one. He threw
everything away for the sake of his wife’s
brother. And the Young Turks, relieved
of apprehension, slew wholesale the Greek
population of Asia Minor whose ancestors
were there 3000 years before the Turks
were heard of. Murder and mysterious dis-
appearance reduced the race by perhaps a
million. Still, the illogical Greeks have a
love for Tino because lie was apparently the
hrst Greek sovereign born in little old ori-
ginal Greece since Nabis of Sparta or some
similar fossil, and some faith in his luck
lingers. And the Cretan origin of Venizelos
is remembered against him. It isn’t likely
that the monumental ’bus-misser has come
back to stay for all that. (Hutchinson and
Co., London.)
A Satchel of Books
Binkie the Bother, by Betty Paterson
(Alex. McCubbin and Co., Melbourne), is a
collection of Betty’s well-known infants be-
having according to the verses that accom-
pany the drawings. Some of the lines reveal
the possibility of the artist becoming a vers
librist at any moment, but the designs are
ample evidence of her ability to make an in-
fant a decoration.
Birds of our Bush, by R. T. Littlejohns
and S. A. Lawrence ( Whitcombe and Tombs,
Melbourne). Two Melbourne youngsters
made the > photographing of Australian birds
in their native state a hobby ; and, happily
encouraged by their parents and afterwards
by . Dl \ Beach, continued at it for il years,
/his charming book is the result. It has a
foreword of highest appreciation by Dr. Leacli
and a preface of simple modesty by the
authors—mostly an acknowledgment of help
received. _ There are about 70 plates; they
are beautifully printed with good ink oil good
paper, and the accompanying letterpress
illuminates those habits of the birds about
which a camera can’t be eloquent. Every
schoolboy in Victoria ought to be given a
chance to read it.
Bonnets of Bhakspeare's Ghost, the words
procured by Gregory Thornton (Angus and
Robertson). The sonnets are remarkably
good ; in both form and language they look
very like the real thing. But Shak'speare
has sadly degenerated since he passed away
if this is the word he would most desire to
say to us. He is represented as explaining
his own work; but the alleged explanation
does not throw any flood of light on any-
thing that wanted explaining, though it
might re-open some ancient discussion in
Shakspeare societies. Of this book it may
be said that it fails in interest. It is the
most brilliant thing of the kind done in
Australia, and in no possible view can it be
regarded as worth doing.
The Camp, by Vance Palmer (Sydney J.
Endacott, Melbourne). A little book of in-
teresting verse, with a hint of poetry here
and there. Vance Palmer lacks something
of the feeling for words, follows a little
too much the obvious where it touches
the commonplace, but he thinks well, and
at times sings pleasantly. “The Camp,” a
long poem in irregular metre, shows both
las strength and his weakness. “The Volga”
and “These Are My People” are among the
best things in the collection. Here is a
sonnet called “Romance” which shows both
vision and skill:
The sunless days drag on with leaden feet,
Inte moves to boasts and taunts and waving flags,
And every noble word is worn to rags
By sleek belligerents mouthing in the street.
I outh herds .in camp and trench, the iron sleet
Hemming it round, crushing it in the mire,
While old men feast on battles by the fire,
And hucksters raise the price of bread and meat.
Yet when the world is faded like a breath
Our children’s children shall lament the dearth
Of wonder in the peace that folds them then,
And turn from trees, and flowers, and living' men
lo dream upon our days of war and death.
When heroes, tall and marvellous, walked' the earth.
The rhymes of the sestet spoil it a little ■
but the feeling is there.
Karl Ivautsky, described as “Official
Delegate of the German Government,” writes
lhe Guilt of William HohensoUern (Skeli-
ington and Sons, London). It deals with
the 33 days between the killing of the Aus-
trian prince and the firing of the first shot.
I hat tar the matter can be blamed on Bill
and the senile Austrian and a few more.
Iliis leaves the real Hun nation looking as
unblemished as a new-born snowball Kaut-
sky was presumably hired to make a case
for the nation and its new Government so
the book stops at the right place. If it
had dealt with the horrors committed by the
Hun army in Bill’s absence (he was always
absent) and the indecent joy of a large sec-
tion of the community, and other symptoms
the idea might- have arisen that the nation
(the Prussian part of it, at least) was just
as as This story represents first
a William quite confident that Italy would
stand by the Triple Alliance if only for fear
that worse things might happen; fairly con-
fident that Russia would back down as in
1900 over the annexations of Bosnia and
Herzegovina ; that Prance would never quite
toe the mark; and that Britain with Ire-
land on its hands and its commerce at stake
and no perceptible army would most
assuredly stand out. He added the impro-
bability of Belgian resistance, and though
he allowed for some of the calculations going
wrong he regarded others, including Britain,
as certainties. The next picture is of an
anxious William seeing his convictions begin
to go to pieces, but still violent in his lan-
guage because he wanted to believe his own
language. Then there appears an almost dis-
illusioned William with cold feet who had
bitten off more than he could chew. But
the Kaiser was committed to his troops and
his people before he knew the truth about
either his supposed ally or His enemy ; and
possibly in the end he hardly expected to
last as long as the Allies’ blunders allowed
him to do.
The Bulletin Booh of Ilumovous ~Vevse
and Recitations (N.S.W. Bookstall Series).
A selection of the louder and more obvious
humor of The Bulletin over recent shears.
Many readers will here find old favorites;
and the book is likely to be in demand
wherever recitations are looked for.


A
m
m
I’ve worked out west,
Down south, up north,
For hours and hours by day.
My constant call throughout them all —Hey!
Get the Wool Away!
CONSIGN:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, ltd.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
bxc
“At last—the ideal biscuit!”
That is what you will say
when you taste them.
Whether for an impromptu
menu or for a carefully
planned occasion they are
delicious. . The plain vari-
eties make irresistible sand-
wiches with butter, cheese
or paste between—the fancy
ones are the daintiest things
imaginable for afternoon tea.
Your Grocer Sells Them.
a ftcirie£ies‘
RIDE A
O
MOTOR
BICYCLE.
The universal popularity of B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles has only been
achieved by sheer merit. Consis-
tent good reports of reliable service
under the most strenuous and
exhaustive conditions prove the
superior value of B.S.A. Models.
THE
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
is designed to ensure power and
economy on the steepest gradient,
and for sidecar work is invaluable.
Reliability, comfort, and ease of
control are only a few of the
features which have made B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles world famous.
A guarantee of
quality for over
half a century.
All B.S.A. parts are guar-
anteed interchangeable.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
Write for full
particulars
& Handbook.
a
straw
N
■MB
»
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for kbove AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
m
□
1
a
□
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
TO COUNCILLORS AND ENGINEERS.
View of 49in, Hardwood Continuous Wood
Stave Pipe installed in 1920 for the Tas-
manian Government in connection with the
Hvdro-Electric at Great Lakes (pressure on
this main 5O/380 1 head).
Do you realise that every case
of sickness due to impure water
costs the municipality a definite
sum of money? And do you
know that “Pioneer” Wood
Pipe has been proved—by actual
experience—to preserve from
contamination the water passing
through it? The reason of this
is that there is nothing in the
clean staves of timber to taint
it, and the inner surface of the
pipe is so smooth that it affords
no lodgment for .sediment.
“Pioneer” Pipe is the best and
cheapest to lay and maintain,
the lightest to handle and the
most durable.
We are also manufacturers of
Wood Tanks.
Write for our New Descriptive
Catalogue.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
NEW SOUTH WALES.
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
• - • ,
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It's British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
—l\ mp
t-mm
AW St
Xt Hi
■y
wL
m
t. m
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Naming”: The N. S. Wales Board of
Health, which doesn’t know Bine Phoenix
rum from five-star rotgut, is preparing a
kick for Bung that may be stronger than
either if he persists in mixing the dregs of
several bottles and calling the result High-
land Cream. For many years Wholesalers
have found this a difficult problem to handle.
A well-known cognac firm once sought legal
protection in Sydney against adulteration,
but found it impossible to get convictions.
The makers of a winter cordial dealt drasti-
cally with offenders who offered substitutes
for their line, but scores of pubs in N. S.
Wales and Vic. were soon displaying” huge
showcards in all their bars: “Don’t call
for here. We don’t stock it.” Nowa-
days when Bung squeezes 27 nips out of
every bottle, and makes more profit on the
deal than a trader gets out of a case, there’s
no excuse for mixing the heel-taps. It is
plain robbery.
* * * *
“Pero”: “C.M.L.” (B. 9/12/’2O) is
Avrong in his surmises about the Buster
Brown hair-cut. The name was first heard
of when the cartoons of McManus began to
appeal in the New York Herald’s Sunday
comic supplement, somewhere about 1900,
and the adventures of one Buster Brown
and his dog Tige were depicted. Notwith-
standing that these cartoons would probably
seem inane and pointless to the Australian
or Englishman, they met with an extensive
popularity in the United States, and one of
the results of them was the introduction of
the peculiar hair-cut with which Buster
Brown was drawn in the cartoons. For a
time the style had an enormous vogue among
flappers, and at the same time every domestic
hound in America was given the name of
Tige. Nor was this hair-cut first introduced
into England by female munition-workers.
Some years prior to the war it made its
appearance among the baser type of chorus
lady and demimondaine, and for that very
reason remained with the class that first
adopted it until the war-years came.
* * * *
About banks, burst and otherwise: —
The collapse of Farrow's Bank in London shows
one thing, and that isn’t new —that so long as the
auditor is squared or blind the world is full of
possibilities. The directors of the City of Glasgow
Bank always contrived to have squareable auditors,
and their institution went downhill for a great many
years without attracting attention. Apparently it
began to be hopeless about 1857, yet it kept the
secret till 1878. Every time it lost £5 it simply
announced a profit of £2 10s. and declared a divi-
dend. The trouble was that the supply of deposit
money wasn’t inexhaustible, and when £6,783,000
had been used up (part lost and part paid in divs.)
the closure arrived through lack of small change.
The end was heroic, for the £lOO shares were sell-
ing at £236 just as the notice was being pasted
oh the door to say that the jig was up, and the
shareholders had just collected 12 per cent, and
been told that everything in the kailyard was bfaw.
In their conscientious way the directors, mostly elders
of the Free Kirk, kept genuine accounts as well
as bogus ones, to save the liquidators trouble.
People wanted to know a lot of things about the
City of Glasgow Bank which they never learned.
One was the number of people in the secret.
Another Avas how the news was broken to new
directors, managers, auditors, etc., for there had to
be new men now and then, the old ones not being
immortal. It must have been an anxious time when
the shareholders (over 1200 unsuspicious individuals)
voted a new Free Kirk elder on to the directorate,
and he had afterwards to be led aside by the sleeve
of his broadcloth coat and informed gently that he
had become an accomplice and was now in for a
gaol sentence like the rest of the gang. For a
moment he probably hesitated as to whether he
should accept an overdraft like the rest, or save
himself by taking a bee-line for the office of the
Procurator Fiscal. It says a lot of one sort or
another that nobody, between 1857 and 1878, ever
took a bee-line. Farrow’s Bank, being mqre of a
family affair, would require lessi manipulation;
besides, it was only nine years on the rocks before
it broke up, and it broke for a paltry million or
so. Broken bankers run in all shapes when they
do run. One of the City of Glasgow men evaporated
to Spain, then one of the few remaining places
Avhich didn’t give up foreign criminals, especially
rich ones, though it soon afterwards dropped into
line. The others stayed and relied on their previous
good characters. Jabez Balfour (Jabez means sor-
row), of the Liberator and London and General, a
man who just missed a seat in a Gladstone Cabinet,
made his unobtrusive exit to Argentina. He was
found in business at Salta, where he would have
been handy for a retreat over the mountains into
Chile if he had started in time. In his day S.
America had ceased to be a refuge and people
had forgotten the old catch —•
On no condition
Shall extradition
Be allowed at Callao.
Judges also run in different shapes. Two of the
City of Glasgow Bank men got 18 months; .the
others eight months. Not long before that a bilious
London Judge made it 20 years, though the bank in
that case was only out a quarter of a .million.
And there are a good many cases where the boom-
sters really responsible for the smash have simply
been made knights.
A BLUE LOOK-OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Christmas-bush refused to bloom this year;
I cannot tell you why.
Perhaps some lofty bulging profiteer
Straddling the topmost sky
Turned on the rain and sun for private reasons
At the wrong seasons.
My stock of faith grows slenderer this year;
I never mention why.
Of course, I know that everything is dear
When I attempt to buy ;
But some dull sense of stratagems and treasons
My life-soup seasons.
The world spins sideways with a motion queer;
You must not ask me why.
The course of thought grows difficult to steer
However hard you try.
I feel Australia trembling for her free sons
Yet can’t give reasons.
I feel some dread calamity draws near—
I fancy I know why.
Though clear my soul of Avhisky, wine or beer,
I ate one green mince-pie.
One little pie can furnish me with reasons
For all life’s treasons.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMON WEALTH.


MADE INI
AUSTRALIA
V/ / 7;;i
.XjflhO^'
/X. Li.'ITEO . —.
«IM2
'■■iV-’S
'-
•* /
l&mWi
y.u
ajjQs
'OS*
5»
*£
iv)
Mr
fcs.
tv*
N
*7». T *
■'■ i‘ V"
1 .■■w&iiFs.
X
X;
WV
3s£
!
91
x\n
s
//,
» <a ofe
ft
I £\
■*^rS
f
f
Bridges
Mining plants
erected or /
demolished
Bridges,
Mining plants
erected or y
demolished
rrrrrrn
Turning Fables into Facts
A LOT has been said by the
Greeks of Vulcan, the fabled
metal worker of Olympus, who
produced such wonders with the help of
the one-eyed giants, the Cyclopes. But
the feats of Vulcan are mere trifles
compared with the productive ability
of the Oxy Acetylene Welding Process.
One of Englands greatest authorities
recently said that many branches of
engineering to-day would hesitate to
continue if they found the support of
the Oxy Acetylene Process was not
behind them to guarantee continuous
operations.
In Repairing Machinery, etc.
The savings accomplished with the aid
of Oxy Acetylene Welding are astound-
ing. Wonderful repairs to all classes
of machinery are done every day by
Oxy Acetylene Welders, with a saving
in money and time that is astounding.
In many cases, only for this powerful
repair process, many workshops and
factories would stand idle for weeks
while waiting for new machines to be
made.
In the wider field of every-day useful-
ness, Oxy Acetylene Welding does
remarkable work. The motorist now
looks to the Oxy Acetylene Welder to
save him from the high cost of new
parts when his car develops a cracked
gear or crank case, fractured differential
housing, damaged frame or any other
broken metal part.
Even the householder finds Oxy
Acetylene Welding a boon, because it
repairs broken metal kitchen utensils,
lawn mowers, garden tools and lots of
other little things which cost a lot to
replace.
No matter what the metal repair con-
sists of—however large or small—there
is an Oxy Acetylene Welder near you
who will repair it for a trifle, compared
with the cost of replacement.
In Producing Metal Goods.
The production of metal goods in
Australia from the sheet bar or pipe is
rapidly developing under the influence
of Oxy Acetylene Welding. Milk and
Cream Cans, Kitchen Ware, Metal
Ceilings, Metal Gates and Window
Frames, Motor Car Bodies and many
other products are not only made
quicker, but the finished article is
stronger and more attractive from a
selling point of view.
Oxy Acetylene Welding is far ahead of
riveting, seaming, brazing or fire
welding for every branch of metal work.
It gives speed with reliability. The
weld is a perfect fusion of the parts to
be joined, and is as strong at the join
as at any other part of the metal. Cast
and Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass,
Copper, Aluminium and Gunmetal can
all be worked by Oxy Acetylene Weld-
ing—there is no end to its usefulness.
A Comox Welding Plant is a fine in-
vestment for Workshops and Garages
General engineering workshops and
garages have a fine opportunity for
development with the aid of a Comox
Welding Plant. It costs you nothing
to get full particulars. Write to-day.
For those who already have Comox
Welding Plants, we have just published
three valuable handbooks. “Boiler
Repairs by Oxy Acetylene Welding.”
“Blowpipe Manipulation,” and “Methods
for Welding Aluminum.” They are all
Gratis and Post Free. Send for your
copies now.
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins St.
ADELAIDE—Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Grenfell St.
BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle St.
LAUNCESTON—Harrison Bros. & Co., Ltd., 20 Patterson St.
PERTH—Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
SUVA, FlJl—Brown & Joske.


Ta
he largest selling
quality pencil in.
ike world
A/ENUS
V?ENGLS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
$
m
SUMMER Comfort
is briefly "clothes to
suit the climate” and
most essentially care in
selection of garments
next to the skin.
UNDERWEAR
is the new idea in sum-
mer underwear. The
porous and ribbed cot-
ton underwear that
allows the air to circu-
late freely between the
skin and the garment.
SOLD BY
Mercers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS :
HILL BROS., SYDNEY
CHATEAU
TASnJNDA
Standmxl A 6
A rich, pure,
health-giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlaa.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. ' CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
.. insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse nil substitutes.
%
Tt
1C
I
S&2 SimpteWay*
The simple and practical way to polish
and preserve finished surfaces is to use
Johnson’s Prepared Wax with a cloth.
You need no brushes, sprays nor mops.
Just apply the wax with a cloth and then
polish with a dry doth. With very little
rubbing you can produce a lustrous polish
of great beauty and durability.
dOHNSOrS
111
II
is more than a polish. It is also a wonderful
preservative, for it forms a thin protecting film,
which preserves the finish unusually well.
Use Johnson’s Prepared Wax to polish all your
furniture, woodwork and floors. You will thus
add years to the life and beauty of the varnish,
covering up all surface scratches.
Sir
Kim *******
S.CJOMN3ONI*
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
can be had in both paste
and liquid form — paste
for polishing floors, wood,
oil-cloth, tile, etc; liquid
for polishing furniture,
woodwork, motor cars,
etc. Ask your dealer for
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
and begin to enjoy the
simple way.
S. G. JOHNSON 8 SON, 375 ** g. w**
W. A. Callaway, who intends to retire
in May from his job as permanent head of
Vic.’s Chief Secretary’s Department, for
several years had also to act as Inspector-
General of Prisons. Although he could
give that job only a small part of his time,
Vic. has never had another Prison Con-
troller who did as well. He combined
humanity and absolute fair dealing with
rigid discipline, and Pentridge ceased to be
any good to the dailies. A great reader,
with catholic tastes, Callaway was a pillar
of Melbourne Athenaeum. Until recently
he had a private library of 3000 volumes.
Gov.-General Forster, suggesting to the
Temora (N.S.W.) farmers that their lines
are cast in pleasant places, told them that
before the war he had sold wheat at under
2s. a bushel. Really his Excellency must
have had rotten luck in striking a market.
The lowest weekly average for British wheat
in 1914 was 3s. lOd.; in 1913 the lowest
was 3s. 9d. —and that had been the most
abysmal point for several years. The
1901-3 triennium was the worst period of
modern times for the British farmer, and
the rock-bottom weekly average then seems to
have been 3s. 3d. There are five alternatives :
(1) the G.-G. has been misreported; (2)
he has got his statistics mixed; (3) the
printed statistics (including Knibbs’s) are
wrong; (4) his grain wasn’t f.a.q; (5) he
is a philanthropist.
A note from one of Uncle Sam’s many
University Professors (but this is one who
knows something of Australia) :
If you could send over about a hundred men as
ingratiating as Professor Holme (if there are a
hundred such in Australia) they would do much
good in bringing Australia and America into sym-
pathetic relations by showing how fine Australians
really are. There is not a particle of anti-Austra-
lian sentiment in the United States to match the
very strong anti-American sentiment that you ha\ e
in Australia. But Australia does not loom so large
upon the mental map of the average American as it
does upon the globe. He sometimes forgets to re-
member that Australia exists, which is not only
very rude of him, but also very unwise, since Aus-
tralia is the most important factor in the most
difficult problem of the future —that is, the problem
of the Pacific. /
But really there isn’t a “very strong anti-
American sentiment” in Australia. When we
say that the U.S.A is our worst customer,
even that isn’t. anti-American. It is distinctly
pro-American. We simply want to be like
the U.S.A. —practically self-contained ; seek-
ing to build up secondary industries and re-
strict imports; aiming to use up our own
raw materials in our own manufactures. It
ought to be more flattering to Uncle Sam to
imitate his policies than to adopt opposite
ones, even though the latter might mean more
money for him.
“Henry Horseeollar” on spooks:—
The joy of life was in Conan Doyle when he
wrote “The White Company” and the happy * lilt
about the Irishers who held the gateway of Cre-
mona against Prince Eugene; then he got religion
(spook variety) and it seems to have made him an
earnest but miserable bloke. In the Strand
Magazine for September he told how modern
spiritualism was born, and the tale is as cheering
as a suicide’s funeral on a wet day. The place
was the humble board hamlet of Ilydesville (New
York), and the date was 1848. It was the beginning
ol the year, so the weather was beastly cold, and
there were possibly bears about. In the woodenesf
house of all, with two doors and one stumpy chim-
ney, a family of agricultural Methodists named Fox
began to hear knocks. At first they thought some
one was throwing stones, but at last the two
daughters (Margaret, aged 15, and Kate, aged 12)
began to knock back, and a slow and tedious con-
versation being thus opened up a creed was born.
It isn’t said that the ghosts broke any new ground,
supplied any new knowledge, or threw even a rush-
light on the future state, but they are alleged to
have told local old women a number of true
chronicles of small beer concerning their own very
ordinary pasts. Once they located some human
remains, supposed to be those of a person unnamed
who was supposed to be dead —a pedlar whom a
girl remembered having seen one day and not the
next. Once they located the drowning-place of
a man who had really bolted from his .creditors.
Frauds and fools and fanatics gathered round the
movement from its infancy. The Fox girls were
accompanied by knocks or echoes all their lives,
possibly being natural storage-batteries, like some
cats which crackle and let off sparks during thunder-
storms. Even Conan Dovle doesn’t allege that they
proved much beyond the knocks, or that the knocks
grew up and developed much intelligence. Both
girls married men of some importance and took to
drink. The elder “fell in her later years into
a pitiable state, in which she alternately denounced
spiritualism, proclaiming herself an impostor, and
recanted her statement with the most solemn vows.”
A description given of her when she was wallowing
in alcohol to the grave was: “For five dollars she
would have denied her mother and sworn to any-
thing.” It seems a sorrowful faith, beginning
badly, revealing nothing, making no definite progress
and going nowhere. If the Court gave me the
option I think I would as soon go to gaol.
THE SECRET NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Daisy and the Dolly years are dead,
So is the age of Sarah and of Ann;
Evangelines are very rarely bred,
And Susans fade among the “also ran.”
Ethels and Ediths droop to middle-age;
The last sad Emma perished years ago;
Amelia’s name is on a written page
Turned ere the Violets began to grow.
Dear twinkling ink, with what ecstatic thrill
These lost sweet girls bloom in their written names,
Like morning walking on a yellow hill
Before the summer in the tree-tops flames.
Helen you ought to hug most tenderly;
Rose should be clasped with smothersome delight!
With Enid by a grey enchanted sea
You gaze on little stars for half the night.
Yet there are sweeter names; and one at least
Remains a perfect cadence of the heart.
(I will not write it lest some rhyming beast
Set boots upon its mouth —and call it Art.)
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
RX
M'"
r
>
B.S.A. FITTINGS are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don t be put off with
“pattern fittings,’' but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap ’ bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
BoS.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for 8.5. A.. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
TRADE MARKS
MELBOURNE.
b.s.a. trade marks
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
b.s.a. reputation
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


H,
OR YEAR
Over Head. Burned and Di-
sfigured. Cuticura Heals.
“For a year I had been troubled
with eczema. It started in the head
and it gradually grew worse
until it became so sore I
could not lay my head down
at all. It began to spread
over my head and brow un-
til it disfigured me. The
affected parts burned and
grew so bad I could not sleep.
“I then sent for samples of Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment and finding
relief I bought more, and I was
healed.” (Signed) Mrs. J. Aitken,
Ballendella, Rochester, Vic.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment usu-
ally prevent pimples or other eruptions.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
UKF - Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
b
cb
Talc
Powder
Williams*
Talc is
q uite as
essential in the
ballroom, in the
? bathing sheds,
as it is on the
dressing table at
home. After any
exercise or ex-
posure its cool,
silken touch re-
freshes and restores the sense of
wholesome comfort. The discreet
use of Williams’ Talc several
times a day becomes a pleasant
habit and an easy one because of
the, convenient hinged-top can.
What is your favorite
perfume in Talc?
Mdi Williams’ have five—
s Violet, Carnation,
~ ■ English Lilac, Rose
and Matinee.
•/ Procurable also in Baby Talc
• at all Chemists and Drapers.
W 37
a
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES |
xc
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YounfcLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
'■ ' %
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
HERE is one of the
new Stetsons
designed especi-
ally for the busi-
ness or professional men
of Australia. It is called
the “ Rialto Smartly turned
brim with a cut edge.
Depth of crown 5| inches ; width of
leaf 2f inches. Bands to match or
contrast.
POPULAR SHADES
PLEASE ASK TO BE SHOWN
THE “ RIALTO ” AT ANY
QUALITY STORE
N.AS. 3
4
STETSON
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHES CO. LTD., Sydney, N.S. W.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address'
by the Author
H. Ciay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 16/- per day, or apart-
ments ihay be secured separately by the
day from 5/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
1 : r;- ■
WL
%
<u.
mm
■ i
m
Invest in Reliability
Strength, Simplicity and Reliability are of vital importance in an Oil-
Engine for marine use.
The “AMIS” was designed with these points in view, .and i.s the
outcome of years of experience in the manufacture of reliable, light-
weight engines.
Illustrated above is the Single-Cylinder type suitable for Launches,
Fishing Boats, etc.
Will burn Crude Oil —Kerosene or Benzine —at remarkably low running
c-osr.
In stock, 6-, 10-, 15-, 20- and 35-h.p.
We shall be pleased to send further particulars and
complete specification on application to
NELSON ROBERTSON,
Oil Engine Department, 15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Jellieoe lias named his little Maoriland
craft Iron Duke, after his flagship in the North Sea.
* * * *
A trout worth writing home about was
landed in the Ashburton River (M.L.) the other day.
It weighed 1541 b.—the largest taken in the
Dominion waters- for many years.
Maoriland professional champion W. lies
has joined the army of golfers in Australia. He
shifted over with Joe Kirkwood to Riversdale (Vie.)
club, with a view to giving a hand while Kirkwood
is in England.
* * * *
Harry Matthews, who died at Launceston
(Tas.) a few days ago, ran the sporting section of
the local Telegraph for over 25 years. Bright, well-
read, and having had practical experience as a first-
flight athlete in his youth, “Tasman” also knew
the Speck from end to end. He never recovered
from a motor-smash he was in last Easter.
Mick Russell’s line effort has won for him
the N.S.W. 100yds. professional swimming champion-
ship in 61 2-ssec. This wasn’t far behind Cliff Lawe’s
60 3-10 sec. Australian record at Sydney in 1912.
In cooler days Russell pulls on the jersey among
Balmain’s forwards in Rugby League. -He is a great
goal-kicker.
* * * *
J. T. Hearne (England) holds the choicest
hat-trick record in Test matches. It was put up at
Leeds in 1899, and Clem Hill, Syd Gregory and
M. A. Noble were the victims. Strangely enough, it
is the only hat-trick (out of six) put up outside of
Australia, four of the others being done at Mel-
bourne and one at Sydney. Hearne was in Stoddart’s
1897-8 XI that invaded Australia.
Only four Australian bowlers have taken
over 100 wickets in Tests v. England: Hugh Trumble
(Vic.), 141, averaging 20.88; M. A. Noble (N.S.W.),
115, averaging 24.78; George Giffen (S. Aus.), 103,
averaging 27.09 ; and Charlie Turner (N.S.W.), 101,
averaging 16.53. They were among the thousands
on the benches at the Test at Sydney. Warwick
Armstrong (Vic.), with 58, averaging 32.63, is the
nearest among those in this year’s tests.
* * * *
There’s a pretty general notion that cricket
in Australia dates from the ’fifties or ’sixties. But
the Melbourne Cricket Club has been in existence ever
since 1838, and as early as 1850 it sent a team to
play in Tasmania. Barrackers apparently didn’t exist
in those days ; it is recorded that when the Victorians
played in Launceston the inhabitants applauded the
visitors but would hardly give their own men a clap,
and that when the Tasmanians won the crowd was
quite apologetic about it.
* * * *
Imported White Star (son of Sundridge
and Doris) looks like making a big mark on the
Australian turf as a sire. On Boxing Day three of
his progeny won valuable races—two at Caulfield,
the other at Launceston. River Star (White Star—
River Tame) took the Juvenile Stakes ( £500) and
Whi-le (White Star —Hillegarde) the Malvern Han-
dicap ( £750) at the former meeting, while Talis-
man (White Star —Oakdene) pulled off the Tas-
manian Derby. Sol Green brought White Star from
England, and at the dispersal of his stud two years
ago A. T. Creswick got the nag for 2700 guineas.
* * * *
Despite that big cricket this season has
been far from sensational, the public has pushed
through the turnstiles in remarkable numbers. Dur-
ing the First Test at Sydney over 110,000 paid the
record “gate” of £10,386, and for the N.S.W. -
Victoria match at Melbourne lately the “gate”
of £2462 was a record for any inter-State match
in Australia. All the matches with the English XI
have been lucrative, and the guarantee by the Board
of Control is not causing sleepless nights. Neither
are the State Cricket Associations howling over the
fact that their bank-balances have been swollen by
a few thousands.
» * * *
“Yarra Ben”: There was a pretty little
betting-ring episode at Ballarat lately. For the
■last event of the day three runners’ names were
hoisted —Mollie Malt, Marchand and Ellerslie Belle.
Betting opened with the first-named at odds on.
Several shrewdies, who knew that the mare had
been scratched at the eleventh hour, rushed the
books to get the odds offered . against Marchand,
which quickly became favorite. Then the fun
began. Mollie Malt’s name was taken out of the
frame, and the race started with the fielders taking
9 to 4 Marchand, which duly won. The howls
of Israel could be heard at Bendigo. Of course there
was an inquiry, and the stipes first of all ruled all
bets off, and then found they had no power to
make such a declaration. So Marchand’s backers
unblushingly collected. The whole thing was dis-
creditable, but it should help along the cause of
the tote in Victoria.
A curious point of turf law and ethics was
discussed in England when the big strike made it
clear that the Cambridgeshire would not be run.
Any number of doubles are taken on Caesarewiteh and
Cambridgeshire. The former had been run, and
bookmakers claimed to collect from backers whose
first “leg” had lost. United Israel argued with
both hands that when you have lost your first race
you have lost your double both morally and actually,
whatever may or may not happen in the other. Your
second string may fall dead, or the race may do so;
it makes no difference to you. But the official ruling
was that neither side collects over a double till the
second race has been decided, so if it never is decided
nobody collects. The layer does not have to pay
those who had a leg in ; why should he collect from
the others ? So the layers lost merely any profit
they might have been going to make, the first-leg
losers got their money back, and those with a leg in
were left with a life-long story of the big sums they
would have made if things had been as they weren’t.
* * * -Jf
“Yallambee”: Apropos of Pellew’s l.b.w.
fate in the First Test, the query is put in “Sporting
Notions” (B. 23/12/’2O), “How can a left-hander
like Woolley, bowling right round the wicket, get
a batsman 1.b.w.?” There he hops right on to
the most unsatisfactory slice of cricketing fare.
Woolley can get his man in that manner if he
“breaks straight” after the ball has lobbed in a
line between the two wickets, though that is not the
point. It is in the thousands of Saturday games
outside first-class cricket that the l.b.w. outrages
occur in dozens. If first-class umpires like Crockett
and Jones can make the error which The Bulletin
writer infers happened in Pellew’s case, what occurs
in lower-grade games needs no guessing. The nde
states: “If with any part of his person he stop the
ball which, in the opinion, of the umpire at the
bowler’s wicket, shall have been pitched in a
straight line from it to the striker’s wicket and
would have hit it —1.b.w.” It’s a pity that such a
rule is necessary, but, anyhow, why complicate it?
If the “pitched in a straight line” clause was
culled from the item, there would be much less cause
for sanguinary combat. Look at it on the fifty-
fifty basis, which is necessarily the principle of all
sport. Why should a break bowler be handicapped
above his peers by the batsman being permitted to
play him with pads as well as bat? The pads are
there, to protect his legs from injury, and should
not be used for the purposes that his bat is allowed
him for. The bowler’s weapon is the ball; and if the
batsman cannot protect his sticks with his weapon
(the bat), why should he be allowed to resort to
a kind of football stroke to save his hacon? Against
Armstrong’s leg theory, for instance, J. N. Craw-
ford would use his pads six times to every one he
met with the bat! What is the bat for then ? And
why penalise one particular kind of delivery and
not others? A practical amendment of this law
would be a godsend to all who play the game—
and to umpires.
(Continued on page 38 )


STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard
UNIFORMITY.
Uniformity is the secret of success of any good product.
It’s the reason Willard Batteries with Threaded Rubber
Insulation are making such a wonderful record of long
life without repairs.
Ordinary materials used for insulation between battery
plates are taken just as they come from nature, and can’t
be made uniform by any process
But Threaded Rubber Insulation is built up by a
scientific manufacture. Every piece of it is like every
other, and almost invariably Threaded Rubber lasts as
long as battery plates.
No wonder many of these batteries have given three and
four years of uninterrupted good service.
STORAGE
BATTERY
.Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation j
4
*


A. Saunders’ Glove Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly*
engraved “Ribbon” design, Silk-lined, £3/3/«
Large size, £5.
WfMjjmmwiL
A. Saunders’ Collar Box, pure Silver-plated,
quality, beautifully burnished and engraved,
£4/4/-
wn^^m^Kr^wgr/rfmmrr^rfrfts
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, hand-burnished,
finest-quality Instruments, 5 pieces, 55/-
7 pieces, 70/-
' r ?
P
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Photo Frame,
hand-burnished, plain design. In three
sizes, 30/-, 50/-. 70/-
g-’^S.-Xv'
W
m
0
«
39
MfcS
r*
%
ia
■ ws i
ZS?
«ft\\ll
.:-
”V 3
J»T,
s
•jo. '■iywwr»y'
•Wjrv^
Saw
tie
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush, Mirror and Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, engraved design, hand-burnished, finest-quality
Bristles, Bevelled-edge Mirorr, £5.
Others, £5/15/-, £6/6/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Brush Set, finest-quality
Bristles, in Silk-lined Case, £6/10/-
,*•
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, pure Silver-plated lid Crystal
Glass Jar, 15/6.
wimpi
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Purse, hand-burnished,
engraved “Ribbon” design, £4/10/-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp osite Railway Station).
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILI4AMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purpose.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Oibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE :
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Etd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes., Fenchurch Street.
More Miles on Plume
The speedometer is one of the most interesting
features of your car. The miles you have travelled
that day—the distance for the season—the pace you
are making at the moment—are things that you re-
quire to know in order to learn if your car is at its
best. By comparison you will realize how much
greater mileage you obtain from Plume Benzine.
Plume gives that extra mileage that makes such a
difference to the spirit bill at the end of the month.
Fill up with Plume next time, and check your
mileage. You will be pleased at the increased
mileage and consequent reduction of your running
expenses.
Don’t say Benzine
Plume.
■ask for
(
Write our nearest Branch for free
booklet, ~cU he Care of Your Car”
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
/ CpOu^jJ^\
BOEEB DBS
Sown Trip
§
IMA
i .
«o


Public Notices.
SHOPPING BY POST.
We buy and despatch for suburban and country
residents. All articles carefully selected.
We also have an Information Bureau open to
visitors to the City.
THE RELIABLE COUNTRY BUREAU (Reg’d),
1.0.0. F. Temple., Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
(late 227 George Street).
Missing Friends.
PLATT.— HENRY PLATT will hear of
something to his advantage if he
communicates with BLAKE & RIGGALL,
Solicitors, 120 William Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
T N the Matter of the Intestate Estate of THOMAS
JONES, late of Howlong, in the State of New
South Wales, deceased.
THOMAS JONES, father of the abovenamed
deceased, or anyone knowing his present whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the undersigned regarding
the distribution of the estate 6f the abovenamed
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Chambers,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
4th January, 1921.
Amusements.
Harry Richards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.80.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
“JpiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the fascinating
Musical Extravaganza of the Orient,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
tfatinfies every Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Plan at Glen’s.
y NION PICTURE THISA T R E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD S FILMS,
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS.’
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
The Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Musical Comedy that exceeds. the speed limit,
THE BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION.
BABY BUNTING.
PALACE.
WELCOME, STRANGER.
JOHN D. O’HARA
and
JULES JORDAN.
KING’S THEATRE. MIC LI!ODIt N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT & BAILEY & GRANT’S SUPERB
PRODUCTION, SINBAD THE SAILOR.
The Pantomime that’s different. Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
MatinCes 2.30. Evenings 7.45.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE GIGANTIC FAIRY PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
Popular- Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
TWO GREAT FEATURES:
THE DEVIL’S PASS KEY
and
CHAINS.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG in
FORBIDDEN WOMAN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
National theatre, launceston.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS in
THE PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE.
DEVONPORT (Lane’s Theatre) and
BURNIE (Town Hall) to follow.
Amusements.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
E* ItIT ANN IA THEATUE, MELBODKNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
jyjEJLKA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICR.
Business Notices.
3 Diamonds,
and 2 Sapphires,
£l3/10/-
m
Diamonds and
Emerald centre,
£l5.
11 REASONS
Why we sell so many Rings :
1. The rings are made on the premises.
2. We make only 18ct. Gold and pure Plati-
num Rings.
3. We are Expert Ring Makers and Setters.
4. We have our Diamonds direct from the
cutters in Antwerp.
5. We have to make an enormous turnover to
hold a sole agency.
6. We sell Diamonds at a broker’s commission
above the landed cost.
7. Our prices are less than those of London.
8. Australian Gems we receive direct from
the mines.
9. We cut them in Sydney.
10. We save all intermediate profits.
11. We show the latest designs In Rings.
Fairfax U Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 S 25 Hunter Street.
We Desire
to Buy
bcx
PLATINUM, at £lB per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.
SYDNEY.
Business Notice.
'
DRESSY
FOOTWEAR
that possesses all the comfort-giving
qualities is assured in
ABBEY SHOES.
All lasts are modelled on lines to provide
ease in walking and long service in wear.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal. in a smart “made-to-order” style.
PRICE 84/-
Tan Willow Calf . . . 67/6
Stocked in half-sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ix- - • .
THE ALDRED SILT SCOOP
Measures up to your
Exacting' Requirements.
You know the ordinary troubles met with in most scoops: ,
Slow filling, anchoring in the silt, bank cutting, delicate
parts easily put out of order, terrific strain on horses or
bullocks, contamination of water, etc. All these annoyances
are overcome in the Australian-made Aldred Silt Scoop.
What the Aldred Silt Scoop will do.
Now this scoop is as fool-proof as a scoop can be. It does all that a Silt Scoop
should do. It can be worked singly or in pairs. Therefore twice the amount
of work can be done at once.
It fills quickly, is perforated to allow water to filter through. The enclosed top
prevents silt escaping, and thus does not contaminate the water.
It automatically stops cutting when filled. It
glides easily and prevents unnecessary strain
on the horses.
It has renewable cutting edge and the self-
acting door assists emptying.
It is light, strong, efficient, and has no delicate
parts to get out of order.
Now, isn’t this the identical scoop you require?
Send for full par-
ticulars to the
b
• '
m
u
-Australian Machinery Co.
Union House, 247 George Street,
Collins House,
MELBOURNE.
Union Bank Chambers,
BRISBANE.


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
WELL
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
•worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. . 12
OIL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
If Worry or Overwork is Taking too Heavy a Toll try
A.B. WINE TONIC
made from beef, malt, fine old wine, etc.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating:.
A.B
(Registered.)
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
(S ° le Proprietors) ’ 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
IRVINE & ScHERN C LuI! et) Sydney Agents for NSW. and Queensland.
DTSTTTTTr's 3 Brisbane Street.- Launceston. Agents for Tasmania
BiItiMEKS CO TTn k^ zaar Terrace Perth, Agents for West AusTraHai
Vvt™' #«.!.*?'■ 8 ° Cu s r,e Street > Adelaide, Agents for South Australia
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
W. Chorley U Cw.
A
■
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
LADIES’ §
CENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
313 George St..
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “Baby Bunting”
“Welcome, Stranger”
“The Lilac Domino”
7t oyt s Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's "Humpty Dunipty”
R°™« “The Boy”
Tivoli “Chu Chin Chow”
Princess s “Cinderella”
„ IKG , s ••- • • “Sinbad the Sailor”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic - Moving Pictures
f, BA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
•
At Sydney Majesty’s the Duke of Plaza-
tora continues to give lessons in deportment,
though just now he’d tind it hard to get
a job anywhere in Europe, the Royalties
having had more than enough of deporting.
James Hay gives Iris recipe for nuptial con-
tent, and the storms of applause seem to
go with any sort of weather.
* * * a:
At Sydney Palace “The Welcome
Stranger” continues to sell electricity to the
town of Little Valley; but iu spite of wild
telegrams of appeal, J. and N. Tait decline
to ship him to Melbourne till an indefinite
date.
The N. S. Wales State Orchestra has
fallen on the pebbles, if not actually on the
rocks; even the managing hand of the
Tait brothers has been powerless to prevent
it. Now the shipping strike has stopped
the musical body from making sure of even
the next few vyeeks’ salary by melody-raising
through Maoriland. In desperation instru-
ments were hurriedly unpacked and tuned up
for a popular concert at the Sydney Conserva-
toriunx on Saturday night. Verbrugghen,
who wore a strained expression, flicked his
baton before an audience which flowed into
the gardens, and raised applause in which
the conductor’s musical ear read, “We’ll
stick to the ship, lad.” The orchestra played
better than its best, just to show what we
would lose if it lost its job. Schubert’s
Unfinished Symphony, the 1812 Overture
(which rang out a triumphant finale).
Ballet Music of Faust, Valse Triste (Sibe-
lius) and the brilliant Liszt No. 2 Rhapsody
made a programme of merit. The fascinat-
ing lilt of the Jarnfeldt “Prelude” caught
the public taste so much that Verbrug. shook
up his forces for another performance of
this dainty scoring. Soprano Elsy Treweek
warbled (to the fluting of W. Arlom)
“Charmant- Oiseau,” and also a “Carmen”
aria. Persistent applause at the conclusion
of the entertainment brought forth explana-
tions from a wearied but rather more hope-
ful conductor of the position in which the
orchestra will find itself if the Government
comes not to its aid.
The chorus at Sydney Tivoli is still taking
it irf turns to catch Rene Maxwell when she
faints. Rene’s singing of the “Lilac Domino”
"The Smart Set” at
Sydney Playhouse.
Charles Holt, the male
vamp.
air entitles her to
b e handled ten-
d e r 1 y—and why
the composer
bursts into a rag-
tjme travesty 0 f
his own beautiful
melody is more
than the lady her-
self ca n under-
stand. But things
like this, you know,
must be after a
Yankee victory.
One of the few
crowded-population
centres i n which
there are neither
strikes nor rumors
of strikes at the
moment is Sydney
Criterion, w here
Dorothy Brunton
and her colleagues
continue to draw
the town in “Baby
Bun ti n g.” The
entertainment will
persist, as hereto-
fore, till the public
gets tired of it, or
till it, too, is visited by the prevailing epi-
demic.
Alma Rubens is the star of “Humoresque”
at Sydney Globe and Haymarket. As the
mother of the small boy who is determined
to become a great violinist in spite of being
born in the Ghetto she has a hard row to
hoe, and just when her boy reaches fame and
fortune, and silk hose in perpetuity are
within her reach, the temperamental young
man decides to go off to the Great
War. The Great War nearly does for
his right hand, but not quite, and
finally he scoops the pool with double
honors. The Strand deals in matrimony that
sounds more interesting than most of it, and
Will Rogers as “Almost a Husband'’ and
Ruby de Remer as “His Temporary Wife”
have already gained a good hearing. At the
Lyceum and Crystal Palace Connie Tal-
madge pairs off all the couples intervening
between her and her best young man that she
has stolen from auntie, and calls herself “The
Love Expert.”
Last week’s heat wave, combined with
the tram stoppage, greatly reduced popular
interest in the affairs of Humpty Dumpty
at Melbourne Majesty’s. All the same, King
Ptolomey and his missus are keeping up
their spirits, and lire giving the happiest
pictures of domestic life in a monarchy
where the Treasury is suffering a fatal leak
and the queen is clothed in sackcloth and
gashes. The poor old lady ( Albert Le Ere)
is one of the fallabout species, and is deeply
wounded in the “George the Fireman” inci-
dent, but she comes up smiling for any
further trouble that can be devised to
damage her dignity.
*5- »!» i}s v
Kasim Baba continues to squat in petri-
fied misery in “Chu Chin Chow” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, whilst his odalisques and
try to open his eyes to the beauty
of the world. Kasim, with his wooden-faced
friend Abu Hasan, casts a great gloom over
the show, with the result that almost any-
tlung in the way of comic relief is welcome.
Ihus Charles Workman, trying hard for a
giggle, becomes an event every time he
appears. In his way lie is an elderly Arabian
knut. In fact, with his philosophv of wine
and Ins lingering eye for the ladies" lie might
be called the Omar Cayenne of the show.
All’s well, even with the,cash-box, at Mel-
“Sinbad the Sailor ,”
at Melbourne King's.
Colin Crane as the
Caliph.
bourne Princess’s,
where the loss of
population in the
evenings is com-
pensated for by
overwhelming daily
matinees composed
largely of kiddies.
A reasonable
thread of the old
nursery yarn keeps
the nippers’ eyes
ablaze, and they
also get a glorious
touch of the hor-
rors from watching
King Spider (Dar-
ville Th o m as),
while Villi, ers
Arnold scampers
around as a grue-
some King Rat
with an overdone
scowl on his ter-
rible face. Villiers
is inclined to exag-
gerate his deviltry
with heavy lines of
black on his coun-
tenance —at close
quarters lie sug-
gests a stoker just
finished a turn at the gasworks.
*
“Sinbad the Sailor,” at Melbourne King’s,
is stronger for the reappearance of Jack
Cannot, but nothing is powerful enough to
arouse great public interest this muggy
weather. Still, the bright little show is
going well, and there is no failing in the
ballet’s activity. Also William Hassan is no
less lively because he is heavily furred as
Ginty the Cat. Sometimes he looks as if
he could lap up a saucer of cool beer, but
there is never anything in his gambols to
suggest that he has about 10 Turkish baths
a . performance, and is rapidly reaching a
climax when he will ooze through Ginty’s
skin.
“The Yellow Typhoon,” raging at Mel-
bourne Majestic, shows Anita Stewart
doubling twin sisters in a strained yarn of
espionage and free love that skips half-way
round the world before it comes to a violent
en-i in a San Francisco pub. Anita has a
strenuous life playing a good girl, then
doffing her virtue shamelessly as the boldest
hussy in Paris. The same screen registers
the tears and distress of May Alden in “The
Broken Butterfly” who meets a beautiful
composer in suitable Canadian scenery and
inspires him to write an unexampled
symphony. Hoyt’s menu is spiced with the
conventional naughtiness of “The Devil’s
Passkey,’’ with a forsaken dramatist, his
giddy wife and her best man as principal
figures. There is also a picture, “Chains,”
from a new Swedish studio, which tells a
tale of intolerance and passion in a Swedish
fishing village. At the Melba J. Warren
Kerrigan looks for trouble as the Texan hero
of “Live Sparks”; and in “The Brand of
Lopez” at the Britannia Sessue Hayakawa is
presenting a Spanish matador with a strange
Japanese smile.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Adelaide Art Gallery has hung its first picture of
war. It is the battle before Villers-Bretonneux,
by 11. Septimus Power, who did most of his early
painting in South Australia. Power is above all
things an animal-painter, and this big canvas is
dominated by a gun-team pulling uphill across the
“Sinbod the Sailor,”
at Melbourne King's.
Jack Cannot in “Give
Me the Sultan's
Harem."
foreground. Behind it
is another; behind
them are hosts of
horses seen more
vaguely, but all pull-
ing. It is a true pic-
ture of modern war-
fare, with every man
doing his immediate
bit and letting the
battle get on with
itself. The drivers are
the only human figures
at all carefully de-
picted, and they are
just driving. They
might almost as well
be hauling a roller in
a hill paddock. Be-
hind ail these things,
on the level stretching
away, are tanks, shell-
bursts, smoke and con-
fusion. The work-
in ans h i p is bold.
Stand close to the pic-
ture, and you see but
a jumble of heavy
patches of paint, in
all shades 'of brown.
Get 20 feet away, and
everything falls into
place. It is a flue thing—of the non-dramatic school.
** * *
Tremendous heat in Adelaide has been good
for open-air shows, except when tropical
rains forced them to take cover. Wirths’
Circus, in the old pitch, hhd a successful
Christmas. Adelaide took especially to the
ape that Seems to invent and enjoy original
business. In the So-and-So crowd Grace
Lavers and others have been put out of
action for a time by the weather. Chisholm
has gone, but the always popular Reg
Roberts fills his place. A pantomime,
largely supported by clever children,, has had
fair business at the Prince of Wales’, under
Mclntosh. The strongest picture in sight is
one at West’s, which shows Gaby Deslys in
or out of a variety of striking costumes; but
Dorothy Dalton and Charles Ray in their
different ways keep things busy at Wonder-
graph from 11 till 10.30.
Another sort of show -
A Society of Graphic Arts has recently been
formed here in London, Moth an Australian artist,
Sid Long, as hon. secretary, Frank Brangwytl is
president, and the foundation members include D. Y.
( ameron, James McVey, Sir Frank Short and Sir
John Lavery—in fact, everybody who is anybody in
the black-and-white art world in England. They
are having their inaugural exhibition in the R.B.A.
Galleries in Suffolk-street shortly. Then the whole
of the exhibition is to be transferred to Sydney and
Melbourne. Sid Long is paying a visit to his native
land, and the society thought it would be a good
opportunity to carry out one of its aims, which is to
include the whole of the British Dominions. There
will be about a thousand pictures by the best-
known artists, so the show should certainly interest
the students of Australia. On the other hand, the
leaders oi the society are well aware that the work ■
of Australia would be a revelation to London, and
they want it known here. Hitherto black-and-
white has been pushed aside at any exhibition. This
society is going to see that it gets its dues.
“Cosmopolis”: The AGE-fostered unpleas-
antness between Sydney and Melbourne is
one of the commonest features of life. Cer-
tain cities—like certain women in every
generation everywhere—have a reputation
for naughtiness. The head of a big drapery
once told me that he had great trouble with
his young men’s young ladies and wives.
The latter were convinced that the beautiful
Mrs. Blank-Dash and her festive friend Mrs.
Reggie Asterisk were domestic, perils—that
these fashionable ladies used their privileges
as buyers to vamp young men behind
counters. Similarly with Paris. For
generations any Londoner or Berliner who
went to Paris was expected to be shocked,
and he felt disappointed when, as usuallv
occurred, he wasn’t. It is hard to shock
anyone from London or Berlin, both of
which cities, for crude immorality, publicly
presented, are unbeaten outside Asia. Fail-
ing concrete facts, the tripper returned with
hectic stories of the shocks that might have
smitten him had he been lucky enough to
find things as awful as represented. Sydney
and. San Francisco have always enjoyed
Parisian reputations in towns like Melbourne
and Philadelphia, and nothing is surer than
that they will continue to until they die.
The reason is that reputations of the sort
are cumulative. Not one in a hundred will
admit in respect of either a reputedly festive
city or woman that all he found was pro-
priety to the verge of dulness. He feels
the admission to be a reflection on his own
fame as a dashing character. And so a
bored world has to put up with a lot of siv
sniggering behind hands, and with articles
of the sort the Age has publishel lately
Nero : Baden Powell, who collected a
baronetcy the other day, was at one time
an ardent and somewhat distinguished ama-
teur actor. Among the presents lavished on
him after the 'Mafeking business—his finest
histi ionic achievement—was a solid silver
make-up box, subscribed for by the English
theatrical profession. I was then touring
Boerland with a company which included
Herbert Hemming, Beatrice Day and Reg
W ykeham. In anticipation of the early
relief ot Mafeking we had prepared 2000
photographs of the hero for distribution, but
as business was bad we decided to give them
away on a certain night, relief or no relief,
u 0 c } ock that morning a wire came
through, Mafeking relieved,” and we made
a mild scoop. Later on we played a long
season in Bloemfontein, and the Colonel
often paid us a visit and never failed to
come on stage during the intervals for a
••shoppy” chat.
“M.R.”: “Nero” (B. 30/12/’2O), in de-
claring a new theatrical firm to be the
remedy for the existing sad state of things
theatrical in Australia, should have gone fur-
ther and insisted that it should consist of
actor-managers and experienced stage-mana-
gers, or that the governing directors and
voting-power should be vested in such. The
best theatrical fare presented to Australia in
the last 25 years was by managers who were
actors—Brough and Boticicault Bland Holt.
Hugh J. Ward (when he had his own co.),
J. C. Williamson (when in partnership with
(reo. MusgroVe), Oscar Asche, H. B. Irving
and Marie Tempest and Cyril Maude.
Theatrical Australia cannot afford to risk
the same disease which affects certain parts
of theatrical America, though there, fortu-
nately, Henry Miller, David Belasco, Mrs.
Fiske and one or two more can and do
counteract purely commercial managements,
such as the Shuberts, Brady, etc. Sad
though it be to state, the Huns are the only
people who could lift our theatre from its
present dire state. Among them the theatre
is treated with respect—productions have
the same reverence as a Mass at St. Peter’s
on an Easter or other Sunday, and are con-
ducted with knowledge and artistic enthusi-
asm. But as long as the voting-power and
management remain in the hands of those
who have never been actors or stage-man-
agers, but are really laymen who view the
theatrical business and conduct it as a
pawnbroker does his blood-squeezing busi-
ness, so long will our stage suffer from
the disabilities enunciated by “Nero.”
“Wal” on the cult of the spook in Papua:
the Papuan has little to learn from Conan Doyle
about spooks. Every colored man, woman aiid child
in the Territory is a blowrt-in-the-gltlss spiritualist.
In some districts, at feasts and other festivals, the
spooks of tribal ancestors are, indeed, solemnly in-
vited to line up with the quick at the distribution
of the grub. On the Mamba River, where the fight-
ing Binandele people have their home, 1 was the
honored guest at a harvest festival in Ematutu vil-
lage, in the bad old days a conglomeration of the
hungriest anthropophagi, but now an abode of Law
and Order. The feast opened with the usual clamor
of drums; singing warriors, each in full war-paint,
head-dress of priceless Paradise plumes, gaudy tapa
loincloth, white cowrie-shell necklets, plaited orchid-
fibre armlets and leglets, cassowary plumes and 14ft.
battle-spear, in two long ranks of perfectly-moulded
living bronze statuary, made the ground tremble as
they went through an ancient war-dance; adoring
females, scantily clad in short girdles of tapa and
innumerable bead- and shell-necklaces and liberally
anointed with cocoanut-oil, ringed the assembly,
chanting the soprano part of the opera. Dogs got in
the way and were enthusiastically trodden onchil-
dren yelled for nourishment; old ladies told each
other exactly how they used to do the steps when
they were young and desirable; the patriarchs of
the tribe, tremendously interested in the proceedings,
laconically exchanged comments and chewed them-
selves into a blessed state of oblivion with much
betel. The proceedings were enlivened by a natjive
folk-play, a burlesque on some tribal history of the
long ago, which gained much applause, some of the
most delighted onlookers pouring tov-spears into the
trunks of the cocoanut-palms, whose giant fronds
overhead screened the fierce heat of the noon-tide.
The dance continued all day and into the night, and
when the burnished platinum moon reached the
zenith, the old crinkly-skinned master of the festival,
a veteran of the tribal wars of pre-government days,
ble\v a conch-shell as a signal for the drams to
cease. The riot stopped. Every soul present turned
towards the broad moonlit bosom of the river; and
on the bank a quavering voice gave the call to the
spirits of the dead to come back to earth and take
their place with the feasting tribe. Three times
the call echoed, the standing timber repeating the
appeal to those who had passed into the “land of
shadows” to come back “if only for a very little
while and eat of the food from the land you gave
us.” Between each call the waiting villagers gazed
hopefully towards the river, but no response greeted
their ears. The old man turned to his people and
“made it known that the spirits were unable to
attend.” Then the young men seized a small
canoe, piled on the narrow platform a generous
helping of taro, water in which pig and taro had
been boiled, and various native fruits and vegetables
and set the craft adrift on the waters that “the
spirits would not be displeased.” This done the
people proceeded to. fill themselves very full.


//
“BUCK”
Time Recorder.
British Throughout.
C§ An Indispensable
adjunct to Efficient
Production.
Registers “Late”
and “Overtimes.”
flj Patent Check Action
which ensures registra-
tion on the correct day.
Does away with
ribbon-soiled cards.
fljf Practically f o o 1-
proof.
Used in England by ■ —
Sir Wm. Armstrong, Whit-
worth i & Co., Ltd.
Dunlop Rubber Co., Ltd.
British Westinghouse and
Electric Manufacturers Ltd.
Daimler Motor Co., Ltd.
Handley Page Co., Ltd.
Etc., etc.
Full Information and Prices
from
OTm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
No Better Value in Australia
than is offered in
BUCKLEY’S
SPECIAL SUIT
82 GUINEAS
We are proud of our record of
achievement in the production
of SPECIAL SUIT at 81
GUINEAS. The materials are
all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Australia, the
trimmings—the inside founda-
tions not seen by the purchaser
—are in keeping with the high-
grade Materials and hand-
tailoring which goes into every
Special Suit.
Buckley’s Special
Suit has another
advantage that
the materials, being
lighter in. weight
than most Austra-
lian-made Tweeds,
meet the need for
a highly-dependable
Suit at a Moderate
Price.
Write for samples
and self-measure-
ment form, sent
free on request,
quoting No. R 125.
iFi
m
/■A.
*1 *1
SSK.
jV-"-Vv
iWS
5*
■
S&GHI
*««*»»
HK
ass
BUCKLEY L NUNN LTD. 50UR.KE ST. MELDOUR.NI
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OPFICE
RAILWAY STN.OR PQRT
IN AUSTRALIA
cb
‘4k?i
i
“Advance Australia!’
a toast from the Motherland
in the truest and best Spirit.
By careful husbanding of stocks we
hope to maintain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will induce us
to impair the unvarying quality of
0
cx
bc
COTCH
Everyone’s favourite Scotch
of Historic Lineage and
World-wide popularity.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
.82-84, Great Clyde Street,
GLASGOW, : Scotland.
fata
Dawson
tPSCIAL SCOTCH
Bunded Whisk?


Tennis,
Shooting',
Fishing'.
Everything the sportsman
requires to make Holidays
enjoyable can be had at
fsggsn
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Vi
r
CODES: BentTey's and LieTiei'a
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
&
COCOA
milk
V.
-
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Agrents:—
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“M.P.A.” : Old Joe Graham, of the Court-
neidge show, found a great change in Wel-
lington (M.L.) after 40 years. As a young
man he played at the Royal—a house only
“BLUEBEARDAT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Bluebeard’s black valet (Harry Burgess)
and Fatima’s father (Gus Franks ).
remembered by ancients of the windy city—
and at the original Opera House, later de-
stroyed by fire. Young Joe Graham of
those days appeared in “Our Boys” with
the Lingards. He played with “stock” for
some three vears in Maoriland, supporting
William Hoskins and other giants of the
’seventies." The repertoire included Shak-
speare, Goldsmith and Sheridan, with a dash
of melodrama now and again, Graham
figuring in all manner of roles —light
comedian, juvenile lead, heavy and so forth.
What the ancient refers to as the “off”
season was devoted to a “commonwealth”
busking in the smalls, and on one occasion
he played in a burlesque of “Aladdin,” with
a setting of blue bush blankets. It was
indeed the day of the actor, the scenic artist,
property man and other fellows being small
fry indeed.
“Old Pot”: Emma Wangenheim, well
known to the last generation as a brilliant
operatic soprano of great range and power,
made her final exit at Sydney on January
4. I first heard her sing during the ’eighties
in Rockhampton (Q.), where she had a
grand season, and she was regarded as a
star in Sydney before Melba developed her
singing qualities. She frequently toured the
country in the old days, and in selecting
her companies gave chances to Sydney chor-
isters to sing leading roles. Two William-
son understudies, tenor and baritone, proved
while supporting her that they could worthily
have upheld the prestige of the city show if
they had been allowed to. Emma Wangen-
heim did great work in educating country
towns to appreciate good music, and her
name should not be forgotten. •
“THE SMART SET,”
AT SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Frod Whitlow as
Almond the lover, and
Richard Butler in a
Coster number.
Died in New York early in November,
George Giddens, the English comedian who
was in Australia in 1903 starring in “Are
You a Mason?” He had reached three score
and ten years—and five over —when the cur-
tain fell.
A. G. Wells, an old-time actor living in
Adelaide, gave Allan Wilkie a set of G. V.
Brooke portraits in various characters, and
lias since been writing his recollections in
the Register. He played small parts in “A
Game of Speculation,” about 1867, with Wil-
liam Hoskins, in “Hamlet” with Joseph
Rayner, and in “Money” with Charles
Young. Wells insists that Lytton’s
“Money” is better than any of the modern
comedies, and that Wilkie is just the man
to play Alfred Evelyn in it.
“J.W.”: With a mort of capable actor-
folk out of work and out of favor with the
0.8. U. of managers, the time is ripe for the
citizens of Sydney to found a once-a-week
playhouse, and to own a municipal theatre,
such as Glasgow, Bristol, Liverpool, Man-
chester, Plymouth, Belfast and others have
achieved. With such a scheme, independent
of commercial managers who look upon vul-
garity as a .synonym of success, the working-
classes of Sydney plight see “Abraham Lin-
coln,” “The Skin Game,” “The Right to
Strike” and other up-to-date plays which
are too brainy for the plutocratic manager.
Then there is always Shakspeare. The
working-classes love him, if the truth were
known.
“Two Seas” on the “bush play”:—
“Hannibal” (B. 30/12/’2O) quite misses the
point in the “On Our Selection” controversy. He
haughtily remarks: “City critics should acquire
some knowledge of ’way-back Australia before taking
Steele Rudd to task because his bush-life hasn’t the
city’s do-dah culture.” It wasn’t a city man who
criticised Rudd’s wild and woolly farce. City men,
or those who enjoy the slap-stick and custard-pie
form of humor, no doubt enjoy the antics of Dad
and his brood of semi-idiots. From that view-point
there may be hundreds of genuine selectors from
’way-back who would sit out the farce and enjoy
the extravagant fooling of the notorious family. But
when Bert Bailey had the impudence to introduce
them to a London audience as “typical inhabitants” .of
rural Australia, that was quite a different proposi-
tion, and the lihel was naturally resented by men
on the land, who, whilst making no claim to any
“do-dah culture,” whatever that may be, do claim
to have as much brains as their city brethren. They
need to have, for it requires more skill and fore-
thought to run a farm or sheep-station successfully
in spite of adverse seasons than is required for a
city office—as many city men known to the writer
have discovered to their bitter cost. Chasing a cow
up to the bail with a long-handled shovel, or
bashing a pig on the head with the back of an axe,
may be made to appear very amusing, but the genu-
ine Outback man doesn’t regard it as good business.
As evidence that this writer’s 30 years’ experience
of the bush has taught him nothing about the men
- who inhabit it, “Hannibal,” after viewing “On Our
Selection” screened in a N. S. Wales North Coast
township, remarks: “The roars that issued from the
hall in which the Rudd comedy was being unfolded
showed that Bill and Annie recognised the types as
true to life.” Queer sort of reasoning that! Most
of us have seen an individual capering around the
stage arrayed in a green long-tailed coat, a red vest,
knee-breeches, a brimless hat with a pipe stuck in
the band of it and a waddy twirling in his fist.
Some of us have seen, on a French stage, a long
streak of misery in a draught-board suit, his red
Dundreary whiskers streaming over his shoulders, and
his huge teeth sticking out like a balcony over the
place where his chin would be if he had one. And
we’ve roared at these two as much as we’ve laughed at
the fat comedian who goes on placidly singing after
the thin one has driven a tomahawk into his skull as
a hint to dry up. But we would have been surprised
to hear that our laughter proved that we recognised
these caricatures as being “true to life.” As with
Dad and his tribe, we laugh because they are so
utterly impossible. Few shows that are true to life
are humorous, and if the real farmer’s life was pre-
sented on the stage it wouldn’t be much of a success
as a farce. Getting a living on the land in a coun-
try that is run in the selfish interests of one big
parasitic city is altogether too damn serious a
matter for hilarity. The politicians who fix their
own living wage do all the smiling.
“Sir Speii” : Miss Kemp, daughter of the
late “Professor” (B. 30/12/’2O), still keeps
the Wild West show-ring flag flying, and in
doing so displays as much versatility as her
father. Whenever a town is patronised by
her show the inhabitants are told about it by
a lady who recites from horseback beneath
the lights of the main street. The last words
of the recitation are scarcely finished when
the ringing of a stockwhip bursts upon the
crowd and Miss Kemp leads the way to the
tent, where she issues the tickets. Next time
the crowd see her she is officiating as ring-
mistress whilst awaiting her turn. This con-
sists of thrilling performances on board horse
or bullock, which she apparently sits with
equal ease.
Sybil Arundale, one of the best “principal
boys” ever seen in a Williamson pantomime,
is for a change “girling” it this season at
Glasgow, where, at the Coliseum, she has
for a colleague ’ Neil Kenyon, whose Dame
is remembered pleasurably in Australia.
“Caesar”: “Nero” (B. 13/12/’2O) mentions
a trio of London’s big play successes that
might advantageously be put before the Aus-
tralian public, starved as far as drama goes.
Here are a few more —Barrie’s “Mary Rose,”
which has passed its 300th performance at
the Haymarket, and “Dear Brutus”; Mathe-
son Lang’s winners, “Carnival,” “The Purple
Mask” and “The Wandering Jew”; Arnold
Bennett’s “Sacred and Profane Love”; A.
A. Milne’s “Mr. Pim Passes By,” which
“Dot” Boucicault and his wife scored with
at more than one West-end theatre; finally,
those two classy money-makers, “Abraham
Lincoln,” by John Drinkwater, and “The
Skin Game,” by John Galsworthy.
“C. Ockney” : “Peter Pan” is once more in
the bills in London. This season Barrie’s
famous kiddy piece has gone farther west-
ward, being staged at St. James’s. The
newest impersonator of the title-role (there
have been half-a-dozen or so) is a recent
managerial find, Edna Best. But it is
doubtful whether Edna will wipe put
memories of the original Bouci-
who, many critics aver, was the best
ever.
“Loco”: “Royce Rolls” (B. 30/12/’2O)
does well to call attention to the fact that
the ditties in the Taits’ “Sinbad” are mostly
Yankee concoctions. But what else can be
looked for when the management entrusts
the “production” to an American? I wonder
how many of New York theatrical magnates
would engage, say, a London stage-director
to put on one of their musical comedies and
have the introduced numbers by English
writers and composers?
“S.S.”: The big baritone had made a great
hit with the girls, and the girls were deter-
mined that he should know it. Every night
some of them waited for him at the stage
door, and twittered about him as he came
forth. This flattered the singer, whose wife,
however, always accompanied him for his
protection. One Saturday there had been a
demonstration of unusual warmth. Next
night the singer ventured a fervent protest.
“Laties, laties,” he cried., “I weesh dot you
would not pe so expressive. Las’ time you
do thees thing I get my pocket pick for 10
poun’. Ah, no, no, Ido not accuse. Eet
iss my wife zat peek ze pocket. I cannot
what you call afford eet.”
“T.P.”: Yes, the degeneracy of the modern
theatre is appalling. I recall a refined
comedy at Melbourne Princess’s in the moral
’seventies when Victoria the Good was Queen.
In the opening scene—“a group of statuary at
Versailles,” or something of the sort —the
waters of a fountain played on the ladies of
the company who, with simple fidelity to
nature, were attired in pink fleshings. Queues
had not been invented in those days, but on
the second night of the season the dense mass
of patrons of the drama curious to note the
action of water on pink tights extended from
the Princess’s to Parliament House. There
was no third night.
“Rienzi’G The oldest working mummer in
England is John Hastings Batson, who at
79 is doing well in the English production
of “The Eyes of Youth,” with Lady Forbes-
Robertson in the principal part. Batson
WOMEN AND CHILDREN FIRST.
BARNSTORMER: “Yes, sir-r-r, Ham-let is a
role that — ah—fits mah like a ger-luv.
When I — ah — per-lay Ham-let I am
conscious of — ah —nothing hut Ham-let’s
e-motions. The — ah — aud-i-ence dis-
ap-pears entirely.”
HIS FRIEND: “Good on ’em! I’d do the
Same myself!"
toured in Australia over 50 years ago, and
he recalls playing Malcolm in “Macbeth” at
“a place about 80 miles from Melbourne.”
The performance, he .says, happened in the
local pub and the stage was a billiard-table.
Anybody remember?
“Vox” : Only some of the local “experts”
said disparaging things about Melba’s voice
when’ she, then a mere girl, sang at Mackay
<Q.) (B. 23/12/’2O). My father was critic
on Hugh Black’s Standard at the time, and
while the reptile contemporary spoke slight-
ingly of the Great Voice, dad predicted great
things for the song-bird. A cutting with
that par is one of the cherished possessions
of our family.
“C. Ockney”: The much-adapted “Jane”
was originally a one-act farce by Harry
Nicholls, called “Tunson’s Little Holiday.”
Nicholls, still living, was, 20 years ago, Lon-
don’s beau.UeM. Cockney comedian. Graduat-
ing from the Grecian, where he had for col-
leagues Harry Monkhouse, Harry Parker
and Arthur Williams (the two first-named
have appeared in Australia), he was engaged
for Drury Lane, and stayed there for many
seasons. He was responsible for _ the
“books” of several of the Lane pantomimes,
and also wrote (with Seymour Hicks for col-
laborator)' one of the earliest “Girl” pieces
for George Edwardes at the Gaiety—“ The
Runaway G.”
DANSE RELIGIEUSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Rev. Dr. Stratton, of New York, is out on a cam-
paign against dancing. He says that the dances
which constitute a veritable climax of pagan shame-
lessness are based on sensuous physical contact be-
tween the young - woman and her partner. Thpse
dances should be combated and exterminated as
remorsely as Bolshevism. The only sort of dancing
which he favors is the dance of religious joy.”
“The dance,” says Dr. Stratton, of New York,
“Is as fleshly as a hundredweight of pork ;
It is shamelessness that’s pagan;
Only William Sikes or Fagin
Or the Bolsheviks or gunmen of Cork
Would make physical contact
Sooner than they’d read a tract,”
Says the Reverend Dr. Stratton of New York.
The only kind of dancing he’d employ
Is the dance expressing pure religious joy;
Not the super-sensuous coiling,
Nor the mauling and the foiling,
That the girl of Harlem suffers from her boy,
With his jazzing and his prancing
And the contact in the dancing—
That’s not the kind of dancing he’d employ.
But the sort that David danced when full of hops.
Ah! can’t I see just when his toga drops,
When he took his pants and kirtle
And hung ’em on a myrtle,
Because he wasn’t scared of any cops—
Dancing nude before the Ark,
Dancing nude ere it was dark,
Because he was a king and full of hops!
I blush at David prancing in the nude —
His religious joy was malted and was rude;
And though jazz bands make a noise
That disturb my equipoise,
Yet for substitute I never would intrude
The monotoned delirium
Of the timbrel of old Miriam
’Fore the Ark where David jazzed when almost nude.
"So the dance of David in “religious joy”
Should be banned for every growing modern boy ;
Oily kings and hierophants
May polka without pants,
But a common man this dancing would annoy;
Only saints alight with hops
Could so depreciate the cops—
But, not, oh doctor dear, the modern boy!
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
WINNING BY A NOSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She is so sensitive in the nostrils—that is where
film genius shows.”— Age.
I’ve heard "of eyebrow actors oft,
I know of one who rose
To some position quite aloft,
He had so large a nose;
And there is Billy Falkinay,
A showman thriving near,
Who won, they say, to fame one day
By virtue of the clever way
He wagged his dexter ear.
Now comes the nostril artist who
Is beautiful. We’re told
Of lovely lips, and eyes of blue,
And hair of polished gold.
Her figure is perfection, yet
The gift that makes her dear
None else can get—the wondrous fret,
So elegant, so exquisite,
Of nostrils without peer!
We learn at last where genius lies:
Not speaking lips about,
Not in the clever play of eyes,
But in the mobile snout.
And this new goddess of the screen
Will ravishingly pose,
And all may glesan what talents mean
When on the films Diana’s seen,
And acting through her nose!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


AND THIS SEASON
A LIGHT SIX at the Price of a Four,
and More Economical, too.
Such a car could not have been
announced at a more opportune time. The
motoring public, fully alive to all of the
advantages and greater enjoyments of six-
cylinder ownership, demands a light six low
in first cost and operating upkeep.
The STUDEBAKER LIGHT SIX is
without question the greatest and most
economical light-weight six-cylinder car ever
put on the market.
It is manufactured complete except for
electrical equipment and tyres in Studebaker’s
new and world’s most modern 20,000,000-
dollar plants at South Bend, Indiana. This
complete manufacture saves parts-makers’
profits, enabling a comparatively low price.
It is built of the finest materials money
can buy.*
Its weight is 21cwt. Its R.A.C. rating
24h.p. It will average from 22 to 27 miles
per gallon of petrol.
It is the first quantity quality car to
possess a machined all over crank shaft and
connecting rods. The valves are set at an
angle of 20 degrees, permitting a completely
machined combustion chamber with valves
operating on the bell crank principle, afford-
ing maximum valve lift, quicker opening and
better timing.
The cooling system is thermostatically
controlled—the chassis frame is 6 inches deep
-—the gear box is swung amidships on a sub-
frame, and the clutch is of the dry-plate disc
type.
The equipment includes, in addition to
the two-unit starting and lighting system, a
high-tension magneto.
Its power is remarkable on hills and in
traffic, and up to 55 miles per hour can be
attained without noticeable vibration. It is
silent and efficient, and you will like its easy
handling under all circumstances.
Five oversize Goodyear Cord Tyres are
fitted as standard equipment, and 10,000 to
12,000 miles per set of tyres should be the
rule rather than the unusual exception.
Bodies may be had in any style and
color,, and wire wheels are optional at £35
extra.
Write for illustrated catalog and fullest
particulars.
THIS IS A STUDEBARER YEAR.
mmmmasmmmamßmmmmmmmmmmHmmmammmmmßmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmHamammmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmaa
Cayce-Paul Motors Limited
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
Lewis & WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANERS
jiaintain Suede Leathers in their original freshness and pliability,
perfect dressing
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
For White, Black and Colored Suede Shoeware.
Colors: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey, Champagne,
Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The Australian selectors last week chose
eight of the team to tour England at the close of
the Australian season. There were no surprises, since
Armstrong, Col-
lins, Bardsley, Tay-
lor, Gregory,
Mailey, Macartney
and Pellew were
considered certs.
The omission of
the wicketkeeper
was perhaps an
oversight; and
Oldfield should
be in the team.
Of the eight,
N.S.W. supplies
six. Victoria and
South Aus. one
each. Collins, Tay-
lor, Gregory and
Pellew will have
their first trip in
a rep. Australian
XI, although all
were in the A.I.F.
team which put up
an excellent record
in England and
Australia last year.
ARTHUR
MAILEY,
when not
engaged bowling.
Mayne, Oldfield, Carter, Ellis, Hendry,
Ironmonger, McDonald, Ryder and Kelleway are
strongest in the running for the remaining seven
places in the Australian 15 to go to England in
March. Oldfield is a certainty for first wicket-
keeper, and his understudy will be either Carter or
Ellis, with odds on the ancient on account of his
superior nimbleness at the sticks. Winser. of the
South Australian Governor’s staff, was much fancied
as Oldfield’s assistant, and if he had played in the
S. Aus.-N.S.W. match this week three selectors
would have been watching him keenly. Though Mayne
hasn’t made an appearance in the Tests tliusfar, lie
will probably get a ticket for London in preference
to Park, whose unlucky duck in the last battle in
Melbourne damaged his chances considerably. . Kel-
leway is also pretty sure to go, as some compensa-
tion for the selectors’ rudeness in not including him
in the first batch of invitations. The position of
Ryder is very doubtful. Hendry and he are running
neck and neck for the billet of medium fast bowler,
merely because Hendry’s talent with bat and ball,
coupled with his sureness in the field, is offset by
the fact that he is a comparative boy and is not so
well conditioned as Ryder to stand the strain of a
long tour. If he 'were a bit older and bigger in
physique, Ryder would surely stop in Australia.
McDonald will probably go as a relief for Gregory,
whilst Ironmonger howls for selection because he is
the best of the ieft-handets with nip and pace enough
to rattle a side on wet wickets. But that is Iron-
monger’s only qualification. As a fieldsman he is
doubtful, and liis batting often makes one weep.
Jack Gregory’s 100 and seven wickets for
69 at Melbourne last week is the best double effort
by an Australian in Test matches. M. A. Noble’s
133 and three for 99 at Sydney in 1903 was the
previous best. Only three Australians have taken
more than seven wickets in an innings in Tests —
Albert Tiott, 8 for 43, at Adelaide in 1895; Hugh
Trumble, 8 for 65, at Kennington Oval (Eng.) in
1902 ; and Frank Laver, 8 for 31, at Manchester
(Eng.) in 1909. Of the 10 Australians to take
seven wickets in an innings, Hugh Trumble’s 7
for 28 at Melbourne in J. 904 is the most noteworthy.
Gregory’s 130 v. South Australia on Saturday was
also his highest score in big cricket, the previous
highest being 122 for A.I.F. v. N.S.W. last year,
and 115 v. Northainpshire (Eng.) in 1918. Big
Jack, by the way, is a son of Charlie S. Gregory,
who played for N.S.W. in the ’seventies, and who
with brothers Ned and Dave defeated Jack Conway,
Sam Cosstick and T. W. Wills in the famous single-
wicket match in 1871. . Sydney C. of E. Grammar
boys howl with delight at each big effort by the
six-foot-three Cornstalk.
* * * #
The Australian XI selection committee’s
only alteration for the third Test at Adelaide is
the inclusion of Vic. fast bowler E. A. McDonald
among the dozen. Macartney was unavailable
through illness. McDonald’s inclusion in the XI
will give Gregory a rest and also test him for a
place in the Australian XI for England. McDonald
has been Vic.’s most destructive bowler in Sheffield
Shield matches this season, with 17 wickets for
344.
The Ballarat Fifteen, which hammered up
211 against the Englishmen last Friday, collapsed
for 30 on Saturday and gave the visitors a win by
an innings and 143. In the Englishmen’s tally of
384 for 9 (declared closed) the reliable Woolley
was 159 n.o. and Fender 106, the next best being
Russell with a careful 50. Makepeace failed again
for 7, and the worrying l.b.w. sent Hobbs back to
the pavilion for 2. Waddington (8 for 15) and
Hitch (5 for 10) caused the destruction in Bal-
larat’s second go. In the first hits, to which Philp
contributed 53 and Woodfull 50, Rhodes (4 for 5),
Wilson (4 for 23) and Parkin (3 for 44) gave the
worst trouble. Waddington also captured 2 for 31,
bringing his aggregate up to 10 for 46.
* * * *
In the two Tests Hobbs (Eng.) has most
runs (250, averaging 62.50). Ilendren (152 —38.00)
and Woolley (123 —30.75) are the only other Eng-
lishmen with three figures. For Australia, with an
innings less, Collins (238 —79.33), Armstrong (209
—69.66), Pellew (168—56.00), and Taylor (153
51.00) are in front. Australia has scored four cen-
turies against England’s one. Jack Gregory has
taken 14 wickets for 16.21 apiece, and Armstrong
seven for 14.14. Mailey’s six have cost 33.33 each.
For England Woolley (6 —35.33), Parkin (6 —45.66)
and Douglas (4 —44.00) have done best.
* ♦ * *
Douglas has got a poor return out of the
fast bowlers of the English XI. Howell, who was
pounded to the tune of 142 for three wickets in the
Second Test, played in the opening five matches, but
was dropped out of the next four. He has taken 20
wickets, averaging 26.3. Hitch, the other whirl-
wind, has been used even less. Of the 11 matches
he has played in only four and taken 10 wickets at
a cost of 18.4 each. Both, however, did finely in
English cricket last year: Howell, 161 wickets —
17.91; Hitch, 107—23.16.
* * * *
E. R. Forssberg’s 143 for N.S.W. v.
Queensland last week brought another promising
player into the eye of the State selectors. Captain
Ward Prentice had so many good young bats to
handle that Forssberg was down the list; but after
Punch (1), Prentice (0) and Wells (4) had fallen,
and eight were out for 232, Forssberg and H. Love
assaulted the bowling and 251 were added for the
ninth wicket. Love’s lot was 91. Forssberg plays
with Waverley in Sydney grade cricket; Love gives a
hand to Balmain.
* * * *
Queensland’s trundler Kay showed form
worthy of note v. N.S.W. at Sydney. On a beautiful
wicket he sent down 264 balls for 194 runs and seven
wickets, and also threw down Forrsberg’s wicket
with a smart return. He is a stocky right-hander,
and his fast ball is very deceiving. In one over he
got three wickets (Ratcliffe, Prentice and Asher).
He is the best right-hander in the Northern XI for
many years.
The outstanding features of the N.S. W.-
S.A. match were the batting of Gregory, Taylor,
Bardsley and, Pellew, the wicket-keeping of Carter
and the bowling of Andrews. Bardsley’s effort in
N.S.W.’s second innings—when Taylor (180) went
Bardsley had made 172 without giving a chance—
was one of the finest displays given in Sheffield
Shield cricket. The fashion set by the Englishmen
of rebuking the umpire was duly followed. Per-
haps this trick of cavilling at authority is a sign
of the times: in no previous season, anyhow, has
it been so marked. Pellew had bad luck in not
reaching three figures, as he played a chanceless
and almost lone hand. A Richardson’s (42) was
a useful if somewhat fluky effort. Steele was un-
fortunately maimed, but pluckily got 20. S. Aus.
wagged a decided tail. The N.S.W. hiding was
below their usual standard. But the heat was most
oppressive.
Bowlers were top dogs in Sydney Grade
cricket on Saturday, and 60 runs got by Rock for
’Varsity against Petersham was the highest indi-
vidual score. Curiously enough Lawes, his club-mate,
did best of all the graders with the ball, getting
6 for 16. Petersham felt the want of Andrews,
and only two batsmen scored double figures.
’Varsity have the game well in hand. In addition
to Rock, Boyce (54) kept the fieldsmen on the run.
Ggrdon and Sydney, about equally handicapped by
the Macartney-Taylor and Collins-Gregory hiatus,
were close together on tile first day’s play. Hosking
top-scored for Gordon with a painfully slow 51.
Rowe, who is overshadowed when Gregory is about,
came out as a destroying factor, and his seven wickets
were remarkably cheap. Sydney were holding their
end up when stumps were drawn against the excel-
lent-length bowling of Martin and Flynn. Penman,
the erstwhile ’Varsity fast bowler, had no success.
Noble went in against O. Cumberland, and he and
MeCloy saved Paddington from utter collapse. Fitz-
gibbon, who has long merited recognition, and Best
did most of the damage. Middle Harbor went in
and went out again with remarkable promptitude
against Balmain —Folkard 5 wickets for 30. and
Dr. Campling 4 wickets for 20. Donovan, the ex-
’Varsity batsman, topscored for the Villagers with
18. Balmain, with 7 for 222, look safe. Most of
the batsmen got going, and Folkard put together a
finished 43 (n. 0.). It is his fielding that keeps
him out of bigger cricket. Warwick Gregory, an
old C.E.G.S. boy, and Ives top-scored for Waverley
against Glebe. The latter club greatly missed ltelle-
wav, and were unable to get the Boneyarders out.
Norths dropped their bag against Wests, as the soft
wicket enabled Wall to break at almost right angles.
His five wickets cost 28 runs, and included the hat
trick. Norths, who got only 72 (Hall and McEl-
hone alone making double figures), and have to
rely on their batting to pull them through, are in
a bad way, as Wests, with two wickets still to
fall, have more than doubled their score.
FORESIGHT.
EXASPERATED BOWLER ( to batsman wasting
time): “Here! What are yer doin’?”
BATSMAN ( coolly) : “Diggin’ for worms!
Wot d'yer think?”
BOWLER: “By cripes, you’ll want ’em for
that duck of yours in a minute!”
Australia has won 47 spins of the coin in
Tests and England 49. Only six times has the
captain given his opponents the first use of the
wicket, and in four of these matches the sent-in XI
has been successful. The most remarkable win was
at Sydney on Feb. 1-4, 189jj, when Stoddart gave
the Australians the bat. On a bad wicket they ran
up 284 (Graham 105) ; but the Englishmen struck
a much worse pitch and were outed for 65 and 72,
leaving Australia the winner by an innings and 147
runs. Trott (3 for 21), Turner (7 for 51) and
Giffen (8 for 40) wrecked the wickets.
* * * *
Auckland (M.L.) in the Plunkett Shield
representative matches recently walloped Hawkes
Bay by an innings and 354 runs, and Christchurch
by 382 runs. Brothers N. C. Sneddon (139 and 7
for 34) and C. A. Snedden (119 and 4 for 1)
did most to down Hawkes Bay ; and A. Anthony piled
up a brilliant 113 v. Christchurch.
# * * *
Ironmonger, who has a good chance of
joining the Australian team for England, was again
in the limelight on Saturday for a bright bowling
performance for Melbourne against North. He cap-
tured 7 for 27, the whole side disappearing for 58.
Melbourne, without Armstrong and Ransford, knocked
up 151, Gilchrist, of North, getting 6 for 38. Fitz-
roy totalled 292 against University, Cody making
73 in bright style, and Atkinson and Liddicut scor-
ing 64 and 64 n.o. Hotchiri’s 108 and Brown’s 53
were the only bright spots in St. Kilda’s 222 against
Northcote, who are now 2 for 30. ’Cote’s best
bowler, Hartkopf, had bad luck, several catches
being dropped off him. All the same, he knocked
over 5 for 83. Down’s 102 was very acceptable
to Carlton, who finished the day with 8 for 269.
Richmond. showed considerable improvement by hit-
ting up 223 for 9 against Essendon. Bayliss, when
18, was retired to the pavilion by a nasty smack
from the ball, but ultimately returned and made
71. Though Ryder will probably be in Adelaide for
the third Test next Saturday, ’Wood played him
against P’ran last Saturday, and he bagged four
good bats for 39. P’ran are' part heard with 5
for 181.
* * * *
Willing efforts were made by a section in
Sydney to keep Frank Beaurepaire at home, and to
the last he was given to understand that there would
be no joy in N. S. Wales if he lifted a State cham-
pionship at the forthcoming carnival. However, he
duly turned up, and in the 150yds. handicap at
Manly made his first appearance before a Port Jack-
son audience for 10 years. He burst Cecil Healy’s
record for the distance (1 min. 34 l-ssec.) by 3-sths
of a second, but the feat doesn’t go into the books,
as it wasn’t accomplished under official conditions.
* * * *
The bombshell in Sydney swimming circles
last week was the cable that Duke Kahanamoku isn’t
among the Yank swimming party for Australia. Pau
Kealoha and Ludy Danger are the males of the
expedition. Kealoha is second to the Duke as a
sprinter; Langer is a distance plugger who finished
second to Norman Ross at the Olympic Games last
year. His best distance is the half-mile, at which
he is the world’s greatest.
* * * *
Manly (N.S.W.) Swimming Club pro-
bably has more speedy performers over 50yds. than
any other body in the world. Last Saturday the
Village’s annual 1000yds. relay race, North versus
South of Corso. two teams consisting of 20 rnen
a-side, covered the distance in the marvellous time
of Sznin. 21sec. Norths won by half a yard.
* * * *
In the 220yds. Sydney Northern Suburbs
Championship at Manly Club’s carnival last Satur-
day, Frank S. Cotton convincingly defeated Olympic
reps. Billy Herald, Keith Kirkland and Harry Hav
in the record time of 2min. 30see. lie has already
vanquished W. Longworth and Les Boardman this
season. Billy Longworth annexed the 220yds.
championship of the Eastern Suburbs in the
comparatively slow time of 2min. 38 4-ssee. at
Bondi carnival, but he can do a lot better than that.
Nevertheless, it is Cotton who is going to give
the invaders from Hawaii the go of their lives over
the distances next week, and it will be surprising
if he is defeated in this department by any Aussie
bar Beaurepaire.
Eugene Criqui, of France, and Jerry Sulli-
van, Australia’s bantam champion, allured a vast
crowd to Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Sulli-
van nearly lost the number of his mess in the
opening session, when a right cross shook him to
his foundations. However, he hung on, and ulti-
mately rode the gale out. Not that, for all the
hope he had of winning, he mightn’t as well have
taken the knock there and then. At every 'stage
the Gaul was his master. After a dozen one-sided
rounds, in the course of which the local boy got
steadily weaker and the foreigner proportionately
more aggressive, the former’s corner held a brief
.conference, and as the 13th round opened the wipe
or rag was Skied. The only genuine sportsman pre-
sent who looked disappointed was Sullivan. Sid
Godfrey has been matched with the French cham-
pion, and if he can’t stop the visitor’s victory march
no other indigenous product will, barring a trip-
hammer.
# * * #
The Americans again swept the tennis
board in the events which followed the Davis Cup
contests, though they had to work to do it here
and there. In the semi-finals of the championship
singles N. Peach put up a useful display against
Tilden, his forehand driving and lobbing worrying
the American considerably. It was Peach’s feeble
service that robbed him of any faint chance of
success. On the form shown Wood might well have
licked Washburn. There was nothing much to choose
between the merits of their shots. However Wash-
burn won C—4, 4—6, 6—3, and it is hard to say
how much better he might not have done if he
had tried. Johnston and Tilden beat Brookes and
Patterson in the final of the doubles, winning three
sets to one. The contest was by no means the
walk-over it looks on paper, and might have ended
differently if Brookes hadn’t tired and Patterson
grown slack or careless or something.
An exhaustive competition consisting of 21 men’s
events followed between N. S. Wales and M.L., from
which the Island players emerged with their tails
well down. The tennis form is not high in the
Ma State, but in Maoriland it is down near bed-
rock. Tilden suggests that each leading M.L. player
should “adopt a boy of 10 or 11 and teach him
the game.” But how many are capable of acting
as mentors ? The greatest need, probably, in M.L.,
as in England, is to get tennis taken seriously. In the
Windy Isles it conflicts with football and racing;
and in Britain it ranks below pretty well every out-
door pastime except skittles.
* * » *
With most of the best horses spelling, the
meeting at Albion Park (Q.) was conspicuous for
small fields and moderate performers. The imported
Willonyx horse, Onward Way, was produced twice.
He won the Fourth Division Handicap easily enough,
but even with 211 b. off his back he found the extra
distance in the Purse beyond him. The race went to
Say Dear (Ninyas—Dearest Heart), who previously
got away with the Second Division Handicap. Jocu-
lator won the Plate, five lengths separating him
from the equal favorite Darginnie.
Alf Grenda did some remarkable riding in
the Sydney cycling carnival on Saturday. In the
mile scratch (tandem-paced), he won by a length
from Jackie Clark and Hans Ohrt (America) in
2min. 14 l-ssec., and then defeated C. L. Papworth
and R. Marshall (on tandem) over two miles in
smin. 4 4-ssec. In the five-mile scratch (tandem-
paced) the lengthy Tasmanian again defeated Clark
and Ohrt in lOmin. 20 3-ssec. Grenda has only
missed two scratch events this season.
* * * *
L. V. Palmer and L. Ochs were the only
riders to get through without loss of points in the
Sydney-Melbourne reliability motor-cycle trial last
week. Both rode Indians, with side-cars. Among
the solo machines Harry Hulford ( 249 points)
and A. Hutchinson (- 262 points) filled the
places. The lack of inter-State support was the sore
point with the N.S.W. controlling club, and future
contests to Victoria will depend on the patronage of
the venture by other Staters.
* * * *
Tom Howard played great golf in winning
the Manly (Sydney) Summer Cup on Saturday. He
went round in 74, with W. C. Sturrock (76) second,
and Victorian champion Ivo Whitton (78) third.
* * * *
W. Hunt, in the “under 16” class at Syd-
ney Junior A.A. championship meeting, put up the
astonishing feat of winning the 100yds., 220yds.,
440yds. and the mile.
One of the greatest of all amateur oarsmen
is dead in England. W. B. Woodyate was in
the Oxford eight of 1862 and 1863, and won the
Diamond Sculls at Henley and pretty well everything
else open in those days. He became a successful
barrister, and lived to be close on 80, but was to be
found on the river-bank right up to last summer.
The volume on rowing in the Badminton Library is
his work.
* * * *
That remarkable little veteran, Wee Gun.
was prominent in the New Year’s meeting of the
S.A.J.C. at Morphettville. He ran second in the
principal race, the New Teat’s Gift, with 9st. 51b.,
to Seamada, 7st. 111 b.; also second in the Keswick
Stakes with 9st. 31b. to Wynette, 7st. 131 b. Seamada
was bought as a yearling by F. G. Scarfe, who found
him a failure for three years and then sold him —
on which he began to win races at once. Totalisator
figures, as at all recent Adelaide meetings, were far
ahead of any sums previously handled.
THE LEADER-WRITER GETS HIS FINAL
INSTRUCTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Chocolate wheels have been permitted in N. S.
Wales, and we have lately seen that this form of
gambling has been permitted to go to the extreme
in the absence of action on the part of the police.
The present is surely an opportune time for decisive
action against public gambling. If this craving
for excitement is to be encouraged the outcome may-
be little short of disastrous.”- —S. M. Herald.
Smite at ev’ry form of gaming I
Curse our land’s most scarlet sin!
More particularly naming
Those who pennies lose or win
Where the chocolate wheels whirl madly, while the
fiends of Hell shout gladly.
Strike at gambling hard and often ! Never weaken !
Never soften 1
(Ora the other hand, don’t be too hard on the
bookmakers, without whom the race clubs couldn’t
make as much money as they do. The race clubs
advertise.)
Show no mercy to those gamblers
Who are constantly, alas!
Seen by stray suburban ramblers
Joining in a two-up class.
Call on the police to Stop it. Warn each player
he will cop it
Here and in the red hereafter. Scorn their insults !
Spurn their laughter !
(As against which be careful not to say anything
offensive about bridge, picquet or poker players. We
like on occasional flutter at these games ourselves.)
There’s a type who gets up raffles
And the public freely robs:
He unscrupulously snaffles
Cash in sixpences and bobs.
Checks are issued, and the winners (think of it, the
black-soulcd sinners!)
Get for nothing cars and houses, suits of clothes
and Paris blouses.
(Rub it well into the people who countenance
gambling of this sort, even if it is for charitable
purposes; remembering of course not to comment
adversely on the wagering habits of kings, princes
or governors, who come into a different ethical
category altogether. And now, bearing all such
facts in mind, go ahead and produce something
really elevating on the moral side.)
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


DON’T BE A "TAILOR-MADE” MAN
i&m
m
Don’t rely on your tailor to make you look like a man Don t
substitute padding for muscle, and the smartness of well-cut clothes
for the smartness that comes of Perfect Physical Condition. The
best of tailors can only make you LOOK well. I make you I'LLli
well.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
starts at the foundation of physical perfection. It energises
the various organs, the lungs, the stomach, etc. It fits
them for the proper performance of their various functions,
and gradually takes in the whole nervous and muscular sys-
tems, building them up and fortifying them. The result is
that glorious feeling of buoyant Health and Strength that is
The Greatest of All Possessions.
My instructions are clear and concise, and each set of exer-
cises is adapted to YOUR individual requirements, hased
011 the particulars you supply on the enrolment form. One
month has worked wonderful improvements in the Health
and Measurements of many of my Postal Pupils. Their
numerous testimonials are contained in my booklet,
“HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.”
Just write your name across this advt. and send it to me
with three penny stamps, and I will send it to you by
return, with full particulars of my course and moderate-
charges.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Bros.,
406 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street
(corner Crown Street), SYDNEY.
msm
it
m
88888
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
If you are looking
for low prices —
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY I
Write to-day for
BIG SALE BOOK
Finney’s Pay the Carriage
FINNEY’S
"Drapers of Queensland”
BRISBANE
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions," BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL HE POSTED UPON APPIACATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
a
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES :f-
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Sydney; Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Btxl.,
Adelaide; West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie; New Zealand:
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: Bunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
TRADE
K
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
MARK.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre=War Standard.
Palm Beach
Suits
FOR HOT-WEATHER COMFORT.
Our Strenuous Summer calls
for Suits in light, cool washing
Fabrics —none more appropriate
than Palm Beach Textures,
which are universally favored.
You'll be particularly pleased
with a “Palm Beach”
t ‘ Lincoln-Stuart * 7
Tailored
by reason of the Correct Cut.
Perfect Fit. Distinctive Style
and Flawless Workmanship
Assured.
THE SPORT STYLE
In Smart Biscuit-shade Fabric,
2 garment 45/.
Dark Fawn Linen Crash .. 57/6
In Tasteful Grey Textures.. 63/-
Brown Camel Hair 70/-
THREE-GARMENT SACS
In Biscuit Shade 50/-
111 Effective Greys 67/6
(CALL OR POST YOUR ORDER.
WE PAY FREIGHT.)
Lincoln, Stuart
and Co.
PTY., LTD.,
244-254 Flinders
Street,
Melbourne.
f-
-


SAVES EVERY CASH BUYER
TWO SHILLINGS IN EVERY Si.
Farmer’s Cash Sale
C £T he Shopping decent of the Season.
Special in Mens Boots .
Less 10 per cent. Cash Bonus.
URI--Gent’s Tan Calf Balmorals,
light welted soles, smart extended
last; very comfortable
boot. Price, per pair,
27/6
Farmer’s :: Sydney-
i(C Che Store for £M.en.”
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, Q.P .O.
Unrivalled
Ualue !
. :
• u?=s
•>' -
AC-
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Floors that reflect credit
on the Householder!
Modernise your home by
introducing
353
bcx
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Sold and Recommended by all Leading
Stores
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Young Allen Leeper, son of Ulster’s vigor-
ous ambassador in Melbourne, has climbed
to the position of assistant private sec. to
the British Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
Allen was a mild, delicate-looking boy at
tiie Melbourne Grammar towards the end
of last century, but his brains carried him
through Melbourne University and later on
to a brilliant carber at Balliol. He always
had a fancy for languages, and because he
had picked up a few uncommon ones like
Russian and Roumanian he was of great
value to J. Bull at the outbreak of war. He
further helped Britain on the Roumanian
Commission and at the Peace Conference,
and captured a C.B.E. for his services. A
younger brother, Reginald, who was also
C.B.E.’d, has likewise a proficiency in un-
manageable tongues, and also holds a billet
in the Foreign Office.
Viscount Novar —our own Sir Ronald
Fairrrrguson— has been appointed chairman
of the Council of the Empire Forestry Asso-
ciation. He knows a lot about Australian
forestry now to add to his learning on trees
in general; there is hardly a bit of heavy
timber in any State that he hasn’t prowled
amongst. He talked and lectured and made
dinner speeches about the beauty of Austra-
lian woods, doing for our timbers what Car-
michael, another Excellency from Scotland,
did for Australian airt and precious stones.
And just as Carmichael loaded himself with
the treasures of his liking, Governor Fer-
guson carried away van-loads of furniture
made from fascinating hardwoods. Australia
owes them both a grateful memory.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine has prorogued
Parliament by proclamation till February
15. The recess will be extended a month at
a time till the end of June or the beginning
of July. The Lieut.-Governor will sign one
more proclamation: then Lord Stradbroke,
the new Rubber Stamp, who is expected early
in March, will do the proroguing.
Women who had enough energy to reach
Flemington for the first meeting of the year
slowly wilted. A screaming north-easter
whipped flimsy dresses until there was a
leg-show like a ballet-parade, and frocks
had the transparency of ghosts. There was
a great run on the chintz parasol. Every
second woman’s brolly blared in both color
and pattern. It was an awful day for
make-up. The colors ran in rivulets, and
the powder made white blobs amidst the
ruins. The lucky girl was she who could
secure privacy, a lump of ice and a good
face towel, and so get back to nature.
The big guns of Government House de-
voted themselves to cricket, but a pack of
aides deserted' and plumped for Flemington.
Mrs. Wheatley, who is a sheepy, horsey Aus-
tralian, came with her hubby and his
monocle.
The long-deferred electric-train service
was in action for Flemington on New Year’s
Day. It was a boon in the grilling heat.
The motorists who sifted through the dust
of Flemington-road had not half the comfort.
Oamperdown capered through a tennis
tournament in the heat of the early New
Year. Nonie Wiltshire, Betty Fairbairn and
Dot Sc-hlesinger went from Melbourne, and
Mrs. Chirnside —Mavis Thiel that was—
swung a racquet. Every house in the squat-
ting district bulged with a youthful party—
nobody cared a feather-duster how many
youngsters she took under her wing so long
as they helped with the washing-up and the
bed-making. In these matters the young-
men showed that they could teach the girls
a thing or two. If the war did nothing else
it made the boys handy round a house.
House-to-house dinners and jazzes sped
the hours spared from the courts. The
matrons of the district had collaborated in
a programme, and the guests were just one
small army that motored joyfully from one
house to the next on the list. In the same
spirit forks and spoons were swapped (per
motor) in emergencies. Now t Camperdown
is sitting back fanning itself and exchanging
notes about the gorgeousness of its carnival.
Mrs. Ted Duckett gave a great Christmas
party to overseas sailormen —120 of them
—at Riversdale, Glenferrie. The Duckett
house has terraces down to the river where
the old Yarra is at its prettiest, and the
visitors were taken by launch to the landing-
place. Gladys Grey Smith, Dorothy Mit-
chell, Jean Burmiston, Amy Brown and a
dozen other girls put on their prettiest frills
and smiles and helped serve tea. Mrs.
Duckett joined with the Seamen’s Mission in
arranging the party.
One night last week the Alex. Landale
widow defied the heat wave with a two-
step frivol for the cricketing Col. Douglas
(who came with his wife), Mr. Wilson and
Mr. Toone, the social stars of the English
team, who had been previously fed at Men-
zies’ by Mr. and Mrs. Pursey Chirnside.
Captain and Mrs. Pitt-Rivers, Mrs. St. John
Brodrick and her chick, with General and
Mrs. Wheatley, topped the guest-list, which
was mostly of the married variety. Nowa-
days a jazz-worn bachelor is as elusive
as a cook-general, so a wretched hostess is
driven to call out the matron instead of
the maid, with fierce injunctions to fetch
her husband. A few of the younger misses
are then brought in to save the frivol from
frumpishness, and to appease such bachelors
as have been lured to the party.
Mrs. Dyer, who used to be Louise Smith,
pooh-poohed the thermometer and gave a
dinner and dance to welcome little 11)21.
The Dyers have Scawtch friends visiting,
which accounts for these extra-special New
Year festivities.
Melbourne University has now no less
than 14 women-leeturers. They are in all
departments, ranging from Miss Webb, lec-
turer in history, to Dr. Hilda Rennie, who
is looked upon as a certainty for the chair
of bacteriology, which is shortly to be estab-
lished, and Dr. Hilda Kincaid, who conducts
medical students through physiology. Of
the others, Dr. Georgina Sweet has acquired
international fame by her researches on stock-
parasites, inquiries coming from cattle-
raisers in Argentina, Siberia and Denmark
for the bulletins published by her on this sub-
ject; while Miss Natalie Allen, of the
Department of Physics, has had papers trans-
lated into nearly every European language.
Incidentally, the Physics Department has a
first-year student whose ability as a scientific
instrument maker is such that a while ago
the Professorial Board considered the ques-
tion of establishing an instrument factory,
with the student in charge, to do outside
work. In the School of Chemistry is a student
studying medicine who is a highly-skilled
analyst, and who during the war was em-
ployed by the Defence Department in research
work in connection with poison-gases.
This week sees the Science Congress hard
at work —with several parties thrown in for
flavoring. President Baldwin Spencer and
his lady billed a reception in the Botanic
Gardens for Wednesday, January 12, to
follow a discussion on “The Theory and Ap-
plication of the Thermionic Valve” and other
little frivolous things like that.
Bill Kelly, ex-M.LI.R., has been writing
to friends in the Melbourne Club from Paris.
His address is the Hotel de Crillon, known
as “the Claridge’s of Paris,” and he puts in
most of his time motoring, racing and play-
ing bridge at the Travellers’. In the in-
tervals he has been trying to get the Ameri-
cans to give equality of tolls in the Panama
Canal to Australia. A letter of his on the
subject in the Paris edition of the New York
Herald created interest recently chiefly by
reason of its unwonted mildness and suavity.
They were not William’s distinguishing quali-
ties when he was in politics.
Melba, talks of returning to Australia and
settling in Victoria, this time for good. She
misses the Australian climate, and her son
George is not strong, and has never been so
well as he was when he used to hunt a
couple of days a week round Melbourne.
What Melba would like to do is to live with
her family around her in some quiet Aus-
tralian centre, and never go into Society
any more. Or, anyhow, that is what she
always feels when in the presence of Aus-
tralians who have either just arrived from
or are just departing for their southern
home.
Melbourne was interested in fair-sized spots
at the news that Hubert Parker, son of
W;A.’s late C.J., had dropped private prac-
tice and become a Crown Prosecutor. His
sisters were over here a lot a few years ago
and were very popular; and so was the
cheery little soldier-lawyer himself when
Melbourne knew him before the war. He
was an original Anzac and finished up with
his majority and a D.S.O. at the time of
the Armistice. He married an Irish girl on
his last Blighty leave, and brought her back
to W.A. with him.
Jack Brooks and his wife talk of a
flying visit to Australia before the London
season. She was a Miss Burns, eldest
daughter of the Sydney shipping knight, and
a half-sister of the young people who have
been marrying so freely of late. Her
husband has a lot of Melbourne business to
look into, but will not be averse to visiting
Sydney either. Some of his best friends
live there—notably “Sandy” Jaques,
M.L.A.
To succeed the Archbishing Clarke the
Council of the Diocese wants an Austra-
lian ; but the election Board has begged per-
mission to send a Commission abroad to
England and Canada —it can’t agree upon
an Australian. Said the Council: “Have
another look round; we’ll give you until
March.” Donaldson, of Brisbane ; Long, of
Bathurst; Sadlier, of Northern Maoriland ;
and Hay, of Hobart, are men who have been
under discussion.
Lulu Robinson, of Dimboola, now a fas-
cinating six-year-old, started to swim when
she was a year and 11 months young. She is
expert enough now to attempt life-saving.
Like her elder sister and brother she inherits
her love of the water from her mother, Mrs.
Brassey Robinson, who cannot understand
why anybody with arms and legs that have
blood coursing in them should be non-
swimmers.
The other day a porter on a Gippsland
railway platform was injured by the falling
of a pile of luggage. This looks curiously
like an effort on the part of the portman-
teaux, suit-cases and tin boxes to get even
with some one.
One of our pavement-artists ably expressed
the commonsense view of the wicket-bar-
racking question when he chalked the fol-
lowing couplet under the portrait of “Dough-
lass” on his sidewalk :
Ilede not the barraker wen he sneers,
For he is just as reddy to give you cheers.
On leaving his chair as permanent head
of the Chief Sec.’s Department in a fort-
night, W. A. Callaway is to go by tfie
Ceramic on a trip to the Cold Country.
Arthur Mailey, whose googlies have won
him an invitation to join Australia’s 15 in
England this year, is not going to idle when
he reaches Britain. During the time he can
snatch from the hospitalities of the British
peerage, millionaires and so forth, he will
be kept busy writing his impressions of the
tour, which are to be published in a book
illustrated with his caricatures and draw-
ings.
May Cox is one of the few war-workers
who didn’t get the limelight she deserved.
She was general sec. of the relief fund of
the Education Department, and the effort
fostered by her amaz-
ing energy absorbed
the leisure of 2000
schools and brought
in £500,000. Many
a starving child in
Allied countries was
fed from the fund,
and Paderewski, the
Polish President,
was so gratified by
the help that he
sent a special letter
of thanks. Willie
Watt, when Federal
Treasurer, was
frankly incredulous
about the results of
May Cox’s efforts,
but after all doubts
had been dispersed
by a sight of the balance-sheets he com-
mitted the Government to finding the cash
for a history of the movement. This is now
in the press, and will hand out bouquets to
the leading spirit and the thousands of
others who toiled under her supervision.
When the war was finished the organisation
went on and collected more cash, which,
with a couple of cheques from the Federal
and State Governments, will establish a
series of scholarships for Billjim’s children.
May Cox, who clung to her heavy job
despite the threats of a breakdown, is also
organiser of State-school swimming, and
aims to make every infant amphibious. This
photo of the industrious girl is by Burling-
ton, Melbourne.
Violinist Gwyn Davies, who made a brief
appearance in Melbourne after 10 years’
absence in Denmark, is returning again to
the old address —probably after testing
London’s liking for her music in some big
concerto work with Sir Henry Wood.
Heitmqnn, former M.H.R. for Kalgoorlie,
who had to drop the job of publicity officer
in Hughes’s department, is a, very sick man,
and has come over to Melbourne for some
expert help.
The Bob Knoxes are getting busy about
a christening. This is another Clarke
grand-daughter. Mrs. Bob is the daughter
of departed William Baronet and Janet
Lady.
The W. S. Robinsons have dropped anchor
at Cliveden Flats. They have been ex-
pensively abrawd for years, while the young-
sters have been getting the priceless benefit
of the English accent. Mrs. Robinson hangs
a succession of wonderful gowns on her too-
slender figure—it is almost a mannequin
parade for the goggled eyes of Cliveden
diners.
Conscientious members of the Housewives’
Association who obeyed the ukase of that
organisation and got their hands freckled are
now permitted to wear gloves again. Mrs.
Glencross, the president, claims that the
object aimed at by the boycott has been
achieved, as prices have come down with a
run. But what if the fresh demand makes
them climb up again?
Dr. John Skelly, parish priest of Myrtle-
ford, who glided out at St. Kilda last week,
was an Australian-born and -trained man of
great promise. He qualified for his D.D.
when he was little more than 21, Echuca
had caught him to its breast, and the mound
above him will not be neglected.
Being asked to explain their failure to
prosecute a gentleman caught travelling on
a counterfeit all-lines pass, the Railway
Commissioners declared that the traveller
could not be dragged to court as he was
about to leave the State. The advice is sup-
posed to have come from the Crown Law
Department, though the Railways Act allows
an employee to detain and hand over to
the nearest constable anybody caught com-
mitting an offence against the Act. The
case has caused a lot of comment, because
the fact that the offender handed over the
price of the ticket, £llO, suggests that he
was a person of considerable social tonnage.
Almost gleefully the Education De-
partment has told of a desperate truant of
seven with whom it has to deal. His mother
hid his clothes so that he could not go out
and “wag” it. He got out, all the same.
An elder brother’s overcoat, nabbed off the
rack in the passage, allowed him to spend a
happy day. This hopeful was, however, not
nearly so enterprising as Norman Conquest,
the training-ship imp in whom the late Jack
Murray, when Chief Sec., took an interest.
Conquest (who was always trying to live up
to his name) was also deprived of his meagre
raiment and shut up alone. He whistled up
a mate, who was passing his window, and
induced him to climb in. Then he persuaded
his visitor to have a shower after his ex-
ertion. While Harold bathed Norman
collared his clothes and went forth to seek
adventure.
Warrnambool is having the most exciting
tourist season of its life. The tropical
storm-before-last caused a landslip, and the
cliffs that .slid down buried caves that were
favorite picnic places. And the very latest
storm —on Sunday—saw the drowning of a
dozen pleasure seekers. A locally-built
launch, prepared for Christmas-holiday
work, sprang a leak, and sank in a few
minutes.
Every large boarding-house contains one
of her. Two would empty the establish-
ment. Generally she is. “Mrs.” and her
sharp eyes and ears miss nothing that can
set her tongue clacking. The merest glance
gives her a clue to the most scandalous com-
plications. New arrivals are flattered by
her attentions, and to them she relates the
past manoeuvres and present indiscretions of
the other “guests.” She lately retailed to
her table at a South Yarra guestery the
private history of every lady in the house.
Then one day a man arrived who gave her
no chance to thrust her friendship upon him.
When her skirts rustled into the dining-room
he left his spoonfhl of soup unfinished and
disappeared. He returned later and sat at
a table on the other side of the room. In
the interval he had explained to the mana-
geress that he objected to being placed next
to his divorced wife, who had been again
divorced by her second husband.
An Adelaide postscript
Their Excellencies are now at Marble Hill, the
summer habitation of S'.A. Governors, over which
none of them has ever enthused. It ought to have
been made a reformatory years ago, being so far re-
moved from temptation. For years past vice-regal
folk have begged for a seaside residence. The Gal-
ways favored Victor Harbor, the Weigalls fancy
Glenelg; but Governments look into a cash-box filled
with lOU’s and P.N.’s, and say “Marble Hill or no-
thing.”
New Year’s Eve saw a festive throng at the Grand
Central, whose jazz dinners are one of our successes.
Some of the guests had to leave early to pass on to
the Town Hall, where the Mayor and Mayoress were
entertaining 700-odd at a combined dance
and Turkish bath, notwithstanding that blocks of ice
decorated the front of the stage, with gladioli frozen
into the heart of them. The Mayoress was in pink
silk and feathers. At midnight the Mayor, followed
by as many as cquld wedge on to the balcony, wished
the crowd in the street below a Happy New Year
and pelted them with paper streamers. The follow-
ing day the Mayor, with Mrs. Moulden and her five
little Hacketts, left for Kobe, in the South-East.
And still no tag came for our Lord Mayor!
Just before Christmas a few dear friends of the
Mayoress decided that such hospitality as hers should
not go unrewarded, so they sent circulars out asking
for half-guinea donations. Some bit, some didn’t.
In the end £5O was subscribed and blown in glass,
which was handed over at the home of a well-known
doctor on the strict Q.T.
Presentations were the fashion about that time.
Mayor Moulden made a speech at the opening of a
new butcher’s shop in Adelaide (an M.P. had per-
formed the ceremony) and the Mayoress was handed
a pair of carvers.
There was a large crowd at the S.A.J.C.’s New
Year meeting at Morphettville. A vice-regal party
motored down from the hills.
By the Morea Muriel Farr trips to London. His
Excellency has given the lady—the best organiser
the Liberals of the State ever had —many letters
of introduction to English politicians.
On Thursday evening the Committee of the
Royal British Nurses’ Assoc, gave a farewell recep-
tion to their “Lady Consul,” Miss Graham, R.R.C.,
at the E.B.N.A. Home, of which Miss Graham was
the founder in 1900; and 15 years later she was
one of the first three nurses to leave Australia for
the Front. Dr. Steele Scott handed over an offering
from past and present members—a purse of sove-
reigns, almost as rare these days as thrones. Miss
Graham is returning to her native Scotland.


Why continue to
buy your tyres
in the darK ?
-
/f
pi
*\h
a/
s
h<
s
«S*
~^ss
There are
hig'h-priced
tyres
AND THERE ARE
L
TYRES
and the great difference between them is this
Michelin price is supported by Michelin Quality.
In other words, you are securing a bargain in mileage service.
Michelin first-cost is only the price of the accumulated mileage stored ready for service in
every Michelin cover. When you come to average out that service in terms of cost-per-mile
then you have your proof positive that it pays best to use Michelins.
/gas*
STUDY YOUR POCKET.
Apply the Michelin Quality Test.
mm
Sen
%
Prove by comparison the money-
saving power of Michelins.
MICHELIN & CO. PTY., LTD., 31 King Street, Melbourne.


b
Under
Royal
Wsrr&nr
To H M.
Kin$
George V
champmc e
*
CHAMPACHC
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
m
That all may know
cxb
She is a lady of true refinement; she chooses
clothes that emphasise her personality, which
is interpreted by Shave. These masters in
tailoring accomplish this without sacrificing
fashion’s latest whim, combining novelty with
demure effects, until a garb is contrived
which is a charming paradox.
Ladles’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
SHAVE,
Centreway,
Melbourne,
Society’s Merriest
Meeting Place.
The Wentworth Cafe
J ft
ws
w'
l f
i
Cool, spacious,
altogether de-
lightful, with an
exquisite cuisine
and service,
a perfect danc-
ing floor and the
most gloom-
destroying o f
Jazz Orchestras.
Dinner Dances
nightly, 7 to
11.30.
SPECIAL
DINNERS,
Thursdays and
Saturdays, 7 to
midnight.
Tea Dances every
afternoon, 3.30
to 5.30.
’Phone City 9931
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones
Catalogue
Whatever their aloofness on the voyage
over, the Pitt-Rivers and the Digby young
women seem determined to prove themselves
good sorts. The week preceding their de-
parture to the decorum of Melbourne was
crammed with parties, including a dinner
jazz at the Pacific, a launch-picnic arranged
by Redmond Barry (famous in history for
bringing the troupe of French boxers to the
Stadium), and another very swank affair
which included the Furnivall, Loughborough
and Dyer titles. “And,” commented a mere
acrid Australian who was present, “Sheila
was the most up-stage of them all.”
When a young man of to-day wants to
give his- best girl an evening’s entertainment
he takes her to the Stadium to see the French
boxers. Marie Tempest, Ola Humphreys,
Mrs. Cumberlege, Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne
and pretty Peggy Malone, the girl whose
legs are so popular in America because she
can turn them into corkscrews, have all been
there during the past few weeks. And on
Saturday night, when Jerry Sullivan in his
green tights stood pluckily up for 13 rounds
to the vicious downward blows of Criqui,
the Frenchman whose only scar seems to be
the one he got during the war, the serried ranks
of men. were broken every here and there by
the gleam of a woman’s dress or arm. There
was the flapper in her white frock and floppy
hat, and even one or two real old-fashioned-
looking mothers, there, no doubt, because
their own boys wanted them to see Jerry
show “Crikey” what a fair-dinkum Austra-
lian could do. There were women who
’ hesitated at leaving girlhood behind them,
and girls who were girls only because of
their determination not to grow into women
—just the same old bunch of female (though
not so numerous) you’d have found at any
movie-show in town. Beside the pallid
slimness of the Frenchman Jerry looked like
a square-hewn piece of bronze; but the com-
bination of green, 13 and the quick down-
ward blow proved unlucky, and 19-year-old
took the count. Whereupon Criqui, with
the true spirit of his country, flung a sup--
porting arm around the lad and led him
gently across to his own corner.
There was a tea-drinking with a strong
Ministerial flavor at the Carlton on Satur-
day morning, when Bananaland ex-Premier’s
wife gathered in the now more leisured
missus of the Labor Ministry to farewell the
Lieut.-Governor Lennons, who are going back
north. Mayoress Lambert made the occa-
sion a sort of trial flight, and that there
is something in a name was demonstrated by
Education Minister Mutch’s fair-haired wife,
who has an encyclopaedic compass of con-
versation. Mrs. Ryan is the perfect hostess,
and possesses a soothy, full-toned speaking
voice. A tall Lennon girl with green on
her hat supported her mother, Mrs. John
Barlow came with daughter Nell, Mrs. Coyle
wore the prettiest millinery, and Mrs.
Dooley was mostly a quiet smile.
Society is now ruffling out for the Tir-
ranna and Bong Bong outburst. Tirranna
threatens to quite outdo itself this year.
The Governor’s party is to stay at the
Faithfulls’ old home, and everybody is
arranging house-parties. Mrs. Bob Osborne
is to have one strictly of young things—
the two Johnston girls, two Sam Hordern
buds, Fob and Geoff Wilkinson: all pals
of the Osborne son. Horderns galore and
Sawyers are to be in at the kill, and Billy
Manning is riding one of the Austins’
mounts.
It never rains but it pours, and Mrs. John
Barlow has been right in the storm centre,
just because Pope Benedict sent her the
beautiful cross of Pope Leo. The minute
the Catholic Women’s Association heard this
it determined to hand its president a little
diamond something to keep Benedict’s gift
company, and on a moist night last week
an exquisite diamond and platinum bar was
pinned on Mrs. Barlow’s blue satin gown
by Archbishop Kelly, who must have nearly
melted beneath his gorgeous red cloak. Mrs.
Barlow, after she had said thank-you with
due modesty, got in a good stroke of busi-
ness, as it was a packed-out meeting of the
Association, by referring to the obvious
necessity of expanding into larger premises
—this to meet the demand for accommoda-
tion for the young girl-immigrant. In addi-
tion to precious stones and minerals the
association had provided its president with
a bower of roses, and the bouquets were
handed over to Miss Barlow, who stood
beside mother till she resembled an over-
worked handmaid of Flora. In the farthest-
off doorway John Barlow stood trying to
look entirely detached. All the really active
R.C.’s were present—among them Mrs. John
Meagher of the golden voice, Mrs. Coyle,
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, of Queensland, a quaintly
pretty Chapman flapper, and Ella Caspers
in grey frocking and beautiful voice.
The George Reid widow is among the
Leura scenery this summer, and the Moun-
tain town is simply bursting with all the
old-family parties that make yearly pilgrim-
age to the blue mists. But this year all who
could collared cottages, the ever-mounting
hotel tariffs proving too stiff a hurdle.
Bowral is having an innings this year.
Libby Hordern has been entertaining a house
party, and all the cats who were invited to
the cream-lapping are still purring over the
sleek luxury of the place. Even the stables
are fitted with electric light, and the beauties
that live in the stalls would win a competi-
tion anywhere. Add a new racing car and
a household that seems to run by clockwork,
and there was joy for the house party
hostessed by sister Mrs. Watson, and in-
cluding Redmond Barry and sister Frances
and Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne.
Leura had its summer ball at the Golf Club
house, though at one time it looked as though
the affair might never come off. There were
nearly as many different factions in the row
as there were members of the committee.
Everybody said at different stages that she
for one would not go to the ball, and one
strong-minded woman stuck to her resolu-
tion. But she must have been very lonely
that night, for all the rest of summering
Leura jazzed in cobbled amiability.
Peter Mitchell, of Table Top, who died
suddenly during the week, was not only a
very rich and kindly old man, but also a
very cultured one. He had a wonderful col-
lection of curios and treasures gathered from
many lands, and chief among them he prized
a library of rare editions. He was a great
lover of Smollett and Fielding, and he was
a disappointed man last year when the Mit-
chell Library refused the offer of his collec-
tion. For years lie had chased summer to
many lands, finding even our Sydney winter
more than he could bear. His widow is a
tall, handsome woman, and was one of the
best-dressed of the Wentworth New Year
revellers.
This is 14-year-
old Winifred Shaw,
whose book of verse,
“The Aspen Tree,”
just published
through Tyrrell’s, is
considered one of the
most promising
efforts put forth in
that direction by
Young Australia.
Dad is a well-known
solicitor in Single-
ton. While Wini-
fred is interested
only in Pegasus, sis-
ter Una has wider
knowledge of
thoroughbreds she
knows the pedigree
of every racehorse in
Australia.
The Fraser Gange couple are back in Syd-
ney, resting at Usher’s for a week before
going on to a short concert season at Perth,
Perth being the only town to be blessed with
a farewell carolling before the artistic pair
get back to England as quickly as coal short-
age and strikes will allow. They are glowing
over their Maoriland season, which ran into
five months. From Auckland to the Bluff
they were welcomed with open arms and pipe
bands. The Women’s Club in Auckland gave
a reception to Mrs. Gange, the Burns Club
at Dunedin wept with delight into its haggis,
and Christchurch left off work to see the
songful pair on to the express. Gange bought
up a few acres of Canterbury, and in 1922
they return to be the stars of a Music Festi-
val with which Maoriland is going to warm
its frozen heart.
Around at Gayfield Shaw’s rooms there’s
a show of etchings by Australian artists.
Two Lindsays, Fullwood, Tom Roberts,
Eirene Mort and Jessie Traill, Ure Smith,
D,avid Barker and others are represented.
There are some delightful pencil sketches,
too, by Hilder. These are not finding the'
usual quick sale because the signature isn’t
there in black and white. They are the
sketches from which Hilder buiit up his
“Clay Pit” and “Dora Creek” and “Hornsby
Valley,” and, of course, not intending them
for sale, but looking upon them as a writer
might upon- the rough notes for an article,
the artist didn’t think of signing them. Re-
member the little girl who wouldn’t believe
the nugget was really gold because it wasn’t
hall-marked?
Baroness Furnivall, who is visiting these
parts, belongs to the Petre family which
all Dunedin knows. The head of the branch
is an architect, who has designed all the
impressive R.C. cathedrals of Maoriland, and
is responsible for the Dominican Convent in
Dunedin, considered one of the most hand-
some piles in the earthquake land. Petre
has the imagination that saw the beauty of
the Oamaru blue-stone for cathedral walls
when the obvious thing was to import marble
for the job. The Dominican Convent is
pure Gothic, and there is a wonderful par-
ouetry parlor inlaid in M.L. woods and
gorgeous staircases and panelings, all of
kauri. Petre called in at M.L. in the long
ago, as part of his education, and stayed to
marry a Cargill. Almost immediately came
the financial crash that left the ill-fated Car-
gills’ castle the deserted show-place of St.
Clair. Two or three times Petre nearly
reached the estate and the title, but unex-
pected births always seem to happen, so the
large Petre family remains in Maoriland,
while two Misses Cargill run a tea-room in
Rome.
Here’s an example of the cows coming
home after long years. When Dorothy
Helmrich left for London 18 months ago
sister Madge (Mrs. Piddington, who was
one of Sydney’s golden contraltos when
Dorothy was in rompers) handed her a
Copy of “Sleep On, Dear Baby !” a lullaby
composed and dedicated to Madge Helmrich
>by Fanny Ryan, then one of Mrs. Keller-
man’s show pupils, now Mrs. Alfred Henry
of Parramatta. Dorothy tried this cradle
song on an audience one night for an encore,
and since then there has been a constant
demand for the pretty croon. So many
people have asked Dot where the song can
be had that her last letter contained a large
order for copies that she had promised to
her own immediate circle. Looks as if Mrs.
Henry’s song is at last in for a mild boom.
Nell Cory, one of the four daughters of
the J. E. Corys, of the Downs, Terry-hie-hie,
became Mrs. Alfred Keen at St. Patrick’s,
Church Hill, in the downpours of Wednes-
day. (Alfred’s dad formerly squatted in
the Morre district, too.) Nell wore the
usual white satin, silver lace and georgette,
and her train, had the fashionable pale-pink
lining. Her three sisters bridesmaided like
a well-conducted rainbow in shaded blue
and green and yellow. Mrs. Cory enter-
tained the guests at the Wentworth. »
Vivir.me Berk having promised to wed
Victc; Audette, there was rejoicing at the
Wentworth last Friday afternoon, the
American Colony being strongly represented.
Vivienne’s mother did the honors of the rose-
decorated tables in a lace frock and a big
black hat, while Vivienne stood up to the
congratulations in pale pink muslin.
Christian Rothe, who is to marry Mrs.
Guy Davenport, was in the Indian Army
during the war, and came back to Sydney
only last year. Like his dad he is in the
Sugar Co., and just now is at 52 Macleay-
street. Mrs. Guy, who was a Cowper, lives
with mother at Bowral.
Kathleen Osborne, who has been hat-
renovating with a Huxtable girl in the
Strand, is to be married at the end of this
month. Aunt Mrs. Clive Dangar’s two
children are to be bridesmaids.
One of the newest engagement-rings is
being worn by Thelma Vardon Gilles, of
Malvern, Edgecliff-road. The young man
who persuaded her to try it on is George
Step. George is tall and dark and good-
looking, and though born in Australia has
spent a lot of time in his late father’s coun-
try, France, so that he speaks French like
a Parisian—and English like a free-born
Australian. Until lately he was Chancellor
of the French Consulate-General*
A flutter of last, week was caused by Janie
McCabe, who slipped quietly around to the
little church at the corner and married her
Englishman, Shaw, who finds the air of our
Blue Mountains more suited to his health
than the fogs of his own land.
After residing in the Moree district for
oyer half a century, George Williams has
disposed of Tyreel station and come to spend
the twilight in Sydney. The septuagenarian’s
wife, who died about nine years ago, was
the first white child borp in the Nor’-West.
Mona McKay, a pretty Maoriland girl,
who came over to Sydney to do publicity
work for the Tivoli about three years ago,
and afterwards went back to the Chilly
Islands and to the Christchurch Press, has
engaged herself to a man of law, an ex-soldier,
by name Treacy. The wedding is timed
for the Spring.
Ola Jane Humphreys Hassan Broadwood
has taken up housekeeping at Yarranabbee
Flats, Darling Point.
Little Miss Johns, who left Australia
without being vaccinated, fell a victim to
“black” small-pox at Batavia, and was buried
there a few weeks ago. The British
community were present at the graveside and
told one another how unwise it is for women
in poor health to venture in tropical climes
wdthout first taking all possible precautions.
The professorial Elton Mayos (she was one
of the MacConnells of Queensland) are rent-
ing the Milner Stephens’ house at Edgecliff
into the early autumn months.
Sydney dress-builders might take a hint
from their American cousins in the matter of
the tiny fan without which no self-respecting
Broadway frock goes home. Somewhere
about the afternoon and evening gown of to-
day there’s sure to be a ribbon loop, and on
to the tail of this is fashioned a tiny fan of
silken gauze chiming in with the frock’s
color scheme. The Gyppo feather fly-swatter
is almost as dead as the moa across the
water.
There were three corpses on the cool slabs
of the Morgue, and a perspiring doctor who
had been called up in a hurry on Christmas
morning was bending over his special case
when in walked Sawbones No. 2. “Hello, old
man,” greeted the second-comer, “Merry
Christmas!’’ “Same to you,” came the
caustic answer, as he turned to his cadaver
-—“and many of them.”
This is Boyce Bowden, who, though still
not 90, has already written acres of verse
in The Bulletin, with the salt sea in much
of it. Now he and
artist Ted Colles
have co-operated in
producing “Sand in
the Head,” whose
extraordinary cover
should become as
well known in Aus-
tralia as Abe. Colles
served in Turkey
and France with the
A.1.F., and Bowden
was with the Maori-
land forces. They
claim that the
“loon y” verse o f
“Sand in the Head’’
will prove the ele-
vating influence of
militarism on the
whimsical and
imaginative faculties.
The Fraser Ganges were delighted with
our edition of the “Lilac Domino.” They
say it compares more than favorably with
the London presentation. Jamieson Dodds,
they declare, is singing better than he did
yonder, and Rene Maxwell has a special word
of praise for her part in the two-up scene.
Violinist Cecile Anne Stevens is back in
Sydney after nine years in England and
America. Cecile Anne won a scholarship
while a student at the Convent of Mercy,
Parramatta. Among other successes was an
appearance with the Symphony Orchestra
in San Francisco.
Talking of Paris brings to mind a thumb-
nail sketch of Mrs. Herrick Knowles’s visit
to the city of romance. After she had been
overwhelmed by the Louvre, and tired out
by the shops, she devoted herself to the
Paris of Balzac and du Maurier and the
woods of Corot. One day she drove through
the woods around Barbisson. (Do you
remember that it was to the peace of Bar-
bisson little Billee fled for solace after he
first saw his Trilby posing in the alto-
gether?) The woods are mostly larch-trees,
and on that particular day the hand of
Autumn was stirring among their boughs
so that a constant shower drifted down, and
it seemed to the little Rose Bay lady that
she was driving through a golden rain to
the dreaming-place of all romance.
There’s to be a scatter in the Heney
family. Tom. and his wife take up resi-
dence in Brisbane, daughter is to go to
England, and Jack is getting a job in New
Guinea; while Aunt Lucy Gullett is trying
to sell her house at North Sydney prepara-
tory to a dash to London.
Helen Denny is in Sydney for a week or
two. The Women’s Club will find her.
Diana, the wonderfully wise Cumberlege
offspring, had an appendix out at St.
Ronan’s, Manly, last week.
Mrs. Gordon Bray, “the impulsive doll”
of counsel Windeyer’s defence in a divorce
suit last year, is at the moment in Paris
and having a beautiful time.
Mrs. Whiteman, who was Eileen Deery,
is up from Rabaul enjoying a holiday that
she feels is well earned. You’ll remember
that Eileen’s husband, who was a trader at
Rabaul, died suddenly in Sydney a year ago.
Eileen, instead of winding up his affairs,
rolled up her sleeves and took over the busi-
ness.
She’s a pretty little woman filled with
an astonishing amount of unassimilated
learning which she insists on flooding over
the company. Yesterday she was airing her
religious disbeliefs. “Religion,” she declared
with condescending kindness for her simple
listeners, “is, after all, just an accident of
birth; and for my own part my mind is
too developed to swallow it any longer. No-
thing could convince me, for instance, that
12 poor, ignorant fishermen wrote the Bible
—the English is too beautiful!” The poor,
deluded listening Christian curled with joy.
A bonzer break like that doesn’t occur every
day.


Miss Dorothy South praises
POUDRE PLAZA.
Having used for some time your Plaza Face Cream and Poudre Plaza may I say that
I consider them par excellence the very best. I detest cheap skin foods and inferior powder
—they so quickly destroy a fine complexion. Your perfectly-blended Plaza Face Cream stimulates
and preserves. Poudre Plaza protects. I lead the open-air life and I know.
Wishing your delightful toilet requisites continued success,
I am, Yours sincerely, (Sgd.) DOROTHY SOUTH,
Criterion Theatre, Sydney, N.S.W.
Poudre Plaza
is the refinement of
face powder—soft,
clinging and invisible
It is a feathery, pure, delicately-
scented face powder, which will
cling to the skin and preserve the
delicate bloom of youth. Poudre
Plaza is the necessary adjunct to a
beautiful skin. Once you have used
it, you will hot be satisfied with
any other Face Powder. Supplied
in three tints: White, Flesh and
Cream.
Plaza Face
Cream.
A non-greasy, perfumed skin
beautifier and cream, which fills up
wrinkles, smoothes and whitens
the skin of the face and hands, pre-
vents injury from the weather, and
corrects any disagreeable skin irri-
tation. Ladies use it regularly twice
a day to preserve a beautiful com-
plexion, or to improve a bad, un-
healthy skin.
Miss DOROTHY SOUTH (from a photo), as Irene in the musical comedy
.of that name, in which she delighted all theatre-goers.
Plaza Talcum
Powder.
In dainty glass bottles with metal
tops; soothes, heals and preserves
the delicacy of the skin, prevents
any odor from perspiration, and
keeps you cool and comfortable in
warm weather. The best powder
for baby. Plaza Talcum Powder
keeps you dainty from head to toe.
Plaza de Luxe
Toilet Requisites.
Only the very best of materials,
the daintiest perfume and expert
knowledge have been combined in
preparing the Plaza de Luxe Toilet
Requisites. Dainty women can
appreciate the great help of Plaza
in keeping the face, body and
mouth perfectly healthy and beauti-
ful.
Plaza Soap, a real delight. Beautifies
the skin; 1/6 per tablet.
Plaza Face Cream, a non-greasy skin
beautifier. Price 2/6.
Poudre Plaza, the necessary adjunct
to a beautiful complexion. 4/6 per box.
m
w///,
Talgumi
&QWDER
Cm
y/M
mri/iJIL
'IWOJI/&
m
7m
m
&
sm
m
m
M
:3
r^>
A
Mil
■j~r^yy/
W /
wmmm.
cm
///^
BSi«ii
yimW^^m//,
m
Plaza Talcum Powder neutralises the
odor of perspiration. Price 1/9.
Plaza Tooth Paste preserves and
beautifies the teeth. An absolutely new
form of tooth paste that is truly delight-
ful. Price 1 /6.


GOOD JUDGMENT
attcC
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of -women -who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a -wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd + 50 York Street,
Sydney
H°LEPR<PF
Ho/py-
sfokriijguiit
cx
Stetson Hats
subject to 10 p.c.
discount.
Other Makes
10 p.c. to 20 p.c.
Owing to our readjust-
ment of stocks we are
allowing 10 p.c. discount
on all goods.
3)imt SX&,
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
Missir.g Friends.
INFORMATION is required by the Local
Deputy Public Trustee, Christchurch,
New Zealand, as to the addresses of two
sisters of MARTIN MANNIX, formerly of
Kinvara, County Galway, Ireland, who died
at Christchurch, New Zealand, on the 11th
April, 1920.
A, R. JORDAN, Acting Local Deputy
Public Trustee at Christchurch.
GILES, JOHN, JUNIOR. —Will anyone knowing
whereabouts of JOHN GILES, JUNIOR, formerly
of Natal, South Africa, please communicate with
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY Co. Ltd.,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE DISADVANTAGE IN BUYING A
bcx
THE
WINTON.
WINTON SADDLE
is that someone else
always wants to use it.
The above is an extract from a letter
received from a man on a Queensland station
where one of these saddles had been in use
for 12 months. It was the most popular
saddle on the station.
The “Winton” is a high-grade saddle built
on most comfortable lines. Note how the
flap is sewn direct on to the seat, doing
away with the usual skirt and giving a
narrow, non-chafing grip. The pads come
well up the rider’s thighs, giving the utmost
security. It is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l5/10/-
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Railway Station in
N.S.W.
Send your height and weight with order.
Write for our fine saddlery catalogue.
WALTHER S STEVENSON ETD., 393 George Street, Sydney.
Learn to Draw
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
os a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by lIA lilt Y J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Rend three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
“There’s Money
l »n
4 the Pen.’’
I
,J>
-79 i
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drswinrf,
28 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
For Sale.
FOR Sale Good Second-hand English
Guns and Rifles, at moderate prices.
Also Guns and Rifles bought. MILYARD,
S Bridge Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
rilO ANDREW SCOTT Junior formerly
JL of Whangarei and Auckland in New
Zealand and all persons claiming by through
or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand made under and by
virtue of the provisions of the Public Trust
Office Amendment Act 1913 at Wellington in
New Zealand on the 16th day of December
1920 you are hereby called upon to send in
on or before the Ist day of May 1921 to
the undersigned as Solicitor to the Public
Trustee of the Dominion of New Zealand
your claims to the Trust Fund of £BOO
created by the last Will and Testament of
Andrew Scott senior formerly of Whangarei
aforesaid Carpenter but now deeeased fail-
ing which the said Trust Fund will be dis-
tributed among the persons entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington < aforesaid this 22nd
day of December 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor for the Public Trust Office,
Wellington New Zealand.
TO EDWARD SHORT last heard of in
England about the year 1860 and son
of Edward Short and Anne Short (nde
Hind) both of England aforesaid but now
deceased and to all persons claiming by
through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand made under the pro-
visions of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act 1913 at Wellington in New Zea-
land aforesaid on the 16th day of December
1920 you are hereby called upon to send
in on or before the Ist day of July 1921
to the undersigned as Solicitor to the Public
Trustee of the Dominion of New Zealand
your claims to the estate of Alfred Short
iate of Wellington aforesaid Nightwatchman
who died on or about the 21st day of Decem-
ber 1918 intestate failing which the estate
will be distributed amongst the persons
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington aforesaid this 22nd
day of December 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor for the Public Trust Office,
Wellington New Zealand.
Fills
lb
lash
anno
Cleans
Joegula
YhsPw
elf
British.
core
for
•NOTH
ink
Bast
rai
pans
Best
byTest
Specially made to give lasting service under
hardest conditions and retaining its efficiency
longer than ordinary carbon steels.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Chrome Vanadium Medal Die Steel
This steel is practically unshrinkable and is
most suitable for stamping Gold, Silver,
Bronze, Copper, Brass, White Metal, Tin,
Steel or Iron.
%
0«
Deliveries from stock in all sizes in round bars.
Prices and particulars promptly supplied on request to
Desk “A.”
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co., Ltd.,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Ratrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ripple: “Wongadee” has music, but is
rather too much like the echo of other things....
D.M.: Of course he viewed her as a subject in a
pathological museum. It was only that new view of
her which made the article worth while.... Whis-
kers: You’d better read that up in the encyclopaedia
at the nearest library. It’s too long a business for
The 8....R..J.: The snake verse calls for an hour’s
sandpapering. .. .E.O. Thank y0u.... Torn Toe.
That bird was abundantly discussed a month or two
ag0.... Ananias: Beaten some time ago by the
man who, when a Darling dust-storm passed him,
looked back and saw by his wheelmarks that it was
so thick he’d been able to drive right over it....
Hicks: Poorly put. ... L. Parap : Somebody else
pegged out the claim to “Karee” long ago. Get
another... .F.C.C.: Eel story well enough told; but
the point is too 5ma11.... Mick D.: An old ’un....
R.A.8.: Utterly futile... .A.J. (Cremorne) : “Dead
Trees” hasn’t quite the 5ki11....8. Lyre: Pretentious
and bad....R.Y.: Misses... .5.0.5.: Stupid stuff
badly done.... J.N.L.: You haven’t the knack....
K.N.8.: Don’t care for them.'.. .G.F. (Mudgee) :
Sorry, can’t find the humor... .R.W.H.: Not enough-
in it.... Alice K. II.: Not up.... Catherine M.: You
didn’t make enough out of that “Sheep”....
R.C.E.A.: Far too lumpy... .R.D.F.: “China Plate”
misses, but not by much.... Kuaka: One might do.
....Fred R.: “Fireman’s Union” no use... .H.G.C.:
Commonplace thoughts in dreary verse. And you
seem capable of much better things.... Jack A. W..
We hardly like to rub it in like this; but the
quality of the verse demands that it shall be heard:
“I’m miles too good for the Johns,”
A graceless young rascal affirmed;
“Now, I beat one clown for half a crown,”
But how that hero squirmed
And writhed and tugged at the bands of steel
Which ’circled his wrists, as a flash,
For there pounced from behind a pile of deal
A plain-cloths ’tec named Dash.
“Pinched,” the criminal dismally groahed, his
visage white with horror;
“You’ll stand” (his remorseless captor cried) “be-
fore the Bench to-morrow.
And perhaps you belong to Melbourne Town,
Where the Johns are so lacking in spurt;
Wake up, come along, we Sydney ones
Are centuries more alert.”
. ...P.T.8.: Poorly done and says very little....
W.M.8.: No. . . .D.F.S.: Your modesty in not send-
ing the verse had elements of wisdom in it. Keep
on being modest. .. .E.M.E.: No lift in it. . .E.J.F.:
Neither set of verses will do. Very hard to suggest
a price. £1 per thousand is the lowest price we’ve
heard of; the highest is away up in the clouds....
K.L.8.: Verse has a tooth-loosening movement in
places and some mle rhymes... .R.J.W.: Not well
enough done.... M.II. (Roma): Very p00r....
Zodiac: Dreary... .J.L.V.: No use. .. .Jack Beer:
You don’t make anything of a pretty good subject....
George A.: Let a howl or two be heard: —
Wake up, Australia! You’ve work for to do.
Come! open your country, and irrigate, too.
You want population, industry as well,
So, wake up, Australia, list to what I tell!
Take India, for instance, and her water supply,
But for irrigation her people would die.
Still she to-day has more water than you,
So, wake up, Australia and irrigate, too.
. ...H.A.8.: Shocking... .Oliver B.: This ought to
shift the dray out of the bog:—
Now, my dear readers, the New Year is in.
The world seems troubled, not all sin ;
Australia is brightest, give it a spin,
For what we make it we’ve all to win.
Downright rot it seems to be,
A land so bright so pure and free;
I’m sure you all, and one, will think with me,
That Australia is best, you will agree.
Oh, dearest Australia, why sow inferior seed ?
An example to lead, the world would read;
That we have the finest, purest of breed,
To lead: Australian listen, how nice indeed!
Oh! Then why not turn to and start anew ?
The New Year will hum if we all pull, too;
Things will run smooth as it used to do,
To say at the end it’s the best we knew.
Then the best wish of all is a happy: New Year,
That the coast will be bright and clear;
To see the end of all trouble and fear
In this bright Australia that we hold so dear.
.. . .S.T.H.: Rubbish... . Yuki: No interest-.. .Frank
P.: Not enough in “Slave , Market”... .J.M.S.Y.:
“Modern Women” no use to us —anyway, not that
way.... Eleven: Horrible.... Isabel B.: The old
“morn”-“dawn” rhyme to start with and after that
a piling-up of ancient commonplaces. .. .Beetle:
“Recollections” walk stiffly and say little. .. .Hermes:
Can’t you give “Prodigal Girl” better handling?
....Jack E.: Not “Gold-Dust”; merely dull yellow-
paint .... Leo X.: The play has points, but not
enough of them.... Albert D.: It made us very
weary... .Bogie River: Study the business and clean
up your lines.... Emily B.: Not up to print level.
. ...E.S.M.: Poor sort of verse. .. .8.W.: Very lame
in the feet..../Eneas II.: “Ballad of Cooks” nor
quite. . . .L.C.D. : Very crude. . . .Stace: The imp that
prompts men (and women) to jamb their typewritten
lines together is the special emissary of the Devil
sent to lead sub-editors to Gehenna.... Mick Hutchen:
Good idea, but not well enough worked out. Ouserve,
for instance, that “first” occurs in each of the two
opening lines.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.H.V.: Your sundowner won’t make his camp
here. ... V.K.: Freakish scratchings. .. .V.W.: You
are not a success as the shadow of Louis
Wain. . . .R.S.: Feeble... .H.N.8.: Misses, but if
you can improve you should reach the printing-
presses by and bye....J.K.: Thanks, but when you
see a cartoon like that in The Bulletin you will
know we’ve reached the retiring age. .. .F.L.H.:
Unjustified waste of good board. . . .J.J.: A' long way
from print level... .H.S.R.: Your Baronet Baden
Pow’ell can stay on the mat.... V.D.K.: Not a hope.
Wilson’s Sydney Street Directory has
this year been enlarged to show new roads
resulting from the late subdivision boom.
The information in the 700-odd pages is
very thorough, and a guide to the Blue
Mountain districts is a feature.
Something happened lately at the Scott
foundry, Footscray (Vic.), of more im-
portance than all the coercive and confisca-
tory legislation—the completion of the first
carpet loom ever made in Australia. Manu-
facturing with imported machinery isn’t much
better than importing the goods right off,
and during the war industries of all sorts
were held up for lack of foreign apparatus.
Now a beginning has been made at producing
all kinds of spinning and weaving mechanism
—so'another drought-proof job is provided
in a dry land.


Shipping.
orient; line
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIKNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
mo! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 26,
VENTURA.
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, li.C.M.G.:
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,609 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert It. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yaiiwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 760,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,496*066
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Streets
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600,000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,850.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 91 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. *
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadun-Aostralasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
'-. t *
THE LARGEST, NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
STEAMERS SAIL:
R.M.S. NIAGARA, February 10.
R.M.S. MAIvURA, March 10.
And every 28 days thereafter. '
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francieco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
, A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to nny part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. TAHITI, February 1.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, January 27, and every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO„ LTD.,
Hu
m
mt
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars,
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established ISIT.
bc
Directors:
£4,958,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buck land, ICsq.
Charles Minnie. f'.sq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, 1C.8.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedie Street. ‘ E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cahlp remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTBECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid uf .. £2,500,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,220,000
Reserve Capital .. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
w
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager;
H. 11. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. • • • ■ *2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ••
Annual Income nearly .. •• •• £<>.ouu,uuu
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
f'EORGE HOTEL.
<St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Sbippinar.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings. 1
OWING to Strike of Stewards
all Interstate Steamship Sail-
ings are held up indefinitely.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing?
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained ,on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 0500 tons, '
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers; desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. !“Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins - Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd*
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger arrives in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger arrives in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/10.
Second Saloon on Steamer, and Secondrdass on rail,
£2/17/3.
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA. '
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address. 4
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton U Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing: Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
- Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
xb
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell. '
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
VHOHHOCKSiS'wmwofWM h
cx
THE. WORLD'S
’JtS BEST VALUE
A 3
bcx
RtiCKSE-S'HOKROCKSEfi'HPHntlCKSgVHOBRPC KStVI
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, wijite to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


It does many things WELL.
£75
The Auster is built to
perform many tasks
and to perform them
perfectly. A specially
valuable feature is its
ability to drive electric-
light plants just as well
as much more expen-
sive devices.
ADS TER
Farm and Utility or
Marine Type Engine
also drives any kind of farm machinery within its power; pumps
water from dam, bore or creek; saws wood or drives a motor-boat.
J s . A us tralian-built from the finest-quality materials and parts,
and ls fitted with best British-made Magneto.
The Auster is strong, durable and absolutely dependable.
Two Sizes: Single-cylinder (3£ horse-power), £75.
Twin-cylinder (6-8 horse-power), £135.
Write for “The Auster’s Fourteen Points.”
WG WATSON&C°L TD
279 Clarence S t Svdrtey
ISliilillHlllltllillUltiil
□
Hii
1125
JTOR heavy or bulky merchandise, the flat
Platform Lorry is most favoured. This 4-ton
Leyland Overseas type is used extensively
by Merchants and Manufacturers, Customs and Shipping
Agents, Carrying Companies and similar concerns.
Its capacity is great, and it performs the heaviest work
in a sure, speedy and exceedingly economical manner.
f I
'lf* a long lane that has n*
Leglanci.”
LEYLAND LOGIC
This 4 ton O.S. model is built to. withstand
strain of all kinds. Frame, Axles, Springing,
are all scientifically built to this end in common
with all Leyland Chassis. The wheels even,
are made from the same Steel as used by the
Admiralty for its Destroyers and are constuct-
ed in such a manner that the load comes on a
flat face and not on the rivets. Get full par-
ticulars of the Leyland exclusive features.
Prompt delivery from stock.
LEYLAND MOTORS Ltd.
London Bank Chambers,
Pitt and Moore Streets, Sydney
Victorian Agents:
PRESTON MOTOR PTY. LTD.
High St., Preston, Melbourne.
y;<
ft
l $
■ft
I o
L
Vhl
IvV
I- p
[«'; ><V:
Everywhere, in every walk of life, the
Razor
comes into daily use by twenty million
men who realise the value of its clean
smooth velvet shave.
The Gillette blade is double-edged—
always sharp and quickly regulated
for close or light shaving. No stropping
—no honing ! The Gillette is the one
practical safety razor t for the man who
wants a clean shave in quick time.
Standard Set: Heavy triple Silver-plated
razor and 1 dozen Gillette double-edged
blades in neat leather case, 28/6.
GILLETTE BLADES, 6/6 per dozen.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO., Montreal, Canada.
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Wholesale Agents,
bcx
M3AQ anUfXNt
CNOmITMt
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
Invaluable for
Nerve Troubles, Headaches,
Kidney 8 Liver Derangements.
All Chemists and Stores—in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
ssA
The NEW EDISON
is realistic.
If you love music, and that is why you want
a phonograph, there is but one instrument
for you to buy.
The New Edison gives a result so perfect, so complete and
lifelike that the Re-Creation cannot be distinguished from
the original voice. It is the only instrument capable of direct
comparison with the living artist.
y e will be glad to send you descriptive literature describing this wonder-
ful instrument, post free. Write for it to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


Advertising' REXONA
in the Air.
Hr/»
liB!
>v
jsßpWr;
.i. ’ .
< , »
THE REXONA AEROPLANE. Photo taken on its recent visit to Lithgow.
Have you seen the new Rexona Aeroplane? It is very up-to-
date, and is now flying over the country and beaches of New South
Wales advertising the Rexona products.
Rexona is known far and wide in the city and in the bush.
It has been nationally advertised, and has become so well known
that there is practically not a house in Australia where Rexona the
Rapid Healer is not kept on hand ready for an emergency.
Rexona Soap is another winner. Everybody is using it now,
always the same splendid soap, never increased in price. All
Australians love it.
Another Rexona product, for the men
this time: Rexona Shaving Stick, the new tri-
angular stick, something entirely new. and up-
to-date, makes possible the “Perfect Shave.”
b
THE RAPID HEALER
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them -in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns —whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
afctual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
V.s.
m
. ■
4
m
7i
kh
&
9
m
LA
is
SB
%
&
2&
Ex Uno Disce Omnes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f RUE to thy vow as Templar erst, no
more ,
-®- For thee the lure of Love and
kindred ties;
These, lost in mists of joys that went before,
Thou’st left for alien coasts and frown-
ing skies
Out o’er fire-belching sea to fire-bound shore,
Where massed empoison’d clouds roll on,
and rise,
The “Enemy of Man’s” hot, noisome breath,
The soul’s disgust, yet harbinger of Death.
Dauntless ’mid crash of bombs and shriek of
shell,
Merged in a seething hell’s foul, acrid
smoke,
Thou fought’st that furious fight and fought
it well,
Repaying swift, with ardor, stroke for
stroke
Dealt in white rage as comrades round thee
fell,
And direst echoes in Heav’n’s vault
awoke;
Here, too, thy world’s end just as we were
winning
The end of toil and pain.... true Life’s
beginning.
Now laid amid our mightiest, thy stone
Shows ne’er a line thy memory to save:
Out there in that dire “No Man’s Land”
alone
What darker doubt enshrouds a crossless
grave,
What stricken soul shall claim thee for her
own,
Her loved, her lost, her “bravest of the
brave” —
Dear son, fond sweetheart, husband or a
brother,
Cousin or comrade leal or yet another?
“Si quceris monumentum.” Aye, indeed,
The monument is here, but look around
’Mid kings and queens with storied tombs
to read,
And men of might with deathless laurels
crown’d —-
Those doers bold of many a doughty deed,
Whose trumpets gave forth no uncertain
sound:
’Tis here thou liest where the world may
own
How by his company a man is known.
Known yet unknown: there’s magic in a
name;
Yet, nameless though thou be that liest
beneath,
For thee the worship and the grief the same;
The tribute of our tears; the martial
wreath;
The torch reversed, with slowly-smother’d
flame;
The proud crusader’s sword without its
sheath.
One, and thou stand’st for all. We see in
thee
The peerless type of England’s chivalry.
For whom our king as though he sained
thee knight
Laid that cross-hilted glaive upon thy
bier
Before High Heav’n, in all the people’s
sight,
Brave steel that erstwhile cost the Paynim
dear,
Which fought for God, for England and the
Right
What time, outflung ’neath skies of
sapphire clear,
The steel-clad horse and foot of Richard’s
line
Smote the awed Saracen in Palestine.
♦ * * *
’Tis past and o’er. The “Last Post” lingers
yet,
Clear in our ears. How sad the “dying
fall,”
Here where, it may be, kin of thine are met
And some that guessed thee kin —that
trumpet-call
Stirring their hearts’ depths as their eyes
all wet
See blurred fed crosses on the soldiers’
pall.
’Tis past and o’er, this Abbey flagstone bare
Guards mystery deeper than the Masque de
Fer.
VICTORIA.
G. G. McC.
A Scoop in Storms.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE irresponsible who had been tem-
porarily promoted to help the news-
editor of the Morning Lyre was
called irresponsible by men without a sense
of humor because the alleged irresponsible
had such a sense.
He glanced over the proofs of the great
storm, and was human enough to be glad
there had been no loss of life; althoug h the
absence of death discounted the storm’s news
value. For most people like to hope for the
worst, and the greater the tragedy tho more
important the new r s. Consideration off these
facts led him to the consideration of the
superfluous people who might have been
drowned, and weren’t; and while so think-
ing he mechanically took copy-paper and
pen and wrote this: —
TRAGIC STORY OF THE SE4
THE WRECK OF A SCHOONER DURING 'thf
GREAT GALE CAUSES THE DEATH OF \T'r, HFR
COMPANY AND PASSENGERS
PATHETIC CASE OF THE CAPTAIN’S
DAUGHTER.
Aberbrothock, Sundd^'r.
The great gale, which everybody had hoped wt mid
mean no more in the result than the de.struct ion
of property, taken many lives; and the oi dy
comfort is a study of the personnel of the wrecked
ship’s company and passengers.
Little is known beyond the fact that the schooner
Hesperus, which left Fleet-street wharf with
a cargo of tripe (assorted) on the Bth
instant, struck on the Inchcape rock early on
the morning of the 10th. There are no survivors,
and practically all that can be stated beyond the bai e
fact of the wreck is the list of drowned and the
manifest of the cargo.
The ship’s company was as follows: —
Leo Tolstoi, master.
B. Suderman, Ist officer.
Brieux, 2nd mate.
Tchekoff, boatswain.
B. Shaw, cook.
J. M. Barrie, pastrycook.
Rabindranath Tagore,
pantryman.
Harold Bell Wright,
donkeyman.
Marie Corelli, steward-
ess.
Ella Wheeler Wilcox,
stewardess.
Annie M. Swan, steward-
ess.
R. Wagner, steward.
W. Hohenzollern,
steward.
Charles Garvice, cabin
boy.
Casabianca, cook’s mate.
Henrik Ibsen, supercargo.
The only passengers recorded are the captain s little
daughter, who was taken to bear him company, and
a middle-aged man whose name is unknown, ..and
who is only partially identified as the author of
“Beautiful Snow.” , .
Later.
The wreck of the Hesperus, which struck at the
height of the storm and on the mountainous waves
of an exceptionally high tide, has been approached
by the residents of the neighboring coast. The body
of a youth was found in the galley partially burned ;
and those of the captain and his little daughter were
found on the mainland beach, bound to a mast.
Attempts at resuscitation were made by the Bishop
of Aberbrothock, but were unfortunately unsuecess-
Tea and cakes were provided for the helpers by Sir
Ralph the Rover, a highly respected local Profiteer.
Later.
The partially-burned body found in the galley of
the Hesperus has been identified as that of Casabi-
anca, who ran away to sea because his father had
beaten him for disobedience. The cargo of the Hes-
perus consised mainly of tripe, to stiffen the vessel;
but there were also 40 tons of revues, and sex-
melodramas, a repertory theatre (in sections) and
two million feet of film from the Nasty Studios,
New York. As the Hesperus breaks up the cargo is
being driven .ashore, but all care is being taken to
prevent the danger of its salvage, and a number of
police, under Sergeant Senser, are burying it in the
sand so that the nuisance may be confined to the
immediate locality.
Later.
The early edition of the Lyre was impatiently
waited for by thousands of people, and all copies were
eagerly purchased at double rates.
The publication of the names of the ship’s company
and passengers to a great extent palliates the sadness
of the unhappy event; and a public holiday has been
declared at Aberbrothock.
The irresponsible laughed at his efforts, and
wrote in the left-hand corner of the first
slip of copy, “Add Storm.”
He had added to the storm —added appre-
ciably ; made a new storm, in fact.
Then, leaving the copy in the copy-basket
and being relieved, the irresponsible left for
home. After which the copyboy sent “Add
Storm” to the printer, and provided the best
scoop the Morning Lyre had ever known.
But editors and proprietors have no sense
of humor. The irresponsible is a free-
lance now.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Joseph’s Coat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SNORKY JEPSON, clutching his parcel
tighter under his arm, reached Mr.
Michelson’s second-hand clothes em-
porium. He stood there as though unde-
cided for a minute or two. then strode a
few paces along, peering at the other shops.
That part of ihe street was devoted wholly
to second-hand clothing. Mr. Michelson’s
place of business was the largest of the
dozen there, and its door was festooned with
an array of strange-looking garments, relics
of ancient glories in the shape of alleged
undress uniforms of famous regiments in
various stages of tarnished gilt and general
debility.
Snorky, after a few words of sarcastic
repartee with Mrs. Moses, the proprietress
of the shop two doors lower down, returned
to Mr. Michelson’s. Mr. Michelson emerged
from his post of observation behind some
trunks, whence he could see into the street
and yet not be seen, rubbing his hands
together and smiling an oily smile.
Snorky placed his untidy parcel on the
counter.
“Vat is id?” asked Mr. Michelson.
“A coat,” replied Snorky. “Whatcher
give us for it?”
Mr. Michelson opened the parcel, dragged
out a faded brown sac coat, and examined
it carefully.
“How much you vant for id?” he asked.
“Give us five bob an’ it’s yours,” replied
Snorky.
Mr. Michelson held up his hands in. horror.
“Five shillin’s,” he yelped. “Five bob! Vy,
man, id’s moth-eaten, andt id’s dirty, andt
id’s lost ids color. I’ll give you two shillin’s
for id. Nod a penny more. Andt then I
lose by id.”
“Oh, orl right,” replied Snorky resignedly.
“Take it an’ give’s th’ two bob.”
Mr. Michelson handed over the cash and
Snorky departed hurriedly. The clothier
gave the coat a shake, and then hung it on
a hook that was already adorned with
several of much the same sort.
Two hours later Mr. Michelson was stand-
ing at the door of his shop watching the
approach of Mr. Joseph Briggs, loafer and
bummer. Joseph seemed unusually interested
in the array of clothing displayed in the
shops he was passing by. Mr. Michelson
noticed that Joseph’s coat was in a deplor-
able state of disrepair. Joseph stopped in
front of Mr. Michelson’s and peered in at
the window.
“Good afternoon,” remarked Mr. Michel-
son politely. “Vot you vandt —a goat?”
Joseph looked up with a sheepish grin.
“Yer a good guesser, boss,” he replied. “Just
what I do want.” , .
“Come righdt inside,” invited Mr. Michel-
son, backing into the recesses. “I haf god
jhust vot you vant.” Then suddenly, as he
again surveyed his disreputable-looking cus-
tomer, he said. “No jokin’, now; you vant
ter buy a goat?” , „ ,
“Of course, I do.” responded Joseph, and
pay for it. too,” and he dragged a pound-
note from his trousers pockets.
(Continued on next page.)


Price?
T oo
wi£y>.
&
r/r
m
%
i
I
Uu^s
Every
Picture
Telle a StorjT
We all seek life’s comforts and pleasures, but many of
us pay too high a price for them. Continued over-
working, late hours and loss of sleep gradually roll up an
account that brings sickness and enforced rest. Weak
kidneys is the common penalty. Daily backache, dizzy
spells, headaches, rheumatic pains and kidney irregu-
larities are warnings of kidney weakness. Don’t wait!
Neglect may lead to gravel, dropsy or fatal kidney
disease. For quick relief help the weakened kidneys with
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Doan’s have
brought new health and happiness to thousands of
sufferers. Many of them live here in Sydney. Ask
your neighbor.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TELL OF THEIR CURES
BY DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
FROM ROZELLE.
Mr. M. iJowling, 25 Roseberry Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says: “For about
three years I suffered a good deal with my kidneys, and during that time was
treated by doctors and tried different remedies, but nothing did me any good. My
back used to ache fearfully, and it was as much as I could do to stand up straight
after bending over a little while. I had liniments rubbed in, but the relief was
only temporary, the pain being soon as bad as ever. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being highly colored and scanty. My general health was
far from good, and I often used to feel so ill I could hardly attend to my work.
One day I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and the thought
occurred to me to try this remedy. I bought a bottle, and in a few days I began to
feel better. As I went on with the treatment the improvement was maintained,
and by the time I had used four bottles I was cured, all signs of backache and
kidney trouble having entirely gone. I am in splendid health now, and have only
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank for my recovery.”
FROM CAMPERDOWN.
Mrs. T. Smith, 25 Bridge Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “A member
of my family suffered agony from rheumatic pains all over the body, and was
completely crippled with the ailment for months. The pains were particularly
severe across the small of the back, just over the kidneys. We had a doctor
treating the case for a good while, but his medicine did not do any good, and
at last he said he was afraid nothing more could, be done. We then tried hospital
treatment, but that! also failed. It was right on top of this that we were advised
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and although we had very little hope that
they would do any good, we got some to try them. After taking two or three
bottles there was a little improvement, so we persevered, until a perfect cure was
effected, using in all 12 bottles. We cannot say enough in praise of Doan’s; Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and consider the cure a marvellous one.”
Four years later Mrs. Smith says: “The cure referred to still holds good. I
am sure if Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were better known there would be less
suffering in the world.”
P5"
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
“Ah, yes, I haf godt th’ ferry thing you
vant. Vat sordt you vant? A Beaufordt
or a frock or a sac?” and he threw a bundle
of garments on the counter.
Joseph looked around the shop and his
eyes lighted on the bundle of coats hanging
on the hook that had just previously had
Snorky’s added to it.
“Let’s have a look at them,” he said,
and Mr. Michelson hastened to place them
on the counter for his inspection. Joseph
pawed them over for a minute or two; then
picking up the coat that Snorky had parted
with asked, “What’s th’ price of this one?”
Mr. Michelson rubbed his hands and raised
his eyes to the ceiling.
“A ! h,” he said, “you vas th’ goodt judge
of clodings, I can see. That goat, yes, that
goat is von of th’ best maderials, yes. Very
hardt to ged a goat of that maderials now.
I’m robbin’ myself; but I led you haf it
for one poundt. Id gost me more than that.”
Joseph gave a start and dropped the gar-
ment.
“A quid !” he cried. “Go on —I ain’t a
millionaire! I’ll give you ten bob for It.”
“No, say seventeen andt six, then.”
“No,” from Joseph determinedly.
“Veil,” and Mr. Michelson rolled his eyes
in an ecstasy of entreaty, “gif me fifteen bob
for id, andt id’s yours.”
“No, ten bob an’ no more,” from Joseph,
more firmly.
“You vas hardt,” groaned Mr. Michelson ;
then imploringly, “Say twelve andt six-
pence.”
“No, blarst yer, ten bob.”
“Ach, my gracious, you vas cruel! You
yos hardt as th’ devil. Alrightd, you gan
haf id.”
Joseph peeled off his disreputable gar-
ment, and in spite of Mr. Michelson’s protests
arrayed himself in his new purchase and
out. Mr. Michelson fingered the
discarded coat and then carted it out to
the back and threw it into the lane. A
little later he returned to the front of his
shop and was explaining the glories of a
pair of riding trousers to a bandy-legged
bushwhacker in an advanced stage of beer
when he noticed Snorky coming along the
street. Snorky, for one of his lethargic
sort, was putting up a great pedestrian per-
formance. Mr. Michelson looked hard and
long for the pursuing policeman, the only
reason he could think of to account for
Snorky’s rapid movements. He was grati-
fied all the same to note that no arm of the
law was stretching out after his late visitor.
Snorky bore down on Mr. Michelson, his
eyes shining with a queer light and with
apparently but one purpose in view, that
of seeing and conversing with Mr. Michel-
son again, for he failed to retort in kind to
a remark from Mrs. Mdses. He pushed the
foozled inspector of riding pants rudely on
one side and grabbed Mr. Michelson by the
arm.
“Come on in here, quick,” he panted,
dragging the astonished clothier into his
shop.
“Vot’s wrong?” asked Mr. Michelson
apprehensively. “Nodt th’ police?”
“P’leece be hanged, no! Where’s that
coat I sold yer a while ago?” and Snorky
peered wildly around the shop.
“Vy, vat you vant to know for?” asked
Mr. Michelson suspiciously.
“Where is it?” shouted Snorky.
“I’ve soldt id.”
“Sold it, my Gord !” and Snorky clawed at
his hair distractedly. “Oh, good Gord!”
“Vy, vy, vat’s wrong? Can’t I sell id
if I vant to? I paid for id —Id vas mine.”
“Sold it!” wailed Snorky. “Sold it! Oh,
my Gord !”
Mr. Michelson grabbed the other by the
arm and shook him. “Wot the deffil’s wrong
with you?” he demanded anxiously. “Soldt
id, of course I’ve soldt id. Vy shouldn’t I?
Tell us vat’s wrong?”
“Wrong! Everything’s wrong!” wailed
Snorky. “You’ve sold a coat that’s worth
a hundred quid.”
Mr. Michelson looked at Snorky per-
plexedly. “I vouldn’.t think you vas drunk
to look at you,” he remarked.
“I ain’t drunk. But I won’t say that if
I could get holt of that coat I wouldn’t
be.”
Curiosity now began to dominate Mr.
Michelson’s mind. “Von hundredt poundts
—vot you mean?” he asked.
Snorky walked to the door, looked out
along the street and then returned. Leaning
over the counter he pulled Mr. Michelson’s
large right ear to his mouth.
“I’ll tell yer. That there coat I sold
yer this mornin’ was give me be an ole
bloke who useter sleep in th’ same room as
me. He was an iffe-age pensioner, an’
wasn’t worth tuppence ter look at. Th’
other day he got knodked down be a tram
an’ carted off to the horsepiddal, and he
pegged out this mornin’. When I gets home
a while ago I find a John’s been there and
ief’ me a letter from th’ ole bloke before he
died. He’d wrote it when he found hisself
goin’, an’ in it he says he leaves everything
to me. Of course, I laughs at that; but I
reads on a bit further, an’ I gets a shock.
He says that the ole coat is a legacy—that
he’s got two fifty-pound notes sewed up in
th’ linin’ of it. An’ now I’ve sold it, an’
you’ve sold it. Oh, me good Gord!”
Mr. Michelson listened With absorbed in-
terest to this affecting narrative. Then he
said, “’Ave you godt th’ ledder?” •
Snorky fumbled amongst his garments, and
brought out a tattered piece of paper, which
he handed to Mr. Michelson. That gentle-
man placed his glasses more firmly on his
nose, and read. When he had finished he
looked up at Snorky.
“Veil, veil,” he remarked, “vot hardt
luck !”
“Hard luck!” yelped Snorky. “Hard
luck, you call it? Why, yorter be hanged,
so yorter.”
Mr. Michelson raised his hand, and clawed
thoughtfully at his whiskers, while Snorky
continued to rave violently. Then suddenly
Snorky asked, “Would yer know th’ bloke y’
sold th’ coat to agen if yer saw him?”
Mr. Michelson pondered a minute or two.
“Veil, yes, I dink I vouldt,” he admitted.
“Well,” said Snorky, “I’ll tell yer what
I’ll do. You get that coat back from him,
an’ yer on a couple of quid.”
A glint came into Mr. Michelson’s eyes.
“Nodt vorth botherin’ aboudt,” he said.
“Well, then, a fiver,” Snorky offered.
“No, no. I doubt ferry much if I’d re-
member tli’ man again,” affirmed Mr.
Michelson.
“You mis’rable ole skinflint, I’ll give yer
a tenner,” shrieked Snorky, frenziedly.
Mr. Michelson allowed his gaze to wander
to the ceiling, and then, lowering his head,
shook it.
“You damned ole shark. I’ll give yer half
if yer manage ter get it back,” Snorky
announced desperately, as he noted Mr.
Michelson’s rejection of his latest offer.
“Ah!” said Mr. Michelson. “Yes, I tink
I’d know him again. He passes by here
somedimes, now I gome der tink of id.”
“Right, then. You grab him, an’ get that
coat, an’ yer on 50 quid.”
Snorky turned at the door, and eyed Mr.
Michelson keenly. “An’, mind yer, square
dealin’s. None of yer tryin’ ter get in on
•me. By cripes, if yer do—well, look out,
that’s all.”
Mr. Michelson held up his hands in pious
horror at the insinuation.
“My gracious,” he squeaked, “you ought to
be ashamed of yourself for sayin’ such a
ting!”
“Well, mind, then. Halves th’ deal, an
—well” —and Snorky mooched out with a
shaking of his head, that was meant to con-
vey untold miseries for Mr. Michelson if he
didn’t play square.
Mr. Michelson grinned to himself as
Snorky disappeared. “You get vot 1 likes
der give you,” he remarked to himself, “andt
that’s noding.” He waited a few minutes,
and then sidled to the door of his shop, peered
up tlie street and suddenly bobbed back his
head. Snorky was in close conversation
with Mrs, Moses. He strained his ears to
catch a scrap of their conversation; but the
distance was too great for him to hear a
word. He waited till he saw Snorky dis-
appear around a corner. Then he shuffled
up to Mrs. Moses.
“Vot’s he been sayin’ to you, eh?”
Mrs. Moses pursed her thick lips, and
raised her nose. “Dot vas none of your
pizniss, Michelson,” and she walked inside
her shop.
During the afternoon Mr. Michelson re-
ceived visits from several of the second-hand
clothiers in the street, and every one had, so
they said, received a large order for sac
coats. Which convinced Mr. Michelson that
Snorky’s story had reached their ears, and
that they had doubts as to the genuineness
of Mr. Michelson’s assertion to Snorky that
he had sold the coat. They all went back
to their shops without purchasing any sac
coats from Mr. Michelson. however.
Next morning, as Mr. Michelson was
standing at his door, he noticed the approach
of a figure wearing a faded brown sac coat.
It was Mr. Joseph Briggs. Joseph was
sauntering along, quietly and unconcernedly.
As he reached Mr. Michelson’s shop he
was grabbed by the arm, and pulled quickly
inside, but not before the fact had been
noticed by several other shopkeepers.
Inside the shop Joseph looked at Mr.
Michelson in astonishment. “Whateher
want?” he asked.
Mr. Michelson surveyed the coat Joseph
was wearing with interest. It was the
one he had sold him the day previously.
“I dell you. I buy dot goat back from
you.” he said. “I gif you a poundt for id.”
Joseph looked at him suspiciously.
“What’s the game?” he asked. “Whateher
cornin’ at, anyway?
Mr. Michelson gulped hard, and rolled
his eyes. “I haf a gustomer vot is anxious
to ged a goat like th’ von you vas vearin’
to gomplete his said. “I vill gif
you von poundt for id.”
“No, 1 don’t want ter sell it,” replied
Joseph.
“Two poundts—two lovely quid, urged
Mr. Michelson.
“No, nor five pounds! Joseph said
firmly.
“Six pounds,” pleaded Mr. Michelson.
“Garn, yer mad!” retorted Joseph un-
politely.
“Seven poundts,” offered Mr. Michelson,
imploringly. . -
For answer Joseph turned on his heel, and
walked out of the shop.
“Ten poundts,” cried Mr. Michelson,
following him to the door.
But Joseph heeded not the offer nor the
imploring tone in which it was made, lie
had not gone ten yards before he found him-
self in the centre of a mob of second-hand
clothes dealers, each clamoring out offers
for his coat. Mr. Michelson, with a look of
intense concern in his eyes, hurried up, and
joined in the clamor. Joseph dodged from
one side of the path to the other in an
endeavor to escape; but ever in front and at
the sides of him were those offering him
money for his coat.
Suddenly Mr. Michelson rushed back to
his shop, and a minute or two later emerged
with a bundle of clothes in his 'arms.
“Here,” he cried to Joseph, hurling an im-
portunate dealer on one side, “I’ll gif you
20 poundts for der goat, andt this suid as
veil.” and he opened out for Joseph’s in-
spection an almost new suit.
Joseph gazed at Mr. Michelson and the
clothes for a minute or two ; then he peeled
off the much desired garment. “Where’s
th’ 20 quid?” he asked.
Mr. Michelson put his hand into his pocket
and pulled out a roll of notes, and counted
20 into Joseph’s hand.
“Right, ’ere y’are, take it,” replied Joseph,
and he handed the garment to its new owner.
Then putting on the new coat, he thrust the
other parts of the suit under his arm and
walked hurriedly away, while Mr. Michelson
rushed back to his shop.
Half an hour later Joseph entered the bar
of a small pub up in North Melbourne.
Snorky rose hurriedly from the form he was
sitting on, and walked over to him. His
eyes asked a question before his lips could
frame one.
“Yes,” remarked Joseph, in answer,
“twenty of th’ best,” and he pulled out a
roll of notes, and counted 10 into Snorky’s
trembling paw.
Snorky’s eyes roved to the wondrous gar-
ment Joseph was wearing. “Cripes!” he
said, admiringly, and ordered two pints.
“I’d like ter see old Mich when he rips up
that coat,” Snorky remarked with a grin.
H. R. McDUFFIE.


-
I -
m
V
B
I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.'
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
3SftOHOMIJLS3M 3HI
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
ORLICKS
MALTED
*
OtMBMI
y*RM!^S
is needed. In hot chmates it is
k invaluable. A
Xo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
The Idea! Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt), Keeps'
for years and never 1
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is madei
in a moment, any*!
where. Only waterj
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wfi Supply— •
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
*LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.,
68J PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitish Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
v
1 m
m
9
The ‘PLUM
is the
Razor for Me!”
This, noted Razor, is no new inven-
tion —thousands are sold annually.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against, the .sti'ffest begird, and
gives just that smooth, Velvety shave
which every man-appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle.. 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stop Dressing 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send, for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send, for
Illustrated
Folder
A MONUMENT OF CARE-
FUL CONSTRUCTION.
. S»; ' .
/The care for the wearer’s comfort
that built the largest brace business
in the . world.
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT.
Years of successful brace making has
carried the word to millions of satis-
fied wearers distributed throughout
the world. Shirley President Braces
adjust themselves to every movement
of the body of the wearer with the
least possible strain.
Look for the name on the buckles
—Shirley President.
For Sale by Good Dealers
Everywhere.
m
v
■r
v.
rr
m
c -
r \«
%
Jc?
m
Shirley, Mass., JJ.S.A.
Established in 1870.
Australasian Kepresentatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
BEECHM’S PILLS
the famous digestive medicine, have proved during three generations,
to be an unfailing friend to dyspeptic sufferers. They have brought
relief to men and women in all parts of the world for more than
seventy years. This is so unique a record that due importance should
be attached to its real meaning. This may be expressed in the one
word —Satisfaction. The people who have taken this medicine have
been satisfied with the results which have followed. Only in this way
can the continuous demand be explained. An important point arises
here. A medicine which has given such long-continued satisfaction to
those who have taken it must have properties of remarkable reliability.
And this consideration should prove of the utmost encouragement to
those who have yet to try Beecham’s Pills for the first time.
They have given satisfaction —general satisfaction —after the most
thorough test ; why should they not give the same to you? If then,
you suffer in any way from the distressing troubles arising from
impaired digestion, sluggish liver and irregular action of the bowels—
seek'the aid of this great remedy at once. Give Beecham’s Pills a
fair trial. They will not disappoint you. They will relieve and remove
your digestive troubles and abundantly assist you in every way to
SHFE6UKRD YOUR HEALTH.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d M ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with ail cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
if it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
. nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE -posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The. man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerlul face. Both
your health andl
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
cxb
CARTERS
ITTIE
IVER
PILLS
■
Ihhi
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young —purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
cxb
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Mafnager, who will quote you price for it.
*
'"M
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
therr ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to thg times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions .they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in th'eir manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so \Vith
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience your service. ,
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z-
Remjnpon,
Shot Gtm Cartridges
Remington umc cartridges
give maximum results in all
standard makes of shotguns. Their unfail-
ing accuracy, uniformity and evenness of
pattern are a guarantee of good sport.
for Shooting Righft
Marketed under four trade names: NITRO CLUB—ARROW-
CLUB—REMINGTON and in all gauges including 410 and 14 m/m;
black and smokeless powders.
Catalogues free upon request.
I
tu*
cx
C-6
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D.-..D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
nou
12/6
each
Po
( Patented )
•
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
Tu» &
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
SOUTH MELBOURNE,


Tck Simmons ltd.
h
it
j
in
1
v
j
y
m
tnzM
I*ll
x
(;, x K/-
'y',
AM
V/cA
A'*
V'\
Ac
«v
Etf/S
<7*7/
'WW
ft*
mm
m
m.
; \
i
//y
m
KX
<A\
«'-<
r*.v
SKI*
for all
Sport
V-:-
We supply everything for all indoor and
outdoor sports. “Quality Goods at Honest Prices. ??
M.S. Sport Equipment is made for Better Service,” and is the first
choice of discriminating purchasers. Sports Catalogue free on request.
■
Cricket Bats
M.S. Marvel Driver 25/-
Haymarket Driver 30/-
Haymarket Driver, Special 35/-
Haymarket Driver, .Ex. Special .... 40/-
Stuart Surridge Oval Driver 4 27/6
Stuart Surridge Standard ... 35/-
Stuart Surridge Rapid 45/-
Sbaw & Shrewsbury, “Marvel” .... 32/6
Summers Brown X 37/6
Summers Brown XX 45/-
Summers Brown XXX 50/-
Bussey’s Demon Driver 45/-, 50/-
Windett’S John Bull (Selected) .... 32/6
Windett’s John Bull (Sup. Sel.) .... 37/6
Windett’s John Bull (Ex. Spec.) .. 42/6
Spalding’s County Special 50/-
Spaldirig’s Grand Prix 55/-
Spalding’s The Spalding 57/6
Gunn & Moore “Cannon” 35/-
Gunn & Moore “Autograph” 45/-
Nieholl’s Patent Auto handle 45/-
Xicholl’s Patent Auto Ex. Spec 50/-
Cricket Balls.
AM, MATCH WEIGHTS, viz., sioz.
C. 8.8. Compo 1/6
Haymarket Compo 2/6
Diamond Compo 3/-
Black Compo 3/6
Eclipse Compo 3/6
Crown Royal, Compo 4/6
Special Practice, Leather, 6 seam.... 5/-
M.S. Leather, 6 seam 14/-, 16/6, 20/-
Lillywhite, Leather, 6 seam .... 16/6, 20/-
Duke’s Match 20/- P.K.D. .... 21/-
THY US FIRST FOR ALL YOUR SPORTING REQUISITES.
Guards.
Pair.
White Drill, strong: 9/6
Tan, continuous straps 14/6
Tan, ventilated straps 16/6
Gold Cape, extra large and extra special
Pair.
Gold Cape, continuous straps ...... 18/6
Half Skeleton, gold cape 207-
Half Skeleton, white buck 30/-
quality, for wicketkeepers 27/6
Gauntlets.
Stumps.
Pair.
Ventilated, very strong 12/9
All England, rubber palms 25/-
M.S. Special, rubber palms 18/6
The Giant Special 32/6, 35/-
Set of 6.
Blackwood, plain and strong- 5/6
Brass Top., steel shod, ash 9/6
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 14/6
Batting Gloves.
Featherweight, felt protection.. 9/6 pair Surry Shields, right hand only .. 4/6 each
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.—THE RELIABLE SPORTS GOODS HOUSE. j
Cricket Sundries.
Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.
*‘Pe rla” Cricket Mats, imported,
Oreen, two-piece, 6ft. wide, com-
plete— '-f t'l
Web bonnd (carriage extra). I **
Abdominal Pads, each.... 7/6, 10/6, 12/6
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas 7/6
Bat Oil, specially prepared, bot. ... 1/6
Canvas Boots, welted soles, pair .. 18/6
Club Kit Bags, efach 35-/-, 40/-
Cricket Belts, one strap, each 3/6
Cricket Nets, complete—
-45/-, 85/-, 95/-, 110/-
Handle Rubbers, each 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9
Scoring Books, pocket size 1/6, 2/6
Books, full size .... 2/-, 3/6, 4/6
A SPECIALTY.
New Blades fitted—
-15/6, 19/6, 22/-, 25/6, 34/6 each.
New Handle fitted to blade—
-15/6, 19/6, 22/- each
EVERYTHING FOR TENNIS.
Tennis Rackets.
Special School Match 7/6
M.S. National 13/6
Service 37/6
-M.s. selected aa/o
M.S, Extra Special 42/-
Ha.vmarket 30/-, 40/-
ilayinarket Special 40/-, 45/-
Huymarket Selected 45/-. 50/-
Hay market Ex. Special r.o/-
Ayrp'w AI 37, 6
Ay re'*" Champion 50/-
Ayre’x .Matador 55/-
Ayre's 8.N.D 87/6
Spalding'* Greenwood 25/-
Spaiding'* Vantage 37'0
Spalding’* Tournament 48/6
Spalding’s Gold Medal , 67/6
Davis itisley 87/6
Slazenger’s Da Belle 25/-
Slazenger’s Player 27/6
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-
Slazenger’s Demon 55/-
Slazenger’s Whiteliouse 65. A.
Slazenger’s B.G.M 78/6
Slazenger’s Doherty 82/6
Slazenger’s Stadium 87/6"
Slazenger’s I.Z 90/-
Prosser’s Phenomenon • 87/6
i!. C. Dee’s Seneca 55/-
11. C. Dee’s Church 95 -
H. C. Dee’s Dreadnought 100/-
Rackets value 50/- or over Post Free; Postage on cheaper ones: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States 1/2.
in RACKET
Tennis Balls.
liaeh. I)oz.
Dunlop's Regulation Grey .... 1/4 15/-
Dunlop's Champion. 1921 i/0 38/*
Ay re's Cyprus 2/4 27/«
Ayre’s Champion. 1921 3/- . 36/-
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/6 5/-
Slazenger's Champion, 1921 .... 3/- 35/-
Spalcling’s Champion, 1921 .... 3/- 35/-
Postage on
one doz. Balls, N.S.W., 1/-; other States 1/8.
We
for
Tennis Sundries.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size—
. 35/-, 40/-, 50/-; 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair .... 97/6
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution for renovating the
strings of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Patent Spring- Racket Press 8/6
Racket Handle Covers 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/-, 2/6
Racket Gut, English, 21ft. coils .. 6/6, 10/6
OUR SPORTING GOODS HAVE A
REPUTATION FOR QUALITY.
FOR YOUR TEETH’S SAKE—ALWAYS USE
c
MYRROHL
THE BETTER
TOOTH PASTE
r
J
&
ANTISEPTIC- CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus —prevents decay—hardens the gums —checks pyorrhea.
Price 1/9 large tube, or 2/- post free.
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney
Branches:—
City and Suburbs;
Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE;
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
f?\CV<E.T
liHgge<Hi^^^CTi^iiflimni^ii‘iiiioimiinaiiiii(aiifi^^BiiaufaiiiiiyiiiifflmniiMmnm^^^^TßHit<tstgin
' T »C
, CAMe: o/r
r f/vv«
5S*
