

Bacon
flams.
/ 3aid
I
m
E
m
&
m
m
ffutton's
p/ffltw mm
Wholesale Distributing Centres: —
VICTORIA— J. C. Hutton Pty., Ltd., 91 William St.
QUEENSLAND — J. C. Hutton Pty. Ltd., Roma St.,
, Melbourne.
Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Prescott, Ltd., Sussex St., Sydney.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— J. C. Hutton Pty., Ltd., Fremantle.
TASMANIA—F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart, and Launceston.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2169
Thursday, September 8, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you liad a copy of the now library
catalogue for. 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on. application.
DYMOCtvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele, 6431.—Advc?..
! IKES
liil
mm
mm
The SUCCESSFUL MANUFACTURER DEMANDS
belting Oi pi oven ability to operate the machinery
in his factory. Inferior belting means waste power
waste time and waste money. Instal a reliable belt
on all your drives.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAWHIDE BELTING
is tanned by a scientific process that retains all
the natural elasticity and flexibility of the.selected
hides from which it is manufactured. Our engineers
are ready with facts and figures to prove its superi-
ority, and Will gladly advise on any intricate trans-
mission , problems. '
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing' Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Victoria : Corbett. Derham&Co., 397 Little Collins St. Melb.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide
Western Australia : Gibbs, Bright &Co . Fremantle.
Tasmania : Henry Clark & Co. Ltd , Collins St., Hobart.
LYSAGHTS
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” will be available
shortly, and may be obtained post free on .application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
CUxJComoOiJU
Ttlwtkat" of the Ct/oxld.
The Society of Motor Manufacturers and
Traders, Ltd., announce the Organisation
of the following Exhibitions :
14-22
1921
NOV.
4-12
_v
1921
THE sth INTERNATIONAL
COMMERCIAL
MOTOR EXHIBITION
OLYMPIA LONDON
comprehending the world’s largest display of petrol,
steam and electric motor vehicles, for goods and
passenger transport and general utility' purposes, as
well as the latest novelties in equipment, etc.
THE 15th INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR EXHIBITION
(PRIVATE CARS AM) MOTOR-BOATS,
OLYMPIA & WHITE CITY, LONDON,
comprefit'Bcnng the widest range of private motor-
cars over staged, including over ISO makes, priced
at £1(10 to £4OOO. The exhibition will also include
equally representative display of carriage work,
equipment, tools, tyres and accessories, motor-boats
and marine engines.
THE SOCIETY OF MOTOR MANUFACTURERS
AND TRADERS, LIMITED,
83. PALL MALL. LONDON. S.W. 1. ENGLAND
5®
IRegulaf
Safety
Self
* <c
m
ImPak >'■
'JSE*
HI
S'
o
/
m
When you make notes
make them in ink with Waterman’s Ideal so
that they will be both legible and permanent.
Three Types—“ Self - Filling,” “ Safety ” and
“Regular." Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, LtcJ., Corner
Kings way, London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Rumen-
thol Jujubes correct • acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act.
and if taken regularly after, meals they so
improve the digestion that ;i strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson's Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and'Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
[7
JUj
D S ON
HU
The Red Page
James Stephens in Fairy Tales
The frequency with which adjectives are
used in the writing of prose or verse is a
test of style. To pile up qualifications of the
noun is to give a glitter and show to the
sentence; but as long ago as the time of
Sophocles it was proved that the strength
and beauty of man’s speech and thought lies
in the use of the verb and noun rather than
iu the cheapness of color to be obtained
through that part of speech which often
ornaments the sentence into obscurity. Verb
and noun give definition and clarity: the
single well-used adjective is full of force;
but a piling up of adjectives is generally a
sign of weakness and insecurity of vision.
The thing seen in .its simplest and most
direct setting needs little adjectival aid.
James Stephens in Irish Fairy Talcs ( Mac-
millan) gets his effects with the minimum of
adjectives. Here and there in the pages
he uses them in mass—adjectives that re-
sound and leap at you with sweeps of color
and force —but in his re-telling of old tales
of wonder and mirth he makes the noun and
verb work for him in a way that is almost
without parallel in modern literature.
The “Fairy Tales’’ are hardly for children;
though an Irish child would always grip the
story and half understand the touches of
blended humor and philosophy. lie goes for
the most part to the romances of the Finn
cycle—the name should bo spelt Fionn and
pronounced Fewn to rhyme with “tune’V-
and here and there it is plain that lie must
be keeping very close to translation; lint on
every page there is something of delight.
Nowhere is there the lmmor of “The Demi-
gods.’’ that inconsequent work of profound-
est. philosophy which gave us the very soul
of Ireland ; but there is something which in
its way is quite as worthy. Arthur Rack-
ham’s illustrations, which accompany the
letterpress and almost touch the limits of the
fantastic and exquisite, suggest a book for
the nursery: but the reader must he very
old, and tired who does not get refreshment
from passages like this:
Perhaps a horse would stray into the thick
screen about his home and would look as solemnly
on Fionn as Fionn did on it. Or, coming suddenly
on Idm, the horse might stare,-, all u-cock with eyes
and ears and nose, one long-drawn facial extension,
ere. he turned and bounded away with manes all
over him and hoofs all under him and tails all
round him. A solemn-nosed, stern-eyed cow would
amble and stamp iu his wood to And a flyless
shadow; or. a strayed sheep would poke its gentle
muzzle through the leaves.
A bo.v, he might think, as he stared on a staving
horse, a boy cannot; wag Ms tail to keep the
fliA, oft', and that lack may have saddened him.
lie may have thought that a cow can snort and
>e dignified at tile one moment, and that timidity
is comely in a sheep.
And this, when the child Fionn was dis-
covered in the safe hiding of. tlie woods: — 1
When the stranger took his' road the women went
with Mm a short distance. As they passed the man
lifted a hand and bent a knee to Fionn.
“My, soul to you, young master,” he said, and
as he said it, Fionn knew that he could have the
nan’s soul or his boots, or his feet, or anything
that belonged to him.
When the women returned they were mysterious
and whisperv. They chased Fionn into the house,
and when they got him in they chased him out
again. They chased hitch other round the house
for another whisper. They calculated things by
the shape of clouds, by lengths of shadows, by tlie
flight of birds, by two Hies racing on a flat stone,
by throwing bones over their left shoulders and
by every kind of trick and game arid chance that
you could put a mind to.
They told Fionn he must sleep in a tree that
night, and they put him under bonds not, to sing
or whistle or cough or sneeze untfl the morning.
All the narrative and descriptive passages
are as good as these; and sometimes, when
magic is working largely, there is a breath-
less interest in happenings strangely remote,
but very real in the telling. But it is in the
little bits thrown in beyond the narrative
that the chief charm lies. Take a few
samples:—-
To ask questions can become the "laziest and
wobbliest occupation of a mind, but when you must
yourself answer the problem that you have posed,
you will meditate your question with care and
ii one it with precision....
Put women have strange, loves, strange , fears,
and these are so bound up with one another that
the thing which is presented to us is not often
the,thing that is to be seen....
Iter face, was fresh as a spring morning; her
voice more cheerful than the cuckoo calling
from the branch tiiat is highest in the hedge; and
her form swayed like a reed and flowed like a river,
so that each person thought she would surely flow
to him. . . .
That he was versed in magic is true, for he
was ever known' as tlie Knowledgeable man, and
later he had two magicians in his household named
Dirim and mac-Keith to do the rough work of
knowledge for their busy master.....
“What is life at all?’’ said the king.
“It is a weariness an<f a tiredness,” said mac
tin Day. “it is a long-yawn without sleepiness.
It is a bee, lost at midnight and buzzing on a
pane. It is a noise made by a tied-up dog. It
is nothing worth dreaming about. It is nothing at
all.”
“How well you explain my feelings about Duv
Lyes,” said the king.
“1 was thinking about my own lamb,” said mac
(in Daw “I was thinking about my own treasure,
li y' cup of cliceriness, and tlie pulse of my heart.”
And with that he burst into tears.,...
“She is always new," said Fidwn. “She is always
better than any 'other woman ; . she is always better
than herself.”
lie attended no more to the Fianna. lie ceased
to hunt. He did riot listen to the songs of poets
or the curious sayings of magicians, for all these
weri! in liis wife, and something that was beyond
these was in her also.
“She is this world and the next one ; she is com-
pletion." said Fionn....
You are in love, dear heart," said Caelte.
“In Jove he is,” Conan grumbled. “A cordial
for ’ women, a, disease for men, a state of wretched -
ness.”
“Wretched in truth,” the Chief murmured. “Lotc
makes us poor. We have not eyes enough to see
all that i“ to be seen, nor hands enough to seize
the. tenth of al! we want. When 1 look in her eyes
I atn tormented because I am not looking at her
lips, and when T see her lips iny soril cries orit,
Look at her eyes, look at her eyes.”
“That is how it happens," said (toll remember-
ingly.
“That way arid no other, Caelte agreed.
And the champions looked backward in time on
these lips and on those, and knew that their Chief
would go
The eagle-eyed man lifted a face, thin and sharp
as though it had been carven on the wind, and lie
stared forward with immobile intentness....
p-i rb»t did not prevent (toll from killing Fionn’s.
brother' Calf ell later on, nor did it. prevent, Fionn
from killing' Coll later on again, and the last did
riot prevent Coll from rescuing Fionn otit of hell
when the Fiarina-Finn was sent there under tlie
new God. Nor is there any reason to complain or
be astonished at these „ things, for it is a mutual
world we live in, a give-and-take world, and there
is no great harm in it....
There is hardly a page in the whole book
from which a striking quotation could not
be made. Over all breathes, the spirit of the
Finn cycle of romance. There is here none
of the sterner beauty and world-deep mean-
ing of the lied Branch legend. These are the
second-best tales of Ireland, told'in a man-
ner that lifts them to equal interest with
the best. If I Should try to sum up the
quality of this book in a word—all its
humorous fancy, its warm life-philosophy,
its harmony of detail, its power of descrip-
tion —that word would be sincerity, A
great fairy-tale must be sincere. < liven
that in the highest degree, all the rest follows
naturally. Stephens has given ns another
charming hook ; I think it is a great book.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Compleat Bookworm
If there is one English writer who ran
bo singled out as the complete and unmiti-
gated man of letters, that writer is Robert
Southey, No one ever longed more intensely
for purely literary distinction; no one, not
even Flaubert, who is said to have re-written
"Madame Bovary” ”7 times, ever worked
harder to attain success. He rose at day-
break : wrote poetry ("as if anybody'Could,”
says -Walter Bagehot) before, breakfast; read
the newspapers or something equally instruc-
tive diiring breakfast; wrote history all the
morning ; corrected proofs all the afternoon ;
dashed oil: an essay for the Quakteiu,y
ItEVJKW in the evening; and before going
to bed composed “The Doctor,” a
"lengthy and elaborate jest.” The rest
of the day was his own. Apart from
two trips to the Peninsula, he went nowhere,
saw nothing, did nothing. Life- was just one
book after another. When -he had time to
think, which was seldom, lie spurred himself
on to further unprofitable effort by reflecting
on the lamentable judgment of contem-
poraries and the certainty of fame to conic.
The fact, that the posterity to which he
looked so confidently Inis refused to reverse
tin 1 verdict of his time, is .melancholy, but
scarcely surprising: for, as the admirable
Bagehot points out, the failure of this
“industrious and calligraphic man” is merely
another proof that “the habits best lifted for
communicating information, formed with tlm
best care and daily regulated by tip l best:
motives, are exactly the habits which are
likely to afford a man the least information
to communicate.”
Constitutionally a bigot and a Tory,
Southey began life with the conviction that
he was an iconoclast in religion and a fire-
brand in politics, lie. embraced tin* republi
oanism that was then the mode, was expelled
from Westminster for the crime of writing
in the school magazine an article against
(logging, and at Oxford (such was his de-
pravity) went to the extreme of appearing
in hall with his wig indecently devoid of
powder. Altogether he was a very devil of
a fellow, and the fact that the authorities
did not east him into the outer darkness
must have been a sad disappointment.
At Bnlliol Southey acquired nothing more
useful tlian.a liking for swimming, boating
and Epictetus, and when lie had to consider
a career lie found himself in difficulties. The
church was barred because of his heterodoxy ;
medicine because he did not like corpses.
In the end he left without taking his degree,
and' with Coleridge and one or two others set
about founding a new “pantisoeratio" settle-
ment in America—a sort of anticipation of
Australia’s pleasant excursion to Paraguay.
A "most intelligent young man” who knew
the Susquehanna assured them that the
Indians who had recently laid waste the
valley were really quite tame, that "literary
characters might make money 'there,” and
tliat after a while the mosquitoes wouldn’t
bite. All they had to do was to establish a
“pantisoeracy” and the Kingdom of Heaven
was at hand. Apparently the women (to
vary the old jest) were to live by taking in
each other’s washing: their husbands by
mangling each other’s theories. The whole
scheme was beautifully simple, and Cole-
ridge, Southey and the rest started enthusi-
astically collecting a full set of hopes, ideals,
theories and wives. They were ready to
leave when they discovered —for in these
little schemes there is always a catch some-
where—that they might need money and a
ship. Neither being forthcoming, Coleridge
took to journalism and lecturing, while
Southey went off to Portugal. He returned
in about a year, and, his only wealthy rela-
tive having been incensed by “pantisoeracy,”
settled down to work 1(> hours a day for the
rest of his life for less than the remunera-
tion of a coal-heaver. The result may be
seen in 40 large volumes of prose and 11
c-losely-printed volumes of verse—an extra-
ordinary medley of history, essays, epics,
light verse, heavy jokes and miscellaneous
pieces “too numerous to mention.”
To stand in a library and gaze upon thsse
monuments of conscientious endeavor, which
ceased only with the giving out of his brain,
is to appreciate the tragedy of Southey’s life,
the tragedy of a man who yearned for im-
mortal fame and achieved only volubility.
For whoever reads the immense histories of
Brazil, of Portugal, of the monastic orders,
and of the Peninsular War? “Thalaba the
Destroyer’’ and “The Curse of Kehama,” the
interminable epiys which were to be the
Iliads of the East, are to-day merely curiosi-
ties. The stiff official iodes which he ~-’-ote
in liis capacity of Poet Laureate are long
since forgotten. Posterity will forgive any-
thing and everything except dulness, and
poor Southey, by deliberate choice, was the
apotheosis of the commonplace—a worthy
soul who wore quite contentedly the bonds
of the British Philistine, and never once sus-
pected that he was shackled. Even tho
heaven which lie describes in “A Vision < f
Judgment” K peopled by stodgy Conserva-
tives engaged in perpetual worship of a.
larger-sized George the Third.
It must hot be imagined, of course, that
Southey always wrote badly. On the con-
(Continued on page 25.)


Crtfoty/Hofd&as/aje
DISTINCTIVE STYLES in Ready-for-Service Clothing.
To such a high standard of excel-
lence has Anthony Horderns* Ready-
to-Wear Clothing been brought
that all men may rest assured in the
knowledge that they look in these
equally as smart as in Made-to-
Order Garments. The cut is there
—the quality of fabrics commensu-
rate with price, workmanship and
finish, excellent.
We specialise in every-
thing required by Man
and Boy, and can offer a
range unequalled for its
variety and quality.
\
©
hT
J
m.
vz
©
TMF
m
h
©
3
/
WRS2.
WRS»
WR 53
WR 50
Men’s Two-piece Suits.
In a variety of Durable Materials.
Coats—Plain back, patch pockets. Trousers —
Side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms. (WRSI.)
DRAB CRASH . 37/6
FAWN TUSSORE 47/6
FAWN SILK 95/-
DARK FANCY MOHAIR 75/-, 80/-
STRIPED FLANNEL 60/-
Coats —Belted backs, patch pockets.. Trousers—
Side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
DRAB REPP 47/6
FAWN SILK 98/6
FANCY TWEEDS 63/-, 67/6, 72/6,
75/-, 90/-, 110/-, 120/-
Motor Dust Coats.
Belted back, strap on cuffs, reliable materials.
(WRSS.)
GREY BENGA.LL TWEED 25/-
FAWN TUSSORE 35/-
DRAB CRASH 32/6
FAWN SILK 90/-
Men’s Sac Suits.
The “Hordernia” (WRs2).—Coat has two-
button front, outside breast pocket, centre
seam, no vent. Trousers have side or cross
and hip pockets, plain or cuff bottoms.
AUSTRALIAN TWEFD, specially woven fpr our
exclusive use.
Price 59/6
NEAT DESIGNS IN FAWN AND BROWN AND
GREY ALL-WOOL TWEEDS.
Prices . . 65/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-
IMPORTED TWEEDS newest effects—
-95/-, 100/-, 110/, 115/-, 126/-
NEAT DARK DESIGNS IN ALL-WOOL
WORSTEDS 135/-, 147, 168/-
FOX’S ROUGH SERGE (Indigo Dye) .. 110/-
FINE RIB NAVY SERGE (Indigo Dye)—
126/-, 135/-, 147/-
TENNIS
JACKETS.
Bound Cord Edges.
NAVY FLANNEL .
GREEN FLANNEL
BROWN FLANNEL
38/6, 32/6, 35/ *
35/-
ODTING TROUSERS.
Made from Reliable Materials, thoroughly shrunk.
Loops for belt, side straps, side and hip pockets, cuff
bottoms. (WRSO.)
WHITE DRILL 15/6
CREAM COTTON GABARDINE 25/-
CREAM WOOL GABARDINE 63/-
CREAM FLANNEL 48/6
CREAM SERGE 52/6
FAWN TUSSORE 18/6
DRAB CRASH 16/6
ORDER BY MAIL.
If a personal visit is inconvenient,
post your order. We have an efficient
staff to attend to all Mail Orders.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
on Men’s and Boys’ AVear in New South
Wales, and to the nearest port on
Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Quarter-plate GRAFLEX
was £.25 —now £2l/101-
/
• •• :
as
V.'.'
.. r . . i
‘ ' : JI
mmu
<■
;v.
m
.....
..
A good opportunity to secure
one of these unique reflecting
cameras that lets you see your
picture right side up and focus
as you take it—‘that enables
you to stop motion with its
automatic exposures of l/10th
to l/I.oooth of a second, and
makes fully exposed snapshots
possible in a poor light.
You should certainly inspect this model—fitted
with the famous Kodak-Cooke F/4.5 anastigmat
—or write for full details.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia PTY LTD.,
379 George Street. Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 230-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane ; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide ; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.; Ruthven Street.
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co.. Perth; “The Kodak Corner.” corner Lainbton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington. \.Z.
DAME CLARA BUTT
Hear Clara Butt at Her Best
on “His Master’s Voice "
ENJOY in the comfort of your own home the captivating voices of Clara
Butt and Kennerley Rumford, England’s foremost singers, with all
their artistry and charm, through “His Master’s Voice.”
Clara Butt’s concerts in England with the Coldstream Guards Band created
remarkable interest. Hear her especially in her heart-stirring rendering of
“Land of Hope and Glory,” accompanied by this famous band, which is
exclusive to “His Master’s Voice.” Her present return to Australia has been
hailed with keen delight by her thousands of admirers.
Records of Clara Butt,
Contralto. 12-inch, 17 -
<C{l7!)—Abide with Me (Liddle). (Key C).
03223—A Summer Night (with ’cello obligato)
(Goring Thomas).
( (a) A youth once loved a maiden (White)
,n / (b) The tears that night (White).
03186—Barbara Allan (Key X)).
03155—Believe me, if all those endearing young
charms (Landon Ronald). (Key E flat).
03399—G0d shall wipe away all tears (“The
Light of the World”). (Sullivan).
03170—He shall feed His flock (“Messiah.”
Handel). (Key I 1 ’.)
03152—Husheen (Needham). (Key B Hat.)
03178—Kathleen Mavourneen (Crouch). (Key C.)
03239—Land of Hope and Glory (accompanied
by Band of H.M. Coldstream Guards).
(Elgar.)
03283—My ain folk (accompanied by Mr.
Harold Craxton). (Laura Lemon.)
0315!—Ombra mai fu (Handel). (Key E flat.)
2-033010 —II segreto (Donizetti). (Key B flat.)
03425—0 Divine Redeemer (Gounod).
03177—0 rest in the Lord (“Elijah,” Mendels-
sohn). Key C.)
03150—The leaves and the wind (Leon). (Key C.)
03156 —The little silver ring (Chaminade). (Kev
I) flat.)
03151—The Lost Chord (Sullivan). (Key E flat.)
03157 —The Promise of Life (Cowen). (Key D.)
03222—Three fishers went sailing (Hulla'h).
03305—Woman of Inver (accompanied by Mr.
Harold Craxton). (Loughborough.)
Clara Butt and
Kennerley Rumford
0404(5—Night Hymn at Sea (Goring Thomas).
(Key C.)
01043 —Snowdrops (Lehmann). (Key E.)
010(50—The Keys of Heaven CL. Broad wood).
(81)
12-inch, 12 6 (Clara Butt).
03240—G0d Save the King (accompanied by
the Band of the Coldstream Guards).
(It is necessary that these records should be
played in the keys indicated.)
His Master’s Voice,
Rea. Trade-mark.
THe Gramophone Co.,
Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
‘‘Gramophone.'’
Reel. Trade-mark.
m
wm
HIS MASTER'S VOICE
illltliiiu
mnnuiwiiminnnn


PINKETTES
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over—gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes„the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
df
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope fora
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents,
Insist on having English wall-paper.
Four merchant has received the new season’s
patterns which include * cheap oatmeals,
'•heap mica ceilings, cheap fabrics, cut-out
friezes, strap-borders, the new Tango and
Jazz effects and the new “scmi-Orient"
effects. See the "Crown” on every roll.
Advt.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
d
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
' THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
■a*
Hair of
Walnut Shade.
Entrancing, indeed, is hair of that
exquisite walnut shade which may be
obtained so easily by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Assuredly harmless, permanent and
waterproof. Obtainable all chemists.
ďf
1
A Popular Dentrifice
at a Popular Price.
The germs of decay are utterly
baffled when Eudenta Tooth Paste
is consistently used.' 1 Delightfully
fragrant, it is an Australian pro-
duct sold at the popular price
of 1/- a tube.
Your
Chemist
Sells It.
X
The New Streamline Model
is an ideal Present.
It is often so difficult to find a present that is both
useful and ornamental —The Onoto Streamline is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it combines with
its elegant design all the practical utility of Onoto—
the Pen —safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every handwriting.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO.,LTD., Bunhill Row, London, E.Q.I.
d
WM
THE
ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS.
ď
Get a packet of the new
“JUICY FRUIT” Flavour—it’s
the finest thirst-quencher and
apPetite-Producer you can find^
NOW THREE
DELICIOUS FLAUOURS
6
bars in packet for
economical, long-lasting-
3-
Chew it after evfery meal
* Made in
Australasia
A-181
4*
*«r
Sfc
32
K
*s=
w*
i\
0
%
as
«i
£
&
%
u
H
S
i
fNw
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Toast.
Spring is here. The peach is in bloom,
Rose and pink.
By the river’s brink
The willow is weaving with shining loom.
The wattle is shedding a faint perfume :
Steep orchard slopes are swept with light,
The plum is budding creamy-white;
Sharp and clear
On the atmosphere,
Peewees send their piping call
Floating down from a gum-tree tall.
Spring is here with her lilting tune.
Cap of sheen
And kirtled in green ;
Hark to the tapping of silvery shoon
That she stole perchance from the crescent
moon I
Shaking still a frosty finger.'
On high peaks let. Winter linger:
Gay Romance
Pipes many a dance;
Sun, or rain, or dust or dew,
Eternally young, eternally new.
Raise your glasses, let them ring.
Spring!
QX T EENSLA MV
A. GORE-JONES.
The Moth.
With clumsy fingers tipped with tenderness
I sought to save a quivering moth to-night
From the gold, burning light.
It whirred. It flew and many an errant
tress
Of my loose hair touched with its tired wings,
As, wandering vainly, piteously free,
It beat about the crystal curves and rings
Of the lamp’s witchery.
Out of the dark its fragile life had flown,
Out of the night’s house softly into mine,
Perhaps <m fancy blown.
I watched it eagerly, a thing so fine,
Almost it hurt to see it soar and dart
Hither and thither in a reckless plight.
Now to the lamp and now against my lmart,
In perilous, swift flight.
Gently my fingers held it for a space ;
Yet of my gentleness it throbbed and died.
No more with wings spread wide,
In insect ecstasy of Life, to race,
Quietly small, life’s wonders to explore!
Gone was the miracle of airy breath.
Through the warm comfort of my open door
It had come in to death.
And as I gave it back info the night—
Mere nothingness to fade in empty gloom—
I thought that in some room,
Lured from the dark by vaster, grander
light, . - .
My own poor soul might, beat till fingers
kind, . . . •
Helpless ns mine to save, were rudely
thrust
About the colored wings of my swift mind.
Leaving me breathless dust.
N-.s.w.
ZOR CROSS.
A Song of Brown Things.
I could sing of brown thing's—
-1 bill fern, a lark’s wings,
Long grass by the sharp sickle laid ;
Dead leaves on the lawn,
The throat of a fawn,
Rose petals sun-kist till they fade.
Brown pigeons in flocks,
Seaweed on wet rocks, •
Your hair in a long, silken braid;
But the brownest brown lies
In the deep, gentle eyes
Of a dear little Maori maid!
Brown clouds in the ,sky,
Brown bees booming by, .
Ripe pears in the old orchard’s shade:
But. the . sweetest brown lies.
In the fathomless eyes! .-- -
Of a little brown Maori maid !
MAORILAND.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Life’s Way.
What a tickle thing is life
When we look at it, made wise
•By the grey schoolmaster Time —
What a minglement of strife,
Love and laughter, tears and sighs.
Sick despair and hope sublime.!
If there were no end to it,
Would we not grow tired of ever
Hating, toiling, weeping, sighing.
And contrive with subtle wit
Death to fashion, all endeavor
Bartered for the bliss of dying?
Since the sweetest bliss of all
Fades away as in an hour,
Like a dewdrop, like a breath.
And the blooms we cherish fall,
And the richest wine turns sour,
Why should we so gird at death?
Would we prize the joys we know
If life wandered on forever,
Like a river winding, wending,
Through grey lands that barren grow,
Resting never, pausing never,
In no spacious ocean ending?
Good is life and good is death:
Good- is youth that looks on life
As a pleasant road to wend :
Good is age that, out of breath.
Tired of years and worn with strife,
Looks on death as on a friend.
Though high Triumph call to some
With loud trumpets shrilling, blaring,
And to some deep-voiced Disaster,
Let us take all things that come
Even-browed and brave of bearing.
Taught by Time, our grey schoolmaster.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


*r
Dingo—the persistent thief
STEALTHILY, persistently, the Dingo takes
his toll of widespread flocks. One sheep
here, another there, week after week, his
insidious feeding goes on. The weekly result
is small, but the periodical result is alarming
to a degree.
There is a Dingo in every factory plant that
operates, and his name is Scrap-heap. Week
after week, he steals away broken and worn
machinery parts, broken tools and many
metal goods which are thought useless. Quite
wrong!
One of the leading Railway Departments
thought this about fireman's shovels, which
were worn and battered almost beyond
recognition. But some keen mind introduced
them to the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Operator,
and those old shovels are now made strong
as new again for a few pence each.
The cumulative effect of scrap - heap loss
over a year’s operations would make directors
sit up and take notice, if the sum were stated
on the balance sheet as Needless Waste.
Many of them have already investigated the
savings possible by Oxy-Acetylene Welding,
and to-day, a Comox Welding and Cutting
Outfit is always on the job, keeping good
metal parts and tools away from “ Dingo, the
Scrap-heap.”
No matter what the metal repair— big machinery
sections, motor parts, farm implements, trades-
men’s and garden tools, even metal kitchen
utensils—the Comox Welder makes them ail
strong as new for a small sum compared with
the cost of replacement.
Write for particulars of Comox Welding Out-
fits, or get the address of the nearest Comox
Welding Station in your vicinity.
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.
‘ . *• ' i '
FOY STREET. BALMAIN, SYDNEY
Agents:
FYVIE & STEWART,
362 Collins Street, Melbourne,
HARRISON BROS. & CO. LTD.,
20 Patterson Street, Launceston
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD ,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
I
GEO. WILLS & CO., LTD.,
Murray Street, Perth.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
BROWNE & JOSKE,
Suva, Fiji.
Cx. 124


The Bulletin
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2169.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1921.
Pbice 9d.
TIMES CHANGE AND MEN CHANGE WITH THEM.
VOICE OP UNTIDY PERSON: “Unclean: Unclean!!”
AHASUERUS THE JEW (nearly 2000 years old and steeped in wisdom, but on his first visit to Sydney): "Eight hundred years ago I would have thought the
man who said that was a leper. Now I s'pose he’s an alderman.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Cos.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Cos.. .214 George Street, Svdnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £1 ldft. you can. have The Bulletin sent
regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid. To any address
overseas, £
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents -of- this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. say,
:1000 words, arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return ti will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable, Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit . and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or (my interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions untfer which such
artistic contributions will be received c.ie those
applying to MS.'
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch. Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.-i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3, Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central\News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban : and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Cos., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C. : The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.: the Boston Hat. Works and News Cos., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Boland Kay Cos., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Bovlevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Cos.. Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Netv York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City ; Quaker News Cos.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn <& Cos., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Cos., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Cos., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Cos., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji..— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates. ,
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk . and Lord Howe
Islands, tOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., Ud. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet- — otherwise: Boz., lid. ; Bios. to 10oz.,
3d.; 10os. to ISos., Sid.; elsewhere, 1/OS., lid., and
id. each additional Sox.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law. S. H. Prior, J. B.
Dailey and .T. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1921.
BACK TO THE PACK.
There are many aspirations for which man-
kind has over and over shown that it is not
regenerate enough—Freetrade, disarmament,
prohibition and a sufficient degree of crime-
lessnoss to warrant the abolition of Con-
stable O’Smith. No one nation, however,
has objected to another making experiments
in those directions. Germany was pleased
to see England adopt Freetrade; Japan
seems quite willing that the U.S.A. should
disarm. But there are dreams whose
attempted realisation on a large scale mean
disaster to humanity’s family circle,
just as any individual family might
be ruined by the actions of one of its mem-
bers who, under the . impulsion of G.P.1.,
imagined himself to be Midas and .acted
accordingly. Comihuriism has proved itself
to be one of them. Capitalism’s. objection to
being exterminated in favor of this doctrine
is not altogether a matter of reluctance
to share with those in need;' still less does
it originate, as the communist, maddened"
by a form of persecutory mania, often claims
it does, in a desire to grind the faces of
the working classes. The attitude of the
capitalist circle towards Communism is very
like that of a private family-circle towards
the general paralytic: both know they will"
eventually have to nay for delusions which'
can lead only to disaster, and so in both
cases they cut off the patient’s credit with a
view to.limiting their losses./ The. fan due. ip
Russia and the events leading up to it pro-
vide an example of the operation of this law.
Capitalism refused to subsidise Communism
(which, on the authority of Kropotkin, is
anarchism) as a family refuses to be respon-
sible for a lunatic member’s cheques; and
without the help of the system which it
spurned, Communism was unable to carry
on. The capitalist—or, in plain English,
Britain and America —are now being pre-
sented with the bill for the outbreak in the
form of an obligation first to help the 2U
to 80 million Russians who are starving, and
next to restore Russia to prosperity.
If there is any one country in the world
where Communism might have succeeded it
is Russia. It is as self-contained as the
U.S.A. The Mir was a kind of anticipation
of Bolshevism, the family farming in common,
and paying taxes through the elected head
of what was virtually a soviet. No other
white man has such modest needs as a work-
ing-class Russian, and no Christians in
modern times have got so close to the brother-
liness preached by the Redeemer. During
the war millions of Russians did more than
turn the other cheek to the enemy: they
made a friend of him and shared their sub-
stance with him. For many years before the
war Russia fed most of Europe as well as
itself; Baku has the'richest oil-fields in the
world ; the Fra I ridge is fat with gold, coal,
iron, copper, lead and other minerals; wool,
flax, furs, hides, timber and such-like require-
ments abound. Yet after a very lew years
of Communism about a third of the inhabi-
tants of this remarkably advantaged coun-
try are found to be actually starving, while
the rest are on the bread-line, and all are
short of clothes, boots and even fuel. How
much of the tragedy is due to Communism
which, like Freetrader pacifism and the rest,
pre-supposes the general existence of virtues
that in fact are extremely rare? How much
to the refusal of Capitalism to back Com-
munism with credits? And how r much to
the fact that this is the 20th century? No
doubt if Britain and the U.S.A. had poured
locomotives, agricultural implements, seed
and clothing into Russia from the beginning
of the revolution onwards, Europe’s record
famine might have been averted- —for a time.
But under Communism the goods would not
have been paid for. Every communistic ex-
periment that has been made during the past
century-—including many in which every
member of the community was a volunteer —
has failed owing to the large proportion who
could not live up to their professions, who
declined to act communistically when it
came to the point. An almost immediate
reaction of the new policy in the agricul-
tural regions of Russia was the refusal of
the peasants to produce for the inhabitants
of the towns and mining districts. Russia,
under ezarism. had fallen, behind in indus-
trialism relatively to its wonderful oppor-
tunities ; so the factories were few and
poorly equipped, for the most part, when
the revolution arrived. And the economics
of LeNIN failed to inspire either the miners
or the artisans to the extent of eliminating
the loafer and the pointer. “Production in
[Russian] factories,” Miss V. Ograno-
vitcii told the International Economic Con-
ference in London, “has gone down to 60
per cent, of normal. It is true that Lenin
has endeavored to save the situation by the
introduction of compulsory production, by
lines, by increased hours of work, by insti-
tuting penalties for striking and sabotage,
by piecework, etc. But. .. .whole groups
of leather-factories have closed. Only
three rubber-factories remain.” And so on.
The wonder is that any rational body of men
should have expected things to turn out
otherwise. Mankind cannot be made un-
selfish in the mass by changes of govern-
ment. "We see father against son, brother
against brother, driver against driver in his
trouble; we see bitter hatred where there
had formerly been good fellowship and har-
mony.” Thus one Frank Allward Wool-
ley. a returned soldier, before the 1917
Strike Commission in Sydney last week. All
this over a few tramway jobs in a country
that has never known war, revolution, famine
or any of the major national horrors! “I
have seen,” Miss Ogranovitcil went on to
tell the Economic Conference, “a woman kill
another with a blow r from a bottle on the
temple because she had usurped her place
in a food queue.” In short, the brotherhood-
of-man creed is unable to stand against the
pressure of material needs; and more especi-
ally the need of food or clothing, or the
wherewithal to get them. And Communism
or anv other arrangement which is
based on the . theory that man will work
hard fox; the benefit of some total stranger,
must always result in short production ; and
devaluated money is one almost inevitable
consequence of that.
There was a time when money did not
matter. Human beings lived in small packs
and relied on barter for such of the needs of
their miserable existence as they could not
supply themselves. The world was wide
and empty in those days; and a vigorous
family could keep alive by killing or trap-
ping wild animals for personal consumption
and barter, and by raiding their weaker
neighbors. But not even a country as
prolific in food-products as Russia is capable
of supporting—a hundred million people on
that basis. Civilisation, which implies
humanitarianism and the survival of the
unfit, means large populations (you get a
striking example of that in the rapid multi-
plication of the population of Java since the
Dutch gave the island peace_ and sanitation),
and large populations require a tremendous
social machine. In Russia, because it did
not pav the peasants to grow corn, and be-
cause the miners had not sufficient induce-
ment to get coal and other minerals, the
cities began to starve and the factories to
shut down. And now the peasants are un-
able to grow anything, for they cannot secure
implements; ami most of the trains which
used to bring them seed and manures; not to
mention medicines and boots, are out of
commission. Millions of Russians are ruined
ami millions more are dying of .hunger in
consequen.ee; and, what is more, thousands
no“fam-away from the 'great agoir\>as-.Aus-
tralia are out of work and in want because
of it. Before the war Britain sold goods to
the continent of Europe to the value of
about 200 millions per annum, a consider-
able proportion going to Russia in exchange
fur ifocrd’. That'market being'-lost, tfrtreffect
'has'been felt'here in the -form of--slackncss
in the wool, metals and kindred industries :
and, of course, in the transport services, on
•the-.wifekveS--and so. forth'. In. 3 fifll. there'.was.
a bank crisis in the U.S.A., and the follow-
ing year it produced a crisis in the English
cotton industry. Immediately concerns in
France, Germany and Belgium were affected
and small traders went bankrupt, and em-
ployees were cast out of their jobs in Mel-
bourne owing to events on the other side of
the Pacific of which they may know nothing
to this day. Most of the poorer German
children got rickets after Italy entered the
late war. The cattle of Germany had de-
pended on the oil-foods of Italy, and without
them gave much less milk. The world’s
shipping is in the hands of a few great com-
panies which work largely together regard-
less of nationality. If shipping Capitalism
cut out Australia as it has cut out Russia,
we should want for a thousand commodities
which we cannot at present produce even
under competitive conditions any more than
Russia was in a position, when it. adopted
Communism, to produce ploughs or locomo-
tives or the rafer dyes. The conclusion to
be drawn from such facts is that a modern
nation can only get rid of Capitalism
(which stands for effort and organisation,
resulting in complicated services that call
for the last word in technique) by simpli-
fying its life to an extent tolerable only to a
cave-man. Millions of Russians in the few
years -since the Lenin Government decided
to try Communism have passed from the
economic status of members of a front-rank
European power to that of the desperate
hordes which roamed about arid Germany in
CiESAB’s time. Their towns are dying, and
with them the factories and consequently the
transport system; a result being that the
army of the destitute is constantly swelling.
And there are communists in Australia !
THIS LAND WE LOVE.
An acre of paper space was recently allotted
to a cable story of how NY. M. Hughes got
many London capitalists together and how
they listened politely and applauded per-
functorily when he told them that the great
needs of Australia were more money and
more settlers. His story was true in a way.
Australia wants more money ; more money
of its own —'not more new debts, but the
means to do big things without selling the
children to anybody who will take up a loan.
And the obvious ways of getting that money
are these :—•
To import millions’ worth less every year, anil
make the millions that now go in payment available
for works and for liquidation of ancient liabilities.
This would mean a lot of hard work in the making
of more local goods or a lot of going without and
leading of the simple life.
To export many more millions’ worth every year
to pay for imports so that loans won’t be neces-
sary in payment. This also means a lot of work.
As for the need of more settlers- —5,000,000
more to halve the debt and share the taxes —
that, too, is beyond dispute. But people for
whom relief work has to be found on super-
fluous railways aren’t settlers. Nor are the
scores and even hundreds of thousands who
“go on the laud” in hope and get off in
despair because needless distances and other
eviis make success impossible.
Australia has no big color problem as yet,
and no hereditary aristocracy. But it has
put upon itself many handicaps that are
almost as heavy. No other land is divided
into such huge, unwieldy States. Because
of the immense distances government is
mostly by absentees, if an absentee is de-
fined as a man who can only get home at
a week-end or a session-end to the place
which supplies him with his income. Over
most of the country one of the least eligible
local men for membership is the honest,
capable employer who has grown up with
the place and knbws it and loves it. That
kind of man isn’t big enough to float his fac-
tory into a company, and it is too hazard-
ous to leave it for weeks or months at a
time. The eligibles include the small legal
shark who can carry his door-plate with
him and shark it anywhere, the bird-of-pas-
sage union organiser and the rich landlord,
for it is always possible to hire an agent
to collect rents. This may help to account
for the increasing appearance in political
life of adventurers, unpi'oductive parasites
and work-stoppers. Their methods and
those of the people they represent have prac-
tically closed the mining industry , of tropi-
cal Queensland and have closed what second-
ary industries there were in the Territory,
the meat industry of Northern Westralin
and (in addition' to Mount Morgan) Mount
Lyell, the Port Pirie smelters, what re-
mained of Cobar and Broken Hill. It is
partly owing to their programme that 279
strikes occurred in the last half-year
on one N. S. Wales coalfield without any
real grievance being alleged. Owing to thcni
also the sugar industry of North Queens-
land is in various places disorganised by
an anarchistic organisation of alien origin.
Steamboat communication seems to be dying
out, the boats being chased away by strikes,
absurd regulations and job-control.
* * * *
There are all the chronic troubles, of
course. Australia’s railways are greatly
lessened in value by reason of the breaks of
gauge. There are three principal gauges
and two minor ones. The gauges didn’t break
at the borders to prevent invasion—they did
it at the start out of cussedness and after-
wards out of idiocy. Every other white
man’s country in the world either avoided
this mistake or got to work as a matter of
course and cured it. Australia has thou-
sands of politicians and would-be politicians
ready to weep over Ireland, which has a
uniform gauge. But it hasn’t one with the
courage to raise Australia to Ireland’s level.
In some .States (N.S.W. most of all) the'
lines weren’t laid out to develop tfie coun-
try, but to develop oue bloated city.
In 700 miles of coast-line, with quite a
number of good harbors, the people are only
allowed to use Sydney for general purposes.
Newcastle is equipped for coal-loading only.
Thus a little over 100 miles from
a real port that God made, can’t export its
surplus products except through Sydney, 509
miles away, with a steadily-increasing scale
of charges on the road. Sydney is the place
where- Doot.ev. MoTieknax and McGirk
sit and defy Gor> and deny His' creatures
the use of the works He has made. Any
number of people are w illing to weep' over
Ireland Where every, port is open, inasmuch-
as railways inn to Dublin. Dundalk, Arcl-
glass. Belfast. Downpatrick, Ballycastle. Lon-
donderry. Sligo. W estport. Clifden. Galway.
Kilrush. Bantry. Cork, Kenmare, Youghal.
W aterforu. Wexford and elsewhere, all in
an area one-tenth the size of N. S. Wales.
In Ireland man is allowed to use every
harbor, and is helped to do s<> by all the
means in File Government's power. In N. S.
\\ ales i and in some other States, though
N.S.W . holds the record) he is rigidly tied
down. It_was reported tin- other day that
it costs iWO.OOO or £70,0(10 a year to drag
the Northern N.S.W. wheat crop past New-
castle and over the extra 100 miles to Syd-
W hat tin cost is lor carrying it past
Colt’s Harbor, Grafton and port Stephens
and a terrace of similar ports down south
is a matter of speculation. What it costs
m mag alt other things past all these places
is a matter beyond imagination. Yet there
is not one party—Country. Progressive.
National or Labor—which lias the courage
to say that it will really decentralise and
cease butting its silly head against geo-
graphy. Meantime we hold the world's re-
cord for crowding population into a handful
of bloated cities. We make the world’s
poorest showing for small industrial towns.
There is acute house-famine hi all the cities,
yet the census showed that 51,520 houses,
with space for 250.000 people, were empty—
most of them in the dead places which the
octopus cities have killed. And in the octo-
pus cities petty Judges with power to reduce
working hours to minutes and put up wages
even against the Government are blowing
all financial calculations to the four winds,
reducing industry and making unemployed
wholesale.
So the land we love is a land of over-
grown cities, with a depopulated country
side and a lack of little towns: a land of
needless railway distances and closed ports:
a land of short hours and of holidays ami
sporting days; a land with the world’s re-
cord peace-debt per head and with an abject
dependence on loans arid on imported goods
through luxurious habits combined with
loafing; a land cursed with a multiplicity
of arrogant strike-mongers and work-stop-
pers ; and a land whose Government has been
falling further and further into the hands
of crude “reformers,” with a greater or less
mingling of plain rogues. It isn’t, a rehabili-
tated loan reputation in London that such u
land requires. It is a reformation within
itself. And that reformation will not come
until we are honest and admit to ourselves
the condition into which our affairs have
drifted.
“FOR COASTAL DEFENCE ONLY.”
About the most uninspiring defence school
in Australia is the one whose views are ex-
pressed by the Age. The Age is not paci-
fist. Pacifism smacks of the Cobden era.
But it is dead against an adequate fleet: all
in favor of one “designed for coastal defence
only.” Of course this attitude is an affair
of the loftiest motives. A navy which
amounted to a useful contribution to such a
Pacific Squadron as was foreshadowed in
the Jellicoe report would involve what the
Age called last week "a surrender of our
self-governing rights. ’ It would entail in-
terference by Australian ambassadors in mat-
ters of Imperial foreign policy, and thus
“exhibit the Commonwealth as a swaggering
young bravo, determined to thrust itself into
every foreign quarrel.” “A great Power like
America,” observed the Melbourne journal,
“dreads entanglement in the feuds of Europe,
and stands aloof from the League of Nations
for fear of endangering her complete auton-
omy." Let Australians, therefore, inspired
by that shining _ example of caution, stand
aloof from Britain and concentrate on the
modest and inexpensive duty of preparing to
push back would-be invaders. The argument
might be more convincing if Australians had
not heard it used so often in another con-
nection, during the late war. Battalions of
able-bodied youngsters refused to enlist be-
cause military service meant a surrender of
their self-governing rights; and when con-
scription was mooted their scruples became
more marked than ever. As patriotic Aus-
tralians they declined to go overseas and
fight. They saw their duty clearly, and it
was to stay and defend their native land:
to maintain the Commonwealth’s coast-line
intact: to guard the women and children'
As the Diggers put it in their coarse way. “to
keep the Home Fires burning.”
The Age —and it speaks for a considerable
body of shirkers —makes a subtle move when
it mixes up the ideal of an effective Austra-
lian Navy with Imperial Federation and the
jingoism of W. M. Hughes. No one worth
talking about in Australia wants. Imperial
Federation, and there is a widespread dis-
taste of the methods of Mr. Hughes. But
what may go down with a section of Aus-
tralians eager to believe a doctrine that looks
like saving them their national insurance
premium is hardly likely to deceive the
United Kingdom. Here, stripped of flum-
mery and side-issues, is the proposition the
Age wants Australia to put to the people
wbo financed most of the world-war on the
Allied side, and have now been loaded with
its bad debts :
To show our indeperulence and emphasise our
status as a self-governing Dominion, we refuse to
have a fleet, that can fight outside the three-mile
limit. We fully realise that the Pacific Ocean is
the world’s new storm-centre, and that the Com-
monwealth has aroused the envious attention of
land-hungrv Asiatics. What we want you to do
du.ring, say, the next 50 years, is to play for us
the part on the blue water that the A.I.F. played
in Flanders and Palestine. Undertake that trifling
icb; defend the Commonwealth in the deep seas;
look after our trade-routes; maintain our communi-
cations without putting us to the expense of a fleet
capable of co-operating with yours—do these things
and- in return we will withdraw from participation
in Empire affairs. There will be no more visits
to London by trying persons like Hughes. Our
ambassadors will not complicate foreign situations
for you by setting up Dominion Chancelleries. You
will get diplomatic autonomy, and we will save
mone.*.
» • » *
The British are no more likely to be hood-
winked by such arguments than the Diggers
were by the protestations of a certain class
of anti-conscriptionist four or five years ago.
Imperial Federation is a transparently bogus
menace. It is not wanted even by the ultra-
.TingoiStic Hughes, who in one of his last
English interviews rejoiced that he _ had
blocked' a conference on the. Constitutional
issue.. It is true that he d-reads-an-Imperial
Cabinet for an entirely' different, jeasoif from


that <dven bv the Age as its objection to the
ehan-e The Age affects to fear that "the
-.watering Australian bravo’ will interfere
too much for the health of the Empire:
Hughes knows that immediately he steps
from his self-created eminence as Ambassa-
dor-Prime Minister to the position of one
Cabinet member amongst many, he will not
be able to interfere effectively at all. But,
anyhow, there the position ns. The claim
that participation in Empire defence neees-
sarilv involves participation in Empire
diplomacy is equally fallacious. W hen the
world-war arrived Australia happened to be
in possession of a fleet able to co-operate
with an up-to-date squadron fighting in any
part of the world. Its position had been
defined by the Naval Agreement of 1911. It
was as autonomous as the Australian Army.
There was no compulsion in the Common-
wealth to hand its ships over to the Admi-
ralty when war was declared —no more than
there was to send the Permanent Forces
to Flanders. All that the Naval Agreement
stipulated was that "when the naval service
of a Dominion has been put at the disposal
of the Imperial Government by the Dominion
authorities the ships will form an integral
part of the British fleet.” In other words,
once the fleet does join in, there must be
unity of command at sea as there was on
land wherever the A.I.F. fought. This sys-
tem worked harmoniously before and during
the war: and it was not till the war had
ended and the R.A.N. grown obsolete that
our ambassadors began pushing into world-
affairs. Self-respect and—taking the long
view—self-interest demand that the Com-
monwealth should pay for a fleet and not
an imposture; but neither of these things
calls for the creation of a local Foreign
Office and Diplomatic Service.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
As You Were in Victoria.
Asked last week to say whether they wanted
a compulsory or a voluntary wheat pool the
Victorian electors replied that they didn’t
care a dump. Precisely 43.2 per cent, oi
them kept away from the poll. The other
Ve.i.s per cent, voted Liberal, Labor or
Farmers’ Union with little or no regard to
the issue which caused all the trouble a few
weeks ago : on that, if they gave the brawl-
ing parties any mandate at all, it was to
settle the darned thing among themselves.
And the result is that things are left pretty
much as they were. Premier Lawson and
his Liberals retained all the 80 seats they
held in the last Assembly, and won back
frahran, Donald Mackinnon’s old con-
stituency, from the luckless Parker. The
Labor party wrested Grenville from the
Farmers’ Union, and defeated Martin Han-
nah in Collingwood; but as Collingwood
was always a safe Labor seat and Hannah
voted against the Government on the no-
confidence motion, the Prendergast follow-
ing will number 21 as before. McLachlan,
the Independent member for CHppslancl
North, who supported Lawson last ’ session,
and will presumably do so again, held his
■seat easily, and the Allan group will go
back 12 strong instead of .18. With
McPherson away and Mackey in the
Speaker’s chair, Lawson will meet the new
Parliament in a minority of three, and in
the ordinary course of events there should be
a change of Ministry. Whether there will
or not hadn’t been decided when this was
written. It was taken for granted in some
quarters that the Farmers’ Union members
would vote for the Labor motion to take the
business out of the Government’s hands, but
there is no reason why they should, and
plenty of reasons why they shouldn’t. There
is no understanding, express or implied,
between Prendergast and Allan, nor any
prospect of a Labor-Farmers coalition. If a
Labor Government took office it wouldn’t last
much longer than the time occupied in get-
ting a Compulsory Wheat Pool Bill through
the Lower House, The Council would in-
disputably refuse to pass such a measure,
and, anyhow, the Labor variety of pool,
with control by the Government, isn’t w T hat
Cocky w r ants. Moreover, circumstances
have changed since the 18 Farmers voted
with Prendergast to put Lawson out. It
is impossible for Allan to prove that the
policy of a compulsory wheat pool triumphed
in the constituencies. A majority of voters
and a large minority of farmers declared
against it. As in the last Parliament, the
Liberals won more country seats than Allan
and his associates. In Lowan the F.U.
majority over the Lawson candidate was
reduced from 578 to 25, and in Mornington
from 1706 to 329. In Eaglehawk and
Upper Goulburn the Cocky members polled
little more than a third of the straight-out
votes cast, and owe their seats to Liberal
support in the second count. Under the
circumstances the third party would be well
advised to reconsider its position. A reck-
less persistence in the course which it fol-
lowed in the winter could only result in
•mother election. Such an election would
be fought on an issue more inspiring than
the wheat pool, and an aroused people,
indignant at being plunged into needless
political strife by a third party, too weak
to govern on its own account, and too selfish
and factious to let others govern, might
decide that a third party of that sort would
ho better dea l.
-%
A Doomed Caste.
Last week Governor Davidson agreed to
the appointment of 16 new members to the
X.S.W. Leg. Council. He did it at the
behest of a Government which is. only in
iifiice because Danny Levy, like the politi-
cally-defunct Henry Willis, was prepared
to oblige his Parliamentary enemies by
accepting the Speakership. All this has
scandalised X. S. Wales Nationalism, and on
Friday Joseph Carre thers, who is indus-
triously fitting himself to assume Fuller’s
somewhat battered crown, told Sydney Tele-
graph :—•
In my opinion, the Governor should have hesitated
before assenting to the serious step that he was
advised to take. The grave importance of the
matter merited more consideration and less haste.
In omitting to hesitate the Governor showed
himself a better constitutionalist than Car-
ruthers. The dispute in Tasmania in the
days of F.llison-Macartney established
finally that a Dominion Governor has no
longer any right to impose his opinions on
a Ministry. In the Crown colony period the
Governor was a despot who exercised powers
of life and death. After the arrival of Re-
sponsible Government he functioned (1) as
the executive head of the Government and
(2) as the local representative of Imperial
interests. In these capacities the Crown
continued to assert prerogatives on this side
of the world which it had long abandoned in
the United Kingdom. But during the past
decade, and particularly since the war began,
and most markedly of all since it ended, the
Governor-caste has become more and. more
of a superfluity. “Empire statesmen” such
as W. M. Hughes are no more concerned
with the political opinions of his Ex. than
with those of iiis Ex.’s butler; and the ex-
pensive potentate only escapes having the
point brought tersely home to him by taking
no part whatever in the running of the
country. Such is the invidious position of
Governor Davidson. lie must have known
there was no justification for imposing Hi
more deadheads on the N. S. Wales railways
and tramways; must have known that the
Storey Government did not possess a man-
date to require him to collaborate in the
swindle. Vet if he had been instructed to
appoint (JO or 01X1 he would have had no
alternative but to comply. The plain fact is
that the modern Governor’s occupation is
gone. He only survives, like the rudimentary
tail in the human body, as an indication of
past glories. If instead of eight imitation
Courts, presided over by eight amiable Lon-
don club-men. we had one British business
expert without frills or feathers acting as
intermediary between the Commonwealth
and Downing-street, Australia and the Em-
pire would get on just as well. And the
money saved might be put into that best
thing for welding an empire—co-operative
naval defence. It would be a far-sighted
and patriotic step on the part of John
Storey if he gave his native land a needed-
lead in this direction by abolishing Governor
Davidson. The Governor, however unwill-
ingly, has presented him with the oppor-
tunity.
«.
Little Australian Senators.
When the Greene tariff reached the Senate
it was described by I’ratten, of Is'. S.
Wales, as "the most scientific and thorough
instrument for the protection of home indus-
tries ever formulated in Australia.” Nobody
will be able to say that of it if it is mangled
according to the desires of Little Australian
Senators, as expressed in the desultory six
weeks’ discussion which ended last Friday.
In the beginning it looked as if the States’
House would deal with the tariff in a genu-
inely Australian spirit. I’ratten pointed out
the necessity of increasing local production
to restore a favorable balance of trade.
Russell dwelt on the dangerous, almost dis-
astrous, position in which Australia found
herself during the war owing to her depen-
dence on the foreigner for tin plates, gal-
vanised iron, wire netting, copper wire,
glass bottles, knitting wool, aluminium and
a multitude of other articles the raw
material of which is obtainable in the
country. Under the stimulus of these
speeches many Senators declared themselves
good Protectionists, and in the exuberance
of their emotion they suggested that the
duties on a few 7 items should be increased.
But their enthusiasm was spasmodic. The
provincial spirit asserted itself. Votes came
into the argument. The Freetrader Pearce
took charge of the tariff, Russell, the Pro-
tectionist, having fallen ill. Finding the
proceedings monotonous a number of Sena-
tors began to stay away, and motions for
the reduction of duties were carried by a
minority of the House —in some cases by
a mere eight votes. In the result the Senate
has declared itself hostile to the increased
Protection sought by the Australian manu-
facturers of agricultural implements, mining
machinery, Avire-netting, barbed wire, fencing
wire, cinematographic films and a swarm of
other articles. The House of Representa-
tives will have to rise to the occasion if
these industries are to be preserved. There
was never a time in the history of Australian
industry when high Protection was more
necessary. Dear coal, stationary w r ages (in
every other country they have fallen
heavily) and the 44-hour week are grievously
handicapping the local manufacturer in the
struggle with his foreign competitor. Un-
less Parliament redresses the balance by
raising the Protective duties many home
industries now in the critical stage will
perish.
The Third Parties.
The Country-party movement, which has
now arrived in every State, began in West-
ralia eight years ago, w 7 hen two Agrarians
w 7 ere sent into the Upper House. In 1914
eight more became Assemblymen, and since
then Cocky has been a force in Westralian
politics, and has inspired the farmers in
other parts of the Commonwealth to follow
his example. But he very soon discovered
(1) that he had no chance of winning seats
in the big centres of population, and (2)
that a mere corner party morosely hostile to
other groups could do little good and might
do a lot of harm. So the Primary Producers’
Association, which stands behind the Coun-
try party (it used to be purely a cultivators’
organisation, but now includes pastoralists
and mineowners), authorised it to form alli-
ances and take office in Coalition Ministries.
Thus fortified the Cocky members came to
an understanding with the Liberals and
National Laborites, and since 191 T they have
been represented in the Government. Hav-
ing steadily increased their numbers in the
constituencies, they now 7 control half the
portfolios—three out of six. And on the
whole the arrangement has worked well. It
has given the State stable government with-
out involving tile sacrifice of any vital prin-
ciple on the part of the allies, who have
even managed to run candidates against
one another without quarrelling, the under-
standing being that each gets Cabinet repre-
sentation in proportion to its strength. The
farmers have derived substantial advantages
from the coalition, and the country has not
thereby suffered. It. is time the sensible
Westralian ' expedient was adopted by the
Country parties of the Commonwealth, Vic-
toria and Queensland, and by the Progres-
sives in N. S. Wales. Under the existing
distribution of population none of these
groups has the slightest chance of gaining
a Parliamentary majority, and they have
no right .to be in politics unless they are
prepared to take office. Associated with
Liberals and moderate Laborites. they are
capable of being a power for good. Alone
they can effect nothing and may become a
nuisance or a danger, as has been shown
in Victoria the last month.
T—<•>
A Throat Well and Truly Cut.
Last week the N. S. Wales Full Court
(Cullen, C.J.; Pring and Wade) refused
leave to a man found guilty of murder to
place his case before the Court of Criminal
Appeal. They looked hard for a legal flaw
in the proceedings before the Judge below,
and because they could find none their
Honors dismissed the application. In law
there was nothing else for them to do. for the
essence of the application was that the jury
had returned an unreasonable verdict and
that the Court of Appeal should over-ride
the finding, of the 12. But their Honors
were plainly disturbed by the case. It had
some extraordinary features, one of which
was that the construction that may be
placed upon circumstantial evidence had been
stretched to a point rarely reached in crimi-
nal proceedings. Here are the facts: —
Arthur Bryce Peden, at one time a student at
the Ballarat School of Mines, now about 50, drifted
to Gundagai. There he became acquainted with the
family of James Andrews, a well-to-do farmer at
Tumbalong, and six years ago married the eldest
daughter, Anna. She was then in indifferent health
—a very pronounced neurasthenic —and, growing
worse, was constantly in the care of Dr. Wh.kin of
Gundagai. Latterly she was sent to Sydney for treat-
ment. and on the second day after her return to her
parents’ home at . Tumbalong, where she and her
husband lived, her dead body was found on the
bedroom floor, the throat cut from ear to ear, the
upper clothing soaked in blood, and near by a blood-
stained razor.
The family was informed of the occurrence by Peden
himself: he rushed from the room calling out that
his wife was dead and had cut her throat. James
Andrews, the woman’s brother, said to him, “Where
did you leave the razors?” Peden, taking two
razors from his pocket, held them out and said:
“I took them away —here they are.” James
Andrews swore that when Peden gave him the
razors he distinctly saw a bloodstain on Peden’s
hand. Andrews did not draw Peden-’s attention to
this at the time nor did lie then mention the
matter to the other members of the family who
were present. Peden was not arrested until next
day, after his return from the funeral. Before the
body was coffined a medical man removed the neck
and head from the body and sent the trophy to
Sydney preserved in formalin. It was the main
exhibit in the case, but until the last moment was
not actually placed on view, being hidden under
the barristers’ table in a butterdjox and merely
referred to. The first jury that tried Peden at Dar-
linghurst (they could not agree on a verdict) posi-
tively refused to look at the horrible thing. The
second jury while in retirement sent into Court
for it and the box was borne away to their room for
inspection.
Examination of Anna Peden’s body had shown
the neck-cutting to have been done with tigerish
ferocity. All of the muscles and arteries had been
severed, right back to the vertebra;, and five distinct
nicks were observable in the bone. No single cut
had dope this work—certainly five and possibly more
had been necessary. If the woman was murdered
she was butchered. Dr. Sidney Jamieson, Dr.
Palmer and Dr. Stratford Sheldon, called by the
prosecution, said the wound was homicidal and posi-
tively not suicidal. Severance of the carotid and
jugular would make it impossible—even assuming
the case of a lunatic resolution to cut the head off
-—for such a wound to have been self-inflicted. On
the other hand, Dr. Wilkin, of Gundagai, who had
treated Anna Peden for years, said she was a suici-
dal maniac, that he had warned the family to this
effect, and that the wounds on the neck could have
been caused by herself.
What connects Peden with the murder?
Nothing! There had been no quarrel. He
had not been seen entering the bedroom. No
blood was found on his clothes. The only
evidence about blood was that of James
Andrews. Peden had left the house early
in the morning and proceeded to a mining
claim some three-quarters of a mile away,
where he had business with the warden’s
bailiff. Marion Andrews, a sister of the
deceased, says she saw him in the scrub
near the house at 10.30. He denies this.
It was at 11 o’clock he ran out of the bed-
room saying his wife was dead. His expla-
nation is that he returned straight from the
claim, went inside and found her dead.
Thus what convicted Peden was the uncor-
roborated statement concerning blood on iiis
hand, the suggestion that he had been
“hanging round the scrub,” and the evidence
of a witness who deposed to having heard
Peden say three years before that “she
ought to throw herself in the river.” What
he says about the razors is that she often
spoke of suicide, and on the night before
her death begged him to cut her throat, as
she was “sure if some blood was let out of
her neck it would give her relief.” So
he put his two razors away, not knowing,
however, that a third razor, which James
Andrews had been in the habit of borrow-
ing, had been returned to the bedroom. In
most murders a motive is suggested. In
this one there seems complete absence of
motive. What had Peden to gain by mur-
dering this woman? He was frankly re-
garded by the Andrews family as a sponger.
Assuming an able-bodied sponger to- have a
good home, is it reasonable to suppose he
would destroy the only thing that bound
him to the home? This absence of motive
plainly weighed as heavily with the Judges
at the trial as the failure of the Crown to
link Peden with the actual butchery. No
quarrel, no noise of a struggle, no evidence
of Peden having entered the room while
his wife was alive, no apparent motive—
and the dead body of a woman with strong
tendencies towards self-destruction ! At best
the jury’s verdict could be a mere guess.
Justice Pring at the first trial summed up
strongly against the contention of the
Crown-Prosecutor that murder by Peden was
the only reasonable hypothesis on which the
tragedy could be accounted for. That jurv
disagreed. Justice James at the second trial
almost directed the jury to acquit. It con-
victed. The Full Court without a doubt
considered the. jury was wrong. But..an.,
appeal seems to be impossible. That looks
still more wrong.
When Borrowers Disagree.
Pity all the borrowers can’t get together
and agree on the .same tale.- Here are three
aspects of the case:—
Minister Loughlin (N.S.W.) declared that the lack
of-public - land-for-settlement was so desperate.-as to-
justify a scheme of almost indefinite resumption and
compulsory borrowing without limit. He was to
seize, per medium of his new court, as much land as
he wanted at a low price, pay for it in depreciated
long-dated securities, and sell it on the best, terms
he could get.
Minister Storey (N.S.W.) reckons he lias secured
41 millions of loan money at fairly stiff interest
with which to buy back, for settlement purposes,
land which the State sold (it also used the money
as revenue) in past days. This looks like violent
finance, but the land scarcity is said to be awful.
Ex-Minister Carruthers (N.S.W.) is out with a
scheme for almost unlimited borrowing to put a mil-
lion farmers on vacant public land. And the men
who allege the famine in public land as justification
for desperate borrowing rally round the man who
says the superabundance of it is a justification, in
fact, the two crowds are willing to borrow simultane-
ously for opposite reasons.
As a matter of fact, the N.S.W. land famine
is pretty much of a sham, though it is as
good an excuse for loans as the lie next
door. The State measures 195,075,080 acres.
The area sold, at latest advices, was
02,077,258 acres. The area leased with the
right of purchase was ,20,115,910 acres, and
in many cases a mere right of purchase, one
would think, could be bought back at a low
figure. And without the blewing of billions,
at the complete disposal of the State, ami
bellowing like a hull of Hash,'in for settle-
ment were 112,881,905 acres in a virgin
state. This wasn’t all in the Western Divi-
sion, which covers only 80,318,708 acres.
Over one-fourtli of the fertile east and
centre are still quite available. And the
Western Division isn’t all hopeless. Some
people imagine that it lies wholly west of
the Darling, but it doesn’t. Half of it is
on the coastal side of that fiver. Five
N.S.W. railways have been built into it.
Four N. S. Wales railways and one Vic-
torian line touch it. The Grifiith-Hillstoii
line is to touch it. Mildura, Victoria’s irri-
gated garden city, is just across the river
from one of the worst parts of it. The
Murrumbidgee irrigation colony is almost
in sight of it; and it is in places within 300
miles from Newcastle, ('off’s Harbor, Port-
land (Vic.) and Port Pirie (S.A.). But
leaving it out of the question, the fact re-
mains that east of llillston, Oondobolin.
Walgett, Collarendebri and Mungundi, all
railway towns, there are 32,000,000 acres
available without any loan debauch or re-
purchase swindle. At least it would be avail-
able but for the crooked railway devices
which make Inverell, in the fertile North,
about GOO miles from its nearest port, where-
as Providence made the distance about 112
miles. And there are lots of similar vil-
lainies in N.S.W., all planned and done by
professed decentralising Governments in the
cause of centralisation.
Timber Forests - and Wooden Heads.
Touching an experiment in State capitalism :
The War Service Homes Department decided last
year that “the timber profiteers must be put down.”
With that object it light-heartedly butted into the
logging and .sawmilling business, purchasing, among
other properties, the Laiiey mills and concessions at
Canungra and Beaudesert (Q.). The price was
£ 240.000, and a clause in the purchase agreement
provided that the timber land (1000-odd acres) must
be sold back to Lakey's (sectionally and at stated
periods) at 10s. per acre, whether the timber was
removed or not. In the cleared state this land is
worth quite £3O per acre.
The process of smashing the profiteer began in
November. For four months the mills worked inter-
mittently, owing to wet weather, but in March the
Melbourne officials got tired of their new toy. Opera-
tions ceased in that month, since when not a saw has
revolved. And there hadn’t been a stoppage for 30
years. The bushworkers —fallers and haulers —con-
tinued toiling, as per agreement, for a few weeks,
the logs being left to rot in the bush. The men then
had their tools and gear taken from them, and they
haven’t been paid for this particular work, nor have
they, received any definite information as to what
their position is.
At present there are 460 logs decaying at .Canungra
mill, and 800 doing the same in the bush. About
500,000 feet of dressed timber is stacked at Canungra.
and 1,200,000 feet of undressed timber (some stacked,
some-strewn about- the mill yard) is exposed to the
elements. Heavy rain has fallen in the district—
over 20 inches in six months^—and undoubtedly por-
tion of the dressed timber and a much larger per-
centage of the undressed article has been ruined.
Indeed, the loss to the country in wasted logs and
sawn lengths, interest on unproductive capital and
depreciation, must run into many thousands. Not
only - this, but a cruel injustice has been done to
the mill and forest workers. These men (some of
whom are purchasing their homes on the instalment
plan) have been thown out of work and obliged, in
many cases, to leave the district and shut up their
snug little furnished homes. Others remain and do
casual work when they get it.
In fine, the advent of the W.S.H.D. has been a
disaster to Canungra and the surrounding districts
It is conservatively estimated that the Commonwealth
Government has lost £30.000 in this timber' deal
already, and the sawmillers and foresters have lost
their work, and many will lose their homes. It is
a big price to pay for the caprice of a meddling
amateurism disguised as Public Enterprise.
Law Reform.
‘A ic. Lex” secs it like this in Melbourne
“Lex" (B. 25/8/’2l) hits the nail on the head
when lie states that “all who disapprove of paying
two (and sometimes three or four) men for one
man’s work will vote in favor of the amalgamation
of the professions and some device which will prevent
the law in this respect being evaded as it is in
Victoria and elsewhere.” In Victoria, the Legal
Profession Practice Act of 1891 provides that “no
person shall" be admitted to practise as a barrister
or solicitor solely, but every person admitted'by the
Supreme Court shall be admitted to practise as a
barrister and solicitor,” the object being to prevent,
the duplication of legal services and the consequent
unnecessary expense. But, as far as the practical
result goes, in the vast majority of cases (particu-
larly those in Melbourne) litigation is conducted
as if the 1891 Act, which is still in force, had never
been passed. There are many legal practitioners in
V-ietoria who would gladly welcome an amendment
of the law providing an adequate pecuniary penalty
for any member of the legal profession “practising”
or “holding himself out to practise” as a “barrister
, solely” or as. a “solicitor solely’’; and if “membership
of any ■ association which defeated or ’evaded or
attempted to defeat or evade or was designed to
defeat or evade the provisions of this Act” was com-
prised within the term “offence.” so much the
better. A salutary reminder of the public feeling
on’ the--matter might be given, by. enacting., that


T h s Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
• Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL --- £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
with no diseases of man or beast, and if the present
delightful weather, with its sharp frosty mornings
and golden days, is any criterion the claim would
seem to be well justified. It is quite a treat to be
served with tomatoes in July, while the navel oranges
on the trees are equal to anything produced at Mu-
dura or ltenmark. Grapes of all kinds are said to
do well, and usually ripen about December.
And again:—
Two days later we left for Arltunga and had a
most picturesque journey along a gorge about eight
miles long right through the heart of the Macdon-
nells. The distance was only 62 miles, but the going
was fairly heavy, as we had 66 dry-creek crossings,
mostly soft sand, and 22 crossings of creeks with
flowing water in them... .In addition to gold in this
locality there are at some distance extensive deposits
of mica, which are said to compare favorably in
quality and quantity with anything of the kind in
the world... .Rubies are also found in the vicinity
and are in sufficient quantities to flood the Austra-
lian market twice over.
That is the Commonwealth’s splendid estate,
the Northern Territory, which S. Aus.
handed over in return for the railway that
hasn’t eventuated —the estate as it looks if
entered at the south end, which is the South
Australian end, where the mountains and
rivers are. The country isn’t in the least
like that along the dreadful coastal line
through State property to Kalgoorlie and
Perth, where there is neither a real hill nor
a semblance of fresh water for 1200 miles.
The failure of that job, which has a shorter
sea route competing against it, is a favorite
argument against the South-to-North work
to which the Commonwealth’s honor as well
as its interest is pledged, but there is really
no resemblance. If the miles of waving
imprisonment should be ordered for a second offence.
As it is now, in Victorian civil cases in the County
and Supreme Courts, the appearance of an “amal-
gam” (as the barrister and solicitor is contemptu-
ously termed in some quarters) is of rare occurrence,
and in Courts of General Sessions and Criminal
Courts the accused is usually represented by a
“barrister-at-law.” In either jurisdiction the
“amalgam” gets the frigid judicial glance of semi-
recognition, and the present writer recalls with
some degree of grim amusement the verbal evasions
which a Supreme Court Judge of Tory leanings em-
ployed on one occasion to avoid referring to a
“barrister and solicitor” as “counsel.” Not that
there are any scholastic or intellectual advantages
possessed by members of the Bar Association; indeed,
the term “upper branch” of the profession has lost
all real significance as far as Victoria is concerned.
It is common to see a solicitor LL.B. (ji.e., one who
has undergone a course at the Melbourne University
and passed in 19 subjects, including history, litera-
ture, logic, law, etc.) instructing a barrister who
has done the articled clerks’ course (i.e., passed in
nine law subjects while serving four years as an
articled clerk in a solicitor’s office).
In other countries, where the scope for legal work
is wider than it is in Victoria, this division of the
profession is not tolerated. In Canada, for instance,
it is not uncommon to see two, three and'sometimes
four K.C.’s members of one firm of barristers and
solicitors, and in the United States there is the
same fusion of the two branches of the profession.
The one lawyer, or firm, confers with the client,
issues the writ, collects the evidence and conducts
the case in court. Sometimes considerations of
practical convenience operate to establish a division
of labor in legal partnerships, one member confining
himself mainly to office work, the other to court
duties, but there is no cleavage of the profession.
In his work, “The American Commonwealth,” Ambas-
sador James Bryce —himself an English barrister
who studied the U.S. system at first hand —remarks:
... .But as every American lawyer has the right
of advocacy in the highest Courts and is accustomed
to advise clients himself instead of sending a case
for opinion to a counsel of eminence, the level of
legal knowledge.... is somewhat higher than among
English solicitors, while the familiarity with details
of practice is more certain to be found than among
English barristers. .. .The profession taken as a
whole seems to have stood on a level with the pro-
fession also taken as a whole in England.... The
gain to the client is still clearer and even those
(very few) American counsel who say that for their
own sake they would prefer the English [i.e., the
N.S.W. and Victorian] plan admit that the litigant
is more effectively served where he has but one
person to look to and deal with throughout. It does
not suit him....to be lathered in one shop and
shaved in another. American practitioners are all
clear that they are able to serve their clients better
than they could if the responsibility were divided
between the man who prepares the case and the man
who argues or addresses the jury.
In Maoriland and in the States of South Aus..
Westralia and Tasmania the amalgamation of the
two legal functions has been effected with success,
and no one could truthfully assert that the intellec-
tual level of the profession. has been lowered or the
interests of clients neglected. There is a story told
on very reliable authority of an eminent South Aus.
K.C. having been briefed to appear in a Vic. case
with a. Vic. “barrister-at-law” now wearing the
judicial robes in one of our superior courts. The
latter regretfully informed the K.C. that it was
contrary to the etiquette of the Vic. Bar Association
for one of its members to appear with a member of
a firm of barristers and solicitors. The K.C. wired
back to his client for further instructions and
received in reply an intimation to appear without
the Vic. barrister. Whereupon, the latter having
been duly notified, a meeting of the Vic. Bar Asso-
ciation was hurriedly called and permission was
given for the learned counsel to appear with the
despised but able “amalgam.”
Despite the provisions of the 1891 Act, the Bar
Association has made litigation practically a close
preserve for its members. The Crown briefs, State
and Commonwealth, are 'invariably handled by
“barristers-at-law.” The path to the judicial bench
is closed to the barrister-and-solicitor, not one
Judge having been appointed from that rank in
the history of Victoria. It will be remembered that
when Justice Powers (who practised mainly as a
solicitor before his elevation to the High Court
Bench) came to take his seat in the High Court at
Melbourne, the barristers-at-law left the court and
his Honor was denied the usual welcome from “the
Bar.”
The law reformers in N. S. Wales certainly have
in Victoria an object-lesson to guide them in the
adoption of safeguards to ensure the practical fusion
of the two branches of the profession. The present
system is an anachronism, and one that should not
be tolerated in a modern democracy.
About the Centre of Australia.
A correspondent whom the S. M. Herald
sent, along the route of the Port Augusta-
Darwin railway has drawn some interesting
little pictures of Middle Australia. For
instance, this (August 20) was a bit of the
“desert”: —
Alice Springs, about 2000 ft. above sea level, is a
picturesque little spot nestling among some low hills
on the northern side of the Macdonnell Range which
towers above it another 2000 ft. At the present time
it is a pleasing sight, with waving grass everywhere
on the lowlands and extending even to the tops of
the lower hills. Sluggishly through the little town-
ship flows the River Todd on a flat sandy bed, to
make its wav presently between the beetling cliffs of
Heavy-Tree Gap and eventually lose itself amongst
the box swamps many miles to the south-east... .The
climate is claimed to be the healthiest in the world,
THE WOLF.
MISS NOT-TOO-RED RIDING HOOD AUSTRAIA : excuse me, but you are not the old
party I was so fond of.”
grass were the waving hats of constituents
the situation would be different, but it takes
a statesman rather than a politician to feel
a live interest in a place where there are
few inimediate votes.
♦- —
“The System.”
“Whitehall’s” indictment: —
Brig.-General “Pompet” Elliott told his col-
leagues in the Senate the other day:—
After 25 years’ service, with no crime against his
record, no charge against his courage or capacity, it
seemed that there were certain mysterious qualities
which were nowhere defined, but in which he was
supposed to be lacking. Not having those qualities,
he was placed on the shelf. Though the Army Act
provided for an appeal from authorities in the field,
if an attempt was made by a man to avail himself
of that right it was treated as a crime. He would
continue to protest against such a system.
It did not take the average Digger 25 days to come
to something like the above conclusion; and the
longer he stayed in the Army the more clearly he
saw the point. The soldier of tradition is in many
ways as different from the real article as sand is
from sugar. To the novelist the warrior in his
splendid clothes is a debonair fellow, brave, manly,
lacking in subtlety, quixotically loyal to his com-
rades-in-arms, ready to risk life itself to aid the
right or succor the weak and afflicted. Many men
enter the Army with such ideals; hut unless they
jettison them quickly they have no prospect of a
successful career under peace conditions, and they
work under a continual handicap even when there is
a war on. Elliott, for example, would not have
lasted a month at Lark Hill, Le Havre, Rouen or a
dozen other base-camps that can be mentioned.
Philip Gibbs tells of the stafi-captain who pas-
sionately admired Browning but who on being told
by a superior officer that Browning was no poet
said: “I quite agree with you, sir. And who do you
think was a poet, sir?” That sort of thing was not
confined to Haig’s H.Q. It went on, in one form or
another, in every A.I.F. brigade. What ex-officer
does not remember some senior who bragged inter-
minably while the ambitious young captain or adju-
tant nodded reverentially or slapped a leg in token
of admiration? Which of us has forgotten the General
or Colonel and his idiotic jokes and anecdotes, and
the sycophantic roar of merriment with which half
the fighting men in the mess greeted the veteran
jocosities ?
Many soldiers forged to the front in the late war
in spite of their inability to bend the knee; and
Elliott was one of them. But such men found
themselves associated with shock troops during a
period of desperate fighting. The “real soldiers,”
as the gentlemen at the Bases described themselves,
did not want their jobs. Better an A.S.C. majority
than a brigade in the line. It was a foregone con-
clusion, however, that the moment peace returned
most of the rough, unconventional, outspoken, and
yet sincere and manly and straight-going customers
who had made the A.l.F.’s reputation should be
superseded by those in possession of the only sol-
dierly qualities which count (off the field of battle)
in the eyes of “the system.”
Under peace conditions the soldier must be a
political wire-puller. He must have a sharp eye for
whatever soft and well-paid billets are going, and
spare neither friend nor foe in the rush for the
spoil. As billets go by favor usually, and as those
who have the disposal of them are only human, the
soldier needs to be an expert flatterer. The capacity
to treat Senator Pearce as a Bismarck or General
Sellheim as a Napoleon becomes more valuable
than the ability of a Monash (demobilised) or the
courage of a Murray (also demobilised). In short,
“the system” produces an office-man in martial
dress; but without half the qualities of dignity,
sturdy Independence and indifference to the chances
of fata that may be seen in many a bottle-o or a fish-
hawker.
It is this class, largely, that is being retained to
train the rising generation of Australians in the
military art, and represent Australia in the next
war. The thing is hot a deep-laid plot on the
part of some Melbourne Machiavelli with an
animus against fighting soldiers. It is a natural
and inevitable reaction of “the system” which casts
forth the critical and the outspoken as automatically
as it takes in and mothers the suave upholder of
privilege and the opponent of change. The latter type,
which has made the British War Office a by-word for
generations, is wholly unsuited to the Australian
temperament and attitude towards soldiering. It
will be got rid of only by, bringing the Army into
closer touch with modern thought, doing away
entirely with the military despot, and replacing him
by someone or something that both in peace and
in war will give merit a standing advantage over
time-serving.
About a mixed political situation: —
After 15| consecutive years af what Hexry
Parses called “hoffis,” Lloyd George may reach
the end any day; and unless De "Valera makes sure
of all he can get and hunts for the rest later, there
may be no little Welshman to give anything, nor
anyone dimly resembling him. The situation is all
topsy-turvy. The Coalition was rushed together for
war purposes, and that was all right; but its con-
tinuation after the peace as. the result of a bogu?-
election, with its war-time spending habits still
thick upon it, has become an offence. At least, the
spending habits haves. Not having adopted the X. 8.
Wales trick of substituting nominations for by-
elections, the Coalition has chances to hear what
the people think of it, and the people have begun to
return plain Unionists, Liberals, Independents, etc.,
but hardly any Composites. When the combine was
formed, with the portfolios halved between Unionists
and Lloyd Georgeites, the latter, even counting that
they commanded some valuable influence with the
Irish Nationalists, got the best of the deal. Now
they have half the portfolios, including the Prime
Ministership, and supply a little over a fourth of
the party voting power. The refusal of the Sinn
Fein members to turn up has reduced the Commons
to 634 members, and the Unionists, with 378, could
throw Lloyd George overboard and form a Govern-
ment of their own which would far outvote all other
parties combined. Lloyd George rules as leader
of a party which mostly dislikes him and is in less
and less need of him, and everything he offers to
Ireland is offered by the temporary grace of an
overwhelming majority which doesn’t really want to
give anything to Ireland. So far he has been kept in
office to clear up the debris of the war, but the
run of ill-luck at by-elections suggests that the
country either regards the (lcbris as about sufficiently
cleared up, or no longer regards Lloyd George as a
satisfactory person to handle debris. If the Union-
ists become convinced that further keeping of the
little Welshman in his dignity is wearing away their
majority as well as dragging them into unwelcome
concessions to De Valera, things may move very
suddenly. Delay on the Irish part in such a case
seems like holding argument with a dying man
about a few more concessions in the will - with a
chance that he may peg out intestate in the middle
of the debate. If the Southern Parliament falls
through by reason of too long hanging fire there will
be no reason for- the further continuance of the
Northern Parliament, especially as it exists against
its will. And if it votes its own abolition, then
Home Rule will be back where it was. A weird
development would be the rush of the Sinn Feiners
back to Westminster in a belated endeavor to keep
Lloyd George in office because he is an asset, if
not a completely satisfactory one, and a Celt, who
is at least a blood relation.
Except ’way-back, where stipendiary magis-
trates are few, the J.P. has been swept off
the bench of every State except Victoria.
There he survives and flourishes. In most
of the suburban courts he is the sole dis-
penser of what passes for justice; only occa-
sionally is his view of the law —about which
he is required to know nothing—fortified
by the presence of a P.M. on the bench. It
is a curious position, indefensible by logic,
and indefinable by algebra. One unpleasant
result of it. i.s that the lawyer with the
thickest hide, the most plausible tongue and
the least regard for facts and formulas has
a big pull over an opponent who may happen
to be troubled with scruples and a conscience
The power of these men is common local
knowledge: and the consequence is that the
most unworthy members of the profession
are in the greatest demand. It is a rotten
state of affairs.
♦
Dear Bulletin. —A recent letter in the S.
M. Herald was headed “Sydney, the Fourth
City in the Empire,” and signed by Arch-
deacon Boyce. In it the author set forth
his pride that Sydney, crowding needlessly
to its slummy bosom nearly half the popula-
tion of a great. State, has become so vast,
and his hope that in five or six years it will
be so much vaster that it will be second
instead of fourth. Which moves me, though
not in holy orders, to a confession of faith
of my own —
Those who deliberately and needlessly crowd
myriads together (by making other ports useless and
inaccessible for lack of railways and by gerrymander-
ing freights and other devices) are worse than Herod.
The makers of needless slum 9 kill souls as well as
bodies all the time, while Herod only killed a few
bodies one time.
Those who approve of the deed and applaud it are
as guilty as those who do it. And there isn’t much
to be said for those who passively connive at it.
The making of new towns, with well-equipped ports
and inland railways to relieve the soul-destroying
pressure on the mean streets of Sydney, is more im-
portant to N. S. Wales than the Acts of the Apostles,
more pious than both the books of Corinthians put
together, and a more truly Christian work than
everything that has been done at St. Paul’s up to
date.
People who object to the cutting up of N.S.W. into
smaller States lest the unhealthy bulk of Sydney
should be thereby' impaired won’t go to Heaven.
It is a simple, practical, portable faith, and
I am darned proud of it.—Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollae.


vr
£3
rjhe Centre 0 f
OtV^J^^Co,
Hl®
ďf
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
> A
<C6e
“Jtfustralia"
Wfnter Garden
, 1 4m\ I H|| •HU
p?m wwip^
ggtm ass $ * 3 & £ &@w *'
pr I^l
>, '.ft
■W
ismm
Ra
•Tf
■1
- -*--
POLITICAL
POINTS
West Sydney used to be regarded as the
safest Labor seat in the Commonwealth.
Judging by the experience of Bill Lambert,
Lord Mayor of Sydney and president of
the A.L.P. for live years, there are no safe
Labor seats left. Lambert duly beat his
unknown Nationalist opponent, but only by
7857 to 5237, and there were 616 Indepen-
dent votes as well. Yet the late Tom Ryan
scored 14,234 to 5488 —relatively the largest
Labor majority recorded in 1919. Con Wal-
lace in 1917 polled 14,664 against 7389.
Hughes’s majorities were 8014 in 1910,
10,539 in 1913 and 10,587 in 1914. Appa-
rently the new sort of Labor leader —the
slow-down, 0.R.U., wrongs-of-Ireland sort —
has been a greater disaster to the party than
even the conscription split.
From the N.S.W. Gallery:—
John Storey, sick and tired, turned up at the
opening last week. Later he sat at the table and
took the fire of questions long banked up by the
Opposition. By the time the House adjourned
(9 p.m.) he was almost in a state of collapse.
His physical condition gets no better. Always
easily exasperated by verbal brickbats, he is now
more than ever vulnerable. The experiment of a
few hours left no doubt about what the conse-
quences will be if he tries any more of it—at
any rate, before taking a long rest. To a man
of middle age with progressive arterial harden-
ing a diet of votes of censure is less nourishing
than strychnine. Storey’s menu, by the way, is
now no more extensive than Hughes long ago be-
came accustomed to. A beaten-up egg and some
brandy are never far away either. How Dooley
will shape as leader of the Assembly in Storey’s
absence remains to be seen. Dooley has more than
average natural ability. Also, he is jolly and fat.
But he is horribly lazy.
A new “slogan” (these slogans: are dread-
ful things) has been announced by Georgj
Fuller, of the N. S. Wales Nationalist party.
It is (who could have imagined anything so
new?) “country development,” and it in-
cludes, as an afterthought down at the tail,
“opening up new ports” and “the construc-
tion of cross-country railway lines.” But
the age of credulity is nearly past, and
though the angel Gabriel fell from Heaven
by way of a sign, it isn’t likely that any-
body north or south will give up believing
that the formation of absolutely new States
is the only thing. Even the opening of new
ports wouldn’t be much if local produce, oy
order of the city Government, was dragged
past them to Sydney as it is dragged past
Newcastle; and cross-country railways, with
the charges and time-tables arranged by the
old crowd at the old address, have no charm,
The “district loan,” tried and abandoned
by the previous Government, is to be re-
vived as the last refuge of N.S.W .’s Skim-
poles. In the ordinary way of loans Smith,
of Wagga, buys fIO.OUO of the Government’s
p.c. paper for the sake of the interest,
which is charged to the community at large.
The money goes into the general fund, and
may be spent on a railway near Bourke. Under
the "district” idea the matter is put to
Smith: "\\ill you lend £lO.OOO at per
cent, payable by all the people of the State
if.it goes to build a line in your district
so that you will get the increased land
values as well?” The places where there
are plenty of rich Smiths to lend money
have railways already, else they wouldn’t
be there; and the places which need rail-
ways are empty through lack of them, so
in the absence of affluent Smiths they don’t
get them. But one work is as good as an-
other to keep the unemployed quiet and buy
their votes with.
The hitherto rather temporary-looking
N. S. Wales Leg. Council being evidently a
fixture at last—as fixed as Labor can make
it —payment should follow almost as a mat-
ter of course. The plea will be that the
Senate (the Federal Upper House) is paid
But —the Senator has to meet the cost of
elections; the M.L.C. hasn’t. The Senator has
to attend to his job or lose his job. It doesn’t
matter whether the M.L.C. attends to any-
thing. The Senator is dependent on his
salary so far as Government salaries go;
the M.L.C. may hold 10 paid official jobs if
he can get them, and this is the time when
favored M’s.L.C. will begin to get them on
a large scale, unless all the signs are wrong.
There is just one cheering feature about the
“BLESS YOU, DANIEL.”
N. S. Wales Cabinet. It is in such haste
to provide for itself and its friends and its
little brother that it doesn’t give the people
time to get quite used to the new and grimy
order of thipgs—to demoralise gradually, so
to speak.
As a study in political humbug, Joe Cook’s
remarks on the proposed N. S. Wales State
lottery are first-rate. . He defends the
Federal tax on Tattersall sweep prizes by de-
claring that, as the Government can neither
legalise nor abolish the accursed sweep, it
does the next-best thing, which is to tax it.
The audacity of that is splendid. The tax is
an open admission that the Government could
abolish the lottery if it would. It could
tax it out of existence —which is precisely
what it is very careful not to do. What it
does is to squeeze just as much as it thinks
it dares without imperilling the sweep’s
existence. The bad landlord who puts up
Flossie’s rent to the last farthing that he
thinks she will pay does just the same kind
of thing.
Peterson, one of the dissatisfied Labor-
ites in Queensland Assembly, has gone over
to the Country party, and if only one more
follows his example the Theodore Ministry
will become a memory. When Theodore
heard the news he furiously described the
secessionist as “a common political rat.”
There are some skippers who wouldn t be
so ready to brand their craft as a sinking
ship. But evidently Theodore doesn’t care
who knows it.
The Age on the Irish trouble :
To every reasonable mind the thought that an
offer of Australian freedom would be finally spurned
was almost impossible.
But “Australian freedom” has not been
offered. What would the Protectionist Age
think, for example, of a provision in our Con-
stitution insisting on complete Freetrade
with the United Kingdom?
In the Senate “Jupp” Gardiner, the
Chamber’s comic Freetrader, had a rush of
Protectionism to the head when the item was
reached providing that “articles imported or
purchased in bond for the official use of the
Governor-General shall be admitted free.” As
a proletarian, he objected to the privilege
in toto. The Bulletin is delighted to wel-
come Jupp into its camp. Governors are
just the people who should pay import duties,
and the same remark applies to the officers
on warships. (The Lower Deck in the It.A.N.
is bone-dry.) One of the few remaining
excuses for the money spent on Governors is
that their entertainments are “good for
trade,” and this is the justification, too, for
the arrival of the local fleet at every coastal
city where there is a big race-meeting or
other festival on. If such people were im-
pelled by a stiff tariff to buy (say) all their
wines locally it might do good eventually
to an important Australian industry.
If there is any elderly lawyer not Sow
engaged in reducing hours or fixing the price
of soup-bones he can get a Royal Commis-
sioner’s job in Queensland. Five years ago
the Theodore Government set out to irrigate
20,000 acres on the Burdekin River, alleging
that 170 farms could be provided for a mere
£131,000. The other day it was casually
mentioned that the scheme had cost £206,000,
that it wasn’t half finished (the estimate
has grown to £400,000), and that the'irri-
gated area couldn’t possibly be more than
10,600 acres. In short, the land will have
to be loaded with more than six times the
estimated capital burden —if the difference
isn’t written off at Posterity’s expense.
Hence the proposal to hand the business over
for dissection to another elderly lawyer.
The Bulletin doesn’t know what he can
do about it except to suggest that the Gov-
ernment responsible should punish itself
with another rise in screw.
Multitudes of polite Frenchmen said quan-
tities of polite things to Hughes in France
about the generosity of Australia in lending
a useful hand against the Hun. The assimi-
lative little man took it all in and licked his
lips while wait.ng for more. Yet he might
have admitted that there was another side
to" the case. Australia, with the Prussian at
its doors, in Papua, the Bismarck Archipel-
ago, the Solomons, the Carolines, the La-
diones, the Marshall Islands and Samoa,
knew that its doom was pretty well fixed if
the progress of the man with the spiked
helmet continued at the old pace. And ii
had the remarkable luck to fight the matter
out with France for an ally instead of alone,
and to fight in France instead of on its own
red-hot doorstep, with its own house in
flames behind it. So the debt of gratitude is
pretty even.
Melbourne, whose daily papers have had
a very friendly feeling for those who want
to swindle S. Aus. out of the North-South
line, ought to be interested in the latest
speech of Theodore, the leader of the move-
ment. In his mind’s eye lie sees the deflected
line go via Oaihooweal, I>oulia 7 \\ indorah,
Eromanga and Thargomindali (Q.) and llun-
gerford and Bourke < N.K. \.. >to Sydney. He
quite forgot the original pretence that a
branch from, say, Eromanga, via Broken Hill
to Mildura and Melbourne, would be part
of the scheme, and would give Melbourne
its share in the profits of the robbery. * 1
course, conditions have changed, for one
thing, the N.S.W. Government is building
its own east-and-west line to Broken Hill,
and to permit the building of a Federal north-
and-south line through N. S. Wales terri-
tory to carry the Barrier trade to Melbourne
would be poor business.
So much noise having been made about
the appointment of Hughes’s late secretary
Shepherd to represent Australia on the
League of Nations, Captain S. M. Bruce has
been hurriedly appointed to go to Geneva
with him. Bruce is a perfectly good fellow,
but his political experience is trifling, and
it is doubtful if he has the Australian view-
point. The Government, it is believed, might
have had Justice Isaacs; but Isaacs wouldn t
be a cipher anywhere, which is probably
why he wasn’t called on.
The Victorian election demonstrates once
more the political impotence of the Great
Daily. Last year, as Cocky is grimly recall-
ing, Age and Argus ran a C.P. candidate
for Ballarat on the anti-grab ticket. He
lost his deposit. Last week the same papers
brought their heaviest batteries to bear on
their friends of 1920. They denounced Cocky
in a score of leaders and half-a-hundred
special articles; pictured him as a boycotter,
a wrecker and a socialist with blood m ins
eye (in reality he is a mild Conservative
with the traditional Conservative leaning
towards the State), and called upon an in-
furiated people to politically exterminate
him. In the result the victim of all this
vehemence lost only one seat out of to and
that to a Labor candidate.
From Senator Elliott: —-
The Bulletin (l/9/’2l) contains an extraordinary
misrepresentation of my views in regard to a ceitain
incident of the late war which I related in the
Senate, to the effect that an., officer—a lawyer
informed me some 200 men were on one occasion
awaiting trial ,at Salisbury Plain, and on the firsv
batch of 30 coming to trial he (the lawyer), acting
as prisoners’ friend, secured the acquittal of 25
or 26 of" them. Be (the lawyer) was afterward*
informed by a High Staff that they wanted those
men convicted, and that he (the lawyer) would
be transferred to Weymouth, which was . done. Your
report then states that in my opinion the incident
was amusing and irrelevant to the subject of the
debate (the new Army Legal Department). the
very contrary is the fact. I related tha„ Incident
as showing the scandalous interference with justice
that was and is possible under the present system,
and so far as regarding it as a comedy I regard it
an a tragedy and a scandal.
Those reporters again ! Here is what Sydney
Telegraph’s man thought he heard
(11/8/’2l) :
Mr. Elliott's acquaintance, acting as prisoner’s
friend, got 25 or 26 acquitted. He. was afterwards
informed by the authorities that they had wanted
those men convicted, and he was removed else-
where. The affair had no relevance to eitlic/r side
of the controversy, but was given as an anecdote to.
amuse his colleagues.
A proposition which rivals even J. Car-
rutbers’s million farms as a loan-money
swallower appears on the business- paper of
the'Labor Conference to be held shortly in
Melbourne. It reads —-
The abolition of the' wages system by making
it illegal to pay wages or receive wages; six
months’ grace to be allowed to arrange matters:
in' the meantime the Federal through
the Commonwealth Bank, to lend sufficient money to
employees of industry at a reasonable rate-of inter-
est to enable them to acquire their proprietorshir
share in the industry they are employed, in.
That makes about 10 billions that the
Federal Government has been asked, at dif-
ferent Labor Conferences to “/lend” or
“advance” or “make available,” the money
to be got apparently by the simple device
of turning a printing press—just like Russia
did. It all comes of drinking too much Ivarl
Marx on an empty head.
LABOR IN 1921.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Labor party was routed in the Queensland
municipal elections badly beaten in Victoria
majority in West Sydney reduced from 9000 to
2000 .... Peterson, M.L.A. for Normanby (Q.)> &
Labor man for 30 years, secedes.” —Daily paper.
What is the matter with Labor? Labor is racked
by disease,
Sick of a dangerous fever and some of the symp-
toms are these:
Truculent Tammany bosses, wielding a sinister power
Gained and sustained by the ballot stuffed in a
critical hour;
Cynical salary-grabbers, picking the country’s bones,
Bitterly railing at Cohen —and fawning on him for
loans;
Scatter-brained theorists a ruthless, omni-
potent State;
Work-stoppers spreading their gospel, the beautiful
gospel of hate —
Hate for Australian employers, hailed as oppressors
of men
By loafers who “follow the ponies” and crawl on
their bellies to Wren;
Pacifists (mostly imported) who none but their
countrymen fight,
Sneering at White Australia—only their livers are
white ;
Cranks who would stop invasion by handing the
foe a tract;
Others who’d make us perfect merely by passing
an Act;
Papers yelling in capitals, open to any clown,
Any pitiful whipster who’ll write the English down;
Toughs who stifle opinion with a tyrannous union
screw ;
Exiles eternally whining of Emmet and Brian Boru.
That is the trouble with Labor. Once it was sound
as a bell,
Vow it’s despised and rejected—simply a name and
a smell.
N*.S.W\
TUART.


1.
A.«
e>cp<z-Vi «z.ri c.<z.dl
man
ta>ka>
of "tKam wKa.h
tfvz-y starV otjt.
2 . Tfxt. day* on ftxz. could laa. spant
sVucly v-r\Q droving ,
4?. WifK. +ti<z. lz».wycE.Tr jpolitici&jrVs Corrirria.-rk.cf of ike. larsgfuag®
&rv<3 p«.r>t up y<2.<z.limgs lk<z.y iTo
tTX2kPc<2. kullock. drivers •
3.
AnJ ifie. nigKtS fh<z. c&mp-
jfir<z 3 n cz,*~js
ycf or le.ss o/ it .
5 . Daas_y
could t>«.
Jejofcn dad
on ?vS a
i“uiror - -
& K tol" «.w<2a.*t-
Tpamtura would.
}>>».'/«■ Kzk<i +K<2.ir
Cotovic.iiorvS
SK.vera.ly t<z.st'o.d
2krvci "fr)(2.r<z.
r r> ba-
4owa
r«si^n2i±ionS.
EDUCATING PARLIAMENT.
Since so many barristers, lawyers and city agents represent rural interests in Parliament, it is suggested that they should soend the recess in getting a
knowledge of country life.


ďf
TRANSFORMERS
Metropolitan Vickers have made 16 of the
largest Transformers ever built in the United
Kingdom.
Made for the Glasgow Corporation, each have
an output of 7*25k.v.a. single ph., 25 cycles.
20,000/6500 volts.
d
electricaC
CO. LTD.
Australian Offices:
84 William Street, Melbourne.
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Elde^
. Agents:—
, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide, Melbourne, Perth,
Sydney, Brisbane.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the £mp/re.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS. 1905: TRUST FUNDS, 1915: TRUST FUNDS, 1921:
£5,758,000. £11,890 000. £18,100,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1921, £1,940,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Insurance Co.:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Olf. serves. serves.
Vov £ £ £ £ £
ino 66,745 12ip.c.=37,500 157 29,088 454.107
1«11 107 417 12* ~,,37,500 12.604 57,203 541,3/0
109*986 15' ’ „ 45,000 8,932 56,054 597,424
Transferred to capital, £150.000 . 447,424
1913 117,870 10 p.Ci“45,000 2,773 70,097 517.521
1914 109,538 10 „ ~ 45,000 64.538 582,059
1915 150,683 10 ~ ~ 45,000 34,573 71,110 653,169
1916 186,379 llj „ » 5’2,500 171 133,708 786,8/7
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 030,8/7
1917 234,094 10 p.c.=60.00,0 22.236 151,858 788.735
1913 203,639 124 „ ~ 75,000 1,428 127,211 915,946
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 765,946
1919 186,171 113p.C.=87,500 98,671 864,617
1920* 112,590 13& „ 50,000 62,590 927,207
1921 271,803 13J „ 100,000 171,803 1,099,010
This big Maovilaud insurance cu. proposes
to link up with its almost equally b.g neigh-
bor, the South British. Both these Auck-
land concerns have developed a large busi-
ness outs.de Dominion and Commonwealth,
particularly in Africa, India, Ch.na, Japan
and North America, and in these fields,
owing to amalgamations of old competitors,
both managements have decided that it
would be advantageous for the two cos,, to
go hand-in-hand in future. They are already
partners in the eastern States of America.
A “complete partnership” is now contem-
plated ; but, for the present, at any rate,
that does not mean a straight-out amalga-
mation. It is proposed to adjust the capi-
tal accounts of the two cos. .so that the num-
ber of shares issued, capital paid up and
uncalled liability will be precisely the same
in both cases. Exactly how this wall be
effected will probably not be made clear until
the .South British accounts for the year just
closed are presented in October, but appa-
rently the only call on shareholders will be
the issue by the South British of half-a-
million new £1 shares which will be called
to about 6s. Bd.: reserve transfers will do
the rest. Otherwise the two cos. will “con-
tinue as now constituted.” The partnership
will evolve a very formidable concern which
will, no doubt, facilitate and cheapen opera-
tions overseas. But whether the novel
coalition will always prove Satisfactory is
doubtful: sooner or later the two partners
will probably decide that a straight-out amal-
gamation will be more acceptable. Both
establishments are apparently to remain
intact, so Australasian expenses will pre-
sumably not be curtailed to any extent. Yet
when they are close-linked considerable say-
ings should be possible; for instance, it
should no longer be necessary to retain 17
directors—the N.Z. lias a Board of 10, the
South British one of seven.
The N. Z. Insurance d : d remarkably well
for the 32 months to May 31. Notwith-
standing the trade collapse towards the close
of the period and all-round lower values of
insurables, premium income was larger than
ever before. This tabulation compares the
underwriting experience over many years:—
Loss Expense
. Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 29.6
1900.. 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 2".9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2. *
1906.. 565,149 j ||gf;||f } 129,361 111.9 22.9
1910.. 605,509 391,'321 172,593 64.5 28.5
1914.. 699,310 435.397 202.125 62.3 28.9
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1916.. 924.790 545.582 245,930 59.3 26.0
1917.. 1,147,704 689.302 283,724 60.1 24.7
1918.. 1,215,087 644,232 387,798 53.2 31.9
1919.- 1,091,288 644,953 316,244 59.1 28.9
1920:. 636,516 397,393 170.16 S 62 4 26.7
1921. . 1,275,230 768,819 344,253 60.3 27.0
♦General. fSan Francisco disaster. +6 months.
The feature of the year’s operations, how-
ever, was the favorable loss-rate. Most over-
seas underwriters sustained heavier losses
than in previous years: one English c<>. with
a business 2-J times the size of N.Z.’s made
an underwriting profit of only 2.4 p c. of its
net premiums, compared with 14.3 p.c. for
the previous year. This Maoriland eo.’s
cl a'ms were about normal and an under-
writing profit of 12.7 p.c. was made. The
underwriting surplus amounted to £132,158:
interest and rents gave £98,406; .anti
£23,079 was dropped into an investment
fluctuation and contingency reserve without
passing through the P. and L. account.
These items, less £12,500 voted to a staff
pension fund, made up the £271.803 profit
shown in the introductory table. The in-
vestment earnings alone nearly provided the
amount required for dividends, so all except
£1534 of tlie underwriting profit was avail-
able for strengthening reserves. Lous.der-
ably more than a mill.on now lies in various
reserve funds: general reserve, _io la, 000 ; re-
serve for unexpired risks, £62o,000; invest-
ment fluctuation and contingency account,
£53,641 : balance of profit and loss, £1 60,060.
In addition, for several years £BO,OOO has
been lying to the credit of a reserve for taxa-
tion, and since all current taxes have been
fully provided for, this ££o,ooo can also b?
regarded as a reserve. Paid capital
is three-quarters of a million, and all funds
total £1.920,010, or 151 p.c. of the years
record premium income. So despite /he
abnormal business which lias been handled,
the N. Z. Insurance maintains its strength
from the point of view of policy-holders.
And the co.’s investments are a very healthy
lot: of total assets of £2,469.467, £1,958.900
is in public securities, railway debentures,
deposits, cash, etc.
* * * #
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.:—
, Dividends. \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Protits. Bp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ ■£ £ ■
1911.. 3,400 2250 4 p.c.= 900 306 3,074
1912. . 3,077 3470 10 „ „ 2,250 2,957 6.031
1913.. 11,015 4081 12* „ „ 2,812 4,122 10,153
ml I .’ 8,790 3467 124 „ „ 2,344 2,979 13,132
Co. reconstructed ; £22,500 in nejv Deficit.
June, shares issued for goodwill .. 9,368
1915.. 19,603 4200 8 p.c. = 7,782 7,621 1,747
Reserves.
1916.. 45,099 4200 15J „ „ 14,248 26,651 24,904
1017.. 26,284 4200 104 „ „ 12,800 9,284 34,188
1918.. 48,153 4200 13 „ „ 17,687 26,266 60.454
Provision for taxes, £7500 .. 52,951
Deticit.
Reserves capitalised, £73,750 .. 20,706
Additional goodwill item, £3958 .. 24,754
1919.. 32,686 6,114 8 p.c. = 14,526 12,046 12,708
10 p.c.
1920.. 41,716 14,615 10 „ „ 22,125 4,976 7,732
Pref. Ord. Total.
1921.. 5,633 4 p.c. 4 p.'p. 16,167 18.266,
Local rubber-manufacturers have suffered
along with the planters, whose product has
slumped in value below production cost.
Twelve months ago, when Barnet-Glass dis-
tributed all but about £5060 of its record*
profits, the “Wild Cat” thought the d rectors
had made the pace rather too hot. Still, they
sa.d they had put a bit up the.r sleeves to
protect the large accumulation of costly
stocks by “what may be regarded as a
reasonable provision to meet a probable
decline.” But neither local manufacturers
nor rubber-growers foresaw the difficulties
with which the U.S. —the principal rubber
consumer —was faced. A year ago many
contracts at then-current rubber prices were
entered into to asfcure supplies, but soon
afterwards ’Murkan industry collapsed, and
with it the market for rubber. Barnet-
Glass then found that the provision made to
protect its stocks was quite inadequate, and,
though the co.’s trade continued good, latest
profits suffer by stocks being written .down
substantially “so that for the 'current year
operations will be on a safer trading basis.”
Even after writing down stocks the accumu-
lation of manufactured goods and raw
material was very heavy: the book value at
June 30 was £490,843, compared with
£312,595 twelve months previously. It would
be interesting to know precisely what was the
average paid for raw materials during the
period, and on what prices latest stock-
taking was based. No doubt nmst of the
old buying contracts have been completed;
in that case the co. can ease its troubles by
averaging prices through purchasers at lower
rates —rubber is about one-third what it was
12 months nsro. Nevertheless, stock of a
book value almost as large f as total paid
capital is a big load to carry lii these uncer-
tain days.
The magnitude of the stocks has put a
further strain on finances. During the year
£117,848 of new capital was got in. Of
that about £68,060 went into properties and
plant, and though over the period book debts
were reduced £15,167, the co. had to lean
on outsiders for nearly £150,000 more. This
comparison gives further details: —
1915. 1917. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . . £46,076 £1131,984 £229,962 £379,725
Freeholds . . 21,297 33,194 65,715 88,317
Plant, etc. .. 36,942 53,432 102,337 147,388
Book debts . . 49,918 69,322 122.745 107,578
Stock .. .. 74,591 1814845 312.595 490.843
Cash, etc. .. 8,789 0/300 15,013 18,932
If the stocks prove to be worth all at which
they are now shown the co.’s position
will be comfortable enough, for the
latest accounts claim a surplus of liouid
assets over and above liabilities of £237,600.
That certainly provides a wide margin for
the bank and other creditors.
Though on this occasion shareholders get
only 4 p.c. for the year they can have no
complaints. The co. has given them fat
returns. The divs. have been more hand-
some than has appeared from the rate of
distribution: £96 250 of the present pa 5 d
capital of £491 598 was transferred from re-
serves or issued against goodwill in a recon-
struction. The co. grew with amazing
rapidity: only 11 years ago paid capital was
£85,000.
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people re-
written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, a £ £ £
1908.. 48,437 10p.c.— 25,000 18,457 158,386
1909.. 10 „ ~20,000 20,206 184,602
1910-. 59,521 10 „ ~ 29,991 29.530 214,182
1911.. 73,784 10 „ ~30,000 43,784 257,906
1912.. 00,909 10 „ ~31,001 29,308 287,2/4
1913.. 79,206 10 „ ~35,000 44,206 331,480
1914.. 76,710 10 „ ~35,000 30,000 11,716 343,196
191-5.. 68,282 10 „ ~40,000 28,282 371,478
1916. .102,037 10 „ ~40,000 62,037 433,515
1917. .105.833 10 „ ~ 43,334 62,499 496,014
1918. .112,102 12 „ ~65,334 46,768 542,782
Internal reserves disclosed, .£90,000 .. 632,782
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. 512, / 32
1919. .104,149 10 p.c.= 72,000 .32,149 544,931
Premiums on new shares .. £27,280 572,211
1920. .143,975 12ip.c.=101,790 - I 32<185 G 04,396
Provident l'und, t i 1.000 (
1921.. 104.561 10 v>.c.= 87.7*20 —1 ft sai fill °37
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ) 0,841
Considering the stagnant markets which liad
ruled during most of the year for the big
lines which ■ Elder-Smith handles, the
£104,5,61 disclosed —ample to pay 10 p.c. on
a share-register which has more than doubled
in recent years—-is surprisingly good. Gross
profits were only £14,081 less than for the
previous record year, but instead of exes,
receding they advanced another £25,0G0-odd.
So increased costs apparently had a greater
effect on net earn mgs than the market dis-
turbances had. However, as The Bulletin
lias remarked before, it is doubtful whether
the big co. was claiming all the profit it might
have claimed when war prices were giving
fat commissions. The directors now admit as
much ; during the very profitable years they
“feared a reaction, and their policy had been
based accordingly.” Sp the actual decline
of profits has been probably greater than the
published accounts indicate. How disclosed
figure's have behaved is set down hereunder,
capital movements also beirg included to
show how new funds have helped the busi-
ness :
Paid Gross
Capital. Profits. Expenses.
1907 .. £230,000 £127,052 £67.878
1910 .. 800,000 144,260 84,738
1915 ... 400,000 172.386 102.438
1918 .. 600,000 318,179 196,077
1919 .. 720,000* 348,783 244,634
1920 .. 877.200* 462.4 U 318.476
1921 .. 877,200* 448,070 343,509
*lneludes £120,000 of reserves capitalised.
Since 1915 £357,200 of new capital and
£27,280 of premiums thereon have been got
in. Meantime, after passing out £410,1(8
in divs. and voting £20,000 to a staff provi-
dent fund, no less than £242,479 of visible
surplus ptofit has been left in the business.
Much of it was put into public sacurities
and other easily-realised lines, so when
unusually heavy demands weye made for
accommodation during the past year Elder-
Smith’s had no difficulty in finding the funds.
Compared with 12 months previously there
was at June 30 £260,000 more tied up in
advances,, goods, shares, etc. These advances,
are “in excellent order,” the directors say,
after making a critical examination of them.
This comparison gives further details of
how the concern has expanded during recent
years:—
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
£ £ £ £
Deposits, etc. 1,260,155 1,636,756 2,201,305 1,875,074
Other lia-
bilities . . 238,602 55,998 65,587 74,536
Property, pre-
mises, plant,
etc. . . 104,340 139,984 278,598 316,079
Government
stock & cash 632,029 674,468 1,456,515 849,039
Advances,
etc. . . 1,114,876 1,640,959 2,016,536 2,376,006
Other assets 176,698 22,821 62,630 56,432
The capital of £877,200 is made up of
146,200 £lO shares paid to £6.
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
■Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1909. .10.618 £5/16/Bp.c.= 5,834 1400 3384 15,428
1910. .12,655 7/8/4 „ „ 7,083 2448 3124 18,552
1911.. 14.123 7/18/4 „ „ 9,233 1026 3864 22,416
1912.. 16.936 9/11/8 ~ „ 11.979 1813 3144 25,560
1913.. 17.451 10 „ „ 12,500 1500 3451 29,011
1914.. 18.077 10 „ „ 12.500 1500 4077 33,088
1915.. 10 „ „ 12,500 1942 35,030
1916. .15,732 . 10 „ ~ 12,500 1242 1990 37,020
1917.. 10 „ „ 12,500 2000 2039 39.059
1918. .20,006 10 ~ 12.500 5000 2506 41.565
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 29,065
Prefs. t Writ-
-18 p.c.) Ordinaries, ten Off.
1919. .21,562 £417 10 p.c. = £13,125 £2Bll ( 974
Taxation reserve.. .. 3000 ) ‘ ’
Assets written up, £lO,OOO . . 41.274
Transferred to capital, £27,500.. 13,774
1920. .28,530 2000 124p.c.= 17,706 3000 ), fi - qa
Taxation reserve. . . . 3000 ) ’
1921. .22,497 2000 10 p.c. = 18,756 1000 17,339
In the 1020 accounts £3OOO was lying in a
taxation reserve, and the .directors added
£3OOO from the!year’s profits. In the latest
balance-sheet only £4OOO remains there, but
for what purpose the £2OOO was extracted
is not explained. If it was used except
for the payment of taxes chargeable against
previous years, then the profit for the past
12 months was not as good as the table
says it was. But even if the Accumulations
of the fat years had to be called upon for
about £lOOO to maintain 10 p.c. on the
£187,550 of ordinaries (£27,500 of it capi-
talised reserves), after paying 8 p.c. on the
of prefs. got in a couple of years
agu, the co. did particularly well consider-
ing the collapse of prices and other recent
troubles in the rag tmd<c. Gross profits
were only £BOO less than for the previous
record year, so the Mutual Store got through
the difficult period very v.ell indeed, though
the falling-off may have been greater than
shown by the published accounts, for the
directors were lor a time writing down the
nook value of plant a hid fittings hard, and
cos'tly stocks may then have felt the knife,
too. So the Stores may not have had to deal
lately with the book Value of its stocks so
drastically as some other traders have been
compelled to. Still, this and others cos.
have been very fortunate that the necessary
revision \of values did not come at a time
when the\ public wa i hard-pressed. During
the past year the effects of war-finance had
not passed off, and war gratuities, Peace
imans and State borrowings helped to main-
tain the air of prosperity which had been
experienced for several years previously. >,'<>
doubt this co. has now shaken itself free
from most of the dangers of being loaded
with large stocks of very high-priced goods.
At July 81 it held £188,844 worth (at cost
less depreciation) -computed with £142,518.
12 months earlier. The doubt is whether it
can continue to make profits on new price-
levels sufficient to continue to pay 10 p.c.
comfortably on the esash-paid and bonus capi-
tal increases of reejent years, including the
large proportion of the capital represented
by real property. That depends largely on
the seasons and the yiriees which our staples
command in, the woti’d’s markets. The co. s
position meantime locket snug'enough: —
1910. ' 1915. 1920. 1921.
I.labilities .. £84,454 £90,0 41 £84,692
Property .. 103,625 105,025 103,625 106,000
Plant, etc. .. 13,187 1‘4107 24,750 23.600
Stock.. .. 64,082 791,545 142,.>18 133,844
Book debts .. 26,948 28»,222 50,899 55,867
Cash .. .. 300 :is 111 18,503 10,658
Of the liabilities £4U,OCO is mortgage on
premises, and apart from that there was at
the balance a surplus of more or less liquid
assets over trad.ng and other debts of
£155,877.
English Electric Co. of Australia,
Ltd. —This was the title adopted early last
vear by Standard- Waygood-Hercules, Ltd.,
when it admitted a big English, amalgama-
tion as a partner and secured the rights to
its patterns, patents, etc. The consideration
to the English co. was £lOO,OOO fully-
paid “A” snares entitled to one-tenth of the
profits, and it had the right to tala! up
£lOO,OOO of the unissued capital and appoint
two permanent d rectors on the Australian
co.'s Board. Though the value of the rights
acquired was unquestionable, the considera-
tion paid was stiff, and there were aspects
of the arrangement—-particularly with re-
spect to English voting control —which did
not appear altogether satisfactory. How-
ever, the agreement has now been modified
in a way satisfactory to the Australian con-
cern. The £lOO,OOO “A” shares paid for
goodwill, the English co.’s option . over
100,000 ordinaries at a premium of jss. and
other rights are to _be cancelled, the Aus-
tralian concern paying £lO,OOO in cash in-
stead. The directors have undertaken on
behalf of the co. (which cannot trade in its
own shares) to buy up the 100,000 “A”
shares for £lO,OOO, and shareholders are to
be asked to amend the Articles to cancel the
issue. Also, it is intended to tap the re-
serve fund for £lO,OOO to extinguish the
goodwill represented by the cash payment
proposed. This is sound procedure: not
only will the co.’s affairs be on a firmer
foundation, but the re-arrangement will keep
the co. purely Australian, entirely developed
with Australian capital, but still retaining
the valuable connections secured by the ori-
ginal agreement. The re-arrangement evi-
dently suits the b\g English co. well, too:
no doubt it can find full use for all its avail-
able funds in its 1 own territory.
One effect of the amended agreement is
that the E. E. of Aus. has to find all the
capital to develop its contemplated expan-
sion. The £lO,OOO cash for the English con-
cern was found with ease, for though a good
profit was shown for the year to March 81
last the directors recommended no div. so
that the concern would not be tied up in
financing its new shops and_ equipment. To
provide for this' outlay £150,000 of 6 p.c.
10-vear debentures, convertible into ordi-
naries after March 31, 1022, were offered at
par, but owing to the tightness of money
(legitimate industry has little hope of rais-
ing funds at reasonable rates while Govern-
ments are constantly in the market) only
£llB,lOO has so far been applied for. So a
new issue of 47,520 ordinaries is proposed,
and a bit of bait is thrown in. Present
holders will have the right to take up one
new share for every five now held, but for
every two of the new shares applied for it
is proposed to present one fully-paid £1
bonus share in Weymouth’s, Ltd., the Mel-
bourne end of the business. A balance-sheet
shows the standing of this subsidiary as at
June 30 last. Its paid capital is £52,500,
and the year’s profits were £7873 —a return
of 14 p.c. The parent co. will provide for
this bonus of £28.760 in Weymouth’s by


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which kee'ps remarkably
cool, and which may be grsisned close to the tip
without discomfort.. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulhiirn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. — Advt. [2
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
Besides being far cheaper, more durable and more
efficient than metal pipe, “Pioneer” Wood Pipe gives
a continuous line from beginning to end—including
bends and curves either horizontal or vertical to
follow the contour of the land and eliminate costly
excavation work. It is, in fact, exactly what the
word implies—continuous, and has a 15 to 20 per
cent, greater volume of flow than metal pipe. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road.
Lane Cove.— Advt.
ASBESTOS. —The rjght class of Asbestos is found
m serpentine areas. The Asbestos Siate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, links Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office, tel. Ceil. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colijson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice Write
ns for Inventors' Guide.— Advt,
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) co
suiting engineers and contractors for coke-oven eoui
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol et<
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plant!
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; bla
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc R
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co’, circul
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engine'
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- t(
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
tequisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling'
i>i ... . [ - * * “ uii o tv uci innj
Balances, AVeignts. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun
sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe<
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B Selbv Co
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bon
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb — Advi
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited —-
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
ThePadfic Cableßoard
i:i:sr ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC."
Gt. Britain
New Zealand
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred.
.. 3/- 1/6 {
.. 4id.
Week-end.
t)d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4 1/2 j "d. (minimum
1 11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil.' Chili and Peru. West
Indies. Central America and . other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations rnav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
•J. MII.WXRD. Manager in the Pacific
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
r
0OORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
j
wirt
i- Company I-td.. Australasian Agents. 26 :i() Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
ďf
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
HEAD
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
appropriating portion of last year’s undi-
vided profits for the purpose. Incidentally,
orders for £46,472 of high-tension switch-
gear are in hand, and the Standard-Way-
good-llercules, recently revived as a sub-
sidiary to handle lift work, has £BO,OOO of
orders on hand.
It is a safe rule, even if it isn’t a patriotic
one. only to. subscribe to the last loan —if
there ever is a last one. The despairing
Government is_ always raising its terms,
and the subscriber to the previous loan is
always sorry. First Joseph Cook said that
those who kindly helped his old loan at 5
p.c. and no discount would have this reward
-if they took up an equal amount in his
new loan (6 p.c. and a discount) they could
get 6 per cent, on the old amount also. That
did less good than was expected, for the poor
devil who put his all in the old loan has
no more money. So now Cook puts it this
way: Anybody who held off the old loan and
so has £2OOO on hand can buy up £lOOO
of the old security from the poor devil for
about £9OO, the p.d. losing £lOO. Then he
can buy £lOOO worth of the new 6 p.c. loan
for £960, get. his bit. of the old loan raised
to 6 p.c. (£6O interest on £9OO is £6 13s. 4d.
P.c., and tnere is the £lOO profit On repay-
ment in 1930). So it pays to be a rich
man who kept off Cook’s old loan. This
sort of thing is so obviously a premium on
slacking that in the U.S.A. proposals have
been made to lift the interest on the early
loans to the amount offered- for the new
ones; but nobody has yet found out how to
do it without throwing an enormous extra
burden on to the taxpayer.
For many years Australian manufacturers
have been developing an export trade, and
the war gave it a lift, particularly in the
Far North, India and Straps Settlements.
•Since the guns cooled, however, competi-
tion has become very keen, and the foreigner
has been so active that Australian manufac-
turers are now combining to hold and push
their interests. To that end two cos. have
been floated during the past few weeks: the
Society for Promoting Australian Trade
Abroad, Ltd., in Sydney; and Australian
Exports, Ltd., in Melbourne. The latter,
whose nominal capital is £15,000, in 150
shares of £lOO each, is to devote its atten-
tions to leather :—•
This co. is being formed to undertake, on a mutual
and co-operative basis, exactly what individual manu-
facturers and business men would like to do. By
organisation it is expected that business will be
secured through the agency efforts of envoys skilled
in handling foreign trade.... They will take samples
carefully selected by the co. from every shareholder’s
range, and will proceed to their respective territories.
For the time being operations will prooably be con-
fined to two markets, viz., Java and China, particu-
larly the latter.... The co. will take every possible
moans to ensure that such orders are tilled with goods
made up to sample and. every article must bear
the imprint of the co. as a guarantee.
The co. will undertake the dispatch of goods
and insurances thereon, and, by arrange-
ment with the Commonwealth Bank, share-
holding-exporters "will get their returns in
the shortest possible time.”
The co. which is being floated privately
in Sydney-—nominal capital £20,000 —is
more ambitious. It is not limiting its acti-
vities to any particular lines. It proposes
to arrange public exhibitions of Australian
manufactures, book orders on behalf of
manufacturers, and, if required, appoint buy-
ing agents, or assist established agencies.
In addition it aims at furnishing local manu-
facturers with trade reports, and issuing
catalogues covering all the goods available
by members of its organisation. The co.
hopes to get to work in earnest towards the
end of October. It, too, has arranged with
the Commonwealth Bank to facilitate pay-
ments on shipments.
Eighteen months ago an ambitious scheme
to establish aerial services between the capi-
tal was unfolded in the prospectus of Aus-
tralian Aerial Transport, Ltd., in which
shipping interests figured prominently. That
concern, however, has not yet developed
wings: insufficient capital was forthcoming,
and most of what was subscribed has appa-
rently gone in initial expenses. The Bul-
letin understands that the co. is negotiat-
ing w r ith an English crowd to establish the
services contemplated in 1920.
Now another co. proposes to open up
practically the same air-lines, and unfolds
the scheme in a symphony in black, brown
and red. The promoting concern is the
Commercial Aviation Co., which proposes
that Commercial Air Transport, Ltd., nom-
inal capital £150.000, should pass over 6000
fully-paids and £l5OO cash for “complete
data necessary to the establishment of air
services, reports on types of aeroplanes and
engines, one 110-h.p. Le Rhone rotary en-
gine and spare parts for Avro 504-K type
aeroplane, etc.,” and in consideration for
"negotiations” for mail-service contracts.
Perhaps these assets and the preparatory
work are worth the £7500 in shares and
cash asked, but that does not represent
the full bite. The vendor co. also demands
8 p.c, of the nominal value of the shares
subscribed to cover “cost of formation, re-
gistration. printing, advertising, all com-
missions payable on sale of shares, propa-
ganda and representatives’ exes., etc.” If
the lothsoo ordinaries are taken up that
would mean £10.920 spent on flotation. The
promoters say that for £27,500 they can
buy five Avro triplanes, two Bristol tour-
ers, three Avro biplanes, sufficient spares
and necessary hangars and plant to estab-
lish the first services. From four trips each
way per week between Sydney and Brisbane,
three Sydney-Newcastle and a daily Lis-
more-Tenterfield, in addition to pleasure
flights, a gross profit of £20,513 is figured
for the first year and a net profit of £13,830.
This would give nearly 291 p.c. on the
£46,950 which would be got on allotment
if the whole 136,500 shares are subscribed.
At the present stage of aerial transport the
venture is speculative; and the promoters
have chosen a very unfavorable time .for
presenting their scheme.
* * * *
Tom Greenway’s Commonwealth Oil Re-
fineries issues its first balance-sheet. The
co. represents the result of a trade between
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., of which Tom’s
brother Chas. Greenway is boss-cocky, and
the Commonwealth Government. The lat-
ter’s nominees on the Board are Robert Gar-
ran, Robert Gibson and N. C. Lockyer; the
Anglo-Persian representatives I'. J. Green-
way, W. J. Byrne, A. Gillespie and Pro-
fessor Payne, Gillespie being the link in the
Anglo-Persian chain of control. They are a
hefty lot and capable of handling the big
job set them. _ Capital is £500.000 and Aus-
tralia, by having the hold on 250,001 shares,
has control, though it wisely leaves the tech-
nical and business end to the oil crowd. The
Board’s work to date has been to secure
refinery sites. The original plan was to
centre in Newcastle and feed Aussie with oil
from the works there; but on fuller reflec-
tion and for “economic reasons” two works
are to go up: one in the Ma State, the other
in Victoria. Queensland, N. S. Wales and
the South Seas will be served from Syd-
ney : Victoria, S. Aus. and Westralia will
draw on Melbourne. Should Morwell brown-
coal develop satisfactorily the Vic. refinery
should catch by-products, and find in them ii
further source of revenue. The first report
lets out the information that the Anglo-
Persian crowd are satisfied that they have a
new type of crude-oil still that beats com-
peting plants. So far £50,000 has been
called up; of that £9195 has gone into free-
holds, £lB3l was swallowed by preliminary
expenses, and £2985 by current expenditure,
leaving a shade under £27,000 in hand. This
will not go far when the real job of land-
buying and refinery erection is at hand.
As Britain (mostly the Government) holds
two-thirds of the Anglo-Persian Oil shares
the Commonwealth Oil' Refineries is in the
main an Imperial effort, at which the Yank
scowls and indirectly protests. The Royal
Dutch does not love the venture either: it
loses the Anglo-Persian’s distributing busi-
ness.
* * * *
Commonwealth Slate Co., Ltd., Is before
the public offering ,30,000 ss. contribs.,
though the promoters reckon that 4s. per
share (£6000) will be ample to give access
to and equip the area, 12 miles south of
Mudgee (N.S.W.) Evan Evans, who has
had 14 years’ experience in slate-quarries
in Wales and elsewhere, but has recently
been managing the Duchess mine for Hamp-
den-Cloncurry, claims that the 40 acres con-
tain sufficient slate to provide work on a large
scale for generations, and that as exposed it
is equal to the best Welsh. He estimates
that the cost of quarrying, splitting and dress-
ing should not exceed £5 per 1000. W. E.
Davies, who is to manage the proposition,
supports Evans’s good opinion by offering
to take the show on contract for a period
and supply slates to the co. at £lO per 1000.
Quantities and qualities, for roofing and
other purposes, look fairly right, but the
prospectus does not explain why the vendors
should get 30,000 fully-paids and £2OO cash.
The area is leasehold and “operations have
been confined to an open-cut—in 18ft. on the
strike of the lode, the width being 26ft. and
the height 17ft.” As a bait to the public
3000 of the fully-paids are reserved for a
one-in-ten bonus on shares taken up.
* * * *
Annual reports of three more Westralian
gold-mining cos., South Kalgurli, Associated
and Lake View and Star, were recently pre-
sented in London. South Kalgurli’s receipts
totalled £182,566, and the year’s surplus was
£36,0(0. A div. of 2s. 6u. per share was
paid, leaving £5395 to be ‘carried forward.
Ore reserves are computed at 179,900 tons
actual and 129,200 probaole. The opening
up of a valuable ore-body at No. 15 level was
described by the chairman at the meeting as
the most important development of the year,
and .steps are now being taken to prove its
downward continuat’on. Associated showed
a net profit of £25.624, which converted the
previous debit balance of £8864 into a credit
of £16,<60. The co. holds 0ol,(!03 out of
about 1,000.000 shares in the Porcupine gold-
mine, and 160,000 shares in the Iveeley silver-
mines (Canada), but so far it does not
•'nppnr to have made any money out of either
bundle, Lake View’s surplus of £27,494 was
helped by increased royalties from tributors.
No _ divs were pawl for several years, but
during the past 12 months shareholders got
llj p.c. Ore reserves are nearly three years
ahead of the mill, and about one-third is
already broken in the stopes. Recent de-
velopments at 2300 ft. are favorably men-
tioned, and the management confidently
expects that this level will be as good as
the one at 2100 ft., which has proved the best
opened up since the 300 ft.
Chairmen of London-owned Westralian
gold-mining cos. have lately been railing
against the State’s new mining award. At
the Associated meeting Edward Hooper de-
scribed the terms as “awful burdens”;
Marker, of the South Ivalgurli, declared that
they spelt ruination to most, if not all, Kal-
goorlie mines; Cordner James told Oroya
Links shareholders that the award was * a
staggering blow to the industry; and Collier,
from the chair of the Lake View, said it had
had a most damaging effect on gold-mining in
the West. Collier’s subsequent statement
that his co., like others, was “conserving its
resources” —in plain Australian, dodging the
award —until an attempt can be made to
reduce wages, explains the position of all of
them.
* * * *
Oroya Links’ liquid assets include over
£20,000 of cash and well-secured Stock Ex-
change loans, and nearly £1.00,000 of Gov-
ernment securities. Total expenditure at
the mine was £lO,OOO higher than last year,
but. that was balanced by a corresponding
increase in receipts from bullion and royal-
ties. The co. had to pay its proportion of
the legal expenses (£1044) incurred in fight-
ing the royalty claim made by the Moore
Cuter Co. The recovery of these costs is
problematical, hut if the Moore Filter people
had been successful Oroya Links would have
been called upon to pay 10 times the amount
of the law costs.
* * * *
“O.B.”: The manner in which the Trafal-
gar, Southern Cross (W.A.), was handled
reflects little credit on Edna May Battler,
which acquired it. Results snow the mine to
be poor, but. this could have been learnt by
proper sampling before crushing plant was
installed. Not content, with equipping the
show with a battery to treat unprofitable ore,
.the directors installed a cyanide plant, such
as it is, to deal with unpayable tailings. The
fault has not been all with the mine ; handled
differently, the Trafalgar would have shown
better results.
* * * *
Fraser’s line of lode, Southern Cross
(W.A.), consisting of Fraser’s, Fraser’s
South, Central and Central Extended leases,
has been worked with more or less success
by cos. and private owners for 30 years, but
results for a long time past suggest that the
best that was in the mines has gone. Never-
theless, two private owners have acquired the
group, with machinery, and intend spending
some thousands in giving them another trial.
Yilgarn is sadly in need of a revival, but it is
not likely to be brought about by raking old
skeletons.
More .fumes from the Speck’s carbide: —
Ex-Senator Mulcahy, whose present job is to repre-
sent the . Speck Government at Electrona carbide
works, as a sort of bailiff, has managed to achieve
unexpected limelight. The illuminant was turned
on by the local Assembly in the course of a lively
discussion on the Government’s action in stopping
supplies to Gillies’s Hydro-Electric Co. just when
the works were about to start under the recently-
arranged agreement with the State. It appears that
when Minister of Works Hayes found he had exceeded
the £2OOO which Parliament had authorised him to
advance to Gillies to put the carbide works in order
for a start under the new agreement, he had notified
the co., through Mulcahy, that no more money could
he paid until the agreement had been formally signed
on behalf of shareholders. The actual signing, it
seems, could not take place until certain of the co.’s
Articles had been amended, and while it was not
considered that any unnecessary delay was occurring
the Government was faced with the possibility of a
hitch and was bound to take ordinary precautions.
The first intimation Minister Hayes received that
someone had blundered was given him by a local
newspaper, which telephoned for confirmation of a
news item that had just reached the office to the
effect that the Minister had called a halt at Elec-
trona. It was then discovered that Mulcahy had
given the news to all the local papers. Realising
that publication would be regarded by the Gillies
people as pretty disastrous, Hayes asked the papers
to hold over the item and all of them did so.
A sudden and complete stoppage of the carbide
works was next day obviated by the wages men
agreeing to work for the ensuing fortnight and
chance collecting their pay. But when .it was learnt
that the Age had given its readers the news, as sup-
plied to the Hobart press by Mulcahy, the fat was
in the fire. Gillies and his friends seemed to think
that somebody was trying to deal the slowly con-
valescing co. a blow in a vital spot, hence the Parlia-
mentary rush at the Minister with irate demands for
explanations. Mulcahy had not been specially enjoined
to withhold the Minister’s letter from the press; but
what furious Parliamentary and other friends of
the Gillies crowd wanted to know was where Mulcahy
(who was formerly a Minister and a shrewd business
man) has mislaid his old-time capacity for knowing
when to hold his tongue. Ordinary citizens, who
naturally want to see the Australian indu.strj* get a
fair start in the Speck, are loyally hiding their
disappointment at the inordinate length of the pro-
cession of Electrona misfortunes behind a wan smile
of amusement at the latest bungle, and hoping that
it will not jeopardise the unsigned agreement or
move the Commonwealth Government to lift the
embargo on the importation of foreign carbide.
Should the latter move be threatened, the Speck
Government would be compelled to take swift action
to protect the £lOO,OOO the State has put into the
enterprise.
On actual reserves of 20,270 tons lead-zinc
ores and ooSO tons “probable,” the North Mt.
Farrell (Tas.) is sending director Liddell to
Lurope to try to find a market for mine pro-
ducts. Despite the rich grade of concen-
trates got by the co. there is a woeful absence
of buyers. The Sulphide Corporation mostly
.supported Speck mining during the war, but
the financing w&s a stiff job, and the co. can’t
go on doing it. It is doubtful if Liddell will
overcome North Farrell’s market troubles:
it would probably pay better to put the cash
that will be spent on the mission into the mine
and trust to the future to right itself. Mean-
time the co.’s debts are amply covered by
£ll,OOO of cash and stores, but it has taken
three calls to do that. In the mine a lot
depends on the way No. G level opens,
for No. 5 north of the shaft has been
patchy. Overhead in the leading stope the
grade is better, but to build up reserves ore
has to be got underfoot. Manager O. B.
Williams counts on getting from 15,000 to
20,000 tons if No. G develops as did the upper
levels. But even that would not make a
big mine of North Farrell, any more than
will the vein got beyond the fault at No. 4.
It may help to carry on, but nothing more.
The busted metal market resulted in the past
half’s working account showing a loss of
£8674.
* * * *
The Killingworth (Newcastle) miners
recently struck because their own union offi-
cials had dragooned them into buying their
own union paper, the Common Cause. If
the employer retaliated by refusing to re-
employ them because he couldn’t get on with
his mother-in-law, they probably wouldn’t
see the joke.


ASHES TO ASHES.
“Mr. Hughes has been visiting the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum.”— Cable,
GUIDE: “Tink of dis city two tousand year ago, and—wot you cry for?”
HUGHES: “I’m thinking of Canberra two thousand years hence!”


or LuncHfesSs
tin
■:!
u ■
m i
' r
nr
x<
EQIDT
:ri^r
*v 4
"3.
I
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
& T Cheeseman
Good To The
LasT Drop
dfd
ABBOTS
LAGER
T/ießeer w/Aou/afi/iff/.
73r<?h>pf from PureTfd/t tfloprOnfy
I
Are you imprisoned in an invisible eage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Meals Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you cur FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
September birthdays:—
Statistician .T. B. Trivett, 62, on 2nd; Brig.-Gen.
Brand (N.S.W. Commandant), 48, on 4th; artist
Charles Nuttall, 49, on 6th; C. .J. Dennis (“Senti-
mental Bloke”), 45, on ,7th; A. B. Piddington,
K.C., 59, and barrister P. V. Storkey, V.C., 30, on
9th; Hugh Mclntosh, 45, on 10th; 11. W. Potts
(formerly of Hawkesbury College), 66, on 12th;
Justice Northmore (W.A.), 56, on 14th; W. H.
Laird Smith (Minister for Navy), 52, on 15th;
Geologist Dr. Logan Jock, 76, and Carlyle Sfnythe,
56, on 16th; G. A. Gibbs (Melbourne Board of
Works), 59, on 17th; Rev. P. Pi got (Riverview
Observatory), 63, on 18th; Major-General Tivey, 55,
on 19th : Major-Gen. Charles S. Ryan, 68, and H. E.
Kater (Syd.), 80, on 20th ; Philip Charley (Belmont
Park), 58, on 21st; poet James Hebblethwaite(Tas.),
64, on 22nd; General Brudenell White, 45, and
Ben Rounsevell (S.A.), 79, on 23rd ; Sam Hordern,
45, and violinist Ernest Toy, 41, on 24th ; Josiah
Symon (S’.A. barrister), 75, and Chief Justice Mur-
ray (S.A.), 58, on 27th; Colonel J. H. Bisdee, V.G.
(Speck), 52, oil 28th; artist Rupert Benny, 57, and
Donald Mackinnon his • brother-in-law, 62, on 29th :
and Brig.-Gen. Grant, 51, on 30th.
One of the great Smith family has been
appointed permanent Under-Secretary for
the Colonies. Having a premonition that
he would one day attain eminence, his spon-
sors had him marked Masterton at the font.
and the Colonial
Office made him a
knight. The “per-
son named Rog-
ers,” who used to
boss the Colonial
Office and was
Higinbotham’s bite
noir, became a
peer when he re-
tired. He turned
out a decent sort
—after it had been
hammered into him
that self-govern-
ment wns regarded
by Australians as
a reality and not
a shadow.
JACK HIGOINS,
editor of LABOR
News (Sydney),
and one of the new
M’s.L.C.
Robert Murray Smith, who died in Mel-
burne last week at 90, was the completest
type of cultured “upper middle-class” Eng-
lishman that ever settled in Australia. He
was a Lancashire Cobdenite and held by the
doctrines of the extremist individualism to
the day of his death. But his dogmatism
was mitigated by his public school and Ox-
ford training; and he d : d not cease to be
affable even when the foundations of his
fiscal beliefs were shaken by the Chamberlain
tariff-reform campaign of 18 years ago. He
put in his most strenuous work for Freetrade
when David Syme was preaching Radicalism
and Protection in Victoria; could have had a
place in several Tory Ministries if only as
a tribute to his integrity and wealth; and
eventually became Agent-General. He was
the oldest inhabitant of the Melbourne Club
years, having been elected at the age of
M. L. Shepherd, Hughes’s latest recruit
for the diplomatic service, is a shining in-
stance of what may happen if the right
people take an interest in you. Percy Deane
is another. These two have been' pushed
up in the space of a few years from prac-
tically zero to the most envied billets in the
Commonwealth service. Shepherd is the
harder to explain. He has no war service,
no suavity of speech, no personality. His
main characteristics are an abrupt manner,
a clean-shaven face and a head of hair that
seems to be standing up in astonishment at
its owner’s progress, lie was no great suc-
cess with Deakin, who took him from a
small, clerkly billet and made him private
secretary; but Fisher found him more
useful, and with Hughes he is just it.
The clerical Harrison, of the Austral’an
Board of Missions, has just returned
home after several years missioning in Japan.
He went through a long period of high prices
during the war, but
the experience was
useful in revealing
the Jap’s amazing
frugality w h e n
times are hard.
Harrison speaks in-
terestingly about
Japan’s pol tical
and social pro-
blems, and pre-
sently will develop
his talks into full-
grown lectures for
the Australian capi-
tals. One fact he
will mention, by
the way, is the
growing prominence
of the Jap woman
in business —lured
on, no doubt, by the
lady in Tokio who
is the head of the
Suzuki Shoten and
is commonly re-
garded as the
Rockefeller of her
sex.
Missionary
HARRISON. who
has a lot to say
about .Japan, after
spending 6 ½ yearn
there.
Now that Dr. Harvey Johnston has been
appointed professor of zoology, of the ir>
professors on the staff of the Adelaide Uni.
eight are Australian-born, and two others
(Douglas Mawson and Dr. Harold Davies)
were trained in Australian Universities.
At the polling-booth at Barcaldine (Q.) for
the recent Maranoa election one man strolled
in and proclaimed that he was William
Morris _ Hughes. The presiding officer’s face
split with an indulgent smile, but upon turn-
ing up the rolls he found the stranger to be
literally correct. To put the cap on it, an-
other gent, bustled in and declared that he
was Thomas Joseph Ryan. The roll backed
him up. too.
Tom Storey, one of Ma’s new M’s.L.C., is
a brassfinisher. A glance at brother Jack’s
record with the State pash-bos suggests that
he is in the same line of business,
Tom Tunnecliffe,: who took his defeat by
nine votes at Eaglehawk in October, 1920,
with a smile, is back in the Vie. Assembly as
Labor member for Collingwood. He defeated
Martin Hannah (Ind. Lab.), a Liberal, and
a Nat. Laborite in the first count. Hannah
was bowed out of the fold when he per-
sisted in standing for ’Wood last year after
he had been beaten in two pre-selection Labor
runs. The party was much more generous
to Sangster, when he went on the Indepen-
dent racket for Port Melbourne. It beckoned
him back to the fold and held the gate open.
Time was when there were as many as
four Smiths at a time in the Vic. Assembly.
Now it has to be content with one (Dave,
of Bendigo West). In the 1889-92 House
there were Charles Smith (Jolimont), Col.
W. Collard Smith (Ballarat West), f. f.
Smith (Mornington) and Tom Smith
(Emerald Hill)-. In the ’seventies and late
’nineties Robert Murray Smith’s middle
name came in handy to distinguish him from
the Protectionist Smiths, whom he abhorred,
politically. By the way, Dave Smith led
the House in Elmslie’s absence when the
only Vic. Labor Ministry was in power for
13 days. He is now a Lawsonite.
From an old Gallery hand :
Usually a polite it' forceful uitie, the lat£ Mur-
ray Smith let himself go off like an ordinary angry
man at Premier Turner 23 years ago. He said
that “Sir George Turner, P.C.,” was “a different
man from the plain George Turner we used to know
in this House,” and asked: “Upon what meat does
this our Osar feed that he has grown so great?”
John Hancock turned to Wilkins and asked in his
loudest whisper: “Why doesn’t he ask Turner
straight-out, ‘Who’s your butcher?’ Then George
could give the man who does him so well the ad.
he deserves.” “Quite right,” assented the humor-
less Wilkins, who kept a meatshop' himself at Col-
li ngwood.
C. T. Madigan will return to Adelaide one
of the most diversely experienced men of his
age in the world. Winner of a South Aus.
Rhodes scholarship in 1914, he got it held
over while he went to the Antarctic with
Mayvson. lie had hardly made a start at:
Oxford when war broke out, end he saw
nearly live years service as a captain in the
Royal Engineers. After the war he took
high honors in geology, and since then has
been on camel-back from Khartoum through
Abyssinia as a geologist to the Soudan
survey. Now he is to come home as lecturer
at Adelaide Uni., under Ins old chief Douglas
Mawson, who holds the newly-created Chair
of Geology there.
John Bligh Suttor, one of the new Labor
M’s.L.C., is the fifth of his clan to sit in the
N.S.W. Legislature. The progenitor of the
Australian family, George Suttor, came as a
protdgfi of Sir Joseph Banks, and established
himself at Baulkham Hill. His son, Wil-
liam Henry, settled at Bathurst, and was in
the first Parliament, a single mixed House,
and later in the Houses formed under the
new Constitution. Then his sons in turn,
William Henry and Francis, sat in both
Houses—at d fferent tinies —and each got
to the Cabinet table. John Bligh Suttor.
another son of the original George, and
grandfather of the new M.L.C., sat in the
Leg. Council 1881-8(5, after having repre-
sented East Macquarie in the Lower Cham-
ber in the fifth and sixth Parliaments.
Arthur Hughes, the new Labor member
for Grenville in the Vie. Assembly, gave up
teaching for farming. At Pozieres he won
the M.C.. which George V. pinned on his
coat in London.
When Premier Lawson was accused by an
interjector in Borung (Vic.) of having corn-
baled with Labor to put Bowser out, he re-
plied that Bowser fell off the Treasury bench.
“But who greased the edge?” someone asked,
And even Lawson grinned.
Heard his last chantey, Capt. A. M. B.
Beanie, who went aloft at VVilliamstown
(Vic.) the other day at 86. He made Mel-
bourne in 1854 after rolling round the world
in old-time clippers and some experience in
blockade-running during the American Civil
War. For many years he was employed as
tug-master by James Paterson and Co.
What is suspected of being malaria has
killed Harry Alman, part-owner of Tanin-
berina (N.T.). He went from Cloneurry
(Q.) to inspect his property, but on arrival
found the manager very sick with malaria,
so he sent him to Cloneurry and remained
on the station himself. Three weeks later
a horseman brought the news that Alman
had passed out. He was 08, and one of
the best-known pioneers in the Far North.
News comes south of the death of J. E.
Foley, who, as a young man in 1898, left
a job on the Townsville (N.Q.) railway and
went to China, where he was appointed
traffic-manager of the Peking-Mukden line,
Five years back lie was put in charge of the
through-traffic department of the Board of
Communications in Peking. There’s a St.
Patrick’s Society of North China, and Foley
was president of it.
D. H. Gibson, the Vic. Cocky party’s Whin
who lost his seat at Grenville, was a very
likeable Hayseed. Grenville is one of the
smallest constituencies in point of numbers,
having ’only 4800 electors enrolled. And if
changes its mind more often than a flapper,
having returned at various times Liberal,
Labor and Farmers’ Union men. Charlie
McGrath (now M.H.R.) and Chatham wore
its Labor members, but Chatham chafed
under the party hobble and retired.
William Fisher Lord, who died in Bris-
bane recently, was at one time draughtsman
on the Speck’s railways (his brother was
general manager). Poring over plans ruined
his eyesight, and he became totally blind.
He learned to work a typewriter by touch
and wrote a detective yarn that was pub-
lished at the Launceston Examiner office.
Though the book was written 20 years ago
one thing about it still sticks in the memory:
he equipped his criminals with poison-gas.
He was 70 when the call came.
Law’ runs in the blood of the Perry family
of Sydney. The father, J. A. I. Perry, is
a long-established solicitor, and three sons
with war-service to their credit are chasing
crusts in the same line. The latest recruit,
A.W., enlisted at 18, put in three years at
the Front, and was badly gassed ; after which
he took the legal hurdles at the maximum
speed allowed by the regulations, and has
just been admitted to the profesh. at the
mature age of 23.
, , Kate ‘ widow of S’James Garrick, has
taken the memories of four-score years to
the grave in London. She was a daughter
• )f J - T “adell, a doctor of Raymond Ter-
race (N.S.W.), and married in 1865 Her
husband was the son of James Francis Gar-
JOHN HI GO INS. chairman of “ Bawra ”
(British-Australian Wool Realisation
Association ).
I'ick, a bread-and-biscuit baker of York and
King streets, Sydney, the city in which he
was born in 1836. Young Garrick .went to
Brisbane when it was an infant, was among
its earliest gents, one, was afterwards ad-
mitted to the Bar in England, was the
State’s Agent-General, and might if he liked
have been one of its Judges.
C. It. Orr-Walker, who has become C.J. of
Samoa, got his first Bench job in 192 U.
when he w r as appointed S.M. and Warden
on the West Coast (M.L.). La,ter he was
transferred to the New Plymouth district.
When the difference was being settled in
Europe he put in. two strenuous years as
military rep. on the No. 1 Wellington Mili-
tary Service Board, bis duties being to test
the soundness of appeals against service
under conscription. Appellants called him
a hard man. lie is.
Spencer William Yon Sturmer, who died
lately in Sydney at 8(5, was one time a Judge
of Maoriland’s Native Land Court, and in
the pioneering days of the Rickettv Isles
was closely associated with Manning.' J., the
pakeha-Maori writer of “Old New Zealand.”
Hori knew Von Sturmer for a kindly man
in sickness and trouble. Ilis dad was rector
of Ileapham, Lincolnshire, w’hen Spencer
left home for Australia 70 years ago.
“Yoyang” : Gabriel Louis Marie Iluon de
KeriU'eau. the first French refugee in Aus-
tralia (B. 11/S/’2l), was married to his
French wife, Louise Le Sage, at Parramatta
(N.S.W.) by Parson Marsden. She found
her last resting-place at Brisbane Meadow;
then her husband started to walk to Sydney
in 1829, and was never heard of again. They
had four children-—Elizabeth (who married
Mitchell and was ancestress of the Table
Top family), Paul. Charles and Aimee. The
three sons were the earliest settlers on the
Upper Murray.
Librarian Arthur Wadsworth is the latest
Federal Parliamentary official to reach his
fortieth year of service. Starting as a junior
in the Vic. Parliament, he took over the
Commonwealth Library at the beginning of
Federation, and now has 62,000 volumes
under his care. Wadsworth, who is bent
and spectacled and has the wide, absent
gaze of the student, is the proud-author of
the Federal Parliamentary Handbook—a
volume iuat every sub-editor likes to have
by him. Wadsworth’s dad, by the way, was
a former clerk to the Vic. Executive Council,
and had an unblemished career of 34 years
before retiring in 1888.
“G.”: Both John Grono and his schooner, in-
troduced to J. H. M. Abbott’s tale, “The Lovely
Jezebel” (B. 18/8/’2l). were real. Grono
came to early Australia as Captain Grono,
R.N., in charge of one of his Majesty’s ships,
and decided to stay. Governor Macquarie
xvanted him to accept a grant of land w'hich
now forms part of the City of Sydney; but
he remarked, “It wouldn’t feed a bandicoot,’'
settled instead on the fertile banks of the
Hawkesbury, six miles below' Windsor, and
there, having built himself a home, pro-
ceeded to also build ships. These, some of
Australia’s first seagoing craft, he sailed
himself, and engaged in sealing. From one
excursion he brought home four shipwrecked
mariners, who married his four daughters.
They and an only brother are responsible for
numerous Australians. His resting-place
at Ebenezer is marked by a stone vault and
weather-w T orn inscription within a few paces
of one of Australia’s very oldest churches.
BALLADE OF THE SPRING PRINCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She fronts the world without a sigh :
It has no problems to deter
Her ladyship. She is not shy,
And vain advice is to deter
This ever-careless voyager,
Whose seas no vagrant winds distress.
To her bow judge and presbyter.
The flapper is our Spring princess.
S'he sees the grown-up world go by,
A casual interpreter
Of all its follies. In her eye
Old fool and old philosopher
Alike are, and alike they err.
Vt fifty there is no success
For poet fine or Minister.
The flapper is the Spring princess.
Respect her faith must still deny
To parents. No grey sophister
With argument and pleadings sly
May gain a moment's grace.of her.
Old folks forgetting what they were
Would have her ape old foolishness ;
In vain may preach the dowager.
The flapper is the Spring princess.
Envoy.
She brooks the boy-idolator
Who will her gospel wise profess—
lie may the votive ice confer.
The flapper is the Spring princess.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


/
t
mb
M
/■ \
11 b
mmm
'‘Mr. ' / -
*w&m£€mkm. ?
Tgftf;j
ii H(^fr^
Wi/,
4
V
th
m
m
m
"\w
unit
ill
m
IferlW
te
fsfi/
aw
n //
OT.
wit
p
//
/■
ip
v
V
A
■N;
V\\
«v
cs«
II
3'
MEASURE
aMH
TO
7*S=
Sr
c
m.
i
§2
i
4
%
\z
%
r
%
%
<jw
A ; V
M
£
f
w»
r*
08
i
/
®jS
i
‘‘ylh
'Mm
m
m
n
m
%*>
M
y h*a
*\P«'
y 1"
8
U^VVif
Rfa
■
Wt
' f nm
Ms
a%
<i+•'■*'
S^ffl
-<r
4
Ihc re
V
Country Customers write for
Patterns.
Ali measurements taken by us
or sent by mail are registered
for future reference.
When in town call and leave
your measurements for record.
We guarantee satisfaction, or
will refund money.
Orders delivered free in City,
Suburbs and Country.
VOD
456 George Street,
Branch Store at 304 George Street,
SYDNEY.


J i
For Summer Motoring
The coming dry, hot weather makes a dust-proof
Motor Coat more essential than ever.
Peapes show' one here that is specially suited
to Summer wear. It is of light-weight Fawn
Crash and has Raglan shoulders, two outside
patch pockets, half belt at back and a collar that
buttons to neck.
Although the material does not readily show
signs of travel, it launders perfectly when re-
quired, and is very durable.
PEAPES’ COMPETITIVE PRICE 25/-
Peapes Pay Postage.
Please state height and waist measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozeile, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
£l7/17/-. COMPLETE WITH CASE.
TWO TYPEWRITERS IN ONE
Use Corona at the office during the day. Use
it at home evenings. It’s easy to carry
back and forth. Weighs but 6 pounds.
Easy payments if desired. Whv not try one
out to-day 1
CoroNA
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
19 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
3Cj Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
“Morob”: An interesting- little sidelight
on the war is connected with the importa-
tion of a semi-official medicinal preparation
containing the active principle of a plant
flourishing: only in West Africa, the action
of which is to more or less rejuvenate the
elderly. Although the tonic action of this
drug has for nearly 20 years been fully
recognised by medical science, the only firm
to put it on the market before the war
was a German one, which had protected the
name and which exported a large quantity
in tablet form to Australia each year. When
the Rig Smash came the trade ceased, and
the stocks on hand began to run out in about
12 months or so. Towards the end of that
period druggists were confronted with the
heartrending spectacle of elderly gentlemen
ONE FOR THE DOCTOR TO THINK
OVER.
DOCTOR (to his friend Broun): “Well,
Brown. I always maintain that after
forty a man is either a fool or a phy-
sician
BROWN: “Can't he possibly be both?"
lighting each other for the privilege of having
their prescriptions made up from the last
available quantities, and then final and com-
plete desolation brooded o*er the scene. Dur-
ing 1917 a small quantity of the tablets, put up
in tubes, came in to Australia from America
and was disposed at from ss. to 7s. 6d.
per tablet —not tube. Since then, until a
few months ago, it has been unprocurable
but lately small parcels have been making
their way into the country through England
from Germany, where it is again being manu-
factured ; and there are some will tell you
Spring has come again. It was a terrible
war.
“Wart”: When one of the cables across
Bass Straits snapped in a storm a few
weeks ago, the Postal Department had to
look round for a boat to nt up as a repairing-
ship. They chartered the old Coogee, en-
gaged a crew and began to put the plant
on board. The cable staff were fitting up
shear-legs on the deck when a deputation
of firemen informed them that that was a
shipwrights’ job, and they would not sail in
the boat if anyone else did it. A gang of
shipwrights were brought, and they began
to do the work while the eablemen told them
what to do, and the crew looked on. Then
it was found that an iron stanchion wanted
shifting, and someone picked up a wrench :
but another deputation informed them that
this was an engineer’s job, and proceedings
were held up while an engineer and his
henchman were found to undo a few bolts.
Altogether it took a couple of weeks to do
what the cable staff would have done in a
couple of days. Meantime communication
with the Speck was depending on one cable
and the wireless at Hobart. It’s all sup-
posed to be good for unionism.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: My friend Rale, when stay-
ing at Emerald (V r ic.), met his bucolic
artist. The artist was a rough-and-ready
cow-hand with a bias towards water-colors.
He painted landscapes with cows in them.
The landscapes had a remote resemblance
to such, and the cows were not always
unrecognisable, but Denny painted with a
child’s sixpenny box of colors and the kind
of brushes that go with them, and his other
material was usually a piece of cardboard
oil a band-box. Rale talked painting to
Denny, and described the conditions of art
in the metropolis. Then he went away and
forgot all about the cow-painter till one
afternoon 10 months later, when he answered
a front-door knock and found a lumpy young
man on the mat offering Australian ‘ land-
scapes for sale. “On’y five bob a piece,
mister—pick ’em where you please,” said
the retailer of fine art, and the two recog-
nised each other simultaneously. “I bin
lookin’ for you,” said Denny. “What d’you
mean by tellin’ me there was a ’normous
demand fer Australian lan’scapes in Mel-
bin?” “I didn’t mean that they sold from
door to door.” Rale explained. “I told you
they sold at the art galleries.” “Ah —rot,”
snorted Denny. “The National Art Gallery
was the first place I called at.”
“Sixenate” sees law-made tragedies:—
The N.S.W. wife-maintenance law has provided
Sydney with its umpteenth tragedy of this year—an
infuriated husband attempted to shoot two of his
wife’s female relations and then succeeded in shoot-
ing himself. The legislation is prolific in tragedies.
It practically declares that a woman
cannot be wrong, or even if she is
wrong the man must pay; and if a
vindictive woman likes to heap ex-
penses upon her husband by employ-
ing a solicitor he must pay for
the Gent One, too. In Victoria a
magistrate sometimes uses his discre-
tion. One told a virago recently
that, as her husband was willing to
live at home and support her if she
would only give him ordinary peace,
she would have to hold her tongue or
get no sympathy from the law—after
all, a commonsensible attitude. In
England a month or two ago a magis-
trate, in refusing to make an order
against a husband, said that in most
cases when a man left his home the
fault was with the woman. In N. S.
Wales, however, the law has taken
away the husband’s last power to'
control an unruly woman—the
power of the purse. And while a
criminal may escape the penalty for
a crime by securing the benefit of the
First Offenders Act, a perfectly
honest and hard-working man may,
pursued by a vixen, spend a good
deal of his life passing in and out
of gaol. But the worst feature is
that the law, as it stands, does very
little for the really good woman who
is tied to a waster. That sort of
woman usually lets her husband go
free when she finds that the alternative is gaol,
whereas the vixen may pursue him with delight to
the prison gates. At the very least the low-class
lawyers who live on this kind of business should be
cut out completely.
“Slag”: At Broken Hill the N. S. Wales
Government pays out £4OO a day of the
taxes levied on people who work to keep
the mines idle, and in addition its official
alms-distributor gives points about how to
shirk and get at the Treasury best. The
other day, “Mr. G. Kerr, a member of the
committee distributing Government relief,”
explained things to a meeting. “A single
man was better off on relief work, but any
man with three children or more was better
off on the Government coupon. He advised
every man with three children or more to
scratch his name off the relief-work register,
or to go to work on relief and send his wife
to the police-station for a coupon as usual.
If the men did not register for relief work
the Government would still have to keep
them.” Mr. T. F. Hynes said “although he
had two cows he received £4 for himself and
family on the Government coupon. He was
therefore better off than if he took relief
work. He intended to scratch his name off
the relief-work register.” It is a strange
sort of Labor Government whose own agent
teaches the loafer how to loaf and the
pauper-by-choice how to paup harder.
ENFANT
TERRIBLE,
“Oh, baby, you
mustn’t hit Alary!”
“ That’s nothing—daddy bites her face.”
“Nollid”: Some time ago Melba visited a
Vic. public school and sang to the boys, but
lirst she got some of the senior lads to turn
back the platform carpet so that she could
get full tonal value by standing on the
bare boards. My youngster, aged seven, was
among the audience, and in the evening I
tried to get his impression of the famous
singer. “Well, dad,” lie said, “the singin’
wasn’t too bad; but after the boys went to
all the trouble of taking the carpet off the
floor she wouldn't dance.”
“Spare Corp.” : Some harassed war-w T idows
who can’t threaten rebellious kids with “I’ll
tell your father,” fall back upon the Repat.
Last week one trailed her seven children in
to the officer whose job it. is to see that the
children are educated. “I know these younger
four are not ’legible to receive money yet,”
she said ; “but I d like you to tell me what I
ought to do about Willy’s ears; and I’d like
you to give Roy a good talking to about
school —I can’t get ’im to go nohow. An’
there’s Betty, here —-she needs a strict hand.
You’ll ’ave your hands full with her.”
Another woman sent a letter denouncing her
two children as uncontrollable, and asking
that arrangements be made to send them to
boarding-school. By next mail came another
message, “Don’t take any notice of my
other letter,” it said. “I wouldn’t like to
one of my children sent away from me.
They’re not bad at all, really; and I was
only trying to frighten them.” There is an
element of pathos about the struggle of these
women with insurgent Young Australia.
* * * *
“The Schoolie”: I have had an unusual
opportunity of testing various theories as
to 'he right age to start children off to
school. Two years ago I took charge of
a new school. The children ranged from
live to nine and all of them were un-
taught. In a year the youngsters of
eight and nine completed first- and
second-grade work, and in the next
year third and fourth, quite easily,
while the younger ones are still
plodding over mechanical stuff.
From this I conclude that if
youngsters were allowed to run
wild till they were
eight they would be
just as far ahead at
10; and physically
they w’ould be much
stronger.
“Sixenate” : Australia has had several
examples of the man-woman; but it hears
very little of the woman-man. Yet New-
town (Sydney) had a man who took to
skirts to earn an honest living as a char-
lady ; and he never forsook them again. For
over 20 years—he started after the bank
crisis, when men’s jobs were about as plenti-
ful as golden coins are now—he was much
sought after as a hard-working woman who
never displayed any uppish or fighting in-
clinations ; and it was only on his death that
his long deception was discovered.
‘‘Macquarie Street” : Edinburgh and other
large medical schools have of late been com-
to limit the number of students; and
now Sydney, confronted with the same diffi-
culties. has resorted to the expedient of in-
creasing the period of study from live
years to five years and two terms. To
a great many this will mean tH years,
since about 50 per cent, of the' stu-
dents get a “pluck” in the August
exams. The result will probably be that
many deferred stu-
dents will drop out.
and, let’s hope, take
up carpentering or
something such. The
net result of the
changes in the medi-
cal course will be
to curtail the amount
of time spent on clini-
cal work, and to
greatly increase the
number of lectures,
especially in physi-
ology. It has been
said that the students
will have more time
to devote to hospital
rounds, but as they
are not allowed to go
near a hospital until
the beginning of their
fourth year it will be
seen that the time
given to clinical work
is exactly two years
and two terms. We
old ’uns, with a much
shorter, course, man-
aged to put in three
whole years’ work in
the wards. The two
additional terms will
be devoted to acquir-
ing a smattering of
a host of special
subjects. The student will not pick up
much real knowledge about, them, blit
the little he does acquire may stimulate
him to further inquiries, and make him a
better all-round practitioner, which is one
of the objects aimed at by the Board.
“Smike”: Nothing seems safe from the
petty larcenist nowadays. The other night
some inconsiderate brute pinched from the
office of the Chief Commissioner of Police
an alarm clock. Heaven knows what the
Force is going to do without it!
* * * *
Governor Weigall (S.A.) gives tin*
S.P.C.A. there some straight talk: —
I have seen more animal-cruelty in Australia than
anywhere else in the world. 1 have visited the
abattoirs frequently, and have felt shame and angel
at the cruelty practised on the railways. 1 do not
wish to criticise the Department too strongly. 1
know the distances are great, and there is the
break of gauge. However, I cannot conceive that
there can be insuperable difficulties in the way of
arranging good transport.... I cannot see how a
country of this sort is so bankrupt of all feeling
as to allow these conditions to go on. It is worse
than anything 1 saw among the Kaffirs oi South
Africa,
Sidney Kidman more than confirmed this:—
The Governor has not seen a half or a quarter
of the cruelty that I have seen on these railways,
especially between Oodnadatta and Adelaide. There
is no other part of the world whose cattle have to
travel such long distances without untrucking and
without drink.
And he added that cattle reaching the abat-
toirs at the usual time, Saturday evening,
have to wait in agony, if broken-legged on
the journey, till an “official” butcher arrives
on Monday. The humane owner who has
his beast killed earlier, by however experi-
enced a butcher, is punished by finding the
meat condemned.
AGREEING
WITH HUBBY.
THE HEATED UUSBAND: “ Well. all the fools
in the world arc not dead yet."’
THE CALM WIFE: “ That's as sure as you
live."
AT THE THRESHOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Though fate be bitter and roads be rough
tnd the wine of life be sour,
" h-h a gay “God speed!” and a kindly smile
v man shall walk for many a mile,
And work for many an hour.
Though times be barren and bread be scarce,
And the winds blow high and chill,
With a pat on the back and a farewell laugh
lie'll face the world with a heart and a half
And battle his way with a will.
When toil is over and day is done,
' :id the leagues no longer tire,
With a welcome word and a greeting kiss,
Tis little he'll crave and little he’ll miss
At night by his red home-fire.
The gods are good and the good gods send
To those that they love the best
At the dawn a smile and a smile at night
As they fare away in the morning light
Or home at the dusk to rest.
.s'.s,\r.
BRIGALOW.


THE
AEOLIAN VOCALION
IS THE HIGHEST DEVELOPMENT OF
PHONOGRAPH
!, . •' f* *, :
■ ;*
■ .
... m
m <
V
m
■S‘
m
hi
/■ «
WT. 4# ’*' J
f
► . * §He ; ;
- tsgßm
. • ■•■"
■pm j ....
*
■
:Z li^r***®**
* /
,
• ;■
*'“ ,- aH«f ■ . i.'^Ss, I '*:’ :' : *
111
I '
< *
ini
1
•■a?'*
»i
.:/ **
■
. ’ i
«♦
. > „;“? j
■- *C'^
H§§spp>*
/
M *
tJZ
' ' vV ‘- ' * '
#
?fc,
WA
**u *
..'/P* / ?jr. ,-■;>* ■■■-. ,«•■:
~ , V
.| • ; t* $$
C^3>c; : 'V'':
a..«.
V ■
b:
m,:a
f.
, m
¥m- m
m
m
m
m
m
■< N * .
1
s *
zw*
wmm
: * *■?%< ’’A*
:L. ft
Ml
I. /|. V?lv i vt* <| ,
v ? ill" J 4 C% I|RJs»|s I V
'' i 3 *
, |, 4l> & wIB |yfv, *£ i* $£
9:
1
• K ■' -*» .-. I
*
WM
f;
% ■:<
\ ■ •■
'all
< • -•
1 #
• : ' ?••«-.
tm
■*f, X
m
wm
'
ti£^m
7 -' . ,■.
> ' ’ ■*’ 1
' Sr J |
H
wimum.
■' : y -a#
HMwnK
i .'
, T j
■ -.. ■- ;' ■
S Ma
/)' fj « ¥ * PPS
IN richness and musical depth, in delicacy and
clearness of tone, the VOC A LION is supreme.
In the VOCALION you have not only the advan-
tage of listening to the instrument as a regular phono-
graph, but in addition you may control the expression
by means of the wonderful GRADUOLA. With
this fascinating device, you may put your own feeling
into every record you play.
SOLE MAKERS
THE AEOLIAN COMPANY
(Australia) Pty. Ltd..
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
end at 252 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE 436 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
RUNDLE ST. (cr. Gawler Place) ADELAIDE
CUT OUT AND POST NOW
Please send me Art Catalog oj the jAeolian
VOCALION explaining how I can secure one by
moderate monthly payments.
Name


“For Ever Best/'
STAS
LASER
• TOOHEY'S.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - Accepted from 1/-upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at per cent, on any
excess up to £ 1000.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service xvill compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Haku”: 1 have just completed the com-
pilation ol his Federal income-tax return.
Item No. 74 (deduction of £26 for each child
under 16 years, etc.; shows a total deduction
of £286. Any other champions about? Mine
is firmly settled in the north of Victoria.
* -X- * *
“Bilbay”: In winter Havre could be
pretty chilly. I hit it one cold day with a
mob of “r ci n tangl efnents” for the First Divi-
sion, and we were inarched to the store to
draw an extra blanket, ammunition, etc.
Some of the blankets looked as if they had
-one the rounds of every battalion in the
A.1.F., they were worn so thin. The last was
being issued when my cobber Darky strolled
up to the Quarter-bloke with his blanket over
his arm. “Here, what’s this you’ve given
a bloke?” he inquired indignantly. “That’s
a blanket, me man,” roared the Q.M., “and
see you look after it properly.” “A blan-
ket!” yelled Darky. “Call that a flamin’
blanket? Why, if a man dragged it from
Bourke to Bathurst he wouldn’t pick up a
blanky burr.”
“Howitzer”: One Digger a.w.l. in Blighty
posed as a V.C., and was fSted by the lead-
ing citizens of a big provincial town and
several big hats of the General Staff’, includ-
ing royalty. He had a glorious time, and
ended up by announcing his engagement to
the Mayor's only daughter. When it was
discovered that he was an impostor, the
heads saw that a court-martial would make
a laughing-stock of other heads, so he was
released on the pretext that “some person
unknown had victimised him by sending an
official warrant that he had been awarded a
V.C.” He bought 28 days for the a.w.1.,
though.
“Janus”: The census unearthed some
weird religions. One man declared he was
an “Eleventh Hour Adventist.” He prob-
ably meant a “Six o’clock Rusher.”
*• * #• *
“Spadge”: “N.B.’s” par. (B. IS/8/’2l) re
inherited memory reminds me of the experi-
ence of a Digger in my company,who spent ins
leave in 1917 visiting his father’s birthplace
in Ireland. He hired an old inhabitant to
ONCE AN APPLE, NOW A DIAMOND.
"Dad. what makes a man always give a
woman a diamond engagement-ring ?”
DAD : “The woman, my dear."
drivo him to the village. On the way Mick
began to remark that some of the prominent
spots seemed familiar, and described a
couple that were not yet in sight so aeon-
rately that the driver refused to believe this
tvas his first visit. Then Mick mentioned a
couple of cottages he expected to see round
a bend a little way ahead, and gave a
detailed description of them. That settled
the old chap. “Begobs, an’ that’s tliim, so it
is!” he said: “but they was burrnt to the
STRIKING A DOUBLE.
AUGUST (at his first public dance to his chattering partner): “ I—er I wonder who
that awful-looking girl in the corner is?”
HIS PARTNER (icily): "That, young sir, is my sister.”
AUGUST ( awe-stricken and getting the other leg in): “Oh, dear, really. I do hey your
pardon. I — er—really hadn't noticed the likeness.”
ground foive an! t’irty year ago!” Mick was
22. He said his father had no photos, and
had never described the place. He was still
wondering when a 4.2 got him. Perhaps he
understands now.
* * * *
"Percy Pawnticket”: I have met the con-
tentedest man in Sydney. He is old, and he
wears old clothes, but there is something
youthful in his air. I have often noticed
him walking through Hyde Park with a
paper under his arm. Occa-
sionally lie will pause where
there are some birds, and, pro-
ducing a few bread-crumbs
from his pocket, scatter them
and watch the birds feed.
Later he may stop to talk to
some children, and then another
pocket yields a bag of cheap
lollies, which he distributes. lie
will speak to waiting cab-horses,
and feed them also with sweet
stuff. He wanders sometimes
into the Gardens. The other
day he sat beside me and was
just growing confidential when
a loafer appeared and asked for
money. I said “No”; but the
old chap gave him a couple of
coppers from a very worn
purse. “He’ll drink your
health, I expect,” I said. “I
suppose so,” lie returned! “Well,
he likes beer, and I don’t care
for it.” Later he told me: “I
am an old-age pensioner; but I
help the children where I stay
with their lessons, so I don’t
have to pay for my lodgings.
That’s how I’ve got most of the pension to
spend.” A man who can evolve such an
amount of benevolence from so little deserves
content.
* * * *
“Ronm”: Just before the municipal elec-
tions in* Queensland I suggested to Jim, our
gardener, that Tom Marks would make a
good mayor; but Jim showed how a man’s
past sins may rise un- and smite him. “No,
1 won’t vote for Marks,” says Jim. “Twenty
year ago he' told my father he had some
good spuds. Dad bought a bob’s worth and
not one of ’em grew. Wot I says is if Tom
Marks would take my old father down for
a bob 20 year ago what’ll he do- for a quid
ter-day ?”
“Spare Corp.”: A lady who had a fixed
determination to get a husband in spite of
the appalling shortage of men in England is
now in Sydney. She was engaged to four
Australians before she married the one who
brought her this way. At the
time Aussie No. 1 met her she
was mourning two previous
sweethearts, Tommies, who had
been killed in France; and
when he went across to join
his unit, she lost, another. Hi-s
mate, who on his first leave
undertook to break the hews,
was the next attachment; and
when he also went west another
cobber succeeded him. The
third Digger died of wounds:
bat after the Armistice, before
the A.I.F. had returned, the
lady met a fourth Austra-
lian and, taking no chances,
married lnm. A year ago he
.died of war injuries; anu the
other day the much-engaged
lady married another ex-Dig-
ger. She has the photos of
her other six lovers arranged like a platoon :
but Billjim refuses to be perturbed by their
bad fuck. “I’m a great believer in the num-
ber seven,” he says. -:
* •* * *
“Tim”: The worth "Aussie” had war-like
associations long before the Big Scrap.
Scotch historians mention a Seigneur
d’Aussie. who, at. tin 1 head of a band of
Frenchmen, fought and died for Scotland on
Flodden Field.
“M.D.”: Outpatient physicians at Prince
Alfred, one of Sydney’s two great hospitals,
have come to the conclusion at last that they
might .as well pour the hospital’s high-priced
drugs down the sink as go on prescribing ad
lib. for patients w’ho want overhauling by a
dentist, and whose constitutional trouble is
in a large degree due to oral sepsis The
doctors say that pyorrhoea and alveolar
abscess are responsible for most chronic
diseases in outpatients—a conclusion, by the
way, that is arguable—so the hospital autho-
rities have decided to open a dental clinic
at once, which will tend to bring the sister
pi ofessions into closer touch with each other
—a consummation much to be desired. Den-
tists have been pestered of late by receiving
peiemptory notes from general practitioners
(almost entirely of the newer brand) de-
manding the instant removal of apparently
sound teeth, guided thereto solely by X-ray
findings. Hitherto, dentists have extracted
the teeth under protest, but the clinic will
allow them to form a diagnosis on their own
account, and enable them to advise the doc-
tors as to treatment. This collaboration will
be better, at any rate, than complete depen-
dence upon the radiologist, who, valuable
though lie may be as an aid in diagnosis,
makes mistakes in too many cases to be
accepted as the final authority.
“G.P.” ; Mention was made in The Bui
letin (11/8/’2l) of a “typhoid carrier” wlm
had infected 14 people, with four fatalities:
but that shrinks into insignificance when
compared with the death-dealing proclivities
of a Cold Country milkman who was chased
for 14 years by a medico who seems to have
been a compound of Sherlock Holmes and
Lecoq. At last, after infecting 2.10 people,
the cowman emigrated to “one of the
Dominions”—let. us hope it wasn’t Australia.
Of his 2.10 cases .10 (no less) proved fatal.
No wonder the faculty now keeps its weather
eye open on the human factor when looking
for the cause of an outbreak of typhoid.
* * * ‘ *
“T. 0.1.”: Governor Macquarie fixed the
hours of labor in Sydney long before an
Arbitration Court was thought of. Two days
after he took over his job lm issued an order
from Government House (.Tan. 2, 1810)
In consequentco of his Excellency the Governor
haying been enabled to augment the rations, the
hours of labor of working gangs in the employment
of the Government will be as follows: Front da\
light till 8 o’clock, work; from 8 o’clock till 0
o’clock, rest; from f) o’clock till 3 o’clock, work,
when labor ceases for (he day. Saturday: Da)
light till 10 o’clock. No work then till Monday
morning.— By command, John T. Campbell.
That was the Campbell, by the way, who
took a leading part in founding the Bank of
N. S. Wales.
“Chris”: Wellington (M.L.) had its set
of stocks put up early in 1840 by the then-
controlling authority, the Council of Colo-
nists. But when Governor Hobson’s repre-
sentative, Lieut. Willoughby Shortland,
reached the settlement from Auckland on
June 2 of the same year he had the contrap-
tion removed. Sixty-one years ago the stocks
at Auckland stood at the corner of Victoria
and Queen streets; but there is no record of
their ever having been used.
“Avion" : The conditions for the proposed
aerial mail services are so severe that the
Federal Government needn’t expect to he
snowed under with tenders. (1) It insists
that necessary hangars and workshops along
the route shall be provided by the contrac-
tor. As the contracts are for .12 months
only, this is patently absurd. (2) The Min-
ister shall he sole judge as to the degree of
the contractor’s negligence (if any) and the
amount he is to pay in the event, of any loss
or damage to mails. Though the P.M.G. is
A START. ANY BAY.
PARSON : “Ah, child, where is this frivolity,
this jawing, smoking, drinking leading
you? Isn’t it to the eternal fires?”
MODERN MAID: “Well, mam doesn’t go quite
as far as that. But, she thinks it may
lead to my striking a, match?”
a deeply interested party, lie will not admit
the principle of outside arbitration should
any dispute occur. (3) The Government
insists on its right to have access to every
book and document belonging to a contrac-
tor, and not only to receipts for mails, log-
books, and records regarding air navigation,
certificates of airworthiness and the like.
There are other objectionable regulations
which suggest that the Government isn’t go
ing out of its way to encourage commercial
aviation. That it has small hopes of achiev-
ing much under the present arrangements is
disclosed by the fact that for the Geralton-
Derby (W.A.) service two tenders were
received!
A SONG OF LAST WEEK WHICH MAY EASILY
BE A CANTICLE OF THIS WEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind lias a tooth all day.
And the frost has a fang all night;
And an Eskimo, I should say,
* Would find the climate right.
But in view’ of the young tomato crop,
't he glacial epoch now should stop.
A sunset of dusky rose
Is a beautiful thing to see ;
But the point of my crimson nose
Is nearer and colder to me.
In the sacred cause of pink ice-cream
Turn up the sun, turn on the steam!
Kid we win the war for this—
To crawl on an iceberg’s crust?
Something has fallen amiss
With the season we used to trust:
For the thin airs whip and the bald skies mock
The warmth of our hopes all round the clock.
Clive me a tropic sun
On a burning mountain’s crest
And six thick blankets spun
Of the soft merino’s, best;
There, with a rum-and-milk red-hot,
Let this virginal spring be quite forgot.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


.
. ' ~s „ J
~”-W ■■ gfegl
11
i®M5
-
.
•'• • • 1 •
■
■
MM
mm
;
Hi
H
M 8&
I m
* I
11
.
W-
*l
4s
%
i
i «
■
<M
%!
■
I
■
:■ ■■■■■i'
: : :
■■
if: 7TOW
:
mm
MM
ms i B
.
■
ia n
asm
m
#
*
ran
«
.
■
H
mi
■HMMI
■
■n
m
■,,; • >
HH|i
wSmmi
HHH
■
To-day as in the
romantic days of Royal Egypt
T T is 2000 years since the days of Cleopatra the elegant.
} To her, as to those other great women of history who,
because of their beauty, wielded almost unthinkable
power, the toilet *was more than a daily office or duty.
It was a rite. It was the means of preserving their
treasured charms.
- . •i,')' .
The beauties of the old civilisations were skilled in
every art of the toilet. And they esteemed above all
other cosmetics Palm and Olive Oils.
In PALMOLIVE SOAP, to-day, you will find those
same fine oils. The mild, creamy lather of Palmolive
is as gentle and beneficial in action as it is delightful in
use. It is the best protection against dry and harmful
winds.
PALMOLIVE cleanliness is
different. You will appreciate it.
PALMOLIVE SOAP
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per caKe
The Pahnolive Company (Australasia), Lid. . Sydney.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
EXTRA HIGH GRADE, J
Drubbed
"] R. TOWXS & CO., Sydney. Agents.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine Xew Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.; Y3OOl, 300?* Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
G
King George IV
** wmsrcsr
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Ticker": Let the Speck add its testimony
to the big’-heartoitness of mining comrades. About
d 7 years ago at the Mt. Victoria mine on the N.-E.
Coast a man had both thighs broken. He was con-
veyed on an improvised stretcher over bad roads,no
roads and the long corduroy track of the Billycock
llange to the Launceston hospital. Distance, GO-odd
miles; time, three days. And then just as they
were passing through the hospital gates the patient
died.
“J,L.R.” : Passed out recently at Randwick,
Sydney, D. 11. McKinnon, one time eocky-auctioneer
and every time a good fellow. Dan used to tell that
’ when punching a bullock team between Coolamon
and Temora (N.S.W.) he once got hopelessly bogged
in a gilgai. After using every method known to the
general ox-conductor he took hold of the near-sided
leader’s ear, placed his hand in his pocket and
shouted: “I’ll bet you a fiver you are a blanky cow!’’
GOING FIFTY-FIFTY.
BOSS: “Will you have the crow. Jacky, and
I hare the duck, or will I hare the duck
and you have the crow?"
JACKY : “Say it again, boss, and say it slow.
Seems to me I get dat prurry crow all
er time."
“Adelaide” : Here we are once again curs-
ing the imported-animal pest. American squirrels
have for several years been doing damage in the
suburban orchards and the city Botanic Gardens.
A pair brought from Melbourne as pets, and then
allowed to escape, started the trouble. The Gov-
ernment offered half-a-crown a head for corpses,
and prompt shooting is believed to have fairly wiped
out the invaders. A dead flying-fox from Queensland
is found occasionally ; but S. A. White, the expert,
gives an assurance that they can't flourish in a
climate so far south, and so dry, and are no more
to be dreaded locally than the priekly-pear, which
has been given every chance to spread at places like
Glenelg and Brighton, where over .'>o years ago it
was largely planted for hedges. So far it has
merely hung on to life. Fifty years hence we shall
know whether it has acclimatised itself in the process.
“Father Ted”: This Christian Babel lias a
curious effect on the mind of my Binglii. When 1
was engaging him 1 said, “You Christian?" He
said: “.No. Me Church of England."
"Gizo”: One custom which still lingers
here and there in the Solomons, despite every effort
to put it down, is that, of killing a young woman at
tlie launching of a new war-canoe and smearing her
blood over the sides. In more or less civilised parts
of the group a dog is substituted for the woman,
but in the outlying parts of Guadalcanal* and
Malaita the lady is still used. Until a few years
ago it was also the habit to affix the head of the slain
woman to the high, curving prow of the canoe, where
it was carried until age and weather disintegrated
it, and ten years ago canoes with such adoiYiments
were common along the beaches of Malaita. A some-
what similar custom used to prevail in German New
Guinea, but Fritz succeeded in abolishing it.
“D.F.” : That 3231 b. turnip which “Tin”
speaks of (B. 18/8/’2l) wasn’t worth writing home
about. In the old days they grew a turnip at the
Fishery on Maria Island (Tas.) which turned the
scale at 901 b. The Fishery was the place where
they used to boil down whales, but that’s got
nothing to do with the turnip.
“Bill IF”: George Brown, a Braidwood
(N.S.W.) settler, has a merino ewe for which he
claims a double record. She is 23 years old and still
going strong. Nineteen tiroes she has had twin
lambs, one white, the other more or less black.
» * * »
“J.M.R.”: Just dead at Burwood, Sydney,
my rozella parrot, a native of Blayney (N.S.W.),
aged 2 o years. Am 1 at liberty to blow about such
an age for a rozella ?
“Ophis”: Mosquitoes? If any Abo. suffers
as I once did let him try a mixture of one part
menthol to 10 parts alcohol. Bub this on the bites,
and in nine cases out of 10 the curative effects
should be immediately felt.
“H.V.E.”: Yet another Australian bird-
book, the text this time by Gregory Mathews, and
Tom Iredale, and the
color and monochrome
plates by Lilian Media nd,
an English artist. It is
to be “A Manual of the
Birds of Australia,” will
be in four crown-quarto
volumes, and will cost
about 13 guineas. I have
seen Lilian Medland’s
color-renderings of most
of our diamond birds
(pardatotes), and they do
the gaily-colored little
chaps justice. IV. W.
Froggatt, N.S.W. Govern-
ment Entomologist, is con-
tinuing “O u r Useful
Birds,” begun by the late
A. .1. North, illustrated
with fine reproductions in
color from Gould’s gorge-
ous work. Besides know-
ing the insects from A to
Z, Froggatt in the course
of his wanderings has
also made many valuable
first-hand observations on
birds. But what chiefly
calls for the attention of
N.S.W. bird-lovers at pre-
sent is the defective Birds
and Animals Protection
Act. It appears that a
person found with a pro-
tected bird in hand, living
or dead, is held by one
section to be the owner of
it and cannot be prose-
cuted. He must be caught
in the very act of taking,
etc., the bird to be liable.
'lbis blot, which a recent
prosecution discovered,
should be removed.
“Long Tom”: “SSB” (B. 4/8/’2l) asks
how to treat lambs’ tails before cooking. To remove
the wool take a blunt knife and pluck the wool be-
tween knife and thumb a little at a time, and then
singe over a flame. Throw the tails into water with
a little salt added, and they are ready for the pot.
It’s a tedious job, but the dish fully makes up for
the trouble.
“•LILA.”: “,loe” (B. 11/S7'2l(, having
grown from a pip an orange-tree which bears fruit,
thinks it is only a superstition that orange-trees
need to be grafted. He is wrong. Every orange
pip planted, if it grows, tries to revert to the old
original stock, and every pip takes a different direc-
tion. The most of them grow wild, but a few, in-
PUTTING THE ACID ON STRONG.
TRAVELLER (who has just asked lady for beef): “Well, if you can't do me a bit of beef.
will you lend me a kerosene tin?"
LADU: “Yes, but what do you want with the tin?"
TRAVELLEY : “To cook me dawg."
fluenced by the parent plant, bear worthless fruit.
Occasionally, but very rarely, one plant strikes out'
arid bears an abundance of good fruit. This plant
if propagated will form a new variety ; that is pro-
bably what happened in “Joe’s” case. On one
occasion T planted 200 pips from the fruit of one
tree. Only six trees yielded fruit, and in four
instances it was sour. The remaining two trees
were entirely different from each other and had no
resemblance to the parent tree.
“Foxglove”: “Steve Hart” (B. 4/8/’2l)
asks what is our worst Australian stinger. Let him
condescend to be stung by a scorpion, and if theffl's
a worse he won’t want to get acquainted with it.
“Opliis”: “TeWhare” (B. 18/8/21) asks
for the name of a lead-colored whipsnake which
grows to the size of a brown snake. 1 fancy it is
the grey whipsnake (Diemenia psammorphis) , a
species which grows to sft. or 6ft., and is quite as
big round the body as a brown snake of that size.
Although the general color may vary considerably
this species can always be distinguished by a light-
yellow' marking round each eye, bordered by a black
triahgular one, the long point of the triangle stretch-
ing towards the nape. The species is well, known in
most of the southern parts of N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: Dunno about codliver-oil
being a cure for a confirmed drunkard (B. 4/8/’2l) ;
but anyone taking a spoonful every now and then
capnot get drunk. Wine tasters and bond store
people know the trick.
“Mallee-ite”: If “FY7” (B. 11/8/21)
would use observation, and not ancient history, he
would alter his opinion on the falcon’s way of
killing its prey. It certainly makes the downward
swoop, but does the damage on the up-grade, using
the weapon nature has provided—the horn-like sub-
stance on the point of the breast-bone—%nd at a pace
w'hich could not possibly allow it to use its talons.
The latter, by the way, are harmless until they grip,
and are mainly used for carrying the tucker home.
“FY7” will also notice that the collision does not
occur breast to breast, a la football players, the”
large birds always being struck about the head or
neck. I am quoting the good Australian species, not
having seen those of Henry VIII. at work.
“Ophis”: “.Tim Carew” asks (B. IS/8/’2l)
whether snakes recover from open wounds or
whether ants and Hies cause them to die. I have
met crawlers of all sizes which had evidently recov-
ered from nasty wounds. At the Sydney Museum
there are several snakes with large scars and lumps,
evidently' the result of having had their backs
broken. 1 know of a whip-snake about 4ft. long
which had its back broken while in captivity'. For
weeks it was sick, and dragged an apparently
paralysed appendix after it; but eventually the
recovery was complete, and the snake became as
active as ever.
“Bibliopole” : A little while ago the Abos
were arguing about growth of hair after death.
\\ ell, a Sydney bookseller opened a large stock of
leather-bound books about 12 months ago, includin '
a fine quarto edition of the Bible, which had a tiny
tuft of hair growing on the cover. This volume v>
shown to a representative of a country church !a.-t
week, and it was discovered when the protective
wrapping was removed that downy golden hairs
similar to those that first appear on the manly chin
had sprung from dozens of pores in the leather cover.
The book was sold, no extra charge being made for
the ziff. In a few years’ time the whiskered Bible
ought to be one of the sights of the town.
» « * *
"Ark”: Parsons have been in the habit of
speaking figuratively of their “flock.” Here's a
bishop who’s going a-mustering in real live earnest.
Advt. from the Goondiwindi (Q.) Auers: —
SUNDAY’S SERVICES AT HOLY TRINITY
CHURCH.
Mactaggart Bros, report : 1300 sheep on Sundnv next
will be conducted by his Lordship the Bishop of New
Guinea. Dr. Gerald Sharpe. Holy Communion will be
celebrated at S o'clock, and Evensong at 7.30 p.nt.
Sunday-school will be held at 10 o’clock in the morn-
ing.
“C * * *
The Melbourne National Gal-
lery and Museum has a specimen of the shrunken
heads mentioned by “Bad Australian” (B. 11/8/'2l),
together with a description of them.
BASE ACCUSATION.
OUTRAGKD PERSON : “Yes. he said I never
earned any money in my life. An' lie
knows as well as I do that Eve drawn
the baby bonus three times in the larst
jour years!"
“Bora”: To-day a big-gun rabbitor told
mo that ho has found as many as three litters of
young, in different stages of development, each one
distinct from the other, inside a female rabbit. He
also assured me that two litters were quite com-
mon. Has he got my leg?
(Continued, on page 2‘2.)
HER BETH NOIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world was made in seven days,
And Adam welcomed Eve ;
J'hen animals they had to raise,
The Book bids us believe.
Ami when the job was done they came.
All kinds of fish and fowl and game.
Such animals as there might be—
The world’s first great menagerie.
Next, name's were given to each one—
Twas Gabriel called the roll —
All things that creep, or float, or run,
The wild bull and the sole.
The terrible great woolly bear.
The serpent, vulture and the hare,
The buffalo and kangaroo,
The leopard, scorpion and the gnu.
Eve saw the Ron’s majesty ;
It did not trouble her.
The tiger passed, and slyly she
Did envy him his fur.
Then came a wee thing from the house.
Aloud the angel said “A mouse!”
“ V mouse?” Eve paled. The creature squeaked.
Eve climbed a tree and shrieked and shrieked.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


ADVENTURE NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Scries of Australian Books.
Australia’s Foremost Fiction Library.
1/3 each. 1/4* posted.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers
or direct from the Publishers.
“THE FENCELESS RANGES,” by Roy Bridges
A great story of the Kelly Gang.
“THE MAKER OF PEARLS,” by S. W. Powell
Afl excellent volume of Island adventure and humor.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,”
by Jack North
Thrilling Sporting Adventure.
“THE CORAL QUEEN,” by Beatrice Grimshaw
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ROARING MEG,’ ”
by Jack McLaren
“YELLOW SILVER,” by Edward Meryon.
“A GAME OF CHANCE,” by Arthur Wright
“FOR TURON GOLD,” by Don Delaney
“THE TRADER,” by Cecil Ross-Johnson.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
s
SHIRTS
and PYJAMAS
These feature Quality '
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands—
double seams and gus-
sets which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
m
.m
F'
’tZSr.- ~>L i
mu
fife
£
C
i
xSTLr
V
\isi
»n.
0B
</ «4,
'•S
fV
°*i
THE LEVIATHAN
For Skilful High-Grade Tailoring.
Fortunate Purchase of Materials
Results in Unusual Offer.
Tailored-to-Order
Suit
£6/17/6
TAILORING—THE BEST.
This is a tailoring offer it will pay you to inves-
tigate. Beautiful All-Wool English and Aus-
tralian Tweeds in a wide range of herringbone,
pinpoints and mixtures in newest colors. Tailor-
ing. linings, trimmings are of the Leviathan
standard, expertly cut by our highly-skilled
cutters. A perfect fit is guaranteed, otherwise
acceptance of suit is not expected. Supply of
material is not unlimited. Order early.
Tine Same Materials—
The Same Cut.
This Suit is exactly the same as the £6/17/6
Suit, except that it is machine sewn throughout.
Maximum wear assured.
Made=to=Measure
MACHINE-SEWN
£5151-
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
Examine the Materials—They’re
Wonderful Value.
Orrler by Post We Pay Carriage.
w.
E - ■
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston
and Bourke Sts
MELBOURNE.
V
m
&
j
Every Man
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave. But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge—
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping.
This is where the ‘ Valet” Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shave. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-), and demonstrate the razor.
“VALET”
Ajw l(> 8 l [zop
Safety Razor
Ttn/tW
z^brf7777Z7/ /l/ 'UI
Oi
■Mm,
m
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FUK
AUSTRALASIA:
RALPH ABERCROMBY,
LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
The word “ Valet” on Razors,
Strops., and Blades . indicates the
genuine product of the A uioStrop
Sa/ety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207,
City Road, London, England.


Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the’only device in the world that will
refract and focus waves of sound upon the drum-
head. and assist the hearing power where any sound
can be heard at all.
m
m
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £l/1/- complete.
They usually last about
two years.
Mrs. Win. Foster, of 35 Edward Street, Sheppar-
ton, Vic., writes, July 24, 1921:—“I- have much
pleasure in testifying- to the benefit I have received
from the use of Wilson’s Ear-Drums. I have been
wearing them for several years, and have not had
any trouble with them. They are very comfortable,
and I could not do without them.. I consulted
several leading specialists without success.”
Write for Free Booklet or order now.
H. WILKINSON,
Room 14,178 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Cyclists, you can increase your
Miles Per Day if you ride in com-
fort. Your greatest help to comfort
is a saddle that exactly suits you
selected from the wide range of
BROpKS
SADDLES.
May we send you our illustrated catalogue ?
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, England
Representatives in X.S.W.: Scott & Holladay, Ltd., 31A Pitt St., Sydney
M-PD
Use Ligmolliene
When Skin Itches
That itching spot of Eczema or that
slight rash may develop, hut you can
check it at once by using lkimol-
LIENE CREAM.
The soothing and healing (jnajities of
Ligmolliene usually stop itching and
burning at the first application. Write
for full details of the Ligmolliene
Treatment for Eczema, Scurvy. Scald
Head, JUngworni, Superficial or Chronic
Diseases, of tilts Skin, In fajita' Chafed or
Tender .-Ikin. Barbers’ Rash, etc.
Sample Tin. 1/6. . Ligmolliene Soap. 1, -
\y h. MALYOX & SOX.JBallarat, Vic.
"Delhi”: ".Not too dusty” was commonly
used by swaggies when describing a road on which
the pubs were fairly frequent. 1 cannot vouch for
this being the origin of the expression as asked for
by “Alex” (B. 11/8/121), but it was thus used when
first I heard it.
* * *• *
“Dr. Nil”: To the gentleman who wants
to know if infusion of tincture of quassia is a cure
for the alcohol habit. Nothing is a cure, except
hypnotism, gaol or. death.
* -X- * *
“Murkah” : I agree with "To Babarantiko”
(B. 18/8/’2l) that there is some force which tends
to bring floating bodies, ships, etc., together. In
San Francisco Bay in 1914 two wind-bags were
observed to be approaching each other. It wasn’t
the tide, for that would have carried both vessels in
the one direction. Rowboats were put over and an
effort made to pull the vessels apart. But still the
mysterious closing movement went on. Then a
harbor fire-boat sped over and the danger was soon
past. I well remember the helpless air of the mate
of one of them as he talked of the incident after-
wards. I’d better add that there wasn’t a breath
of wind.
+ " * * *
"C Coral”:.A London illustrated paper
has been boosting up the Japanese “swimming-
girls,” who dive for pearls, wearing simply glasses,
and remain below for upwards of a minute. But
what’s wrong with the Torres Strait native, who
also with just the plain swimming glasses—no div-
ing dress—takes a header down any depth to 18
fathoms, and doesn’t come up for a blow until
nearly three minutes have been ticked off? In re-
trieving fouled anchors the islanders are experts, and
by being able to go down to such depths they save
the boss many a pound.
"Baree”: Darwin has amphibious funerals
as well as Thursday Island. • I remember one. It
was that of a woman. The grave was full of
water, and the coffin floated when put in. It was
weighed down with heavy stones, but in the middle
of the ceremony it bobbed up again. At last it
was lifted on to dry land, an auger was pro-
cured, and half-a-dozen holes were bored in the
PUTTING IT TO HIM POLITELY.
THE FARMER: "Are you a fool or am I?”
THE HAND: "Well, hosts, I don’t think you'd
employ a fool , would you?"
sides and bottom; after which the coffin was put
back,-and allowed to fill up and sink. The husband
and four of the dead woman’s children .witnessed
the whole affair, and the sight of muddy water
gurgling its way into the coffin upset the whole
congregation.
“Morob”: Reminiscences of the Spanish
occupation of Ysabel Island, in the Solomons, when
the group was believed to be the site of King Solo-
mon’s mines, frequently turn up in the shape of
ancient," well-worn Spanish coins in the possession of
the natives, who treasure them as charms for ward-
ing off devils. Contemporary accounts of Mendana’s
ill-fated expedition from Peru to the Solomons in
“LEST WE FORGET.”
Wife (at what Brown hopes is the end of the lecture) : “ What you want to try to
remember is that you are a married man with a family.”
1567 speak of several casks-full of coins and tokens
which Mendana took with him, apparently to trade
with the natives, not so much because they were
currency as because they were likely to be of value
in the eyes of the local nig. A more interesting
relic was the old Spanish musket found a year ago
in a village on Guadalcanal - , where it had probably
been since it was first taken away from its con-
quistadore owner. One interesting feature of ‘Meri-
dana’s expedition is that neither he nor any chroni-
cler mentioned how the idea arose that the source of
the wealth of the Biblical monarch was to be found
in the Solomons. Primarily the delusion was started
by Mendana, who discovered the group. His later
expedition there was organised on the strength of
his report to the Spanish viceroy in the South
American colonies, but he preserved a strict silence
as to what he based the King Solomon belief upon.
Never at any time has gold been found in the group
in quantities large enough to start the idea that it
was even an understudy for an El Dorado.
* * * *
“Riom”: Last coursing season W. Cran-
ston, of Boorowa, sold a greyhound, Aussie Boy, to
P. Scaresborough, of Muswellbrook (N.S.W.). The
dog was despatched by train, and arrived safely.
The other day he arrived back at Boorowa looking
as though he had had a rough spin on his long walk
overland. Cross country the distance is 200 miles;
by rail 406.
"Ophis”: “H.V.E.” (B. 11/8/21) in
answering “Bill Bowyang” is quite
right when he states that the black
snake (Pseudechis porphyriacus) pro-
duces from 10 to 20 young at a time;
but when he says they are able to
return to and leave the oviducts at
will he is making a mistake. As far
as I know the black snake brings
forth its young in a living state;
that is to say, the eggs are retained
in the oviducts until the youngsters
are sufficiently well-developed to fend
for themselves. Their re-entry to the
oviducts or the egg-sacs is physically
impossible, because the egg-sacs are
cast aside in a torn condition when
the young are born. In fact, the
young are generally born in these
sacs, and break their way through
into the world almost immediately.
"J.A.K ”: Tell "Bill Bowyang” (B.
21/7/’2l) that sonic time ago at the Tylden reservoir
(Vic.) I killed a black snake, a post-mortem on
which brought to light 34 youngsters about four
inches long.
“F.C.L.”: "Foxglove” (B. 28/7/'2l 1 is
after big carpet-snakes. On Buderim IQ.) one was
captured in a banana plantation that taped 2oft. and
some odd inches. He was boxed and sent to the
Brisbane Museum.
”De4M”--: For "B.N.J.’s” bridle-breaking
prad (B. 11/8/’2l) I can recommend this cure.
Tie the Tope on to the horse’s hind leg, pass it
round a smooth pole and fasten the other end
around his neck. At the first pull back the hind leg
is jerked forward and the prad has to slacken up
to get a foothold. After about the third try he is
beaten and will rarely attempt to break away again.
“D.Y.” : Ticks are again the nightmare of
N.S.W. North Coast cockydom. For years the Gov-
ernment carried an army of boards, investigators
and .such like to keep the scourge in check ; but the
result has been microscopic. Now conies the terse
opinion of Valder, Director of Agriculture: “The
settlers will have to face the trouble arid fight the
pest, just as those elsewhere have to deal with their
owi." Had the Government passed the North Coast
cocky this bit of commonsense in former years, the
pest. would probably have been stamped out; but
Cocky left it to the Government, and the answer is
muddle. The advice comes late in the day from
Valder; but the spectre of the Dry Cow is ahead
of his as of other Government departments.
“Weiry”: This is the narrowest squeak
I know of. The foundation of the Warrnambool
breakwater extension is composed of bags of “dry
concrete” laid on the sea-bed, the bags being 6ft.
.by 3ft. by about 2ft. 6in. They were lowered in
an iron cage which opened at the bottom allowing-
the bag to fall through, the lever for opening
being operated by a man on top acting on signals*
from the divers who guided the cage into position.
One afternoon the sea was so dirty below that, after
setting a bag, diver Tucker, who was working with
diver McLean, decided to knock off and went
to tell his mate. When he got to the spot where
McLean was all he could see of him was two legs
sticking out from under a bag which had just
been lowered. Tucker ripped the bag open with
his knife, got to the concrete with his hands,
and after some, hard fast work released McLean.
McLean told me later that he had given up all hope
of being rescued in time, as, although he was getting
air, there Was a leak in his helmet somewhere
which let in a trickle of water, and this had just
reached his mouth and nostrils when he was freed.
He was lying on his face, and though he held his
head as high in the helmet as he could get it he
could feel the water slowly accumulating to drown
him. As he put it, “Wouldn’t it be a cow to be
drowned in a. pint of water at a. depth of 3.0 ft.!”
“Tim Tiki”: The Maori Council for the
Wairoa (Hawkes Bay) district has cut deep into
native customs by passing a by-law to prohibit the
holding of a feast ( hakari ) on the death of any
person. The tangi is now being attacked.
“Cazna”: “Stringybark” and his mate (B.
4/8/’2l) wouldn't be fast enough to rake chips
for some Groper]arid hewers I know. Here are a few
tallies, and they- are not claimed as records. George
Gam cut one a Oft. 12 x 12in. beam and 15 Oft. lOin.
x sin sleepers fri one day. Dave Roberts, at Green-
bushes, felled his tree, sawed, split and dressed 45
7ft. 9in. x 44in. sleepers in under eight hours. Jack
Howard’s Yajoop tally is the best I know. Single-
handed be felled, split and hewed 30 Oft. lOin. x sin.
sleepers in six hours. And these were dinkum
export square-ups, not the shapeless hunks of wood
that pass for sleepers in Tassy.
“Rronf” : T have heard many an argument
as to who invented the “swinging-gate” in drafting-
yards. The consensus of opinion among the old
hands awards the honor to Thos, Hungerford, of
IValgett. He also generally gets the credit of intro-
ducing ringbarkir.g to the country.
“Jimmy J.”: Recent A bo.-writers have
the impression that pheasants failed to increase
when introduced into tic. years ago. A number
were released on a well-known estate in the Upper
Yarra district, and after a time they almost dis-
appeared from the place; but wallaby-hunters, who
know the surrounding hills well, state that quite a
number of pheasants can be seen in these hills,
while the original home of the birds has been com-
pletely deserted.
‘‘Bora’’ : On a New England (N.S.W.)
station in 1911 five men dipped 5000 sheep (big
wethers) in four hours —all well dipped and none
drowned. Is that a record?
*■»**
Archie Mestou on Cape York
Within 200 yards of the mouth of the Fasten
River is a weird cave 50 yards back from the beach.
It consists of a pile of tremendous granite rocks
about 00 feet in height, with vast slabs superimposed
on pillars not unlike the Druidical rocks at Stone-
henge and the Isle of Lewis, but vaster beyond all
comparison. There- is one chamber about 40 feet in
height and at least 30 feet in diameter, with dark
gloomy recesses radiating from each side, uncanny
places shunned even by the aboriginals, who call the
caves Yen-gee-.jee. All those mysterious enormous
rocks stand isolated from the colossal range which
rises abruptly from the back, a truly awe-inspiring
mountain over 2000 feet in height, consisting solely
of Cyclopean masses of dark brown granite, piled
in confusion and destitute of all vegetation. The stu-
pendous pile, out of which whole cities could be
constructed, bears the name of Carron Range, named
by It. L. Jack from one of the two sole surviving
white men from Kennedy’s Expedition 1848.
* * . •*■ *
“Eddyson”: Crilly, the ’smith at Yam, was
the most combative man the district boasted. He
shattered the peace of the township with his argu-
ments,- the roar of his contention frequently broke
bottles in Hannan’s bar, and when he could not
convince an opponent with words he was ready to
resort to deeds. His practical logic had helped to
emphasise the need of a hospital at Balm, the rail-
way town. Then Crilly married. He married
little Mrs. Sharp, the woman who lamed the Indian
hawker who attempted to "take liberties,” and she
who drove the picnic party out of Hallow’s paddock
single-handed, because it was disturbing her cows'.
Jim Crilly and Annie Sharp were pointed out to
visitors to Yam as a remarkable instance of a. well-
matched couple. Jim could always beat Annie in
a. fair go, but if Annie bored, and got her teeth in
him, Jim had to cave and call the fight off. There
was •no way of breakng her loose short of abject
surrender. Annie was not a clean fighter; she was
peculiarly dexterous with a potstick. and had a
tigerish aptitude in the use of her 10 nails. Con-
sequently Jimmie cannot be said to have had it all
his own way. Their lights were the most enlivening
features of the social life of Yam. A gratifying
feature of the combats was that 10. minutes later
the two were excellent friends again, and would trip
away to church together, flaunting their bruises and
SOT SO SURE AS HE WAS.
BULL "Still looking for a fight?”
PUP : "Well, l dun no. I found one just now
and lost, it.”
wounds without a. vestige of malice. When Annie
died of influenza it was a terrible blow to Jim. Hr
mourned her for 18 months, and then married Mis-
Fanny Smith, who kept the fancy-goods shop in
High-street. Miss Smith was a gentle and submis-
sive soul. When attacked as Mrs. Crilly she
simply yielded in a base abandonment of grief.
She submitted to Jim’s heavy hand, and never bit
back, or cracked his head with the potstick, or im-
parted a checkerboard effect to his face with keen,
incisive finger-nails. This bewildered Jim, and
robbed married life of all savor. Again and again
lie opened the attack. Fanny simply would not
respond with a flatiron, or even a plate. Then the
Crilly couple parted, and within a month we were
astonished to know that Jim was asking about a
divorce. “What grounds?” 1 asked.him. He banged
on the anvil with a snort of disgust. “Incompati-
bility of temper!” he roared. “Incompatibility of
temper! The woman’s an angel.” All Yam
lost its respect for law when Jim Crilly failed to
get his divorce.
TO A WATTLE-TREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, glowing gift that August spills like gold from
out her treasure,
And pours upon the grey-green trees, unstinting
in her measure,
Perfuming all the busliland ways to suit her royal
pleasure—
Say, are you snares of faery gold to catch wild hearts
a-dreaming ?
Or radiant lamps that Love has lit to aid her wanton
scheming—
Bright torches breathed on by the sun, with eager
flame out-streaming ?
Or are you all the little dreams that in our young
September
Made fragrant pathways of desire our hearts can
yet remember — .
Gold dreams that fade in memories, as Spring fades
in November?
Ah, did the dreaming sap of you, ‘that slept in
languid wonder,
lle-kindle into golden life at hot strong kisses under
Your sombre boughs that sway to hear the Weir’s
resounding thunder ?
Oh tree, that I could , cull, with you, warm gracious
hearted spender,
One perfect season of delight, one passioned golden
splendor,
Replete with fullest life and love, and burning
thought and tender I
N.S.YV.
HELEN BURKE.


TUIOTORING has its advantages and attractions
IVI a u year round, but “ blossom time” is a
period when motorists begin to take a keener
interest in their outings, and look forward to
country trips. The lure of the bush in Spring time
appeals to most motorists—who are to be envied
their opportunities of enjoying the blossom season
in the fullest measure. Untrammelled by train or
boat, masters of pace and distance, motorists can
partake of the gifts of the bush with ease and
comfort. So fill up the tanks, pump up the
tyres, and away to the blossoms —to health and
happiness. To make your trips doubly enjoy-
able, use tyres that will carry you anywhere
free of trouble. Select dependable “ Railroad ”
DUNLOP TYR
they are noted for their staunchness, their
ability to withstand continual hard driving, their
great mileage, and their low running cost.
It’s best to take no risks —fit “Dunlops” and
thereby enjoy to the full—the pleasures of
motoring. Any garage can supply your require-
ments. List mailed on application.
r*r~\
- - s
ST
51
■# »
'»
>.'v
r i r , <
**:*
--.
a
J'rr
■. +M
■. 4'
;
' •*
:*v-
f- 4& 1
'
*, i
•$ V
a
A\
w
~-> ■:. «■ Jf
gyy**^
■
r ' ‘ v
■
'ir.,' ‘ x.
IS
w&
r ■ -,•
..
v-
mm*mm
■■■;. ::■
a§
mm
m
411
*®s
r
'• "V - •
i
;
:
1
- -: 4 ;,. *
■
j .::
; f’ '; '
* ■ :>■ f
mm
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO. . . .
ALL STATES
—AND N. Z.-


f
11/ '
i
IV
V'VX/
rrrt
Wist
&s>
, -4
«Qa2&9fe
’wb! , >9 and Pr««n
Surfocwi
5 'C. JOHNSONS i<
W>».
rmT
§M#2§
ig H N>QwASON.
jjfe
SSlfiHn
Missing Friends.
T)OAKD —WARD.—If Frank Board, son of Frank
-V Oliver and Mary Ann Board, or brothers and
sisters of said Mary Ann Board, nSe Ward, will com-
municate with TIIK TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY 00.. LTD., of No. 112 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, they will learn something to their advantage.
Legal Notices.
T V THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND,
1 WELLINGTON DISTRICT,
No. 2148—1 N DIVORCE.
Between MARGUERITA WOOLL of Blenheim m
the Dominion of New. Zealand Married . Woman
Petitioner.
And MICHAEL LESLIE -WOOLL formerly of the
Cities of Wellington and Auckland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Butcher but now of address un-
known Respondent.
To MICHAEL LESLIE WOOLL formerly of the
Cities of Wellington and Auckland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Butcher but now of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Well
iiigton citing you to appear and answer the Peti-
tion of Marguerita Wool! of Blenheim in the
Dominion of New Zealand Married Woman wherein
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion and such Citation
intimates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition and
to pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding your
absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within sixty (60)
days after th(‘ date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington New Zealand and there to
enter an appearance and file an answer without
which you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stagje. of the proceedings. A copy of the
said Citation and Petition will be supplied to you
on your applying - for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 18th dav of August,
1021.
G. S. CLARK,
/ Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
■;uested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Herbert Linklater is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
offices of Messrs, Perry, Gill & Linklater, Solicitors,
Fcatherston Street, in the City of Wellington.
(This is the last advertisement.)
Ajj. AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
ma "ii a nd cable news from Australia and news’
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Holborn, London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If- ar.v illustration appearing in- The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
‘'Rpnew Your Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson's Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson's Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste — Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece qf plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON
379 Kent St.
& SON
Sydney, N. S. W«
invincible:
Centrifugal Fans
(Made in Australia).
$
■
NVINCIBLE FANS com-
bine maximum efficiency
with power economy. They
are designed and manufac-
tured wholly in Australia. In
volumetric efficiency, construc-
tion and durability, Invincible
Fans equal the world’s best
products.
Multi vane Fans, Steel Plate
Exhausters, High-pressure
Blowers for every purpose.
Induced Draft, Forge Blowing, General
Ventilation, Dust Removal, Refuse Col-
lection, Elevating and Conveying, Shav-
ings Exhaust, Air Drying, Air Heating,
Washing and Conditioning. Take advan-
tage of Special Experience and submit
your problems to us.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; and Fitzroy Buildings, 125 Adelaide Street,
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building,
Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth.
Brisbane.
Adelaide.
NG 402


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in. tfvc
VUjrld.
d
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
W OIFE S SCHNAP? 6,
ďf
s
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super- remedy
the improvement is immediate .
w. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
m
r
%
v
r'
COUCHS
COLDS
rrf*.
cauup
LUNG
s—to
THOUejai
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
ID
1
nary, he usually wrote uncommonly . well.
His whole trouble was that, outside history
and biography, he simply _ had nothing to
write about. Had he ever jolted himself out
of his groove, met more real men and women,
seen something of life and character, worked
less and thought harder, lie mignt have been
one of the leading English prose-writers of
his century, for Byron did not greatly ex-
aggerate when lie declared that his style was
perfect. Backing the material which could
have been acquired in this way, he was
forced to fall back upon his library and his
imagination, and neither was equal to the
strain. Hence the remoteness of his crea-
tive work, its chill and dreary unreality. Here
and there you find delightful little things
like “The Battle of Blenheim,” “Bishop
Hatto,” "Incheape Rock” and the story
of “The Three Bears” (buried in Chapter
127 of "The Doctor”). But the desert is
appalling and the oases very few, for Southey
was one of those lofty and (to be candid)
rather pompous beings who come down to
earth but seldom, and even then can never
forget that they are condescending. Any
suggestion that his half-dozen pieces for
children were worth all his epics put together
would have seemed to him rank blasphemy ;
he preferred to go on thundering in irregular
blank verse to people who did not listen and
would have been bored stiff if they had. The
public which he hammered at and despised
has taken full revenge, and at the same time
has satisfied its ironical humor, by placing
the unpretentious verses about old Kaspar
and the wicked bishop in the hands of every
child, while leaving the portentous epics,
the essays and the many-volumed histories
to the dust and the moths and the worm that
dietli not.
G. O. DINON.
Art and Clothes
Talking of the dulness and dirtiness of
modern man’s attire, Miss S. Maxwell, of
Sydney, suggests that in place of his uncom-
fortable coat, creased vest and knee-bagged
pants, he should wear a dress of woollen
material modelled on that worn by the Tyrol-
ese peasant: also that his outer outfit should
be often in the wash, like his under-ditto,
and that braces should be an ornamental
feature of his appearance, rather than a
hidden mystery. All this sounds good enough,
but 1 take credit for having been an earnest
advocate of a better dress-reform system
than Miss Maxwell’s for the last 30 years.
My idea was suggested, 1 think, by the one-
time fashionable “sailor suit” of the small
boy, the suit that King George wore in his
infant days. Something similar to the well-
ventilated washing-suit of the tar who
ploughs the ocean should be the suit univer-
sal. Let Tom Bowline remain remarkable
for the freakish cut of his pants, but let the
contrast between his easy, simple attire and
the ornate, stuffy costliness oi mediaeval
dandyism be completely maintained.
And let the daily life of the world’s
workers be gladdened in the reformation.
Bring color to bear upon a scheme of trade
distinction in dress, and thus free mankind
from those shackles for which famous por-
trait-painters are mainly responsible. In,
say, Franz Flals’s “Laughing Cavalier” (who
is, strictly speaking, a sneering Cavalier), 1
see shocking evidence of Art’s endeavor to
glorify a costume that encourages dirt and
disease whilst arrogantly enforcing class
distinctions by means of personal pomp.
Rich garments of satin and velvet, of “ever-
lasting wear,” would have been abominations
to the health officers of the period, had there
been any health officers. Yet Art has
painted poems in praise of such unhygienic
things. My sailor suit I would have in
wool, or in linen when worn with under-
garments. Different colors and embellish-
ments should mark the various trades of the
wearers. Thus, whilst the butcher hutched
in blood-red serge, the greengrocer should
sport bright green, the tinsmith light grey
or steel, the saddler light brown, the grocer
one of many shades of sand, the carpenter
dark fawn, the bricklayer dull red. Then
would the manufacture of imperishable dyes
be perfected to meet the demand, and the
crowd on Cup Day constitute a kaleidoscopic
entertainment for the eye. The thought of
hundreds of bookmakers garbed in old-gold
washing suits, city clerks in violet (of the
prevailing ink tint), cocky farmers in corn-
color with wheat-ears worked on the collar,
biscuit-factory hands in gingerbread brown,
and drapers punting in mauve or magenta
is exciting. Men’s clothes would be ever clean
and cheering. The modern tailor’s occupa-
tion would be gone. Pride in one’s avocation
would be fostered by a cultivated esteem of
its color sense, so to speak.
Personally I dream of looking rather
sweet in black blouse and rose-tinted pants,
indicative of prose and verse; but in my
moments of awakenness I discuss this mod-
ern man’s clothing question seriously. Many
who talk of the need of more color in our
lives are shockingly inartistic as far as the
man in the street is influenced by them.
They wear shabby slop-made suits, frayed
foolish collars and hideous boots. The idea
of breaking out in a sky-blue blouse, with
shoes and stockings of a somewhat darker
shade, has never occurred to them. They
buy house property without .the least inten-
tion of painting it pink. They never prac-
tise what they preach. I marvel not at Miss
Maxwell remaining a spinster. Were I a
woman I would snort at a man who came
wooing in dull and dirty garments, and
offered me love in a grimy cottage. I’d want
a pale pink suitor and a pale pink villa, and
I’d work him such a pair of washing braces
as he'd he proud to go to church in.
E. F.
Lachlan Macquarie
Some day perhaps when the large town
on Port Jackson in which the Red Page is
printed acquires grace, as well as the
beauty it has been endowed with, it will
melt down some of the effigies that disfigure
it here and there, and cast a Statue out
of the metal to a man who did a very
great deal for it. Sydney owes more to
the late Major-General Macquarie, C. 8.,
than there is space to detail here. In the
meantime the publishers of Art in Aus-
tralia have achieved something of a monu-
ment: to him in The Macquarie Book, which
has just been issued. This reviewer feels a
little diffident about saying that it is a very
valuable historical document —for the reason
that he has himself written about a third
of it —but it is nevertheless quite certain
that it is that, and a good deal besides.
The reproductions of the three portraits of
Macquarie that exist in Australia alone
make it worth while, and the many beautiful
drawings and photographs that illustrate
the book give it a great value to students
of Australian history.
Hardy Wilson has written a delightful
essay on Macquarie’s architect, Francis
Howard Greenway, who has left so many
fine memorials of his art in Sydney, Parra-
matta and at the Hawkesbury, and in the
writer’s opinion this is the best feature of
the book. G. 11, Bertie has done a paper
on Sydney in Macquarie’s time that is as
valuable and accurate as all the city
librarian’s writings about Old Sydney are.
J. 11. M. Abbott has something to say con-
cerning Macquarie the Man, and it: might
have been better to be worthy of its sub-
ject. Too much cannot be said for the get
up of the book, which is as good as the
Art in Australia publications always are.
There are one or two slight inaccuracies of
the sort that inevitably get into such a
difficult piece of work —Captain John Piper,
for instance, sho.uld not have the letters
“R.N.” after his name in the explanation
of Plate XVII, a reproduction of the minia-
ture in the Mitchell Library. Although lie
was Naval Officer in Sydney he was a soldier
and not a sailor. But that is nothing to
detract from the real value of the book. It
is a fine contribution to Australian history,
and the editors, Sydney Ure Smith and
Bertram Stevens, are to be thanked for a
truly interesting and useful piece of work.
(The Macquarie 800k —The Life and Times
of Governor Lachlan Macquarie. Sydney.
Art in Australia, Ltd.)
J. H. M. A.
A Satchel of Books
Cupid in Many Moods, by Cosmo Hamilton (Hurst
and Blackett). A collection of uninspiring short
stories, reprinted from the World, by the man who
wrote “Scandal,” There’s not a Bed in one of them.
Spanish Painting, a special number of the Studio.
The text, a comprehensive review of the art of
Spain, is by A. de Beruete y Moret, director of the
Prado Museum, Madrid, and about 50 plates of repre-
sentative paintings, ten of them in color, adequately
illustrate the volume.
The Rough Crossing, by Sylvia Thompson (Black-
well). A chronicle of a small girl’s development
into a flapper with the fictional interest depending
mainly on the infant’s precocity. Altogether an
affected book, though it wouldn’t appear so improb-
able as an autobiography.
The Quirt, by B. M. Bower (Little, Brown and Co.,
per Whitcombe and Tombs). American cowboy
story, but a bit out of the common, the only weak-
ness’ being the unreality of the final scene. The
heroine is a movie actress, and Bower performs
the miracle of making her natural and charming.
All About Trout Fishery, by J. A. Riddell
(Walter Scott Publishing Co.). A handbook by a
master of his art that will be of use chiefly to
beginners. Though written for British anglers there
is hardly a tip in it that will not come in handy
for fishermen on Australian i and Maoriland streams.
The 9.15, by F. Frankfort Moore (Hutchinson;.
About a splendid young Englishman who, marooned
by Sinn Feiners on a tropic isle, meets an equally
splendid young Englishwoman with the inevitable
result. It is tradesmanlike, but lacks the fragrant
atmosphere o 1 romance which pervaded “The .Tessamy
Bride.”
Enter Caroline, by Baroness d’Anethan (Hurst and
Blackett). A novel of the diplomatic set in Japan,
with a German ambassador as the villain of the
piece. The writer knows her Nippon, and gets a
few bits of it well on to paper. The yarn itself
has nothing to lift it beyond the sentimental com-
monplace.
This Side of Paradise, by F. Scott Fitzgerald
(Scribner’s). A “different” novel, well worth read-
ing. It traces the mental and sentimental develop-
ment of an American youth from boyhood up through
college to critical manhood; and there is a con-
vincingly realistic touch abont it that suggests a
frank autobiography.
Indiscretions of Archie, by P. G. Wodehouse (Her-
bert Jenkins, Ltd.). A tehucklesome sample of the
humor of the man who created Piccadilly .Tim.
Archie is a typical Wodehouse English johnnie who
goes to America and marries the daughter of a mil-
lionaire hotel-proprietor, and both he and his father-
in-law have a deuce of a time of it in consequence.
Raphael, by Felix Lavery (Sands and Co., Lond.).
A painstaking biography of the Old Master published
in attractive form and copiously illustrated. The
main object of the author is apparently to prove
that “The Nativity” which is in his possession is the
genuine Raphael and the one in the Louvre is tne
work of Giulio Romano, a pupil. He makes out a
rather impressive case.
Merit and Democracy, by E. George Marks
(Tyrrell’s). Herein this Sydney writer presents his
idol Napoleon as seen from another angle—that
of the democrat. The argument that Napoleon’s
rejuvenation of Europe by the overthrow of so many
monarchical, social and legal shams was largely
responsible for the freedom the civilised world enjoys
to-day, is ingeniously put.
The Three Eyes, by Maurice Le Blanc (Hurst and
Blackett). Animated pictures of events that could
not have been cinematographed—some of them
anterior to the discovery of photography—are
mysteriously flashed upon a plastered wall. Tin-
idea is good, hut it could have been better handled.
No pseudo-scientific detective yarn should lack a
convincing villain, and this one does.
Satan, by H. De Vere Stacpoole (Hutchinson).
“Satan” Tyler, the owner of an ancient vessel,
wanders round the Caribbean playing the part of a
small pirate with unreasonable respectability. His
crew are his sister Jude and a wealthy young Eng-
lishman. who in the second chapter bolts from a
steam yacht to board Tyler’s hooker in a pair of
radiant pyjamas. A readable yarn with quaint dia-
logue and original humor.
Bat Wing, by Sax Rohmer (Cassell). Another of
this author’s well-told tales of mystery, and as usual
he depends on the more or less apocryphal necro-
mancy of colored people for some of his effects. This
time it is the voodoo or devil-worship of Cuba that
holds you on the string. The plot is ingenious,
and the man who can guess how it is going to end
ought to nick something at long range for the Mel-
bourne Cup and get 100 to 1 about it.
Gun Running for Casement, by Reserve-Lieutenant
Karl Spindler. The author is the German officer
who tried to land a shipload of arms in Ireland
for the Easter rebellion, and this is the. story o?
the voyage. His estimate of ..British naval men is
that they are pretty well all fools, and we can now
quite understand why the Allies lost the war. What
isn’t so clear is why the fool British, having let
Spindler get to Ireland, didn’t allow him to land
hi** arms • -
Foreshadowed, by F. E. Mills Young (Hodder and
Stoughton) Another novel with a S’African setting,
The heroine gets kissed bv a married man on page
9 and vou learn that “if he failed to rouse reci-
procaj feelings in her,, he succeeded in some deg-rce
n stirring latent sex.” Then you go on from that,
sure in your knowledge of F. E. Mills Young that
there is other kissing to come. A fair sample di this
author’s output, ending on a tragic note.
into gaol bv the Berlin Secret Service agents on a
charge of murder. The arrival of the world-war
leading to the seizure of the Hun archives in London
cst-iblishes his innocence. The satire, of which
there is a full issue, suggests Marie Corelli, or some
other woman-writer-—like the statement (hat the hero
die 15 vears in a modern prison without having a
wwF
nOT ,au ’ t „.. .. ~. , T ....
The Voice of the Pack, by Edison Marshall (Little,
Brown and Co., Boston). The story of a young
townsman who finds on. going west that he has in-
herited the marvellous backwoods prowess ot his
grandfather. But interest in the prodigy snaps
when we read: “Pan’s reply was to lift the rim-
lightlv u> his shoulder, glance quickly along the
trigger and fire.” A man 1 who aims a rifle by glanc-
ing along the trigger .is a bit beyond the average
Australian. '
Far to Seek, by Maud Diver (Blackwood). Notice-
able Anglo-Indian novel, finely-written in parts, but
too long- There are 452 pages of it (say 180,000
words), and 350 would have been plenty. Some of
the characters reappear from previous books. Ihe
i, PVO on oi an English artist and a Rajput lady—
is involved in three love affairs, but grows tedious
nevertheless. So docs the author’s insistence on the
sniritualitv of the young man’s ma. But along
with a mass of stuff’that was hardly worth imagin-
ing Mrs Diver has given us some arresting pictures
ot the new India, which isn’t so very different from
ot me new inuia,
tne ol< ’ „ , _ , ... ..
Rooks in General, by Solomon Eagle. (Dodder
and Stoughton, per Melville and Mullen.) This is
the third and last collection of the papers cotitn-
buted to The New Statesman by the young poet
arid critic who in his better moments is known as
J. C. Squire. The little volume contains much con-
ventional but scrappy criticism, though in several
places Squire breaks out and makfs the nodding
reader sit up with remarks like these: “I find that
for the five-and-fiftieth time I have seized the oppor-
tunity of arguing that most of Swinburne is rubbish,
Why? Unconsciously. I imagine, I have been im-
polled by the feeling that it is the most dangerously
plausible rubbish that exists; that influence exer-
eised by Swinburne is the worst influence, artisti-
cally to which a writer can be subjected; that, in
fact,’ enthusiastic youth should always be warned
against him. He was (when not inspired) an ex-
traordinarily clever composer of fakes, the large
movement of which conceals the deplorably loose
writing; and many have derived from him tne con-
ception of verse as merely the accumulation ot sweet
or sonorous lines and rotund words. He imposed ban
artistic habits and a bad vocabulary on a whole
generation of modern writers.”
Psychoanalysis and Sociology, by Andre Kolnai
(George Allen and Unwin). Psychoanalysis .is the
odd new science which ascribes every human action
and most of our aberrations to (usually repressed)
sexuality. In the beginning the family was ruled
despotically by the patriarch or father. The young
males desiring that sexual freedom which he denied
them ’ killed arid ate him So incest, parricide anft
anthropophagy are the ruling passions of mankind:
‘they constitute what the Early Fathers of the
Christian Church called Original Sin. Every
impulse says the psvchoanalvst, mav be traced to
these necessarily repressed desires. But what place
has Sociology in such a galley ? The answer (to
the psychoanalyst) is obvious. Take anarchy or
communism. The detested father is here the State.
The State stands for control, repression of the
libido. Away with it! “Bomb-throwing,” remarks
the author, “is. an entirely mystical, individual,
unsophisticated’ copy of parricide. It is impossible
to ascertain by what means the clan of the brethren
may have carried out the act of parricide. It is,
however, a fact that in the preparation of bombs
by the anarchistic associations the anarchist tech-
nique and logic are most clearly illustrated —jus;;
as the Marxist technique anp logic are best illustrated
by the dogmatism of class war.” Like so many
other creeds psychoanalysis is entirely credible once
its premises have been accepted.
Edward IS ok: An Autobiography (Thornton But-
terworth). Lord Northcliffe has written an intro-
duction for the English edition; but if he said
“It is the autobiography of our time,” as the cover
alleges, he certainly doesn’t say it in the printed
introduction. It is easy enough to agree with most
of what Northcliffe does say, the condlusion of
which is that if he had only one copy of the book
he would give it to a struggling youngster just at
the of his business life. Bovn in Holland*
Bok went to New "York -as an infant of seven, got
a job ib a bakery when he was 10, learned short-
hand, grew'into a young man with a vast amount
of confidence in himself, learned the business 01
advertising, applied it to book-selling (he had
found a job with Scribner’s), passed on from edit-
ing a church, magazine to the writing of a “syndi-
cated” letter, and at 20 became editor of the
Ladies’ Home Journal, a monthly magazine which
until then had been edited by Mrs. Curtis, the wife
of one of the proprietors. After that Bole’s job
was to increase circulation, and the best part of
the big hook is the story of how lie did it. (To-
day it is said to issue about two million copies. 1
Henry Ward Beecher —Bok was one of the young
men of his church —wrote: “Bok is the only man
win) ever seemed to make my literary work go ami
get money out of it.” That, seems to have been
Ifok’s forte: to make literary work “go.” There
used to be only one editor in a newspaper office.
Now you may find half-a-dozen: and the newest
variety is the managing editor. There was room
for him. The old original editor was a person who.
as a rule, knew little or nothing about business and
was proud of it. If his staff was well organised, il
ids paper gave the public what the public would
buy, if it made itself a commercial success so that
it could give the public increasingly valuable ser-
vice, and if it got the commercial success it de-
served, it was usually due to the accident of having
somebody on the premises who managed the editor.
Bok was one of the first of the new breed of man-
aging editors; and that Northclj/fe should write
an introduction to this autobiog. is quite right, for
Northcliffe is himself the most conspicuous member
of the tribe in England. To those who want to
know how a two-million circulation can be achieved
two books . are recommended: this large volume of
Bolt's; a smaller one whi ch lately dealt with North-
cliffe’s Daily Mail.
“Maitchem”: The London Mercury (June) lias
a reply to Professor Pollard’s dissection (in History
for April) of the B.arbellion diaries. So angry
is Mr. J. C. Squire that he almost gets to the point,
of splitting Ids infinitives and quite gets to the
point of mixing his metaphors. The Professor, he
says, “has threaded a labyrinth only to seat
himself complacently upon a mare’s nest.” It
may be all right, to speak of the diaries as, in one
sense, a labyrinth: but when it comes to calling
Mr. 11. G. Wells “a mare’s nest,” one is inclined
to demur. A hornet’s nest, now, might pass. Mr.
Squire’s statement shows that the case of the diaries-
was correctly diagnosed in The Bulletin (R. P.
IS/8/’2l). It- is admitted that, Barbellion “shifted
seme of the entries in his diary about for art’s
sake.” But the work was not composite.' Mr.
Wells had no finger in the pie, except tbe writing
of the introduction to the first, volume.


Wool-Shearing Costs
have advanced and all other expenditure
with woolgrowing. The best way to off-set
increased expenses is to get full rates for
the clip shorn. Send Your Wool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane. LTD.
Selling Brokers whose sales are unfailingly
on top-market levels.
CYCLONE
d
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
I ’anama-Paciflc
I nternational
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CICLONE” anti all other Chisholm-
Moore Hoisting Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
30 Curne Street. ADELAIDE.
MfißgMlfi
ďf
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
tumesof its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
—a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
4
Pioneer Wood Pipe
for Irrigation.
Pure, sparkling and revivifying water from the big, blue bills will make the
desert bloom like the rose.
Irrigation is essential in arid regions. In arid regions the soil is pervious— -
therefore a dirt-ditch cannot be expected to carry water without large
seepage losses. Metal pipe corrodes and rusts, is heavy in handling-cost anil
expensive in upkeep, but Pioneer Wood Pipe, corrosion-proof, cheap to lay
and maintain and long-wearing, permits no seepage, and is absolutely
satisfactory.
The “Pioneer” Book is worth having—shall we send you a copyV
We are also manufacturers of WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
Men’s Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies* - - 4/-
i Soles and Heels),
per set
Men’s Stout 2/6
.. Light 21-
Ladies’ • - 1/3
(Heels only),
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS.Ltd.,
London , Eng.
JTT THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs.
tJ to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
1
‘MILITARY'
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
tflj THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
ill give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
A» worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G. WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
8. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
GBE
THE- PERFECT PIPE
The Pipe to Choose.
At all times, in all climes, the
GBD is the chosen pipe of
thousands of smokers.
Its world-wide popularity stamps
it as “the perfect pipe. Made of
French Briarwood thoroughly
matured and shaped by experts.
With your favorite tobacco and
a GBD a cool, sweet smoke is
assured.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
Lionel Weatherly, of Woolongoon, suc-
ceeds J. C. Ritchie as president of the Vic.
Pastoralists’ Association. Ritchie has held
the job for 15 years, and claimed a spell.
“Friday Island”: A recent arrival at Lid-
conibe (N.S.W.) Old Men’s Asylum, who
gave his age as 94—but looked more—con-
iided to the resident doctor: “Yairs, I Jived
all me life round Bourke. But it’s no good
up there now; a bloke can’t get work up
Bourke way these days.”
“Ham”: The mania for dragging things
across the seas has provided Australia with
some great jokes. There is a trig, post on
Manna Mountain, near Forbes (N.S.W.).
The sides of the big hump are thickly clad
with pine; but the post is made of another
and rather poorer pine humped all the way
from America.
Donald McGillivray, dead at Penola (S.A.)
at 06, was a horse-expert well known in
several States. He practised as both vet.
and trainer in N. S. Wales at one time, and
wrote a book on horse-breaking. In 1914
S.A. rejected him as over age, but Vic.
accepted him, and he did good work as vet.
with the Light Horse in Egypt and Pales-
tine.
T. J. Lonsdale, who has fallen under the
displeasure of the A.W.U. heads in Queens-
land, is general secretary of the inland trans-
port workers, and knows more about the
Western wool-carrying business than any
other man in the State. The wool-carriers
regard' him as guide, ' philosopher and
friend. He is a line platform man, and an
all-wool Australian. For Bolshevism and
other imported doctrines he has no use what-
ever.
Charles Currie, a well-known Sydney
coach, was one of the earliest ii N. S. Wales
to volunteer help to the scheme for educat-
ing the Diggers’ orphans. Repat. asked for
free scholarships from schools and colleges,
and the answer has been generous; but
Currie said in effect that he was willing to
give his advice and all the assistance he could
to any child of a deceased soldier who
wanted it. Wherefore several Diggers’
youngsters who did not seem to have a
chance before will probably shine in various
exams, at the end of the year.
The N.T. lost a pioneer recently when
Mrs. Tuckwell passed out in her 86th year.
Born within hearing of How Bells, she
arrived in Adelaide in 1855, and went up
to Darwin 15 years later. Thereafter she
spent all her life there, with the exception Of
a few months in Adelaide in 1914, and the
age she attained evidences the deadly quali-
ties of the jn.T. climate. One daughter
(Mrs. V. V. Brown) survives her in Dar-
win, and there are a number of grandchildren
and great-grandchildren resident in the Ter-
ritory, most of them born there.
“T. 0.1.”: Bumbaldry, between Cowra and
Grenfell (N.S.W.), / where there is now a
gold rush of sorts, was originally the home-
stead of William Redfern Watt, nephew of
Dr. Redfern, of the Nore Mutiny, after
■whom the Sydney suburb is named. Watt
sat in the third and fourth Leg. Assembly of
N.S.W. Just before the Weddin (Emu
Creek) diggings broke out on the site of
present-day Grenfell, he took up material
for a mansion which was to supersede the
old house; but with the gold rush and the
probability of Bumbaldry being over-run by
diggers, he decided not to build. And he
was probably wise, for a large part of the run
was for years occupied by diggers.
“Ej ill” : The Yewnited States are sup-
posed to be dry, but a pal of mine, just from
there, tells me that “squirrel” whisky and
“jackass” brandy are to be had anywhere,
and sacramental and medicinal wines are
well within reach. The chief spirituous
drinks of Pussyfoot’s country are distilled
from prunes and apricots. To make a fine
spirit a second operation is necessary, but
most folk distil only once, and with the
stones in the fruit. The kernel in these
stones contains prussic acid, and the result-
ing spirit is “something fierce.” Hence
“squirrel” whisky and “jackass” brandy. A
couple of tots of the former give a man
the jumps, and a dose or two of the latter
are liable to fill the neighborhood with wild
noises.
“Country Ped”: Happily, in Vic. the
younger district inspectors are progressive
and give their teachers every opportunity to
be practical. Last year, when I happened
to have charge of a school in a dried-fruits
and citrus district on the Murray, the boys
and I planted out one-eighth of an acre in
sultana, currant and raisin vines, and planned
a small citrus orchard. Next year that
small plot will bring in about £lO, and the
boys will have had plenty of practical train-
ing in what will probably be their life work.
Some schools grow potatoes, others experi-
ment with cereals, a few grow tomatoes, and
one even runs a small model poultry farm.
The great thing about all this is that the
youngsters are shown that scientific agricul-
ture can be as absorbingly interesting as a
picture-show; and this ought to help the
country to keep its population.
The bitter cry of a mere bloke: —
What a thing is woman! She is forever complain-
ing about the cost of her remarkable duds, but in the
periodica] contest between Fashion and Economy
Fashion wins always. A Sydney draper told one of
the 1975 Royal Commissions the other day that “if
the women were wearing the same sort of costumes
as last year we could sell them (the costumes, not
the ladies) one-third cheaper.” But the dear, un-
reasoning creatures are not wearing, and never do
wear, “the same sort of costumes as last year,” so
man, proud man. may expect to be hit to leg as
usual. It wouldn’t be so bad if sick Australian
industries—producing and manufacturing—-were
nourished by the superfluous 33J per cent., but
there is no chance of that. The ingenious parasites
who minister to woman’s vanity and fear of the
other cat will get the lot. During the war, when
there' was a desperate scarcity of materials, particu-
larly wool, cotton, silk and leather, the sex
demanded fashions' of which amplitude was the key-
note — e.g., voluminous blouses, cloaks cut in the
military style, and “soldiers’-allowance” boots ending
three inches below the knee. Now that materials
are a drug on the market and the heart of the
sheepman is sick and the shoe-factories are working
short shifts the craze is all for skimpiness—not
because my lady lias become economical, but because
the foreign legpullers who make “the fashions” have
so decreed. I smile at the passionate demand of
Labor rhetoricians and logic-choppers for “a system
of production for use and not for profit.” They will
have to convert the irrational half of creation first-


NSS
MS
H \
p p
Wfc- k i ifc PlSOiOS*U!t- k Plp^.UiOs
W 0000\00|0\00^0100\(
The Burroughs Adding Machine
Burroughs Adding Machines are the response which inven-
tion has made to the modern demand for quicker and improved
methods of accounting. Their field of work covers every oper-
ation of bookkeeping.
They replace the slow, uncertain processes of mental calcula-
tion with the speed and accuracy of perfect mechanical action.
For pen-and-ink figures—laborious to write and tiring to read
they substitute the instantaneous, legible printing of type.
Their simplicity of operation and absolute protection against
error render them immediately adaptable to any office and
unfailingly accurate with , any operator.
Thirty years of manufacturing experience have been built into
their mechanical construction. The innumerable requirements
of all the users of the 600,000 machines which have been sold
have been combined in their design.
Burroughs Machines are made by a Company with a
capital of with factories at Nottingham,
England; Windsor, Canada; and Detroit, U. S. A., and
sales and service offices in the principal cities of the world.
Sole Importers:
IRA L. A. C. BERK,
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Ins. Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
4314
Adding —Bookkeeping —Calculating
Machines
d


The Methods of a Model
THE model seated herself on the dais.
She Avas not a young woman, but
there was a strange beauty in her
pale face with its clouds of dark-brown hair.
I went over and arranged her draperies.
“Do you mind if I take your hair down?”
I asked. “I Avant to do it up in a particular
way.” She nodded, and I pulled out the
pins. I Avas astonished at the flood of soft
hair they released.
“What Avonderful hair!” I exclaimed.
“You must let me paint you some day with
your hair doAvn” I buried my hands in
the thick, silky masses of it. “I knoAV some
girls Avho would gi\'e a small fortune to have
hair like that.”
She only smiled rather sadly. I knew
there had been much trouble in her life-
As I painted I encouraged her to talk. At
last my oAvn curiosity overcame me, and I
asked Avhat she did to make her hair so glori-
ous.
“Mine is always coming out,” I told her.
“I suppose I should have it cropped as most
women-artists do.”
“I’ve never been in a hairdresser’s shop
in my life,” she said. “IVe only used one
or two old-fashioned recipes Avhicb I make
up myself. I always shampoo with stallax.
I find you only need about a tablespoonful
to cleanse one’s hair thoroughly, and so it
does not work out at all expensive in the end.
Once I tried something else, but my hair
did not dry all soft and bright as it does
after stallax, so I returned to-the old recipe.
If it shoAvs any tendency to fall out, I obtain
some boranium from the chemist, and mix
it with a little bay rum ; that soon makes
it groAV. thick and strong again. Perhaps
yon Avonder why at my age—l’m fifty, you
knoAV—I haven’t grey hair? Once it did
begin to look faded and streaky, but someone
told me that the only real Avay to restore
the color was by dissolving some pure tam-
malite in bay rum and applying this lotion
to the hair each day. It’s wonderful stuff,
but people so seldom think of using any-
thing so simple, do they?”
“They don’t, indeed,” I answered, “but
you’ve opened my eyes. You must write it
all down, if you will be so kind. And noAV
shall we rest? You must be tired.”
As she nodded her head gratefully the
sun flashed on her head and brought out
unsuspected golden lights in that wonderful
bair.
After a brief interval she resumed the
pose. As I re-adjusted her head I noticed
the extraordinarily beautiful texture of her
skin. What claims she had to beauty, I
reflected, were due to the wonderful perfec-
tion of detail—she bore the closest scrutiny.
I lingered longer than Avas necessary over
the arrangement of her head in order to
admire the clear, fine tone of her skin. Her
complexion Avas almost colorless, but the
skin shoAved hardly a crease; the lips, I
noticed, looked warm and healthy, and her
eyelashes gave her rather pale eyes a
shadowy beauty. Feature for feature, she
was not pretty, but there Avas a charm about
her that greAV on one, and no one could deny
the loveliness of her soft hair and satiny
skin.
As I painted everything feminine in me
wanted to ask her if she had any secrets for
keeping that Avonderful skin, but politeness
forbade. To my joy, however, she resumed
our former conversation.
“It always seems to me that old-fashioned
remedies are the best. Of course, I have to
consider the question of keeping such looks
as I may have, because being a model is
precarious work, and the market is OA'er-
stocked Avith old models of the> Avrinkled
Avhite-haired type. I always treat my skin
rather carefully because I look on it as busi-
ness capital. Every night I massage it Avith
pure mereolised wax, Avhich I Avash off in
the morning Avith Avarm water. That clears
the skin thoroughly, because the oxygen in
the wax absorbs all the waste outer tissue
of the skin, and exposes the neAV complexion
underneath, which is quite fresh and smooth.
Of course, this treatment is a great pre-
ventive of wrinkles, for they never have
time to form.
I have taken to using something for my
lips lately, as they used to be. so dry and
sore. I bought an ordinary stick of prolac-
tum, and I do not think you could find any-
thing better. It is so soothing, and it gives
one’s lips just a nice warm healthy look,
without any hint of make-up.
“I am very interested in all you have told
me,’ I ansAvered. “I Avish I could tell you
some things, too. But I don’t believe there
is any little secret you don’t know.”
“I have not yet found anything really
good for the hands,” she told me, holding out
a pair of shapely but roughened ones; “house-
Avork makes them so red and dirty !”
“Ah ! I exclaimed, “then I can give you
one tip. Get some bicrolium jelly from your
chemist; you’ll find that it Avill get all the
ingrained dirt right out of your hands, be-
sides making them beautifully soft and white.
I don’t knoAV Avhere I should be Avithout it
myself.”
She thanked me very sincerely, and the
time being up, prepared to go.—Advt.
r—*
r
i\a
Cv\
ymes m
rmimi'mi un mm m m 11 Imm m iiV* in iVlin (TTi’i 11
iw-=
mm
&
tr
LUll 111 1 1
UU
►TATE;
“Some Say
Advertising did it ”
Certainly, there is a measure of truth in
the assertion, for the STETSON re-
ceived the kind of advertising that is
always effective—the Vblurtt&ry hraisfe
of thousands of discriminating, well-
dressed men.
Consider your personal
pride—the satisfaction —
and the impression a
STETSON creates —not
the price, and your
choice will be a
STETSON
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER & COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
ďf
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
When you buy wallpapers see that the
Crown is on the selvedge of every roll. It
is the mark of “quality” of the historic wall-
paper houses of England, whose yearly aim
is to iive up to their reputation—not on it.
Insist on English “Crown” wall-papers.—
Advt.
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to j
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26 i
\ Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W. Jfr
In 3 sizes of all Chemists //&..
and Stores.
kt
x/.
?-C|Fl ’
HORLICKS
MALTED MILKC*.
510 UGH. BUCKS
ENG.
Mi
e
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
fid
158-162 OXFORD 51 Wl. 172. REGENT S T . W. 1
2.QUEEN VICTORIA ST E.C.4.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
<*><*
I
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12 perrons with Prince s Plate
Sooons and Forks, plain patterns, and
"Trustworthy” Cutlery. Price, com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company s own
Sheffield Works. “Trustworthy
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
Archibald Mather, who died in Adelaide
on August 24 at BS, was engineer and
machinist on the Advertiser from the time
the first issue was published (1858) until
he retired in 1904.
Launceston (Tas.), adopting in part a
modern American municipal plan, is to have
a business manager at £lOOO per year. F.
M. Nicholl, who has been assistant manager
of the Speck s Hydro-Electric Department, is
the man. A native of Birmingham, he has
had charge of many engineering, electrical
and mining enterprises in England and
India. lie ran the hydro-electric while man-
ager Butters was in the Cold Country.
Andy Fisher has returned from his gilded
exile with a new sententious exhortation to
Labor candidates—“ Leave out the non--
essentials.” As though discussion of non-
essentials were not the very soul of party
politics! The High Commissionership
looked pretty much as though it didn’t
matter, with Fisher holding the position,
but he held on to it all right. And what is
there essential about the baby bonus?
“Wing”: Tripe, a Geelong (Vic.) butcher,
saw his legal adviser’s dog leave the shop
with a big joint in his jaws. Going to Wig's
office he put it this way : "If your dog shook
a joint worth 10s. Gd. would you be liable?”
“Certainly,” replied the lawyer. "Bight!”
said Tripe. "He did that, so pay up.” Wig
paid, but sent in a bill for 10s. Gd. for
“advice re dog.” “So you really lost on the
deal?” said the butcher’s friend. “Oh, no,
all square,” grinned Tripe. “The meat was
bad.”
“Peter”: The disturbance over the
alleged offer of a divisional command to
Elliott has been useful in showing the type
of brass-hat that is getting far too common
in Australia. For instance, it is reported
that General White threatened that if “Pom-
pey” complained abojut being superseded in
the allotment of these fine fat jobs he (White)
“would fight him to a standstill.” Where-
upon Senator Cox (another brigadier) :
“Good enough too ! I wouldn’t have threat-
ened. He [Elliott] would have gone.” The
beautiful spirit of the Prussian!
"Bat”: No wonder the Australian wine
industry lags. When on leave in London I
decided to call for Australian wines when
dining out. At four of the leading restau-
rants I was told they did not stock them.
Surprised, I looked up a wine agent, who
gave me the informatioh that three of the
four places were among his best customers
for Australian wines in bulk, which they
apparently bottled under a fancy name and
sold at a fancy price. To my suggestion that
he should insist on some mention of Aus-
tralia on the labels he replied: “It’s hard
enough to sell it without imposing condi-
tions.” There is something wrong some-
where.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Concerning the
Cato-street conspirators (B. 4/8/’2l). On
obtaining liis ticket-of-leave Wilson, one of
them, married and became the fashionable
tailor of Bathurst (N.S.W.). The sign-
board over his shop quite correctly announced
him as “from London.” About the same
time another noted criminal had a Govern-
ment job in Bathurst, that of court-keeper.
This was Hunt, the accomplice of Thurtell
in the murder of Weare in 1824. He dodged
hanging through the magistrates promising
him immunity if he confessed —an under-
taking which called down upon the justices
the censure of Sir Robert Peel. Hunt had
a good tenor voice, and was frequently heard
at “free and easies” in the City of the
Plains.
“Gunner” forgets where he left his sword:
The cable tells us that Haig has presented his
sword to the Earl Haig Masonic Lodge. Symbolical
this, possibly, since it was announced almost simul-
taneously that some of Britain’s Hussar and other
crack cavalry regiments are to be disbanded. When the
war began swords were issued not only to our
Light Horse but also to artillery officers. The
latter, who had had no opportunity to learn even the
most elementary sword-exercises, found the things
worse than a nuisance—a peril. The Light Horse-
men who went to Gallipoli left theirs in the sub-
urbs of Cairo; when last I saw my own it was hid-
den under a mat. After we had officially jettisoned
our swords we were compelled to carry that (to
us) almost equally useless weapon, the revolver.
In 1918 an army order directed all A.I.F. artillery
officers to wear revolvers ever! at the waggon lines,
though the batteries at the time were engaging
targets several miles distant.
A windfall came to the Mitchell Library
the other day when Mrs. C- F. Roberts, a
granddaughter of William Hilton Hovell.
made a present of a sheaf of most
valuable first-hand stuff of the explorer’s.
There was the field-book which he wrote
up from day to day on his over-
land trip to Port Phillip with Hume
in 1824-1825* the field-book of his stay
at Westernport in 1826-1827, when the
short-lived settlement was established there,
and a lot of his letters. Curiously enough
Hume’s original map of the journey to Port
Phillip has lately returned to Sydney after
nearly a century in Scotland. It passed
into the hands of Thomas Mitchell, Sur-
veyor-General at the time, and lately came
back to Mitchell’s grandson, G. V. Mann,
director of the Sydney Art Gallery. After
the discovery of Hovell’s notes anything may
happen. Perhaps the log of Bass’s whale-
boat voyage to Westernport will yet turn up.
The beginning of a recent daily-paper item:
Cecil Joseph Tregenna, tobacco expert of the De-
partment of Agriculture, yesterday gave the Agri-
cultural Committee of the Legislative Council some
valuable information concerning tobacco-growing in
N. S. Wales.
The finish of it: —
Replying to Mr. Joseph Carruthers, the witness
said the trouble in Australia was the scarcity of cap-
able tobacco-curers. In his own position he was
without assistance.
The trouble seems to be raging in every in-
dustry worth calling such. There is no lack
of unemployed, of Saturday holiday-makers,
pony experts, bookmakers, punters, tick-
tackers, applicants for the West Sydney
nomination, applicants for Upper-House ap-
pointments, trades-union secretaries, Domain
orators, clerks, waiters on Government loan-
jobs, and so on. But the skilled tradesman is
scarce all along the line. And as a good old
Freetrader J. Carruthers is almost as much
responsible for it as the new union leader
who has pushed up the pay of unskilled labor
to attract the youngsters from trades, and,
as if that wasn’t enough, has then restricted
the number of apprentices almost to vanish-
ing point.


V
K
■
m
*f {fi
*<ty /. •-' / ; > S( l .t
* ■ * .n ‘
**? '''
vsJL Jj
V
*> - . L,?:,
5
P/2
id
NO sheepman can afford to be without
a Lister” Plant. With it the small
flockowner can do his whole shearing;
the contractor can make a modest fortune in
a few seasons; while the largest stations can
solve their crutching problems by taking the
shear to the sheep instead of the other way
round.
And after shearing, your “Lister” Plant supplies you
with a reliable, cheap-running, portable engine for all sorts
of power work like sawing, chaffcutting, pumping, generating
electric light, and so on. That’s how a “Lister” Shearing and
Crutching Plant earns its keep all the year round.
Although only the 2-stand Plant is illustrated here,
Lister Outfits are made up with 1,2,3 or 4 stands. Every
size and type is designed from 30 years experience in
Shearing Machinery for Australian pastoral conditions, and
discriminating sheepmen have learned by now that this
experience adds considerably to the value and life of a Plant.
Whether you own 500 or 50,000 sheep you will: find
that we have a Plant to suit you. Why not let us tell you
about it?
Portable
Self-contained
Shearing and
Crutching Plants
Shearing
and
After.
Get in touch with us: —
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd Sydney
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. . Brisbane
Burns, Pbilp & Co., Ltd Townsville
Mitcbell & Co. Pty., Ltd. . Melbourne
Mallocb Bros. Perth
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.. . Hobart & Launceston
The most cherished
possession of the
great singers and
instrumentalists is
their art, and their
greatest desire is
that under all cir-
cumstances they
shall be heard at
their best.
This is the reason
why the world’s
greatest artists
have entrusted the
recording of their
art to the
“HIS MASTER'S
VOICE,"
and is the most con-
vincing evidence of
the artistic superi-
ority of its TONE
QUALITY.
Judge the
MS MASTERS VOICE
BY ITS TONE
\Jy
lli^>
I//
y
/, i
i
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
Itl
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY?
WE HAVE COMPLETE
STOCK OF ALL MODELS
OF
“His Master’s Voice’
GRAMOLA No. 2
GRAMOLA No. 3
LIBRARY GRAND
STUDIO GRAND
TASMAN
MELBA
ZEALAND
JENOLAN
EXCELLO.
PRICES FROM £l2/12/-
WRITE
FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.


BLO
CHES
ACE
Itched and Burned. Lost
Sleep. Cuticura Heals.
“My face broke out in a mass of
red blotches which greatly disfigured
d
me. They became itchy
and burning, causing much
pain. The irritation caused
me to scratch and when I
did they became large erup-
tions which prevented me
from sleeping at night.
“Noticing Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment advertised I sent for a free sam-
ple which greatly relieved me. I then
bought more, and my face was
healed.” (Signed) Miss Lewis, 11
Withecombe St., Rozelle, Sydney.
Use Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Talcum for all toilet purposes.
Soapl*.,Talcuml«.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: ' l *R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
9VF*Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
Stutes, 3d.
Your merchant has received the new pat-
terns of English wall-papers. They are
cheapest, easiest to hang, most technically
perfect in manufacture and the most novel
in design and coloring. The “Crown” trade-
mark will be found on the selvedge of every
roll. — Advt.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
and start well.
You may as well have the best to
start with and get complete satis-
faction from the beginning, it will
pay you in the end. The un-
equalled popularity of Bicycles
built of genuine B.S.A. Fittings
is due to the absolute reliability
and long service for which
B.S.A. Fittings are world-famous.
Once bought, you are sure of
years of economical service with
little attention, and no trouble.
ď
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
k
Send for Illustrated List and
particulars post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who Avill quote you price for it.
w
zm
t—-
-■S&r:
■-.2D)
cm
sm
REDUCE BEARING REPAIRS
Lost Production can never be made up
The vital importance of Scientific Bearing Lubrication
THE lubrication of a single bearing in a
plant may not seem important. But
bearings are scattered throughout every
plant by hundreds and thousands. Every
important machine must support its moving
parts on bearings.
And —if the bearing fails the machine
itself must stop .
Thus trouble with a single £$ bearing
may waste £5O worth of workmen’s time;
lay up a .£5OO machine and cut off £5OO
worth of producttion.
Production is the important point.
Burned out bearings do
not cost so much to replace,
but they do eat seriously into
production. And lost pro-
duction can never be made up
It always has been and
always will be cheaper to
wear out oil than bearings.
“Worn-out” oil can be re-
Lubricants
A grade for each type of service
placed with little or no mechanical interrup-
tion. But worn bearings take expensive
time to replace. Operators are realising this
to-day as never before.
In the lubrication of machinery bearings
have too often been slighted. Too common-
ly the impression has been that “any oil
would do.” This mistake is now being
realized and corrected.
Mechanical troubles to-day mean serious
manufacturing interruptions and costly loss
of production.
If you are not using Gargoyle Bearing Oils
the chances are that your
repair bills and operating ex-
penses are higher than need be.
We are helping manu-
facturers the country over to
ensure steady, uninterrupted
production through the use
of the right oil in the right
way and in the right place.
Write our nearest branch for free booklet ' ‘What is Lubrication ? ’ *
Beware of anything that bites!
And everything that burns abjure.
For coughs and colds on winter nights
Take Woods Great Peppermint Cure,
And keep it by you round the-year,
For each emergency assure.
Face every season without fear
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
rsrd since 1598. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Enjlai
Insist on ** Singleton’s ’'—refuse ail substitutes.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sdi.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limM
We Supply—
JARItAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers.
Paving Blocks. Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDQE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
res
JLccclt
Reduced Prices
EFFECTIVE
Ist JULY,
815 x 105
875 x 105
815 x 120
880 x 120
920 x 120
30 x 3£
31 x 4
33x4
34 x 4
Covers
£9 10 0
10 8 0
11 12 6
12 12 0
13 3 0
6 0 0
8 7 0
9 7 0
9 9 0
1921
Tubes
£l6 3
1 7 6
1 12 6
1 13 6
1 15 0
1 1 6
1 4 6
1 5 6
1 6 0
Others in Proportion
Colo Covers and Tubes are
Guaranteed 4000 Miles
Your Garage can supply
THE COLONIAL ROBBER CO. LTD., Head Oificc: 5-7 Barrack St.. Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
St. Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
i> pr f]i • 47 Kinjr Street.
Auckland : Albert & Swanson Streets.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“J. «T. Millers Sporting Annual” must be
responsible for a sad lot of early betting on the
Spring handicaps. The performances of the entrants
are summarised in it, and all the information that
the horsey world wants is in Miller’s book of
records. This is its 46th year.
One of the best fights seen in Adelaide
lately was between Albert Lloyd and the local Ernest
Waddy, both heavyweights, at the new Arena, which
was crammed. Lloyd won on the other three occa-
sions when they met; this time Waddy stood him oil
for the full 20 rounds. Half-way through Lloyd
looked to be winning comfortably; but Waddy,
bleeding freely, made a recovery, relying mainly
on a straight left, and Bert Sayers, the referee,
declared it a draw.
The S. Aus. Jockey Club owns the free-
hold of the immensely valuable suburban Morphett-
vi He course, and though this makes its balance-sheet
look good the alterations to stands and totalisator
during the year have turned the credit balance into
a £lO,OOO overdraft. The club raced only six days
in the 12 months, but intends to make up by
having eight this year. The Port Club also has
bought the freehold of its course at Cheltenham, and
spent £4OOO on bringing the old stands up to date.
* * * •*
There has been no official comment on
English barracking, but one member of the Austra-
lian XI has reported privately—and presumably
others have done the same— that the English bar-
racker has nothing to learn from his fervid brother
in the Commonwealth. In one respect the English
barracker is worse, and that is in the art of firing
insults at the heads of fieldsman on the boundary.
A favorite comment was “Get home, you con-
vict!’’ and it became so familiar that if a fieldsman
missed it during the match he felt that the audi-
ence must have belonged to the Y.M.C.A.
According to a week-end cable a Swedish
swimmer named Arneborg, at the inter-Scandinavian
swimming matches, covered 1000 metres in the mar-
vellous time of 14min. 19sec., lowering Frank
Beaurepaire's previous best of 14min. 31 sec. Bogey's
swim -was in opposition to Norman Ross at Adelaide
in 1920, but he bettered it last May with 14min.
28sec. (under record conditions) at Honolulu. Also
George Hodgson, at Stockholm, as far back as 1912,
in a 100-metre bath, cut out the distance in 14min.
27sec. It remains to be disclosed, of course, if
Arneborg’s effort was put up in a bath the specified
60 metres long.
**■*•*■
Jack Tredrea, the veteran South Adelaide
footballer, an ipter-State man from 1905 to 1914,
has been interviewed on his approaching retirement,
and excuses his reputation for rough play. “Well,
they blame me for anything any man in our team
does if he happens to have fair hair. Still, 1 don’t
believe in making a parlor game of it. I have
always made a practice of thoroughly understand-
ing the rules, and then stake them as far as 1 can
go. Isn’t that football ?. .. . The danger to the sport
in Adelaide is that it is slipping into a parlor game.
It must have plenty of vim in it to be good foot-
ball.”
Scandinavian athletes seem to have roused
up since having charge of the Olympic games. A
Swedish team went over for this year’s amateur
championship in England, and swept the board of
all the “field” events, weight, javelin, discus and
hammer, also the hop-step-and-jump, pole-jump
(12ft.), and quarter-mile hurdles (55 2-ssec.).
These last two are both the best on record. On the
same day, at Henley regatta, an eight from Norway
won the Thames Cup, and a Dutchman took the
much-prized Diamond Sculls. There was an incident
worth a cheer in the final of the sculling. The visi-
tor, just after the start, fouled the booms which
keep spectators’ boats back. Beresford, his English
opponent, just sat up and waited for him to get clear
-—and win.
Though the English cricket authorities
are gradually removing the distinction between “ama-
teur'’ and “professional,” the discriminating use of
“Mr.” persists in the press. It is weird to read in
allegedly democratic sheets like the Daily N ews that
“Mr. Tennyson beautifully back-cut the ball to the
boundary” whereas it is always “Woolley,” whatever
the Kent player’s contribution to the game. And
every man in the Australian lot immediately became
a “Mister” on landing in England, though the captain
would be a “professional” within the meaning of the
word on the other side. Strangely enough, when the
Englishmen were here they were designated in London
press reports without the prefix. Presumably “Mr.”
Wilson and “Mr.” Fender suffered a temporary loss of
social status by leaving -civilisation for these savage
climes. ‘■s '
* * .v* *
”0.K.”: Talk about master? bf the
hat over the ball has been heard any time within the
last half-century, and was always likely* to be
silenced pro tern: by the advent of a masterful
bowler or two. One Australian team in England
couldn’t win a match in which young Tom Richard-
son was on the opposite side. The odd thing L
that the old cry should be heard again in England
in a season when the Australians have had a record
number of one-innings victories in matches lasting
only two days. Except in the la ,: t two Tests the
Australian ball could have beaten the bats without
heavy' scoring on the winning side. In most of the
games, inter-county or county v. Australia, it was
weak English fielding that beat the bowlers. Missed
opportunities in the field or behind the sticks are
not batting triumphs. But, after all is said, there
remains no convincing reason why an inch should
not be added to the stature of the stumps.
* * * *
Tiie Board of Control is saving itself up
for a few frank remarks when the cricketers get
home. One subject that has fluttered the Board is
the trouble over the hours of play; in this matter
it is alleged that Armstrong and manager Smith
exceeded their instructions. Questions will also be
asked regarding the low-comedy finish to the Fifth
Test match. The fact that Douglas’s men battled to
the last run in each Test in Australia is recalled, and
various members think it was at least up to them
to give Bussell the pleasure of making his century' off
the best howling available. There may be some
argument, too, over the division of the loot. Though
the manager will be bringing home a big bag of
cash, there won’t he a tremendous dividend for the
players if the other States support the desire of the
N.S.W. Association to take out an amount equal
to its losses on previous English tours of Australia.
This is a new idea, and other Associations which have
been similarly stung are bound to give it a friendly-
ear.
¥■ * *
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Daily Chronicle ha.s
been giving away the alleged hobbies of Arm-
strong’s team. Carter, it would seem, is keen on
exploring old cathedrals (a touch of professional'
interest here, possibly, since many of them are
practically graveyards) ; the grim-visaged Collins has
a charming tenor voice; Mailer would like to spend
the rest of his life doing sketches of old London;
Pellew might have immortalised himself as an
Olympic games sprinter if cricket had not claimed
him, and the elephantine Armstrong, although they
may not know it in Melbourne, is “a keen footballer
when the cricket season closes.” Then there are
Mayne, who possesses the completest library of cricket
curios in the world, and Gregory, who specialises in
theatre-going, while Hendry,_the “Adonis of the
team.” is an accomplished horseman, and might have
attained international honors in polo. Ryder and
Andrews are said to have developed a strong affection
for baseball.
(Continued on page SB< )


STORAGE
BATTERY
Is it possible for a battery
to be new after months
in shipment and storage?
Yes—if it is a Still Better
Willard with Threaded
Rubber Insulation be-
tween the plates. The
Still Better Willard is
shipped “bone dry”. It is
the only battery with
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation between
the plates.
Willard
W¥°
P L


A. Saunders' Solid Leather Kit Bag. Nickel
Locks and Clips, 16in., 30/-, 40/-
A. Saunders" 3-piece Carving Set, finest Sheffield Steel
Handles, pure Silver-plated Mounts, 40/-
Others, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-
A. Saunders’ Writing Attache Case, fitted with necessary
conveniences. £4/10/-
Others, £3/10/-, £5/10/-
5!
%2§lu2* 2!£
fflW
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush and Comb, plain design,
hand burnished, finest quality bristles, in silk-lined case,
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing- 104 pieces. Sheffield
Steel Knives, Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated Spoons and
Forks, etc., A quality, in Oak Case, £35,
Others, £l5/10/-, £l7/10/-, £2l, £25.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders' Solid Leather Suit Case, cloth
lined, Nickel Side Locks. Leather Handles,
Capped Corners—
20in., 75/-; 22in., 80/-; 24in., 85/-;
26in., i)0/-
L
A, Saunders' Lady’s Work Basket, leather top, fitted
with all Sewing Requisites, £3/5/-
BRITISH kahufacture
A. Saunders' Gent.’s Dressing Case, solid leather, fitted
with every convenience, 55/-
BILLABONG” HYDRAULIC
RAM.
d
Uses the
power of fall-
ing water to
work the
pump. Turn
your clam or
ereek into a
power unit.
Capacities de-
pend u p o n
local condi-
tions. As no
hand-, wind-
or engine-
pow'er is re-
quired. this
pump, where
conditions are
suitable. 1 s
r e m a rkably
effective and
economical.
In various
sizes from 1-
inch to 4-inch
intake pipe.
“BILLABONG” DOUBLE-
ACTING PISTON PUMP
is a medium-priced pump for use with
petrol or kerosene engines, and com-
bines power and capacity in a most
compact form. Suction may be taken
from either side, and delivery in four
different directions. We fit this pump
up as a sheep-spray outfit complete
with suction and delivery hose, foot-
valve, lever spray nozzles and safety
valve. I*ump will exert a pressure of
751 b. to the
square ineh.
Sizes from Si-
inch to 5-
inch. Write
for leaflet.
f
PROVED PUMPS
POPULAR "BILLABONG” MAKE.
These Pumps have fifty years’ Australian manufacturing experience
behind them, and embody scientific design, workmanship and full weight
of metal, in as compact a form as possible, for the rough wear and tear of
Australian conditions. Nothing is sacrificed for competitive purposes, and
“Billabong” Pumps will la* found to be substantially cheaper than
imported Pumps of similar capacity. The voice ot quality economy
calls here.
Send for quotations, information and illustrated matter per return.
BUTCHER’S BRINE PUMP
for pickling: and salting:. Made from special metal which resists
verdigris and poisonous acetates. Made in two sizes, la-inch and
complete with two needles.
the formation of
2-inch, and sold
“BILLABONG”
SEMI-ROTARY
PUMPS.
Well known
for their
many uses
and ease of
operating-. In
sizes from
2-inch to 2-
inch, and
capacities
from 396 gal-
lons to 1818
Imperial gal-
lons per hour.
Write for
leaflet and
price list.
d
“KEROTIN” SPRAY PUMP
A powerful all-brass hand spray pump
for small orchards and gardens; will
deliver a bucket of emulsion as a fine
mist in fifteen minutes. Can also be
used as a jet pump for lime washing,
etc.
“BILLABONG” LOW-DOWN
DOUBLE-ACTING FORCE
PUMP.
A powerful hand pump
suitable for tilling:
tanks, emptying: dams,
draining; cellars or
hulks, washing: wag-
gons or buildings, irri-
gating small orchards,
or for use as a bush-
fire pump, etc, Has a
total force and lift of 60
feet, capacity 1680
Imperial gallons per
hour; piston rod is of
ďf
“BILLABONG”
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP.
Tlii* Rotary rump, operated by belt
power, delivers enormous quantities of
water, and is compactly constructed on
sturdy lines for hard and continuous
wear. Made in sizes from 1-inch to 8-
inch; also in gun-metal, for use with
water containing corroding agents. Suc-
tion and discharge can be taken at any
angle.
324=330 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
/f t>\
Ur
fmm/i
CL
0^
2
0
V)
M*
<0
391=403 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.


PUBLIC NOTICE.
I > 1). MEAGHER has this day ad-
I\ • initted into partnership HORATIO
HOGARTH, Solicitor (for nine years
Manager for Mr. J. W. Abigail, Solici-
tor). The business will be carried on
at Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth
Street Sydney, under the name of
•U. i).’ MEAGHER, HOGARTH & CO.”
Telephones: City 221)4; Randwick 1065.
Dated at Sydney this first day of
September. 1021. R R MBA(iHFR
Amusements.
e yDNEI’S CHIEF THEAT RE S
w J. C. Williamson, Ltd.. Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OP THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY.
PA I, AC K THIS A XU IS. SVDSi IS V.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
ON OUR SELECTION,
STEELE RUDD’S GREAT WORK.
BERT BAILEY’S INCOMPARABLE DAD.
EVERY XIGHT. MATINEES WEDS, and SATS.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
[ LLAN IV ILK I E SIIVKSFEAKIAN
% PRODUCTIONS.
BRAND OPERA HOUSE, WELLINGTON. N.Z.,
PROM 27th AUGUST to 17th SEPTEMBER,
tii-tralasian. Representative: HUGH D. WIf.SON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
yXI OX I* ICTU It K TIIISAT It IS 8
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 10.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedv Co. in
“HIS LADY FRIENDS.”
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS in
LONDON and 155 Nights in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Allan’s, Prices as usual.
Amusements.
KINCi'S Til KAT 1C E. 'I EI. I*** 5 : l! N ’■
Lessees: BERT BAILEY & JULIES GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Cosmo Hamilton’s Daring and Fascinating 1 lay,
SCANDAL. , .
Prices as usual. Plan at Al.an s.
Hoyts theatres, mei-hourm
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes UriclereV
CONWAY TEARLE in
BUCKING THE TIGER.
Also
HARRY CAREY in
“IP ONLY” JIM.
Pric
jyj A.l ESTIC TH EAT HE. •'* EI.BOC HN l.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
Hi B. WARNER in
FELIX O’DAY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8. ;
B
ItITANMA 'MI EAT It E. MKI.HOLIt.M.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES;
Continuous
ELBA
THEATRE.
M EI,DOL KN K
M ... ,
Showing the pick of the world s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
.WORLD and SKI.7.NICK.
Katoomba Annual Eisteddfod
October 5,0, 7, 8 and 10.
£5OO PRIZE MONEY £5OO
Largest individual Prizes in the State.
Conservatorium Scholarship, £B5.
Given for the best female voice, age 17 to 25 years.
“Come to the Mountains to be rejuvenated.’’
Syllabus from Secretary, Box 27 Katoomba.
Entries Close September 14, 1921.
Missing Friends.
W" - ILL PERCY WILLIAM GEORGE DAVIDSON,
son of Mrs. Mary Ami Davidson, late of Laun-
ceston, or anyone knowing of his whereabouts, please
communicate with
W. F. STEPHENS, S'MITII & IF E,
Solicitors, 140 Collins Street, Hobart, Tas.,
or
GLASGOW, HAYES & ROUT,
Solicitors, Nelson, New Zealand.
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. ..
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,336,402
£2,273,000
£44.000.000
£6,375.000
The Society Transacts Every Glass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. \V. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
A
Wonderful
Pumping
Engine,
THAT'S the reputation of the FULLER & JOHNSON
Farm Pump Engine a reputation built up on satis-
factory pumping service in every country on the
globe and under every kind of pumping condition. This
wonderful service has made this engine tremendously
popular throughout Australia.
All who are using this engine have found it to be one
of the best paying investments they ever made.
Ask users —you will find them everywhere.
The Original
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
comes all complete, ready to attach to 'any ordinary
windmill pump or standard —no extras of any kind are
needed. It is always ready for service.
Where windmills are already installed the Farm Pump
Engine is frequently used as an auxiliary to absolutely
insure a constant and adequate water supply.
The FULLER & JOHNSON Farm Pump Engine can
be quickly and easily set up and put into operation.
Fuller
Power A
Fuller & Johnson Engines are
distributed by
The S. A. Farmer** Co-operative
Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
d
The proportion of Hupmobile owners who remain faithful to the car, year
after year, is really remarkable. Such owner-loyalty, of course, implies a car
of extraordinary qualifications—which is exactly what the Hupmobile is, and
always has been.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
‘ roadster.
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
314 in. bore x sV 2 in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric —two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension mageto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch. —Dry disc type —7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. Clincher, or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color. —Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


/-/olejorao/ 7 fjasierc/
Made in Pure Silk, Silk-Faced
Fibre Silk, or Lusterized Lisle.
Satisfaction Assured.
WHY DARN?
BUYING HOSE WAS GUESSWORK
UNTIL HOLEPROOFS CAME.
Now Holeproof Hosiery is an Economical Necessity.
FOR
MEN. WOMEN*
'Gtsiemi
AND CHILDREN-/
A Guarantee of Sheen, Lustre, Fineness and Amazing Durability*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Maid of the Mountains"
Royal- “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
Criterion “The Marriage of Kitty”
Palace ....... “On Our Selection”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Lilac Domino”
Royal “His Ladv Friends”
King's /‘Scandal”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mel,ua Moving.. Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
—♦
• Rapture ruled the occasion of Melba’s
first appearance at Melbourne Town Hall in
her character of Dame Nellie. People were
delighted to hear her —to many of them the
sensation was new —and the songstress was
evidently pleased pi be doing so well. The
Voice that first witched the world umpty'
years ago was still there, with modifications
and with one notable compensation. Her
Majesty had selected two of Mozart’s hymn-like
numbers for preliminaries, “Voi che sapetc”
having much the same appeal as “Come all
ye faithful.” Later, in the “Salce ! Salce !”
and Ave Maria from “Otello” she was the
unrivalled artist in whom Time has strength-
ened the powers of dramatic expression;
and when she warbled "Ce Karan Rose” for
an encore the sweet gaiety in her waltz
lilt, was again wonderful, in the way that
has now become marvellous. Truly, Dante
Nellie Melba to-day is a vocal example of
the survival of the fittest. Her voice' lacked
some of its fine distinction in two other pro-
grammed numbers, but before she made a
lingering escape she scored another popular
triumph with a tricky song in which Una
Bourne’s piano accompaniment supported
her on one side, while Lemmone topped off
her golden notes with flutings on the other.
The harmony of mellow intonations was a
delight. Lemmone soloed with unerring
skill, and Una Bourne—-the once-timid Una
who is born again—held her own against
the orchestra for the most part in Cesar
Franck’s Symphonic Variations. This was
moderately entertaining; as mystical music
goes. Apart from the concerto the Mel-
bourne* Symphony Orchestra did a lot of
good hard work during the evening. Not
always coherent in the “Meistersingers”
overture, the forces of Alberto Zelman were
pleasing in ballet movements (Massenet)
and perfectly precise with their tum-tum-
tums and .tumty-tums in overtures to an-
cient “Magic Flute” and “Figaro.” The
extra .(Melba- concert is to happen on Satur-
day.
♦* * *
At Melbourne Royal the active and in-
telligent farcical comedy of “Nightie Night”
will cease its strenuous endeavors this Fri-
day. On Saturday comes' the tragedy of
Coyne with “His Lady Friends,” when
Blanche Browne will assist the complica-
tions.
“The Lilac Domino.” now within a week
“O Lady, Lady!” at
Sydney Royal.
Wm. Greene as Hale
Underwood.
of its latter end
a t Melbo ur n e
Majesty’s, is dis-
appearing in a mist
of expectation.
“Chu Chin Chow,”
formerly of the
Tivoli, will get a
wider show at the
Williamson house
on Saturday, the
,17 th. Melbourne
is believed to have
been saving up a
lot of further in-
terest for “Chu
Chin,” and in that
case the revival
will be very oppor-
tune. But under
these new circs,
the orchestra will
have to remember
that “Chu Chin”
was somewhat too
noisy at its origi-
nal home, where
the public ear in
general was less
adjacent to the
tumult than it will be at Her Majesty’s.
“Scandal” will shortly pack up its furni-
ture at Melbourne King’s and remove to the
Princess’s. This is to show its contempt for
having been called shocking and words to
that effect; moreover, the change of residence
was necessary on account of Bert Badey and
co. being due in Melbourne on the 17th.
At Melbourne Tivoli the vaudeville bill is
yearning, not to say yawning, for Wilkie
Bard. A number of turns just now range
from very passable to even more so, but the
need for" Wilkie and other new blood is a
crying one. A yelling need, in fact. But it
will be all right on Saturday.
The Burglars’ Union ought to have a field-
night watching “A Perfect Crime” at Mel-
bourne Majestic. The art of dropping. an
identity for the purpose of embezzling a
bank’s cash is a fine tip for the Get-Rich-
Quicks of the Victorian capital. The other
Majestic narrative, “Smouldering Embers,”
follows a conventional course to a hot and
muggy conclusion, but, all the same, the act-
ing of the hero, Frank Keenan, is very en-
tertaining. Hoyt’s magnet for the week is
“ 'lf Only’ Jim,’” a tale of child adoption in
which gleams of bathos are atoned for by a
fighting finish, with Harry Carey prominent
in the scrum. Alaska provides a wild back-
ground for Hoyt’s next best, ‘Bucking the
Tiger,” in which Conway Tearle shows
enough manliness to lose his membership of
the Down and Out Club. At the Britannia
Sylvia Bremer will be “Respectable by
Proxy” for a couple more days, and at the
Melba popular interest centres in Dorothy
Dalton, who makes a rather fetching “Idol
of the North.”
One Melbourne show and another:—
Apparently i lacking the critical faculty regarding
her own canvases, Mary Allen has taken to the Fine
Art Society’s gallery many canvases that should have
hceh left at home. Among th# landscapes only a
view of Point Lonsdale lighthouse is well above a
student’s hasty work. The still-lifes are fair, but
the existence of her one nude might, have been kept
AT MELBOURNE TINOLI
Moon and Moms, the simultaneous dancers.
a family secret: it is ill-drawn about the torso and
the flesh-color is disappointing-. Miss Allen should
concentrate on portraiture, in which she promises to
be more convincing. Her study of her dad is so good
that it might be the work of another hand. There
is strength and—vigor in the painting of the head,
and the drawing is more confident than in any other
canvas. Her next best, “Luerezia,” revealing a lady
in a fashionable waistless frock that , would give a
Venus the figure of an ironing-board, is sombre in
details, whereas “The Letter,” emphasising a pink
background behind a damsel who is even pinker, runs
rather shrilly to the other extreme. In a couple
of smaller efforts the artist dowdifies her models
by the use of discordant color-schemes.
The critic almost collapses before the tremendous
•industry of R. W. Sturgess and Granville Dunstan,
who are holding a joint show of 167 pictures at
the Athenaeum. Sturgess, who is responsible for
86 water-colors, exercises his impressionism in a
Hilrleresque manner, producing some ethereally lovely
effects with the simplest of palettes and composi-
tions. Some of his that of
a small srhoouer at anchor-—reveal his adroitness
in creating in thin washes exquisite atmospheric
illusions. His study of a Lascar is notable for
his range of browns in picking out the shadows
and half-tones of a typical Indian countenance;
and his views of gaudily-colored parrots equally
demonstrate his artistic gifts. Granville Dunstan
is different. More spnbitious and less equipped,
he dabbles heavily in the nude, giving displays of
false color and unsound drawing that seem garish
in the illustration of a Norwegian legend and
positively repellent in the case of “Gold Fish.”
His portraiture is better, but his uncertain model-
ling betrays itself in two or three heads, and is
not entirely absent from his portrait of Alfred Peters,
whose obtruded left hand is poising an obese cigar.
Dunstan’s landscapes earn more respect. His “Por-
tals of the Bush” is ‘well painted, if somewhat
effusive, and “A Leafy Grove” and “Morning, Bays-
water,” are handled with some skill.
* * * &
“The Maid of the Mountains” is booked for
a long stay at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. She
will assuredly outlast the spring and may
be still declaring her passion for Baldasarrc
when summer has gone with the roses and
raptures. young woman has cer-
tainly made a hit.
Some day, not many years ahead, two
star artists will be engaged and the rest of
the parts will be allotted to gramophones.
Then we shall see a programme something
like this:—
Sydney Criterion: “The Great Adventure.”
Characters.
Ham Carve (an illustrious artist) .. Graham Browne
Albert Shawn (his valet) Aeolian Voealion
Dr. Paseoe Grafonola
Edward Horning (Pascoe’s attendant) —
His Master’s Voice
Cyrus Carve (llam’s cousin) Salonola
Father Looe (a priest) Edison
Janet Cannot (a widow) .......... Marie Tempest
And it may be an improvement. “The
Great Adventure” will occupy the Criterion
for the remainder of this week, and during
that time Marie Tempest and Graham
Browne, who could stand out in a first-class
cast, will have to be satisfied to gain their
honors in competition with a very second-
rate following. “The Marriage of Kitty”
will occur on Saturday night. Perhaps
J.C.W. will meantime consider the gramo-
phone suggestion.
“On Our Selection” -is in its last nights
at the Sydney Palace. Bert Bailey-Rudd
and the other members of the family having
been summoned to the south. It is Mel-
bourne, it is Melbourne, and it calls.
Dorothy Brunton continues to please old
admirers and make new ones in “Oh, Lady,
Lady!” the “crook” play that, in a manner
of speaking, isn’t a crook play. And the
address is the Theatre Royal, Sydney.
Annette Ivellerman again tops the Sydney
Tivoli bill, but this time she sticks to the
aquatic stunts in which she is the hundred-
per-cent. queen. Between her Majesty arid
the fade-out of “The Turning Point” (which
is the same old meal with new ideas in table
decoration) there is a whole battalion of
entertainers. Particularly good are the
juggling of Creighton, the natter of Charles
Emerald and Adele Dupre in a chucklesome
playlet called “Billeted.” Rinaldo Flaneur’s
dogs also come in for the loud handclap, and
the Folly Girls make progress, with every
performance.
Balzac’s “Wild Ass's Skin” has been
tailored to modern requirements by J. Cun-
ningham, and covers Warren Kerrigan at tire
Lyric in “The Dream Cheater.” The Lords
and the Ladies and the Misses O’Gradvs are
left behind by Felix; O’Day when he flies
from the Emerald Isle in search of his (dop-
ing wife, who is sightseeing in New 1 York
with the usual family friend. Felix makes
the chase a hot one, hut by the way finds;
another little flower called Annette, who
becomes Mrs. Felix IT. after the No. 1,
weakened by want and ill-treatment, has de-
cided to elope for the second time! The Lyceum
and the Crystal Palace hold up the mirror
to this bit of family life. The second thrill
at the Lyceum is provided by Billie Rhodes
in “The Lamb and the Lion,” and the Crystal
Palace makes the part of Alice Lake in
“Over the Wire” quite clear. Wallace Reid
manages to keep on the Globe and Haymarket
sheets, but rips up half the Republic’s rail-
way lines in running his “Love Special.”
Priscilla Dean, in a hat that is. a cascade of
feathers, trifles with her reputation at. Hoyt’s,
the Australian and the Piccadilly, and has
coals of fire heaped upon the fascinating
headpiece by the angel-child she left in the
long ago to the mercy of the big city.
* * * *
“The Old Swimming Hole,” at Adelaide
Majestic, tells its 'simple story of Charles
Ray’s school-days without any “titles,” and
they are not missed ; but all parties look at
least five years too old for the period when
hoys exchange elaborate insults without
striking a blow, and stand on their head as
the surest way of attracting a girl’s admira-
tion. Other pictures are strongly dramatic:
Alice Cnlhouh and Blanche Sweet at West’s,
both involved in embarrassing events not of
their own choosing; the mysterious cab-
murder, “In the Dark,” at trie Pav., and a
crook-and-millionaire story of “The Bait” at
Wondergraph. This last house has decided
to change its programme only once a week:
formerly its patrons, hearing of a good thing,
were apt to find it past and gone. At the
Prince of Wales “The Labor Leader.” is a
serious attempt to deal with politics (Brit-
ish brand), tempered by the humor of Darcy
Kelway and Millie Carlton. “Slim Jim”
Gibbons does some original things with his
legs at the King’s, Vaude and Verne have
invented fresh patter with a local turn, and
there are several clever he-and-she pairs.
.Tames Anderson’s pupils gave a varied
Dickens evening; and a Maori co. is at the
Royal.
Allan Wilkie, with his nine Shakspearean
plays, finishes his M.L. tour at Wellington
on September 17, and then makes westward
to give Perth some more of the immortai
William.
“C. Oekney”: David Belasco, the Ameri-
can author-manager, recently reported to be
going out of the show- business in the States,
is having his latest play staged in London
first. It came about like this. Cyril Maude,
having played “Grumpy” for all it is worth,
w r anted Belasco to let him have a piece he
had seen in N. York—“ The Music Master"
David replied that he wanted it for his star
another David, surnamed Warfield. f nr whom
he is arranging an English tour. But he
sent the .MS. of a new and unproduced
comedy. Maude read it, accented it bv
cable, and it is to be done at the Shaftes-
bury under the management of Grossmith
and Malone. Title; “Timothy.”
“Storky” (Lond.) : The corner of Lek-.-s
ter-square where Jones's eating-hons.
stands is a sort of Australian Povert
Point in London. At noon each day one is
“The Maid of the
Mountains, ” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Arthur Stiyant as the
gay Governor of
Santo.
bound to liit there
a group of vaude-
villains from I)L
gerdom. Recent
visitors have been
Clement May.
character imper-
sonator; John
Anutdio. with hL
flute and a so-
prano ; .Lena and
Peggy Chisholm,
violin and piano;
the Tossing Tes-
tros. hat-spinners
and jugglers;
Mounier, the strong
in an ; and Hr.
Row e, magician.
At present the
music-hall business
is a difficult one to
tackle, as the man-
agements are inun-
dated with acts
and people from
the legit, who arc
up against it owing
to the theatrical
slump.
Th (> American
Klaw, formerly ot
Klaw and Erlan
ger. is now attack-
ing London. He
hopes “to add con
siderably to the
entente between
the two nations"
by producing four
American plays in Loudon, each with a star
American actress in the lead, and all the rest
of the cast English. Meanwhile, on the
other side of the Atlantic, he will exactly
reverse the process. As each leading lady
will thus be surrounded b.v a companj
trampling on all her memories of how tin-
thing was done at home, the idea looks mon
like one for saving money than for knitting
nations.
“Good Australian” looks back: —
The first theatre in Melbourne was opened in
April, 1842, at the Pavilion by Hodge and Jamieson
on the site of the present Bull and Mouth Hotel in
Bourke-street. Performances were gives twice a
week, boxes and pit ss. and gallery 2s. 6d. Tin
town band received £lO 10s. a week to servo as an
orchestra. The name of the house was changed to
the Royal Victoria, and subsequently to the Mel-
bourne. The second theatre was built by John
Thomas Smith (afterwards thrice Mayor of Mel-
bourne) in Queen-street in 1843. After playing
“Othello” and “The Merchant of Venice,” the co.,
led by Mr. and Mrs. Knowles, struck for higher
salaries, and, not getting the rise, they moved into
the Adelphi Tavern near by and opened on their
own account. The name of ■ this second playhouse
was changed to Theatre Royal. In May, 1845, a
bigger building was opened with one Xesbitt play
ing “Othello.” The next was the Queen's, opened
in 1845 in Queen-street and managed by George
Coppin, whose star was G. H. Rogers. Next the
Theatre Royal in Bourke-street and the Criterion
Hall in Collins-street were erected. In 1855 George
Coppin began to build the Olympic in Lonsdale-
street, a place known to theatregoers as “The Iron
Pot" because it was made in England of corrugated
iron and brought here to be assembled. On July 6,
18(15, the Theatre Royal was properly opened with
"'School for Scantier’ by C. H. Rogers and Mrs.
Charles Poole. Here also appeared the famous Lola
Montez in a play written round here own adven-
tures. Coppin inaugurated a season of opera at the
Royal commencing with Anna Bishop and Sara
Flower. In 1854 G. B. IV. Lewis built Astley’s
Amphitheatre on the site of the present Princess?
Theatre in Spring-street. In 1856 George Coppin
established a theatre at the Cremorne Gardens near
the railway bridge to South Yarra. At this place
were engaged Julia Matthews, Rose Edouin, Rosa
Dunn and Miss Mortimer, with G. H. Rogers, H. R.
Harwood, John Dunn, Harry Jackson and others.
Another theatre, called the Prince of Wales, was
built opposite the Melbourne Hospital in Lonsdale-
street. In 1862 Coppin built the Haymarket, near
the Eastern Market in Bourke-street, where Chari ;=
Kean and his wife and Joseph Jefferson gave memor-
able performances. This theatre was called the Duke
of Edinburgh and was burnt in 1871. In 1872 the
Theatre Royal was burnt, and Henry Hoyt erected the
Prince of Wales nearly opposite, next called the
Opera House and now the Tivoli. In December, 1872.
the Theatre Royal was' re-opened. In 1876 th
Academy of Music, now the Bijou, was erected, anc
in 1886 the fourteenth Melbourne theatre wa ;
christened the Alexarwira (later re-named He:
Majesty’s). The fifteenth", theatre, called The King's,
was opened in Russell-sfgeet. But Melbourne is still
awaiting a modern play] louse or opera house, artistic,
comfortable and hygien Ic.


The Rees Rotvrbo
ROTARY PPMPS.
Perfect self-regulation with the highest efficiency.
Variable head and volume.
Constant speed—constant power.
Perfect Hydraulic Balance.
Single and multi-stage for all capacities, and
heads up to 2000 feet.
House service.
Fire Brigade.
Boiler feed.
High, medium and low lift.
Sewage and
Air Pumps.
Am -
SUCTION
$l2
mm
Full particulars and quotations from
W. G. Watson 8 Co. Limited
279 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone, City 9967.
9PBh
c-
-1J
-
II
■
■
V ,
m
m
Specialists
in
Fine Pearls
Pearl
Necklaces
Earrings.
The firm have a
large and varied
collection of loose
Pearls from which
selections may be
made for the grad-
ual enlargement and
improvement of cus-
tomers’ own neck-
laces.
m. Brummonb & Co.
.r.-" 1 ■■ : ,r
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ď
ORIGINAL
BALATA
f
BRITISH
BELTIMG
The above illustration, drawn from a photograph, shows a 16 x 8
ply Dice's IS ala fa lie.it driving a 75-kilowatt Electric Generator a.t,
the South Australian Brewing Company. Pulley on Gencrato'r is
28in., and the driving pulley from engine 76in. Speed of Generator
is 500 r.p.m., and belt speed 8850 f.p.m.
The Integrity of their power plant is strictly in keeping
with the progressive methods of the S.A. Brewing Coin-
puny, Adelaide, S.A. In their decision to use Dick’s
Original Batata Belting on the above drive, such things as
sound quality, perfect workmanship, strength, continuous
production and the ability of the belt to transmit the
greatest degree of power at the lowest cost, were the decid-
ing factors.
In this plant the power is steadily and silently transmitted. Belt
trouble is unknown. The engineer’s labors are lightened. Dick’s
Original Balata Belting is doing its work, standing up to its
reputation and building increased goodwill.
Before buying belting, consult until one of our practical engineers
who are engaged year in and year out in solving power tarnsmission
problems. WRITE FOR FREE COPY OF BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE $ COY. LTD.
SYDNEY:
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE:
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND:
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, BRISBANE.
Coloups fhatcappy an
absolute guapantee
SUNDOUR
UNPADABLE
FABRICS
The Dyestuffs foprmng
these permanent coloups
ape made bytheSundoup
fipm.the onjyfipm in the
wopld producing doods
from Dyestuffs to finished
Fabnics.
Sundoup Fabples ape
made in Casement Cloths,
Reps, Damasks,Chennilles,
Madras Muslins,Tapesfries,
Rugs,' etc.


N-S-W' MONT de PIETE D S, I C9T LIMITED,
74/ Castlereagh. Si-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
Ilillllllllllllllllllillllllllllllilllllllllli
II
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
'WITHOUT POSSESSION
II llililll
~fo/7c/>ej<rf 2IS-I7Swanston SUlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St, Newcastle. l97?Ca3tlereaqh 5t.,& 159 George st,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL & 200.000
Joseph W.HiJI,
‘Phone City 9325
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. l td.”
POVERTY
POINT
T[?]T & Chandon
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
A note from Howard Vernon’s little
widow (Viniu de Loitte) :
&o many misstatements have been made ii: vari-
ous newspapers in reference to 'my late brilliant
husband, Howard Vernon, that 1 will be grateful ii
it could be explained in “Poverty Point” that his
connection with the second-hand book-store in Ifich-
mond (Vic.) was as an executor only, and to the
work of winding up this business he devoted much
of the two years that have passed since our last
tour through Gippsland. The library referred to
contained many volumes of intense interest to Mr.
Vernon, and I’iii afraid that rather delayed the
sorting and cataloguing. The illness that overtook
him was caused, 1 am sure, by his standing in the
cold amongst musty books. I myself have been
very ill in the Lewisham Hospital in Christchurch,
and it has been most upsetting to be so far away.
Though I am convalescent and able to travel once
more it will be the end of September before the
Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co. returns to Australia.
I intend then as soon as 'possible to publish Mr.
Vernon’s theatrical reminiscences. He had written
much with that intention, but. alas, passed away
before he could see the matter through the press.
“1.L.C.” (London) : Stella Power proved
a disappointment to the critics because she
had been over-boomed. Dorothy Murdoch’s
voice was thought too small. She has now
cut adrift from the befriending Melba, whose
generosity in both these cases has over-
shadowed her judgment of the voices as com-
mercial propositions. Gertrude Johnson, full
of confidence and determination, is singing
at the Sunday League concerts at the Pal-
ladium. Florence Fawaz eventually suc-
ceeded in securing a contract to appear in
Wagnerian roles during a Covent Garden
season—which never eventuated. The Daily
Mail (15/7/’2l) tells Margaret Jewell, an-
other Melba protegee and ex-top-liner on the
Fuller circuit, that “her music is of no con-
sequence,” and furthermore that she “sings
out of tune.” Ivy Phillips also received
discouraging press notices. Irma Caron is the
latest addition to the bunch of Melbourne
aspirants. She, however, starts in vaude-
ville. Of the Sydney girls, Dorothy Helm-
rich gives an occasional recital at one of
the Wigmore-street halls, and has received
excellent notices from the leading papers.
She has adopted the traditional style of the
English balladist. Lucille Benstead, a West-
ralian singer, is doing the picture-shows and
music-halls with operatic numbers. From
Maoriland there is Stella Murray, the
Christchurch contralto, who is liked for her
charming personality and is doing good work
in private houses. ‘ There is only one safe
way to tackle the concert platform in Lon-
don, and that is to start in quietly and be
prepared for two to three years’ probation.
Recognition comes only to those who have
been tried and proved. Press boost for a
budding singer is unprocurable, and recitals
have to be launched at the singer’s financial
risk —the agents take none. The founda-
tions of a vocalist’s career are her London
criticisms, on which the agent* secures her
provincial and other engagements. Press
reports from any other country are no good
at all. Things were much easier when
Melba. Ada Crossley and Amy Sherwin made
their debuts.
“M.P.A.” from London :
In the movie business here the Palace has dropped
a ton of money, and the Alhambra has been sick.
Of the converted theatres, the Opera House under
the Stoll films direction is holding its place. Re-
ports from the West End cinemas are very bad, and
in the suburbs the picture-men are crying out for
credit from:the film-renters. The block system of
booking is fizzling out, but still one finds the
release here quite 12 to 15 months behind the first
screenings in Australia. London’s most palatial pic-
ture-house is the Globe, at Acton, with a capacity
of 2450, beautifully decorated, though somewhat
overpowering, and with every inch of floor-space
heavily carpeted. Already there are countless holes
through cigarette butts being thrown about, smok-
ing being allowed in the, movie houses. From the
swanky Regent-street cinema (where “tone" pro-
hibits the display of a poster in the lobby) to
the suburban picture-dump, the capacities are
small. Numbers of suburban cinemas are con-
verted houses, factories, old pubs. The films in
many of these are equivalent to the screenings at
Port Darwin, Samoa and the Fijis. C. J. Dennis's
“Sentimental Bloke’’ has given the trade a pro-
found respect for the Australian production, and
the “Bloke” is well booked up and is still booking.
It gets its release early next year, and will be fol-
lowed by “Ginger Mick.**' The Gaumont people are
delighted with the Dennis pictures. Robert Court-
neidge is to let M. P. Adams loose with his travel
film, “Australia’s Wild North-West,” prefaced by
glimpses of Sydney and Melbourne, and of cattle, wheat
and timber, at the Philharmonic Hall in September,
and the showman will try to wake up the indifferent
Britisher on the subject of our great island con-
tinent.
“S.S." : Walter lyirjiy, Melbourne’s buxom
tenor with the exquisite voice, began enter-
taining the public as a song-and-dance
artist, throwing in any kind of fancy foot-
work that might be in demand. Walter's
family connections were teachers of dancing,
and the plump warbler could still provide
comic relief at his concerts if he only would.
Hut these tenors are so uppish. Amies Beau-
mont, after attaining success as a singer,
never humped another bag of coal.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : What’s the oldest
theatrical joke in the world? Probably the
one that describes the gallery folk as the
"gods.” Dr. Holmes, the Archdeacon of
London, in a sermon at the anniversary
service of the Actors’ Union, said that in
pagan times the upper portions of the
theatres were embellished with pictures of
mythological deities, and the people up aloft
were jestingly referred to by those down
below as “sitting among the gods.” The
joke is still going strong qfter a run of 3000
years or so. and looks like lasting for an-
other 3000.
Bert Bailey’s lease from Steele, Rudd of
the “McClure and Poor Parson” play expired
a month or so ago. After the end of this
year “Gran’dad Rudd” also reverts to the
author.
“OH, LADY, LADY!”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Alfred Frith as Spike Hudgins, the happy
benedick.
“Nunky”: News of theatrical slumps in
Britain and America reported in Australian
newspapers may be discounted by the fact
that during the hot months of'the year the
principal theatres in London and New York
always close. Still, in the U.S.A. the movies
seem to have scored over the speakies for
a while. The 10 per cent, tax on kineina
houses produced in the year ending June
last £15,300,000, which means that the colos-
sal sum of £153,000,000 was taken at the
doors.
“Yarra Ben”: Ivy Shilling had the drama
knocked out of her dramatic dance scena,
“The Hour of One,” during her Melbourne
season. It was the old story of the gun that
refused to go off at its cue. When, after
gaining possession of the revolver from part-
ner' Harold Ivelleway, the psychological
moment arrived for her to shoot him. Ivy
nulled the trigger, but nothing happened.
Ivelleway continued dancing round tile stage
waiting to be killed. Ivy continued to pull
the trigger. Three men in the wings with
revolvers, stationed there on purpose to meet
such a contingency, pulled their triggers.
All the guns misfired. Seeing there was
no chance of being murdered that night
Ivelleway made a hurried exit, and rhe
curtain fell.
“Chris”: Sir Charles Santley has now
seen 87 summers, and on present appear-
ances has strong chances of scoring a cen-
tury. The sprightly knight recently told a
iU.i a visitor that lie believed he could sing
“Elijah” as well as ever.
“Old Pot”: Alice Barnett is usually re-
garded as the biggest actress who has
appeared in Austral a. The subtlety of
Gilbert’s satire was not so apparent when
siie appeared as Katisha in "The Mikado,”
but when the lady donned the corselet and
helm of the Fairy Queen in “lolanthe” the
audience roared. Such lines as
Who taught me to curl myself inside a buttercup?
Who taught ine .10 swing upon a cobweb?
Who taught me to dive into a dewdrop—to nestle
in a nutshell —to gambol upon gossamer?
were a howling success coming from the
mouth of a woman who looked anything up
to 20st.. and could metaphorically list her
small husband (I)iekenson)' as a walking-
stick. it remained, however, for the co.
headed by David James, inn., at Sydney
Criterion to produce an even more amazo-
nian actress. This was Mab Paul, who
showed in "The Night of the Party.’ She
was also a believer in physical development,
and one night when she met a footpad in
North Sydney the footpad didn’t enjoy a
minute of it. Nor did the show lose any
business as a result of the episode. Jenny
Watt Tanner was another well-built actress
very much over ordinary height. Slu*
dwarfed most of the men and all the women
in “The Magistrate” when Pinero’s comedy
was produced in tin l early ’eighties.
“Nero”: Explanation of the apparently
migratory habits of the cigarette-box in
“Scandal” (B. l/9/’UI) is ridiculously
simple. Sutherland Yorke had two boxes
(not silver, but antimony, made in Japan)
almost identically alike, presented to him by
wealthy but economical lady sitters. On
Beatrice Vanderdyke expressing a liking for
them, he presented one to her; so its presence
in her bedroom is easily accounted for.
Naturally she takes it on her honeymoon
with a few other of her personal belongings.
Hence its appearance in the last act in Pcl-
l(iun Franklin’s home., "Whitebait” should
have thought this out for hiinsMl anyhow,
I hate to hoar the Amalgam accused of econo-,
arising.
“0.K.”: Contrast the eternal “culchaw
cant,” as somebody termed it, of the superior
repertory playgoer, who wonders why theatri-
cal managers don’t produce literary drama all
the time, with the practical talk of Pinero,
the literary dramatist who graduated as an
actor, lie says he has no plans for writing
another play of the “Tanquera.v” order, and
this is why :
Existing conditions are such that most of our
managers are shy of risking serious plays. Rentals
and inflated salaries make, such risks too formidable.
When Sir George Alexander, Sir John Hare and
others were regularly presenting serious work, the
abnormal conditions we now suffer from were un-
dreamed of. Naturally, the serious drama appeals
to a more limited class than will patronise musical
pieces, and other light entertainments, and it is easy
to understand that present-day managers—with so
many., sub-lessees and with actors asking three or
four times the salaries they used' to have —are com-
pelled to think first of their rents, taxes and current
expenses, and secondly, if at all, of the higher art
of the theatre.
All true. The prevailing orgy of profiteering
is in every way against high-cla.ss literary
production, for the stage or for the study,
seeing that cost of publication has increased
so mightily, whilst the income of its old
patrons has in many cases diminished. On
the other hand, there is increhseu demand
for work of a lower standard to suit the
taste of the newly-rich and prosperous, whose
culture has yet to come. Musical taste has
the gramophone to aid it, but repertory
drama is a dangerous risk at the theatre,
because it lias no.such outside assistance.
“Fax”: One of the conditions under which
Victoria contributes to the upkeep of a Yer-
brugghen orchestra in Sydney is that local
soloists shall have a show when the orchestra
plays in Melbourne. As a matter of artistic
fact it were better for the Sydney soloist
to be heard sometimes in Melbourne, and
the Melbourne ditto in Sydney.
“Ancient Prompter”: Re-christened “The
Whirl of New York,” our old friend ‘‘The
Belle” was recently put on at the big city’s
Winter Garden. All the original characters
are retained, and two new ones —Ming Toy
and Ohingfoo—are introduced in an elabo-
rate Chinatown scene which includes a pro-
cession and festival and much ragtime « la
Chinoise. The new Belle, although she has
many up-to-date numbers, still warbles
“Follow On,” and the crowds do it as of yore.
“Old Pot”: Joe Starke and Harry Over-
ton were two other well-known mummers
who forsook the stage 18. 18/S/’2l). The
former was for years with Alfred Damp : er’s
stock co. at the Gaiety and Royal Standard
in Sydney; the latter acted with Dampier
and, later, with Nance O’Neil. Starke
turned his attention to the insurance busi-
ness. Overton, probably the best Gabbett
Australia has seen, was in his youth a cham-
pion swimmer, and turned first to the man-
agement of a swimming-bath and then ro
the business side •>{' racing.
"Stargazer”: I saw an Australian film
called "A Bush Girl” the other day, and
more recently another local film effort star-
ring Snowy Baker, and am driven to the
conclusion that there is nothing so American
as the Australian movie play. Instead of
seeking to depict Australian life, the local
“The Maid of the
Mountains," at
Sydney Majesty's.
Robert Chisholm as
Beppo , the brigand . in
disguise.
producers in nine
cases out of JO
strain all the
points to jrive a
thing that is tin
living picture of
Yankee Doodle. In
the Bak e r film
there was an un-
mistakable struggle
after Douglas Fair-
banks effect, even
to the overworked
smile on the hero’s
face, and Snowy is.
not one who smiles
easily and happily.
"The Sentimental
Bloke” wa s a
worthy effort be-
cause it strove to
b e natural and
local within its
limits, and it made
much money; but
the lesson is lost
on Australian pic-
t n r e producers
who. finding a com-
m unity grown
somewhat sick of
technically - perfect
American goods,
endeavor to pro-
pitiate the patrons
with cluins i 1 y*
handled American-
ism s showing
obtrusively - defec-
tive craftsmanship.
Until Australian producers /have one eye put
out we sliali not get good Australian film
plays. The eye to be sacrificed is
the one they keep lixedly on “The Texan
Steer” when trying to depict “The Austra-
lian Merino.”
“Wilfrido": Jascha Heifetz came out in
a new role at Wellington (M.L.). lie was
much in evidence at a smart cabaret, and
he at the piano and Chotzinoff on the rest
of the instruments provided enough harmony
to make tin 1 nigger band at Murray s Night
(’lid) sit up. lie forgot for a while that
he was a genius and became one of the boys,
and they all called him Jnzzer.
“Til 1). Emdee”: Frank Thornton’s real
name was Tubs, and no matter in what era
he had lived he would have chucked the name
for something more euphonious. Forty years
ago many actors changed their labels because
their families regarded the theatre as one of
the Devil’s instruments. Walter Bentley
was the son of Begg, a Scottish meenister.
Richard Stewart, sen., jettisoned his bap-
tismal name, Towsey; and old-man Irving
left behind the name on his birtli-certilicate,
Rrodribb. when he took to the stage. The
statuesque Nance O’Neil was Gertrude Lamp-
son ; and then, of course, there is Julius
Knight, really James Kirkpatrick, a Scots-
man of Ayr.
Sixty years aaro, on August 31, au amateur
dramatic performance • was given in the old
Princess Theatre. Melbourne, to raise funds
for a memorial over the grave of the actress
Ellen Mortyn in the General Cemetery. The
pieces were the original versions of “The
Colleen Bawn” and "Rory O More,” and The
Bulletin ’s “Oldest Inhabitant” was the
Danny Mann of the occasion. The result
was a handsome memorial, which is still to be
seen among a group of Thespians’ graves in
tlie cemetery.
From Horace Wyndham (London): —
Intimately connected with the lack ot employment
from which actors and actresses are sufferirg in Eng-
land is the overcrowding of the stage with amateurs.
“Schools of acting,” professing to teach the whole
art of histrionics, some even “by correspondence,”
are springing up throughout London and the pro-
vinces. Their projectors unblushingly take fees from
ambitious shop-assistants and housemaids: and then,
by dint of pulling devious strings (in which “com-
mission-splitting” too often comes into play), launch
their dazzled dupes upon the stage. Of course, they
do not stop there long. Still, the mere fact of them
being there at all cuts the ground from under the
feet of an equal number of the experienced and
qualified whom they have supplanted. The com-
mittee of the Assoc, is doing what it can to remedy
matters; and it has been decided to call a mas-
meeting within the next few weeks when unemploy-
ment and the problem of grappling with it is to
come up for full discussion.
“Spots”: “Orb” (B. 11/8/’2l) may also
be interested to know that there’s a Sundn;
picture-show in Cunnamulla (Q.). It hap-
pens every week, and the only condition laid
down for it is that it mustn’t open up till
after church is over, which is generally
about 8.30 p.m.
PERFORMING ANIMALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Attention is being directed in England to the
alleged ill-treatment of animals in the course of
their training for circus and other turns, and a
tightening-up of the law is probable.”
The pony and performing horse.
The goat that stands erect,
Have each and all been through a course
Of drill wherein persuasive force
Is—what you might expect.
The dog who pulls a little cart,
The tyke with hanging lip,
Of pang and pain has felt the smart
Ere he was perfect in his part;
In point of fact, his loving heart
Was broken by a whip.
And how about the infant fat
Who weeps to raise a laugh,
The human kid—unhappy brat! —•
Displayed upon a rug or mat
In cinematograph?
At picture shows I can’t forget
That howling youngster I have met
With anguish in his eye ;
Have often wondered does he get,
To give him bitter cause to fret,
A pinch upon—the sly ?
1 call to mind with keen regret
The chubby cheeks where tears ran wet,
The anguish of the little pet;
Oh, why is baby thus upset—
Who makes the baby cry f
VICTORIA.
O. K.


The Sunshine Harvester IVorks Present
THIE SUNSHINE
REAPER and BINDER
*r
Wi
CT
LIGHT RUNNING—CLEAN CUTTING-
SURE TYING.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
Illustrated Catalogue of all Farm Implements and Engines Post Free on Request.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
V#
1-**
T*
Cfyror^iS
■ -
..
os®
BE?
& H!ZJzgL
fir oucrhr/ -*■ /foe/
- -
&orJc /jaJOZ
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London.
as Manufacturers of
»Steel
Casting's
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHRGME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— HEAT-
TREATED.”—For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS.
LTD.,
PTY.
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY*
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIL.P & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special Ii i
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIfIFTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WHITTY ,4, ssjt
(jWtQti
MELBOURNE & sy bNEY
Automatic Winchester .303 Cal. Carbine.
Twenty-two-inch steel barrel. Capacity
6 shots. The nattiest .303 rifle yet pro-
duced. Price £l2/10/-
Automatic .22 Cal. Winchester. Twenty-
inch barrel. Capacity 11 shots. The
highest-velocity .22 cal. rifle produced at
a reasonable price. £lO/10/
Repeating .22 Cal. Remington. Hammer-
less. i'wenty-inch steel barrel. Take-
down pattern. Fires 22 short, long and
long rifle cartridges. £6/10/-
F. X. Browning Model “De Luxe” .22
Cal. Single-shot Rifle. Twenty-four-inch
barrel. 55/-
Rifle and Gun Repairs Done on the
Premises. Work guaranteed.
(^Mce
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
RIDING BREECHES
Sports Coats
d
LADIES' 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
W. CHORLEY
8 CO. LTD.,
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
The Sussex team which the Australians
met last week is another of. those that have fallen
fr&n a high estate. Amongst the amateurs the be-
spectacled Young has to try to make up for the loss
ofi such champions as Pry and Ranji; and of
course there is Jupp. And yet in the first
innings the seasiders got into a winning position
with t?B2 to the visitors’ 209. Then Australia went
in again and almost everybody came off but those
w(io have been doing it during most of the season.
Tin allegedly embittered Rviler showed what he might
have done earlier in the season with a beautiful 83,
ai(d Collins and Gregory topped the half-century.
Gregory, at 2, agreed so completely with an appeal
for leg before that he was half-way to the pav iiion
before the umpire could state his view of the case,
which was “not out.” Innings declared at 382 for
nine. Then .Mailey and McDonald took to the Sussex
batsmen and the side collapsed for 62, Mailey’s
tigures being five for 13.
Sussex has provided our boys with some
good batting practice in the past 43 years. Some
of Australia’s scores against Ranji’s county are: 643
(Hilly Murdoch 286 not out), in 1882 ; 624 for four
wickets (Victor Trumper, 300 not out), in 1899;
oso for six wickets (M. A. Noble, 284), in 1902 ;
and 556 (Noble, 267 ), in 1905. Of 15 games the
county has won only one. Only Middlesex of the
first-class counties has a more dreadful record.
* * ■» *
Armstrong has now scored the big double
of 1000 runs and 100 wickets three times in English
tours. In 1905 he broke the record with 2002 runs
and 130 wickets, and four years later he had 1480
runk and 126 sticks against his name. George Giifen’s
performance is almost equally good: 1886, 1543 rims
ami 159 wickets; 1893, 1220 and 142; and 1896,
1208 and 117. In 1886 Rainier collected 1028 runs
smdj 011 ted 106 batsmen. Thirteen years later Hugh
Trumblo made 1183 and bagged 142 victims. On
the present tour Armstrong’s only rival is Gregory
with 1110 runs and 113 wibkets.
* * *
On Saturday a start was made against a.
remarkably feeble South of England team, Hardinge,
the Kent batting star, and Parker, of Gloucestershire
(who has taken more wickets than anyone else this
season), being the only formidable figures in it.
Armstrong omitted Pellew, which seems i pity. The
popular S. Australian needs only 76 to reach his
1000 runs, and the next match will be the last.
Collins, Bardsley and Ryder failed ; Macartney went
for 45 ; Taylor scored a. blob, ahd then Andrews
and Armstrong got together. The Svtlneyite bit, up
a chanceless 132 (one six and 19 fours) before he
was caught off Hardinge, and his captain was worth
182 n.o. The innings totalled 444 after nine
bowlers had been tried. In South’s first innings
Gregory clean bowled Ilardihge and Lee for 7 and 9
respectively, and Bowlcy was run out through a
mistake of 11. Ashton’s, the Southerners being left in
consequence with small hope of making a game of it.
Ashton’s 65 was the only meritorious effort in an
innings which closed for 199. and in the follow-on
all hope was lost when Hardinge and Bowley regis-
tered a duck 'apiece.
“Ex-Englishman”: Those three brilliant
Ashton brothers in the Cambridge XI recall the
Studds of 40 years back. Three or four Posters
have played for Oxford, but never, I think, three
at once. It requires a peculiar combination of un-
likely circumstances: (1) three hrothers all within
a range of, say, five years ; (2) a family which can
afford anything up to £l5OO a year to keen them
all at the ’Varsity at once; (3) ability on the part
of all of them to get into the XI, in face of the
fierce competition that prevails. How rare No. 3
is 1 may be guessed from the fact that one cannot
remember —barring the astonishing Hill family, of
Adelaide, six or seven of them, all inter-Staters—
three brothers playing for an Australian State even
at different periods. To go back to No. 1, however,
it is possible that the condition did not apply to
the Studds. G.B. and C.T. were having a great
time at Cambridge, which beat the Australians. An
elder brother, J.E.K., a sound county player, though
not up to the international form of tne other two,
remarked: “I’m in this,’’ and entered himself as an
undergraduate at Cambridge for the sake of the
sport.
* * * ♦
Jack Ryder is the eighth member of the
1921 XI to accumulate 1000 runs. This is another
record. Seven was the previous best.
* * * *
Archie McLaren, who is said to be re-
tiring from cricket, includes among his records a
century (108) on his< first appearance in a county
match, a double century (223) on his first appear-
ance in Australia, and the highest score (424) ever
made in first-class cricket.
Though past results show the odds to be
about 10 to 1 against a horse with over 9st. win-
ning the Metrop. it looks as if the top-weights will
take a lot of beating this year. Old Ketmaquhair is
working wondertuliy well at ttandwidk. The Jlaori-
lander Duo is apparently in good heart. Richmond
Main in another week ctr two will probably be as
fit us Marsdert has had him since his argument with
Artilleryman. On Saturday at Moorefield David,
carrying 9st. 111 b., ran home a length in front
of CaLoctaon (7st. 81b.), and Sandbee, winner of last
Newcastle Cup (Cst. 101 b.). There were only six
starters and the lightweights made the big horse
carry his weight all the way. He was under press-
ure over the last flee furlongs, and as Cabochon only
commenced to flinch 50 yards from home the top-
weight had to be ridden right out to win. He stuck
to the job with conspicuous courage and ran the
10 furlongs in “seven,” 1 As Moorefield is a small,
slow course this was a very fine Metrop. trial. The
difference between David’s win and that of Salitros
at Canterbury Park a fortnight before was that the
latter won with a smart finishing sprint. Salitros
is certainly the more brilliant of the two; David
the sounder stayer when' the pace is on over a dis-
tance.
* * * *
Lord Passe, with 291 b. more than he will
carry in the Melbourne Cup, easily won the Sep-
tember Handicap (1* mile) at Adelaide Tatt.’s in
good time. Timmons finds it very hard to accurately
gauge the capabilities of the Passing By horse, as
he hates punishment, in proof of which he has
chucked several races away at the top of the straight.
* * * *
Too Cool, who won a couple of events at
the last Bendigo meeting, is owned by 11. D. Win-
some. What a lovely name to go racing with!
When looking for the winner of the
Epsom thus early, it is always safe to watch any-
thing showing Newcastle way. The wise ones have
been closely following Queen Humphrey, who, it is
said, has more than pleased her connections. At the
Newcastle ,1. C.’s Meeting on Saturday, however, she
was out of a place in the 6fur. Tramway, carrying
only 51b. above her Epsom paperweight. Consider-
ing Sir Maitland ran the distance in Imin. 14set;.,
the mare, who got away none too well, has yet
ample time to improve.
* * * •
Saturday at Caulfield was another great
day for Eurythmie. Nothing quite so bri.liant as
the run the freak-horse made in the last 200 yards
of the Mernsie Stakes race had been seen within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant. It was meteoric.
Of the others Harvest king shaped most encourag-
ingly for his financial followers, though he finished,
in third place, five lengths behind young Demetrius,
who had 71b. less to carry. Meanwhile the three-
year-old form of the Vic. division remains open to
doubt.
Gririgalet astonished the crowd by winning the
Hcatherlie Handicap, over the same nine fu longs
that Eurytlimic covered in faster time. Tangalooma,
Purser, Royal Comedy, Red Dome and Crescendo were
among the also-rans, whilst Tavistock made a fight
for it. Perhaps Tangalooma and Purser in par-
ticular ran as well as their Caulfield Cup backers
expected, but from an unenlightened point of view
their form was unsatisfactory, 1 ke the work of The
Tyrant and Strathredole in the mile Welter which
closed the disastrous day’s proceedings. Only one
horse improved its reputation at Caulfield last Satur-
day, whereas a number of previously rosy fancies
turned pale.
*.* * *
The Southern District Racing Assoc, of
N. S. Wales is getting up a testimonial to Australia’s
oldest handicapper, and one of the best it has
known. James Price, who was 78 last July, has
been known to sportsmen and others in the Waggn
district for the past half-century, and ltobt. Watson,
of the town the Tiehborne claimant came from, is
receiving subscrintions. A complimentary race meet-
ing is to be given to the old gentleman as soon
as a date can be arranged.
**. * *
Isaacs is having the better of his struggle
with the punter on the Westralian goldfields. Mara-
ehowie, who won the Boulder Newmarket for Mick
Rasheed, the plucky Croweater, was a 12 to 1
chance. St, Vama (7st. 101 b.), the Boulder Cup
winner, was quoted at . 6 to 1, but Spearhit (8:-t.
lib.), the runner-up, and Fair Intervener, who
finished fourth, were both better backed. The third
horse, Irish Comedy (7st. 101 b.), went out at 25
to 1. The Hannan’s Handicap, run at Kalgoorlie
(it is richest mile race), was a ui'-nic
for outsiders. Wabba (6st. lllb.) won from Bullie
B. (7st. 71b.) and the S. Australian Klaxon (Bst.
01b.). their prices being 20’s, 25’s and lfi’s respec-
tively.
* ♦ * *
The re-run Dunlop inter-club cycling pre-
miership at Enfield (Sydney) on Saturday gave
Newtown (14 points) a comfortable win from the
more-fancied Dulwich Hill (22 points). Newtown
termed well, and W. Coppins, S. Whiteman and A.
Scotton were in the leading places over the line.
Champion Mick Little (Dulwich Hill) was fourth.
The turning times were —10 miles, 29min. 30sec. ;
20 miles, 61min. ; 80 miles, lhr. 33min. 18 2-ssec.
* * « «
N.S.W. motor-cycling petrol-consumption
test at Sydney last week showed the ever-growing
efficiency of this class of vehicle. B. Scheer (34
Norton) in the under 600-c.c. class averaged 142.36
miles per gallon, and .1. Sconller' (6 J.A.P.) in
the over 600-c.c. class did 126.7 m.p.g.
Jimmy Semmens, the Victorian bantam,
regarded by some as a world-beater at the weight,
met his master at Melbourne on Saturday night m
Jerry Sullivan, whose spell has done him the world
of good. Conceding his man 31b. Semmens waded in
from the start ar.d fought him every inch of the
way. The result was a brilliant battle-fast and
sparkling always and at times madly exciting but
by the 14th round the Victorian’s unusual tactics had
exhausted him and a furious left swing knocked him
kicking. The gong went before the referee had
finished counting, but when the music sounded again
Semmens was still out to the world. Sullivan the
winner.
* * * *
Jimmy Hill met Tommy Noble, bqth
being in the vicinity of Bst. 41b., at Sydney Stadium
oil Saturday night. The anxious-looking little Syd-
ney boy is getting on in years, as members of his
profession go, whereas Noble is in the full tide of
lusty youth. . Strength and vigor nearly gave Noble
a k.o. victory: skill ahd cunning on the pait of
Hill alone averted the tragedy. Not since the
Jchnson-Butns massacre has there been so much
badinage in the ling, the lads having apparently
a cordial dislike of one another. The offensive
v r as invariably opened in this department by Noble,
who even spared the time here and there to rebuke'
the referee. Joe Wallis gave it a draw, and the
house was pleased, if only because it had watched
with approval Hill’s pluck. But Noble led by the
length of a stvoet over the first half of the journey;
ai d though Hill improved as his vis-a-vis degener-
ated, it is hard to see how, where and when he
made up the original leeway.
* # * *
At Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday
S. Sydney met Glebe in the semi-final of the City Cup.
At lemon-time the Rabbitos led by 15 points. In the
second spasm Glebe had the breeze, but Ilallett s
heart-breaking line-kicking and catching repulsed
them. Souths’ rearguard was the nippier combina-
tion, and their ruckers, though not winning the
leather in the downs, broke smartly. At the finish
Souths had run Glebe off their leer and won h.v 28
points to 14. Gillespie (South) and Benson (Glebe)
were the best of the backs, whilst Eunnell (South)
and Quigley and McGrath (Glebe) were the pick of
the .ruckers. In the other game, on the Sports
Ground, Easts at the interval were 14 points to
Newtown’s four. Then the Blues fame at it, arid,
piling on 15 points to the Surfers’ five, equalised
before “No side.” An extra 10 minutes ea. h way
was ordered. The Surfers’ backs got busy imme-
ately and a superb passing bout between Steele, Lees,
Oxford and Holmes saw the leggy one cross in and
Oxford raise both flags: Easts, 24; Newtown, 10.
Newtown made a sterling effort, in the fi: a) 10
minutes, but they were now a sadly-used-up XIII,
and Mansted was injured and off. I’inal scores: East,
27 ; Newtown, 22. Souths meet Easts next Saturday
in the final.
* * * *
The loss of Newman, Newington’s boy-
captain, soon after half-t.me, probably robbed Manly
of a win over Glehe-Balmain in Sydney Rugby Union
competition on Saturday. Mayne could do tittle —
he was too well looked after by Pidcock. Chowne,
Spencer, Stevenson and Buchanan were the best of the
winners, and for Marly Dawson, Watson and Douglas
were gluttons in defence. G.-B. should have no diffi-
culty in overwhelming Wests next Saturday and
winning the knock-out competition two years in suc-
cession.
* * * *
N.S.W. Itngby Union XV bumped a weak
Maoriland team at Christchurch on Saturday and
won by 17 to nil. The tourists’ form was excellent,
and the Blacks were outclassed in every phase of the
game. It was the 25th rep. clash; M.L. has won
19 and N.S.W. 5, and one (the great 8-all in 1905)
was drawn. N.S.W. hasn’t yet tasted defeat on the
tour, and the aggregate in their favor is 223 to 68.
“15-30”: The alleged “wild bitting” of
Anderson and Hawkes in their Davis Cup engagement
with the Japs probably covers a number of intended
aces that only missed by inches. In playing against two
such cracks as humagac and Shimidzu, tne temptation
to try for a ri3ky ace is almost irresistible when the
player finds—as probably our fellows found—that the
enemy’s superior courtcraft is working him out of
position. Probably many of Anderson’s and Hawkes’s
“errors” merely caught the top of the net and just
failed to go over, ojr, coming full pelt in a cross-
court or side-line dr've, touched the earth a foot or
two outside the playing area. I associate “wild hit-
ting” with swipes landing on the back fence or
among the spectators, but looking into the Austra-
lians’ record of bloomers
I should say there
couldn’t have been
many of those. It is
worth noting, by the
way, that the Austra-
lians had a bigger
aggregate of outright
aces than the Japs,
and I fancy the
excitement at
overwhelming
Kumagae in
their opening
sets ruined
Anderson’s and
Havvkes’s play
when they were on
the verge of sensa-
tional victories.
W. WASHBURN
( U.S.A. ), who •
with Williams
heat Kumagae and
Shimidzu in the
Davis Cup doubles.
In the Davis Cup challenge round
Johnston disposed of Kumagae in the easiest
fashion, making the return which baffled both
Hawkes and Anderson in the final look like patball.
The little American champion of 1919 led all through
each of the three sets: 6—2, 6—4, 6—2 Tie beat
Patterson at Auckland 6 —2, 6 —l, 6—l. Tilden is
evidently still out of health; but grit pulled him
through after losing the first two sets against
ShimidzU as it did against Norton in the challenge
round of the world s championship at Wimbledon.
the doubles on Saturday U.S.A. (represented bv
? ams and W ashburn) was much too strons
M ilhams provided the fireworks, while Washburn
did the spade work and tactics, which consist:'
mainly in working up openings for Williams to kill
with lightmrg volleys from near the sendee coun
lines, where he excels.
On his showing this season the next champion
will be Johnston. Til-
den managed to get
through the world’s
championships on hard
courts at Paris last
May, and through the
challenge round of the
world’s championship on
grass in June in spit*
of severe indisposition j
but he had not players
of the calibre of John-
ston against him. He
can scarcely hope to
beat Johnston unless
he is right at the top
of his form —and that
is where Johnston has
been lately, as shown
by his latest results.
W. H. JOES-
STON (U.S.A.),
who heat Kumagar
in the Davis Cup
singles — 30-11,
The Springboks kept up the winning habit
in Maoriland last week, and defeated Waikato (6 —0
and combined Hawkes Bay (14 —8). In the latte
match the ’Boks were shorthanded owing to a;
injury to Sendin. Of 20 matches they have won 17
lost 2, and drawn 1.
* * * *
Balmain Fern lei gh, N.S.W. Soccer cham-
pions in 1919 and 1920, were outed last Saturday
by West Wallseud in the semi-final of the Gar-
diner Cup. West WaUsend possess a useful forward
line, every man in it being a sharp-shooter. Their
scorers were McLachlan, l-hillips (from a penalty)
and Maunders, who, after Fisher had miskicked, rur
through the Fernleigh defence, and netted with a
good shot.
* * * »
Saturday’s Vic. League collisions made
Carlton, Richmond, ’Wood and Geelong certainties
for the Big hour. ’Hoy had a chance up till
Saturday, when they met Melbourne, but' ihe Red
Legs, having no possible themselves, were minded
to spoil the Maroons’ hopes, and did so by a
point—63 to ’Roy’s 62. ’Wood took no risks with
St. lvilda, but 'cot a grip of matters at the start
and held it till the end —-79 points to St. Kilda’s
67. Richmond kept their place in the procession
by downing Essendon —80 points to 45—and Carlton
proceeded to Geiloug and handed the local men
their first thrashing this season on their own
ground—63 to 47. This episode brought a record
crowd to the Hub, and proved an exciting and even
bout till nearly the close, when the Dark Blues
rushed a couple of goals and settled the issue.
Barring accidents Carlton have the pennant in their
bag.
* * * •
The N. S. Wales National Coursing Asso-
ciation held the last meeting of the season at Rooty
Hill last week. The principal stake, the St. Leger,
attracted only four entries, but each of the runs was
good, and eventually Aspirant’s clerical owner (and
breeder) collected. The Bathurst dog Controller
was the popular choice for the Hart Memorial Stab’
with Rhyme, a puppy which, hailed from Corowa, nest
in demand. The latter, however, was supposed to
win the most money of any dog in the State, and
duly did the trick.
Eric Apperly is piling up the golf titles.
At Sydney last week he badly uefeated J. D. Scott
for the Australian Club championship with the remark-
able card of 8 up and 7 to play. Apperly played
brilliantly throughout, and though Stott excelled
in long driving, he was beaten in approach and
accurateness. Apperly also holds the Manly Club
championship and the Australian amateur title.
November will be a busy time for scullers.
Arrst and Darcy Hadfield decide the world’s cham-
pionship on. the Wairau (M.L.) ; and on the Parra-
matta Ripley and McDevitt again battle for the
N. S. Wales championship. In August last yea:
Ripley won decisively.
The club premiership of lacrosse for Aus-
tralia may fairly be said to go with a meeting of the
best in Victoria and S.A., which States have been
playing the Canadian game for 35 years and are
keen on it. At the end of their successful season the
Melbourne C.C. team went across to Adelaide and
took on Sturt, the premier club there. The home
team won comfortably by 7 goals to 4.
This week the Vie. Amateur Billiards
Association started its championship tournament (or
series of “knock-outs”) at the new Parlor opened by
Alcock in Sturt-street. South Melbourne. The old
Parlor; over the Alcock warehouse, near the G.P.O..
was insufficiently roomy. The amateurs play five
nights a week, * Saturday being reserved for other
purposes.
* * * *
N. It. Burns lifted the challenge cup at
King’s School championships at Parramatta on
Saturday with wins in the 100yds. (10 4-5sec.).
220yds." (24 3-5sec.), 440yds. (oosec.) and broad
jumn (18ft. 10in.), ar.d seconds in the 120yd.-
hurdles and high jump. Burns, who has tine actio
is a sprint possibility in the G.P.S. championship
Billy Tindall, a full-blooded aborigine oi
Goondiwindi (Q.), defeated 28 others for the Austra-
lian cattle-throwing championship the other da;-
He was brought to Sydney for the Australian bush
carnival last year, and showed well then in drafting
throwing and cutting-out.
THE VOCAL SIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Female football has been a disappointment in
Melbourne this season. It is too quirt for specta-
tors accustomed to the racket qf. League and Asso-
ciation games.’’
Lumpy ladies tvho’re aspiring
To be presently acquiring
Art efficiency emphatic in the ribald winter game,
If you’ll give me the attention
Of your pink ears ,I will mention
Certain feats of. English grammar that are needful
in the same. •>
Is your lexicon quite equal
To the oratorio sequel
When an umpire’s adverse judgment prompts the
exclamation rash?
Could you put your vocal soul ijj
“You sextuplieated colon!
You contaminated, sanguinary, aggravated dash!” ?
When a rival player vexes,
Butting in your solar plexus,
Could you rise to declamation, taking dialectic rank
With the fellows? Could you bomb her
As a tessellated comma
And a cabalistic, parabolic, conjugated blank?
Did a player tear your switch off,
Could you throw the phrases rich off,
Wjth vocabulary trenchant her ancestral line defame?
With a monstrous nomenclature
Can you blast her social stature?
If you cannot rise to these heights you will never
play the game.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Health
Is the Greatest
ef all Possessions.
ďf
From the earliest ages man has taken pride in his bodily welfare
and development. It can be acquired by regular and efficient
Physical Culture Exercises. Learn how to improve y our body,
A Postal Course of Health and
Strength Exercises
ivill make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen and unseen
muscles is by means of health exercises —exercises that drive
a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the system
—nourishing the whole with oxygen, expelling waste tissue,
buildfhj? up new muscle, benefiting every part of yotif body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
let us send you a copy of the booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture.” It tells about the health-
giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send tnree
penny stamps for postage. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement. We’ll know what you
nj,fean.
REG. L ("Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia)
575 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
d
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
b y CII It IS T O 1* II K It
•JOHNSON & CO., at, their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick anti easy shav-
ing use this famous
Itazor, which is of the
finest quality and lias a
World-Wide reputation.
e GVST e/?
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney,
ftmte %lown
WM
mm
m
m
m
5*5
m
m
I The Strong Arm
OF PROTECTION
in marking Linen
goes with Cash’s Woven Name*
because they protect your Linen
against loss—artd remember
CASH’S w„.„ NAMES
excel any other method for mark-
ing linen - no trouble —easily sewn
on - fast color.
-
The Prices are moderate
i 2 doz.7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3doz. 3/6
Sold by all be~t drapers
Made in Australia by—
J. & J. CASH [3:
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Vic.
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
THERE
IS
NOT
a better watch
made the world
over than our
‘‘Super Fx and
R” Watch.
Gent’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
•‘Super Fx & R” fully-jewelled
lever, 84/-
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding.
For long life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After 81 years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax § Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 g 25 Hunter Street.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.'
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
4
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, are now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney
THE HAT of TO-DAY
WITH CHARACTER, SHAPE and
STYLE.
IT WILL GAIN THE APPROVAL
OF MEN WHO SELECT
CRITICALLY.
\
GREY, wijfh light binding,
From 1 p /
m
m
\
314 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
* Laugh, and the world laughs with you!”
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh ?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health'
HilWffi
3%
A PUHE
COCUVER OIL
EMULSION
-M
Don’t let ill-health discourage
you,
HYPOL
can do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially : qhest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sol<l at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
ďf
•22 RIM FIRE.
KYNOCH 'Vi:
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
TWt.
ALL BRITISH
&
'S
m
i
€x
' l ,//„/„//i/t//i""' i " , "//' , / /,// f/'" /
tytftom///////// / /MtWfW'M
'Z//M"J*/J?fi»»»w////M^
I
p
w//////m
w/m
1
You’ve Just Time
to Secure Your
SUIT or COSTUME
for the SHOW
This is absolutely the Last Minute,
hut if you wish to have your Suit
or Costume for the Show Carnival
“Lincoln-Stuart” Tailored, place
your order immediately, and we will
guarantee delivery on time.
YOUR SUIT
TO ORDER
£ 7(151
At this figure a fine range of exclusive All-Wool English Tweeds and Worsteds is
provided. “Quality” Textures in weights suitable for All-Season Wear, offering a wide
variety of distinctive designs and tasteful shades. These materials plus
“LINCOLN-STUART” TAILORING
form a combination of Suit Satisfaction and Value at our Special offer, £l/15/-, which
absolutely defies competition.
Patterns are Post Free. ACT AT ONCE and Write TO-DAY
COSTUMES & COAT FROCKS
Tailor-made Heady for Wear from
-£BlBl-
These form a most enticing array of New Season latest and most becoming
of Dame Fashion’s concepts for Spring Wear. BEAUTIFUL, ALL-WOOL, SUMMER-
WEIGHT GABARDINES and COVERT COATINGS, in an assortment of light, tasteful
shades —are the fabrics provided in these splendidly tailored Costumes and Coat Frocks
now available through our Special Opening Offer — £8/8/-. Don’t Delay.
Write ns your needs NOW. We Pay Freight.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
244-54 FUNDERS STREET, MELB6URNE.


Special'Value in Shirts & Pyjamas
at Farmer’s.
Cotton Taffeta Shirts.
RRl —Cotton Taffeta Golf Shirts, with linen
neckbands, double cuffs, and Peter Pan collar
to match. All seams, buttcns and buttonholes
are firmly sewn. In light grounds with various
coloured stripe designs. Price, 8/6 ; 3 for 24/6
Flannelette Pyjamas.
RR2—Flannelette Pyjamas, Farmer’s own make,
of superior quality; well cut and finished with
strongly-sewn buttons and buttonholes, and tape
at waist. In light grouncs with a variety of
coloured stripe effefls. Sizes, 36 ta 42. 44-46.
Prices .■ • • - - • 12 6 14/ -
Farmer’s : Sydney.
" The Store for Men.”
fVe ‘Pay Carriage. ‘Box 497, G.V.O.
Ms®
&
ii'i
m
THE
L
•V»Q NAU s 4/y
• --
isfr.
*
OF AUSTRALASIA 'LIMITED
with which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street Melbourne. ®T* p.'® ®
JES 000 000 Directors: —SIR JOH>i GRICE, Chairman,
io non 00ft ' ' EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
G320'000 J- NEWM A N BARIvEC, Esq.
L~. Mnn F G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
£3,320,000 BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
828.000 Chief-Manager: E. IT. WItEFOKD.
W Ua'ofth T)epvtv Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
. ~ . ... . .*’ c ..it. Wactorn
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Keserve I'und
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
George SG Gity Uince, .sou vieui . , tr „i; a v ew South Wales.
Branches in Victoria. South Australia. '''s* t ern _ |_ Q thbury, fc.C.2.
Brisbane—Afana^er; WM. TIVEY. LONDON OFFIC-■ 7 Lo.npury, 5.5..2.
MELBOURNE
CHATTEP
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
Melba’s home-coming concert was wonder-
ful. The Town Hall had to be opened up
hours before time to meet the rush of
people clamoring to pay half-a-guinea plus
tax for the privilege of perching in the
organ-loft. Then the twenty-two-and-nine-
peiiny folk motored along in a vast crush.
In the big sea of best chiffons in the body
of the hall the tall Countess reared an
exquisitely-coiffured and bejewelled head and
muffled herself to the ears in her favorite
ostrich-feather collar. The Earl was obvi-
ously absorbed in the music—that of tin*
orchestra as well as the Voice. They do
say he can use a melodious baritone himself.
Melba swam into place on the platform and
received an ovation which nearly shattered
the building. Some enthusiasts jumped on
to their seats and howled ’’Nellie 1” in fren-
zied delight, and one fiendish organ-lofter per-
formed on a football whistle all through
the welcome.
The Dame herself was a vision. The
women gasped and exclaimed in envy. “How
does she do it7”—“it” meaning the putting
of grandmotherly years entirely out of sight.
Her gown was the pink of a pale pastel
aster-bloom, and her block hair was in a
smooth, youthful polish over each ear, with
a pale gold snood binding it close to her
well-shaped head. Tin* snood showed the
gleam of some huge rubies peaked in tiara
shape, and all over In • dress diamonds
sparkled like raindrops. The gown under
its tulle was hung to her shoulders with dia-
mond braces, and diamonds of royal size
were festooned round the corsage.
There was a hush at last and the purest
diamond of all took the attention. Nothing
ever spoils the sensation of Melba’s voice
the cool, clear freshness of it, like the air
from snow-clad hills.
All Sa.ssiety and the musical Intellects of
Melbourne were in the crowded hall. Some
of the Teutonic V'ons who used to sit in
the high places of the balcony are creeping
into sight again; but their old vociferous
“Bravas” are not so noticeable.
Before Melba’s home-coming concert audi-
ence got seated it was sweetened by an un-
looked-for gift of the costliest programmes
bandied [gratis since the good old days. The
Dame was doing things as befitted her dig-
nity, ail'd incidentally she was making the
modern"' theatre programme look a paltry
affair for threepence. A stately mention
of Stein way appeared on the back of the
thick paper wrapper, but no vulgar adver-
tisement deliled the document. Melba was
running the show, and John Lemmone was
her prophet. It called to mind her concerts
after her tirst return from Europe. They
were under the nominal management of
George Musgrove, and some ’grammes were
printed with a beauteous boot advt. upon
the back. Almost at the eleventh hour
Melba learned of the outrage, and the man-
agement was called to account. A terrible
lot of imposing and costly paper had the
awful boot propaganda printed on’it, so the
lady was asked whether she would consent
to some of it being used for one concert —
just oit'e. The wording of her refusal put
further discussion out of the question. The
Boot got it, so to speak.
To open Mary Allen’s picture exhibition
at the Fine Arts Galleries Melba skipped up
on to the dais in French tailor-mades of
black-and-white striped silk and a black
ospreyed picture hat. ’Varsity Chancellor
MacFarland and S’Harry Allen guarded her
furred satin cloak between them while she
made her speech. When she had finished
she declared in an audible aside that she
was “trembling like a leaf.” With a fine
disregard of frill the Stradbroke lady, a
streak of _ fawn cloth topped by a black
hat dripping with red—yes, red—feathers,
strolled in without even a gent.-help’s sup-
port. Most of the Art folk, their natrons
and the Church were there, the Cloth includ-
ing Dean Hindley afid Professor Sugden.
Mrs. F. McGubbin, in black satin and bottle-
green. Mrs. Littleton Groom in sables and
black, the Ilennessy dame topped with nod-
ding henna featherings and surrounded by
a bevy of daughters, the Allen ladv and Miss
Miehaelis helped to make up the crowd.
The young artist herself looked shy and un-
sophisticated in creme lace and a black
picture hat —“Not at all smart, m'dear,”
murmured a fashionable flapper.*
Those interested in the Red Cross exten-
sion movement were invited to meet in the
Edward Miller drawing-room at Glynn,
Toorak, last Thursday to talk over a scheme
for assisting civilian hospitals, district nurs-
ing societies, baby health centres and other
organisations that help the sick and poor.
Some enthusiastic male had sent a diagram
to illustrate how the forces could be organ-
ised to help all hospitals in their line of
vision. This, hung between a masterpiece
of sculpture and a beautiful landscape
canvas, took up a lot of room and met with
scant approval. Finally the meeting pre-
sented a unanimous back to the diagram
and went ahead in its own way. The upshot
was a decision to supply comforts for hos-
pitals and baby centres —bed linen, slippers,
dressing-jackets and baby clothes —but each
local section wants to settle its own pro-
gramme. All the civilian hospital matrons
were at the meeting, and a host of Red
Crossers led by Philadelphia Robertson.
Soothing tea was served in the dining-room
at the end of the proceedings.
Lady Stradbroke is to have a button day
on October 21. The mere money collected
will go to the hospitals, but it is to be called her
Leddyship’s Day, and it is her portrait that
will decorate the buttons. The hon. organ-
iser is W. J. (1. Turner. He is taking his
job terribly seriously, and his letter of
appeal in the daily papers reads like a
sermon.
George Fairbairn’s wife went under to
’flu after a tragically short bout. She was
Jessie Prell, a fragile, golden-haired beauty
with an appealing personality, and her mar-
riage to the handsomest bachelor of his
day was a social event of the 1880 season.
Airs. Fairbairn’s health was undermined
early in her married life; first by her being
shipwrecked off the coast of Queensland, and
later on by the sudden death of her first
child, a five-year-old vision of loveliness.
Chancery Lane no longer echoes to the
sprightly step of Alfred Ford, who has just
passed out at Ivanhoe after rounding oil his
four-score years. He reached Vic. in 1855,
entered a solicitor’s ullice, and became a
notary public. In addition to musty legal
folios' he was interested in music, and for
two decades was precen tor in Chalmers Kirk.
Also, for nearly a quarter of a century he
had a place at the council table of the Heid-
elberg shire, and several times that place
was at the head.
Lesley Madden’s wedding to Louis Nelken
is booked for October 19. at the Alexandra.
Club. It s to be very quiet, y’know, but the
Madden clan in its numerousness will pro-
bably bring it up to more than a whisper.
Adelaide Napier sends word from Eng-
land that she has undertaken to marry
naval-surgeon White, of the Renown. Her
dad is Col. Napier, and her mother was a
daughter of the late wealthy S’Australian
wool-grower Riddock.
Gaud-Mayor Swanson’s second daughter
Rene has promised to become Mrs. W. S.
Rankin some day or other. The lucky young
man is son of chemist D. Rankin, of Elstern-
wick, and he did his bit.
It has been agreed to recompense Aus-
tralian nurses who were in France and
Salonika for the extra kit they had to
acquire. Gum-boots, macks and extra-warm
things cost the girls many pounds. The
Austral-Indian nurses should be included in
the so-called bounty. Those who went to
India were forced by regulation to add
panama hats, sun-helmets, white costumes
and parasols to their rig-out; also, they had
to supply sheets and other bed linen, as well
as mess uniform, grey silk dress with red
silk cape to take the place of the impossible
grey-clotli outfit. And there were shoes
and other impressive items—white shoes for
the white costumes and black shoes for the
grey silk mess dress. Some of the darlings
tried grey socks and shoes for their grey
outfit, blit Matron was down on that like
a flash.
Here is Mbnteath’s view of Australia’s
oldest showman, George Buller, who has
passed his 70th milestone and is still going
strong. As a nipper of nine, Buller was
playing in a panto staged by George Coppin
at the old Cremorne
Gardens in Rich-
mond. When he grew'
up his fondness for
the stage wilted
somewhat, and the
early ’seventies found
him a colleague of
young Alfred Deakin
on the staff of All
Sain t s’ Grammar
School, St. Ivilda.
That period lasted
nearly 10 years; but
the glamor of the
show business caught
him again and he
was on the road
again for Dampier,
Grattan Riggs, Mc-
Cabe, Alan Hamil-
ton, Charles Holloway, George Marlow' and
many others w'ho have made splashes in pur
pond. The versatile Buller often doubled
the jobs of manager, and actor, and when
he started out on his own in 1888 he was
the whole show —spruiker, ticket-seller, mono-
loguist, magician and character impersonator.
He once did a five years’ tour in a caravan
specially built for him, and nothing like his
turnout or his enterprise has since been
seen in the Commonwealth. Chicken-raising
also came in somewhere in his variegated
career; but this biographer forgets where
just as completely as George Buller probably
tries to.
The Benjamin Hoares have been having <
gay times in London. They were “presented,”
went to a garden-party at Buckingham
Palace, dined with Lord Burnham, and re-
volved in high literary circles. Their next
pilgrimage will be towards Rome, taking in
France and Belgium. Mrs. Hoare remarks
that never in the hottest Australian January
have they felt heat like that of July in Lon-
don this year. She was comforted only by
the long, cool twilights.
Herbert Davies, president of the A.J.A..
who is a sub. on the Argus, will represent
that association at the World’s Press Con-
gress in Honolulu next month. He sports
a bit of brass on his left lapel. Guy Innes,
of the Herald, leaves Sydney by the Makura
this week on a trip to America via Hono-
lulu. His wife goes with him.
In mother’s early days the Chomley
brothers wei'e a mighty host. Of the seven
who arrived from England, years before the
gold rush, one became Judge Chomley ; one
was the starchy Chief Commissionin' of
Police for ever so long; another was man-
ager of the Bank of Australasia, and the
others were reckoned lucky to have landed
at a time when smart young citizens were
scarce. The youngest died a few days ago in
a private hospital at Adelaide. lie was the
owner of Killeen, in the Longwood district,
and though he had been an Australian for 75
years George Hanna Chomley was only 83
when he followed his elder brothers home.
The young widow Hidgeock has become
a grandmother twice over. Daughter Merve
and Dr. Cust report a girl at Casterton, and
daughter Dorothy, who married woolbroker
Gill, cables news of a baby in England.
Henry Stead and his bright little wife
have left for America. He has been on the
sick-list. The pair have been looking for-
ward to this jaunt for some time, and have
always managed to be baulked just as they
wfere off to buy the tickets.
The St. Kilda Boys’ Home and the local
branch of St. Martin’s Boys’ Home, which
were friendly rivals in the same cause, have
agreed to become one, and are now asking
Sister Susie to do some stitching and knit-
ting for the threadbare upholsterings of the
poorer section of St. Martin’s youthful
males. The committee-women, including Mrs.
Essie Perrin Kcrouse, will hand out work
for Susie every second and fourth Tuesday
at St. Kilda All Saints’ Guild room.
St. Michael’s Grammar Old Girls hostessed
their first annual whirl in the Gregory. Hall,
St. Kilda. It was a beautifully-dressed
event, even unto the hall itself. Pink blossom
strayed over the walls, and there were
draperies and captive balloons to match.
The lights twinkled rosily on a massed group
of two-steppers, many of them as attractive
as their chiffonery. There was a pleasingly-,
plentiful lack of painted cheeks, bai'e backs
and silk-stockinged calves. The girl com-
mittee, headed by the dimpled hon. secs., G.
Hylton and F. Walker (the one in misty
black chiffons, the other in Madonna-blue)
never wearied of well-doing in the way of
introductions. A perfume of courtesy per-
vaded the dance.
Ex-khakied patients at the Janefield Red
Cross farm livened up the other night when
Major Morgan arrived with a cheery little
concert party. This was the first musical
bombardment of the Janefielders, and they
hope it is not going to be the last. Vet.-
surgeon Kendall’s wife chaperoned the
gii’leens, and in the male section was Dr.
Mendelsohn, whose name, at any rate, gives
a fine touch to any musical programme.
The 40 past students of the Sacred Heart
Convent, Malvern, who arranged the annual
dance-supper the other night at KC\V; scored
a success. There were 240 pi'esefit, and
what with good music, fine floor, > .enough
men, tempting eatables, and a big-family-
party feeling, the closing time (2 a.m.J
arrived with surprising suddenness.
Paul Bibron, back from a trip round the
world to net the latest jazz notions, is scold-
ing Melbourne dancers for exceeding the
new speed limit. Overseas they take the
pace now at a walk; here we canter. A
languorous, slumbx-ous waltz is the thing. If
it was not for these dance-fashion lightning-
changes what would become of the brigade
of drawing-room jazz teachersV
Commiseration is being extended to a Mel-
bourne artistic youth who had an unlucky
encounter on his wedding night. A desire
for cigarettes drove him to leave his well-
beloved in the pub where they were starting
the honeymoon, and on his way to the
nearest tobacconist’s he was tackled by two
or three footpads and emptied out of his
beautiful new suit. Also all his change went
with the clothes, but that was a trifle compared
with the awful prospect of making for home
and beauty in a new set of Jaeger underwear
with a pair of vivid suspenders holding up
his socks. Eventually he borrowed an over-
coat and took an unlit route back to hi?
wife, who was just about to organise a search
party and ring for the police.
Have you heard Melba speak? Plain,
clear, real English, without a mince, a clip,
a slur or the slightest fuzz of affectation.
When the smaller-fry of artists and mere
Socaiety folk are mincing and gabbling
around her, it is a joy to hear Dame Nellie
talk. Her sensitive ear appreciates each
vowel’s value, and she reproduces it with-
out any of the mutilation that the naice folk
affect.
This is how Broothorn saw Mollie
O’Brian, the little pianiste whose benefit
concert in the Town Hall on September 14
has been arranged
by a number of local
knights and dames,
with Mayoress
Swanson as presi-
dent and David Hen-
nessy as chairman.
The Ilodges lady is
chief conspirator in
the event, backed by
the Bests, Barretts
and others. They all
vow that Mollie will
do more than play
up to her photo.
She is IS, a licenti-
ate of three London
colleges (Dominion
exams.) and a gold
medallist of one.
Also, she sports a
London Trinity' College < Dominion I
diploma. Lately she earned an entrain*
exhibition to the ’Varsity Conservatoriuni:
and now her admirers are anxious to give her
the further chance of overseas study and
experience. Walter Kirby and Maggie Stir-
ling will sing at the benefit.
Melbourne is concerned aboutJthe founda-
tion-stone of its ’Varsity, which it can t. find.
No one seems to know where it was planted.
On July 1, 1854, Sir Charles Hotham, eight
days after being sworn in as governor, well
and truly laid the foundation-stones of the
Public Library and the University, both
creations of Redmond Barry, who nursed
them until his death. Of that there is no
doubt —the records show it. But now the
’Varsitv stone can’t be traced, and sons
archaeological criminal is suspected of having
pinched it.
The Melbourne Liedertafel has a rub
limiting encores. One artist, one encore. Ji
should print the rule on the. programme, if
only because of the high cost of glove*.
Tenor Kirby is nearly weeping about it.
.»Vt the recent Lied, concert he came oat
and bowed his thanks half-a-qozen times,
but the audience, having burst many gloves
in its enthusiasm, was inclined to blame turn
for not turning on his tenor <i(l lib.
Talk about, prohibition “existing only in
theory in America” ! That’s how it exists
here after 6 p.m. at the licensed haunts ot
the smartest cocktailers. The more teetotal
the name the more inspiring the liquid
refreshment. Every well-informed flapper
knows how to get the glass that cheers under
a thin disguise of something harmless, anr
all the police force knows bow to dra*
polite distinctions between one sort of estah
lishment and another.
Some Adelaide jottings
By this time everybody has been drawn into the
effort to raise funds for the Children’s Hospital in
response to the appeal of the Mayoress, and the
“drive” is to continue until the end of the month,
when, by the look of it, all • our Sassiety women
will be found in the various rest homes, and it won t
be safe to mention the appeal in the presence of
any of their husbands.
Community singing lias certainly made a hit in
this village. Over 2000 vocalists turned up at the
Town Hall the other day to celebrate the first anni
versary of the municipal movement. The originator
of the melodious idea is Herbert Heaton, who, before
making a few remarks, brought out a ninepenny cake
and one long candle to mark the birthday party.
Wattle Day passed off amid tepid enthusiasm. The
society worked nobly, hung big wreaths on all the
statues, planted trees, and wore buttonholes of the
golden bloom, but General Public just leaned agains’
Impost and said “Wassagood?” ■
-News comes from Japan of the death of Dr.
William Monro Anderson, fourth son of J. Miller
Anderson, of Medindie. He studied dentistry and
medicine in England, returned to Adelaide a year
agd, and then sailed for Japan to learn the languaa -.
Hedt-stroke brought the end.
Dr. Gertrude Halley, who introduced “folk games
to the Girls’ Clubs saw a big demonstration <«
them at the Exhibition Building the other night,
when all the clubs competed for the challenge
banhers presented by Dr. Halley and Mrs. Napie*
Birks. A large crowd watched the original conte-’
and voted it good.
One day last week their Exes., accompanied hy
Priscilla and staff, visited Stonyfell, and learned
how olive-oil was made, then went on to the quarrit-
where they saw 300 tons of stone blasted, and finished
up \Vjth an inspection of the Stonyfell wine c-eli -
where they lunched.
J. A. McGuire, fourth son of. Railways O
sioner James McGuire, has passed out as a re-'-'
’flu. He was only 31, and was manager for ’
Farmers’ Union at Port Lincoln. Fate has -
the Commissioner and his wife very hard —they 1M
three sons at the war.


n
■■■■■
M H
*w»
B
I
l
\t4&
5s
m
A
StA
Z A
M
'Z
fig!
&
sr
>W';
&
-a
?- ?■.: ?V> $•? - : >3
*«t«*»**4 * f
•HANiEN
Fresh from
the
Factory.
r Mailed to you on
the day they are
made.
ALWAYS IN RED BOXES.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/-
and 30/-
Post tree to any address
in Australia.
ERNEST
HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
>
CLOTHES
A FACTOR IN BUSINESS.
The well-dressed man scores in the world of business. His personality is
enhanced by the clean-cut, graceful lines of a perfectly-fitting suit.
To dress well —quietly and yet distinctively—requires time and care; time,
because the tailor cannot do justice to his skill if he is hurried; and care
because not every shade and pattern will suit your personality.
BucKley’s Standard Suits
at "l\ Guineas
have a wide range of designs and colors and mark the wearer as :1 man <>l
character and discrimination.
Send for Patterns and Self-measurement Form—sent Post Free.
43^
V'
'h*
&
B£N
| MAILORDER SERVICE
Ave Thy Cawiafye
to any Vast Office
.orTbrt
in Australia
'Buckley o Ahinn
ST /MELBOURNE:
25
n T/i
N>
SSI
i
0* 8
g^^gpgsnj!
: i-j|!i; : t;|||
•ss;
& &///£///& fa
rllfMrH
H'Hl!Ht"''||f
///>//,
mm
Wl/M
wm>
mm
T-S#i-
SCOTCH
iTirnii!
Sm
:ss;
sa£
£S
StS
-CKPfcCTIQ#
Olb
teotew 1 ;
RumiSkT 11
Daw
SON
SPECIAL SCOTCH
Bunded Whiskt
o ;;f
“The Gathering of the Clan."
From the original Painting in the possession of the Proprietors
of the famous ii P.DP Scotch —a whisky of Historic Lineage.
Messrs. PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
Glasgow, Scotland.
Everyone*
favorite.


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
George V
BIDII
ty3Bpp|jsp|3
3N" /dIAIVHD
CHAMPAGNE
'-torleslleidsiedc
Reims
e
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
I
*
The
Santwill
WORK SHIRT
Sand in color. Twill in quality
The
“ SANTWILL” is
without doubt the
Toughest Work Shir!
yet introduced at its
, Price. Not only sturdy
in quality , but sturdy in
colof as well. The Sand color defeats the efforts
of dust and grime, and looks Clean and Present*
able all the time. Also in White—same price l
n is so Well .Wade, so Serenely Sewn, the Buttons ate
8/6
New Low-Level Price
each or three for
24/-
/Vo Skimping ! Non-gdping
Buttons Sewn on to Stay
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Carriage Paid
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA
TOWNSVILLE
'tease write to Desk “
W.
Don't indulge in storms of anger,
Coarse abuse is so ill-bred.
Frantic wrath brings listless languor
Shattered nerves are things to dread.
Don’t seek steel for tonsilitis,
If you can the lance abjure.
Don’t neglect acute gastritis,
Send for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
loin the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Tickets for tin opening of Parliament
were so widely distributed that the House-
full sign was out more than lmlf-an-hour
before the play began. Spectators were
mainly women, frocked anyhow, and sin »ving
in everywhere, even unto the sacred Press
gallery. r l lie show commenced with tin* read-
ing of the Proclamation, on the conclusion
of which Csher-of-the-Black-Rod Clapin had
an anxious time : the Royal Salute boomed
out, but his Ex. approached not. Gracefully
leaning upon his Rod, like Marianne of tin*
Moated Grange, lie scanned the skyline. Just
as despair was furrowing his brow Sir
Walter arrived in his cocked-hat-and-uniform-
of-State costume. Then he read a Speech
which he didn’t compose and which lie pro-
bably wouldn’t father for less than live shil-
lings. lie promised the ladies in the galleries
that he would give his best attention to tin'
killing of wild dogs and prickly-pear. and
wlkmi he mentioned the North Shore Bridge
the gods knew it was time to laugh. A
Legislative Councillor, fatigued after his
long vacation, slept peacefully through these
proceedings. Premier Storey, sick and weary,
endeavored to look a knot, with red and white
flowers in his coat. Dame Margaret David-
son. who was taking the air after an attack
of tonsilitis. was well wrapped in navy coat
frock, cloak and civet furs, with a black
velvet toque. Navy blue crepe de Chine,
topped by a hat of brighter hue, was Mrs.
Storey’s choice. After tin l ceremony there
were tea and things to eat. the women-folk
accepting the invitations of hosts (who were
mostly absent) to “go and have one.”
Outside there was an unemployed demon-
stration ; and shortly afterwards, while the
Labor Government was lighting a censure
motion inside, a cordon of police was neces-
sary to keep Ministers from being damaged
by their friends. When the storming party
failed it was harangued by its leaders and
advised to steal rather than starve. Then
a tramp was Startl'd through the city, and —
presumably to obtain food —the crowd heaved
bricks through a florist’s window and into a
little bootshop.
There was a great gathering at Farmer’s
on Friday night, when the Musical Assoc,
summoned Clara Butt and Kennerley Rum-
ford to music and coffee. Adelina Leon, all
smiles and goid lace and flame satin, joined
pianist Fletcher in “Somite for ’cello and
piano” (Ilenri Eccles), and added a scherzo
by a M.L. composer. "Mi Tradi” (Mozart)
was sung by Gladys Cole, who set off her
fairness in white. In a classic stencilled
powder-blue robe, Ruby Rich gave some
Debussy, which was much enjoyed, and
served up a musical joke, “No Man’s Land,”
by the ultra-modern Ornstein. as an encore
—it suggested a cat stealthily treading the
keys of the piano and gambolling at inter-
vals with a few companions. On the way
to the supper-room the 800-odd members ex-
tended the hand of welcome to the contralto
of the big voice and her husband of the lesser
baritone.
Eight years have made little difference to
the lady, whose form is as beautifully pro-
portioned as ever. Her black satin classic
gown with angel sleeves of black georgette
had for etceteras a wonderful enamel butter-
fly and a rope of pearls. A bandeau of
silken flowers and fruit was around her hair.
Informality marked the speeches. New-pre-
sident Hugh McMenamin’s welcome was
•econded by conductor Verbrugglien and Regi-
nald Gooud. Dame Clara had some interludes
with Ilenri of the Conservatorium: his re-
mark that “the same person was usually not
endowed with voice and brains” brought a
graceful bow from her. and he hurried on
to say there were brilliant exceptions. Ken-
nerley Rumford gave a hint that his eldest
son had hopes of one day leading an Eng-
lish XI and teaching Australians how to
play cricicet. Dame Clara added her thanks
for the party. A critic had described her
voice as “raw” when long ago she sang in
“Orpheus.” She hoped Australians would
not now find it over-ripe.
For the Women’s Hospital Ball the wastes
of the Town Hall burst into pink and white
peach-blossom, and Chinese lanterns and
fairy lights twinkled in a grove of palms.
Spider-webs in pink and white paper ribbon
hid the front of the galleries, and pink-veiled
arc lights blinked at the festoons of balloons
which proclaimed the merits of a soap. A
pound-note prize attached to a balloon or tw o
resulted in a regular football scrum. Gallery
patrons got much for their money in the
fine spectacle of poster and fancy sets and
individual costumes effectively grouped and
paraded under Minnie Hooper’s practised
eye. The fact that the hospital got a cheque
of three figures from Anthony Horderns’ for
a line physical-culture display by 120 supple
maidens, in costumes of black and red, re-
conciled the dancers to being off the floor for
some time. Sculptress Dora Ohlfsen, Lizette
Parkes (a vision in a blue frilled frock),
artists Longstaff and Souter and Harry
Burcher chose the prize-winners, and nobody
threw even half a brick at them.
Mrs. Eustace llolroyd’s set was most spec-
tacular ; The Bulletin’s boot-polish ads.
supplied the characters. ‘‘Lindeman’s wines”
took second honors: Miss Innes Noad ar-
ranged this set, with singer Maud Telfer a
dainty Bacchante and Arthur Smith a
Bacchus with a cask—he was a regular joy
to Governor Davidson, the only vice-royalty
present. Belgian Consul Segaert was a
winner as a Maori chieftain with two nice
dusky maidens. Artist Mrs. Rix .Nicholas’s
Arctic set of ladies, in glistening icicles, with
nice Polar bears for partners, caught the
judges’ eyes. Mrs. Tony Hordern, in moon-
light-blue sequins shimmering over black,
and Mrs. L. Walford, in a frock of blue with
silver fringe, secretaried the huge success:
and Mona Daley helped to organise it. Mrs.
Waley, in black Chantilly lace and dia-
monds, and Mrs. Charles Jaques, in a frock
of glistening burnished sequins, kept tally of
the proceeds.
Supper, owing to lack of space, was rather
a scramble. The public grabbed its sand-
wich and coffee from• the buffet in the vesti-
bule, where also the vice-regal party and
office-bearers had their snack at a long, nar-
row table—you remember what the Sunday-
school treat used to be like. Four debutantes
won smiles from his Ex. Davidson, Denison
Miller’s fair-haired daughter being one of
them.
in the absence of Dame Margaret, the
Chief Justice’s gentle lady presided last
week at the annual meeting of the Red Cross.
General Ryrie came over from Melbourne
to pay his tribute, and State Minister
George Cann, who did his bit with the
A.1.F., added his testimony. William Vicars,
who succeeded J. O. Fairfax as chairman,
treaded cautiously, for he was verra feared
of leaving out someone to whom thanks
were due. Industries and handicrafts by
disabled and blind ex-soldiers were reported
to be flourishing. The latest experiment,
pottery-making, holds out much promise;
when the kiln is completed, out Redfern
way, Young Australia will be able to order
its cups and saucers from the D.S.C. (Dis-
abled Soldiers’ Crafts) department. A
hostel attached to Rose Hall gives returned
soldiers who are able to work, but still re-
quire medical attendance, a home at cheap
rates. Another new venture is the War
(’host Farm Colony for consumptive sol-
diers in whom the disease has been arrested.
This good thing has materialised from a
War Chest donation of £20,000.
Flautist Elsie Black has promised to sit by
the fire with Jack Garrett, whose people vised
to live in Auckland. The happy man did
his bit as lieutenant in the 23rd Bat. Elsie
is one of a whole family of musicians who
crossed over from Maoriland to North Syd-
ney.
The charming flap-
per with the frizzy
hair and bright eyes
is Beryl Alexander,
wh o hails fr o m
Coonamble. Along
with a good mezzo-
soprano voice and
brains to match, she
possesses all the
qualities of a fine
pianist, and Gordon
Lavers has much
hope of her. Re-
cently the versatile
chick fluttered out
as an amateur act-
ress in a perform-
ance of "Mice and
Men" bv the Walter
Bentley players, and
showed quite unusual talent that wav.- too.
T 1 ie Barbour family, of Bellevale station,
in the Yass district is suffering from a mar-
riage epidemic;. Helen, the second daughter,
is honeymooning with Arthur Bennett, of
the Evening News clan. C. Hume Bar-
In air has yarded the daughter of Curtis, a
Queensland M.L.C.. and eldest sister Madge
has said yes to a brother Curtis. The father
of the family is a grand-nephew of explorer
Hume, whose only sister. Isabella, married
George Barber, of Glenroek. near Marulan,
and became the ancestress of Barbers and
Barbours innumerable. The original Barber
was a friend of the Baleombe familv of St.
Helena. He brought slips of the Napoleon
willow to X.S.W. before 1821, in which year
he with Hume discovered Yass Plains.
Judge Beeby took five bars’ rest in the
middle of his price-fixing one day last week to
cable to London the paternal blessing to
daughter Marjorie—one of Sydney’s well-,
known contraltos—on the occasion of her
marriage with W. J. Coad. the Australian
violinist, one-time of the X.S.W. Conserva-
torium.
Letters from London say that Betty, one
of the two well-dowered chicks of the widow
Chalmers (Mr. Chalmers, one of Farmer’s
directors, died last year), has promised to
say “I will” to a very lucky fellow, Oliver
Jones, an Englishman of Haddon-on-Hill.
All the young people are coming to town.
A recent arrival is Mrs. Mary Styles. Her
father, Joseph Park, passed out in 1839 (his
death is the first entry in the Yass parish
register), leaving a young motherless
family, which, with all land, stock, etc., was
taken over by John Jobbins, of Nanima sta-
tion, who in those days owned runs innu-
merable between Goulburn and the Hume
(Murray) River. Mary married J. T. Styles,
a member of the old Bungonia family, and
now she and daughter Maud have trans-
planted themselves to Manly, where a regular
Yass colony is forming. She owns cheer-
fully to 88 years.
This is the countenance of Reginald (J.
liussom, who feels like a homing pigeon just
hack to tlic loft.
When he was a
student of Julian
Ashton tin* X.S.W.
National Ga 11 er y
bought one of his
pencil sketches, and
on the strength of
11] a t tremendous
event he invaded the
U.S.A. in 1006 with
■several small lines
of Art and one big
line of enthusiasm.
Sa n Fr a nci sc o
handed him a few.
doll a r s, and he
passed on to other
cities until he found
his field in Noo
Yoi c k, where li e
settled clown to illustrating for Life.
Harper’s. Scribner's, Collier’s. Judge
and a few hundred minor magazines. And
between whiles he talked Australia —It lis-
som says the real American will stand more
from Aussies than from any outsiders, be-
cause they seem to be the same breed. He
paid a flying visit home in 11)15. and then
was one of the 81) Australians who en-
listed in the A.I.F, in U.S.A. When he
was demobbed in the Cold Country he re-
turned to Art and the Dollar; "but.” he
says, "after mixing with Aussies again in
England and France I found 1 was home-
sick, so—l’ye come back.”
Molly Long raised a promising contralto
at the King’s Hall at her first recital last
week. The youthful singer wore draperies
of white satin caught with crystal flowers,
and her auburn locks were Grecian coiled.
Her voice, which has sympathetic qualities,
was intelligently used in a recitative, an
aria and many ballads in French and Eng-
lish. Notwithstanding the “Thank me not
for the songs I sing thee,” a big audience
passed up many sweet gifts. William Asprey,
who trains the voice, accompanied his pupil.
Latest word from London .is, that Tootles
Williamson (the Queen held her hand quite
a long time when she was presented at the
Court garden party) has been studying hard
with Alfred Hayward, R.A., and he is said
to be delighted with the progress she is
making. And Tootles is delighted with the
surroundings. Hayward’s studio is next
door to Whistler’s old home at Chelsea, anil
on the other side the great Turner lived.
Valerie Scott, old pupil of Estelle Beere,
and one of Maoriland’s best dancers, is off
to London and then Paris to study, if pos-
sible, under her teacher’s teachers. Valerie
has a Titian head, a pretty' figure and lots
of perseverance. She added a year’s study in
Sydney and two tours —one with the Freddy
Shipmans—to her Maoriland studies before
turning Londonwards in search of knowledge.
The teaching-profession of these parts lias
been joined by Agostino Fossati. and he
comes from Italy. He was a pupil of Mas-
cagni. and will partner our Julia Carol!
I whose notes he trained) in teaching bud-
ding Melbas and Carusos the Italian way
to do it.
At the annual meeting of the It. S. Y.
Squadron held last week, the G.-G. was in-
stalled as Commodore, and Captain Fred
Waley (who since he gave his country home
to the Red Cross has again taken to his old
hobby of sailing) was elected to the com-
mittee.
At the private view of the Society of
Artists’ show on Friday the invited will be
able to compare the works of the' Home-
landers with those of the Travellers —to judge
how Gruner stands against Streeton, Carter
against Longstaff, Lindsay against Lambert.
It is likely to be remembered as one of the
most historic shows since the famous !) x 5
Impressionists’ exhibition in Melbourne in
1,889.
Those anxious to assist on Rose Day in
collecting for the 60 institutions which bene-
fit by tin l United Charities Fund invaded
Government House on Thursday afternoon.
Invitations had been interpreted liberally,
and women came in battalions with the baby.
But Dame Margaret’s welcome showed no-
thing but pleasure at the party, which was
entertained at tea and left not a crumb
witL the bn4 V 11 \ ad lts photograph taken
f, ftS n r' October 14 has been chosen
ul rn iL f-' LaSt year lt: brought in £5OOO.
anti collectors are out to pass that mark.
1? rom \ andorian,” in London :
Spent an hour or two the other afternoon with
artist Fred Leist and his wife. Also present their
only chick Dorothy, a really pretty girl—golden
hair, bobbed with discretion, and the Grecian type
of features of which this generation of Australian
girl seems to be making a specialty. Though only
a small kiddie when she came to this side th<
Sidney artist's daughter has the charm of sim-
plicity which the more conventional English damsel
often lacks. Leist himself—the same kindlv, genial
soul as of old—is doing well. While I was' chatting
with the family a portrait-commission walked in,
escorted by a French baron who is interested in art
and in the Australian’s sound technique. Another
visitor, a little maid with two long fair plaits
hanging down under her shady summer hat. was
Betty Will Dyson’s small daughter. Ready to be
] lacked up for Australia was an attractive portrait
of Althea Glasbv. Her daddy is a Sydney mer-
chant. The good-looking, dark-eyed Althea has
been in London some time, studying. She took
Lambert home with her from the font as a second
name. The Glasbys are somehow related to artist
Georgt* of that name.
1 lie Y.M.C.A. military hostels closed long
ago; ami now S eft on. at Randwic-k. where
the "Blue Aids” bivouacked when off duty,
has pulled down the blinds. The Blue Aids
were the volunteer nurses who assisted in the
work at the military hospitals; and though
there are still many patients suffering from
war-effects, there are not enough aids offer-
ing to call for even half a hostel.
There will be an extra demand for hair-
pins and curling-tongs towards the middle of
next month ; on the I Pth a Head-dress Dance,
in aid of the Barnardo Boys’ Home, will he
held at the Wentworth. There are to be
prizes for the most beautiful and most
original tops, and a mere male has offered a
special for the neatest, to be selected by a
malq judge. President Mrs. Tony Hordern
and secretaries Mosdames Macphail and Wal-
ford are looking for one of the fleeter sex
to undertake the job. Of course there will
be a jazz competition.
Next Monday, at the Education Buildings,
kindergarten committees will meet to arrange
for a demonstration in the Town Hall on
November lid. It’s needed : only a handful
of people know the great work the free kin-
dergartens are doing in the poorer areas.
Verbrugghen’s orchestra is assured of an-
other three years’ life, and the electric
master was in high spirits on Saturday
night. He would have glowered at an inter-
ruption, but with a less malignant eye than
usual. The orchestra laid itself put to show
that it was worth saving; and with the help
of Strella Wilson. Errolle and Formes gave
a concert of grand-opera numbers that
hasn’t been bettered this season. Dame
Clara was. in the audience and was welcomed
with a thunderclap of applause.
Here are two memories that keep the
twinkle in American Consul Norton’s eye.
When his work was in Spain he made a
point, when he visited a strange village, of
calling on throe people—the Mayor, the
padrone and the barber; and if there was
time for only one visit the barber received
the call, for the barber is the great gossip.
Once Mr. Norton made his way to the shav-
ing shop. He held his chin above the little
saucer and lathered his face. (You do that
part of the job yourself there.) While so
engaged he noticed before him on the wall
a piece of wood through which a hole was
bored, and through the hole ran a string, to
one end of which was attached a pierced
walnut, lie wondered, but asked no ques-
tions —there is a courtesy in Spain that is
as a bastioned rock to vulgar curiosity. In-
stead he rolled a cigarette, talked to the
proprietor and waited. . It" was market-day,
and the town was filled with men from tlie
hills —long, lank-faced men, with a hollow
between the cheek-bone and the jaw. Pre-
sently they began to drop in for the barber's
ministrations. The first client lathered his
face, and the process started. But the
barber was not satisfied with the result.
Stretching a hand he pulled the walnut for-
ward and popped it into the sitter's mouth.
The sitter immediately slipped it into the
hollow of his cheek, making it firm aDd
round for the razor. The other cheek was
treated in the same way, and walnut and
client were released at the same moment.
Every hill-man who came in popped the nut
into his mouth, and that nut was never
once washed or sprayed or any other old
thing. T nhygieuie? ‘‘The sun is warm
and Gpd is good !”
Natives of Jamaica, says Mr. Norton,
have a form of greeting. It. is in a long
sing-song drawl. “How you does dis mawn-
in’?” And the never-altering reply in the
same sing-song : “Not too fra -grant, thank
God !”:
'A ou can have no idea how many middle-
aged men have nice-looking nieces until you
take a sea-voyage.” —Observations of a eat
if ho ivroirs irom Ran Francisco, irhcre she
finds the cost o' living too high to be seen
irith the naked egc.


y
• =#
« r 4?>^ C '
m
S
<*■*•
%O*lZ ! '
s :.. ,-t
[ m \
&
n
ri'-T^
!?$f
Sam
Wj&M.
m™
’W
&£&%{ ' ;
• : -f» .-
M
"* ! " ",<*■' -**»2
1
' : #;-.!
npfefCQMPANY ..UMlflpr
5 «•**;
y\ wh\ ,i <: W- j|pl% sf||§HS|
ill w 'M is ii
* • <
X
i:m:
ffl/v'r
■'"
i
tP
S’»<> i‘*.
dfd
one Side
£o the other
LAST month we removed our Piano Show-
rooms and huge stocks of Player Rolls
from 333 George Street to 340 George Street
—from one side of the street to the other side.
At that time our new premises were not entirely finished,
and this is the first opportunity we have had of asking the
public to call and inspect what are probably the most per-
fectly appointed piano showrooms south of the equator.
The building formerly occupied by Flavelle Bros.—has
been entirely remodelled. The illustration shows the exterior
alterations, but it is the interior which has been so greatly
altered —Australian timbers of various kinds being used for
flooring as well as cabinet work.
The basement is fitted as a demonstration room for player
rolls. Here our patrons can hear rolls tried over under ideal
conditions the rolls being catalogued under a system which
makes selection very easy and quick, notwithstanding the
many many thousands ranged round the walls in oak cabinets
The ground floor is arranged as a reception room; only one
or two instruments being on the floor. The first floor will
be used for concert demonstrations and the display of up-
right pianos. On the second floor are the audition rooms
for demonstrating player instruments and grand models.
The third floor is also fitted with auditoria.
A visit to this new showroom will be much appreciated by
those who wish to see Australia’s resources developed to the
utmost. All the cabinet work is Australian timber, inlaid
and worked at our Annandale factories. It is a concrete ex-
ample of the use to which indigenous timbers can be put,
and proves that Australia not only grows cabinet woods
equal to the best produced anywhere but also proves that
they can be perfectly finished here in Australia.
"NEW SHOW-ROOMS
340 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factory 41-47 Trafalgar St„Annandale
BRANCHES 'blew South Wales: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulbum, Wagga. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: J. A.Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


LEARN TO DRAW!
* *
3
4m
“There’s Money
in
the Pen."
You c ;i n
learn to
make effective,
original draw-
ings in a short
period under the
Weston Postal
Course of Drawing.
Each lesson is
given under the
personal super-
vision of Australia’s
foremost commer-
cial artist. Mr.
Harry .1. Weston,
w h o HIMSELF
criticises and cor-
rects the exercises.
llig salaries await
successful students
in the field of art!
Why not learn all
about this profit-
able hobby :
Send your name
and address and
three stamps for
Mr. \\ eston’s book-
let, “There's Money-
in the Pen,”
which tells all
about t- h e
course, fees,
oil ~ and gives examples of the. lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Hostel School of Drawing,
75 Union House, SYDNEY.
ďf
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
'ENUS
PENCILS
d
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DBA UGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN.
and are
CHEAPER THAN
( HEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
The new season’s patterns of English wall-
papers, just arrived, include all the fashion-
able colors —putties, grey, drab, biscuit,
yellow, helio and black. See the “Crown”
trade-mark on the selvedge of every roll.
It is the mat’k of quality in wall-papers.—
Advt.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Standards O
j-~t£
'/&•* ■■■'
A-fif
aw
A rich, pure,
health-giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd.. Sydney
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
g. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
ďf
“THE B0UL1A”
STOCK SADDLE.
A High-grade Saddle Appeal-
ing to the Man who Likes a
Dippy-seated Saddle.
The tree in this saddle is our own made “Foundin'' high
grade stock tree, with forged steel stirrup bars. Non- how the
pads come well up the rider’s thighs, giving wonderful
security for rough riding. See how» the leather points of the
panel extend beyond the flaps. Fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l5/15/ or £l6 with English pigskin seat.
Freight paid to any N.S.W. port or station on N'.S.W.
railways for cash with order.
Mention your height and weight.
HORSEHAIR SADDLE-CLOTHS, curled hair, covered with
blue felt, 116/6 posted.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, ONE-INCH REINS AND CHEEKS,
11) / 6 with Saddle ; 20 / 6 posted.
” WRITE FOR OUR FINE CATALOGUE.
WALTHER f STEVENSON Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
d
CAPITAL” HIGH-SPEED
INVOLUTE CUTTER.
Your Milling Cutlers
Will Not (jet Dull
—that: is, tlify won’t got dull quickly, thus
causing serious delays and consequent loss
of workmen’s time, if you install
Capital High-Speed
Milling Cutters.
They are made of the best high-speed
steel, and their quality and temper are
guaranteed.
Accuracy is always a feature of “Capital” Brand Milling Cutters.
All your requirements can be filled. For prices, etc., address Department “A."
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd
v Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney;
361 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle;
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd... Adelaide;
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle;
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart.
Tio
m
S
“Buy a Bundle.”
PLYWOOD.
When buying Plywood insist on
“NATIONAL” Brand and see the
trade-mark is on every sheet. It is our
guarantee. Made from Queensland Hoop-
pine, Maple and Silky Oak, and available in
all sizes. Sanded or Unsanded. Every satis-
guaranteed to users.
Sold by all leading houses.
The National Plywood Co.,
Corinda, Brisbane.
Queensland.
CITY OF SYDNEY 1921 LOANS
Issue of 350,000 6| per cent. 6-Year Debentures
to Bearer. Price of Issue, £99 per cent.
For Purposes of:—Electric Light - * ■ * - * ■ * £250,000
ft Resumption.—lmprovements - - - £lOO,OOO
THE Municipal Council of Sydney invites Tenders, closing at 12 noon on Monday,
the 26th September, 1921, for £350,000 at six (6) years’ currency in debenture
form.
The Debentures —with interest coupons attached —will be in sums of £2O each, or
the multiple of £2O, bearing interest at the rate of Six pounds ten shillings <fo*) per
centum per annum from Ist October, 1921, payable on the first day of April and 1 > t ■
in each year during the currency of the loan, at the City Treasury, Town 11 a:;.
Street, Sydney, where also the principal will be payable on Ist October. l->-. ..u, saaii
be deemed to be secured upon the corporate rates and revenues of the ' rc i irom
whatever source arising.
Tenderers will have the option of tendering for the amount in full, pay n. 'i thereof
being made: —£10 per cent, upon application; £3O per cent, upon Ist 0< > <bor, 1- -l•
£4O per cent, upon Ist November, 1921; £2O per cent, upon Ist December, J9_l. A full
six months’ interest being payable on the Ist April, 1922.
The Council is prepared to consider proposals, from Applicants for £20,000 or o\er,
upon extended payments.
PROSPECTUS, tender forms, and all particulars can be obtained at the City-
Treasury, Town Hall, SYDNEY.
TENDERS to be addressed to the undersigned and endorsed, “Tender for Municipal
Council of Sydney Debentures,” the highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
The usual brokerage will be allowed to bona fide members of the Stock Exchange.
THOMAS H. NESBITT,
Town Clerk of the City of Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
D.G.M.: If you want to handicap jour
typewritten matter one of the best ways is to crowd
the lines together so that a sub-editor can’t poke a
pen between them. .. .Yoyang: Quite light. Henry
Angel and not Lynch was the sixth man in the
Ilume-Hovell party that overlanded to Port Phillip
in 1824. But the records give him two l’s....
Largess: Yes, that Hornsey church, where every
Sabbath a collection has been taken up to provide
titbits for Archbish. Donaldson, of Brisbane, is in
Dickens. It's the one to whose graveyard David
Coppcrfield went with Betsy Trotvvood to see the
burial of Betsy’s good-for-nothing husband ... .C.D.:
You’re either a very dull or a very dirty-minded per-
son. .. .Ethel W.: A pity to waste so much ingenuity
on so ancient a theme... .B.T.P.: Thank you. Here’s
luck.... Oliver B.: The flowers shall bloom tra-la: —
Oh! what are these beautiful things we love to see!
How lovely, like pleasant dreamy dreams!
Not only the old, the young, the babes and me,
The sun, moon, the stars send forth its beams.
Oh, why should we not then rejoice?
When one see the flowers so wonderful;
We should cry aloud, lift our voice,
Which One has created so beautiful.
Oh, how can one feel but glad?
' Whether out or in, it stirs one within;
To take a lovely bunch to the sick or sad,
It brightens, lightens, to see the colors mingling.
....Fact: The old man who was brought home
alive because the railways uchurge so much for corpses
is an old friend of gran’pa’s... .Bill-o’-the-P.:
Thanks; but people pay us ilinepence to tell them
what we think; and if we told them what you
think, and not what we think, it would be nine-
penn’orth of false pretences.... Rio: (1) >U
was Dicey (“The Law of the Constitution”) who said
“Martial Law....is unknown to the law of Eng-
land.” (2) No one accused all soldiers of ignorance;
the point was that many soldiers are bad lawyers.
E.V.K.: The heart-calling epitome of a disas-
trous movement has a great, thirsty sound:—
Once in a land, before they were civic,
< trie side of its shore washed by the Pacific,
In winter snowed, and swept by gale
People there were cold and pale
With nothing to drink but Adam’s ale.
Then came civics and industries,
Included were some breweries,
And people there without a sneer
Greeted each other full of Cheer.
’Twas then they drank American beer.
Then came a time, just as things were fine.
Wowsers prevailed many in their line,
And with their ideas and superstition
’Twas then we read in many an edition
That Parliament introduced Prohibition.
Now amongst their many hills
Drink is made in hidden stills,
And people there without a poll
Have gone and added to Death’s roll
For now they drink Wood Alcohol.
Retired: Thank you H.J.L.B.: Try it on one
of the dailies... .3. A.D.: The verbiage smothered it.
.".. .A.A.L.: As the Scripture saitli, the paths of
their way are turned aside; they go to nothing and
perish... .H.A.J.: It began pleasingly and ended
with a false twist... .M.B. (Dannevirke): “The
Unseen” is a bit machine-made... .F.J.C.: Doesn’t
strike us as good enough K.C.R.: The meditation
is no use here.... George C.: Don’t take much interest
in the way the King feeds himself J.A.G.: No
yarn in that... .R.S.A.: The punching parson has
been worked to death. Can’t you make him a cham-
pion at digging spuds or something?... .W.R.M.:
Not up....Kuaka: The “Princes and Emperors” go
back... .Marguerite S.: The blood-red moon'and the
ghost drifted out on a whiff ' of prayer for the
author... .J.W.B.: The consumptive burglar who,
instead of shooting the policeman, “collapsed on the
dewy turf sobbing like a child” is warned off....
E.D. (Randwick): Doesn’t get anywhere near....
S.O.B.: Dear old ideas in unattractive verse....
A.J.L.: No interest... .A. M. II.: Don’t like it....
Mool B.: Not enough substance.... Paddy M.: No
good. .. .E.F.L.: Sharpen up your ear, and then
“hills” won’t try to rhyme with “sentinels”....
S.S.W.: What’s the idea of cutting it up into short
jolts like that?... .Hesperian: Not w r ell enough done.
....Harry P.: Send it to a Sunday-school magazine.
... .H.S. (Dockville) : Injurious rubbish... .Kathleen
W.: Too many worn tags Betty E.: Thin, uncom-
fortable little thing... .Malvina: Poor stuff....
Mona B.: Terrible... .C.M.P.: It’s like a yawn try-
ing to imitate a sigh... .L.R.F.: None of them
score... .J.F.M.: It might hush a baby to sleep, but
not a very discriminating baby.... Carton M.: The
craftsmanship is not quite good enough... .E.M.F.:
“Billy” would have had a chance of singing if he
hadn’t scared the metre away. See if you can’t
bring it back R.F.G.: Not up....J.T. (Corowd) :
Poor idea; poor handling... .N.T.: (Darlinghurst) :
The “Heat Wave” gets nowhere... .W.N.D.: Just
so-so... .June H.: Both miss....E.M. (Armadale):
Poor attempt H.P. (Hobart): Bad verse is not
improved by having words hidden in its initial
letters... .Warawee: Some nice lines; it would be a
pity not to try to improve the bad ones. .. .W.S.H.:
There’s a pretty idea, but the verse is so wooden....
R.D.D.: Sorry, impossible to read unpublished novels ;
and yours appears to be a whole library... .B.D.S.:
Does it mean anything ?.... Paula: It was on the
brink, but that false rhyme twice repeated spoiled
it... .F.L.H.: Not well enough done... .H.T.P.:
They don’t get near... .R.H.P.: Nor yours.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.N.: Drawing hopeless and joke old.... L: That
about expresses it... . J.W.P.: A bit too original....
Sieff Jay: Been done before A.W.: Being con-
sidered... .R.H.: Such hands were never seen before.
G.F.A.: Falls very far short.... P.W.S.: Both passed
out.
“Old B.”: Going down the bay on an ex-
cursion trip to Queenscliff and Sorrento
(Vic.) we were about half-an-hour out when
a chap’s hat blew into the water. He
charged over and tugged the communication-
cord which conveys the message to the officer
at the wheel, “Man overboard.” The engines
w;ere stopped amid general consternation, and
the captain and crew rushed to the indivi-
dual who was pointing excitedly into the
water. When the Old Man realised the posi-
tion he roared: “Where the blank do you
come from?” “Sydney,” replied the centre of
attraction. “Well, understand this, if you
can stop steamers there when your hat blows
into the water, you can’t do it in Port Phil-
lip.” “You are Wrong,” retorted the hatless
one, who had recovered his nerve. “I can-
I’ve just done it”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Lvxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
fiates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
. Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
Tel. — City 4246.
4247,
4810.
4. fi Spring Street.
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days, I
By way of
South Sea Islands.
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Bakes —Great Cities.
N'T'XT SAILING OCTOBER 5.
VENTURA.
10.0U0 Tons, 17 Knots. Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt nnd Bridge Street*, SYDNEY.
telephone: City 2282.
Hankins:. Public Companies, *c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
fit. (Chairman);. WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H
MACARTNEY; Hon.'Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.;
If. A. J. THYNNE. M.L.C.
CemKai. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEJiS.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
.Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street. I
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C. !
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW !
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act J 863
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 o
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund ... .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit, Stock 3.091.(109 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. \V.
Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,0.00.
Reserve Fund .i .. £250,000 j
Directors: Herbert It. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; 1
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fu.’.d .. .. .. .. 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . ■ 625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
•with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
LONDON Office: II LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Cr&dit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping,
*sc
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.)» Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct. European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class. £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars. '
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER, 10 a.m.
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
df
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENE BA.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
Established 1817
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,425,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K, MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Kuuert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
'Die lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTTIECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and colletied. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,909.,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
irs;
ms
,-> f "" r *
S 3
i>rr~
'"i.r i
f^?S;
[
: i
nmillll
si
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout >'ew South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece-
-For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery.
3 DAYS’ TOUR . £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR . £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Coverin'' first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections,
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
TOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
' (Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at .Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
‘Katoomba
(Calls Albany
with
passengers).
+BOMBALA.
(Melb. only)
JWYANDRA.
Sails from Sails-from
• Sydney. Melbourne.
\Ved~
Sydney Agents.
Sat.. Med., Mcllwraith,
Sept. 10, Sept. 11. McEacharn’s Line
noon. 01 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
Sat., ■ Howard Smith.
Sept. 10, Ltd., 350 George
noon. ! St. (Tel. 6221)
Tues., | A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MAOKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
(Carries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
♦Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parkei L
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa evcrv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney IS days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), ami
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort,
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply :-
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY-
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRJ3. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
nlppoFyuseOaisHa
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., I.TD., MELBOURNE.
.Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
l'Ttzroy Estates Limited.
Blaclclieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam -Navigation Co- Ltd. (except it
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown,
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


lill
m
llllllflllllllltlllllllllllllllltllillflf llllilltta
OECCA
I HE PORTABLE PHONOURAPH
Full, rich tone, clear reproduction
Ready to play immediately opened.
Carried as easily as a handbag;.
During the war tens of thousands
of Deccas played, sang and
amused scores of thousands of
soldiers —in trenches, dugouts,
camps and hospitals.
To-day the Decca is even more
popular, providing its owners,
amongst whom are many Diggers,’
vtS—iusical entertainment wher-
ever they may be.
.5 iVlodels :
Leather Cloth £9lOO
Fibre 11 10 0
Cowhide 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
FROM ALL
MUSIC-DEALERS.
STANLEY li. GREEN, LTD.,
Australian Jy Lilts
Legal Notice.
vrOTICE TO CREDITORS rn THOMAS BRADLEY
deceased. Pursuant to the Trusts Act 1915.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons having
claims against the estate of Thomas Bradley formerly
of Baynton in the County of Dalhousie in the State of
Victoria but late of Cohar in the State of New South
Wales laborer deceased who died on the 23rd day
of June 1920 and Letters of Administration of whose
estate with the Will of the said deceased annexed
■were granted by the Supreme Court of Victoria in
its Probate Jurisdiction to THE PERPETUAL
■EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES ASSOCIATION OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED of 89-91 Queen Street Mel-
bourne in (lie State of Victoria oh the '2lst day of
June 1921 ARE HE HE BY REQUIRED to send notice
•in writing of such claims to the said Association at
tile above address on or before the 14th day of
October 1921 after which date the saijl Association
will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
rhomas Bradley deceased which shall have come to
its hands amongst the persons entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which it shall then
have had notice And notice is further given that
the said Association will not be liable for the
assets so distributed or any part thereof to any
person of whose claim it shall not have had notice
as aforesaid.
Dated this 23rd day of August, 1921.
: PALMER, STEVENS to REN NICK, Proctors for
the said Association, Kyneton.
' ' Missing Friends.
tF CECIL NELSON, formerly of Christchurch, New
*- Zealand, and when last heard of was resident in
Melbourne, Victoria, will communicate with the
undersigned, he will hear of something to his advan-
tage. W. B. & (). MeCUTCHEON, Solicitors, 418
Collins Street, Melbourne.
M
ISSING HEIRS OF HENRY
A PPLEYARI), DECEASE I>.
Will William Appleyard, who wont to
Sydney from New Zealand about 45 years
ago, or, if lie is dead, his children please
communicate with the Public Trustee, Well-
ington, New Zealand, when lie or they will j
hear something to their advantage.
Legal Notices,
0 JOHN McMAHON formerly of Richmond and
Warburton but now of parts unknown laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
1:1th day of December 1920 has been issued out of
the Supreme Court of the State of Victoria citing
you to appear and answer the Petition of ANNIE
McMAHON of Poath Road Oakleigh in the State of
Victoria sewing mistress praying for a dissolution
of her marriage on the ground of wilful desertion
for three years and upwards. IN DEFAULT of your
appearing the Court will proceed to hear and deter-
mine the said suit and judgment may be given
against you the said John McMahon with costs.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are on or before the 12th day of
October 1921 to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Ottice of the Prothonotary Law
Courts William Street Melbourne and then and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
J. WOOLF, 24 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN the Estate of STEPHEN LAWRENCE
BEAN, late of Gladesville, deceased,
Intestate.
WILLIAM, JAMES, THOMAS and
CHRISTOPHER, being brothers of the
abovenamed, are requested to communicate
with the undersigned respecting their shares
in the estate of the abovenamed deceased.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Oulwiilla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. 24th August, 1021.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch!
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
Aii first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
a
CRAIG & AITKEN , 654 George St., Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Factory.
—for your children
MUSIC
Bring up your children in
an atmosphere of beauti-
ful music—the taste thus
cultivated will be a source
of great pleasure in the
years to come.
An Amberola will place
an enormous library of
the world’s best music at
your disposal, every selec-
tion being rendered with
delicacy and roundness
of tone.
Hear a. favorite selection at the
nearest Edison dealer’s, or write
for free descriptive booklet to
Thomas A. Edison. Ltd., 364-
872 Kent Street, Sydney.
d
“Made for Better Service. ”
M.S. Sport Equipment
the First Choice of
Discriminating Purchasers.
Everything for
CRICKET.
Him.
nn
Him
tiiii I Hi i.
'mm
Men’s Cricket Bats.
(Bats value50/- or over, post free; Postage on cheaper ones, 1/-; other States, 1/S.)
BO.— Special Value, spliced handle.. 16/6
BI.— M.S. All Cane, special practice 18/6
B2.— M.S. Colonial Driver 22/6
B3.— M.S. Marvel Driver 26/6
BI.— M.S. Haymarket Driver 80/-
BS.— M.S. Haymarket Driver, special 40/-
B6.— M.S. Haymarket Driver, X spec. 45/-
B7.—C. & S. Sports Co.’s X special.. 87 / 6
BB.—C. & S. Sports Co.’s XX special 45/-
(7 and 8 are specially faced for Australian
wickets, and require no preparing.)
B9.— Spalding’s London Club 45/-
Blo.—Spalding’s Grand Prix 50/-
Bll.— Spalding’s Record 55/-
Bl2.— Ayre’s International 42/6
Bl3. — Ayre’s International, improved 47/6
814. — Ayre’s International, imp. sel.. 57/6
815. — Syke’s At, cane and rubber.... 27/6
Bl6.— Syke’s Yorkshire Driver, ord .. . 42/-
817. —Syke’s Yorkshire Driver, sel 45/-
818 —Shaw & Shrewsbury’s Practice 80/-
Bl9.— Shaw & Shrewsbury’s The Club 34/.
830. — Shaw & Shrewsbury’s Empire 35 /.
83l. —Shaw & Shrewsbury’s Ai — 45/.
B33.— Macartney’s Autograph 47/(1
833. — Bussey’s Demon Driver 45/.
B34.— Nicoll’s Automatic, pat. handle.. 30/*
835. — Nicoll’s Automatic, selected.... 35/-
830. — Nicoll’s Automatic, spec, sei 42/(1
B37.—Summers Brown, pat. spoon x 34/.
B3B.— Summers Brown, selected xx 42/(1
B3». —Summers Brown, spec. sei. xxx 47/(1
B3o.—Stuart Surridge, Oval Driver.. 24/-
B3l;—Stuart Surridge, Stand’d Driver 30/-
833. —Stuart Surridge, Rapid Driver 40/-
838. — Gunn & Moore’s The Cannon.. 37/.
B34.— Gunn & Moore’s The Autograph 45/.
833.—A. Dye’s Champion, selected .. 35/-
836. — A. Dye’s Champion, spec. sei... 42/-
B37. —Windett’s John Bull, selected.. 3,>/.
838. — Windett’s John Bull, sup. sei. .. 37/(1
839. — Windett’s John Bull, X spec. sei. 45/-
Bat Repairs
A SPECIALTY.
New Blades fitted —
19/6, 23/-, 25/6, 29/6, 34/6
New Handle fitted to blade—
-15/6, 19/6, 22/-
Cricket Balls.
All match weight, viz., 51 oz. Postage on one ball, 6d
Itl.—Star Match, patent compo I/O
I*2 Hay market Match, pat. compo. 2/6
Bt3.— Diamond Match, patent compo. 3/-
I*4.—M.S. Black, patent compo 3/6
Bs.— Crown Royal Match, pat. compo. 4/6
i*(i — Gold Medal, Match 2/-
I*7. —Eclipse Compo 3/3
i*» —Eclipse Victory Compo 4/-
B 8 Match, leather 20/-
BIC. —Duke’s P.D.K., leather 21/-
Bll.— M.S. Match, leather, jfiil sewn... !:{/(>
812. — M.5. Special Match, jj lit sewn... {,)/(>
813. — M.S. X Special Match, leather.., 17/(1
'Bit.—Lilywhite’s Match 16/0
815. —Lilywhite’s Special Match 17/6
BlO.— Treble-seam Practice, leather.. 5/-
.I*l7.—Special Crown, six-seam 16/6
CRICKET BALES REPAIRED.
New Leather Covers : Machine and hand stlched, 8/6, 9/6; All hand stitched, 11/6.
Re-stitching Covers: 2 rows of stitching:, 3/6; 4 rows, 6/6; 6 rows, 8/6.
If inside of ball to be replaced, 1/6 extra.
Men’s Leg Guards.
(Postage on one pair, 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
jra.il'.
Bl.—White Twill, strong: make 8/6
B2. —Tan, continuous straps 12/6
B3. —White Buck, continuous straps 14/6
B 4 continuous straps, ventilated 14/.
Bs. — Gold Cape, new pattern 15/6
B 6 Buck, new pattern 16/6
I’air.
B7. —Half Skeleton, sold cape— 17/6
BB. —Half Skeleton, white buck... 17/6
BO.—Skeleton, sold cape 21/*
bio. —Skeleton, white buck 21/-
BU. —Gold Cape, for wicketkeepers.. 22/0
Bl2.— White Buck, for wicketkeepers 22/0
Men’s Gauntlets.
(Postage on one pair, fid.)
Bl.— Tan, ventilated, strong
B2. — Gold Cape, padded and ventilated
B3. — Gold Cape, ventilated, extra quality
B4.— Gold Cape, ventilated, rubber palm
Bs.— Gold Cape, superior, rubber palm
86. — A1l England, padded tips, rubber palms
B7. —M.S. Little Giant, tan, padded finger tips and padded rubber palms...
BB. — M.S. Giant, tan, extra large, padded fingertips, leather thumb cups,
padded rubber palms, finest glove made
B 9 Giant, as above, but with finger and thumb cups
bio.— inner Gloves, buff, padded
Men’s Batting Gloves.
(Postage on one pair, fid.)
Bl. — Buff Chamois, tubular rubber protection, superior
B2. — Patent Surrey Shields, red rubber
B 3 Surrey Shields, right hand each
Pair.
10/(i
13/0
15/0
15/0
17/0
21/-
25/-
32/6
35/-.
4/6
Pair.
12/6
3/6
4/6
Men’s Stumps.
(Postage one set, 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
Set of 6.
Hl. —Blackwood, plain and strong . .. 4/0
I*2. —Blackwood, steel shod 9/0
I*3. —Brass Top, steel shod 12/0
Set of 6.
• —Solid Brass Top, steel shod .. 16/(5
• —Revolving Brass Top, steel shod 18/(5
“Perla” Cricket Mats.
FINEST IMPORTED COLOR, GREEN Two-piece, Oft. wide.
DoulUe Wicket Mat, full size, metal eyelets and spikes, complete—
bi. — Web Bound £ll | B2.— Leather Bound
(Freight paid on mats to nearest Railway Station or Port.)
Steam-tarred Cricket Nets.
Complete with Poles, Pegs. Ropes and Runners.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
£l2
bi. —Back-stop Nets, 18ft. x 6ft. .
B'J. —Double Wing Nets, 42 x 6ft.
• 45/-
■ 85/-
B 3 Wing Nets, i'i x 7ft. 95/
Bt.—Double Wing Nets, \ Bft. 110/
Nets Only
85.—18 x 6ft 40/-
B 6 —43 x 6ft 67/6
87.—42
88.—42
7ft 75/-
Bft 82/fi
Cricket Sundries.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Wicketkeepers’ Protectors 7/0, 10/6, 13/fl
Club Kit Bags, X strong , 28/6, 35/-
Canvas Boots, leather soles, pair 15/11, 16/11, 19/6
Bat Handle Rubbers 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9
. Greenhide Bat Sleeves narrow. 1 /- ; medium, 1/3; wide. 1/9
Scoring Books, pocket size .. 1/6
Scoring Books, full size ... 3/6, 4/6
Books on Cricket 2/-
iiat Oil, specially prepared 1/t>
Bat Binding Twine 1/6
Cricket Bat Brooch Badges, nicely enamelled. Any two-color combination. Wear your
club colors. Post free, 1/2 each. Illustrated Cricket Price List free on request.
fic
• 0
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS HOUSE,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Did You Ever Hear of a More
Wonderful Cure than This?
P
am
Mr. IV. J. El) WARDS (from a photo).
I felt it my duty to send you
a testimonial for the way in
which your wonderful Rexona
Ointment cured me of Trench
Feet. I am a returned sol-
dier, and served in; the 27th
Battalion, A.1.F., France, and
whilst abroad 1 got what is
known as Trench Feet, or Frost
Bite, which causes decay. i
was sent to England, and was
for 18 weeks under electrical
treatment to restore life back to
my feet, until my feet decayed
that much that my toes dropped
off, and my foot was almost
eaten away, and they decided
to amputate the left foot and
the toes on right foot. > For
weeks 1 was lying in hospital
not making the slightest head-
way, when they decided to send
me back to my own climate,
while my feet were decaying all
the time. I had to have two
more operations.
I arrived in Adelaide on the
12th April, 1918, was sent to
Berwick Hospital, and was
there six months, in which time
I suffered terribly. I was an
experiment for the doctors, for
they tried everything, all with-
out success. I had four more operations, and was finally discharged as
incurable.
For weeks at home I tried all sorts of Ointments and different things,
until at last it worried me so much that I decided to go and have my left;
leg amputated. I told my parents what I intended to do, and they got me
to give your Rexona Ointment a trial, so I gave it a trial, and by the time I
had used six small tins of Rexona my feet were completely cured, and
saved me from losing my leg, and from that day I have never had the
slightest trouble, and am able to walk with the next one, and when I went
for my artificial foot they asked me where I got cured, and when I told
them they were greatly surprised and would not believe me.
So, trusting you will use this testimonial as you wish, and if requiring
further particulars I shall only be too willing to give you them.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) W. J. EDWARDS,
60 Ashley Street, Torrensville, Adelaide, S.A.
REXONA THE KINO OF OINTMENTS.
Rexona the Rapid Healer is a necessity in every home. It is tile most wonder-
till Ointment of the age, as the above illustration shows, and heals even long-standing,
obstinate sores and skin diseases.
Rexona at once exerts its antiseptic, soothing and healing powers, causing a
new, healthy skin to grow, and soon all trace of the wound lias disappeared.
Remember, Rexona is sold only in triangular pots at 1/(5,, and
In a large size, holding: nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-.
o
0
o
2?
THE RAPID HEALER
§YqwywoycVo
%
'jgpfi
!fO£
Cgr?"*
It
Spread;
like
Butter
This is the sensible, sanitary way to buy Cheese,
You are always sure of getting the same high
quality. You know it has never been exposed
to dust or flies —never handled.
“ Rex " Luncheon Cheese has the most tempting
flavour —mild yet piquant. It is economical,
handy, a valuable digestive aid.
Be sure you get “ Rex.” Sold everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon.
I 3953
ďf
I
luncneon
The Greater Singing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"When all men have worked together, in peifeci
harmony for a single year humanity will be seen
greater than all its gods." —Father Aubyn.
AS it was when at first the morning
stars
Sang in their joy together
And the winds out of great and
golden jars
Poured the blue weather,
Time, like a perfumed and crimson rose,
Petal on petal unfolding,
Felt at its heart the thought that grows
Past the heavens’ holding.
Then was a green world sweetly born
To need of high singing;
For brown evening and yellow morn
A man’s feet were bringing,
Under the rainbow and over the fire,
With long weeping and laughter,
To the heart of time grown sweet with desire
In the dream of ever and after.
Then was a world born in a dream
And the stars sang together;
Belted with flame, the marching gleam
Of the sun was a yellow feather;
But a man’s feet were slow on the way
And a man’s heart had sorrow
In a little knowledge of one day
And a little fear of the morrow.
Then was a world born to a fear
And a man born to dreaming ;
But the song of the stars was high and clear
For the great hope gleaming.
And under the rainbow and over the flame
Went the sweet of time flowing—
The great perfume of no name
On all winds blowing.
As it was when at first the morning stars
Looked on the blue weather,
Out of the mouths of the golden jars
Came all joys together.
The yellow plume of the marching sun,
The rose to its fulness bringing,
Paused at the lilt of the song begun.
For the world at last was singing.
The stars were silent for great joy
Of the holy harvest and reaping—
None may the little years destroy
That hold a song in their keeping.
What need of a singing of lonely lights?
When men sing together
The perfume of time is sweet on the heights
Of the glad blue weather!
x.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Sir Morton Sylvester.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHN Morton Sylvester Brown sat on
a rather high stool before a very
plain desk in a very bare and busi-
ness-like room. Occasionally he dabbed a
handkerchief at bis nose, which was painful
and still rewarded the effort with little spots
of blood. Ho drooped, and bis face and every
line shrieked gloom and depression, and bis
vacant, distance-glazed start* bespoke a soul
unmindful of its surroundings. These sur-
roundings lacked novelty. For. ten years of
working days he had sat on this same stool,
gauntleted cuffs and forearms caressing the
same ink-stained desk, and roving glances
sharply halted by the same Imre walls; and,
though the place was severely clean, a feel-
ing of musty oppression, a sort of psychic*
dust, had gradually but surely settled on
him. His very appearance seemed some-
how dusty, the illusion helped much by the
neutral sort of grey clothes that lit* always
wore, and that even at their newest looked
somewhat old and world-worn; indeter-
minate, weak face, absence of chin, thin,
washy-brown hair and straggling moustache,
eyes small, blue and near-sighted, and nar-
row little shoulders —all these seemed to
further the effect.
But most of the smothering dust had
settled on hi.s soul. Since his earliest days
that soul had flamed romance. Limitations
of body, absence of the necessary courage
and all sorts of things like that had seen to
the damping of the flame as well as the lack
of opportunity that he always blamed ; but
certainly a life centred in the world of that
small room had not given him much chance.
Ten years of good service had lifted him to
the position of second clerk in the indent
and agency business of Stenham and Roger,
and his reward was a salary sufficient to
see to his solitary comfort. But his soul
had never wholly ceased to beat against
those confining w r alls. His soaring spirit
would fret and dream and ache its way
out into the white world of high hope and
happy knight, of soft-skinned maid and sin-
ister rascal, of love and battle and death and
life, the singing world of something doing,
while his unimpressive body bent uncom-
fortably over the high desk, insufficient chin
propped on ineffective hands, pensive, weak,
little eyes fixed on furthest distance. His
was a double life —John Brown, the clerical
automaton ; and Morton Sylvester, the doyen
of chivalry.
In his dealings with men John Brown
always turned the other cheek, or, if too
hard pressed and in very desperation driven
to it, called a policeman; in the world of
his imagining Morton Sylvester blazed a
ruthless, truculent track, and woe to them that
dared to say him nay! With women John
Brown was unbelievably shy and awkward,
diffident, dumb and distressed; Morton Syl-
vester had his way of any of ’em, the fairest
damsels strove for the love of him, died for
the lack of him. And, dropping sickeningly
from very miracles of chivalry and love-list
triumphs, he would go back to the dreary
boarding-house, spend an hour collecting the
necessary courage, and invite the large, lym-
phatic daughter of the landlady to go with
him to a picture-show, where he would sit
straight and self-conscious, talk nervous in-
anities at her, and, later, rush her home
as soon as lie could. Only then would be
breathe easily and think back how he might
have risked sliding an arm about her, or
even, in the approved, irresistible Sylvester
fashion, have crushed her suddenly to him
and ravished the ransom from her‘soft lips.
A ery often he walked nervously home-
wards by the side of the fair-haired little
typiste, and..when some beer-exalted. youth
made a boorish remark or overture to her,
would murmur something o£ the inefficiency
of the police or the seriousness of the drink
question, all the time with the memory of
how that very day Morton Sylvester had
dealt bloodily with some half-score knaves
who had dared to look over-long at the fair
lady Lilith.
For the typiste and the lady Lilith were
as much one as John Brown ancl Morton
Sylvester. Translated to his day-dream
world, he constantly swanked and swash-
buckled with the easy grace of the greatest
strength, gaily defied and nonchalantly 7 de-
stroyed the most invincible rivals, dared and
endured all terrors and finally and always
triumphed—all this for the sake of Lilith.
And then his workaday self would possibly
dust the shrine of her desk or, greatly dar-
ing, place there little offerings of ordinary
little flowers ; for Brown had loved the typiste
more and more with each day of the 12
months she had been in the office.
A very real and reverent knightly worship
he laid on that desk with the futile flowers,
and a glorified Lilith had long been the
steady motif of his singing dreams; the gal-
iant Sylvester even, all the easy gallantry
gone out of him, laid his laurels at the feet
of Lilith arid abased himself and cried hint-
self unworthy. All the strength of his
starved imaginings went into his adoration
of this rather ordinary young person, and
his life was one of mute and awkward
service, asking nothing, never daring to hope
and dreaming always. 11 is reward was found
in the privilege of walking with her on her
way home, this usually a sort of silent
ordeal, or sometimes of paying for the tea
and scones that made her midday meal, and,
occasionally, carelessly kind words. Mostly
she seemed quite unaware of him.
Several times he had desperately dragged
himself to the point of asking her to go
somewhere with him-*--to a theatre, or some
unexciting Saturday-after noon excursion—
but he usually hesitated at the last moment,
gullied awkwardly and swallowed his invi-
tation and said some trivial and unnecessary
thing. On the occasions when his courage
had lasted long enough to see the faltering
words out of his mouth and beyond recall,
she had been sorry to. say that she was to
do something else on that night or day.
On such poor stuff his affection fed and
thrived and grew amazingly.
And now had come tins dull winter day,
drizzling in ordinary-seeming fashion through
its cheerless hours, but pregnant with fate
for John Morton Sylvester Brown. He had
come back early from a lonely lunch and
found the chief clerk, Macpherson, and a
junior still eating and talking over some
humorous thing. Unobtrusively, as usual,
he slipped to his desk and idly went oyer
some figures that had delayed him in the
morning, and it was some little time before
the sneering words of the small conference
at the other end of the room knocked an
entry into bis understanding. Vaguely, first,
fie made out that it was some scandal-talk
of a maid and a man, a series of designing
dinners and theatre-parties, a crafty pur-
suit and a still more crafty elusion, fill the
chase had ended when the tempting baits
offered to the elusive one had seemed suffi-
ciently worth her while, and the result had
been made plain by several week-end trips
that the two had since taken —the old tale
that was familiar enough even in the diffi-
dence of Brown’s scanty experience. Then
he made out that the man was George
Roger, the junior partner, and had felt u
surprise at that, since the restless immorali-
ties of the husky Roger were well and widely-
known in the office world. But Macpherson
was now tolling of the woman, and he named
her.
Brown’s heart leaped and stopped. All
his blood seemed to drop suddenly into spaces
unknown to him somewhere in the neigh-
borhood of his stomach, and then surged in
a rising, red flood up over his collar and
tingled about the roots of his hair. For
Macpherson had named Lilith. Brown felt
sick at the sacrilege of it, and then wonder-
fully, madly angry as he listened to their
leering laughter. He wanted to hurt these
liars and defarners, to hurt them badly, to
ram their slimy words back down their tilt
throats, to strangle their devil-mirth or tear
the slandering tongues out of them. In-
stead, he sal on the high stool, a seething
turmoil of blind rage and all too-seeing
cowardice, a horrible jumble of impotent
hate and terror, until some further word sent
caution flying, and a trembling, inheroic,
ridiculous knight approached Macpherson.
“Mr. Macpherson,” said Brown, “that’s —-
that’s a lie. I want you to say that that’s
a lie.”
The other turned surprised eyes on him.
“Don’t be silly, Brown. It’s not even new.
We’ve all known about it for weeks. Why,
ever since she came here she’s been looking
for it. But she’s one wise little girl; she
made him pay through the nose before she
fell for him.”
“It’s all a lie, Mr. Macpherson. You’ve
g-got to say that it’s all a lie.”
"Lord save us!” said the amused Mac-
pherson. Anybody’d think that you were soft
on the slut yourself.”
How now, Sir Morton Sylvester! Why do
you hesitate? Here is not one who dares
but to look at the fair lady, but one who lays
filthy hands on her, drags her down into the
mud and slime, and laughs as the stinking
stuff fouls the white body. How comes it
that you do not rend and blast him where
he stands?
Knightly weapons being absent, little
Brown bunched a pathetic little fist, and
hit Macpherson upon the nose with it. Whole
pages of epic praise could not do justice to
the deed : the Morions Sylvester himself never
performed with a greater courage than was
required of Brown at that moment. Mac-
pherson flung up a surprised hand which
accidentally caught Brown midway and for
a time robbed him of breath, but almost
immediately the little man flung himself
again upon the blasphemer, mouthing with
fury and with all the disastrous effect of a
thoroughly enraged rabbit.
At last, almost sorrowfully, Macpherson
hit him once and hard, and the nose of Brown
dripped blood, and he collapsed in a pathetic,
quivering mass in the corner.
(Continued on next page.)


Do Things
“Get on
Your Nerves
"Every Picture
Tells a Story”
*42/
m//:
w
in
3^
i
IJJ/iry&Ll
PO
i
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
Are you “quick,” irritable and easily upset? Do you
continually worry over trifles? Then there’s something
wrong. At the back of it all may be bad kidneys. When
the kidneys are weak they no longer filter all the uric
acid and other poisons from the blood. These poisons
get into the system, irritate and upset the nerves and
vital organs, and you have backache, nerves, dizziness,
despondent spells and an all-worn-out feeling. Try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They are
recommended the world over and are perfectly safe
and harmless.
An Arncliffe Woman.
Mrs. J. Smith, “Bonnie Doon,” Duncan Street, Arncliffe, Sydney, says:
“My kidneys were in a bad way for some time, and I suffered terribly from
backache in consequence. I could not stoop freely; in fact, all my movements
were handicapped owing to the nagging ache that used to catch me across
the kidneys. My rest at night was broken, and during the day I felt tired
and languid, having no energy for anything. I was advised to try Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, so sent for some at once. They worked wonders in
my case, giving relief almost immediately, and gradually effecting a complete
cure. I took three bottles in all, and my cure is perfect. Six years have
elapsed since I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I have been well
all that time. They are a grand remedy.”
Four years later Mrs. Smith says:—“My cure still holds gocd, no sign
of kidney trouble having returned since I used Doan’s Backache 'Kidney Pills
ten years ago.”
A North Sydney Man.
Mr. John Simmons, 7 Bank Street, North Sydney, says:—“For some
years I suffered dreadfully from serious kidney trouble. The agony I had
to bear was at times awful, and can be better imagined than described. I
was under several doctors, but their treatment did not benefit me very much,
and I would soon be as bad as ever again. A friend of mine heard of a
wonderful cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so urged me to try these
pills, and I decided to do so. After taking one bottle I felt very much better,
and as I kept on with them the improvement was maintained until finally I
was completely cured, and I have not bad a sign of kidney trouble since.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have my hearty recommendation, and I hope
many will benefit by my experience and give them a trial.”
Three years later Mrs. Simmons says:—“My husband has had no return
of his old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him some
time ago.”
d
ďf
Backache
Kidney
d
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
That afternoon as the little figure sat,
hunched and shamefaced, on the stool, Mor-
ton Sylvester worked very wonders of valor,
and tragic and terrible was the punishment
he inflicted on a damned and doubting world,
as the Soui of John Brown seethed with the
injustice of it all.
The bell sounded twice from the inner
office, and Brown wrenched back his wan-
dering mind and hastened to obey the call.
“Brown,” said Mr. George, Roger, “I want
you to take these invoices down to the Aus-
tral Navigation offices and check the goods.
Why, what on earth’s the matter with your
face, man?”
“I was clumsy enough to fall as I was
coming back from lunch, sir,” sa.d Brown,
not daring to lift his eyes to the table at
which sat the slandered goddess, pencil
poised to resume the taking of the inter-
rupted dictation.
“You look as if you’d been well into a
decent brawl,” laughed Roger. “Well, get
these things fixed up; you’ve just about got
time to do it.”
Brown took the papers and slunk miser-
ably through the outer office and away. Ilis
eyes saw nothing of what he passed on the
journey to the wharf offices of the steamship
company, and all through his task there his
mind kept reverting to the horror and in-
iquity that would let the most miserable
muck-slinger defile with his filth all the
decency and purity that was so far above
him. And ever the spirit of Morton Syl-
vester reviled and poured scorn on the miser-
ably inadequate body arid shrinking coward-
ice of John Brown, that must stand by and
see his idol slimed and fouled without taking
sudden, drastic vengeance on the profane.
ones. So the soul of John Brown flailed
and spat upon his mind and body, and the
commonplace little man who methodically
carried through his dull task knew the bitter
liell of infinite self-reproach and contempt.
It was late when he finished, and ordi-
narily he would have gone straight home;
but lie wished to return to the office for
some books that he was to take back with him,
and, as he trudged from the wharf to
the tram through the early winter dusk, hie
was still brooding. The wharf neighbor-
hood was a slum one, and things seemed
fated to happen to Brown that day..
Turning into a deserted street, he hap-
pened on one of those sordid little love tra-
gedies that are always with us and our
newspapers, of blinding jealousy and the
maddened perversion of passion and love that
seem so often to seize upon the man-animal
and its mate. The raging two took no
notice of the little figure that slunk quietly
past as they spat frenzied venom at each
other, and Brown shivered. He looked back
at a scream from the woman and saw that
the man now threatened her with a revolver.
For a moment Brown hesitated as his soul
stung him to play the hian ijor .once, and
then —he ran for a policeman.' He had not
gone a hundred yards when the sound of
the shot smashed the silence of the narrow
street. Sick with self-loathing, Brown ran
on.
His trembling had not ceased when he
reached the office 15 minutes later, and his
hand shook as be took the emergency key
trom his pocket and quietly opened the door.
In the dark outer office he stopped. Through
the partly-opened door of Roger's room
streamed a yellow band of light.
Then he heard Roger’s voice, and it was
thick and husay with passion.
"Look here, Lilith, I’m in deadly earnest.
I’ve come to the end of threats, and this time
I won’t be put off. I tell you I won’t stand
any more. Will you do it? If you don’t,
so help me God, I’ll kill you here and now.”
A cold finger traced Brown s spine as ne
stood still and fearful in the middle of the
room. There was a tense and Heavy silence
save for the harsh and rapid breathing of
Roger. After a very long Lme, as it seemed
to the terrified little man, he forced himself
to creep noiselessly to the door. His lady
o’ dreams stood white and scornful in one
corner, and in the middle of the room was
Roger, his heavy, bloated face horribly con-
gested, a wicked-looking Colt swung threat-
eningly before him.
“I mean it, Lilith, I mean it! Will you?”
Brown heard a trembling “No” from the
girl, but could not shift his eyes from the
ugly, sinister thing in the hand of Roger.
Now he saw the truth of it all ; the pursuit
there had been but not the capture, and the'
passion-mad Roger would liow force his lust
on the white purity of the girl!
“I tell you I mean it, damn you,” snarled
Roger; “I’ll count five, and then, before God,
I’ll shoot you !”
Wild terror had Brown in its grip. Hard!’’
could he restrain himself from rushing
away. His breath came quick and hard, and
his throat throbbed convulsively: and the
soul of him scourged and scourged his shrink-
ing body, calling on him for one least little
spark of manhood to show now his devotion
to this his dream-lady.
“Four!” And the menacing, horrible
thing was lifted and pointed straight at the
girl—at Lilith !
There was an unpleasant scream, of fear
and frenzy fought back by sudden, hard-won
resolve; the wailing cry of a mercilessly
soul-driven, cringing body—and Brown flung
himself before the revolver. He seemed con-
scious of a noise that filled the world, and
a knife-pain pierced his heart; and that was
all.
Ilis'sudden appearance had dazed the two
and they stood long looking . at the
grotesquely tumbled heap. Then Roger re-
covered from his fright, stirred thff limp
figure with his foot and growled. “Get up,
yon fool: the —— thing wasn’t loaded.”
The girl Lilith laughed unsteadily. “A fact
of which I was well aware, Mr. Roger,”
she said. “We’ll have no more play-actino-
thank you, and. if you don’t want your wife
to read those letters, you’ll just hand over
the five hundred. Cheap, I call it!”
From which it appears that the tale of
Macpherson had been only too true, and that
the fair Lilith was not of the whiteness of
a dusty little man’s imagining.
Roger swore listlessly and flung the emntv
revolver on the table. Again he prodded
the quiet figure between them. “The miser-
able Lttle beggar s faulted with pure fright,”
he said.
But John Morton Sylvester Brown was
quite dead, and there was a sort of a - smile
on the weak face of him.
A. M. HASEN.
Ste’s Views.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
44 V T ATCHMAN, wot o’ the night?”
j j sang out my neighbor, Stephen
Trenerry, as he lounged com-
fortably against a post of his fiont veran-
dah with lolded arms, enjoying his after-
dinner pipe, Lke himself a tiling of ciay,
short ana thick and bearing evidences of
much usage.
"How goes it, senor?” I replied cour-
teously.
Sre detached himself from his post and
lounged leisurely across to our division wall,
upon which he rested, spitting generously
upon my quarter-acre of freehold land.
“I bin tlnnkin’ ’ow keasy ’tis far a man
to belave waut ’e d’ waunt to belave,” he
commenced, brushing fragments of stone
from the top of the wall which had been
making impressions in his muscular arms,
and resuming a restful attitude.
Ste was a lavish conversationalist. He
read with splendid courage the literature
which he encountered, tearing no toe. lie
absorbed what he could of the subject mat-
ter, and when he got into deep water he
just made tor dry land and cheerfully re-
marked : “There’s no man d’ knaw every-
thing.” Many of the ideas, native to his
own sagacity, or due to his adventurous
voyagings upon literary seas, were communi-
cated to me in our after-dinner chats.
“Tell us,” I said, to give him a lead.
“Well, I been talkin’ to old Billy Johns
abeowt that slump in they Wallaby Ranges
shares, an’ I reckoned that she was good
far nether man nar beast. ‘Wot you tokkin’
abeowt?’ he ses. ‘She’s so good a mine.’ he
ses, ‘as you ever bate a drill in,’ and he
shet up like he’d spoke it all. I never said
nawtbin’ tell I’d touched pipe, and then I
ses, most deferential: ‘You’ve a-done it, then,
Billy?’ ‘Done wot?’ he ses. ‘Bot that passle
o’ Wallaby Ranges you was spakiu’ to me
abeowt,’ I ses. He laafed. ‘Well, dammee,
she’d ot to be a good mine,’ he ses. An’
that’s wer it’s to,” remarked Ste in conclu-
sion.
I nodded assent, and Ste sucked vigorously
at his pipe, which responded with bronchial
rattlmgs. Presently he resumed:
“Ef a man waunt to get a honbiassed
judgment out of hisself he got to putt his
hego outside an’ shet the door, in a manner
o’ spakin’. An’ then he edn’ alius right.”
A reminiscent smile stole over his face
like the sunrise flooding a quarry, and he
proeeeded :
“W’en young Dicky Nankervis decided
that he was gwain’ to the war he held com-
munion with his soul. He’d be’n gwain’ weth
Sarah Ann Polwarth a goodish bit; in fac’,
they’d decided on settlin’ deown in a bit o’
while. However, w’en the Kaiser run- >m
Mars, Dicky 'ses to Sarah AnnV This here
job is postponed tell I’ve had a hitch weth
the Kaiser. Now I be’n thinkm' abeov
you so weil as other things, an’ I’ve come v
the conclusion that you gawt to have a
square deal. This here war is gwain’ to b-
far the World’s Championship, an’ I reckon
we won’t ail of us see Horsetrilliar no moor
We are all mortal except Billy Hughes, an"
I a’ waunt to leave you free to go your own
road. There’s a-many young chaps you
might fancy ef you wadn’ hobbled, and they
chaps wot have gawt the sagacity to
stay w’er’ there’s no fightin’ but weth the
boss seem likely to be the soundest proposi-
tions.’
“Sarah Ann she wouldn’t ’ave this no
road. Ef Dmky was tired of her he should
ha’ told her. but ef he laved it to her she
wouldn’ never waunt to look no further than
Dicky Nankervis.
“ ‘Well,’ ses he, ‘I reckon I’ve looked at
the matter from outside an’ have gived you
good advice; but ef you’re satisfied to cha'nci
it, why, you’ll do me, Sarah Ann. Ef Id’
come back a greatly-depreciated property, I
can’t help that, an’ ef I don’t come back at
all, you can call a fresh deal.’
“So Dicky boy he arranges his affairs
like a sensible young chap should do. Gets
Sarah Ann’s promise to go over home every
little while to cheer up his faather and see
that he. was comfortable, and away he go,
most martial. Sarah Ann and the old man,
was on the wharf and waved their handker-
chiefs till the transport was gettin’ small
in the distance.
“So that was Dicky Nankervis’s method
o’ deduction from honbiassed premises. You
see, he putt hisself in Sarah Ann’s place and
gawt a onprejudiced verdic’.”
Ste scraped unspeakable dregs from the
bottom of his indecent pipe and began re-
filling it from a stout plug of black tobacco,
while I waited for him to resume. Ap-
parently he had exhausted the subject, for
he began commenting upon the promise of a
windy morrow from the portent of a red sun-
set, when I impressed upon him the fact
that I felt a human interest in the result of
the Dicky Nankervis experiment.
“Dicky? Oh, Dicky come back all right,”
said Ste. “Never gawt a scratch!”
“And did he find his tempered judgment
justified?” I inquired.
“Well, no; not hardly,” said Ste, thought
fully. “Not wot you might call justified,
altogether. You see, w’en Dicky etw
back, Sarah Ann she was married.”
“The deuce she was !” sa : d I, In surprise.
“So she broke her word after promising to
look no farther than Dicky Nankervis and
giving her pledge to see after the old man’s
welfare!”
“Well, no—not exaekly she didn’t, nether."
Ste looked impenetrable, or wooden, and this
annoyed me.
“Look here,” I said warmly, “here’s the
whole thing in a nutshell. The girl
promised to look no farther than Dicky
Nankervis, so”- —.
“True,” said Ste ; “but the old man’s name
is Dicky too.”
FITFUL.


m.
rr- "■ i
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write fur particulars and Book-
let BM 414. V
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office- 99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day's
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture ■ firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what vve state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dole-
Small
Prices
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
P ILLS
health; but
remember
Carter’s Lit-
tle Liver Pills
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
\'L
y
<&fj>
2
4?
The Sliding Action
of Shirley President
Braces Moves With the
Ease of a Canoe
It is the sliding, gliding adjustability in every part
of SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES that forms
that even balance. *
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are patterned
after the human anatomy. Wherever there is a de-
mand by the muscles for action in one regard, another
set of muscles of the human body gives or takes up
the slack, and SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES
act in unison in all muscular requirements.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
8-10-12 Small Street, Sydney, Australia.
|g||Sggg^ x
Safe—Accurate—Compact
The Remington Model 51 Automatic
Pistol protects YOU against acci-
dental discharge.
It is impossible to fire
a cartridge without
eously grasp-
fdf
ďf
I
tv.
Americ!
voUDCwJ
mg the stock and
pressing the trigger. Two
other safety devices insure
against accident.
Remington
.for Shooting Right
SPECIFICATIONS :* Caliber .380;
length, 6 5/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.;
weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish, dull
clack; magazine holds seven cartridges,
one extra cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless automatic
standard metal cased or soft pointed.
. - same cartridge as is used in other
Pistols of this
d
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
• B. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
C 5
X
FOR THAT DIZZY FEELING
TAKE
Hi
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
Refrigerating U Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probahlv
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING — r \vhich» is pertinent- to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
W'e study vour requirements and design the layout Of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
'an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we plaee at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney,
J. WILD RIDGE, & SINCLAIR LTD.,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, M.Z.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plunv R atzov
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Pluin” Razor is the only Razor used
ESSKSSBVR in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” ivhich is the best
evidence of its easy-“staving excellence.
PRICK 12/6—POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it irt order for two years, free
of charge.
{ c/.
£
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 38
Valuable Prizes.
Chance for 1921.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 won bv W. M. Neilsen,
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
Tickets frqm Local Agent in all Towns, or direct from
Arthur AV. YAGER. Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
“Dreadnoug'ht”Wire Strainer
ďf
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
»•« *
toittH
d
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
ďf
( lightness and
ought is fully
excellence
maintained.
of
ti
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


Prom George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Sitll going strong .
B 5&
X >
/
S
\
\
\
Si
/
1/
\
vs
JX
- P
\ ' I
£A I
*
:L
4
*
<*
ga
O'*
/u
/
K
J,
V
i
Jfio C**6W6v
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. No. l». WEST INDIES.
Johnnie Walker: “I suppose Nature had some object in giving these Natives
their wondertul hair.”
Copra Planter : “ Oh, yes, like you, it is suitable for the climate.”
Guaranteed same quality all over the world,
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
