

Q33M
c
mu
ft
a
v.' |
111
1
SEE
r=K'
UJM
Mi
n
'M
\\
E
k\
%
3
1
inn
iilllli/
- ;
!
S 3
> tvinmimiiiLJ
fpiniiniiiinig'
i/mmm\
///// - ////////i iiiu/i
mmsfoam
Hill
PROPRILTARY Cel ™
f
I
wz
dd
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2185
Thursday, December 29, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


you had a copy of the new
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent
fcee to any address on application
post
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 425.
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
ttn
:
m
0/m/vefior/rE l
MANGROVITE BELTING
is strictly first quality, highest grade, scientifically tanned
leather belting.
Ever since the company was founded our policy has been
to produce the best possible belting, and we have alw avs
based our expectations of further business on the service
rendered by Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting.
It is celebrated for its bulldog grip on the, pulleys. We
maintain an expert engineering staff for your convenience.
Order now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne. _ ~
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA :.Henrv Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Austria) LIMITED. 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
v\
‘Metropolitan Razor
99
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
pi-ice 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Lphghurgt^jßO^York^Street^Sydney^
. CV A>...
Cl'^f
'•' St k ■>. SV3* / /„ A .4. '
•rfV" ■*" v "«s
■'S/*S
i \.r ) y
■ jtf
V
! A\\ m m. v. s;,
eaur
V,< i
k. ■: W, ;
B%w t Mrw
.-<s
i (
11 ; s Mr
r s )
Y'k&XV i
'SA-'
X.
5-f"
\ Xs&
?<x»ws
aA»M».vva
V>
.v.
*...>.
:.<A
;. ;....x
•7\
T W 4 > «
|Hw IQS
A'>A
■
:A
s »
vSr
*:».
V 5? \ l
y XT)
v. Y V j
V\:
)ss v aSS\®
/ \ \ Y\
<Y*
"■-"A V"'"'" xXr
: ,W
\MJ r.
»v?
v\\ \ i,. * •' •
. .w
X:
V.
,w
■7*y^rn^
Vm l P
Ay *
k. v > v A
..•SA-..A
/AS
, **N
v A
"vTvX'
L- v > •
w'
A -JAy
yy %
s-v... .*«
* r
n ■■? s
A
A .X.
%• A
| Morton Sundour /atncs/
Cr'°*oy)G3r/Wc ?/3*,
AA% -pMg>j «k «A ■<(« x nssxvs'- JsP*sss
rS >
Coloups fhaf c&ppyan
absolute a pan fee
SUNDOUR
UNPADABLE
FABRICS
The Dyestuffs foprmng
fhese pepmanerif coloups
ape made byfheSundoup
fipm, the only fi pm in the
producing goods
from Dyestuffs to finished
Fabnica
Sundoup Fabpies ape
made inCasement Clofhs,
Reps, DamasfeChennilles,
Madpas Muslins, Tapesfpies,
Rugs; efe*
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
i'fev::
"MUSTDIE” Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, *beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for 'it is
not only economical, but
the powder is' distributed
mustdie:
nantauDNoia rwder.
ThtGfffiJT IHSKT DESTKOyQC.
( Hiev
Buga.
\ Mmouteek
1-
Thu
more effectively, and we
want yo.u to get the best
results put of every ounce
of this- great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney* is
The Red Page
Art and the Artist
Hans Heysen was born in Germany. Yet
no one born in, adopted or borrowed by
Australia has expressed the .soul and beauty
of the Australian Bush with such faithful-
ness' and love as this painter.
As sentimentalists, we are sorry that Hey-
sen is a German. Even if the great gulf of
horror created between Australians and the
Hun during the last seven years had
never been, we should have a sentimental
pang when reflecting that it is a .German-
and not an Australian-born who immortal-
ises Australia with so pure, so delicate, so
truthful a brush. Our pride, our amour
propre, as citizens and as patriots, cannot
fail to feel the reproach of it, and we must
feel a certain shame that it is not an Aus-
tralian who expresses love of his Native
Land in exquisite interpretation of the moods
of her landscape—her wild places as well as
her happy, domestic countryside. Righteous
grief and self-reproach must, indeed, stir the
hearts of good Australians at the reflection
that so many Australian-born artists
wield skilled brushes in the expression
of a medley of French-Lnglish-Italian-
Spanish-Dutch-American subjects, with
often but a small proportion of Aus-
tralian. There are, <no doubt, several
fine, honest, excellent Australian artists, and
the first half-dozen or so of these have truly
expressed Australia with beauty and at
times with poetic ecstasy. But few have de-
voted a life's study to this Single subject;
and it cannot be denied that head and shoul-
ders .above all in the expression of' the very
soul and essence of the Australian Bush
towers Haris Heysen. Has he more genius
than the others? Has he better vision? Has
he just a tricky skill and cunning in brush-
wieiding? Of does he love Australia more?
Come, sentimentalists, a truce to your
head-wagging, a respite of your dolorosos.
Look this thing, for once, full and straight
in the face. A man must love, deeply, rev-
erently, what he understands and reveals
better and with truer insight than any of
his fellow-citizens. It can be only one wor-
shipping with all the sincerity of, a true
lover, in the silent morning when the smell of
the misty gums is a prayer and an incense,
and in the evening when the sun-bathed
bush-uplands drowse in a glory of orange
and crimson, who could so lovingly, so
truthfully, express the spirit of the gum-
bush on canvas. Can any sentimentalist
conceive that one who uses his artistic-
talents in the painting of barbaric interiors,
in a monotonous repetition of fantastic
backgrounds for by no means essentially
• Australian nudes, is a better Australian
than another who devotes a lifetime to the
perfection of his genius in expressing the
magic of the Australian Bush?
So much for the. sentimental standpoint.
But Art is riot sentiment. Art is not
patriotism. Art is not personal feeling. Art
is not justice, or mercy, or nobility, or
hatred, or duty, or vengeance.
However we feel towards Oscar Wilde as
a man and a human being, fine things that
he produced will live. If Shakspeare was
Bacon, or a strolling player, or a mounte-
bank, his drama is immortal. If Shelley
was immoral, unprincipled, weak, his songs
are_ eternal in their joyous eternal beauty.
Goethe and Wagner and Mozart and Beet-
hoven were Germans. Yet what they
created and gave to us is beautiful and im-
mortal. If the best of churchwardens,
Sunday-school teachers and moralists and
patriots tried to paint, and their efforts re-
sulted in execrable ugliness, the world of
Art would cast their works into outer dark-
ness. If a man-killing baboon should paint
a masterpiece, the world of Art' should
approve and applaud the beauty of the Art
and ignore the artist. The mingling and
confusing of the artist and his art is the
root of bad judgment. The art must stand
or fall upon its own merits, and in appre-
ciation and a just estimate- of any art the
entire elimination of personal feeling is the
first and last word. There is far too much
of coming across to the wrong side of the
footlights in all things in these dark days
of advertisement and puff-publicity pars.
Thq gallery gasps and applauds and gushes
because one singer has her photo published
for advertisement purposes with her child
in her arms. And there are upraised .eye-
brows and down-the-nose glances and pious
vows not to so much as hear-and-judge-for-
themSelves another singer who is reputed, to
live her own-life as she pleases.
And so the world wags.
Arid so Art still struggles in the quagmire
of foplish side-issues, and questions of form
anfi etiquette and personalities and anti-
pathies, as it ever has and ever will, until
it is recognised to ho free as the wind, above
and below, and without human limitations.
And when this comes about we will wake
up and firidj the .Millennium is. blazing its
dawn over the weary, bored old world, and
wicked will cease from troubling and artists
be at rest.
HATTIE KNICHT.
Child Literature
I fanev both Zora Cross (R.P. S/l ; 2/’21)
and j“dojuritry Ped.” (R.P. 3/ll/ n 2l) are
mostly wrong in connecting the child lust for
tragedy: with the classic nursery rhymes and
fairy stories. If these did not harmonise
witfi "the child psychology they would have
died out long ago.' Countless mothers and
teachers have instinctively found in them
just the right material to interest and in-
struct the infant mind. Zora Cross has
visualised the horror of the ghastly giant in
“Jack and the Beanstalk” and the wolfish
Granny in “Little Red Riding Hood” from
her Pwn standpoint and not that of the child.*
is just the right admixture of peril
in these rhymes to challenge attention and
fasten them in the memory. There must,
necessarily, be the element of exaggeration in
stories' told to children. They are in the
age of wonder. The world is wonderful,
nothing will interest them unless it is won-
derful. The first lesson they need to learn
is that life is full of perils, snares find
enemies, as well ns friepds. I have been
teaching all my life, and still meet a kinder-
garten class every week. 1 have tried these
nursery rhymes and fairy stories on the child
mind, and I find that it does not carry away
the “morbid” and the “horrific” element.
The picture remaining is of Jack climbing—
the idea of adventure and the watchfulness
which goes with it. Red Riding Hood’s
journey through the forest invests the wan-
derings of the children with an air of
risk and romance. Zora Cross has never
been a boy, - and cannot therefore recall the
thrill of “hide and seek” with another boy
stalking near and announcing to his fellows
in weird tones:
Fee, fi; fo, turn,
I smell the blood of an Englishman;
Be he alive or be he dead
I’ll g-r-r-rind his bones to make my bread.
I appeal to every grown-up boy against Zora
Gross when she says: “Mo atrocity dreamed
could equal that of the giant grinding up a
corpse to make bread.” The fact is, no nor-
mal bqy thinks of it in that way. Children
in their nursery-rhyme and fairy-story days
are always more or less in "the land of make-
believe.” Besides, is there not a saving
humor, sometimes a grim humor, in men’s
minds, which springs from these days of
childish anti-climax stories? Again, no one
can have seen children in school unconsci-
ously swaying to the rhythm of “Rockabye,
Baby,” and imagine for a moment that the
children have a Zora Cross picture of the
tragic falling of the cradle and the smashing
of the baby in their minds. If they visual-
ise a tragedy, it is nothing more serious than
the fracture of the doll or toy cradle. The
tune of the lullaby should not be left out of
account either. Very popular modern songs
are made up of the veriest piffle, but the
tune takes the ear. The tune makes “Rocka-
bye” an ideal lullaby song. It has cadence
and invites sleep, and to the children at
home it suggests just that element of danger
outside— the bough bending and the cradle
falling—which makes them curl up arid yield
to the hypnotic suggestion of the lullaby.
If Zora Cross would move her anathemas
on about five years later in the life of the
child and refer them to picture-show
“serials,” with their “crooks,” “Wild Vest
bad men,” amateur detectives and silly
policemen, she might find a cause for the
decay of honesty in the community. By the
way. they teach modernised nursery rhymes
in the London schools along with “safety
first” pictures. For example:
Little Jack Horner stood on a corner,
Watching the cars go by,
When they had passed, he crossed at last,
And said “What a good boy am i !”
JAMES GREEN.
Lust and Love
The riddle of the universe apd man’s
place in it presents itself in many ques-
tions differently stated and indifferently
answered with creeds or aphorisms
which lightly side-step the real issue. In
Alma Venus! (Lothian. Melbourne). Ber-
nard O’Dowd sets out to hymn the “Death-
less YOU, of many a name,” treating a large
number of deities, forces,_ customs and mani-
festations as included in the thought of
Venus. He declares that
The shrine, the song, the picture and the bust
Are diamond doubles of the charcoal, lust.
It is this lust that through 13 pages of verse,
whether in diamond or charcoal form, rules
humanity. The charcoal variety is most in
evidence and the creed of the whole, is
Beget or bear, though ye to-morrow die,
Beget or bear, nor ask the reason why !
This note in nature is surely obvious enough
without emphatic statement; but the claim
that it is the keynote of everything which
humanity has found worth while and of all
that man has done through the ages is, to
say the least of it, an extraordinary theme
for a didactic poem. Yet if Alma Venus has
any meaning at all this is just what O’Dowd
is trying to teach. Here are the concluding
lines:—»
Question the sibyl grottoes near.or far
Whither or whence we sail and why we are'.
Listen at Nature’s beating heart for clue,
And every oracle we know or knew !
From Zodiac round of older destiny,
From tiny orbit of an atomy,
'From Pythoness or oak or Magian fire,
Augur antique or wizard new inquire,
Austral churinga or the crystal ball,
“Wherefore does anything exist at all?’
Of star or fungus seek, of life or death,
Whence Being- came and whither wandereth!
Ask of the gloom that locks the secret in,
Ask of' the light that saw the world begin !
The day, the night, and death and life are dumb:
From fungus, star or ball no answers come:
Silent churinga, table, passing bird:
From fire or Druid oak no guiding word:
The Pythoness ambiguously sighs:
Orbit minute nor Zodiac house replies:
But dim the beating heart amid its sobs
With “Alma Venus!” “Alma Venus!” throbs;
While on two sibyl leaves, by a world-wind strange
Blown to our shore across the . gulf of , change,
“Increase and multiply” on one is scrolled
In ochre crude, on. one, in glowing gold
Around -the pearly nimbus of a dove,
The script imperishable—“ God is Love.”
There is no effort to explain that “Love,”
in its' last use, has any connection with
lust An ordinary thinker might be par-
doned for believing that the tremendous
evolution of human kindliness in the minds
of Hebrews and Christians which could ideal-
ise God as a Father of mankind, loving as
a father loves his children, had very little
to do with a natural command to .“Beget or
bear”; yet O’Dowd sees no difficulty in
suggesting that “God is Love” is a mere
“diamond” variation of “God is Lust” —with
an equally large L. ;
But the amazing thing about Alma Venus
is how so slight a thought can be padded
out to such an inordinate length without any
resdrt tb imagination or one clear word-
picture of anything. O’Dowd achieves this
by what might be called his “dictionary”
method of singing. Having mentioned
Venus, he immediately reels off everything
that has the least connection with her or
with the idea her deity stands for. This
fills space rapidly and makes thought quite
unnecessary: also it makes reading some-
what difficult. But the craftsmanship is
(Continued on page 25.)


xtae
Incomparable Value in Guns, Rifles and
Revolvers at Anthony Horderns’
dfd
Quality, accuracy and effectiveness should be considered when
purchasing Firearms-—there is nothing so expensive or hazardous
as an unreliable weapon. Sportsmen who have had experience
with defective firearms will appreciate the assurance carried by
Anthony Horderns’.
From this page you can judge just how excellent are the values
offered at The House of Economy, and how large the assortment!
No matter what your requirements may be, they can instantly be
satisfied at Anthony Horderns’.
.
YTI29. —W. W. Greener’s 12-g. D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun,
30in. special Steel Barrels, Treble Wedge Fast Action, Independent
Side Safety, Full Choke in both Barrels, chambered for 2fin. Cartridges,
"i Engine-turned Rib, Walnut Stock ...i £35
Write for Illus-
trated Shooters’
Guide, containing
a Price List of
Guns, Rifles, Am-
munition and
Shooters’ Sun-
dries. A copy
will be posted
free on request.
YTI43. —Winchester Repeating; Rifle,
1906 Model, designed to take .22 Short.
Long or Long Ride Cartridges, Take
Down,” extra light weight. 20m. Round
Barrel Magazine, holds 16 short, 12
long or 11 long rifle cartridges: weight
about 51b £6/6/-
YTI3O.—W. W. Greener’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, made on W. W.
Greener’s Facile Princeps system of breech mechanism. Side Safe, 30in.
Steel Barrels, both Choke, Engine-turned Rib, with Greener’s Patent
Treble Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, chambered for 2fin. cases, proved for
all nitro powders, Walnut-heart Stock, neatly engraved, a good pisreon
gun ; weight 7 to S lb £49
W e undertake
Repairs to any
make of Gun,
Rifle or Revolver.
New barrels and
other parts fitted
to Rifles; Sights
Fitted and Ad-
justed.
fď
YTl42.—Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1904
Model, to take 22 Calibre Short, Long
or Extra Long Cartridges, Round Bar-
rel, 21 inches long; weight about 41b.,
with Elevating Sight 57/6
f
d
fd
YTI6B. —Remington .22 Auto-Loading Rifle, Model
16A. 16-shot Auto-loader, chamber only for the .22
Remington Auto-loading Cartridge, 22in. Remington steel
barrel, straight-grip stock of American walnut fitted with steel rifle butt
plate. Weight, 53-lb Light, easy trigger pull. Trigger grooved to nrevent
finger slipping. Sights regularly furnished, special step rear sight with
finger piece, white metal bead sporting front sight. Length over all, 39in.
£9/10/-
YTI67. —Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle, Model 12A.
Chambered to take without adjustment .22 Short, .22 Long and .22
Long Rifle Cartridges. Magazine holds fifteen .22 Short, twelve .22
Long or eleven .22 Long Rifle Cartridges. 22in. Round Barrel, Straight
Grin, Walnut Stock fitted with Vulcanite Butt Plate; weight 4«b.
S^dKilßgsSar
B^BOyKte
wisMm
iifif-
"'i.'
YT23I. Colt’s
Police Positive
Double-action Re-
volver, .32 calibre
4in. barrel, 6 shots.
Full Blued finish.
Weight 20oz.
Length over all, 8-Jin £lO
.38 calibre, sm. barrel £lO
Colt’s Police Positive Special Double-
Action Revolver, .38 calibre (using .38
Colt Special Cartridge), sin. barrel, six
shots; weight 240 z £lO/10/-
GUN CASES.
YT39I. —Blocked Solid'Leather, for 30in. barrels.
50/-
Blocked Solid Leather, Padlock Buckle, Fast Handle.
52/6
Blocked Solid Leather, Padlock Buckle, Fast Handle,
for 32in. barrels 55/-
COLT'S PT.FA MFG.CO
HARTFORO.CT.t^A,
*“tt JC t»<t ll* Z. 71
YT25l.
Colt’ 3 Auto-
matic Pistol,
Pocket Model, .32 calibre.
Hammerless. Magazine
holds 7 cartridges. 3fin.
barrel; length over all 6fin.
Weight 230 z. Accidental
discharge is absolutely im-
possible with the Colt Automatic Pistol.
£B/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Ltmi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440


Let us develop
your
Holiday FILMS
Take advantage of the famous Kodak Same-day
Service for Developing and Printing; spools left
before 1 0 a.m. will be developed, printed and ready
at 5.30 p.m.
Along with this expedition goes thoroughness and
satisfaction; our experts ensure that through speed
there will be no sacrifice of quality.
Specialists are employed in every branch of the
work, and nothing but the famous Kodak Chemicals
and Printing Papers are used —a provision which
guarantees the best of results.
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD..
<579 George Street, Sydney ; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street,
Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba ; Flinders Street, Townsville; East
Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton
Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z,
no
Httftomu «ii.iwn fwvunusi^Tv*
»i »« •*»>«»«
iiaomid^Kiwri
Itfso
30« S
WWUVB
TAKE PLENTY OF KODAK FILM
Take a good handful along with you on every excur-
sion — there’s nothing more annoying than to run short
of film when opportunities for picture-making are all
around you.
Kodak is absolutely reliable under all condi-
tions. Made in Australia —with or without the Auto-
graphic feature —always fresh.
Happy
Days in the New Year
SAFE in your own home,
at ease and in comfort,
you may sit and listen
to the wonder-music of the
masters when you instal “His
Master’s Voice.’’
Your days and your nights can
be made happy ones by the
magic of music that accords
with your mood.
Through “His Master’s Voice’’
you can be enthralled by the
soul-satisfying singing of
Melba or Caruso. You can be
filled with mirth and merri-
ment by the hilarious gaiety
of Harry Lauder. You can be
entertained by the world’s
most famous artists.
The greatest artists record for
“His Master’s Voice’’ exclu-
sively.
we
U* |
His Master’s Voice
L_L
mi ■yml'iiTti'ji
•'Y'B
l». %
a
-c
u
TiAxlj
55^
ti/i 1w
*s„.%
«*=/
s?
i
&
«u:
W
0
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
a Gramophone”
Read. Trade-mark
“IHs Master’s Voice”
’t'ead. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/- FOR a limited period.
“*/ Full Directions with Every Machine,
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House. Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australasian Agents.
mm
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVER,
OIL
EMULSION
FOR ''^Complaints
Wasting
Disorders j
AND
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
a
V*
mi
Exquisite
Walnut Hair
which gives such an alluring charm,
may be obtained harmlessly and quit*
simply by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Permanent and waterproof.
Obtainable all chemists.
ď
fd
A Product
of Australia.
When you ask your chemist for Eudenta
Tooth . Paste you not only show your
recognition of a delightful and antiseptic
dentifrice but you demonstrate your faith
in an all-Australian product. Once you have
used it you will ask for no other. ((
Your Chemist
will supply
/
u
Watermansf Ideal mmtain Per
Regular*
£ a
Safety
Se/f filling
*S
-n
rc
//'
When you make notes
make them in ink with Waterman’s Ideal so
that they will be both legible and permanent.
Three Types—“ Sell - Filling,” “ Safety ” and
“Regular." Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywuere
L. G.-Sloan, Ltd., Cheapen Comer
Kingsway, London, England.
Aust-al'a : Harold D. Dixon
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
ď
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
Send Your Best Friend
one for CHRISTMAS.
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDN EY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
THE
lIMITCH
UHIII-1#
insurance
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on Ji li , cI:L^ us “ £
■■■■- 1 Buildings, Stocks, luum-
ture. &c. Llents also assured.
Marine Risks Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, L reights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
Tlie “United” is an Australian Institution.
BAUTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
’
12
140 feet of Shafting
Turned as Easily as
Winding Your Watch
Ever tried to start 140 feet of 2%in. shafting
with a pull of your hand? Would take “some”
grip and a good big heave, wouldn’t it? And
yet—it seems hardly credible —but that same
shafting, equipped with
df
SKF
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings
can be turned with no more effort than is required to wind up a
watch; in fact, by actual test, an Boz. weight placed on the end
of a 30 in. pulley spoke started rotation of the entire length of
shafting.
Equip YOUR line shafting with Ball Bearings, and
you will save from 15 to 35 per cent, ot your power bill.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
m
ď
3KF
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Happy One.
O weary sedlfers after joy,
Through church, and street and portal,
Go tell your gods of gold that you
Have found a happy mortal!
Say : “In her look there is a joy
Like fountain-heads upspringing;
For down the wild fields of her heart,
A speckled thrush is singing!”
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Christmas Cherries.
In the gold December weather,
Hearts a bubble, minds a feather,
We went picking perky cherries,
While the laughing cloudy-fen.es
Skimmed across the sky together.
Now be merry, merry, merry!
Here is cic}er, here is perry,
Here’s a cup for every drinking.
Brewed when half the .stars were winking
In the bottle of a cherry !
There was laughter blithe and mellow,
While the wind, grown warm and yellow,
Shook the cherries plump and jolly,
Chuckled, “Life’s a bit of folly,
Here is Christmas cheer, old fellow!”
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Emily.
When God remembered Emily
He found her body set
In a little grave in Lisnagree
Beneath the mignonette,
And her spirit in a lilac-tree
With tears of April wet.
Then four great angels, sweet and strong,
Came walking down the spring
The soul of Emily with song
To Heaven’s gate to bring ;
For the way is very steep and long
Unless the angels sing.
The children plucked the lilac bloom—
And the scent was Emily—
They set it in a darkened room
For weary eyes to see....
But the angels wept still tears of doom
By a grave in Lisnagree.
N.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Cause.
The old man sits by his red log-fire,
Watching its glow with eyes grown dim,
And dreaming th.e while of his dead desire
For a Cause that was sun and star to him.
On floor and panel, and beam above,
Shadow and shine in silence steal —
That Cause was worthy of all men’s love
For the hope it promised of all men’s weal.
He thinks of the years beyond-recall—
Shadow and shine, they gleam and die —
All vain his labors, and.sordid all
That he deemed fine gold in the days gone
by.
As one grown sick of a tiresome part,
Played to a blind, deaf world, he seems:
No peace is there in his cheated heart,
And his years lie littered with broken
dreams.'
Aloud, through a world grown black with
hate,
Mocking man’s faith, fiend-laughter rings—
That Cause, ah God, but that Cause was
great,
And its splendor shone like an angel’s
wings!
The shadow and shine at their play ne’er
pause ;
Fading and failing the fire grows dim,
As, fading and failing, died out the Cause,
That was sun and star in his prime to
him.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
To Civilisation.
Lo, you have spent a thousand, thousand
years
Braiding my hair lest any wind of joy
Should set it blowing free about my ears;
And bound my feet, their swiftness to de-
stroy :
And swaddled what was once my body’s
grace ;
And, ever-patient, taught me to forget
The scholarship of touch and scent and sound
For joyless wisdom woven of words. And
yet
i am not yours who have ta'cn and hedged
me round!
Behind the pallid screen you call my face
Goes one, untamed, with flowers upon
her hair,
Catching the sun’s motes in her hand’s hol-
low ;
Who laughs all day, afad does not greatly
care
For any lore save that of wren and swallow
And grasshopper, and rose and rainbowed
trout.
And you may point along the tutored way,
But she will watch the jelly-fishes drift
Through spnny water of a summer’s day,
Finding more joy to see them swell and
lift
Their rhythmy cups, one moment in and out,
Than in a decade’s wisdom comes to you.
And while you Dreach of reason, she will lie
Swooning with memories, because the
night wind blew
As once it used in childish years gone by
Out of the white magnolia-tree. Oh, much
Indeed of grace you have wooed from me,
And taught me sapience and shrewd delight.
And snared me round—singing now I am
free!
But still goes one, untamed, safe out of sight,
And her you cannot touch, you cannot touch!
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


F riday
9
T o-morrow,
December 30
hces
mini
liiiinninmmi,.
lllllllUinMMHl
lIIIIMiIMMMIIi
iwimiimiiiim,
A
lO PER CENT
SALE
V
/
FOR EVERY POUND SPENT
TWO SHILLINGS IS SAVED
Here are a few characteristic examples of sale values at
Gowings*. Remember, our guarantee is always: “Satisfac*
tion or your money back. ,s>
AUSTRALIAN TWEED SUITS TO
MEASURE, well-cut, well-made,
well-finished in all details.
(Patterns and self-measurement forms sent
free on request.)
Usual Price 84/-
Less 10 per cent, discount 7516
MEN’S ENGLISH CAMBRIC GOLF
SHIRTS with reinforced necks.
In smart stripe designs on white
grounds.
Usual Price
less 10 per cent, discount
7/6
619
150 PAIRS MEN’S HIGH-GRADE
BLACK CALF BOOTS, Balmoral
or Derby Cut. Genuine Damp-
proof welted soles. 5 shapes,
sizes 5 to 10.
Usual Price 28/6
Reduced to 22/-
Less 10 per cent, discount 1| if~*% j
iVjIU
MEN’S SAC SUITS, READY-TO-
WEAR, of Australian Tweed in
shades of Dark Grey and Brown.
Usual Price 65/-
Less 10 per cent, discount* I
DO V
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL GOODS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
■ , . ' * ' ‘ > . * '
GOWING BROS. LTD., 486 George Street (opp. centre Q.V. Buildings), Branch at 504 George Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Ke<?istered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —No. 2185.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1921.
Pbice 9d.
1921.
“No, old friend, don’t tear it out. It’s a blotted page, but there’s hope in the last few lines,”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tlie White Mau.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave arid McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of tlie
Co., 214 George Street. Sydnev. N.S.WL, Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly.
12 months, £ / 6s. ; 6 months, 135.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 u-ords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions • are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of stifiicient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying. to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.lj;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.t.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. - Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Poland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City,
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn ct- Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore.- —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.- — IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. It. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fur. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet—otherivise: Soz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1921.
THE MENACE OF THE SERVILE
STATE.
The Duke of Northumberland expressed
the view of most High Tories when he an-
nounced at Berwick that the Irish settle-
ment was the beginning of the end —that
India would go next and then the Deluere
might be expected. This lugubrious atti-
tude of mind was common in Britain, Aus-
tralia -and Canada about the middle of last
century when self-government was being
sought by the colonies; and it appeared
again when the Campbell-Bannerman
Government decided to give the Boers home
rule. Now, the Tories have as much brains
as the Radicals, despite the ancient gibe
about Conservatism being “the stupid man’s
party,” and the brilliant Duke of Northum-
berland is a very good case in point.
When the Tories talk of impending disaster
they merely mean disaster to themselves^ —
disaster in the loss not only of cash benefits
but of those intangible things, power, pres-
tige, ascendancy. In Ireland, during the past
half-century, 77 per cent, of the chief ohices
have been held by Unionists —-and in the
case of the prize billets English Unionists —
though the country was all that time per-
haps 90 per cent. Nationalist. The anguish
of Ulstermen at the nrospect of the country
they inhabit being raised to the status of
a nation has accordingly something much
more material behind it than attachment to
the English—-a feckless, sport-loving race
whose individual members have always been
far better understood and liked in Dublin
than in Belfast. The dole or bribe of a
Colonial Governorship is still one of the
perquisites of Privilege in England. There
is not so much money in it as there used to
be; but it continues to confer dignity, a
title if one does not exist already and is
desired, a step in rank as recompense for
a few years of spectacular exile. India occu-
pies a unique position in this respect. Its
Viceroy is a king, not merely a constitu-
tional sovereign ; and it teems with governor-
ships, commissionerships, judgeships and
every imaginable variety of military job,
from Commander-in-Chief to provincial
A.D.C. In short, the detestation ot the
average member of the House of Lords,
whether he happens to call himself a Con-
servative or a Liberal, at the idea of free-
ing Ireland or India or any other region
which remains in bondage, is identical with
the emotion that made the American abo-
litionists feared and hated by the land-
owners of the South. Their pride is in-
volved even more deeply than their pockets.
* * * *
Slavery is an institution of which all,
even dukes, feel it their duty nowadays to
speak with abhorrence. Yet the position of
a country like India is in practically every
respect identical with that of a slave under,
s-ay, the Roman Empire. Its status, as in
the case of the slave, originated through no
natural rights, but by virtue of conouest. A
slave could not sue or be sued; all India
cannot independently contract debts or in-
dependently avenge slights on the national
honor. The Roman slave was sometimes the
friend and intellectual equal of his dominus;
so in a general way is India the .friend of
Britain, and who shall say whether it is not,
in the bulk, the intellectual equal? The
slave was often treated with extraordinary
kindness, more especially in the declining days
of the Empire, though it never recompensed
the best men of this class for their state of
servitude. India could not have had a better
master than England; hut for English
benevolence and English organising genius
millions of natives would have perished of
plague and famine who in fact were saved.
The more recent Irish Land Acts trans-
formed discontented tenants into prosperous
landlords on a wholesale scale. Yet Indians
and Irish, prosperous and otherwise, never
ceased to struggle for their freedom; and
now and then in the heat of argument the
Master, in the form of an administrator or a
general, was menaced, as at Amritsar, or
killed, as in Ireland under the Black and
Tan regime. In Rome the murder of a
master by a slave would have justified the
authorities in putting the entire house-
hold to death. At Amritsar, on the
Phoenix Park football ground and else-
where, the military did not go so
far. But the principle insisted upon—that
of the sanctity of the dominant Power—was
the same in the 20th century as in the fifth.
There is something uncomfortable to mem-
bers of our generation in the spectacle of a
people being kept in subjection even when
they are colored people. And the more re-
sentful they become, the more they repeat
the edifying catchwords of which their
white masters make such free use in the
press, in Parliament and in pulpits, the more
difficult it becomes for the bishops to demon-
strate that the Lord intended an exception
to be made of their case. However, putting
the moral aspect of the question on one
side as inapplicable to matters of high Im-
perial policy, the business problem presents
itself: Does repression pay ? England has
been learning, in England, for at least 900
years that it does not. The first of the serfs
were freed, not on humanitarian grounds,
but in order to induce them to produce more.
The keynote had been struck by the French
Archbishop of Besancon: “They will not
work, for they say that if they do they work
for others only.” From then onwards pro-
gress has been slow, but it has never ceased ;
and always the movement has been in the
direction of more freedom, less Prussianism.
In every case, in the long run, in industry,
in church affairs and in politics, the scrap-
ping of the mailed-fist style of administra-
tion has been beneficial to the vast majority
of the nation ; and the fate of William of
Germany suggests what might have been
the fruit of a different policy as regards the
privileged few. A Unionist M.P. said in
London lately that Ireland could have been
subdued —that it was “only a matter of
pouring enough troops in.” India could cer-
tainly be held on similar lines. But are such
mediaeval policies worth it to any but the
dukes and their place-hunting relations and
friends? And are they not short-sighted
even from the ducal standpoint?
» * * *
The whole history of our Empire goes to
show that it will not reach the apex of its
greatness till it is entirely free. One of the
U.S.A.’s chief reasons for coming into the
late war was, according to President Wil-
son, “to upset that noxious thing, the
Balance of Power.” That -aim succeeded what-
ever war-ideals failed, and there is now a new
Balance —a World-balance. It is to be ex-
pressed in terms of mathematical precision
which were never applied to any of the old
and rather slipshod arrangements. The 5-5-3
formula leaves the British Empire well on
top even if it has to share the mark of
honor with the U.S.A. The primary object
of every balance of power has been, as in
the present case, to avert war. They all
failed, and there is, unhappily, no guarantee
that the present one will succeed. Failure
meant that war was more dreadful than in
the days when a couple of small States
fought in accordance with settled rules, while
the rest of the world looked unconcernedly
on; and the tendency achieved the highest
point of horror on record after Serajevo.
Everyone understands that the next war, if
there is a next, war, will transcend the last
in hideousness: and everyone also under-
stands that, if the next upheaval is to be
post-dated much further than the period
when the nations shall have more or less
forgotten the main features of the 1914-
1918 tragedy, there must be absolute har-
mony within the balanced Powers. The
nations are no less predatory than they were,
though the possibility of a conflict waged on
the sea and under it, on land and in the
air, over every part of the earth’s surface
has made them more cautious. So the posi-
tion of the Empire is that, unless within a
few years it is united, unless its component
parts, such as India and Ireland, have been
somehow rendered as loyal as Australia,
Maoriland, Canada and Africa proved seven
years ago, then in the -first place it will be
as liable to attack as any other lame duck,
and in the event of attack it will probably
have to endure the fate of Austria. Dis-
content is the menace; and freedom is the
proven cure. Self-interested dukes and their
Jingo imitators may delay the inevitable,
but every day they do so makes the situation
of King and Empire more perilous.
THE PRIME MINISTER A
SPEECH.
The Australian Parliament was about to
go into recess. According to custom, it had
left all the important legislative business
of the session to be mangled in the last
fortnight. In that space of time, by sitting
until the sun rose and half-killing the re-
porters in the process, it had put through
29 bills which nobody understood and jetti-
soned 17 others. Presently this plague of
scamped enactments (nearly all "amend-
ments'" of previous botciies) would provide
lucrative employment for the lawyers, but
no thought of the pecuniary consequences
disturbed the complacency of honorable
members. They had got to the end of their
year’s toil. All was over bar the shout-
ing and the fulsome compliments customary
on such occasions. Genial was the atmo-
sphere of the House of Reps, when the Prime
Minister rose for the purpose, as was
thought, of telling his followers what splen-
did tellows they were, and of explaining to
the Opposition that when he had said it
wasn't fit to carry tripe to a dingo, he was
prompted by pure friendship and honest
admiration. But there was an unusual
glitter in his eye, and his brow was furrowed
with thought. The voice was harsh, the
manner stern, the sentiments astonishing.
“I propose,” he said, "to dispense with
the stupid and insincere things usually said
at these ceremonies, and to make a few
remarks on the general situation. This
Parliament is awarding itself a holiday
which it doesn’t deserve. It has been wast-
ing its time. It has conducted the country’s
business in a fashion so imbecile that the
people have no respect for it, and men of
ability avoid it with a shudder. The finances
are in a ghastly condition, the depart-
ments are scandalously wasteful and ineffi-
cient, and on a so-called repatriation scheme
that is the last word in drivelling inepti-
tude millions have been fooled away. More-
over, Parliament, while bulging the statute-
book with a heap of piffling Acts in which
the intention is generally good and the
execution nearly always bad, has shirked
the urgent job of reforming a glaringly de-
fective Constitution and, beyond heaping the
curse of bureaucracy on it, has done nothing
for the northern division of the continent,
in which our destinies will be decided.
Sadly the Government accepts most of the
responsibility for these high crimes and mis-
demeanors against the nation. Its contri-
tion will be shown in its deeds.”
For once the House, hitherto so boister-
ous on the last day of The session, was
startled into silence. Horror was depicted
on some faces, consternation on others. The
call of the refreshment-room went unheeded;
the billiard-balls clicked in vain.
“In future,” the Prime Minister con-
tinued, “this Parliament will have to justify
its existence to the people who pay it so
handsomely, and who have borne its exac-
tions and inflictions with such rare toler-
ance. The age of tomfoolery is over;; enter
the age of enlightened toil. When we meet
again the business of the session will be
introduced with a proper regard for the
value of time—no loafing at the beginning,
no insane rush at the end. The disorderly
state of the finances is partly traceable* ; to
the fact that Parliament has allowed itself
to be defrauded of its prescriptive control
of the public purse. Nominally, this right
is still retained, but in practice it is sur-
rendered all over Australia to despotic or
incapable . Governments, which don’t bring
down their Budgets until they have spent
half the money dealt with in their estimates ;
sometimes more. As far as the National
Parliament is concerned, we are going to
change all that. The financial year closes
on June 30 ; the Budget will come along
in July. This will give hon. members plenty
of time to carefully scrutinise the national
expenditure and suggest ways and means
of cutting down the departmental votes,
most of which, under the old rotten method
of doing business, have been bloated shame-
fully. Those who have the country’s interest
at heart will welcome this opportunity of
effecting real economies. Their representa-
tions will be earnestly considered, but the
mere roads-and-bridges brigand will get short
shrift,
“When the Budget is disposed of the task
of making our imperfect Constitution an
adequate instrument of self-government will
be vigorously entered upon. With this ques-
tion is bound up the subdivision of misgov-
erned or unwieldy States. At present dis-
contented districts like the Riverina
and the North Coast of N. S. Wales
can’t set up in business as new States
without the consent of the Big City
Parliament, which they loathe, and in
which they are hopelessly out-voted, s Our
idea is that, when a majority of the electors
in a given area express their desire for a
new State, this Parliament should >. be
authorised to establish it without reference
to the Big City Parliament. A small elec-
tive Convention will be asked to go into
the whole question of the powers required
by the Commonwealth for the efficient per-
formance of its functions and to frame ques-
tions for submission to the Australian
people.
“A sinful amount of extravagance and
exasperation is caused by the unnecessary
duplication of taxation and electoral
machinery. Events have compelled the Com-
monwealth to levy land and income taxes
and compile an electoral roll, and manifestly
they have come to stay. But heedless < of
this most of the States insist on their suf-
fering inhabitants lodging unnecessary elec-
toral claims, preparing separate land- and
income-tax papers, and paying for the up-
keep of ,a mob of meddlesome nuisances who
are quite capable of feeding pigs or minding
sheep. The thing is an impudent "fraud, as
well as an infamous waste of time and
money, and it has got to stop. There will
have to be one taxation authority and one
electoral authority for the Commonwealth,
or this Government, which distributes its
surplus customs -and excise revenue among
the States, and has been under no obliga-
tion to return any of it since June 30, 1920,
will know the reason why.
“We have made a horrible mess of the
repatriation business. In a moment of
delirium we handed land settlement over to
the State Governments and lightly undertook
to build war-service homes ourselves. What
we should have done was to let the States
construct the houses —they had all had ex-
perience in that line ; we hadn’t —and kept
land settlement in our own hands. By this
means we could have intertwined soldier-
settlement with the development of the
North. It is now too late to recover the mil-
lions lost—by buying sawmills at fancy
figures and closing them down ; by running-
up jerry-built structures on swamps and
morasses and paying boom prices for ready-
made farms and so on—but we cannot
afford to make the North pay the penalty
for our mad waste and folly in the South.
It is a problem that must be solved, and
there is only one wav to set about it. We
therefore propose to introduce a Bill for the
immediate construction of the Oodnadatta-
Pine Creek railway.”
But at this point The Bulletin awoke.
It had been having its Christmas nap.
A FEATHER STRIKES THE REPAT.
COMMISSION.
A significant debate developed out of the
second reading of the Hughes Government’s
bill to amend the Repatriation Act (1920).
The measure is intended as a counter to
the outcry against the policy adopted of late
by the Repat. Commission towards incapa-
citated soldiers. Said the Assistant Minister
in charge of the measure
Under it pensions will be payable to men whose
incapacity has arisen from a latent disease or con-
stitutional defect which did not manifest itself be-
fore they went abroad.
That would be a satisfactory solution if it
represented the truth. But —
(1) Those who served less than six months in
camp in Australia, or who failed to actually go
overseas, are for some unexplained reason barred
from relief;
(2) Under the bill, as originally drafted, only
those whose disabilities were ‘‘substantially contri-
buted” to by their service could claim pensions.
The second qualification at once aroused the
suspicion of the House, more especially in
conjunction with the disclosure that the
organisations which have been putting the
boot into the men from the beginning were
to be retained. Why “substantially”?
it was asked. Why not assume, if
a man was passed fit for the most
strenuous of all lives, and was demobilised
wi(h (say) T. 8., that he got his ill-
ness as a result of his service? So menacing
was the pro-Digger offensive becoming that
W. M. Hughes stepped into the breach. The
following is a fair summary of what he said:
The Board has felt itself constrained by reason
of the wording of the Act, for which this Parlia-
ment is responsible, to confine pensions to cases
in which it has been clearly established that in-
juries have arisen as a direct result of the war.
'The Board is sympathetic. No other public body
could be more so.
'The Government did not feel justified in deleting
the word “substantially.” A man might be knocked
down by, a tram and might argue that if it had not
been for The war he would have got out of its way.
If there were any more substantial cases of hard-
ships amongst deserving invalids he would, person-
ally deal with the offending official.
He would agree to the words “to any material
degree” being substituted for “substantially.”
It will occur to most people that, if the
Government was sincere on this simple issue
—if, that is to say, it really desires to put
an end to the victimisation of the disabled —
it would not protest so much. As a matter
of fact, its insincerity is written on the face
of the Prime Minister’s argument. The
Repat. Commission has not “felt itself con-
strained by reason of the wording of the
Act” to cut pensions down by £697,000 inside
12 months. In other words, it is not the
fault of Parliament that this was done. The
Commission did not begin pension-docking
till it got orders to do so. It has never
been sympathetic to the pensioners since it
was made to realise that security of tenure
depended on its being the reverse; and no-
one knows it better than those who inspired
the present policy. There is something ex-
tremely offensive to people with British
notions, of Constitutional Government about
the Prime Minister’s Czar-like threats of
what he will do to his underlings in certain
eventualities. It is not clear why the public
should accept a posture in W. M. Hughes
that would be strongly resented in King
George. But, ■ anyhow, why wait and see?
If no wrong has been done ts men who
ought now to be drawing pensions, then this
Amending Bill is a waste of, time and energy.
But if wrongs have been done to those who
sacrificed themselves when the life of their
country was threatened, with that of the
Empire, then there > should be no temporis-
ing or poinptaking. But the Government
appears to have-based the whole of its policy
in regard to the returned men on trickiness;
and such is the genius in • this line of the
Prime Minister that he never fails to get
his essential point accepted by the House.
There is no difference whatever, in the inter-
pretative sense, between “to any material
degree” and “substantially”; yet Mr.
Hughes was able to hand this concession
which is no concession to members, with a
spacious gesture, and uses it to keep his old
Boards and his old system of having their
decisions on pension matters endorsed by
one of his officials—decisions which have-
been disputed by many men of eminence at
both the Victorian and N. S. Wales Bars.
In any event, this measure does not pre-
tend to touch the most abominable of all
the aspects of the pensions scandal. Walter
Marks, of Wentworth, cited a case, which
is unfortunately typical, just before the
House went into committee: —
.George Rodgers, who lives in my electorate, re-
ceived a gunshot wounct v in the face at Gallipoli.
According to the Repatriation .Department, the doctor
who examined him says he is suffering from ter-
tiary syphilis. The reply of George Rodgers is that
the doctor mentioned has never seen him or examined
him. One doctor who has examined him says there
is not a sign of syphilis in his blood. Rodgers to-
day is lying in a hospital in Sydney, and is in a
very bad way indeed. That man has been refused
a pension on the ground that the wound in his face
which blinded him is not really a war injury!
Let it be granted-—though this paper for one
does not do so—that because a soldier con-
tracted' Y.'D: be should lose his pension
rights. The principle would be tolerable,
more or less, if there were no loophole by
which it might be misapplied. Necessarily,
of course, it is full of loopholes. There are
no means of telling whether V.D. was con-
tracted before a war or after it: it may
be hereditary; it may be acquired innocently,


ZneZßxzlZeim.
This is the last issue at ninepence.
Next week the Price of
tfcei’fezclZefzai
will be back to the old
SIXPENCE.
Revised Rates for Term Subscribers
will be found over the leader.
as it wns during the war by doctors and
orderlies in the course of their duties. The
Government says not only that admitted
V.l>. sufferers shall lose their pension
rights; not only that the same rule shall
apply to consumptives and others whose
afflictions may have been increased in viru-
lence, by V.D. acquired perhaps before 1914,
perhaps after it; but that the very wounded
shall be laid open to this loathsome aspersion,
together with the financial hardships that
accompany it. It is impossible to believe
that any Government or other body of men
is capable of deliberately holding over pen-
sioners the threat that, if they make too many
objections to rulings, alleging pre-war disa-
bilities, the king-stroke may be delivered in
the form of an official pronouncement that
they are syphilitics. Yet that is just how the
Government’s policy is working out. If a
man who has been blinded in the face of the
enemy is not safe from the.most damaging of
all medical charges, who is? So the ordinary
decent soldier might be expected to argue,
remembering that a conviction on this score
will not only make a family pariah and a
public menace of him personally, but will also
prejudice the marriage-prospects of his chil-
dren if he should be unlucky enough to have
any. And then there are the men like
Rodgers, who, being desperate, take a chance,
demand the pension without which they will
starve, and get their devastating answer from
one of the Repatriation Commission’s doc-
tors. In almost every case where the de-
cision of a Repatriation doctor has been
disputed by the claimant to a pension, a
civilian doctor —sometimes an ex-A.I.F. man,
sometimes not —has come forward with the
assertion that the alleged Y.D. subject has
never suffered from V.D., and that if he had
no doctor could say on oath that it was the
cause of his disability. It is for such reasons
that The Bulletin puts forward the follow-
ing propositions:—
(1) The fact of having contracted V.D. should not
deprive a man of his pension rights in the late war,
or in any future war, unless the volunteer is notified
of his liability in this respect before enlistment.
(2) A V.D. accusation ought not to he levelled at
a soldier, in any circumstances, unless the fact of
his having so suffered is on his record.
(3) In every case where a man went away lit and
came back incapacitated, it should be assumed that
he acquired his disability as a result of his service.
This is the equitable (and, incidentally, long-
sighted) attitude taken no by the other great
Dominions, and they talked no louder, when
their national life was threatened, about the
sacrifices they intended to make for their de-
fenders than the Hughes Government did.
WAITING WEALTH.
There is a great field of research for the
chemist in the myriad forms of plant life in
Australia. For every one now turned to
commercial use a thousand are flourishing-
unknown in the native bush. Many per-
haps are as valuable as the little-known
sandalwood; and it took the Chinese, of all
people, to teach us the value of that. As far
as Australia is concerned this stunted ever-
green grows in Cape York Peninsula, in part
of the Gulf country and in scattered districts
of Westralia. From tiny far-northern
ports tens of thousands of pounds' worth is
shipped to China every year. There it is
turned to many uses—most important to
the Chinese, into joss-sticks an:d incense
burners. The wood is already very scarce,
and a Chinaman in the trade recently told
me that they will have to look presently to
the leaves. Well known to western peoples
is the sandalwood oil; and the poorer wood
the Chinese turn into good coin by carving
it into knick-knacks for which the rest of the
world pays fancy prices. The big-money
part of the stick is all in Chinese hands.
The only cut the Australian gets goes to the
bushmen who push out into the wild coun-
try with their pack teams, round up a tribe
of niggers, and make the best terms they can
with them to carry in a load of wood to the
main camp. The getter then packs it into
the nearest “port.” Around Cooktown it
goes straight on the steamer. Higher up
the Peninsula the mosquito fleet sail it across
to the Chinese buyers on Thursday Island,
who give what they must—anywhere between
£l2 and £6O per ton. At this moment, £3O.
The market is rigged in the most barefaced
manner. Is this not worth the attention
of the moneyed men of the South? China
must have the wood. There must be great
money in it. And the sandalwood getters
would rush the man who would give them
a square deal. Why not cut out the Chinese
altogether ?
On the big scrub-clad ranges north of
Cairns there flourish hundreds of varieties
of trees, their interlocked branches thrust
desperately towards the sun in the grim
struggle for existence. Apart altogether
from their sawmill value, many possess
unique properties. Every scrub prospector
knows the kerosene-wood tree. Cut it down
in a tropic downpour, split it, put a match
to the yellow wood, and there is a blaze
instantly, even though it be in the middle of
the wet season and the trees have been
saturated for months. Four other varieties
of scrub timber have this welcome quick-
lighting property. They must be saturated
with oil instead of sap. Has the nature of
this oil been determined?
On- the very crown of the mountains, huge
solitary fellows standing out above the
pigmies of the range, there are no large
trees, for the reason that the shrieking wind
flattens all living, things to the ground.
That great bare patch on the pate of an
old sentinel, where not even mosses can
get a root-hold, shows the quarter whence
the wind blows almost constantly. But on
this other side a few queer, hardy plants
grip with knotted roots deep into the cracks
in the rocks, and there is a carpet of vines,
inextricably tangled, two feet in depth.
Here, even, are trees. But what dwarfed,
queer-shaped objects they are! All bent
and twisted, their tons flattened as level
almost as a billiard-table. But nut a match
to one of them. It flares up immediately
with a thick black smoke, and there oozes
out a large quantity of black sap that looks
just like tar, and burns as fiercely. Has
that been investigated?
Look down. Spread at our feet, as it
seems, is a sea of dark, green, stretching to
every point of the compass, as far as the
eye can see. It is the North Queensland
tropical scrub. What enormous timber-
weaitn, what beds of minerals, He within that
almost impenetrable jungle ! For very many
days you could journey on, cutting your
way through the dense growths, and at the
summit of every mountain you would still
gaze on this grand panorama of emerald
plain and black valleys winding between
mountain and gorge. Those same valleys,
many feet deep in the richest black and
chocolate soil, will yet smile with the homes
ol hundreds of thousands. What shall their
color be?
Climb down a thousand feet into the
ocean of green. There is no wind here;
everything is very still and quiet, and there
is semi-darkness among myriad tree-trunks.
We pass an innocent-looking plant, with
broad, light-green leaves. It is the cursed
stinging-tree, one soft caress from w 7 hich
will make the strongest man writhe in agony
for hours. If he be stung properly, soon
he will be raving. What is the poison in
this plant? Is there no possibility that its
malignant properties may be turned to the
good of humankind?
A little further on and a man puts out
his hand to pull a hanging vine from his
way. Instantly he drops the vine. A light
electric shock lias passed through his body.
A red weal runs across his hand. What
are the properties in that vine?
We twist in among spreading lawyer-
vines. A stream trickles musically over
some creeper-clad rocks. A small beginning;
but 2000 feet below the range it will have
SM’elled into a foaming torrent. Here at
its source lofty palms thrust up their broad-
leafed crowns, struggling w 7 ith the branches
of the greater trees for a share in the sun.
From many of the palms hang bunches of
useful-looking fibre. But it is not the beau-
ties of nature that we here marvel at; it is
the rich, almost intoxicating, scented air.
We peer up into the dark netumrk of
branches for the orchid that surely is re-
sponsible for this delight. But no painted
beauty clings in the semi-darkness above us.
We smell at the bark of the trees, but can-
not locate the source of the scent. Is there
no chance here for the perfume-dealer?
So much for the scrub, as- seen through
the eyes of the prospector. But it is metals
that appeal to him, not trees. Yet there afe
vegetables that even the prospector greets
with friendly eyes. Far up here in Cape
York Peninsula is a fairly widely-distributed
tree, whose milky-white juice is a cure for
corns—corns and warts. Surely there is
in this tree some property of commercial
value? A common-looking trunk supports at
this moment the ridge-pole of my tent. From
its branches hang semi-transparent, white
lumps of gum. Dissolve it in water, and a
crystal-clear gum-arabic is formed, as
adhesive as a politician to his job. Away
on the little-known west coast, I have ridden
across a vivid green-leafed shrub. Apply a
match to it, and it instantly blazes up as
if it had been soaked in gunpowder. The
first time I tried the experiment the result
was so astonishing that I staggered back
with burnt eyebrows, while confused
thoughts tumbled through my, brain about
a burning bush in the wilderness, a dim
memory of something from a long-forgotten
Sunday-school. But my horse was prac-
tical. He sat back on his tail, and M 7 ith
one movement completed fours-about on his
axis, then tore into the bush with dangling
rein. It meant’ 10 miles of tracking for
me, and in bad nigger country, too. And
there are food plants by the dozen.
So there you are, commercial botanists,
chemists and manufacturers. Here is a
vast and unexploited field waiting to bring
in wealth to the commercially-minded and
honors of discovery to the ambitious. No-
thing is too insignificant to merit your at-
tention. If you are about to turn aside
from a paltry-looking shrub, think of that
common-looking pest, the grass-tree. From
its amber gum, which the Germans quietly
bought for a few pounds a ton. they, manu-
factured nieric acid, which thev returned
to ns inside the steel boM 7 els of screaming
shells—picric acid and Heaven and Hell
know what else.
J. L. I DRIESS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The High Cost of Nationalism.
G. C. Dixon on “the new Dominion status”:
In The Bulletin on December 1 I expressed the
opinion that politicians’ talk about Australia’s “new
status” is not only a menace to the Empire, but
a menace to Australia. That view has been strength-
ened rather than weakened by J. B. Dalley’s com-
ments (B. 15/12/’2l), for it was not until I read
his reply, and reflected that probably Mr. Dalley
would give as effective an exposition as anybody,
that I fully realised how weak the new “national-
ist” case really is.
For, excellent as Mr. Dalley’s article may be as
a statement of that variety of Australian nationalism
which is fashionable just now, it has one trifling
defect: it entirely avoids the point. The question
that I raised was this: How can each of the
Dominions be accepted as having a distinct and
separate national existence, with the right to dis-
tinct and separate representation at international
conferences, and still remain inside the British
Empire and be represented when necessary by a
common spokesman? That is the vital problem that
the Empire’s statesmen have to consider to-day, and
it cannot be solved by airy talk about the Dominions
“coming of age” and vague allusions to our “new
status.”
Mr. Dalley’s method of dealing with the ques-
tion is simplicity itself. He examines the non-
essentials and carefully disregards the things that
really matter. He quotes what Paley said about
the prerogative in 1785 and what Dicey said about
the prerogative in 1885, and throws in some allu-
sions to Wentworth, Sir John Macdonald and
other admirable patriots whom Conservatives like
myself or my grandfather (I am not sure which)
are alleged to have opposed. I might, if I chose,
retaliate with quotations from Fortesque and
Blackstone and stirring references to Simon de
Montport and the late lamented Hampden ; but life
being short I will adopt the more prosaic course
of dealing .with each of Mr. Dalley’s arguments in
turn. Most of them, as it happens, destroy each
other, and none has any bearing upon the difficulty
of being one thing at one time and another thing
at another time, or the still more formidable diffi-
culty of being two different things at the same time.
In other words, he doesn’t explain how Australia is
to enjoy at different times or simultaneously the
very real benefits of being part of the British Empire
and the benefits (if any) of being an independent
nation.
His main contention, I fancy, is that Australia’s
rise to independence and sovereign power has been
so gradual that you cannot point to any one date
and say: It was then that Australia ceased to be a
colony and became a nation. “The changing status
of Australia has been gradual,” he says, “like every
constitutional change which is not effected by an
Act of Parliament.” Without wishing to deprive
him of credit for the discovery, I would modestly
suggest that this was the very fact which my article
was designed to show. “Mr. Hucuies knows quite
well, even if the others don’t,” I said on December
1, “that there has been no sudden or violent change
in the Dominion’s rights or status.” And I went
on to assert (a) that the Commonwealth was gov-
erned before the war by a Parliament which (theo-
retically) depended upon an Act of the Imperial
Parliament for its existence, and (6) that the Com-
monwealth is still governed in precisely the same
way. And 1 pointed out, also, that
for all purposes of self-government, the Common-
wealth is independent, and that any measure resolved
on by the Federal Parliament —even the renunciation
of allegiance to the Crown—would be accepted by
the British Government without resistance. And
the position was exactly the. same, in 1914, before
Mr. Hughes had a chance to preserve the liberties
of his grateful country by putting his signature to
a piece of paper at Versailles.
The plain truth —-and it is admitted by every
Constitutionalist —is that to all intents and pur-
poses Australia is already an independent nation.
We are already free, just as we were free in 1914 ;
and not even an irruption of Reds or a nice little
pogrom among Cocked Hats could make us freer.
For, when you eliminate rhetoric and get down to
bedrock, just what would we gain by severing our
connection with the Crown and the Imperial Parlia-
ment? What advantage, political or economic,
would we gain if we threw off our allegiance or
made some other change that amounts to the same
thing?
I can think of none. An Australian myself, I
have a strong objection to being dominated by a
tyrannical Imperial Government, and the moment
British statesmen begin to interfere with my liberty
I shall howl in chorus with Mr. Dalley. But Brit-
ish interference with the rights of Australians ceased
a few decades before I began to take an active in-
terest in politics: it is Mr. Dalley, and not I, who
is ’way back in the clamor and the agitation of the
’seventies. I, like most other young Australians
who are not biased against the British Govern-
ment by the Irish question or some other grievance
which does not affect the status of Australia, ani
quite satisfied with an arrangement which offers
all the advantages of complete independence without
any of its dangers.
That we do enjoy these advantages even Mr.
Dalley admits. After stating that Colonial Gov-
ernors no longer exercise the right of refusing the
royal assent —an admission which destroys what
seems to be his only grievance—he goes on: —
Meanwhile we have achieved all the other charac-
teristics of a sovereign state. We have a navy and
an army; we impose tariffs against Britain as well
as against foreigners; we declare war, and having
done so, send our own divisions, disciplined, despite
British protests, according to our own ideas.
Just so. We govern ourselves in any eccentric
fashion that pleases us without encountering the
slightest opposition. In Australia and several places
outside it we do,just what we like; we discriminate
against British manufacturers to help our own; and
if we passed a bill to depose George and make Billy
king, British Ministers would probably do nothing
more than confide to each other in terms of well-,
bred moderation that there’s no accounting for
tastes.
Mr. Dalley concludes with the lament that,
though Japan is represented at Washington, Aus-
tralia is ignored by Harding because she is mili-
tarily weak. “The moral,” he says, “is evident. If
Australians ever mean to have a say in world
affairs this side of the Millennium, they must pay
for it.” Mr. Dalley overlooks the fact that Aus-
tralia is represented at Washington. A man does
not necessarily lose his regard for Australia because
he is supported by the rest of the Empire and forms
part of the Imperial team. Mr. Dalley likewise
overlooks the problem that confronted Harding,
which was this: If the Dominions were represented
as separate nations, were they also to be represented
by the Imperial delegation ? Since they could
scarcely have it both ways, separate representation
for the Dominions would have involved a rather
tactless assumption that the British Empire had
gone the same way as the Holy Roman Empire and
had ceased to exist as a political unit.
To sum up, I contend (1) that we are now inde-
pendent as regards everything that matters; (2)
that the thin link which connects us with Britain
and the rest of the Empire cannot be strained any
further without snapping; and (3) that any altera-
tion in our status from real to formal independence
would automatically end the Empire and deprive
the Dominions of the privilege of collective bargain-
ing with foreign Powers. When touching on this
last point Mr. Dalley overlooked the most vital
fact of all —the fact that Australia does have a say
in those international affairs which concern her
without having to pay the dreadful price in blood
and treasure that would be expected if, without the
assistance of Britain, she followed Mr. Dalley’s
advice and spent, say, £100,000,000 a year on an
army and navy (for which the soldiers and sailors
would mostly have to be imported), in order that
she might contend with the 70 millions of Japan
and the 100 millions of America for a place at the
Conference tables of the world.
- ♦
Rose-leaves and Mud.
Nothing fails like failure, and George
Fuller’s inability to carry on the Ma State
Government without a majority has brought
down on his head the enthusiastic curses of
those who have been loudest in urging him
to turn the Dooley crowd out. The un-
happy man has been blamed for Governor
Davidson’s refusal to grant him a dissolu-
tion, for the split in the Progressive party,
and for the one-day secession of the Nation-
alist Bagnall, whose incomprehensible an-
tics on the Tuesday and Wednesday furnish
a powerful argument for the recall. But Ful-
ler is only answerable for his own conduct,
and not for the acts of other men. It is
bad enough to be blamed for missing the bus
without being morosely censured for starting
a street fight and not knocking down the
policeman on point duty. Fuller’s posi-
tion was essentially M T eak. At the outset he
had to arrange a coalition or working agree-
ment with a group which had hitherto been
hostile, and an important section of which
remained unfriendly. That accomplished,
after a fashion, he still had only 45 votes in
a House of 90 'members, and one of the 45
belonged to the man who, for upwards of a
year, had preserved the Labor Government
by sitting in the Speaker’s chair. Failing to
get a Speaker from the other side, Fuller
had to fall back on the obliging Levy, ana
that left him in a minority of one. Refused
a dissolution, his Government fell, as it was
bound to fall in the circumstances; if it
hadn’t resigned, seven hours after its ap-
pointment, it must have been defeated sooner
or later, in all probability the same
day. Manifestly Fuller isn’t much of
a tactician. But it is unfair to casti-
gate him for the consequences of the
Governor’s strange departure from precedent.
Had that imported functionary followed the
usual practice of acting on the advice of
those who had become his Ministers after
the previous Government had lost its majo-
rity and the Cabinet-making possibilities of
the House had been exhausted, the people
who are showering mud on Fuller would
be pelting him with rose-leaves. In any case,
the Opposition leader’s course of action has
made an early election inevitable. The
Dooley Government, as its offer to make
Bagnall Speaker shows, is desperately
anxious to hang on, but it will have to go
to the country in March or April. Before
that happens the Nationalists will require
to get rid of persons like Bagnall, and the
Progressives of the personal and sectional
animosities which impede their co-operation
with the other wing of the Opposition, if
the Ma State is to be saved from the ruin-
ous. policy of McGirr. It shouldn’t be
necessary to remind the Progressives that
the man they ran for Parramatta lost his
deposit. That was a plain warning that
their party’s range is limited, and that
without an understanding with the
Nationalists (they have nothing in com-
mon with the crowd that calls itself
Labor, and, anyhow, that party is flatly
opnosed to alliances) they can do nothing.
The Westralian section of the Cocky party
made this discovery years ago. Brilliantly
successful at first, it saw in the long run
that it would never be powerful enough to
support a Ministry of its own, so it entered
into a coalition with the Nationalists.
There is no hard-and-fast agreement,
nor even a promise to Ministers of
immunity from opposition at the polls.
The coalesced groups cheerfully run
candidates against one another, the
understanding being that each is to be repre-
sented in the Ministry in proportion to its
numbers. Superficially considered, there
never was a looser alliance, but it began in
1917, has stood the test of two hard elec-
tions, and looks like lasting for a decade, for
there is general agreement that it has
worked well for both the farmers and the
State. If the Cocky parties in the Com-
monwealth, Victoria, N. S. Wales and
Queensland are prudent they will follow the
example of their Westralian brethren. Other-
wise they will inevitably share the common
fate that descends on third parties when the
people find out that they are too weak
to govern on their own account and too sel-
fish and mischievous to let others govern.
Governors, Politicians and Jobs.
The low comedy which was staged last week
in N. S. Wales Assembly indicated, amongst
other things, how hard it is going to be
for the electors of any of the States to get
their sub-Governors off their backs. Through
all the Jack-in-the-box performances of
Danny Levy, through the cursings of Bag-
nall, the apologetics of the Progressives and
the soft solder of Dooley, not a word came
from anywhere in criticism of his Ex. It
was left to the Age to say, later on, what
every M.L.A. of discrimination must have
been thinking all the time. It is a matter
of preserving what the politicians call State
Rights, but what the taxpayers know to be
lucrative political jobs. The position bears
an interesting resemblance to that which
existed in England when the economical-re-
form movement began. The imported Gov-
ernor, with his little Court, not only justi-
fies but makes inevitable a thousand tradi-
tional pomps and ceremonies which mean
billets; and he acts also as a foundation on
which a superstructure of departments rests.
If the N. S. Wales taxpayer exists who does
not understand already the marked eager-
ness to shield the Governor’s office from
criticism which is a feature of all the Par-
liamentary parties, he will get a useful hint
bv turning up Burke’s great speech on
Economical Reform. This passage, in par-
ticular :
Very few but will feel the smart of a cutting
reform in some close relation, some bosom friend,
some pleasant acquaintance, some dear protected
dependant. Emolument is taken from some ; patron-
age from others; objects of pursuit from all.
The English people wanted reform 140 years
ago, as the N. S. Wales public wants it to-
day ; they wanted the sinecure jobs and the
opportunities for the exercise of patronage
at their expense abolished. But the
British Parliament stood in the way
then, as the N. S. Wales Assembly
is doing now. Needless to say the 18th-
century legislators and officials whose emolu-
ments, close relations and bosom friends
Mere threatened had all sorts of edifying
reasons to give, based on their love of coun-
try and loyalty to the throne, why they
should be left as they were; and Burke
and his friends went down. So is it going to
be in such States as N. S. Wales for a long


Ti e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA 11 *?!?
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND. Managing Director.
time to come. It looks, indeed, as though
the burdened Australian elector has a better
chance of relief, so far as the State Governor
foolery is concerned, from the English tax-
gatherers than from his own representatives,
whether the latter call themselves Labor or
Liberal.
The Work-Stoppers.
The Mataram was about to sail last week
for a number of ports where its contents
are badly wanted, when a Christmas spirit
entered into the firemen and the vessel was
held up by a demand for three extra trim-
mers. The Seamen’s Union officials pro-
mised, after the last great upheaval, that the
men would break agreements ip this fashion
no more, but the promise has been treated
in the same old casual fashion, and in the
teeth of the provisions of the Navigation
Act —a measure devised by a Labor Govern-
ment with a view to making the Australian
seaman, if possible, the best-treated and most
contented mariner on earth. This law
couldn’t, of course, provide the man at sea
with the female society or the amusements
or the wide spaces available ashore; still, it
was an extraordinarily comprehensive effort.
Unfortunately a new order of leaders arose,
represented by Tom Walsh, who made it
clear that their object was not the redress
of grievances in the ordinary sense, but the
destruction of industry, with a view to the
destruction of society and its replacement by
something unspecified, with themselves on
top. In short, the world was their grievance.
Their chief spokesman boldly sketched a
campaign for the breakage of all promises
and agreements-—a campaign of petty,
malevolent insult and mean torments. As
the Navigation Act doesn’t provide for the
destruction of society it isn’t likely that it
would insure peace even if it was made
twice as liberal as it is, supposing such a.
thing were possible. That is to say, it
would not insure peace while the teaching
of revolution and ' the destruction of the
people’s self-governing rights is
not only a permissible occupation, but leads
to notoriety and political preferment. The
position now is this. Any crowd of ship-
men have a right to refuse their services
unless supplied with extra firemen, or a
brass band, or a portable theatre, or any-
thing else, including a chaplain. But there
is included a demand for the right to prevent
other men manning the ships, these being
vessels that are run in conformity with the
people’s law; and to deprive the owners and
the public of the use of the ships; and to
isolate a great part of the Commonwealth,
and obstruct its progress, and reduce the
inhabitants to great misery. This ought to
amount to conspiracy, and the gaols are not
so crowded, especially in the long-sentence
section, that the people must be denied all
protection and every sort of justice.
The Hun’s New Year.
Having created a neat camouflage of pov-
erty by making such an extraordinary paper
issue that it had to depreciate and produce
a semblance of dire poverty, the Hun an-
nounces that he is a broken reed, and that
no indemnity money can be collected from
him for so long that it is hardly worth
hoping for and not in the least worth wait-
ing for. Germany was the first country to
make a big saving by cutting out its navy,
most of its army, and a terrace of colonies
which were sinks for the public wealth. The
trifles it has paid for the army-of-occupation
and some other contributions have probably
been recovered twice over by these economies.
Then it got to work at full speed, for its
factories were intact while those of Belgium,
Northern France, Poland, Serbia and North-
ern Italy were largely ruins and are still
under repair. The German is no sluggish
toiler, and he waded in to achieve the indus-
trial conquest of the world while his rivals
cleared away wreckage. The country lacks
the customary signs which explain away a
frantic issue of paper—especially
£5,500,000,000 nominal value of paper.
These signs may be civil war. famine, plague,
want of work —U>ev were all missing. The
Hun, who knows all the tricks of the game,
suggests a painted stage consumptive got up
to appeal for sympathy. A really brutal
set of Allies who said that, failing cash, they
would take out their ton of flesh in destruc-
tion, might collect better.
The Old Game of Consequences.
Smith, the official pearl of great price who
publishes N. S. Wales’s statistics monthly,
quarterly, annually and between times when
the spirit moves him. has brought his labors
up to the close of September. 1921 ; and if
Dooley is wise he will see that the report
is lost before he goes to the country. To
begin with, Smtttt traces 10.500 unemployed
known to the Director of the State Labor
Exchange, and the number who see no par-
’ticulnr advantage in being known to him is
indefinite. Yet the Doot.ey Government
spent over four millions more out of revenue
and six millions more out of loans in the
year to June, 1921, than were spent in the
year before. In the course of its efforts it
ran the total State debt up to £164,336,492
and the interest rate up to £4 Bs. sd. per
cent. Taxation (State, as distinct from
Federal and Local Government) was 40s.
2d. per head in 1918, 41s. 7d. in 1919, 48s.
Bd. in 1920 (Dooley reigned part of that
year) and 70s. 9d. in the year to June,
1921 (that was all Dooley). During last
year that unseemly jest, the payment to
sinking fund, was cut down from 1691 fi-
lm reduction of a debt of £152,776,082) to
£2566 (to undermine a debt of £164,336,492).
In 1914 the Holman Government, profess-
ing to think it was running the war and
firing off big guns with its own hands in
Flanders, diverted the bulk of the sinking-
fund payments, which were small enough
to be ridiculous in any case, to its own pur-
poses. The final grab, which reduced the
payment to about the hundredth of a farth-
ing in the pound, showed that the smallest
aids to the Dooley exchequer were thank-
fully received. And not only did the debt
grow horribly fast, but it became much more
a foreign debt. The need for gold in Lon-
don to pay interest (this country’s tons of
paper not being worth one penny per pound
there) explains that, of course: practically
all London borrowing is to pay London in-
terest nowadays. Smith’s case at this point-
emphasises up-to-date Labor’s pathetic depen-
dence on the private capitalist. More than
THE MISERY OF JONATHAN DIVES.
“Despite the unparalleled accumulation of gold In the country Industry of all kinds In the United
States is suffering from intense depression. The fall in exports is phenomenal. Large shipments of
gold continue to be received.”
ever does this individual own, as bond-
holder and preference creditor, and more
than ever is he urged to own, all the State’s
so-called public activities. He owns most
of its new passivities also, such as schools
and parks and drains. Everything is his,
from the bobtailed little “State” fish-shop
to the new surface on the Parramatta-road,
and Labor has no ambition that it should
be otherwise. And the capitalist owns pri-
vate activities also. If he didn’t there would
be none; for co-operative enterprise among
the labor unions, if it ever existed, is as
dead as Lot’s saline wife. Naturally, the
deeper the State got into debt the more
eager some people were to get out of it
and quit their liability. In 1920. which
was mostly Dooley, the Ma State’s usual
gain of population by excess of arrivals over
departures grew very thin. In the first half
of 1921 which was all Doot.ey. evifs were
more than entrances by over 6000. Yet,
despite this relief and all the spendings,
the Federal Statistician reported that the
unemrfioved unionists of New South Wales,
who had been a very steady 50 or 55 per
1000 under the previous regime, had rushed
up to 137 per 1000. The country felt the
pinch of the new conditions first and hardest,
because the country can’t “pass on” in-
creased costs like the city can —its products
have to compete in the markets of the world.
So, naturally again, population gravitated
towards the city. The house-building statis-
tics soon showed what was happening. Dur-
ing the first nine months of 1921 there were
6268 new buildings put up in the
Ma State. Of these 4044 were in
Sydney and its inner suburbs; 622
in nine outer-suburban towns within
a 26-mile radius ; and another 566 were in
Newcastle. Positively more houses tumbled
down in the country than were erected. In-
cidentally, and as casting light on other
problems, the versatile Smith goes into the
matter of prices. The quoted prices of the
hundred chief necessities of life, added up, in
July, 1920, came to 2698 —pounds or pence
or shillings, according to the quantity one
chose to buy. In October, 1921, the slump-
of-the-world had brought the value of the
same hundred articles down to 1795. Boots,
wheat ironware, meat, metals, ships, clothes
—all fetched less. But the Dooley Govern-
ment, struggling in a morass of so-called
philanthropy, tried to decree off its own bat
that wages should remain up and rise fur-
ther. Obviously it couldn’t be done; where-
fore the principal N. S. Wales industries
that announced their temporary or perma-
nent closure just before Christmas included
the Clyde Engineering Works (1000 men),
the Waratah Steel Works (4000 men), three
condensed-milk factories and the Mount
Lyell coke works at Port Ivembla (partial
closure). The milk foundries belong to the
Nestle people, and did an export trade as
well as a local one. The new regulations
as to hours and conditions put up costs till
it was impossible to compete abroad with
cheap and benighted foreign Cow-owners, so
the export business fell away. The iron
works were struck not so much by wages as
by statutory loafing. The 44-hours week
in place of 48 hours took one-twelfth off the
output (sometimes more) and nothing off
the expenses, so if an entire twelfth of the
takings didn’t happen to be profit the break-
age came. Judges and politicians said “Give
the idea a trial.” But. then, Judges ard poli-
ticians are not the people who are hungry
if the experiment is a disastrous failure;
which is why can afford to deal with
this matter in such an airy fashion.
“Henry Horsecollar” is historical: —
If by any chance its Dominion status, should
begin officially on May 1 Ireland’s breaking-out of
the empire will be just 215 years after Scotland’s
breaking in. Two centuries ago Scotland enjoyed
the Dominion status that Newfoundland has and
Ireland wants. It had a share in the King and a
Parliament of its own —a sort of Parliament, any-
how, for Scotland never ran to a permanent House
of Commons. The English Parliament at London
decided the foreign and colonial policy of both
countries. Also it had the right to make tariffs
ag'ainst Scotland and Scotland against it. But ths
Scot didn’t value his share of the privilege, saying
that if the tariff wall was broken down he could
run over the effete Englishman.. After some valiant
but unsuccessful attempts to establish colonies of
his own the Scot demanded a share in the business —
a full partnership, which is the thing that Ireland
has so long been fighting to get rid of. He was
willing to take a lot of chances of the Englishman
trying to govern him provided he got a shot at
the congenial job of governing the Englishman.
The fact that England had done most of the heavy
work of acquiring the bits of colonies didn’t strike
Angus McParritch as any reason for England’s
monopoly. The Highlands showed little interest;
but, all the same, Scotland girded up its kilt —not
a lengthy garment at any time—and, despite the
bitter opposition of English Toryism, which hated
to share anything, it arrived with both feet. Scot-
land, instead of being a Tasmania, which is Ireland’s
ambition, set out to own a lot of Tasmanias. And
now if anybody tried to prise the Scot away from his
share in big imperial affairs he would find it
couldn’t be done with a crowbar.
One result of pampering the proprietary-
racing interest is that small, horsey persons
who appear to have graduated in totes and
two-up schools drift into the habit of thinking
that they are above the law. Australia got
an illustration of this in the Jekger case, and
another example has cropped up in Queens-
land. Hitherto the Theodore Ministry has
been extremely kind to Wren and his imi-
tators, but when an announcement was made
that night-racing was to be started in (Joor-
paroo, a suburb of Brisbane, without the
formality of asking the Government’s con-
sent, it put its foot down. Thereupon the
crowd behind the noxious venture bluster-
ingly declared that it was going to race, Gov-
ernment or no Government. “Very well,”
replied M111..n, the Attorney-General, “the
Government will now take over the Ooorpa-
roo electric-light works, and you will have
to come along to us for the current you won’t
get.” He added, with a certain grim humor,
that the works would be expropriated under
the Sugar Acquisition Act. That settled
the argument, and Brisbane, which has more
troubles than it can deal with, will be spared
the additional infliction of night-racing. Also,
the Theodore Government has one good deed
to set against the multitude of entries on the
debit side of the ledger.
——— ♦
Joseph Carrttthers and the rest of
the Million Farmers have discovered 10
million acres of the kind of soil that
Paradise is made of, all but 400,000
acres being in Joseph’s own State
of N. S. Wales, and the rest in Victoria, and
all ready to have billions of loan money,
raised on the credit of all Australia, spent
on it at a moment’s notice. As well as being
situated in the States that are least in need
of population, this new-found-land is strongly
recommended as eminently suited for the low-
wage product that Australia is least in need
of —wheat. Still, 400,000 acres are said to
be fit for irrigation, and the complete feasi-
bility of a scheme for irrigating hundreds of
thousands of acres is supposed to be mani-
fested by the fact that the United States has,
in the long course of years, irrigated as much
and was lately talking of a 3,000,000-acre
scheme. The work wasn’t done out of costly
public loans, however, which is one differ-
ence ; some of the cost came out of land-sale
revenue, and much was private capital which
was simply written off in the Bankruptcy
Court if things went wrong. Then no heroic
ass in the U.S. proposed irrigation as a sub-
stitute for manufactures, or as a means to
raise food for a precarious foreign market
two continents away. The U.S. first grew
manufacturing towns —lots of them and
then, having provided the sure market, pro-
ceeded to supply it.
Now that Mclver, Vic. Inspector-General
of Prisons, has recommended drastic re-
forms, the Lawson Government, which
ignored the Dickson-Cohen-Anderson _ re-
port, will find itself forced to do something.
Abolition of Pentridge is advised by Mclver
on the ground that it. is obsolete, but as the
building of the new prison he advocates, would
■take years he asks for the remodelling of
the Coburg gaol to serve till the new one is
ready. He wants (1) indeterminate-sen-
tence men shifted from Pentridge to Ben-
digo, (2) payment of gratuities to convicts
on a more generous scale, (3) tidal of a
bonus system followed by regular wages as
an inducement to Bill Crook to do more
work of a reproductive kind, (4) a better
status for warders, who, he thinks, should
have higher educational and physical quali-
fications than are now demanded, and. (5)
to be given the same power as the Chief of
Police in appointing, promoting and sacking
warders. The financing of the proposals,
which are n sound lot, should present
no great difficulty. Sale of. the 100
acres at Pentridge for villa sites. would
bring in a big lump of the coin required.


Isn’t it a grand and glorious feeling when
you quench your thirst with a really
satisfying, refreshing drink from a bottle of
T. B.
LIGHT
ALE
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & COMPANY, LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
d
STANDARD
Value for Money, Quality in
Workmanship and Material,
Economy of Upkeep.
Reliability all along the line.
501 Model,
1 0/1 5h.p.,
NEW PRICE:
£650
501 Model,
10/15h.p.
With Italian Body and full equipment including Spare Wheel and Tyre,
BUILT-IN ELECTRIC LIGHTING & SELF-STARTING SYSTEM,
£650 IMMEDIATE DELIVERY. £650
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A LICK McNEIL, General Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In the reconstruction of the Common-
wealth Ministry Hughes, as always happens
on these interesting occasions, looked after
his own. Having never been an official
Liberal Wise could be safely dismissed with-
out offence to that important group, so
Wise was passed out to make room for the
Liberal Bruce. Two National Labor Min-
isters. Russell and Laird Smith, were gently
removed, but places were thoughtfully pro-
vided for two others, Lamond and Earle.
With Poynton transferred to the Postal
Department (it is one of the Priminister’s
bad jokes) and the priceless Pearce to
Home and Territories, the Hughesiliers
have five seats in the Cabinet—-five' out
of. 12. Yet they wouldn’t exist at all but
for the Liberal vote. When their S. Aus. con.
tingent went up against the Libs, at the
State elections it was exterminated to a man,
Hughes must have congratulated himself
scores of times on the ea«e with which he has
pulled the Commonwealth Liberals’ leg.
The N.S.W. Ministry which George Fuller
was fullerish enough to form without know-
ing what was ahead of him lasted seven
hours. Maoriland had a famous Clean-Shirt
Ministry—it lasted out the starched linen
the Premier put on to see the Governor in.
Fuller’s was still more sudden: his was
merely the Clean-Collar Cabinet.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Probably the most surprised man in Hughes's
new Ministry is Alec Poynton; at the beginning of
last week he felt sure the inclusion of Foster
meant his own retirement. Another less pleasantly-
surprised man is Greene. He had well deserved the
Treasurer’s billet; and the promotion over his head
of an untried amateur is supposed to be atoned
for by his own promotion to the sub-leadership of
the party in the Reps. Bruce, the new Treasurer,
won’t be long in the job before he will wish he
wasn’t. Age and Argus have already reminded
him that if he doesn’t curb Hughes’s extravagance
their hopes in him will be dashed. He is also
to lock the safe and swallow the key if any more
wild Socialist schemes are mooted. There' is fur-
ther trouble for him in the Canberra vote. He is
opposed to the Canberra foolishness, but his new
colleague Lamond is one of the maddest supporters
of the project. Lamond unaccountably goes to the
War Service Homes Department. Foster, whose
elevation was the result of a not over-creditable
bargain with an outside organisation, will merely
make loud noises. In view of his recent outburst
Wally Marks will probably relieve the monotony of
being “Parliamentary Under-Sec.’’- —which appa-
rently means the Prime Minister’s menial—by giv-
ing his colleagues Bible instruction. But at pre-
sent he should be kept busy sending soothing cables
to Pearce, who passes to the comparative sinecure
of Minister for Home and Territories. Nobody men-
tioned Watt during the changes. He stayed at
home and formed the opinion that the new crowd
won’t last much longer than the recess.
From the N. S. Wales Gallery:—
Having got Levy out of the Chair, shifted Dooley
on to the Opposition benches, reduced the Assembly
to its old position of 45 all and formed a Ministry,
the Nationalists fell in a disordered heap. Their
object was to get a dissolution and rush the coun-
try into an election. Their only hope of doing either
was to maintain the deadlock, and plans were laid
accordingly. So, when the Assembly met, Fuller
and his crowd sat tight gazing at the empty
chair. Dooley could do nothing but gaze
also. After a long wait Fuller remarked,
“Well, is there any gentleman- in the House
who will offer himself as Speaker?’’ To his
horror one of his crowd rose and said “Yes, I do.’’
He also said many bitter things about the Ministry
and announced his earnest wish to see it smashed
forthwith. It was the lugubrious Bagnall, at one
time a Labor man. Fuller, who had counted on his
side being water-tight, listened like a man paralysed.
Finally Levy was again hustled into the Chair —-this
time by the Fullerites—and went off to tell the
Governor he had been elected again, but only be-
cause there was a deadlock. As this was obviously
absurd, with Bagnall threatening to vote the Minis-
try out, Fuller did not wait for the knock, and only
met the House to say he had resigned—after being
Premier for seven hours. Then the Governor whistled
for Dooley again and told him to carry on. Dooley
rushed back to the Assembly, said he was in favor
of an early election, bludgeoned the estimates for
£1.0,000,000 and loan expenditure for £10,000,000
through at a single sitting, and went into recess
feeling quite happy. The estimates provide for
carrying on until the end of June. An Act—passed
by Holman-Wade —allows a Ministry to appropriate
three months’ supply at the beginning of a financial
year before consulting the Assembly. Thus Dooley
can legally carry on until next September. In other
words, he has nine months in which to dredge for the
psychological moment for a general election.
For 24 hours before George Fuller formed
his Seven-Hour Ministry in N. S. Wales last
week, a fierce struggle went on underground,
the purpose being to induce the Progressive
party to coalesce with the Nationalists. As
the Progressives (most of them farmers, some
of them city lawyers) came into existence by
damning the Nationalists as incompetent
pifilers, the job of persuading them to get into
the Fuller harness demanded skill in laying
THE MAN IN THE SADDLE.—AN IDYLL OF N. S. WALES POLITICS.
the bird-lime. Cunning old Joe .Carruthers
was the director of ceremonies. He easily
caught George Wearne, the Progressive
leader. The lawyer elements were as tame
as magpies. But with more than half the
rest Carruthers blarneyed in vain. Exactly
what was in Joseph’s mind he knows best
himself. But as the job of Agent-General is
vacant —well, as it happens, Carruthers still
has time to talk about those Million Farms
and the way Fuller mulled the ball.
Under the redistribution of N. S. Wales
seats in the House of Reps., the country
loses two electorates —Barrier and Nepean
—and the city gains three —Granville,
Martin and Warringah. All three are pre-
dominantly Nationalist, and if Bowden,
Liberal member for Nepean, can get the
party nomination for either Granville or
Martin, in each of which a large slice of
his old constituency is included, he will be
quite safe. Warringah is carved bodily out
of North Sydney as at present constituted,
and will be a soft snap for some Nationalist.
Portion of Barrier goes into Riverina, J.
M. Chanter’s electorate, but most of it will
swell the alreadv huge bulk of Darling.
Blakeley, the A.W.U. president, represents
Darling, and Considine’s chance of unseat-
ing him —supposing the dispossessed Barrier
Bed goes for the nearest thing on the map
—is remote.
The trains are running to Bombala at last,
bringing that fertile but empty spot within
320 miles of -Sydney. It is also within 50
or 60 miles of its own good port of Twofold
Bay, but no railway communication except
with the One Big City is allowed. The
Bombala line is an extension of a branch
which has been in existence for 37 years, and
the further it has gone the more it has lost.
Fifteen years ago or so, when the farmer paid
no Federal land- or income-tax and the cost
of living was less, people were leaving Monaro
because they had lost hope that the city
would let them use their own port, and Syd-
ney was too remote and expensive. The
railway will probably fetch away the rem-
nant. Then it can pull itself up and bring
itself away.
Joseph Carruthers, of the Million Farms,
is screening films now showing the l'ife y of
the happy raisin-fancier in the Murray Val-
ley. Expounding this he states: —
Mildura 30 years ago supported one sheep to every
30 acres. To-day, on the seme area, over 20,000
persons are producing annually £1,500,000 worth
of produce, and last year .t,he production per capita
amounted to £76.
Assuredly such production is a pleasant thing.
Yet it seems that, after all, the earnings of
the orthodox house-father at Mildura are
only £228 per annum —not a very stunning
basic wage, seeing that the farmer is >a land-
owner, with money invested, and land-taxes,
municipal rates and irrigation rates to pay.
Nor is there any proof that there is room for
an unlimited number of Milduras any more
than there is for a dozen Commonwealth
Banks —especially if they are based on loan
money at 7 p.c. and upwards.
While it had the chance Labor managed
things better in Darwin than it did in Syd-
ney. There are 900 ratable properties on
the Darwin Council list, b-t only 173 names
on the roll. In some cases two or three
electors have votes as owners of one block,
and two or three others are enrolled as occu-
piers of the same block. The mayor has a
vote as occupier of a vacant block; his
wife has a vote as owner of the same
block. The land whereon the A.W.U. office
stands has four owners and two occupiers,
all with votes. But the blocks on which
are the Catholic presbytery, the Methodist
manse and the Anglican rectory, though
ratable, have neither owners nor occupiers,
according to the roll. Polling was con-
ducted on the Hare-Spence system, and the
Labor candidates won hands down. They
couldn’t help it.
On another load of trouble for the elector:
Ma State’s Leg. Council dealt tenderly with Kid
McTiernan’s Parliamentary Elections Bill. True, it
declined to gratify the Kid’s thirst for information
as to who writes the political pars and articles and
boggled at enfranchising the inmates of charitable
institutions, aboriginals included (McTiernan wanted
to wrap a voting-paper round sick Binghi’s tea and
tobacco), but otherwise the measure went through
pretty much as it was drafted. It provides for com-
pulsory enrolment, but not for compulsory voting.
Proportional representation is retained, but, instead
of having to vote in the order of his preference for
all the candidates, the elector will be allowed to
stop at three in three-member constituencies and
five in those with five members. Failure to declare
for at least three or five, as the case may be, will
invalidate the ballot-paper, although the elector
may go on to exercise as many preferences as there;
are candidates. All authorities on proportional repre-
sentation are agreed that only one vote should be
obligatory. If an elector is satisfied with one
representative when he may have three it is nobody’s
business but his own. But the people who intro-
duced the system into the Mm State didn’t under-
stand it. Neither do .the crowd who have been try-
ing to patch it up. And no provision has been
made for the filling of casual vacancies other than
the barbarous method which broke down so con-
spicuously when a nominee member died and was
replaced by another nominee who had never even
stood for election.
Feeling that it had been remiss in letting
milk legislation go by the board on the morn-
ing the session closed, the Lawson Govern-
ment (Vic.) is tightening up regulations
and stretching its administrative powers
under existing laws to secure a pure milk-
supply for infants during the critical summer
months. It has sought the co-operation of
wholesalers, retailers, departmental chiefs
and doctors, and has received promises
galore.. But promises cost nothing, whereas
infractions of a thoroughly adequate Pure
Food Act come expensive.
Knowing it hadn’t Buckley’s chance in
the session just closed, Peacock didn’t put
much heart into the exposition of the amend-
ing Factories Bill he placed before the Vic.
Assembly. One clause opened the way for
trade-union sees, to serve on Wages Boards,
but as against that there was a clause giving
employers power to fix piecework rates to
a greater extent than at present. When
Labor emitted the customary yell. Peacock
pointed out that the slow worker would still
get the minimum wage-rate, but the quick,
deft, industrious chap would be able to
make more. The Uppah Chambah, as well
as the Assembly, might have mauled the
bill had it been sent up precipitately, so
it was wrapped up and put away.
At the moment when the story-writers and
others of Australia were trying vainly to
persuade the National Government to give
them some. Protection, Canadian literary
men were starting a campaign to .prevent
the. Dominion being snowed under by publi-
cations from the South. The main trouble is
that U.S. literature “caters for‘American’ sen-
timent ; it glorifies .qualities vdiieh are sup-
posed to be typically ‘American.’ Read in
almost every Canadian household, it is hav-
ing the effect of gradually breaking down
our Canadianism; it is propaganda of the
most dangerous and insidious type.” And
that is an aspect Which Australia wall have
to consider, too. Our nationalism isn’t so
robust that it hasn’t already been affected
by Yankee pictures, for instance.
The 100 hands or so at the condensed-
milk factory at Windsor (N.S.W.) were given
the sack as a Christmas present. It isn’t
necessary to look far for the cause of the
trouble, when a local storekeeper says that
he can buy condensed milk brought from
Victoria for 3s. 6d. less per case .than the
local article. The more money that is
borrowed and wasted in N. S. Wales and
the higher the consequent taxation, the surer
it is that outside suppliers will be able to
undersell N. S. Wales industries; and as
overhead charges are higher (because of
heavier taxation), in the end N. S. Wales
industries will not be able to pay even
the same wages as the outside and less
heavily weighted competitor. That is the
bog into which the current N. S. Wales Labor
policy is inevitably leading its supporters.
Hughes’s colleagues never know their
chief’s mind. Two or three days before the
recent reshuffle the fact that a certain Minis-
ter was to “resign” was known outside, and
the victim himself had a suspicion that
something was brewing, but lie was kept in
suspense until the day before the reconstruc-
tion, when he was practically dismissed by a
note from his tactful chief.
Something will really have to be done to
impossibilise these constant rows over the
N. S. Wales Speakership—rows that have
lasted more or less ever since Willis was in-
veigled into the chair. There is really no reason
why the Speaker should be a member at all.
In'fact, since he to a great extent disfran-
chises his district, there are good reasons
why he shouldn’t be a member. If he were
a civil servant he could be utilised for copy-
ing letters or something during recess. Or.
seein<r that police officers have to retire at
60. when most of them are quite able-bodied,
the job might be reserved for superannuated
serareants. They have had really excellent
training for it.
The A.N.A. chieftains in Vic. are begin-
ning to feel fidgety about the punch of their
organisation. They don’t exactly admit that
it is gone, but acknowledge that people
are not taking so much notice as they
did. The half-million or more of funds are
to blame. It is easier to pass through the
eye of a camel than have half-a-million and
not be “respectable.”
1921.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Weary 1921
Folds his hands ; his work is done.
Wrought he ill or wrought he well V
Only the children years can tell ;
But, lower than we think or higher
In fame and praise, he was a trier.
At least he dreamed that war should cease
And raised aloud his voice for peace;
He gripped old Freedom by the hand
And led her steps to Ireland;
But left the introductions due
To brother 1922.
He had some broad ideas and kind
Of world-reform upon his mind;
But, talking much of this and that,
Still kept his plans beneath his hat,
Content to walk from day to day
Much in his great-grandfather’s way.
He grew potatoes, grain and beer
As well as any average year;
He painted, sang and loved as well
As years whose praise the histories tell.
Though little prone to quip or joke,
YV’e class him as a decent bloke.
Vale; 1921!
Fold his hands, his work is done.
In the written page of Man
They may mark him “also ran”
Or lift his praise a little higher
And set him down a splendid trier.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


THE REVELLERS.
“The recent motion for the reduction of members’ salaries caused considerable hilarity in the House of Reps.”
HUGHES
CHARLTON
EARLE PAGE
“Hoots, mon, but it’s been a braw, bricht, moonlicht nicht the nicht.”


\W\
m
m
w\ B
COSMOS
®rs
1C
w
r/
\\\ss^
Xs^////
co.. 'ltd
PirCTKIOU I I I I I t
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
APE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
2lEli3db6>HlSh
Melbourne
304-Kenh 5h
Sudnpu
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS, 1905:
£5,758,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1915:
£11,890,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1921:
£18,400,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1921, £1,940,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
State Accident Insurance Office of
Victoria :— *
June, Revenue. Outgoings. To Reserves. Reserves.
1915.. £27,546 £7,837 £19,709 £19,709
1916.. 25,951 17,791 8,160 27,869
1917.. 26,922 19,393 7,529 35,398
Bonus distributed . . £7,506 27,8 f 2
1918.. 28,200 19,498 8,702 36,594
1919.. 29,649 22,597 7,052 43,646
1920. . 33,754 26,775 6,979 50,625
Bonus distributed .. £lO,OBO 40,545
1921.. 40,640 33,448 7,192 47,737
Judging by the experience of this office most
Vic. employers do not object to the profits
which Private Enterprise makes out of work-
ers’ compensation insurance; anyhow, they
have not rushed this State office to have their
business handled at cost price. In Victoria
the taking out of a policy to protect labor
is obligatory, but the Act does not demand
that the policy shall be a State one. This
office was established to give the employer
an opportunity of placing his insurances in
a quarter where the services would be under-
taken at a minimum cost. Insurance-com-
missioner Ilolmes reduced the rates on sev-
eral occasions until by 1918 he decided that
they had been got dpwn to bedrock. Never-
theless, last year he found £lO,OBO available
for bonuses, representing 11.4 p.c. rebate on
the previous three years’ premiums. But
notwithstanding the cutting of premiums and
the bonuses thereon the State Accident Office
has not grown very rapidly, though because
of the reduced tariffs the increase of policies
is very much greater than the growth of
income would suggest. The last bonus, how-
ever, attracted a fair amount of new busi-
ness during the past 12 months. This com-
parison gives further details :
Net Premiums. Claims. Expenses.
1917 .. £26,249 £13,976 £5417
1918 .. 27,426 14,251 5247
1919 . . 28,650 17,567 5030
1920 .. 32,473 21,411 5364
1921 . . 39,363 26,864 6584
One feature of that table is the growth of
claims. For 1918 losses took 52 p.c. of net
premiums, and, after rates had been cut, 61
p.c. for 1919. The figures moved to 66 p.c.
in 1920, and for the past year went to 68
p.c. Meantime, the Commissioner has got
the expense-rate down in this way: 1918,
19 p.c. of net premiums ; 1919, 17 p.c. ; 1920,
16.5 p.c.; 1921, 16.7 p.c. Business is thus
handled at low cost, though not quite so
cheaply as by the Vic. Chamber of Manu-
factures Insurance, which is in the favorable
position of having a trade organisation to
facilitate its operations.
In most proprietary offices losses of more
than two-thirds of the premium income would
give very little, if any, margin of profit; but
owing to iow exes, the Vic. State office last
year was able to show an underwriting profit
of almost 15.3 p.c. (?=,£5915). Interest earn-
ings contributed £l2Bl. so nearly £7200 was
added to reserves. The Commissioner, by
the way, suffers a disadvantage in the mat-
ter of investments. At least half his funds
are at the Treasury, and as no information
is given as to the asset “General reserve fund,
£26,000,” it also may be in the same place.
Anyhow, on average assets of £54,800 last
year’s interest represented a return of only
2| p.c. From that point of view the Vic.
Government is not giving its own insurance
enterprise a fair run with its hefty competi-
tors. A strange anomaly is that recently
the Treasury has been favorably regarding
a proposal that it should hold portion of the
funds of a new proprietary life office and
allow more than double that interest. The
State office now has reserves of £4 7 - 7 3 T
equal to 122 p.c. of last year’s net premiums,
so it appears to be in a sound condition to
meet all obligations without falling back on
the State guarantee.
The Fourth Victoria Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne)
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1910. . £11,988 8 p.c.— £6,241 £3824 £1,923 £38.614
1911.. 11,026 8 „ „ 6,330 1724 2,972 41,586
1912.. 27,886 8 „ ~ 6.705 1000 20.181 61,767
1913.. 20,206 8- „ „ 9,912 1757 8,537 70,304
1914.. 20,550 8 „ „ 10,006 2034 8.510 78,814
1915; . 21,034 8 „ „ 9,747 3248 8,0.39 86,853
1916.. 18,298 8 ~ „ 9,359 1809 7,130 93,983
1917.. 17,953 8 „ ~ 9,302 2336 6,315 100,298
1918.. 18,082 8 „ „ 9,318 2318 6,446 106,744
1919.. 20,931 8 „„ 9,513 11.418 118.162
1920.. 36,009 10 „ ~14.660 21,349 139.511
1921.. 30,720 10 „„ 16,935 13,785 153,296
The 1920 profits benefited by £6569 from
the unloading of old foreclosed properties
at prices m excess of presumably written-
down book values. But that source of profit
has now entirely dried up; the past year
opened with only £lOO worth of properties
in possession, and they have since been got
rid of at a loss of £l2. The return from
building-society operations during the past
12 months was £l3OO better than for the
previous year. To provide a 10 p.c. div.
only a little more than half of the disclosed
profits was required, an exceptional per-
formance for a building society. But this
one has had an extraordinary career. It
was not altogether a derelict after the ’nine-
ties trouble; and having survived with a
few bad scratches its management developed
a faith in the future and made a hobby of
collecting the down-and-outs of the business.
In this way the Lygon, Premier, South Mel-
bourne, City of Prahran, Planet, Economic
and Melbourne Permanent were acquired.
The co.’s faith in a recovery was so well
founded that, after having paid 8 p.c. divs.
since 1909 and 10 p.c. for the past two years,
when the last of the foreclosures disappeared
recently reserves had benefited by. £116,600
in 12 years. There is now £153,296 in re-
serves ; permanent paid capital is £115,070.
That relationship between capital and total
funds explains the ease with which the 10
p.c. distributions are now made.
The management is still feeling confident
that the building society future is good.
Extensive new business is therefore being
written: two years ago £601,968 was out
on mortgage; at October 31, £847,698. It
required pluck to build up the borrowing
connection on that scale in abnormal times;
but the directors declare that they have ad-
vanced on conservative lines, and that, any-
how, having such large reserves the Society
can “face with equanimity any likely fall in
values.” No loan, they declare, is at present
causing any anxiety. Still some of the new
business might prove troublesome if a set-
back were experienced in the near future;
it will become safer after a few more repay-
ments have flowed in. A survey of the
balance-sheets over many years provides
these comparisons:—
1900. 1914. 1920. 1921.
£ £ £ £
Permanent capital 72,741 115,046 115,070 115,070
Investing capital. . 28,003 10,344 31,561 113,429
Deposits, etc. . . 74,334 435,809 441,971 514,109
Advances, etc. . . 89,345 542,427 679,851 847,698
Foreclosed proper-
ties . . . . 49,935 1,358 100 Nil'
Other freeholds .. 44,478 103,666 40,296 40,349
Cash, etc 2,479 17,925 20,450
To secure funds for its mortgage business
the co. has gone outside for a lot of new
money; but the management has found it
“increasingly difficult to obtain deposits at
sufficiently low rates to be remunerative.”
During the year £72,000 more deposits were
got in; in addition £81,868 was raised by an.
issue of terminating shares which will
mature during the current financial year,
and the management has under consideration
a proposal to issue permanent shares to re-
place them. At October 31 the society had
permanent capital and reserves totalling
£279,548. Including the terminating shares
and mortgage on premises £628,949 was
owing to outsiders. So there were assets
with a book value of 28s. lOd. to protect
every £ that was owing. Of the £908,497 of
assets £847,698 was advances. If the co.
did strike trouble nearly one-third of the
book value of mortgages would have to dis-
appear before depositors or holders of ter-
minating shares need worry about the safety
of their investment.
St. Joseph’s Investment and Bxjieding
Society (Sydney) :
Nominal
Business Profit To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits, on Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1911. . £6,485 £1220 5 p.c. = £2858 £4847 £19,559
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 10,030
1912.. 6,885 1056 5 p.c. = 3335 4606 14,636
Assets writteii up, £6OOO .. .. 20,636
1913.. 9,134 571 5 p.c. = 3335 6370 27,006
Reserves transferred to capital, £9.529 17,477
1914.. 10,114 2091 5 p.c. = 3812 8393 25,870
1915.. 9,721 824 5 „ „ 3812 6733 32,603
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 23,074
1916.. 9,897 493 5 p.c. = 4289 6101 29,175
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 19,646
Loss.
1917.. 10,301 727 5 p.c. = 4765 4809 24,455
Profit.
1918.. 10,362 1627 6 p.c. = 5718 6271 30,726
1919.. 10,674 430 7 „ „ 6671 4433 35,159
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 41,159
1920. .10,840 2600 10 p.c. = 9531 3909 45,068
1921.. 11,510 1500 10 „ „ 9528 3482 48,550
“Properties in possession, £47,057” still figure
among the assets —an amount equal to almost
half the paid capital. But judging by the
earnings those foreclosures are not an un-
comfortable load to carry. They are evi-
dently mostly, if not wholly, the remnants of
the salvage operations when St. Joe’s crashed
in the bad old days and had £330,000 of debt
which it was unable to repay. After the
wreckage had been sorted out the £lO shares
were written down to £3, but the Society
undertook to repay 20s. in the £ to its credi-
tors, together with 3 p.c. p.a. interest. Down
to 1908 every penny of profit earned went to
fill holes; then a new arrangement was made
with depositors to meet the outstanding
balance of old debt within 20 years. That
enabled the co. to make a fresh start with
building-society operations. But the clean-
up proved easier than had been anticipated :
so by 1916 all the capital previously re-
garded as lost had been replaced and the
div. x-ate has gradually moved from 5 p.c. to
10 p.c., the latter rate having been paid for
the past two years with ease. Entities in the
table show that considerable pi'ofits have
been derived from unloading old properties at
figures in excess of the written-down book
values. During the past year there was a
net reduction in foreclosui'es of £17,144, and
the unloading gave £l5OO pi’ofit. Meantime
the old deposit debt has been got down to
£20,544.
Besides the old borrowed money still in
the business and the £95,306 of paid capital,
St. Joseph’s at September 30 had £58,078
of i 4 eserves assisting and £11,618 of new out-
side money. So the lending connection has
been so revived that £91,868 was out on mort-
gage compared with £55,926 in 1915. In
addition there were public securities and cash
totalling £27,774, premises set down at
£lB,OOO, and odds and ends totting up £6847.
The resuscitation has been a fine achieve-
ment. Not only has the whole of the capi-
tal reckoned as lost been reinstated, but after
repayment and recent divs. the books showed
net tangible assets with a value of 30s. 2d. to
represent every £ of that capital.
The Drapery and General Import Co.,
of Maoriland, known all through the Shivery
Islands as the D.I.C.: —
Dividends.
r A — Bonus
* Pref. . Ord. to Share- Re-
Aug., Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. holders, serves.
1911. . £21,617 £7,500 7 = £7,438 £725 £40,312
1912.. 20,994 7,500 7 „ 7,516 791 45,499
Premiums on r.ew shares, £1573 i. 47,072
1913. „ 24,357 7,500 7 = 7,701 889 55,339
Premiums on new shares, £126 . . 55,465
1914.. 24,251 7,500 7= 8,146 .1010 63,060
Premiums op new shares, £lO .. 63,07 0
1915.. 21,295 7,500 7 = 8,173 923 67,769
1916.. 24,645 7,500 7 „ 8,177 877 75,860
1917.. 21,589 7,500 7,, 8,182 _ 902 80,865
Premiums on new shares, £373 .. 81,238
1918.. 22,884 7,500 8= 9,357 922 86,343
Premiums on new shares, £52 . . 86,395
1919.. 30,853 7,500 10= 11,708 969 97,071
Premiums on new shares, £43 . . 97,114
1920.. 37,166 7,950 10= 11,766 1126 113,438
Transferred to capital, £59,000 . . 54,438
Premiums on new shares, £6O . . 54,498
Loss. -
1921.. 5,314 14,784 Nil 1100 33,330
The D.I.C. suffered along with all others
in the rag trade, hut as stocks had been well
protected in the years when large profits
were made the crash of values did not cut
into visible reserves. The provision had not,
however, been sufficient for across-the-coun-
ter prices to show a profit on the written-
down values; indeed, the management did
well enough to get through with a loss of only
£5314 on trading. This means that, pro-
vided the new stock values are right, the
D.I.C. has, after having paid 6 p.c. on a
growing pref. capital and averaged 7 p.c.
on ordinary capital since the war, streng'th-
ened its position by £28,702, apart from
£538 of share premiums. Just prior to the
recent set-back, £59,000 of reserves were
capitalised ; and the directors were evidently
caught mapping when they made that bonus-
distribution. However, the drapery trade
should recover sufficiently to permit the co.
to pay reasonable divs. on capital enlarged
by the transfer of some of the accumulations
made when distributions to shareholders
were on a mild scale.
During the year, the D.1.C., which had
retailed in Wellington, Dunedin and Christ-
church, extended its operations to Wan-
ganui and also acquired all the shares in
an old business in the M.L. capital. These
changes have shown up in the balance-
sheet :
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Pref. capital. . £125,000 £125.000 £236,795 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 106,158 116,789 117,792 177,019
Liabilities . . 98.646 29,571 215,707 134,773
Stocks . . 139,124 122,971 298,073 231,661
Book debts . . 60,416 68,492 91,801 89,714
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 173,567 155,287 134,834 160,420
Investments and
cash . . 1,953 6,225 176,115 121,890
The co. was thus in a comfortable position :
it had £121,890 in War Bonds, cash and
investments to meet £134,773 of current
trading commitments.
* * * *
Central Railway Palace Buildings,
Ltd., which runs the Hotel Sydney .
Loss. Deficit. Profit. Deficit.
Apl., ’l4. . £ll5l £3089 Oct., T 7.. £176 £7,833
Oct., ‘l4. . .1473 4562 Apl., T 8... 2546 5,287
Apl., ’15.. 1072 5634 Oct., ’lB.. 2623 2,664
Oct., ’15.. 1844 7478 Apl., T 9.. 1447 1,217
Apl., T 6. . 584 8062 Reserves.
0ct.,•■’16.. 831 8893 Oct., T 9.. 7297 6,080
Profit. Apl., ’20..-8027 14,107
Apl.,■■’l7.. 884 8009 Oct., ’20.. 7374 21,481
Arrears of pref. divs. met.
, —Dividends—
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Profit 10 p.c. 8 p.c. serves, serves.
Ap1.,’21.. £9057 £2619 £6OO £5838 1
Re-imbursement to vendors, £2524 i £155
Additional divs. to ordinaries, £3200 J
27 i p.c.
0ct.,’21.. 6015 1995 4125 50
Market interest in the Hotel Sydney practi-
cally ceased when, over a year ago, each of
the 8 p.c. prefs. was exchanged for two 7i
p.c. prefs. in Arthur Rickard Extended, the
price paid by that co. including rights to
deferred divs. The Hotel Sydney is, there-
fore, now almost wholly an Arthur Rickard
Extended subsidiary, and its affairs are
chiefly of interest to holders in the parent
co. The hotel continues to do well —not
quite so well as in recent terms, for general
trade depression affected it recently. Never-
theless, 10 p.c. has been paid on pref. capital
and 27i p.c. on ordinary, the distribution
taking £lO5 more than was shown to have
been earned. Despite the fact that the co.
is now merely a subsidiary and has other
concerns to lean on if necessary, it is ques-
tionable whether so much of the profits should
be passed out while liabilities continue large.
This shows the position in that respect:—
Ap1.,’16. 0ct.,’20. 0ct.,’21.
Debentures .. ..£20,000 £5O £O5
Mortgages . . . . 25,000 15,000 15,000
Overdraft .. .. 7,723 7,877 3,948
Other debts .. .. 4,799 4,107 20,220
Total liabilities ..£57,522 £27,034 £39,218
Liquid assets.. .. 2,220 8,888 6,566
Excess liabilities. . £55,302 £18,146 £32,652
Though during the six months the ordinaries
had a special cut representing 8 p.c. p.a.
from the beginning, the excess of liabilities
over and above liquid assets was, at October
31, only £lOO-odd larger than at April 30,
but the liquid position was helped by the
unloading of a Surry Hills property which
had been purchased as a pub early in the
co.’s career, so that the Hotel Sydney could
secure a liquor license. To make tne posi-
tion sure—and the parent co., being mostly
a land-dealing concern, would be the better
for having a strong subsidiary in its stable — :
for a few years some attention might well be
given to reducing Hotel Sydney liabilities
instead of passing along the whole of the
profits, though, of course, if the parent holds
on to a fair slice of the profits thus handed
on, it amounts to much the same thing.
Probably a considerable portion of the sundry
creditors for £20,220 represents amounts due
to A. R. Extended, which made payment of
the retrospective divs. possible.
Gordon House, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1908.. £1906 10 p.c. = £1547 £359 £2098
1909.. 1671 10 „ „ 1547 124 2222
1910.. 1852 10 „ „ 1547 305 2527
1911.. 2105 10 „ „ 1547 558 3085
1912.. 2080 10 „ ~ 1547 533 3618
1913.. 1865 10 „ „ 1547 318 3936
1914.. 2139 13 „ „ 2001 138 4074
1915.. 2197 13 „ „ 2001 196 4270
1916.. 1934 10 ~ „ 1547 387 4657
1917.. 1455 10 „ „ 1547 4565
1918.. 2026 10 „ „ 1547 479 5044
1919.. 1927 13 „ „ 2001 4970
Transferred to capital, £2730 2240
1920.. 2102 10 p.c. = 1683 419 2659
1921.. 1866 10 „,. 1820 46 2705
Assets written up, £4738.. 7443
For many years properties stood at £26,262
and furniture at a round £lOOO, alterations-
and_ additions (if any) having been charged
against revenue. “Feeling that the assets
were greatly undervalued in the balance-
sheet,” the directors recently decided to
obtain independent valuations. These valua-
tions, “admittedly on a most conservative
basis,” have taken properties to £30,000 and
furnishings, etc., to £2OOO, and the differ-
ence between them and old book values has
been added to reserves. Despite extra costs
the little co. continues to do well out of its
lodging-house, but on this occasion there is
Very small visible surplus after paying the’
10 p.c. div. That div. now takes £273 more
than the same rate did a few years ago,
though shareholders have not put up another
penny. The 18.200 £1 shares were formerly
paid to 175., but the balance of 3s. was paid
up out of accumulated profits. The co.
started in 1903, and it leaded on the. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank for £9OOO. That
mortgage has since been reduced to £7OOO.
and the liquid position has behaved in this
way:—?
1905. 1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . . £10,644 £B6lO £8144 £7075 £7244
Cash, etc. . . 50 119 1395 1582 1797
Excess liabilities £10,594 £8491 £6749 £5493 £5447
That shows an improvement of £5147 over
16 years, but the load is not being lightened
nowadays at the old pace.
National Bank of Australasia shareholders
are to meet within the next few days to
consider whether their directors’ offer of
£520.000 cash for the Bank of Queensland
should be approved. They will probably not
have the slightest hesitation in agreeing to
take over the northern bank at that price.
It looks a bargain. Queensland Bank share-
holders are to meet on Jan. 9 to decide
whether they will accept approximately 11
guineas for each'of their 45.000 fully-paid
£lO shares. The circular issued by the
directors is not informative. The only state-
ment of any consequence is as follows:
Your directors, whilst fully recognising the very
sound position and prospects of this bank from
a financial point of view, and as an investment,
consider that such a satisfactory offer of purchase
as has been made by the National Bank of Aus-


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END"’ rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
» ve {&!«S8
New Zealand.. 4|d;
Canada
U.5.A...
2/4
1/2
(7d. (minimum
1 11/8, 20 words)
.2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Uhili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. JiII. WARD. Manager'in rhe Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
If your house is wired for electricity, and vou are
having trouble with your door-bell because" of ex-
hausted batteries, yon are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulbnrn Street, Svd-
ne.v; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [4
■****.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
A full complement of pure, sparkling water is
guaranteed wherever Pioneer Wood Pipe is installed
as a conduit. It neither rusts, corrodes nor fouls
because the smooth inner surface of the pipe affords
no place for the lodgment of sediment. It also pre-
serves its superior capacity, which is from 15 to 20
per cent, greater than metal pipe of the same
dimensions. We have an interesting 68-page book
on the subject. Write for it now. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
Sydney.— Advt.
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. “Asbestos House,” corner
lork and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * •
Inventors. —Have you a n idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, links Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Ollice ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co,, 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
ns for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid, plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented bv Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”-—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Heights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv * Co„
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between limiter and Bond
Streets), Sydney : and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
The use of Pulverized Fuel has passed the experi-
mental stages. The aggregate heating surface
of boilers now fired by this method totals 1,000,000
square feet. Plants are now' actually under construc-
tion in the Commonwealth for The Wallaroo and
Moonta Mining and Smelting Company, Limited,
S-A.; Australian Portland Cement Company, Geelong,
Victoria, from designs and with equipment supplied
by the Fuller Engineering and Fuller Lehigh Com-
panies. •Represented throughout Australia by Elder,
Smith & Co., Limited., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane
and Perth.— Advt.
d
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Cimiimny 1,t«1.. Australasian Atrents. 26 30 Clarence St..
Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
C-J
safe
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street
tralasia, Ltd., cannot fail to be acceptable to the
shareholders of this bank, and it is with great
pleasure that your directors seek your approval of
the proposed sale. They have been induced to enter
into the negotiations, when approached by the
National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., largely by the
feeling that in the present financial conditions a
comparatively small bank is at a disadvantage with
institutions of greater resources.
Before shareholders approve a full explana-
tion of the directors’ reasons for selling at
the figure named is due to them. On paper
they appear to have been offered a low
price. Paid capital is £450,000, and at the
balance 12 months ago there were reserves
of £72,026. It can be fairly assumed that
since the last accounts were presented re-
serves have benefited by £lO,OOO after pro-
viding for the year’s 7 p.c, div. So share-
holders’ funds in the bank approximate
£532,000. This means that the Melbourne con-
cern is (1) offering about l's. per share less
than visible shareholders’ funds in the Queens-
land, and (2) paying nothing whatever
for goodwill. And that probably understates
the position; it has been understood that
since the Royal and North Queensland
banks amalgamated in 1917 everything has
gone well, and that, instead of pushing up
the div. rate, the management has steadily
been strengthening the internal posi-
tion. At January, 1921, the published
accounts included among liabilities a “pro-
vision for contingencies.” Liabilities in the
balance-sheet totted up £3,314,524; a return
as at the same date issued under the Act
gave them as £3,203,202. That hinted that
the contingency reserve amounted to
£111,322. The nature of it was, of course,
unknown, but that a substantial proportion
was genuine stored profit seems very likely.
If the whole of the contingency reserve was
genuine accumulated profit, then there are
shareholders’ funds of approximately £l4 Bs.
per share. In these circumstances a full ex-
planation of the reasons why the Queensland
directors have tentatively accepted £ll 11s.
is due to shareholders. One consideration
which prompted the deal, no doubt, was the
fact that in these dear-money days share-
holders can find much more profitable em-
ployment for their money. Bank of Queens-
land divs. are at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.; the
11 guineas which they are to get would, if
invested in S p.c. prefs. at par, return
almost as much as 9£ p.c. on their present
£lO shares.
An Australian Slate Quarries Co., with
capital mainly from Sydney, is reviving the
industry Which flourished at Wdllunga (S.A.)
long ago. The quarry is over 30 miles from
the city, but only four from the sea, and it
used to send many a cargo of slates round to
Port Adelaide before galvanised-iron became
the popular S. Australian roofing. Storms
gradually demolished the local jetty, but now
Willunga has a railway, and a large Parlia-
mentary and newspaper party mis been
lunched on the spot and asked (1) to link
up the quarry with the existing rail; (2) to
see that all new Government buildings are
roofed with slate. The Vic. railways are
good customers already. Australia imports
about 10 million slates every year ; the Wil-
lunga output is about one-twentieth of that
number, but could be worked up to two
millions a year. The Dunstan family, father
and two sons, are respectively managing
director, engineer and quarry manager.
There was present at the luncheon a local
resident, Cornish-born, who was working on
this quarry 65 years ago.
Manager James Negus, of Mt. Boppy, may
rescue Occidental Consolidated, Cobar
(N.S.W.). Having made a horrible mess of
that show, the management attempted to
squeeze further capital from shareholders to
re-construct plant. They failed, and it
looked like the end of things. However,
James Negus has decided to have a look
at the mine, and a meeting of debenture-
holders and shareholders is to be held in
Sydney to-day to decide whether the whole
outfit should be placed under option to him
for four months after he has unwatered the
mine. If Negus exercises the option Occi-
dental Consolidated will get £7500 cash,
which will enable it to meet debts apart
from debentures, and 40,000 fully-paids in
an English co. of 280.000 shares of 10s.
each. The present £15,000 of debentures
are to be taken over by the new co., but in
consideration of holders agreeing to abandon
accrued interest, accept 6 p.c. p.a. and ex-
tend the loan for five years, they are to get
10,000 of the 40.000 shares to be allotted
to the old co. The new one will also re-
serve 30,000 shares to accommodate deben-
ture-holders should they wish to convert.
Negus’s co.—which is apparently to be
mainly Mt. Boppy itself—is to get
122,000 shares and 73,000 are to be
offered to provide working capital. That
will leave 15,000 in reserve besides the
30,000 held for debenture-holders. Occi-
dental shareholders are also asked to agree
to give the directors full power to dispose
of the property as best they can if Negus
turns it down.
* * * •
It has taken an Adelaide co. two years to
discover that nothing worth having is in
sight at the Murrin Proprietary (W.A.).
Local mining men have known this all along.
The various blocks comprised in the co.’s
holdings were good producers at one time, but
values went wrong at shallow depth, and one
by one they were abandoned. Believing all
it heard to be true the co. published glowing
reports about prospects, and with the aid of
a Government subsidy it lately installed
power and treatment plants. Now it finds
that values are not as good or as regular as
anticipated. The manager recommends call-
ing up enough capital to look for “more con-
sistent values at depth.” But the show is
in an area where values are likely to become
still more erratic as sinking proceeds.
North Ivalgurli’s English shareholders
have been told that there are £10,700 of
liquid assets of an “easily marketable” class,
that the co. holds various interests in a
Kent coal property which is expected to
“be all right in time,” and that an invest-
ment in a West African trading co. had
proved a failure and swallowed about £2OOO.
Shareholders were also informed that opera-
tions on the co.’s Kalgoorlie property had
been rendered more difficult and expensive
by the Arbitration Gourt increasing wages
and by Parliament passing a “wonderful
tributing Act.” That’s one side of the pic-
ture. The other is that for years the co.
has depended on tributors, and notwith-
standing that over £350,000 worth of gold
has been taken out of the property share-
holders have never received anything. And
they probably never will so long as the
present policy of letting a tribute here, and
another there, and generally toying with
prospecting and mine-development, is per-
sisted in.
* * % * »
South Kalgurli reserves are estimated at
179,900 tons, averaging just over 7-jdwt.,
which is below that of the ore treated during
the past 12 months and the stuff still going
to the mill. The manager adds that in fol-
lowing out this cream-skimming policy the
co. is only doing the same as all others on
the field ; but in its case the higher-grade ore
is at present the most readily available, thus
enabling the show “to meet the existing
heavy working expenses.” Besides the
proved reserves there is probable ore esti-
mated at 88,100 tons assaying a shade under
6dwt. per ton.
* * * *
Links Co - reckons it will get the
£20,000 it paid for the Kalgurli (W.A.) and
much more besides out of tribute royalties,
home of the richest telluride patches on the
Kalgoorlie field were got in the Kalgurli
workings, and according to those who claim
to know the mine there are others left. It
is calculated in London that the old Kal-
gurli . Co.’s liquid assets are worth at least
-Os. per share, and that shareholders will
not have long to wait for a distribution.
* * * *
Britannia Gold Mines, one of the weakly-
financed Kalgoorlie-Adelaide ventures floated
at the time of the Hamnton boom, has taken
an option over a Mt. Monger lease, and, as
usual, loaming, etc., is reported to have dis-
closed good prospects. On the strength of
a crushing or two and some specimens, the
co.’s original holding at Fox’s Find, near
Kalgoorlie, was puffed and used as a gamb-
ling counter on the Adelaide market for a
time, but latterly nothing has been heard
of it.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Dept, again draws
attention to Northampton, where lead is
said to be more generally distributed than
on any other field in the world. To date
it has yielded large quantities of the metal
under most unfavorable conditions, and is
still producing in spite of abnormal costs
and other drawbacks. In most of the shows
the ore is high-grade, and in some instances
rich enough for hand picking; but most of
it has to be dressed. At present the field is
paralysed by want of suitable dressing plants
and means of cheap transport. Some time
ago Broken Hill capital was almost per-
suaded to take a hand, and may yet be in-
duced to do so.
Sydney is finding capital to re-open the
Sand Queen and Gladsome mines at Comet
\ale (W.A.). Both have been idle for some
time, but when operations ceased as a result
of flooding they had produced gold worth
nearly a million. There is saffi to be a
large block of payable ore standing in the
Gladsome below 450 ft., and as values were
good to 800 ft. in the Sand Queen, where the
shoot was worked right up to the Gladsome
boundary, there are prospects.
* * * *
Edna May Golden Point (W.A.) has
drawn. another blank near the Trans find,
on which Herbert Daly and others reported
favorably some months ago. A few nug-
gets and slugs were specked on the surface,
but so far reefing prospects have not come
up to expectations.
Oaks and Thompson’s Oaks (N.Q.) start
as a unit with hopeful prospects. The Oaks
has just cleaned up a crushing of 550 tons
for 1.330 z., averaging 17s. a ton, which is
a big advance on the Bs. to 11s. which most
crushings have Worked out at during the
past year. The September and October re-
turns for DUO tons average only Bs., but the
explanation from the mine was that a fall of
overburden, which had to be put through
with the ore, cut down values. The sweet-
ening will come from Thompson’s, wh.ch is
lookmg better than ever. The main underlie
at 170 ft. has a 3ft. reef with good mineral,
and values look promising: in the middle
level there is a lft.. face assaying up to
In the winze workings a good gash-ve.n 2ft.
through assays up to 3oz. A recent crushing
of 30 tons from all faces gave l|oz. per ton.
Thompson’s will probably contribute only a
ton for every 10 tons from the Oaks, but
on this ratio it will add 3s. to 4s. per
ton in value on the older co.’s figures, and
help to lift it from a struggle on the margin
between profit and loss. The amalgamation
could be extended with advantage to embrace
two other large producers on the field who
are working on the narrowest of margins.
* * * *
Although the Chillagoe (Q.) smelters are
closed down, development work has been kept
going with over 50 men in the Girofla, which
gave such fine promise when 1921 was young.
The crosscut at 300 ft. has intersected the
reef, which has been followed down to within
20ft. of it by a winze in ore the full dis-
tance. The-.winze and crosscut will be con-
nected, enabling the width of the lode at the
lower level to be determined. Around the
200 ft. level it varied from 14ft. to 22ft.
* * * *
The prospecting campaign at the Vulcan,
Irvinebank (Q.), has been in progress four
months now, and hones that the old tin won-
der had another spurt in it have not been
realised. The bottom level (1400 ft.) was
the main objective, but no fresh ore worth
opening up has been located there, and air-
pipes and drilling-sear have been packed up
to the 750 ft. and 800 ft. levels. There was
a fault between these levels and 600 ft., and
a good ore body was lost in days gone bv.
The tributors are getting good pickings above
600 ft., and the last month’s crushings aggre-
gated 361 tons for 27 tons concentrates worth
£1832, with a further 50 tons awaiting treat-
ment. Of the Irvinebank mines the Gordon,
belonging to Carroll and McGill, looks easily
the best. Their ore right through has aver-
aged about 20 p.c. for concentrates.
* * * *
There has been a slump in prices for sap-
phires, so the change from Government con-
trol to private buying has still left the Ana-
kie gemfields (Q.) in the bog. The State
Government did not sign the new. contract
with Rubin Bros., owing to their proposed
cut in prices. Very little business is being
done, and only £5OO worth of “blues” changed
hands during November, a debdcle compared
with one week’s turnover of £5500 last
January. Those who have something put
by are holding for a rise, but issue-rations
have made their appearance and mulga wires
are being sent out to warn men off.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff has established a new world’s
record in profitably treating low-grade pyri-
tic concentrates. During the past nine
months over 2000 tons concentrates grading
p.c. tin were fed to the new roaster and
over 80 tons tin oxide recovered. Operating
costs are running about 12s. per ton crudes,
and £25 per ton ox de produced, from a feed
containing over 90 p.c. sulphur and iron.
The concentrate represents a re-concentra-
tion of what used to be the pyritic discard
in the tailing loss, and many thousands of
tons of a similar or better grade are now
in the creek-bed awaiting recovery and re-
treatment.
A slightly sulphurous tinge has been added
to the saturated atmosphere of Waratah, and
certain of the city fathers have so resented
it that they went so far as to apply for an
injunction. The Court refused the request;
to have granted it would have meant the
end of the section for this mining-camp, as
the only hope of the future lies in the over-
lop g neglected sulphide ore. In the mining
division of Camborne, Cornwall (Eng.),
within an area of three sq. miles, there are
13 large roasters and three tin smelters
operating, spraying their sulphur reject,
plus arsenic (which the Bischoff ore is free
of), over a more or less concentrated popula-
tion of 70,000.
A syndicate in 50 £lO shares is being
formed to give the old Golden Entrance mine,
at Mangana (Tas.), another trial. It is pro-
posed to drive 200 ft. on the track of the lode
to get 300 ft. under a rich shoot of ore that
was worked 16 years ago. Six miners are
the vendors; they take one paid share each
and will continue the work. Some very rich
ore was won in this mine in the past; the
tonnage was small, but usually the gold con-
tent was high.
The Linton prospecting syndicate has put
through a first crushing from the new lrde-
gold discovery at Scottsdale (Tas.). Twelve
tons taken from the two lodes returned 27foz.
L. Grey Thompson, chairman of Bischoff
and shareholder in most others, is behind the
syndicate.
* * #■ #
“Blair Athol”: Another Speck goldfield of
which more will be heard is the North Mount
Veronia, near Albertan, in the Ringarooma
district. John Mitchell, who holds the chief
properties on the held, is still awaitimr the
necessary funds to open up the Ringarooma,
Wilson and Mount Victoria mines \n
effort was recently made to float in London.
On the Ringarooma properties two reefs the
Gumsucker-Rosalind and Premier have’pro-
duced large quantities of gold at’ very shal-
low depths—deepest workings are sti’l 80ft
above water-level. It is expected that these
two reefs will junction in the next SOft of
sinking and will expose a big formation The
average wddtli of the reef channel is 3ft In
its infancy, in 1900, the ranked
as Tasmania’s third most productive gold-
mine, but was closed ' wn in March of that
year owing to a fire destroying all surface
plant and equipment. Up to-the time of
its closing the property had paid for all
development work, the stone averaging' an
ounce. Late Government Geologist Twelve-
trees and W. 11. Gundy have both thought
well of the property.
* * * *
Maoriland’s most ambitious oil-bore to
date—at Chertsey, near Ashburton—is to be
abandoned, on account of exhaustion of
finds. The hole was started in October,
1914, but has been delayed a great deal by
accidents of various sorts. Hard con-
glomerate gravel was encountered for 1800 ft.
But the biggest setback was the dropping
of a sand-pump down the bore. It stuck at
2014 ft., and a year was spent cutting
through 16ft. of hard steel. When cleared
a couple of months ago the bore was got
down to 2150 ft., and there quick-sand
entered and forced its way up for nearly
1000 ft. That was the last straw, notwith-
standing that since 1917 favorable indica-
tions of oil had been brought to the surface,
including large quantities -of gas.


Iff
1. Hullo , t Thayve, just cKos&n you Premier
2.. S©vvy, OU toferj, waui , I've, a»rj
VMitt* Frsez. Governor . 11
3.
T<£,!{ Kim iv» 6cvry - sae. Kim 1 «*x.pcz»ct iKv«.<2, aw
/ouf "to C^U
+bis "
4 „ Mtioisf'ry ,
5. SskC-W +o - Parha k ma*r>l‘ House* *
6.
* Sorr^f, M r
you've* just ba.<2.v> d<&/e.a£<zd ,
and M r Jmgo bo.a.n 3e*jt y'Kv /'
No +o YnQj.
IVn "too y*2»r
2i.\c<(i\y from
s.
BINGO’S BUSY DAY.


i!
an
&
: •
r co
cminir
inir
rS
tra&ssS
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
tillllllllllll
J-^C
L
‘ltighi off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
"sfhe Boer
Without a Rival"
brewed from pure malt shops only
111 Ip
*♦9oo
I
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 Oeorge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“D.F.”: Dr. George Imlay, one of the
three mentioned by “Te Whare”
(B. 15/12/’2l), had interests in the Speck
as well as on the N. S. Wales South Coast.
In the late ’thirties and ’forties he held a block
A. B. BIDDING-
TON, K.C., who
teas the Indepen-
dent candidate for
Joe Cook’s Parra-
matta seat.
of land at Wilmot
Harbor, on Fores-
-11 e r Peninsula,
where he did a lot
of draining and
ditching with con-
vict labor. (We
dug up some of
the legirons in a
paddock not long
ago.) Cattle from
Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.) used to
b e landed there
and driven over to
King George’s
Sound (not the
Westralian one).
where they were
slaughtered to sup-
ply beef for the
Port Arthur con-
v i c t settlement.
Martin Cash men-
tions Dr. Imlay’s
farm in his account
of his escape from
Port Arthur in
1842.
From the Federal Gallery:—
George Wise was the Federal Ministry’s most pic-
turesque feature. Whenever there was a full line-
up of the Cabinet in the Reps., the eye passed over
his colleagues and settled on George. Physi-
cally he is the nearest approach to Punch who has
ever sat on the Treasury bench, and some people
refused to take him seriously on that account. Yet
he is second only to Rodgers in energy and in his
indifference to the hours he selects for toil. I met
him once late at night in Parliament House. He had
motored over 200 miles that day through a shade
temperature of a century or more to attend the
funeral of an old friend in the country, and he was
seeking a quiet room to start on the day’s work.
He looked ready for a bath and bed, but he clutched
a pen and clung to it until well into the morning
after. Naturally a worker like that feels hurt at
being dropped for a comparative drone like Poynton.
Melbourne owns the one heavyweight
among Australian Lord Mayors. iSwanson
tips the beam at 18st. Gib.
Superintending the education of South
A us. .seems to be a dangerous sort of job.
Hartley, the most famous, educationist' of.,
them ail, met with a fatal bicycle accident
long ago. Since then, Williams and Neale
and now M. M. Maughan have all died before
they should. Maughan was G 5, and had
given his whole life to State education, after
being one of the first batch of students at
Adelaide Uni. nearly half a century back.
-Lhe only Australasian Rhodes scholar to
break into the first class in the final honor
schools at Oxford this year was H. L. Ivings-
mill, of the Speck, who took engineering, liis
mother’s father, Colonel Cruickshank, R.E.,
formerly an engineer officer in India, was for
many years Registrar of the Tas. ’Varsity,
While his father was a gentle science scholar
who ought to have had a fellowship or some-
thing, but wore himself out at teaching. For
a time he found a haven of rest as State
Metereological Observer, a job which his
widow carried on after his death.
Fred Awdry, shipping reporter on the
M.L. Dominion, was offered a free trip to
h i isco by the skipner of a Yankee schooner,
and took it. He worked for a S.F. daily for
a while, then- dropped the job, and as a sea-
man before the mast battled round the Horn
on a Yankee windjammer. Reaching China
he got a berth on a Hong Kong paper, but
after a while he returned to Wellington (M.L.)
to lun _ a shipping weekly. He was soon
off again, and next landed into a good billet
on a Shanghai paper. Now comes news of
his death from fever. He was still only in
his early twenties.
James Minifie, Melbourne flour-miller and
good fellow, died last week, aged 52. An
Englishman who had specialised in milling
from an early a ere—his family had been mil-
lers for several generations—he came to Vic-
toria as technical boss for W. T. Cadwallader,
of Maryborough, later passing to better jobs
with, the Melbourne Mulling Co. nnci Ivimp-
ton and Sons. A few years back he started
rolls of his own. and they soon began to grind
him out more; than a crust. Himself a tall,
soldierly-looking man, he has left a name
that figures prominently in Australian war
records. His two sons, Richard and James
Minifie, were among the high-spirited youths
who ’planed over the German lines and in-
dulged in audacious pranks at the expense of
anything that was worth a bomb or machine-
gun fire. James had to retire wounded after
much brillinnt work, but Richard continued
merrily until the finish, and came home with
a baaful of decorations.
Rienzi”: Stanley Melbourne Bruce is his
full name. Years before he went to England
and allowed Cambridge to anglicise him in
thought and diction he was a genial school-
boy at Melbourne Grammar, and made up
for his dulness at lessons bv his ability to
pull a strong oar in the school eight. “Janey”
was idolised by us kids, though even then
he was developing the sleek, well-oiled ap-
pearance that makes him look nowadays like
a fashionable hairdresser. He did well at
Gallipoli, earning an M.C. as an officer of
an English regiment; and he controls the
Australian end of a firm that profit-shares
with its employees. All the same, he repre-
sents the importing interest, and his inclu-
sion as Treasurer in a Cabinet which lost
its soundest Protectionist when Wise went
out is probably significant of the fiscal trend
of the new Administration.
The Clinch family, of Hobart, is not the
only one that has supplied two Rhodes
scholars. In 1912 Alfred Robson, of Syd-
ney, got the appointment and four years
later his brother Leonard followed in his
steps. They are sons of James Robson, of
the Treasury, and nephews of the late Major-
General Holmes, and both took a hand in
the Big Trouble, Leonard, who held a com-
mission in the A.1.F., collecting an M.C.
Undaunted by the tragedy that struck down
two of his party on the Murchison, Norman
Brearley, of Westralia, methodically went
ahead with his aerial mail contract and de-
scended with his Perth postbags at Derby,
1600 miles away. A spare lightweight with
delicate features, Brearley doesn’t look the
grimly resolute young man he must be. Fail-
ing to pass the A.I.F. doctors he* worked his
passage to Britain, got into the Royal Fly-
ing Corps and distinguished himself greatly
on the Western Front (he collected the
D.S.O. and M.C.)', untii a bullet through the
chest incapacitated him for air-fighting. On
his recovery he was placed in charge of a fly-
ing school. Returning home with two Avros,
with which he gave exhibition flights and joy-
rides, Brearley found it a heart-breaking job
to interest people in the commercial possibili-
ties of the aeroplane. But he persevered
until he got substantial backing, and that’s
how he landed the Perth-Derby contract.
Tom Ashhurst, the new Rhodes Scholar for
S. Aus., does not come from any of the
fashionable schools. He was first at Bridge-
water and Mount Barker, and later took
honors in the city High School and Univer-
sity. He is an all-round athlete, without
being a champion anywhere.
John Gilligan, for many years chief of
Queensland Hansard, didn’t long survive
his retirement. He never settled down in
comfort afterwards—-came south and started
to write his political reminiscences, dug a
few of them up in advance for The Bulle-
tin, then moved back, and died in Brisbane,
leaving a widow whom he married late in
life.
Mrs. Ann Crowe, who gave Florence
Nightingale a hand in the Crimea, slipped
out to the Beyond last week at her home at
Elsternwick (Vic.) after rounding off 93
years. Her husband, who went through the
Crimea and Indian Mutiny, lived on till
two years ago. Mrs. Crowe was born in
Nova Scotia, and was, a lovable old soul
who never lagged superfluous. Her son
George, head of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s harness factory, was the chief
mourner at Brighton cemetery when the
mound was heaped over her.
Digger Slater, Labor M.L.A. for Dundas
(Vic.), has qualified as a barrister and solici-
tor, and the Full Court will brand him early
in March. He availed himself of the special
facilities given to law-nibblers when he came
back from the Big Scrap, and now his party
will have an Attorney-General ready if it
should ever fluke a majority. In any case
the Opposition can do with a lawyer. Liked
by all members Slater has had as many hand-
shakes from the Libs, and F.U.’s as from
his political pals.
A young Australian has just returned te
Melbourne after a rather hectic nine years.
Dr. Mark Gardner sailed for England in
1912. Then after a short sojourn he labelled
his trunk for Turkey, where for six months
Justice POWERS, the new president of the
Federal Arbitration Court,
he patched up Jacko in the Balkan War.
When he returned to England it was to pack
up a stethoscope and a No. 9 for France. At
the end of 1915 he changed his venue to
the Russian front, upon which he worked
from Archangel in the north to Bessarabia
in the south. Later he was on the hospital
khip Britannic when a Hun torpedo made
a noise like an explosion below her water-
line and she went to the bottom of the
Mediterranean. Finally, after a rough inter-
val in German East Africa in 1917, he
went over and saw the finish of the main
scrap in France. Since the Armistice he
has put in two years as a resident surgeon
at a London eye hospital.
Massy Greene, now Minister of Defence,
owes his financial substance to Cow. Born
in London, he started his Australian career
in the wilds of Tasmania, subsequently going
over to Kyneton (Vic.), where he began to
herd kine and invented his famous motto:
“What is Home without an Udder?” After
a while he returned to Tassy, only to leave it
for Kalgoorlie (W.A.) and the Bank of
N. S. Wales. He was six years in the
West, and then was sent to the Lismore
branch. He saw something there that was
better than pen-pushing, and soon Straw-
berry pulled him into reasonable affluence, the
Shire presidency and Thomas Ewing’s seat
in the Reps. It took him only three years
to become Government Whin and eight to
get into the Cabinet. An able administrator
whose urbanity is out of keeping with his
wild red hair, he won’t be welcome at
Victoria Barracks, where strong convictions
and independence in the. “civilian” are not
popular.
Ihe estate of Alfred Hawley, a part-
ner in the Sydney firm of Holdswortli,
rcf; C (?'7'7 r^ orL T and ( -°-> has been valued at
tub,J t t in London and £52,500 in Sydney.
.Lne name of Hawley is nearly a century old
Sydney. In the mid-’forties
Alfred Hawley and Co. were in the iron trade
in George-street, on a site now occupied by
farmers. Henry Holdsworth was a mana-
ger there, and John Macplierson bookkeeper.
“Steve Hart”: In Forbes (N.S.W.) ceme-
tery, sleeping within a stone’s throw of each
other lie Gip Jones, the most amazing purse-
trick “player” Aus-
tralia ever saw;
Ben Hall, the
bushranger; and
Ned Kelly’s sister
Kate. Kate mar-
ried a Forbes
drover, and bore
one son, who gave
his life in the
Great War.
Captain J. F.
HOUSTOUE-
BOSWALL, who
as private sec. to
Governor Weigall
(S.A.) has been
trying to cut down
his Ex's expenses
so that he might
remain in his
job, but hasn’t
been able to
manage it.
“Wallabaloolah”: In the electoral roll for
Yass (N.S.W.) the Smiths number 51, while
the Davises muster 70. Most of these
Davises are descended from one of the first
white women to cross the ranges between
Gunning .and Yass. She and her husband
settled in the district in 1821. The old lady
lived to be 113 and left over 400 descendants.
At the recent Historical Museum at Yass
there was a painting of her, and half the
population visited it to see what their great-
grandmother looked like.
“Silas Snell”: Old-journalist Herbert
Palmer (“Demos”), just dead, although he
was a quiet, soft-spoken man, had a great
deal of grit in his composition. He had
been an actor, and occasionally, in excep-
tional circumstances, would declaim Shaks-
peare with great effect, marching up and
down the editorial apartment in which we
occasionally met, and whirling his arms in
passionate gesticulation. A very religious
man, and at one time associated with the
Salvation Army, he made great, self-sacrific-
ing efforts to save one young woman in par-
ticular ; but eventually she was found back
in her old haunts, hitting the high spots with
zest. “How is this?” asked a mutual friend.
“I thought Palmer had saved you.” “Oh,
yes,” was the reply, “so he did. But, hang
it, the man wouldn’t go on a jag with me
once in a way, so I have backslid.”
“Jobber”: Will you take another nomi-
nation for the ancient -\yarrior stakes? Mine,
who blew in the other day, looking for a
job, had seen active service in Burmah in
1885, was through the Boer scrap, and car-
ried a gun in the Big War from the Banding
till near the end. He is now in his 59th
year, and still battling.
On one occasion, when Marcus Clarke was
standing in Collins-street, talking with artist
Tom Carrington, then of Punch, he turned
and greeted a passing Hebrew with an effu-
sive bow. The Yiddish gentleman replied
with a scornful look, and passed on. “Tom,”
said Clarke, “there goes a crass ingrate. He
gives me no credit for the money I don’t
owe him.”
R. Trevor Williams, the new Marine
Board engineer for Launceston, hails from
Liverpool (Eng.) and is only 36. After an
apprenticeship with a home-town firm, he
became draughtsman to the Geelong Harbor
Trust in 1906, and during his 10 years’
service he climbed to the berth of engineer.
In 1916 he enlisted and served in the
Pioneers as lieutenant; then last year the
zinc works at Risdon captured his services.
“Bill B.” : Alexander Kennedy, now living
in Brisbane, is one of the oldest pioneers of
the north-west of the Northern State. Born
at Perthshire, he came to Bananaland in
1860, and was employed as overseer on Rio
and Wealwandangie. In 1876 he bought
Emmett Downs, on the Barcoo, and, after
numerous changes, in 1910 purchased Bushby
Park, near Cloncurry. He became associ-
ated with the late Ernest Henry, discoverer
of the Cloncurry copper-fields, in ,1866, and
their most successful mine, the Duchess, was
sold to the present Hampden Go. in 1907 for
£15,000. His wife accompanied him through
all his Dioneering ventures, living at times
300 miles from the nearest white woman.
When they were on Buckingham Downs
their provisions had to be carted by team
from Normanton, 400 miles away, and it
took anything from six months to a year
to do the journey.
BETSY OWNS UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Half a score of recent fashions owe their genesis
to the Prince. Thus he popularised the butterfly
collar and bow-tie for wear with a morning coat.
There were several experiments first; then, at Ascot,
the Prince appeared in a check bow-tie, with a
small knot and rather wide ends, projecting well
beyond the wings of the collar. Immediately many
of the young men of the town realised that a minor
sartorial problem had been solved. At church-
parade on the following Sunday every youth in a
morning coat was wearing the Prince of Wales tie
and collar. With them the Prince wears a white
cotton shirt with black stripes and rather long cuffs.
Another preference of the Prince is for shoes rather
than boots, though in winter the shoes are covered
with box-cloth spats. At the moment he favors grey
silk socks for morning dress.”- —Aiigus.
Now, I states my views for the ’ole wide world to
’ear,
Nor I don’t care what disloil people may say:
With the Hempire torn between ancient ’ates and
fear,
Why, this is the kind of Prince that we wants to-
' day—
An inspirition to spur men to do or die
By the sorcey way that he wears ’ls check bow-tie,'
There’s a red rag sort of feller that won’t ’ave spats,
An’ don’t seem to worry about ’is boots or socks ;
You see ’im about in orl sorts of soots an ’ats,
An’ at rank and the like of that he coarsely mocks.
But ’e’d not ’ave much to say if the Prince went by
In ’ls rather long cuffs an’ stripes an’ check bow-tie.
These sinful Irish that act so outrageous-like,
’Owlin’ for freedom that they didn’t ought to get;
An’ also the workin’ persons what go on strike ;
An’ Injuns an’ Gyppos—they’d all be loil, I’ll bet,
If only, by some beneficent al-kee-my,
They could see ’lm in morning coat and check bow-
tie.
There’s some, I know, as says I’m a dashed old snob,
An’ calls me a mean-souled crawler and such-like
names.
Well, let ’em. I own that it makes my ’ole spul
throb
To think of ’ls collars, and that my sperrit flames
To read of ’ls weskits and pants. An’ when I die
You’ll find them marked on my ’art, with ’ls check
bow'-tic.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


a
M
v
□
m
20
Would your husband marry
you to-day ?
rpHE charm and freshness that won your
* husband’s admiration in the golden
days of early womanhood—are they still
yours to-day? Have you cared for them—
done your best to remain fresh and young ?
The skin is the foundation of beauty.
Whatever will keep your skin clear and
supple and smooth is your best ally against
the hand of Time and the harshness of
a hot and dry climate.
There is nothing better than mild
Palmolive Soap for your complexion.
It cleanses and clears the pores and is as
permanently beneficial in result as it is
delightful in use.
Wash the face gently with the velvet,
creamy lather of mild Palmolive and
massage it softly into the skin. When
this foam is rinsed away, it carries off the
impurities which clog the pores and are
the foundation of skin infection and
disfigurement.
There is a sense of well-being after the use
of Palmolive Soap that is as gratifying
in itself as the fine refreshment from the
delightful lather.
Australian women
were quick to
recognise its value
in our hot and dry
climate and quick
to profit by its
beneficial action.
Palmolive cleanli-
ness is different.
You will appreciate
it.
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
<=s.
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will
be sent post-free on request by The
Palmolive Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence St., Sydney.


m
\
Peapes' “Warrego” Shirt
For Farm and Station Wear*
Made of a specially stout and durable
shirting in a close pinhead design of
Fawn, Blue or Grey—colorings which
do not show dust and dirt.
All seams are strongly sewn and rein-
forced.
Finished with two handy breast
pockets with button-down flaps and
soft collar with button-down peaks.
An ideal Shirt for all outdoor workers.
Price 10/6
Pea nes Pay Postage.
Please state Size of Collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
CoronA
Weighs
but
6 Pounds.
d
PRICE
ONLY
£l7/17/-
THE WORLD’S BEST PORTABLE TYPEWRITER.
For the past 14 years the Corona has stood
the test, and to-day no less than 400,000
satisfied users testify to its remarkable dura-
bility.
Buy only a machine past the experimental
stage. CORONA users are our best advertise-
ment.
Sole Distributors:
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
When the Prince went to India:—
IVe had a holiday here in Calcutta when the
Prince arrived at Bombay, 1200 miles from us. It
was not a gazetted holiday, but one declared by
Mr. Gandhi, who decided that the best way for
India to welcome the Prince would be for the whole
country to refuse to do any work whatever. The idea
of no work and plenty of food and sleep appeals to
the Indian mind at all times, but when it is enforced
by several thousand volunteers or Khilafatists with
big sticks, who threaten all who disobey with injury
and with the looting and burning of their houses,
the idea is very popular. So we had a holiday. It
is called a hartal, and everybody, i.e., every native,
must “non-co-operate” that day, or whenever, hartal
is called, by refusing to open his shop, proceed to his'
employment or do any work of any description for
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
“Note, Peggy, you won't tell anybody that
you saw me kissing your sister, will
you?”
“Oh, that's what they all say! ”
the British. Above all, they are enjoined by leader
Gandhi to abstain from violence. That is why they
arm themselves with big sticks and incendiary
matches. When the British get fed up with this, and
allow the native to sleep all day and get any amount
of pay (from somebody undefined), the happy state
is called swaraj.
The result of the hartal in Calcutta was that there
was complete cessation of all services in every
direction. The only natives who worked were the
clerks, and not all of them, and they only because
they had been informed beforehand that if they
failed to attend on this day there would be no
necessity to attend any other day. Therefore they
caipe; there is no more Submissive man on this
earth than the Bengali babu, though when there are
slight odds in his favor—say 1000 to I—he is a very
brave man.
Calcutta was as quiet as the grave. A Melbourne
Sunday is a holiday festival by comparison. All
shops were closed, all transport services ceased, all
traffic was ordered home by the Khilafat volunteers,
all would-be workers were threatened, European
ladies were molested when no European was in
sight, and those who had neglected to provide food
beforehand had to go without or live on their neigh-
bors, as no servants were available. The police had
orders to do nothing. Being unarmed they could do
nothing, and were not inclined to do more if they
could. So the native became exultant at his “win”
and resorted to violence as is his custom. When the
native becomes violent he is in such numbers that
he UiUSt sucoeed, and it was many days before he
would be persuaded that there was any Government
except Gandhi’s.
As far as Calcutta is concerned the English were
so incensed at the apathy of the Government that
after calling on the Governor to do something they
resolved to take measures to protect themselves and
their women-folk, and formed what is called
the Civil Guard. As the next hartal, a full-dress
one, is to take place when the Prince arrives
here on Christmas Eve something may be doing.
In Bombay there was any amount of loyalty
shown to the Prince by troops along the
line of route (five miles) to Government
House, and no disturbance occurred; but when the
loyal crowds started to go home trouble commenced..
They were set upon by the “non-violent,” and tit
the end of the first day the casualties on the law-
and-order side were four policemen and 17 *bthers
killed, besides sever *1 hundreds wounded. *lt was
not till the end of four days that the troops secured
order and then only by firing into the., crowds tb
disperse them. The casualties on thg 'part of the
“non-co-operators” could not he calculated on
account of their bodies being ta&6n away at once,
but the wounded were estimated to total about 500
or 600 before all was quiet. The casualties occur-
ring amongst peaceful citizens apart from the killed
totalled about 300.
* * * *
"Werac”: _No need to go to the Queensland
bush for an instance of an exchange of wives
(B. 8/12/’2l). _ is a Sydney case. Two
brothers, both living in eastern suburbs and
both prosperous business men, were married
and each was the father of a family. Seven
years ago they swapped wives, and now each
is the father of two more children. It causes
a queer relationship among the children, but
the nrrangeraent suits all hands and there’s
no chance of' a re-swap.
* * * •
“Morob” : From some 17th-century maps
lately secured by the Hakluyt Society in
London it would seem that the name
“New Guinfta” or “Nova Guinea” was first
applied to the northern coasts of Queens-
land. Ortiz de Betes, in spite of other
claims, is generally believed to have been
the first to allot the title. In his 1545
voyage in the San Juan, he was
thought to have sailed down part
of the north-western coast of what
is now New Guinea, and then up
the other side. It is clear now
that, instead of doing this, he
sailed only a short distance along
the southern coast, and the rest
of the way along that of Queens-
land. This puts many remarks in
the journal of his pilot, Juan
Gaetan, in a new light—both he
and De lietes, of course, being
under the impression that they
had never left the shores of New
Guinea—and makes them a good
deal more understandable. inci-
dentally, although this erroneous
naming of Queensland in the belief
that it was part of New Guinea
has been established only during
the last few months, Wilfred
Beaver, then an R.M. in the
Papuan service, suggested nearly
10 years ago that it was what had
happened. He pointed out that it
would explain discrepancies in the
description of New Guinea by
Gaetan, and. he
accompanied his
suggestion, with
some meteor-
ological data
to show the ex-
treme probabil-
ity of the San
Juan being carried by the prevailing
winds after she had sailed between Rossel
Island and the mainland in such a direction
that the first land to be sighted again would
be north of Cooktown. No serious attention
was paid to Beaver’s theory by the histori-
cal bodies at the time, but he was right.
* * * *
“Spare Oorp” : Recently a lady asked the
Courts to presume that her husband had gone
to the war and been killed. She had no
evidence to offer, except that he had disap-
peared during the early war years, and all
efforts to trace him had failed. Many people
must be equally vague about menfolk who
went missing in war-time. One man known
in my companv as “Stan,” because when that
name was called on one or two occasions he
had looked around quickly as if recognising a
personal call, insisted on being Bill Smith,
and died that way. Having to name a
next-of-kin, he had mentioned a lady in a
street which turned out to have no existence,
so presumably the lady did not exist either.
* * * *
“Costs”: Death played a trump that
finished the suit in an Adelaide divorce case
the other day. Originally listed for the
previous term, the case had to be postponed
because the petitioner fell down on the way
to the court, and was taken to hospital. Now,
oJnr. m , 0 , nt ¥ the affair has lapsed
. t( l t^ie death ot the petitioner just prior
to the day appointed for the hearing. A
queerer case occurred in Sydney. The
woman concerned, being very superstitious,
postponed hqr application for a divorce
because her husband had said ; “The day you
ask for a divorce you will drop dead.” At
NOSEY PARKER.
“Has your costume shrunk, lass , or is it just that it won’t lace any tighter?”
last, goaded by her friends, she did apply.
The case was undefended and the divorce
granted; but as the newly-freed woman was
leaving the court she fell in a faint and
died. Suggestion, or mere coincidence?
“Plumti'ee”: Much undeserved ridicule is
heaved at the women who foregather in
political organisations. To me their dis-
cussions are absorbingly interesting, and
never more so than when they tackle social
questions where the intuition which distin-
guishes their sex, and in which it is so
superior to the male of the species, gets a
chance to display itself. What could be
more striking than the complaint of a Mel-
bourne matron that her husband’s typist
was so over-exposed north and south that
he “couldn’t keep his mind on the corres-
pondence”? It conjures up the whole vision
in an instant: there before you sit Miss
Bobbed-hair and her distracted employer; in
his hand an order for half-a-ton of rock-
salt or a peck of JBibles; in his mind im-
pious thoughts of silk stockings and a
powdered neck. When was a great moral
fact more pithily stated? Equally arrest-
ing in its way was another dame’s indict-
ment of the movies. Leaving the profes-
sional critics to denounce their banality,
THE COMFORTER.
PASSENGER: “ Hoo, it’d be a long way to fall
to earth.”
PILOT ( ex-motorist , used to rough roads):
“Um, yes; still it’s all easy going.”
lubricity and glorification of crime, she said
that where they did most harm was in
familiarising young females with the idea
that to be a loafing, morbid, self-indulgent,
childless fashion-plate—the type exploited
ad nauseam in the tI.S, films—was the
natural destiny of woman. And who will
say she is wrong?
“Pips”: Everybody has bis own idea : of
celebrating. My Digger friend Mick was! in
Loudon tor the Christmas of 1918 when
all hands were trying to make it the feast-
day of a century, and, after lashing into
the free turkey so plentiful in all the
Y.M.C.A.’s and Soldiers’ Hostels, he sought
liquid refreshment. Then he set out iin
search of military policemen, members •of
Pommy regiments which were alleged to have
failed in critical moments in France, and
persons (colored and otherwise) belonging
to working battalions. The next day what
was left of him was in clink, where I In-
terviewed him. “What made you do it?’; - I
asked despairingly. Mick looked at me as
if he wondered how I could be so dull. “It’s
Peace Christmas, ain’t it:” he said.
“Nitric”: She is rather independent, this
modern maid. In a crowded Brisbane tram
the other day I noticed a young man get up
and offer his seat to a soft-eyed, nicely-
dressed young lady. She took it and a
modest “Thank you” oozed from her rosebud
lips. The man, hearing not, bent over and
suggested that she might thank him for what
he’d done. Into the gazelle-like eyes there
came a flick of flame as the maiden shot to
her feet and grabbed a swinging strap. “Oh,
take your damn seat!” said the rosebud lips.
NEW YEAR’S EVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Granny Time her snowy nightcap ties
Under her wrinkled chin. In the vast room
The candle has burnt low. Her shrewd old eyes
Blink in the glimmers. Towering to the gloom
Of ancient rafters her high curtained Led
Looms out of darkness; in its patchwork quilt
The threads of History gleam through gold and red
And purple faded ere Troy Town was built.
Granny Time nods, although her old head teems
To-night with memories. She can hear ring,
From wars forgotten, clamor and long shout,
Centuries stilled. Was that a brief-crowned king
Stirred in the shadows? Dreams, no more than
dreams!
She blows December’s flick’ring candle out.
x.S.w.
A. SMITH.
CHRISTMAS CHEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Federal Ministry has granted £lOOO to pro-
vide Christmas cheer for unemployed returned sol-
diers and dtpendants of fallen soldiers.”
Let the massed bandsmen play a hymn of praise.
Cast off dull care, and join in happy song.
Upon this day in Christmas spirit raise
A cheer. Cheer ! Cheer, ye workless throng!.
Drag up in line those wistful, sobbing wives;
Place the kids forward in their well-patched rags,
Tell them it’s now that. Santa Claus arrives—
’Shun ! ’Shun ! Look smart! Unfurl the flags 1
You saved your country from the threatening foe ;
Who has more right than you to ask for alms?
Your country’s gratitude we wait to show —
Look what we scatter in your palms!
You still seem downcast, cobber. What’s the game?
“You wanted work?” And so you’ve come; to
this
That when a thousand’s offered in the name
Of charity, y0u.... ’Shun! Dismiss!
VICTORIA.
MR. OCKY.


GOOD
BRITISH
LINES
MADE
Sin. BLADE NON-OSCILLATING
FIXED SPEED TYPE.
The MARK of
Efficiency
EXHAUST VENTILATING
BOX-BLADE TYPE.
Bin. BLADE OSCILLATING
DESK OR BRACKET TYPE.
WHEN YOU WANT
TO KEEP COOL
provide yourself with an
ELECTRIC FAN
then when the day is hot
and oppressive turn on a
cool breeze by pressing
the switch.
To ensure satisfaction let
it be a
Whirlwind.”
4-BLADE CEILING TYPE,
ers
1C
ELECTRiCAC
CO- LTD
21 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
304 Kent Street, SYDNEY
And at NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
HOBART and PERTH.


'Tor Ever Best/'
STAG
LAGER
TOOHEY'S,
YJb
m
p
unlightSoa
The whole thing in a nutshell.- —■
The Cdconuf Oil blend
is fhe secref of
Cleansing
XOX
BEST LAUNDRY SOAP
s§2
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director’.
“Percy Pawnticket”: The fond father who
gets away with his son’s fiancee has been
eclipsed in Sydney, where a young man’s
soul has been filled with bitterness by the
marriage of the girl he wanted to his grand-
father. The story came to light when the
wrathful youngster sued his grandmother-
in-law for the return of certain presents
he had given her “in the expectation of
marriage.” Grandpa, who appeared in
court, was a well-preserved man of only a
little over 60 ; and as he is not alleged to
be even well-off, apparently the change in
the youne lady’s affections had nothing to
do with financial considerations.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: The Chief Red Tapes at
the Admiralty can be humorous at times.
A certain line of mail steamers with a repu-
tation for the: swank of its ill-paid officers,
wishing to impress the snobbish element of
the travelling public, applied for permission
to equip these officers with swords. My
Lords speedily and graciously replied. Cer-
tainly swords might be worn—on the left
“THESE ADULTEROUS DAYS.”
FLOWER-SELLER: “ Flannel, flowers, lady ?”
FED-UP SHOPPKR: “No! I suppose THEY are
half-cotton, too, if the truth was
known!”
“Whitehall’s” picture of a Lord Chancellor :
Hardinge Giffard, Earl of Halsbury, ex-Lord Chan-
cellor of England, was fortunate to the end. 1 He
passed out, at the age of 96, without knowing that
Ireland was to get its freedom —a change he had
fought bitterly from the first moment he became
articulate in politics. The last time I saw him
was in 1918: he was peering into the window of
Hardy’s rod shop in Pall Mall. He then looked
about sft. high, but he was stooped as he leant
on a heavy stick. An old tall hat was on the
back of his enormous head, and he wore over his
shoulders a sort of cloak. Obliterate the magnifi-
cent domed brow and he had the face of a prize-
fighter, and a coarse and wicked one at that. The
stumpy nose appeared to have been bashed out
of shape; the cruel, sensual mouth was as strong
and tight as a trap ; and the little eyes gleamed with
malice—sometimes the malice of laughter, but more
often that of hate.
He was a Tory of a type that is passing away.
It was astounding to look at him and know that he
had not only flourished before the Factory Acts, and
fought every reform contained in them, but that he
still disbelieved in the changes they brought about.
One of the best of his political speeches is said to
have been made in opposition to a proposal (1867)
that children should be barred from such health-
ruining occupations as silvering mirrors by the
mercurial process. He was building up a tremendous
criminal practice at the time; but it never pre-
vented him from coming out, whenever required, in
the cause of reaction. So unamiable was his per-
sonal character—he mellowed a little in later life
—that no constituency could be got to return him,
and he was still out of Parliament at 50 years of
age when Disraeli made him Solicitor-General.
He was a great Judge, in the sense that he pos-
sessed an intellect which worked like a Rolls-Royce
engine and a tremendous store of legal knowledge,
but he was ever the political Judge, and that was
his weakness. His great judgments were on points
of pure law: his rotten ones—such as his notorious
Scotch Church judgment—occurred when there was a
conflict between authority and something that looked
like democracy.
The Lords feared him and what Lord Rosebery
once described as his “d —d police-court manners”
to the end; and he stampeded them into many a
false position. Had he been 10 years younger, and
in Lord Carson’s place last week, the Irish agree-
ment would not have been dismissed with a cry of
despair ending in a feeble note of supplication. He
would have been for giving Sinn Fein a fight for it
even if the Throne and the Upper House stood to be
buried in the resulting debris.
He was as mean as Scrooge, as truculent as a bull-
terrier, and with moderate habits he combined the
constitution of an 18th century six-bottle man. At
90 his faculties were as good as they had been at
40. Like most of England’s ultra-Tories (the pre-
sent Lord Chancellor is another) he came of middle-
class stock. His father was a barrister whose people
had owned a small property in Devonshire. It has
been well said that-no one but a middle-class Eng-
lishman could hate and fear the working people
with quite the same force that Halsbury disp'ayed
all his life.
* * * *
A story from the outer bar: —
“Velho’s” par. (B. 8/12/’2l) about the poker-
playing jurymen in W.A. recalls an involved case of
cattle- and sheep-stealing against two men heard
in a north-western circuit town of N. S. Wales. The
jury had been locked up, but owing to the compli-
cated nature of the evidence it didn’t look as
though there was much hope of a unanimous decision.
I hen the foreman, who was one of the local sports
put it to the rest thus: “It’s about even money these
two—let’s toss.” The rest agreed. Each man was
to have a spin, and a tail was to send him up. The
first time the coin showed a head and the second
a tail whereupon the jury solemnly filed into court
and delivered their verdict, “according to the evi-
dence.’’ The late Justice Cohen was on the Bench,
and when he remarked, in discharging one accused
and sentencing the other to four years in Maitland
that he concurred with the verdict, some of the
jurymen looked to be in imminent danger of choking.
• , The Queensland John Hon has
just got rid of a grievance. Ever since the
oundation of the Force the Commissioner
has insisted that no man of his
should marry withouf his permis-
sion, and that the character of the
bride should be submitted to thor-
ough official investigation. As a
rent allowance is made to married
men, the Department must, it is
agreed, have some say, as, for in-
stance, in insisting that the would-
be benedick should serve at least
12 months before putting the hand-
cuffs on himself; but Hop has pro-
tested against the investigation of
the future Mrs. Hop as a “form
of inquisitorial probing by the De-
partment.” _ One wonders what
form this “inquisitorial probing”
took. Did the Department insist
on the very purest of morals, on
moderate morals or merely modern
morals? Probably the Commis-
sioner was not too straisrht-lneed in
the past; but in future the lady of Hop’s
choice will not be investigated at all, her
integrity being taken for granted.
“Howitzer”: The long arm. In N.
Queensland a boy-cobber saved me from
drowning in a mill-dam. I lost sight of
him for 15 years. While swimming some
mules in the Suez Canal I got into trouble,
and would have been drowned but for the
help of a tall Digger. While thanking him
I recognised the boy-cobber of long ago. I
wish I could stop there, but I can’t. After
going through five years of war untouched
he was drowned in Colombo Harbor while
trying to save another life.
* * * *
“Lou” : A queer little sheet has just flut-
tered to its grave in Brisbane. When Theo-
dore and the Standard were abusing the
unemployed for asking for work at munici-
pal-election time, someone suggested a paper
for “the stiffs” to sell to get a crust, and
after enough coin had been collected the
voice of the down-and-out went up in the
Unemployed Clarion. It sold out quickly
■and five more issues, twice the size and
carrying a few advts. and a lot of venom
and unpoliteness towards the Government,
duly appeared. The two men (Sigsworth
and Donovan ) who the paper got
tea and toast out of it, and a local journalist
who assisted got nothing. There was a
deficit on each issue, but it was made up by
collections, and just when the shyness of
advertisers was disappearing and their
Clarion looked like becoming permanent
the unemployed dropped it, and the seventh
issue found few sellers. The editor is now
hawking tinware.
“McPud”: “X 24” (B. 1/12/’2l) tells the
woes of the scabies patient wrongly labelled
syphilis. Mv patient, Mill, is making a loud
noise, too, but liis bread is buttered on the
other side. Mill was no hero. He was con-
scripted with the N.Z.E.F., and then ill-
treated his ankle to get out of it, but was
sent to camp. Within a month Mull a
tent-mate, developed scabies, and Mill de-
cided to catch scabies, too. He wore Mull’s
clothes without result, so then, with Mull’s
A MODERN TREASURE.
MAUDIE : “Geraldine will make a capital wife. She is terribly economical and indus-
trious.”
GRACIE : “Docs she make her own frocks?”
MAUDIE: “Oh, no; but she docs all her own manicuring.”
assistance, he inoculated himself on the leg
with blood from a scabies spot on Mull’s
abdomen, with preliminary scarification of
both places. The primary sore developed
and went unrecognised; and now, more
than three years too late, he is having his
first anti-syphilitic treatment for extensive
tertiary ulceration. Now I submit that,
even if “X2X’s” man writhes under the cold
eye of suspicion at times, his position is mm u
better than that of Mill, who will probably'
never be fit to own even a suspicious watt.
These two cases are only examples of con-,
fusion of two diseases easily enough distin-
guished in typical cases, but capable of
mimicking each other for short periods on
isolated patches of the skin so closely that
only demonstration of the causal agent can
settle the question—and even then they may,
and often do, co-exist.
_ “Sixenate”: The “first offenders” provi-
sion was applied in a curious manner in
Sydney the other day. The case was a clear
one; but the person upon whom the fraud
had been committed was admittedly a crook.
It was the police who secured leniency for
the prisoner, to whom they referred as “the
greatest discourager of criminals in Syd-
ney.” Asa matter of fact, he is very well
known to John Hop for his smart efforts
in law-breaking, but as he wages war not.
on orthodox society but upon the criminal
classes who don't like, appealing to the law,
he has escaped conviction. One of his ex-
ploits was the burgling of a house where a
gang of house-breakers had stored the loot
of a dozen or so robberies. The first inti-
mation the police received of the coup was
the mysterious delivery of boxes containing
valuable property for which they had to find
owners. The burglar’s burglar had been,
satisfied with the actual cash he had looted
in the course of the job and had sent the
rest of the stuff to the authorities. The
adventurer is alleged to have at one time
been brought nearly, -to ruin by a gang of
spielers; and he has been practising a ven-
detta upon the world of crime ever since,
escaping marvellously, by alertness or good
luck, the physical vengeance which is always
threatening him.
* * * *
“S.S.”: The other day a Digger told
The Bulletin the story of a soldier in
Asia Minor who at night, during a storm,
heard his name called, and going forth to
investigate escaped a falling tree that killed
his tent-mates. Hear the authentic story
of Briggs, of Dunolly. Briggs was a lone-
hand fossicker in an old claim in shallow
alluvial, and he heard his name called from
on top. He called back and got no answer,
but presently his name was called again.
Suddenly the miner recognised the voice as
that of his dead mother, and a sudden fear
for the safety of those at home seized him.
He went up the shaft bv the toe-holes and
sped home. All were well. Mrs. Briggs
was about to light the fire under the copper
out of doors. Briggs took the wood from
her, and, reaching under to scoop the ashes
from the brick fireplace, was struck by a
snake, which set its fangs in the thick roll
where the sleeve of his heavy blue shirt was
turned back. Briggs threw the snake into
the open and killed it. Now he understood
the message, and was' confident his mother
had called to him from beyond the grave.
Had his wife gone to the fireplace with her
bare ai'ms she would certainly have been
bitten. Briggs turned up at chapel next Sun-
day and became all of a sudden a very reli-
gious man. Then one day a friend from
Dunolly township accosted him. “ ’Elio,
Tom, I whs-.passing your hole on the horse
the other Saturday morning, and gave you a
call, but got no answer. There was a job
for s-you at Nolan’s.” “It was you?” gasped
Briggs. “Well, Sam, you’ve cost me eleven
bob in collections, but you saved my old
woman’s life, so we’ll call it square.”
y * % * sjf
“J.T.D.” : Justice Wade’s handing out of
long sentences in Sydney to three young men
who conspired to ruin a female by alleging
her to be a promiscuously immoral charac-
ter recalls Dr. Lloyd’s reign of terror at the
latter end of last century. He was a noted
figure _ on the Bench in North Melbourne,
and his invariable order of 7s. 6d. a week
induced many unmarried mothers from other
districts to domicile in the North for three
weeks so that their cases could be heard
before him. A case somewhat similar to the
recent Sydney conspiracy came before him,
and the accused, in an effort to evade the
MIGHT BE A LOT WORSE.
“And how is your husband?”
“Oh, he’s so busy at the office now that I
only see him for about an hour per
day.”
“Poor old thing! You have my sympathy.”
“Oh, no, dear; the hour soon goes.”
dreaded verdict, induced two cobbers to
come along and assist him. But the old
doctor astounded the Court by making an
order for 7s. Gd. a week each against the
accused and his two pals, who had sworn
that they also knew the lady very well.
They kept on swearing for 14 years.
HIS TROUBLES—AND HERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He prophesied the destiny
Of this vast Sunny Land ;
She slowly turned from side to side
Her pretty tapering hand.
And when he spoke of Russia’s plight
He scarce kept back the tears;
She put in place some straying curls
Beside her pretty ears.
When he proposed a million farms,
An irrigation scheme,
Her mind was occupied with thoughts
Of some complexion cream.
He prayed for universal peace
And urged disarmament;
She shut her eyes and held her breath
While on the powder went.
He planned new homes for immigrants,
A thousand thousand men;
She stretched a leg, encased in silk,
And slowly yawned again.
The lady gave a startled glance,
Then suddenly she rose:
“Now isn’t it a nuisance, dear-
■ A ladder in my hose!”
VICTORIA.
WILSON HERIOT.


. . V
'V'.
S HH
tiitii
t ' 'i
mm
a h
M
m
msmi
n
a: mmtmi:
m
mm
H
H
Hi
•V-r
a
■
■
■
H ;
m
m
U
U
m
a.:
m
■
m
m
IWF3
■
■
H
B|
■
■
■
■
■
■
HI
B 11
n
m
-
4
& a
ns
■
H
I
i
m
:
H
:V^a
*
H
■
■
M
■
aa
*
■
Ml
■■
a
R i 1 1
aj :
■
-0
ivs aa
:
I
. ’ •••avaaaa:
“SirflS
: ■
m
m
■lll
H
V' '. :
wS
oA Few Favourite c Fplls
HE possession of a player-piano creates one further bond
jH[\ of interest between friends. It places in their hands the
V J means to enjoy the masterpieces of the world’s tone-poets
as well as the works of the just-as-enjoyable lighter, lyrical writers.
It grants the ability to personally inter-
pret and search out for one’s self the
inner beauties of the various compositions
that would for ever be hidden under a
fumbling hand-technique. Best of all.
it grants the means of giving to others a
big measure of this enjoyment —a meas-
ure not possible where one’s manual
proficiency lags far behind individual
knowledge of music.
c A Booklet has been prepared which gives details of
the New Weale Player-Piano. Copies posted free.
Showrooms:
340 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BEALE s’COMPANY UP
m
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar
Street,
ANNANDALE.
BRANCHES —N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Wagga. Victoria: Maples, in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Wiliams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South
Australia: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. W. Australia: J. A. Thomson.
BEALE 6c COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
80-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
?J)GEW QRfjj
*EAB¥RUBB£D
3] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
A Signal Success
<es
King George IV
whim
TheTOP-NOTCH’Scotck
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Ophis”: “Mindarl” (B. 17/11/’2l) up-
holds the theory that snakes swallow their young;
in fact, he actually observed it done. Next time
will he do something for science? Will he kill the
REFLECTIONS.
HE : “How extraordinary it is that you
should have accepted me! Was it love
at first sight?”
SHE ( weary of it all): “No. Astigmatism,
I think!”
reptile, tie a string very tightly round its throat and
another just above the vent, pop it into strong
spirits and send it without delay to the Sydney
Museum? If it is labelled “Nat. History Specimen”
the Museum will pay freight. The specimen will be
carefully examined by the herpetologist, and the
result of the post-mortem will be made known. The
only question remaining to be investigated will be:
Are the youngsters able to regain their freedom after
having been swallowed, presumably for protection ?
* * * *
“Iggery”: I don’t agree with “Rockdale”
(B. 17/11/’2l) that magpies, butcher-birds, plovers
and willy-wagtails are our only birds that will
attack man. For the most savage feathered thing
in the bush I’ll back the wedge-tail eagle. I
robbed one when I was a nipper. My mate stayed
at the foot of the tree with a shotgun, and had to
fire two rounds before the old party would keep at
a civil distance.
“Janus”: “Caley” (B. 10/11/’2l) will
probably never cure his nag’s shoulders while he is
working it; but by nightly applications of ordinary
zinc ointment he may prevent the sores becoming
worse. The movement of the collar generates enough
heat to melt any known ointment, and this ed'eetu-
ally prevents the sores from drying and healing.
“Ecliap” : “Jimmy Jamtin” (B. 17/11/’2l V
says wounded kangaroos always travel in a circle
and toss in their alley somewhere near where they
were hit. I wish they did. Before I adopted high-
power ammunition I lost a great percentage of hits,
and often came across my unfortunate victims
miles away from the scene of the assault—when
they were too far “advanced” for commercial use,
worse hick. Of course they might do anything
in a “drive,” with other shooters on the wings
rightcning them off their intended course, which,
1 11 allow, is very seldom a bee-line.
* * * *
“J.M.R.” : “8.W.L.” (B. 24/11/’2l) is off
the rads. I said a rosella died at the age of 25, not
a cockatoo. Ai d again 1 ask, does any other Abo
know of a rosella living to the age of 25? Cockatoos
are non-starters.
(n- : What would be a bushman’s opinion
of the views expressed by Henry Tate, the Melbourne
musician, on the different bird-calls of the bush?
hough, of course, he appreciates the magpie and
the grey thrush, whose call consists of a group of
notes never heard outside - Australia, Tate considers
that the master musician of the bush is the butcher-
bird, who has every musical virtue—beauty of tone,
lversity °f rhythm and melodic invention. This
little bird, with its quaint look and strong character,
is an artist, for although he sings a regular refrain
he also improvises. Strange that he should be
ra er cruel, lax in morals, and such an enthusiastic
feeder He’s an artist, right enough. Beauty isn’t
created by mild sentimentalists, it seems. I’ve just
watched this star singer dealing with a piece of liver
put out on a log. He will burst into glorious song
over red meat, he can improvise on a pork chop ;
but so far I’ve found that liver inspires his highest
nights and most delicate lyrics.
“Miles”; Re Dick Taylor’s close call (B.
2 1)- In the Sons of Gwalia mine, Leonora
(W.A ), in 1902, four of us got in the cage from
the plat at the 300 ft, We had got up 40ft. when
the cage bumped, and Jack Moor, a six-footer, slipped
out and fell on to the two rails across the well and
rolled into the plat. When we got down we found
him sitting with his head in his hands, shaking a
bit. He was brought to the surface, but refused° to
see a doctor and walked home. Within a week he
was back at work. I heard two years ago that he
was shift boss in the same mine.
* * * *
Ti uthful James” : There were two nests
three yards apart, one occupied by red and
the other by black soldier-ants. A small
track between was apparently the recognised
boundary, because if an ant of either color
crossed this line he invariably paid the
extreme penalty. However, murders were
rare. Even when I placed a dead lizard on
the track each tribe worked harmoniously
in removing its share of the carcase to the
pantry. I then saturated a mutton-chop
with whisky and placed it on the track.
Squads from both sides set to work to re-
move the chop and everything ran smoothly
for a couple of minutes. Then a halt was
called and both gangs sat down and com-
menced licking their whiskers. One big
red ant who was decidedly under the in-
fluence was in a nasty temper, and he
smacked a black ant in the face. This
started the row, and in ten seconds the
whole population was in a state of wanton,
writhing, crazy butchery. In two minutes
the field was an inch thick with dead and
wounded. Hostilities ceased at sunset. The
casualties were left lying where they fell.
Next day was spent in collecting the scat-
tered remnants, and both homes were then
evacuated.
“J.J.”: Dick Taylor's 70ft. drop at Mt.
Morgan (B. 24/11/’2l) was a mere piccaninny com-
pared with Tom Broad’s dive at Norton, Gladstone
(Q.), in 1891. Tommy was crossing the shaft at
the 70ft. level in the Brampton mine when he slipped
and fell into the well-hole 250 ft. lower down. Ilis
yell for the bucket came before his mates realised
what had happened. I ought to know, for Tommy
held a reception in my pub that same afternoon and
the day following, and his efforts to stand up to
the half-pints presented to him by his admiring mates
were truly heroic.
* * * *
“Bullfrog” : The dinkum cure for stinging-
tree was handed to me by an old bushie up north
of Gympie (Q.), in the form of a poultice of steam-
ing-hot mud. I got badly stung, and the old chap
fixed me up in double-quick time. He made the
poultice by tipping his billy of newly-brewed tea on
the earth and mixing the mud with a stick. He
assured me later that his poultice was a sure cure
for any sting—insect or vegetable—that you might
get in the bush. Let the next stung Abo. try it
and report.
“Dinkum Digger” : “Rockdale” has slipped
a bit (B. 17/11/’2l) when he says only four Aussie
birds show fight when you approach their nests.
The greenback pigeon, blue jay, blue kingfisher and
grey martin are all game to have a piece of you
at nesting-time.
Moe : “McNorth’s” Gaudalcanar arrow-
poison (B. 8/12/21) is probably a substance known
V ® unne ’ a bod y which, chemically speaking, belongs
° ® ® ame group as the ordinary ptomaines, and is
one of the three most deadly poisons known to science,
the other two being erotin and ricin. Neurine is a
decomposition product, and is formed in the dead
hody from an allied substance called choline, which
exists under normal conditions in the brain, spinal
cord and other tissues and organs. About the fourth
oi fifth day after death the chemical changes which
HE’D BE ALL BIGHT.
“Working yet, Mick?”
"No. but I've got a job in West Queensland.”
“Gripes! It’s over a hundred in the shade there.”
“Yairs. But I’m not going to work in the shade.”
take place lead to the presence of neurine in small
quantities, and so, when an arrow or spearhead is
thrust into the corpse, it collects on the tip. In
most islands the weapon is removed every few hours
and the point of it smeared over with a thin paste
made by mixing together lime and a glutinous
material, which is then wanned slightly in a
flame. The result of this operation is to first
neutralise and then oxidise the neurine, so that it
can be kept longer and also is more easily detached
from the tip when the latter enters the flesh—
another instance of the remarkable knowledge of
involved and complicated processes which the native
often shows himself to possess. Neurine, once it has
entered the tissues, is absorbed with great rapidity
and carried to the different organs and the brain.
In the latter, it paralyses a number of different
centres and so causes death, among the
centres affected being the locomotor areas, so
that the patient either cannot walk or else can do
so only with the greatest difficulty. Practically
speaking, there is no first-aid treatment for poisoning
from one of these arrows, beyond removing the
weapon carefully and thoroughly cleansing the wound,
even to the point of excising the tissue and flesh that
has come into contact with the arrow-head ; but for
this to be of any use it must be done within, a minute
or so of the weapon entering the flesh.
“Te Whare” : In addition to the insolent
house sparrow and the lousy starling the European
blackbird (Merula merula ) is now
numbered among our introduced
fowls, and has become fairly numer-
ous in parts. The male is black,
with a yellow bill, and the female
rich brown, with a tinge of red on
the breast. It is tame and trustful.
I caught a female which was hepping
about in dense lantana scrub. As a
tuneful songster the blackbird ranks
high. The Indian minah (Acriclo-
theres tristis ), commonly lumped with
the starling, which it somewhat re-
sembles, has also become very c;m-
mon, and although it is partly insec-
tivorous, is not averse to ripe mul-
berries, grapes and other succulent
fruits. Starling and minah have
harsh voices, but, by way of compen-
sation, the (introduced) Indian turtle-
dove serenades you softly from the trees about most
of our big cities.
“Lignum”: Tell “Jim Carew” (B.
17/Tl/’2l) that “Joe” was the term applied by the
diggers to police who made the gold-license raids
in the pre-Eureka stockade period. To call an
official “Joe” would be • “offensive behavior” in Vic-
toria, where that charge is still capable of wide
trawling.
“Jim Carew”: That white cockatoo which
died at the age of 31 mentioned by “8.W.L.” (B.
24/11/’2l) was a chicken. A friend of mine on the
Upper Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) has one that my father
gave him in 1875. He is still as lively and thickly-
feathered as ever and seems good for another 50
years.
“Xox” : Tlie paragraphist who referred to
C. J. Dennis’s quaint pets (B. 1/12/’2l) forgot to
mention George, . a tame thrush who takes his
breakfast out of the poet’s hand every morning and
never departs without a morsel in his beak for the
family which resides in the bush near by. There
is another visitor to “The Bloke’s” domain —an
ancient kookaburra which has been named after a
prominent litterateur. The bird has not been
christened Archie so much on account of his queer
resemblance to the pedant, but because he has never
been known to laugh. He sits on a bough looking
sadly at “Hen” as if (like his namesake) he expected
better things from the bard.
“Nallah”: A little time ago at a coastal
village in New Ireland I was making a great row
about something my boys had done and, running
out of swear words, dropped back on some Binghi
curses I had picked up on the Daly and Adelaide
rivers (N.T.). Some native women standing near
at once bolted, and when I questioned the old chief
he said, “That talk no good.” I asked if he under-
stood what I’d said, and he translated almost word
for word. In New Hanover there is an expression
of fear which is identical with one used on the
Upper Georgina River, West Queensland.
* * * *
Nallah”; I’ve struck in German New
Guinea what I think has not been mentioned in the
Abo. column before—a hermaphrodite fowl (back-
yard species). The bird cackled like any respec-
table hen, but sometimes threw in a passable imi-
tation of a crow. The climax came when I saw
the puzzle making gallant advances to a white leg-
horn hen. He-she (or it) was good eating, anyway.
CASE FOR THE PROSECUTION.
“But what made you think he teas tight?”
“Well, he was having an argument with a
taxi-drives.”
“That doesn’t prove it.”
“Yes, it does —there was no taxi-driver
there!”
“Jackerooster”: A nasty-looking 4ft. rep-
tile was killed here recently (Central West, N.S.W.).
Can any Abo. snake-charmer identify him? His body
was deep brown with black speckles on tail and three
inches above same; and his head and two inches or
three inches below it was deep black.
(Continued on page 22.)
HARROWIN’ LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rich an’ red an’ tender an! sweet
Are lips that wait in town,
Callin’ an’ coaxin’ while weary feet
Plod heavily up an’ down.
Smilin’ sweet, they beckon me so
(Gee-oif, Topsy! Giddup, Joe) —
Lip; that wait in town.
Soft eyes shinin’ an’ gleamin’ bright,
Love eyes true an’ clear,
Set me a-wisliin’ fer Saturd’y night,
An’ wishin’ fer you, my dear.
They’ll shine into mine in the lighted street,
Tender an’ proud an’ (Gittap, Pete!) —•
Love eyes true an’ clear.
White arms dingin’ an’ foldin’ fast,
White hands that hold my heart;
Fer I’m at rest when the week is past,
An’ 1 sit with my dinkum tart.
Three days more! ’s a weary wait
(Gee-of.’, Topsy ! Steady, Kate !)
White hands that hold my heart.
Some wonderful day they’ll all De mine
Fer keeps (Come ’ere, you, Bess!),
An’ the lips will kiss an’ the eyes will shine,
An’ the soft white arms caress
(Yer blanky sod ! Gee-over, Joe !
Gee-off! Whey, boy ! Steady ! Whoa !)
Fer keeps (Come hether, Bess!).
(Giddap! Kate! Bess! Poll! Topsy! Maud!)
They’ll all be mine some day,
An’ (Come ’ere, Joe! Yer piebald fraud!)
The love-soft eyes’ll sparkle gay,
An’ coaxin’ lips’ll (Jack ! Yer cow!
Gee-off there, damn yer! Steady, now!
Gee-off there! Steady! Whey!).
VICTORIA.
OLE BLUE.


AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS are the work of Australia s best
authors.
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS are the most popular on the
bookstalls.
Three Million Copies Already Sold.
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS are the best value obtainable.
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls throughout the Commonwealth.
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS cater for every class of reader.
ADVENTURE NOVELS by
jack McLaren,
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW,
LOUIS BECKE.
SPORTING NOVELS by
ARTHUR WRIGHT,
CON DREW.
HUMOROUS NOVELS by
EDWARD DYSON,
THOS. E. SPENCER,
STEELE RUDD.
HISTORICAL ROMANCES bj
J. H. M. ABBOTT,
ROY BRIDGES.
Other well-known authors in the “Bookstall” Series
RANDOLPH BEDFORD,
NORMAN LINDSAY,
AMBROSE PRATT,
E. J. BRADY,
ARTHUR H. ADAMS,
VANCE PALMER,
RALPH STOCK,
A. G. STEPHENS,
“Bookstall” Novels now in print exceed ONE HUNDRED VOLUMES
—-the best of several hundred published in past years, and the latest
successes. New novels added every month.
Complete Catalogue will be posted free on application.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
i
r \
Vj
MS
a
Sffli
LEVIATHAN
for the
Quality Suit
To
Order
£611716
Bright days demand a Better Suit
—Leviathan “Quality” Tailoring
and Material is recognised as the
Best Suit Value in Australia.
MAIL COUPON FOR
PATTERNS TO-DAY.
Think of getting an ALL-WOOL
Suit of the Finest style, tailored
to order, and the best grade of
workmanship for £6/17/6.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
LEVIATHAN
PTY. LTD,,
Cor. Swanston and
BourKe Streets,
Melbourne.
y V
„5> A'
/
/
/ A,
£;* v
sT„f>5 T „f>
s\cP
fc?'' %
f 4
illiSK
%.I , |
* ~
*«' i'
ft
* ■ < < „ i Irrg
«S&* fc "«“ " . ft? * '£
tt* *b?! 2
J gw m
7*%? WCT# 'f
i ?
.
s*Se
SSK
M,
*
-
TILTH
TELLS!
“The extra cultivation at the
moment of planting counts for
much in the resultant crop.”
The “Suntyne” Drill Cultivator Combined
is THE Implement.
CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
H. V. McMY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY. *
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.


For New Year Gifts
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE.
Each year thousands of mothers and daughters are delighted to receive
presents of Holeproof Silk Hose. In these days when beautiful effects
are so thoroughly appreciated it is difficult to find a more appropriate
New Year Gift.
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS EVERYWHERE.
a
rJit
I SS
“Iron” : Be branding records, let me bump
in with Stan and Charlie Collins, who at Candelo
(N.S.W.) put through 67 mixed sexes in 57 minutes;
ages 12 months to two years ; all “buildogged.” These
two lads (they were 14 and 18 years old) did not
know what a rope was. I can verify this statement,
as I was a very interested spectator. I owned the
'cattle.
“Gouger”: There’s a great argument
raging on this field (Ebagoolah, N.Q.) —dryblower
versus dryshaker. The barrackers for each process
are just about equal in nurhber, so we have decided
to refer it to the Abo. Council and see who can
give the best performance of either machine. The
main points are : (1) How many loads of wash, per
eight hours, will your machine put through? (2)
What mesh screens do you use? (3) What average
of gold do you lose? (4) What particular type of
machine do you use? (5) Do you work singly, or
with a mate ? The wash is to be already stacked
ar.d stoned. Now, let’s have it.
THE DAY AFTER CHRISTMAS—THE
ONLY MAN LEFT IN TEE YARD.
“Joe Collins” : If any Abo. possesses a dog
with a tendency to follow “the whole damn family,”
let him try this. Put a piece Of raw meat in his
boot for a couple of days; then feed to the tripe-
hound. Thereafter he will follow no one else.
Jacky put me on to this ; and when Jacky wore boots
it was best to muzzle your pet mong. —and keep
to windward of the boots.
“Old Man Johnson” : A recent Bulletin
sketch showed cockies enjoying themselves at the
Show, and every man of them was smoking a pipe.
Here in S. Aus. it is noticeable that comparatively
few farmers, especially of the younger generation,
use the weed. Last shearing-time, on my patch, we
had all neighboring farmers assisting, a total of
eight, and not one of them smoked. At one .of our fenc-
ing camps in the scrub, a lad of about 18 came
along on his way home with a load of stores.
After the usual bush hospitality and a yarn, he
handed out half-a-packet of cigarettes, saying it was
no good taking them home, as he wasn’t allowed to
Smoke. He said that neither his father nor any
of his nine uncles ever smoked, and he had eight
brothers and only one of them ever touched tobacco.
“Snooks”: When prices skied, and a ship-
ping strike blocked supplies, my neighbor took as his
motto “Cut out the storekeeper,” and has frequently
visited me with a new triumph of economy—tea
from lemon-leaves, coffee from coffee-leaves (better
than the berry stuff), lemon-juice instead of cream
of tartar, which is a great saving in baking-powder,
home-grown rice, nut oil for cooking and lighting,
MAKING NO ADMISSIONS.
“Drunk again, Murphy! Give it up, man. Come along with me and take the pledge.”
“Take the pledge, is it? Not me, yer riverence! Sure, isn’t that the first sign that a
man is taking to dhrink?”
and now he makes tasty dampers and brownies from
cassava. From a small patch of cane he threatens
to make his own sugar, “like they did before machi-
nery was invented,” with coral-lime and bone char-
coal for clarifying the . stuff. I’m dubious about
the constant cassava diet. Is it harmful ?
“Manning” : When the sleeper-cutters were
working in full-swing on the Manning River
(N.S.W.) a few years ago, I remember one Palmer
squaring 60 9ft. sleepers in one day at Moorland.
He worked with a couple of mates—Henry, who did
the falling, and Radeliffe, who did the billeting—
and was able to keep pace with these two experi-
enced axemen. I never heard of Palmer’s record
being even approached.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: Probably the earliest attempt
to land a native (Australian) porcupine alive in
England was made by Lieutenant
Breton, R.N., about 1828. But he
got his pore, only as far as Cape
Horn, where the animal died, owing,
he thought, to his confining it to a
diet of eggs, some of which were bad.
Sometimes the animal picked up the
food with its moist tongue, after the
fashion of the chameleon and other
lizards, sometimes it used its tongue
scythe fashion to sweep up the morsels.
This pore, measured 13in. from the
snout to the other extremity. The
chief natural food of the echidna was
then held to be ants’ eggs, but the
ants themselves, beetles, and other insects also
appear in its menu.
“Ziak” : Before “Jackeroo” (B. 17/11/’2l)
gets sunstruck I’d like to give him a tip re arsenic
for maggot-fly. As far back as 1916, at Lower Quam-
bone (N.S.W.), the boss discovered by accident
a method of mixing oil and water through the
medium of soap, and he made a solution of arsenic,
oil and soap with a drop of kerosene to add to its
healing properties. After five years’ continuous
use of this mixture we’ll guarantee to make any-
body’s flock immune for at least three months ; after
that he can dig for himself. This will save Dal-
mally (Q.) any further experimenting.
“Tara.2,o” : I would like some of the Abo.
naturalists to give it a name for me. A snake about
2ft. 6in. long, head almost diamond-shaped, body
beautifully proportioned and tapering ,to a needle-
pointed tail, eyes pink, general ground-color guinea-
gold crossed at regular intervals with very distinct
chocolate hoops, along the sides just above the
belly-plates variegated scales of blue, yellow and
salmon pink. His whole body glistened like glass
and gave him the appearance of being transparent.
The next day I got two of the same species, much
smaller, within 100yds. of the same place. I have
killed hundreds of Gippsland snakes, but have never
before seen anything resembling this aristocrat.
From a Monaro woman in Patagonia:—
I went to see the breaking-in of some horses.
They are not handled till they are four or five. Then
they are put in a corral, and a mounted man with
a lasso runs them round, another man standing on
the fence to “spread” them as they go past. The
man with the lasso picks his colt, follows him up,
whirls his lasso and throws it at the right moment.
It is very seldom he makes a miss. The colt does
not know be is caught at first, and goes galloping on,
the man following and easing or tightening his rope,
according to the pace of the captured animal. Then
the colt feels something round his neck, and either
bucks and plunges or stands still and pulls. The
other pony pulls, too, sometimes bending right over
sideways to make a strain. By and bye the colt
makes another dash, and is guided out of the corral
opening. If he rears, several men lasso his front
legs to throw him. If he stands, the mounted
man throws him with a very clever turn on the
rope. This is almost the best part of the whole job,
and is quite good to watch. As soon as the horse
is thrown thev tie the back and front legs, draw a
knife and cut a bunch off his tail —not too much,
just enough to smarten his looks.
. They proceed to _ mouth him by forcing in the
bit and getting behind and pulling the reins for all
they are worth, till they “sore” between the canine
teeth. It takes about half-a-minute to mouth the
animal. The leg-ties are undone and the horse gets
U P —sometimes ho has to be asked to do so. One
man holds the rope or bridle, another his head and
they attempt to “saddle” him. Five or six men
are on this job, and there are so many things to
put on and the horse bucks or shakes them off so
often that it is a conjuring feat to get the cinch
fastened over all. At last the man mounts, and off
goes the horse, two or three riders following, their
neck-cloths streaming in the wind, their extraordinary
saddles, gay belts, lassos and knives making them
look like the bandits in a comic opera.
Few of the horses have a buck in them ; after one
or two gallops round they are brought back, un-
saddled and tied to strong posts,: which stand round
the corral. .There they are left for hours —hit over
the head with bags, sand thrown over them; any-
thing. to make them pull back. Thus they learn that
they cannot break away when the bridle is . left hang-
ing on the ground (the head is tied low)-—all camou-
flage, of course. As soon as the colt is mounted and
they gallop him off, the other men return to the
corral, and repeat the performance. I don’t admire
this way of “breaking-in,” but must admit the men
know their business and are wonderfully quick at
it. Certainty, 14 or 15 young horses had been actu-
ally ridden in a couple of hours.
In this country horses run together in little lots
with a mare, who wears a bell. This mob is called ;
a tropilla, and when a coach or cart goes on a jour-
ney a tropilla, ambles along with it, so that the horses
can be changed when they tire. A. mare is very
seldom used for work. And instead of speaking to
his horse, like we do, a man whistles, to it, especially :
to give it confidence when nervous or frightened.
, When the horse is being saddled the first article
put on is a pelara, which is an oblong mat about
3ft. 6in. by 2ft. ; it is of pure wool, made by Indian
women, as a rule, and is placed lengthways. Then come
one or two matras, doubled. These are about twice
the size of a pelara : they are mats made of guanaoo
or sheep-wool, hand-woven usually, and often very
brightly-colored. The corona comes next ; it is about
the size of a pelara, made of cowhide, or tanned
leather if the rider is well-to-do. It is split down
the middle and sewn together again, to give it a
sort of shape. Then two bastos : each is a collection
of split, canes, the size of one’s little finger, and
2ft. long; they make a bundle about 4in. in diameter,
enclosed generally in a carpincho —tanned skin —and
laced together about 4in. apart; they lie length-
ways on each side of the horse’s back. It is at this
stage of the performance that the horse shakes him-
self, and everything falls to the ground, and he will
do this several times before the cinch is placed in
position and fastened. The cinch is a girth attached
to an ensemera. This last may be described as a
piece of rawhide, as wide as and twice as long as
writing-block ; from each front corner of this
a stirrup. The ensemera crosses the bastos; there is
a ring at each end of the ensemera and at each en
of the cinch —four in all —and they are joined oy
long strips of grcenhide, passing through the nng“
several times: on one side a fixture; the other side
tightened by a very dexterous pull, just as we
tighten our girth. On top of this there are either
two sheepskins, or two cojinillos (another kind ot
mat, with a long fringy nap), or one of each. I 'lese
are fastened on with a long, narrow strip of rawh i de,
with a ring on one end, which passes round the horse
twice. If the man wishes to be a great beau ire
places a carpincho on top of all this, and the whole
rig-out is called a ricado.
The bridle is not so very different from our O" n.
except that the reins are not flat, and it is much
decorated. Silver rings are slid on the headstall
and along the reins; and there are large silver
buckles and bosses, plain and chased, wherever a
join in the leather-work of the bridle allows the>n
to be. There is usually a third rein passing from
under the chin, used to tie up the horse (by being
left lying on the ground) or to lead him.
The bit is very heavy and stiff, and half-way along
it is a small ring which clinks, and the horse is
said to like the noise very much: a curved part ot
the bit lies back on the tongue. The man is seldom
if ever without his lasso, looped at the side and
fastened to the ricado ; and the bolledores —a long
hide thong with hard balls at each end, one heavily
weighted. This is used for throwing at running
game; it tangles round their legs, and they fall
over, giving the man time to come up to them.
“Maloa” (Samoa) : Hefty families? A
Muscovy duck here has hatched and mothered 29
ducklets, and all are doing well.
* * * *
“Anzac”: “Goodie’s” S4-ineh and “Gene-
va’s” 98-ir,ch black snakes were beaten by a reptile
killed at Mullumbimbv (N.S.W. North Coast). The
skin was exhibited at Lismore Agricultural Show in
1910, and measured Bft. 4in., and allowing about
2in. more for the head Abo. readers can imagine
what a delightful bedmate the colored gentleman
would be.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Now that chaff-cutting is in
full swing, let me mention that at E. C. Robertson’s
chaff-mill at Werribee (Vic.) two men rung, took
off and sewed 1140 bags in 10i hours. They broke
out bags and twine and threaded their own needles.
The bags were dropped into trucks. Under open-air
conditions, where bags have to be stacked, the best
day’s work I’ve seen was 864 bags. This was done
by Hunter and Guyton, the best pair of sewers in
Riverina, behind Mackie Bros.’ machine at Ganmain
(N.S.W.) in 1911. At the end of the day the stack
w 7 as 16 bags high. In my opinion sewing and
lumping chaff is the hardest work in the bush.
About Ganmain three seasons is said to be a man’s
limit. I was so convinced of that at the end of one
that I left.
* * * *
“Veronal” : My closest to a lightning strike
is about 25 yards, yet even at that distance the cold
flame seemed to envelop me, and not till I saw the
topmost branches of a dead tree shatter and fall to
the ground did I feel safe. Then there was the
usual pallor and trembling (some people turn sick)
and a dazed feeling slow to depart. The effect of
lightning on trees is freakish. Sometimes it does
little damage, but I have seen dead trees with
grooves neatly carved in their trunks, from head to
butt, by the electric fluid ; others are split into frag-
ments, some of which are hurled hundreds of yards,
often penetrating into the ground, out of which
they forlornly project. Where the electricity comes
NO REFERENCES REQUIRED.
“I rang up your father to-day and asked
him if I could marry you.”
“Indeed, what did he say?”
“ ‘Certainly — who's speaking?’”
to earth via human beings the result is even more
freakish. In one instance the lightning entered a
hotel bar, struck the landlord dead, knocked a girl
over, and set fire to a barrel of rum. In another
it tore the clothes off a Chinaman working in a
garden, skipped his boots —leather being a non-con-
ductor —and plunged into the ground.
TRAMPING BACK TO CROOKWELL FOR THE
SPUDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m tramping down the bridle-path. The Siren’s
song I’ve heatd
Across the mountains calling clear and high,
And down the steady billet went. My breast was
fever-stirred,
For whoso hears the call must go—or die.
The shearer making westward, when he reads my
simple lay—-
He heard the Call to shear the Queensland studs —
Will understand the reason why I’m on the track
to-day,
A-tramping back to Crookwell for the spuds.
I left the train at Liverpool and blithely push along
The old, familiar road I’ve often tramped;
My feet are turned to Picton Lakes, my eyes to
Mittagong,
I’ll camp perchance where gallant Oxley camped.
Oh, autumn skies are laughing blue, the hills are
green as spring,
And tasselled cornfields smile on river floods,
As glad of heart I choir the songs the plumaged poets,
sing,
A-tramping back to Crookwell for the spuds!
The days of vagabondage have returned to me once
more,
My soul the bonds of cities chafe and fret;
The highways and the byways I am tramping as of
■ yore,
To meet the kindest folk I’ve ever met,
And welcome as a minstrel in the days of Old
Romance
Before the board at Purcell’s and at Rudd’s —
I sing the Songs of Sydney in her pomp and cir-
cumstance
A-tramping back to Crookwell for the spuds.
I wonder as I wander down the road the convicts
made
.What rising star propels the champion fork,
And if I’ll find a song among the Knockabout Brigade,
The men who work and drink and drink and work.
A cert, we’ll sing the old Bush Songs once more in
Fahey’s bar,
The Mecca of the rovstering mountain bloods,
And merrily we’ll swing a fork where Coronations
are,
And early diggers harvest Crookwell spuds.
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.


WmT^T’.
I
mm
m
a i
mm
'll
H
■
■ .
It
/
4
1
B
£
sa
'•*4* A
o
"■ 'J
r?>
H
i"TH
I
■
■
m
H I
: a . ■
m
\ ,
■
JUK
mmmmm
'
■■■;■
mBKKSBHk
mm
fwif M |fj
iff M
*
! SBI
' mMm
l
:'3
m
i ______
■
I
IsSsll
■I
sal
iii. a
and every lover of a garden desires beautiful
blooms. During summer months your garden
and lawns can only be kept at their best by con-
stant and liberal watering. In this connection
D
D>
offers you years of satisfactory and economical
service, free from the trouble associated with
poor grade hose. Its quality, strength, and
durability are undoubted, and if you will only
specify one of our brands when purchasing hose
you can rely on value and years of use. Made
in three brands, “Dunlop,” “Oceanic,” and
“ Federal.” Our Dunlop Moulded Seamless
Rubber Hose is a particularly serviceable article
—guaranteed the best made. Dunlop Hose costs
you no more to buy than other makes, the
difference is in the excellent service it gives.
Stocked in all sizes by all leading stores.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Manufacturers of every description of Rubber Goods.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


~,,,,,,,,,, 1
tz_s
'?~r.
4\
11
iff
3M
, mcuiumJ
MOTOR OIL
?WBAVTl Ni
MOTOR o:l
mim-t
LJ
sssj *=
ervic
Shell Motor Oils
are the highest expression of scientific
lubrication. Do the mere letters of the
alphabet denote to you in any way what-
ever the consistency of Lubricating Oils?
We think not. Your car requires an oil of
either light, medium or heavy body, and
to simplify identification Shell Lubricat-
ing Oils are graded accordingly. Ask for
Shell Motor Medium—or whatever grade
of Oil our Recommendation Chart advises
for your car. You 11 then get maximum
power with minimum wear and tear.
Leading garages stock Shell Oils.
SHELL Reliability is Proverbial /
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
All States and New Zealand.
Shell
Motor Spirit
1904 wa3 first intro-
-1905 duced to the Aus-
-1906 tralian public, in
1907 quantity, in 1904.
1 908 Since then count-
-1909 less contests fdr
1910 speed and en-
-1911 durance held in
1912 every quarter of
1913 the globe have,
1914 year by year,
1915 added to its fame.
1916 The records that
1917 really count, how-
-19 1 6 ever, are made in
1919 long, hard, oft-
-1920 repeated tests—
-1921 in the daily run-
-1922 ning of your car.
mm
wm
Keighley Imperial 70-B.H.P. Horizontal Semi-
Diesel Oil Engine.
Keighley Imperial
The perfect engine for
every service
KEIGHLEY IMPERIAL ENGINES are chosen for
exacting work in every part of the world, under all
w/ rtS °L trying conditi ™s> b y the British Admiralty,
War Office, Indian Ofhce, and more than 50 foreign
Governments—proof of the high KEIGHLEY quality,
the reliable and continuous service
KEIoHLEY will render you.
KEIGHLEY IMPERIAL ENGINES are supplied in
Vertical or Horizontal Gas, Kerosene, Petrol or Semi-
Diesel Type s—or Producer Plants for producing
power from any class of fuel. Available from sh.p.
upwards. Write nearest address for special catalogue
and all particulars.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; and
125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. (MELBOURNE)
PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and
Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R. W.
GARDAM, Perth, W.A.
Electric Generator Set.
n
Horizontal 2-Cylinder Gas Engine, with Self-
starter.
N.G.413
The “Home-made” Craze.
ORK finished? That’s splendid,
f f Well, I’m afraid you ladies will
have to be idle for a little until
a fresh lot of files are ready: this comes of
‘hustling-’!”
And the door closed behind the back of
the bead of Department X. The four occu-
pants of the room settled themselves a trifle
more easily in their chairs. One, a slim,
red-haired girl, whipped a piece of lemon-
colored knitting from a drawer and bent dili-
gently to her needles.
“That going to be a jumper, Miss May-
field?” inquired a dark girl whose hair
tumbled untidily about her ears. Then, as
the other nodded, “you are clever: there’s
a regular craze for home-made things, but
I’m such an awful slacker. Oh, bother
my hair!” she broke off, vainly trying to
thrust back an unruly lock, “I washed it
last night, and I can’t do a thing with it
to-day.”
“What do you wash it with?” inquired
Miss Mayfield. “Not Stallax, I’m sure.
Ah, I thought not.”
“I do,” said a pretty fair girl who had
not yet spoken. “It’s simply splendid
stuff.”
“There,” said Miss Mayfield, “I told you
so. You try it next time. If you haven’t
any at home a chemist will always supply
it. It works up into the most lovely foamy
lather and cleans your hair in no time.
Afterwards it dries quickly and crisply, so
that it can be done up at once—none of
that untidy ‘endy’ look the day after a
shampoo.”
“Well, well,” said the dark-haired one,
“that’s something worth trying. As we’re
on the subject, do any of you know a cure
for falling hair? I’m convinced I’m getting
prematurely bald; also I’ve got quite a
little patch of grey hair —overwork, of
course,” she grinned.
The head of the room, a slightly older
woman whose face was redeemed from plain-
ness by the masses of soft brown hair sur-
rounding it, sailed into the discussion.
“I don’t think you’ll beat my recipe, Miss
Carey,” she said; “and, like Miss May-
field’s jumper, it’s home made. Get a pack-
age of boranium from your chemist, and
dissolve it in bay rum. If you rub this
into the roots of your hair at night you will
find, in a few days, that not only will your
hair stop falling out, but it will grow much
more thick and glossy. If you aren’t joking
about that grey hair I can give you a tip
which has been of great use to me person-
ally.”
“I’d be fearfully grateful, Mrs. Die we,”
answered Miss Carey.
“Well,” said the other, “it is not unlike
the first recipe, only this time the bay rum
should have pure Lammalite dissolved in it.
You should apply the mixture with a clean,
small brush, and it will gradually restore
the faded part to its normal color. Of
course, this isn’t a dye; I know nothing
about hair-dyes, for I disapprove of them
entirely. But it’s a wonderful tonic.”
“Thanks so much,” Miss Carey said; “I
ought to be a dream of beauty as regards
my hair. Seriously, though, I’m going to
try your ideas. Stallax, boranium, tamma-
lite —"is that right? Thanks, Miss May-
field, what a delicious jumper that is;
but my complexion would never stand that
color. You red-haired girls are lucky, you
always have such topping skins.”
“I had anything but a topping skin a
year ago,” replied the latter. I used- to
freckle and burn and get dreadfully blotched-
looking. Then a friend told me that mer-
colised wax was by far the most scientific
and effective thing she knew. If it is rubbed
on at night and washed off with warm water
in the morning it gradually absorbs the outer
skin which has become stained and rough-
ened, and reveals the fresh new skin under-
neath. It sounded rather wonderful, and
so I tried it; and I’ve used no other face-
cream since.”
“Would you believe it?” murmured the
facetious Miss Carey. “I wouldn’t be half
so bad-looking if I had your skin, Miss May-
field. Is this wax very difficult to get?”
“Not a bit,” said the other; “any decent
chemist has some in stock.”
Mrs. Drewe looked up. “You all seem
great beauty-specialists! I wonder if one of
you experts know if there is any way of
curing blackheads, ns I have a friend who is
quite disfigured with them?”
Miss Carey knitted her brows, but the
fair girl said quickly : “I think most people
use something called stymol, which you can
buy in tablet form. It closes the pores of
the skin, or, rather, reduces them to their
proper size, and that loosens any blackheads
acid prevents others from forming.”
“How do you use it?” inquired Mrs. Drewe.
“For blackheads, I believe you dissolve a
tablet in warm water, bathe them and gently
remove them with a towel. But, though I
don’t personally suffer from blackheads I
often have a stymol face-bath. It’s so de-
liciously sparkling and refreshing.”
“Thank you so much; lam sure my friend
will be very grateful,” smiled Mrs. Drewe.
A step sounded in the corridor. “I’m
afraid this very enlightening discussion must
be postponed,” she continued. “I think that’s
the messenger with our files. Yes, here
they come. We must carry on with the
work now r .” —Advt.


Tke
Purest
f
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife’s schn^^
STANDS ALO^'B”
Safety Razor
I have not
joined a Safety
Razor Union.
Although I am a safety razor I
never ca’ canny. My job is to see
that you get the maximum output
of shaves from every “ Valet ” blade.
My method is simple—just strop-
ping, wonderfully accurate strop-
ping—and I do it myself, so that I
know the job is properly dene.
You will find that a razor which
strops itself is as great an improve-
ment as a motor-car which starts
itself. It is even better, because it
means more “ mileage ” per blade.
Stop at the next good razor shop
you pass and ask the man behind
the counter to show you the
“ V alet ” Auto Strop razor, complete
with 12 blades and a strop, then
I'll show you how I strop myself.
Made in England.
Obtainable from all high-
class dealers.
The W"ril “ Valet ”on Razors, Strong, avd Blades
indicates the genuine product ot the Auto'lron Safety
Razor Co., Ltd., W 7--0/, Lily Road, Loudon, K.G 1.
ď
■
m
m
m
better than in some previous work from the
same pen, though it is still slovenly.
Of the other verses in the little book per-
haps the most notable is “The Minor Chord,”
a piece of rough, rather-Iviplingesque work-
manship, with a good deal of color and force.
It begins:—
Love is only one of the rays
The prisms of Deity show;
Truth is only one of the bays
Where the soul-flotillas go;
Duty only one of the ways
The Walkers of Wisdom know.
And this is the conclusion:—
Yet through their tracts of day and night
As dappled our souls career,
A hope grows strong, as the dead stars light
(’Tis only a hope, you fear?)
That a dominant chord of Truth and Right
Shall ring at the last post clear —
A hope, yet more than a weakling’s wile
To gladden a dirge’s close,
That Duty is more than an old slave’s guile
To temper a master’s blows,
And that Truth is a lotus afloat on a Nile
Where Love for eyer flows!
There is a thought in “The Sea” which is
worth while :—-
Or are we children of the sea,
Nerved with its sifted mud,
And haunted with its mystery,
Its water in our blood ?
Yea, proud amphibian emigrants,
With her own tears we weep,
Her high tide in the hot heart pants,
And still she ebbs in sleep.
“Witch of our Wilderness” moves a little
heavily to the recurring refrain “I am not
happy long away from you” ; but it contains
remarkable lines. Take, for instance:—
Do sighs innumerable build the breeze?
And
Forsaken winds that know not why they moan.
Bernard O’Dowd has a much better song
than he will allow himself to sing.
D. M. W.
Five Centuries of Industrial Effort
Gilbert Stone in A History of Labor (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.) prefers to state
rather than to argue ; but it is evident that
he cannot see quick salvation for the worker
either by a bold step forward or by one
of those heroic retrograde movements which
the medievalists have been advocating of
late years. Penty, perhaps the most bril-
liant of the latter school, would return to
the craft guild 0 f the 13th century. Stone’s
chapter on the .guilds suggests the hopeless-
ness of any such plan. It is edifying to
read of the contentment and fair-dealing
which prevailed in such an organisation as
the Guild of the Blessed Virgin Mary at
Hull. It was a trade union, an employees’
association and a benefit society all in one.
No one was overworked or underpaid, and
any member who met with unmerited mis-
fortune was put on his feet by a general
levy amongst the brethren. The most
dreaded punishment was expulsion. Expul-
sion meant that the offender, however good
a craftsman, was ruined: England was very
small in those days, and industries were
localised as w 7 ell as limited in number. Any
community whose wants are few, and which
has not very long emerged from tribalism, may
make a success of guildism, communism or any
analogous system, more particularly if prac-
tically all the inhabitants are under the sway
of a powerful church. But when the castle
and the monastery become part of the town,
and the town becomes identified with the
kingdom; when transport is improved and
the kingdom develops into an empire, then
barter has to go and justice—lay, not clerical
justice—must come down from some central-
ised court, preferably at the seat of gov-
ernment. The worker is not going to im-
prove his lot by aiming at simplicity and
trustfulness in fife and law in an age like
our own, which is highly complicated and
competitive and not greatly influenced by
scruples.
. One of the most interesting and instruc-
tive lessons that industrial history has to
teach is that reform nearly always comes
obliquely. Some of the best-intentioned mea-
sures of a humanitarian sort were disastrous
in their ultimate effects, and many innova-
tions which were inequitable and cruel
helped in the end to save the country. The
enclosures have been damned for centuries
by every writer with any sympathy for
suffering. They robbed thousands of* their
livelihood and covered England with pau-
pers. Yet if this change had been delayed
England might have starved, and it would
certainly not have progressed as it did after
the ivaste lands began to be cultivated on
organised lines. The enclosures, the dis-
solution of the monasteries which had
accepted the duty of looking after the desti-
tute, and the devaluation of the coinage
which began under the Tudors produced the
“rogues and vagabonds” of that Elizabethan
statute which was afterwards interpreted
to include actors in its scope. It was be-
ginning to be dimly understood, by the State
as well as by the old church, that poverty
was not necessarily an indication of vil-
lainy. Enter the well-meaning Poor Laws.
Under the original Poor Law a worker was
paid, not according to the value of his
efforts, but according to whether or no he
was married, and if married in proportion
to the number of his children. Inevitably
wasters married in order to loaf in an over-
paid job, and single men went slow rather
+han be shown such a point. Both minimum
and maximum wages had been tried cen-
turies before this form of Fatherhood-endow-
ment was introduced, but like it they were
put to base uses—chieflv bv those whom
they were designed to uplift—and with the
general assent of the nation they were
eventually dropped.
The Agrarian Revolution was bad from
the standpoint of the have-nots, but the
Industrial was ten thousand times worse.
It is an ironic thought that the Industrial
Revolution with all its oft-quoted horrors —
its eight-year-old children working their 12
hours a day in mines and so forth—had a
very definite relation to the Poor Law. The.
more children a man owned, under this
insane statute the more wages he had a
right to claim; therefore many made a busi-
ness of having large families. When they
found that the average employer favored
those who had smaller families or none,
they were driven to find work for their
children, and the factories and mines
claimed the poor little things by the thou-
sand. Industrialism, which had come by
chance, as it were, and which w r as viewed
with hatred by all the generous spirits of
the age in which it first appeared, lived, like
agrarianism, to be a force for good. The
unemployed were absorbed. It might not
have been much of an existence that they
were offered, but it was preferable to abject
want. The population inci'eased enormously.
Britain became the richest country in the
world. But the Combination Laws held
the proletariat in bondage. It is grimly
diverting, at this time of day, to recall the
favorite argument for the repeal of the Com-
bination Laws—almost as much so as to
recall the more or less contemporaneous
argument in favor of Free Trade. Just as
Cobden contended that freedom to trade
would banish commercial strife, so Place
claimed—and without a doubt believed —
that freedom to combine would put an end
to industrial strife.
In considering the innumerable failures of
the humanitarians and the almost invariable
habit which attempts at industrial reform
have of kicking back from some totally un-
expected angle, it might be said that the
problem of bettering the lives of those who
are fated to live and die as workers is too
big to be solved. That is not so, however,
since it is being solved every day of every
year. The worker is progressively doing
better for himself, in wages, in cultural
opportunities, in his living standard and in
his opportunities for amusement; not, how-
ever, through “advanced legislation,” much
of which is not intended by its authors to
live, but through a growing realisation
amongst classes which never appreciated it
before that he has a right to such things.
The modern worker has taken nearly all
the legislative objectives that are likely to
be of any real and permanent service to
him. The lesson of Mr. Stone’s work is
that he will get more for himself and his
family, so long as the capitalist system re-
mains, by a spirit of goodwill and reason
expressed in frank interchanges of opinion
with his employer, coupled with efficiency at
his job. With Asia entering the industrial
arena efficiency is apparently going to be
a first condition of life for the white nations.
J. B. D.
“Around the Boree Log”
If he has not supplied a long-felt want,
John O’Brien has at; least seized a long-
waiting opportunity in giving us a book of
verse about Irish-Australians. In Around
the Boree Log (Angus and Robertson) the
Caseys and the Careys and the O’Neils go
about upon their lawful occasions—their
lovemaking and toiling, their prayers and
arguments, very true to life, and much as
they are going about these things to-day in
every country town from Bungaree to
Babinda.
The truly erudite reviewer, in whom the
passion for esoteric art has become almost
a complex, would not be in the least degree
satisfied with Mr. O’Brien’s verses. There
are so many things that they are not. Com-
pared with the Iliad, for example, they show
a regrettable lack of epic afflatus. Of
Shakspearean tragedy, of Byronic gloom, of
lush Swinburnian verbiage, they bear no
trace. Indeed, though appearing under an
Irish name, they have not the most distant
relationship to the work of, say, W. B.
Yeats or David McKee Wright or “A.E.”
Yet, in spite of what they lack, John
O’Brien’s verses may be greatly admired and
well praised for what they are. They are
Australian first —bush-Australian, and not
just, city-Australian, which, in its better
qualities at least, is much like city-anywhere-
else. They are Irish-Australian, of course.
These Hanrahans and Callaghans and
McEvoys could hardly be anything else:
tender-hearted, sunny-tempered, loyal and
pious children of “little Irish mothers.”
But they are pure Australian too: good
mates, good workers, full of a healthy humor
and a capacity for enjoyment that most of
the world just now seems to have lost. They
are very faithful pictures that John O’Brien
presents; and many a reader, who remembers
well his country town with its “Church upon
the Hill” and its “Father Pat” and its
“Young O’Neil,” who
Squatted down upon his heel
And chewed a piece of bark,
will be deeply grateful to the author for
reintroducing «o many delightful friends.
And the verse which makes us acquainted
with these jovial fellows is just as unpre-
tentious as they are. It is in the direct
Lawson-Paterson line mainly—unaffected
talk about Australians, much as they would
naturally talk about themselves. Yet, if
his subject needs eloquence, the author can
rise to it. But he is best at his simplest,
in the pathos of “Making Home” and “Yale,
Father Pat,” the happy humor of “The Old
Bush School” and “At Casey’s After
Church,” or in the sheer rollicking farce
(true to life, all the same) of “Said Hanra
han” and “The Careys.”
Possibly, if Paterson had never strummed
his Banjo, John O’Brien would never have
sung to us as he does: that doubles our debt
to Paterson. Yet there is much that is
straight-out O’Brien in this book, much
honest entertainment and pure fun. It is
well worth while to read of “The Trimmin’s
on the Rosary,” so continuallv on the in-
crease that
in fact, it got that way
That the Eosary was but trimmin’s to the trimmin’s,
we would say;
or of the bishop who
Sat in lordly state and purple cap sublime
And galvanised the old bush church at Confirmation
time,
and, in the course of his examination, de-
manded of the raw bush lad from Tangma-
langaloo,
“Come, tell me why is Christmas Day the greatest
in the year?”
But Christian knowledge wilts, ala£, at Tangmalan-
galoo.
and
The ready answer bared a fact no bishop ever knew —
“It’s the day before the races out at Tangmalan-
galoo.”
It is all good fun; the kind of fun that
calls up the happy chuckle rather than the
loud laugh.
And the bush is there, enveloping its
people with the bird-song and the flower-
scent that the townsman Marcus Clarke
could not discover. At times it is colorful,
too —
I’ve seen the paddocks all ablaze
When spring in glory comes,
The purple hills of summer days,
The autumn ochres through the gums.
Whatever it is not, this verse of John
O’Brien’s may well be admired for what it
is—for its kindly humor, its gentle pathos,
its honest pictures of one phase of country
life and its good Australian sentiment. The
book will find an army of readers all through
Australia; but it is to be hoped, for the
author’s own sake, that his too-ardent ad-
mirers will not hail him, upon his present
performance, as a Great Poet. That he
obviously does not pretend to be. For an
honest rhymester, who seeks merely to enter-
tain his public, to be hailed as a Great Poet
is a. vain and unprofitable thing; if it be
persisted in it becomes a pathetic and an
embarrassing thing, for which the helpless
author is in no way to blame. As a book
of healthy, happy verse, moderately well
constructed and full of entertainment,
Around the Boree Log should be judged, and
commended. As such, it is a welcome addi-
tion to Australian literature.
C. J. D.
The Wisdom of M. Anatole France
Every educated man has long joined the
band of admirers of “the Master,” who, as
the learned, witty and privileged jester of
Europe, has just been most worthily awarded
the Nobel prize. His latest translated book
(J/. Bergeret in Paris, John Lane, London)
will not add to that band, for you cannot
add to totality ; assuredly it will not lessen
the affection in which M. France is held.
We meet again some characters whom we
have already met and loved—the learned old
Professor himself, purely a self-portrait; his
practical sister Zoe; his pretty daughter
Pauline, of whom it is said that “young girls
are never delighted with anything,” a saying
which will be appreciated by most fathers;
and, most delicious of all, the little dog
Piquet, who worships the gentle, harmless
old Professor because he is “great and ter-
rible,” and who exhibits such saintly self-
restraint in resisting the carnal temptations
of his belly to take his god’s sacred nutri-
ment —a veritable St. Anthony! There is
also a crowd of gaily immoral and pleasant
people of the great world.
There is little story in “M. Bergeret in
Paris,” hardly even a noteworthy incident.
It is really a dissertation on the French
polities of 20 years ago, with exquisite Hash-
lights on human nature and ironical com-
ments on the world and the folly with which
it is governed. YVe can skip the politics,
which remain alien to us, though it is dan-
gerous to skip anything of M. France, for
an apparently dull page may conceal pearls
of wisdom. Incidentally, we get a light on
the reasons which induced M. France to
turn anarchist —surely the mildest-mannered
anarchist that ever scuttled ship or cut a
throat. YVe learn that all Governments are
bad, and that to govern is simply to get
yourself disliked. Therefore we infer that
mankind would be better off without any.
YVe need not be afraid; M. France is the
last man in the world to start throwing-
bombs, for there is no one whom he hates
sufficiently to- do him that injustice. If all
men were like M. Anatole France no doubt
he would be right, and anarchism would be
more attractive. Let us educate mankind.
“But, papa,” cries hori'ified Pauline when
she perceives whither the Professor’s dreams
are leading him, -‘that is collectivism!” Pro-
fessor Bergeret is not appalled. He points
out that mankind dreads change lest things
should be even worse. Man is always ter-
rified of a mere name because he does not
understand exactly what it means. Half
the fun of reading M. France is in searching
for the hidden meanings that lurk in his
limpid yet Sibylline utterances; you may
always be sure that he wants you to search.
When we find that the “great and terrible”
god of little Iliquet is really nothing worse
than a gentle and harmless old Professor,
what are we to infer?
M. France has the supreme art of pole-
mics ; he can banter without wounding. Of
course _ his teaching is sheer, flagrant Epi-
cureanism ; he worships the beautiful wher-
ever it is to be found—in old books and old
furniture, in the Odyssey (how he worships
the Odyssey!) ; even in the mediaeval church,
because, though once so barbarous, it now
seems so gracious and has left us such glori-
ous cathedrals and works of art. But
mostly he finds his beauty in dreams of
the happiness of mankind. It would seem
that the worship of the Greek St. Epicurus
produces a much more attractive type of
character than the worship of the Prussian
St. Marx, which has produced Lenin and
Trotsky and their murderous doctrine of
terrorism and civil war. What else is the
“class war”?
But why not a “Riquet saga,” to borrow
a phrase from Mr. Galsworthy? M. France
is still a delightful boy of only 72 or so;
surely he is not too old to give us that
crowning masterpiece.
The translation, by Mr. B. Drillien, is bril-
liantly successful.
C. McL.
Find the Woman, by Arthur Somers Roche (Hocl-
der and Stoughton). Clancy Deane, coming into a
few hundred dollars, goes off from a “sleepy Maine
town” to N’York to make a name in the pictures;
ahd this book-full happens inside a week or so.
You won’t believe it afterwards ; hut while you are
reading it you may. And you will want to go on
reading- if you merely read for relaxation. Which
suggests that it is quite good of ‘its class.


Good Old Xmas.
The Father of cheery fellowship, happy days
and jolly festivity.
We offer everyone our best wishes for
bright, merry-making times during Christ-
mas and New Year, and the top of good
fortune in 1922.
Wmchcombe, Carson
LtcL,
Sydney and Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THE BARRY STEEE SPRIT PURREY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many .advantages over the
old-style riveting. • There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
CHATEAU
TANCUNDA
Standards £? Hospital
BfI&MDY
V-'"
•r- as-s*****- ■ v
lps#
S£sg&- --' fr
U:
4*4?
-r - jf. !'2
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Cure AH Skin Diseases
in Your Own Home.
Eczema, Scaldhead, Scurvy, Chil-
blains, Barber’s liash or other skin
affections can be cured by the
LIGMOLLIENE
TREATMENT.
Send to-day for full particulars of
this simple and soothing treatment
that has effected surprising cures, even
after years of suffering.
All Chemists. A sample tin, 1/6, from
the proprietors.
W. H. MALYON & SON,
Ballarat Vic.
(MEYER
PLUMBERS’ BRASSWORK
Immediate Delivery.
“Medium” or “Country” Lines: lin., fin., lin. Bibs, Hose, Stops,
Ferrule Stops, Straight Ferrules, etc.
WATER-BOARD STANDARD. Melbourne—Brisbane —Hobart,
Perth, Adelaide, Sydney. All usual lines.
RANGE or TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS.
ALDERDICE,
Brassfoundry, Warrnambool.
Flawless Corsican Bruyere.
We
wil]
show
a
shape.
every
week.
f
The Best Pipe that Prance Produces.
Illustrated,
809D.5., 20/-
F.E.C. is a perfect smoke
—cool, sweet, clean. That
is because it is made by
French Diggers from the finest-
grade flawless Corsican Briar Boot
the world can stipply.
Every F.E.C. is sold with
A Twelve Months’
Guarantee
and any cracking or burning within that
time will be replaced free.
Made in 98 smart shapes—that
shown is silver-m’t’d style 809D.5. at.
Ask your tobacconist for one or send a postcard
to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you
where to get one.
[s
/,
/
V 9
LzaS
7 The Fragrance of
the Flower itself
Zenobia Perfumes faithfully reproduce the delicate
and lingering fragrance of sweet English flowers.
They give a charm and personal daintiness unobtain-
able by the use of ordinary scent. Delicate, yet last-
ing ; elusive, yet distinctive; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, an exquisitely delicate fragrance.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock, a sweet bewitching periume.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the original scent of this name.
ZENOBIA.
are obtainable at most hish-class Chemists, Perfumers and Stores.
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd., Loughboro’, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Assent for Australia
(Wholesale onlv) —-
KENNETH BUCKMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents tor New Zealand
(Wholesale only)—•
NEW SON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
A TOOL ROOM NECESSITY
d
ďf
Australasian Agents
Toolmakers declare this
machine to be of the greatest
service and indispensable to a
well-equipped shop.
For grinding nardened dies
and puncnes, truing ttie legs of
jigs and similar work, you will
find the
Brown 8 Sharpe
No. 2
Surface
Grinding Machine
just the machine you need.
If you desire further informa-
tion we will gladly send our
catalog, so that you can buy
intelligently and realise the
many superior features that
this machine contains.
Scruttons Limited,
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“1 >,F.” : One pf the most queerly-named
pubs in Australia was the Stinking Goat at
Burramine (Vie.). But I like better old
Hobart Town’s Come In and See Wiggins.
“Sixenate” : The N.S.W. Government es-
tablished a poor person’s legal aid branch
in its law offices in 1919; and since then
9000 people have been granted assistance in
getting cases through the various courts.
But the desire for cheap law seems to be
as bad as the drug habit, for there have
been no less than 20,000 applications for
some of it*
* * * *
“Dido” : During a sitting of one Melbourne
Presbyterian Assembly deliberations were
interrupted by a stranger. This stranger had
a slight chain about his waist, wore a pair
of yellow trousers, a red coat and a small
blue cap, and mounted on the long table he
rattled a little tin-can, begging coppers. He
was an organ-grinder’s monkey. The organ-
grinder insisted that Jacko had six coppers
in the tin when he went in.
* * * *
“Windjammer”: “Sparks” (B. 1/12/’2l)
says the Thermopylse’s record of 880 miles
sailed in 24 hours has never been approached.
How about the Lightning’s 436 _nautical
miles on March 1, 1854, and her 430 miles
on March 19, 1857; the Donald McKay’s
421 miles on Feb. 27, 1855, the James
Baines’s 420 miles in January, 1855, and
the Sovereign of the Seas’ 411 miles on
March 18, 1853?
“A.M.” : Re the Maulesden’s fast trip in
1883 (B. 1/12/’2l). She did the following
runs for 24 hours: 302, 303, 304, 311, 317,
822 and 335. The passage was 09 days
from Greenock to Maryborough (Q.) —a
record never approached. Lightning holds
the two best 24-hour records, 436 (nautical
miles) when on her maiden voyage across
the Atlantic in 1854, and 430 miles in 1857
when on the Australian run. The fastest
time record is 21 knots by the -James Baines.
“The Wanderer”: A Manning River
(N.S.W.) dairyman recently sent eight
calves to Sydney to be sold. They
realised 9s. each —total, £3 12s. The com-
mission charged was 3s. 6d., the yard dues
amounted to 4s. and the railway freight to
£2 16s. 9d. The cheque received by Cocky
after all exes, were paid was for 7s. 9d. —
and he had to part up 6d. exchange on the
cheque. Go on the land, young man ; go on
the land —and depend for your market upon
One Big City two or three hundred miles
away!
« * « »
“Bouragi” : The news that the rhinoceros-
beetle has been found in the Tongas should
make anyone holding shares in Western
Pacific copra plantations sit up and take
notice. Hitherto, Samoa has been this in-
sect’s only known haunt in our part of the
Pacific, though in the East Indies and “up
the Straits” they know him all too well.
When the horny two-inch beast with a spike
on his nose comes in cocoanut plantations
begin to go out. The beetle’s larva, a fat
white grub, is the cause of the trouble. It
bores into the crown of the cocoanut palm,
and once this is badly pierced the tree dies.
(A tree takes seven years to come to bear-
ing, and, normally, is a producing asset for
60 years after that.) The beetle and his
grub are hunted in various ways. In Samoa
pits are dug among the trees and filled with
the dried palm-fronds. For some reason the
adult beetles resort to these in large: num-
bers, and are presently burned. In the
Indies, the native hunter combines business
with pleasure. He climbs the cocoanut-palm
armed with a little gourd of fresh lime-
juice and a piece of wire with a barb at
the end. like a straightened-out fish-hook.
This is thrust into the hole in the cocoanut-
crown and the big grub that comes out on
the barb is dipped in limejuice and devoured.
A STAPLE DIET.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ill. W. Smith, general-secretary of the Australian
~, L 1 - I °n, returned to Melbourne from Russia,
m iv. 1 ' "C went as a Labor delegate, admits he
f'! , ® People of that blessed country eating dirt,
but adds: “This is not as bail as it i-ounus, 01 Uf
o i usites and clay the Russian scientists have suc-
ceeded m making an unpalatable but nutritious food.
....Kissia under Soviet government is in excellent
order.”
What strange, distended fools are we
Who in this sweating land
Keep up the scheme of industry,
And earn our bread by hand J
We toil and slave in summer heat,
We graft in winter cold
To get our share of bread and meat,
W hen, if we’ll make so bold,
By eating up the large estates we’ll get
all we can hold.
If we desire a steak to gain,
Some turtle, pure or mock,
W e work for it. ’Tis very plain '*
Our foolishness would shock
A well-conditioned Bolshevik
In happy Petrograd,
Who never needs a bone to pick
W liile grass is to be had ;
Who, wanting beef, a bulrush chews, and
finds his heart is glad.
Why should the Moujik till the field,
And linger for a crop?
Why wait until the lamb will yield
A creditable chop
When he can chew the fruitful soil?
Mixed with a tuft it’s worth
More than your corn, and wine, and oil.
In Russia is no dearth,
While peasant people still can say that
they have got the earth.
The Russian is not eating stew
Of tender mutton' made.
When you have had mud-pies a few
Your stomach is well stayed.
Fishballs his hunger do not sate,
W T ith clayballs he will flirt,
And at a pinch he’ll gnaw the plate
His palate to divert.
He proves his proud humility by daily
eating dire.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


d
S TOR AGE
BATTERY
Since the plates and insula-
tors inside a battery cannot
be seen, the trademark on
the outside is particularly
important. The Willard
Threaded Rubber circle of
the Still Better Willard
;
Battery means that the bat-
tery won’t have to be re-
insulated.
STORAGE
BATTE
RY


GIFTS for SMOKERS
A “Magpie” Pipe makes a very
suitable Gift for any Smoker.
ď
“MAGPIE”
PIPES
are
100% Australian.
Cool and Sweet
from the First
Fill.
Guaranteed not
to burn or crack.
MADE BY RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Stocked in a variety of Styles by Leading-
Tobacconists.
Wholesale only from
C. W. MOORE,
119 York Street, Sydney.
or
“MAGPIE” PIPE FACTORY,
Rear 15 McCracken’s Avenue,
Northcote, Vic.
Mm Worth
Following!
The Ex-Chief
Govt. Analyst of
N. S Wales
reports:—
‘‘l have analysed
Wolfe’s Schnapps and
Snd it to be a Remark-
ably Pure Spirit, flav-
oured with the natural
aromatic oil extracted
from the Juniper Berry,
which by a process of
careful blending, im-
parts to the Schnapps
the particular character-
Utio feature it has pos-
sessed for nearly a
century past—namely,
.hat of a Diuretic or
Remedy favourable Jor
simulating the action of
'ne kidneys.
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Is Refreshing 1
as well as
Beneficial
Large and Small
- Bottles
A Great British Product
2%, 5 and 8
Horse-power
"'Wautf
P ETTE(?
JONior
Oil-
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
Portable.
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20,000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY USED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative:—
LEE K. MURRAY, A.M.I.Ae.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents:—
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
pany, Ltd., 450-460 Ann Street.
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,
3 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: The Ridd Milking Machine Co.,
Ltd.. 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE: The South Australian Farmers’
Co-operative Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin St.
If any illustration appearing; in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Confidence
AA
joA
it
JLcult
<£>
j4usJ^cuLCcl
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Offices 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland : Albert & Swanson Streets.
*7(avQ Vou 9ried'
&he
neu)
f
MOTOR
SPIRIT
■edjiUL adorn sutuund pam? 6svg
WHAT feature do you desire most in Petrol ?
Many Motorists will say in answer to this
question - "Give me Petrol that will start
easily and give plenty of power.”
If this is your desire the following facts will
interest you
We have introduced a new Petrol to this Market
The Neu) Plume Motor Spirit
something different and better than we have market-
ed hitherto-
The new Plume is specially mode to overcome
starting troubles, to give full power and mileage. It
starts instantly because ol the correct grouping of
low boiling points.
This is the secret of easy starting. It is highly
volatile, every drop is instantly and completely
vaporised, making a perfect explosive mixture.
This means sweet running, plenty of power
and full mileage, as every drop is a working
drop.
You can be sure of satisfaclion with the netv
Try it yourself under every-day conditions,
starting, sweet running and more mileage.
Order a case to-day.
Plume Motor Spirit.
Test it for easy
&<SS
N.
§i
&
.... _ : V-4
$
S 3
iii m ..!.■. i-, '.. 1 -
KQJ»
VACUUM OIL COMPANY POP,
THE
L
K
ft e
/L
m
4aa
iSp.
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
IFtift which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000 Directors ; —SIR JOHN GlilCE, Chairman.
oLUiiiiui iocu vapmat
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£2,000,000
1,320,000
£3,320,000
828.000
£4,148,000
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER. Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Devtitil Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager : It. S. GREGSON. Sub-Manaaer: L. C. McCQNNAN.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: A. E. ECCLEo.
Branches in Victoria. Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
Brisbane —Manager ; WM. TIVEY. LONDON OFFICE: 7 Lothbury, E-C-gc
“S.S.S.” : The foundation-stone, of the
little church in Port Moresby is claimed to
be the biggest block of jasper in the world.
Mrs. Patrick Mooney, who closed her score
of 86 this month, was the first white woman
born on the Manning (N.S.W.), and she
stuck to that classic region till the end.
This notice is prominently displayed in
a Collins-street (Melb.) office:—
This office has been broken into three times in
three months. It is no use breaking in again be-
cause we keep no cash, and nothing fit to eat or
drink, unless blue-black ink and paste make a good
enough cocktail for a Bolshevik or burglar. P.S. —
I’m dead weary of being burgled. It’s not comical.
li. M. Weldon, Income-Tax Commissioner;
11. A. Pitt, Treasury Accountant; W. Mc-
Iver, Secretary for Lands ; T. Brennan, Rail-
way Accountant; and T. E. Meek, Secre-
tary of the State Treasury, will be candi-
dates for the Vic. Under-Treasurership
(£1250 a year) if Minogue sticks to his
intention to retire next year. Pitt’s experi-
ence as fnanager of the Australian' Wheat
Board will give him a big lift, though Meek,
who has a good name as an administrator,
is said to be a strong rival.
“Emby”: Letter received by the president
of the Cunnamulla (Q.) Hospital commit-
tee from a Chinese gardener on Bierbank
station, whose heart is exactly in the right
spot:—
Dear Sir, —Just I write few Lines let you know
I been asked anybody Collection. Some the money
give money make new Hospital cunnamulla. The
mans all working. Bierbank Station. Collection tne
money more £4 money. Now I wating some few
mans come in Bierbank. I asked more collection
some money, mans in bush. I will send money
next week for you can give Hospital cunnamulla.
I Hoppy you are quite well. I working Gardener,
Bierbank Station. Yours truly— Jimmy Loo Sin
Hook.
Which means that Jimmy has collected £4
off his own bat, and is now lying in ambush
for those some few mans who have yet to
come in to Bierbank.
“Hecagus” : I submit Innisfail’s (N.Q.)
light railway as the Charlie Chaplin service
of the State. Inquiry at the main station
elicited the vague information that the train
for Maria Creek would leave Innisfail some
time after lunch. So it did—at 8 p.m. It
was delayed, so we heard, to enable intend-
ing passengers and train crew to view the
special parade of a circus then in town.
Tickets for the journey were not on sale at
the main office, bpt we got them at the next
station. Here the train was about to crawl
out when Sherlock Holmes discovered four
passengers without tickets. This was duly
reported to some official or other, who there-
upon strolled across to a near-by fence, re-
marking as he seated himself upon the top
rail: “No blanky train leaves here till those
blanks do buy tickets!” When we finally
got properly going my mate and I were the
only white Australians in a carriage that
held a mixed assortment of Greeks. Chinks,
Japs, Malays, Spaniards, Hindoos, Cingalese
and abos. I noticed that some wag had
written on the carriage-wall in chalk: “Eng-
lish spoken aboard,” to which someone else
had added: “Sometimes.” We did the 20
miles in five hours.
“Boomster”: Memories of Vic.’s land-
boom of 1890-3 have been revived by The
Block Arcade in Collins-street being put up
to auction. The property has come on the
market owing to the death of J. McA. How-
den, a son-in-law of Andrew Lyell, the
shrewd old Scotch accountant with the
Judge’s brain and outlook. Lyell was the
trusted financial adviser of Flinders-lane,
and, incidentally, its chief undertaker and
funeral-furnisher for “bung” businesses.
After the big fire in 1889 at George and
George’s, their rivals Robertson and Moffatt
bought the land in Collins-street with the
idea of shifting their drapery from Bourke-
street or opening a branch. In 1886 the
City Property Co. was formed to buy
Clarke’s Buildings in Boprke-street and the
Lane Buildings in Flinders-lane. Orlando
Fenwick, a soft-goods magnate; R. G. Ben-
son, the leading building-society man;
Robert Mailer, Andrew Lyell and J. McA.
Howden were the directors. Later on B.
J. Fink bought shares in the co. which spent
£350,000 on the Block Arcade. It was
offered for sale the other day—-and £200,000
was bid for a rent-roll of £24,000.
“Vandorian” (Lond.) : Spending a few
weeks in Surrey, I have had a rare opportu-
nity of inspecting, from country lanes and
quiet foot-tracks, the vacant lands that hit
the British cupboard so hard during the war.
Of course, one eliminates the cosy farms and
tidy fields where sleek cows are doing their
hit for the over-crowded towns and cities.
But there are others. The Princess Louise
(Duchess of Argyll)"has an estate near by
which she rarely visits. The Duke of Con-
naught’s place, Bagshot Park, is used by
the owner more seldom each year; the old
gentleman has to spend his winters in the
south of France and lives in London most
of “the season.” On every side are estates
undeveloped, practically unused. The dis-
trict is beautiful. More important to the
hungry unemployed, the land is of first-rate
farming quality. Yet here and in parts of
Berkshire (one can step into Berks at the
end of half-an-hour’s walk) are wide acres
that grow nothing but scenic effects —silver
beeches, limes, chestnuts and oaks, now gold
and brown and russet-red in the late autumn.
Nothing, that is to say, but discontent. From
that point of view the trouble over Ireland
has really been a godsend to the Old types of
politicians. It diverted a little attention
from home problems at a moment when they
began to wear a very ugly look.
THEN AND NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time was when women were the queens of men in
love and marriage,
And if a lady, by mischance, entered a smoking
carriage
She’d say, “I’m sorry, gentlemen, to give you this
displeasure ;
I pray you still to smoke and take enjoyment in full
measure.”
But now, alack, the period of queenly grace has
vanished ;
Each day in trav’ling back and forth I find some
ideal banished.
This morn to our non-smoker came a maid in
fashion’s patches
Who said: “Stiff luck, a wowser car, and I’ve for-
got me matches.”
VICTORIA.
GRAEME.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
m
m
r
i
)
WM
-
6.5. A. FITTINGS are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
‘‘pattern fittings.’' but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART.. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for B.S.A . Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


d
he lavqest sellmif
M- 7 J ,1 , J
quality pencil in
iheyvovlcL
\/ENUS
V PENCILS
I
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
ďf
SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors'
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
9/
&
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
: There's no question that for a Clear, Neat
} and Durable Name to mark any garment
or Article
CASH'S <® NAMES
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On.
Be sure and ask for CASH S Names.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6-6 doz. 5/-—3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
J. &J. CASH Ltd. Richmond, Vic.
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
msm
mm
4xtHa v
55tW
If any illustration appearing in Ihe
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to toe
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Century
Old
M
c
R
French
Briar.
THE NEW ERA —a pipe of super-quality. Made from
century-old French Briar Root, specially hardened and
seasoned, fitted with superfine Vulcanite mouthpiece.
Gives a sweet smoke that ensures satisfaction. fZ J^
MARCEE-DE-LUXE —a pipe of unique quality at the
price. Made from Briar Root guaranteed over 100 years
old. This is one of the famous GBD family, beauti-
fully marked and full of smoke-satisfaction. 10/-
If you have any difficulty in securing these famous pip es
—send remittance to Box 502 G.P.0., Sydney, and youi
order will receive prompt attention.
d
:
* Self.
Filling
PE
ďf
The Pen for Busy Writers
It fills in an instant from any ink
supply. Open and elose the lever;
that’s all! The lever is flush-locking
and cannot be felt when pen is in use.
A special feature is a patent catch which locks
the lever when closed, thus preventing
accidental opening when pen is being put
away into the pocket.
The “Swan” Self-filler
is safe to carry in any
position without fear of
leakage.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling (patterns.
Standard patterns. Safety patterns.
Illustrated List tost free.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., LTD.
SWAN HOUSE,
133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town.; Associate House:
Mabie, Todd&Co. Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch (Whole sale) : J. A. BURKE,
5, Primrose Bldgs., 255a,*George St.,Sydney
d
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank 'of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MAKTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - - - Accepted from 1/- upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - - - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at per cent, on any
excess up to £ 1000.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
“Low Tide” : In correcting some history-
exam. papers the other day 1 was interested
to learn this :■ —-
James 11. gave birth to a son, which made the
English people wild, and they rose in revolt against
him.
“Azrird”: Want a reliable pick-me-up?
Not to-day, perhaps, but some morning you
are bound to awake with an extra o.s. in
tongues and heads. Then, if you are wise,
you will avoid such things as liquor ammon.
acet., creme-de-menthe and soda, the aro-
matic spirit, of ammonia and ether, a hair of
the dog that bit you and caffeinae-citratis,
and will swallow 15 grains of calcium lactate.
Within 20 minutes you’ll be able to take your
liquid nourishment as usual.
“Dido”: ’Enery, an immigrant of recent
importation, was working for a dairyman
near Sebastopol (Vic.), and one day on his
rounds found a beautiful little specimen, con-
taining at least 3Aoz. of gold and about the
same weight of quartz. ’Enery showed his
find to several of his customers, and was
told its value by my friend Kettle, an old
miner, who appraised it at £l4. When
’Enery came with the milk on the follow-
ing Monday, he explained that he had sold
the specimen to some Moses or other for £9.
“You darn fool, you were robbed,” said
Kettle. But ’Enery shook his head. “No
fear; not a bit o’ it, owd son,” he said saga-
ciously. “It weren’t a good one. Moses
said it was full o’ grit, and so it was. It’ll
cost him live quid or more to have the stones
picked out o’ it!”
“Percy Pawnticket” : It used to be the son
of the family who bolted from home at 14
or thereabouts with the idea of making his
fortune; nowadays, in Australia, it is the
daughter who is doing the. bolting. Reports
of the disappearance of girls in their teens
appear daily in the papers ; and in spite of
current ideas about what happens to girls
who leave home and the evil impulses that
cause them to do it, they are usually found
resolutely climbing towards fortune in the
capacity of “maids.” One girl so found the .■
other week is the daughter of a family of
some social pretensions. Her indignant
assertion was that while her brothers were
allowed to earn money, most of which they
kept for themselves, she was expected to
stay at home, take .what was given to her
and be practically a servant to her male
relations.
Perhans the finest of Queensland’s exner ; -
ments in State Enterprise is the cold
storage establishment at the Hamilton. A
sum of £120,000 has been spent on this
white elephant, which now stands useless
and incomplete, with plant to the value of
over £20,000 rusting outside. When Minis-
ter Lennon in Ryan’s day proposed the
building of State refrigerating works be was
deputationised by commercial men and ship-
ping people and implored not to use this
particular site, as it would suit neither pro-
ducers, traders nor shipping cos. But wise
counsel didn’t count—it never does when
Caucus is boss —and the cold stores rose at
the Hamilton, to be a by-word and a further
monument to the folly of the Socialist crowd
in Queensland —really the worst enemies of
Socialism that Australia has ever known.
“Skipper”: The wife-swapping Queens-
landers of "Sassafras” (B. 8/12/’2l) had
their doubles at Port Lincoln (S.A.). About
40 years ago two young cookies, call them
Spanker and Whippem, used to get drunk
together at the Little Swamp hotel, about
five miles from the port, and curse their re-
spective wives and offspring. Then one night
Spanker suggested a swap, Whippem agreed,
and the ladies, feeling that their lot couldn’t
possibly be worse, fell in with the sugges-
tion. After that peace reigned; Spanker
alleged that Whippem must have been a
flamin’ swine to his missus, and Whippem
was heard to say that it licked him how the
cow could have been such a crimson brute to
a decent little woman. The re-arrangement
of portfolios, which was never again varied,
produced a harvest of young Spanker-Whip-
pems and Whippem-Spankers, and the two
branches of the families increased and mul-
tiplied, and all lived happily ever afterwards.
“Matelot” quotes a black-birder: —
“Kopp’s” account (B. 1/12/’2l) of the adven-
tures of John Renton differs from the story as I got
it from an old black-birder. Renton and ,three others
cleared out of a Yankee whaler, but it wasn’t from
the Golden Gate they came. The barque they left
was whale hunting near the Solomon group, when
the idea of desertion took hold of them, and one
windless night they did the trick, getting away in
the boat that hung from the davits at the stern.
Pulling away in the darkness they tried to make a
small island near which the barque had been be-
calmed all the previous afternoon; but when day-
light broke neither island nor ship was to be seen.
Having lost their bearings they allowed the boat
to drift, hoping that something would turn up.
They had neither provisions nor water, and after
about a week the four, near-skeletons found them-
selves close to an island, and some natives paddled
out and took possession of them. Young Renton
(the other three were elderly) was the chief’s selec-
tion. Heiinever saw his mates again, and there is
no doubt 'the cookpot was their last-haven of rest
after they had been fattened up a bit. Renton,
young and good looking, had better luck, and later
became the husband of the chief’s favorite daughter.
I sailed for a few months in the brigantine Mary
Campbell on the coast of Maoriland, and we had as
mate an old black-birder, Jack Le Maestre, who
had been for some time mate of the Bobtail Nag,
and was on that recruiting vessel when'Renton was
rescued. He had in his eight years among the
natives forgotten the English language, but in two
or three days it came back to him. The Bobtail
Nag took him to Queensland, and from there he
went to Melbourne, then shipped for London in the
Northumberland, on which his brother was carpen-
ter. After a spell in his native Orkneys he went
again to Queensland, and sailed as Government agent
in one of the black-birders, but it 'Was not long
before a nig. got him with a poisoned spear.
“DARKANLITE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The war produced or accentuated a number of
bad habits, one of which is the habit of cadge.”—
“Ex-Dig” ('B. 8I12I’21).
“Got any blanlty ‘papers,’ Dig? I’m broke
Till pay,” he said. “Now got a crimson light?”
He blew a flamin’ cloud of fragrant smoke,
An’ .hid me flamin’ matches out of sight.
An’ then he strolled away towards the ’bus,
Some Capstans hid within his horny mit,
To try an’ catch another flamin’ cuss
An’ see if he could hum a blanky spit.
VICTORIA.
TWILIGHT.


I
rms
I 1 1
I 1
.\
S* ■
\\
&
iS.
'A
iilUrTiiiiiiuu
l»7n
S ncßc'i »Z"*'V n 9 and Krcocr
Surface*
- JffilSM 3 -C JOHNSON &so
sEjJ2«moii».soK.
Ml
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors—poiished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
cPaste — Liquid — Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
uirniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson's - <
Wax—there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. y Sydney, N. S. W.
It is the policy of the makers of the Hupmobile always to build a product
worthy, in every way, of the confidence they invite buyers to place in it.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3Vk in. bore x 5% in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carburetter.—Ad j ustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication.—Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clinchers or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
i. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hup mo bile


A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face Lever
Watches, stem set, adjusted balance, key-
lors J-plate, 30/-
Jewelled compensation balance, 40/-,
50/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Necklet, set Aquamarines
or Rubies, £2.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set pure Diamond, £3/15/-
XU
45-
4*
miY'iifirnrag
A. Saunders’ Gold, Diamond-set Expanding Watch
Bracelet, full-jewelled lever movement, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Aqua-
marine or Pearls, 25/-
GIFT SUGGESTIONS
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Broorh, 15ct.
Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamond, £5.
M
V
a
H
%
A
1A
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold Expanding
Side Bracelet and Leather Strap, £5,
Wider Bracelet, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Ring’, set Aqua-
marine or Tour-
maline, £2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut D i a-
rnond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £B/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £25.
WRITE FOR OUR XMAS GIFT BOOK.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER*
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Neck-
let, £7/10/-
5?
ft
1
.
m
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Key-
less Lever, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin, £5.
20-year case, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO.
25-year case, £l2/10/-, £l5.
J
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Links, 25 /-; heavier,
30/-
15ct. Gold £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls,
£2.
A. Saunders' 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarines or Peridots,
£3.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £lO. Others, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-,
£l5. Guaranteed.
m
m
19
i
1
dig'
tH
SK
H
I
m
M
I
I
~s6l«LCHfflOLßtibb
■Mgjjby&.locwf ,oftsf in ‘
xmTMejbouTOerbmzdy
BE
S
The voices of bells! How imperative their
command! How earnest their entreaty!
What memories they recall! What warnings
they utter!
The making of bells dates back to primitive times, and their
forms have evolved from crude, wooden planks to the
modern shape cast in scientifically amalgamated metals.
Bell-c asting is an important part of our business, and we can
supply bells of suitable weight and correct tone value for
Churches, Schools, Fire Brigades, Ships, Factories and
Memorials. For many years past our bells have been used
in various parts of the Commonwealth and the Islands. Sizes
range from Bin. to 36in. in diameter, and weigh from about
201 b. to half a ton. Angle Steel Towers are supplied for
use where belfries are not available.
Being made by Australian craftsmen, our bells are promptly
delivered—free from overseas freight and duty charges. An
illustrated leaflet and price list will be gladly sent post free
on request.
John Danks dSoNPfrL#
324-330 Pitt Si. Sydney
391-403 Bourke St. Melbourne


Amusements.
s
VI)N 15 Y’S CIII 15 F i’ II 15 ATUIS S.
Ji C, WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
ttER MAJESTY’S:
THE HOT.
CRITERION:
SINBAI) THE SAILOR.
NEW ROYAL:
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
HA LACK:
SCANDAL.
y K ‘ » N I" IVTt K 15 TIIISAT It 15 »
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MERRIE ENGLAND,
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S theatre,
MARIE TEMPEST and GRAHAM BROWNE in
TEA FOR THREE,
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
M Oil’s Theatres, Melbourne.
* Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
HARRY MOREY AND KATHLYN WILLIAMS in
A MAN’S HOME.
EDDIE LYONS AND LEE MORAN in
LA, LA, LUCILLE.
Prices as usual.
qn tour! direction lioneiTwalsh.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring Victoria.
gUITANNIA THEATRE, M ELBO U ItN Is.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATH 15
WORLD and SKI.ZNICK
Allan wilkie-s shakspearean
P KODICTIONS.
Tasmanian Tour:
THEATRE ROYAL, HOBART, to SATURDAY,
JANUARY 14.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
UMPHREY BISHOP COMEDY AND
OPERATIC COMPANY.
TOURING AUSTRALASIA.
SUMMER SEASON, 1021-2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S EXHIBITION GARDENS,
ADELAIDE.
Missing Friends.
BARRETT, DANIEL FRANCIS, son of DANIEL
BARRETT, of Mary Street, Richmond, near Mel-
bourne, will hear of something to his advantage
by communicating at once with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY", 113 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
TT7 HlTlNG.—Frederick Whiting came to Australia
* V from England many years ago. He died, bu .
left children—
CHARLES WHITING,
SAVILLE AVIIITING,
KATE MARIA JACKSON.
These children or their descendants, or anyone whc
can give information about them, are requested to
immediately communicate with N. R. MACKINTOSH,
31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
'T' HE NATIONAL TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
J- AGENCY COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED, of 113 Queen Street, Melbourne, the
administrator of the Estate of MICHAEL SMITH,
late of Chiltem, in .the State of Victoria, clergyman,
deceased, intestate, urgently require for purposes oi
administration the whereabouts of EDMOND (or
EDWARD) SMITH, the brother of the deceased.
Any person knowing the whereabouts of the said
EDMOND SMITH or anything remotely connecter
with him is requested to communicate immediately
with the said Company.
BURNS, JOHN.—Niece in California seeks news-
of JOHN BURNS, born Limerick, Ireland, about
1834 ; or of his Relatives. Write “Burns,” carr
Charles Haines Advertising Agency, Wellington, New
Zealand.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts o
THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON
please communicate with F. SAMPSON
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
If any illustration appearing in Tin
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tin
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Nothing
Better in
Watches.
fd
Gent.’s O.F. Oxi-
dised Steel “Super
Fx & R” fully-
jewelled Lever,
847-
No watch can be
better for hard bush
use than our celebrated
“Super Fx & R”
Watch.
After 81 years’ ex-
perience in every make of watch throughout
the world w'e unhesitatingly publish our
opinion that there is no better, stronger, more
durable W’atch than the “Super Fx & R”
Watch.
Profoundly accurate, too. A “Super Fx &
R” Watch goes to within 10 seconds a month.
Then, too, they last a lifetime, and stand
horseback rough wear better than any watch
that we know of.
3-plate Levers, with 15 jewels, they are fine
value when one considers that the Customs
collect 48 per cent, of the cost price.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Pisrures.
fash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Amusements.
»EN & JOHN FULLER, LTD., MELBOURNE.
* PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE,
BLUEBEARD,
PALACE THEATRE,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Prices. MatinSes Daily.
Plans at Bijou Theatre.
Amuftrni *nt».
|y| A.IESTIC THEATRE, MEI.ISOUKNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
HOBART HOBSWORTH in
CUP OF LIFE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
t
m ■
sr t ft
a * j
m
?/!
A'*r&
88?:
Cssentials
A well-filled luncheon-basket and a “Decca** ensure the success
of a day’s outing.
The compact, handy little “Decca* can be carried anywhere
without inconvenience or fatigue. It is ready, to play perfectly,
immediately onened, any make and size of Record.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Mo<Ma—•
Leather Clotli £10/10/
Fibre £12/10/
Cowhide .... £18
Obtainable all over Australia from Ail Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors • Stanley E. Green Ltd., j79. Kent Street. Sydney.
This Sanitary System
Has Unrivalled
Advantages!
The installation of a “Walbow**
Sanitary System enables everyone
whose house is away from a sewer
to have perfect sanitation, to com-
bat the fly and mosquito pests, and
minimise the risk of infection and
The “Walbow” when not in use. disease.
Simple, self-contained, and with working parts that cannot get out
of order, the “Walbow” is not only a necessity, but a perfect boon
to those whose premises are unsewered.
The “Walbow” sanitary sprayer, with “Walbow” disinfectant,
instantly neutralises odors and destroys germs, and the lid closes
automatically.
THE WALBOW SANITARY SYSTEM
SiWAIBOW
"automatsc
S^iTAWSPRAyas
is a sensible, sanitary method, that
eliminates all annoyance 1
Write or call for full details.
Price &5 complete.
THE WALBOW
SANITATION CO.
53 Rose Street, Darlington,
SYDNEY.
MATIC
TORY SPRAYEP
Showing
action
of spray
(seat
removed).
Edison Storage Batteries
have exclusive advantages
They are lighter and have several times the life of any
other battery; they are the only battery that can be re-charged
at any time, even if they have been left for a year or more, or
that can be left standing; they can be discharged to exhaustion
without harm or even short circuited; their steel containers are
unbreakable and their plates need no
-r newels.
Every Storage Battery use—ignition, light-
ing, traction—can be better served by an
Edison. It will pay you to call or write
for our free booklet.
■ ' ■ »• '
Thomas A. Edison, Ltd.,
304-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
%!SM
Legal Notices.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
-L MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
To WILLIAM HARRY HARRISON formerly of
Hobart in xasmuma and later oi Sydney New oouih
Wales glass-worker the husband of VERONA
HARRISON (formerly Verona Marino) of Hobart
in Tasmania pianiste.
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued out of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of the said Verona Harrison
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the ground of desertion Now therefore
take notice tiiat within thirty days after the
twenty-ninth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-one the date fixed for the last
publication hereof you are to appear in our said
Court then and there to make answer to the said
Petition which may be inspected and a copy thereof
obtained by you upon application at the office of
the Registrar of the Supreme Court at Hobart afore-
said And also Take Notice that in default of your
appearing to answer the said Petition as aforesaid a
Judge of the said Court will proceed to hear the
said charge proved in due course of law and to pro-
nounce sentence therein your absence notwithstand-
ing And Take Notice that for the purpose aforesaid
you are Avithin thirty days from the 29th day of
December One thousand nine hundred and twenty-one
being the date of the last publication hereof to
attend in person or by your Proctor at the Registry
of the Supi'eme Court of Tasmania and to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
Dated at Hobart in Tasmania this 10th day of
December One thousand nine hundred and twenty-pne.
W. O. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Edward John Lowther O’Brien, of 70 Collins Street,
Hobart, Proctor for the Petitioner.
tN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
-I No. 634 of 1921. Mr. Justice Chubb.
BETWEEN BERTHA RACHEL SCOTT Plaintiff and
JOHN HERBERT SCOTT Defendant.
To the Defendant John Herbert Scott.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
twenty-first day of December 1921 commenced
against you and that the plaintiff by her Writ of
Summons claims a dissolution of her marriage with
you AND by the petition filed in this matter on
the twenty-first day of December 1921 the plaintiff
alleges that on or about the fourteenth day of March
1918 and on other days between that day and the
fifth day of April 1918 you committed adultery with
Elsie Arklay and prays to have the custody of the
jhildren to wit Ann Eileen Scott Nancy Maud
Scott Clement Herbert Scott Ethel Lorna Scott
and Allan Arnold Scott.
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has by order
dated the twenty-first day of December 1921 author-
ised service of the said Writ and Petition on you by
fixing on the notice board in the Registry of this
Honorable Court at Brisbane an office copy of the
Writ of Summons issued herein and an office copy of
the Petition filed herein and the insertion of this
notice twice in the Sydney Bulletin published at
Sydney once in the Bundaberg Stab once in the
Bundaberg Mail newspapers published at Bundaberg
once in the Brisbane Courier and once in the Daily
Mail newspapers published in Brisbane and also
by posting a copy of such notice by prepaid regis-
tered letters addressed to the defendant at the
General Post Office at Sydney and addressed to the
Defendant at the General Post Office Toowoomba.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required within
thirty days from the last publication to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and
that in default of your so doing the plaintiff may
proceed in this action and that judgment may be
given against you in your absence.
Dated this 23rd day of December 1921.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
Nieol, Robinson, Fox and Edwards, Solicitors, Bris-
bane, Brisbane Agents for Thorburn and Thorburn,
Solicitors for Petitioner, Bundaberg.
TIM) ROYCE LIONEL BRUCE formerly
of Shepparton Eastwood Street Ken-
sington in the State of Victoria Jockey but
whose present address whereabouts or- occu-
pation are unknown to his wife. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife Ruby Bruce has
commenced proceedings against you for
divorce on the grounds of desertion. If you
wish to defend you must enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the Prothonotary’s
Office Supreme Court William Street Mel-
bourne on or before the twenty-second day of
February One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-two. In default of such appearance
the case may proceed in your absence and
costs may be awarded against you.
P. CLAUDE TULLY, Solicitor, Altson’s
Buildings, 82 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Monarch
ď
đ
“ Everything Ends in Smoke."
Let the “Smoke” be
a Good One!”
Monarch Cigars have a full
Havana filler of selected leaf
of high quality, chosen with
the greatest care and entirely
hand made.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists,
each.
Special sampling cabinet con-
taining 10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9; too,
46/-
Post paid to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Distributors for Club Reil
Cigar Factory.
6d.
The Cig'ar
for Quality


Virginia
Cigarettes
yHE PRINCE CHARMING
cigarette is the Prince of all
cigarettes, and sets a new standard
of excellent quality in either popular
priced or expensive cigarettes. Perfect
tobacco, manufacture and packing go to
the making of this Charming cigarette.
lO for 9d, 20 for 1/S.
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND,
~;v ,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
Royal ~..... “You’re in Love”
Criterion “Siubad the Sailoi”
Palace “Scandal”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Picture
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Merrie England”
Her Majesties “Babes in the Wood”
King’s “Tea for Three”
Princess’s “Bluebeard”
Hovt's Die Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The brightest episodes in “Babes in the
Wood,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, have some-
thing of the spectacular quality and purple
splendor of “Ohu Chin Chow.” They are
beautifully color-schemed and altogether
charming. Apart from these and other
scenes wherein Josie Melville, Fred Mackay
and an unremarkable ballet are conspicuous,
the Christmas annual leaves little impres-
sion. Two pairs of splendid tableau cur-
tains are in frequent evidence, for they serve
instead of black-outs and front cloths, there-
by creating a general effect of revue rather
than of pantomime. People stand before those
curtains to warble or to patter. The dainty
sisters Amery pass in front of them wearing
an air of French chic and scanty trimmings,
and Floie Allen does her disconnected bits
against the same dignified background. What
the sentimental side of the entertainment
noticeably lacks is a more interesting pair
of principals. The Babes are winsome
youngsters, but tuneful Maid Marion is
stodgy and heavy-featured, whilst the tall and
shapely figure of Nora Delaney only partly
atones for the tricks she plays with her
handsome face when striving after fascin-
ating effect. On its pure!” conventional side
the panto, is below the average, a story that
introduces Robin Hood as fairy godfather
to a couple of children being obviously weak.
Moreover, the comedy fat is ill-distributed.
W. S. Percy, making his return to Mel-
bourne after long years, wastes his polished
style in the part of a baron who has not a
joke to stand upon. He and the imported
dame are rarely of any consequence, nor does
a silent scarecrow played by Mel Ward
matter fop more than the first five minutes
of him. Naughton an. Gold, the knock-
about comedians who pervade the proceed-
ings, are funny for about half an hour, after
which they grow wearisome. In brief,
“Babes in the Wood” breaks no records.
Still, it has picturesque and pleasing
moments when the soul of art goes out to
Coleman and the dress designer and every-
body concerned in the bulkv enterprise.
$$ $ $
Though Rege Robins’s s.enery might be
richer in color the pictorial effect of “Blue-
beard,” at Melbourne Princess’s, is always
pleasing, the girls are shapely and well
dressed, and with more practice in dancing
should soon be mistaken for an experienced
ballet. The plot of course withers away early,
but altogether the panto, is so weird and
haphazard that no one minds when the
“SINBAD THE SAILOR.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Dame Phil Smith and friend.
cruiser Melbourne glides into Bluebeard’s
harem to rescue Fatima from the furious
potentate. In this scene incense, big hang-
ing lamps and odalisques posturing in
Oriental upholstery create a Chu Chin
Chowy atmosphere, and charming Polly
McLaren aids the illusion as a dancer
moving sinuously in meagre attire. All the
comedians specialise in crude fallabout
humor, but Dame Jim Gerald earns a prize
for his engaging personality and acrobatic
clowning. Frank Neil, as Bluebeard’s nig-
ger valet, has some serviceable patter, and
Jack Kirby’s embonpoint bulges in a juven-
ile sailor suit. Principal-boy Nellie Ivolle is
well favored so far as looks and vivacity go,
but her singing . voice was built for a much
larger theatre. Fairy Essie Jennings is a
sweeter but still not an enrapturing song-
ster, and is rather stodgy in every other
respect. Fatima (Fifi de Tisne) is a piquant
and pretty titbit whose appearance compen-
sates for a small allowance of warble. Jef-
ferson Tait, as Bluebeard, sounds like a
rusty melodrama villain, but his cataract of
blue whiskers and a rainbow wardrobe make
him an imposing despot. The Fan Ballet
at the finish reveals the management’s full
feminine resources, and in this fetching tab-
leau there is more loveliness to the square
inch of tights than any baldhead can reason-
ably expect for the money. The Flying
Winskills’ trapeze work is excellent, and
Ferry the Frog, in his half-lit mysterious
scene, ties his limbs into knots, and has no
apparent difficulty in sorting himself out
again.
❖ $ $ sfc
The Fuller version of “Babes in the
Wood” at Melbourne Palace is not so sump-
tuous as “Bluebeard” nor so strong in oppor-
tunities for the leading hands. Producer
George Ward has helped himself to the
largest plate of fat as a Dutch-American
aide to robber Les Warton. Ward pours
out a. flood of dialect humor which is funny
in spots but has lingering moments, and
then the Dead March on a trombone would
be _ welcome for a change. Warton, though
boisterous, is diverting as the miscreant whose
untrusty blade has been bought for the mas-
SLAPOFFSKI, now Musical Director of
“Merrie England,” at Melbourne Royal.
sacre of infants, whereas Harry Burgess as
Baron Hardcastle is indifferent in manner
and diction. Still his gyrations will no
doubt be considered killing by some sections
ot the populace. Mabelle Morgan’s Robin
Hood spends much time off-stage changing
his clothes, but when she is on view she
proves that her voice still has music in it.
Slender Winnie Trevail suffers from under-
emphasis as Robin’s donah, and Rene
Denerio also fails to make her dancing felt.
The Queen of Paradise pictured by Ruth
Bucknall has a passable soprano, but person-
ally is as depressing as her sister fairy at
the Princess’s. Others in the show mostly
yawn lengthily while waiting for their cues.
Walter Cornock’s Mrs. Bumble, the Dame, is
scarce as a vision of burlesque dressmaking
and spare ringlets—so scarce that he hasn’t
room to intrude a history of his previous
husbands. Demon Fitzherbert’s entrances
and exits are also almost simultaneous, and
Dorothy Cope and Curly Sherwood seem
hardly more than supers. The scenery looks
costliest in a couple of windmill finales to
the first and second acts, and the goddesses
of the ballet are most conspicuous when they
are flowers and birds. Comedy-jugglers
Newall and Wiggins invade the panto at the
beginning of the second act, and later Zeno
appears trained do<>- lion, which earns
its master’s salary by imitating insobriety.
❖* * *
“Tea for Three” presents Marie Tempest
as a sweeter picture of young womanhood
than any of her previous characters did.
Otherwise it is not a highly satisfactory
piece for a bunch of clever actors to be sav-
ing their Christmas goose with. Sydney,
at any rate, remembers the story of the
uncomfortable husband, the virtuous wife
whose only sin is a graceful facility in fib-
bing, and a philandering friend of the family
whose intentions did not look as strictly
honorable as he afterwards said they were.
When the absurd husband has carried
jealousy to the dizziest heights of tragic sug-
gestion, the philanderer cries “Spoof!” and
the audience has to take his word for it that
he never intended to be more than a mdrally
instructive spoofster from the outset. One is
reminded of “Seven Keys to Baldpate”
without feeling convinced that the author of
this play knew his mind when he started to
write it. Ashton Jarry is angular and un-
convincing as the spouse of an almost an-
gelic Marie Tempest, neither is Graham
Browne quite real as the spoofster who
appeared greatly agitated even when the
spoofed one was not looking. Dorothy Ham-
ilton contributes two powerful shrieks to the
artless misunderstanding.
“The Frolics of 1921” strike one as hav-
ing reached Melbourne Tivoli at an
untimely hour. They supply only the
second half of the show, and the
only frolic that smacked of novelty
at the early penormances was the incident
of a sailor man dancing around with a dead
young lady for his partner lest an inquisitive
gendarme should have his suspicions aroused
by the sight of a deceased female weltering
in her gore. Forcibly acted this dance of
death would have been about as gruesome as
they make them; but, somehow, the whirling-
sailor with the corpse in his arms was
nothing to shudder at. The rich humor of
Rickaby, the odd extravagances of Recco *
and the merely lialf-appreciated character
singing of Ada Cerito are in the first part
of the programme and put the audience on
good terms with the Frolics before they come
heavily to pass.
*$ * *
The topliner on Hoyt’s Christmas pro-
gramme in Melbourne is "A Man’s Home,”
in which Harry Morey has to outwit a
beauteous villain represented by our old
friend Roland Bottomley, who played the
Prihce Charming in a Meynell and Gunn
panto some years ago. “The Fighting
Rover,” otherwise Frank Mayo with all his
warpaint on, is the Next-best Seller; but
there is also a saucv FTench subject, “Ra,
La, Lucille,” which never allows the audience
to get its features straight during its divert-
ing five-reel run. The Majestic is starring
another soaring wage-slave who buvs a seem-
ingly worthless lump of sea-coast that proves
to be full of valuable oil. “The Ten Dollar
Raise” is the title of this subject. The
other Majestic item is “The Devil to Pay,”
a long murder-drama wherein a corpse comes
to life and sends a fashionable miscreant to
the electric chair. Connie Milne, Edwin
Lester and Oswald Browne are now at large
in this theatre in a bright little sketch.
Also Balbqni’s voice remains operatically in-
clined. T'his week he is vocalising some of
the agony of Cavaradossi in “Tosca.”
❖* * *
Billy Le Brun is the lucky cat through
which Dick Whittington (Amy Rochelle)
gets a grip on the Trades Hall and the
supply of timber for street-paving and does
the other things that are becoming in the
Lord Mayor of London. Sydney Opera
House provides the big stage for Dick’s
adventures, and Alice Bennett is the sweet
girl who falls in love with dad’s good-looking
apprentice. Amy Murphy, substantial as to
build but liquid as to notes, sings the Fairy
Queen into high favor. Elton Black as
the Dame suggests something new in the
way of house-aprons that the Sunday supple-
mefits would do well to pass on to their
readers. What could be tidier than the big
pocket with the whisky advertisement on
one side balanced by the equally large pocket
marked “Empties”? St iffy and Mo help to
keep up the flow of fun, but it runs very
thin at times. The show mainly hangs to-
gether on its dancing, the ballets are pretty
and original, and soloist Verna Bain com-
bines a shapely form and graceful move-
ments in the Hunting Phantasy. A group
of pretty young things threaten to smash
themselves to pieces every second in a series
of acrobatic turns that to a mere outsider
don’t look too good for the undeveloped
human form. The trick-cyclist girls provide
a succession of thrills, and some seals, such
good showmen that they may be knighted
at any moment, help the long'bill out.
•I* V V $
Something having gone - wrong with the
works of “Smilin’ Through,” a return season
of “Scandal” is happening at Sydney Palace.
A more felicitous selection might have been
made. Not that Cosmo Hamilton’s play is
as morally pernicious as was alleged, with "sus-
picious vehemence, by a great daily in each
of the capitals visited by the company which
interprets it, but it has become so familiar,
in the pictured as well as the acted form,
that it now has nothing but its intrinsic
merits to recommend it, and they are not
great. Also, one act consists entirely of a
bedroom scene, and bedroom scenes begin to
pall. As before, Maude Hanaford is the
seeker after adventure who, surprised at night
in an artist’s studio, announces her mythical
marriage, most unconvincingly, to Pelham
Franklin, and when Maude doesn’t toy to ex-
press emotion by irritating gasps and giggles,
she gives an impressive reading of the part.
Frank Harvey is the bachelor who is in-
veigled into matrimony, and by turns he is
manly and fatuous, as the author intended.
Mrs. Brough is the austere aunt, Harry
Roberts the senile uncle, and Cyril Mackay
the wicked artist who looks and talks as if
he wouldn’t harm Cleopatra: and Emma
Temple shows the younger members of the
company how to give real distinction to a
small part.
" sjc *
Sydney Royal’s holiday offering is “You’re
in Love.” In it Maude Fane has a part
that fits her like a silk stocking, and oppor-
tunity doesn’t beat on Maude’s dressing-
room door in vain. Her acting has
the seductive quality that characterises her
in her brightest moments and her songs are
all charming; one of them, “Day Dream
Isle,” by Andrew McCunn, deserves
wider publicity than it has had. Miss
Pane’s most successful fellow-conspira-
tors, among her own sex, are Madge
Elliott, Cecil Bradley and Millie Engler:
and from the other half of creation.
ALBERTO
ZELMAN, the
well-known
violinist and
Melbourne con-
ductor, who
leaves for Eng-
land shortly.
she relies principally on Field Fisher, Paul
Plunket, Cyril Ritchard and Cecil Kelleway.
Alfred Frith, who was to have been among'
the happy band on the first night, got mixed
up with a motor-car and couldn’t be extri-
cated and pieced together in time. The gap
was pluckily filled by Harry Wotton, who
came through a trying experience creditably
with the aid of a bright intelligence and the
book.
*$ i j
“The Boy,” at Her Majesty’s, has been get-
ting a fair proportion of Sydney’s spending
silver, the supply of which isn’t so abundant
as it used to be. Arthur Stigant’s represen-
tation of the magistrate who goes out for a
frolic with the young people and sentences
the wife of his buzzum to a week without the
option before he sobers up would make even a
professional pacifist laugh. And “The Boy”
has other bright features, notably the allur-
ing young female who gives the infatuated
beak the glad eye. Her wink is a classic in
its way.
** * *
It has become an article of faith with the
playgoing public that "Sinbad the Sailor,” at
the Sydney Criterion, is a bright panto. Dur-
ing the week several thousand connoisseurs
of all ages and both sexes registered their
approval of Jennie Hartley’s curves, endea-
vored to catch Grade Lavers’s roving eye,
were moved to mirth by , the queer starts of
Edgely and Dawe, and audibly wondered with
Jack Cannot why the ele-phunt has one tail
behind and another in the front. By draw-
ing pointed attention to this curious provi-
sion of nature an ingenious librettist has ren-
dered the State some service.
** * *
Wilkie Bard returned to the Sydney Tivoli
on Christmas Eve for a short farewell season
and presented three turns, two of which he
had already well exploited. The remaining
and first-time item, “Chrysanthemums,” is
a homing-drunk piece, and W. Bard endows
it with quaintness and miraculously lifts it
into the realms of refined chucklesomeness.
For the rest —well, they make no pretence
at high-class stuff, but merely set out to fit
in with the wants of a holidaying town.
The plaidies have it at Sydney Lyceum,
where J. M. Barrie’s “Sentimental Tommy”
and his Grizel live again. The same
house has another winner in Mary Miles
Minter, who is the romantic heroine of
“Jenny, Be Good.” Jenny is only a humble
genius of the violin, in the class that earns a
paltry ten or twenty thousand a year, which
is why Royal Renshaw’s mother marks
“Nothing doing” alongside a memo concerning
Jenny’s marriage with her boy, preferring to
hand him over to a socially-correct young
woman with a passion for cocaine. Finally
the right sort of cliff and the wrong sort of
motor-car provide a providential death for
Jolinda, and a happy ending for Jenny and
her young man. At the Crystal Palace
Fannie Ward is the unsophisticated little
parlor-maid who listens to the love-whispers
of the son of the house, who thereafter
marches off to war, leaving Fannie and an
unclaimed child behind. The hard, proud,
near-papa-in-law won’t give the girl the price
of either a tram or a pram. Thereupon a
kindly Judge prepares a knock-out for the
betrayers of innocence, but gets a jolt to find
that the lass he is defending is a daughter
he had mislaid in his own wild young days.
“Common Clay” is the somewhat sticky title.
Hoyt’s, the Australian and the Piccadilly
feature “Thunder Island,” a rattling good
story of adventure by Beatrice Grimshaw,
and at the Strand Alice in Wonderland goes
to the March Hare’s tea-party all the week.


The Return of Murdoch’s
“Star
The first shipment since 1915 is to hand, and a smarter,
more distinguished assembly of stylish Soft Felts never
graced the display fixtures of any firm. “Star Quality”
Hats are exclusively made for Murdoch’s from the very
best of pure Fur Felt of smooth texture and fine finish.
Brims 2Min., Cut or Stitched as desired. Your choice from
the latest color tones, including Slate, Steel, Grey, Pearl, with
Black Bands, and Brown, Black, Olive, Green and Reseda, with
Self Bands. Sizes 6% to 7M* A Model of shapeliness,
comfort and economy.
Uncommon Value
3216
Be sure and state size and color desired.
It is characteristic of Murdoch’s that when the “Star Quality”
appeared the quality should surpass and the price be about half that
of the best Imported Hats. Test this! If you do not think it the
finest value extant, your money will be cheerfully refunded in full.
POSTAGE PAID TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
When writing please address
your letter to DESK R.
Murdock’s
In Park St. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
“The World’s Largest
Men’s and Boys’ Wear
Store.”
fd
W.G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD.
ELECTRICAL SUPPLIERS,
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
HAVE STOCKS OF
■■
: :
WADE
THE ORIGINAL ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
LEADS THEM ALL.
COMPARE THE WADE.
The only Drag Saw fitted with a Transport Wheel and
Barrow Handles.
WILL CUT 11 TONS OF Bin. WOOD PER DAY.
WILL CROSSCUT A LOG 2ft. DIAMETER ONE FOOT
PER MINUTE.
Can supply Tree-felling and Buzz Saw Attachment if required.
Tel. City 9967-8-9.
c
PUR
FO
“REX” HAM PATE
[S ALL HAM!
Yes all Ham —but oh so different from the
everyday ham paste.
The choicest “Rex” Ham used in its pre-
paration is cooked ever so tenderly by a
process which keeps in all that bewitching
savor and aroma of the famous “Rex” Curing
and Smoking.
Then it is minced fine —and mixed with the
distinctive “Rex” Dressing of choicest Eastern
Spices until the piquant seasoning penetrates
every ham fibre.
Spread “Rex” Ham Pate on thin crustless
slices of fresh white bread! You’ve the
greatest Sandwich in the world.
The monotony can be varied in ever so many
ways by adding sliced Cucumber, Tomato, Beet-
root, Chopped Olive, Lettuce or Anchovy, etc.
“Rex” Ham Pate is packed in solderless
hygienic tins.
Include a few tins on your Grocery order this
week.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
F.J. 74
TV-
FOR ROUGH and HEAVY JOBS
THE
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOR
RUNS ON KEROSENE —Does the Work of 8 Horses at Twice the Speed.
I*l
i a
Cletrac
«
TANK-TYPE
TRACTOR
Whatever the nature of your haulage work the CLETRAC will
do it at a saving over all other motive power. The CLETRAC
is a time and labor saver.
It will give you a cheap, dependable and complete haulage service.
The CLETRAC Tank-Type Tractor can do any and every job.
Mine surface haulage -
Road Haulage -
Road Making -
All-belt pulley work -
Draws 70 tons on rails.
Draws 8 tons.
Draws 8-foot grader.
2 7 horsepower.
Tank sinking, bore drain cutting, ploughing, cultivating,
harvesting, etc.
DOES ANYTHING GOES ANYWHERE.
For further particulars:
ď
And at Melbourne.
PACIFIC COMMERCIAL CO.
Pomeroy House,
16 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.


fa
fi
m
i
■
ft
m
W,
W 4.
1
m
fa/y
""fa/z/J//?
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW- MONT de PI ETC
■754 CcjstJ ere<a<ih St. Sydney-
p frone City 9525. j osepLw m
CapHdl 5300.000. Genera/ Manager.
THE “ AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I, Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
Thole & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Crummies”: To “Nib’s” list of Austra-
lian actor-authors, headed by Bert Bailey
(B. 22/»2/’2l), add Ned Duggan, Bert’s con-
federate in “The Squatter’s Daughter” and
other shockers. Jimmy Atholwood should
be included, too, fob he has written several
good plays. So should Gregan McMahon.
Nellie Stewart is reported to be writing a
book of “Recollections.” Norman Campbell,
once her s.-m., has published at least one
book of verse. And what about Zora. Cross?
She was a good enough actress to play lead-
ing parts. Other mummer-writers occur to
me—Arnold Denham, Jimmy Ryan, Temple
Harrison, John Cosgrove, Kate Howard. In
fact, most mummers have been scribbling
since the days of George Darrell and George
Leitch. And Chidley was an actor once.
“C. Ockney”: The dramatic critic of Lon-
REG WYKEHAM,
general manager of
the Tivoli Theatres.
don Times (pre-
s u mabl y A. B.
Walkley, one of
the oldest and
sanest in Eng-
land), in some
caustic comments
on Oscar Asche’s
dialogue in
“Cairo,” pays inci-
dentally a compli-
ment to mummer
Frank Cochrane,
who came to Aus-
tralia to produce
“Chu Chin Chow ’>
for the Mclntosh
management, and
was seen in Mel-
bourne in the part
of the Cobbler
(with song). “The
only tolerable
prose,” he says, “is
the pidgin-English
of the Chinaman
Wei San We i,
which is terse, racy
and drolly spoken
by Mr. Frank
Cochrane, a clever
actor.” The critic,
by the way, does
not join in the
chorus of disap-
proval of the danc-
ing orgy. He calls
it “a beautiful,
really imaginative
thing.”
Florence Fawaz, whose soprano has been
working beautifully for the Covent Garden
management, has been engaged by Powell
#nd Holt, who tour celebrities through Bri-
tain and the Continent. She will be in
orchestral concerts at the Albert Hall in
January and February, and in March will
run through the “provinces” as sole warbler
with the Royal Albert Hall orchestra under
the baton of Landon Ronald.
"Crascha Chaoski” : There seems no end to
the Taits’ discoveries of unpronounceable
Russian geniuses. We have had Benno
Moisei witsch, Jascha Heifetz and Mischa
Levitzki, and presently we shall be asked to
curl our tongues round “Jascha Spivakov-
sky.” This name belongs to another of Rus-
sia’s millions who escaped by a miracle from
the claws of the Bolsheviks. Spiv, alights
here somewhere in 1922, and, according to the
gentle publicity expert, he makes all who
have preceded him sound like “Nellie Bly”
specialists. The weird way each new
foreigner surpasses his predecessor in virtu-
osity- suggests that there is no limit to the
accomplishment of any musician w T ho takes
the precaution to be born of poor parents in
Russia.
“Mrs. Lance Rawson” looks back:—
For many years I have hepn vainly trying to
And somebody who had seen Sir William and Lady
Den play, and until “T. 0,1.” wrote (B. 15/12/’2l)
I was beginning to think I must be the only sur-
vivor. I disremember the year, but it was pro-
bably 1854 or 1855, and they played “Lalla
Rookh” ; and, though I then had only three or four
years to my credit, I can remember it distinctly—
possibly because the titled couple dined with us
the following Sunday. It wasn’t the sort of play
to please an infant of tender years, but at that
particular time there were no maids' left to take
charge of the children, all having departed to the
diggings in search of husbands. As to that dinner,
I recall that Sir William peeled the potatoes, and
, did a whole bucketful, excusing himself to mother
by saying, “Well, we’re all Irishmen, and a bucket-
“SINBAD THE BAILOR.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Jack Cannot as Mr. Tinbad.
ful of spuds should be nothing to us.” I eafi ottly
remember that Lady Don was very sweetly scented.
Katherine Hayes was another of out intimates. Also
Madam Celeste, Anna Bishop and Charles Mathews.
But I think some of these came later, Charles
Mathews presented me with a wonderful wholly
rabbit, which was such an excellent juihper that,
when Lord Awdley’s dog caught sight of it, he
wrecked the drawing-room in an effort to secure it
—Lord Awdley was another identity of those very
early days.
“Harufat” : During the last Theatre Royal
(Sydney) season in which Julius Knight
was associated with Maud Jeffries a Crom-
well play was in rehearsal. It was called
‘‘His Majesty the King” (the same title was
given to another play at the Criterion, which
landed a stage-struck bank clerk into trouble
—he had provided the funds to give Tittell
Brune’s husband, ClafeUce, an opportunitv
of declaiming: “Mah Gahd! An’ you—did
—this!”). The main scene in the Julius
Knight play included the oak-tree near Wor-
cester where Charles II. —the ‘‘His Majesty”
—is supposed to have been concealed. But
Knight fell ill and the show was abandoned.
Hummer rehearsed for the Cromwellian
general who read despatches underneath the
oak.
“Pitt Streeter”: The Carrolls, the ener-
getic Queensland showmen who have carried
their Australian-made pictures all over the
world (hats off to them!), are going on with
their new. Sydney theatre scheme. The
building will be in Castlereagh-street, oppo-
site the Australia and the Theatre Royal,
and will be called The Prince Edward. Says
one of the firm : “The policy will be the pre-
sentation of pictures with an elaborate musi-
cal entertainment along American lines. But
the theatre is to be so constructed as to
meet eyery . requirement in th« way of legi-
timate stage production.” The last sen-
tence should interest the old-established Firm
across the way.
“Stargazer”: It seems very unlikelv that
Dot Boueicault will ever again dictate the
ways and means of a theatrical production
in London, where he is regarded as the best
of the older school of producers. The other
day he had a “seizure” when at his work,
and the developments were so serious that
his acquaintances do not give him a chance
of again appearing in harness. The little
big man’s reputation as a rampageous
martinet accompanied him to London. Miss
Braddon once assured me that during a re-
hearsal at the Bijou all the women in the
cast were weeping simultaneously. One of
them at last protested. “Well,” yelled Lot,
“I’d rather have you cry all day than see the
audience cry all night.”
“Marg”: I once read that just-dead Ivan
Caryll had forgotten how many musical
comedies he had written. I wonder if any-
one else in Australia has a copy of his score
of “The Lily of Leo Ville.” 1 picked it up
a score of years ago at a furniture sale for
a thrummer and found it decent stuff. To
reach the dignity of a published score it must
have been a success somewhere, but casual
inquiries over 20 years have brought me no
more information about it. The waltz
melody in it might have been the work of
Sullivan.
“IbsehshaW”; “The Boy,” now at Sydney
Majesty’s, was succeeded at London Adelphi
by “Who’s Hooper?” another adaptation of
a Pinero farce—the ancient “In Chancery,”
written for Edward Terry in the long ago
while yet its author was learning the art
of acting with Henry Irving at the Lyceum.
The Firm has the Australian rights. A
third song-and-dance Pinero story is that of
“My Nieces” (“The Schoolmistress”), which
has been running for some months at the
Aldwych. “Never sell a piece right out,” is
a useful motto for aspiring playwrights.
Though the gifted “Pinny” has hot given us
anything new for a year or two the royal-
ties from his old pieces alone —-picture-show
and musical-comedy rights, which he could
never have dreamed of when he wrote them —
must tot up to something handsome.
“Larry” t When the renowned Abbey
Theatre mummers, fiow known as “The Irish
Players,”, arrive here under engagement to
J.Q.W., they will be without the services of
their old colleague Sara Allgood. When the
bhoys and gyurls embarked for their present
tour of America Australia’s first Peg o’ My
Heart stayed behind in England to play the
part she created in London in Lennox Robin-
son’s “The Whiteheaded Boy.” For the pur-
pose a new company has been organised to
visit the English provincial cities. Sara
was associated with all the big successes of
the remarkable Abbey Theatre repertory, in-
cluding Synge’s “Playbby bf the Western
World” which it Should be our luck at last
to see,
“Orb”; “Snell’s” yarn (B. 15/12/Tl'
about the audience demanding that Juliet
should liven up old Verona with a hornpipe
reminds me. Duggan and South were in-
flicting “The Silver King” on Albion Park
(-N.S.W.), and Fanny Wiseman Was the
old village dame, Tabitha, who tries to snare
Dan’l Jaikes. That scene over, Tabby bad
to announce the approach of Nellie Denver.
“Ah ” Said Fanny, “here comes Miss Nellie
now r Nothing happened, hut distinct in-
dications df a temperamental. storm in the
dreSsing-roOm were Unpleasantly audibly; in
fact, they coUld be beard down at the pbst
office. “Ah, no!” went on Fanny WFtehihn
without the least outward concern, “Pin mis-
taken. I can hear those wretched servants
wrangling in the kitchen. Before Miss Nellie
comes I think I’ll , just practise that, song
and donee 1 learned last wfeek!” A signifi-
cant glance at the pianist, and Fanny dashed
off into 14 verses of a popular panto ditty,
and did a breakdown as well. When the
applause subs’ded, it appeared that the dress-
ing-room clouds had rolled by, for Mrs. Den-
ver, a chastened and pathetic figure, floated
on to a tremolo from the piano, and the
play moved forward to a peaceful end.
“Norbell”: The picture-show publicity-
fiends are hard put to it nowadays to find
adjectives, having worn out “gripping,”
“tense,” “palpitating,” “pulsating,” “red-
blooded,” “throbbing,” “soul-stirring” and
all the others. One current super-attrxe-
tion is modestly described as “a roaring,
rumbling, crackling drama.” A picture evi-
dently with roast pig in it somewhere.
“S.S.”: A great contralto yielded to earnest
solicitations, and agreed to step off at a small
town by the way and sing for a worthy object
then engaging atention. The contralto found
the local hall crowded, but presently had
occasion to be a little dubious about the
platform she had to sing from. It creaked
a' weird accompaniment to her first solo.
Later she and another were to engage in a
duet, but when the two stepped from the
side curtains, and bowed, a local authority
in the front seat arose hastily. “No, no,
mum,” said he, indicating the platform by
laying a hand on it. “We shored her up
fer solos, but she won’t stand a dooet!”
“Dido” : One afternoon late in his career
George Rignold was at the circle entrance
of the Royal, waiting for a friend who had
kept him past the hour. George’s temper
was none too good, and it was producing a
troubled countenance, no doubt. At any rate
the big actor-manager was presently con-
scious of the commiserating scrutiny of a
lady who had stopped by the way, and who
was thoughtfully regarding him. She was
probably 50, bottle-marked and bedraggled.
and she wore a hat no gentleman could
afford to be seen associating with. At -
two minutes Spent in a sad sui y, »»
became vocal. “Never mind, deaf Jbeorge, _
she sobbed, "we were both young and beauti
iU “Snell” : Professor Kennedy, the ineSineriSt,
was showing in the old St; George s a,
“Merrie England.” at
Melbourne Royal.
A. Howett-Worster as
the Earl of Essex.
n and W Moot’d
Theatre; Und Ont?
df liis claims was
td tin extraordi-
nary magnetic'
powe f; He ady
serted that ii
Uefcdle cgu 1 and be
sthck into a young
ivomfin* one of two
lying Under mes-
merit influence*
and that he (the
p r and f e ssdr), ndt
having witnessed
the secretion of
the i m p 1 and iri e ,h ti
woUld find it when
blindfolded, and
extract it purely
by magnetic force.
The subject was
prepared, the
needle was thrust
into the calf of her
leg by an assis-
tant, and presently
the professor got to
work. He found a
he?dle* extracted it,
and held it fib iil
tHunipiij. amid fi
gbod deal of laugh-
ter. „ “is that the
needle?'’ said he, a
little troubled by
the demonstration,-
and addressing one
of the committee
on the stag 3. “Yes,
sir,” was the reply
—-“but you drew
it from the wrong girl.”
“Film Up”: Nearly all the boomed
beauties of the American movies seemingly
fill the bill in everything else but “woman’s
crowning giory.” Never Was such a crowd
of be-wigged leading ladies. And in most
instances the “jasfeys” are monstrously un-
natural. They recall to my mind an anec-
dote of the late Wilsofi Barrett. Fie tried
on a new wig one night in “The Sign of the
Cross” and sent his devoted Cockney dresser
to the front of the house to judge the effect.
The devoted one saw the star’s first eH-
trance, then sprinted back to the stage to
await his boss’s exit. “Take it orf, guv-
nor,” he whispered; “bli’ me, it makes yet
look orl ’ead!”
“Pitt Streeter”: “Smilin’ Through.* 4 tbe
American sentimental comedy widely adv£h ; »
tised p follow “The Laughter of Fools” at
Sydney Bfilace, has been shelved suddenly,
and the well-worn “Scandal” is revived in
its stead. When the new piece does go into
the bill let .us hope it will not.be .announced
under its Yankee title, viz., “Smilin’ ThrU.”
The movies have been responsible _ for CjUite
enough bad spelling amongst the rising gen-
eration.
“ilamfat” i Brutal realism? Old Harry
Douglas used to brag about the sensation he
caused when playing Bili Sikes in Rignold’s
version of “Oliver Twist.’ 4 The murder of
Nancy, instead of occurring off-stage, was
served up for the delight of the audience,
Douglas having devised a cudgel with a split
tennis-ball at the end, into which Whs let d
blood sponge. With this dainty weapon Bill
socked Nancy about the head until her top-
piece was nothing but a mass of beautiful
blood marks. “I have seen a dozen ladies
carried fainting from the theatre in a single
night,” declared Harry, who really was an
artist despite all this. As the “Oliver Twist”
season had to be extended, the thrill seemed
to appeal to the audience of those days.
“Nella”: I’ve seen Norma Talmadge in
“The Sign on the Door,” and one artistic
touch appealed to me. When as the dis-
tracted Mrs. Lafe Regan she dashed off to
forestall the meeting of her step-daughter
and the villain, she merely threw a wrap
over her shoulders. When Maude Hanaford
played the part she, too, was in a frantic
hurry, but she curbed her impatience, while
she changed into still another bewitching
frock.
[Foil The Bulletin 1 .]
“A young Tasmanian claims that he has dis-
covered a means of treating sawdust to convert it
into a cheap and effective fodder for fattening
stock.”
Experience proves this claim is true;
For when the meagre girls engage,
As meagre damsels often do,
To caper on the local stage,
I Long years have shown that naught can fill
And fatten calves as sawdust will.
victoria. S. S.
QUERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Often do I pause to wonder,
When I’m sitting at my ease,
If a play of blood and thunder
By the great Euripides
Drew the elder female bounder,
Bald and beardless as an egg,
On the front-row seats to flounder
In a greedy quest of leg.
And did Sophocles, when- showing
One of his delightful plays,
Find the Grecian misses going
Round behind at matinees?
Was it also quite a passion
Of vEschvlus’ day and date
For the local dame of fashion
At stage-entrances to wait?
Did Greek ladies from the valleys
Ever try to go the pace
With Menander’s lovely ballets
From far Scyros or from Thrace?
And did flappers minus caclies,
Wearing shirts below their knees,
Mash the piquant “leading ladieS”
Of friend Aristophanes ?
Were the women of the nation,
Wheii Euripides held sway,
Far ahead of male creation
As we know the thing to-day?
I’m impelled to make these queries,
Though persistency annoys,
Since in old dramatic series
Girls were always played by hoys.
ViCTORIA.
STARGAZER.


mrx
fSF&
aarr
Lk
e*r>
SKT
c
Time Saved is Money Saved
Here is another Burroughs Machine—the Calculator. It adds, subtracts*
multiplies and divides with equal ease, speed and accuracy.
Calculation —work of which the answer alone
is required, which is thrown away when the
answer is obtained —forms the bulk of business
figure work.
The old-fashioned bookkeeper, calculating with
pen and paper, would spend at least half his time
checking his results and hunting for mistakes.
With a Burroughs you can get and* prove the
answers in less time than you can write the
figures down by hand —apart from the time
required for reckoning and checking mental
calculations.
In the office equipped with the Burroughs
Calculator the highly-paid bookkeeper is
relieved of routine tasks and released for more
productive work.
Any assistant can learn in a few hours to do
the most complicated calculations on the
machine with speed and accuracy.
*
Taking inventories, figuring wages, reckoning
exchange, extending and checking invoices,
calculating interest and discounts, preparing
estimates, analyses or cost sheets —there is
work for it in every office.
Burroughs Machines are made by a Company with a
capital of £6,000,000, with factories at Nottingham,
England; Windsor, Canada; and Detroit, U. S. A., and
sales and service offices in the principal cities of the world.
SOLE IMPORTERS:
IRA L. (a A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington,
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
Christchurch and Dunedin.
43tt
A.dding —Bookkeeping —Calculating 40 |j| Machines
<»«*>


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILIP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WHITTY , /)j£
teuftofi
MEt66llf\NE & SYDNEY
SEASONABLE GIFTS
FAMOUS BROWNING AUTOMATIC SHOT-
GUNS, 12- or 16-gauge. Fire 5 shots as fast
as you can pull the trigger. Weight 8 pounds.
£l5/10/-
“A.P.” CARTRIDGES, FRESH-LOADED
SMOKELESS CHILLED SHOT. Loaded on the
premises by up-to-date automatic machinery.
21/-, 23/-, 25/- per 100.
FAMOUS BROWNING AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22-CAL. Fires ordinary .22 short smokeless
cartridges ; 11 shots as fast as you can . pull
the trigger, £4.
Also a new rifle the same as above, to tire
8 long rifle cartridges, £4/15/-
FAMOUS BROWNING AUTOMATIC PISTOLS,
25-cal. vest-pocket size; fiTes' 7 shots as fast as
you can pull the trigger, £5.
32-cal. pocket size; fires 7 shots. £o/10/-
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR FAMOUS
BROWNING FIREARMS.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Legal Notice.
Notice to Creditors—Re Thomas
Connell, Deceased.
PURSUANT to the Provisions of the Trusts Act
1915 Notice is hereby given that all persons
having any claim against the estate of THOMAS
CONNELL (otherwise known as Matthew Smith)
formerly of Bacchus Marsh in the State of Victoria
but late of the East Sydney Hotel Cathedral Street
Sydney in the State of New South Wales Laborer
deceased who died on the Seventeenth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and eig'hteen
and Probate of whose last Will and Testament was.
duly granted to the NATIONAL TRUSTEES EXECU-
TORS AND AGENCY COMPANY OF AUSTRAL-
ASIA LTD of 113 Queen Street Melbourne in the
said State the Executor named in and appointed
by the said Will are hereby required to send in
particulars in writing of such claims to the said
Executor on or before the Thirtieth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and twenty-two; and
Notice is Hereby Given that after that day the
said Executor will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said Thomas Connell deceased which shall
have come to its hands or possession amongst the
persons entitled hereto having regard only to the
claims of which the said Executor shall then have
had notice and the said Executor will not be liable-
for the assets or any part thereof so distributed to
any person of whose claim it shall not then have had
notice. ~
Dated the 20th day of December One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-one.
FARMER & FARMER, Penfold House, 116 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Proctors for the said Executor.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMPNS
SPORTING
NEEOS
It was thought that the A.J.C. Villiers
Stakes might go to something unexpected this year :
but when, on Saturday, Sail On, the roughest of
the rough-’uns, came romping along at the head of
the procession, all Randwick stood confounded. He
was the one horse that in the unanimous judgment
of the public had no hope; the popular view was
that he was only being given an outing to freshen
him up for the Summer Cup on Boxing Day. At
the death the fielders were anxious to lay 100 to 1
about him, but none wrote his name. As there were
nine horses in the race well backed, and another
half-dozen fairly well supported, Ike had a tasty
rake-off.
It was a muddling sort of race. Of the 22 run-
ners Greenstead was for most of the morning favorite
at 7’s, with Jack Findlay and Teremarau best backed
of the others, and solid support coming for Blue
Baron, Ilopetoun, Etive and Jack Marsh. Half-an-
hour before the start a shudder went through the
ring when operators for the Dunlock stable com-
menced business. The books had been well stung
by this horse a couple of times recently, and he
quickly shortened from 100’s to 7 to 7 to 1, Jack
Findlay coming to the same mark and Greenstead
slipping a point. It was 10 to 1 bar these three.
Volpi and Dunlock were first out. Teremarau was
badly served, and Hopetoun had his chances settled
at the barrier. At five furlongs Sail On and .Tack
Findlay were last. At the turn Volpi was still in
front, with Dunlock next, followed by Biplane,
Greenstead, Julia Grey and Buckra. Biplane, coming
quickly across Dunlock, knocked him back, and an-
other horse getting on his heels he went astern as
if hamstrung. Half-way up the straight Teremarau
had joined the first flight and Jack Findlay was
working past Greenstead. At the distance it looked
to be either Julia Grey or Teremarau, but a blue-
and-white livery was suddenly detected coming like
lightning. It was Sail On. Swooping down on
the leaders he had the race won 50 yards from
home, and though Julia Grey hung on well the out-
sider’s neck was clear when they hit the line.
Etive made a run at the leaders over the last fur-
long, but quickly punctured. Teremarau had the
Devil’s own luck. She was only a head behind
Julia. With a reasonably decent start she should
have won. Still, Sail On put up in an electrifying
mn up the straight. His time for the last half-mile
must have been phenomenal, for he was almost last
when he commenced to unwind. It is only once in
a blue moon a horse wins a mile at Randwick from
a remote position at the turn.
Sail On is a big, long-striding brown Tressady
gelding owned by the Mac-arthur-Onslow brothers of
Camden, who a few years ago raced the brilliant
one-eyed English horse called Polycrates. He
has been trained as a distance horse. Last year he
won over a mile and a quarter in great style at Rand-
wick, and had since then been regarded as a nag
likely to take one of the Cups or other big handi-
caps up to 12 furlongs. He won about a couple of
months ago on a suburban track but failed on
another, and on the Saturday prior to the Villiers
galloped like a hippopotamus in a 10-furlong race at
Canterbury Park, for which he had been made a
hot favorite. The explanation later was that the
sharp turns on the track were against him.
* * * *
On Monday Sail On carried 10lb. penalty
in the Summer Cup, and never got within striking
distance of the others. The Victorian Wildun, on
the strength of a good gallop in the Holiday Han-
dicap on the opening day, was favorite, and there
was a great run on Baron Brown’s soft, lathy-looking
Prince Charles, mainly perhaps because Munro was
on top. Wildun made a gallant effort, but the
job of running down Teremerau over the last six
furlongs took most of the steam out of him, and
there was not enough left at the end to stave off
King of the Forest. This long-winded battler, start-
ing at B’s, landed a handsome stake for Robert
Bailie, who has found him a willing earner of oats.
King of the Forest was at one time raced bv
Sam Hordern, who got rid of him to Bailie soon
after the latter commenced racing David.
An animal that may have a future is the
Woorak colt Soorak. He recently spreadeagled a
fair lot of two-year-olds at Rosehill. This helped to
make him a hot favorite for the A.J.C. Nursery
Handicap and December Stakes at Randwick on
Saturday and Monday. He had a useful field to
beat—Frosty Morn, Limestone, Doulton, Wolverine
and others—and ran according to schedule. But
both McLaehlan, who rode him the first day, and
Meddick, who was aboard on Monday, gave him a
severe gruelling with the whip. The colt answered
with great gameness, but the question of how much
good the walloping did him will be known later.
Usually this kind of thing sours a young horse. The
stipes passed Meddick the king insult in the form
of an intimation that if he couldn’t learn to handle
his whip like a horseman between now and the next
big meeting he would do well to leave it at home.
* * * *•
J. J. Miller, Melbourne’s ancient publisher
of a reliable punters’ guide, is still an active and
hearty citizen of 90, though he has long been blind
and has to be led about. Miller is about the only
surviving bookie who operated at the first Melbourne
Cup, and during the ’seventies and ’eighties he
stood behind one of the biggest bags in the ring. For
a while also he was a horse-owner; his Irish King
ran into places in the Derby and Cup nearly half-
a-centurv back. His son, James Miller, who died
two or three years ago, was a member of the syndi-
cate that launched West’s Pictures, the first regular
movie enterprise to be established in Melbourne.
That was in 1907.
* ♦ * #
By winning the W.A. Derby with consum-
mate ease in the respectable time of 2min. 37isec.,
Easingwold again demonstrated that his Victorian
form was all wrong. The Eaton Lad colt went
out at 5 to 2 and paid a fraction more than 3 to 1
on the tote. Princess Smiles, a 20 to 1 chance,
was second and Poondarra (7’s) third. Lionel Att-
will, who came third in the Caulfield Cup, started an
sven-money favorite, but ran like a goat.
The aged gelding Franzac put up his best
run for some time in the Port Adelaide Cup on the
last day of the club’s meeting. At the finish he was
only a neck away from Stageboy, who in turn was
a long head behind the winner, Pop Pop—-one of
Pistol’s numerous progeny.
* * * *
With serious opposition away the imp.
Bernard horse Fairy Bob got among the Brisbane
winners again. Starting at 2’s in the Newmarket
Handicap (1£ mile), on the first day of the Banana-
land T.C.’s Christmas and New Year Meeting, he
had really nothing to beat. The outsider Armacre
got to within one and a half lengths at the finish.
In the Mile Hendra Plate the favorite, Martlemas,
never showed up, and the well-performed Lady
Pyrexia romped in in lmin. 39sec.
* * * *
According to latest news received Ivan
Stedman, the Victorian free-style and breast-stroke
champion, will probably not go to Sydney for the
Australian swimming championships on January 14,
18 and 21. He is suffering from internal hemor-
rhage, the aftermath of a war-wound. The Olympic
rep.’s place may be taken by young Hans Robertson,
the 16-year-old junior champion of Victoria.
Frank Beaurepaire, swimming in Bast Svd-
ney Club’s 150yds. handicap on Saturday, was
clocked to do lmin. 33 4-ssec. This, though it
will not receive recognition, is 1-5 of a second better
than the late Cecil Healy’s Australian record. The
next-best splash was by the whitewashed ex-League
swimmer Frank Carberry, who mit the: 100yds. out
in 57 4-ssec.. and swam third to Les Boardman, the
30-year-old 1912 Australian Olympic rep. who, with
Healy, Hardwick and Maoriland’s Malcolm Champion,
annexed the 800 metres Olympic Teams’ Champion-
ship in record time. On Saturday Boardman did
58sec. fiat, a remarkably fine performance. Frank
Doyle, the 13-year-old lad who a couple of weeks
back caused a stir by streaking over 50yds. in 28sec.
and 66yds. in 39sec., last week-end swam the 100yds.
in 65sec., whilst 11-year-old R. Carter, of Cronulla,
swished through 220yds. in 3min. 32sec.
The only doubt about the N.S.W. chess
championship was settled when Wallace beat the
champion, Spencer Craekanthorp. Wallace had
lost half a point owing to a draw, but, otherwise,
both players having gone through all their opponents
without a loss, they were even, and the destination
of the championship rested on the result of their
meeting. A challenge match between the pair will
probably ensue.
* * * *
The ’Roos’ twenty-eighth match resulted in
a win over Leigh by 17 points (5
tries 1 goal) to 4 points, consisting
of 2 goals got by Clarkson, the Eng-
lish rep. custodian, within eight
minutes of the boot-off. The Aus-
sies opened against a snorting blow
on a heavy ground, and with-
out Fraser, Thompson, Vest, Pearce,
Watkins and Latta. Prentice
raked to the detriment of Cart-
wright, the famous international, and
thus prevented the home XIII open-
big up the play. Leigh is amongst
the Northern League leaders this
season. On Saturday the opulent;
Hull XIII was licked in the presence
of 15,000 on a snow-covered field.
Shores 21 points (3 tries 6 goals) to
10 points (2 tries 2 goals). Hull
has engaged, in its time, such well-
known Australians as Gilbert, Dar-
mody, Sid Deane, Andy Morton, of
Sydney, and Schofield, of Maoriland.
W. Batten, who was in James Lomas’s
first (1910) Northern Union team,
and who played in the Second Test
at Hull against the ’Roos, will be
remembered for the wonderful com-
bats he and Albert Asher, the Maori
rubber-ball, put up when they clashed
here. It was the Aussies’ third visit
to Hull this tour and their third
success on the ground.
Thirty-four of Sydney’s 16ft. sailing skiffs
faced the starter last Saturday in the Rawson Cup
handicap event. By the time Steel Point was abeam
Royal had established a lead from Dearing, 2fmin.
(A S. Roberts), and Atalanta, sfmin. (A.
McDougall). On the punch to Shark Island, Dear-
ing, sailing on the other side of the blow, went to
the front and stayed there, eventually downing the
bunting with lmin. 52sec. to spare from Atlanta,
which had headed Royal after the latter’s spinnaker
spar carried away. It was a benefit for the Drum-
moyne crowd, whose dugouts filled the first six
positions.
* * * *
Rear-Admiral Dumaresq piloted the 14ft.
skiff Thistle home first from the 4min. mark in the
Birchgrove Skiff Club’s handicap on Saturday. He
coaxed his peanut-shell across the finishing-line
1 lmin. ahead of Polygon (3Jmin.), which pre-
ceded Valmar (2min.) by lmin. Thistle took the
lead early and was never headed. About the only
type of craft the rear-admiral has not now won a
race with on Port Jackson is a ferry-steamer.
* * * *
The moderate crowd at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night was 75 per cent. Novocastrian,
for the occasion was the dfjbut at headquarters of
a local idol by the name of Packey McFarlane. The
other party to the affair was Louis Garcia, of Mexico.
Skilled hitters, forbye, are gracious thingges, but
that which beats ye bunche
And wins ye fighting manne ye bays, my Master, is
ye punche.
The above lines, which have been attributed to
rare Ben Jonson, summarise the McFarlane-Garcia
fracas, thus demonstrating that the great game has
been the same in the essentials in every age. For
round after round the handsome, smiling little young-
ster from the North peppered his lowering adversary
with perfectly executed straight lefts and right
crosses. Up to the middle of the seventh the
leather-hued visitor had not won so much as a frac-
tion of a round, and Newcastle was lifting the roof
PACKEY McFAR-
LANE. the New-
castle boy who
put up a great
fight with Louis
Garcia in Sydney
last week-end.
off the Rushcutters
Bay edifice. Then
Garcia smote the pale-
face on the jaw, and
a suspicion descended
on the house that, bar
miracles, the- end was
near. It duly came
in the 13th, when Joe
Wallis interfered.
McFarlane might have
delayed the inevitable
if he had not adopted
the insensate plan of
mixing it with one of
the most rugged lads
for his size that has
appeared in Sydney.
The big fight on Boxing Night was a replica
of the other except that it finished sooner. Tommy
O’Brien, the tall, fair Irish-American, knocked
stocky little Harry Holmes to pieces inside five
rounds. O’Brien is a useful performer who would
be popular in Australia if he were not incurably
flash. It would help him in his future career if
he took a course of lessons in ring-manners from
the Mexican with whom he trains.
* * * *
Slow, muscle-bound pugs like the Canuck
Suddington, whose only idea of boxing is to bog
in sluggishly and take a punch in the hope that
the other chap will obligingly wait for the counter,
have no chance against a fast man like Stone. The
gentleman from Canada learned this great truth at
Melbourne on Saturday night. Throughout the inevit-
able 20 rounds he hurled himself at the elusive Yid
and took delivery of hundreds of graceful jabs,
hooks and flicks, but his ponderous efforts to punc
holes through the foe’s bobbing head and
body were humorously futile. Stone the winner.
# * * *
Bill Curran, the old inter-State and Test
cricket umpire, passed out after a long illness at
Sydney last f riday. He it was who created the
furore by no-balling Jack Marsh for his delivery
when the aboriginal was in his bowling prime. Marsn
refused to continue, whereat Curran said in enect
that if he couldn’t bowl a fair ball his departure
from the crease was the obvious step. the aDO.
caved in.
A LITTLE GAME OF A HUNDRED UP.
THE AMATEUR: “Let me see, boy, how many
strokes is that I’ve had?”
THE BOY: “ Strokes? Gawd, I ain’t a bil-
liard marker — I’m a caddie.”
There were some ominous features from
the N. S'. Wales standpoint about the Sheffield.
Shield match which began in Melbourne on Satur-
day. The visitors played seven Test men and Victoria
only three. N. S. Wales batted first, and the only
confident performers were Collins, Hendry and
Andrews, who made a faultless 115. McDonald had
the fine bowling figures of 5 for 65, but Hartkopf
and Lampard both shaped well with the ball. For
Victoria R L. Park contributed 122 and Vernon
Ransford 53, while the only Test man to do any
good was Ryder (38). The first innings total of
both States were fairly level (N.S.W., 254 ; Vic.,
292). but in general the proceedings suggested that
the Ma State is inferior in reserve talent to Victoria,
and that if Armstrong had been a starter the visi-
tors would have had a very bad time of it.
„ * * *
Well-performed club cricketers represented
the second eleven of N.S.W. against a similar com-
bination from Victoria in a match that began on
Monday at the Sydney Cricket Ground, and was then
interrupted by rain. The Vic. bowling was mediocre,
yet N.S.W., with the exception of Forssberg (35),
batted wretchedly for a total of 120. The Vic-
torians were very keen and their fielding was remark-
ably safe. Wallace bowled 6 for 51 in 12.6 overs.
Grimmett, though he only took 2 for 55, was far
less erratic. At the end of the day the Victorians
had lost 6 for 239, to which Keating contributed 94.
He, however, never really appeared to master the
bowling and was given a couple of lives. There was
little sting in the N.S.W. bowling, though Yates
was unlucky not to get more than one wicket. The
fielding was slack.
* * » *
N.S.W. v. South Aus. on Adelaide Oval,
the first Sheffield Shield cricket of the season, had a
sporting finish, the depleted visiting side being now
just a match for the home lot. In dogged fighting
and the general mastery of bat over ball, the game
was in its minor way rather like last January’s Test
on the same ground. S. Aus. led on the first
innings, 376 to 360, but then got hit about, and
had to face a second knock of 439 —Cranney 144,
Love 95. And they failed by only 17 to get home,
Townsend 117 and Andy Smith 104 putting up a
great partnership when others supposedly more bril-
liant had gone cheaply. Townsend, considered last
season a back-number, took seven wickets in the
whole game, and scored 43 and the aforesaid 117.
The bowling on each side didn’t offer much material
for a future Australian XI; but then the Adelaide
Oval is a tough proposition, as better bowlers than
these have found before now.
* * * *
There was a quaint moment in the recent
N.S.W.-S.A. cricket match in Adelaide. The most
successful home-grown bat had been joined by an
unscientific but effective hitter, and runs, which
were badly wanted, were being piled on. Then,
running a short one, they got tangled, and both
found themselves at one end just as the ball reached
the other. They could only stand and watch. But
the N. S. Wales fielding went to bits for the
moment, and at last one batsman hurried down on
the off-chance of saving the situation. The ball
had come in again by now ; but it seemed as if it
just couldn’t reach the stumps. It went all round
them, but never into them, and the run-out was
saved.
* * * *
G. A. Chapman made a great effort to
save Sydney in the inter-State Grammar School
match v. Melbourne at Sydney last week. With the
other wickets falling fast he put up the double of
108 (out of 160) and 73 (out of 283). He captained
S.G.S. in the G.P.S. premiership this year, and had
an aggregate of 316 and an average of 52.66. For
Melbourne 11. P. Austin made 30 and 47, and took
7 wickets for 172 ; skipper lan Wood’s bowling
figures were 10 for 130. Melbourne scored 323 and
240; Sydney 108 and 282. Of 39 matches played
Sydney has won 24 against 13.
BOTTLE QUEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We bred her in the suburbs, and we trained her after
dark,
At times upon the Botany-road; at others in the
park.
Her sire was imported (though I couldn’t say from
where),
And her mother, Black Maria, was a bottle-dealer’s
mare.
The way we used to feed her very often led to rows:
We pinched her chaff from stables and her green
stuff from the Chows.
But all these little trifles didn’t worry us a bit;
We had to feed her somehow, if we meant to get her
fit.
We walked her in the mornings, and we galloped her
at bight,
And worked her getting bottles, for the cart was
only light.
In her gallops in the evenings I would mostly take
the mount;
We couldn’t raise a stop-watch so me cobber used
to count.
She showed us five in sixty-one and forty for the
mile,
And could have done much better —she was pulling
all the while.
That’s something like a gallop in the sand with
ten stone up—
It would win an English Derby, or at least a
Melbourne Cup.
Well, we bought a set of colors (they were second-
hand and green),
And we had to call her something, so we named her
Bottle Queen ;
And when we thought we had her just as right as
she could be,
My cobber magged a Sheila for a nomination fee,
And we put her in a Maiden and they gave her
seven stone- —
You can talk about a “jackie,” she would come in
on her own.
But we couldn’t get a punter, so we raked up every
bob,
And we meant to get the market, so we kept it
from the mob.
There were only fourteen runners, and she drew an
outside berth ;
Of course it couldn’t matter —’twas the biggest
“cert.” on earth.
They jumped away together, but the mare ran to
the front,
And as for all the others they were never in the
hunt.
The way our Queen was moving caused the bookies’
hearts to bleed,
And every yard they travelled put her further in
the lead ;
She was romping past the Leger, aye, and fighting
for her head,
When someone waved a bottle —and our certainty
stopped dead.
Afterthought.
Now don’t talk to me of racing, you can see I’ve had
enough ;
It’s a game for men with money, or for mugs to
do their stuff.
So when they want to tell you that the sport is fair
and clean,
Just remember what I’ve told you—this the tale of
Bottle Queen.
N.S.W.
LANCE JACK.


YOUR GREATEST ASSET
f
d
In business and in social life is good health. The man who is
not physically fit cannot expect to take his rightful place among
the men who “get there.”
Good health is the keystone of efficiency, and efficiency is the
keystone of successful business to-day.
Get fit, and keep fit, by the Baker
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
The exercises are simple, enjoyable, and directly
beneficial to the nerves and muscles that control the
most important organs of the body.
This method of individual instruction has benefited
thousands of sufferers and restored them to perfect, glow-
ing health.
If you wish to enjoy the success in life that physical
! fitness ensures, write your name and address across this
advertisement, cut it out and send it, with three stamps
to cover postage, and you will receive a copy of the
interesting book, “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” which tells all about this simple system.
| Take action to-day !
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All=round Champion Athlete of Australia,’'
680 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
IiYNOCH
AMMUNITION
\ KYNOOtt m
■22 RIM FIRE.
ďf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
d
ALL BRITISH
ARMYTAGE’S
FAMOUS BOTANY
TWILL
in Your New Year Suit
means Satisfaction and
Pounds “Better” Value.
Armytage’s Famous ALL-WOOL
PURE INDIGO-DYED FINE
TWILL is available, through the
prompt action of our London
buyers in securing a shipment
that comes to us at a cost that
enables us, instead of charging
The “Old” Price, £l4/14/-
to quote this peerless material in a
flawlessly-tailored Suit to Order at
The “New"
Price - -
£B/1 5/-
Apart from the fact that this RARE
OiTER enables you to obtain Twill
of the first water at a price that
means a definite saving: of nearly
£6, you are also assured of PER-
FECT FITTING, SHAPE-RETAIN-
ING GARMENTS.
CALL OR WRITE.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co.
PTY. LTD.,
Tailoring Specialists,
244-54 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
8
•0
VQ
e&KSCSSSc
HZ'
Ring Out the Old—Ring In the New.
if
a
&
M
m
4
BANISH the old method of dance music with
its halting time played by unskilled fingers.
BRING into your home the new way of provid-
ing dance music—“THE PLAYOTONE WAY”
—when your guests can dance until the small
hours of the morning, their fatigue forgotten in
the joy of dancing to the delightful rhythm and
perfect time of the very latest dances played
by YOU on the
Playotone Player Piano.
Usher in the New Year—the wonderful year of
1 922—which abounds in possibilities of PEACE,
GOODWILL and PROSPERITY—by installing
in your home this wonderful instrument.
LET US POST YOU A CATALOGUE
WITH PRICE LIST AND DETAILS OF
: : OUR EASY-PAYMENT SYSTEM : :
LET* THIS PERFECT INSTRU-
MENT PROVIDE THE MUSIC
FOR YOUR INFORMAL
DANCES.
Itl
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY—
BRANCHES—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.


" Ualue.
Farme\ y s High-grade Walking Wools, 21 j-
msk
m
' wm
wm
UAl—Men’s Black and Tan high-grade
Walking Boots; made on comfortable-fitting
last, yet preserving an attractive appearance;
light, welted soles. This model is finished
throughout with infinite care the interior
finishings receiving the same conscientious
supervision in construction as that Q 1 /
apparent in external details. Price, 1/ ““
Farmer’s, Sydney.
w The Store for Men.”
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
m
(T -?
If it isn't.
Its Better
A tin of "BEVARA BEER ” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s (all shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Green Bros,, Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and country. Or postage paid 1/9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
That no fatalities are reported from the
streets these days shows the love Australians
have for children. Business folk find them-
selves hurdling over quaint groups at busy
corners, where mother and several youngsters
and 14 bundles and a Christmas stocking-
just sit down on the pavement to wait for
a tram. Then there are the wrecking chains
of infants strung across the paths. Myrtle
and Cyril and Tommy and Billjim Dutch
hands and link up with Auntie and cling
tighter than ring-tail ’possums. The hurt-
ling bomb of a business person doesn’t
realise the entanglements until he is mixed
up in the m§lee.
The Christmas morning of one’s childhood
is no more. The homely ribbed-cashmere
stocking on the bedpost is now u dud. The
ornate manufactured stocking, made of net
and stuffed with cheap toys, is turned
out in thousands to “standard” patterns,
and they are bought by the youngsters them-
selves in the seething chiffon bazaars. Santa
Claus appears in every big store. (One set
himself on fire the other day trying to have
a furtive “fag” in working hours.) Mum
and Dad no longer sneak fascinating parcels
of mysteries into the home. Mum brings
the family into town for the day, and Dad
is wrenched from a busy desk long enough
to do the paying and to stuff his perspiring
progeny with ice-creams that are wrought
into diabolical rainbow colors and have
names like trotting ponies. A visiting Eng-
lishman drawled on Saturday: “Australians
seem to all rush away from their homes at
Christmas. English people hurry to their
homes. I suppose it’s the climate.” The
Englishman puts everything foreign down
to climate,
Melba shows a spark of heroism in sing-
ings so often this hot weather. Some Eng-
lisn travellers got a wonderful impression as
they looked in at half-time one night last
week. There was a vast, absorbed audi-
ence (including the Countess and Lady
Helena Rous), utterly oblivious of the fact
that it was having a Turkish bath. Every-
one drank deep of the cool, sweet notes of
the Diva and went into periodical ecstasies.
Melba gave encore after encore: then she
released the melting accompanist and orches-
tra and played for herself. She was un-
ruffled and cool in a green gotvn that hung
like straight river grasses. Her smootn
black hair was bound in diamonds; they
were clustered closely all round a band five
inches wide —a fortune set on her head with
the apparent simplicity of a snood. Among
the flowers that went up was a biv armful of
unwired blossoms from Ella Shields. And
betweenwhiles manager Lemmone paced the
outer hall like a pale ghost; it takes some
doing, this disposing comfortably and slickly
of such concert crowds in the dog days.
The J.C.W. “Babes in the Wood” panto
dressing doesn’t unveil any carefully-
guarded secrets. The one shriek is supplied
by an economy in silken leg coverings. In
place of the old full-length tights, there is
a thigh-to-toe orgy of bare flesh, which with
the copiously bare back of the principal
dancer will attract the baldheads in shoals.
The two Amerys sport flat, lamp-shade skirt-
ings in pink checks, with Early-Victorian
pancake hats; and there is the usual butter-
fly-winged chorus and a gorgeous Chu Chin
Chow-ish scene. Nora Maxwell Delaney
displays a remarkable selection of tights and
tunics, and she gets “right there” on several
occasions, once when she veils her shapely
legs in Turkish trousers and some more of
her in a blouse of rose-colored Jersey silk
with a long, loose coat lined with green and
edaed with brown fur. She mostly swathes
her lovely head in tricky little caps and tur-
bans. Her star effort is a heavily-fringed
siiitwi of mastic coior, patterned with roses,
which is swathed about her willowy body
and topped by a quasi-Spanish sombrero.
Nellie Leach, as principal girl, is over-simply
georgetted save for the last act, when she is
p n tticonted gorgeously in white and silver
alongside Nora Delaney Maxwell, who at the
moment is a vision in the faintest pink
tights and tunic, with silver embellishments,
a diamond crown and a floating robe of silver-
lined crepe de Chine frilled with ostrich
plumes.
Earl Stradbroke, chosen as
Grand Master of Freemasons in this State,
will be installed in March, when the panjan-
drums of the craft will flow in from all parts
of the Commonwealth to see the thing done
with all due frill. So Masonry is to get the
biggest lift it has had in Vic. since the days
of Baronet Clarke and Governor Hopetoun.
And truly it needed a fillip.
The hospitality end of the tony. Victoria
League, which makes a habit of staging par-
ties to welcome visiting bigwigs, is defying
the hot season with an afternoon party at
the Alec Landale Too rail horiiestead on
January 4, to allow members to meet an
Indian delegation. But just what is at the
back of that delegation is puzzling u few
patriotic white-Australian people. Warning
shouts have come from Australians settled
(temporarily or otherwise) in India.
Incidentally, Melbourne continues to take
note of the doings of Mrs. Annie Besant —
feels it has a sort of proprietary family-in-
terest in her; and, besides, there is the
chance that she will be in these parts again
presently. Of course Mrs. Besant is a non-
conformist: she could never go with the
crowd—-until, at any rate, it is a different
crowd. But the official view of the lady in
relation to India was given at a party in
July last at which E. S. Montagu, Sec. of
State for India, “introduced” her —she had
come to make the usual “few remarks.”
What she said doesn’t matter. What he
said was that he “knew her as a valiant
fighter for constitutional reform in India,”
and, “on behalf of the Government,” he was
grateful to her for the support she had
given. That, anyhow, seems to dispose of
whispers that Mrs. Besant had joined the
npsetters in the land of Gunga Dhin.
The ’Varsity is preening itself —-as well it
may—over its graduate Dr. N. Hamilton
Fairley getting a professorial job at the ; In-
stitute of Tropical Medicine, Bombay.
Although only just 30, Fairley is a world’s
authority on the Nile worm (bilharzia),
which gave the Digger quite a lot of trouble
in Egypt. After discovering the tartar
emetic cure he started research into the
diagnosis of bilharzia, and evolved the com
piemen t-lixntion blood test which bears his
name, and by which the disease can be diag-
nosed early and with certainty. But Austra-
lians are too concerned over cricket, football,
prads and two-up to pay a living wage to re-
search workers, so Fairley takes his brilliant
brain to India.
The Vic. Uppah Chambah must be getting
beastly democratic. Brown, Jones and
Robinson are running the show. Ex-Minis-
ter Drysdale Brown is Chairman of Commit-
tees, and on the last night of the session he
ruled with the rod of iron that had been laid
aside since Zeal gave up the Presidency to
become a tame and unnoticed Senator. Ex-
Minister J. P. Jones is Labor-party leader,
and Attorney-General Arthur Robinson,
leader of the House, is Lawson’s equal-in-all-
things in the Cabinet. There is now a woe-
ful lack of Macs on the plush benches.
McNamara (Laborite) is there, of course,
but he isn’t a Scot.
Stewart St. Lager Burton, pictured here-
with by Ruth Holliek, is showing much in-
dustry and origin-
ality as a composer.
At a concert given
by the Melbourne
Institute of Arts
and Literature re-
cently the best part
of the programme
was made up of
violin, piano and
vocal items from the
youth’s prolific pen.
A ballade for the
piano was played by
his sister, and he
fiddled through a
Russian dance, an
old-time minuet and
portion of a sonata
in B flat. Burton
has found excellent
material for his songs in Herrick, Blake,
Wordsworth and other poets, whom he ap-
parently read sedulously before thinking of
setting favorite passages to music. Some
time back he won a scholarship at the East
Melbourne Con., but before that he was
proving that his training on the violin had
not been in vain. The long-haired Polish
virtuoso, Tarczynski, and the popular J. B.
North taught him how to make his instru-
ment behave.
Mrs. Staughton, widow of S.T., the former
member for West Bourke, left £14,482,
mainly to children and relations. She
directed that a piano belonging to her,
already in possession of the A.W.N.L. Club,
should become the property of that frilly in-
stitution, and that £lOO should go with it.
Perhaps the gift was intended as a standing
sermon on the desirability of harmony, the
absence of which the League had in large
quantities a little while ago.
Perth concert artists tvill give Elsa
Langley (Mrs. Hugh McLeod) a passport
to the Firm if it is looking out for an eye-
able soubrette. As Mina in “Hook of Hol-
land,” the diminutive lady has been an out--
standing success, her professional experi-
ences with the English Pierrot lifting her
light out of the umber sea of the amateurs.
Perth had to have the “pretty pink petty
from Peter” in liberal helps each night.
Russell Clarke, of Rupertswood, who had
been away in the Cold Land for the best part
of a year, tried the plush benches again for
a day or two before the session closed. And
he still seemed to be wondering what the so-
and-so he was doing there.
John Gellibrand is not quite happy in his
job as Police Chief, and the Lawson Ministry
is doubtful whether it acted rightly in select-
ing him. He has gone for a month’s holiday
to the Speck, where he used to grow apples.
This is Rieke Parker, a pianist of tem-
perament and skill, who is expected to add
a name to the long list of notable Australian
musicians. She comes from the Apple
Island, is the orphaned daughter of the late
Erskine Parker, and has been brought up
under the care of her aunts in Victoria.
Miss Parker negotiated a brilliant piano
course at the Albert-
is tre e t Conserva-
torium, and her back
has been encourag-
ingly patted by the
ati g ust hand of
Melba, who, by the
way, would have
made a name for
herself at the piano
if the Voice had not
swamped the ap-
plause of her num-
erous other talents.
The little lady had
a few extra touches
put to her studies
abroad, and she got
some other experi-
ences as well, for
she went to Ger-
many before the war, was shut in there and
saw some exciting incidents before she was
rescued and packed back to Australia. Miss
Parker recently gave a successful recital in
Melbourne by way of launching out upon a
musical career.
He wanted S. A. Heathershaw, his chief
clerical officer, appointed his locum tenens
while he was away, but the Ministry reverted
to the old custom of letting the senior police
officer have a show. This officer happened
to be Superintendent Nicholson, a constituent
and friend of Mat Baird, the Chief See. The
Force likes Gellibrand, but it sides with
Baird over this latest question.
Planter Jim Henderson and his wife are
in Melbourne from Bougainville (Pacific).
Their daughter Nance Eileen, aged three
weeks, had an impressive christening party
one Sunday recently. Father Gavan Duffy,
of St. Brendon’s Church, saw to the sprink-
ling, and grandmamma Hardiman had the
party at her Flemington home. Captain
and Mrs. Cardew were guests from far
Bougainville. Little Miss Henderson already
has her coal-black Bouka servant in attend-
ance—a bare-legged savage, in brief white
duds, who caused a goggle-eyed sensation in
the church. Baby Nance didn’t mind —she
was wearing a marvellous lingerie dress for
her official debut into this froeky world, and
could stand the rivalry.
The widower Carlyon is being heaped with
congratulations and questions. The bride-
elect comes from Ballarat.
David Low and little Prudence are now
installed in a new fiat nearer the publishing
world to which her dad has become interest-
ing since his Lloyd George book. That little
volume has already gone through two edi-
tions. Two more books of drawings have
since been launched, another is on the way,
and still he can’t see the end of the queue
of publishers from his front window. But
while he is personally prosperous, the lot of
the average Londoner is not bright. “Things
have never been so bad in the history of
this benighted isle,” says Low. “Some-
times the atmosphere gets very ugly. At
any moment sticky times may arrive.” '
Ella Shields’s send-off was a riot. The
crowded house refused to let her make way
for the next turn, and at last she dragged
ex-Corporal Mcßeath on to the stags to
make a duet of his Yarrawonga ditty. Every
usher in the house was hurriedly called in
to assist in bringing along a cartload of
flowers and ribbon-tied parcels. The house
was still making wildly enthusiastic noises
, when the curtain fell and declined to ascend
again. Elia, who was on the verge of tears,
could only ejaculate “You are'all lovely.”
The night before her final appearance, Ella
Shields gave an elaborate dinner-party at the
Oriental. In a private dining-room smothered
with flowers, she poured out champagne and
speeches of gratitude to a comprehensive col-
lection of press guests. A big white satin
box, with a silver boomerang on top, was on
view. This was a thank-offering to Ella
from Hugh D. Mclntosh, and was filled with
every imaginable toilet article in tortoise-
shell and silver. After the feeding and the
talking all the guests takied with Miss Shields
to the theatre to watch her turn. Among
them were Cahill and Brooke, ja 'likes
go on to the Adelaide show because Ella I
the atmosphere of their delicate musicalturn.
To her final matinee the little lady
the whole party of Diggers who b g .
the Limbless Soldiers’ Association, ana
theatre entertained them royally.
The Royal Yacht Club had a festive-season
dinner last week, and all went °,? i-ame
at the Diggers’ show, St Rilda. wyckliffe
Diggers are dug m at the back of \ J
House, which was, in the earl} dal . •
home of the Yacht Club. The theatre ?arD
was made merrier still by the rompmg-mot
a batch of bowlers who had b een touring
from one glass-smooth green to another in a
inter-State competition, and for wtipse benefit
the Diggers got a riot of technical tei
their patter.
A coo-ee from Adelaide: . .
The Government has at last been shamed into ta
ing up the responsibility of constructing a con-
sumptives' Hospital. Lady Weigall called a big
meeting of citizens at Government House the othe
dav, and some of them forthwith wrote indignantly
to'the papers, pointing out the shame it
her Ex. should literally have to go round with the
hat for a crying need which the Government should
meet. The consequence was that at the me g
his Ex. was able to announce that the Governmen
was prepared to foot the bill.
The executive committtee of the ex-Governor Gal-
wav Portrait Committee has received from London
f{. G. Eves’s painting of the knightly gen e ,
and it has been hung in the Art Gallery.
If we are not careful, instead of having’ a
for culture Adelaide will get a reputation tor being
dust naughty. The latest idea is (shh!) mixed bath
ing at the' city baths. The gentleman who run-,
them has conferred with the S'.A. Amateur Swim-
ming Assoc., with a view to an early start in this
direction, and the innovation is to be under the
control of this organisation. The scheme ans were
very well at the similar baths at Broken Hill, and
a trial is to be given here in January.
Gilles Moreton, of Sydney, grand-nephew oi
Osmond Gilles, the first Colonial Treasurer of c.A;,
is here on a visit to relations. Glen Osmond and
Gilles-street were both named after Osmond
amongst whose gifts to Adelaide was the site
John’s Church is built upon.
Six o’clock on a recent morning saw a genera
trek to Osbourne, where the Euwarra, the second of
the “E” class steamers built by Poole and Steele for
the Commonwealth Goveniment was launched. - ISS
Nellie Bice broke a bottle of perfectly good wine on
the hows, and made a few remarks, whereat the
Euwarra backed away from her and took to the watei.
At the conclusion of the ceremony Mrs. A. H. Poole,
sen., presented the launching lady with a handsome
dressing-case on behalf of the firm.
One of Adelaide’s society maidens the othei da.
took a St. Peter’s College master for better or worse
The bridegroom, who turned up in kilts mi trie
knot-tying, which took place in St. Peter s 0 e S t
chapel, is a Scot named Forbes, and is very particu-
lar about pronouncing it “4 B’s.” Australia
Queensland in that case-used to provide with an
office-stool another Forbes, who was Laird of Cul-
loden. Friends of his used to plot to send him oft
to England to marry money and redeem the estates ,
but he preferred a good Australian girl, even it
Culloden and its laird had to remain separate
Later his bank sent him to the London office ; but he
still declines to be much concerned about his title.
Chief Justice Murray said some pleasant things
when admitting F. E. Piper to the Bar. This son
of A. W. Piper—a quiet K.C. who specialises in
commercial matters and who could have been a
Judge before this had he thought it worth his while
—took, year after year, the prize founded in memory
of Judge Stow. He was the man put up to reply
for the undergrads, when the Graduates’ Association,
after its pleasant custom, lunched all the new degree-
takers of either sex under the trees in the Botanic
Park on University Commem. Day. Professors Hen-
derson and Harold Davies and Dr. Helen Mayo wel-
comed the new lambs to the fold; and Archibald
Strong, who will be Professor of English Literature
next year, was over from Melbourne to have a look
at his new associates. :
A divorce ■ suit that had provided Adelaide with
hectic reading of cross-examination, reported ver-
batim, for a fortnight—evening sittings of Court
thrown in—has ended tamely in a decree of judicial
separation, which was all the wife asked for; costs,
alimony and custody of the children to be argued
over more quietly later. Penfold Hyland is one of
Adelaide’s wealthiest men- —-a genial, hospitable soul
with a growing-up family, and “uncle” to every
nice girl in sight. That he often went into visitors’
rooms in the morning to tell them to get up was
admitted cheerfully. In one case his wife followed
him in, could not find him, and presently saw him
jump from the window; it was done, he said, for
her peace of mind, she being absurdly jealous. Also,
he had a girl staying at the same seaside hotel with
himself and his daughter, during his wife’s frequent
absences. Ante-nuptial affairs, overmuch bridge and
the domestic life of a groom were side issues which
enlivened or clouded the trial. The cross-examina-
tion by Villeneuve Smith, K.C., was a triumph, if
an easy one, and made Mr. Hyland an unhappy
man. Finally the jury found him guilty in at
least two instances. It is a difficult world for genial
middle-aged men with care-free manners.
Peter Wood, one of Adelaide’s best-known mer-
chants, is dead at 66. Wi'T his father and James
Gartrell he built up the great wholesale house of
Wood, Son and Co. He was a prominent footballer
in early life. Latterly his side interests were cattle-
breeding and philanthropic work of all kinds.


sm
m
Day Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Cornered Road Reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric for the Sydney City Council,
October, 1921*
CITY ENGINEER: A. H. BRIGG, MX, MUN & CO., ENG
ďf
Even in weak ground B.R.C. Road
Reinforcements make the road-bed as
serviceable as the consolidated founda-
tion of the oldest road.
The B.R.C. road is no longer a ne'yv
road: no longer experimental.
Through several years it has estab-
lished and proved itself under the test
and trial of hard usage, and is adopted
in all parts of the country and in
countries abroad for highways and
service roads which have to carry
modern traffic.
SUPPLIERS TO:—
Melbourne Harbor Trust.
Queensland Public Works Depart-
ment.
Melbourne City Council,
Footscray City Council.
Richmond City Council.
Newcastle City Council.
Victorian Country Roads Board.
Mosman City Council.
Woollahra City Council.
S.A. Public Works Department.
Perth City Council.
Commonwealth Railways.
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board
of Works.
St. Kilda City Council.
Malvern City Council.
Sydney City Council.
Vic. Public Works Department.
W.A. Public Works Department.
North Sydney City Council.
Adelaide Tram Trust.
Sydney Harbor Trust.
South Melbourne City Council.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Consulting and Designing Engineers.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Telephone: Central 8861.
Sole Distributing' Ag'ents
VICTORIA GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
N.S. WALES J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Sydney.
S. AUSTRALIA ...ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND . J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND. .JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland.
TASMANIA T. TABART, Jun., Hobart.
W. AUSTRALIA. . ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrvr
rrrrrrrrrrrrjwre
&
rw


under
Royal
warrant
d
To H.M.
Kin£>
George V
CHAMPAGNE
ďf
d
CHAMPAGNE
OiarlcsHeidsieoc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT Sc COMPANY l.lfvilTED, Sydney
THE XMAS AND NEW YEAR REVEL
at the
Wentworth Cafe
is a triumph of Festivity. The cuisine is incomparable, and
novelties both for dancing and decoration are on a scale
such as has never been seen in Sydney before.
Come on one night at least and view the BEAUTIFUL
NEW PALM COURT.
YOU WILL BE IMMENSELY DIVERTED
and will find the famous ballroom cool and delightful on the
hottest nights.
’PHONE CITY 9931.
/the name
'is IMPORTANT/
$
not
m
. Jss& sy> \
fW
o^J-rfe
r\U»
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
All through a sweltering day of last week,
from 11 o’clock in the morning, Rose Scott
“received” at Eaton, Bayswater-road, smil-
ing her serene and wise greeting on the
many old friends who climbed the stairway
to Longstaff’s studio, where the portrait of
Sydney’s wonderful old lady is enthroned.
There she sits in a black silk dress, cut
just low enough to allow a clear view of the
well-shaped throat, her fine eyes, clear and
kindly, piercing under the pretty white hair.
She is wearing elbow-sleeves, and about her
wrists mittens embroidered in little glisten-
ing beads, while half-slipping from her shoul-
ders is a scarf of finest white lace. Alto-
gether a charming and beautiful portrait of
this woman of high ideals who stood so mag-
nificently by her sex when women’s suffrage
was still in the balance.
Many of the older visitors to the canvas
revived memories when they passed through
the shabby gateway of the one-time house
of fashion, which now stands back, shut-
tered and miserable in its strip of garden,
frying bravely to ignore the deserts of dust
that sweep into it from the traffic-torn Bays-
water-road. Originally the stronghold of the
Knoxes (it is even breathed that Chief Jus-
tice Adrian was born here), it later became
the Fosbery home, and that name still con-
jures up visions of beautiful and dashing
girls. It is now the property of Arthur
Allen, and no doubt later on will go the way
of all Darlinghurst properties and sprout
into flats. Meantime the hibiscus inside the
gate wears crimson flowers, and the rose-
bush by the front doorstep struggles to
express itself in a few straggling blooms.
The Rose Scott portrait will, of course,
go presently to the National Gallery. It
is a gift of gratitude to the subject of it,
who is far too unselfish to come between the
contributors to the fund that paid for it and
their desire.’
Some Sydney men got a Christmas box
they didn’t expect. When Verbrugghen last
talked of leaving his good Australian job, the
N. S. Wales Government, while declining to
push his salary any higher, said he could have
£2OOO a year of the profits made out of his
orchestral concerts. As those profits were
problematical, this didn’t suit the conductor;
so a number of people guaranteed him the
£2OOO. A notice has now been sent to the
guarantors by the secretary that, as no profit
at all was made by the concerts in the 12
months to July last, a cheque for the full
amount of the guarantee will oblige. No
financial statement accompanies the demand ;
and there are guarantors who will want to
see one.
The naval youngsters at Jervis Bay had
a wonderful time from the day after their
final paper till the official breaking-up—
dances and dinners every night, kindly
grown-ups trying to soften the blow that
was about to fall upon nine of the 21 middies
who had passed that perfectly scorching
final; for only 12 of them could be placed
in a navy that is being whittled to the slim-
ness of a fashionable sandwich. The day
before the breaking-up the bomb was hurled
amongst the lads, and on the day itself
Dumaresq himself landed down, all myrrh
and balm of Gilead, to soothe the lacerated
hearts. The youngsters were plucky,
though, and not one of the disappointeds but
showed a smiling face on the night of the
College Ball.
Lady Muriel Bertie, only daughter of the
Earl of Lindsey, who has just become en-
• gaged to Captain Grainger, of the Scots
Guards, is half an Australian. Her mother
was Millie Cox, one of the smartest girls in
Sydney in Lord Carrington’s day. It was
when Lord Bertie, as he then was, was an
A.D.C. in these parts that Dr. Cox’s good-
looking daughter met and married him. Lady
Muriel and her young man have been half-
engaged for a long time, but he is a Catholic
and this branch of the Bertie family is not.
On the other hand the Earl of Abingdon, who
is the heir-presumptive to the Lindsey earl-
dom, is a Catholic and a strong one, and is
related through the Dormers, Traffords and
Talbots to most of the prominent R.C. fami-
lies of England.
One of the prettiest parties of the week
was given by “the story-man” at St. James’s
Hall. Mr. Thompson, who plainly adores
the occupation, chose some Kipling yarns,
and the way mother and father listened and
mopped it all up proved that they really
wouldn’t be surprised to find Santa Claus
coming down the radiator globe on Christ-
mas Eve. Mrs. Verbrugghen’s folk-songs
were a hit of the afternoon : and Albert Col-
lins auctioned a pile of books by Australian
authors who had thrown in their autographs
as an extra money-raiser. Receipts go to
feed war-starved children of Europe.
“Doubtless God could have grown a better
Christmas tree, but probably He never
did!” was the attitude of the soldiers’ kid-
dies at Matraville towards the spreading five-
corners bush that sprang to life in the middle
of the monster marquee on the Settlement
recreation ground. It had to be compre-
hensive to carry toys and bon-bons and
balloons and five-starred flags for nearly 200
youngsters. The party was a beautiful affair
in spite of the rain that poured incessantly,
so that Sargent’s waggon with the ice-cream
and the ginger-beer and the gigantic Christ-
mas cake aboard became bogged, and was
liberated only after half an hour. But that
dida’t matter —the kiddies were merely a
little hungrier for the waiting. And then
at the very end, when the last balloon had
been given out and the mothers had received
their little Christmas greeting, too, one of
the soldiers made a speech thanking the
Presswomen and wishing them a hatful of
luck for the New Year.
The patients at Waterfall had something
to keep them awake the other night when
“Ye Idlers” dropped in and entertained them.
It was a bright concert party, and included
among its star artists li. B. Orchard and
Professor Woodliouse. Secretary McDon-
nell sends a greeting on behalf of the Recrea-
tions Committee to those who have arranged
entertainments during the year, with the
inevitable reminder that gifts in cash or kind
will help the inmates —many of them, alas!
under sentence of death —during their long
days and longer evenings.
There was but a tliinnish attendance in
the board-room of the Sydney Hospital for
the annual meeting of the Auxiliary last
week ; what else could you expect of a sti-
fling day in Christmas week? The McMillan
lady was in the chair, and in the swelter
new Matron Kellett, in her spotless white,
looked like a snow-clad summit of Everest.
Secretary Mrs. Holdship wore a shady hat
well over her eyes, .George Black rose to
heights of enthusiasm over the work woman
had done in the war, and Hospital-president
Stinson showered commendations as thick
as confetti at a wedding party.
Mrs. A. B. Triggs, who, the cables say,
was asked by the Acting High Commissioner
to “represent Australian women at the open-
ing of Parliament in London,” is a daugh-
ter of the late John Mcßean, of the old Wee
Jasper firm of Mcßean Bros. When bad times
overtook the firm she lived with her aunt,
Mrs. Ritchie, the widow of the Yass store-
keeper whose fortune (or part of it) went
with his elder daughter to Arthur Bryant
Triggs, then a bank clerk at Yass, after-
wards a rival of sheep-king McCaughey.
Daisy Mcßean stepped into her cousin’s
shoes as the second Mrs. Trigg. She is an
unassuming matron with two boys and two
girls still of school age.
Dorothy (“Doffy”) Nall is another “Din-
kum Aussie Girl” —as such she was known
to thousands of khaki-clad lads who passed
through various Red
Cross institutions
since 1914. Miss
Nall, Sydney-born
and educated at the
Girls’ High, earned
her “Dinkum” title
mainly with her ren-
dering of Dennis’s
“D i g g e r Smith”
stories. She was
with Fred Shipman’s
“Third Fantastics”
in India (there, by
the way, she became
engaged to a Calcutta
man), and with the
Merrymakers and
Lucy Wise Enter-
tainers she has toured
all over N. S. Wales
and Queensland, mainly with humorous mono-
logues and “kid” studies. She is a daughter
of Robert Nall, for 35 years news editor
of the Sydney Telegraph. Soldiers and
hospital inmates will regret to hear of her
pending departure, but —well, it’s another
case of India calling.
Elizabeth Baker, the writer of “Chains.”
in everyday life Mrs. Allaway, is at 30
Mac-leay-street while in Sydney. After she
gets used to being gently grilled she will set
out for hotter layers of earth. The other
day there was great purring at the Reper-
tory Club rooms when the players in Gre-
gan McMahon’s cast of “Chains” entertained
the lady. Sydney’s own woman playwright,
Marguerite Dale, who is not unlike her,
was particularly happy over the meeting, as
“Chains” has simply coiled itself around
her heart.
The verses recited in the London theatres
on Poppy Day were written by Dion Tither-
adge. The clever young man delivered them
himself at the Prince of Wales, where he is
playing, while sister Madge thrilled her audi-
ence with the lines at the Ambassador’s.
Sister Marshall, who was acting-matron of
Sydney Hospital before Sister Ivellett was
raised to the throne of the big institution,
has gone off to S’Africa for a long holiday,
leaving the nurses disconsolate for her cheery
companionship. Before she went there was
a wonderful afternoon party and a presenta-
tion, and the only starch about it was in the
caps and aprons.
This is May Moore’s picture of Norman
Carter, who is responsible for the mural
decorations that now grace the Philosophy
lecture-room in Sydney Uni. These decora-
tions- —two large panels painted on canvas —
represent the growth
of abstract thought
from the time Soc-
rates held the first
chair of Philosophy
on the steps of the
temple of Athens.
They probably chose
the temple steps be-
cause the “move on”
regulation didn’t ap-
ply there. Anyway,
Norman Carter has
discovered Aristotle,
Socrates and Plato
having a spell-o in
the shade of two
Doric columns
against a fascinating
background of the
ancient City of Cul-
ture. In the second panel Bacon, Descartes
and Spinoza discourse in an Elizabethan
atmosphere of ruffs and velvets and high mul-
lioned window ; and certainly the artist has
conveyed the picture of dignified wisdom he
visioned. These 9ft. by 6ft. canvases were
painted in the studio in Pitt-street, and took
numerous jaunts out to the halls of learning
so that the colors might harmonise with
each other and with the tones of the big lec-
ture-hall. They are to honor the memory of
Francis Anderson, first Challis Professor of
Logic and Mental Philosophy.
Norman Carter is proud of being an alto-
gether Australian product. His artistic
career started when he was apprenticed to a
firm of decorators in Melbourne. From
arranging the silk wall-hangings of the time
over the protecting lamb’s wool he went on
to learn all about stained-glass windows.
Thence to canvas was an easy step, and the
artist, who has never been outside Australia,
managed to secure a medal from the Paris
Salon for a painting that was afterwards
hung on the line at the Royal Academy.
Registrar Salmon, of the State Conserva-
torium, and Helen Bryant, youngest girleen
of Mrs. Bryant, of Neutral Bay, recently
made the usual promises at St. Mark’s, aided
and abetted by the Rev. Howard Lea, bride’s
sister Marion and bridegroom’s chum Alan
Webb. An informal supper at the Australia
to very intimate friends, and then away for
a honeymoon trip, free from crotchets and
quavers.
The other night, in St. James’s, English
girl Emily Joan Johnson became the wife of
Captain Alexander Stork, of Samarai, New
Guinea, thereby putting the seal on a quick-
step romance —the affair was a case of love
at first sight on both sides. The bride, who
was mostly white georgette and Chantilly
lace, was given away by her friend Mrs.
Stcddart, of Manly, who was fortified by
white shtin and jet and a large black velvet
hat. The Wentworth spread the wedding
feast.
lan, the youngest of the Clunies Ross
brothers, who graduated last March as
B.V.Sc., and has since been lecturing on Vet.
Osteology, has secured the Veterinary Fel-
lowship under the Walter and Eliza Hall
Trust. The Professors advised him to take
out his scholarship here, but he thinks he
will gain more knowledge by travelling
around for 12 months, as the Exhibition
allows so much for expenses.
That son of the late Sergeant Larkin,
M.L.A., who passed the intermediate exam,
last year before he was 13 has done very
well 'again. At Holy Cross College, in a
class of boys mostly years older than him-
self, he ran away with five firsts ; and with
verse entitled “Disarmed” took the Lane
Mullins prize for poetry from the whole
school.
The memorial book about Oswald Watt left
the printer’s last week. It is beautifully got
tip and full of pictures with a personal in-
terest. All sorts of well-known people, in-
cluding W. J. Locke, the novelist, contribute
memoi’ies of the dead soldier. By the way.
the buyer of Bilgola, where Colonel Watt
was drowned, was Arthur Allen, who leased
it at a peppercorn rental during the years
its owner was abroad.
In “A Book of Old Embroidery,” a special
number of the Studio, the art of the needle
is traced from the time Mother Eve stitched
her fig-leaves together with a sharp thorn.
A King of Pergamus in the 3rd century B.Q.
made quite a commotion among the ladies or
his court by inventing embroidery in gold :
and perhaps he cribbed the idea from that
other whose gold embroidery is catalogued in
Exodus. And that recounter of fashion-
chat, Ezekiel, reported a ship from J- y r . e
arriving with bellying sails of fine linen with
broidered work of Egypt. Egypt and that
centre of culture, Phoenicia, were famed in
those days for needlecraft. One of the most
interesting bits of it in the world is the Coro-
nation Kobe woven by the Sicilians for their
Norman conquerors. This mantle is a deep reel
silk embroidered in gold thread, with details
in silk thread and enrichment of pearls ariet
enamels. The palm-tree of the Orient with
two fabulous beasts of the East on each side
are features of this robe. Another band ol
Norman roysterers decided to oust the
Anglo-Saxons, so dropped down upon Eng-
land : and after they had made good their
landing had the same commemorated by the
famous Bayeaux tapestry, considered the
most remarkable of mediaeval embroideries.
The tapestry is over 23 feet long, and is
crowded with incidents worked in wools ot
eight different shades. It was probably run
off with lecturer’s notes to small boys and
girls, much as educational movies are now.
The book is really a storehouse of charming
sidelights on the home and political life ot
the different centuries, worked by the hands
of the women folk while their husbands were
freebooting or crusading.
At any of the big concerts you may have
seen American Consul Norton’s wife
wrapped about in a Spanish shawl that
looks in the distance as though appliqued in
old-gold velvet; but when you draw nearer
you see that the yellowness is a gorgeous
design embroidered in thick floss silks on
heavyweight silk Canton crepe—-the sort
used in the centuries-old Mandarin coats.
This shawl is so large that Mrs. Norton
wears it doubled crossways, and even then
the long honeycomb fringe sweeps in rich-
ness about her ankles. The American lady,
who has lived so long in Spain,, has a col-
lection of these shawls that would make a
museum-collector a kleptomaniac. One is
a deliciously mellow thing worked in pale
lavender on what originally was a deep ivory
ground, but is now yellowed by time. An-
other is altogether white, still another is
the pink of a sea-wet shell; all have dif-
ferently knotted fringes, and one beauty
boasts a double fringe. All are heavily
worked in an all-over rose design, and all
bear traces of that Chinoiserie, that copy-
ing of the Chinese forms, which was such
a feature of the silk embroideries of all
the world in the late 17th and 18th cen-
turies. The borders of the shawls differ,
and it is from these that the connoisseur
can tell the schools and periods of em-
broidery the shawls represent. Mrs. Nor-
ton has Spanish chests filled with linen, too.
Such sheets and pillowslips as you never
saw! Sheets embroidered a yard deep on
three sides in the old English or the old
Spanish style, edged with old Flemish lace
or bearing cobwebby Honiton. What beds
those old Spanish and English must have
had! The sheets are enormous, the pillow-
slips match the sheets, and the linen hand-
towels match both. Altar cloths richly
worked have a place in the collection.
Masses of the fine Spanish “blonde” lace and
high tortoise-shell combs to be worn on
feast days find holidays, and some perfect
specimens of old Sheffield plate, make the
Consular flat like a museum de luxe.
A Brisbane oostscript—
Our Excellency is spending Christmas as the guest
oi Mrs. Lumley Hill at Belle Vue.
Australia gained a few French wives; France,
it seems, gained a few Aussie husbands. So Mr.
and Mrs. Chesney, of Inglewood, leave early in
January to visit son Jack, who has a Madame, two
small sons, and a farm somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of Paris.
Everybody who is Anybody is hurrying to some
other place for Christmas. Not even an afternoon-
tea or a dinner-dance happens to stir the Brisbane
that stays sweltering at home.
H. S. Davis, who for eight years captained the
Bush Brotherhood, is the new Bishop of Carpentaria.
Northerners are delighted; an acre of aprons
couldn’t make him any less a white man. Or any-
more.
Mrs. Bob Bell, in black georgette, and Lena Ham-
mond, in rose-du-Barrv charmeuse, sang the solos on
the women’s side of “Messiah” at the Musical Union
concert. The audience fanned itself vigorously.
Mrs. William Collins leaves for Europe in January,
the A. H. Whittinghams sail by the Ormonde in
February, and Mr. and Mrs. .J. S. Badger leave for
the land of movie, sly-grog and other stars next
week.
“Beachcomber” Banfield, of Dunk Island, has a
literary neighbor these days. J. W. Frings, author
of “The Occupants,” “God in the Universe,” “The
Dawn of Democracy,” and a number of smaller works
c:i kindred subjects, recently arrived' from England
and has made his home on Brisk Island. Since he
setiied on the coral speck with his wife and daughter
he has written two books, “Blue Skies and Coral
Seas” and “Evelyn of Happy Island.”


• . • ■ m
HILLIERS
m
i m
t
U
v
mm
mm
Wi
M
m
almond
SKHwL*
■
m
■
m
09
a
M
#4
mm
■
M
m
m
m
, m
im&m
' J r '
'-dtfSmSSm
: !
■, M
■■ :
m
yM- ■&:'
PACKED IN
lib AIRTIGHT
3fe Each
Postage 6° extra
sent to any address
in Australia
162-166 PITT St
&CrOeorge &Kinq Sis
- SYDNEY -
Fashionable Sapphire 8 Diamond Jewellery
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS—FINEST WORKMANSHIP.
fx
vom i&
%XTR A-QUALITY
DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE WATCH
SET IN PLATINUM «T 250
DIAMOND, SAPPHIRE & FROSTED
CRYSTAL BROOCH-SET IN PLATINUM
£4-0
dfd
PEARL, DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE
BROOCH- SET IN PLATINUM
jf 45
-%?,s■ i
DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE
RINO-SET IN PLATINUM
£ 75
DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE
RING-SET IN PLATINUM
£9O
DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE PENDANT
SET IN PLATINUM
€ 150
Illustrated Ring or Watch Catalogue sent post free to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Jewels of every description taken in exchange.
OTm. ®rummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TEXACO
MOTOR
here
f
The cams and cam-shaft
0 you think of them as
comparatively unimport-
M — ant parts of your motor,,
so far as lubrication is concerned ?
."Remember, the oil that gets to
the cams and valves is the same
oil that has to overcome friction
and resist the intense heat in the
cylinders.
Every part of your motor is a
major part. Every part needs
the best of lubrication.
Texaco Motor Oil does full
justice to all.
Texaco Motor Oil in the cylin-
ders coats the surfaces perfectly
because it has the right body. It
holds the compression. It pre-
vents the metal-to-metal contact
that causes undue wear. It does
not form hard carbon. Texaco
Motor Oil on the bearings keeps •
them cool —keeps them working
smoothly.
Toudl know the luxury of a
perfectly-tuned motor always.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRAI ASIA.
TEmCO
A
The Briton Overseas
remains British—through and through— never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
he retains the tastes and predilictions of the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste for
d
SCOTCH
v/>
iiL
m
K*
&
'UkSr-S
%
Q-
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-wide popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its native
Scotland.
By careful husbanding of
Stocks wc hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.
Whisky.
Everyone s favourite
Scotch—Everywhere !
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
GLASGOW.
tv *
QIOnJ^j
MOSMVQI
UIL


LEARN TO DRAW!
|~0?
'■'jfej
m
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.'
You can
learn to
make effec-
tive original
drawings in a
short period
under the
Weston Postal
Course of Drawing.
Each lesson is given
under the personal
supervision of Aus-
tralia’s foremost
commercial artist,
Mr. .Harry J. Wes-
ton, who HIMSELF
criticises and cor-
rects the exercises.
Big salaries await
successful students
in the field of art !
Why not learn all
about this profit-
able hobby ? •
Send your name
and address and
three stamps for
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,” Which
tells all about
the course,
fees, etc., and
gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
99 Union House, SYDNEY.
WORK
SHIRT
An exceptionally strong work shirt
that forgets to wear out. Colors
are guaranteed—FAST! Comfort-
able to wear, hard to wear out. Plain
Shades and Stripes. Offered at the
new, low-level price.
ORDER YOURS TO-DAY!
Z- im i i-ed
Toowoomba* brisbaSie townsville
PLEASE WRITE TO DESK “W.”
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
df
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
Hotel de Luxe,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding: Theatre Boat") right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Guineas per iveek.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 300?. Apply Manager.
■
r
The “KEMP” SADDLE
Has Displaced the Ordinary Park
Saddle in Public Favor.
In this high-grade Saddle the ridei
has all the ease and comfort of a
Park Saddle, but the shape and posi-
tion of the KEMP Pads give much
greater security.
Note how high up the pads are set along the
rider’s thighs, and almost level with the head
of saddle. The tree used is our First-grade
“Fouright,” and the fittings included are Special
Kemp Pattern Folded Girth, Bevelled Leathers
and Solid Nickel Stirrups.
£l4/10/-
Freight Free for Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Port or Station on
N.S.W. Railways.
Write for Price Delivered to other States.
Send your height and weight with order. Drop us a line for
our fine saddlery and harness catalogue, including Texas baddies.
If you own a trotter ask for special trotting catalogue. Polo
players ask for polo booklet with playing rules.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHIP BRAND
a/° r
delicious
Summer Dishes
Manufacturers
CLIFFORDLOVE & C9IPSYDNEY
O {_(o
!hslP©£D
Ask to see the
New Streamline
Model.
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or
woman of taste, of refine-
ment, of diserimi nation.
d
Onoto Ink —Best for all Pens.
Wanted to Buy.
Alluvial and other Gold.
Also Platinum.
We desire to buy for melting
purposes.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
e7 H P?ttTs%.,
Provident Society
The Tartest ami Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every' Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
E. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Ar
»
*>:°-
P/f^.
S'
Guaranteed x
in order for two years free^
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4GEORGE ST.SYDNE)
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
S RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
ďf
d
osroqk
r~- iuiuh
1 ft ROWN|
Right on Your Uppers
is where they shine. A brilliant, lasting shine, mind you,
plus 100% wear from your shoes.
CREAMS
(In Bottles and Tubes).
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Nigger Brown,
Ox Blood, White, Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
EOSTGCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
Circular Saws that Last
N®n
m-
m
\{\\\\\W
Set*
Circular Saws that are constantly
losing their keenness mean more than
the expense of resharpening, for there
is loss of time in changing, slower cut-
ting and possibly a long delay before
you can replace the dull saws.
Save money by always ordering saws
branded
“An Eagle on a
Globe’’
You’ll find these saws will give you
long and satisfactory service, and on
account of the high-quality steel they
sharpen up as good as new.
All sizes in stock. For full particu-
lars regarding price, etc., address De-
partment “A.”
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour and Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
26 i Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
Cliff Street. FREMANTLE.
John Reid and Nephews. BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd.. ADELAIDE.
Paul and Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
R. L. Mini'S An, CcilXtos BAseet, HOBART.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken o/ communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G. Crawford: As you say, Ireland has
coal 290,000,000 tons of it, according to your
authority, scattered over Leinster, Tyrone, Antrim,
Tipperary and Connaught. Britain, according to a
recent estimate, has 189,000,000,000 tons; the
U.S.A. 3,838,000,000,000 tons. N. S. Wales alone
has over 118,000,000,000, and is constantly warned
against waste. Comparing the figures it isn’t sur-
prising that Ellis Barker put “lack of coal’’ as the
chief cause of Ireland’s “industrial backwardness.”
-...8i11et: Bagnall isn’t so inexperienced as all
that. He certainly didn’t have a portfolio in Hol-
man s day, but he was one of William’s numerous
unofficial lieutenants, and as such made himself felt
considerably... .F.L.K.: It reads like a heavy plum-
pudding Fulsey: As stiff as if it were on stilts.
... .1.H.A.: Another reinforced-concrete poem.
Taro: Thanks. Don’t worry—forget you are writing,
and just spin the yarn Tempe: Neat idea; wish
you’d smooth it out a little The Toad: You shall
have our sympathy, but not our space... .Bobs: “Bill
the Sport” has all the necessary thrill for the
season :
Jingo, old Sport, it’s time to drink,
The drink that cheers, New Year’s ’ere.
May it froth and bubble—l mean, old man, the beer.
Now when you’ve ’ad yer swill, and in yer comes
a jolly kind of thrill,
„ Just say, “Look ’ere, old Bill, there’s the missus and
9 kids at home, as wants their thrill.”
So up yer gets and down the tankard.
And with yer best will, “Old Bill,
Dear old Bill,” the missus will say,
“ ’Ave yer come ’ome to stay ?
Not going out to-night?” “Yer bet I ain’t.”
That was the missus s thrill all right.
“Now, y’ and the kids, go get fixed up,
And we ll go to any old show yer like.”
“But ’ave yer the money, Bill?” “Oh, that’s all
right.”
So mother and kids had their second thrill that night.
....Pickles, J.P.: Punch Office, Melbourne. .. .J.C.
(Mosman) : Your “Leaves” are too thin.... Beta:
Nothing happens in the isle.... Anthony F.: A spirit
came to the house, offered the lady a wish and went
away. It’s really a misuse of terms to call that a
story.... M.R. (Glenferrie) : You don’t contrive to
make the yarn seem possible... .A.K.: (Manly):
Shocking. .. .E.S. (Wahgunyah) : Not even the cir-
cumstance that “the pigsty was a sweet old spot” can
save it....E.N.: A fag-end of something that looks
like verse. . . .Telescope: The fact that the people next
door look out of their windows is noted.... E.R.D.:
Very poor. .. .Eehap : Two lines deserve a hearing:—
I’ll learn to box by post and then I’ll even up the
spore;
I’ll postal uppercut the bloke who writes page forty-
four.
....Saltbush: No yarn in “Ikey”... .Wilson H.:
None of them get there. .. .R.D.F.: A person like
Satan with a tail to wag ought to be humorous; but
you weigh him down with a sort of philosophical
coffin of lead. . . . Broomhead : We don’t think you’re
quite respectable. . . .S.I.P. Won’t do. Obscurity
isn’t a virtue even in a poem.... W.S.C.: You
are entered for the £l-a-week-for-life prize for
the most humorless man in the Commonwealth....
L. “Black Sand” not for this mortar-heap
M. (Armadale) : Those “Fairies” are not quite in
our way Ethel W.: Doesn’t get anywhere near.
Maoriland has been better treated many times....
L.P.F.: “Moonshine” must go back.... Arthur M.:
The thing is neither prose nor verse, but a kind of
barking. . . .A.F.F.: It doesn’t show much skill. .. .
A.R. (Marrickville): Nothing in them, though you
might have made a fair job with better materials.
.... Bellerive: The story of the wreck has all the
old fidelity to melodrama: —
“Women first,” the captain cried,
Arfiidst the panic on the deck.
“God have mercy upon our souls,”
Groaned victims of the wreck.
Boats were launched, but could not brave
The winds that whistled round;
The yeasty breakers fiercely dashed
O’er the bodies of the drown’'
Huddled upon a drifting raft
At the misty break of day,
Was a sailor and a woman
And a diabolical Malay.
The tar did guard the female
As a father would a child,
Against the glaring savage,
Huge, merciless and wild.
Four days he watched beside her
When on an outward trip
They were rescued from the ocean
By a British merchant ship.
.... .C.P.H.: We wouldn’t dare to offer it even if
we had a bargain counter to throw it on. .. .R.L.F.:
It only charms when for a moment the insanity
displaces the futility. .. .Frank A.: No use to us. ...
N. (Abbotsford): None of them... .H.E.R.:
“Julia” doesn’t look real in the setting she’s in.
. ...G.S.F.: “Ghost” doesn’t make a credible story.
....Phil N.: Nowhere near. .. .E.C.8.: “The Bush
Lawyer” is.a bit wild.... Also Ran: Sorrowful stuff.
Laughter: It is too mechanical... .Chas G.: Not
enough in it; but if that’s your first attempt it’s
well worth trying again. ...Habladora: Both prose
and verse have too little to say... .E.S. (Bunda-
berg) : “Joe’s Revenge” wanted smarter telling to
make it believable. .. .Mary G. (and that’s not Gil
more): Gentle commonplace supporting well-worked
gags. .. .A.R.N.: Can’t find the humor. .. .F.S. (New
Farm): Dreary narration.... Comet: Nothing in it
to comment on either privately or publicly
Snooks: Doesn’t appeal to us. . ...Kickinbilli (and
many others) : Thanks. Letters like yours are good
to get. All the same, they make this paper feel
that it ought to be —and must try to be—a darned
sight better than it is.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.0’8.: Too stiff T.M.: All fall short
F.J.G.: Drawing shows some promise, but illus-
trations to old jokes have no interest.... peter S.:
Awful... .G.H.M.: Better take some lessons....
F.A.M.: Not up to publication standard yet....
F.M.H.: Both miss W.A.H.: Weak drawing and
ancient gag'.
“Mirza” : I can vouch for the potency of
decomposing human flesh as a poison (B.
8/12/’2l). A year ago at a post-mortem
on a corpse that had been one for about five
days I ran a hook into my left palm. For
an hour I experienced the tortures of the
damned as I rubbed pure carbolic acid in,
and pondered the life that I had led. On
arrival at the surgery I injected all the
anti-streptococcal vaccine I copld get and
despatched a prayer Heavenwards. Three
days later my hand was still as big as the
Queensland debt. I then got the swelling
incised and deflated, but, desnite the best
medical advice obtainable in Australia (my
own), it was three weeks before the limb
was any use to me.


Hti!»r>ms.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, (1 Spring Street,
4Sinl Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Breat Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 4, 1922,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. II
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Dor. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. . . 799,077 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . . 325,000 0 0
lnicrmiTiable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,009 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. AY.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq,; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throng bout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital,. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .£1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert It. Lysagiit, 0.8. E., Chairman,
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarwood, E.G.P.A. ;
George F. Tod-man'; Ifon. F. Jago -Sjutii,- M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1365.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. •• £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping. e*«.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, 12th JANUARY, 1022, 11 a .in.
Niagara, leth February,
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. MAKURA, JANUARY 12.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, FEBRUARY 16.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 2nd FEBRUARY, 1922.
MARAMA, 2nd MARCH.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
1
■ :■
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila*
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Keserve Liability
Established 1817.
(Wlte
Duertors;
£3,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13.500.000
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
liohnrt L. I'.'iithfnll. Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threudneedle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
.. £2,909,025
.. £2,360,000
.. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
df
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery.
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Covering first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections."'
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney,
SlilnDlntf,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances perini tting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtori
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkerL^l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdoil&ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney. ,
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasnenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.iu.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including: —
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg. Bowen and Cooktown.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Fighting at Jutland. Forty-
live Personal Experiences. Edited
by H. W. FAWCETT, R.N. and G.
W. W. HOOPER, R.N. Fully Illus-
trated. 21s. net.
The First Lord of the Admiralty:—“An
admirable and enthralling book.”
SIR VALENTINE CIIIROL.
India Old and New. By Sir VALEN-
TINE CIIIROL, author of “Indian
Unrest,” “The Egyptian Problem,”
etc. 10s. net.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
' NEW VOLS.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
674. The Young Enchanted. A
Romantic Story. By HUGH WAL-
POLE.
*The principal characters of this novel
are Henry and Millicent, younger members of
the Trenchard family, which was so fully de-
scribed in “The Green Mirror.”
673. Vera, a New Novel. By the
Author of “Elizabeth and Her Ger-
man Garden.”
The Daily Telegraph:— “‘Vera’ is just the
story of one of the everyday tragedies of life,
told with incomparable skill by a writer whose
claim to admiration it more firmly estab-
lishes; The portraits of the utterly selfish
man and the tender, patient wife are revealed
with subtle art, with almost photographic
accuracy of detail.”
RUDYARD KIPLING’S WORKS.
DOMINIONS EDITION. 18
volumes, 6s. net per volume.
UNIFORM EDITION. 22 volumes.
7s. 6d. net per volume.
POCKET EDITION. 23 volumes,
printed on thin paper, with gilt
edges. Limp leather, 7s. 6d. net;
blue cloth, 6s. net per volume.
THE SERVICE KIPLING. 26
volumes. Blue cloth, 3s. net each.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
The Fugitive. Poems. By Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGOR E,
Author of “Gitanjali.” etc. 7s. 6d.
net.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics
of the British Commonwealth, ss. per
copy, or 20s. per annum, post free to
any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR SEPTEMBER:—
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
IRELAND.
NATIONAL PROSPERITY AND INDUSTRIAL
PEACE.
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE FROM AN
AMERICAN STANDPOINT.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE: Introduction —
Poland —the Situation in Germany.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “New Zealand,”
“United Kingdom,” “India,” “Canada” and
“South Africa.”
NEW EDITION OF THE
Navy League Map of the World.
Strikingly and clearly lithographed in
colors showing the latest political
boundaries, Mandate Territories, Rail-
ways, Sea Routes, Coaling Stations,
Docks, Cables, etc. Tables give the
principal naval events of British his-
tory of the Great War, distances by
sea' and British Shipping Companies.
Size 72 by 63 inches. £2 2s. net,
mounted on cloth rollers and var-
nished.
W. cC- A. K. Johnston, Ltd.
Macmillan’s
NEW AUSTRALIAN ATLAS.
With 41 Maps and 8-page Index, Manilla
cover, 2s.
Elementary Statics of Two and
Three Dimensions. By R. J. A.
BARNARD. M.A. (Melb-), Professor
of Mathematics, Royal Military Col-
legs of Australia. 7s. 6d.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN gCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
COLUMBIA
BATTERY
Quick starts
for your Ford
For Ford starting ignition, the
Columbia “Hot Shot” is supreme.
A single moisture proof packet of
many cellpower with but two con-
nections. Only the work of a
minute to fit a Columbia under the
seat of your Ford.
Columbia “Hot Shot” Batteries
are adapted for tractors, gas en-
gines, and motor boats.
Columd| a
IGNITOH
CEl<.
m
For Bells and Buzzers
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY. Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
COLUMBIA
'v/ FIS2IHE
Also Manufacturers of Columbia Storage
Batteries for Automobiles, American Flash-
lights and Flashlight Batteries, Carbon
Brushes, and Carbon Specialties
Use a medicine that allays
fretful and feverish con-
ditions, that prevents
sourness after meals, one
that is a gentle laxative.
The favorite remedy is
50 years proof behind
every bottle.
Guard against imitation.
The genuine Kruse’s is
' made by Felton. Grim-
wade & Co., Prop. Ltd.,
Melbourne
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soft.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
if.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
•S
s
RACKETS.
Special School Match ...
0.8.8. Special Practice
The Club, concave throat
The Durable, „ „
The Victory, „ „
The Reliable, „ ~
Haymarket
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Extra Special
Spalding’s Tournament .
Spalding’s Continental .
Spalding’s Gold Medal ..
Avre’s Champion
. 8/6
17/6
17/0
20/-
25/-
30/-
30/-
40/-
70/-
49/6
55/-
70/-
50/-
Ayre's Matador
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s La Belle . ..
Slazenger’s Player .. ■ •
Slazenger’s Rerishaw ..
Slazenger’s Demon
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M.
Slazenger’s Doherty . .
Slazenger’s Stadium .
H. O. Lee’s Seneca ..
H. C. Lee’s Spartan
H. C. Lee’s Church .
55/-
7/fi
0/-
o/-
5/-
3/
5/
7/C
0/
n/
90/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d..
RACKET REPAIRS a Specialty.
other States, 1/2.
TENNIS BALLS.
Dunlop Resrulation Grey .
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921
Avre’s Court
Each. Do'/-.
1/4 15/-
2/7 30/-
2/2 25/-
Each. Doz.
2/4 27/6
2/9 .22/-
2/4 27/6
Ayre’s Cyprus
Davis Riselev • • •
Haymarket Champion, 1921
AY RE’S Championship, 1922 ■ • J* 2 /" doz> ’ 2 / 9 each *
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W.. 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins) ........ 33/-aoz.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Got Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet /J!
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books «"/«"Y/r» A/«
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6'6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
«
&
/SrS
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
real leather, special value i o'/«'•««/«' V Jq/.
1B B Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6orB oz 13/o, I®/”! OA
Tl()\ EIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 00/-
UTr’TT-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8. oz. 35/-, 40/-
rTIF “TjTGHTNING ” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (‘‘ Snowy ’’ ) (p ß^/; n 7 ne V e 7 States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set j-
Superior, hair stuffed [ ' [[ [ l 9,6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 7 /Beach
17/6 p»-
\
U
umsm
THE
ARMY
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
PUNCHING BALLS.
ARMY Swinging Ball, reg. size, for fast work, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/*
ARMY* extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed' durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPBKT double-end Bail, medium size, rubber cord for floor and rope for ceiling. . 12/6, 15/6
j,> XPJIRT ' double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 20/-, 30/-
PXPFRT' double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, Strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 100/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels
et BWijeis e/ 6 and 10/6 each.
Double-action — • , 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each.
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
1C
Headquarters:
Branches: Hunter St.,
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.
iiimtiiiimnnm


Mrs. COATES and Baby (from a photo').
Rexona Soap Best for
Baby and Mother, too.
“Baby and I use Rexona Soap only, and think it is by fa>
the best.
“(Sgd.) Mrs. M. COATES,
“Mackay, Queensland.”
Rexona—the Surfer’s Friend.
To all lovers of outdoor sport a dip in the roaring breakers on a summer’s day is
Indeed romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands and scarlet face are painful
realities. This distress can be avoided by the application of soothing, cooling, healing
Rexona to the face, hands and arms.
Try the following treatment after your swim, and you will be delighted with the
happy result:—First bathe the face, hands and arms in tepid water, making a good
lather with Rexona Soap. Massage with this, then softly dry and apply Rexona
gently to the skin. If this is done there will be no after-effects from exposure to
the sun, no regrets after a happy day, for the skin, soothed by the wonderful
influence of Rexona, will
quickly regain its normal
temperature and comfortable
coolness. You will find
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
ideal as a shampoo for the
hair after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona
in its dainty pot should stand
on the toilet table of all who
Indulge in outdoor sports.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
1/6 and 3/-
Rexona Soap, 1/- per
tablet.
m
m
1
1
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
gfc. Sydney. N.S.W.
—BPWM
r%
IBM
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
7*
" "i;
u
"I
0
PH
•<%2
Royal Cord' 'Nobby' ’Chain' * Usco-
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Eyes-o’-Morn and Heart-o’-Dusk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tt rE watch and wait, my soul and I.
VV While life grows late, and time goes,by.
With winsome fuss and silvern tongue,
Time cozened us when Life was young.
’Twas laughter-time, the world a-bloom ;
No winter rime, no sullen gloom.
Flowered fields a-blow with golden corn ;
Young cheeks aglow in Youth’s keen morn.
The breeze of morn, swift danc'ng by,
Wooed flowers and corn with wanton eye.
We tramped, breast-high, the golden corn,
My Soul and I, in Youth’s sweet morn.
’Twas fair to see, that golden Lie !
We laughed with glee, as Time raced by.
We spurned gold grain with reckless feet;
Each step was gain and Life was sweet.
“Stay, wantons all!” cried Heart-o’-Dusk,
“The grain will fall and leave the husk.”
“Dear Heart, forbear!” my Soul replied ;
“Needs must we care for harvest-tide?”
Time laughed and tost his saucy head.
“Why count the cost so soon?” he said.
“Why fret our Souls with Harvest-tide
Ann vv... ml doles?” he jesting er.ed.
“Who halts and thinks,” cried Love with
scorn,
“No nectar drinks with Eyes-o’-Morn!
“And never, sure, was lover born
Who holds a lure like Eyes-o’-Morn !”
With backward glance Love lured us far,
Where moonbeams dance ’twixt earth and
star.
Clear rang his voice as fast he sped ;
“Oh, laggard choice !” he mocking said.
“Sweet Eyes-o’-Morn, or Heart-o’-Dusk?
Rich, golden corn, or withered husk?”
Hot-foot we crush the yielding corn,
To steal a blush from Eyes-o’-Morn!
Athwart the skies thin shadows glide;
A low voice cries “ ’Tis Harvest-tide!”
And, sudden, all the fields lie bare,
’Neath hopeless pall of husk and tare.
No golden zone, no challenge-cry !
We watch alone, my Soul and I.
No Eyes-o’-Morn. Just Heart-o’-Dusk.
No golden corn. Just withered husk.
Husks! Only husks ! And Time lags long,
Though Heart-o’-Dusk’s a-throb with song.
When Dusk steals by, veiled eyes a-gleam,
My Soul and I re-dream our dream!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
F. HAYWARD.
The Horse that Wasn’t.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0 LIFFORD SNOOK finished a rather
profitless career as managing clerk
to McKite when that gentleman, by
Act of Parliament but not otherwise, ab-
sconded from his bail, and was struck off
the roll of able-bodied attorneys. Clifford
stayed on, perhaps thinking there were pos-
sibilities among the debris of the old firm.
In his case the jury disagreed. The whole
12 of them disagreed simultaneously, and
there was no point of cohesion anywhere.
Experts said that Clifford Snook had spent
. the missing trust money with absurd profu-
sion and bought twice as much disagreement
as he had any use for and enough dissension
for 10 men. But he always treated himself
to the best.
Just before the arrest, which was just
previous to the bail episode, which wasn’t
long ahead of McKite’s disappearance, Clif-
ford had secured a quiet moment with his
employer’s papers. Few of them remained,
though the collection of ashes in the grate
suggested a burnt city. But he laid hands
on a crumpled document which purported to
be the full dying confession of George Forth
as to the mysterious vanishment, in public
and broad daylight, of a well-backed horse
out of the middle of the Melbourne Cup of
1924, with his saddle, bridle and jockey.
Why George Forth should have troubled
to make his confession (duly attested by his
spinster sister Sarah or Sally Forth) I don’t
know, for as none of the bets was paid and
no one was wrongfully convicted of any-
thing;, not even of simony, there was no great
wrong to redress. Probably it was a case
of senile vanity aggravated by picture-shows
and the reading of trashy literature. He
made his revelation in the presence of a
clergyman, a commissioner for affidavits, a
doctor and Angus McKite. An endorsement
on the paper set forth that McKite had per-
suaded the others to secrecy, saying that
the world was wicked enough already with-
out being put on the track of a new sin.
Which presumably meant that Angus in-
tended to work the device for his own profit
and didn’t fail for want of trying. He was
always a trier, but he was clumsy with his
spatulated hands, and usually hit the atmo-
sphere twice before hitting the nail once. So
George Forth would have been robbed of his
posthumous advertisement, after all, if Clif-
ford Snook, after vainly endeavoring to make
the magic work by legal and other process,
hadn’t thrown me the manuscript and told
me to drop it into the bottomless pit or
somewhere.
The horse was Heronshaw. He had been
first or second or third favorite, but latterly,
as plenty of money seemed available against
him; he had dropped back in the betting.
The owner was Ferdinand Eagle, a man of
girth, precarious wealth, mixed descent and
tremendous vitality. He was a beaming
person and popular in a way. The facts
were few and simple. They could have been
put on a half-sheet of notepaper. Any num-
ber of people were sure that Heronshaw was
among the 17 starters —presumably someone
must have weighed out as his ostensible
jockey. Everybody could swear he was not
among the 16 that finished. He wasn’t
there nor did he seem to be anywhere. No
bets were paid but a good deal of attention
was. The shouts of Ferdinand Eagle rent
the air. He claimed the prize on the ground
that his horse must be somewhere, and the
front was as likely a place as anywhere els , \
He insisted on receiving the benefit of the
doubt. High but agitated officials brushed
Ferdinand aside as it he were a speck of
dirt.
The police were the first to report. Care-
ful inquiry convinced them that it was im-
possible for Heronshaw to have climbed the
fence in the middle of the race and wandered
away without somebody noticing him, his
jockey most of ail. This narrowed the field
of inquiry.
The course was then searched, also a num-
ber of suspicious characters, but nothing was
found. The investigation was, of necessity,
superficial, but later the whole area was
probed to a depth of three feet to ascertain
whether parties unknown had, for purposes
unknown, dug a subterranean chamber cov-
ered with a spring lid disguised by grass,
and Ileronshaw had fallen through to lan-
guish in darkness. A lot of damage was
done to the surface, but no dungeon with a
self-closing lid rewarded the search.
The starter was a comparatively new man,
and doubt presently fell on him like a
mantle. People remembered that the get-
away had been hurried, rather untidy, and
quite unworthy of the traditions of the game.
Genealogists set to work and proved, to the
surprise of everybody, that he and Ferdi-
nand Eagle, whose language was still un-
publishable and who had taken proceedings
as well as umbrage, were distant relations..
But proving this didn’t seem to prove any-
thing more. The starter treated lm- accusers
with a high hand. He said he had never
even heard of the alleged relationship, and
even if it existed he was not in the habit pi
swallowing his relative’s horse at the post
He had never done such a deed in his life
This was another blind alley.
An early start was made, as a matter ol
course, for the jockey’s house. He was a
young man of no great reputation, and
gloomy individuals asked each other what he
was doing in a big race on top of so valu-
able an animal as Heronshaw. They failed
to ask him, for the disappearance he had
made on the course still continued. A non-
descript woman who kept house for him but
didn’t otherwise explain herself, said thal
Mr. Smith had been low-spirited of late, and
when leaving for the course he had said that
he feared greatly it was his last day on
earth. Then the nondescript woman wept
bitterly. The speed limit was naturally
broken to Ferdinand Eagle’s mansion to find
o t what he really knew about his employee.
The amount Mr. Eagle didn’t know proved
to be considei’able, but he pointed out that
the nondescript lady’s statement threw «
new light on matters. Apparently somt
private vendetta against Smith was at thi
bottom of the trouble. It might be that
an association of anarchists had taken botl
man and horse. Giving way to emotion
Ferdinand said he would never rest till hie
unfortunate employee had enjoyed decent
burial. A ribald detective asked him if h*
thought anybody really enjoyed burial.
The pawnshops were ransacked to dis
cover if anybody had left a saddle and bridb
as security. About 300 persons bad.
A religious crank propounded the theory
that Heronshaw and his rider had been
caught up to Heaven, and sent copious quo-
tations from Scripture. A controversy raged
over this view in the daily but was
soon dropped. A scoffing Yarra-bank orator
was admonished by a policeman named Mac-
donald for asking the crowd what a saddle
would be doing in Heaven, anyhow.
A crank with a turn for private detective
work believed Smith had been seen at the
railway station at Albany (W.A.) the day
before the Cup, and that his conduct was
furtive and suspicious.
Miscellaneous witnesses included a man
who had heard a very distant crash during
the race and had noticed a sort of aerial dis-
turbance right among the galloping horses.
He said it was as if a light had blown out.
Sundry jockeys who were at the post with
the lost horse and his rider had hazy but
curious impressions. They said that both
man and horse wore a curious fixed expres-
sion ; that they seemed to move bv
jerks and “all in one piece,” as one put
it; that Smith spoke to nobody and ap-
peared to notice nobody; and that the outfit
exhibited an uncouth and sidelong agility in
avoiding contact with anything. At the
same time no one could swear to any signs
of decomposition about either.. A certain
dimnesk of outline made one witness suggest
that both the horse and Smith had had more
liquor than was good for them.
A very dead horse, the same color as
Heronshaw and with the brand cut out, was
disinterred not far from Ferdinand Eagle’s
house, but it seemed to date too far back.
Time stagnated at the old address till
George Forth came back from wherever he
had been and broke the silence. He said
that his present name was more picturesque
than Smith, anyhow. (His sister or sup-
posed sister was in all probability the non-
descript woman who told the lying tale about
his premonitions on that old Melbourne Cup
day.) Forth-Smith was seemingly in-
sanely proud of his share in a very rare
sample of piracy, and now that he was
“bound for a better land” (he said so him-
self) and would be beyond the chance of
trouble he wanted credit for his work. What
discredit he might bring on Ferdinand Eagle,
who had apparently treated him well enough
(Ferdinand really had some decent points
about him), he didn’t care. The
long suppression of his tale by Angus
McKite saved Ferdinand some annoyance,
for he died rich and rests now below a ton
of stone.
Heronshaw was a sick horse some time
before the Cup, and Eagle, who was just
then in low water on a large scale, said
things in his own language, which I believd
was Roumanian, concerning the ill-luck
which had befallen his well-backed money-
maker. He was a man who hated defeat
through either a dead horse or a live book-
maker. But nothin? special would have en-
sued but for the accidental presence in Aus-
tralia of an old acquaintance from some
shady spot beside the Bower Danube. Gol-
mine was a brilliant inventor with a kink,
and a scientist with a natural turn for sin.
In fact, he was a tricksy spirit. As to his
abilities it is only necessary to mention that
he devised the subterranean aeroplane for
flying underground, and the mechanical gad-
ding machine by which flappers could go into
town and spend time and money automati-
(Continued on next page.)


Is Backache Wearing You Out?
PT if
Mis a Story
m
\m.
A
■■A-
m
\S
I
- -
DOES any little exertion leave you tired and
worn? Do you feel weak, nervous, “all un-
strung?” Do you suffer daily backache,
dizziness, and sick headache? You shouldn t! Too
many folks drag along day in and day out, thus
handicapped. And too often they overlook the kidneys
which are likely at fault. Weak kidneys cause many
queer aches, pains and kidney irregularities. But, if
taken in time, kidney ills are usually easily corrected.
Neglected, even a slight kidney weakness may turn
into gravel, dropsy, or fatal kidney disease. Don’t
wait! You owe it to yourself to get well and to stay
well. Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills! Doan’s
have brought thousands of weak, tired, discouraged
people back to health. Sydney folks tell the story.
Ask your neighbor!
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Robert Larcombe, monumental mason, Lidcombe, Sydney, says: "Off
and on for years I suffered from backache and kidney trouble. I would go to
bed feeling fairly well, but on rising in the morning my back would ache ter-
ribly. The pains were sharp and shooting, and centred just above the kidneys.
I was advised to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I sent for some at
once. After using the first couple of bottles I felt better, and five bottles com-
pletely cured me. I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all who
suffer with their kidneys, and feel sure they will derive benefit from them.”
Seven years later, Mr. Larcombe says: “It is over seven years since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble, and I have had no return of
the complaint all that time/'
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. H. Sturgeon., 70 Marlborough Street, Surry HiPs, Sydney, says: “It
gives me great pleasure to say a few words in praise of Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills. For a good while I was a martyr to kidney trouble, the symptoms
being backache, urinary .disorder and dizzy attacks. My back ached fearfully,
and every movement was accompanied with a twinge like the stab of a knife.
The secretions were cloudy and scalded a good deal in passing, this symptom
clearly showing my kidneys were very much out of order. I heard good reports
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so decided to give them a trial. The first
bottle gave me relief, and by the time I had used three bottles I was cured,
and I have been well ever since—a period of over twelve months.”
Mrs. Sturgeon confirms the above four years later: “My cure still holds
good, no sign of kidney disorder having returned since I took Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills five years ago.’*
f
?
Backache
Kidney
d
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
*ll Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Hamilton St., Sydney.
cally. Golmine also did something in art,
and his Statue of a Sunset had been much
admired. He was in Australia working out
(where, wasn’t then too well known) an
arrangement fdjr salting mines at a distance
so that the safer might float his wild cat
with a bullet-proof alibi. Ferdinand’s
trouble gave him an idea for testing and
turning to profit another waste product of
his brain.
This was a movable shadow in colors
which could stand up by itself. It required
no background and one could walk around it.
The essential was not to walk through it or
lean against it. And the principal draw-
backs were that the shadow lacked initiative
and couldn’t answer back.
Still there was a fighting chance that a
colored cinematographic horse and rider,
both well known and above suspicion—-a
shadow with two sides so that real horses
could gallop on each side of it —would be a
very good last in the race. There it wouldn’t,
be jostled and nobody would want to tie a
ribbon round its neck at the finish, nor
would anyone want to weigh the jockey.
Given a brisk start, Golmine trusted to his
own skill and nerve to follow the course
round at a steady pace and not joggle the
reflector —an event which might make any
shadow-horse gain a mile in a second or run
backwards, or go sideways over the fence
and do a strenuous half-mile on the roofs
of Footscray.
The horse (which was realty dead) was
brought (or his namesake was*) from his
secluded and rather indefinite “training
quarters” in the country. He came in a bag
and was put together, and oiled. When in
working order Ferdinand’s gallant steed
could pass for the necessary few minutes as
a camera. The financial arrangements might
have been better, but they were as bad for
the public as circumstances allowed. Gol-
mine’s range-finder was in good order. In
the lightness of his heart the inventor
allowed his colored ghost to do some clumsy
antics “all in one piece” at the starting post.
Then a small, lone larrikin, possibly, seeing
something of interest in the solitary operator
and his instrument, threw a small rock and
struck the lens square in the eye.
Golmine was a man of resource. No
other sort could have produced the mechani-
cal gadder and the subterranean aeroplane
for flying underground. As he crowded his
wrecked apparatus and his broken hopes into
the bottom of his car lie was thinking mat-
ters out. All the visitors who would be
likely to call in search of knowledge imme-
diately were the press, the police, the
punters and the general public. On the
whole, they seemed enough to go on with.
They couldn’t find Heronshaw, for he was
buried. They couldn’t identify any particu-
lar saddle and bridle. But they could find
Smith, the jockey, and ask him how his
horse came to dissolve under him and how
he got home without it. Golmine figured
the number of minutes he had in which to
dig out Smith from the back room where he
was leading a double life for one day only,
to explain to him, to terrify him, to pay him
and add promises of more, and to start him
on the first stages of an indefinite journey.
He did all this and still found time to coach
the nondescript woman in her part.
Golmine never, so far as I know, did any-
thing more with his portable colored ghost
which stood alone so that people could walk
round it. The Melbourne mystery would
have been a mystery no longer if that spook
had stalked abroad again. But Gplnnne’s
fame increased in other ways. Efis name
became a household word throughout Europe,
Asia, Africa, America and Australia, and
was even mentioned with respect on board
whaling ships in the Arctic seas, for his dis-
covery of how to produce artificial tempo-
rary metempsychosis by auto-hydropathic
suggestion, he devised a prophetic um-
brella which foretold the weather sp that
no one take it out unnecessarily.
JAMES EDMOND.
P.S.—Letters pointing out discrepancies
in the sporting' part of this narrative will be
wholly ignored.
No. 101 Runs Late.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IVT'O. 101 Goods was running late. JNot
late in her actual running time, but
behind all to blazes in her loading
and make-up. It was 9.15 at night, and
the long, narrow loading shed was spotted
with dozens of electric globes. At one end,
through the little, lighted window, could be
seen the worried head-porter, his face jerk-
ing to and fro sorting out consignment notes.
Behind his elbow was the stuttering labeller
feverishly making up weights. Dashing in
and out, and cursing, was the sealer, the
black sealing-press in his hand, and his
pockets bristling with sealing-wires. The
foreman shunter, attended by a head-shunter
and a crew of three, appeared at the en-
trance, flashing their hand-lamps. The
sight of shunters evoked a general chorus of
jells from the different *>angs. Stowers
rushed out of covered trucks, barrowmen
hung on the handles of their barrows.
Everybody knew that a cranky engine that
caved for noth me but its own crazy snorts
followed the shunters.
“Go on,” shouted the foreman shunter,
“we’ll never get her on her wheels if you
loaf like that.”
“Good enough for you,” said a goods
porter. “You lie down on the lines in
front of the .engine, and we’ll go on.”
“Go on,” yelled the foreman shunter again,
“I’ll keep her off.” He swung round, flashing
the red danger signal to the driver. But he
was seconds late; already a crash of
assaulted buffers and choppers rattled arid
shook the shed from end to end, bringing the
.cemetery nearer by miles in the thoughts of
the timid.
“Well, she’s there now,” bellowed the fore-
man shunter. “Get a move on.”
Although we all set to again with a will,
it was not because of his orders. He was
not our boss. Our boss was the worried
head-porter, -sinking in a sea of different-sized
consignment notes.
The leading half of No. 101 outwards was
completed and marshalled out on the loop-
line. The latter half was being jambed full
with the balance of the day’s receivings, and
the sting lay in the last of the loading. My
gang was loading the brake-van m roadside
order with ail tne spirits and tobacco and
other luxuries which might have become
lillaged in other trucks —trucks not directly
under the eye of the guard when in transit
along the dreary rail route. Our "picker-
out” jabbered and shouted out brands, like
something between an auctioneer and an
ostrich. Sometimes his voice came from
underneath a case; sometimes his neck took
a double turn around my body and he roared
in my mouth, which sounded like a tram
entering a tunnel. At other times I had to
guess what he said, especialß when he could
pull ripe banana out of a case. Our
stower was a long, raw-boned Emerald
Islander, whose whisper outhissed the steam
escaping from the safety-valve of the engine.
We call him Three-Star Brandy. I was the
tally-clerk of the gang, walking behind a
hell-made pair of spectacles which often led
me into the pit where the rails gleamed.
I was checking the goods to the best of
my ability, referencing off each consignment,
as per the notes, after the “picker-out” had
dug them out of the heaps and stacks. Deep
in the fray, I worked on until I came to 10
different notes from a local cake-and-biscuit
factory. There were 60 bundles of tins of
biscuits and cake, and the number of tins
varied. I was too busy keeping in touch
with correctness and numbers to look to the
condition of the consignment. Bundles of
one, two, three and four tins were bustled
into the van.
My gang was the last loading. The other
gangs amalgamated and joined with mine.
Tins flew in all directions. Three-Star
Brandy was having a rough passage. You
could hear him straining his voice through
his teeth, and banging the tins about. The
pace became a corker, when, suddenly,
“Boards off!” shouted the foreman shunter.
“Right-oh!” He had .seen me put the clip
full of notes down and watched me remove
my hideous glasses. That was good enough
for him. He yelled at the driver, whistled
shrilly, and gave the right away. The
engine honked like a huge beast suffering
from a chill, and commenced to move out-
ward, straining at her connections. The
sealer w«s cursin'? Threo-Stoi* Ttrn-nrlv
not coming out of the van so that he could
lock and seal, when, still more suddenly:
“Stop! Stop! She can’t go! She can’t
go!”
Three-Star Brandy appeared at the door
of the van, holding up his crooked arms like
a ghost astray. The rake was moving, the
sealer was trotting along almost foaming.
“She can ? t go!” shouted Three-Star
Brandy, waving his arms desperately.
“Quick! Fetch th’ hid-parther! Fetch
someone! Fetch the for-r-reman! Fetch
someone! Quick ! Quick ! Fetch the tally-
man —quick ! Fetch. someone !”
The whole of the shed rose to that appeal.
Arms were held up frantically. Men ran
alongside the trucks yelling and signalling
to stop. A shunter, remembering the last
inquest, flashed his red slide of the lamn.
The crew picked up the signal; the driver
saw it. The tail-end of No. 101 came o
a standstill with a quivenjig bang. wtn
stowed goods topnled over, but fax
noise of the crash could be heaid. UuicK .
Fetch the hid-parth.gr—fetch someonel
Lights were shone into the van , goods sneu
employees crowded in. At the stower’s fee
was a single tin of two-pound cakes tied
with light rope. One corner of the lid was
wrenched upward. Tlll . P p
“I worn’t stow—l worn t st«w it. llnee-
Star Brandy was bawling. ~U , s n ; J ‘l a r
there’s cakes gone! I worn t stow it. 1
worn’t let it v‘>!” ,
I shouldered my way m. Look heie.
Three-Star,” I said, -you re a damn fool.
Stow the tin and be done with it.
“I worn’t,” said he fiercely. How daie
you sind in ullaged goods for an honest
mahn to stow? Th’ p’lice will be after me.
Fetch the hidpartlier!
Our worried head-porter pushed in.
“What’s the matter?” he cried. Mere
late enough now.”
“Someone sthole some cakes!” said Three-
Star Brandy. “It’s ullaged. I worn t stow
U The boss held a lamp to the open corner.
The inside did look something like our con-
tinent—all the cakes at the bottom. But I
chipped in. “See here,” I said, there s no
cakes gone. You couldn’t pull one out of
that opening. You would have to break or
cut them. There’s no crumbs to show that
has been done.” . ,
“For Heaven’s sake let 101 go, said tht
boss “But that tin in the office. Make out
a report about it. Get out of the van.
Bight-o ! For Cod’s sake, let hei go.
The engine honked again, the second sec-
tion of No. 101 went out to join up with
her leading portion. I adjusted my’spec-
tacles and searched for a memo-pad.
In the “cage” the following morning the
post-mortem was conducted. Present : My
complete gang, the man who received and
signed for'the biscuits, a representative from
the biscuit-factory and the gory-headed
ullage clerk from the office. About 50 em-
ployees looked through the cracks of the
“cage.”
“I think you’re a lot of mugs,” grumbled
the claims clerk, bristling. “You all ought
to get vour heads read.”
“No/ thanks. Not if it’ll make em look
any like yours!” said the picker-out offen-
sively. „ ,
The clerk shook him off angrily. Lakes
I wouldn’t give you tuppence for!”
“They cost Is. Bd. each!” exclaimed the
factorv man, indignantly.
“All rilit—all right. How many should
there be?”
“Twelve in this tin.”
“Well, open it.”
The tin was opened and the cakes counted.
The dozen was intact.
“Not worth tunpence each.” muttered the
ullage clerk. “But you’ll all ->et a ynrd
long ’please explain’ over the delay. Cut
out of it.”
In single file we marched out of the
morgue, amid the cheers of our 50 mates
peeping through the cracks.
THE RUMPUS.


,
. «
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINOHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
-
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us'and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AH! CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and fcomfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint.. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove'-what, we- st.-ne^
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of 1
all. *
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
the Winslow co„
34© Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dose—«
Small
Prico 1
carters!
• ITTLE
EVER
PILLS
health; but
rc« m ember
Carter’* Lit-
tle LiverPill*
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
il
V
V
n
HI
For Any Position Shirley
Make Braces Help
It Is the peculiar position of the arms when one is danc-
ing that comes as the severest test to braces—as to
whether they are comfortable or not.
SHIRLEY MAKE BRACES .instantly meet the de-
mands made of them and even in this position SHIR-
LEY MAKE BRACES are the willing pliable servant
that gives an added zest and pleasure to dancing
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed
guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
ď
Remjnpon,
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
f
d
Renfltftpti,
for Shooting Rig hi
Ask your dealer to show you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25,30, 32, j
PofolneniAO r»Acf fritA *
35. Catalogues post free
upon request.
'Em tl
C-5
ďf
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
3
YN CANNOV
v fifif ON !
UNMM you fAKfi
UKHANSPiUS
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.
Refrigerating 8 See-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the time's
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal fpr their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and. the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day* giving the same service as when first installed,
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial, expenditure' and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service;
All
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE Zx SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, ”„TiS r o"hU“a r . ls £.*z n *'
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold Water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
l Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
\ Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists ‘
and Stores. ,
d
ďf
d
f
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKG.
510 UGH. BUCKS,
ENG.
*Sfij
S££jmT»»'
•>£2700- for 1/-*
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers' ’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£SOOSecond Prize valued£SOO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may possibly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N.S-W, Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon Secretary,
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W
ire Strainer
1 216
each
Post Free
(Patented)
"»*
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
F„ & ‘ V
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence ot the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Ml jar jn
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


BUCK and WHIT
r
j
.
■•X.;" ' :. :
ik ' >:M
mm I
4 m r “ots
l '{s ! ' : J§s(>. HP;
mgMs&d
K ii WfJj ■ *'i
‘{s' if ggt' iff 1 1 4, ! j ■
it#
* fcy*-. 5
9m
,m
*Pllli|B
> -%»Hi
■•' :
»S^ f*§| ' k
% , V fS A
1
A
SSm ’*■■
fe
'iS
%
1 t *!'>* ■ ’ , ,
m
: *»/
»
■■■•;
&%
•-■ -m
mm
/ ' '
''-1
J* .
fpfli
■' IBP
.
r*”"
I
■ ’ 1.. / { , ' .... j
;
mSMmXj-
c o<r ‘
m * r v ‘*
.', *1
-/« ; ' ■
t ! " > " '•'■
EH dSfefc, i i •
■■
“ALL SCOTCH.”
THE LARGEST STOCK OF OLD
MATURED MALT SCOTCH WHISKY
IS HELD BY JAMES BUCHANAN & CO.
LTD. AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY COM-
PANIES, WHICH ENABLES THEM TO
MAINTAIN THE HIGH-CLASS QUALITY
AND AGE OF “BLACK & WHITE.”
WHISKY
