

Popular Hvourites
■ '•
i
i
■
as
w
%
■
■
1
%
1
V
.
WbbL
m
,
m
Us
|||||s '
f
*SltSlllfii
m
n
& ;?*%
i'*
t
s
LAGER, '3b DINNER, ALE
sdf
LAGER
DINNER
ALE
gSTOUT
resots
LAGER,
DINNER ALE
STOUT
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.— N0. 2173
Thursday, October 6, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will he sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCTvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Aovt
sdf
BETTER RESULTS
Increased production, at lower cost, is obtained by
the manufacturer who operates his machinery bv the
aid of the celebrated
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAWHIDE BELTING
It has the correct proportion of tractable plia-
bility, which enables it to keep a firin grip on the
pulleys under every condition of operation. it
stands hard usage, and, giving maximum service and
long wear, is chosen for difficult drives by experi-
enced manufacturers.
Our expert engineers will tell you more about it
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing: Director, *
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., 397 Little Colhns
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Frefnantle.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co.. Ltd., Collins-street, Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOW READY.
AUSTRALIAN HUMOR IN PEN AND INK.
* By STAN CROSS.
72 pages on antique paper with a special two-color cover design, and with a portrait
of the artist.
Mr. Cross stands high amongst Australian black-and-white artists, and this book
comprises, the best of his work.
The jokes are truly and typically Australian, and are illustrated in Mr. Cross’s
inimitable style.
Price, I/O; postage, 2d. All Booksellers in Australasia.
Published by A. C. SANDFORD, 60 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
/
n**n
~ 33tmiSnj.4 3iit
tkm& A.kJU
Zenobia Perfumes faithfully reproduce the delicate
and lingering fragrance of sweet English flowers.
They give a charm and personal daintiness unobtain-
able by the use of ordinary scent. Delicate, yet last-
ing ; elusive, yet distinctive; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are .- •
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, an exquisitely delicate fragrance.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock, a sweet bewitching perfume.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the original scent of this name.
sdf
are obtainable at most high-class Chemists, Perfumers and Stores.
Manufactured onlybyZenobia.Ltd.. Loughboro', Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Aifent for Australia
(Wholesale onlv)-
KENNETH RUCKMASTEI
Sole Agents for New Zealand
(Wholesale onlv)
NEWSON
CO., LTD.,
Wellington.
P.O
Box
I .
d
w
o
In every business—
the pen is a necessity, tlse Waterman’s Ideal
and make it an economy. Waterman’s Ideal
saves time. It also ensures neater work and
better-kept books.
Three Types—“ Self-Filling,” “ Safety ” and “ Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Upjtac Corner
Kingsway, London, England/
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Cough?.
Colds. Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
HUDSON
iS*I
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet:
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAH
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin*
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers: °''
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receiptof 1/6 in stamps of any Pro vine-
The Red Page
Jaws and Pterodactyls
Twfo or three years ago the Red Page
eyoked some up-to-date nursery rhymes. It
is time for a revision. We have passed, by
a mighty swing-back, far from “Twinkle,
twinkle, little star,” and even from “Tinkle,
tinkle, telephone.” To-day our babes have
done with milk, and demand meat —meat
raw and juicy.
Tops, marbles, hopscotch, jacks and hidey •
go come and vanish ; and the playground of
literature knows its seasons, spreading over
generations instead of weeks. Baa-lambs
are ‘*out,” and pterodactyls are “in.” “In”
too, are man-apes, sabre-toothed tigers and
willowy ichthyosauruses ; but pterodactyls are
the best to put your money on. Conan
Doyle’s “Lost World” is a good handbook for
the' enthusiastic follower of fashion; the
writer has a satisfactory eye for detail and
an almost feminine wealth of adjective.
Thus: “I had a momentary vision of a long,
snake-like neck, a fierce, red, greedy eye,
and a great snapping beak, filled, to my
amazement, with little gleaming teeth.”
Reading late at night, I followed the hero
“close to the pterodactyl swamp, and, with
a dry, crisp, leathery rattle of wings, one
of these great creatures —it wa s 20 feet
from tip to tip—rose up from somewhere and
soared into the air. As it passed across the
face of the moon the light shone clearly
through the membranous wings, and it looked
like a flying skeleton against the white
tropical radiance.” Then I closed the book,
prudently, for it was getting near dream-
o’dlock. But a Windsor Magazine opened
at random did not mend matters. Straight
from the pages of a cave-man story by Stat-
pbole glared the word “pterodactyls”—“birds
with huge membranous half-folded wings,
birds with the heads of demons.”
Doubled back on the floor as the youngest
member of the family had left it a volume
o'. “Our Pets’ Holidays” showed a drawing
of a hideous reptile-bird with bat-like trans-
parent wings and a beakful of teeth that
would make a movie-actress or a crocodile
shed real tears of envy. This, too, was not
an illustration to “Nature Notes for Teeth-
ing-time,” or “Science in Words of One Syl-
lable," but to a story of modern children
adventuring in an aeroplane to unknown
parts of Darkest Africa.
It is curious to watch the course of this
crimson wave that has rolled up during the
last few years and spattered even our babies’
pages with blood and horror. We have gone
back to nature with a vengeance, and not to
kindly Mother Nature, either, but to the red-
in-tooth-and-claw variety. The clever pic-
tures of Lawson Wood supply a welcome
touch of comedy that stands alone; the
stories are without exception grim and gory.
Doyle, Jack London, Stacpoole and com-
pany, U p to “Tarzan” Burroughs, deal with
the warfare between man and brute from
“Before Adam” to the present day. Charles
Roberts, St. Mars and a host of followers
confine themselves to the struggles of the
lesser people among themselves; creatures
of the wild whose frightfulness apparently
increases as their size diminishes. From aii
ordinary magazine menu one may choose a
dish of horrors, ranging from a story of
simian humans (whose name-vowels seem to
be limited to O with a circumflex accent —
Fashion alone knows why) to an account of
hoW an infant field-mouse half an inch long
passes a normal day, in such peril and hair-
breadth escapes as make us down on our
knees and thank God, fasting, for the gentle
joy-rider, who at least does not linger to
eat us alive.
In between these extremes we learn that
Cupid has discarded his rosy dimples, and
cultivates his lower maxilla. Grimly he
leads u§ far from the days of our great-
grandparents, who preferred Our Heroine
as a sweet and timid lady, reverently courted
by Our Hero. Of course, the outer sem-
blance helped, with peg-top trousers and
beaver hats. Even when Charles Reade
dared—on the plea that this particular
heroine had red hair—to refer to that awful
thing, passion, he remembered in time that
the hero wore mutton-chop side-whiskers;
and passion and face-fungus cannot live to-
gether. So it is cancelled: “She flung her-
self passionately, yet modestly, on his
,shoulder”....
Yes, great-grandmamma, decorously frilled
to her ankles, waited for great-grandpapa to
propose, and was properly astonished when
he did so. Great-grandmamma’s great-
granddaughter bares her legs in silk stock-
ings and throws round her shoulders an
apipml-skin with the claws and head
arranged to look as freshly-killed as possible.
Thus fortified, she invariably (in print, at
least) “feels all the primal surges of the
cave woman,” and is proud of them. While
the hero who is not “at heart the cave man”
--well, he always is, anyhow. See any
Ethel Dedicate love tale.
And the hero of 50 yeans ago had a noble
bfiow. Now he has a jaw. Oh, that pug-
nacious and prognathous jaw of modern fic-
tion, how it is thrust upon us! It is “lean,”
it is “hard,” it is “strong,” it is “craggy”;
frequently it “juts.” And if its owner hails
from the land of the Near-Truth across the
Pacific, he never speaks, he “.snaps” or even
“barks.” See any Best Book Ever Written.
We are all being steadily educated. No
longer does the breezy journalist refer to the
ravenous nocturnal defenders of tip- country
inn as Gargantuan. To emote from Rabe-
lais to-day were mid-Victorianly colorless.
Now the pulex irritans that figures in every
traveller’s story is “a perfect dinosaur” as a
matter of course. The aforementioned
youngest member of the family prattles inti-
mately of Brontosaurus and Diplodocus,
thanks to the fascinating cuts and colored
plates in Wells’s “Outline of History.” The
omniscient H.G.W. and his illustrator have
done much to help on the good work; though
it was unkind of the artist to depict our red-
bearded Noandertbaloid Ancestor, rushing
out of his cave ready to club every head that
differs from him, with the countenance of
the modest gentleman who owns the initials
O.P S.
But to return to Our prehistoric muttons.
The people of “The Lost World,” we are
told, herded the mild if mighty iguanodons for
meat, even branding their particular cattle
with private marks. They were harmless
vegetarians, the igs., and their little ones, “as
big as elephants, played round their parents
in unwieldy gambols, the great beasts bound-
ing into the air and falling with dull thuds
upon the earth.” Such a pastoral as this
throws light upon the Psalmist’s mental
vision, when he stated that “the mountains
skipped like - rams, and the little hills like
young sheep.” Here is an easy opening for
the renovator of old nursery rhymes.
Mothers will soon be soothing their babes
with “Little 80-Piguanodon, She lost her
Iguanodon,” or “Om Pom, the cave-man’s
son,” or, if truly smart: —
I love Pterodactyl, his wings are so thin,
He has teeth in his beak, and a slimy grey skin,
So I’ll not pull his tail nor drive him away
But Ptery and I together will play.
And think of the possibilities in “Little Boy
Blue,” and how much more of a thrill Little
Miss Muffet could enjoy if an Epiornis, in-
stead of a mere spider, came to sit down
beside her!
Certainly the names run to ungainly poly-
syllables. So much the better for the free-
versifiers who shall write the nursery-
rhymes—but no, not rhymes: Jags, Jazz-
crumbs, Jaw-developers of the future; so
much the better for the vorticist-musiciahs
who shall set them to noise.
ELSIE COLE.
Marmaduke Pickthall
Kipling gets his Eastern glamor by bril-
liant lightning-Hashes striking through an
almost unrivalled literary art. “How amaz-
ingly well this man knows his Orient 1” we
think; “what skill in observation; what
power of selection!” Yet in cold hlood,
after the glamor which has bewitched us
has worn off, the doubt arises whether what
one has seen is not merely a brilliantly illumi-
nated exterior, showing little that lies deep
beneath the surface. One suspects that Kip-
ling’s Orient, even in “Kim,” is shown by
an English public-school boy who lias all the
tabus and preconceived ideas of his caste;
one suspects, for instance, that Hurry
(Jhunder Mookerjee would not have been
what he is if his creator had never gone to
an English public school. Nor is one alto-
gether satisfied that the relations between
Europeans and Asiatics are precisely as Kip-
ling describes them. In fact, one has the
impression that Kipling's East is described
froth the outside, by one whose supreme
literary skill cozens one into believing that
he knows more than he has ever had the
opportunity of learning.
But you have no such suspicion in read-
ing Marmaduke Pickthall. Educated for
the Consular Service, he did not pass suffi-
ciently well to secure a position, so he went
to Asia Minor for some years, and lived with
Turks and Arabs as one of themselves. On
his return to England he began to publish,
and since then he has written a remarkable
series of novels dealing with various phases
of Eastern life. They are not well con-
structed, considered as novels; but in them
you feel that you are meeting the real people
of the country as they live —not as an Eng-
lish public-school boy envisages them. Yet
Pickthall’s school was Harrow—his father
a clergyman! To the horror of his rela-
tions he came home with a deep love for the
Turk —you get a hint of that horror in the
awe-stricken whisper of “Who’s Who” that
he acquired a liking for certain forms of
Eastern thought. The good “Who’s Who”
does not like to say that he finds the Turk
an honest and kindly gentleman, and is not
afraid to depict him as he sees him. One
gets the impression that these benighted
Mahometans are really happier than we are
with all our European civilisation ; and the
women, too, hareftt and all; and, for my
own part, I am not so sure that this exe-
crable Pickthall is Wrong. The Turks in
his books consider themselves, as most other
people consider themselves, brave, simple,
well-meaning folk, tyrannised over by their
neighbors. You meet an occasional Euro-
pean in PickthaU’s books, and you see him
as the Turks see him. He is not in the
least like Kipling’s epic Englishmen. He
is a gross, bullying, ignorant, stupid crea-
ture, who laughs coarsely at nothing with
a great showing of long teeth, and hops in-
decently with half-naked and shameless
women in antics that he calls dancing—no
gentleman, in fact. The thing is so well
done and fits in so naturally that one does
not at first see that the chimera is one’s
self, and it is a little time before one can
realise that the Turk really does look upon
our lordly selves in some such manner. Pick-
thall does not attain to his effects like Kip-
ling by brilliant flashes of genius, but rather
by the “summation of stimuli” —that is. he
piles up so vast a mass of detail drawn from
his profound knowledge of the people that
one actually seems to live amongst them,
to sympathise with them, to see things with
their minds, even to wonder how any other
kind of man can exist in the World. His
best book is still “Said the Fisherman.”
but “Knights of Araby,” “Children of the
Nile,” “Veiled Women” and “Early Hours”
are amazing in thhir oontinued adoption of
a totally alien national psychology. “Veiled
Women” is generally looked upon as his
least good work. Strange to say, his Eng-
lish novels are poor things.
To show how remarkable these books are.
let us compare them with the famous “Hajii
Baba of Ispahan.” by James Morier, which
for ne’arly a hundred years has been looked
upon as the greatest description of Eastern
bfe in English. It is obviously written
from the outside, and Morier makes no
attempt to disguise his Englishism ; rather
he pokes fun at things which to a Persian
seem the veriest commonplaces of existence.
Pickthall is never guilty of that tempting
folly, except in the volume of short stories
called “Oriental Encounters,” which, for
that reason. I look upon as his weakest book.
IP you are writing as one of a people you
do not make fun of them—still less, if you
are writing of your own soul. PiektonH’s
books are not written about the Orient —
they are of the Orient, and either he is show-
(Continued on page 25.)


Jl
a
HOUSE OF ECONOMY y
Economy in. Mens wear ,
at Anthony HordernS
It is value that makes shopping a
pleasurable as well as an economical
undertaking at Anthony Horderns’.
Each of the lines quoted have been
selected because of the sterling value
that is offered.
Men who have regard for their personal
appearance will find that these offerings
are full of merit, and that there is value
which very considerably extends the buy-
ing power of their money.
POST OR ’PHONE ALL ORDERS
TO ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
Get expert service—the very article you
require—at the lowest possible price.
Satisfaction will be yours, which means
everything to the economically ambitious.
We Pay Carriage on Men’s Wear in N.S.W., and
to the nearest Port on Interstate and Island Orders.
i
/
I,'v
X
2
X
&
9
ss
m
to
m
i
-t
i
X. 3
w
X. 4
2ws«.«*SS&*s
L^\\V.\l
XI. —MEN’S STRIPED
BRITISH CAMBRIC GOLF
SHIRTS, with soft double
cuffs and detached collar to
match. Made in our own
workrooms from reliable and
wear-resisting materials.
Price . . 10/6 each
X2.—MEN’S STRIPED
BRITISH ZEPHYR GOLF
SHIRTS (Horrockses’ Best),
with soft double cuffs ,and de-
tached collar to match. In
latest stripe effects.
Price . . 16/6 each
X3.—MEN’S STRIPE D
FLANNELETTE PYJAMA S
—smart designs, Summer-
weight, fashioned and finished
in our own workrooms.
Price 12/6, 14/9 Suit.
SUMMER SACS and
TROUSERS.
SMARTLY CUT.
WELL MADE.
The Coat is cut with either
2- or 3-button fronts, watch
pocket, centre seam, with or
without vent. Trousers have
ioops for belt, side straps,
brace buttons inside, plain or
turn-up bottoms, side and hip
pockets.
Drab Crash 37/6
Fawn Poplin 47/6
Striped English Silk . 90/-
Dark Shades Priestley Mohair,
75/-, 80/-
XI. —MEN'S OXE-PIECE SURFING COSTUME,
knitted Wool, unshrinkable, plain knit. Colors —Black,
with Red, Blue or White facings, and Plain Black.
Also with 4-inch colored Band around Chest.
Sizes: 30 32 34 36 38 in. chest.
Each 13/- 13/3 13/6 13/9 14/3
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE
CITY 9440.


Springtime is
KODAK-time
Back view of Autographic Kodak
Junior, shewing Autographic feature.
Now that Spring is here, a hundred interests
will call you out-of-doors. But carry an
Autographic Kodak everywhere, and take
pictures of each incident, otherwise you will
ose half the fun.
Be sure that the camera you choose is fitted
with the wonderful Autographic device —the
most remarkable advance in
photography for twenty years.
There are many models to choose from
—most of them recently reduced in
price.
Folding Brownies are priced from 52/6 —
Box Brownies —non-autographic—-from 12/6
—Kodaks from 47/6.
You should see the Autographic
feature demonstrated at the
nearest Kodak dealer’s or at
With an Autographic Kodak or
Biownie, you first take a pic-
ture ; then y»u make a written
record on the negative itself
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne: 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide;
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Supplies Co., Perth;
“The Kodak Corner.” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street. Wellington, N.Z.
TaKe it
good
with you- enjoy
music anywhere
sd
f
Enhance your enjoyment of the
great out-doors by taking with
you “His Master’s Voice’’ port-
able model.
You add new pleasure to picnics
and parties by having at your
command music to match your
mood rendered by the ever-willing
portable model.
This model embodies the special
features that give supremacy to
“His Master’s Voice’’ instruments.
Everything that makes for purity
of tone and faithfulness of repro-
duction is there.
The price is twenty guineas.
His Master’s Voice '
THe Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street Sydney.
u Eis Master’s Voice s
Rea. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,”
Reg. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-headache. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. r l liey
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
sdf
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
01/ FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
*1 Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope For a
Free Specimen oF Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
S,ole Australasian Agents.
If neglected may bring
about serious disturb-
ances to health. Head-
ache and Indigestion
are often traceable to
this cause. Get relief by
taking the ever-reliabie
Imitations are being
Of ered. The genuine
t. r use’s is made by
Felton, Grimwade &
Co. Prop. Ltd.. Melb.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
•r
Exquisite
Walnut Hair
which gives such an alluring charm,
may be obtained harmlessly and quit#
limply by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Permanent and waterproof.
Obtainable all chemists.
EUDEN
Tooth Paste
PEARLY
TEETH.
The final fascination of a charming
woman is the snowy whiteness of her
teeth. To attain this becoming feature
Eudenta, regularly used morning and
night, will perform wonders.
Fragrant and antiseptic, you
can
BUY IT FROM
YOUR CHEMIST.
SHAVfi.
THE
<r
9
&
Jfr
*S
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
. t 3 il _ /> n 7/./«A/t7 D/n« 7« n / Ami of ifnl n 01/1 Til vn/lf.t
«'.£££.?"* °’ ,85 8 .
HEAD OFFICE : Collins S Directors : —SIK JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
000 000 ’ EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
1*320*000 J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
£3,32(M)00 BOWES KELLY, l Esq.’ M ‘h °M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
828,000 Chief -Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, «0 Pitt ™JjBBSL
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up. ..
Reserve I’und
Reserve Liiability ot
Proprietors
OnotoPen
As Simple as Posting a Letter.
sdf
When you want to write, the Onoto is always ready.
When you have finished, a twist with finger and
thumb turns the Onoto into a sealed tube, which
cannot leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of ink, the
Onoto fills itself in a flash from any ink supply, and
cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
sdf
Use Australian-made Plummer
Blocks and Hangers fitted with
SKF ball bearings
and so reduce, by approximately 60 per cent., the power
that is usually lost iri friction in transmission.
For example, tests have shown that 140 feet of 2-2 - shafting
with pulleys can be turned with no more effort than is
required to wind a watch. Other advantages are saving
oil, time, wages and upkeep, and considerably greater life of
SKF as compared with plain bearings.
We invite you to discuss YOUR, power problems with us in
the light of this proposition.
GARDNER, WvERN
& CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street. .
Distributing Centres also at Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
and Hobart.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Girl on the Wall.
1 saw a girl look over the wall.
And her hair, her hair was blown;
And she sat in red on the convent wall,
And she dreamed and sang her dreams
alone, . .
She saw the Cross cut the crimson sky,
And she asked of life the where and why....
And the girl, the girl was I!
I see a wanderer on the way,
And her gay feet go alone,
And the gods that walk in the wild green
way
Are the only gods she will own
The wind, the rain and the swooping sky;
But she questions still the where and why...
For the wanderer is I!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Laus Deo.
Up from the tick's of triumph, where the con-
queror’s charger bears him
Knee-deep through rivers of glory, where
fountains are spouting wine,
The shout of “Laus Deo!” makes tremble the
stars of Heaven,
For the conqueror’s brows are rose-bound,
and his spear is a flame divine.
But what of the conquered, trampled and
spurned bv the golden horse-hoofs,
While the smoking censers are swinging,
and the flowers fall like rain?
Oh, God is One, not many —One with the
ruin and splendor;
And a muted “Laus Deo !” goes up from
the lips of pain.
There was never a scourge of nations but the
morning stars have crowned him,
And his mailed and bloodstained feet with
the hre of the spheres were shod ;
There was never a captive people but the
loaded slave-whips falling
On its sons and its daughters have branded
the broken body of God.
The wail of the vanquished weds with the cry
of the deathless cohorts,
And the mighty Anthem of All Things
gathers the wail and the cry—
Chords of an infinite music that sweeps
through the darkness and day-fire,
Borne upon pinions of wonder that know
neither low nor high.
Out of the clash of the discords the holy
Unity rises,
Treading the moon underfoot, and clothed
and crowned with the sun ;
“Laus Deo!” the lips of the dead and the
living should utter,
For we that believed we were many, lo ! we
are healed, we are One!
God who made firm the heavens, yet in every
sea-wave is broken —
Pain of our pains, .Toy of our joys and
Faith of the faiths that we hold !
Who has been bowed in the dust, and You
have not suffered beside him?
Who has been lifted to kingship, and Your
brows uncircled with gold?
The pains and the pleasures of God —who
from among us shall weigh them?
Yet do we minister to them, held in the
bonds of the Whole,
And the destiny writ on the breast ot x the
nakedest beggar
Is one with the triumph that haloes the
Infinite Soul.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Summer.
From out the gloom of wintry skies and grey,
The quiet darkness bends to fold a veil
About the bowed head of the weeping day,
Who hides her face quiescent; but the tale
1 tell myself is ail of light and song,
The glory ot glad slimmer days and long.
There is such splendor in the heat of noon,
There is such beauty in the shimmering
blue
Of cloudless skies, when flowers are all
aswoon
Beneath the sun’s imperious kiss, that
through
And through sets earth afire in summer-time,
When the rich year is in his lusty prime.
Dawn is a sheen of orange in the east,
A crimson veil upon tfie western hills,
A deep’ning glow that warms and bathes the
least . -
Deaf, as the golden sun barbaric spills
llis royal wealth, the largesse of a king,
Carelessly flung for each one’s gathering.
And radiances, bfue and white and gold
(An opalescent haze enveiling all
The purple shadows hushed and deep), enfold
The noon, when, faint, the languorous
hours let fall
Their drooping white hands, and on silent
feet
Bass, dreamy-eyed and slow, soft- voiced and
sweet
Dim-lit with' amber, pearl and amethyst,
The evening comes with starry eyes, and
scent .
As of sweet tapers burning through a mist
Of incense smoke, when prayer and praise
are spent
In some old Eastern temple, strange and far.
Where csrven gods and gems and gold-dust
are.
Still is the night, and soft the tranquil air;
Sweet is the wonder and the dear delight
Of the gold moon upon the sapphire stair.
Soon, through the summer day and summer
night,
I’ll . drink of light and warmth and color
deep, ,
Drink of the patterned cup of dreams and
sleep.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.


%\
4
I
I*
Vv
\W
wA
&
1
fj
■
«
i
■
r
i
i
%
qp;
_X_
cP
-si
/
/ -
X'
'//
ZZ
miff
i
?\
me
I HkW.
r? g
re
it
a 1
r r
c >
ri
IV/-'.
r„
'ff
w>;
m -
ra4r
THE RIGHT (&£»
This little leaflet will prove most helpful
to you in your Spring renovations. Write
for a copy to-day ! The supply is limited.
Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd.
Box 23 Burwood.
The "Fire of Spring” he called it—that season of the year when the
flaming glory of the flowers and the rich greenery of the trees with their
blazing colour put to shame the dingy unpainted house they surround.
Nature, with a generous brush, applies fresh tints to all the out-of-doors,
but on your home itself she leaves you to exercise your own taste. Her
new colours last only for a season; yours will last for years if you use
eife Paint
□
a
Q
□
(PREPARED)
This perfect product places at your disposal, ready for use, forty-three shades —each
combining the beauty of Nature’s colours, the strength and durability of lead and
zinc, and the elasticity of ultra-refined oil. There is no time lost in preparation,
The manufacturers, with 161 years’ experience in the making of the finest paints
and varnishes, guarantee the contents of every tin to give absolute satisfaction.
Meet Springtime half-way—with "8.P.” Its beauty ENDURES.
MATONE
The perfect harmony of the Spring landscape
should be reflected indoors too. The finish
of the walls makes or mars the whole atmos-
phere of your home. Berger’s Matone is a
lead'ess oil-paint for interior wall decoration.
It does not fade and it may be washed time
after time without detriment. Its appearance
vies with the soft and subdued bloom of velvet.
HOMECRAFT
Homecraft Varnish Stain, obtainable in
seven natural wood colours, varnishes and
stains floors, furniture and woodwork at one
operation ; Homecraft Enamel for a brilliant
gloss ; Homecraft Bath Enamel, impervious
to heat and moisture; Homecraft Floorwax,
quick, easy polish; Homecraft Aluminium
Paint, for silvered effects on bath heaters, etc.
tlr, lieixer.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
3 U Y
n
Established.
9
in
er
r
□
London
in
iy6o
PAINTS
VARNISHES
Mr. Berger.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2173.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE NEW ECONOMIST.
“For six months or so Treasurer Joseph Cook has been telling Australia how he loves economy, and all the public servants shuddered to think of wrath and retrenchment.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse. Briefly, the estimated expenditure of the year is £64,604,458, as against last year’s. £64,624,087. In all those millions the
economy amounts to £19,629. There will be no added taxation. The accumulated surplus, however, will be eaten into to the extent of £2,817,108. Eighteen months more of such
economy, and the whole of the surplus will have disappeared.”— SUN.
MISS AUSTRALIA: “You haven’t given my horse much chance. I thought you were going to make it easier for him in his next race.”
HANDICAPPER JOE: “Well, haven’t I? Think of the extra pounds and pounds I might have ordered him to carry, arid didn’t. Isn’t that generosity?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Australia for tlie White Man.”
P " n ‘l -d Published by William Macleod, of
Ritt? JL Ve * T McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Ne wspaper Co ., Ltd., at the Office of the
Mfi Mimit n POrefe St lf e t, Sydnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Street ° CE: Em P ire Buildings, 268 Flinders
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
~ to -\ NY address in Australasia, weekly:
Os g f j ntis ’ £1 ltis6 months, 18s. 6d. ; 3 months,
To ANY address Overseas : 12 months, £2 ; 6
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. fid.
drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
Manager 16 ™ Communilcatimis t 0 be addressed to the
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejusea.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
. jhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending _ MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of eac~ from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
T. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27 th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn <£- Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— -A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Neivspaper ) .• Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to lOoz.,
3d.; lOoz. to ltos., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., l\d., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1921.
IN BONDS.
Like all similar documents in Queensland
and N. S. Wales, the report of the Auditor-
General of the Ma State for the financial
year just closed is a dirge and an accusa-
tion. If such things, or anything resembling
them, were published about a private co.
there would be a winding-up and quite likely
a crop of prosecutions, or else there would
be a heading in the papers: '‘Mysterious
Disappearance of a Cashier: Remarkable
Revelations,” and possibly also “Clothes
Found on the Beach.” There was nothing
unexpected in the news that the revenue
dragged out of the people by an enormous
increase of taxation (income-tax alone was
almost exactly doubled) was £34,800,000, or
£20,000,000 more than in the last year
(1910) before Labor came into power, and
that with the big revenue there was a big
deficit, while with the small one there was
a big surplus. People who know finance
have come to recognise the Storey-Dooley
Ministry as a pest of the grasshopper
variety, which produces nothing except more
grasshoppers, and consumes more than its
own weight of other people’s goods in a day.
The fact that some six millions were spent
without Parliamentary authority was partly
owing to the way Judge Beeby, created by
the Ministry for the purpose, sat around
giving increased pay in the intervals
between adding Id. to and later tak-
ing Id. off the price of rump chops
or some other morbid food quite be-
yond his ken. And part was due to the
fact that the Ministry, as soon as it got
charge of the people’s money, began to dis-
tribute it without authority to its non-
working pals at Broken Hill and to alleged
women who were said to be about to add
to the population. The more of this is
done, and the more blatantly it is bragged
about, the more likely is reform to be violent
and revengeful when it comes, and to break
out in retrospective laws which will make
the giving away of the people's money to
pals plain defalcation.
* * * *
Other points of, or arising out of, the N. S.
u ales Auditor-General’s report are these :
The accumulated deficit is the biggest for 17 years
past to match the biggest collection of unemployed,
the biggest revenue, the biggest, expenditure and
the biggest debt; also, the biggest number oi Min-
isters the State ever had. They are, in addition, paid
fhe biggest salaries apiece.
The interest rate paid on the whole public debt
(£4 las. 2d. per cent.) is £1 4s. lid. per cent,
more than when Labor first took office in 1910. The
year’s interest bill ( £7,168,072) is £3,918,943
more than in 1910. Ma State now pays the highest
interest rate in Australia, and people who pay high
interest generally have to do it because their credit
is poor. It has the smallest sinking fund accumulated
to meet its debt —about half as much as Tasmania,
one-third as much as S.A., one-fifth as much as Vic-
toria, and less even than Queensland.
Yet, astonishing as it may appear, all this
only touches the fringe of the trouble, which
is also the trouble of Queensland—Ma
State's luckless partner in silly riot and ama-
teur legislation and consequent misfortune,
when last the complete accounts were made
available (June, 1920) these two States
owed over £150,000,000 in London (N.S.W.
£102,000,000, and Queensland £54,000,000)
The other States representing the other half
of the population owed £107,000,000 amon»-
them. Now, interest in London means gold
while interest in Australia can be paid in
paper. Interest payable in London, there-
fore, means that gold must be exported, or
that goods saleable for gold must be ex-
ported, sufficient to pay for imports with
enough over for the interest bill. Failing
both these things more gold must be bor-
rowed m London, and John Bull must be
paid interest on his old lendings out of his
new lendings, and told that he will stop
lending a t his peril. This sort of thing mav
pass once or twice, but when it becomes
habitual the lender takes alarm and sus-
pects that the borrower is a bad lot. Un-
fortunately the production of gold every-
where in Australia has been diminishing
for a long time, and the 1920 output was
only one-third that of 1903. Industrial
troubles have since then reduced the yield
m Queensland and N. S. Wales (poor
enough before) almost to nil. Probablv in
the £34,800.000 of last year’s N.S. WalS
revenue there was about half-a-sovereign of
the only kind of money that is the slightest
use towards paying five millions of interest
in London. Still, that wouldn’t matter if
the output of exportable things saleable for
gold was satisfactory. But N. S. Wales
and Queensland have the biggest propor-
tion of unemployed apart from strikers,
largely owing to short-hour and high-wage
rulmgs. They have also the largest number
of strikes. In N. S. Wales especially the
policy of the Government is to attract men
away from the production of saleable goods
and put them on the building of unsaleable
railways. So production has slumped very
badly, and last year the. goods and gold
VoV JL\ J^ ale , s Sen , t abroad were some
±zo,t)LH),ooo short of enough to pay for im-
ports and interest. The position’ is made
worse by the fact that N. S. Wales and
Queensland, the two States most in need of
gold in London, are now just the two that
John Bull least cares to lend it to—natu-
rally, because the kind of legislation which
buys votes here from the kind of people
who keep hard-borrowing Ministers in office
is just the kind that scares off lenders else-
where.
* * • * *
And the news that these States have left
off work to a great extent and yet continue
to send out big orders for frills doesn’t help.
A few months ago a crisis, indeed, took
place which was little comprehended in
A.L.P- or A.W.U. or 0.8.TJ. circles, but
which struck Australian credit, and especi-
ally that of the two States which owe Bri-
tain most. Australian importers put their
bushels of paper money as usual on the
banks’ counters and bought drafts payable
in gold in London for the goods Australia
should make for itself instead of building
railways. But one day all the gold in all
the Australian banks in London was used up
and the drafts payable by rich (paper-rich)
men here to rich men in John Bull’s
country began to go bad. Wherefore Jno.
Bull rose up and remarked: “If all your
gold is used up in paying for frills what
have you left to pay interest with?” Also:
“Why don’t you work and send more goods
instead of sending drafts? Or why don’t you
work and make more goods for yourselves
instead of buying furbelows that you can’t
pay for?” J. Bull is still making, very
grudgingly, small temporary advances to tide
things over, but the old cordiality has
departed so far as N. S. Wales and Queens-
land are concerned. Even John StoKey’s
vaunted mysterious loan begins to look like
mere short-dated accommodation renewable
with difficulty, if at all. A few years ago
Australia was a gold country, and a revenue
of £34,800,000 meant sovereigns, all good
security. Now such a revenue may mean £1
that is security for money owing abroad,
while the rest might as well be shell or bone
or poker-chip money for all the use it is
outside its own orbit. A country that is so
deeply in debt abroad should state its gold
and paper revenue and liabilities separately,
and then its position would be clear. But
perhaps it is safer to leave the position
muddy. More important, however, than any-
thing else—even the clear statement of
accounts —is the thing that Australia has
for the moment turned down coldest, and
that is work. And for the reasons men-
tioned above its importance is greatest in
N. S. Wales and Queensland. At any rate,
the consequences of doing too little of it are
likely in those States to soonest come home
to roost.
THE “OLD SYSTEM.”
The N. S. Wales Government recently chose
Professor Pedkn, of Sydney University, as
a Commissioner to advise on law reform.
It may be questioned if a law professor who
is also a barrister of nearly quarter of a
century’s standing is the ideal man for
this job from the viewpoint of the public:
nor are the latter’s doubts likely to be
allayed by the enthusiasm of the profession
over the appointment. A barrister-M.L.A.
who belongs to a well-known legal family
had these ominous words to say in the
Assembly the other night:—
I congratulate the Attorney-General upon select-
ing a gentleman who will not be carried away by
the usual claptrap about our system. We carrv oil
here, as most hon. members know, under what is
known as the “old system” of pleading, as opposed
to the system extant in the other States of the Com-
monwealth and in England. In the Commissioner
we have a man who will not listen to any statement
that that ‘old system ’ is devoid of merit.
Cabby knows his fare. And if the Profes-
sor s friend is correct in the view that the
Commissioner will regard even the Judica-
ture Act as a dangerous innovation, then
there is small hope indeed of those search-
ing changes which most intelligent Bri-
tishers outside the great legal combines
have been dreaming of since Dickens
started his campaign against the law’s
abuses and delays. Law reform is not a
matter merely of repealing out-of-date laws
which the people cannot be got to obev
or which it is not desirable they should
obey. J\or is it to be achieved by consoli-
dating and simplifying the truckloads of
of* that have been spilled on to the
statute books of late years. That is only
lawyers law reform. Laymen are. more
concerned about what may be called litigants’
law reform. They will never get it, and
it would be insane optimism to expect to get
it, from a gentleman who has been so
schooled that he believes with all his heart
tiiat tne old system,” the system which
was flagellated in “Pickwick Papers”
David Copperfield” and a dozen other
classics, is sound at heart, and merely needs
a few adjustments here and there to bring
it to perfection. The major offence of the
old system is that, like certain develop-
ments of modern unionism, it is in many of
its aspects no better than respectabilised
piracy.
* * * •
The public knows little or nothing of the
technicalities of pleading and procedure, and
any changes in such directions are likely,
accordingly, to leave litigants, past and pros-
pective, cold. Their idea of reformed law is
less extortionate law. Assume that under
the existing N. S. Wales system—the “old
system” Bbown, a man of means, wants
to (non-collusively) divorce his wife, or de-
fend an action for false imprisonment, or
sue m a copyright matter, or upset or main-
tain the validity of a will, or assert what he
considers his rights in any one of a hundred
other directions that might be cited. He has
first to explain his trouble to a solicitor,
and pay generously for the privilege. The
solicitor then explains it to one or more
barristers (he “instructs counsel,” as the
phrase goes) and the litigant pays again.
The most expensive of the barristers—the
lv.C. is often so busy that he cannot study
the case in all its bearings. He has to be
coached to the very steps of the judgment
seat by a junior. Sometimes the solicitor is
too busy with his multifarious activities as
a money-lender, a conveyancer and a land
speculator, an arbitrator in company dis-
putes or what not, to be able to give the
junior any real help. In cases of that sort
—and they are common—the junior carries
°n alone. Occasionally, as in a recent cause
oelebre, one K.C. handles the facts and an-
other the law. It may be that the K. 0., for
reasons which appear sound to him, though
they are rarely appreciated by the payer of
his retaining fee, does not appear in court
at all. One thing only is static: Bbown
pays everybody, and, in accordance with the
comfortable old convention that advocates
work not for hire but for an honorarium, he
does it in advance. In the eyes of most
of those who have been reared under the
“old system” all these devices for making a
litigant disburse over and over again for the
same service are nbt only right and fair but
inevitable. The busy attorney who is re-
proached with lack of attention to the details
of a suit points helplessly to his mortgages
and his Correspondence. The K.C. who has
made default in a jury case, where his
methods might have been effective to the
extent of changing defeat to victory, lightly
apologises for the miscalculation, or what-
ever it was, that caused his absence, and con-
siders that that ends the matter. The pro-
fession, sharp-witted though it is on other
issues, is conveniently obtuse here. Long-
staff has just, as the lawyers might say,
been briefed to paint a portrait of
Melba. The lady wfill not have to pay any-
one to instruct him in the preliminaries of
the job. When it begins no junior or assist-
ant painter will sit at Longstaff’s elbow
and get from the sitter a lump-sum down
and daily refreshers for steering him clear
of errors; and if he or any other artist
demanded help of the sort the lawyers would
be the first to explain that the claim was an
imposition and an outrage. Again, if
Melba accepted a retaining fee in the form
of the price of a concert-ticket from a Syd-
ney lawyer the latter would expect to hear
Melba. He would not be satisfied, instead,
with some earnest but obscure young song-
stress ; and he would consider that he had
been bilked if it was explained afterwards
that the star had accepted money to sing
that night in more congenial surroundings.
It is the same in other professions where
special abilities are on sale. It is a first
condition that the purveyor of the goods shall
deliver them complete, or hand the money
back.
* * * *
So the law reform which matters is an
affair of the simplification not only of
pleading and procedure but of the whole sys-
tem. It is senseless and ivrong that a client
should only be able to approach the advo-
cate he wants through a solicitor. The efforts
of legislatures to scotch this invention for
the purpose of making the litigant pay twice
over or more have largely been set at naught
hitherto —as in Victoria, where leading
K.C.’s professionally boycott those who en-
dorse amalgamation in open court. It should
be possible, however, to prevent the inten-
tions of Parliament being so frustrated, and
that is one of the first problems the law
reformer would . have to tackle. Law-suits,
or even the threat of them, will always be
deadly weapons for use, on the one hand by
the very rich and on the other by those to
whom insolvency presents no fears, until
some way is found of abolishing the oppos-
ing armies of barristers and solicitors who,
under present conditions, troop into court
and string hearings out for weeks where
the money is plentiful. The ideal is, no
doubt, specialisation. Conveyancing is a
business by itself. So is probate work.
A common-law practitioner will perform 100
per cent, better in court if he has got his
bnef up himself, and the client has every
right, morally, to expect him to do so, revo-
lutionary though the proposition appears to
most lawyers. The big men would still
command high fees under this system, as
they do in other professions, but at least
they would do their work. Another ruinous
feature of the “old system” is the indefinite
appeal. A party to a suit mav not onlv
be dragged step by step to the Supreme
Court, to the High Court, to the Privy Coun-
cil: he may further be compelled (by new
trials and the like) to make the costly jour-
ney in a crab-like or sidewise manner.
When, therefore, a rich man or a great
company threatens to take a plaintiff “to
the Privy Council if necessary,” the aggrieved
citizen (assuming his means are moderate
and he has come to the conclusion that the
threat is meant) usually drops out. The
gamble is too formidable. Appeals are neces-
sary evils, but it is even more desirable that
there should be finality. Justice would be
well served if there was one appeal from
every decision, but no more than one. Such
are the radical reforms for which the public
is looking, but none of them is ever likely to
be recommended by one who has spent the
formative years of his life in an intensely
professional atmosphere. An effective Royal
Commission on Law Reform would be com-
posed of a practising barrister or solicitor or
Judge; a citizen who has been party to a
suit involving £5OOO or over; and a business
man without sons or other close relations
who are lawyers. Not until a Government
decides to be advised by a body like that
will there be grounds for suspicion that it is
in earnest and the knell of the “old
system” is about to strike.
THE ECONOMY THAT ISN’T.
It is almost as easy to commit crimes in
the name of economy as in that of liberty.
And when committed at the expense of in-
capacitated soldiers they are liable to be
thoroughly dangerous crimes. It is impro-
bable that the members of the Pension Board
who do the work of the Government enjoy
paring down, or, alternatively, eliminating
altogether, the meagre doles of the human
wrecks who come before them. They are
surely acting under orders from above, and
are probably well aware that their comfort-
able billets depend on the results they are
able to show. So the country is being'scan-
dalised by a series of cases of which that
of a 3rd Battalion Q.M.S. may be cited as
typical:—•
No. 1502. H.W.G. enlisted 3/11/’l4, and
was passed fit for active service. He was in the
charge at Lone Pine, and a week later was wounded
and evacuated to Egypt. He returned to Gallipoli
and was wounded in the leg, but hung on till the
evacuation. In England a Board eventually put him
in “C” class, and in November, 1917, he was sent
back to Australia for discharge. In April of last
year the Pension Board diagnosed that he had
cerebro-spinal syphilis, and cancelled his pension.
He is now in Callan Park Asylum, while his wife
and family are destitute except for a few shillings
a week which they get as a “compassionate allow-
ance.”
Distressing, not to say outrageously cruel,
cases such as this man’s are justified to the
satisfaction of the Government and the Pen-
sion Board by an elaborate process of close
reasoning which goes, back to a first prin-
ciple dependent (1) on certain somewhat
far-fetched interpretations of the Act deal-
ing with pensions, and (2) on the diagnosis
of the Board’s P.M.O. Section 23 sub-
section A (1) of the Act lays down that
the Commonwealth shall be liable to pay
any person a pension “whose incapacity re-
sults, or has resulted, from any occurrence
happening during the period he was a mem-
ber of the Forces.” The business of fhe
Pension Board is to show wherever possible
that the war had no deleterious effect on
the applicant’s health; that he was either
a ruin when he joined up and an incurable
invalid during the whole time he was fight-
ing. or that his disability was due to his
own fault; and that he has, therefore, no
claim on a farthing of the money which the
Government now needs for other purposes
than _ the pampering of ex-soldiers. • Given
sufficient starkness and a reasonable allow-
ance of ingenuity, a Pension Board is able,
working on these lines, to declare almost
any man who has not had one or more
limbs blown off an ineligible. So far as
G. was concerned the P.M.O. who works
with the Pension Board no doubt re-
ported that he acquired the disease which
has caused his mental breakdown w T hile on
war service. That would bar him from
relief—bar him under the sub-section of the
Act dealing with “intentionally self-inflicted
injuries.” The P.M.0., while capable and
sincere, has not, specialised in V.D. Here,
on the other hand, is the opinion of
one of the most eminent dermatological
specialists in the Common*vealth, written
after an examination of the patient at Callan
Park:—•
His case may be one of syphilis of the innocent —
there are many such cases; or even he may be a
victim of the hereditary form of syphilis.
Granted even that he had a syphilitic infection
before enlisting, I am sure there is not a neurologist
or alienist in the world who would not concur with
me in stating that the rigors, dangers and privations
of the campaign such as our Australian men passed
through, together with the great changes of climatic-
conditions they were subjected to, would tend most
certainly to precipitate a terminal syphilis, not only
in a pre-war infection of syphilis, but also in an in-
fection acquired during the war.
Granted again that this man has had syphilis, I
do not think anyone is able to adjudicate as to
whether his infection took place before the war or
during the war. I doubt if you could get any mem-
ber of the profession to give you an oath in the wit-
ness-box that his infection was of pre-war origin and
also acquired.
If the Government had intended during
the years when the Empire was in peril to
take up the attitude it has adopted now that
fighting-men are at a discount, it was under
an obligation to do certain things. A Was-
serman reaction should have been carried out
on every recruit. Everyone should have been
examined for T. 8., and if the subject was
in the least tainted he should have been
turned down. And similarly with short-
sightedness, deafness and all other com-
plaints. What, on the other hand, the Gov-
ernment actually did was to gladly accept
men who seemed reasonably fit; use them
over and over again as shock troops ; and on


their return home, wounded, gassed, shell-
shocked or hopelessly neurotic, point out
that the foundations of any affliction they
might possess were their own fault, or
existed before their service began. As a
result of this the country they risked their
lives for is ifi a legal position to plead
"never indebted.” It is the point of view
of a welshing bookmaker, an issuer ot
“stumer” cheques for small sums, or a gold-
brick specialist. If there is any one sphere
in which Australia is justified in indulging
in a spacious financial gesture it is in tins
matter of its war-invalids. It is not alto-
gether a question of ethics, though that
aspect enters into the affair; nor of grati-
tude, though if all the members of the A.I.E.
were pensioned it would not be over-payment.
It is a matter of business and ordinary fore-
sight. Other wars will come, and when they
do the deadliest weapon in the armory of
the disloyalist and the chief obstacle in the
way of the recruiting-agents will be such
men as this Q.M.S., their friends and their
relations to the «th generation. If only for
that reason the Government should reverse
its policy on the pension question. The
miserable sums saved by the heroic cheese-
paring of its Board are not nearly worth
the odium they are bringing on military, ser-
vice,
RIDING THE TIGER.
At the present moment, while the world is
talking of disarmament, the condition of
China is instructive. In this bedevilled
country, political anarchy, complete and
dire beyond the ugliest dreams of people bred
to Occidental systems, reigns supreme. The
Central Government still sits in Peking,
amidst the Imperial palaces, grown dusty
and disreputable. It still calls itself a lie-
publican Government, and its head a
President. It still issues eloquent and empty
proclamations. Put its writ does not run
much farther than the city gates. In Man-
churia a little satrap has set up for himself.
Most of the provinces have declared their
independence. Sun Wen and his liump
Parliament sit in Canton and more or less
rule the South. The Legations in Peking
and the foreign gunboats on the Yang-tse
look after the lives and property of their
nationals as if the country were a political
no-man’s land. Every city has its tuchun
or military governor—really a bandit chief
surrounded by a swarm of armed coolies,
called his army. The tuchun draws his
revenue from the countryside by brutal exac-
tions and shameless looting, or by confis-
cating the revenues which should go to
Peking. If he is strong enough he even
dares to lay hands on the salt and customs
revenues, sacred funds which have always
been earmarked for the purpose of paying
the interest on foreign loans. Sometimes lie
erects a mint for manufacturing light-weight
currency, which he forces on the people, and
he is usually equipped with a press for print-
ing his own paper money. For the enor-
mous wealth which he usually accumulates
in the course of a few months, and which he
lodges for safe keeping in the foreign banks
of the settlements, he makes no return what-
ever, unless keeping out another tuchun pos-
sibly more ruffianly than himself may be
counted a service. On the Eastern moun-
tain tigers eat men; on the Western moun-
tain tigers eat men too.
Sometimes the tuchuns’ districts overlap
and they fight over the debatable land; some-
times they squabble over the same corpse;
sometimes one of them, with mysterious
backing from nameless sources, goes on a
war of conquest and carries death and de-
struction over neighboring provinces. In
these horrible campaigns soldiers have been
known to eat their captives’ hearts for the
courage it is believed to give them. Western
science and barbarian ethics work in har-
mony, and the latest type of aeroplane assists
in the oldest kind of butchery. Lately the
beautiful old provincial capital of Wuchang,
of which I have very pleasant memories, was
reduced to smoking ruins by the soldiers
quartered in it, who were disappointed
because their tuchun had not been able to
renew his credit in Peking. After the city
had been gutted summary justice was meted
out to the mutinous soldiers. They were
induced, by promises of more loot, to embark
in a train for another city. A few miles
out the train was run on to a siding,
machine-guns were turned on it, and every
soldier, his camp followers, wives and chil-
dren, massacred. The executioners retained the
loot. The people hailed this swift revenge
with joy, but they had only exchanged one
set of tyrants for another. _ Recently a
tuchun commenced a campaign against a
weaker province for no other reason than
to turn his raw coolies into seasoned vet-
erans, accustomed to drink blood, to loot and
to burn, in expectation of a trial of strength
with the Central Government. _ The num-
ber of these armed coolies is_ incredible.
Some put it as high as two millions. They
are quartered in the temples and on the
unfortunate merchants, they commandeer
the railways and play hell with the rolling-
stock.
How does China, famine-stricken and dis-
organised, support these unproductive and
destructive forces? This is where Peking
functions. Every lawless bandit has his
official connections. Peking is filled with a
horde of concessionaires, foreign munition
agents, sellers of electric sewing-machines,
gramophones, jew’s-harps, Bibles—everything
that the barbaric soul of man delights in and
no possible use for. With the support
of its Consul, Aconcagua advances a million
taels on the security of the revenue from
telegraphs and land in the tuchun’s province,
none of which really belongs to the tuchun,
and is granted the sole right to exploit the
coal, iron, wood, water, earth and air of the
province for a thousand years. A howl of
protest goes up from all the other Lega-
tions. They point out the immoral
nature of ’ the bargain. If the pro-
test becomes too noisy and prolonged a
portion of the spoils is divided amongst the
hungry concession hunters of the other
Powers, and the tumult subsides. The
tuchun returns to his troops with sufficient
financial resources to keep himself going and
to recruit as many more coolies as he needs.
The tuchun does not ranae over the vast
inert body of China altogether uncriticised.
The merchant class, always highly organ-
ised in the protection of their business in-
terests, are growing weary of the senseless
plunderer. They have made one or two
notable attempts to oust him. The student
class, usually nicknamed Young China, is
bitterly opposed to him and ceaselessly attacks
him from the neutral ground or the loreign
settlements with pamphlets, newspaper pro-
paganda and the assassin’s bomb and knife.
The “stupid people” have always been anti-
militarists. Peace in a thatched hut that
is happiness, they say. But they are com-
pelled to creep under the grim shadow of
one robber for fear of the vengeance of the
next. Each city lights with man-power and
money for the continued reign of its oppres-
sor, for fear that his withdrawal and the
arrival of his successor will mean a double
massacre. Every attempt to restore _ the
prestige of the civil authority, which disap-
peared in the confusion of the revolution,
has only resulted in setting the militarists
more lirmlv in the saddle. Loans have been
floated for the disbandment of their ragged
armies, but the money was only employed
to recruit more troops. Chinese cities are
full of Peace streets and streets of Heavenly
Tranquillity, and warlike monuments like
the insolent equestrian statues which ramp
over the heads of the citizens of every Euro-
pean capital are conspicuous by their
absence. Their literature is full of pacific
aphorisms and bitter satires on military pre-
tensions. No people have so pathetically
longed for peace as have the Chinese, and
few people have had less of it. Every
Chinese city now has its native press,, eager,
if it dared, to echo this national hatred of
militarism; but the tuchuns have nothing
to learn from Europe in the matter of cen-
sorship and propaganda. A visit to the
West Cate at dawn is likely to be the pen-
alty for spreading rumors unpleasmg to the
ruling powers.
The President of the Republic has even
been courageous enough to cashier a trouble-
some tuchun; and this is the sort of thing
that results: —
Two days ago there was a panic in the city
and the exchange fell terribly ; many are preparing
for a siege It is reported that the late tuchun
has offered to retire peacefully on condition that the
new tuchun comes to Shensi without an army, that
he is allowed to retire to the west of the province
with his army and that he is given two ino: ths to
defeat Kuo Ohibn, another tuchun, with whom he
is at present at war. ,
The character of these tuchuns . can be
gauged from the later history of General
Wu Ching-Tung. A strong supporter ot
the Peking Government, he was lately mur-
dered, and the murderer’s vitals were subse-
quently exposed before the General’s bier as
a sacrifice. The General’s relatives, backed
bv strong official encouragement, are now
demanding that all the relatives of the mur
derer, who live in Honan, 500 miles from
the scene of the tragedy, should be sur-
rendered to be butchered and dissected so
that their organs may be added to the sac-
ri*The history of the Republic since the re-
volution has been the monotonous repeti-
tion of squalid and complicated intrigues and
struggles for power, mostly on the part ot
gentlemen with names like a pistol-shot and
the morals of Bornean head-hunters. In
the famine districts girls are being sold
according to weight. Those less than /u
years of age sell at twopence a pound, while
those of from 20 to 80 years are given away
free to those who are willing to take them..
The Government in Peking is as indifferent
to all this suffering as it is to the frightful
menace of the Yang-tse, which foreign ex-
perts have reported to be on the eve of
choosing: a new route to the sea from a point
near Chinkiang. The union of the southern
provinces has been brought about by the
tactless action of the President in instruct-
ing Kuangsi province to attack Kuangtung,
and a first-class war in that region has
Any Government, however harsh, will
have the approval of the foreign Powers if
it is prompt in the payment of the in-
terest on China’s mortgaged estate, foreign
finance is suffering through the weakness
of the Peking Government, and the Legations
are beginning to discuss the advisability of
withdrawing recognition from a Government
which does not govern, and dealing directly
with the most powerful tuchuns. Whether
this will be any solution is doubtful, but the
point will soon be reached where foreign
intervention will, for the hundredth time,
become a necessity. As to disarmament,
China is in very much the same position
as the rest of the world. Even the tuchuns
are pacifists. They are all ready to dis-
arm as long as the other doe.s it first- Any
scheme which succeeds in disarming China
would equally well apply to world-disarma-
ment.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Good Things of Life.
The feature of Bolshevism that made the
biggest and worst impression on Tom c>key-
hill, when he studied it at close, quarters,
was its deadly soullessness. “It is a Bel-
shazzar’s banquet of materialism, he says,
in a picturesque phrase: an attempt to
demonstrate that man can live by bread
and Karl Marx and free picture-shows
alone. And the indictment is nowise weak-
ened by the fact that, owing to defects in the
working-out of the theory, Skeyhill found
that there was more Marx at the feast than
bread, that many of those bidden to the
banqueting-table were miserable wretches,
bootless and unwashed, and that many otheis
were dying by the wayskle because cholera
and tv'phus are free in the stricken land as
well as the movies. But Skeyhill needn t
have gone to Russia for an invitation to a
materialistic gorge. He is offered precisely
the same thing in his own country by the
would-be Benins and Trotskys who have
foisted themselves on the Labor movement.
To him, as an Australian, and to all the
other Australians,‘the following observations
are addressed ‘ .. .
There is a class struggle in society, and it is
caused by the capitalist class owning the means of
production to which the working-class must have
access in order to live. The working-class produces
all value. There can be no peace as long as warn,
and hunger are found among millions of working
people and the few who constitute the employing
class have all the good things of life, Betweeni these
two classes the struggle must continue until capital
Ism is abolished. Capitalism can only be abolished
by the workers uniting in one class-conscious e eono
mic organisation to take and hold the means of pro-
duction by revqlutfbnary industrial and political
action.
The stupendous folly of this fustian can only
be fully realised by a man like Skeyhill,
who has been to Russia and seen the class
revolution in operation —seen civilisation in
process of destruction because ‘capitalism
has been abolished, and the working-class
living in misery and perishing in myriads
because of the illusion that it "produces all
value.” Yet the maniacal propositions were
eagerly adopted by the All-Australian Con-
gress of Trades Unions in Melbourne. They
are to come up for consideration by the Inter-
state Labor Congress at Brisbane next week,
and will probably be ratified by that body.
For a new race of Labor delegates has arisen
and the old fine standards and aspirations
have disappeared. The men who dominate
these congresses nowadays combine the
methods of Tammany with the ideals of
Wren. For all their hatred of capitalists
they are themselves a gang of capitalists in
the making—a gang with a programme ot
violence motived by greed. The assertion
that “the few who constitute the employing
class have all the good things of life” is the
measure of their coarse and tainted minds.
They cynically ignore health, love, friendship,
beauty, Nature, art, genius, talent the un-
purchaseable riches of existence in which all
classes share —and value only money and the
stuff that money will buy. Haggermacher,
the wealthiest man in Hungary, died a few
weeks ago by his own hand, having found
life unbearable. Ernest Cassell s last sad
words to a generation that} covered him with
riches and honors are that “you may have
all the money in the world and yet be a
lonely and sorrowing man.” But these
striking refutations of their deadly doctrine
convey nothin2: to the depressing materialists
who have got the A.L.P. by the wool. Mam-
mon is the god of their idolatry ; they all
want to be miniature Cassells, Hagger-
machers and Wrens. And for that reason
they are going to fail.
Is It the End?
The latest act of the great play:—
With De Valera’s acceptance of Lloyd George’s
invitation to a conference, the curtain rises on
what should be the last act of the longest tragi-
comedy in the world’s history. Lloyd George has
said he would rather go down in history as the
man who ended the Irish trouble than as the winner
of the world-war; and De Valera’s desire for a
settlement is probably no less passionate. But
neither has been in a position to show his hand.
If De Valera had disclosed that he was prepared
to take less than a Republic, Ulster would have
raved at the Imperial Government to offer no more
than Gladstonian Home Rule. If Lloyd George
had offered Dominion Home Rule, he would (1) have
alienated his Orange supporters, who hold that the
South can be “disciplined” into Empire loyalty, and
(2) embarrassed the Sinn Fein moderates by en-
couraging every Irish irreconcilable to stand out
for complete separation. So that the moves and
counter-moves since the truce have been largely
for educative purposes. And, as The Bulletin has
shown already, education was very badly needed.
The fact that Lloyd George is prepared to listen
to demands for greater powers indicates that he
never meant his first word to be his last, and De
Valera’s willingness to “explore every avenue to a
settlement” makes it clear that his minimum is,
anyhow, something short of separation from the
Empire.
A type of Conservative who is the despair of high
officials in Lloyd George’s position asks angrily, in-
sistently: “Why can’t the Irish be satisfied now with
the Home Rule Bill they were eager to take in
1914?” But inter-Imperial relationships have been
greatly changed by the war ; and the post-war Con-
stitutional standard set by the Dominions is chiefly
responsible. What is that standard ? In othei
words, what is Dominion status? It is so close
to full independence that Canada and South Africa
have talked of instituting diplomatic services of
their own, and the inclination of the Hughes Gov-
ernment to meddle in the foreign affairs of the
Empire is obvious. But scores of the most impor-
tant rights claimed by the Dominions have never
been granted by Statute. Like the innumerable
cherished rights which the English suddenly found
themselves deprived of by the Defence of the Realm
Act, many of ours have been almost imperceptibly
assimilated. The English never abolished the royal
veto by law: it just lapsed when the right time
came. Before the war Australia was a dependency:
at some time during the war its status altered so
that after the Armistice W. M. Hughes was able
to assert that the Commonwealth “stood on a plane
of absolute equality with Britain,” and to get that
claim recognised.
The Irish cannot want more than Australia has
in practice got, for the simple reason that the Eng-
lish themselves have no more than that. But for
them to expect to be granted by Statute the enor-
mous Constitutional powers which the Dominions
hold, not so much by right as on sufferance, is a big
thing indeed. And yet when the Times foreshadowed
on Saturday “a Constitutional innovation” as the
basis of final settlement, that was probably what
the paper meant. The principle involved was tried
on the Boers, and it was a success. No one who
has lived in Ireland can question the natural dis-
position of the people to be friendly with the Eng-
lish. The Boers had no language or literature in
common with their former enemies, and practically
no sports or social habits; and they had a tradi-
tional hatred of British Governments, quite as bitter
if not so ancient as the Irish legacy in this line.
The average Boer is slowey to re-act to well-meant
advances than the average Irishman. Yet, on the
whole, the Boers are Empire men to-day. Justice,
Freedom: they are the supreme solvents.
The Latest Thing in Manifestoes.
In view of the special Interstate Conference
of the A.L.P., at which it is hoped to “link
up” the A.L.P. and the A.W.U. and the
0.8. U. and other letters of the alphabet,
and evolve a Council of Action or Revolu-
tionary Parliament or something furious, a
curious manifesto has come to light. It is
an official pronouncement by the A.W.U.
and is partly a war cry and partly a dirge.
For instance, for a party which meant to be
bound by Parliamentary methods what could
he more melancholy than this? —
There is something wrong with the Labor move-
ment at the present time. It makes no progress.
It has, indeed, been pushed back. A few years ago
it held six of the seven Governments in this coun-
try. To-day it has a precarious hold on two. Elec-
tion after election has taken place without any
improvement. Under existing conditions its pros-
pects are probably worse than at any period of the
last 10 years. There is no State in which it can
reasonably hope to capture the Legislature. The
Labor Governments of N.S.W. and Queensland could
not face the polls with any certainty of success.
So the motto is: “To Sheol with existing
conditions Nowadays the Commonwealth as.
well as every State gives a vote for the Lower
House (the one which makes Governments)
to male and female subjects aged over 21- —
gives it in the largest and most generous
way. And it is admitted frankly that these
people—the nation, in fact —have given what
calls itself Labor a large and generous trial,
and don’t want it. The manifesto admits
further that there isn’t the slightest sign of
their ever wanting it, and that the precarious
hold it retains is so much against the will
of the people thai the hopes for re-election
in N. S. Wales and Queensland are poor.
Still, the bad old crowd which has reduced
the party to this state doesn’t suggest get-
ting either new men or new methods. In-
stead, it proposes to be extra-violent and
extra-scornful of the community’s liberties
and self-governing rights. The conference,
as already mentioned, has its baleful eye
on a new organisation, and when that is
organised (if the Government doesn’t arrest
the leaders before the coup d'etat or usurpa-
tion is quite ready and the gun fully
loaded) —
Labor will have forged to its hand a weapon of
tremendous potency. Listed with sagacity and bold-
ness it will enable the working class of Australia
to hold dominion over the whole of the political and
industrial field, and by their creative activities
ensure that the future of' the Commonwealth shall be
in accord with the interests of the people.
For purposes of business everything after the
world “field” may be left out. A group of
leaders under which Mount Morgan, the
Queensland copper industry generally, the
Queensland State coal-mine and State ship-
ping, the Broken Hill mines and the Darwin
and Wyndham meatworks have already
closed (to quote only a few examples) should
leave out the word “constructive.” It may
want to do something for "the interests of
the people,” though the chances are very
largely the other way, hut Fne people, who
admittedly don’t want it, would prefer to
look after their own interests. They like
to bath themselves —not to have any self-
appointed philanthropist orr brigand or Thug
break into the house with an axe and strong
language and bath them. The real point
is that “a weapon of tremendous potency
is avowedlv being “forged.” By means of
this the so-called. Labor leaders are to acquire
with “boldness” (not “justice” or “decency )
“dominion over the whole of the political
nnd industrial field” of a community which,
in its present comparatively free state, and
not yet terrorised nor brutally assaulted by
the “weapon,” won’t have these same ofnce-
bungry and pay-hungry people at any price.
It is natural to ask for what pur-
pose there exists a highly-paid Federal
Parliament with an army and a
police force, and with wide law-making
powers, when implements for giving
minority complete “dominion” can be made
under its eyes. It is- easy for cowards and
shirkers to excuse themselves from doing
their duty by saying the danger is unreal.
Judged by the condition of the Northern
Territory," where a srruall working model of
the proposed machine is in operation, it is
real enough, and only requires building on
a rather larger scale to make all Australia
another Northern Territory. In any case,
no self-governing community should be com
nelled to live under the ,shadow of an organ-
isation which threatens- it with the axe at
any moment. There are too many possibili-
ties about the axe beijng genuine With
“dominion” once acquired, and the gieat
majority disarmed and disfranchised, and
the Council of Action in’ possession, with a
serviceable army of international brethren
at its call, popular liberty might go to sleep
for a century or two. Even armed Chinese
“brethren” would be eligible under the doc-
trine that “the workers of the world should
unite.” q
The Yankee Film Monopoly.
Such of the facts as have come out about
the death of the movie actress Virginia
Rappe after a beastly orgy m a San I ran-
fisco hotel, ought to stiffen the resolution
g JSS r p
jssi3r , Siaf“® ,, Sy> •gxS
Australian film-maker, and that whereas
visitine artists like Melba, Claba lutt.
Laudeb and Mabie Tempest are heavi j
taxed on their earnings m the Common-
wealth, the dumb clowns and buffoons who
null faces in front of foreign cameras the
Chaplins, Abbuckles, Wallace Reids and
so forth—draw large incomes from the coun-
try without paying a Penny piece. The
latter fact is made possible by the devious
methods of Yankee-controlled picture-houses,
which also contrive, in various underhand
ways, to do Australian productions all the
harm they can. When the Gm*e tariff
reached the Senate one of the Free-
trade Ministers induced that body .to
request the restoration of the old farcical
impost of three-halfpence a foot. This was
a nitifully weak concession to the squealing
film importer, who deserves no concession of
anv sort. Shortly afterwards the filthy
Rappe case occurred, and the rush of the
high-minded agent and showman to pander
to the taste for morbid sensationalism by
exhibiting an old picture in which the dead
woman had taken part was something to be
remembered. The House will no doubt
remember it when it deals with the duty, it
will also have no difficulty in recollecting
that Abbuckle, who is accused of having
killed the Rappe girl in circumstances so
horrible that the details cannot be printed
even in the U.S. yellow press, has drawn
considerable sums of money from Australia
without paying tax, and will doubtless ask
itself whether Abbuckle is the kind of per-
son who should be encouraged in that fashion.
Parliament may likewise decide to inquire
whether Abbuckle and the other rotters
—male and female—concerned to the un-
speakable proceedings at the hotel
are fair specimens of the people who make
the Yankee films, and whether the pictured
glorification of crime, extravagance, vulgari y
and sensuality which comes us t rom
America, and which exercises a vis ble influ-
ence on wayward youngsters, hasn t gone
far enough. ' This phase of the subject can-
not, of course, be adequately treated in a


Tfe Farmers'& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA us M ia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
tariff debate. It is one of several cognate
matters that will have to be referred to the
select committee for which Mahony, M.H.R.
for Dailey (N.S.W.), intends to ask. Mean-
time Premier Massey, of Maoriland, has
boldly struck at the Yankee film monopoly,
and set the Commonwealth a good example,
by announcing that a proportion of the pic-
tures shown in M.L. must in future be of
British (which includes Australian) manu-
facture.
Pyramids for a Change.
The reduction of hands at the Lithgow
small-arms factory came about (1) because
the Federal Government is short of money ;
(2) because it thought it wasn’t getting very
good value for its money; (3) because a
small population only wants a limited quan-
tity of arms in peace time. The discharged
men are the sort for whom there should be
work galore in the iron and steel and ship-
building lines. In fact, a country which im-
ported £30,000,000 worth of metal manufac-
tures in nine months (July, 1920, to March,
1921), and borrowed and charged to pos-
terity Heaven knows how many millions to
pay the bill, should be stuffed to bursting
with employment for just such men. But
even the Federal Government is getting its
ships built by Private Enterprise abroad —-
probably because it is sick of argument with
certain people here. The N.S.W. State Pre-
mier s.ays proudly that he has found work
for some of the discharged men at making
an unpromising railway out of loans; and
Niciiolls, M.H.R., who has taken up the
parable, says the only way to relieve the
situation is to set the unemployed holus
bolus to building railways out of loans. In
the year just closed Niciiolls’s own State
(N.S.W.) left so much good work undone
that it had to buy £72,000,000 worth of goods
from foreigners, and one way and another
it acquired about £20,000,000 of debt in the
process. There should be some remedy for
that apart from building railways which lose
money when they are built. For a change
the unemployed might be set to work build-
ing pyramids. A finished pyramid, anyhow,
costs nothing in running expenses, and some-
times tourists even pay to see it.
Back to the Parish Pump!
Wiiat strikes Louis Esson on coming home:
We live in an age of such tremendous abstractions,
of world policies and international diplomacy, that
the simple things of life have come to be regarded
as trivialities, unworthy of the consideration of our
deep-browed statesmen and philosophers. In the
rival policies that now hold the field, the question
of the future of such an unimportant place as Aus-
tralia seems to have been forgotten. AVe go in for
larger issues than that. On the one hand we have
our Imperialists, still waving the flag, quoting
Henley and Kiplino, and doing their level best to
keep Australia in a subordinate position ; on the other
our International Socialists, with their scorn of
nationalism, still pinning their faith to the deadly,
soul-destroying- economics of old Karl Marx. In
both cases alien interests are always put before Aus-
tralian interests. Our Jingoes say that Australia is
British, not Australian, though many good Australians
originally came from Ireland and Italy and other queer
countries; while our Internationalists say that the
workers, the great mass of the Australian people,
have no country at all. There is no such place
as Australia, there is no Australian nation. AVe
are citizens of the Empire or citizens of the world,
and if we continue to “evolve" on such scientific
principles we shall soon be citizens of nowhere.
Australians used to be accused of living too much
for themselves and ignoring the great movements
of the outer world ; but to-day the tendency of
our so-called leaders of thought is in the opposite
direction. They are interested in every country
except Australia. They are no longer little Aus-
tralians, putting Australian interests first; they
take broad views, long-distance views, and overlook
this little continent altogether. They pour out
a stream of rhetoric on the question of the Rus-
sian boundaries ; they would die for Ireland, or
else sink the Green Isle under the sea; they are
strong on Upper Silesia ; they become poetical about
Greenland’s snowy mountains. But let anyone men-
tion the settlement of the Murray A'alley or the
peopling of the Northern Territory and other such
narrow local topics, and they look scornful, even
bored. A curious new political philosophy seems
to have paralysed both thought and action. It is
said on the highest authority that Australian in-
terests are so bound up with those of other coun-
tries that it is quite futile for us to attempt to
do anything for ourselves. AVe must wait for some-
thing to happen in Thibet or Palestine or Stoke-
on-Mud, though nobody knows what is going to
happen there. But that is not important. Some-
thing will surely happen in time. Meanwhile, our
duty is to sit on the fence and look at the cotton-
bush till there is some economic change in Kurdi-
stan. This is easy, but not thrilling. Such deter-
minism seems a worse disease than the sleeping-
sickness.
AA r e have grown too big for our boots. At the
Fabian Society, 'when the pundits were entangling
themselves in their vague and windy world politics,
Chesterton used to arise and say that the poli-
tics of a country ought to originate on the village
green. William Morris held the same opinion.
He thought that the building of a bridge and the
right boiling of a leg of mutton were more im-
portant matters than the debates at Westminster.
Back to the parish puriip!—that is a sounder policy
for the Commonwealth than old-fashioned Imperial-
ism or futurist Socialism. We can at least began
with what we know. It is the soil and climate
and landscape of a country, and the local indus-
tries and modes of life, that make a distinct nation-
ality ; and without nationalities the world would
be as monontonous as the «ea. A country or a
town is interesting when it has some life of its
own, something that cannot be had elsewhere, not
when it is exactly like any other town or country.
George Moore complained that democracy (it is
not really democracy that is to blame, but cosmo-
politan commercialism) was destroying the world,
for wherever anyone travelled, in Scotland or Spain,
he would be given the same table-d’hote dinner.
Moore's complaint is justifiable and timely. It
would be dull to find in Peking the candy stores
of Sydney, and in Lassa the electric sky-signs of
New York. It is certainly irritating to find in
Melbourne the crude and flamboyant picture-shows
that had been left behind in the baekbloeks of the
United States. It is depressing to hear the same
speeches on large world themes, of which the
speakers know nothing, on the banks of the Yarra,
that sounded so terribly boring among the lions
of Trafalgar-square. It is time to make a. clean
sweep of all this pseudo-science and abstract doc-
trine, and return to the realities of life. Aus-
tralia has so many interesting but difficult pro-
blems of her own to solve that it is shefer mad-
ness to scatter thus recklessly the national energy.
We must gather round the village pump and
make a fresh start. It really seems necessary to
do something about that culvert. And we must
THE PIED PIPER: A SPRING FANTASY.
improve that road that still inspires the bullock-
driver to Miltonic heights of eloquence. We have
been so busy settling' the affairs of the universe
that it is no better now than it was 15 years ago.
If our thoughts, unlike those of AV alter de la
Mare’s poet, could return a moment from far
Arabia, we might find time for a little bit of
irrigation. M ith encouragement we might get up
a little interest in our wheat and wool, and realise
that the establishment of a few essential industries
might do the country no harm. Arid if we didn’t
talk so much about Russia, we might even dis-
cover that there was such a place on the map as
the Northern Territory, though to most of our
alleged statesmen this is not a pleasant subject, as
Oscar Wilde said of marriage. The learned Marx
was wrong, the simple Chesterton was right. We
will never build a strong and independent nation
on a machine-made system of universal determin-
ism ; but a sound, if modest, beginning may be made
if we gather once more round the village pump.
Starving in the Midst of Plenty.
The incurable talking or ruminating habit
finds expression in the proposal to hold a
conference with the object of “finding a
solution for the prevalent unemployment.”
as one semi-official document rather inco-
herently put it. This means that employers
and employees are to come together, and.
if the show doesn’t simplv dissolve in a haze
of recrimination, are to ask themselves and
each other the cause of the trouble. Having
“solved” that, the effect will naturally solve
itself. A difficulty is that causes, like
twins, seldom come singly; that is to sav,
there is the final cause, arid at the back the
cause of it. and the hinder and hindermost
cause of thorn, till their numerousness is
only exceeded by their remoteness. In Aus-
tralia’s case a sort of brief for the guid-
anoe of learned counsel may be drawn up
in these terms :
(X) It is a case not of there not being- work
to do, but of the work being more and more
neglected and left undone. For the year to June
30, N.S.W., for example, gave out 72 million
pounds’ worth of good employment to foreigners
(that is to say, it imported to that extent), which
was 28 millions’ worth more than it ever deprived
itself of before.
(2) This wasn’t because it was extra-busy with
other things. In fact, it apparently had time
hanging like a dead body on its hands. Measuring
by quantity —not by inflated price—the reliable
State Statistician alleges that, in the way of pri-
mary production, for every 1000 tons, pounds, yards,
.gallons or other measures turned out per worker in
1911, the total last year had loafed down to 670,
and in the manufacturing line the 1000 had loafed
down to <22. Yet the wages had gone up as the
output had come down. In the N.S.W. factories the
average (for male and female, young and old) rose
from £96 7s. Id. per annum in 1911 to £154
17s. 6d. in 1920. It rose further last year, but
the figures aren’t out yet.
(3) Some of the unemployed are frankly on strike.
Some are obviously out through other people being
on. strike. Some are probably out because old manu-
facturers are shutting up the less profitable branches
of their business, being- no longer able, in a declin-
ing market, to pay £154 17s. 6d. for 722 pints
of production against £96 7s. id. for 1000 pints
a few years ago. The falling off in , oduction is
worse than it looks, because each emplc ee has more
machinery to help him than ever before.
(4) The industrial trinity consists of these three
piece work, day work and stop work. The growth
of the second and third, especially the third, has
put a spoke in many an industrial wheel.
(5) Seven reasons tend to make new would-be
manufacturers slow to start: (a) Large wages and
the uncertainty about future wages and conditions,
(b) Lack of capable workmen, partly due to the
lack of an apprentice system, partly to the pouring
out of loan money on pick-and-shovel jobs,- which
has led to a great growth of the class that is no
use to a manufacturer, (c) Lack of money. The
banks have been bled white for subscriptions to Gov-
ernment loans—including the forced loan of
£23,000,000 represented by £lOOO notes, (d) In-
creased and increasing taxes. (e) The fact that
distracted Governments are offering such high
prices for loans that the manufacturer with capital
of his own finds it better to buy bonds. Blessed
above all men nowadays is he who employs nobody,
for nobody worries him. (f) Constantly increasing
inspection, regulation and prosecution. (g) The
assurance from many quarters, of which the big
Labor Conference in Melbourne was the last, that if
any man becomes an employer he is an accursed
person marked out for ruin, obliteration and extinc-
tion when certain persons “take over the means of
production, distribution and exchange.”
(6) And there is no substitute in view for the
affrighted private employer. As an economical sup-
plier of the public the State is out of the running
(even the railways show that) ; and as for co-
operative unionism, it doesn’t even get its daily-
paper started or its -little Woollen factory.
Still no one need despair. The outstanding
fact is that employment is here in Australia
—stacks and oceans of it; in fact, more of it
than was ever here before. When a healthy,
hungry man sits at a table covered with
cooked fish, chops, steak, sausages, vege-
tables and sundries and has merely forgotten
how to eat. the work of bringing him and
the food together shouldn’t be hopeless.
Ex-N S.W. Works Minister Arthur Grif-
fith to The Bulletin:—
The industrial stagnation from which we in Aus-
tralia are suffering is entirely our own fault. Our
lmal industries - cannot find sufficient buyers for
their products, while the biggest user in the world
is unable to obtain the raw materials and food-
stuffs necessary to carry on its manufacturing in-
dustries. Though Britain herself and the jest of
the Allies are trading freely with Germany, we, for
some reason utterly unexplained, refuse to do so,
while we are sending away every year millions in
cash to pay for imports from America, which steadily
refuses to take our goods in return. As a Pro-
tectionist I would rather we did not import from
America, Germany or anywhere else, but as we’ are
doing so to the extent of scores of millions every
year, it would be only commonsense to deal with a
country urgently in need of our raw materials, and
only too willing to take them in return for the
goods we are compelled to import.
A statement published by the U.S. Government shows
that during the nine months ended June 30, the
U.S.A. exported to Germany over £60,000,000 worth
of foodstuffs and raw materials, while thousands of
tons of similar goods were mouldering. in our ware-
houses! Germany cannot find the cash to pay for
our products, which it so badly needs, but it would
be quite competent for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to establish a pool into which could be paid
an amount equivalent to that which our importers
now send to U.S.A. and elsewhere (because those
countries buy'so little from us) to purchase motor-
cars, machinery, pianos, electrical appliances, chemi-
cals and the like, and from which our producers
might draw against the wool, tallow, hides, minerals
and foodstuffs which German merchants would be
glad to import. Such an arrangement would over-
come the difficulty of exchange, and would prevent
this country from drifting 011 the rocks. Last year
the Commonwealth went to the bad to the extent
of £30,000,000, excess of imports oyer exports. A
Government that stands passively by, permitting
this sort of thing to continue, is unfit to control our
affairs.
“Bill o’ Costs” sees an old friend off:—
How bitterly some of my learned mates resent anv
suggestion of prolixity in the conduct of litigation !
If a Judge whose fund of .patience gives out sug-
gests, however delicately, that too much time is occu-
pied over something—opening, objections, cross-
examination—he immediately hears a half-truculent
moaning at the bar: “I trust your Honor is not
referring to my conduct of this case.” His abashed
Honor, who has probably picked the. occasion with
malice aforethought, at once assures Mr. Brief that
his remark was quite impersonal; he merely desired
to indicate, etc., etc. Justice Parsons (S.A.) lately
voiced in the usual mild, impersonal fashion a com-
plaint about the inordinate time taken over Supreme
Court trials, which the public has long regarded in
the light of a scandal. Of course, this could not be
allowed to pass without the leader in the case
protesting his personal , innocence, making strong
observations concerning the “cant and humbug talked
about delay in the courts” and the “gross libel"
upon the profession, and debating that question for
another 10 minutes or so. Incidentally, he advanced
the astonishing proposition that the charge must
be unfounded “because the longer cases last the
more injurious it is to be practitioner.” The public,
■metaphorically, oasts an eye on another court along-
side and smiles wearily. There a tribunal has been
sitting for over a year (120 hearing days to date) on
what is known as “The Wharf Case,” an inquiry
to determine the amount of compensation payable
by the Government for resumed wharves at Port
Adelaide. The-cynical public had about concluded
that the only hope of finality lay in the chances
of human mortality.- Presiding-Judge Gordon is 71.
His lawyer-arbitrator colleagues arc Grundy, K.C.
(73), and Moulden (somewhere about the same mile-
post). Ill; the galaxy in front of them is (or was
until the tedium of the case .lately, drove him away,
on holiday) Simon, K.C., who owns up to 75.. But
GTowland Judges and lawyers are a notably tough
lot not in hide, but in vitality, and now the unex-
pected has happened. Just when everybody seemed
settling, down to another year of it, one of the
counsel, accepting a hint previously dropped by the
Court, announced that he had, “prepared a schedule”
which ‘would materially shorten the inquiry.” When
the smoke from this bombshell cleared away the
opposing K.C. recovered his breath and promptly
objected; but he didn’t do it very seriously appa-
rently, or else the Court was fed up \fith objections,
for a bigger shell has now burst, with this from
the Clerk o f_ Court: “This Court stands adjourned
sine die.” Nothing now remains but for the arbitra-
tois to deliver their finding. The public never read
the “Wharf Case” report, but the newspapers will
miss it. They ought to give it an “111 Menioriam”
notice: “Gone in the fulness of time. Deeply
lamented by his old friend Costs.”
What it has got to at Newcastle (N.S.W.),
as disclosed by an advt. in the local Herald
(14/9/’L\l)
Maiiied Couple, can’t get a room or house because
they have two children, will pav £1 a week for
shed, stable on a fowlhouse. Steel Worker. Urgent
—c/o Herald Office.
But the two children only matter because
there is a shameful scarcity of houses; and
there wouldn’t be the scarcity if it paid men
with money to build houses. The cursed
capitalist was going to be “put down” ; and
he has been put down very effectively in the
house-building business. As the people who
were going to benefit by his extinction don’t
seem very happy about it, perhaps they had
better try encouraging him again.


“yiusiraJia
the premier hotel in the commonwealth
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
d
IX THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning: Tea. Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, lees. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IX THE DINING' ROOMS or
PRIVATE ROOMS at Luncheon.
Dinner or Supper—All meals served
a la carte. Order early and avoid
delay.
r *
**l M
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lord Northeliffe’s last intelligible words
before passing away in the steamer were to
the general affect that Australia needs more
population, one adult male to two square
miles being insufficient for either defence or
anything else. Everybody agreed and left
it at that. Nobody suggested anything ex-
cept perhaps another big loan. Yet experi-
ence shows the way clearly enough.
Wherever Australia has founded a capital—
a seat of Government—population has come.
The place may be too far up a river like
Brisbane and Perth, or on a glorious harbor
like Hobart and Sydney, or on nothing
noticeable like Adelaide, but population
comes there somehow from somewhere and
also fills a certain area around. It comes
in appreciable quantities nowhere else. Pos-
sibly it drops like the gentle dew from
Heaven. Therefore get more States (six or
eight to begin with) and more capitals and
the thing is done. It does itself.
Taylor, leader of the Queensland Nation-
alists, talks of abolishing the nominee Leg.
Council and subst : tuting a non-party Second
Chamber on the adult suffrage principle. The
gentleman is dreaming. A House so elected
would be either a pale copy of the Assembly
or a useless obstruction. In either case it
would be expensive, and the party spirit
would dominate it from first to last, as it
has done the Senate.
A note from the N.S.W. Gallery:—
Interpreted in terms of votes the infants en-
dowment scheme propounded by N.S.W. Minister
for Motherhood McGirr is a better stunt than old-
age pensions were to the giants of another day. The
number of people to whom it makes a perfectly
selfish appeal is tremendous. Glimmerings of this
are beginning to enter the minds of the Nationalist
caucus, and prominent anti-Laborites were busy
the other evening assuring the Speaker that their
minds are open on the subject. Most of them see
that to go to the country at next election as persons
who toiled to prevent the endowment would lie most
undiplomatic. So McGirr is playing ’possum over
the lottery end of the business. Not long ago he
explained that the funds would be raised by running
a State gamble. Now he keeps the lottery project
out of sight, insists that it has nothing' to do with
motherhood endowment, and that if proceeded with
it will be for “getting revenue generally” —all of
which moves the Opposition to blasphemy. Until
lately they had counted upon being able to fight
endowment by concentrating against the lottery.
McGirr’s refusal to run the two in double harness
presents a difficult issue. The Endowment Bill v ill
certainly pass the Assembly. ■ Even the Council
may say “Yes.” Then McGirr will be able to talk
about the lottery.
When people crowd a year’s normal drink-
ing into one day strange things are liable
to happen. In the inquiry about that San
Francisco festivity which landed one him •
star in the cemetery and another in the dock,
a witness testilied that "a dozen men and
women were drinking and dancing all the
afternoon.” Then the screams of a woman
in agony were heard from “a sepa-
rate apartment.” and investigation re-
vealed Miss Kappe nude, or nearly
so, for “her garments were scat-
tered all over the room,” crying out that
she was dying. The witness “took her
underwear, intending it as a practical joke.
To get away with the underclothing of a
dying woman seems crude mirth. But pro-
hibition won the dav in Woodrow Wilsons
U.S.A.. and such things have to be after a
famous victory.
In the days that are dead Australian ships
had to depend upon foreigners (including
Scotch and English) for their officers: very,
very rarely did a man go up from the
fo’c's’le. And the comparatively new Navi-
gation Act, which ought to have obliged
Australian shipowners to train Australian
officers, simply puts obstacles in their way.
A ship must carry a boy or an apprentice ;
but his job isn’t to learn navigation—it is
to wait on the fo’c’s’le. In countries which
realise the importance of having trained men
as reserve navy officers, the ship that carries
apprentices—usually in these days hearty
young fellows of 38 onwards —can substitute
a certain number of them for seamen. There
is no such provision here. And the unions
and the politicians whom the uniorfs hold
in the hollow of their hands oppose any such
substitution. Apprentices are. not wanted,
and the shipowner who carries them is given
to clearly understand that he does so at his
AFFIRMING THE PRINCIPLE .
CLASS CONSCIOUS COMRADE (shipwrecked): “Well, we've done our six hours. How
about knockin’ off ?”
THE OTHER: “ Right-o.”
(Both drown.) .
peril. Yet with a proper system of appren-
ticing the Naval College could provide a
steady stream of cadets who would get
almost as good training as if they were on
regular navy ships—the ships that we
haven’t got for the moment.
One of the vanishing industries of N. S.
Wales is housebuilding. The War Service
Homes scheme is keeping it alive at present,
but when that goes the Lord knows what
will happen. Probably the army of brickies,
plasterers and hod-carriers will have to look
for work at the pony races, and caves will
come into the market as desirable family
residences, the supply of flats and stables
being limited. During the last six months,
according to the Metropolitan Water Board,
1200 fewer new houses were available than
in the corresponding period of 1920. _ The
44-hour week and the fair-rents law did the
business. Under the fair-rents measure the
houseowner’s return is limited to 64 per cent.
He can get more than that by purchasing
war bonds at current quotations, and sit
back and enjov life without being harried by
courts, inspectors, plumbers, repairers, rate-
collectors and doubtful tenants. He needn t
even give himself the trouble of collecting
the interest —his hank will do that for him
without charge. So the building of houses
for investment has ceased, and those who
claim to represent the “worker’’ have got
his vote in exchange for another gilded brick.
When things pall on the modern Labor
boss he refreshes his mind by expelling some-
one. Three obscure suburban aidermen who
objected to the absorption of Paddington in
the Sydney municipal area are the latest to
be expelled. There is nothing in the Labor
platform, as formulated at any conference
or congress, which says that Paddington
must be absorbed in Sydney ; but as matters
stand the Paddington vote is the only thing
that can save Boss Lambert and his fol-
lowers when they go before the Sydney rate-
pavers in December, so the anti-absorption-
ists were passed out of “the movement.” One
of them challenged Power, president of the
A.L.P. and a leading expulsionist. to resign
his municipal seat (Power is a Paddington
alderman) and let Paddmgton decide be-
tween them. But that bold pastrycook and
apostle of freedom —he moved the inglorious
anti-recruiting resolution at the Perth Labor
Conference —wasn’t having any.
A few more scraps of paper:—
Realising that it is doomed, and being anxious
to make McCawley Chief Justice before it is kicked
out, the Queensland Labor Government has intro-
duced a bill compelling Judges to retire at, 70 on
half-pay. The measure is retrospective in its inci-
dence, and is aimed at Pope Cooper, C.J., who is
73, Real (74) and Chubb (76). Real, who
is an Irishman and an ex-railway employee—facts
which, in ordinary circumstances, 'weigh heavih
with the crowd in office —appeared at the bar of, the
House to give his reasons for objecting to being
summarily dismissed after 31 years' service. His
fine speech convinced every impartial hearer that
his mental powers are unimpaired, but he happens
to be senior puisne Judge—in other words, he
stands in the way of the fortunate McCawley. So
out he goes, along with his two colleagues, because
a moribund Administration wants to pack a Bench.
Since THE Bulletin invented the phrase
it has become a commonplace that the Aus-
tralian baby is Australia’s 'best, immigrant.
But it can be pushed too far. Much
depends on what is done with him after
he arrives. To begin with he makes
his appearance naked and ignorant. 11c
knows no trade, and, owing to cruel and.
insane apprenticeship restrictions and other
causes, he probably never learns one, and is
then liable to become a burden on the com-
munity. Especially is this so since the in-
vention of the bas e wage. The basic wage,
to begin with, is fixed not with any regard
to the value of the work done or the goods
produced, but according to the presumed cost
of supporting a man, wife and (in most in-
stances) three children. It is the most obvi r
ous fact on earth that there can’t be in the
average family three children of the age that
require support, but rather less than on?. The
census of 1911 put this plainly. _Out of every
10,000 persons there were 6835 aged above
15, which was roughly 34171 possible fathers
and 34171 possible mothers. And there
were only 3165 children. In not a single
State except Tasmania were there enough
children to make one per, family. As for
three, the idea was preposterous.
There are some antediluvian Tories in
the N. S. Wales Opposition. The other
night T. .T. Ley accused Labor of being
“disloyal’' because it is against appeals to
the Privy Council—a practice which the
Dominion Premiers, beginning with W. M.
Hughes, have just done denouncing in Lon-
don. and which English authorities as con-
servative as Lord B rkenhead admit to be
obsolete. T. R. Bavin followed with a de-
fence of the Governor’s veto, which is about
as dead in the self-governing Dominions to-
day as the roval veto is in Britain. And 11.
V.' Jaques weighed in with an endorsement
of the system of pleading, a procedure which
England gave up some years before he was
born. It was all in the picture accordingly
when their agricultural colleague Onslow
rose and started talking of "a 44-hour day.
A Launceston (Tas.) message states
At the annual congress of the Returned Soldiers
and Sailors’ League (Tasmanian branch), which
concluded its sittings this morning, it was resolved
that in view of the attitude of the Commonwealth
Government in issuing the British war medal to men
who did not embark for active service, the congress
advises members of the league not to accept the
medal and those who have received it to return u
to the Defence Department.
It would be as effective if members pledged-
themselves to go without boots for a mouth.
But the Government would sit up and take
notice if members of the League pledged
themselves to vote against all Government
candidates till such anomalies were righted.
That’s the sort of protest and the only sort
politicians can understand.
“Ilis Lordship says lie never saw pro-
hibition in U.S.A., so, of course there is no
such thing there. He never saw a drought in
Australia ; it is to be hoped he will not go
back to England and say we never have them.”
Thus the Rev. H.B. Hammond on Lord Nort.li-
clifife. It is typical prohibition logic. Merely
accept the premise that drought in Aus-
tralia is supposed to be universal from Berth
to Brisbane, and the fallacy of the news-
paper chief’s conclusion becomes as clear as
mud.
Victoria put syphilis on its list of notifi-
able diseases in duly. 1917. During the four
years since then 28,297 cases have been
detected, 15,000-odd being treated by the
Government authority and the rest privately
hut with the official eye upon them. Victoria
finds no difficulty in the matter, nor do Tas-
mania, W.A. or Ooeonsland. Laz^, affable,
stout McGirr, of N.S.W., the best-paid
Health Minister in Australasia, simply says
the thing is impossible, and though his State
has a sort of Notification law lie refuses to
enforce it. In fact, its repeal is looked for.
So apparently McGirr is four years more
ignorant and shiftless than his contemporary
across the Big Trickle, or he has less feeling,
or some important person is very much
interested.
The compulsory wheat pool is to have
another season’s run in N. S. Wales, ihe
Acting-Premier says that this time no special
guarantee is mentioned. Last time his Gov-
ernment mentioned half-a-erown. Farmers,
however, “will he paid a reasonable advance
oil their wheat when delivered to radway,
and these payments will probably be on
much the same basis as last year. Last
year, so far as the State Government was
concerned, they were on no basis at all,
being nil. The Minister thinks there will be
no difficulty in raising the money, but he is
a sanguine person. Last year Minister Dunn
almost wore out the Sydney-Melbourne rail-
way in search of the money, and didn t raise
enough to pay for repairs to his free pass.
N. S. Wales Acting Premier Dooley pre-
sented to himself the other day, at Lithgow
(N.S.W.), one of the bouquets which poli-
ticians of a sort are always handing them-
selves. The general tenor of the blossoms
proved to be that he was in politics for quite
unselfish motives, and was no richer than
when he struggled for a crust as a private
citizen. When a country tailor with a sud-
den £2OOO a year finds himself no richer,
cynics begin to reckon that he must have
rotten luck at the races.
Gardiner, Labor M.L.A., made a niche for
himself during the N. 8. Wales censure de-
bate In a bitter speech he told the bitter
truth about the Storey Government and its
lack of redeeming qualities. The Govern-
ment wasn’t perturbed. It declared openly
that when it came to a choice between risk-
ing his salary and his fees as a
member of the Public Works Committee
and voting as he talked, the salary and
the fees would win in a canter. They did ;
and the circumstance cried aloud for that
handy instrument, the recall. Mith it in
operation a member who would chuck Ins con-
science overboard in order to save his bread
and butter would be liable to be sent after
his conscience.
That Unhappy Family the N.S.W. Labor
Caucus may be nearly due for another wasn-
ing of the - over-ripe shirt in public. The
\L P executive, which appointed Lambert
Mayor of Sydney, which orders the amalga-
mation of Paddington with the city, selects
new M’s.L.C., and summons Labor Min-
isters before it t*> he spanked, is said to
want a new sluiflle of portfolios. Certain
of the Ministers arc nor sufficiently explo-
sive, which was the view Robespierre took ol
Danton and Desmoulins three months before
his own finish. The Agent-General is also
a chronic source of worry. M hen a new
Ministry comes in it is liable to sack, the
occupant by cable, as the present Ministry
did David Hall, and to let go even a private
member’s job and grasp at that apple of
Sodom is risky. Yet it is a very mee-look-
ing apple.
THE VICARIOUS HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Buncombe: ‘Mv young friend Mr. Slink did
not but he persuaded all his nephews to do
“Mr. Slink: ‘Mv friend, Mr. Buncombe is a true
loyalist. Though he did not, for private reasons, join
the army, he did useful recruiting work.’ ”
—Typical N.B. H'. Assembly amenities.
Now this is the story of Ivarpitte Kite, the patriot
M.L.A.
Whose habit it is to seek for votes on the King-and-
Empire lay.
When the Germans started to show their teeth and
threaten the British fleet,
Kite dared them to do their d—dest, sir, in tones
of indignant heat. ;
He riddled Von Tirpitz with biting sneers; he
laughed at the Kaiser’s ways:
The truculent words Of>the Empire’s foes filled Kar-
pitte with sheer amaze.
He clamored for Dreadnoughts and Empire Leagues
the insolent Huns to foil:
Whoever suggested alternatives was, in Karpitte’s
phrase, “disloil.’’
And so he orated and levelled threats, and cheered
for the Union Jack,
Till Germany struck and the curtain rose on Britain
in trouble black.
Did patriot Kite to the colors dash, and fight for
his Flag and King,
Regardless of risk or money loss? He did no such
foolish thing.
Instead, he elected, on private grounds, to do his
bit with his mouth.
“I care not who sails for the North,” he cried, “i’ll
stand by the menaced South.”
But please do not think, as the years dragged on,
that Karpitte was idle quite.
Par from it. He argued like anything to show baser
•men the light.
And now, when his little ones ask of him: “Did you
fight, daddy?” “No! No!”,
He smiles. “I was loil in a diff'rent way. I called
on my friends to go.”
x.s.w.
J. B. D.


HANGING BY A THREAD.
“Mr. Hughes said he hoped to lead the land for many years, swimming in a sea of glory.”- Age.


0
MOTORS
Metropolitan Vickers Electric Motors
are simple and rugged in construction.
Their efficiency does not vary appreci-
ably between % -load and 25% overload.
LARGE STOCKS HELD.
lCKer
CO- LTtt
STRAFFORD PARK. MANCHESTER.
Australian Offices:
84 William Street, Melbourne.
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:
Elder, Smith & Co., Etd., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane. Perth.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF PROGRESS.
TRI'ST FUNDS, 1905:
£5,758,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1915:
£11,890,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1921
£18,400,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1921, £1,940,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held bv the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
>os. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Adelaide Steamship Co. :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£202,870 transferred to capital .. A-ot>,
1909. . £84,112 10 p.c. =' £62,129 • £21,983
1910.. 85,402 10 ~ „ 11,004 14,4;)h 'O-.^-J
1911.. 07,221 10 „ „ 71,004 - 98 900
191') 51 852 8 ~ ~ 56,804 93,948
1913" 49 874 3 „ .21,301 28,573 122,521
\iu.: 03.754 o ”:: 42,002 21,152 143,673
1915.. 67,903 6 „ „ 44,22 ( 23,6'6 16(,349
1916.. 226,531 101 „ 81,380 ( gsir)J 262,500
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 \
1917. 7 260,004 10 p.c. = 77 >504 \ 132,500 395.000
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 )
191 S. lO p.c. ~ <*,504 1 oiM i - riVio*
1919.. 152,452 15 „ „ 116,25- 36,19 u nb1, 19.)
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up.
£1,550,090 transferred to capital. „
1920.. *88,713 3 : j p.c. = 87,192 1,521 4
231,725 74 ~ ~ l<4,oBi> 5/,.>40 JU4,ooi
♦Portion of year only.
When this co.’s chuirman addressed share-
holders in Adelaide the other day he con
lined his remarks “chiefly to the general
position as it affected the co. and its share-
holders.” A series of groans and squeals
followed: industrial arbitration had tailed
utterly: the drastic requirements ot the
amended Navigation Act had laid up many
of the steamers during the year, ' entail-
ino- the expenditure of many thousands ol
pounds, and causing heavy loss of revenue
without in any way adding to the earning
power of those vessels” ; "once again legis-
lation of an extreme character came to re-
tard and restrict” the industry ; they "were
faced with demands in every direction ; and
the S. Aus. Government still fails to com-
pensate the co. for the wharves taken from
it No doubt all these things are true; but
when the post-mortemist turns to the
1 accounts he finds that it is the comm unity and
not the company which has paid tor them,
and which might very properly do-the groan-
ing and squealing. As for the co., which
has been able to pass its troubles on, in
only one previous year (1917) were profits
larger; and never before has so much been
handed out to shareholders. No new capital
has been got in for some years, though two
years ago, when the co. reconstructed, three
new shares were issued in place ot ev.eiy
old one. Much of the old capital consisted
of bonus issues of earlier years; yet on that
capital latest disclosed profits gave neail.\
30 p.c., and actual dividends were 2-* p.c.
In view of results like these, the public
seems to have ample justification for its
squeal and groan. For the mter-State
freight-carrier is a necessary commodity it
ever there was one.
The £231,725 shown in the first table is
not the net profit disclosed by the direetois.
They claim £175.225—a few hundreds more
than was required .for the dividend as the
net result after providing for depreciation
and other charges.” But £29,000 was
dropped into the insurance account, and
£27,500 more went into a reserve tor re-
pairs, renewals and replacements both
vaults in which surplus profits have been
hidden in the past. Two. years ago more
than half-a-million was lying to the credit
of these reserves, but in the reconstruction
bonus scrip was issued against practically
all the accumulation. The extent of the
provision for depreciation in any year is
never ascertainable, but an idea of what
was socked away allegedly for that purpose
in past years can be got from the writing
up of the fleet by approximately a million
two years ago.
During the war years considerable profit
was made by selling steamers at figures
much in excess of their book values, ihe
co. last year set about replacing tlie ves-
sels sold, though it also disposed of its larg-
est vessel, the Wandilla (7780 tons), and a
launch. Six new cargo-carriers (aggregat-
ing 22,527 tons) were taken into the ser-
vice. The effects of these purchases and
sales are not visible in the accounts; every-
thing is well hidden by including parcels
.of shares in other cos. and Government secu-
rities with fixed assets, though tlie Y\ ar
Doan holding is shown separately. .Lb;"
comparison can be given for what it is
worth:— „„„„
1915. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets.. .. £153.341 £619.159* £595,048*
Liabilities (excluding
Provident Fund) .. 362,695 250,199 241,880
Excess liabilities .. £209,354 ■ .
Surplus assets .'. —• £368,960 £303,1,68
* Exclusive of Government securities lumped with
fixed assets in balance-sheets.
Prior to 1915 tlie co. had been adding to
its fleet and going into debt to do so. By
selling vessels and snatching war profits it
lias since improved its liquid position by
£560,000-odd and the amount of investments
now bundled with the big composite item,
'rile Adelaide S. S. is thus in a good posi-
tion to finance the purchase of additional
vessels if it can find employment tor them.
In Commonwealth Government securities
alone it has £255,000. .
The t.’iiamber of Manukaotubes Insur-
ance Ltd. ( Melbourne 1
Bonus to Re-
Sept... Profits. Dividends. Policy-holders, serves.
1915. . £9.699 1 0 p.c, - £ 2372 £4.311 Xa.Olti
191 o' 6 727 10 „ „ 2623 2,436 4.680
1917.. 23,506 10 „ ~ 3000 13,397 11,789
191 S. . 21.917 10 „ ~ 3000 16,47 a 14,231
1919.. 21,118 10 „ „ 3237 :.5,357 16,5 a»
1920.. 28,762 10 „ „ 3920 18,835 22,062
1921.. 40,326 10 „ „ 4382 24,099 34,40,
That table does not give a complete state-
ment of the eo.'s position ; it presents only
the profits claimed by the management, and
does nut take into account each year's appro-
priation of underwriting surplus for une.x-
pired risks. Besides the reserves of £54,40 <
shown in the table there is £47,481 laid aside
to provide for risks under policies written
last year, but which had not run out at the
balance. Cross premiums for tlie 1- mouths
to June were £1(54,481. Of that £o4,Jib
was laid off, and £61,75.8 (lowed out m
claims and exes. Adding £Bl6O interest
earnings, the management had a surplus of
£50,(540 to play with. The Chamber of
Manufactures got £5415. and £lOOO ot re-
serves (which included "provision for taxa-
tion’’) disappeared, leaving £50,225 as the
year's net surplus. The £OBO9 dropped into
the reserve for unexpired risks accounts for
the difference between this surplus and the
profits given in the table. Members of the
parent Chamber have given their insurance
co. strong support, so after only seven years
it is in "a leading position in respect of
Vic. insurance business.” Hero is the under-
writing record from the beginning: —
K o t boss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1915. . £31,907 £6,027 -£3,400 18.9 p'.c. 10.6 p.c.
1916*. 29,670 9,881 , 2,638 33.3 „ 8.9 . „
1917.. 43,182 14,497 3,444 33.6 „ 8.0 „
1918.. 55,011 21,310 6,603 38.8 „ 12.0 „
1919.. 09,053 34,921 7,593 50.6 „ 11.0 „
1920.. 86,468 43,283 9,044 50.0 „ 10.4 „
1921.. 110,262 50,544 11,214 45.8 „ 10.1 „
*Nine months.
Midway in that table there was an all-round
reduction of charges by the Associated
underwriters, and this co. dropped into line.
Last year was a very favorable one, the loss
rate being the lowest since the new rates
operated, and exes, also were got down a
trifle. The very low cost-rate is the feature
of the eo.’s operations; all charges (includ-
ing taxation) last year took only £lO 2s.
per £lOO of net premiums, and three times
that much is a common experience among
cos. in this line of business. Low costs aid
bonuses, and for the past, year a rebate of
20 p.c. on workmen’s compensation pre-
miums was made to policy-holders in addi-
tion to the customary 10 p.c. discount, with
15 p.c. on marine premiums, besides the 15
p.c. discount already allowed. Altogether
£24,099 of bonuses were paid, and even then
the management had a good margin available
for strengthening reserves. They now total
£81,888; so that independent of the current
revenue or the capital resources, the reserves
could next year meet losses half as large
again as those of last year.
The Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd.
(Hobart) : —-
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910.. £7,963 6 p.e. = £6,884 £1,079 £12,315
1911.. 10,325 6 ~ „ 6,804 3,521 15,836
1912.. 7,508 6 „ „ 6,804 704 16,540
1913.. 7,782 6 „ ~ 6,804 978 17,518
1914.. 11,683 6 „ „ 6,804 4,879 22,397
1915.. 11,140 6 „ „ 6,804 4,336 26,733
1916 10,623 6 ~ ~ 6,804 3.819 30,552
1917.. 8,650 6 ~ „ 6,804 1,846 32,398.
1918 9 957 6 ~ ~ 6,868 3,089 35,487
1919.] 8,042 6„ ~ 6,868 1,174 36,661
1920.. 10,244 8 „ ~ 8,127 2,117 38,778
1921.. 34,710 10 „ ~11,610 23,100 61,878
This Derwent-side eo. for many years
brewed good beer but poor dividends. Lately,
though, shareholders have been doing better.
For the past year the co. bolted, net profits
being more than treble those of any previous
year. Still, all of the improvement was pro-
bably not due to beer. One of the eo.’s old
troubles was that it had a large holding of
land which was not productive of much, if
any, revenue, though meantime it was
paying a tidy bit each year by way of inter-
est on debentures and other debts necessary
to hold on to the various assets. The Speck
has undergone big changes during recent
years: hydro-electric power has infused new
iife into the long-time somnolent little State.
The establishment of works by the Electro-
lytic Zinc, Cadbury’s and other enterprises
gives the Speck a new outlook, and some of
its old-established concerns have got a move
on. Tlie Cascade Brewery three years ago
reorganised its management; 12 months
later it put a sawmill at work on its Cas-
cade estate and found “an excellent demand”
for all timber cut. Also it set about building
up its export trade in beers, and extended
plant so as to cope with an increased demand
efficiently. The handsome profits for the
past vear are the result: they were equal to
M 2 p.c. on paid capital as written down. '1 lie
improvement compared with other years can
be shown in another way :
Cross Profits, Debenture
Heats, ete. Expenses. interest, etc.
1910.. X 28,498 £14,002 £5920
1916. . 32,000 17,250 4133
1919.. 31,494 19,422 4 130
1920.. 4 5,997 31.51.0 4348
1921.. 06,456 37,122 4412
Whether any of the improvement has been
due to sale of assets, such as slices of the
Cascade estate, is not stated; surpluses over
and above book values may have been got
from realisations.
Besides better trading conditions, the Cas-
cade co. is nowadays assisted in another
wav. Considerable reserves were accumu-
lated iu the years when shareholders got only
U p.c. p.a.. and the piling up of these reserves
displaced a lot of old debt. Interest now calls
for about £l5OO less than 10 years ago, and
that means nearly I'. p.c. more on capital
available for shareholders. How the load ol
debt iias been shifted is shown next
1905. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Mortgages & deposits £98.746 £86,927 £75,091 £68,707
Overdrafts, etc. .. 29,820 20,531 13,618 1 I,„.>U
Hotels, properties,
~t (. 186.446 183,060 165,744 160,29,
Stock and plant,. 40,343 40,629 43,329 50,370
Hook debts, etc... 20,420 22,446 29.404 •>• >.>-.0
Cash and investments 4i9 184 4.14 < -.,914
J’aid capital has remained stationary at
£lOB,OOO since 1002. Prior to that it was
£108,750; hut Os. per share was written oti
the 50s. shares paid to 255. The writing
down of property values left 1.>0,000 guinea
shares paid to 10s. each. Since 1005 liabili-
ties have been got down by £47,000; and,
while the book value of fixed assets has also
diminished by £11,122, £2l, •>•>•> has been
invested in other directions. Lhe net nn-
nrovement shown by tho published baliuice-
sheets over the 10 years has thus been
£57 722, or more than half the co. s paid
capital. The excess of liabilities over and
above liquid assets of £107,067 has meantime
been reduced to £38,823. So the affairs of
the old co. (it started 38 years ago) have en-
tirely changed, and its trading prospects,
despite the activities of the Pussyfoots, aie
probably brighter than at any other period
of its career. Meantime the water-harness-
ing schemes which have given the Speck an
industrial future have also no doubt had
some influence on the value of this beer co. s
belongings. v #
Broken Hill South, Ltd.:—.
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1907 £203,357 £140,000 £28,407 £140,906
1908 88.847 90,000 10,491 129,262
]<)o<) . 97,811 40,000 21,435 160,63 S
1910 .. 90,604 60,000 105,166 91,076
1911 ' ' 150,092 120,000 10,168 111,000
line 269,773 210,000 10,985 159,788
1913 " 337,712 230,000 1 1,507 155,993
1914 ’’ 323,847 280,000 11,158 188,682
1915 '' 231,373 30,000 18,636 371,419
1916 ” 386.979 210,000 17,294 531,204
1917 .. 492,540 240,000 32,24 a < j>M»9
1918 ■■ 334,976 210,000 6a,00a ,81,4,0
Co. reconstructed—
Special div., £60,000 • • .• •
Returned to shareholders. £68,832 .. o|>->638
Plant written up, £.340,805 • • jTo
Transferred to capital, £705,000 .. 288,443
Other writings-up and adjustments
making reserves . • • • • • 390.0J1
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1919 .. £344.113 15 p.c. = £120,000 £614,204
1920 .. ■ 2,706 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 .. 48,551 Nil 568,419
The last entry does not. give a wholly satis-
factory statement of the year’s results. Re-
serves include a depreciation fund of
£136,996, but how much of that is a genuine
reserve cannot be gauged. This gives a more
satisfactory view:—
1920. 1921.
Special reserve . . £377,587 £311,034
General reserve .. 15.619 33,927
Debenture reserve.. 64,262 79,0;>1
P. &L. balance .. 64,113 7,411
Total .. . . -£521,581 £431.423
Depreciation reserve 81.789 136.996
New plant reserve.. 13,600
£616,970 £568.419
Apart from the depreciation and new-plant
reserves the South slipped back £90,158.
From a mining point of view the leeway was
even greater, for income was helped by
£20,251 from the half-million or so of out-
side investments. The reconstruction of the
plant which had mysteriously gone up in
smoke in July. 1919. was completed in Janu-
ary last, and output then averaged li-l
tons crudes per week until the year closed
at the end of Juno, productive work being
restricted to one shift daily, though the flota-
tion plant was set to work at full capacity
on the slimes dump. Metal production was
as follows: —
Concern , Contents- — ; —->
trates, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
tons. tons. oz. tons.
Lead mill .. 5,981 3792 163.281 514
Flotation plants 8,326 4009 347,2(9 1216
Total .. 14,307 7SOI 510,560 1730
“Mine-production and realisation from pre-
vious periods”—lead stocks being valued at
£23 per ton and silver at 3s. per oz.—put
£131,728 into the working Mine
expenses ran away with £180,507. They, of
course, included costs incurred during the
portion of the year when the mine was idle,
it is a dismal performance, more so because
i! i practically no development work was
undertaken during the period; (2) metal
production came mostly from the slime
dumps; and (3) the crude ore treated was
from selected stopes. lu short, the year s
loss was sustained under abnormal condi-
tions of working, and in spite of what, from
almost every aspect, must be regarded as un-
sound mining.
Another view of how the B. H. South has
suffered since the war left it with a liquid
surplus of almost three-quarters of a mil-
lion is given by this comparison:—
1919. 1920. 1921.
Assets other than mine
ami plant .. . . £084,"26 £907,593 £783,662
Liabilities .. . . 240,820 200,551 207,501
Excess assets .. 12743,500 .12701,042 £570,101
This means that the co. is not so well
off by £107,400. so far as assets apart
from mine and plant are concerned, as
it was two years ago, though mean
time shareholders have not had a penny.
Neither lias the eo.’s position from a mining
point of view been improved by the drain
on the liquid assets, except, possibly that the
new plant may in some minor respects give
greater efficiency than the old one.
From an operating point of view the out-
look is very uncertain. The South has 3A
million tons ore reserves available, but no
guarantee that the stuff can he mined and
converted into' saleable product at a profit
with metals at present prices. General
manager Wainweight deals comprehensively
with the industrial situation in liis report,
and gives tliis illuminating comparison of
latest working costs with those ruling prior
to the strike and when metals were still at
war prices (costs are shown per ton crudes) :
1919. 1921.
Extraction .. 245. 7.1 d. 365. o.ld.
Development .. 3s. 5.8 d. Hi.Oi!.
Treatment ~ 9s. 5.3 d. 13s. 10.3 d,
375. G.2d. 51s. 3d.
Apart from development the increase ol
costs was 48 p.c. Put another way, mining-
costs represented £l3 12s. 6d. per ton concen-
trates compared with £9 18s. 2d. two years
ago. Before the strike the miners put in 354
hours at the face; under the Edmunds award.
274 hours. On a three-shifts basis producing
hours have been curtailed 48.3 p.c., and on
a two-shifts basis, 224 p.c. These conditions
combined with the sick metal market account
for the fact that on the line of lode there
are now employed only 2500 men compared
with 8200 in the days when the Hill was in
full swing.
Still, there is hope for the future. The
world can’t always be as mad as it is just
now. When the Technical Commission under
Dr. Chapman presents its report on the
actual working conditions in the mines the
disastrous Edmunds award automatically
comes up for review, and the cos. may secure
some relief. Also the world’s war stocks
of lead have been almost unloaded, industry
abroad is settling down to the new condi-
tions. and there are prospects of better prices
for the metal than have been offering lately.
Nevertheless, it is certain that Barrier pro-
ducers will not have the saiue opportuni-
ties as in pre-war days, nor will they be
so well placed as those in other silver-lead
countries: as in Burma, for instance, where
it appears that the costs of production are
about one-half those ruling in Aussie. South
shareholders have this consolation: their
mine is still a very big proposition: it i«
well developed, efficiently equipped and
staffed ; and none of its neighbors is better-
placed to make the most of whatever the new
conditions may be.
* # * *
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.)
Written Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1908. . £46,351 5p c = £16,000 £22,517 £8,467
1909.. 42,908 74 „ ~'24,000 7,374 ) „ ffiq
Income-tax arrears.. .. 16,332 ) ’
Deficit.
1910.. 3,910 5 p.c. = 16,000 8,421
Reserves.
1911.. 37,056 24 „ „ 8,000 20,635
1912.. 88,438 18f „ ~60,000 8,000 41,073
1913.. 54,166 174 „ ~ 56,000 39,239
1914.. 39,997 74 „ „ 24,000 55,236
1915.. 168,085 182 „ ~60,000 163,321
Reserved for taxation, £136,000 1 g£g
1916.. 231,505 374 p.c. = 120,000 j ’
• Taxation reserves, £136,000, restored
to accumulated profits .. 274,826
1917.. 133,292 31J p.c. = 100,000 308,118
1916 war-time profits tax ( £38,786) and
provision for taxes (£7858) written off 261.474
1918.. 75,775 25 p.c. = 80,000 257,249
June, Loss.
1919.. 21,860 Nil. I 206 306
1916-17 War-time Profits Tax, £29.083 (
1920.. 34,305 74p.c.= 24.000 148,001
Refund of War-time Profits Tax, £38,088 182,089
1921.. 106,187 Nil 79,902
Wallaroo and Moonta was shut down from
Dec. 23 until nearly two months after the
close of the accounts on June 30. Thus very
little more productive work was done during
the year than for the previous 12 months of
strikes and other disturbances. A very sick


rile big American venture at Rimu Flat
(M.L.) is nearing the completion stage, and
in a few weeks the huge dredge will be at
work, proving the value of the gold wash.
A large amount of money has been spent, but
the co. is confident that results will justify
it
If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulbnrn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.—A ovt, [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at,Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Mm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * *
To Waterworks Enigjiiieers.—Practical engineers
the world over recognise the superiority of Wood
I ipe for all water schemes. It cannot corrode, does
not foul, and constantly delivers a larger flow than
inetal pipe of the same dimensions. It is lighter
in first cost, handling, laying and transportation
charges. We can furnish “Pioneer” Wood Pipe for
every requirement. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.—Advt.
ASBESTOS. The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. “Asbestos House,” corner
t ork and Uynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * •* *
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M, Newton, Patent
Attorney, lunk s Buildings, Melbourne, on. Patent
Office , tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bouine, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt. 1
*
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc
plants: sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants!
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc Re-
presented by Arthur Lepiastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * ■* #
1921 Models —— National’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
IC-b.h.p Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Lepiastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
. # —Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & OerMin<P«
La unices. Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
o b i,! ‘ or for particulars. 11. B. Selbv * Co.!
cl'" G l° rge Sl T eet (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney : and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cableßoard
"c.B!' JHH*
The “VVEEK-END” rate is now available
trom Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are- aeeepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning. ' 6
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.’’
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain ..• 3/
i/e
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4|d.
Canada
2/4 1/2
j 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/S 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rate= on
application. Cable forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MII.W4ED. Manager in the Pacific
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
d
BOORD &, SOI*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Ms
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
13
Hus
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
copper market and impossible costs were re-
sponsible for the cessation of operations,
unij bb,040 tons material were handled
compared with 219,873 in 1917-18. On this
occasion g.-m. Hancock does not disclose the
raliie °t the ore raised in each of the two
old mines, but, instead, lumps results:—
Wallaroo Mines.
Copper Contents.
total Tonnage A
Handled. p.e. tons.
292 i • •• 114,438 4.30 4924
• 211,665 3.03 6403
•• 163,412 3.40 5558
“J® • • 32,783 3.97 1302
1920 •• 68,996 3.39 2339
Moonta Mines.
}*}}■■ ■■ 36,783 4.26 1649
I 9 }-!-- 38,798 3.51 1468
f 9 f°;- •• 56,461 2.61 1472
? 929 • • • 7,784 2.17 169
1920 - 8,905 2.57 229
Both Mines.
1921 - •• 86,045 3.32 2856
'Six months.-
The copper contents of the material handled
was a decimal point better than in the pre-
vious year, but the average has fallen off
considerably in recent years. About 31 tons
copper are available in each 100 tons ore
nowadays, which is about a ton less than 10
years ago. Though values in the ores are
not given independently, Wallaroo is credited
with a production of 08,229 tons, which
yielded 1990 tons refined copper, while 17,816
tons vein stuff came from Moonta, 12,437
tons of it from Taylor’s west lode. . The
smelters (which handled some ore for cus-
tomers) turned out 3200 tons copper, IGOOoz.
gold, and 1400 oz. silver; and 2851 tons sul-
phuric acid was also produced.
W orking costs were so high, though, and
the copper market so unfavorable, that the
years resulted in a loss of
£lOO,lB <. But the directors do not directly
admit that the c-o. was so badly knocked:
in their report they give the loss'as £71,804,
from which must be deducted £3765 of in-
terest earned. With the term’s revenue,
however, they include £38.088 of War-time
Fronts Tax refunded. The figures' in the last
line of the table are made up in this way :
Revenue £240,000
Working exes 342,591
Working loss .. ... . .. £97,591
Administration and other exes. . . 12,361
£ 109 959
Investment profits . . .. 3’765
Loss as per table . . .. £106,187
Taxation refund .. . . . . 38,088
Loss shown by directors .. .. £68,099
And this .shows how holes have been blown
in the co.’s liquid surplus:-
1919. 1920. 1921.
Investments .. . . £105,0Q0 £100,558 £ 100,289
Stocks copper . . . . 186.957 78,944 44,449
Stores, etc 123,128 117,036 164,668
Cash and book debts. . 7,708 50,314 1,010
£422,793 £346,852 £310,416
Liabilities .. 92,575 79,652 111,511
£330,218 £267,200 £198,905
On that showing Wallaroo and Moonta has
dropped £131,313 of surplus liquid assets
without anything to show in the way of im-
provements to tße mining position ; in fact,
the mines are the poorer because of the cop-
per dug out while this loss was being sus-
tained. Whether the financial weakening
will prove to have been so great depends to
some extent on the figure at which unsold
stocks of metal were included in the latest
accounts (nothing is said on the subject),
and what they will actually realise.
The co. got to work again on August 1 6 by
securing a six-months’ suspension of indus-
trial awards. Wages are on a sliding scale,
the management undertaking to pay a mini-
mum lls. per day so long as copper does
not go below £OB, but with corresponding
increases should better market prices offer.
But there is nothing in the old show under
existing conditions. And the going in future
will not be so easy as in pre-war days,
unless copper prices .improve considerably.
Costs certainly are not likely to be got down
much for some years, so a favorable market
is shareholders’ one hope. There is the
further difficulty that the grade of ore offer-
ing is not what it used to be; and the man-
agement is silent as to what ore reserves are
in sight. Still, the war put Wallaroo and
Moonta in a strong position. Notwithstand-
ing the buffeting of the past two years, each
of the 160.000 £2-paid shares has the Back-
ing of 245. lOd. worth of surplus liquid
assets.
■* * * *
After a stormy passage Jack Whear
Roberts’s Associated Extended tin (N.S.W.)
has commenced production. The co. was
recently reconstructed, and, co-inc’dentally,
an attempt was made to manoeuvre the show
into another stable. Having overcome these
troubles, the management endeavored to
make a start on Roberts’s section, but con-
tinuous rains held up work for nearly three
months. In , that area mine-manager Smith
has put down 90 shafts and bores over 15
acres, and reckons on 200,000 c. yd. of
dredgable ground going 4ilb., which gives
about three years’ work for the plant. Asso-
ciated Extended has acquired from Y-Water
that old show's water rights. This assures
the co. a permanent water supply—tin;
reservoir has a capacity of 70 million gal.
and will be ample to keep four plants in
operation. Y-Water has also passed over
■lO acres adjoining Roberts’s section, and
though these blocks are covered with slurry
and water a few bores have disclosed good
values below'. A second plant is to be put
to work as soon as possible on the old Wyalong
lead, where good values have been got, par-
ticularly in the northern end, where bores
have given 5. jib. for a depth of 27ft.
Later on the co. may add a third plant to
tackle the Bouveret section. Mine-manager
Smith, after 15 years’ local experience, con-
siders “the outlook for the Extended is equal
to any that has ever existed” on the Emma-
ville field. Everything, though, depends on
the tin market.
The long-victimised Westralian public is
again incensed at mining progress-reports
which give misleading widths, values, etc.,
and the Mines Dept, is once more being in-
vited to take action. J. 11. Curie, travel-
ling mining-expert and writer, gives a sample
ot what shareholders have to put up with.
At a general meeting the chairman of this
particular show said : “Our manager reports:
‘Have driven 04 feet. The reef is a well-
defined body, and assays taken every sft.
show values of loz. ISdwt. and 2oz. 6dwt.
On such values shareholders may look for-
ward to immense profits in the future.’ ”
But the mine-manager had carefully omitted
to give the whole of the assays—lB in all.
These, even with the two high ones speci-
ally picked out. averaged onlv 6dwt. Con-
tinuing, the report said: “Have cut the reef
at a deeper level.” But again the manager
omitted to add that the width was only sin.,
which showmd it to be practically valueless.
* * * *
Mararoa is hard-set once more. Its old
Norseman mine, which responded so well to
the touch of Bill Henderson, is done, and
the Light of Asia, at Cue, that was to re-
place it, does not open up well to either
pick or drill. A lot of boring has been done
of late, to see if parallel reefs exist, as was
thought w'hen Rae sold to the co. Nothing
but blanks have been drawn, and as the
shoot at the bottom level is only 115 ft. long
and pitching sharply to the north, Henderson
has a boring programme on hand from the
surface to see if it is worth while sinking
the shaft another lift. All ore above No. 4
level has been mined, and even there the
shoots of gold were so short as to give little
return. Just now' the main shoot is being-
opened up at No. 5 from the w'inze with
good stone showing, but the doubt is as to
how' far it w'ill extend. Meantime the co. is
financially comfortable: it has small debts
and over £14,000 to play with.-
❖ * * *
Government-geologist Blatehford. having-
reported favorably on the prospects of oil
at Freney’s. Kimberley. (W.A.), a co., in
which 50,000 £1 shares are offered the public
and the same number of shares and £lO,OOO
cash go to the vendors, is in process of forma-
tion to acquire the concession. A wild
boom in oil is predicted by some Westralian
boosters, including promoters of ventures
with not a thousand-to-one chance of tap-
ping oil. Bremer Bay has been ticked off
as a dud,, and intrinsically the shares of
the co. operating there do not appear to be
worth a shilling a cwT.
Westonia (W.A.) is very dismal nowa-
days. _ Edna May is dead, a number of
notorious w'ild-eats are strangled, and with
the exception of the Central and Deeps
almost _ everything else is at a standstill.
What is left on the Edna May line is only
a speculation ; and it w'ill be some time be-
fore anything much can be proved one way
or the other. The expenditure on prospect-
ing is legitimate enough, but with a lifeless
market the operating cos, may find it hard
to get in calls.
* * * »
Edna May Golden Point (W.A.) has
made another move. This time it has gone
to Block 41 to make a fresh start near the
Trans-Gold find.. The co. first let the public
down at Westonia ; then it grievously disap-
pointed admirers at Hampton Plains; next
it returned to \Y r estonia and went from bad
to W'orse.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has started to
tieat its million or so tons of residues at
the rate of about 550 tons a day. Nothing
further has been heard lately about the re-
placement of the treatment plant destroyed
by fire, nor ot resumption of w'ork under-
ground. Pile London Board is apparently
determined to w'ait until wages come down
and stores, supplies, etc., cheapen
* .* * ‘ *
Hampton Daisy (W.A.) has opened up
a little payable ore at Lawlers, and hopes
to make the bears uncomfortable before long.
Altogether f>oo tons have bppn crushed in
recent months for about £l6OO worth gold
and when the additional 5-head, making 10
in all, starts crushing next month returns
are expected to be more than doubled. The
co. owes the bank a substantial sum. and ore
supplies at present are not much ahead of
the mill. They are the show's visible weak-
nesses.
An attempt is being made to resurrect the
old Coolgardie Redemption (W.A.), which,
with Tindal’s and other ill-fated local ven-
tures, preyed upon the public some years
ago. The excuse given for re-opening the
Redemption is that a lot of wealth was sup-
posed to have been overlooked when the
undertaker was called in.
* *• y.
Gordon Lyon is back in Melbourne after
six months in the tropics trying to brighten
attains at the Misima gold show, in which
R. H. Block 10 has sunk such a heap of
cash. The co. .started with £200,000 of capi-
tal, but learnt long before manager O. B.
Ward went west that a lot more than the
oasn he at first thought ample was necessary
to get things moving. So there has been an
annual addition to the capital of £5O 000
untU now the total is £350,000: and another
addition of £50,0H10 may be wanted if the
full programme of work is to be undertaken.
£ uel is now the trouble, just as w r as the
need of more battery strength when the fact
came to light that the show must be worked
on a big scale to pay. Already £117,000
has gone in surface equipment, and to instal
an electric power-plant will eat up cash—and
that is news that Block 10 shareholders may
not stomach. Smashes at the Misima plant
especially with the tube mill, hit up costs
80 t^at l flSt term there was a loss of
£9879, which brings the P. and L. debit to
the solid total of £36,192. The stone milled
averaged as sampled, 365. 6d., of which 295.
was recovered. Working costs took
4bs. 3d., so that cheap work must come to
get things financial. With a larger output,
cheaper power, a second tube-mill installed,
and with only normal stoppages, the directors
forecast profitable results. A. IV. Wincey
nowadays runs the show-, vice Reg William-
son. Wincey’s experience has been practi-
cally all at the Barrier, and there is specula-
ting as to how he will shape in a low-grade
gold-mine.
Cock’s Pioneer (Vic.) figures stroll out
very leisurely from Collins House, but it i.s
good to know even four months after the
account-closing date that the prospects for
the current term are better than for the
previous half-year. Still, considering that
the face sluiced was 600 ft. away from the
well, and that the ground was tougher than
usual, the handling of 432,000 c. yd. for an
average of 8.658 d. gold and 2.055 d. tin was
a first-class performance. The profit was
£4826, and though that was about £l2OO short
of the amount required to pay the usual Is.
div., there was a nest-egg" of undivided
profits to provide the distribution. Generally
the cash position is right. Tlie surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities is £26,377, and
there is a lot of ground to operate upon ahead
of the barge. The plant is a credit to every-
one, for it records 93J p.c. of the full time
in hard Work. Its next job is at the 90ft.
floor, which i.s said to have prospected Is. 9d.
per c. yd. If so, there ought to be more
in the Pioneer’s paddock, especially as the
face of the 70ft. floor in the upper workings
has shown 9ft. of good-quality wash.
* * * *
Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.) is feeling the
severity of the depression in the tin market.
The. two good mines, the Sardine and the
Shrimp, are pegging along on little more than
development work; but several have closed
down, the most notable being the Titanic, and
many are under exemption. The depression is
retarding prospecting of a field which most
mining men consider has many rich deposits
still to be exploited. The Goldfish has an
18ft. reef with good tin values, which also
has high copper contents; but this mixture
defies tin extraction by methods at present
available-on the field.
* * * *
The various gold shows in the Mt. Morgan
district which have been re-prospected by
miners since the closing-down of the big
mine have not given promise of anything
really good. Several were worked 30 years
ago, but the best did nothing much more
than pay prospectors’ wages. The Young
Australia was recently thoroughly cleaned
up and sampled, but the complete assays
were disappointing; despite a recent trial
crushing of one ton which returned soz,
lOdwt. About £6OO has gone in putting the
Fancy Extended into shape, and at first it
looked promising: a small quartz reef in
diorite gave assays up to 30z., while none
was lower than loz. In the deeper workings
the country 'got very hard and the vein
pinched. The Mines Department has been
assisting parties to prospect.
Charters Towers (Q.) has lately been
giving some of the shallow ground another
trial, with the assistance of the State. Most of
the new work is being done in the Queenton
area, at one time raised from obscurity by
the wonderful richness of the Victoria. Queen’s
Cross and other mines. The No. 2 Victory is
going ahead with an underlie on a small reef.
The shaft is now at 145 ft., and it is intended
to sink to 200 ft. Galena is coming in the
ore, and on this field that often leads to high
assays; but what is mainly needed is for
the reet to open out to a couple of feet or
more. The May Day is another small
mine with a reef about a foot thick. Clark’s
paid handsome dies, on a reef of that size,
and two or three mines like Clark’s would
put the field in good feather again.
The agitation for a central State battery
in the Rockhampton district is not likely to
succeed, chiefly owing to the lack of ore
available. The idea was to stimulate in-
terest in prospecting the old fields, which are
at present fields only in name. The battery
needs more than hopes to justify its erec-
tion, and there seems nothing at hand to
keep the stamps dropping, although a survey
of the fields holds out some promise. Cawar-
ral, Stanwell, Canoona and Ulam are the
chief spots where gold is likely to be un-
earthed, but there is nothing doing there at
present. H.C.L. seems to have had a repres-
sive effect on the prospector.
* * * *
Before the war a little Brisbane eo. started
to prospect for oil at Toorbul Point, 4U
miles from the capital, but when the diamond
drill was down 500 ft. operations ceased
owing to lack of funds. Now it is proposed
that Austral Oil, in 50,000 shares of £l,
should try the same ground. The vendor
syndicate, which has apparently done no-
thing but secure rights over the area and
introduce the proposition, asks 12,500 fully-
paids. The public is invited to take up a
similar number of contribs. Well-borer Les
McKenna is also to get 1000 fully-paids for
supervising the hole, and F. J. M. Bowman
provides a drilling-plant gratis for six
months, but is to be handed 2000 shares if
the co. decides to purchase. Well-known tin-
man ,T. Malcolm Newman tenders a few
particulars concerning geology to support
his “leaning towards a favorable view of the
possibilities of finding oil.”


THE SIREN.


ior
an>
& Dir
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALI.
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Managemenl
G T Cheeseman
'wy »
I'
8
If.
or:
331 °E:
BcrgiTHT
tx?W
•N >
' .-V
.5
i
I
tfl
ijbr the Summer Camp
Abbots
LAGER
THE BEER WITHOUT A RIVAL
s'
j'%^— a
6* U f/
/>'
' V‘,
? '
rj
HW*
. .;;v;
eft? I
%)e
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
'the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the onlv proved
PERFECT AIR TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings.
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
October birthdays:—
J. Garibaldi Roberts (the Melbourne friend to
whom Dennis dedicated his “Sentimental Bloke”)',
61, on 3rd; John Grice (Melb.), 71, on 6th; Jus-
tice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 60, on 7th; R. C. Sticht
(Mount Lyell), 65, on Bth; Bertram Stevens, 49,
and Padre Tonge (A.1.F.), 52, on 9th; Minister
McGirr (N.S.W.), 39, on 11th; Judge Rolin
(N.S.W.), 58, and Fred Chappie (late headmaster
Prince Alfred College, S.A.), 76, on 12th; AValter
Gill (S.A. Conservator of Forests), 70, and Justice
Shand (Q.), 63, on 13th; Langdon Bonython
(Advertiser), 73, ex-Vic. Justice Hartley Williams,
78, and N. G. Bell (Commonwealth Railways Com-
missioner), 61, on loth; Brig.-Gen. J. C. Robert-
son (Q.), 43, on 24th; General Neville Howse,
V.C., 57, Commander J. S. Dumaresq, 48, and
Geologist W. H. Twelvetrees (Speck), 73, on 26th;
W. F. CORBETT, of Sydney REFEREE, Aus-
tralia’s best-knoicn authority on boxing.
Elliott Lewis (Speck’s Treasurer), 63, and Arch-
bishop Sharp (Brisbane), 56, on 27th; poet J. B.
O’Hara (Vic.), 57, on 29th ; lawyer A. J. Thynne
(Q.), 74, on 30th; and ex-banker T. A. Dibbs
(Sydney), 89, on 31st.
When Hughes and Cook were touring Bri-
tain after the Armistice. Freeman Murray,
boss of the British Empire League, handed
the Priminister a cablegram, in which
it was asserted that Australia was being
represented at the Peace parleys by a mega-
lomaniac and a fool. Billy at first frowned,
but the humor of the thing struck him. “Mere
you are, Joe/’ he said, tossing the missive
over. “You can have your pick.”
"A.E.S.” : Word once went round at Sas-
safras (Vic.) that Billy Hughes wanted to
buy a horse, and as a resident had something
good enough to fall off lie called on the P.M.
with the prad, pedigree and price all com-
plete. “Mm,” said Hughes, after viewing
the hat-rack from all angles, “that’s a nasty
piece of work in the way of a horse. I’m a
little deaf, you know, and didn’t quite catch
whether you said you paid £5O for it five
years ago or £5 50 years ago.”
There are now only five lawyers in Vic.
Beg. Assembly—Lawson, Baird, Mackey,
Snowball and Eggleston. In the old days
they were far more numerous ; the 1897
House, for example, contained 1(5. Four of
them (Isaac Isaacs. Irvine, Higgins and
Moule) became Judges, seven (Deakin,
Turner, Bent, McCay. Shiels, Fink and John
Cavan Duffy) had filled or were destined for
Ministerial office, and Frank Madden fin-
ished up as Speaker. The thirteenth was
John Isaacs, who never got beyond the ranks.
A. A. Billson, the new Chairman of Com-
mittees of the Vic. Leg. Assembly, has been
out in the wilderness where private members
a bide since the
first Watt Minis-
try, of which he
was a in emb e r,
went down eight
y ears ago. He
was not reaching
for the job, but it
dropped into his
lap when McGre-
gor, Carlisle and
Cotter, put up by
the three parties,
had been rejected
in turn, and Old.
the deputy Cocky
chief, had had a
little flutter. It
means only £240
a year extra.
Formerly a brewer,
Billson has
taken latterly to
paint manufactur-
ing, as a managing-
director. He has
plenty of ability,
which he has not
always applied dili-
gently; but he
should fill the chair
well.
J. PRIOLEAU.
of the , TIMES,
Manager of Lord
Northcliffe’s tour.
Gone west in London, William Howard
Smith, son of the old seafaring captain of
the same name, who founded the line of
ships that have been ploughing round Aus-
tralia for many decades. The dad came
from England in 1851, and, after buying the
little old You Yangs. started in the inter-
colonial trade in 1862. Then he got the
Dandenong and Macedon, and these three
craft formed the nucleus of the Howard
Smith fleet, later on passed over to a sub-
sidiary co.. Australian Steamships, Ltd. The
Smith just dead had a hand in the man-
agement of the firm till the ’eighties, when
he shed his interests in it and went back
to England. He was in his 80th year when
the end came. Two daughters—Mrs. O. R.
Thornthwaite, of Mosman, Sydney, is one—-
survive him. The present chairman of the
H. S. Co., H. B. Howard Smith, is a son
of the old captain’s second wife.
Andy Fisher is returning to his large family
in London —for good, it is said. Certainly
we’ve had Deakin and Barton and Watson :
but the Australian Cincinnatus still turns too
often to the fleshpots of Fulham and the
boudoirs of Brixton rather than to the
plough.
Margolin, who commanded the 16th Bat-
talion on Gallipoli towards the end of the
campaign, is said to be wearying for a
glimpse of Aussie again. After the smash-
ing of Turkey, he stayed in Palestine as
colonel of a Yiddish regiment, but what with
the age-old feuds of Arab and Jew. Greek
and Italian, and the new complications in-
troduced by Bolshie immigrants from
Ukrainia or thereabouts (their luggage was
mostly dynamite), he has found it a thank-
less job. For a time “Margie” was Gover-
nor of Jerusalem —a picturesque change
from being a manufacturer of aerated waters
at Collie (W.A.).
“Cleveland”: Andrew Dunn, who jambed
an armful of statistics into a handbag and
hastened to catch the Ventura to help repre-
sent Australia at the Press Congress at
Honolulu, emitted his first yelp at Too-
woomba (Q.) 41 years ago. He graduated
from the composing-room of the Maryborough
Chronicle to the scribbling staff, and after
that the Brisbane Daily Mail and the Rock-
hampton Morning Bulletin; saw his copy.
Finally he became editor and managing-
director of the last-named paper, and he
hasn’t been sacked since. One brother
watches the finances of the firm, another
looks after the •Dunn interest in the Daily
News at Warwick, and two more keep the
Maryborough Chronicle gtiiug, while dad
gives an eye to Theodore’s nominees in the
Upper House. If Andrew ever did anyone
a bad turn, it hasn’t been found out.
If James Martin, who died at Randwick
(N.S.W.) the other day, was not the last
of the Australian ’forty-niners he was very
near it. As a boy of 18 (he was 90 at the
end) he went with his father from the Speck
to California. He soon found that N. S.
Wales would be good enough for him, and
settled at Glen Innes, where he was the first
postmaster.
Dead in Swannanoa, Canterbury (M.L.).
John Miles Verrall, the Dominion’s greatest
battler for a State Bank of Issue. In 1888
he was M.11.R, for Ashley just before that
electorate was cut out by a readjustment
of boundaries, and it was during his term
at the Whare Korero that he first expounded
a scheme to make visits to John Bull’s loan
offices less of a habit. But his voice was
that of a moa in the wilderness. He farmed
in Sussex and Queensland before he hit
Maoriland.
Judges have appeared at the bar of the
Vic. Leg. Assembly, but not to plead for
fair play for themselves, as Real, J., has
just; done in Queensland. Higinbotham
(1890) and' Cussen (1915) received the
thanks of Parliament, and spoke from the
bar in reply. Irvine and Starke stood be-
hind'the brass rod while they addressed the
House as counsel for the Gas. Co. to pro-
test against n proposed Price-fixing Bill.
The Iceberg, as the K.C., led. Starke’s
share was eight words.
A Digger who has only just got back is
Lieut.-Col. C. L. Chapman, D.S.Q., Army
Medical Corps. Fresh from a successful
University career, he -joined up in his earlv
twenties, spent some time on Gallipoli, then
collected a D.S.O. and a lieut.-colonelcy in
France, and, after being on Ilirdwood’s
Headquarters Staff, was sent to London to
supervise military hospitals. When the
shooting ended he remained in England to
do some more swatting, and now comes
back with half the alphabet in his bag.
“Tin Flat” remembers other days
It came as a surprise to those who knew “Pom-
pey” Elliott in the war days to read a Bulletin par
describing his meek demeanor in the Senate. Most
ot‘ us recalled a beefy figure in a dingy uniform the
thunder of whose invective, especially in Egypt,
shook the earth. The floods of Pompey’s
wrath were poured on all ranks imparti-
ally, and I have heard him, in a voice that
could be heard a mile away, demanding to know
from a flustered colonel whether he (the colonel)
was in charge of the battalion or the
battalion in charge of him. On the long march from
Tel-el-Kebir to Ferry Post, the brigade halted for
lunch beside the canal, the waters of which we
were forbidden to touch on account of the Nile
worm. When Pompey rode through his brigade later
he spied two cheerful Diggers swimming’ down the
middle of the canal. His language then was only
equalled when an English column of artillery cut
through our line at right angles. The oration the
future Senator delivered to the dumb-stricken Tommy
colonel will be remembered by that gentleman when
the war is but a dim memory. One of these days
Pompey might unpack the vocabulary he has evi-
dently stowed well away and then !
Apparently it was a very poor as well as
a sick Cop Wallace who lately missed the
nomination for his old Federal seat at West
Sydney because “Bill” Lambert wanted it.
The hat is going round for his widow and
four young children.
Sold his last shares, It. F. Irvine, for 10
years secretary of the Launceston (Tas.)
Stock Exchange. One of the Speck’s best
fly fishers, he was an authority on anything
concerning trout. His father was an old
English Government official, and for many
years had charge of Launceston Gaol.
W. H. Beecroft (Bendigo) beat all other
guegsers of the weight of the bullock at Mel-
bourne Show. He estimated the dressed
weight (12821 b.) .to a pound, but was 201 b.
under the live weight (20101 b.). The differ-
ence between live and dressed, by the way,
was no less than 7281 b.
J. H. Sinclair has resigned his position
as S.M. at Port Adelaide, though only 63.
He has been on the Bench since 1905, first
at Port Pirie and latterly in his old home.
He has plenty of other interests—-municipal
work, lay preaching and football. On the
Bench he was noted for a breezy, talkative
method of dispensing substantial justice off-
hand —just the thing for a seaport.
Parsons R. E. SuttoD (Church of Christ,
South Yarra) and O. J. Brady (Anglican.
Malvern) have had fame or advertisement
thrust upon them. Somebody forgot to
register them as clerics authorised to cel-
ebrate marriages, and a bill had to be rushed
through Vic. Parliament validating the knots
they tied before the Government Statist
listed them.
One of the people with whom Arthur
Mailey, the cricketing caricaturist, became
firm friends in England was Bruce Bairns-
father, the inventor of “Old Bill.” Bairns-
father married a Sydney girl the other rb>
—Helen Jerome’s sister, the Hon. Mrs.
Scott, who last year divorced her golf-play-
SENATOR, KEATING, of the Speck.
iii" husband. Mailey, by the way. made one
serious break in an otherwise faultless social
record. He was talking at Canterbury to
Lord Harris, who for well over half-a-
century has considered Kent the greatest
county in England, and the Canterbury
Cricket Ground the most perfect one in
Kent. Noticing, an elm-tree of vast size
that stands almost midway between the
wicket and the boundary, Mailey inquired
why they didn’t cut it down. The septua-
genarian peer’s feelings were too deep for
words. Fie could only hurry to the pavi-
lion in a distracted manner, leaving the visit-
ing bowler puzzled and alone.
T. W. Kneen, the Commonwealth Shipping
Line’s assistant manager in London, will
get his first dose of Australia when he comes
to swap jobs with Eva, manager at this end.
Eva is to put in a year under Larkin, and
may take over the big billet if Larkin decides
finally that politicians are too big a nuis-
ance. Kneen, a graduate from Liverpool
shipping spheres, affable and equable, is the
antithesis of his plain-spoken boss, but he
has been brought up by Larkin with a right
estimate of political wire-pullers. No Lan-
cashire man was ever afraid of a mere poli-
tician, anyhow.
The Harris Scarfe Co., of Adelaide, which
claims to be the largest hardware concern
in Australia, has celebrated a 70th birth-
day. _ It began modestly with' Lanyon and
Harris in 1851, but Scarfe‘soon replaced the
former, who retired to London, where his
descendants > still do much of the buying.
Richard Smith came in in 1866, and for the
last half-century the guiding minds have been
mostly _ Smiths and Scarfes. A co. has run
the wide-flung business since 1900, with
•such side-lines as a china and glass co., an
implement and furnishing co. and a rope
and wire co.
Marked his _ last proof, Samuel Wilton
Johnson, for 30 years or more the most
familiar figure at Vic. Government Printing
Office. As a reader no eyes were more keen
than his at detecting the mis-spelt word or
limping phrase, and he was as keen at 80 as
at 50. Something of a dandy in his tight-
fitting black frock coat, his sprightliness, old-
fashioned courtesy and square white ziff
made people look twice at him. Late in life
he bought an annuity out of savings and in-
vestments and lived to 88. But for an acci-
dent he might have topped the century.
Following in the footsteps of his late dad,
Allan Cameron, member for Dalhousie, has
become a member of the Vic. Parliamentary
Committee on Railways. Toutcher, J. W.
Billson and Solly are the other Assembly
members, and Kendell and Richardson the
Council nominees. The Cocky party fought
for a seat, but the Laborit.es walked out and
the Ministerialists then had things their own
way in the Assembly. It is a good while
since Dalhousie had a look-in for any billet
in Parliament. John Gavan Duffy had a
long innings as P.M.G. before Federation,
and then Reggie Argyle was a whip. Now
Cameron has £220 a year to add to his mem-
ber’s screw of £5OO.
MY HEART IS IN GALLIPOLI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My heart is in Gallipoli
Where the lone crosses rise
Above the graves that row on row
Look down on that blue sea below
Which shimmers on unendingly,
To merge with bluer skies.
My heart is in Gallipoli
Where a lone wind cries,
And little lonely clouds of white
Drift on between the day and night,
Sad messengers from dawn to dark,
Adrift in windy skies.
My heart is in Gallipoli
Where a lone grave lies,
Where never in the long green grass
The noiseless feet of mourners pass,
And never sound of passionate prayer
Beats up to barren skies.
•My soul is in Gallipoli!
No sad soul may rise
To the white hope of Heaven’s grace
That ever cries to find its place,
Grave-hidden with the gallant dead
At rest ’neath alien skies.
My heart is in Gallipoli
Where my dead lover lies,
And even in the arms of sleep
1 think of kisses long and deep
Pressed down on lips that cling and burn.
And loving, laughing eyes.
My heart is in Gallipoli.
When the long day dies,
My soul breaks free through bonds and bars,
To climb that splendid stair of stars
To find in the Unknown, beyond,
The meeting earth denies.
X.s.w.
A. A. EVANS.


fl THIS ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS IS PUBLISHED FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY, THE
ISSUE OF PREFERENCE SHARES HAVING BEEN OVER-APPLIED FOR AND FULLY
ALLOTTED.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
Nestle 8 Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk
Company (Australasia) Limited.
(Registered in New Hotith M ales under the Companies Acts 1809-1 9:i() .)
Authorised Share Capital : £4.000,000.
3,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £3,000,000
(Of which 2,500,000 are about to be issued and 500,000 will be held in reserve.) .
1,000,000 8* Cumulative Preference GUARANTEED Shares at £1 each . - - - £1,000,000
£4,000,000
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
As provided by the Memorandum of Association, the Preference Shares carry a
fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 8% per annum, and on a repayment of Capital
rank in priority (to the full, nominal value of £1 per share) to the Ordinary Shares,
but do not carry any right to*, further participation in either the profits or assets of the
Company.
GUARANTEE BY PARENT COMPANY.
The Parent Company (Nestle and Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Company) has
agreed to GUARANTEE to the Preference Shareholders the regular payment of the
dividends at the rate of 8 % per annum on Preference Shares.
Board of Directors:
A. C. HARGROVE ■ (Chairman)— .
Attorney and Manager in Australasia
for Parent Company.
SEP. R. LEVY—
Director of David Cohen •& Company,
Limited ; Tooth & Company, Limited,
• and other Companies; Chairman of
Directors of Distributors’ Co-operative
Company, Limited.
F. A. WALLER—
Managing Director of Australian Milk
Products, Limited.
G. AGUET, C.B.E. —
President of Nestle and Anglo-Swiss
Condensed Milk Company, Cham, Swit-
zerland.
A. ROUSSY—
President of Peter Cailler, Kohler
Chocolats Suisses Societe, Vevey, Swit-
zerland.
F. H. PAGE—
President of Nestle Food Company,
New York.
A. LIOTARD-VOGT —
President of Societe Nestle, Paris.
(The four last-named are also Directors of Nestle & Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Co.)
Solicitors:
SYDNEY (Head Office) BOWMAN & MACKENZIE, 279 George Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE BLAKE & RIGGALL, William Street, Melbourne.
Auditors:
FREDERICK J. SMITH & JOHNSON, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
T?o lr p»'c • .
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED.
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Brokers:
TITMUS & QUINAN, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. L. & C. BAILLIEU, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
JOHN GOODALL & COMPANY, 97 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WARD &. COMPANY, 383 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HENRY MONTEITH & COMPANY, 334-8 Queen St., Brisbane
GAVIN GARDNER & COMPANY, 12 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Managing Director:
ALFRED C. HARGROVE,
For -years past Attorney and Manager in Australasia for the Parent Company.
Managers for Australasia:
H. W. HOLDEN and W. J. PUGH,
Who have held important administrative positions with the Parent Company in Australia
for many years past.
Secretary and Registered Offices:
CHARLES BROOKE, 347 Kent Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY ..
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
ISSUE AT PAR OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED 1,000,000 8 PER
CENT. CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1 EACH.
(Dividends being guaranteed by the Nestle & Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk
Company of Switzerland).
APPLICATIONS were imjited from Australian —or British —born, or naturalised
British subjects only, for the above Shares. Dividends will be payable quarterly on
the first days of .April, July, October and January in each year.
PRODUCTS TO BE MANUFACTURED AND/OR DISTRIBUTED
BY THE COMPANY.
The Company w»ill be a manufacturer
Sweetened and Unsweetened Condensed
Milk.
Concentrated Milk.
Malted Milk.
Dried Milk.
Cocoa and Milk.
and/or distributor of —
Chocolate and Milk,
Coffee and Milk.
Fresh Cream and Butter.
“Lactogen” and Infants and Invalids’ Foods,
Chocolates, Bon-bons and Confectionery.
Cocoa.
The Milk Products are scpd under the world-famous brands of “NESTLE,” “GOLD
MEDAL” “MILK MAjSD,” «TDEAL,” “VIKING,” as well as those well-known local
brands sold in Australia-—“BACCHUS MARSH,” “CRESSBROOK,” “STANDARD,”
“A.M.P“SWAN,” etc. The Chocolates are packed under the famous names of
“NESTLE,” “PETER,” *C3ALLLER” and “KOHLER,” whilst the Company is also
sole distributor throughout Australia for the high-grade Confectionery manufactured
by the well-known firm of TuAMES STEDMAN-lIENDERSON’S SWEETS, LIMITED.
With such a range of products it is safe to say that the abovenamed goods are in
such widespread demand and constant use that there are few homes throughout the
length and breadth of Australasia where one or more of them is not perfectly well known
and frequently used.
The Company will have •eie.ven (11) fully-equipped Milk Condenseries in Australia,
as well as the Chocolate Factory now nearing completion at Abbotsford, with Branch
Offices in the principal Cities.of each State and New Zealand, and will be in a position
to successfully cater for the Tull requirements of the Australasian market, as well as
to produce a considerable surplus for export to other countries, where it can be marketed
Accountants, of Sydney. Tb'fiir certificate is appended
The Directors, Sydney. 14th July, 1921.
Nestle & Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Company (Australasia), Limited, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —
We have pleasure in reporting that we attended the offices of the
Nestle & Anglo-Sw’isfc Condensed Milk Company, Sydney: Bacchus Marsh
Concentrated Milk Company Proprietary Limited, Melbourne; _ Standard Dairy
Company Limited, Brisbane : and Australian Milk Products Limited. Sydney, and
made an examination of the Balance-sheets, Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts
of the respective Companies for the period of three years to 31st December, 1020.
The accounts of the three last-named Companies had been audited for many years
past by Professional • Accountants, whose audit certificates were produced to us,
wliilst those' of the Nestle Company were verified by the members of the Company’s
internal audit staff, whose certificate we have accepted.
We certify that the net profits of the four businesses as disclosed by the
periodical Trading Accounts, together with the profits—estimated on a Conservative
basis realised by the Parent Company abroad on goods manufactured by its
Australian Branch only and exported from Australia, were as under:—
Year 1918 £205,877 3 8
Year 1919 £237,112 18 2
Year 1920 . . .. ....... • • £395,024 10 5
being an annual average of £279,338/6/1.
The above profits have been arrived at after charging all the usual trading-
expenses, including Repairs, Renewals and Maintenance of Buildings, Plant,
Machinery, Factory and Office Fittings, Tools, Utensils, Rolling and Live Stock,
as well as making an allowance for depreciation of Machinery, Plant and similar
assets, writing off Bad Debts, Expenses of Management, Administration and
Distribution, Advertising, Insurance, etc., as well as Federal, State and War-time
Profits Taxation paid during the period.
FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE BUSINESS.
The last Balance-sheet of the Australian Business of the Parent Company was
prepared as at 24th December, 1920, and —including the consideration money
payable in respect of the acquisition of the three Businesses already referred to —
the Assets and Liabilities were then as under :■ —
Freehold Lands, Buildings, Leaseholds, Plant, Machinery,
Office Furniture, Horses, Waggons, Carts, Motor-cars,
Lorries, Tools, Utensils, Implements and General Equip-
ment of Factories, Farms and Offices, together with the
Purchase Money payable for the acquisition of the busi-
ness of the Bacchus Marsh, Standard Dairy, and Austra-
lian Milk Products Companies . , . . .. . . £1,755,267 5 2
Stock-in-trade —at cost or under . . . . . . .. 747,233 2 0
Book Debts, Bills Receivable and sums due by Debtors .. 299,851 2, 5
Cash in hand and at Bank, War and Peace Loan Bonds,
Shares in other Companies, and Sundry Assets . . . . 36,545 12 0
New Zealand Assets, comprising Land, Buildings, Machinery,
Stocks, Book Debts, Office Furniture, -Cash in hand and
at Bank, etc 126,996 7 2
Goodwill, Agency, Agreements, Rights to use Trade-marks,
Brands, etc., of the Parent Company (not valued) . . Nil
Liabilities in respect of amounts due to Bankers, Sundry
Creditors, etc. .. ..
£2,965,893 S 9
351,803 3 0
BALANCE, being surplus of Assets over Liabilities • • £2,614,090 5 9
We have been assured that stocks were .valued at cost or market value, which-
ever was the lower, and would add that independent valuations were obtained
in 1920 of the fixed Assets owned by the Bacchus Marsh, Standard and A.M.I*.
Companies, an understanding being subsequently reached for the acquiring of
these on mutually satisfactory terms.
Yours faithfully, F. J. SMITH & JOHNSON,
Members of the Australasian Corporation of Public Accountants.
Stocks and other Assets in Australasia were listed as at 30th June, 1921, and
schedules showing values of same are now being compiled. When completed it is
anticipated that they will show a total surplus of Assets over Liabilities at 30th June
last of £2,650,000, payment for which has been so arranged that the purchase price will
be ultimately discharged by the allotment to the Parent Company of 2,500,000 fully-paid
£1 Ordinary Shares in the Company, and the payment of £150,000 in cash.
After receipt of the moneys arising from the present Preference issue, therefore, the
Assets of the Company (after deduction of Liabilities) will amount to £3,500,000, being
at the rate of £3/10/- per Preference Share —in other words, (THESE WILL BE
COVERED THREE AND A HALF TIMES OVER.
Further, the Public Accountants’ Certificate embodied herein shows that the profits
earned during the past three years have not only been of a progressive nature, but that
the yearly average has been sufficient to cover the preference dividend more than three
times over.
It must also be remembered that the employment of the new Capital should result
in considerable additional profit, and that the up-to-date Chocolate Factory should not
only be in a position to supply the demands of Australasia for the high-grade productions
of the Company, but also manufacture stocks for export abroad.
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the shares upon the official
lists of the Stock Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide, whilst
Branch Share Registers will be opened in Melbourne and Adelaide, and the Directors
are prepared to consider their establishment in any other Capital City of the Common-
wealth or Dominion where such a course seems justified owning to the frequency of dealings.
Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company may be
inspected at the offices of either the Company or its Solicitors, Auditors and Brokers,
the respective names and addresses of whom are given above. Copies of the full
Prospectus are also available.
GOVERNMENT CONSENT TO REGISTRATION OF AUSTRALIAN
COMPANY.
The Treasurer of the Commonwealth consented in writing under the War Precautions
Act Repeal Act and the War Precautions (Companies, Firms and Businesses) Regula-
tions to the registration of the present Company in New South Wales with a nominal
capital of £4,000,000 divided into 4,000,000 eight per cent. Preference Shares and
3,000.000 Ordinary Shares of £1 ea-ch.
Under these regulations the Company cannot, without the consent in writing-of-the
Treasurer of the Commonwealth, allot its shares to any person or body of persons—or
the nominee or representative of such —if they ordinarily reside or carry on business
outside the British Empire. Hence applications from anyone coining within this category
cannot be entertained. A condition of the consent makes it incumbent upon the Company
to state in its Prospectus that: —
“The fact that the Treasurer of the Commonwealth has consented to the
issue of 1,000,000 eight per cent. Preference Shares is not to be taken in
any way as a guarantee of the actual or probable financial stabilitv or
success of the Company.”
It is also a condition of the consent that the Company shall at all times retain in
Australia assets to a value at least equivalent to the amount of its Australian liabilities.
The Company also undertakes not to reduce the assets in Australia below what will
be, at a reasonable valuation, sufficient to cover all moneys raised by this issue of
Preference Shares.
Details of the Contracts considered material are given in the full Prospectus.
q THIS ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS IS PUBLISHED FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY, THE
ISSUE OF PREFERENCE SHARES HAVING BEEN OVER-APPLIED FOR AND FULLY
ALLOTTED. •


A “Warrigal” Hat
Australia's Best.
This hat, sold under Peapes’ own
“Warrisal" trade-mark —a pledge of
Australian manufacture and superior
quality, exemplifies the perfection to
which hat-making has attained in
Australia.
Of smooth finish Felt, with medium
crown, 2|in. flat-set brim with bound
edge, and 2in. band with bow at side.
Colors: Grey, Nutria, Steel.
PRICE 30/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
2 Z
i'/v
m
m
‘ % .
v (
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
EQUIP YOURSELF
with a
PRICE
ONLY
£l7 17/-
d
We ; ghs
but
6 Pounds.
ft’s a ■ pleasure to express yourself in neat,
clear-cut CORONA typewriting. Such work
gains distinction and character.
Its legibility makes it doubly welcome. Suc-
cessful people forge ahead by using up-to-date
machinery and methods. ,
Sole Distributors: —
MACBOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
17 Pirie Street. Adelaide.
SCZ Queen Street, Brisbane.
Society
“Macquarie Street” on hangings:—
“Invalid,” a Red Page writer (B. 29/9/’2l),
remarks that Lieut. Jones, in “The Road to Endor,”
says he and has oobber-in-eaptivity feigned madness
and pretended to commit suicide. But “don’t try
strangulation,” he advises. “Than hanging by the
neck nothing more agonising can be imagined” ; and
“Invalid” is puzzled because an old volume of
“Chambers’s Encyclopaedia” says death from strangu-
lation is rapid and almost painless. The explana-
tion of this apparent contradiction is simply that
Jones adjusted the rope so that its tension came
on his chin, not on his neck, and though he ran a
terrible risk he was nwer actually hanged. Hang-
ing never readers people unconscious by strangula-
tion. The unconsciousness is caused by compression
of the carotid and is immediate, owing to
sudden anaemia of the brain. A milder physiological
ansmia of the brain occurs every night when we go
to sleep. Thus old-ffashioned hanging used to render
men unconscious instantly, long before the “dance
on air,” which was due to want of oxygenation of
the muscles. Modern hanging kills by breaking the
neck, and is instantaneously fatal; but when the
highwayman at Tyburn began to dance he had been
unconscious perhaps a couple of minutes. The
executioner used to take a bribe from the criminal’s
prospective widow to pull on the hangee’s legs to
shorten the suffering*; but the- money was wasted.
The criminal felt nothing after the first tug of
AND THINK OF WHAT .THE POOR
PARSON WILL GET IN FEES!
MABEL: “Was your church bazaar a suc-
cess.?”
GLADYS: “Splendid! There were no profits,
but ten of us got engaged .”
the rope as the cart moved away. I know, because
I was called in to attend a little boy who tripped
and fell forward while a rope was round his neck;
after two hours of artificial respiration we brought
him round, and he remembered nothing of what
had happened after his pals had tied the rope.
“Sixenate” : After all, the avalanche of
trouble that falls upon the villain and his
associates in the last act isn’t as untrue as
it seems. Here is a drama that is at
present being staged in real life. Blinker,
whose standing had hitherto been unassail-
able, was suddenly discovered short in his
cash,. and arrested for embezzlement.
\\ithin three weeks it was known that he
(1) had forged several documents, (2) had
issued valueless cheques, (3) was bankrupt
and (4) was living with a girl in Dar-
linghurst. In the course of investiga-
tions the affairs of Jones, another highly
respectable member of society, were in-
volved to some extent, and it appeared
that he knew of Blinker’s peculations,
even if he did not share in them ; whilst
some of his financial deal'ngs were, to
say the least, smellful. Then it turned
out that Brown was involved, and that
ths saintly person, who figured in
church matters, had actually
been reaping a profit as a
blackmailer. It seemed also
that Blinker and Jones with
Smith (but mainly Smith) had
been the principal witnesses for
Brown in a case he had won,
and about which previously
there had been no sus-
picions. Smith was
arrested for perjury,
but managed to get
an acquittal. Brown’s
wife escaped from the
crash by eloping with
Smithers. with whom,
apparently, she had
long been ove r-
friendly; and Mrs.
Smithers is sueing for
a divorce. But Blin-
ker, being bitter at
his exposure, has
given information to
the wife of Dash, who
is the head of the firm
from which he em-
bezzled the money, of
queer doings between
Mr. Dash and Mrs.
Smithers. Probably
only Blinker will
suffer the penalty of
gaol; but he may
nurse the satisfaction
that his fall has upset
the apple-carts o f
quite a tribe of other sinners.
* * * *
“Ayer Panas”: Somebody had told Mat
Crowe, most picturesque of old New’ Guinea
prospectors, that Mr. Blinkers, a former
Resident Magistrate, had w’ritten a book, and
he, Mathew 7 , was in it. “Oh,” said Mat, “I
didn’t know’ the blankard could write. But
he was a fair-minded magistrate, I’ll say
that for him. Once me and Billy Smith
were camped together in Blinkers’s division,
and Billy had a cow’ of a cook-boy. He put
up with him as long as he could, and then —
well, Billy flew’ off the handle and hit the
blankard over the head writh an axe and
killed him. Now’, everybody knew Billy’s
cow’ of a cook-boy, and everybody wms won-
dering what w T as going to happen about it.
Three or four nights later me and Billy were
down at Blinkers’s camp for a smoke ana a
pitch, and ‘What’s become of that cook o’
yours, Billy V Blinkers says. ‘Well, to tell
you the God’s truth,’ says Billy, ‘I knocked
him on the head with an axe.’ Blinkers
jumps to his feet. ‘Here, stop,’ he says,
‘you mustn’t talk like that. Why, if it was
office hours I’d have to take notice of what
you’ve just told me.’ Now that’s what T call
a fair-minded magistrate,” says the indomi-
table Mathew.
* * * *
“Homo”: Judges and jurors, who are
nowadays reluctant to convict on capital
charges, were not so fastidious in earlier
days. At Daylesford (Vic.) one night in
the early ’fifties a woman was
done to death by some fiend,
supposed to have come down
the old-fashioned chimney of
those days. Suspicion settled
on one man, and the chain of
circumstantial evidence being
sufficiently strong —a pipe be-
longing to him was one of the
stoutest links —he was hanged.
The man’s innocence was sub-
sequently clearly established,
and the real murderer more
than suspected; but the appe-
tite of justice having been offi-
cially appeased, there the matter
rested. Incidentally, it was openly alleged
that the detectives had manipulated the
pipe to foi'ge a missing link.
* * * *
“Janus” : This happened in the year 1921
in a tolerably civilised town called Mel-
bourne. A young woman “betrayed and
deserted” was turned into the street when
her mother learnt the facts. She went to
a married sister, but was there also turned
away. With a little cash she had she
rented a two-roomed shanty in the heart of
Fitzroy. Here a doctor found her alone
and deplorably uncared for, and he took her
to a private hospital. Her money ran out,
and, as her good Christian relatives refused
to pay for her maintenance, she went back
to her hovel. The same doctor found her
there again, but this time too late. Worry,
lack of attention and rain-soaked clothing
brought on pneumonia, and the girl and her
baby died four hours after the latter’s birth.
That night umpteen thousand people in Mel-
bourne stifled sympathetic sobs as the woes
of a score of movie heroines flickered before
them on a screen.
KNEW MOONS.
“Isn’t the moon fine, Uncle?”
“Lovely! Let’s go down the garden and
look at it.”
“Don’t be silly. What’s the good of looking
at moons with uncles?”
“Advance”: One gallant star-and-crowner
who now holds a cushy De-
fence job has a war record
nobly indicated by two medal
ribbons. When he arrived
at Salisbury Plain the
G.O.C. soon gave this man’s
command to a lighting sol-
dier, and conveniently left
the other behind when the
time arrived for the move
to Flanders. Nothing
daunted, the warrior man-
aged to become a casualty,
being gassed at a demonstra-
tion on the Plains, after
which he spoke freely of the
horrors of war and was re-
turned to Aussie. Now the
colonel of my battalion, who
earned the highest fighting
distinction possible, is back
on his farm, no place having
been found for him in the
scheme of defence, while the
Salisbury Plain’s gallant has
been promoted from the rank
lie so nobly carried withj
the A.I.F. to a still more
lucrative one amongst those
who will be in charge when
the invaders arrive.
* * *
It could happen only in
dear old Adelaide. Advt.
from the Register
(20/9/’2l) :
Gentleman seeks situation for office work. Age 18.
Only left school a couple of months. Apply
From one of the Diggers whom Jacko still
has with him :—•
Steam up the Hellespont, and as you drop anchor
at Chanak it’s 10 to one ybu’ll see a smart 45ft.
motor-launch, with the Aussie flag at the stern and
a Digger with a slouch hat at the wheel, gliding
across the Narrows; read the name and you’ll see
it’s the Emu, of the Imperial War Graves Com-
mission, Gallipoli, which is practically staffed by
Aussies and Maorilanders. Their camp is on the
Peninsula itself, overlooking Kelia Liman, which
was one of the main Turkish bases for Anzac in the
old days. Where six years ago Abdul used to sit
and enjoy the evening breezes, the Aussie flag now
flies. There of an evening, with their pipes going
strong with good old Aussie tobacco, sent by the
Comforts, you’ll find Diggers from all the States
and M.L., too: Hughes, of the Field Squadron
Engineers fist A.L.H.) ; Vickery, of A.I.F. Head-
quarters, Cairo (6th A.L.H.) ; Jones, of the Field
Engineers (10th A.L.H.) ; Millington, of the
12th and one of the original storming party
at Anzac; Mildenhall, of the M.L. Engineers';
Swanson, of the Pioneers and Fiji—just to
mention a few’ of the staff. Instead of the talk
being of the bazaars of Stamboul, of the delights of
Damascus, or of the latest “pearl of the harem,”
you will hear cricket discussed, memories of old
days in Sydney and Melbourne, frozen mutton of
M.L., and a longing expressed for the Aussie
beaches and dinkum Aussie girls. The Diggers have
been at work on the Peninsula for the last two
years, guarding and caring for the graves of their
old mates, and seeing to the erection of the perma-
nent memorials and headstones for all the British
who went west out here.
When you arrive at Constantinople the pilot who
takes your ship in will probably be another ex-
Aussie, who knows where the Three Kings are and
remembers the Elingamite. Wander up to the Con-
sulate to register, and you will find an ex-Digger
who was wounded and captured by the Turks in a
charge near Lone Pine in June. This is Jordan, of
the 9th Battalion, now the Vice-Consul. Call at
the Embassy and you will find that the Secretary to
the High Commissioner was born in Sydney. Go
into the business quarters and you see that one of
the biggest firms in Constantinople is Gilchrist
and Walker—and Gilchrist also came from Sydney.
In the army you will find a Melbourne boy, Major
Tom Fox, late A.1.F., running the A.S.C., an d
Captain Catron, ex-A.1.F., is in the Indian Army.
It’s almost a zebib to a bottle of the best, along
Galata Quay, if you have your Old Slouch Hat on,
you’ll be stopped by a couple of ex-Diggers from
ships in the harbor, who’ are seeing the sights of
Constantinople, even if it’s six years after they had
hoped to do it. Go to Wrangel’s Russian headquarters,
or what is left of it, and you’ll find Treloar, of Vic-
toria, now a Russian colonel, doing his best to
relieve the suffering of those who fled from the Bol-
sheviks. In all their wanderings, these Aussies
still maintain their characteristic care-free outlook
on life, and can never be mistaken for any other
race, which is more than can be said of a lot of
other Britishers who have lived awhile in the “Near
East!”
* * * «
An In Memoriam from the Adelaide
’Tiber (22/9/’2l) :
Blank—
If your grave could only open, mother,
Oh, what changes you would see;
But it is far better, yes, far better,
There is rest, sweet rest, for thee.
—lnserted by her loving daughter and son-in-law.
Now, what has the Old Man been up to?
“F.C.”: Let me bring a gleam of hope to
those who still await medals for past wars.
Away back in 1866, just after the American
Civil War —in which Britain hadn’t been
too friendly to the North —Canada raised a
THE SLIPPERY PATHS OF
COMMERCE.
WILLIE: "Is Mr. Smith very ill. doctor? ”
DOUTOR : “Yes, my boy, it will be months
before he’s about again.”
WILLIE: “You won’t forget, will you, that
it was my banana-shin he slipped on?"
small unpaid force to repel a supposedly
threatening invasion of Yanks. The ruction
didn’t happen, of course, and, the “army”
disbanded. My father, who had majored
in it for a while, was notified that he would
get a medal and a bonus of lOOdol. (£2O)
He left Canada for England in ’73, and had
long forgotten all about the cash and the
gew-gaw, when suddenly both arrived' early
m T 5. The guns in the Big Row had evi-
dently roused the department from its long
sleep.
(Continued on page IS.)
IN OCTOBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
September leaves the mountains now;
Reluctantly, from every bough,
With flowery fingers tipped with green,
She draws her robes of emerald sheen.
ellow and red Qfctober comes,
With pipe of rain and thunder drums,
And scarlet banners stiff and still,
Where waraatahs march down the hill.
Deep in the misty valley where
The fine, gold heath shakes out her hair,
I know the fiayinel-flower still blows
To haunt the dying native rose.
And on the slbpe green willows weep
In lacy veils above the sleep
Of the young summer who shall sip
My heart to paint a poppy’s lip.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


St
i m
■
■
m
i:;
■ ■
&S
n
i
'Mi
cr?S
§>
>s
!?
Q
oz
e
LZSIC
atpyoziv firmer zips:
THE possession of a Beale Player-Piano brings the
world’s best music to your fingers’ ends. In it you
find an instrument of expression, which releases a
the surging emotions that forever before have been
stifled and inarticulate.
The Beale provides a piano which appeals to all that
is best in your musically proficient friends—and also a
technique which enables you to re-live old favourites
when you are thrown on your own resources for en-
tertainment. Song-rolls, especially if you sing, open
the widest possible field for enjoyment.
With a player-piano you have a versatility that tran-
scends the greatest repertoire of the greatest living
virtuoso. A Beale brings the world of music to your
finger tips.
The better musician you are the more you -will appreciate the ‘Beale
Showrooms:
340 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BEALE § COM PANY H
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar
Street,
ANN AND ALE,
„ , vattt'C' v «w • Bathurst Orange, Lismore, Newcastle. Goulburn. Wagga. Victoria: Maples
BRANCHES— N.S.W..Batliurst,oanae williams Bros.. Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South
l “ West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co.. Ltd.. Perth,
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville.


"For Ever Best.”
STA 6
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - Accepted from 1/- upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at 3 j per cent, on any
excess up to £ 1000.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the. comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Kulgoa” : A newly-rich cow-cocky in our
district is like the man who prefers tough
steak to tender because it goes further. Whan
he tivent to order a family buggy the other
day the builder said: “I suppose you will
want rubber tyres?” “No,” replied Cocky,
"my family ain't that kind ; when we’re rid-
ing we want to know it.”
* * * *
“De Yid” : It is handy to have a marriage-
certificate sometimes. She was a shrill-
voiced litle wisp of a woman with a fear-
some black eye, and as she did our family
washing she regaled us with tales of “Mis-
ter’s” cruelty to her. She always referred
to him as “Mister.” “Why don’t you take him
to court, Mrs. Blank?” I asked.' “’Deed, an’
I would that,” she responded, “if I was
rightly married to ’im. Rut yer see, I don’
know whether me ’usban’s alive or dead;
it’s 10 year come Easter since I seen ’im. It
wouldn’t be no use advertisin’ ’im, neither,
’cos Mister’s wife’s alive, anyway; she’s
took up with Charlie the rabbit-oh lately,
an’ it’s best to let sleepin’ dawgs lie, I sez,
w’en Je starts talking erbout divorcin’ ’er.
I ain’t one to sling mud. But,” she added
reflectively, “I’ve orfen and orfen wished I
was married proper to the cow— l’d show
’im up then!’’
*** 1 *
“H'.M.” : A Sydney man has married his
mother-in-law. The lady who upset the
world’s most ancient joke disapproved of
the way her daughter treated her husband,
and when the fractious wife cleared out
ma-in-law installed herself on the domestic
hearth to look after the deserted husband
GIVING HER A
WRINKLE OR TWO.
"He said my face made him think of Bernard
O’Dowd’s poetry. Enigmatical, I sup-
pose?"
"Yes. There are some deep lines in it."
and his infants. She stayed on after he
had obtained his divorce, and recently the
pair married. Whatever their legal position
no: one has yet said anything about it.
* * * *
“Vickay”: “Keith’s” mention of the Hun
agents’ method of getting news through (B.
15/9/’2l) from our side of the line by float-
ing a pup’s carcase stuffed with information
down the River Lys, recalls another incident
on the same stream. A platoon sergeant
noticing a corked dead marine wending its
watery way to the bosom of the enemy, a
party was detailed to capture it. One of
the men spotted a mechanical arrangement
in the neck of the bottle, so it was stuck up
on the bank and fired at from a cautious
THE RETORT CRUSHING.
REJECTED WORM: “After all , I suppose I am lucky to have been refused. Rumor says
nasty things about your past."
SHE: “ Rumor was never so nasty as to accuse me of wanting to marry YOU.”
distance with a rifle. Result —an explosion
like a miniature mine. It was one of the
gentle Fritz’s booby traps.
* * * *
“Sidweelan”: It was the busy hour at
Frascati’s in London, and the lialf-inked
16st. Digger, who was doing himself well,
became the centre of supercilious interest
among the other diners through his futile
efforts to harpoon the solitary onion pickle
at the bottom of the bottle.' At last the
■waitress proffered her assistance in securing
the elusive vegetable. ‘'lt’s orright, miss,
thanks,” replied the burly Billjim, prodding
determinedly. “I’ll get the little blank if
I have to strip off and go in after him.”
* * * *
As the man told it to “N.E.D.” :
“That’s what’s the matter with me —I’m too damn
impulsive. The foreman of the room told me I
wouldn’t be wanted after Monday, partly on account
of this”—he displayed a mutilated hand from which
the thumb was missing—“interferin’ with my work,
but mainly because the boss wanted tlie job for an-
other feller, the son of a business connection of his.
It was a 'pretty good job, and suited me down to
the ground, but it was no use maltin’ a fuss, so I
did me bunkadoodle. I looked in at the old place
to have a mag with the packer the other day, and
spots a cove graftin’ at my board. I don’t say a.
word, but gets the strength of it from Ned late)'.
This is the lad what’s been given my job. He don’t
know who I am, but 1 know him soon as I set
eyes on him. He’s a bloke whose life I saved at
Corbie, and I gets me duke bust-up doin’ it. It
don’t pay, in the end, bein’ impulsive.”
**. ' * *
“Monaro”: “Weasel's” family of Flowers
( B. 22/9/’2l) reminds me of some Trees
that grew near Blacktown fN.S.W.). The
parents were T. Tree and Rose Tree, and
they kept the ball rolling with Peach.
Wattle and Eucalyptus in that order. I
forget the baby’s name, but I think his
initials ran A.X.L.T. There surely should be
an age of consent in regard to the labelling
of children: the baptismal name should
not last beyond 21 without the owner’s con-
sent.
* * * *
“A Parisian of the Pacific” :
Acting on the advice of its street gardener, Mel-
bourne City Council has decided against planting
Australian trees. The old Scotch gardener “pre-
fairs” Oriental planes, firs from Scotch hillocks,
pines from Norwegian cemeteries, oaks and elms
of chocolate shapes. For three months when these
exotic trees shed their leaves our streets look bare,
dismal, mean, like those of Scourie or Trondhjem.
Yet there are 400 kinds of wattle or acacia and
200 of gum or eucalyptus from which to choose
for the beautifying of our streets perennially and
nearly perpetually. What’s wrong with the" pink-
flowered' iron-bark, the pink, crimson and red
flowering gums, the sugar or mahogany gums, the
black, silver, golden, cedar, -sunshine and Coota-
mundra wattles, the lcurrajong or the native oaks?
Are they indecent or ugly or repulsive because they
are Australian? In California on a motor tour of
1700 miles we saw nothing but avenues of euca-
lyptus lining the roads, and no trees except gums
round the houses. Yet a handful of gardeners from
bare English village greens in this Paris of the
Pacific are cutting down giant gums in all pur
parks because “they look so monotonous.” Plenty
of good public money is spent looking for cures
for hookworm, prickly-pear and blowflies, and a
little of it would not be missed if devoted to dis-
covering and exterminating the parasite which
breeds contempt and despite for all things Austra-
lian, both natural and manufactured.
* * * ‘ *
“Advance”: Lots of Diggers invented
other things during the war besides excuses,
for leave. On our troopship ih 1915 a cor-
poral had plans and even a rou’gh
working model of a light machine-
gun the same weight as an ordi-
nary rifle, no more intricate or
cumbersome, and capable of doing
anything the Lewis ever did. The
War Office was too busy at the
time to look at it, and the last peep
I had of the invention was in the
windows of Australia House,
where the plans, etc.; were ex-
hibited for the benefit of anyone
interested enough to make a copy,
buckshee. Other Aussie inventors
were more fortunate, and their
ideas brought them tremendous
material benefit. The Billjim who
improved the driving band of the
Stokes projectile clicked for a
whole fortnight’s leave, and was
promoted to the rank of sergeant.
Two bright Digger tips that .a
wooden-headed Inventions Bureau
turned down were: (1) Circular-
saw placed horizontally on false
spindles to develop high speed
and then released at the' attacking enemy,
and (2) high-pressure steam pipes taken to
the enemy’s parapet and then filled from
the rear; result, boiled German.
* * * *
“McNorth”: The Almighty rdust have a
quiet grin to Himself at times. In Suva
(Fiji) one Sunday night I went to a church
attended by whites and natives. An obse-
quious nig. bowed me to the place sacred to
Europeans—a kind of platform immediately
bohind the parson and railed off from the
church 1 ' Thf iiren V ! h " fillod the bod i- of the
cnuich. Ihe preacher was a white man
tfterwards e T non t a'? in the vernacular!
Atteiwaids I asked for a translation of the
text, and learnt that it was to the effect that
we are all one in His sight.
“ D ?°’V Thel ' e iS a man in Brighton
(tic.) xvno attends his own grave and goes
to the cemetery nearly every Sunday to
plant daisies and weed the mound under
which he is to be laid. He has the tom"
stone_ ready m blank, and the inscription
that is to go with it is contained in a small
tin casket The deceased-to-be has laid out
quite a laborious design in marble chips all
over Ins mound in affectionate remembrance
of himself.
* * * »
‘ Jim Carew” : How is this for the Coinci-
dence Stakes? A friend of mine, a staunch
I'rotestant, married an equally staunch R.C.
They now have two sons, one born on March
1 < and the other on Julv 12, and under a
pre-marriage agreement the one born oil
Saint Patrick’s Day has to be brought up
a 1 rotestant and the other an li.C. There’s
going to be some fun in that family later on
* * * *
“Pericoma”: “Centurion” (P>. 25/8/’2l)
says malaria is still very' common in
Northern Queensland.” It used to be, but
it isn’t now. Cairns was a hotbed ol
malaria, but Dr. Rreinl and F. H. Taylor
then of the Australian Institute of Tropicni
Medicine, Townsville, conducted a malaria
survey of the district at the request of the
Cairns Town Council, which later acted
upon their recommendations, and as a result
the town is now free from the disease. There
are isolated cases in the Mourilyan-South
Johnstone district, but malaria cannot be
said to be common to-day in N.Q. On
account of the climate it is improbable that
districts such as Sydney could become malari-
ous ; but that doesn’t say the anopheles
skeeter should be encouraged about the pre-
mises.
“Raggedie Wun”: I struck this notice in a
Central Q. pub the other day :
Notice.—Owing to the risk of prosecution all
boarders are requested not to throw slops over the
balcony. The Proprietor.
And it wasn’t in a remote village, but at the
terminus of the C.Q.R., where there are about
a dozen hotels.
“D. 1.”: Once more the bright Australian
boy. He lived with his father in a small,
cheap South Melbourne boarding-house. The
man had been out of work for some time,
and being unable to pay his way, had been
advised of his pending ejectment. The
man’s moroseness had been commented upon,
but his ill-luck made it seem reasonable. On
a Sunday afternoon the landlady was dis-
turbed by the boy fumbling at the penny-
in-the-slot gas-meter. “What are you doing?”
she demanded. The seven-year-old boy was
quite open with her. “I’m puttin’ in dad’s
last penny for another helpin’ of gas,” he
said. “lie’s upstairs stuffocatin’ hisself.”
They rescued dad at almost his last gasp.
PROPERLY TRAINED.
THE LADY'S HUSRAND: “Heavens alive, man,
who told yon to put that paper on the
wall?”
THE PAPERIIANGER : “Your, wife, sir.”
THE LADY'S HUSRAND : “Oh, er, um — pretty,
isn't it ?”
WAR.
[FOR THEB BULLETIN.]
N.s.w.
t hough Peace come to-morrow
And red War depart,
There shall still be sorrow
in the lone, hurt heart.
When night winds are sighing
In grey cliffs and caves ;
In the far lands lying
\\ e shall see lone graves.
Though bright lights be falling
From gold moons and suns,
O'er the dim leagues calling
We shall hear loved ones.
On lake and on river,
O’er mountain and sky,
Through the long years ever
Shall the grey shades lie.
Till life, sighing, closes
We’ll grieve through the years,
And our joys, like roses,
Shall be dewed with tears.
Though long leagues dissever
And great seas divide,
We shall journey ever
To a far graveside.
A sweet thing is laughter,
And good is its power ;
But the tears come after
In the long grief-hour.
Though swift be the swallow
And red be the rose,
Yet the heart must follow
Where the grey thought goes.
RODERIC QUINN.


Simple and Easy
Any boy or girl can use a Bur-
roughs Adding Machine, so simple
and easy is its operation, and so
completely proof against error.
To perform any process of
calculation, it is only necessary to
depress the proper keys and touch
the handle. addition,
multiplication, subtraction or
division, the entire calculation is
mechanical; the result is instantly
obtained and unfailingly accurate.
Moreover, the operation of the
machine is thoroughly protected
against all possibility of error.
Figures can be verified or corrected
before being added and printed;
no violence of pull on the handle
can in any way affect the adding
mechanism.
You do not need a trained
operator iti your office to operate
a Burroughs; anyone can use it
to advantage.
The Burroughs Machines are made by a
Nottingham, England; Windsor, Canada;
principal cities of the world.
Company with a capital of £6,000,000, with factories at
and Detroit, U.S.A., and sales and service offices in the
Sole Importers:
Ira L. 8 A. C. Berk,
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Ins. Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
✓
\\
ih
j>
Or
a
Q
<D
Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines
d


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
EXTRA HIGH GRADE'*
KADYRUBBED
3] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device in. the world that will
refract and focus waves of sound upon the drum-
head, and assist the hearing power where any sound
can be heard at all.
m
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £l/1/. complete.
They usually last about
two years.
Mrs Wm. Poster, of 35 Edward Street, Sheppar-
ton, Vic., writes, July 24, 1921:—“I have much
pleasure in testifying to the benefit I have received
from the use of Wilson’s Ear-Drums. I have been
wearing them for several years, and have not had
any trouble with them. They are very comfortable,
and I could not do without them. ' I consulted
several leading specialists without success.”
Write for Free Booklet or order now.
H. WILKINSON, Room 14, 178 Collins St.,
•••vuiuuvn, MELBOURNE.
A Signal Success
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch,
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Cleveland”: When the party of inspec-
tion visited Willis Island, where the wireless station
is to be erected to give N. Queenslanders a hint of
approaching trouble, they found the speeklet populated
by hundreds of thousands of gannets, terns, kitti-
wakes and boobies, all of which were deeply engrossed
in the business of incubation and incidental domestic
cares. The gannets professed the least surprise of
any of the screeching mob, and beyond snapping at
the legs of any of the party w'ho ventured too close
to where they were sitting on their one egg, they
affected a calm indifference amid the awful din.
One couple had a nest near the boat-landing, and
one afternoon Mrs. Gannet handed over charge to
hubby while she flew down to the nearest fish-and-
chip shop for a bite. He watched her go out of
sight, gave the egg a poke or two with his beak,
muttered that he’d be darned if he’d stav, and
flew off in the opposite direction. He was away
about half-an-hour, then returned hurriedly from the
pub on one of the adjacent islands, and shamefacedly
straddled the neglected egg. He had timed it to a
nicety, and“Ead hardly wiped the froth off his beak
before Mrs. G. flopped down alongside him and asked
if he had turned the brood during her absence. At
whicli the blatant fraud got up and reckoned that
she h a d kept him on the job until he had got
cramped. I swear he winked at me as he stretched
his legs and flapped his wings as though he had
not used them for a week. Can anyone tell me
where deceit doesn’t exist ?
“Gizo”: “J.H.D.” (B. 15/9/’2l) is cor-
rect in saying an ordinary Winchester bullet will
kill an alligator if it strikes him in the right place,
viz., behind the shoulder; but lie omits to state
that this spot is only of an area of a few inches
and that to hit it while the ’gator is' moving is a
feat which calls for a pretty good aim. • Should a
lead bullet strike anywhere else the chances are it
will rebound without causing injury. The hunters
of New Guinea and Northern Australia prefer a nickel
bullet, the favorite weapon being the service rifle
which the A.I.F. used. Even then the bullet may
glance off if it strikes at an angle, and cases have
been known when it has struck a particularly rough
patch and failed even to dent it. No hunter, unless
he were so expert as to be sure of hitting the spot
aimed at, would waste time with ordinary lead
bullets.
“Faiako” (Tonga) : Why bother about
male and female pawpaw-trees when one tree will
do the work of both? We have growing here a
variety known to the natives as “the Samoan Mummee
apple” which is a true hermaphrodite. The flowers
on the lower part of the tree, where there are short
branches, arc nearly all male, but on the upper
part they frequently form in clusters, one female
flower to two or more males. One tree in our
garden, 20ft. high and over llin. in diameter a foot
from the ground, carries about 40 fruit from the size
of an egg to that of a football. The fruit of this
variety is much larger than we grew in Queensland
(1 have had them 15in. in length and 6iri. in
diameter). The seed cavity is small, the seeds few
and the flavor excellent.
* » * •
“H.V.E.”: Fish generally are easily poi-
soned. I once saw the tluviatile perch
(Australian bass) lying dead in piles
along the banks of the Woliondilly River,
near Goulburn (N.S.W.). The slaughter
was ascribed to some vile stuff from a
tannery having drained into the water.
Again, in a South Coast (N.S.AV.) salt
lake the flathead died off mysteriously,
one by one turning white bellies skyward,
while the mullety—gross feeders—suffered
no harm. Trout also died out on occasions
in certain Monaro (N.S.W.) streams,
either from these becoming, through
droughts, too sluggish for the health of
these dainty fish, or because lye from
wood-ashes, formed in burning-off on the
hills, had been carried by drains into the
water and rendered it highly alkaline.
“Ngapuhi”: Re “Rae-akiaki’s” (B.
11/8/’2l) inquiry concerning decrease of bats in
M.L. I don’t think the morepork is the destroying
agent, as he is also on the decrease, except in
remote parts. I blame the advance of settlement
and the consequent destruction of the bush. The
bat’s favorite hiding place in the daytime is a hollow
tree, and when Cocky comes along with his fire-
stick up goes the dry tree, bat and all. In the Bay
of Islands' district early in 1914 I counted over
200 bats in a hollow dry tawa which got knocked
over in a “drive.” They were nearly all dead, as
the tree had smashed on striking the ground.
* * * *
“Ortimo Beale’’: A pal of mine out in
the Never Never was just about dying with asthma.
One day his supply of tobacco ran out, so he tried
some dry castor-oil leaves in his pipe. In three
days his breathing apparatus was clear, and it hasn’t
troubled him since. I once smoked them myself for
a bronchial cold, with splendid results. Apart from
their curative properties, they make a pretty good
smoke, too, especially in a cherrywood pipe.
* * * *
"Bad Australian”: I have often smoked
dried honeysuckle cone and found it preferable to
roots, cane or tea. But that was before our
Chow cook put us on the right track. He used
tc get a pound of the strongest black tobacco and
boil it well in about two quarts of
water. Then he crumbled up about
41b. of honeysuckle cones and satu-
rated it with the liquor; and when
this was dry we had a plentiful
supply of a mixture that differed in
no way from the genuine article ex-
cept in strength of flavor. By the
way, the tough central core of an
entire immature cone makes an excellent wick for
a slush-lamp.
: A flame-breasted robin and his
spouse owned a nest under the awning of a Monaro
school door last Spring. Jenny had been sitting on
her three eggs for about 10 days, but on Bird Day
was locked in the hat-room, unnoticed, -and died,
apparently of starvation, during the week-end. Robin
proceeded with the work of incubation for a day or
two, then another Jenny appeared on the scene and
finished the contract. Did Robin call in the assist-
ance of auntie or engage a permanent wet-nurse?
“Numskull”: “Steve Hart” (B. 20/8/’2l)
says that the sap of the stinging-tree cured his sting.
I hate being rude, but, all the same, it didn’t. I
got stung last year, and immediately hopped into
the tree with the axe and rubbed the sap on the
affected part; but it hurt for about four months
A BIRD IN HAND.
JIMMY : “Cap 'n said ’e ’II gove we nine and sixpence.”
BILLY : “Nine and sixpence! That’s nawthin ’ ’t all.”
JIMMY: “Better taake it, Billy. Nawthin ’ ’t all is better than nawthin’ these times.”
afterwards, nevertheless; Some blokes round these
parts (Evelyn, N.Q.) when stung rush the nearest
fig-tree and rub the milky sap on the sting,. imme-
diately shaving it off again. This process is sup-
posed to extract the fine stings left behind from the
plant, and is claimed to give relief, not a cure.
Incidentally, Bingni doesn’t know of any cure for
the sting. He always scrapes the place with some-
thing sharp, preferably part of a broken bottle.
* * » .
: Tell “Bora” (B. 8/9/’2l) that I
have held thousands of post-mortems on rabbits,
and have very often found two litters of bunnies, in
different stages of development, inside a dead doe.
1 have never met with the three litters that “Bora’s”
rabbiter spoke about, but still, I don’t think that
he was leg-pulling.
THE RACE PROBLEM.
THE WHITE KID: “How does your moth sir
find out when your face is dirty?”
“Hecagus” : Anybody want a scare for
scrub leeches? Here it is. Tuck up bottoms of
pants, stitch at intervals of two or three inches,
then drop in a little salt. I will swear off grog for
12 months if this isn’t effective.
Jimmy Cubby : My vote for the worst
stinger in the bush goes to the yellow-bodied hornet,
and 1 have been punctured by nearly all of them,
including greenheads, wasps, black junipers, black
Jacks and red Jacks. The last two are better
known as bulldog ants, and the red Jack has more
(Continued on page 22.)
venom in his business end than a swarm, of bees. A
month ago I saw a little girl of 3J years go into
convulsions three minutes after being stijng by a
“red.” The jumpers and Jacks place a cordon Of
scouts within about 18in. of home; these fellows
hide under leaves, twigs, etc., and the moment
their dug-out is assailed they go straight at the
enemy, and when reinforced by the main army I’ll
back them to make the gamest man or dog break
ground. There is a nest of each of the ants men-
tioned within 50 yards of my business place, but
I wouldn t have them shifted, as they are interest-
ing little fellows, and dinkum Anzacs.
* * * *
‘L.M.L.” ; A word of warning to “8.N.J.”
if he proposes to adopt “Paul C.’s” cure (B. l/9/’2l)
for a chronic lmlter-breaker. This method has a
tendency to injure the horse’s back and induce
kicking. If “8.N.J.” makes a noose with the rope,
puts it well back, around the body, passes both eiras
forward between the legs to the ring and then back
to the halter, he will find that when the horse pulls
he will suffer more punishment through-the rope
tightening around his barrel than is, the case where
the rope is passed over the back and under the
tail. There is no liability to injury, and, in addi-
tion, it brings the pull more on to the head. Care
must be exercised in the selection of the rope. It
should be light and 1 there should be no chance of it
bieaking. I have found that if the rope does break
it makes the case worse.
* * * *
“Truthful James”: I found it in the grass
on the bank of the Murchison River (W.A.). Its
body was a vivid green color and six inches long.
The head was bright blue, and yellow eyes were
attached to horns which protruded from its forehead.
It could tvvist these horns in any direction and
examine its surroundings without bending its neck.
Its legs resembled those of a lobster and although it
possessed four wings it could not fly. Niggers
believe it is the spirit of dogs that have been
devoured by alligators. It was the only crawling
thing in the locality that would make our mongrel
elevate his bristles. What was it. anyhow?
* * * *
“Ortimo Beale”: I was sitting in the
kitchen the other morning when I saw a starling
fall in the yard. A quarter of an hour later another
starling fell in exactly the same spot. I went out
and found that each bird had a small wound in
the top of the head. Just then a willy-wagtail
tackled me, but, failing to kill, returned to the
nest in the branch of a tree overhanging the spot.
Willy or his wife, whichever minds the nest, treats
all visitors with the same hospitality.
COOKING IN THE SCRUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a residential quarter of the lonely wayback scrub
Stands a modern skillion dwelling, built of slabs
and mud and bark,
In a neighborhood exclusive, with no serouchers
near to snub,
And abutting on the precincts oi a lovely gum-
tree park.
It contains two rooms, both built upon the ground
(or earthen) floor,
Also one room for “improvement”—quite the
largest of the lot—
ith a spacious kitchen situated just outside the
door,
And the wood and water both laid on convenient
to the pot-
here my wife does all her cooking- in the incense-
laden air,
Dressed in simple outdoor costume and a hat that
once was mine,
While the smoke-wreaths try to quench the glinting
sunlight in her hair,
As she stokes the open fireplace with sweet-smell-
ing gum and pine. '
There are uprights and a cross-bar to support the
kitchen range
Of old kero.-tins and billycans that swing on
fence-wire hooks,
W ith the, home-made quaint utensils put to uses
new and strange
In the culinary process of all Never Never cooks.
WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS.
STICKYBEAK : “Good gracious, whatever has
happened?”
MOTORIST : “Dunno. Fact is, I’m afraid to
look.”
There s no morning call from grocer’s masher-dray
or baker’s cart,
Though the local stores are only twenty miles
along the track,
So each item in the menu shows the cook’s crea-
tive art,
From the early-morning damper to the cosy
supper snack.
When she’s short of old ingredients wide thinks up
something new—-
Weird, unknown, unnamed inventions of no proper
pedigree,
AVith a flavor of mock-turtle mixed with ox-tail
Irish stew, ■
Which I eat in faith, nor ever ask to see their
family-tree.
It may be that hunger’s sharpened by the strenuous
simple life,
Giving appetite the edge that makes a feast of
wholesome grub,
But there’s magic in the clever, tireless fingers of
my wife,
As she works the daily wonder of her cooking in
the scrub.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


Three Million Novels
iiiiiiiiii mi
That is the Wonderful Sales Record of the
‘•Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
“Bookstall” Novels are the work of the Commonwealth’s
best authors.
They are written by Australians for Australians, are illus-
trated by Australian artists, and are wholly produced in
Australia at the wonderfully low price of
1/3 each. 1/4
wh
Posted from
the Publishers.
Obtainable from all Booksellers in the Commonwealth and
at all Bookstalls.
OVER 100 VOLUMES TO SELECT FROM—
CATERING FOR EVERY CLASS OF READER.
Complete Catalogue obtainable free from the Publishers on
application.
TWO NEW NOVELS:
“PRINCESS NAIDI’S FETISH,”
by Claude P. Wynn.
An excellent Island-adventure story.
NOW IN THE PRESS— ORDER YOUR COPY EARLY.
A splendid new novel by one of the Commonwealth s most popular
authors:—
“THE OIL-SEEKERS,”
Jack McLaren
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
s
These feature Quality
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands —
double seams and gus-
sets—which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
«
LIS'
332 S
Man ***
%
*<h
Use
Fuller & Johnson
Power
Constant Supply
of Water
Insure a constant supply of water
by using the genuine
Easy to Start
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
For watering stock, irrigating small areas or gardens, house-
hold or dairy purposes, up to the limit of its capacity the
FULLER & JOHNSON Farm Pump Engine is unequalled.
It is safe, simple and economical. It is “easy to start,” runs
smoothly and will operate under any and all weather conditions.
This remarkable pumping engine is described in special
catalog.
Combined Pumping Outfits
Where a volume of water greater than that capable of being
supplied by the Farm Pump Engine is required, the FULLER
& JOHNSON Combined Pumping Outfits are recommended.
The outfit consists of a FULLER & JOHNSON Throttling
mm,
Start
Easy
to
Governor Petrol Kerosene
Engine direct connected to a
double acting brass fitted
piston power pump. These
combined outfits arewell
suited for pumping water
into elevated tanks for irri-
gation purposes, fire protec-
tion or for small municipal
or station water supply
systems.
Can be supplied in capaci-
ties furnishing from 300 to
6,000 gallons per hour.
Further particulars can
be obtained from
Buzacott & Co., Ltd.
Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co.
Melbourne
The S. A. Farmers’ Co-operative
Union, Ltd., Adelaide ,
1
I
1
i
Every Man
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave. But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping.
This is where the “Valet” Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shave. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-). and demonstrate the razor.
it
'VALET
Am 108 li-op
Safety Razor
us
'^r?vw T "'w"
M
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
LTD.,
Broughton House,
Clarence and King Streets,
SYDNEY.
The word •* Valet” on Razors,
Strops, and Blades indicates the
genuine product of the Auto Strop
~Salety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207,
City ~ Road. London, England.


HOLEPROOdF EXTRA-STRETCH TOP
STRETCHES WIDE BUT
ALWAYS RETURNS TO SHAPE.
For Stout
and Slender
Women.
Lisle
Fibre Silk
Silk Faced
Pure Silk
Style
Beauty
Wearing
Qualities
Lustre
Elegance
Hose
Perfection
ffoleproofflasienj
___ MEANS SATISFACTION.
*'Te Whare”: lie the grey whip-snake sug-
gested by “Ophis”, (B. 8/9/’2l) as being my
“leaden-colored'’ one that occasionally shows him-
self on Monaro (N.S.W.). I haven’t seen the tell-
tale yellow mark characteristic of whip-snakes near
the head, though the unidentified squirmers may have
had this brand. The maximum size, however —6ft. or
so, as in the case of a big leaden-colored snake which
abides near Booma, in the same district—is correct.
Australian snake-books, as a rule, err badlv about
maximum lengths. The black, for instance, is credited
with “about 6ft.,” yet I have seen one Bft. 6in. long,
and there is extant a photograph of an 11-footer which
was part of a mile or so of snake once housed by
the late “Professor” Fox at Mascot (Sydney). By
the way, it has never been recorded how that “snake
expert’s” executor or administrator disposed of this
section of his personalty.
* * ’ *
‘li'.C.D.”: “-Bitterend’s” advice to “SSB”
(B. l/9/’2l) re preparing lambs’ tails for food
sounds rather primitive. Let him put 12 or 15 fresh
tails into boiling water for 20 minutes, when all
the wool can be easily pulled off, then rinse in fresh
water with a little salt added; cut the tails in
lengths of about two inches and place in a pie-
dish with sufficient stock to cover them ; stew gently
for two hours, then cover with a thin paste and
bake in a hot oven for 10 minutes. A big percentage
of those sitting round that dish will dead-heat with
Oliver Twist.
THE PHILOSOPHER.
“ Don't you ever get tired of doing nothing ?”
“ Terrible , mum. But I never complains.
Everybody ’as their troubles.”
“Bream”: This is the way of it. The
falcon-hawk comes up immediately behind his prey,
skims over the top and strikes with the wing’. I
happened to be under a duck killed in this w.ay at
Glenelg River (Vic.) one day last summer. The
bird fell within reach of my landing-net, and I got
him. Then the falcon-hawk caine after his lunch,
and I got him in the net too. He makes a very
good pet, and now we almost live on duck. And
every time it is a broken neck, no other mark on
the body.
“Monaro”: Near Rooty Hill (N.S.VV.)
recently I dug out a small rabbit warren. Three
litters yielded 8, XI and 16 respectively. Allega-
tions that the 16 may have been the result of a pool
are met in advance by the statement that the warren
was the only one in a 30-acre netted paddock, and
that it yielded only three does. I do not ask if this
is a record. I merely remark, in a loud decisive
yell, that it is.
“Aiidgehope”: Re “Mac D’s” codfish, with
the live mussel in his tucfeer box (B. 18/8/’2l).
This is a common occurrence, and had ‘“MacD.”
caught his cod somewhat later the shell would not
have been there. After the mussel part of the menu
has been down for a while, the flesh comes away
from the shell, and the latter is returned with
thanks per the route by which jt arrived.
“Carot”: In the bad old days in German
New (Juinea, when Fritz was busy impressing Brown
Brother with his prestige, the execution of a native
was designed to be as imposing as possible so as
to strike terror into the wit-
nesses. Generally it was carried
out by hanging, a firing-squad
of native police being compara-
tively rare, and frequently the
condemned helped not only to
erect his own gallows but also to
prepare the other incidental
trimmings. These generally took
the form of an arrangement of
up-turned bayonets underneath
the crossbar of the scaffold.
When all was ready the star
actor was hoisted up by means
of a rope under his armpits, and
a police-boy climbed up and made
fast around his neck another rope.
Then the first rope was let go
suddenly, and the suspended nig.
dropped and hung over the bay-
onets. In some cases this drop
was insufficient to cause death,
and strangulation took place.
When the victim’s struggles
ceased the native police fired a
volley into the hanging body, and
while it was spinning the second
rope was cut, allowing it to fall
on to the bayonets, where it was
left until next day. All this was
considered necessary to force upon
the natives the fact that it was
unwise to kill white men; but,
apparently, it was insufficient, as
the mainland German territory
was notoriously the unsafest in
New Guinea.
/angomar ’ The other day I came across
a chap attacking a white-ant hill with a little pick
and filling a golden-syrup tin with the proceeds. He
didn’t look much like a bug-hunter and I didn’t
know of any royalty on white-ant scalps, so I
decided to be the mug and asked him what the idea
was. It appears he’d struck a cushy job as nurse-
maid to a cageful of tropical parrots, which dined
exclusively on white ants, and. I had just witnessed
the preparation of their midday meal. What about
starting a subscription list among tjbe Q. and N.S.W.
cookies for the widespread introduction of this
particular brand of anteater?
* * *• #
“H.V.E.”: The black snake’s family re-
turns at times not to the pre-natal sacs mentioned
by “Ophis” (B. 8/9/’2l), but simply to the shelter
of mamma’s interior. Several credible observers w.'
vacuiuit: uubervers nave
witnessed thiff phenomenon. Of
course, when the young snakes
are ushered into the world, the
sacs also pass from the parent’s
body, as do, in the case of the
diamond snake, a long string of
eggs connected by filaments. Com-
paratively recently a female black
snake was seen sunning herself
with her fry among and around
her coils, and it is alleged that
when disturbed the snakelets
popped down their mother's
throat. By the way, they some-
times pop into their male parent’s
with his active connivance; but
in this event they don’t reappear.
As a rule, venomous snakes, when
opened,. are found empty, unless
they have very recently dined,
and so there is usually plenty of
room available. Hang a slain
serpent on a fence or branch, and
strike its body with a stick, and
you will produce a peculiar hollow
sound that will give you the
creeps.
“Kentia”: Anyone who wants to explore
an absolutely unknown bit of N. S. Wales had better
try Ball’s Pyramid, 20 miles south of Lord Howe
Island. It is one of the few peaks that really look
like a needle, say a bag-needle, not the domestic
kind. Though it is 1800 ft. high it is only three-
quarters of a mile round the base and rises straight
up out of deep water. There is a tradition that
some surveyors once landed on the base of it, but
if so it was a good while ago. And, anyway, all the
upper part is still virgin rock. Boatmen from Lord
Howe have tried to land, but I have never heard of
one of them succeeding.
“Alex” : I was fishing off the Government
jetty, Gladstone (Q.), when a man near me hooked
a sft. sea-snake. As it landed on the jetty 16 young-
sters lushed out of .the ’’front door” and made
even time for the water. They were over 9in. long.
We held a post-mortem on the mother and brought to
light three more wrigglers. As there were no egg
sacs, 1 can only conclude that the young return, to
their dug-out after breaking through their swaddling
clothes.
“Weary”: Although I know nothing about
the value of cungevoi as an antidote to the damage
done by the stinging-tree, I have found it the best
remedy for that scourge of horses, the North Coast
(N.S.W.) itch. Boil the cungevoi well and wash
the horse thoroughly with the extract twice a day,
and before six weeks are up the horse will be clean.
I don’t say the cure is permanent, as the itch may
come again next season ; but for a temporary remedy
it takes beating.
“It.A.” (Borneo) : Our Tyneside friend
had brought a big python in from the jungle to ship
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
THE VISITOR : “I thought there were two
windmills here when I was up last
year."
THE YOMRL: “Yaas. But there was only
enough wind for one, so they pulled
the other down."
to Sydney, and between drinks he explained how it
was caught. “I was just strolling across to see
how some young rubber was getting along when the
python swung down from a tree in front and wrapped
itself around my dog. Remembering that after
meals the big snakes are very torpid, not to say ami-
able, I waited till it had finished lunch, and then
walked forward and tickled it gently under the chin
till it dropped off to sleep. After strapping it to
a sapling with my belt and bootlaces, I hurried home
and had the boys construct a big-case, and, voila!
• —here’s the python!”
* * * *
“Wart”: 1~1. New, of Cressy (Tas.), has
a Southdown sheep of his own breeding which at her
first, lambing bred twins as a two-tooth, twins as
a four-tooth, triplets as a six-tooth, triplets
as a full-mouth and another lot of trip-
lets. One of the ewe’s daughters as a' lamb
bred twins, as a two-tooth triplets, and this Spring
five lambs, of an average weight of 81b.—all doing
well, thank you.
* * *
, atrial by fire in the Solomons, witnessed
by “Wee Bobbie”
Tvventy strings of red money had gone from
Mar-bun s camphor-wood box, and the chief had given
word for the people of the village to meet at sun-
down, that the matter might be gone into. Prom the
child of seven to the greybeard of 70 they squatted,
in the fast-gathering darkness, in front of the low,
ieat-thatched, narrow-doored house of the chief All
the village was there, from the sore-legged, skin-
diseased bundle of bones to the clean-skinned, well-
washed, flower-decked buck of five and. twenty.
Kanakas who had worn flash slop suits and drunk
beer from Bundaberg to the Johnstone attended in
their nakedness save for a sweet-smelling tree-flower
comb-fastened in their hair. Women, who once wore
the cast-off clothes of planters’ wives and gloried in
them, were present now naked as Eve first stood
before our father Adam. The grown-up single women
wore a red and cream belt or girdle made of lawyer-
cane. The natives sat in ominous quiet as Mai-
buri rose and spoke. “The money in the box which
I bought in Bundaberg is gone and the lock which 1
bought in Mackay is broken. A thief is amongst
our people, and a thief in the village is not good.
Even the white men who are mostly thieves make
trouble for the thief. Now I, Mai-buri, chief of
you people, command Tana, the son of One 800, the
son of Gata, who ha's been our medicine-man, to try
for the thief with his medicine .and the fire.”
The medicine-man rose. “The chief has spoken,”
he said. “I will make talk with the devil-devil of
our people and the thief will be shown unto the
chief.”
The medicine-man entered a small hut built high
on piles. From where the villagers sat a faint mur-
muring could be heard, and for upwards of 10
minutes it continued. When lie reappeared his
eyes had the faraway look of one who sees things
beyond the horizon. He seized a piece of bamboo
from a basket that hung around his wrinkly neck.
Snatching, a club, he beat the end of the stick to
matchwood, and with excited puffs blew it into
a flame at a fire lit by him and made of wood
gathered from a devil-devil tree that grew far up
in the mountains. The splintered bamboo was burn-
ing with a steady flame, when suddenly he strode in
nt° Ju 0f the S( iuatting audience, with every symptom
~, extreme agitation, the flare in his hand. He
a l 1? a,lc ! as he did so tried to put the
urmng- stick in his mouth. The attempt was un-
succeoslul. With a quiver he gave up the attempt
~~ the fire at arm’s length again. Another
name was called and the process was repeated—name
alter name until it came to Kota, the chief’s eldest
on : mou ? ; h of the medicine-man opened
and tne blazing firestick was thrust inside. His lips
closed over the fire ; lie held it for a time and then
spat it out, still burning.
~T h e medicine-man struck a still more dramatic
attitude. ‘Behold,” said he. “I have eaten the fire.
1 have spoken the name of Kota and I am not
burned. There is the thief.” His long, bony fore-
hnger, with a nail at the end like a dog’s claw,
pointed to the face of Kota. Then he shuffled and
staggered, his eyes became dull and he sank to the
ground.
.The chief arose and spoke. “This is my son,
chief of my line when I am gone. But no matter;
he has stolen, and the pig-spear, as is our custom,
shall be thrust through his insteps, and there shall
be boils on his feet so that he cannot walk for
many moons, and if his devil is not pleased he may
die from the boils of the pig-spear.”
Kota had seen it all before —the heavy, hardwood
pig-spear thrust through both feet, sometimes followed
by a blow on the head with an axe when the culprit
had not been a favorite.
In an instant the village was galvanised. Kota
had shot off his hands and toes and plunged into
the dark of the shore track. A dozen spears flew
after him, and bows twanged angrily as the arrows
sped through the bushes. For a bowshot around
they searched with blazing cocoanut-leav.es, but no
shot had taken effect. It was useless following the
thief in the night.
The recruiting schooner Muscovy Duck lay at
anchor, with Sutherland lying reading on a deck-
chair aft. A voice from the water startled him:
“Captain, me two fella want sign.” Sutherland
liooked over the schooner’s rail at the two heads
bobbing in the water. “What’s the matter von
swim along ship?” he asked. “Oh!” said Kota,
“me want buy em Mary alone' nother village.
Father belong me no want him. Now me stealem red
money belong him and buy him. Him here" —-and
he natted the short curly hair. “Ah!” said Suther-
land ; “as usual —a woman in the case.”
* * » *
“Riom”: Re “Mirrabillili” (B. l/9/’2l)
on foster parents. I once reared a foal from two
days old on an old nanny. That foal is now a
grand-dam.
■***■*
“1.Cx.8.” : T can’t agree with “Te Whare”
(B. l/9/’2l) that birds, after being robbed, rarely
lay in the same nest. I have seen magpies, willy-
wagtails, soldier-birds, peewits, swallows, and even
crows return and lay in the same nest after the first
lot of eggs had been taken. One pair of swallows,
absolutely lion-hearted, stuck to it up till the fourth
clutch. A belated sense of decency and sportsman-
ship stayed my hand then. The soldier-birds or
minas always pull their nests to pieces at the
end of the hatching. They’re the only birds I know
with this habit. It is only natural that tree-nesting
birds should rebuild every season, although if undis-
turbed they generally come back to the same
locality. In the case of the wedge-tailed eagle the
nursery, built in the main fork of some solid old
gum, is not the sport of all the winds that blow,
and as there is no chance of the fledglings being
tossed out of it on a gusty day, there’s no need to
have the orthodox cup very pronounced. I have
seen old eagles’ nests which could seat two men
comfortably without their legs protruding over the
edge.
* * * *
“A.M.C.”: “Bora’s” big-gun rabbiter (B.
8/9/’2l) has not got his leg, as our local stock-
inspector vouches for the three litters of young in
different stages of development inside a female
rabbit, and he says that two litters are quite
common.
A WHOLESALE ORDER.
MRS. CAT: “Yes, Mr. Monk, I want to
insure my husband's life.”
MAUEICE MONK: “Cert'nly, cert'nly. There's
nine lives to cover, so that will be nine
premiums to pay. But we'll make a
slight reduction for taking the quan-
tity”
“E. McM”: Tell “J.A.R.” (B. 8/9/’2l)
and “Bill Bowyang” (B. 21/7/’2l) that I killed a
sft. Sin. Tasmanian black snake near Deloraine
(Tas.) with 44 young ones. They had all seen day-
light. A hissing sound from ma had given the
alarm, and in a few seconds they were all inside
again.
THE FARM ALARM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thou murderer of sleep!
No Inquisition gave
Thee forth to make men weep,
let thou hast made a slave
Of stalwart man and brave.
Thou metest forth the time
i With eager tick, and they
Who count thy dreary rhyme
Behold the fiery ray
While still they kneel to pray.
Thy two fiends’-hands will drag
Man out ere day is back.
If after thee he lag
Grim Fate will bid him pack
For down the long, red track.
Thy clangor is the yell
Of Time in eldritch guise.
Can no toll’s brazen knell
So sorely agonise
Him who in comfort lies.
When worlds do rock and sprawl,
’Tis thy infernal bell,
Not Gabriel’s trump, will call
Us forth who rest so well,
Thou chanticleer of Hell!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


j
i
‘li- • illlll»«:; ' mm
!||&<V : ; ; : ; ' :
:’ ' f
■
-:*. : •'
• ) . ;;, J
Ifllll
iiiiiii
I. K
ii*|
Ml
Iliiii : i ■■ i i
fJP |g .. ■, m
* * ••
: . :
..v- ■%.
, ' < •■<>' v
: . :,: . ■
t’.f' ■■■.% §|fjjg MM
IS i ■;■ !■» 11l
? V '-'5 - *
H
1111
i
*
11
V
ye : V s
■* ■..
ant.
Most homes have their garden or lawns.
They beautify the surroundings and are the
pride of the household. During the hot
months the preservation of the flowers,
shrubs and lawns is a matter of concern.
Frequent use of the Garden Hose is the only
salvation. The cost of a good hoseis not
much—especially when it is of the hard wear-
ing, non-kinking, non-splitting type such as
DUNLOP
Garden Hose
Millions of feet of this Australian-made Hose
is in use throughout Australasia giving
years of service and satisfaction to users. It s
being dragged about and subjected to all
kinds of ill-use, but its fine quality and con-
struction gives it the durability to stand up
to years of such use. It is made in three
brands—Dunlop, Oceanic and Federal-—and
is without doubt the most economical and
dependable garden hose made. It costs
no more than other hose—the difference is
in the excellent and certain service you get
from it. Ask for Dunlop Hose-its your
guarantee of satisfaction.
Obtainable in various types and all sizes at Leading Stores.
ILLUSTRATED LIST
ON APPLICATION
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z.


When tanks like these are made with the blowpipe, they become one whole
solid piece, not a number of sections joined together. ' That means longer
life and no leakage.
There are TanKs
and TanKs!
THERE are tanks made by riveting, and
tanks without a sign of a seam or
rivet. Which would you prefer to make?
As a matter of fact, riveted tanks must be
particularly well built to stand the racket.
Tanks made by Oxy-Acetylene Welding
defy the leakage of any product at all.
Not a seam, no sign of a rivet, just a
clean, smooth weld which almost defies you
to locate the exact line of it.
If you are interested in tank-building or
repairing, or the production of metal goods
of any description, we would appreciate the
opportunity of demonstrating the greater
speed, better quality and lesser cost of
producing with a COMOX Outfit. Why not
write now for all particulars?
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.,
Foy Street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S.W.
AGENTS:
Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Col-
lins Street, Melbourne.
Harrison Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
20 Patterson Street, Laun-
ceston.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
£
./
AGENTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.,
Murray Street, Perth.
Evans, Deakin & Co., 121
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Browne & Joske. Suva. Fiji.
OXI2B
Quicker, cheaper handling!
■sm ■ ■
.
• ■!:
ss
Keep the work moving with
MORRIS Hoists and Runways,
HERBERT MORRIS Hoists and Runways are
built to the modern demand for quicker
and low cost of handling of all classes of goods in
the factory, warehouse, engine-room, repair yard,
etc. They soon pay for their costs over and over
again by their efficient service in feeding and con-
necting sections and departments.
On any class of work they keep goods moving,
avoid congestion, eliminate danger, increase floor
space, relieve the workers of heavy trucking and
stowing, and easily show a reduction in the wastes-
bill of 50%. s
We invite inquiries for Herbert Morris Run-
way, with Hand or Electric operated travelling
1 alley Block, also Hand and Electric Overhead
Hoists Triple Gear Pulley Blocks, Spur and Worm
Gear Blocks, Jib Cranes, Elevator Trucks and
lifting and handling equipment for every purpose
Prices and all particulars from
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney, and 125 Adelaide Street Brisbane-
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Ind dS
Building, Adelaide. Also from J.' R. W. Gardam, Perth. s
N.G. 410
The “Home-made” Craze
WORK finished? That’s splendid.
Well, I’m afraid you ladies will
have to be idle for a little until
a fresh lot of files are ready: this comes of
‘hustling-’!”
And the door closed behind the back of
the head of Department X. The four occu-
pants of the room settled themselves a trifle
more easily in their chairs. One, a slim,
red-haired girl, whipped a piece of lemon-
colored knitting from a drawer and bent dili-
gently to her needles.
“That going to be a jumper, Miss May-
field ?” inquired a dark girl whose hair
tumbled untidily about her ears. Then, as
the other nodded, “you are clever: there’s
a regular craze for home-made things, but
I’m such an awful slacker. Oh, bother
my hair!” she broke off, vainly trying to
thrust back an unruly lock, “I washed it
last night, and I can’t do a thing with it
to-day.”
“What do you wash it with?” inquired
Miss Mayfield. “Not Stallax, I’m sure.
Ah, I thought not.”
“I do,” said a pretty fair girl who had
not yet spoken. “It’s simply splendid
stuff.”
“There,” said Miss Mayfield, “I told you
so. You try it next time. If you haven’t
any at home a chemist will always supply
it. It works up into the most lovely foamy
lather and cleans your hair in no time.
Afterwards it dries quickly and crisply, so
that it can be done up at once—none of
that untidy ‘endy’ look the day after a
shampoo.”
“Well, well,” said the dark-haired one,
“that’s something worth trying. As we’re
on the subject, do any of you know a cure
for falling hair? I’m convinced I’m getting
prematurely bald ; also I’ve got quite a
little patch of grey hair—overwork, of
course,” she grinned.
The head of the room, a slightly older
woman whose face was redeemed from plain-
ness by the masses of soft brown hair sur-
rounding it, sailed into the discussion.
“I don’t think you’ll beat my recipe, Miss
Carey,” she said; “and, like Miss May-
field’s jumper, it’s home made. Get a pack-
age of boranium from your chemist, and
dissolve it in bay rum. If you rub this
into the roots of your hair at night you will
find, in a few days, that not only will your
hair stop falling out, but it will grow much
more thick and glossy. If you aren’t joking
about that grey hair I can give you a tip
which has been of great use to me person-
ally.”
“I’d be fearfully grateful, Mrs. Drewe,”
answered Miss Carey.
“Well,” said the other, “it is not unlike
the first recipe, only this time the bay rum
should have pure iammalite dissolved in it.
You should apply the mixture with a clean,
small brush, and it will gradually restore
the faded part to its normal color. Of
course, this isn’t a dye; I know nothing
about hair-dyes, for I disapprove of them
entirely. But it’s a wonderful tonic.”
“Thanks so much,” Miss Carey said; “I
ought to be a dream of beauty as regards
my hair. Seriously, though, I’m going to
try your ideas. Stallax, boranium, tamma-
lite —is that right? Thanks, Miss May-
field, what a delicious jumper that is;
but my complexion would never stand that
color. You red-haired girls are lucky, you
always have such topping skins.”
“I had anything but a topping skin a
year ago,” replied the latter. I used to
freckle and burn and get dreadfully blotched-
looking. Then a friend told me that mer-
colised wax was by far the mbst scientific
and effective thing she knew. If it is rubbed
on at night and washed off with warm water
in the morning it gradually absorbs the outer-
skin which has become stained and rough-
ened, and reveals the fresh new skin under-
neath. It sounded rather wonderful, and
so I tried it; and I’ve used no other face-
cream since.”
“Would you believe it?” murmured the
facetious Miss Carey. “I wouldn’t be half
so bad-looking if I had your skin, Miss May-
field. Is this wax very difficult to get?”
“Not a bit,” said the other; “any decent
chemist has some in stock.”
Mrs. Drewe looked up. “You all seem
great beauty-specialists! I wonder if one of
you experts know if there is any way of
curing blackheads, as I have a friend who is
quite disfigured with them?”
Miss Carey knitted her brows, but the
fair girl said quickly: “I think most people
use something called stymol, which you can
buy in tablet form. It closes the pores of
the skin, or, rather, reduces them to their
proper size, and that loosens any blackheads
and prevents others from forming.”
“How do you use it?” inquired Mrs. Drewe.
“For blackheads, I believe you dissolve a
tablet in warm water, bathe them and gently
remove them with a towel. But, though I
don’t personally suffer from blackheads I
often have a stymol face-bath. It’s so de-
liciously sparkling and refreshing.”
“Thank you so much; I am sure my friend
will be very grateful,” smiled Mrs. Drewe.
A step sounded in the corridor. “I’m
afraid this very enlightening discussion must
be postponed,” she continued. “I think that’s
the messenger with our files. Yes, here
they come. We must carry on with the
work now.” —Advt.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in the
\Xi>rlxi
sdf
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schn^^
stands alo^e.
The Sunshine Harvester Works Present
f
THE SUNSHINE
REAPER and BINDER
LIGHT RUNNING—CLEAN CUTTING-
SURE TYING.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Illustrated Catalogue of all Farm Implements and Engines Post Free on Request
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
ing his own soul, or some jinni sits beside
him and dictates to his automatic writing;
probably he would accept the latter theory
himself.
He should revisit his friends in Turkey,
refresh his memories and give us a book
showing the agony of that beaten and
humijiated but once-conquering people.
There must be much silent tragedy in Tur-
key just now, and Pickthall is the only man
who can really portray it.
C. McL.
The Teaching of English
The more the effects of the “rigid” sylla-
bus in school literature are probed, the more
hopeless it seems to help the youth of this
age to an appreciation of good prose and
poetry. When it is remembered that the
child in the primary schools does his read-
ing from a “school paper” or a "reader,” in
which only the most meagre extracts are
possible, it will be seen that he has little
literary equipment on his entry into the
secondary sphere. With this new work the
bugbear appears. It may be assumed that
the end in view in most of our schools is
success in the public examinations of the
university. In the earlier stages the student
may have the doubtful luck to read a
play, one of the Waverley novels, some verse
in the shape of an anthology ; and he will
have a store of information about figures
of speech, the parsing and correct use of
words and analysis of sentences. He may
even be able to correct faulty English. But
there he stops. He is rather young to appre-
ciate the greatness of the works he dips into,
and it is not until his year for junior public
that he knows the prison-house has closed
around him. The syllabus for this examina-
tion varies according to the States. But
there will usually be found a play of Shaks-
peare, some poetry, the uspal historical
novel and some essays. The play is never
enjoyed overmuch, for the poor child has to
wade through abundant “notes” which very
often cloud the meaning and afford little
help, and there is the inevitable glossary to
be mastered. In many cases the main ideas
of character are gathered not from the actual
text, but from a more or less un-
satisfactory “introduction.” And the anno-
tation of out-of-the-way quotations becomes
a very cancer on the soul of the pupil.
Talking broadly, it seems to be sufficient
for the examiner if the boy can repeat com-
pressed facts and abstract ideas which he
has got by heart. The same applies, in great
measure, to the poems. It may be an admir-
able thing to request an appreciation of the
language of a poet. Anyhow, it implies
that the teaching of literature should not
be confined to the heartless memorising of
passages, and that the letter might be made
subservient to the spirit. But there are in-
superable hindrances in the way of this
appreciation. If children are healthy they
have a happy knack of preferring the con-
crete to the abstract. Again, their whole
stock-in-trade consists of a few books exam-
ined in painful detail which fulfils the office
of banishing love of the work. If the senior
requirements are a little broader they lie in
the same groove. Take the work for the
examination in Queensland this year. The
set texts are “As You Dike It,” a selection
of essays, and Pope’s “Essay on Man.” Now 7 ,
who would give Pope to boys of 16 to whet
their literary appetites? “The Rape of the
Lock” would be bad enough. A certain
amount of literary history is asked for, but
be assured that there will be no attempt to
see the works of the people mentioned in
the history. Hypocrisy in letters is begun
thus in our schools. The essays are read
and noted, the “lives” of the authors are
got up, but the text is seldom read in the
light of “the spirit of the age.” These young
people know next to nothing of the make-
up of a comedy; the play is read as a piece
of literature, not as a drama: there is no
study of comedy as far as plot is concerned ;
exits and entrances, asides and directions
may well go unnoticed. Nor have they any
idea of the tastes of the audiences of that
time or of the stage on which the dramatist
had to work. Half the interest to the stu-
dent lies in this knowledge, and its manner
of affecting the plays. And there is no
trace of Australian literature in some of
the States’ demands.
The best system I know is that of Aric-
toria. There are no set texts; a comedy is
demanded for junior along with a knowledge
of representative odes, lyrics and sonnets,
plus Australian prose and poetry. There is
no abominable textual annotation asked for,
and the child has a chance to attack his
work on broad lines, and to look at master-
pieces with a degree of sympathy. And the
pupils love the work. This system has its
odious points to the pedant, but it is far
better than the old methods still in vogue
in many other States. Of course, a novel
is set, too. Senior boys do a tragedy, and
certain poets are to be done rather fully.
There is a difference between setting “Hy-
perion” for junior examinees, with manifold
notes, and asking senior boys to sight beauty
in it. And, I think, the text used in Vic-
toria is that excellent selection of longer
poems collected by Professor Grierson.
As a pedagogue who has toiled at both
systems, and who has seen the advantages
of the latter over the former, it is my
opinion that to get anything in the way of
real appreciation from students of English
the old system has to be scrapped, and the
wider, saner, less trammelled used. And then
it will be useless for a person to teach the
subject unless he is an enthusiast and a
lover of good things.
H. S.
A Happy Yankee
A short time back someone wrote for the
Red Page a warm appreciation of an Ameri-
can to me theretofore unheard of —-Chris-
topher Morley, whose Christian name is dis-
placed by the endearing diminutive “Kit,”
the whole providing a sly reminder of Kit
Marlow that Morley’s stuff does everything
to dispel. That appreciation set me nosing
after Christopher, and so far I have been able
to find only “Mince Pie” on the local market.
As its name implies, it is a collection of bits
and pieces from many papers, but slight to
slimness. I think I could compile from
James Edmond’s work, for instance, or from
Frank Morton’s, a mince pie that would
compare more than favorably with Morley’s;
and the verse samples with which Kit spices
his viand might easily be outdone with selec-
tions from any number of The Bulletin.
Yet the American book awakens envy in
my breast. It is so perfect a book of its
kind, the author providing its only imperfec-
tions. Homer may nod over his “Mince
Pie,” but printer and binder are absolutely
wide awake, and between them have turned
out a volume to make an Australian mouth
water. The type is just right, the margins
are admirably proportioned, the printing, is
perfection, the binding (nale sulphur-
colored boards backed with cinnamon-
colored linen, the title in ruddy-brown placed
with precision) is charming,_the whole 300
pages weighing just under 16oz. The illus-
trations are small and neat.
Possibly authors only know what it really
means to be so exquisitely turned out. Ordi-
nary readers love the nice feel of a light,
soft book printed on good, sound, affectionate
paper that accepts the type like a lover, and
bound, if not richly, at least with a nice
judgment as to tints and materials; but it is
the author who yearns over such a treasure,
who, having been turned out in poor paper
with hurried, cheap printing, bad folding, and
untradesmanlike binding, wells tears of pro-
found self-pity, fondling such a volume as
this. What his gloves, his stock, his immacu-
late linen were to an exquisite like Beau
Brummell, perfect paper and print are to the
tasteful author; what the cut of his coat was
to the most perfect of the dandies, the choice
of binding is to your sensitive poet or man
of letters. A waistcoat was not of more im-
portance to the tyrant of Bath than is the
state of his edges to a writer of fine feeling
and artistic sensibilities. The lettering on
his cover is of as great consequence to him
as was BruiiuneU’s tie. But, alas! while
Brummell’s faultless get-up was a matter
entirely within his own hands, enabling him
to rise to a pinnacle of perfection consonant
with his own taste, the poor author must
trust himself wholly in the hands of a set of
tradesmen who combine a droll contempt for
him with an utter disregard for their own
wholesome callings. Consequently it so
often happens that the Australian author is
presented to his would-be admirers in so poor
a guise, in such ill-fitting linen, so ridicu-
lously prinked, so abominably bound, that it
is next to impossible for the judicious reader
to extend him bare respect let alone ad-
miration and fond regard.
If we must have censorships, why not ex-
tend them to a point at which they may
Confer a lasting benefit Upon the reading
public, and be a great boon to poor authors?
Why make the matter of a book subject to
certain standards of morality and taste, and
leave the material free to shock every sense
of refinement and outrage the common
decencies? I am familiar with books so vul-
garly contrived, so preposterously dressed,
that their publication amounts to a public
nuisance, and should be punishable as such.
I am not insisting on an expensive get-up
for all books. My copy of “Mince Pie” is
not dearer than the ordinary new novel, and
it is possible to make even a shilling book
a pleasing thing as a mere effort of crafts-
manship by bringing refinement and artistic-
judgment to bear upon the choice of materials
and their arrangement, and by enforcing a
high standard of technical skill throughout.
The whole trouble is that whereas the appear-
ance of a book was formerly a matter to
which the most dexterous tradesmen and the
most skilful artists were proud to devote
themselves, to-day a book is, in nine cases
out of ten, the product of the least ingenious
of workers, and one to which the most unin-
spired artists are called upon to give the fag-
ends of their ability.
EDWARD DYSON.
Australia’s Great Days
The Town Council of Tamworth (N.S.W.)
has given authority for the erection of a large
flag-mast in front of the P.O. and for two
plates to be affixed to it, one of which is to
record the Great Days in Australian his-
tory. The flag will fly on the Great Days,
and be at half-mast on the days when our
local Diggers (to be named on the other
plate) died. Now we want to know which
are our Great Days. Can the Red Page
help us?
T. G. ADAMSON.
The Inky Way
“Lino’’: Newspaper proprietors are coming to
regard Northcliffe ns a disconcerting person. At
his reception in Melbourne by the A.J.A. be declared
that a lot of “doped cable news” appeared in Aus-
tralian papers, meaning thereby alleged information
inspired for political and other reasons. He said,
too, that journalists in Australia received lower
wages than their brethren in England, and gave it
as his belief that no daily-paper man should work
more than fire days a week. The Ace, the Argus
and the Ukrai.d all omitted these things from their
reports of Northeliffe's speech. Even after booming
him as a (treat Man, they couldn’t bring themselves
to advertise his belief that their employees were
underpaid and overworked and that much of their
cable news was mush.
“Y.Z.”: A new paper printed in Sydney boasts of
containing “humor and humorous art from Sweden,
France, England, U.S.A., Spain, Brazil, India,
Canada, South Africa, Japan, Norway, Denmark, Ger-
many, Italy, Poland, Bohemia, Greece, China, Hol-
land, Austria, Hungary, Argentina, etc.” From every-
where, in fact, but an inconsiderable place called
Australia, where it expects to find its patrons. Aus-
tralian artists and writers do not get a look-in even
among the “etc.” Many papers here get their
material from foreign sources; it remained for the
newcomer to make a boast of it.
The Sum recently printed a letter from T. J.
Hoskins of the N. S. Wales Ass. without correcting
the legislator’s grammar and spelling. Then
Hoskins wrote explaining that the errors were due
to the absence of his typewriter. As a plea in bar
it is far superior to the conventional one about the
incompetence or malignancy of the reporter, and it
should become . popular. Typewriters can’t, answer
back.


«
The Hold
on this
RABBIT
is not one atom more secure than the cer-
tainty you will secure top prices for all
classes of skins by consigning to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, Sydney and Brisbane. LTD>
Top market rates are
the firm’s strong point.
ft
CYCLONE
sdf
High-Speed
Chain Hoists.
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CYCLONE” and all other Chisholm-
Moore Hoisting Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
☆ ☆Hospital
~
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Where’er the ocean breezes blow
“Britannia rules the waves,” we know,
And now her dauntless sons must dare
The wide dominions of the air;
Lest freedom’s foes should e’er assail
Britannia’s power must there prevail,
And that her sons shall there endure.
Remember .Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Adv
otastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Air! COMMERCE
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
HOUSE, MELBOURNE
■m,
r.VV %
Installation- of 12in. x 350 ft. head Wood Stave
Pipe at Separation Street, North Geelong, for
the Geelong Waterworks and Sewerage Trust,
is adapted for all purposes, and
wherever the conveyance of
liquids is desired. It is cor-
rosion proof and retains the
purity of the water, because the
clean, smooth staves of the
selected timber from which it
is made afford no lodgment for
algae or sediment.
Its capacity is superior to that
of metal pipe of the same
dimensions, and remains con-
stant —statistics have proved
wood pipe to carry from 20 to
25 per cent, more water than
other conduits.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is extremely economical, being low in
first cost, cheaper for handling and placing in position, and
because it incurs practically no maintenance charges.
Write for our illustrated 68-page book.
We also manufacture the celebrated
WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA,
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 61-
Ladies’ - - 4/-
Soles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2/*
Ladies' 1/3
111 eels only .
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufmcturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS Ltd.,
London, Eng,
tfTI THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
il to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of hoots
last the time of three
tf]T THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
A* worn by
thousands of
Au 8t r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G. WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & w. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
The Pipe that
Appeals to Smokers
must have more than outward appearance to commend it.
It must draw well and ensure maximum smoking comfort
whenever desired.
With a GBD you can ensure cool, sweet-smoking quality at
all times.
Made.of genuine French Briarwood,
thoroughly matured and well
finished in every detail.
The GBD appeals to every pipe-
smoker.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
c
Business, Robbery, etc.
“T. 0.1.”: October 15 will be the 80th
anniversary of the arrival of the Shamrock,
the first iron steamer to reach Sydney, after
a. passage of 123 days. She was of 211 tons,
came in charge of Captain Gilmore, and for
a while was in the Moreton Bay trade.
“Croson” : I have just sampled a 320 z. tin
of preserved apricots, from the Shepparton
(Vic.) cannery. The price, lOid. retail,
was all right, and the fruit was well-graded
and delicious in flavor; but the tin was badly
dented and the label atrocious. When will
these people learn that the labels need to
be as simple as possible and the design
attractive? And if the tin was flattened
coming from Shepparton to Melbourne, what
would it be like by the time it got to Singa-
pore or London?
* * * *
“Bananalander”: Despite “Carpentarian”
(B. 25/8/’2l), Cooktown is in a better posi-
tion commercially than it has been for years,
and that’s on account of peanut farming
and sandalwood hunting in the district. One
old chap has a block of land which a few
years ago he would have sold for a quid or
two ; lately he refused £lOO for it. In N.Q.,
the home of Thirst, one hotel to every 100,
inhabitants is a paying proposition. In
Chillagoe recently there were about 1000
people and eight pubs—and the proprietors
were coining money. I know, for I was
one of them. Cooktown has twice the popu-
lation of Chillagoe, so 16 hotels is a fair
quota.
*** * »
“Stock”: Those Country partisans who
voted so consistently for foreign trade dur-
ing the tariff debate should have learned
something in the machinery section at the
Agricultural Show. There was a special
sermon in some beautifully got up sets of
stocks and dies, taps and wrenches. Hither-
to all these things have been imported from
’Murka; now a small factory is turning
them out at Elsternwick (Vic.)', and the
Railway engineers say they are “better than
the imported and of superb workmanship.”
What should appeal to Cocky, especially he
who irrigates, is that whereas an imported
pipe-cutting and screwing outfit costs £l2,
the Victorian factory is turning out a better
set at £9 ss.
• * * *
“S.J.C.M.” re the South Johnstone (Q.)
sugar-mill and its troubles: —
“A Queensland Sugar Planter” (B. l/9/’2l), try-
ing to show what troubles the mill-hands have
brought on this State enterprise, says it was built
for 150,000 tons in the midst of a great sugar dis-
trict, but has never been supplied with more than
50,000 tons, because the farmers wouldn’t trust “the
I.W.W. mill” to handle more and therefore didn’t
grow more. Here are the actual figures:—-1916,
64,000 tons; 1917, 110,000 tons; 1918 (cyclone
year), 47,000 tons; 1919, 87,000 tons; 1920,
126,000 tons; estimate for 1921, 140,000 tons. The
mill is not in the midst of the crushing area as it
should be, but is on one edge, which necessitates
long haulage, and that has been a big factor in its
non-success, as crushing is often held up for’ lack of
cane. For this the workers are not to‘blame. There
has been a great deal of mismanagement, too. At one
time, when the refining end of the mill was hardly
capable of treating the juice as it came from the.
crushing plant, some of it was allowed to overflow
down the drain until the workers took the matter in
hand and sent a report and samples from the drains
to the Sugar Bureau. An inquiry was held and the
practice stopped. 'Which shows that the workers at
the mill are not all Bolsheviks.
•* - *- * ’
“J.T.D.”: The retailer in Australia is
generally a good Australian, pointing with
pride to the doings of Aussies in other
parts of the world, but when it comes to
selling made-in-Australia goods, he will act
as though it was a. crime to be caught giving
your own flesh and blood a job. Recently,
having made satisfactory play with a good
Australian paint, I required a color to blend
with it, and called upon a retailer. He gave
me a color card, and its very creditable turn-
out prompted me to look for its birth-certi-
ficate, Then I examined the tin carefully,
but could find no hint as to where the goods
were made. Finally,' returning to the color-
card I discovered the name of a well-known
Sydney printer; but so much trouble ]>•><!
been expended to deface this and remove the
incriminating evidence that it was scarcely
discernible under a magnifying-glass. We
ought to have a law compelling the maker
of Australian goods to brand them as such
and requiring the retailer to see that the
brand is legible to the purchaser. This
would not only boost the good Australian
product, but put a sprag in the wheel of
the careless manufacturer —and we’ve got
more of him than is good for our national
health.
GRUMPY SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve never had since I was born
Much fun. Life, from its start to close, is
A very long and venomous thorn
Among a few poor roses.
I’ve never bad the coin I need
To get the thing's that keep one happy.
Dame Fortune, howsoe'er 1 plead,
Is stingy still and snappy.
Of all the girls l’d like to kiss
Ninety per cent, go by me
Untasted. You will see that tins
Most grievously must try me.
And sometimes when a lady kissed
Has 1 snoodled-—odd’s my life, sir !
A raucous voice and dour has hissed,
“That lady is my wife, sir!”
The married ones should surely wear
A badge which, if they’re winning,
Will Did philanderers take care
And save a few from sinning.
I’ve never had the girls I’d like.
And, oh, I’ve missed the money.
Why am I<such a hungry tyke
Amid these pots of honey ?
That is tile mystery that seems
To tease each thoughtful' fellow.
We see them grow and fade, our dreams,
And then.... the ser'e-and-yellow !
N.s.w.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


IT BEAUTY WERE SOLD IN BOTTLES,
WOULDN’T TRADE BE BRISK ?
“I consider Plaza Pace
Cream and Poudre Plaza,
par excellence, the very
best.”—Miss Dorothy South.
<6l
k
“Plaza de Duxe Toilet
Requisites are surely the best
toilet articles in the world.”
—Miss Nancy Simpson.
■*>
X
“Poudre Plaza is by far
the best face powder I have
•ever used.”—Miss Dudley
liindsay.
“Poudre Plaza seems
have an individuality all it:
own, the perfume is excel
lent.”—Miss Olga Cudlip.
Every woman would want to be the first customer —
for nearly all women want to be beautiful, but it takes
more than a bottle to create real beauty.
It requires attention —conscientious and patient per-
sonal attention—and intelligence—intelligent choice of
materials, and in the proper use of the right materials.
You can buy beauty in bottles —if you have the
intelligence to buy Plaza —the Plaza Toilet Articles de
Luxe, and then use them conscientiously. You can make
your skin far more beautiful with Plaza Cream, and simple
massage. Persist long enough, and any skin must grow
beautiful. Your teeth will be more attractive after using
Plaza Tooth Paste; the mouth will be healthy and sweet.
Plaza Talcum Powder makes the whole body feel
comfortable and at ease. This makes for contentment,
which creates beauty. With Poudre Plaza any hard lines
of the face are softened, and the contour becomes more
delicate —the skin seems to bloom. The foundation of
the Plaza Beauty treatment is Plaza Soap, which really
should come first, as the Plaza bath prepares the body
and the face and hands for the beautification of the
skin by first cleansing, softening and rejuvenating the
tissues. Its delicate perfume lingers and fascinates by its
elusive character; as for the Plaza perfume, not one flower,
but a bouquet of flowers, has been selected to yield their
odor to the Plaza de Luxe Toilet Requisites. This bouquet
is the essence of refinement, and never obtrudes itself on
the user or her friends except as a delightful adjunct to her
personality.
With the Plaza de Luxe Toilet Requisites ready at hand there is no excuse
for dull, unhealthy skins, greasy or shining faces. Look your best, keep your
body dainty and sweet, the teeth and mouth in perfect condition, and hold up
your head with the proud consciousness that you are looking your best.
SAY PLAZA when ordering Face Cream, Face Powder,
Talcum Powder, Tooth Paste and Perfumed Soap if you
want only the best, something that will delight you and
is simply par excellence.
Poudre Flaza.
Makes Plain Girls Pretty,
and Pretty Girls Prettier.
4/6.
Plaza Face Cream.
Gives You a Perfect
Complexion 2/6
Plaza Talcum Powder.
Keeps You Fresh and
Dainty from Head to Toe.
1/S.
Plaza Tooth Paste.
A Better Paste than You have ever
used before 1/6
Plaza Soap is Simply Delight-
ful for the Toilet.
Its Fragrance Captivates.
1/6.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia, or will be
sent post free upon receipt of the price
by the Sheldon Drug Company, Ltd.,
131-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
“Plaza Tooth Paste, the
best I have ever used. I
think it is lovely.”—Miss
Dorothy Woolley.
“Plaza Tooth Paste is sim-
ply delightful.”—Miss Myra
Rudd.
“I consider Plaza Tooth
Paste a truly delightful den-
tifrice.” —Miss Sybil Shirley.
“The way Plaza Tooth
Paste whitens the teeth and
refreshes the mouth is a
revelation.” —Miss Adele Ford.
C!!f
&
%
■////Si.
W//M/.
ttaitcu
OWDER
//<w
1
'‘wimumiijjjjjJUJH
m
as
o=*
%
m
73
m r*
.
• r4^§'
J
{Rplii^sgisH
mm
mmSwi t
'SmM
mM-^m/4Wm
-Mm
WMm
|§l2S§ii
mm c
§®S
m
pKf
i«
PLAZA
DE LUXE TOILET REQUISITES.


T
1 THE FAMOUS ■
iCODUVERjf
/ OIL 1
[ EMULSION 1
s#*
and Washing
Disorders j
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALE-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and \from»No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Qrariff from 16/- per lay, or from
4Yz Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
If any illustration appearing in TTie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
RIDE A
MOTOR
BICYCLE.
The universal popularity of B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles has only been
achieved by sheer merit. Consis-
tent good reports of reliable service
under the most strenuous and
exhaustive condit’ons prove the
superior value of B.S.A. Models.
THE
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
is designed to ensure power and
economy on the steepest gradient,
and for sidecar work is invaluable.
Reliability, com‘ort, and ease of
control are only a few of the
features which have made B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles world famous.
AH B.S.A. parts are guar-
anteed interchangeable.
A guarantee of
quality for over
half a century.
*
Write for fall
particulars
& Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings. MELBOURNE.
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
sdf
\S
XAMINE your STETSON
Under a Microscope
and you will see neither warp nor
woof, but a fine close meshed material,
denser, softer, more durable than any pro-
duct of loom or needle.
In the making of a STETSON, only the
finest furs, obtained after arduous search
and high-bidding (for fine furs are also
eagerly sought after by the World’s Lead-
ing Fashion Authorities), are used. And,
since every STETSON is hand finished,
it stands to reason that a STETSON
must be correctly styled, possess lasting
shapeliness and unusual durability.
See yourself as others
see you —'neath a
STETSON
I MYSTIC I
sdf
sd
f
1 RIALTO
Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER & COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health aid strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK’S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH, BUCKS, ENG.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes,- and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
IK
***ltTS .nV*V»°'
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
£td
158-162 OXFORD SI Wl. 172. REGENT ST. W. 1
2,QUEEN VICTORIA ST E.C.4.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
a s
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12 perrons with Prince s Plate
Spoons and Forks, plain patterns and
“Trustworthy” Cutlery. Price com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company's own
Sheffield Works. "Trustworthy
Cutlery is famed the world over tor
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
“Sixenate”: I had a client who married
first a man named Little and secondly a
Low. She now has two sons-in-law, one of
whom is Long and the other Broad.
‘‘D.F.”: The first mention of an eight-
hour day in Australia was in a general
order issued by Governor Hunter on Jan.
11, 1797. It dealt with the making of the
road from Sydney to the Ilawkesbury, and
ended : “The laborers are to continue at their
work eight hours each working day.”
“Russell” : You can’t beat the modern kid.
A Jad of nine in our Vic. village recently
received a sound spanking from his father,
a hard-working laborer. The youngster in
revenge wrapped up a dummy package, which
lie addressed to dad and posted without
stamps. The old man had to pay tenpence
on it.
South Aus. has come to the conclusion
that being a juryman is one of the sweated
industries, and has raised the 10s. a day
fee—fixed (S(J years ago and never altered —
to 12s: (id. 1 ienny, in the Assembly, moved
to make it the living wage, 13s. 3d., but
Premier Harwell pressed successfully for
the middle figure.
“Skyrider”: Gunning, a little town 30
miles south of Goulburn (N.S.W.), having
caught the fever, is going to celebrate its
centenary this month. It claims to have
given a home to llume, the explorer, who
took up land there, but spent more time in
.►Sydney. The first. settlers called the place
by its aboriginal name, Goonyong, but this
was gradually corrupted into Gunning.
Archie Meston’s story of Tyson’s will: —
The mystery of Tyson’s will has so far remained
unsolved. There was one man who never had any
doubt concerning- the fate of that will, the man by
whom it was drawn, Thomas Macdonald" Paterson,
solicitor, of Brisbane. The secrecy so long imposed
on myself with regard to it may now be broken
without injury to anybody, or any breach of confi-
dence. It. is a remarkable narrative.
Paterson and myself were returned to the Queens-
land Parliament at the same election in November,
•187 S, he for- Rockhampton, I for- Rosewood, and
we sat together on the front Opposition .crossbench
for three years, myself acting as Whip,to the Griffith
party for all that period. We formed a very strong
personal friendship and held each other’s confidence
down to the day of his death. He was also my
legal adviser for sortie years. . He was likewise Tyson’s
trusted legal adviser and confidential friend.
It is necessary here to go back for the reasons
for my name being- mentioned in Tyson’s will, and to
explain how that fact came into my possession, and
how Macdonald Paterson was selected to draw the
will. My first meeting with Tyson was under these
Circumstances. George Thorn was Prernier, and I was
editor of the Ipswich Observer, and guest of Thorn
on a train trip to Warwick. Tyson was also a
guest. I had an engine-pass, and rode on the cow-
catcher. Going round the sharp curves of the Little
Liverpool Range 1 .was shooting wallabies that crossed
the line in front of the train, arid Tyson asked Thorn
who was the young fellow doing the fancy shooting.
At Helidon Thorn introduced us and, on the request
of Tyson, gave him permission to travel with me
on the cow-catcher as far as Toowoomba. That was
the start of our friendship. He surprised me with
his knowledge of the aborigines’ laws and customs,
and of the habits of the birds and animals, and he
was the only white man ever I met aware of how
the musk chick, which is unable to fly in a normal
condition, can travel 10 *or 20 miles to another
lagoon when the one he frequents is becoming dry;
but we laughed at each other when compelled to
admit that the secret came from the aboriginals.
From that day onward Tyson and I frequently met
and had long yarns. He was a most interesting
man with remarkably large powers of observation.
On one occasion at the old Union Club in Brisbane
lie said, to me when parting: “Look here, Mister” —
he always called you “Mister”—“you have been a good
friend of the blacks, and I might remember you
..in my will!” Among the listeners were John Steven-
son, B. D. Morehead and Macdonald Paterson. We
all treated it in a half-jocular manner, but Paterson
and Morehead said: “He will do it all right.” More
years passed, and my last good-bye was at the door
of Morehead’s office in Eagle-street, Morehead and
Stevenson being there also.
It was well known at that time by Morehead and
Stevenson that Tyson had a will which had been
drawn up by a Sydney solicitor, also that he had
decided to revoke that will arid make a very differ-
ent disposition of his estate, providing a large sum
of about a quarter of a million to establish some
educational institution not clearly defined. That
special bequest was the predominating item in
the last will, which was drawn by Mapdonald Pater-
son in his office _in Brisbane; but there were many
other changes, including the total omission of two
relatives who were down for large amounts in the
first will, and the inclusion of a thousand pounds
, to myself as a. recognition of my work on behalf of
the aboriginals. Of that I was informed confidenti-
ally by .Macdonald Paterson a month before Tyson’s
death, or actually three days after the will was
drawn. I fancy that Paterson had suggested it to
Tyson, reminding him of what he had said at the
old Union Club years before and as a friendly act
to myself.
When the new will was finished the old one was
destroyed, and the new one left in care of Macdonald
Paterson until Tyson returned to Brisbane. Paterson
advised him to register the will or leave it with
him or the Q. N. Bank. Tyson, when finally leaving
Brisbane, decided to take the will with him to his
favorite station, Felton, on the Darling Downs, in
order to give it a couple of quiet days’ consideration,
> which might end in attaching a codicil defining
something he had overlooked or forgotten. It was
then to be deposited with the Q. N. Bank in Bris-
bane. Tyson left Brisbane with the will in his
possession. He was apparently in his usual good
health when he arrived at Felton, and next morn-
ing he was found dead in bed. On receipt of a wire
announcing liis death Macdonald Paterson left
urgently for Felton in a special train to obtain the
will, but the document had mysteriously vanished
and has never been seen since. Paterson had at. no
time any doubt whatever concerning either the cause
or the motive of the disappearance, and gave his
opinions to me in a very positive manner. Had
there been no will, as alleged by people who knew
nothing, why that special train? Or why was
Paterson sent for at all ?
Paterson told me that very few •of Tyson’s rela-
tives were mentioned in the will, and that a number
of legacies were given to people between whom and
himself there was no relationship whatever. It is
certain that in the final dispersal of the estate large
sums passed to people unmentioned in his will, and
to whom he had no intention of giving a shilling,
.and there were many beneficiaries whom he would
not have recognised had he met them. B. D. More-
head, ex-Premier, and John Stevenson, great friends
of Tyson, heard all the story, equally with myself,
from Macdonald Paterson.


This is the Battery
*
V
*<*
' It
that is Standard Equipment
on these Cars.
Acason
Acme
Advance-Rumely
All-American
Allis-Chalmers
American
American Beauty
American-La France
American-La France of
Canada
Apex
Armleder
Atco
Atterbury
Auburn
Australian Six
Austin
Avery
Bacon
Bell
Belmont
Bessemer
Bethlehem
Betz \
Biddle-Crane
Bollstrom
Buffalo
Buick
Canadian Briscoe
Cannonball
Capitol
Carroll
Case
Chevrolet
Citroen
Clydesdale
Cole
Collier
Colonial
Comet
Commerce
Commodore
Consolidated
Corliss
Crawford
Cunningham
Daniels
Dart
Davis
Day-elder
Dearborn
Denby
Dependable
Diamond T
Dixie Flyer
Dodge
Dorris
Dragon
Elcar
Elgin
F W D
Fargo
Fergus
Ferris
Franklin
Fulton
CMC
Garford
Gary
Giant
Glide
Goodman
Great Western
H C S
Hahn
Halladay
Hatfield
Hawkeye
Haynes
Henney
Highway
Holmes
Holt
Huffman
Hupmobile
Hurlburt
Huron
Independent
Indiana
Jordan
Kissel
Koehler
Lancia
Landa
Lease
Lewis-Hall
Lexington
Luverne
M H C
Marmon
Master
McFarlan
McLaughlin
Menges
Menominee
Mercedes
Merit
Meteor (Piqua)
Metz
Miller
Mitchell
Napoleon
Nash
Nash Six
Nelson
Nelson &, Le Moon
Noble
Noma
Northway
Norwalk
Ogren
Old Hickory
Oldsmohile
Olympian
Oneida
Oshkosh
Packard
Paige
Panhard
Parker
Parrett
Paterson
Peerless
Peugeot
Phianna
Pierce-Arrow
Premier
R. & V. Knight
Rainier
Renault
Reo
Re Vere
Riddle
Roamer
Robinson
Rock Falls
Rowe
Samson (Canada)
Sandow
Sayers
Seagrave
Shelby
Signal
Southern
Standard
Standard 8
Stanley
Stanwood
Stewart
Y. F. Stewart
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Sunbeam
Tarkington
Thomart
Tiffin
Titan
Towmotor
Transport
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
Ursus
Velie
Vim
Vulcan
Ward La-France
Ware
Werner
Westcott
White
Wills-Saint Claire
Wilson
Winther
Winton
Wolverine
Manufacturers of these cars and trucks have paid the additional price for Threaded
Rubber Insulation to to the users of their product the lowest battery cost per mile.
THREADED
RUBBER
BATTERY
d


In Red Pimples On Face and Fore-
head. Skin Red and Inflamed,
“Little red pimples began to show
on my face and forehead until my
ď
đ
face was almost covered.
The pimples were in blotches
and came to a head and fes-
tered. They itched and the
irritation caused me to
scratch them. They some-
times prevented me from
sleeping and the skin vr s red and
inflamed.
“I sent for a free sample of Cuti-
cura and Ointment which
seemed to relieve me. I bought
more and in three months I was
healed.” (Signed) R. C. Grimley, 125
Flood St., Leichhardt, Sydney.
Use Cuticura for all toilet purposes.
soapls.,TalcumlB.6d.,<ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
DSfr*Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Ciav Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, D.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
I fed like a ship without a sail,
Without a rudder, without a rail,
Without an anchor, without a boat,
“Plimsoll” under and just afloat.
Of course, I know 7, I’ll weather the blow,”
Altho’ at present ‘'the glass” seems low,
The bottle’s all right, you may be sure,
’Tis full of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Advt.
d
he largest selling
quality pencil in.
the w ovld.
VENUS
V PENCILS
ď
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CASH'S
WON/EM^
NAMES
tfaolzs §vtit£v
The IDEAL Way
TO MARK ALL LINEN
or any Material, CASH S Names en-
aure protection and individuality
They supersede Marking Into—A Clear
Neat Name woven in fast Color is
easily sewn on.
Prices: 12 doz.7/6-6 doz. 5/--3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J.& J. CASHES;
85 Cubitt St.. Richmond.
Victoria.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
PLUME ggflg?
” 111 be there on
time ”
The feeling of certainty of “ getting
there on time” is common to users of
Plume Motor Spirit. There are good
reasons for this assurance; Plume is
made from the world’s choicest crudes;
each process of its manufacture is under
the care of hig ly-skilled experts who
prove by laboratory tests and actual
service conditions that the high standard
adopted for Plume Motor Spirit
is rigidly maintained.
Therefore Plume is uniform
always, and can be depended
upon to deliver full power and
full mileage, day in and day out,
without a hitch.
This dependability has made
Plume popular with most motor-
ists, who aiso praise its easy
starting, sweet running, and
economy.
Order your Motor Spirit by
name —say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 5 A
- r
ft
' j*
Mil*
\ wl 2\
m
i^>
/( 3
<?V' U/ V < cv
MAKE THE BEST OF THE BAD ROADS
đ
scarcely seems wise to wait until
their billiard table smoothness is
restored —you may wait until you are
too old to enjoy the delights of cycling.
The worst of roads becomes rideable
when you fit your machine with a
HERE are plenty of them —
1 North, East, South, West.
You have no need to consult the map
to find them. And they are bad, too.
But then cycling is so very much
worth while for the exercise it
affords, the pleasure it gives, the
fresh ait it takes you to, that it
SADDLE.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on request.
J 6 BROOKS & CO., LTD., 134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
Representatives in N.S.W.: Scott & Holladay, Ltd., 31 A Pitt St., Sydney.
Confidence
*/>
an
rtTiz.
i/>
»Jr
n
&
JLcu A
<£>
s^w^oJUa
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office* 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Newcastle:
Melbourne
Brisbane:
7 Royal Court, Scott St.
: 54 Market Street.
98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
I&T, ’i'KrtK.n.on
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney yachtsmen are abuzz over the pos-
sible visit of Admiral Jellicoe, now Madkilarid’s
Gov.-General. G.-G. foster has invited the Sea
Dog to bring the Iron Duke over for a “blow” on
Sydney Harbor.
Dick Arnst has arrived in Wanganui to
train for his meeting with Darcy Hadfield there at
Christmas time. Hadfield is at present an amateur,
but seems to thihk his chances of relieving Arnst
of the world’s championship title are good enough
to tlirn professional for. Hadfield, who is now at
Auckland, will go to Wanganui next month.
“Dido”: A well-known motor cyclist tells
me of twice crashing into a fence on runs out on
the Keilor-road. His accidents happened on the
same gpot on two succeeding days. On the second
occasion an Old chap chopping blue metal (his heap
.had contributed to the accident) looked up, and
said to the prostrate rider: “No good, mate; you’ll
never make a jumper of ’er.”
* * * - #
Golf experts are keeping an eye on W.
lies, a Victorian-born pro. who .learnt most of his
game in Maoriland. lies excited attention last year
by licking the champion, Kirkwood, during the lat-
ter’s run through the adjacent Dominion. Lately
the limelight turned again on lies when he accounted
for Le Fevre, the AuAralian open champion. The
new star is talking of settling in Victoria. He fought
with the Maorilanders at the front.
The prisoners’ cells at Pentridge (Vic.)
Gaol were recently searched, and inter alia a beau-
tifullv-kept book on the Grand National Hurdle race
was found. Most of the bets were in “rations” of
gaol tobacco—better known as “razoo” —but some
were in money. Said that inside every prison there
is a good deal of cash, with which the internees
gamble on cards, races, draughts, chess and the
number of prisoners who will arrive during a given
week.
* * * *
The hat having been passed round, Aus-
tralian amateur-sculling champion Arthur Baynes,
of Queensland, is going to England in search of
the Diamond Sculls. Baynes is the best amateur
Australia has known for many years: he has won
the Brisbane River championship since 1918 and
the Queensland sculls since 1919, and last year lifted
the Australian title. Business kept him out of this
year’s race in Tasmania. He is only 21, and has
a rowing weight of 12-st. Ex-champion George
Towns has been invited to make the trip with him.
Arthur Le Fevre’s recent round of 69 in
the Australian open golf championship at Sandringham
(Melb.) is a record for competitions on the course.
He has done 68 in a private round at Sandringham,
but the nearest to his 69—v'ith the exception of his
own 71 —was Ivo Whitton’s 73 in the same event
eight years ago. Le Fevre carries only six clubs in
his bag, but he knows how, when and why to use
every one of them. On the occasion in question he
used the back of a right-handed club to play a
left-handed shot, when his ball was engulfed in a
clump of ti-tree at the 17th hole.
“D.F.”: The oldest annual regatta in
Australasia, if not in the world, is the Hobart one,
now in its 83rd year. I have one of the two or
three copies still in existence of the programme for
the first regatta held on December 1, 1838, which is
several years before the first of the Henley (Eng.)
events was instituted. The feature of the day was
the whaleboat race, with prizes of £3O, £2O, £lO
and £6, for which there were 16 entries. There
were seven entries in the first-class sailing boats; 10
in the second; seven in the dinghies, and four in
the four-oared gigs.
“15-30”: The November tennis champion-
ships in Melbourne should be particularly interest-
ing, as it is almost certain that Australia’s Davis
Cup team will be entered for singles and doubles.
Jim Anderson (N.S.W.) should be the show-player
of the tournament, and there* is already speculation
in Melbourne as to his chances against Patterson.
Anderson has leaped high in expert estimation by
downing Norris Williams, who ranks as Uncle Sam’s
third-best player, Hunter, another U.S. artist who
ran into the semi-finals at Wimbledon a while
back, and even the mighty Tilden. At the same
time Patterson was never more formidable. On his
recent play he could probably rufi the world’s best
to a furious five sets.
* * *
“0.K.” ; The statement that Lycett, during
his prolonged tennis bout with Shimidzu, “drank
two and a half pints of champagne to keep his
strength up” is an amazing testimony to the un-
wisdom of the athlete. A hot midsummer day at
Wimbledon, a sober, impassive Jap for his opponent
and an Australian champion hoping to win a con-
test of endurance by bucking himself up with fizz!
It seems incredible. In a match limited to 20
games the champagne dope might be reasonable. A
trainer of horse may dope his gee for a six-fur-
longs’ flutter, in the hope that there will be a little
delay at the post, but when staying-power is going
to win one must not give the animal a nerve tonic.
The strange thing is that Lyeett at this time o’
day could believe in the virtues of alcohol on the
tennis-court. Hasn’t he heard of the experiments
made with the Harvard College boys in foot-racing—
how those who had a spot given them before their
races were all quite sure they had beaten their
records, whereas every one of them had run below
his best?
* * * *
“15-30”: The performances of Anderson
in the U.S., and the great form shown by Patterson
and O’Hara Wood in Melbourne pennant tennis this
season, have made Norman Brookes verv hopeful of
lifting the Davis Cup next year. He is reported to
have already lodged a challenge, and has named a
team comprising himself and the aforesaid trio; but
he may nominate some player younger than himself.
Norman is getting middle-aged and has taken to
golf, though it is undeniable that, coupled with
O’Hara Wood, he would still be formidable against
any doubles combination that the world could pro-
duce. All the same, Todd has done good work in
America, and, should he maintain his sparkle, his.
claims to inclusion cannot be overlooked. Patterson’,
if he can make the trip, is a certain selection for
the Singles. He has strengthened his backhand
and his stroke play is more polished and accurate.
Pitted the other day against young Mclnnes, the
’Varsity crack, who had walloped O’Hara Wood a
couple" of weeks before, Patterson played like a
world-beater. It shows his punch when he took
the last four games to love in 16 superb aces in
service and returns, which must be nearly a rebord
in tennis anywhere.
(Continued on page So,)
TERM-ENDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dull eyes and an aching brain;
God, to be out with a horse again!
Ked dawn and a windy heath,
With a long, lithe, lolloping stride beneath;
The toss of a wild mouth flecked with foam,
The drum of hooves in the scattering loam ;
The swing of the shoulders, a black main flying,
A bolting rabbit, a wild bird crying!
The sway, the rhythm, the speed, the thunder,
With the blue above and the green world under —
What shall a man ask more than this?
Tower or pleasure? A book? A kiss?
A clean wind blowing me through and through,
And what the devil have I to do
With the rake, the scholar, the priest, the lover?
My' heaven is now, and 1 know no other !
The drunken glory of sun and sky,
The lilt of the sweet air sweeping by,
A country road or a tussocky plain—
God, to be out with a horse again!
VICTORIA.
I. R. MAXWELL.


In
>
I
H
/
"W-AI
&CJONN
S£Joim9bm
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors—poiished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste —
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
Waste—Liquid— Wowdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, See.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson’s
Wax —there is no substitute
SL C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.
YOU HAVE BUT
TO HEAR THE
PLAYOTONE PLAYER PIANO
i'li!
r ,a
mmk
i|l|! M
".I
I'll- j; i=
II i
n
mm
'b
iSili
5;
To realise the vast possibilities of musical
enjoyment and pleasure it opens to the
individual who has never been taught to
play the keyboard of the piano.
With a PLAYOTONE PLAYER PIANO
in ‘-your home you can always be sure
that your evenings will be a success, the
whole world of music is there for the
entertainment of your guests, and you can
accompany singers and instrumentalists
in any key that suits them.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
and full particulars of our
EASY-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
You present Piano can be exchanged
for a PLAYOTONE PLAYER
PIANO. We will allow you its full
value, and the balance can be spread
over a period of years that will
allow for its purchase by moderate
monthly payments.
9
l
a
338 Georg
SVDN EY.i
e St.
BRANCHES
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.


a =
tS II
£•
+
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £B/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Link*, 20/- ; heavier,
25/-, 30/-. 15ct.
Gold, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/-. Flat, Con-
cave or Convex.
S’
=3
y
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Open-face
Keyless Lever, compensation balance, non-
magnetic brequet time spring, f-plate move-
ment, £2. Higher Grades, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, 15ct.
Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’ Four-
Stone Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
1 Sec. Gold,
£5/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9ct. Gold Tablet
Ring, 15/-
15ct. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Nellie Stewart secret-snap-and-
joint Bracelet, £2. Lighter, 30/-; heavier,
£2/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ lTancv Diamond Bar Brooch, loct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Single-stone Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Diamond, Cut,
White, Pink or Green Stone, Beal Pearls, £2/10/-
A; Saunders’ loot. Bar Brooch, Diamond, Cut,
White, Pink or Green Stone, Real Pearls, £2/10/-
< o
. Saunders’ Spray and
ircie Brooch, set
Pearls, 15ct. Gold,
A. Saunders' Spray and
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls, loot. Gold,
£2.
d
A Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Strap Watch, 9ct. Gold,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-. Silver Cases,
£2 £2/10/-. Gunmetal Oases, 25/-, 30/-,
’ 40/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders'
9ct. Gold . Soft-
collar Bars,
7/6.
Stone set,
10/6.
A. Saunders’ Firje
Diamond, Boat-
shape Ring, IBct.
Gold, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
Lady’s Size, 15/-
A Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch, 30/-,
40/- Silver Ca«e, £3, £3/10/-. Gold-filled
Cases,' £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-. Gold Cases,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nickel Hunting, Keyless Lever
movement, £2/15/-. Extra jewelled, £3.
Silver Cases, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold CuTb Albert, £5/10/*;
Heavier, £6, £6/10/- to £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO. £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
BILLABONG TROUGHING CHEAPER
The price of iron has fallen, enabling us to substantially reduce the price of our patent troughing for cattle, sheep and
pigs. Just in time for your summer needs. Don’t delay till midsummer necessity forces you to order. ORDER NOW.
Showing how
Cover is he It*
at corners.
D A N K s'*
4I ENT N? 2176
I
.^a
Enlarged Section
Showing Lock Joint
“BILLABONG” PATENT CATTLE TROUGH
Made from 20-gauge Galvanised Steel in six-foot lengths. Each length locks with
its neighbor and cannot puill apart or leak. Trough measures 26 inches from
ground to top, 24 inches wide, and 12 inches deep. Holds about 9 gallons of water
per foot. The frame, legs and cross-bars are made of strong T and Angle Steel.
“BILLABONG” SHEEP TROUGHING
is similar to above, except that'Standards are shortened and. fitted with Angle Steel
feet.
Height 14 inches, width 20 inches, depth 10 inches. Body made from 22-gauge
Galvanised Steel. Holds about 6 gallons of water per foot. All troughing supplied
with one pair of ends, and cleaning-out plug.
324-330
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
*JOHN<
Ml
P^PP
oiixxwS Wai^
$ *4
SON-Pty. Lid
391-405
Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
STEEL PIG TROUGHING.
Made in 3,4, 6 and ,7 feet lengths, complete with
one pair of ends. Body of trough is made from
14-gauge Sheet Steel, and the sides are protected
and strengthened by ipeans of Angle Steel. Cross-
bars prevent wallowing.
This troughing cannot become soured like wood
trougliing. An occasional .scalding will keep it
wholesome and prevent swine fever.
Banks’
Bush Shower.
A portable shower consist-
ing of a strong pump and
all accessories.
A boon —brings the morn-
ing shower to the bush.
Install one for coolness,
comfort and cleanliness.
You supply the bucket and
water, we supply the rest.
Summer is here —send for
one.
mv
i
m


Tenders Column on page 39, re
O Lease of PALACE HOTEL (the
leading hotel), Perth, Western Australia.
Position Vacant.
MARINE BOARD OF LAUNCESTON,
TASMANIA.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
tion of Engineer to the Marine Board
of Launceston. Applicants to state salary
required, and must furnish full particulars
of previous experience, together with a copy
of their credentials.
Applications, addressed to the Secretary
and endorsed “Application for Engineer,”
must reach this office not later than noon on
the 10th day of November, 1021.
Particulars as to terms of engagement and
duties may be had on application.
Canvassing of Wardens will disqualify.
GEO. S. MEREDITH, Secretary.
Marine Board Offices, Launceston, Tasmania,
27th September, 1921.
Amusements.
SIl) N E Y’S CHI E F TIIEAT tt E S.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
PADDY", THE NEXT BEST THING.
PALACE.
TEA FOR THREE.
Allan wilkie's shakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN TOUR: THEATRE ROYAL,
ADELAIDE, from OCT. 8 to OCT. 21.
Aiistralisi.ui Representative,: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
N lON I* I C T U It E T II 14 A T It 14 .»
u
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
- ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
“HIS LADY FRIENDS.”
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIREFLY,
With music that charms and a story that thrills.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
K
I NO
THEATRE. \l 14 1. B O ti It N I.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY & GRANT present the Latent English Success,
JEFFERSON WINS THROUGH,
by VINCENT DOUGLAS.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
PRISCILLA DEAN in
REPUTATION.
Also
OWEN MOORE in
A DIVORCE OF CONVENIENCE.
Prices as usual.
IyjAJES’iIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE CALIIAUN in
CLOSED DOORS.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gIUTANMA THEATRE. MELBOUKNi.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
gy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
WORLD and SKI.7.NICK.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, wi'ite to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WANTED
15,000 Australians interested in
the development of their country
to invest £5 each in a bona fide
Oil-development enterprise, baclted
by wen-knovvn business men.
THE SYDNEY “BULLETIN”
STATES (15/9/’2l) :
“The Associated Oil Corpora-
tion, Ltd.—the best-equipped of
the crop of Oil floats, is getting to
work.”
INVESTORS.
An investment of £5 in the Wine
Weller Well Oil Company yielded
in three months £l5OO.
AN UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY
for the Australian Investor.
Can you visualise what it would mean to you if oil was struck in Australia? As with the wave of
the wand of a fairy the wilderness would almost immediately sprin j into a city. The supply ot retroi
and Lubricating Oil would suddenly be assured. Revolution in all Manufacturing Industries would take
place.
Texas was a barren land before oil was struck there. To-day Texas oil is the motive power
behind machinery worth countless thousands sterling. Think what this would mean to Australia—
manufacturers and merchants would do more business. It would establish Australian manufactories for
ail time. There would be an abuniance of employment for all.
There is every indication of oil on the properties taken up by the Associated Oil Corporation, Ltd.,
and the Directors and their friends, all business men, have a’ready taken up 25,000 shares. Ihe
promising nature of the geological formation of these properties is vouched for by Mr. Guy Andrew,
M.E., who says that he “stakes the last shred of his professional reputation that they will prove a
wonderful oil field—and that there should not be only one bore, but at least 100 wells operating. Will
you join forces with these business men in their legitimate efforts to bring about this increased prosperity
in Australia? Show your faith in the future of Australia and become an investor. Prospectuses will be
forwarded to you on application on the form at foot.
The
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
Associated Oil Corporation
Limited
(Registered under the Companies Act of 1892, S.A.).
CAPITAL £250,000, divided into 250,000 Shares of £1 Each,
apportioned as follows: —
100,000 Shares to be issued to the public, payable 5/- on application, 5 - on allotment, the balance in
Calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than three months.
18,000 Shares have been issued to the Vendor Syndicate.
27,000 Shares to be issued to the Vendor Syndicate WHEN OIL HAS BEEN STRUCK.
2,000 Shares have been issued to Guy R. Andrew, M.E., Petroleum Engineer, in part consideration
of his having agreed to serve the Company as Superintendent for a period of two years.
3,000 Shares to be issued to Guy R. Andrew AFTER OIL HAS BEEN STRUCK.
100,000 Shares to be held in Reserve.
250,000
25,000 Contributing Shares have already been taken up.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
P <s RATTITERF Fsc. Crazier Woorooma. West Deniliquin, N.S.W. G. L. D. JAMES, Esq., Consulting Engineer,
/vdnev II V' M \CFIE Esq F.C.P.A., Chartered Secretary, Sydney. G. F. D. MORGAN, Esq., Grazier, E. . .
' ■&’ \fmint Clumhier A E KNIGHT, Esq., Contractor, Mount Gambler. R. G. Drummond, Esq.,
GERLOII , Esq., ici < • * « aSS ANOWSKY Esq. Grazier, Mount Gamb'er. J. A. KILSBY, Esq., Grazier, Mount Gambler.
Investor, Hamilton, Vic. R. r. fcAte&AJNU>v mvi, i.sq., wcusxei, *■«. ( snprn T MTffi\ , nT’\ , T • RTTY R ANDREW M.E.
BANKERS: National Bank of Australasia, Limited. SLI LRINIENDEN I . bU ±t. ainukiv vv,
SECRETARIES AND OFFICES:
J 11. SHEPPARD, F.A.1.5., Mount Gambier; SAMUEL A. C. CARTER, F.C.1.5., 14 Martin I lace, Sydney.
nItTIYITC , PIT ,- ro\T PA IVY—The Company has been formed for the purpose of drilling for Petroleum. Oil under certain Licenses held
, v over an area of approximately 50 square miles-Mount Gambler, S.A.-and it is their firm intention to
& iff
3ftWs e prome r ctus hi gSs have been made a'charge upon the Company, and 25,000 shares have already been taken up by the Vendors
md theirVWM'™ l _to the issue! of up-to-date rotary drilling plant, capable of boring to a depth of over 4000 feet has been purchased
WORKING OPKHAIIUNS.- A tnoro « V c effected The whole plant is now on its way to the field ot operations, and the
3«v t B thSre to sUrfwoTk hnnJdiately upon it'- erection for boring operations, and the Superintendent anticipates being able to reach a depth
2000leetl» about six months. j )I?VT Ml Guy R. Andrew, M.E., is a Mining Engineer and Petroleum Expert of the very highest
THE COMPANY S Sill - exclusively on Petroleum. He is conversant with many of the leading Oil-field'- of the D.S.A.
standing, and for the past twenty-five years ha a Athabasca Oil-fields in Northern Canada. Mr. Andrew is highly enthusiastic as to the prospects of Oil
Kid Canada, and was i^trumenta‘/n™ « ~,Jth e Directors have absolute confidence in his diagnosis of the field. The Company has entered into a
JIL IS STRUCK. , . Modern civil isat'on depends on it. The national and commercial safety of Australia depends on the
GENERAL.— The world is searching for 01. a ° n ordinary commercial vent-re. ft is a national enterprise. There is
liscoverv of Oil. and efforts to locate i • 0 Australia and «urfi*ne indications of Petroleum have long been known near Mount Gambier, but little
? a^ve*> e nt n qf C the field,^E S tractsfrom the evidem* of Jocal state:
lave
15 miles m - = - . . _ from the Ra ; lroad When U 1 is louna mere is exceiiem, nmuuiuge iu wujvu h, uc vuux-jcu
jore is nine miles from Mount Gambier. and from any other kind of mining. As regards Oil" the main expense is in finding it,
vhereas. with any other mimng expenses rea'lv begin after the mmcml has been a ,-, pl i cation of scientific knowledge to geological surveys
Boring operations for hax idol at one Hme had not even o tfae avera „ e of success is 83% to 90%.
ias reduced the number of unsi.ee .s l b- • . riromi'iti" fields in Australia, and now that Australia has been suddenly discovered by the Oil
vorld the possession IocX e very important.' Other Oil'Companies and Syndicates are making geological surveys-the tremendous impetus to
Til activities is foreshadowed. ... • red for the boring for Oil must be provided on an adenuate scale, the profits which will be derived
are interesting: Commrny: Caribou Oil and Mining -Co. (100 acres).
191* "company: The Union Oil Co. Dividend, *2,480,000 for the year 1913.
Post This Form for Prospectus.
Th, ' J IsSOCIATED OIL CORPORATION LIMITER
I. s Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Date.
CCl please* send Prospectus of the Associated Oil Corporation to
Name
Address
AV.2.
The Associated Oil Corporation
Limited Means Business.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
The Secretary,
ASSOCIATED OIL CORPORATION. LIMITED.
Vi Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Date
Dear Sire, —'
/ hereby apply far Shares in the Associated
Oil Corporation, Limited, and enclose herewith the sum of £
being
I request you to allot me the above Shores, and I agree to accept
the. same or any less number that mail be allotted to me. I authorise
you to regi't“r me a" the holder of the said Shares, and l agree
to be bo''»d by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Cornoration.
Name in full
Occupation
Address
Signature
W. 2.
NOTE. —Cheques. Morev Pdrers, etc., to be made to the older
of the Company—Mount Gambler or Sydney.
“Friday Island”: “Captain Spink’s” (B.
l/9/'2l)' 24-hour windjammer record is all
right” for “those who love to dwell on the
past; but what about modern haste? The
Australian destroyer Yarra skipped from
Sydney to Melbourne (576 sea miles) in 22
hours.’ Anything on the coast to beat this?
“Ex-Soldier”: “Friday Island” (B. 1/9/21
is mistaken. There were 400,000 doses of
anti-tvphoid serum sent out for the British
soldiers in the Boer War, and many men
blame it for the high death rate. In the first
14 months of the Big Scrap the French had
over 95,000 cases of enteric amongst their
well-inoculated troops.
“Yarra Ben”: A Melbourne citizen
answering to the name of William Safe, up
before the City Court on two charges of
stealing books from Cole’s, pleaded that he
was “under the influence” at the time. The
P.C. who arrested him vowed that Safe was
"only pretending.” Whereon the defendant
addressed the Court. “Your Worships,”
said he, “a sober man is put in an ordinary
cell, and a drunken man is put in what is
known as a ‘wet’ cell. I was put in a
‘wet’ cell, and yet the polit-e have the auda-
city to swear I was not drunk.” It is a
wise drunk that knows his own cell. But
the unappreciative Bench made Safe safer
for six months, all the same.


Virginia
Cigarettes
"pHE PRINCE CHARMING
cigarette is the Prince of all
cigarettes, and sets a new standard
of excellent quality in either popular
priced or expensive cigarettes. Perfect
tobacco, manufacture and packing go to
the making of this Charming cigarette.
10 for 9d. 20 for 1 /6.
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
ď
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “The Maid of the Mountains’
Koval “Oh, Lady, Lady!’
Criterion “Paddy, the Next Best Thing’ 1
Palace “Tea for Three"
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “His Lady Friends”
Her Majesty’s “Firefly”
King’s “Jefferson Wins Through”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pic-urea
Majestic Moving- Pictures
Media Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
♦
Though weaker than its stable-mates,
“Katinka” and “You’re in Love,” “Firefly,”
at Melbourne Majesty’s, offers some musical
compensation for the modesty of its ambi-
tions in humor and plot. ’ The score has
several pleasing moments, particularly in
the end of the second act, where the massed
voices led by Reno Maxwell bring down the
curtain in a vociferous climax. There is not
the same strength about the story, which
frequently retires to rest from its mild ad-
ventures, while the fitful comedy business
depends mainly on the exuberant exertions
of George Gee, who works hard enough to
suggest a beach-show comedian at his own
complimentary benefit. Often Gee’s exuber-
ance is appealing; but there are times when
his extravagances only accentuate the poor-
ness of his opportunities. He does better
in his dancing, though this turn protracts
the entertainment beyond reasonable bounds.
Claude Flemming, whose manly tones grow
languishing in the atmosphere of canoodle,
has some tuneful passages with his stage-
niece, Edith Drayson ; but she is much too
limited in physique to partner her burly
admirer. Rene Maxwell acts brightly as
the street singer who passes through an in-
credible period in trousers to a glorious
future as a prima donna. This part of her
career is at least vocally reasonable, for
her singing all through is of exceptional
quality. Ralph Errolle is dead to the dra-
matic possibilities of the role of Jack Tra-
vers, but his tenor makes one forget his
funereal personality. Ethel Morrison, as a
lame widow with a vacancy for a husband
in her empty life, has the vain joy of an
occasional neart-beat in the neighborhood of
Flemming aforesaid, but, generally, she is a
decorative nonentity, like Reginald Roberts,
who flourishes in the uniform of white and
gold on the deck of the steam yacht in the
first act. Lou Vernon needn’t be ashamed
of his Professor Franni, who tends to drivel
over the brilliancy of the bogus Tony
Colombo; and Nellie Payne, as the flutter-
ing Suzette, is just French enough to be
completely bewitching. She has a smart
little dance with Hugh Steyne, who, as
Pietro, hasn’t the passion to match his Dago
nationality. Even as an alleged Bolshevik
with a load of bombs, he looks like a curate
in fancy dress. The scenery is good, and
reaches a pitch of autumn splendor in the
vegetation of Mrs. Vandare’s Bermuda
estate.
❖* * *
The success of the Rumbuttford concerts
at Melbourne Town Hall is, as of old, musi-
cal, personal and, in a measure, spiritual.
There is a gracious grandeur about the tall
“Paddy, the Newt Best
Thing,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Cecil Kellaway as
Paddy's father.
lady that distin-
guishes her from
many mighty con-
tralto singers. A
certain solid sug-
gestion of soulful
sincerity marks
Dame Clara’s
treatment of very
serious things, and
though this critic
personally goeth
not to a concert
to hear “Abide
With Me,” impres-
sively accompanied
by W T . Steele on
the organ, he must
admit that the
audience just loves
the hymn, with a
love which of old
used to concen-
tra t e on “T h e
Lost Chord.” In
a dozen songs of
more or less merit
the vast Voice and
winsome person-
ality are every
way admirable —
for example, in “I
Know My Love.”
But the fact re-
mains that none of
the lady’s new ditties about fairies
and ijctions have the charm of “The
Fairy Pipers,” which used to suit the calm,
commanding songstress from the top of
her beneficent smile to the heel of her artis-
tic soul. The sentiment of “The Fairy
Pipers,” as Dame Clara can sing it, is an
inspiration, and the rill of the accompani-
ment is a delight. Presumably it will be
restored to popularity at one of the extra
concerts this week, assuming that extra
concerts are inevitable —General Desire is
still thumping his stick upon the floor. The
foregoing remarks leave little space for
praise of Kennerley Rumford’s efforts, rang-
ing from "Drake’s Drum” to the “One Thing
Befalleth” of Brahms, or for mentioning
that Melsa continues to be a thoroughly
satisfactory side-line on the violin, and that
Miss Torrens is an admirable accompanist
who puts on a rather unnecessary “bit of
style” at times.
** * *
Dorothea Spinney’s Melbourne season
opened at the Playhouse last Thursday.
. “Hamlet” in itself cannot be called exactly
jolly, but “Hamlet” imbibed “neat,” without
music in the intervals, without costumes,
without scenery, staging, furniture or dra-
matis personal, and all this in the charnel-
like Playhouse, filled with an audience that
fairly reeked brains and intense superiority—
well, it was throwing a heavy responsibility
on the Bard, and the lady. And yet the art
and vivid personality of that one lone woman
upon a brown linen-hung platform set with
an antique chair and curly-legged table, held
the attention of the audience to the end.
Only her face and her extraordinarily long
hands are visible in the nigger-brown velvet
costume she wears. This is knee-length, and
cut on I!amlet-like lines, with long suede
legging-boots, and for the ghost scene an
additional long cloak is tossed on. With
these implements, a sweet, rich voice of
remarkable flexibility and tone, and a lack of
rant, the entire tragedy of “Hamlet” is
served.
* * *
The trouble with Joseph Coyne at Mel-
bourne Royal remains as before. Blanche
Browne persists in taking him out to a
“His Lady Friends,”
at Melbourne Royal.
Lance Lister as the
young lover.
movie when he’d
like to be en-
joying himself,
and when he wants
to squander some
of his riches on
turtle and fi n e
drink the same
thrifty spouse
rushes him round
to a cheap Italian
restaurant, where
dissipation begins
with powdered
cheese and ends
with spaghetti.
Bert Bailey
still helping Jeffer-
son to win through
at Melbourne
King’s, and the
extent of his suc-
cess is shown by
bis home, where
apparently his wife
and daughter have
to live in perpetual
evening dress to be in keeping with its
splendor. But J efferson’s own habits
are not affected by his mansion. The
homely character of the man' is revealed
by the fact that he is willing to .suck his tea
out of a saucer in an apartment like a gramo-
phone parlor. _ And it is probably only because
he doesn t think of it that he omits to hoist
his feet on the grand piano.
sf: s’: *
At Melbourne Tivoli Wilkie Bard, who
bears the heat and burden of the play, is just
now contrasting the impossible Welsh rail-
way porter who doesn’t know Welsh with the
improbable stage washer-lady, and through it
all the attitude of the public remains in-
tensely friendly. Pedro and Pedrina do a
little violin work, and the lady has also a
sympathetic voice but no enunciation to speak
of. Keith Desmond supplies some recita-
tions, but he has still a lot to learn in the
art of how to talk verse. Also Devron
Brock is in the bill again-—not quite so
handicapped this time by his trick of holding
the voice back to over-sweeten it, instead of
warbling clean from the lips.
Priscilla Dean in “Reputation” at Hoyt’s,
Melbourne, is making movie fanciers sit up
with an exhibition of her implacable virtue
in the face of the most insidious tempta-
tion. The film is also of some technical
interest on account of the clever double ex-
posures in which the lady appears both as a
mother and the mother’s daughter. Owen
Moore in the jaunty “Divorce of Convenience”
offers some comic relief to Frank Mayo, who
gives the Coroner insomnia in “The Magnifi-
cent Brute.” The sheet at the Majestic is
the battleground of Northerners and
Southerners in a miniature reproduction of
the American Civil War. “The Heart of
Maryland” is the title of the film, and a
Federal hero and Confederate heroine ex-
change devout looks in the orgy of bogus
massacre. “Thirty Thousand Dollars,” also
at the Majestic, pictures J. Warren Kerrigan
as an unhappy victim of an extremely be-
nevolent disposition. At the Britannia “The
Little Fool” is keeping the Seventh Com-
mandment intact with a valor worthy of a
better film. “The Bronze Bell,” a sensa-
tional yarn that travels from the Orient to
New York, via Paris and Monte Carlo, has
compelled the Melba management to add
another floor to the cash-box.
A dead man’s show :—-
A collection of the works of the late Fred McCub-
bin is inviting public attention at the Vic. Artists’
Galleries, East Melbourne. The pictures go back
to the ’eighties, when
McCubbin was learn-
ing the art of intro-
ducing a touch of
human interest to get
people to look at the
rest of the composi-
tion. Tlie human note
was most picturesquely-
stressed in “Mentone
Beach in 1887,’’ and
it was repeated with
more or less success in
later canvases, like
“Lost” and “Lost in
the Bush,” but that
factor is not so absorb-
ing as the problems of
light and atmosphere
and the manifold won-
ders of the Australian
bush. There are cer-
tain brilliancies, pos-
sible to Streeton, that
McCubbin never at-
tained, but he painted
the tush with extra-
ordinary veracity, for
all that. The color
and other qualities of
undergrowth have never
been more carefully
presented, nor has
anybody surpassed him
Vaudeville at Sydney
Tivoli.
Stuart Barnes tells of
his troubles through
wedding a female
Von Hinderburg.
in the depiction of those cool, ferny glades that
put a bit of the real Australia before you. But
he was not only a landscape painter of tremendous
influence on his generation. In portraiture he also
did well. His . “Lady in White” (No. 2) is a most
graceful effort, and there are many points about
his “Portrait, Blue and Gold,” though the color
scheme is. a trifle pretentious.
Claude Flemming’s departure for Mel-
bourne to play the heavyweight lover in
“Firefly” hasn’t lowered the boisterous
spirits of “Paddy, the Next Best Thing.”
That irrepressible spinster is talking, danc-
ing, singing, romping and eating at the Cri-
terion, Sydney, as if Claude had never been
on the earth. Charles Courtneidge is the
new Petruehip who tames this Irish Kath-
erine, and does it well enough.
* :[: *
“Oh, .Lady, Lady!” is exhibiting more
stamina at the Theatre Royal, Sydney, than
the favorite in the A.J.C. Derby did at
Randwick. But whether she will prove a
better stayer than “The Maid of the Moun-
tains,” at Her Majesty’s, remains to be
proved. Each filly has a legion of sup-
porters.
* * *
“Tea for Three” is entertaining large
parties at the Sydney Palace. It is a crisp
exposition of the Right to Flirt, and that
seasoned old warrior General Consensus
acclaims it one of the most interesting plays
of the year.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli’s latest immigrant, Mar-
tini, a jazz juggler, made a tumultuous entry
into this week’s bill, performing the unex-
pected in the least expected way. No small
factor in the loud handclap he wins is the
partnership of a dexterous little dog. Balmus
continues to twitch his muscles and emulate
pieces of statuary, and the “mentalists” are
as mystifying as ever.
** * *
Clara Kimball Young is the handsome peg
on which hangs the “Straight from Paris”
millinery provided for the Lyceum and Cry-
stal Palace audiences. It is a mixture of
glad rags and young love, with a twist in
the end that ties Lucette, the little milliner,
in a matrimonial knot with the millionaire
uncle of her first sweetheart. “Desperate
Youth,” at Hoyt’s, Piccadilly and the Aus-
tralian. is another romance of humble girl-
hood that achieves a wedding-ring and a
rich and handsome husband. The girls in
the films certainly have it all their own
way : they positively vacuum-clean the earth
of all the romance and adventure, and there’s
nothing left to excite the daily-job woman
but the vote and the liquor question. Barrie’s
“What Everv Woman Knows” fills the
Globe and Haymarket sheets with charm,
and brings back to old threatre-goers very
pleasant memories. Same houses provide
room for the gay old “Beau Revel,” who
tries to cut his own son out with his sweet-
heart. Arnold Bennett’s “Great .Adventure”
enthralls the Strand, with Lionel Barrymore
as the artist who allows himself to be bmued
in Westminster in order to marry a plain,
sensible woman from the suburbs.
»ji $
The Cherniavskys, older and with riper art,
are giving a series of concerts at Adelaide
Town Hall. Leo’s fiddle br’nsrs down the
house most certainly, though Mischel’s ’cello
is very appealing. But when the two are
reinforced by Jau at the piano, in Tschai-
kowsky or another, the effect is best of all.
Old fi iends Les Warton and Mabelle MorgaD
and Ivy Moore are prominent in the Fullers’
Ke\ue Co. at the King’s; Joe Hurley scores
m a one-man drama, and the Ross brothers
strike a fresh note with a boxing show The
P. of W. is alone in the matter of drama. It
has been discussing the question whether
Mother should Tell, and a majority vote is
that, if she doesn’t, Daughter is liable to get
into trouble, but may be saved bv long-armed
Coincidence. In pictures, “Other Men’s Shoes”
at West’s has the always-popular trick of two
characters played by one man, i n this case
the weak parson and the strong brother who
has to pull him out of holes; also Larry
Hemon in a Bakery act has the wisdom to
introduce animals, which —whether mixed
up with the dough or not —are always safe
for a laugh. The Majestic relies mainly on
the historic fight of Gen. Custer against
the Indians, with a human interest added,
“Bob Hampton of Placer.” H. B. Warner
as an ex-convict is sound and convincing
at the Pav., while Wondergraph lias Mary
Miles Min ter as chief and sufficient attrac-
tion.
** * *
A pair of doves make a show:—
George Coates and Dora Meeson, whose artistic-
and life-partnership is remarkably Browning-like,
continue their success in an exhibition at thi
Society of Arts building in Adelaide. The male bird
shows his portrait group of Australian artists at
the war, the Salon picture of Mrs. Rae, and the
Royal Academy portrait of Cecily Hamilton and
her sister. A new “Australian Girl’’ is somewhat
muddy in the flesh-tones, but another girl, standing
out from a “Brown Bonnet,” gets a Rembrandt
effect, and “The Challenge” (also from the R,.t,
show) is an appealing picture of womanhood; also
a stockman who owns narrowed sunburnt eyes, with
his horse’s head for company, is dinkum Australian,
The rest is mostly khaki. Mrs. Coates turns from
oils to water-colors with ease. Her studies of
London Bridge are delightful, but she can show
war industries or peace celebrations. In quite
another rein she has studies of girlhood, given
additional value by allusive titles, “The Last
Chapter” or “Not Far from Marston Moor.” A
stimulating show, far removed from the landscape
painting of which Adelaide is a little weary.
“Country Drummer”: The other after-
noon I saw two Albury (N.S.W.) flappers
viewing one of Allan Wilkie’s posters, on
which a familiar bust of the Bard is fea-
tured. “Garn,” said one, “that isn’t Wilkie,
I tell you ; I seen him in Sydney.” “Well,
who is it, then?” “I dunno; one of the
company, I suppose!”
“T.S.”: James Iv. Hackett, the American
actor, has received the Legion of Honor as
a reward for his artistic success in a recent
season in Paris. He took over a strong co.
from London, and did a Shakspeare series.
Macbeth was probably his best part, with
Sybil Thorndike as Lady Mac. Saintsbury
(English) was lago to Hackett’s Othello.
Shylock he entrusted to Gamier (French).
“T. 0.1.”: Mention of Fanny Wiseman
(Mrs. Willie South) in a recent Bulletin
recalls the number of “families” on the stage
in the fifties and sixties of last century.
There come to mind the Chambers Family,
the Lee Family, the Nelson Family, the How-
son Family, the Edouin Family, the Wise-
man Family, the Nathan Family and the
Leopold Family.
“Sixenate”: A memory of Castro, the
Tichborne claimant, has been stirred by the
removal of the refrigerating chamber from a
butchery in Gurwood-street, Wagga
(N.S.W.) to premises across the road. The
old chamber stood on the site of Castro’s
vanished slab-and-bark butcher’s shop. Castro
had left the employment of Gormly, the
present M.L.C.—who has recently published
a book of reminiscences, but makes little
mention of the claimant —to start as a but-
cher, but only lasted six months before he
decided to go bankrupt. His suggestion to
the solicitor that he would like to file under
an assumed name made that gent, rather
believe in his claims when he presently pre-
ferred them.
The woman from Manly says it is quite
the newest thing in Paris (and of course she
is right on the front wave of French cus-
toms, living as she does in the heart of Con-
tinental bathing) for one’s squire at a
restaurant to dash out in the midst of the
meal and return bearing a bouquet for
madame. The other afternoon a newly-
,eturned-from-abroad guest at a cat party
in the Winter Garden went out no less than
three times, and always returned bearing an
argosy of bloom ; while the other day at an-
other cafe the surrounding tables were fright-
fully interested by the entry of. a Society
leader followed at an impressive interval by
husband bearing a monster bouquet which he
gravely handed to his lady. Before the
removal of the fish another large bouquet
was seen coming down centre-stage borne by
a reverent servitor. The lady with regal
graciousness took delivery: and not the
tiniest glimmer of amusement lightened her
own or her husband’s face. Queer things
happen even in the best circles.


GOING CHEAPLY
Petrol or
Kerosene.
Vertical
8 Marine
Types.
■ ,-r
ENGINES
Si H.P.
6/8 H.P.
900/1000
R.P.M.
SINGLE and TWINS.
COMPLETE: MAGNETO, CARBURETTER,
TANKS, AUTO LUBRICATION.
3 J h.p. Single Cylinder, £55. 3J Marine type, £65.
6/8 h.p. Twin Cylinders, £99.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SPARE PARTS IN STOCK. Engines can be seen working.
WE ARE GIVING UP THE ENGINE DEPARTMENT
AND CLEARING OFF THE STOCK.
Prices Below Usual —from £2O to £35 each.
NO EXTRAS TO BUY. READY TO WORK. MODERN
DESIGN. CONSERVATIVE RATINGS.
Fuller Particulars
W. G. Watson 8 Co. Ltd.,
Electrical Suppliers of Every Description,
279 Clarence Street SYDNEY.
¥
In the far-flung
Outposts of Empire
s
Hi
SCOTCH
4||!--r :!l‘j
4H ; t
HKSJ^fWWJI
is just as familiar and as popular
as it is in its native Scotland.
In these days of scarcity -it is only by the most careful hmbanding
of stocks we can hope to maintain regular (if inadequate) suppEes. But
nothing will induce us to impair the unvarying quality of ‘ P.D.’ Whisky.
•v
y\r^
■-r
\m 'J* 4
-O*
Of Historic Lineage
and Wor Id-wide
popularity.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch — everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, LTD.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
*
A3ISIMM 03QNno
MOSAVVg
lU}|
The Hupmobile mechanical and general designs, as worked out in the beginning,
have proved basically sound and right. The result, of course, is exceptionally
long life; and no need for radical engineering revision from year to year.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—F'ive-seater touring car, two-seater
* roadster.
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3%in. bore x s%in. stroke, 8 3 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric —two-unit system.
Igjytion. —High-tension magneto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. Clincher, or 32in. x 4in
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


NSW- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74/ Castlereagh. St-., 74. Sydney.
“ADVANCES -
d
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
'WITHOUT POSSESSION
ď
fatides<}f 215*17 Swanston Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St, Newcastle. l97*Castlereagh 5t.,& 159 George St.,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000
' Joseph W.Hill.
* Phone City 9325 *
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very 'Veil
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.SAV. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd. '
POVERTY
POINT
[?]oet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
"Tho Told Waters”: It is amusing to see
the way Melbourne daily-paper critics handle
violinist Melsa, of the Butt-Rumford show.
They give somewhat encouraging assurances
to "this young man” that he wili be all right
if he, goes on developing his “obviously musi-
cal nature.” Now, Melsa happens to he a
much more-experienced artist, with a much
bigger London reputation for consistently
good playing during several years running,
than those two instrumentalists who
starred;here of late, one of whom apparently
sprang from nowhere and lias perhaps re-
turned there. But how on earth is any
poor critic to know such things unless he is
told ? . •
“Cremorne”: The Essie Jenyns copy of
Shakspeare that she left in the safe keeping
of the Mitchell "'LilmiTT-, Sydney, was'pre-
sented to the actress by four admirers in
“PADDY, THE
NE NT BEET
THLNG,” AT
SYDNEY
CHITERION.
Rodger Burry as Lord Settaby find Anew
McMaster as .Jack O’Hara registering
jealousy.
1887. After all. it is not a first folio (1623),
hut an incomplete copy of the second folio
(1632). Instead of being worth £lOOO, as
was thought possible, it is worth only about
£4O. I’d like to know what the four de-
votees paid for it and what the bookseller
or dealer made out of it.
Gerald Griffin, "Ireland’s sweetest singer”
—so the hills say—is looking towards Aus-
tralia again.
Though stories were once published that
the old convict hulk Success had gone to her
last home, N’York papers lately printed big
advts. that opened: “The Darkest Chapter
of England’s History : Old Australian Con-
vict Ship Drops Anchor in New York Har-
bor.” The showman’s vessel, which lies at
the foot of West 129th street, is of course
luridly described; aud neither the description
nor the exhibition will do England or Aus-
tralia any good. If England or Australia
gave representations of old American witch-
hunts, or even modern nigger hunts, many
a good citizen of the U.S.A. would regard it
as unfriendly. But the U.S.A. is slow some-
times in taking a hint.
“Minim”: Edward German, the British
composer whose Savoy opera, “Merrie Eng-
land,” is to be done by the J.C.W. Gilbert
and Sullivan co., was once looked upon as
Sullivan’s legitimate successor. lie was
called in to finish the score of "The Emerald
Isle,” which Gilbert’s partner was engaged
on at the time of his fatal illness. Subse-
quently, at the famed Strand house, he was
responsible for the music of “Merrie Eng-
land” and “The Princess of Kensington.”
His “Tom .Tones” was a Robert Courtneidge
production. But his muse lias been silent of
late. During the war when German music
was tabooed in England many people looked
askance at him because of his surname. If
he had announced that it was really Jones
the chances are he would not have been
believed. It would have been the truth all
the same.
“G.”: If the pictures were meant to be
“educational” the
scenes of the wild
and woolly West
would be brought
up to date; In-
stead of strong,
silent men indulg-
ing in dice aud
gun-play by the sil-
very Rio Grande,
the villain would
b e arrested for
carrying a pack of
cards; for the land
of .picture romance
ha s son e bald-
headed for prohibi-
tion. not only of
strong liquor, but of
card-playing, dicing
and kissing. In
tin* most advanced
parts of the Golden
West there is a
li n e fo r playing
cards; and for a
man to kiss Ms
wife in public
there’s a hungry
gaol.
“His Lady Friends .”
at Melbourne Royal.
Joseph Coyne as the
much-troubled
hnsband.
“McXorth”: When Melba visited one
!S,Qv sugar town ye3.rs. ago. the main features
of her welcome were proceshing school-
children, who laid flowers at her feet, and a
corroboree by some local abos. The song-
stress offered the usual thanks and, as a
novel touch, presented the leading nig. with
a bunch of flowers. Binghi stared at the
vegetables and then at the lady. “By cripes,
missus, what name this?” he burst forth.
“We feller bin dance ’longa you, and you
gibbit bunch o’ flower! What good that-
feller? No eat-im.” He handed it back.
“More better you gibbit bag o’ flohr.”
From “Vandorian,” in London:- —
An ambitious effort to turn the Shakspeare
Memorial Theatre, Stratford-on-Avon, into a national
temple of dramatic art has pulled up short. This
September it will become a shrine for “pictures.’’
A Mary Bickford film will give the rustics something
they are prepared to support. During a visit to the
beautiful old town on the hanks of the philandering
Avon (it has as many coquettish curves as a lover’s
knot), I wandered through the big rotunda that is
the Memorial Theatre. It was the only disappoint-
ment in the old village. In the cold light of day
it was a bleak and mean-looking affair, warranted
to seat about 800 people. A tawdry curtain is
supposed to represent the old Globe Theatre, with
Queen Bess going past. The house has two annual
“festivals.” The first is timed to begin with the
Bard’s birthday in April; the second, a kind of
glorified Bank Holiday, fills most of August. Shaks-
peare performances are then crowded into every
possible hour. But the early enthusiasm, the fat
cheques from subscribers and the rosy financial
hopes of its founders have vanished. The outer
building is handsome in a beefy, modern, red-brick
fashion ; but it is growing such large green whiskers
of sprawling creepers that in 50 years it will be
picturesque enough to be mistaken for a well-
preserved antique. Marie Corelli is the best friend
of the lame pup. But tlie only stile is apparently
the movie picture. 1 saw the plump little lady, by
the way, driving from her house in the High-street
to hand out prizes at a regatta. Her car was truly
gorgeous, extra-large, its outside of dark royal blue,
its inside of light, grey. The novelist is a wealthy
woman, and a considerable propputy owner in the
village.
The Wondergraph Co.’s new Adelaide
picture-theatre on the corner of Bundle-
street and Gawler-place is to be called the
York. The rest of the narrow, lofty building
—nearly Adelaide’s highest—will be offices
of the same name. Claude Webb, formerly
of the Paw, and latterly of Launceston, will
manage the York.
“Old Pot”: Genevieve Ward isn’t the
only surviving member of the Sydney Royal
cast of “Macbeth” in 1884. There are
Pattie Brown (First Singing Witch), Walter
Baker (Second Murderer) and Harry Les-
ton (Third Witch) ; and 1 believe that Amy
Sherwood, the Fleanee of the production, is
also alive. Baker tells how he was given
six parts, but when J.C.W. heard of it he
ordered them to be reduced by three. One
was the messenger who announced to Mac-
beth that Birnam Wood was moving, and
the young actor so simulated the terror of
this herald of evil omen that W. 11. Vernon
(Macbeth) was taken aback and forgot his
lines; whereon Baker gave him the cue. The
sequel^was that Baker, who was then receiv-
ing 255. a week, was handed £5 on next
treasury day, and this continued to be his
salary for the season.
“T. 0.1.”: “Peter” (B. 29/9/’2l) says
Fanny Wiseman, now alleged to be 75,
started her career as one of the Spooks to
G. V. Brooke’s Macbeth, at the old Queen’s
Theatre (Melb.) in 1859. As a matter of
fact, the “old Queen’s” ceased to be a play
house in the middle ’fifties —soon after
Brooke’s first Australian appearance—and
became a coach factory run by the portly
William Williams, who was Melbourne's
mayor 1866-67. In 1857 Coppin and Brooke
got the Theatre Royal, after a good season
at the Olympic or “Iron Pot” in East Lons-
dale-street.
“P.J.”: When the Jan Breydel collided
with the Salina off the Goodwin Sands
(Eng.) the other day. Kubelik was aboard
the Jan Breydel, and. his first thought being
for his £25,000 Strad., he ran to his cabin
and placed a lifebelt round the fiddle. The
Selina sank in five minutes, and her skipper
saw his wife, with a baby in her arms, and'
his little son struggling in the water. He
swam to them : the laddie clung to his back
while he clasped wife and baby under one
arm, and with the other arm struck out
for the Jan Breydel. When lifted from
the water the infant was lifeless and the
woman died later from exhaustion. In this’
frivolous world the heroic figure of the
widowed skipper hugging his tiny son and
mourning his wife and baby will soon fade :
hut generations will recount how in the
moment of direst peril a fiddler put a life-
belt on his Strad.
“Adelaide”: Flora Cromer had some suc-
cess in her action in S.A. Supreme Court
against Rickards Tivoli Theatres. She was
engaged in England to appear in Australia
at* £5O a week, was ready to start in October,
1919, but was not shipped till April, 1920,
and in July was dismissed, with an offer of
£5O in settlement, which she refused. Her
claim was for £2500, including cost of cos-
tumes bought in England and becoming, she
alleged, unfashionable month by month dur-
ing the delay. Judge Parsons went into
every detail with care, and refused to admit
that: she could be dismissed, on the wrong-
side of the world, at a week’s notice. He
decided that she had lost employment for 9
l-6th weeks, allowed for money earned with
the Fullers, denied her right to travel over-
land to Marseilles, and gave special atten-
tion to expenditure on costumes. Final
judgment for plaintiff, £377 and costs.
“Whitehall”: Gladys Cooper, who took
out, the usual restitution order against her
husband iix London the other day, has repre-
sented the "English ‘style of beauty” in the
eyes of the Empire for a dozen years or more.
During that period she also stood for the
domestic virtues, being usually photographed
with a cloud of babies round her. Captain
Buckmaster, her husband, brought one libel
action and threatened another against per-
sons who had impugned the felicitous rela-
tions existing in his household—on the prin-
ciple, possibly, of the prirna donna who
asked for damages against a paper that had
accused her of eating onions.
“Yarra B.”: Melbourne Mermaid Society
is putting on a spurt, and its new programme
of plays to be given during the coming
months is very appetising. The pieces
include Galsworthy’s biggest success to date,
“The Skin Game,” promised this month;
“St. George and the Dragons,” by Eden
Philpotts: “Prunella,” by Lawrence Hous-
man and Granville Barker; “A Bill of
Divorcement,” by Clemence Dane, and “Bar-
bara’s Wedding,” by J. M. Barrie. As these
plays are all popular and recent London
successes there should be some business do-
ing at the box-office.
“C. Oekney”: Wish Wynne, well known
in Australia as a “character” vocalist on the
Fuller circuit, is returning to the dramatic
stage in England. Her previous success
in that line dates back to the first produc-
tion of Arnold Bennett’s “Great Adven-
ture,” when she “created” (as the mummers
put it) Janet Cannot, and was thereupon
acclaimed the artist she is in everything.
The new vehicle will be a three-act comedy
called “Poor Emm,” and Miss Wish will, of
course, have the title part. It is to be run
by a comparatively new London manager,
Thomas Dagnall, who came into prominence
when lie engaged Cyril Maude and Connie
Ediss to appear together in "Lord Richard
in the Pantry” at the Criterion. The piece
was a big hit and the lucky proprietor is
now playing up his winnings.
Acrobat Martini, who mokes a comfortable
living by throwing himself at Sydney
Tivoli stage.
“Yarra Ben” : Many of us baldheads re-
member the Rickards headliner billed as
“May Moore Duprez, the Jolly Little Dutch
Girl,” whose turn consisted of dialect songs
and a dance in clattering wooden shoes.
Her name cropped up again in a recent cable,
which announced that a daughter aged three
is already appearing in the “act” her mother
used to give—-including, one supposes, the
dog dance. The Age’s heading to the thrill-
ing item wms “A Wonder Child.” It should
have been “Poor Little Wretch!”
“Snell”: I remember reading that Fatty
Arbucldc had to drink copious draughts of
water to keep liis fat up. Apparently he has.
not changed his custom, only his beverage.
“Silas”: There was a great storm scene
in the four-act drama, “The Ace of Spades,”
played by Blanchard’s company, in the old
Mechanics’ Institute at Lcfroy. The storm
breaks in .Vet 3, and, .as it happened, the
floodgates of Heaven opened almost simul-
taneously, and the rain pelted furiously on
the roof, which was of green shingles that
had curled find now let in the water after
about three minutes’ solid rain. At the
same time Blanchard’s original tempest was
filling the stage with wind, lightning, bail
and rain. The miners in the stalls bore it
for a few minutes; then the largest of then*
roared: “Here, I say, dammitall, ring off!
Can’t you see we’re all gettin’ darned well
drenched?”
“Namoi” : They all do it. Lily Elsie, of
“Merry Widow” fame, has gone back to the
Ixjndon stage, just as her rival Violet Lor-
raine is leaving it for a spell of marital
bliss with Edward Joicey. No musical-
comedy star has twinkled with such brilliance
since the dark Lily married her Bullough
and retired into the country to take a well-
bred interest in prize pigs and county
families. But between them they have driven
her back to the footlights.
“Deadhead”: The daring of the London
Phoenix Society in playing Congreve, Ben
Jonson and other ancients without “cuts”
has flattened out most of the older romantic
critics. William Archer especially has been
shrieking for the police. The Phoenix
goes on its way placidly, though, except that
it has dropped all invitations to the press.
It can afford to do without much advt.,
since it lives on the subscriptions of intel-
lectuals who want something to fill in their
Sunday evenings. Strange how the older
school of critics curl up at a few coarse
words and find nothing to interfere with
the'r digestion in some of the risky bedroom
scenes of modern comedy! Yet this is
nutting dramatic values in the reverse order
In the theatre it is the situation, not tlm
word, that sticks in the memory. Ben Jon-
son’s “Bartholomew Fair” is. of course, a
little over the odds with its fruity Billings-
gate, but squeamishness about language i<
a matter of habit. Possibly old Ben would
have been shocked by some of the scenes
our suburban dowagers sit through without
turning a hair.
A CHANGED CHARACTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The actor Goll lives in our street,
A fine, majestic fellow.
His brow is high, His smile is sweet,
His accents they are mellow.
The' people peeped to see him fling
.Hong our special section.
Is Denver in “The Silver King”
He’d won their deep affection.
The matrons stout, the maidens slim,
Thought him a dear, and said it;
Th’c very policeman smiled on him,
(’lie tradesmen gave him credit.
His-Wilfred Denver made a stir,
So pale and philanthropic :
His beauty arid his goodness were
A universal topic.
The. landlord did not urge for rent,
The laundry was propitious,
The butcher was subservient.
Now, suddenly grown vicious,
The agent stands upon his mat
Some money-down demanding;
The baker is declaring that
He’ll sue for debt outstanding.
The ladies gibe as lie goes bv;
The little boys yell after.
If for more tick the man should try
lie meets with scornful laughter.
When Glover’s bar he enters in .
The barnuiid shams tlic till in
Gull's now appearing in “East Lynut;”
As an infernal villain !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


■
■
1 :
I
■
m
Melbourne Cup Demands
Leviathan Tailoring
PRICES ARE DOWN
Practically to Pre-War Levels.
Super Suit, J1.9/9/-
TO ORDER, _
♦
STYLISH and SMART
Yet Priced Moderately for
GENUINE SOLID WORSTEDS.
Particularly high-grade all-wool Super Worsteds —
medium weight. Guaranteed to retain their smart shape
and appearance, and give the most satisfactory service.
Here’s Something for the Cup.
NAVY TWILL SPECIAL
Tailored to Order,
Hundreds of men recognise the superiority of our
Tailoring by Mail.
And you, too, will appreciate it after you have given it
a trial.
Our Prices Range from 5 Gns. to 12 Gas.
Mail Coupon Right Away for PATTERNS,
HOME-MEASUREMENT CHART and TAPE.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
THE
Cor. Swanston 8 Bourke
Ltd .
Streets, Melbourne
/*<r
t
A ~ Jb


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHH.P & CO., LTD-, Perth and GeraJdton.
Harvey’s Special II 1
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED. Redfern. Sydney:
LEWIS&WHITTY
RIDING BREECHES
A ||j|
Sports Coats
j*
LADIES' 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
j*
W. CHORLEY
8 CO. LTD.,
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
Cadet Rifles.
CAL. 297/230, with CLEANING ROD AND
SIGHT PROTECTOR. We have only a few
of these noted Sporting Rifles in stock. Fitted
with new B.S.A. barrels, and sighted up to
500 yards. Fire a bullet larger than .22 cal.
and cost only 5/- 100. Cartridges always on
hand. Guaranteed in good order. Secure
one now 55/-
AUTOMATIC PISTOLS. F. N. BROWNING
.25 eal. vest-pocket size. Fire six shots as
quickly as you can pull the trigger £5
AUTOMATIC RIFLE, .22 cal. Winchester. The
quickest and surest .22 cal rifle ydt produced.
Fires .22 Automatic Cartridges. . £lO/10/-
Gun and Rifle Repairs done on the premises.
Work Guaranteed.
ty&tce
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
As tins page foreshadowed, Furious was
beaten; in the A.J.C. Derby on Saturday. But she
made fa, gallant fight of it and gave the public
further reason for classing her as the best of her sox
seen at Randwick for many a year. There were 14
runners,' and barrow-loads of punters’ cash, most
of which was on Furious at 2’s. The Victorian
Harvest King was at 4’s, Popaway at 7’s, the
market when the barrier lifted being 12 to 1 bar
three, Cupidon 100’s to 7. The Maorilander had
been well backed after winning an event for novices
at Tatt.’s meeting, in which he just scrambled home
from ‘‘Baron” Brown’s Prince Sandy; but he had
followed with a poor exhibition in the Kosehill
Guineas. Richard Mason, his trainer, Was charac-
teristically pessimistic about Ills chances. Frank
Marsden felt confident about Furious. McCann
expected Harvest King to do well. The Popaway
stable'were hopeful, for the colt had run a couple
of fine races lately and done conspicuously well on
the track. Honey Bee was hardly inquired about at
25 to; 1.
They ran tiie first half-mile in “501.” Braehcad,
who Was in front, hit the six furlongs in lmin.
16sec, Furious was then fourth, having been in
the first flight from the beginning. Cupidon was
at this stage eight horses back. The marc got bumped
and lost about a length on the turn, but regained her
stride; quickly and was third into the straight, with
Cupidon another three back. Running past Vaccine
and BYaehead: when they blew out below the Leger,
Furioiis looked a sure winner. But Cupidon and
Honey Bee were on her track, and the gelding,
gettiiig an opening as she left the rails, joined in
the argument just inside the last furlong. They had
an all-in struggle for the line, and, though the filly
held her own bravely up to the last 20 yards, she
there commenced to falter. Cupidon, finishing with
great determination, ran in with half a length to
spare. Honey Bee, who had been 15th in the proces-
sion for the first half-mile, came from the clouds
and, though twice hampered when making his run,
was right up : to Furious at the finish. He 'must
have travelled over the last half-mile at a tremendous
hat. Harvest King ran like a plug, aind Popaway
was nowhere. The full distance was run in “38},*’ a
time only twice beaten in the history of the race—-
by Salitros (“32”) and Gloaming (“331”). Young
rode a brainy, vigorous race on Hie winner, and over
the last bit suffered nothing from comparison with
Lewis on Furious and McLachlan on Honey Bee.
Beauford, the “certainty on paper” for the Epsom,
duly delivered the goods, and the biggest crowd ever
mustered at Randwick cheered him and Albert Wood
home. Moving quickly off he was just behind
Greenstead and Alfort at the end of a furlong, and.
clapping on the pace, was in front at the next pole.
There Wood turned to view the field, and steadied
him. Alfort ran with him to the straight; there
sharpening up speed, Beauford came away on his
own and ran in an easy winner in “371.” An
amazing performance. Beauford made light of his
9st. 21b., and when stripped in the weighing yard
showed hardly a sign of recent effort. Dunwil,
though he never looked like a winner, ran a good
race. John Wren had backed him to win a fortune.
He turned soil:* at the barrier and was taken to
the extreme outside. When the tape lifted one of
the starter’s assistants was hanging on to his bridle.
He was not ir the first 10 at six furlongs. As
they swung into the straight he was fifth, and though
he quickly chopped down Erasmus and Julia Grey
and later' shook off Wish Wynne, the job of reach-
ing Beauford was beyond him. Gamtiler’s Gold, Etive
and Greenstead gave no trouble. Mac Jack and
Earl Derby were extinguished at the start. Whiz
Bang also ran.
Beauford was the shortest-priced favorite that ever
started in the Epsorn, 2 to 1 being the best price
available on the course; hut so steady was business
that the quote shortened to 6 to 4. Though many of
the fielders stopped on him altogether, 7 to 4 was to
be had at the death, Erasmus was at B’s, Dunwil
at 10’s, Wish Wynne at 18’s and the Ring was
vainly calling “20 to 1 bar five.” Everybody
wanted Beauford. The stable threw in for a sub-
stantial amount before lie won Tatt.’s Tramway
Handicap. But there were others who got in on a
still earlier door. A Sydney publican won £16,000.
There were compensations, however, from the stand-
point of Ike. Much "dead” money had gone into the
bag over the race. Glenaere, Kerim, Speciality and
Elfacre were all heavily backed soon after the
weights were published. Much money, too, had been
staked on Gambler’s Gold, Gilray, Erasmus and
Dunwil.
Robert Baillie’s big Baverstock horse David
behaved so like a champion in the w.f.a. Spring-
Stakes on Saturday that he shortened to 2 to 1 for
the Metrop., and the public fought to get on at that
price. Syce Knight was at 9to 2 and Prince Sandy
at eights. The two most noticeable things about
the race were the use O’Bryan made of Syce Knight
and David’s sluggishness. Syce Knight was bustled
into the lead with half-a-mile still to go, but half-
way down the straight he was beaten, and Prince
Sandy, Laddie Blue and Erasmus were left to argue
the point. Towards the end Laddie Blue was well
in charge, and, galloping over Prince Sandy, ran in
a winner by lialf-a-length. lie is a hardy old
battler, a graduate from country meetings round
Newcastle, who, after showing exceptional pace over
a mile, began not long ago to develop into a stayer
and won over a distance at Ro-iehill and at Tatt.’s
meeting early last month. He started at 15*8 to 1
in the Metrop., and the stable helped itself to a large
slice.
In the Spring Stakes David lay so far out of his
ground in the early stages that Toohey had to put him
under extreme pressure over the final section. He
was eighth back when lie commenced racing. At
the turn he was fifth, with about five lengths to
pick up, and good horses like Swift Shot, Syce
Knight, Fairy Bob and Violoncello in front. He
kept Ills run going, though, and had the crowd
wild with excitement as he flew over the last fur-
long, and, wearing Swift Shot down, won by lialf-
a-head. He ran the last mile in “391,” and the
concluding four furlongs in 481-sec. But the best
of horses feel that sort of thing. On the Monday lie
was obviously tired when moving off in the Metrop.
and never got better than fifth. Yet, with a rest,
he should still have something to say about the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Having been trimmed by Beauford in three suc-
cessive races, Greenstead was suspected of being on
the down grade. His response was to donkey-lick
a field of 15 in the A.J.C. Shorts Handicap on Mon-
dav, running the six furlongs with lOst. 31b. aboard
in “11a”- —a record for the course and the Common-
wealth.
* * * * *
Robert .Bailie’s failure to remember the
date of the V.R.C. general entries will probably cost
him some thousands. He did not nominate either David
or King of the Forest
for the minor events
at Flemington. Even
if David Were not
good enough to beat
Eurythmic at weigbt-
for-age he looked like
a certain place-getter,
and a hardv customer
like King of the Forest
might have been ex-
pected to pick up a
race. David’s absence
will rob the Melbourne
Stakes of much of its
interest, and it will be
the first time for many
years that so fancied
a Cup candidate and
weight-for-age per-
former has been absent
from the Melbourne
Stakes. And the Stakes
sometimes gives a clue
to the Cup.
RUPERT
GREENE.
starter to the
V.R.C. and
V.A.T.C.
Most people said it was all over with the
Caulfield Cup when Tangalooma had fairly taken the
struggle out of Eurythmic in the October Stakes at
Flemington last. Saturday. A field of five never
gave a more interesting race, and the time —2.351 —-
was good enough to preserve the finish from geny sus-
picion of a fluke. Lionel Atwill having run himself
out at <ll furlongs or thereabouts was passed for a
moment by old Ethiopian. Then the easy rush of
Eurythmic was received as a matter of course by
the small crowd that had laid 7 to 1 on the cham-
pion and the larger crowd that wouldn’t rise to the
odds. But Tangalooma had made no final effort as
yet. When he challenged the leader he seemed bound
to fall short of the big trick. Only a little way
from home Eurythmic had a head the best of the
challenge. And then Tangalooma came again and
won on the post by half a, head. After whjch the
mob cried that the Caulfield Cup was all over. For
his part this writer thought that big Tangalooma’s
chance stood where it always did. Three years
running the Cup winner has been a cert, for a nag
trained in the Melbourne district, and Tangalooma,
on paper, is as good a thing as the previous favor-
ites were. Still, the writer wants to know what
horses are coming from Sydney to bid for the prize.
The first two days at Caulfield may reveal causes
for doubt re the hot favorite, and the task of guess-
ing at a “surprise,” if any, can be held over for a
week.
The best of double-edged tips was sup-
plied by jockey Duncan when he cancelled his promise
to go to Randwick to ride in the Derby, lie didn’t
think it good enough to make the journey for the
mount oi! Harvest King, whereas he (lid think it
good enough to stay at Flemington to ride Purser in
the Stand Handicap. Many punters who had been
sweet on the chance of the handsome black son of
Comedy King were put right off him when they
heard that Duncan was not going across to ride. Also
they were put. on to Purser, whose Caulfield Cup pros-
pects are at least interesting.
The order was Heathersprig, Sasanof and
Molyneaux, after a desperate finish in the Park Stakes
Handicap (l j mile) at the Napier Park .1. C.’s Spring
meeting. The Melbourne Cup winner (who gave the
winner 221 b) is very consistent, and consequently has
to hump fist. fill), in the New Zealand Cup in Novem-
ber. Stead, his owner, is confident he can do it,
the class of the opposition being far from high. Big
Chief, who left for home with Duo, is on the limit
for this race.
sjt * * #
England won the first League Test at
Leeds on Saturday by 0 points (2 tries) to 5 points
(1 try 1 goal). Australasia was represented by an
N.S.W. XIII, with Fraser as skipper, Cubitt having
crocked up after the Bradford match. At lemon-
time the ’Roos led by 5 points (1 try 1 goal) to
3 points (1 try). In the second spell the Wood-
bines scored another (unconverted) try, with the
result above mentioned. Of the English XIII 10
were members of Wagstaffe’s team which visited here
in 1920. The new men were forwards—Beames,
Price and Morgan.
The Bradford game was a cakewalk. Scores: Aus-
tralia, 53 points (15 tries 4 goals) to the Yorkshire
side’s 3 points (1 try). Border got 5 tries, Burge
3 tries 3 goals, Blinkhorn 3 tries, Johnson 2, Craig
and Cubitt (captain) 1. Richards (Q.) was given
a show in this match.
The fact that most people expected Carl-
ton to walk over Collingvvood in the Vic. League
semi-final doubtless accounted for the decreased
attendance. The gate was worth only £1682, as
against the previous Saturday’s £2270. Yet this
match was worth three of the others. Playing their
visual game of high marks and long, straight kicks,
the Old Blues at half-time led 36 points to 13. After
that the thrills came, in four minutes the Magpies,
supporting each other and passing swiftly and
cleanly, had added 3 goals and some behinds. Then
Blackman, the Old Blue centre, practically achieved
a goal on his own and Carlton’s stock soared.
Again the Magpies got going, and Lee’s goal, kicked
over his head, gave them a point lead. But the
effort was too great to last, and though they kept
going right to the end they were 13 points to the
bad when the bell rang —52 to Carlton’s 65. Lee’s
record for the season is now 64, equal with that of
Cliff Rankin, of Geelong, though Carlton’s champion,
Clover, with one or possibly two games to play,
owns 57. A brilliant and exciting game, with
O’Brien, Fisher, Duncan and aforesaid Clover doing
best for the winners, and Twomey, McCarthy and
Rowe for the losers. The usual barrackers’ brawl
challenged' attention, but interest in the play soon
smothered it.
Over on the East Melbourne ground ’Scrav,
Association minor premiers, pushed Brunswick out
of the competition and will now decide Hie issue
with Williamstovvn. The Brickies held their own
for half the game, but faded away later and were
smashed by 77 points to 52. For some mysterious
reason the Junior Association, which should have
played its final as a curtain-raiser, decided to go to
Dandenong to settle the matter. About 1000 sup-
porters accompanied the teams, and those who
returned sound in mind and body describe the match
as a prolonged series df free fights* during which
Preston allegedly scored 62 points to Port’s 51.
The Springboks’ 1 23 matches in Austral-
asia gave 10 wins, two defeats (by M.L. and Can-
terbury) and two drawn games (v. Taranaki and
M.L.). In aggregate points they scored 327 against
119.
Taranaki (M.L.) have been the hardest
nut for touring Rugby Union teams to crack. They held
the British XV (1904) to a draw (no score) ; the
Anglo-Wclsh (1908) were lucky to defeat them 5 to
nil; and this year they played a draw with the
Springboks (no score).
* •* * *
,T. Steel, who got the cup for best player
among the M.L. backs in the threev Tests. Spring-
boks, is a dashing right-wing three-quarters. lie is
21, sft. lOlin. and 13st. 10lb. He plays with West
Coast, was in the South Island rep. teams of 1919-
21 and in the Maoriland XV that played in Australia
last year. The other medal-winners in the Tests
were H. Nicholls (Petone) and E. Beilis (Welling-
ton). The latter—a great forward—was in. the
All Black Army Service XV and also had a jersey
with North Island in the past two seasons. For the
Springboks E. Morkel (back) and “Baby” Michau
(forward) got the trophies.
Armstrong’s projected retirement from
first-class cricket is announced at a time when he
has proved himself one of the two or throe best all-
ronnders in the world. When, in fact, but for his
rotten fielding he. is the world’s champion. If this
is not merely one of those farewells with which
prima donnas' are accustomed to periodically harrow
their admirers, it means that the big man is sick of
his vendetta, with the cricket authorities, and con-
siders that it would be better for the game if he
ended the interminable struggle by getting out. But
the odds are he will be found lashing his pads on as
usual for Victoria before, the year is out.
* * * *
Sydney bowlers lost one of their best-
known and best-liked members last week. H. A.
Scott, who managed the last tour of the N. S.
Welshmen to S. Aus., set off a week or so ago to
motor to Adelaide, but had got only as far as
Mildura when he fell suddenly ill and had to under-
go an operation. A very wide circle of friends
will regret that it did not save him.
Ernie Symonds, of Plymouth (Eng.), who
appeared at Sydney Stadium for the first time on
Saturday night, displayed all the traditional quali-
ties of the fighting Devonian: like Drake and the
rest of them, he scraps hard and all in. Jackie
Green, featherweight champion of Australia, nearly
had his head knocked off by the busy little English-
man in the first round, and never quite recovered
from the shock. In the rounds which succeeded
Svmonds crossed Green with both hands and hit
him low: he upper-cut and then palmed him: he
swung a long right to the Sydneyite’s head, and
followed that up by hitting him with his own. The
crowd yelled warnings to Green and reproaches to
the visitor, but the referee was forbearing. The
end came virtually in the tenth, when the Plymouth
( itizon hit Green twice on the jaw with liis right,
the second application causing the victim to take
io the boards for seven. It was a badly rattled,
though still game and
resolute pug. that
emerged from Green’s
corner for the eleventh
session, and early in
the twelfth the towel
came in. Symonds
knows little or nothing
of the finer points or
the game—-so little
that his foul fighting
was no doubt almost
entirely unintentional
—but he is strong as
a mule and as tireless
as a scolding woman’s
tongue.
“KID”
SYMONDS, Eng-
lish featherweight.
who beat Jackie
Green at Sydney
Stadium on
Saturday.
I here was grief at Brisbane Stadium on
Saturday night when Harry Holmes beat Archie
Bradley on points over 20 rounds. The Gympie
butcher's boy, who still performs in the lightweight
class, lias been hailed as an embryo Darcy', and the
triumph of Holmes will give that theory a severe
knock. Holmes won by boxing the up-country slugger
at long range, and though Bradley pasted the evasive
enemy about the body a good deal, he couldn’t do
it quite hard enough to even drop him.
.Timmy Semmens, the long, lean Footscray
youth, is bantam champion of the Commonwealth.
A right artfully placed on the point of W. Tingle's
jaw won him the title at the Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday night. The affair lasted 14 rounds, and
Tingle, who was 31b. lighter and inches shorter, was
always second best.
* * * *
Sixteen Sydney Grade-cricket teams
started their first round on Saturday and finished
it on Monday. Marrickville, Mosman and Randwick
are the newcomers. L. W. Pye, though now 60,
reappeared for C. Cumberland against St. George.
He got the bowling average with 4 for 23. Another
ancient, L. O. S. Poidevin, captained Waver]ev, last
season’s premiers, against Norths, but his team’s bat-
ting was wretched. Norths, minus Punch, were only
slightly better in that department. Paddington
batted evenly against Cordon. M. A. Noble made
a firolcss 30, but bowled with a lot of swerve.
Austin Diamond (S 4) found no supporters among
the Gordonites, and they accordingly went down.
Randwick liked the Manly bowling, and Phillips was
unlucky to miss three figures. Randall eventually
got most wickets, his break-bowling being accurate
but not difficult. Waddy’s 53 was the Villagers’
only star performance. Sydney got the wind up
against Mosman, but Brown, Cohen and S. Smith
saved them from utter disgrace. Rupe Minnett
(126) showed some of his old form, and this gave
Mosman their win. ’Varsity outed Petersham for a
moderate score. B. G. Long, late of N. Sydney but
long suppressed, at last got his chance and stopped
Petersham’s rot. ’Varsity romped in by 4 wickets.
Marrickville against Glebe made the biggest score
on Saturday, and it included “express”-bowler Scott’s
century, the only one on the opening day in first
grade. Kelleway’s bowling was much missed. Glebe
failed to get a hundred, Russell and Thatcher strik-
ing a patch. Balmain made Wests’ strong paper
batsmen look feeble. Ironmonger is a great acquisi-
tion. Wheatley (150) and Love (111), who opened
for Balmain, broke Wests up on their own.
* * * »
Sydney Sailing Clubs’ opening race of the
season was decided last Saturday over the long
course in a snorting souGeaster. Twenty-one 18-
footers faced the starter, but Sunny South turned
turtle shortly .after crossing the line, and Keriki and
Britannia did likewise on the punch to Shark
Island. Moyana, piloted by Wal Keddie, literally
chewed the blow from the 2-Jmin. mark, and was
third to haul a wind at the George’s Heights mark.
After easing sheets at Shark Island this craft cleared
out and won by 2Jmin. from Florrie (H. Collins),
with Mississippi (R. Budnick), if min. away, third.
* # * #
Some coming tennis champions were seen
in . the Metropolitan (Sydney) championships at
Strathfield last week. Notably Huthnance, formerly
of Goulburn. He blew out 11. S'. Utz (who has just
lifted the Sydney captaincy) with the astonishing
score of G—3, 6—l. Ho won every one of his
service games, and in the second set all but one of
Utz’s. Huthnance’s second service is sent down as
if he is annoyed at missing his first, and the ball
tears through the air with a flight like a whirling
corkscrew. Barriskill is a nothcr player of promise.
He met Bob Neil, champion of the State in 1920,
and had him guessing all through with clever changes
of pace, showing just the sort of game with which
Johnson, of America, boat ,T. O. Anderson. He won
4 —6, 6 —2, 6- —2. Barriskill chopped right through;
but has also a fine drive at his command.
Billy McDevitt (challenger) and D. W.
Ripley (holder) signed articles last week for N.S.W.
sculling championship and £4OO stake money. They
race on the Parramatta on November 5.
*■ * * *
C. Morrissey, of St. Ignatius’ (Sydney),
proved himself on Saturday to be the season’s besr
all-rounder in G.P.S. athletics. At his college cham-
pionships he got firsts in 120yds. hurdles (20secO.
broad jump (18ft. 3im), discus throw (87ft.), big']
jump (sft. lin.), and shot putt (38ft.), second in
440yds., and third in 100yds.
G. B. Shailer is again N.S.W. amateur
billiard champion. Last week, in Sydney, he met
A. Turner in the final, and downed him by 1500 to
877. Shailer won the title in 1913, in which year
he made his record break of 286.
THE CUP-TIME QUERIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Oli, father, look at the fighting ships with their
mighty pointing guns!
Does danger threaten from colored foes, with the
grasping ways of Huns?”
“No heathens menace our shores, my boy, on looting
and plunder bent;
But honesty drives me'to admit that Hebrews’with
that intent
Are with us in multitudes just now. These vessels
turn up each year.
With wonderful punctuality when the Israelites
appear.”
“And will they engage our sailor-men in conflicts
where nerve and skill
Are requisite to ensure success?”
“Most assuredly
they will.
To borrow their own quaint mode of speech, it's
fivers io flea-bites, lad,
That all Ibis week and most of the next they’ll
battle away like mad
To tear the tars and their cash apart”
“But, father,
explain this, please:
Why, why must this war be waged ashore and
not on the rolling seas?
And what is the subtle strategy that urges from port
to. port
Our naval men? Is it duty stern? Don’t say it’s
a craze for sport!
Do other navies attend all Cups? Do”
“Now quite
enough’s been said.
Stop asking such damfool questions, boy. It’s
time you got off to bed.”
x.s.w.
10 2-4.


YOUR GREATEST ASSET
d
in business and in social life is stood healih. The man -who is not
physically fit cannot expect to take his rightful place among the
men who “get there."
Good health is the key-tone of efficiency, and efficiency is the
keystone of successful business to-day.
Get fit and keep fit, by the Baker
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
The exercises are simple, enjoyable and directly beneficial
to the nerves and muscles that control the most important
organs of the body. ,
This method of individual instruction has benefited thousands
of sufferers, and restored them to perfect, glowing health.
If you wish to enjoy the success in life that physical fitness
ensures, write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, cut it out, and send it, with three stamps to cover
postage, and you will receive a copy of the interesting book,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all
about this simple system.
Take action to-day !
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
595 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
The Shoe Polish Super Excellent.
Bostoek’s Shoe Polish is made from a highly scientific formula of purest ingredients,
is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish, it
PRESERVES the leather.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, Nigger Brown
Paste, in Tins, are now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
T pricers.
IN THE ESTATE OF JOHN THOMAS GLOWREY, LATE OF
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA (Deceased).
««
TENDERS for
THE PALACE
9 9
(PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL).
mux
Situate at the intersection of St. George s Terrace and William Street,
replete with'every modern convenience, sewered, fitted with Hot-water
Service and Electric Light,- Gas and Elevator, containing spacious and
artistically decorated dining-room (with seating accommodation for
250 guests), drawing-room and numerous smoking-rooms, Saloon,
Public, American and Lounge Bars, Billiard-room and 110 Bedrooms
with offices known as “Palace Chambers, from which an approximate
rental of £ 1 0 per week is obtained.
Tenders are invited by the undersigned for the purchase of the Lease,
license and goodwill of the above Hotel according to conditions
of sale, which together with the Lease may be seen at their office
or the office of their solicitors.
The Lease expires on the 10th March, 1931, and is subject to a weekly
rental of £55 less statutory deduction 5/1 7th-r-£39/8/3 per week.
The Lessee to spend on improvements the sum of £750 during the
currency of the Lease.
The Purchaser shall take over all furniture and stock at a valuation.
Tenders to be accompanied by Bank Cheque for £250.
Neither the highest nor any tender necessarily accepted.
Tenders close with the West Australian Trustee, Executor and Agency
Company, Limited, on Monday, the 16th January, 1922, at 12 o clock
noon.
Possession will be given and the purchase money payable within fourteen
days from acceptance of the tender.
Further particulars may be obtained from
The West Australian Trustee, Executor and Agency Co., Ltd.,
the Executor of the Estate,
or Edmund S. Barker, Manager,
Messrs. Villeneuve, Smith and Keall, Solicitors for the Estate,
both of Barrack Street, Perth, W.A.
Bright Steel Shafting
For years now our Bright Steel Shafting
has been successfully meeting the most
exacting demands.
Try a sample order. Large quantities on
hand of all lengths, |in. to 4in. in
diameter.
Another line that has won a high repu-
tation is our
Bright Drawn Steel
For Nuts, Bolts, Studs and Sett Screws our Bright
Drawn Steel knows no superior.
Plenty of stocks of Hexagon and Square.
Special prices on application to Department “A.” Telephone to
City 9863, or 7819 if more convenient.
'«i.E ON ►
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield, England,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney;
2(Hi Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
48 Cliff Street, Fremantle;
Charles Atkins & Co., Ftd., Adelaide
.John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane;
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle;
R. L. Milligan, Hobart, Tasmania.
RYNOCH
AMMUNITION
ď
■22 RIM FIRE.
đfdf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
1 1 — !
ALL BRITISH
'• ; -T\/T OST Horseman experience difficulty
IVJL obtaining breeches that are absolutely
faultless as to fit. There is so often some minor insor-
rectness in the cutting that renders the garments unc am*
forfable in wear and possibly shortens the period of
their serviceability. For instance, have not YOUlhad
breeches that were just a little too tight, at the knee with
the consequence that difficulty was experienced when
t mounting or the stitching gave way just as the strain/ was
put on the left knee?
“L.S.” Breeches are cut by men experienced in the production
of Riding Garments—men who know exactly how Breeches
must be cut to be completely satisfactory. We quote cpir special
MILITARY DRILLS
(Tailor-made to Order)
for the man who wants something serviceable/at 1
price. Other textures up to £4. PATTERNS
POST FREE. We will gladly make you a trial
and if they prove unsatisfactory you need not k<
them. Why not drop us a line to-day ?
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. iLtd.
244-254 Flinders St. Melbourne
37/6


df
Comfortable Elastic-side Boots
and well fitting Leggings.
Both these, though "special” to a bush man’s
work, can be invested with as much
character as a boot or other items of city
wear. Faiimr’s stocks are noted for
their ability to stand the strain of a hard
day’s work, yet possess style and finish.
UR.l—Whole-front Riding Boots, elastic sides, light welted soles;
in black or ta« calf. Sizes, sto 10. Price, per pair .. .. 39/6
UR2—Tan Military Cossacks (not illustrated), on smart, comfortable
last; mediunb light welted so'es. Price, per pair . . . . 37/6
UR-S- I —Tan or black Spring-front Leggings, smartly blocked in
excellent quality Polished Cowhide. Price, per pair .. .. 22/6
Farmer’s, Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. “ The Store for Men. ” Box 497, G.P.O.
sf
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
If it isn't
Its &«tter
A tin of “BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s fall shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Gre»n Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburhs.and country f'r *-ostage paid 1/9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1533, 11609
O T ho , octobe i' meeting at Flemington on
Saturday was not overcrowded, but was very
sporty taking more interest in racing than
m clothes. Fashion race-frocks were in
fe.vdney at the big meeting or being saved up
* /S e Spring meetings just due. A crowd
of Governor folk went out, G.-G. Forster
talking- the newest acquisition to the house-
hold, the Hon. Mrs. Lubbock ; and the State
Governor and his Countess had with them a
braee ot boys as well as Lady Helena Rous
A one ot them bothered much with the vice-
regal pen—they were well afield on the
hnvn, in the paddock and at the birdcage,
lhe committee entertained the whole party
at lunch. ,
Chief Justice Adrian Ivnox was sprucely
top-Jiattecl, and General Grimwade and Iris
lady were in the crowd. Mrs. Byron Moore
had daughter Ilylda back from India. She
was in brown tweeds, but sported . a tricky
colored gamp. Mrs. Fred Fairbairn, in
black, was there with daughter Mrs. Rus-
sen a grey vision in mufflings of fox-furs.
Mrs. Norton Grimwade showed off some of
the new canard-blue toggery, Mrs. Wood-
forde was in white cloth. Mrs. Lee Steere in
tawn tailorings with the favorite tight tur-
pan. Everybody prepares for wind at Flem-
ington in October; but this time the weather
was of garden-partv softness—sunny and
breezy and trimmed with fleecy clouds'.
At her fourth concert Clara Butt’s ampli-
tude was wrapped about with yards and
yards of tangerine georgette over leaf-like
gold tissue. Her brow was fettered in blaz-
ing rubies on blue ribbon with feather s’de-
wings drooping over her ears. In her splen-
did white arms she clasped a large sheaf of
tangerine-sashed arum-lilies, and the long,
trailing tail of her drapings was flung over
one wrist. The domestic bl'ss of the Rum-
ford couple is so emphatic upon the platform
that you would hardly be surprised if they
began,tickling one another, or if Clara asked
to be done up the back.
Like Katisha, Graeie Torrens, the accom-
panist, lias an elbow that folk would journey
miles to look upon. She is the fair, fluffy,
rather untidy blonde type that is all soft
femininity, and the top-rote of her woman-
appeal is the tender, delicious dimple in her
elbow. If she played false rotes (and she
doesn’t), if she scattered hairpins, or ; f some
of her clothing slipned out of nosition (which
it might), that dimple would carry her
through the crisis, for none could think of
anything else.
Just before the vice-regal arrival, with Lady
r orster and Mrs. Imbboek (who had a won-
derful hair-band of diamond laurel leaves) in
the lead, Charlie Tait sent forward an usher
who spread programmes upon the table within
the royal pen. . Then just as the Excellency
was sinking into pos.tion, a person from the
outer darkness of a second-row seat strode in
front and snatched one of the sacred pro-
grammes, with an innocent and delighted
“Here are some!’’ and resumed his seat.
Will he be hanged or just deported?
_Clara Butt had another big house for the
27th, with Melba in the front horseshoe
among the vice-regals. Dame Nellie ap-
plauded forcibly and handed over a basket
of. flowers; and when the singer stooped
down to thank her Melba squeezed Dame
Clara’s fingers and kissed her hand. Then
theie was more applause.
The Field Naturalists the other day had a
wild-flowers show in the Athenaeum that was
a joyful riot in dull surroundings. The in-
toxicating scent from that ultra-respectable
hall nearly caused a scandal. The wild-
flowers, crushed together to fit in the com-
paratively small space, refused to be re-
pressed, and as a result wanderers up Collins-
street, suddenly getting the tang of shrub and
fern, crowded in to see what it was all
about. Our Countess opened the show, and
an orchestra, behind some sapling gums,
played dreamy waltzes. People now wedded
to the city saw flowers they used to gather
when they were youngsters, and grew remi-
niscent and sentimental. There were sections
from the other Stattes. N. S. Wales flaunted
tall waratahs. The Victorian orchids had
a table to themselves—a beautiful show —
and ti-tree was in clumps with seaside
flowering shrubs. The Grampians, which ad-
vertise their wild flowers to catch the tourist,
missed the train with their boxes? and the'
blooms arrived toward the end of the show.
Macedon, which cultivates native flowers in
its gardens, hgd a special display. Blooms
were sold in huge bunches from a special
stand near £he doorway, and in a while
Melbourne looked as if it had been for a
day-in-the-country. The Chinese Consul, his
wife and a diminutive secretary were keenly-
interested visitors. The Consul is a linguist
of many parts, but his little wife had to
have everything translated for her. Mem-
bers of the Field Naturalists’ Club took
advantage of the general enthusiasm to px-ess
propagandist literature on the company 7, and
quite a number of new members were gath-
ered into the fold.
As a public speaker the Stradbroke Coun-
tess is an acquisition, if only for the rea-
son that she has a good carrying voice. Re-
porters, unreserved-seat-holders and women
with ear-covering bangs, veils, hats and
such inflictions can hear her when she pries
open a show. And if they are quick at
translating the culchawed vice-royal accent
into good plain Australian, the affair be-
comes an intelligible operation for everymne.
Incidentally, the lady confesses that Aus-
tralian birds and Powers have been eye-
openers to hei-, and she blames the Aus-
tralians she met in London for never
mentioning them. She says Britishers wor-
ship and swear by- the oak, but she adds : “Be-
cause a man loves his mother, that is no
reason why he should not love his wife as
well.” So she finds hei-self loving gum-trees
and wattle-blossom.
A feahf’ly swaggah crowd buzzed out to
Berwick for the Pomt-to-point Steeplechase
of the Hunt Club. The fie. S. Chirnsides
lent Edrington’s best paddocks for the affair,
and both sets of vice-royalty turned up, each
with a little swarm in attendance. Forster
and Co., including the Alan Curries, Lach-
lan Maekinnons, Major Casey, the VV. J. T.
Clarkes and some Grnnwades, were fed lav-
ishly within the Chirnside homestead; but
the Stradbrokes, including the two y 7 oung
Honorable Rous youths, George and Keith,
and Lady Helena (screened behind horn-
rimmed glasses and very tweedish and
woolly as to get-up), were picnicked out in
the paddock by Master-of-the-Club A. T.
C res wick. The rest of Melbourne’s hor-
siest Socaiety nourished itself from ther-
moses in automobiles under the trees. The
younger set just let themselves go for the
day in the matter of brogue shoes, short,
large-patterned tweed skirts, jumners and
slouch hats. Lady Stradbroke (in sport-
ing tailor-mades of b\ack-and-white stripes)
led the way with a sensible walking-stick
seat-affair which she rigged and perched
upon whenever she came to a suitable view-
ing-spot, and several of the Best followed
her lead. Pretty 19-year-old Gwen John-
ston, one of the most daring of the Best
horsegirls, won the Bending Race. Every-
one remembered her mother, a fine horse-
woman, who was killed in the saddle at her
own front gate not so long ago, and ner-
vous relations wish Gwen wasn’t so fond
of awkward jumps. Eileen Fitzsimmons, an-
other dashing huntress who turns up her
little sunburnt nose at the idea of nerves,
had a nasty crumpling smash in the jump-
ing contest, but she came-to after a few
dazed moments, flung herself upon a second
mount and won the event. The Wave, her
handsome hunter, won the Steeplechase,
ridden by Harry Le Roux, a red-headed
sadd.e-pnnee of S. G'ppsland origin.
One feels that Dorothea Spinney is a de-
serving cause as unworldly show-women go.
In the vulgar art of
boost she remains as
unlearned as the
babe she was of yore.
Dorothea has never
a good lie to tell
about herself, and
perhaps she couldn’t
recognise a sound
business taradiddle
if it occurred to her.
Any other sort of in-
teresting woman
would have an easy
note of explanation
as to why this photo
should be published,
but Miss Spinney has
no excuse to offer.
bhe merrily suggests that it might repro-
duce better than a beautiful platinum prmt
of herself in the character of Hamlet.
Lord Digby, the vice-regal Forsters’ official
sec., and gent.-help Jimmy Traill are com-
bining with a few of the idle rich to establish
a polo club.
The Forsters’ handsome daughter, Mrs.
Pitt Rivers, crossed to the Harbor a few
days ago, to meet her A.D.C. husband, who
has been exploring the attractions of Papua.
The lady, by the way, is taking an interest
in the Mermaid Society’s operations, and
attended the Town Hall meeting last week.
Guests at Mrs. Harry Emmerton’s after-
noon-tea frenzy for reciter Dorothea Spinney
found Lady Stradbroke among the also-
presents. She was there in a brown frock
and red hat, with daughter Helena and not
the ghost of a gent.-help anywhere ! Of course
the vice-regal lady vyas closely cornered by a
handful of the Most Gilded, who buzzed round
and kept intruders at the proper distance.
The Countess enthused over the musical part
of the tea —a joyous interval supplied by
George Brookes apd pianist Cahill. Doro-
thea Spinney, heavily overshadowed by the
vice-regal presence, bustled about in black
trappings, armed with a gift posy.
One day last week Lady Stradbroke
lunched at the Women’s Club informally with
the Robert Power widow and half a dozen
of the elect—a circumstance.in which one cat
saw a fresh argument in favor of the aboli-
tion of imported State Governors. “The poor
dears,” she said, “come all the way from
England and find they have nothing to do.”
Why any woman, imported or otherwise,
shouldn’t take an hour off for lunch isn’t
quite clear.
From “Vandorian” in London
Melbourne’s former noted surgeon Douglas Shields
—knighted for his pretty work on a countess’s dam-
aged face —flew to Paris to the aid of Major Ottley,
a Foreign Office bigwig suspected of acute appen-
dicitis. The invalid was packed into a Handley
Page air express, and in charge of Shields came to
earth at Croydon (Eng.). Hurried off to the
doctor’s big private hospital in Park-lane, the
patient pulled through the operation, but died
of heart failure a few days later. I wonder whether
the less dramatic course of operating in Paris
wouldn’t have been less risky. But it all shows
where Shields stands nowadays among London sur-
geons.
At the Show luncheon, Gov. Weigall, after
describing the cattle of S. Aus. as “fair
cows” (or words to that effect), is reported
to have said he “had seen as much bovine
beauty at the Show as he had seen among
the. young ladies of Melbourne.” This letter-
writer refuses to believe the Sydney cat who
assures her that his Ex. meant exactly what
he said.
< The Ministry was none too pleased that
Gaud Mayor Swanson overlooked Treasurer
McPherson when invitations were issued to
“leading citizens” to meet Hughes. McPher-
son came overland by the same train, and
apart from his State service is among the big-
gest and most substantial Melburnians. In-
stead of going to the Town Hall. Lawson
sent Oman, and concentrated himself on
his Treasurer. Coals of fire were heaped on
Swanson’s head by luring him, as the only
outsider, to the Parliamentary dinner to the
Governor. All the other diners were con-
nected with the Legislature.
Squatter Attiwell, who will appropriate
our Major Ethel Richardson this month, is
one of the most popular men in the Western
District. He is a young widower in his
forties, and his run, Boortkoi, is known as
the show sheep-station between Hexham and
Mortlake. Miss Richardson has a sister,
Mrs. Digby Johns, who plunged into sheep-
growmg m N. S. Wales.
The galleries of the Y.A.S. at Eastern
Hill are restful places these days. The
very best of Fred McCubbin’s good work
is on show. Theodore' Fink opened the
exhibition, and a big crowd of artistic Mel-
bourne —includ'ng the buyers—came in his
wake. _ Mrs. McCubbin, who arranged the
collection, has been very .ill, but managed a
first-day-out.
Louis Esson and his medical wife have not
been long in deciding that the Bush has
the only clear call for them, for within a
fortnight of their sudden descent on Aus-
tralia they had installed themselves in a
picturesque dug-out at Emerald, where Louis
means to lead the dreamful life in which
poems and things happen in the natural way
and don’t have to be forced.
The Athenseum Gallery tenant this week
and next is Miss J. Wilkinson Whyte, who
features a Mirri Creek picture on the invi-
tation card. Her little lot of paintings and
etchings will have been formally opened ere
this fact is mentioned. And Speaker John
Mackey will have done it.
Lady Forster has promised to hear Miss
Meyer tell her “Travels in Palestine” at
Queen’s Hall, Collins-street, on Oct. 13.
A few St. Ivilda women, headed by May-
oress Cumming and president Mrs. Mi'chaelis,
are dispensing flowers from a stand in Col-
lins-street for a week. It is a quiet little
move for the Alfred Hospital on the part
of the St. Kilda Auxiliary. They intend to
have Egg and Linen weeks, too.
The Linen Tea for the Women’s Hospital
was an undoubted success. The committee,
headed by the Langndge, Hiskens and Earle :
dames, had a special table, and entertained
the Countess (who apologised for being
late), Melba, Mrs. Billy Hughes and other
notables.: Lady Stradbroke wore a cheer-
ful ail’, her favorite pickled-orange hat and
a fawn-cloth coat. Lady Helena Rous was
severely tailored, and looked softly out from
her big round spectacles. Dame Nellie was
enveloped in a great black cape, and had a
touch of henna in her black turban. Young
Gordon Mcßae distributed bouquets to
match the frocks of the Importants. Miss
Mcßae, ,who has been the means of collect-
ing £lOOO for charity in the last month,
gave the lounges of the Oriental and the tea
to help the cause. Mrs. Oliver, from Essen-
don, sent the flowers and arranged them on
the tables. Tw-o concerts were kept going
without clashing—one in the far supper-
room and another in the lounge. Kirby
came in late and warbled to the Countess.
It was a day or two before Melbourne
journalists get on to the fact that the Bertha
Merfield who dropped from a Tait train on
the Sandringham line and was killed was
the decorative artist whose work figures in
some Melbourne buildings. She went to the
hog about 10 years ago with her friend
Edith Onions, the newsboys’ pal. and while
there exhibited gum- and ti-tree panels which
won praise. She was a good sort, but had
suffered somewhat in recent years from over-
strain.
Beliold here Sylvia
Van Asehe. now
preparing to air
a fine s-oprano
voice on the
concert stage. Syl-
via is a daughter of
Belgium’s ex-Consui
Van Asehe an d.
grand-daughter of
the late Justice Hol-
royd. She inherits
the artistic tempera -
ment from her
mother, who might
have been heard of
as a painter had
she not forsaken the
mahl-stick for mat-
rimony.
Little Mrs. Charlie Mills went out sud-
dently to pneumonia last week at her lius
hand's squattage in N. S. YV ales. A very
broken-hearted mate and two small chicks
are mourning her. Melbourne best remem-
bers the little matron as Sylvia French,
youngest daughter of violinist Du Bou-
lay’s musical wife and niece of Mrs. Robert
Power.
The first-night Spinney audience was an
amazing collection of soulfulness. Lady
Forster had spent the evening addressing
the National Council of Women, but even
that could not keep her away. She blew in
just in time for the graveyard scene, and
scarcely missed a murder, after all. Chan-
cellor MacFarland was among a sea of ’Var-
sity folk on one flank, several schools and
societies held the middle back, and Char-
lotte Hemming.and many Shakspeare Club
people were on the left wing. The Norman
Brookeses were well to the front, and General
Monash. the Fritz Harts, Miss Micliaelis
(who lived when in America in the same
flat as the Spinney, and so feels herself a
kind of bear-leader for the season), Jess
Webb (Lyceum Club), Mrs. Phillips and
the rest of the serious side of Melbourne
attended.
Mrs. Percy Russell (she was 0.8.E.’d at
Government House when all the other cele-
brities were trimmed up with their stars -
and snips of ribbons last week) is flinging
her energy into a tea-room business. She
put in pretty well all war-time running the
Red Cross kitchen and the cake-shop, so
she knows the job.
Adelaide sends a line or two
There was nothing startling as to frocking at
the Hunt Club races; every other woman wore
silk, and navy blue was the predominating color.
In spite of a new stand and additions every-
where there was an uncomfortable crowd. Frank
Whyte, pastoralist, and owner of The Navy, who
won the Hunt Cup in 1920 and again this year,
is touring the world. As he purchased the chest-
nut just to give support to the Club everyone was
glad to see him get a run for his money. His Ex.
presented the cup to the rider and the committee
entertained at lunch and afternoon tea.
There was a record meet of old scholars at
St. Peter’s College to see' his Ex. lay the founda-
tion stone of the Memorial Hall that is being sub-
scribed for by ex-scholars in memory of the old
boys who served in the Big Scrap. The hall will
hold 1500 people, and the names of Old Boys
who enlisted will be inscribed on tablets forming
the balustrade to the gallery. After a collection
£863 was picked up from the foundation stone.
There are 15 applicants for the vacant judgeship
in the N. Territory. Evidently we have a surplus of
Solomons in stock.
The other night there was a fancy-dress dance at
South Gap station, away, up 80 miles north of Port
Augusta. About 180 people took part in the fes-
tivity,' including several visitors from Adelaide, to
whom the up-to-date frocking on the edge of the
Never-Never came as a surprise.
Heather Hammond, daughter of W. G. Hammond,
of Wakefield-street, said “I will” to S. E. Hamer, at
St. Paul’s, Kandy, Colombo, on August 20. She
Was given away by Jack Mortlock, who with his
mother and brother represented S. Aus. at the
wedding, The bridegroom, who is hon. see. of the
Sports and Dance Club on the island, seems to be
extremely popular. His brother Thurston Hamer, of
the Irrigation Department, saw the thing through
as best man.
Some time ago J. M. Reid donated £5OO towards
a children’s playground, and he has now offered to
provide one at Hindmarsh at any cost up to £lOOO.
At a meeting attended by their Exes. Lady Weigall
made a strong appeal for funds to maintain the
ground, and as those present seemed bashful about
contributing, she borrowed a fireman’s helmet, made
a personal raid and returned to the platform with
£l5O.
Percy Mills, who has been Adelaide manager
of the London Bank of Australia for 10 years, goes
to Perth as manager of an E., S. &A. branch. (The '
two banks lately amalgamated.) In private life
Mills is well known on the tennis court, being a
veteran who is equal to all but the very best of
the youngsters.


5383311
mm
m
m
q famous
‘Sled Sox'
and name
guarantee
Suatify
11 r
T ’
i
iiiifii)
HILLIER’S CHOCOLATES
Sold to you on the day they are made.
Packed in boxes at the following prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-.
Post Free to any address in Australia.
ERNEST HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BUCKLEYS
EXCEPTIONAL OFFER.
AN
ALL-WOOL SUIT
Made to Measure
£5151-
Changing Conditions
Demand New Methods.
The sudden change of conditions has
presented some exceptional buying
opportunities, which we were in a
position to take advantage of for Cash
Payments.
As progressive merchants, we aim at
supplying the demand for a moderately
priced Suit.
Wages have not been reduced, but
helped by opportunities of securing
woollens and linings AT EXCEP-
TIONALLY KEEN PRICES, and by
challenging every item of expense in
the manufacture, framing our esti-
mates with extreme closeness, WE
ARE ABLE TO SUPPLY AN ALL-
WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED OR
INDIGO-BLUE CHEVIOT SERGE
SUIT. MADE TO
MEASURE AT
SEND FOR SAMPLES AND
SELF-MEASUREMENT FORM.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
ON ALL CLOTHING.
IwKr
H|
&
Jr M
m
m
m
f' (0
Buckley & Nunn Ltd.,
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
PRESENTATION SILVER
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE
Illustrated is a Reproduction of an Original Antique
Silver Tea and Coffee Service. It is Hand-made
and of Finest Workmanship. Teapot, Coffee-pot
with Sugar Basin and Cream Jug, in Sterling Silver,
£5O. Salver £lOO.
Wm. ®rummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Coloups fhaf capp/an
absolute guapantee
SUNDOUR
UNPADABLE
FABRICS
The Dyestuffs fopming
these permanent coloups
ape made byfheSundoup
firm, the only fipm in the
vpopld producing £oods
from Dyestuffs to finished
Fabpics.
Sundoup Fabpies ape
made in Casement Cloths,
Reps, Da mas feChenn 1 1 les,
Madras Muslins,Tapestries,
Rugs, efe.
Of ill the best Furnishers
Morton Si/ndour Jabncs /"
(Trade Or,A) Cdr/iS/c..


Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
ChariesHeidsieck
uni
m
CMampaCNC
'-^rleslleidsiccK.
Reims
tn * 6 * r vI jy •" l,a ***
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“First Aid to the Thirsty.”
T. B.
LIGHT
ALE
“The Drink of Good Taste
Brewed ar.d bottled by TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
loin the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Randwdck was without joy last Satur-
day, for the first day of the October meeting
blew cold and cloudy, and the happy woman
at the end of it was she who had turned her
back on Spring finery and snuggled into the
useful coat-frock and furs. A wind that cut
like a knife pierced georgette and organdi,
and never failed to find the neuritis spots.
The hardy foulard fluttered everywhere,
though satin in hat and frock seemed the
popular rage. The sandal shoe flopped flat-
footedly to and from the tote,, and snakeskin
wear at £6 10s. a pair found/favor with the
moneyed few. The flappers went in strongly
for nigger-brown hose and shoes.
Among the thousands of women who surged
and swayed and wormed themselves in and
out it was difficult for even the most imagina-
tive to be original, but the little lady in the
knee-length skirt who wore gold-striped stock-
ings with a lace butterfly let into each
instep might be said to have struck an indi-
vidual note. Another sartorial scheme that
had only one follower was a peacock-green
symphony. This was carried by a tall lady
who walked in embossed velvet tailorings,
the long coat-tails weighted by tiny gold tas-
sels and blowing hack to discover a satin
lining of a lighter tone. With this was
worn the plumage of a bird-of-paradise spray-
ing over henna millinery, protected from the
very mild sunrays by a tiny black chiffon
parasol at the end of a stick as tall as a
shepherdess’s crook. The psychology of dress
was demonstrated on Tattersall’s stand and
“the official” by a profusion of geranium-red
and jade-green millinery on the one and
nigger-brown on the other.
Lady Davidson wore nigger-brown char-
meuse, nigger-brown millinery and a pained
expression, as though chiding the icy blast.
Dorothea Collins and a pretty,, dark girl who
was at Beaudesert during the Queensland
gaieties cheered the vice-regal enclosure, the
dark girl in oyster-grey satin and a nigger-
brown hat. Up in tile official stand Mrs.
Ken Austin looked after a party that in-
cluded Mollie Dangar and Margaret Allen
and a host of fluttering males. Mrs. Macar-
thur Onslow chaperoned Betty, who was in
nigger-brown. Mrs. Tony Hordern looked as
though some of the Eedy Collection had
slipped out of Bawson’s on to her back —she
was dizzy with Oriental embroideries,
dragons, and things like signs from the
laundry, and a toque that had feathers of
imperial sky-after-rain blue. The Hordern
lady was beautifully grey-and-black from the
drenched feathers in her hat downwards.
Most fascinating millinery was worn by
Rita Buckland, whose tiny early-Victorian
hat was filled in underneath with roses.
The new Mrs. Mark Foy, who is of slim
architecture, was embellished with coarse
cream lace over black satin, and a black
hat with fuchsia-toned feathers. Tom Dal-
ton brought his blonde young wife, who
wore mole crepe de Chine with handsome
embroideries, a heavy weight of diamonds
and handsome furs. Miss O’Keefe, the
fashion Sultana of David Jones, was the
last cry in black-and-white checks and a
tiny, upturned hat, the brim softened by
glycerine feathers. Mrs. Ted Simpson (she
was a De Lauret), who flies back to London
at the end of the mouth, was very hand-
some in black charmeuse with skirt panels
of cream lace and a smart upturned liat of
black satin lined with silver lace. Mary
Grant, from Queensland, who was with Mrs.
Otway Falkiner, looked pained at the drop
in the temperature. Barbara Laidley, Mar-
garet Knox and Alison MacCormick were
among the good-lookers of the younger set.
A Rolin girl was smart in dove grey ; bar-
rister Coyle chaperoned his two pretty
chicks, while mother helped the bazaar for
St. Mary’s to success. Mrs. Maclurcan was
eyelet-holed on large areas of a grey dress,
hut a black satin , cape kept out the wind.
Mrs. Dan Kelly wore a pink rose-petal
toque with her navy satin dress and ermine
furs, while her sister, Mrs. Hughes, mounted
her navy foulard with musquash. Mrs.
Lachlan Beaton was a devotee of cream
cloth, and with her was good-looking Ruby
Adams in nigger brown and fitch furs.
Maudie Fane floated about like a grey moth
in delicate georgette.
The giddy round of Race Week started
off with what was called the Bachelors’ Ball
on Friday night at the good old Paddington
address. But if the total of bachelorhood
of Sydney is made up of the group of young
men who engineered this dance, then young
womanhood will have to draw lots for hus-
bands. The sophistication of yellow roses
and yellow shades (Mellowed the hall, and
nearly every gild wore a new dress and a
bright and shining look. A pretty Woolf
gill from Perth was layers of pink tulle like
the doll from a Christmas-tree; Pauline
McMorran’s rose brocade was Watteau-like
in its puffs and bunchings; Martin ThreF
fall’s wife, over from Melbourne, glowed
like an amethyst; and a Kempthornfe gill
from Maoriland was among the danCel'.s-. Th'e
Spencer Bruntons and a large, battalibn of
Horderns and Bailliens werfe, other guests of
the bachelor committee. Which included such
jazz-kings as F-. Q. B. Wilkinson and K.
Stanton.
Everybody fehew that Shakspeare’s Ter-
centenary Fund was going to flare up in a
last magnificent blaze in “The Merchant of
Venice” before going out to buy the
Memorial. And all Sydney knew that Mrs.
Bertie Kelly was to make her reappearance
on the stage aided and abetted by Mrs. Het-
rick Knowles, that Bertie Kelly himself had
arranged the incidental music and that Mrs.
Bertie was dressing the part of Portia
regardless. Everybody felt happier about
the affair than the actors themSelvfes, for
they, after rehearsing one night in a large
room and the next ih quite a Small ohe, and
having only one rehearsal in the theatre itself,
feared that Heaveft-knows-what might happen
to their voices—and it did ! All the men except
the veteran Shylock sounded as though their
vowels and consonants had been stirred intd
a thick soup, and looked as though Suddenly
conscious that they had exposed the corners
and angles of their hosed and gartered legs
to the gaze of an unsympathetic world. Re-
served stalls and a circle comfortably filled
supplied enthusiastic applause as the points
were made. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who received
a round like surf breaking over Bondi, was
watched from the circle by her daughters;
Br. Knowles sat in the stalls and kept an
eye on his absurdly young-looking wife; and
Deputy Town Clerk Layton (the first sec.
of the fund) sat aloft With an applauding
hand and an approving smile.
Portia was first Seen reclining on a couch
in a dress of heavy white georgette with a
gold design thickly worked on it. This was
draped over the right knee, so that when
she sprang erect, to depict comedy, a good
stretch of leg and ankle was displayed. In
the scene with the wooers and the caskets
she wore a stunning effect of pink silk vel-
vet over silver tissue; and in the very end
• —-after the Court scene —-her travelling frock
was of oxidised silver. Thus the whole tone
of the dressing was keyed up to the gold,
silver and lead of the caskets. The charm
of Mrs. Knowles (Lily Titheradge) was
buttressed between the enormous sleeves of
the period; and only a doctor husband had
kept a laryngitis throat up to delivery point.
Walter Bentley refused his Shylock any
change of raiment between the Rialto and
the Court, and otherwise lived up to the
character so well that an onlooker wanted
to slap the blackleg Jessica. In the inter-
val before the last act everybody made a
speech, Mrs. Kelly thanking the programme-
sellers, "Walter Bentley thanking Mrs. Kelly,
and both thanking producer Varna. The
usual truckload of flowers; and then a
hundred pounds’ worth of Barling Point
trailed out of the orchestral stalls and Called
for its limousine. Their Exes, and the
children gave vice-regal support.
This is Katherine
Burdekin, the
English wife of
barrister Beau fort
Burdekin, and the
girl whose first novel
has just been ac-
cepted by John Lane.
“Anna” is the name
of the work, and it is
a psychological study
of an emotional
musical genius who
is purged of evil by
suffering. It will
appear amongst the
Bodley Head firm’s
next Spring offer-
ing.
The young things that danced through the
night at the Fresh Air League Ball last week
evidently believed in putting principle into
practice, for the balcony of the Paddington
Town Hall wasn’t lonely any time between
eight and midnight. The League’s well-
wishers had mustered in fine style, perhaps
because the League hadn’t passed the plate
for a long time. Dame Hay, the president,
descended from Crow’s Nest to sit on the
chaperons’ carpet, and wore grey satin and
diamonds and brought a pretty Colley niece
with her; Rabbi Coherds wife was in black
satin, and Mrs. Richard Arthur in pale-blue
brocade. Mrs. Caro wore her handsome profile
and black georgette embroidered in gold, and
was further embellished by two daughters
and a six-foot son. Treasurer Mrs. Hamil-
ton-Marshall and secretary Mrs. Trindall
wore black satin weighted with jet; Mick
Ricardo, Muflie Layton and Betty Crook
were among the well-frocked younger things,
and Barbara Westmaeott and -Jean , LUey
won the jazz competition-. Thh Fl-ekh Aif
League was founded 25 .years. agb, with Chief
Justice Barley’s Wife aS its ni-st bir'esiuefat.
Dark-haired ViVid, Cecil MaeDevitt, \VhO
wat-WOrked ih England aha Fgahqfe,, naS
just become engaged to Kenneth McClelland,
of P&pli&j Who Won his D.C.M. on the Pales-
tine frbht. Cecil is the only surviving child
of the late E. O. MacDevitt, who was
Attorney-General in Queensland in the
Macalister Administration. Cecil and her
mother are now living in Melbourne.
Sergeant Shipway, lawyer and yachtsman,
who for years and years has said “Gentlemen,
the King,” at the annual re-union of the
Soudan Contingent in Sydney, had a Wed-
ding in his family last week, Only daughter
Nell presented him with Austin Phillips ps
a son-indftW; The fcerehiOny. Was at St.
Chad’s, Cternotne—p Oiiifet Pffaif, penalise ,Uf
the illness Of the bride’s ihOtheh After the
Stibsfequfehfc lphcn ,thfe ydhhjt biah took the
Stoerihg-Wheel ahd mdtorPd off SoibeWhere.
Wlieh hot getting marbjfed, he is growing
wool ahd, Wheat and thingS at Greynolinfe;
near Mudgee-.
Maoriland’S leading fcompOSer. Alfred Hill,
who left his native land So ldng Pgd that he
is now almost an Aussie, was married (for
the second time) Very quietly on Saturday
to Mirrie Sdlobidn, of Mosman. Mirrie is
a clever composer in her own right, and is
One of the arc lights of the Conservatorium.
Another wedding dated for early November
is that of Jim Merewether, of Newcastle,
and Olive Mort, one of the three pretty
daughters of Arthur Mort, of Franklyn Vale,
Queensland.
Given alhtoo-short measure ih the Sands df
Time, Vera Bulhunty passed out at 27 iu
the Coast Hospital a few days ago. She w,as
a Gorinly, grand-daughter Of .jaines Gbrihly,
one of Oldest M’s;L,C., and she mar-
ried H, t V. Btdhtthty, of the Mutual Life
ahd Citizens’ Co. Three very smail. Austra-
lians are left to help along the Work Of the
clan begun by Surgeon John Dtilhiinty, R.N.,
who came to Australia ,!()<) ybiirS agO ih
charge of the Ship sfesbstriSi
Cuthbert Browhing, late of the JI.H.A..
died last week at YoUng, after a iong ill-
ness induced, by War service. He was the
second Soh of “It.J;,” the Crpwh Pfosecutdr,
and a deScendaht of the ppet. Humphrey,
his only brother, now a solicitor at Bathurst,
was a major ill the 13th Battaiibn.
Br, Leslie f.arbaiestier and his wife —she
was Ruby Lamb, of Waverley—-have said
good-bye tb Coff’S Harbor, and have hung
out the medical. Sign at Bondi. Ruby was
welcomed by flocks of friends the Other after-
noon in the Winter Garden, and in the party
were two Mayoresses—-the Sydney Uhieftain-
ess ahd. Ml’S;. Kav&nagh, of Waverley. An-
other old friend was Father MacNamara,
who had Seen tOAhe gueSt-of-honbr’S marriage
ties; and Mrs, Trefle crooned a welcome like
a spring song, Ruby’s father was shipping-
man R, S, Lamb,
Dozens and dozens of friends bf Henry
Lawson will be gladdened by the news that
he was well enough tb leave the Coast Hos-
pital last week for a convalescent home at
Eastwood,
Molly Pudakota and her Rajah have settled
definitely oh the other side of the world.
They have a gorgeous flat in Park-lane, and
in the .summer they go to a villa he owns at
Binard, in Brittany.
Elsie Beerbohm, who used to be Elsie
Anderson, bf Sydney, is acting in the big
English film dealing with the life of Charles
11. Lady Biana Manners, who is playing
lead under her maiden name, got her thejob.
Of course Br. W. J. Lang, the V.R.C.
handicapper, is over for the races. Brother
of Andrew, critic and scientist, the doctor has
himself a gifted pen which he often uses in
English magazines. At Corowa he reared
racehorses as a hobby; then a dramatic
society revealed that he might have made a
name as an actor. Though he rarely misses
a race meeting he is never known to bet. His
son, Bandy, better known now as Captain
Andrew Lang, has made his name as a flier.
Rose Bay blooms on October 14, just
when you’ll be recovering from the dis-
appointment your favorite gee-gee caused
you at Randwick. Besides the 160 stationary
sections and stalls scattered about the city,
there will be bands and strolling minstrels,
and ballets to charm the last shilling from
your pocket. Arthur Upjohn, the organis-
ing secretary for United Charities Bay, is
being assisted by Florrie Howard, one of
the original “lucky Boomerangs,” who had
their stand all during the Great War out-
side the Civil Service Stores. The girls
continue to keep this stand, and on their
last collection day they had four V.C.’s as
an extra attraction. Another money-spinner
will be Grace Bros.’ Flower Show, on the
ground floor of the new George-street West
premises. Whichever stall secures the
greatest number of exhibits for this show
will get a cheque for £5O.
St. Luke’s Hospital is in need of 20.000
pounds, five of them to pay off debt. Now,
what ricli Anglican will sign the cheque*?
For although St. Luke’s is non-sectarian so
fob ,as patients are concerned, it is Bssentiaily
d, Church (if England institution —the Only
C. of E. hdspital in N. S. Wales; and it edn
accOmmddate but 30 patients at present;
Bdck in Sydney, Mrs. Harry Woods, better
pemtembel-ed by Australians as Maiid Fitz :
StiihbS, composfer of dashing and brilliant
waltzes. What young Australian of a gen-
eration ago doesn’t recall a thrill or a throb
or two with memories of “The Heather
Waltz” or the dreamy passages of “Orlando”
It’s 16 years since Mrs. Woods left these
parts with her three daughters-—Doris and
Aileen (the twins), and Lenore, who early
forsook the theatrical life for matrimony.
meeting her husband
-—Frank Winfield, of
her
first to hr ifi
S’Afriefij whe.re
Sh fe Was Playing
ih “Thfi Qha.kPf
Girl” fipa “The CUo-
cdlate Soldier” with
th fe .wfaee i e t-
Edwards COmpahy
MrS; Woods ahd the
twins havfi hah the
interesting , experi-
ence of doing eaha-
r e t work right
through “the East,”
starting in Mauri-
tius just after the
declaration of war,
and playing in the
clubs right through the hill stations of India,
Japan and Hong Kong knew their profes-
sional. work, and now Mrs. Woods and her
twb girls ttre settled in Hong Kong teaching
jaz2 stays to classes that are a Jfood deal
Navy. The dommodore Of the Taiflar, in
Hong Ivbng Waters, is a. hejmew df former
Australian Admiral Bbwdfen Smith, to whom
the “Orlando” waltz waS dedicated. . She
has ho domestic problem: her “No, 1 boy*
is a sbrt of Admiral Crichton for eight
dollars a month, and cooks and serves ail
entire dinner-partv without Changing color.
Seems as thohgh Matid FitzStnbos has
drawn a llicky Chit in life’s lottery;
. dot One peiihy yoti can perfume your little
docket hanky With all the scents of Araby.
Basil Low, Of Auckland (he’s cartoonist
Bavid’S brother), has invented a Scent
fpdntain Which resembles a cash register
done in Oak* and should the maid that yoti
have just brought from Paris. forget to
sprinkle Mohny’s off your hankie,, all you
have to do is to taxi uj> to Mark Toy’s and
make yoiir choice between lavender water
and daiifOrhian poppy, Wonderful what a
penhy wiil btiy!
A postscript from Brisbane:—
Another engagement-ring is twinkling Up north,
Clarice Relf, of Bundaberg, wears it; A, G. Dou-
g-all, of Gladstone, had the honor to buy it.
Mrs. Forrest’s busy harp is out Of tune for the
moment. She is mOurning for the death Of her
husband, who was so much hef senior that he had
been 45 years in railway survey work in Queens-
land alone and would have been 75 had he lived
until the middie of next month; He came from
near Aberdeen: his mother couid trace descent from
Robert Wallace, in Queensland he Was on the stir-
vey of the first Coastal line—to Southport—and
afterwards was with Willcocks at Mount Garnet
and in the Gulf country when it was well to Carry
a quick revolver as well as a sharp, axe in blazing
a track.
It was at St. Golomb’s, Glayfleld, that Ivy Written,
in ivory taffeta and silver lace, said “I will” to
Roy Shaw, of Mosman —or, anyway, his mamma is.
Nelle Tritton and Olive Fernandez bridesirtaided, and
two mites, Florrie Butterworth and Kathleen Ken-
nedy, carried the bride’s train.
Archie ■ Hearn, of Maranoa Downs, lately captured
pretty Ivy Ferrier, of Bellevue, Roma, as his part-
ner. Lou Mayne and Lena Campbell were the brides-
maids, and Bert Hearn and Gordon Ferrier were in
the bridegroom’s corner.
Eric Wardrop, only son of the Colin Wardrops, has
married Nessie Ferguson, eldest daughter of A. M.
Ferguson, of Dunblane. White duchesse satin, cut
on plain lines, made the attractive wedding gar-
ment. Elsie Ferguson and Ellie Wardrop were two
pretty apricot satin-clad bridesmaids. Nora Hal-
ford warbled attractively while the contract was
signed up.
Lila Markwell, blue-eyed youngest daughter of
Mrs. Edmonstone Markwell, played leading rSle in a
wedding at All Saints’. Eric Hudson was the groom.
Willis Taylor gave his niece away, and Meta and
Lorna Brookes (Glentanner) were bridesmaids.
The river looked delightful on Saturday, when
the R. Q. Yacht Club season opened. Commodore
Dan Mactaggert and his wife tea-ed a big party on
the Niobe, and the James Loves had a full boat, too.
Beatrice Hicks, youngest daughter of the John
Hickses, marries Charlie Elliott, a returned soldier,
early in October.
Alexia Richards, a Brisbane girl who plays the
piano brilliantly, gave a recital on Saturday night
to a full house. The child collected armfuls of
flowers, and bowed her thanks very prettily over
them. His Ex. came to hear her play. Alexia
is going to England to study.
If any reader wants (or is obliged) to send
Christmas gifts to small nephews and nieces over-
seas, how about an order for the Handicrafts section
of the Red Cross, Adelaide-street, Brisbane? The
Diggers turn out most fascinating wooden toys, and
handbags and baskets.


mm m am
*' V> '.> v
-.7 :•
■
.*:•:•'■■■■■ . ' /. ■' .... , v :.
ssss
y ISM \§ '•=• i lli ■• v - N ?
1.1
ft:-?;.:
$■
; :
*#
■
m
3
*£** mM
# m 7? &
; *
m#"
k ' fN®* 0
3***" ¥
’ J
" "VI
jS**
It'A, 1
?n
; >
«r
/ -r*
'• ✓
•£•• I V
•' | » .
.Txfc I ipsj?
:'■ :
*»
"" w x.‘*4
*
s*
**<*s.»' & -9 ¥
f i
&
• 4if
Wi
& V:- "'•&.' '-V :^' r
rI;H
8 -‘•-■•^->/3
ffl&V
I. ' f
1
sA
/i
V
• : V>
i:€
v
*\
SkS
fl£
■" -
ill
3 y
if
$$ y j
r
’A
air ,r
m
■ V /
%
-
m
~ /; 4 y-r , ; ;; -
•••-'' m v- f
r „^
A':-
1
. '
71
H
m
f.
m
00:
\*s* T*
«• 4
1:
8*
% *
% sj
w‘ 4
ush^c^
■ -:■■■■:
&&* 7*
f*
S-T
y ■■■
1/
i
y ’%
vC^
91
• m
£W> A T**<- f,w|v<w«> v t&'rtfy
t
Refreshes the weary
traveller ———
IN days of old,
when the caravan halted at the
welcome oasis, the weary beauty
revived and restored herself with cleans-
ing, soothing Palm and Olive oils. The
ancients well knew the merits of these
oils, which were paramount in the toilets
of the regal women of Egypt and the
East.
To-day, in PALMOLIVE SOAP, con-
taining Palm and Olive oils, the modern
traveller finds a similar Source of refresh-
ment and pleasure. The mild, creamy
lather of PALMOLIVE is unequalled
for cleansing the skin of the stains of
travel.
Moreover, it rejuvenates the skin—keeps
it soft, supple and clear.
PALMOLIVE SOAP
sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
The Palmolive Company (Australasia), Ltd.,
Sydney.
NOTE. —For more than 3000 years Palm and Olive oils have held their
place as the finest cleansers and beautifiers and preservers of the skin. To-day,
in PALMOLIVE SOAP they are still available, pure, perfectly blended,
convenient—on the highest plane of scientific and manufacturing excellence.
1
□


LEARN DRAWING!
“There’s Money"
in
the Pen.”
fd
f
df
df
Simple les-
sons in the
principles o f
black-and-white
work and design
have been prepared
by Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
foremost commer-
cial artist, enabling-
yon to study art in
your own home.
This
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING
teaches you with-
out drudgery how to
■apply your talent
and! how to make
big ..money, besides
learning a fascin-
ating hobby.
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, rThere’s Money
in the Pen,” which
tells all about the
course, fees, etc.,
gives examples of
tli e lessons an d
samples of stu-
dents’ work, will
be sent you on
receipt of your
name and ad-
dress and three
stamps to cover
nostae-e.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal A'chool of Drawing,
79 Union House, SYDNEY.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
df
MADE BY
- MACNIYEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
“ THEY COME AS A BOON St A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN,
I
n
*
m
-
The
Santwill
WORK SHIRT
Sand in color. Twill in qualit. ;
The
“ SANTWILL ” is
without doubt the
Toughest Work Shirt
yet introduced at its
(Price. Not onrly sturdy
mm ■ in quality , but sturdy in
color as well. The Sand color defeats the efforts
W of dust and grime, and looks Clean and Present-
f able all the time. Also in White—same price !
' It is so Well so Strongly Sewn, the Buttons arc
so firm, and the Measure of Cloth so Liberal, that Com-
pctitifts have hefar umuzed ! In it one finds Broad-
houkiened Comfort. Perfect Fitting Sleeves and Plenty
f Room for the''Muscles to Play in Comfort.
8/6
New Low-Level Price
each or three Tor
24/-
No Skimping ! /V on-gaping !
Buttons Sewn on to Stay !
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Carriage Paid
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMIA
TOWNSVILLE
Please-write to Desk “W.”
Cure ECZEMA
at Home.
There is no need to suffer
from the discomfort, of this
distressing disease, or to incur
heavy expense in reproving
UGMOLUENE
CREAM
has been praised by prominent
medical men as a cure for
Eczema, and for its soothing
and healing qualities for any
other skin affection.
Take a course of Ligmolliene
Cream, 5/0 find 7/6 tin.
Also use the Toilet Soap at
the same time, 1/- a cake.
All Chemists.
A sample tin of the Cream
can be secured by sending 1/6
to
W. H. MALYON and Son,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
P V
i;
I ,
THE
“WINTON.”
It more than
fulfils anything
we claim for it.
The WINTON
' SADDLE
brings many a letter of commendation
from, satisfied users, and is the last
word-in Stock Saddles. It gives you
the’ ease' of a park saddle with the
security of a stock saddle. The flap
and skirt are combined in one piece
of leather, giving a lion-chafing', nar-
row waist, and the pads lie along the
rider’s thighs. The tree is our own
made “Fouright” tree, and the leather
used is nice, flexible kip. The' fittings
are folded leather girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/s|-
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Railway Station in
NSW.
write for our catalogue. English Pigskin Seat, 5/- extra.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers, 395 George Street, SYDNEY.
r/ 0*
1 am
mmi 11 .
< /'/
ki
“Buy a Bundle.”
PLYWOOD.
When buying Plywood insist OVI
“NATIONAL” Brand and see the
trade-mark is on every .sheet. It is our
guarantee. Made from Queensland noop-
pine, Maple and Silky Oak, and available in
all sizes. Sanded or TJnsanded. Every satis-
faction guaranteed to users.
Sold by all leading houses.
The National Plywood Co., Ltd.,
Ipswich Road, South Brisbane, Queensland.
“Metropolitan Razor”
Vy-
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
►' Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
World-Wide reputation.
-re*
CJ
MP^‘
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY„ LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
KILL WITH KYNOCH
df
Cartridges
Made in England and
loaded in Australia
with the highest grade
Powders
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to:
KYNOCH Ltd.
90 William St.,
MELBOURNE.
277 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
sf
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands, of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
I)
m
CRAIG & AITKEN 5 654 George St., Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reii Cigar Factory.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Abbey Seer: (1) In the A.I.F. no at-
tempt was made to effect a complete cure in a V.D.
case before discharge from hospital. The patient was
returned to his unit when his trouble reached the
“quiescent stage”—in syphilis eases usually about
18 weeks. (2) No one is “yelling for two years’
treatment for primary infections.” The system in use
in our public hospitals is the one that prevailed in
the A.1.F.: the sufferer is dismissed, with instruc-
tions in regard to self-treatment, after he has
reached the non-infectious stage.... Austere: “Cyn-
thia” is far short. .. .J.R.H.: You never get beyond
the obvious... .Maxieh (or something) :As far as it
can be read it is no g00d... .Hi Hie Hoy: Your
thoughts may be “heavenward twisted” or hellward
googlied, but they don't amount to anything....
M.8.P.: “Talisman” has no charm.... Sappho Star-
dust: 157,268 sets of verses have been written on the
same subject, in the same spirit, couched in the
same phrases and written in the same metre....
M.H.S.: A sonnet wants more skill and closer
thought.... Stronach: Not well enough done....
George C.: No earthly use. . . .Lew C.: Not bad verse,
except for a false rhyme, but doesn’t say enough.
.. . . G.L.L. : Lacks interest 8.M.D.: The discovery
of a rat at midnight is not in itself, an event
worth cabling to Constantinople H.E.P.8.:
Doesn’t get near....D.C. (Bordertown): Goes
heavily. .. . Violet R.: Don’t use words until you’re
sure of their meaning 0.W.H.: It doesn’t make
much of a story G.E.L.W.: A pale moon and a
faint devil F.H. (Wellington): Too mechanical.
... -E.R.S.: A variation of one of the oldest....
Harry D.: Ten solid pages of verse without one pause
for breath... .Bardoe: This doesn’t get near
W.L.S.: As thin as the thatch on Bedford’s head...
C. (Belair) : Very lumpy, very sorrowful....
E. : We don’t publish novels. .. .1.C.H.: Waste
of time Margaret M.: No yarn there, and the
final preachment is dull J.G. (Mackay) : None
of them up Harold J.: Misses the old ’bus
Sydney G.: Your “Vampire” is only an apprentice.. .
Amy C.: The sonnet is bad in form and the thought
is weak Carlton M.: “Yer” and “thine” in the
same stanza make a novel mixture... .Wantirna:
Not for us. Your Australian-station color is taken
from American picture-films H.G.H.: Doesn’t
thrill. .. .Y. 0.8.: Parodies are hardly ever worth
while.... De Oriel: Not quite enough there....
R.L.D.: You follow the old track and say the old
things. .. .L.N.C.: Not bad as far as it goes; can’t
you take it farther? T.G.M.: Not up. .. .8.0. Y.:
One stanza:—
Short joy ! Brief honeymoon 1 Alas
Now agonised is she !
“Moved on” too soon her hubby was.
Detectives collared he !
....Lang Syne: “Mirror” failed only by inches.
Jam Tin: Empty Hilkuni F.: The beauty of
the “Picnic Races” moved the sporting editor to
beer :
Old Blow On, from wind and wisdom worn,
Came to govern and grace our natural lawn ;
And fanned his praise with a winning wave
Till he kindled a thirst that claimed its slave.
From slumber sure deluded bookies roar
From 200 rasping throats or more,
Brought our faded light to vacant stare.
Crows and they had. pecked I won’t say where.
Waipori: Very sad. .. .E.M.N.: Not for u 5....
Coora: It falls at the first fence... .P.C.F.: You’ve
made an heroic attempt to saw verses out of the
worm-eaten material of Noah’s Ark.... San J.: Too
long for interest. .. .Vincent: Not badly written,
but not attractive. ... Holman R.: Kitty is no use
to us E.A.D.: “Horace” doesn’t suit; the “Jor-
dan” goes heavily... .T.H. (Warwick) : Not enough
in the count... .Harold J.: Why kill the girl for
the sake of a mushroom and a sigh?... .William G.
(Kalgoorlie) : Wretched C.F.P.: Not up.... Plod-
der : “Song” is slight in matter; and why the
violent changes of metre? M.J.S.: The sonnet is
a bit young; and you’ve chosen about the most print-
worn theme in Australia.... Myra: The verses are
crude, but there is a hint of originality in them
that might develop. .. .8.P.J.: No good H.B.
(Deniliquin) : Not enough in it.... Breton: No point.
... .0. Ox: As heavy as a melodrama father... .W.R.
(East St. Kilda) : “The Lesson” doesn’t thrill....
Chatterton: Thin little thing in middling verse....
Faceplate: Doesn’t get anywhere near. .. .R.W.L.:
Rather lumpy, but there’s a freshness about it that
holds out promise Bellerive: The “Ragged Boy’s
Home” verses have a claar-cut simplicity:—
No parents fond to guide ’em
O’er life’s thorny path ahead ;
Tended by kind charity
To food and humble bed;
There’s genius among the ragged bo3's,
A-freed from downward ways;
A little share from our bill of fare
Will shorten not our days.
(une: Far too slight.... Strudwick: Very crude.
... .J.F.N.: “Broke” is not badly written, but hasn’t
quite the strength to get thi-ough.... 1.A.8.: Doesn’t
hold the attention. .. .Cinderella: Very crude....
D. : “Moonmoths” doesn’t get to any-
thing ; and those long final lines drag heavily.
.... R.L.W.: The clock doesn’t strike twelve.
... .Sadie V.: No story there... .Terra: Not up to
the mark.... Crispian: Doesn’t amount to anything.
....S.D. (Haberfield): The alleged verse is bad
prose. .. .R.S.Y.S.: The “Chooks” didn’t have
feathers enough to fly the distance. . . .C.J.T'.:
verse is bad prose. .. .R.S.Y.S.: The “Chooks” didn’t
have feathers enough to fly the distance.. . .C.J.T.:
Too rough....E.A.A.: Not enough grip for us;
might sell to a magazine. .. .H.E.L.J.: Out of
place here.... Bent Stem: One dainty stanza: —
Alas, many poor souls on their deathbeds lie,
A-tremble with fear and snowy white;
They know full well they are like to die,
Yet, fearing death, for life they fight;
And again resume the daily grind
For bread and butter and a piece of rind.
....W.S.: Not enough interest in “Chapel”.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.C.: That joke's as old as photography itself....
W.R.McK.: Nothing in it. .. . J. 8.: Ancient gag. ...
F. and 11.P.5.5.: The fact that you both sent
in the same joke casts suspicions upon its originality.
....WAV.: That lady’s shoe is a record... .8.L.:
Having failed with a tar-brush, try using a pen...
M.A.P.: Below par W. 1).: Wooden P.P.A.:
Puns are ruled out H.W.T,: Missed again....
D.D.: Pencil sketches good only as suggestions....
A.E.: Better take some drawing lessons.... G.H.:
Cab joke 01d... .H.V.R.: None up to standard....
Pelican: Promising, but a good way to go yet....
A.K.: Misses... .L.VAV.: Not up..... Deverell: Be-
whiskered gag... .C.V.V.: Old jokes and weak draw-
ings.


8hlpplB».
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydne
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 2.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
- ■
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon, Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
At. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; II
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. 7. .. 795,003 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. .. 325,000 0 0,
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 a
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —dames Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —-M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, -Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. . . .. . . £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. L.ysagiit, -Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Larwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George FI Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1.886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at' ' Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 620.000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£1,870,000
Heap Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All. usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.) f Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQTJIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS«
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER, 11 a.in.
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smootli-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 27tli OCTOBER, 10 a.in.
TAHITI, Ist DECEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
pgr
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CAI.M SEAS, BEAUTIFUL. SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve T un<l
Reserve Liability
sdf
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,425,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfall, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,909,025
Reserve Fund . . £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
d
Directors:
G. J. Cohen. Esq:, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. bibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW '
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest amountain scenery.
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/37/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR . £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Covering first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
ROOK AV
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
Shinning.
Huddart Parker LIE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand pons
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney'.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, I‘hilp & Co., JLtd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for .the comfort
of passengers of these it earners is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILI’
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings -Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
• via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
‘‘Macdonald Hamilton.
Cable Address
•‘lroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing; Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
JBlaeklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOU:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New 'Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports). '
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports). 1
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
. to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug; and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth. Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva, (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Officer Mary Street. Brisbane.
THERE
IS
NOT
a better wafeh
made the world
over than our
“Super Fx and
R” Watch.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Ft & It.” fully-
jewelled lever, 84/-
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding'.
For long life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
Afte?" 81 years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
le,rge capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Ififrtires.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Public Notice.
CN QMPETITIYE DESIGNS are invited
J for a SOLDIERS’ MEMORIAL, to
cost not more than £2OOO without names, to
be , erected at Mosman, N.S.TV. Prize £5O.
Conditions of Competition and ground plan
of site will be supplied on application.
Designs to be in on or before 31st Decem-
ber, 1921. J. E. BISHOP. Hon. Secretary,
Mosman Soldiers’ Memorial Fund, ‘
Killarney Street, Mosman.


Richard Hunt & Co.
=5
&
New Season Goods*
From Leading
ENGLISH MANUFACTURERS.
Prices from 30/-
BATES
SCOTTS
H. JOHNSON
A. J. WHITE
TRESS
STETSON
KNOX.
Richard Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
J- Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the Grace of God of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
of the British Dominions beyond the Seas King
Defender of the Faith Emperor of India.
TO STANLEY MILFORD BELLETTE of No. 27
Napier Street Fit/.roy Melbourne in the State or
Victoria.
WHEREAS Eva Emily Bellette of Hobart in Tas-
mania claiming to have been lawfully married to 3011
the said Stanley Milford Bellette has filed her
Petition against you in our said Court praying to'
a dissolution of her said marriage with you wherein
she alleges that you have without just cause or
excuse deserted her and without any such cause
or excuse have left her continuously deserted duiing
two-years and upwards NOW THIS IS TO COM-
MAND YOU that within Twenty days of the service
of this on you inclusive of the day of such service
von do appear in onr said Court then and there to
make answer to the said Petition a copy whereof
stamped with the Official Seal of the Registrar of
our said Court is • herewith served upon you AND
TAKE NOTICE that in default of your so doing our
said Court will proceed to hear the said charge
proved in due course of law and to pronounce sen-
tence therein your absence notwithstanding.
Dated this Seventh day ol July, 1921.
(Sgd.) W. 0. WISE (L.s.),
Registrar.
rno ROBERT JOHN NESBITT, formerly
X of Timaru, New. Zealand, father of
ROBERT JOHN NESBITT, Deceased, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 17th
day of August, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you arc
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of March,
1922. your claims to the estate of Robert
John Nesbitt, who died intestate on the 20th
day of October, 1918, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto, disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 18th day of
August, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington,
New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
JAMES CHARLES HAMILTON
HAYES, otherwise JAMES CHARLES
HAMILTON or JAMES CHARLES
HAYES, last heard of at Toowoomba,
Queensland, Australia, will hear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating
with the undersigned. Anyone knowing his
prfesent whereabouts or the address of hi.s
wife or children, kindly communicate with
H. F. CORNISH, Solicitor, 9 Stone Build-
ings, Lincoln’s Inn, London, W.CI2, Eng-
land. Australian papers please copy.
2:
’—I
Cssentials-
A well-filled luncheon-basket and a Decca * ensure the- success
of a day’s outing.
The compact, handy little " Decca ’ can be carried anywhere
without inconvenience or fatigue. It is ready, to play perfectly,
immediately ooened, any make and size of Record.
ECCA
3 Models—■
Leather Cloth £lO/10/
Fibre £l2/10/
Cowhide .... £l6
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Obtainable all over Australia from All Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors : Stanley E. Green Ltd., 379. Kent Street, Sydney.
Selected from
40 candidates
This exquisite “William and
Mary” Cabinet was selected
from 40 other designs as a
worthy medium for the musical
masterpieces interpreted by
“The New Edison.”
So it is with every other model—each is a beautiful
piece of furniture, with graceful lines and satisfying
proportions.
To appreciate these instruments you should see and
hear them for yourself; it will be an interesting
revelation.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
sdf
The
NEW EDISON
The Phonograph with a Soul.”
ALWAYS USE M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
“Made For Better Service.”
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.’
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match 8/6
C. 8.8. Special 12/6
M.S*. Champion 15/6
C. 8.8. Quad Centre 20 /-
C. 8.8. Double Strung 27/”
Ilaymarket 30/-> 40/-
Haymarket Special 40/-> 45/-
Ilaymarket Selected 45/-. 50/-
Hayniarket Extra Special 03/-
Spalding’s Tournament 49 / 6
Spalding’s Continental 55/-
Spalding’s Gold Medal 70/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27/6
Slazenger’s Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Wimbledon 30/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45 /-
Slazenger’s Demon 50/-
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 63/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 85/-
Slazenger’s Doherty 87/6
Slazenger’s Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-
H. C. Lee’s Spartan 70/-
H. C. Lee's Church 90/-
. (Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/6 5/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
' Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 3O-
/ Court ’ 2/2 25/- >
Ay re’s Cypress 2/4 27/6
Ayres Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
Siazenger’s Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
(Postage on one <loz.: N.S.W.,
Specialists
in all kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
\
V
■ ■. jr£r-
min
Each. ' Doz.
Davis Riseley 3/- 35/-
Haymarket Champion, 1921 2/4 27/6
1/-.; other States, 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair . . 100/-
Tennis Court Markers ... 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Cut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle
1/'
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/., 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/-, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils .. 6/6, 8/6, 15/-
d
All Prices subject to market fluctuations,
without notice.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Setoff.
real leather, special value ... 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced , palms, 6or 8 0z... 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz. . 18/6
C. 8.8., napa, leather lined, 6 or 8 oz 21/- 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded
wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, leather
lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Ileg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed 8/-
~ Leather „ ~ laced palms ~, 9/-
„ Tan leather „ ~ „ „ 9/6
„ Tan „ „ „ „ „ 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 7/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3|oz, (Post 64d.) 15/6, 17/6 P a4r -
MYRROHL S TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
ď
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Halls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work .... 10/6, 12/6, 17/6
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine leather, stayed
seams, very fast 18/6, 22/6, 23/*
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest napa leather,
welted and stayed, very fast and lively... ... 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Bali, special).''
designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and i perfect
shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The
finest made 45/*
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord fot
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6 and 15/C
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide
rubber and leather fittings ... .... 30/-, 35/-, 40/
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, hear,
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete .... 75/
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.
Ball Gloves •••••,;; P
Punching Platforms 50/-, to/-, 14*/- eac
Ball and Socket Swivels ....... • l/ 6 * : ”
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 »
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
Specialty
m
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: n n.cD\Mr
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


REXONA SOAP for
Health and Beauty.
m
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS, Jun. (from a photo).
The fame of Rexona is world-
wide. The Leading Beauties of
Australia, America and England
are all Rexona Girls. A new
Rexona Gill in Australia is Miss
Lottie Collins, Jun., daughter
of the famous Lottie Collins of
“Ta-ra-ra Boomdeay” fame, and
sister to Miss Jose Collins (Lady
Robert Innes Ker). Miss Collins,
who is now appearing at the
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney, is an
actress of renown, having starred
in America and England. She
writes us as follows: —
“On the way out to Aus-
tralia from England I found
the climatic conditions ex-
ceedingly trying on both my
skin and hair. Through the
tropics and as far south as
40 degrees is very severe on
the complexion, I can assure
you, and when I arrived here
what a boon I found in
Rexona and Rexona Soap. I
think there is simply nothing
like them.
“I have had one of your
delightful little triangular
tins of Rexona handy by me
ever since, and I find Rexona
invaluable for the skin, and
Rexona Soap is simply per-
fect. I use it three times a
day, and can assure you I
will never be without it
again. I have never come
across a soap like Rexona
before, so lovely for the skin
and so delightful for the hair,
and I am a Rexona Girl for
all time to come.
“You can always count on me to recommend Rexopa and Rexona Soap to all my
you the success which you deserve with these excellent products,
6 J “I am. sincerely yours,
(“Sgd.) LOTTIE COLLINS, Jun.”
REXONA, the Aristocrat of Soaps.
assert this influence. Many
of them contain free alkali.,
which tends to dry. the skin
and destroy its delicate tex-
ture. Even the best of such
soaps can only cleanse; they
cannot heal and protect the
skin. ,
Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing., healing, anti-
septic balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of
which in the treatment of
skin affections is known
throughout the world. Simply
use Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or twice
a day, and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the ten-
dency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh,
and velvety.
Price 1/- per Tablet.
I
HPI
j
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney.N.S.W.
83&si&»3
;
% : :k
đf
Look at it
AND SEE why “Rex'*
Luncheon Cheese is the
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how lfresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex”—a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM II with a knife— “ Rex”
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
V.\}NCto;
o,
'N
JONES
LU>
*£7KJhJS&^
r.j. 8?
V
Sonnets of Evening.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
HVT OW falls the holy twilight on grey
trees;
' And in great love of life I feel the
flow
Of rivers full of quietness that know
The voiceless purple of impassive seas.
I think the dusk has nursed upon her knees
An infancy of dreams that yet may grow
To sweeter knowledge than of stars that
sow
Fields of unrest between the hills of ease.
The stars that were God’s eyes are worlds
and suns;
The dream that once was hooded as a flower
Unbares its head before infinitude.
The all is nothing in a light that runs
Flooding the mind with force too blind for
power—
But evening’s violet whisper breathes of
good.
„ 11.
Knowledge is but adventure of the soul
On oceans washing some uncharted shore,
Or sailing down vast seas for evermore
W ith wind and tide to find no certain goal.
We labor from the part to think the whole,
Yet know not what the rich day holds in
store,
What island of lost palms, what magic door
Where currents meet and the great reasons
shoal.
It may be that the world of thought is
round,
That eastward we shall come upon the west
And make a landfall ere the search be done;
It may be we shall reach the first sweet
ground
In quietness of dreaming thoughts at rest. ..
Under grey trees beyond the set of sun.
111.
My thoughts have ached to follow my desire
And make, through broken lights, a perfect
plan
Of color that should match the music, Man:
Gold of Jerusalem and costly fire
Of that imperial purple dyed in Tyre;
Wild lustrous forms of Greece —the shag-
haired Pan
Piping a thin, blue reed-note where they ran
Through the red woods that were the dead
day’s pyre.
These and all else that made a human mood,
Clean of dull hate, should be of my design—
Something of Babylon and Rome and France,
Memphis and Tir-nan-og, and the green good
Of Sherwood when the dusks were forest
wine
Should make an evening trysting for
Romance.
IV.
The best that man has told is sweeter news,
Though it be false, than all the stones have
said,
Than all the stars have written in the dead,
Clear glass that sweeps the sky of all its
blues.
Ah, the cold millions that the searcher’s use
To measure o’er a dreamer’s heedless head
The curtains of his unimagined bed
Were less than Cynthia’s kiss, if I might
choose!
Sad knowledge robs us of the thing we knew.
We have a stone for the good bread of faith,
A serpent for the fish that made us wise.
Yet, doubting doubt, the evening still is true;
And clamorous Science fades into a wraith.
Smoke-thin, but wailing that the sun shall
rise.
V.
Our ignorance is all we surely know,
• Though names be many, long and cornfort-
Of things that we may see and taste and
press.
We have not guessed why one green blade
should grow,
Nor why the dew should set its beads a-row
To flash a splendor from the morning’s dress ;
Yet are we sure the old gods cannot bless
A woodland altar when the day burns low.
Here, with soft incantation, will I call
The gods that once were good and still are
fair.... „
Surely the lost white feet will come from far
To this grey temple with a shadowed wall.
Walking the calm of faith again to share
The foolish sweetness of the dreams we are.
VI.
Our lives are real and the truth remains;
But harvest of the truth is yet to reap.
We lose the edges of one world in sleep ;
Who knows where night’s adventure counts
its gains
If far dream-worlds be true? What of the
pains
Of him who welds day-ordered Avords to keep
His thought of yesterday from some vast
deep
Where yesternight broke up a thousand
chains.
Shall thoughts be fetters for a free man’s
soul?
May I not bend my reason as I will?
Night with her company comes down the
way
Bearing the fragrance that the dayshine
stole—•
Give back the freshness of that Grecian hill.
That Irish valley Avhen the trees were grey !
VII.
1 am too much in love with life to fear
The pleasant company of eager minds.
There is no chain of man’s design that binds
This great sweet evening from the thing
most dear.
What if the little gods should not come near,
Floating on clouds or riding on the winds?
it is the law that he must seek who finds,
And I am seeking, waiting, listening here.
The moon has touched the mountain in the
east;
Her light comes swiftly down the lenfv stair.
Ho, a round door of gold is wide in Heaven!
Let out the angels for the night’s great feast!
I had one dream with seven doubts to share:
The doubt is broken and the dreams are
seven!
N.S/W.
DAVID NCKEE WRIGHT.
Raw Material.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[The writer of this yarn is one of those old Aus-
tralians who went to New Australia to found a 19th-
century paradise in Paraguay and remained there.!
WE were in a bit of a fix. The “boy
had gone up-river to make his for-
tune in a “freezer.” That left the
missus and I on our own. W e jogged along
fairly well till an old enemy of mine -
sciatica —dropped in to pay a visit. That
knocked me sideways. Our “Every Man His
Own Doctor” says that horse exercise is good
for sciatica. I tried it. It was good for the
complaint, but bad for the fellow who had it.
It was then the missus said “I’ll have
to get a girl.”
Native girl, of course. The white girls
are scarce, and too precious to do any more
chores than they are obliged to for their
own families —in the intervals of going to a
dance and getting over it. Native boys are
no good. Give them a horse with a silver-
mounted saddle and they’ll chase cows till
all’s blue. Ask them to chop wood, or
haul water, and right away they can feel
chu-chu coming on. But that does not
prevent them from bossing a cockfight the
same afternoon.
Well, we got a girl. In fact, we got
half a dozen, all duds. When a native
girl’s at home she is up before daybreak,
gets the fire going and the mate gourd cir-
culating long before sun-up; then she
girds up her skirts and ploughs through the
wet grass after the cowsi, and thinks
nothing of it. Put her in a Gringo house
and she can’t get up till the sun has dried
the dew from the grass, and if she has to
fetch the cows she can’t light the fire.
Vassila was a fair sample of the lot.
She would hurry over the washing-up—if
she smashed a couple of plates, what mat-
ter? —whilst the wife was fixing the bed-
room. Then Vassy would sit down to
crochet work, and if mandioca was wanted
for dinner, well the missus could dig it or
go without—-she was too busy herself.
Petrona was ambitious. All her spare
time she put in trying to wear out the
sewing-machine. She made a sporting offer
to work two months for nothing if we would
give her the machine, so that she could start
in life as a dressmaker. Pet. wanted to
make her brother , a pair of pants out of a
Hour-sack, and was much hurt when flour-
sack was barred. The wife had to give
her the machine at the finish. She broke
two packets of needles and gave it an in-
curable stitch in its side. Petrona was
the last from these parts.
Then we got Savita. She was a prize-
packet. You know the sort of thing that
happens when you dip in the bran-tub at a
charity bazaar. You plank down your
dollar and fumble round in the bran till you
find something big and bulky. Then, after
you have spent 10 minutes getting the
paper wrappings off, you find a tiny bottle
of scent that it would be a crime to use.
That’s the sort of girl Savita was.
I’ll tell you how we got her. The day
after we sacked Petrona old ——• called
round to borrow a sharp saw. I have, or
had, a decent kit of carpenter’s tools, and
the neighbors—but that’s by the way. As
I said, old called round. I’m sorry I
can’t give you his name, but we call him —
when he’s not looking—the Oracle. He’s
one of the aboriginals, and what he doesn’t
know about these parts is of no import-
ance. He can tell when a cow is going to
calve by looking at her horns, and if it’s
going to rain next Wednesday week by
counting the rings round the moon. Well,
he got the saw, and stayed a while to “chew
the rag” and sample the last demijohn. Of
course the predominant trouble came to
the surface, and the Oracle held forth on
girls, good, bad and so-so.
“Girls are girls, smd the person who tries
to make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear is
working on a dead horse,” he observed
sagaciously. “A girl’s no good till she
leaves off being a girl.”
I nodded in assent. It doesn’t do to
disagree with the Oracle. I objected to his
statements one time, and he argued me stiff,
stone silly, then got up in a huff and went
off without telling us how to cure the pip
in chickens.
“Yes, it’s funny,” said he. “'When we
came here first the girls were content to go
about in a cotton smock that they made
themselves, direct from the plant to their
backs. To-day they must have imported
goods, something with a red stripe or blue
sunflowers. The louder it is the better
they like it. The same smock used to
serve them for day dress and nightgown: if
a girl has to weave her own frock she won’t
have too many superfluous togs.”
The old chap glanced at the missus as
if it were her fault, and started afresh.
“That’s a fact. The girls round here
are getting too civilised. They’ve reached
fancy dresses and swanky hats. They’ll
soon be up to corsets and high-heeled shoes.
Then the old man can fetch the cows in
himself; they won’t be able to.”
The Oracle seemed somewhat biased.
P,nt ’tis ever thus. The man who has no
kids of his own is great on what is going
to happen to the other fellow’s.
“No,” said the Oracle, as he refilled his
pipe and reached for the bottle, “you’ll
never do any good with the girls round
these parts. You want to get the real raw
material from ’way back. Then you can
train her to your liking. Of course, she’ll
have a lot to learn, but then she won’t have
any bad habits to unlearn.”
“It’s easy to talk.” said the missus: “but
who’s going out back to look for a girl that
most likelv wouldn’t come after you. had
found her?”
The Oracle smiled his superior smile, the
one he smiles when he is going to knock
the stuffing out of a newchum. “No need
to go out back when there’s one, possibly
two, right here on your doorstep,” and his
smile extended to the rear of his neck.
The wife 'umped up to view the back
door, but there rvas no “raw material” on
the step. .
The Oracle grinned. Figure of speech!
If they are not actually on your step,
thev are round the Monte corner of your
paddock.”
(Continued on next page.)


‘Every Picture
TtfisaStory'
YOUNC AND OLD ALIKE
No! Age does not explain the kidney weakness,
backache, muscular stiffness, rheumatic pains and urinary
discomfort of elderly people; for whilst some are young
at eighty others are old when only sixty.
But age does bring health-wisdom. Let the young folk
listen when old people say: “Keep cheerful, but never
keep late hours, Avoid heavy meals. Shun all excesses.
Take exercise. Get sufficient sleep.”
Young and old alike will find Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a ready help. This specially strength-
ening kidney and bladder medicine does not disturb the stomach or bowels.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TELL OF THEIR CURES
BY DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
FROM ROZELLE.
Mr. M. Dowling, 25 Roseberry Street, Rozolle, Sydney, says: “For about
three years I suffered a good deal with my kidneys, and during that time was
treated bv doctors and tried different remedies, but nothing did me any good. My
back used to ache fearfully, and it was as much as I could do to stand up straight
after bending over a little while. I had liniments rubbed in, but the relief was
only temporary, the pain being soon as bad as ever. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being highly colored and scanty. My general health was
far from good, and I often used to feel so ill I could hardly attend to my work.
One day I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and the thought
occurred to me to try this remedy. I bought a bottle, and in a few days I began to
feel better. As I went on with the treatment the improvement was maintained,
and by the time I had used four bottles I was cured, all signs of backache and
kidney trouble having entirely gone. I am in splendid health now, and have only
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pill A to thank for my recovery/’
FROM CAMPERDOWN.
Mrs. T. Smith, 25 Bridge Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “A member
of my family suffered agony from rheumatic pains all over the body, and was
completely crippled with the ailment , for months. The pains were particularly
severe across the small of the hack, just over the kidneys. We had a doctor
treating the case for a good while, but his medicine did not do any good, and
at last he said he was afraid nothing more could lie done. We then tried hospital
treatment, but that also failed. It was right bn to']) of this that we were advised
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and although we had very little hope that
they would do any good, we got some to try them. After taking two of three
bottles there was a little improvement, so we persevered, until a perfect cure was
effected, using in all 12 bottles. We cannot say enough in praise of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and consider the cure a marvellous one.”
Four years later Mrs. Smith says: “The cure referred to still holds good. I
am sure if Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills Were better known there would be less
suffering in the world.”
DAN'S
Backache
Kidney
df
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
What it amounted to was that the old
tellow had seen a family of natives camped
at the end of the paddock. They were trek-
king from the Backblocks to the sugar-
factory for the crushing season, and "the
Oracle reckoned we could have the pick of
the family for a consideration.
The missus looked at me, and I looked the
other way; I wasn’t taking any responsi-
bility for the Oracle’s wild-cat notions. “Oh,
well, there’s no harm in having a look at
them, said the missus. “If you are going
that way back, Mr. , I’ll get Kitty and
come along. Then you can speak to them —
my Guavini is not too good.”
They set off, after the missus had given
me a tew odd jobs to keep me from brooding.
The clock had made one revolution and a
—ninety minutes, as near as makes no
difference—when she returned. She was
accompanied by a husky lump , of a. girl in a
magenta frock decorated with green roses,
and a small boy in a brief shirt.
“What’s the boy for?” I asked. “We
don’t want thh two.”
The m(ssus is great on a bargain. I was
afraid she had made a bid for the kid and
got snapped.
“Oh, that’s all right. lie’s come for the
‘consideration.’ You might fill a bottle with
cana, whilst I get twenty dollars.”
“Geewhiz! Twenty dollars and a bottle
of cana for a big chunk of a girl like that!
Why didn’t you bring two?”
“Don’t be foolish. Sciatica is not a brain
complaint. The twenty is an advance on
her wages. The cana’s a regalo. She’s to
have fifty a month, togs and tucker. Her
people will be at the crushing about three
months, and will call here on their way
back to collect her wages and see if she
likes it. And that’s all about it.”
“H—m,” I said, as I got out the demijohn ;
“Sounds very businesslike. Is the girl
conforma ?”
“Guess she had to be. Seems girls from
’way back have to do as they are told.”
“Hope she’ll keep on doing it,” I com-
mented as I finished decanting my precious
remedia. “Better get rid of that kid before
his eyes drop out.”
The boy was perched on the edge of a
chair, gazing with goggle eyes at my collec-
tion of curios and monstrosities. The cro«.
skin seemed to fascinate him. He wanted
to look all round, but had to keep his eye on
that. He knew all about crocs, in the creeks,
but crocs, on the wall were out of his lati-
tude. The missus fixed him up, tied the
dollars in the tail of his shirt, bottle in one
hand, a chunk of gringo cake in the other
and started him off.
The girl looked very disconsolate, and
half-inclined to go with him, but the missus
headed her off by giving her a plate of
treacle and galletas. After she had absorbed
her treacle —inside and but —Savita (allow
me, the new girl!) felt better, and when the
wife asked her to sweep the kitchen she was
willing.
“Show her where the broom is,” said the
missus, “while I see if there are any eggs
before the dog gets them.”
“Bueno vumos. Savita”—l hobbled into
ffie kitchen —“here’s the broom, Sally.
Think xve’ll have to call you Sally for short.
R you don't mind?”
Savita grinned, so I suppose she didn’t
mind.
"This is the broom for sweeping like this.”
I had to be precise, as the natives use a
bunch of twigs when they sweep up. Then
another idea struck, me—l would teach her
English. She would learn that a lot quicker
than I should Guavini. I held it up. “Broom,
Sally, broom—B R O O M.”
Sally backed away as if it might bite her,
so I gave her the broom and went back to
my chair.
A minute after I got a shock. Sally came
out of the kitchen and hung her nice frock
over the back of a chair, and as that was
her sole garment there was nothing between
her and the “Tut, tut, Sally,”
I said, “this won’t do; you’ll get into serious
trouble when the missus comes along.”
But Sally went on unconcernedly sweep-
ing up the kitchen.
When the missus came back with the eges
I nodded towards the kitchen. “Go and look
at your raw material.”
As near as I could make out the missus
insisted on her getting into her frock again.
Sal wasn’t having that. That frock was
her pasear garment. Besides, one couldn’t
work in frocks. But she had to. The wife
got one of her old dresses, and Sally had to
get into that- —under protest. The missus
kept her eye on Sally, and we jogged through
the day without any serious contretemps.
Come night, Sally didn’t want to sleep
in the billiard-room—we have the room but
not the table. She was not used to sleeping
by herself, she persisted. The wife put her
foot down, and Sally snivelled. If she
couldn’t come in along with us she would
go out on the verandah and sleep with the
dogs. But the missus was firm and didn’t
leave her till she was tucked up in the bed
lately vacated by Petrona and the rest.
About 2 a.m. I was aroused by what I
thought was a cat-and-dog fight. But it
wasn't. It appeared that Savita, who was a
pertinacious person, had brought her blanket
and camped alongside our bed. and when
the missus had stepped out in the night she
had planted her foot on Sally’s lower chest.
And then there was trouble.
I am a man of peace (especially about 2
a.m.) and got the wife to let sleeping dogs—
even sleeping girls—lie, and argue it om ,
the morning.
But next day Sally retrieved her lost
laurels. She was up before sunrise, got the
fire going, the kettle boiling and fetched r
cups of mate. Then she hustled the cows
ui), got them milked, fed the fowls and pigs,
then took a hoe to work off her superfliu r
energy in the chacra. So the missus decided
to let her sleep where she darned well pleased.
The wife is still a bit of a democrat and
likes the “help” to feed at the table with
us. But Sally was impossible. She had
never used a knife and fork—fingers were
good enough for her —and would rake her
paws into the dish when the missus wasn’t
looking after pieces that took her fancy. It
was no use my shaking my head at her. T
really don’t think she respected me much,
she would stick her tongue out and fish
after another piece. We compromised by
giving her her dinner on the wood-box in the
kitchen, where she could wallow in it up to
her elbows if she wanted to.
But take her all round Savita isn’t too
bad. She is a demon to work at what she
knows how. If we could only break her of
the habit of shedding her garments at ever,*
opportunity we might call it a go. It's
embarrassing at times—as when our parson
and his lady called round and Sally came
rushing in out of the chacra dressed only in
her innocence to put the kettle on for tea.
Another time the wife and I went to the
store leaving Sally in charge. When we
returned it was to search for Savita. We
called and looked all over. At last we found
her clothes at the foot of an orange-tree.
The rest of Sally was up aloft scoffing green
oranges.
Her people will be back in a month, and
the wife hasn’t made up her mind whether
to hang on to her or not. For my part, I
vote for Sally. That cup of mate at day-
break is very comforting.
T. MARTYN.
The Miracle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
4t \T IGGER” WARD was coming home.
Not as other men might come,
with sober wits and hard-earned
wages stowed beyond thought of wasting;
but drunkeniy, with bruised face and sag-
ging body, and belike but few coins left to
throw —as one casts a bone to a persistent
cur —to those awaiting his coming. So
much, at least, the years had taught to
expect. And habit is a hard taskmaster.
Far down the lane, where a wilderness
of back yard lay submerged in deepest night,
Grogan’s fox-terrier slavered and snarled
like a mad thing. With the uncanny instinct
of its kind, the dog already recognised the
hostile footsteps of the approaching man.
The sound roused him to a fury of action.
He tore back and forth behind the paling-
fence that shut him from the alley, his small
body stiffened with venom and his throat
torn with the shrill otitponririgs of his rage.
So must he continue, until, in the fulness
of time, Nigger Ward would tire of his bait-
ing and take himself and his muddled malice
homo to the cottage beyond.
Mrs. Ward, her thin frame drooping, her
chin in her hand, sat at the open window
of the kitchen, gazing with nebulous vision
at the wall of blackness beyond. On a sofa
by the wall Airs. Gabbet, her mother, mended
a child’s garment with clumsy fingers. Airs.
Gabbet was old, and the little choking devils
of asthma made sport of her fatness. The
rasp of her tortured breathing filled the
room. The old lady worked slowly, utter-
ing no word. From time to time her eyes
sought the listless profile of the younger
woman : thence turning unemotionally to the
mantel-shelf, where the hands of a tin alarm-
clock pointed perilously near to midnight.
Down the lane the fury of Grogan’s ter-
rier sounded with increasing vigor. Airs.
Ward, listening mechanically, gave no sign
that she understood. Yet, with the weari-
ness of a seemingly age-old experience, her
consciousness missed no step, let pass no
detail, of her man’s homecoming. In the
faithfulness of her understanding she might
have been an actual witness of Niggers pro-
gress up the lane. Subconsciously, as it
were, she saw him turn into the narrow
right-of-way by Grogan’s corner, heard the
clamor of his heavy feet as he fell against
the fence; listened, with the numbness of
approaching panic, to his maudlin threats.
She saw him lift his hands and beat on the
rough boards of the fence, the while he gibed
and cursed, at the maddened animal beyond.
His hoarse laugh rang in her ears as In-
lurched on once more through the , thick,
odorous blackness that Hooded the lane.. And
presently she knew would come the tread
of feet on the porch and the fumbling hand
that scraped the boards of the door in im-
patience.
At this stage analogy became valueless.
It was idle even to speculate on what would
follow. Nigger Ward in his cups was fickle
as liquor itself, lie might, or might not,
carry into his home the remnants of. the
brutal humor that found its highest expres-
sion in the baiting of Grogan’s dog. Tie-
sheer uncertainty whether she would receive
a kiss or a blow was the one abstraction
that relieved the everlasting monotony 0 f
the woman’s vigil.
The clamor of the terrieu continued to echo
shrilly up the inky funnel of the lane. Mrs,
Ward waited the climax of staccato snarls
that, would warn her that Nigger had arrived
at the very zenith of his drunken wit, ami
was now staggering onwards with Grogan’s
Irish curses hurtling about his ears. But
now a strange tiling happened. Of .a sudden
the animal’s wild outcry ceased. The weary
woman, straining her-eyes against the night,
listened with bated breath. Even Mrs.
Gabbet, half-asleep on the sofa, suddenly
held her wheezing, as if conscious of some
enormous perversion of truth. The garment
fell from her fingers, and she sat upright,
her eyes wide-open and expectant.
Mrs. Ward had risen from her sent. An
expression of fear was on her face. She
went to her mother and put a shaking hand
on the old lady’s shoulder.
“What is it? What’s wrong?” she cried
thinly.
A fit of coughing shook Airs. Gabbet so
that speech was for the moment impossible.
She could only shake her head. Her eyes
expressed hopeless bewilderment.
“There’s something wrong,” muttered the
younger woman insistently. _ She clutched
at her mother’s arms. The eyes of both
women went fearfully to the closed door of
the kitchen, and remained there—as if fas-
cinated. The tin clock on the mantel whirred
faintly.
Suddenly the door swung inwards, and Nig-
ger Ward stood framed in the opening. lie
advanced slowly into the middle of the room
-dark-faced, saturnine, peering at them in
the flickering gaslight.
“Jim,” cried his wife. There'was tragedy
in her shaking voice. ’
“My Gawd!” wheezed Mrs. Gabbet stu-
pidly. 1 ' ■ .
Nigger Ward was sober.
BERNARD CRONIN.


m
Sk!
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93*lo7 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
N. S. WALE
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us arid we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIU CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men,- women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED' CATALOGUE posted free
lanvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of " memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dose-
Small
Prico,
sd
CARTER'S
■iTTLE
I IVER
I PIUS
health; but
remember
Carter’* Lit-
tle LiverPill*
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
mm
9
S
a
&
m
• ■ i
wKEk
7/'t
m
Good-fitting Braces Produce a
Comfortable Feeling
The comfort of the body is in direct relation to comfort of the
mind. A binding, ill-fitting pair of braces is discomfort to both
the body and mind.
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are fashioned for the ex-
treme soothing comfort that comes from wearing this needed
article of wearing apparel which is designed to accurately fit
the human form.
They are made in different lengths and different web textures,
from the very light weight to the very heavy, and care is exer-
cised in choosing the exact kind to fit both your figure and
your labors.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
/
tprZ.
Remington
Shot Gun Cartridji
r TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge—
Examine the brass base of the cartridge for
the company’s own marking.
fsd
REMINGTON
smokeless
powder
fsd
smokeless
powder
fd
ARROW
smokeless
oowder
ƒ
NEW CLUB
black
powder^—^
cm
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Represent* lira
3o* 686, G, P. 0., Melbourne
sdf
df
J
VNM4& VOtt TAKE
mmi
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ating 8 Ice-making Machinery,
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPEN D ABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney. aa e a; n And.“ag-
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sdf
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
87 H P e ,;«Ts%.y Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. ... .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
i ife l
as
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
The Plum Ba/ov
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for tw ? o years, free
of charge.
mer
df
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
M
s
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
df
The simplicity, lightness and excellence ot th*
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


10 wars
WHISKY.
Spirit of
YOUTH
Youth is simply the art of living.
Age alone is a matter of years.
A man remains young just as
long as he is able to appreciate
the things in life that never grow
old—the wonder of Nature, the
pleasure of friendship, or the
infinite delight of
DEWAR'S
