

gƒg
What Si®poriin6
The rapid progress that has been raade-and is still being made-m the Iron and Steel
Industry means that many thousands of Australians will be directly emp oyed by the
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. in its various branches of Iron and Steel supply to Australia
alone. At present-after less than 6 years of operative life-the company has reached a point when
arc E.mpio2rea
Add to this number thousands more who must benefit indirectly
in employment by subsidiary industries and you have the most
eloquent reason why you should support Australian Industry.
An “All-Australian ’ Industry calls first for the support of
Australia itself.
The ANNUAL consumption of Australian raw material* includes 600,000 tons of South Australian ironstone
and 50,000 tons of Tasmanian and New South Wales Limestone (transported in steamers that
owned or controlled in Australia); also 700,000 tons of New South Wales Coal are used forjiri^k«rg' co e u
power, and for other purposes at the Company s Newcastle SteSl Works
MANUFACTURERS Oi
Ps£ Iron (varioi
Fish
B
m
illets.
in.
M
Jif
rt
O
lii.'TTh}
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.— N0, 2175
Thursday, October 20, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General’Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE, LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele, 6431,— Advt.,
sum
WM
MANGROVITE LEATHER or
RAWHIDE BELTING
is an Australian-made product, manufactured on
scientific lines, to operate under Australian condi-
tions. Forty years’ experience stands behind the
manufacture of Mangrovite Belting—the belt with
the celebrated GRIP. Try it on your main drive.
Our expert engineers are maintained for your con-
venience in order that you may take advantage of
their practical experience.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Sq uare), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., 397 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co., Ltd., Collins-street, Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” i
and may be obtained post free on applicatio
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring
ƒ
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
bM CHRISTOPHER
•JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
Price 10/6 of all stores If unable to procure send postal note to their 1
representatives. Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney. j|
eG' ST e*
C.J
Wa
1 £
s*v
A
m
V >
\r
*\
' v -
,K,
*
*V3
\\
VV.i i ■
1 S
&
-v» v
jv'*
*
■:- :
w Ji
N.\
\ &
V\
y
a - :
•t .; x
f
* jvS
r *> x
• -s--'
& \ r
m
?
/4
&
i'V
iT S X.
wl\
w/
csw
Ck
iSJ
• '
The enormous difference in
' value between a fabric which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour * element in
SUNDOLIR
UNPADABLB
FABRICS
is indestructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishings.
Sundour is made in a
great variety of fabrics
including Casement Cloths,
DamasJcs.Tapesfries, Reps,
Chenilles, Madras Muslins.etc
also
Sundour Washable Rugs
for Bathroom. Bedroom or Nursery
*»*»<** XX' OX XXX ' oxx
Of *// the best Furnishers
. <W>VW .v.»v > «
Morton Simt/wr Atrirfl™
(Trade OnA) CdrA's/C..
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
w.u
s*w>
to^
ON
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion: on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the fo<»
when taken after mfeals. I®
The Red Page
Sappho
H. de Vere Stacpoole is best known as a
writer of blue-water romances. Gifted with
an exceptionally clear and simple style, he
is able not only to see the haunting charm
of distant things, but to communicate it to
his readers; and if you read him carefully
you will see that his books contain many
allusions which could only have been made
by a man wno knows and is fascinated by
the classics. Some of his work depicts the
merely horrid, not the horrible: there is a
difference, as between “fright” and “awe,”
and by the measure of that difference Stac-
poole falls short of greatness. It is not,
however, remarkable that such a mind as
his should have been fascinated by Francois
Villon, of whom we know little, and by
Sappho, of whom we know still less, lie has
written a charming life of Villon, and trans-
lated his bleak and terrible poetry into verse
less bleak and terrible than Villon’s; and
now he has done similarly for Sappho
(Hutchinson and Co.).
Sappho lived in Lesbos about 600 b.c.,
at about the time Nineveh was burnt
by the Medes and Babylonians. She is
said to have been small and dark. She
is furthermore said to have had a
daughter named Clais, and to have
fallen in love with a man named Phaon;
when he refused to have anything to do
with her she threw herself over a cliff. Little
more, is known about her, though in later
times she was the subject of several Greek
comedies written by men who probably
selected the poor dead woman as a whet-
stone upon which to sharpen unclean wits.
•1 be Greeks thought her nearly as good as
Homer himself, and it is certain that she
had an immense reputation in the ancient
world. One of her poems was found on the
shrivelled bosom of an Egyptian gir
mummy; what sorrowing lover, what aching
heart, put it there? There remain a few
fragments of her poetry preserved by learned
Greek critics, and a vast mass of iaudatory
Greek Criticism, from which we gather that
to perfect technique she added a remark-
able power of describing the passion of love.
As the Greeks knew a great deal about
poetry and a very great deal about sensual
love we must accept their estimate as true.
To add to her fascination—the fascination
of the unknown, be it remembered—we are
told that her poems were burnt by scandal-
ised early Christians and by Byzantine em-
perors who were certainly no saints. In
tact, the world has agreed to look upon her
as a naughty young- woman who sang shame-
lessly about things which modest maidens do
not even admit to themselves, though modern
psychology holds that they merely “repress”
such thoughts into their subconscious minds,
and that the struggling of the imprisoned
sex-complex” is the cause of half woman’s
misery in this world. You will find none of
this impropriety in Mr. Stacpoole’s transla-
tion none, indeed, in the original preserved
fragments of Sappho. Half a page of Petro-
mus or Apuleius contains more “impro-
priety ’ than all that remains of Sappho.
Mr. Stacpoole very wisely avoids the
feapphic metre” which, being quantitative,
cannot satisfactorily be rendered into an
accentuated modern language like English.
It was a passionate rushing stanza of three
bnes with four strong beats, followed by a
sudden drop on to a short line of two beats.
Qui Uer-Couch has done one of her fragments
into her own metre :—-
Troops of horse-soldiers, regiments of fOotmen,
Fleets in full s&il —“What sight on earth so lovely V
Say you; but fih, my heart above them prizes
Thee, my beloved!
Mr. Stacpoole does not translate this frag-
ment, whence I infer that he has not trans-
lated all the fragments attributed to her,
and no doubt there will be the usual pretty
dispute as to whether she wrote them at all
or “some other girl of the same name.” Mr.
Stacpoole’s version is neat, clear and grace-
ful, and shows no sign of the furious passion
attributed to her by our idea of her, which
seems to be so discordant with what we
know of Greek art. Probably we see her
mainly through a film of our own subcon-
scious mind; inspired by a hazy vision thus
seen, which they call Sappho, some girls to-
day write highly erotic—often very beautiful
—poetry. Such girls bravely face the derision
of an uncomprehending male world to add
to its store of beauty, just as mothers face
death to add to its store of humanity. The
lewd comedies which slandered dead
Sappho s memory possibly represented the
sort,of thins she had to put up with in her
lifetime.
Here is one of Stacpoole’s renderings:—
Sweet mother, at the idle loom I lean
Weary with longing for the boy that still
Remains a dream of loveliness—to fill
My soul, my life, at Aphrodite’s will.
Here is Mackail’s version of the same frag-
ment
Sweet mother, now no longer can I the shuttle
throw,
For lingering love has caught me, and my heart is
all aglow.
Is not Stacpoole’s the more haunting? Does
it not show better the vague yearning which
marks sex-instinct in young people—“the
desire of the moth for the star”? And no
doubt to a Greek Sappho’s would have been
as much greater than either as Shelley’s
is to an Englishman. It is difficult to trans-
late prose; it is impossible satisfactorily
to translate lyric poetry, especially poetrv
so compressed, so sharp-cut, so epigrammatic
as the Greek.
In his introduction Mr. Stacpoole says:
The mind of Sappho runs through all litera-
ture like a golden thread.” He is mistaken ;
it is not Sappho’s mind that runs through
literature, but the 'normal human desire for
the opposite sex. We know too little about
Sappho to estimate the influence of her
mmd; wlmt has really influenced the world
is _ the appreciation of her by great Greek
critics, as seen through our own hungry
souls. J
It is quite certain that her poetry in no
way resembled the poetry of Swinburne or
the young ladies who are supposed to have
modelled themselves on her. The ecstasy of
unrestraint shown by modern love-poets
would have horrified Sappho—not as woman,
but as artist, for the Greek maxim of “no-
thing too much” would have been her cri-
terion. By far the best essay on the ladv is
by our own Professor Tucker, late of Mel-
bourne, now of Sydney, published by the
Lothian Publishing Company, of Collins-
street. From this you will obtain a truer
idea of "the poetess,” as the Greeks called
hej';~they called Homer "the poet,” which
sufficiently ranks both him and Sappho—
than you will from all the nonsense that has
been imagined by modern translators or
mismterpreters.
C. McL.
Richard Middleton
B rank Harris, in his “Portraits,” upbraids
the British public for haviug allowed Richard
Middleton to die neglected, and speaks of his
early death as a greater tragedy than Chat-
terton s. There is really not much in
Middleton’s poetry to justify such enthusi-
asm ; the bloom has already passed off most
of it. But he ought to be remembered for
his prose, and the promise it held. The
"Ghost Ship” is one of the best fantastic
stories in English, and it would be hard to
beat hi.s studies of boyhood anywhere.
I knew Middleton pretty well 10 years
ago. He was just then becoming known,
largely owing to Harris’s influence, and was
writing regularly in the Academy and the
English Review. A big man, with power-
ful shoulders, a black beard and a stoop,
it w as hard to believe that he was well under
00. He seemed to have matured very early,
in both _ mind and body. His talk was rich
and copious and his literary judgments were
always passed with assurance: not the mere
cockiness of youth, but the cheerful confi-
dence of a man who has found out by experi-
ence what sort of diet nourishes him.
A literary man finds himself more quickly
in London than in most places. He has
plenty of friends to tell him when he is on
the wrong track: some who can even direct
him to the right one. At a time when Middle-
ton was in danger of drawing his verse out
into fine threads of honey for the earning of
half-guineas, someone discovered that he
could write delicate prose, and after that he
began to lean on prose for his livelihood. It
did not take much to keep him, for he
belonged to a Bohemian tradition that ig-
nored the comforts and respectabilities of the
suburbs.
We used to meet in the upper room of a
tavern in St. Martin’s-lane. It was a sort
of club and had its ‘own tradition, which it
guarded with a ponderous solemnity in the
British way. There were hardly more than
30 members, and during the three years I
belonged to it I remember only one new mem-
ber being admitted. We sat about a green
baize table and talked. A broken cigar-box was
passed round to pay for the drinks. If any-
one was in luck at the moment it was taken
fop granted (that he would pay for those
who were out of it.
Middleton was a good talker, and a par-
ticularly good teller of stories. In addition
he had a robust humor, and used to revel
in the gipsy savageries of Augustus John,
who had not then been tamed by the
Academy. In appearance and tastes the
two men were very much alike. Both fur-
nished good examples of Yeats’s theory that
a man expresses in art the half of his per-
sonality that he fails to express in life—--
Keats, the robust apprentice who could
thrash a butcher’s boy, writing delicate
poems; Henley, the rather neurotic invalid;
revelling in the sword and invoking the God
of Battles.
Middleton had had a hard life in Fleet-
street until Harris took him -up, and he
used to spend most of his time with a
friend, also a literary man of sorts, who
kept a small pub in Wandsworth. They
found pleasure in composing happy satire
on the literary gods of the day. It seemec
to be an age of prose. The spirit of Shaw
Barker and Bennett was abroad in the land
and everywhere Bohemia was held up to
ridicule as a frowsy slum inhabited by futile
and unproductive egoists who had no socia
conscience. Middleton would have restorec
the days of Dowson and the Yellow Book.
Afterwards, when money was coming in a
little more regularly, he found a little town
in Belgium where he could live cheaply anc
joyously, and he spent most of his time
there. He was not a heavy drinker, but
he liked to sit in cafes and watch people
I remember walking down to Charing Cross
with him the night before he left England
for the last time. Things were going very
well with him. 'His prose and verse in the
English Review and the Academy had
given him a reputation, and he w-as being
talked about in literary circles. Apparently
he had no money troubles. His mood was
buoyant, and he was talking of all sorts of
literary projects. It seemed as if he were
on the threshold of a fruitful career.
A few weeks later he died by his own
hand in Brussels. There was no explana-
tion : even his nearest friend was never able
to discover any reason for the act. A
rumor soon spread that he had died in ex-
treme poverty, and the literary papers had
the usual little articles about neglected
genius. Harris’s book is likely to perpetu-
ate the legend. But it is false. Richard
Middleton in the last two years of his life
had a good deal more recognition than
might have been expected. His was a deli-
cate and original talent, the sort that is
generally overlooked, yet before he was 30
the columns of the chief literary journals
were thrown open to him freely. What
more could a young writer ask?
VANCE PALMER.
A Statuary Declaration
The policy followed in the erection of
public monuments is based upon an erro-
neous principle. The statues made and pro-
vided fail utterly to effect the purposes for
which they are designed. Those purposes,
I take it, are, firstly, to decorate public
squares, gardens and avenues ; and, secondly,
to hold up before the masses any noble
example of patriotism or moral conduct.
To begin with, these two aims are mutually
subversive. They defeat the ends aimed at,
for the reason that gentlemen who offer as
excellent examples of the higher public
spirit and the finer sentiments are almost
invariably lacking in decorative qualities;
they ate not physically adapted to orna-
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk
r age
f
Vr'
IX3
IX I
1
>yr
IX4
IXS
IX2
3
4*=
•• V;
■*3c
ALL
ONE PRICE:
9/11 each
EXQUISITE SUMMER STYLES
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Anthony Horderns’ present further good
reasons why womenfolk in Town and
Country alike should make The House of
Economy their shopping centre.
The illustrations display that simplicity which
is true elegance—they represent the type
that will give the wearer that sense of social
sureness which comes to a woman only when
she knows her clothes are correct.
That the figures quoted are indeed surpris-
ingly moderate is revealed by these represen-
tative items.
You will be more than delighted with these charming
BLOUSES. Five attractive styles are illustrated, all
fashioned in White Voile, and daintily trimmed with
Filet Lace.
All One Price
9/11
DB2S.—CHARMING WHITE VOILE SKIRT, has a panel
back and front, with four picot-edged frills on either hip.
A folded self belt of medium width finishes the waist.
Price ! 27/6
D! 561 SMART, INDEED, THIS SKIRT, of good quality
White Gabardine, fashioned with panel front, with raised
tucks. On either side front at the hip line is placed a
group of white pearl buttons finished with loops of self
material. The self belt of rather narrow width is finished
with a white pearl button.
Price 15/11
DISI2.—FINE CORD WHITE PIQUE IS USED FOR A
SKIRT THAT IS SIMPLE BUT SMART. The Skirt is
cut on straight lines, and the back slightly eased
in to waist, which is encircled by a narrow self belt.
Price 11/6
D503/16.—ATTRACTIVE WHITE VOILE SKIRT, with
fancy panelled front having wide inserts of filet lace and
four wide tucks at intervals down the front. A folded
belt of self material is placed at the waist.
Price 22/6
D3I7.—SMART AND DURABLE WASHING SKIRT IN
WHITE SPONGE CLOTH, has fancy pocket at each
side, front cut to a point and trimmed with White Pearl
buttons. A wide belt running through slots of self
material finishes the waist of this attractive skirt.
Price.. 19/11
jC,
V
Sf,
-I
rr.
D 152-4
7
j
r^*'
D 2517
D 1501
D 1512.
D 5‘03/ici
D 025
Carriage Paid on
Fashion Goods in
N.S.W., and to the
nearest Port on
Interstate Orders.
DIS24.—SMART WHITE GABARDINE SKIRT, having inset pockets
at each side, front trimmed with cable-stitching and finished with
narrow bands from the waist at each side, while a white pearl
button is placed at each of their points.
Price
18/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


4... X\
rtf**
Picture Ahead!
Kodak as you fto.
ft
lV?x
■X
i
I
Pictures Ahead!
Here comes the season of week-end jaunts and
friendly rambles away from town.
Kodaks and Brownies will be busy everywhere—
busy at a multitude of cheerful tasks —making
pictures on every outing, cementing pleasant friend-
ships, permanently recording happy times.
Will you, too, be keeping a picture-story of your
own this season? Will you have a Kodak to add
to your enjoyment?
Box Brownies range in price from 12/6; Folding Autographic Brownies
from 52/6; Folding Autographic Kodaks from Jft/6.
Ask to see the new 2c Autographic Kodak Junior at £5/3/6 —makes pictures
the popular small-postcard size, 2£ x 4§ inches.
KODAK
as you go.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD,,
.379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne: 250-252 W. Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart; Buthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders
Street, Townsville; East Street, Bockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,”
corner Lambtcr, Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
▲IWAIIAJU
; -
t»* XI. —ra^
m
N
*s
2*5
V
'V '
sSLaSI
LUimillinniuiiiiimiiinuiiiimnnnhi minininm
n!
s
oik
m :
iiiiiiliimiiiniiiiiinuiiHil
i imniun
mull
m.
ss»
'/r.
m
ill liliil i iEMui
You Get More from Life
with His Master's Voice ”
YOU need this modern marvel, which makes
instantly available to you at any hour or place
the world’s best music, to help you get the
most from life.
Whatever your mood, “His Master’s Voice’’ can
provide music to match it—operatic arias that
soothe and satisfy, merry tunes that cheer and
enliven.
Choose the instrument which the foremost artists
or this generation have acknowledged to be
supreme by electing to make records for it
exclusively—“ His Master’s Voice.’’
Write to-day for instrument
catalogues, lists of records
and name of nearest ac-
credited dealer.
“ Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mart;.
THe Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
‘77/,s' Master’s Voice,
Reyd. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
gf
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
/'s
/• f^y’*z~t*c<t.
/fc *r*a&si
£* /trsr
7?>^£
/tCe^yX
r
7 =, /Are_9/?°T//f/ : T’5/r°
G/^/S/3/9A/^
'*** <£>rc/sr
-/^z.
'Sr%6 '/*■**&
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
■A Jiifgi
Exquisite
Walnut Hair
which gives such an alluring charm,
may be obtained harmlessly and quite
simply by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Permanent and waterproof
Obtainable all chemists.
if you know of a better
Tooth Paste
—buy it, but you’ll come back
to Eudenta later.
It’s so fragrant and pleasing,
yet sold at the popular
price of 1/- a tube.
Be sure to ash
for
“EUDENTA.”
Tooth Paste
i
•HaT».
o
o
the FP
wru
I u
Ask to see the
New Streamline Model
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or woman
of taste, of refinement, of
discrimination.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO.. Ltd.
Bunhill R6w. London. E.C.I,
Onoto Ink —Best for all pens.
I
ENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
SH
gf
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
I Money Returned
If Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/-
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
- 76 PITT ST., SYO N EY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
There is extra
comfort in the
extra spring
BROOKS
SADDLE.
Our new catalogue describes
these springs.
J. B. BROOKS 6• CO. t LTD.,
134 Criterion Works,
BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
In addition to the main co 9
springs there are on a
Brooks Motor Cycle Saddle
extra springs coiled within
the larger ones ; these
counteract all " rebound."
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic— 3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Guaranteed chemically pure
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Songs.
These are my children —these brown songs
Of the sweet morn and the world’s wrongs....
These are my little ones, my dears,
All wrapped in infant smiles and fears.
These are my flesh and blood in truth,
The fragile phantoms of my youth.
They are my tall brown sons, my girls
With the word-sunlight on their curls.
Ah! songs were children since lips sang,
And for each life the soul must pang
Through travail still as deep and wild
As any mother’s for her child.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Things that Matter.
' Hush a little and I will sing
Of things that matter the most to me:
Flowers and trees, and murmurous bees
On the broken bough of the apple-tree.
Echoing footsteps on the stair,
Patter of tiny feet at play;
A lover’s moon in the sky of June,
And the face of you in my heart to-day.
Green of grass where the stream runs on,
Gold of the wheat beneath the sun;
Vale and hill in the twilight still,
And a kiss on the lips when the day is
done.
Wind in the trees when the rain has gone,
Buds that break by the river bend,
Starry nights and the harbor lights,
And a beating heart at the journey’s end.
These are the things that matter to me,
For the joy of life is big and strong:
The sunset red when the day is dead,
And the welcome home at Evensong.
N.S.W.
A. P. FREEMAN.
Choice.
Here lie two roads before me, and this day
I must choose one of them, and go my w r ay.
This is a wide road, sunlit and secure,
Where many journey whom I know 7 , both
friend
And lover. Safe it is, well guarded, sure;
It does not curve or falter to the end.
Straight on it leads towards the setting sun,
Open and kindly, giving needful shade
And resting places. Not the loneliest one
Need lack companionship. The way is
made
Easy and pleasant down the vistaed years,
By doubts unshadowed, unassailed by fears.
And here a road w’inds through the misty
hills,
By mountain pass, and darkling vale,
where lies
Wonder, close hidden. Every rain-cloud
spills
Jewels upon the grass for seeing eyes.
The little people w r alk beside it, sprite
And fay, and when the witching midnight
chimes,
Strange fires leap up and glow upon the
night.
But at the last I know the pathway climbs
Some splendid height, amazing and afar,
Crowned with the glory both of sun and star.
Bid me farewell, and I will say God-speed.
I’ll go adventuring alone. To me
Your journey would be w 7 earisome indeed,
My path a toilsome arduous one would be
To you. Then let me go my way, my friend.
’Tis best that we our several paths pursue,
And they may meet before the journey’s end.
The plain and friendly highway is for you.
Though, strange and veiled in unknown mists
it seems,
I’ll take my lonely lovely path of dreams.
VICTORIA.
GRACE ETHEL MARTYR.
The Sleepers.
“Shadowy valleys,” they said, “and Elysian
fields where the gold light,
Slumbrous and strange, overgilds asphodel,
amaranth, moly—
Shadows of torment or peace, and the shades
of the dead that among them
Pass like slow 7 mist through a wood where
the dead leaves fall slowly.
tfOut of the sun and its laughters, borne
down to the portals of silence,
Colder than snow, more quiet than sleep,
unloving, unhating—
What but a dream should remain for those
w r ho no more will awaken?
Of a ferryman faint as a ghost on the
faint grey death-tide waiting?
“Are not the cities of men god-like with
their beautiful columns,
Strong-builded, strength-resisting—like steel
or like flesh that we hold?
Lo, is our joy not a flame, and our pain an
unscabbarded sword-edge ?
Are we not weighted with fetters, or bur-
dened with treasures of gold?
“We are the living, the realDo the
• Immortals laugh softly,
Star-crowned with joys unimagined, san-
dalled w 7 ith hazards unnamed?
Those whose closed eyes death has opened,
dazzled with rapture or terror.
Gaze on the arch of new 7 heavens whereby
our day-fire is shamed.
Free of the Valley of Shadow 7 , set with fan-
tastic dream-cities,
Woods of illusion, sad meadows where
dream-springs mimic the May,
Housed from the life-sleep that held them,
naked and eager and vital,
Forward they leap, the awakened, into the
light of the Day.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


CRAIGPARK
TRAD
MAR K
C.M.A. WIRES and CABLES
saws*.
U
m
$8
m
For all classes of service where reliable
cables are required.
Manufactured ih Glasgow (Scotland) by %
CRAIGPARK. ELECTRIC CABLE CO. LTD.
specially for
A
o
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
<g)
Cr. of Queen '£> Little Collins ;Sts.
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE. S.A. —Charles Atkins &C Co. Ltd., 88-90 Curne St
BRISBANE, Q —The Engineering Supply Co of Australia Ltd
(E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts.
TASMANIA—OIiver 6C Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
PERTH. W.A.—Charles Atkins &C Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House,"
894 Hay Street


The Bulletin
Registered at tlie General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.— N0. 2175.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE TEMPTATION OF MARGUERITE.
“The Australian Press Association learns authoritatively upon inquiry that Wall-street financiers are attracted by the success of the Queensland loan, and
are making inquiries direct whether any other governmental body in Australia is requiring money, since plenty of funds are available on the same terms.” — Cable.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for tlie White Man,”
Printed ami published by William Macleod, of
Mussrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the-
Co., 21-1 Ceorge Street. Sydnpv. N.S.W., Australia.
Meluouune Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 16s; 6 months, l&s . (id.; 3 months,
Os. 6d,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £2; 6
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
'IU~ Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped Utters are liable to be
vejused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or' transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humor or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
-direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but. unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ere those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies oj The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival oj each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Mouse, Breams Buildings, London E.CJt;
E. T. Hole, Uolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central Mews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban : and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., .{-)I Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C. : The, International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.; the Boston Hnt Works and Xenrs Co., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary. Alberta.
U.B.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, X. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co.. Kearney and Market Streets.
San Francisco. A 'ew York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 21th Street, Xew York City; Quaker Mews Co..
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
llnvrT.- — Jacques, Horn c(- Co., The Colonial Book
and Xews Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- -Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore,— John Little, and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — ll'. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie. Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, joz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
'TTuTSBi
THURSDAY, OCTOBER ‘JO, 1921.
THE NEW CREDITOR.
The fact that Queensland has discovered a
new creditor in the United States, and is
inordinately proud of its find, makes it
urgent that the Australian Government
should invent some way—some very strenu-
ous way—to control State loan-mongerings.
To arrive at that blessed consummation it
will be necessary to first invent a new kind
of Australian Government —one that will
think in continents, or, rather, think in this
continent, and not ponder in six State com-
partments. It should be the sort of com-
bination which tries not to know that there
are States, and which is prepared to govern
with the unanimous disapproval of all
the State Ministries, putting its reli-
ance on Australians —not on Westralians,
South Australians, N. S. Welshers or any
separate tribe or sect. The first loan that
Queensland has raised in the U.S. is, it is
true, paltry—a mere £2,400,000, which, at
the pace the State set last year, won’t
keep the wolf off the verandah for three
months. But it is intimated that there are
stacks more Yankee money to be got on the
same terms, so there is a risk that the pro-
cess of ‘‘peaceful penetration” or fiscal an-
nexation will be rapid now that it. has begun.
The terms are gruelling enough. The in-
terest is nominally 7 per cent., a figure never
paid on a foreign loan before. Expenses
and frills make it nearly 7'. per cent. Then
the money is to be repaid by 20 annual in-
stalments. so one-twentieth at least of it
will be useless. The period between the
date when it becomes available for invest-
ment and the one when it must be realised
to be ready for repayment is hardly long
enough for a turn at two-up. The last 15
instalments (three-fourths of the loan) are
to be repaid at the .rate gf £lO2. 10s. for
every £lOO advanced. And the money is to
be repaid in a foreign currency, which,
though it may get cheaper compared with our
own, may, on the other hand, have to be
bought at a fancy price. Should debts of
this sort increase until Australia is spotted
all over with them, there are wonderful pos-
sibilities when a renewal lias to be asked-
for; and in Australia’s dealings with the
English money-lender renewal has been
commercial “squeeze.” And though Aus-
tralia had its own money ready on payment
day can almost be counted on the thumb of
one foot. Financial syndicates which exact
terms like these while merely baiting the
hook may have wonderful suggestions to
make about interest and bonus and land,
railway, mining and trading concessions
when the time is ripe and the fish is in
difficulties. And as reports of loan offers to
this country are being heard of in many quar-
ters, 'there is more reason to suspect that
the operation is the beginning of a definite
plan of financial and commercial penetration
than that it is a mere isolated happening.
W. M. Hughes’s grandiose policy of
sending costly ambassadors to the U.S.
to tell what a fine place this is for
exploitation has doubtless helped the new
movement, but it might have come in
any case. The U.S., .as a result of
the war, owns, or has a lien upon, all the
money in the world and a great deal more.
It must invest its money somewhere so as
to make more money, the making of money
being the chief end of American men. Europe
is a poor place to lend to, and in case of
default could no more be foreclosed upon
than a porcupine. South America is pretty
well used up. It isn’t specially friendly, and
it isn’t u prodigal begging incessantly for
money. Australia is almost the only promis-
ing place of any size left, for China is to a
great extent pegged out already as Japan’s
commerical “squeeze.” And though Aus-
tralia is mortgaged to the eyes it doesn’t
offer so bad a prospect to the canny investor
who insists that payment will begin within
12 months and takes no long risks. At the
worst there are two Governments—British
and Federal Australian —to which three
questions could be put on behalf of disap-
pointed investors: (1) Will you pay up or
give security for your bankrupt child? (2)
Will you make her pay? (3) Failing both
these, can you show any just reason, especi-
ally to a country or our size, why we
shouldn’t ourselves collect from the “sov-
ereign State” of Queensland or N. S. Wales;
in cash_ or kind by some process of mild
compulsion? That is the position as regards
the lender. As regards the borrower, Queens-
land’s present Government, now tottering to
its fall, is so little Australian that, though
it keeps, by devices worthy of the old-type
Central American “President,” a strong bold
on the State machine, its party can hardly
secure .a seat for its. own State in the Aus-
tralian Parliament where its devices don’t
apply. Possibly this alien body might not
object even to leave a legacy of trouble to
the wholly unappreciative Australian Gov-
ernment. As for its attitude to Britain, that
is one of undisguised hostility. A year ago
J. Bull, then already in straits himself,
demurred at lending another nine millions
(about £l2 per head, which would be a
fair public debt by itself) in one lot to a
creditor who already owed him the record
sum of £72 per head (f>4 millions). Sle sug-
gested that the tattered applicant should try
to he a little more solvent, and the rage of
Tiieodoke thereat was tremendous. There
may be satisfaction of a sort in showing the
Old Man in Condon that; he isn’t, wholly in-
dispensable : in adulterating his security by
the introduction of a new preference creditor ;
and in beginning, even in a .small way. to
“white ant” this section of the Empire. And
there certainly is satisfaction in a loan of
any sort or size at any price.
The position as regards Australia is that,
for the first time in its history, more than
one-fifth of its area has been mortgaged to a
foreign Power or to very influential subjects
of a foreign Power. And it appears that the
process is only beginning. Partly because
the Australian Parliament lacks authority,
and partly because it is too feeble and futile
and too subservient to overbearing State
potentates to get or use authority, nothing
is done to prevent this sort of thing. It
is a kind, old-womanly, Sarah Gampisb
administration, great on pensions and baby
bonuses but too terrified to even make a
move to develop its own splendid estate in
the North, because its unruly children forbid.
There is no limit to the extent to which the
States, which should be strictly subordinate
institutions especially in their foreign rela-
tions, can pawn the people, the assets and
the resources <>n which the Commonwealth
depends. It is left open to the States to
say to w'hom they may pawn them or on
what terms they may pawn them. There
is no other Federation and no kingdom or
empire or republic of tiny sort where coun-
ties or provinces are so big. so arrogant, so
entrenched in their control of land and
means of communication, or where their old
debts and new borrowings are so vast and
unrestrained that the whole country may go
into public bankruptcy without the country’s
alleged Government being responsible for
anything save the consequences. Nor has
this Government guy right to interfere, nor
will it ever have the right unless it bestirs
itself and gets the right. It is supposed
to defend the States should a big Govern-
ment, representing influential creditors, who
won’t renew the lOU’s, send n few warships
along to collect payment —a thing that has
happened to more populous places than
Queensland or Australia either. There its
share of the business ends. Considering that
the peace debt of two States has passed the
£lOO-per-head limit, and considering the
newest departure in finance, the position is
worth considering.
A PROPOSAL TO THROW IN THE
TOWEL.
“Extensive schemes for the rearrangement of Bri-
tish naval strength in the Pacific are under considera-
tion.
“ft is proposed that Australia should abandon that
portion of the Hkndkhsox programme which pro-
vides for the upkeep of a locally-controlled fleet, and
instead apply the money thus saved to the construc-
tion of docks and bases, etc.
“To police the South Pacific a strong British fleet,
according to the scheme, is to be based on Singapore,
the ships of tlie Australian Navy being obsolete and
it being beyond Australia's financial resources to pro-
vide an efficient fleet.”
The S. M. Herald published this without
qualification last Thursday, following upon
statements by the Telegraph and other
papers to the same genetal effect. It is part
of the campaign which has been in progress
for many months to accustom the public
mind to a retreat from the Defence position
taken up by the Commonwealth a decade
ago. There always have been powerful in-
fluences working against the R.A.N. The R.N.
ranks and ratings whom it attracted were
not able to give it the pride of service they
had brought to their own fleet. That was
natural: it is one of the penalities every
navy or army has to pay so long as it re-
mains under overseas tutelage. The Naval
Board has always been
British and devoid of any real sympathy
with Australian naval aspirations; consider-
ing their training and traditions a majority
of the members could hardly have felt other-
wise. Our navy was born in an atmosphere
of political strife ; and up to the Outbreak of
the Great War and the considerable part
played in it by the just-arrived Australia,
Sydney and Melbourne, the newspapers
now prophesying the death of the
R.A.N. were in the habit of citing it as a
symbol of. “disloyalty.” It is ominous that
these tactics are again being employed. We
are ottce more told, inferentially, that
it is an act of Imperial patriotism to pole
on the harassed taxpayers of the United
Kingdom for our sea-defepce. Anything cal-
culated to make the R.A.N. less English and
more Australian—a system, for example,
such as worked well in the A.LIU, providing
for the speedy elimination of the Imperial
element and its replacement by local staff
and other officers—is distorted into a slight
on the Union Jack. As in the past, it is
becoming a virtue to loaf and an act of bull-
dog courage to cadge. Nationalist leaders
like Hughes and Pearce have lost most of
the ideals that swept them into power in
opposition to the negative policies of Aus-
tralia’s Reids and Cooks. They themselves
are prophets of negation now. And with
less excuse than their one-time opponents
had. In 1910, when George Reid left for
London and the R.A.N.’s first T.B.D.s
arrived, there was no direct taxation by the
Commonwealth, and indirect taxation was
only £11,593,164; in the year preceding this
one in which, it is. alleged, we can no longer
afford a navyy indirect taxation had swollen
to £21.574,t»00 and direct amounted to
£20,273,133. The. party to which W. M.
Hughes belonged in the years immediately
preceding the war—a party which called
itself Labor but Was in fact Nationalist—
did not shrink from committing the country
to a navy costing £2,456.000 per annum of
brand-new money; to-day our so-called
Nationalists are evidently disposed to let
that navy fade away because to make it
really efficient would involve “the expendi-
ture of, at the very least, £5.000.000 a year”
—a sum which might almost be saved by
retrenching superfluous departments and
officials.
«»•-»*
"There is po truth whatever in the report
that the Australian Navy is to be scrapped,”
said W. M. Hughes disingenuously when his
attention was drawn to the disclosures of
the press which supports his Ministry. But
no one imagined that anything so crude as a
sudden scrapping was intended ; there are
many more ways of killing a cat than by
choking it with butter. The idea is that the
It.A.N. shall be allowed to degenerate-.into
an even more out-of-date organisation than
it has become since the Armistice: a service
that will attract no Australians and only
those lI.N. men who are incompetent or de-
void of ambition, leaving it ready for the
job it is destined to do during the duration
of th(> British Empire, provided the “heads”
get their way—that of occasionally “showing
the Flag” in the islands, and for the rest
attending race-meetings and Sucli-like func-
tions in the different States. There are at
least two aspects from 'which to consider
this scheme. The first concerns the coun-
try’s self-respect. By reason of the efforts
of young Australians of both services during
the war the older men were able to wrest
that nebulous new thing, Dominion Status,
with all the kudos it represents to our poli-
ticians, out of the Imperial Government. The
change implies the standing of a sovereign
State and a prestige far greater than that
claimed by this country when the R.A.N.
first took the blue water. Australians could
have held their heads up if they had never
started a navy—if they had always been con-
tent to pretend to pay the hill for their
safety and that of their sea-borne trade,
while knowing that their subsidy was not
a decent fraction of the due amount. They
might even have looked their fellow-man
squarely in the eye if, after starting a fleet,
they had let.it quietly expire, but had not
previously asserted themselves as members
of a notable fighting race. But to virtually
throw in the towel now, with the echo of
Hughes’s brave words about our indepen-
dent pride and our valor still ringing through
Europe, would amount to one of the most
shameful climb-downs any nation has exe-
cuted unless under the stress of military or
naval defeat. The other chief consideration
is a business one. Our overseas trade is
upwards of £200,000.000 a year. If this
mighty river were dammed or even tempo-
rarily diverted Australia would starve in the
midst of plenty as Russia is doing. So some-
one has to pay to keep the seaways open.
The British arc doing it at present, as they
always have done, except during the brief
period when the R.A.N. was, for its size, as
good as the best. But it is inconceivable
that they should agree to be taxed for our
benefit indefinitely, even if, with the world’s
financial centre of gravity shifting from
London to New York—with the assistance of
at least one Australian State—their coun-
try was likely to be in a position to per-
manently undertake such a contract. Rear-
Admiral Dumaresq, in an address on Sea
Power in Sydney last week, made this strik-
ing remark
It was a matter of first importance to a maritime
State that its citizens should study the elements awl
factors of sea power. History made it plain that
thi' maritime nation acted wisely which focussed its
gaze on its sea power a century ahead. Procrastina-
tion and vacillation in sea policy had always led to.
want of economy and often to complete disaster.
Is Australia going to look a century ahead
during the next few years, as it had the
vision to do a decade ago, or lialf-a-centurv
backwards? On the answer to that will
probably depend the question of whether
or no our descendants are white and free, or
half-caste and enslaved.
The S. M. Herald’s notion of applying
“money saved (by neglecting our fleet] to
the construction of docks, bases, etc.,” is
oddly beside the point. Bases we already
have: some of them of a high order. Modern
docks with their necessary paraphernalia
cost a matter of 10 millions sterling apiece.
One floating dock would represent the limit
of the Commonwealth's effort in this line.
But that effort will have to'be made shortly
whatever happens to our fleet. At present
we are not only incapable of defending our
own shores: we are not in a position to be
defended by the R.N. But the expense of
an adequate dock might fairly be shared by
the British Admiralty, for one thing because
it will be required immediately by their
own capital ships in the Pacific, and
for another because the great commer-
cial liners (which pass over to the
Admiralty when war is declared! will need
it in the pear future as their tonnage in-
creases. And for the latter reason it should
be in part at least a payable proposition. It
would be -absurd for this country to aspire
to another capital ship: the present cost of
one of these monsters is from nine to 10
millions sterling. Bat four up-to-date light
cruisers <costing a total of, say, six million?
sterling) would be within our national
means, plus the six complementary destroy-
ers (at balf-a-million each) additional to
the first-rate gift vessels of this class we
already possess. Our submarines are as effi.
cient as any in the world. While remainin':
wholly Australian in personnel, this fleet
could exercise with the British squadron
based on Singapore; and, by a provision in
sisting that technical training in the R.A.N.
should never fall below the R.N. standard,
a regular interchange of officers might be
effected. Under such an arrangement the
R.A.N. must develop into a self-respecting
and truly national service: one that young
Australians will be eager to enter and proud
to be associated with, and one that will grow
naturally with the growth of our population.
Anything less must mean eventually for this
sea-girt continent the fate that always be-
falls a rich country which is ignobly satis-
fied to be defended by someone else.
THE CASUAL DOOLEY ACT.
If H. E. Prat ten resigns from the Senate
to contest the Parramatta seat in the House
of Reps., his successor will be appointed
by a Parliament in which a majority-of the
members are nominees. This position—
unique since 1854, the year of Responsible
Government—has been brought about partly
by the promotion of Id new members, Labor-
Res ail, to the N, S. Wales Legislative Coun-
cil, and partly by the operation of the
Casual Vacancies Act passed last session.
The first proceeding is unassailable on the
score of constitutional validity, since the
Governor ostensibly made the nominations
on the advice of his Ministers, who have a
majority on the floor of the House, thanks
to one , Daniel Levy ; but the other is a
deliberate violation of the old right of con-
stituencies to choose their own representa-
tives. And together they have brought it
about that the laws of N. S. Wales are being
made by 83 men duly elected by the people
and by 89 others nominated by present and
past Ministers, many after they had been
rejected at the _ polls. Eighty-three of the
unelected majority are in the Uppah House
and six in the Lower, and one Assembly
seat (for Goulburn) is vacant. Suc-h a
situation, without precedent as it is, would
be intolerable to a Government with a
scrupulous regard for popular rights and its
own prestige. One can t imagine the late
Deakin or Barton holding office by the
graee of Levy and the votes of four defeated
candidates or submitting laws to a Parlia-
ment with a majority of nominees. But the
Dooley Government is made of tougher
material. It hasn’t the slightest objection to
retaining place and pay on such conditions
• —conditions which save it from the unplea-
santness of testing its position in the coun-
try. Above all things it is anxious to avoid
giving the people the trouble of passing judg-
ment on it this side of 1923. In circum-
stances that the statesmen of the last genera-
tion would have found unendurable, its frank
and unembarrassed attitude is that it has
been favored by a superlative stroke of luck.
* * * *
The position that has arisen in the X. S.
Wales Assembly is a lurid example of the
follies of legislators and a biting commen-
tary on the insolence of the inflated bluu-
derers who awarded themselves an additional
£375 a year. Just before the Nationalists
went to the country they brought in a
scheme of proportional representation. They
'yere jn sueli a hurry to get it through Par-
liament: that they made no provision for
the filling of vacancies, whether by by-elec-
tion, nomination or the re-examination of
ballot papers. It doesn’t seem to have occurred
to them that members of Parliament die,
resign, go bankrupt or get into gaol, and
that their constituents have got to be repre-
sented somehow. The election took place
on March 30, aDd over seven months elapsed
before the Storey Government could be
prodded into making some attempt to do
what the other side had forgotten to do. By
that time there were four seats to be filled.
Judge Beery (Progressive) and .Justice*
James (Nationalist) having resigned, and
But nek (Progressive) and Fingleton
(Labor) having gone to.their account. The
result of the Government’s prolonged medi-
tations was the Casual Vacancies Bill, clause
4 of which: provides that “any vacancy
shall be filled by the election of the
unsuccessful candidate who (a) repre-
sents the same party interest as the late
member, and (b), as between the unsuccess-
ful candidates representing the same party
interest, was highest on the list of primary
preference votes,” clause 6 specifying that
he must be nominated by “the recognised
leader” of the party to which the late mem-
ber belonged. The Bill was roughly handled
in the committee stage. Smr.LJ no ton de-
scribed clause 4 as “one of the most ridi-
culous ever submitted to any deliberative
Assembly.” Bavin tried to have the thing
settled bv a recount of unexhausted votes.
Brookfield announced that lie wouldn’t sup-
port the measure if lie hadn’t been assured
that the Government intended to repeal the
Proportional Representation Act, and vigor-
ously championed the right of Scott Camp-
bell to succeed Fix cl ETON —vainly, as it
happened. Scott Campbell* lie pointed out.
had been an endorsed Labor candidate till
two days before the election, had polled
107.1 more first-preference votes than D. F.
Dwyer, the next man on the ticket, and was


therefore entitled to the seat. “If I were
in the same position as Scott Campbell,”
he added, “I would expect someone to take
up the cudgels on my bellalf.” A few weeks
later Brookfield was shot by a crazy Bol-
shevist, and the Government filled his seat in
the same cynically dishonest fashion in which
it set aside the claims of Scott Campbell.
“Nobody has the right to nominate a per-
son to this Chamber,” said Brookfield, iu
what was destined to be one of his last
speeches. ‘‘Nobody but. the electors,” inter-
posed Bavin, “and the Bill has this serious
defect—that it does not recognise the right of
the electors' to say who is to be their repre-
sentative.” "The Mmister,” said Fuller—
Dooley, now Premier, was the Minister —
“doesn’t seem to have made any provision for
a case in which there is no representative of
the party to which the old member belonged.”
The reference was to the three Independents,
Gardiner, Reid and Loxton. "That is ’all
provided for,” replied the cocksure man from
Lithgow. Pie was express on this point,
as the following colloquy shows *
Fitzpatrick : In the event of there not being
another candidate who stood in the same interest a§
the member whose seat is declared vacant; what pro
vision is made?
Dooley : In every case there is a candidate who
can be called upon to fill a vacancy.
Fitzpatrick : Have you gone through the whole
of the electorates?
Dooley: Yes.
Fuller: The Minister assures us that he lias been
through the whole of the electorates and tihat there
is a second representative of every interest.
Dooley : Where there is not the necessary pro-
vision is made in the bill!
The worthlessness of this confident assurance
was demonstrated when Captain Millard
was gathered to his fathers. The Captain
was one of three Nationalists who stood for
Goulburn at the general election. Though
beaten (the other two got in) he returned to
the House in James’s place when that, gentle-
man was elevated to the Bench—in other
words, he was among the four defeated can-
didates who first experienced the benefits of
Dooley’s botched Act. But now that he is
gone his seat cannot be filled by the same
procedure, flecause there isn’t another rejected
Nationalist. left. Even if there were, the
Act wouldn’t apply, for its eminent authors,
who remembered everything, according to
Dooley, forgot to provide for the case of a
nominee member who should drop out. Truly,
the measure which took seven months to
incubate is a bright example of brainless
legislation, In fact, the whole dismal busi-
ness, from the genesis of proportional voting
to the preposterous impasse at Goulburn, is a
monument to the drivelling folly with which
X. S; Wales is governed. Wliat the bril-
liant Dooley will do about Goulburn is un-
certain at the moment, although there is
some talk of allowing Fuller to award
the vacancy to Holman or some other per-
son wholly unconnected with Goulburn.
What he should do is to drop proportional
representation, burn his precious Casual
Vacancies Act, and go back to the old
system, sanctioned by centuries of democracy,
in which the constituency chooses the re-
presentative, and not some petty party leader
or intriguing caucus clique.
SUPERSTITION AND THE CZAR.
To help pass the evening hours while in
Petrograd, I taught Nikolai and Vassaly,
the two sons of our Petrograd host, some
of our western card-games. At first I tried
them -with bridge, but, failing in this, turned
to poker, with the result that after two
sittings they were adepts in the art of draw-
ing and bluffing. Max and I were the fortunate
possessors of a supply of safety-matches
(we had brought them in with us), and to
put a “kick” into the games we converted
these matches into stakes. This, coupled
with the novelty, so infatuated our Russian
friends that they wanted to play every night
Of course, this did not suit Max and me;
we were in Russia to study conditions and
not to play cards. But there was no damp-
ing the ardor of the Russian boys, so it
often happened that they would conduct us
to a friend’s house or a theatre, and then
return to have a hand with intimates. They
played in the bath-chamber because Max
and I used it as our sleeping apartment, so
it afforded privacy from the parents, who
frowned on gambling.
One evening we went to the cinema, where
the boys, as usual, left us to return to the
game, promising that they would come back
before the show ended. This they failed to
do, so we went home without them. As soon
as we joined mother and father and the two
girls, who were sitting around the samovar,
Marie looked at me and asked: “Where’s
Ivan?” Ivan was her sweetheart, and one
of the poker players, and before accompany-
ing us out to the cinema had promised that
he would come back and say good-night.
Now that Max and I had'returned without
him, she was piqued. Of course, I knew
very well that he was up in the bathroom
playing for matches, but; not wanting to
give tiie boys away I said he was detained.
Marie waited for a quarter of an hour;
then picking up a pack of cards she pro-
ceeded to shuffle them and.lay them out on
the table. This continued for probably five
minutes; then suddenly she came over to
me and said that Ivan was not true to her.
I assured her that this was all nonsense,
but she burst into tears, and was not to be
convinced. She vehemently asserted that
Ivan was at that very moment in the com-
pany of a dark woman.
“But how T do you know?” I asked.
“Because,” she replied, “the cards tell me.”
“But.” I reasoned, “I know where Ivan
is, and 1 know that he is not with a dark
woman or any other woman.”
“Gaspodine,” she answered, “if the cards
sav that lie is with a dark woman, then
he is with a dark woman.”
Against this I was, of course, powerless,
so I sat in silence until opportunity pre-
sented itself, nnd then whispered that Ivan
was in the bathroom. Her face lit up, and
she could .not ascend the stairs quickly
enough. Five, 10. 15 minutes passed, and
still she did not return— lvan nnd the poker
bad enthralled her. Then father said:
"W here’s Marie?” Mother was absent for
the moment, so I revealed. the secret. And
up he went.
Mother demanded an explanation, and on
being told about the poker, held up her hands
and moaned that we were all damned. I
challenged this, whereupon she declared that
I was possessed of the evil one; and as if
to prove it' sue took up the cards, and after
shuffling them tnumpnantly cut the knave
of spaues and the king of hearts. Then she
commenced to pray tor my immortal soul,
for plainly one card represented me' and the
other my associate the Devil. I argued, but
it was no good. The cards had associated
me with the Devil, and 1 was a lost soul.
At many of the railroad stations there are
ikons with candles burning in front of them.
On one occasion when Max wanted to light
a cigarette, he searched in his pockets for
a match, and failing to find one nonchalantly
strolled over to the burning candles' and lit
his cigarette there. The effect was elec-
trical ; it looked for a moment as though
another insurrection had broken out. People
told us, some of them with tears in their
eyes, that now worse misfortunes would
assuredly befall them.
But it was in Moscow we had bur most
remarkable experience of this queer streak
in the Russian character. Owing to a com-
bination of circumstances we were forced
to live' on the Moscow, food ration; and it
was abominable. Day after day we sickened
over black bread and bad fish, and then one
morning, noticing some, pigeons fluttering
outside our window, we inveigled one in,
caught, it, wrung its neck, and triumphantly
took it down stairs, dreaming of pigeon-stew.
The results were unexpected. The two
women in the kitchen looked once at the
dead bird, then with horror on their faces
commenced to move their lips in prayer. Our
friend explained that the pigeons were the
souls of the dead, still fluttering aropm! their
living loved ones.
Later we were told of an incident which
assisted to make the late Czar unpopular.
Following custom, he surrounded his corona-
tion in Moscow with a week of festivities.
On the opening day nearly a million people,
mostly peasants, awaited the ceremonies. A
gate was opened suddenly, and in the
scramble many were trampled underfoot and
killed. The following day there was a
pigeon-shoot; some of the nobles had familiar-
ised themselves with this degrading sport at
Monte Carlo, and, ignoring the 'popular be-
lief about the pigeon, had catalogued a
“shoot” as part of the festivities. The
horrified. spectators rejnembered their dead
friends and said “The pew Czar is a fiend!
Not content with killing our loved ones, he
now permits his court to shoot their souls!”
Such superstition expresses itself in the
every-day life of the peasant and the work-
man, and in many of the practices and be-
liefs even of the intelligentsia. In fact,, the
student from the outside often wonders if it
were not the exploiting of it which was
the secret of the Czaristic dominion for so
long. And following the same line of reason-
ing one may well stop and wonder if super-
stition will not again express itself in the
restoration of a “Little Father”—not another
autocrat or absolutist, but a limited monarch.
It will not come about suddenly, not in this-
decade, perhaps not in the next, but not at
all improbably in the years beyond.
TOM SKEYHILL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
When \V, M. Hughes arrived in Sydney
last Friday the people in charge of the recep-
tion arrangements called by public advertise-
ment on all friends to ‘‘bring plenty of Union
Jacks.” And the man who was to be wel-
comed played up to them with such stuff
as this: —
His opponents were the disloyalists. But they
would he shown at the ballot-box —in letters of fire
at every election- —that their policy of disloyalty was
not the wish of the people, who would not, for
one moment, stand it. (Applause.) Those disloyal-
ists were rotten to the core. He was a man who was
followed with the implacable hatred of a section of
the community, whose schemes he had frustrated,
and whose conspiracies against the Empire he had
brought to naught. '
It is just the sort of fustian, delivered amid
“plenty of Union Jacks,” that was aimed at
Mr. Hughes during the Dreadnought cam-
paign by many of his present supporters and
several of his Ministerial colleagues—notably
Joseph Cook. Amid the applause of the
German community the Union Jack was
dragged into the controversy in 1909 to
defeat the establishment of the Australian
Navy. It is an ominous circumstance that
the old catch-cries are being revived at the
very moment when there is talk of letting
the R.A.N. die. But apart from that
aspect of the business, what sublime
impudence it is for Mr. Hughes to assume
that he and the Union Jack are one and the
same political issue! For the past six years
he has been the Executive, and he has used
the largely-unnecessary war powers which
he clung to so resolutely to do away with
-Constitutional Government and British lib-
erty. The plain truth, known to none better
than himself, is that this political opportu-
nist has much to answer for personally ; and
question-time having arrived, he has decided
to get behind the Imperial emblem and
accuse anyone who assails him of throwing
mud at it. It is an ancient device which
has an exceptional effrontery about it when
resorted to by a politician with his record.
A Congress and an Anti-climax.
The Brisbane Labor Congress, to which
the moderates looked forward with fear and
the extremists with hope, has come and gone
without satisfying either. It started like a
raging tiger and ended like a tame cat. At
the outset it looked as if the Reds were
100 strong to be resisted. The socialisation
of industry, production, distribution and
exchange was adopted as the new Labor
objective by 22 votes to 10. When one of
the minority proposed the retention of the
old objective—“the cultivation of an Aus-
tralian sentiment, based on the maintenance
of racial purity and the development of an
enlightened and self-reliant community”—fie
was rebuked for his adhesion to such worn-
out anti-Marxian and anti-pacifist prin-
ciples. The government of nationalised in-
dustries by boards and the establishment of
a general economic council superior even to
Parliament—Parliament, it was obligingly
mentioned, might still deal with social and
international questions—were also decided
upon. But at this juncture there were mut-
terings of revolt. “You might as well drop
the term ‘Labor’ and call it a Communist
party," said Premier Theodore, of Queens-
land. And he hinted not obscurely that if
the Bolshevisation of the A.L.P. was
achieved at that Congress he would be
the first to secede. Protests, sig-
nificant, if not so plain-spoken, were
made by llannan of Victoria, Cattk of
N. S. \Vales, _ and one or two of the dele-
gates from Westralia. A surprising change
came over the scene. The old White Aus-
tralia objective was fished out of the ash-
barrel and made the first plank of the
fighting platform. It was decided that
"socialisation” should be consummated, not
by direct action or a Red Army, but by
“the constitutional utilisation of industrial
and Parliamentary machinery.” The 0.8. U.
or I.WAV. preamble, with its demented
council of action and its one class-conscious
economic organisation to take and hold the
means of production by revolutionary indus-
trial and political devices, was ruled out of
order. A series of motions in favor of
destroying the national defences and rely-
ing on the possibility that an invading army
might go on strike was defeated or with-
drawn; Towards the end of things con-
gress even resolved that "the party does
not seek to abolish private ownership, even
of any of the instruments of production”
a pony racecourse, for instance—‘‘where
such instrument is utilised by its owner in
a socially useful manner.” How tbis is
going to be reconciled with tne socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution
and exchange lleaven alone knows. It
means, if it means anything, that a lot of
the people who speak for Labor don’t believe
in their own alleged creed.
-%■
The Thread That Holds Australia
Together.
Australia is now in possession of the re-
port of the Commission of experts appointed
by Prune Minister Hughes to postpone the
evil day of decision, and in the desperate
hope that it might unify the railway gauges
by magic and spells and the burning of in-
cense. It says (1) that a uniform gauge is
necessary and it is a foolish thing not to
have had it all along; (2) that it will cost
over 57 millions to repair the crime that
began with N.S.W.’s breakage of the original
uniform-gauge agreement in the forties of
last century; and (3) that none of the hun-
dreds of schemes for compromise or evasion
lias ally hope auout it Of course all that
was known or guessed before. But the
Commission was so much impressed by our
suicidal habits that it went out of its way
to state that tire Binnaway-Werris Creek
(N.S.W.) cross-country line should be fin-
ished immediately. The Australian railway
system is in two great parts and some dis-
connected fragments, as well as in seven
gauges, including a bit 20 inches wide. Some
26,000 miles of public and private railway
were Working on the mainland at recent
advices. About 8800 miles thereof, also
more than three-fourths of the country’s area
and most of tin* coal, are north of the Hawkes-
bury railway bridge. The other 17,000 miles of
rail, all the apparatus of Government save
the scrap at Brisbane, about three-fourths
of the people and the great bulk of the indus-
tries which depend on coal are south of it.
The bridge is the only link. One well-placed
bomb would cut Australia and all its resources
aiid all its defences in two, and they might
remain so for years. At three places in X.
S. Wales new, short, cheap cross-country
lines, which would enable all the south of
X.S.W. and also Victoria, S. Aus. and West-
nil ia to communicate with the Newcastle
coal deposits, the north of N. S. Wales and
Queensland independently of the frail and
horribly exposed Hawkesbury Bridge, have
been projected. They might be crooked con-
nections, yet they w T ould make an end of the
appalling risk that foreign enemies or local
anarchists may cut Australia in halves by
half-an-hour’s brisk midnight enterprise.
But they would also .make it possible for
much trade to move north and south with-
out coming through Sydney. And N.S.W.
Governments, especially those which whoop
loudest about “decentralisation,” take * no
risks of letting any place save congested
Sydney have a show for trade, industry and
population, so the connections are not made.
Even when it is a question between the
safety of Australia and the bloating of
Sydney, the bloating of Sydney wins. And in
this strangely constituted Land of Topside
Down the National Government, which is re-
sponsible for defence, can do nothing without
the overgrown State’s permission. It can’t
even gets its Canberra capital, an island sur-
rounded by State territory, connected with
the main railway because the overgrown
State refuses its lordly consent. The need
for a real Federal Government instead of
a Federal Log is one of the biggest things
south of the line.
A Senator in Deep Waters.
Seldom has a patron put a loyal supporter
in a falser position than W, M. Hughes has
his devoted Senator Pearce in connection
with the Washington Conference. What the
Yankees understand clearly, and what many
Australians don’t, is that in the coming con-
versations their representatives will be con-
tinually up against those of Britain. Bri-
tain and Japan, U.S.A. and China —those
are the combinations that rpay be expected
to take the field again and again. Ever
since 1914 the U.S.A. has played the part of
China’s benevolent uncle, always with an eye
to the main chance, of course, hut always on
lines that have won the confidence of the
Chinese relatively to other foreigners. It was
at President Wilson’s suggestion that China
declared war against the Central Powers;
and the U.S.A. backed up the Chinese claim
to be allowed to drive the Germans out of
Shantung. But the U.S.A. lacked prestige
at the time, and the Japanese were able to
assert wliat they said were their rights in
the matter, with results which the world
knows. The U.S.A. was the first to protest
against Japan’s Twenty-one Demands; it is
the chief motive-force behind Japan’s recent
decision to get out of Shantung on terms;
and at the coming Conference it will be the
most vehement —in fact the only real —onpo-
nent of Japan’s Chinese policies. It is a
hard thing for a British Dominion to have
to admit, but on this issue the interests of
the U.S.A. are those of Australia. The dele-
gates from the U.K. regard a White Aus-
tralia as an abstraction, to be referred to
civilly, but not to be taken seriously by seri-
ous men. The precise note was sounded here
by Lord North cliffe. If Japan is allowed
to dominate China by means of railway,
mining and other concessions, it will pre-
sently dominate the Pacific. That is a very
real menace to the Americans, and they pro-
pose, if distracted China must be dominated
by somebody, to do the job themselves. Put
the British are not anxious to compete wtrb
manufactured goods in huge quantities
turned out by Chinese labor under the direc-
tion of Yankee brains. Into the vast welter
represented by these interests and their count-
less offshoots, Pearce, misdirected so far as he
is directed at all, is hastening at the present
moment. That Hughes should have sent
him on an excursion which must mean abuse
whichever protagonist he sides with, and
humiliation if he is prevented from support-
ing either, seems the work rather of an
enemy than of a friend.
The Lucky Thirteen
To mark his elevation to the Premiership the
beaming Dooley, an enthusiast in his
rhetorical moments for “economy in admin-
istration," has presented N. S. \\ ales with
another costly department. It is the sort
of gift or swindle that is always to be looked
for nowadays on these occasions. Y. S.
Wales used to manage tolerably well with
eight salaried Ministers, as Victoria has
done for 15 years or thereabouts. Even the
extravagant Holman thought eight a suffi-
cient number in 1914. But when the fusion
arrived two years later there was a black-
guard rush for office, three parties having
to be provided for, and out of it came a
Cabinet of 11. A still more desperate
scramble occurred when accident and Danny
Levy gave the Labor party a precarious
lease of the Treasury benches, and 19 push-
ful persons emerged with portfolios, the
value of which they hastily enhanced by
awarding themselves a princely rise. As a
sort of apology for the two new appointments
it was explained that Premier Storey was
too ill to do any administering. That being
admitted, the new Government should be
able to rub along with at most 12 Ministers,
since Storey’s successor has admitted him-
self equal to taking on the Chief Secretary-
ship as well; but actually there are to be
the same old 13 paid offices and a new De-
partment of State Industries, which offers
numerous opportunities for accumulating a
huge staff. It is a brazen political fraud
on a suffering people. The legal portfolio
has been split into three to make unneces-
sary jobs for fresh young Labor lawyers.
In Westralia more than one Cabinet, Mit-
chell’s included, has done without an
Attorney-General, the duties being discharged
by the permanent officers of the Crown. In
Victoria one man— Robinson —is Attorney-
General, Solicitor-General and leader of the
Leg, Council. His predecessor, Donald
MacKinnon, was Attorney-General, Solici-
tor-General,- Minister of Railways and Vice-
President of the Board of Land and Works.
But X. S. Wales has an Attorney-General
(McTIERNAN ), a Solicitor-General ( Sproule )
and a Minister of Justice (McKell). Each
is provided with a secretary, a staff, a motor-
car and a gold pass, and McTiernan draws
£2095 a year; the others £1945 apiece. The
thing is not only an outrage on the taxpayers
but a cause of meddlesome and mischievous
legislation. No doubt the efforts of the three
legal members of the Ministry to avoid
dying of ennui were responsible for a lot
of the rubbishy bills passed last session.
Incidentally, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, which is certainly no miracle of
economy, struggles on with’lo salaried Min-
isters, Ten are also reckoned enough by
Uncle Sam, who pays them 12,000 dollars
a year for looking after the affairs of
106,000,000 people. Yet N. S. Wales (popu-
lation 2,100,000) is burdened with the sup-
port of a Premier at £2445 per annum, an
Attorney-General at £2095; 10 Ministers at
£1945, and a Vice-President of the Executive
Council at £1375. No cheekier political ramp
was ever consummated.
The Missing Guarantee.
Dear Bulletin,- —The British Navy is cer-
tainly under a moral obligation to come to
our help if we are attacked. But all aggres-
sion does not come in the form of battle-
ships. What if, in some crisis or other,
've were politely told that' we ought
to abandon the White Australia policy
rather than risk a struggle V What
if diplomatic pressure was brought to
bear upon us at crucial points? It, is not an
impossible situation. Not one Englishman
in a hundred looks unon the White Australia
policy as anything more than a temporary
fad, and the British Government has shown
no disposition to recognise it as a permanent
doctrine. In 1915, when Japan was being
urged to take a more active part in the war,
Sir. Lewis Harcourt (then Under-Secretary
of the Colonies) gently told us that a relax-
ing of our immigration laws would be wel-
comed, and four years later Hughes found
Lloyd George quite cold on the subject in
Paris. It is hardly to be expected that Eng-
lishmen should see the matter from our point
of view, .yet until they do how can there be
any agreement about defence? The defence
of Australia is the defence of the White Aus-
tralia policy. That is the crux of the whole
matter. To most people a poly plot. Australia
would seem hardly worth defending, for not
even the most fervid patriot would assert
that the soil of Australia has anv divine
quality, apart from the kind of life that is
familiar to ns and the national character we
regard as our own. Unless we can come to
some agreement with Britain to recognise
the White Australia policy, for a term of
Years, there is no common basis for making
joint naval arrangements. It is like trying
to- build in mid-air. All the goodwill in the
world will not prevent us from getting into
cross-purposes about defence unless there is
a fixed arrangement as to what is to be
defended. Commonsense demands, then, that,
before making any naval plans, we should ask
Britain for some such arrangement, offering
any concessions that might he considered
adequate. It would have to he in the form of
a treaty, so that it would be independent of
party changes. Cabinets pass in Britain,
but foreign policy remains continuous. Such
a proposal would offend the sentimentalists,
perhaps, but it is time they were made to


T h .s Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us JsJi a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
face realities. And it would be less injuri-
ous to our dignity than the continual harning
on our sure shield and buckler. Twenty
years of security would give us a chance to
decentralise, to put our finances in order, to
double our population. If we could not
make ourselves fairly safe and self-contained
in the time, we would deserve disaster. It
would be hard for Britain, of course, as the
centre of a colored Empire, to give definite
recognition to the White Australia policy,
but still it would clear the international air,
and do away with quite a lot of intrigue.
Japan would know where it stood: so would
we. Hitherto in our fight for the White
Australia policy we have not had the whole-
hearted collaboration of Britain in the diplo-
matic field, and that may be the field on
which international struggles are won in the
future. —Yours, etc., Vance Palmer.
The Trouble with the A.W.U.
On a great union which has taken the wrong
track:—
“Leaders lacking- in vision and outlook” were
recently blamed by Herbert Smith, acting president
of the British Miners’ Federation, for the failure of
the great coal strike —a strike which “brought
poverty and starvation to our members and misery
to millions of our fellow-countrymen.” The phrase
is worthy of attention, for precisely the same sort
of leadership—short-sighted and infatuated —is con-
spicuous in the Australian Workers’ Union. The
A.W.U., once so wisely directed, has passed under
the control of a set of ambitious Johnny-come-
latelys, at once arrogant and inept. Dazzled by
dreams of the 0.8. U. and of the permanent Tarn-
manyisation of Sydney, they have involved their
union in unnecessary suffei-ing and humiliation and
Australia in serious trouble. Mount Morgan is a
melancholy witness to their amazing folly. They
did what they could to reduce Wallaroo to the same
condition of wretchedness, and if anyone ii still
working at Mt. Lyell it is no credit to them. In N.
S. Wales last year they tried to hold up the wheat
harvest by making impossible demands upon the
largely-insolvent cocky. About the same time they
brought about a strike of shearers by refusing to let
them work the statutory 48-hour week, and a year
later they coolly asked the Arbitration Court to ratify
the brazen business. In the result they had to with-
draw the illegal ukase and pay costs.
Another of their silly blunders has been com-
mitted in Westralia. Before the shearing started
they demanded a heavy increase on 1920 rates. It
was the worst time imaginable for presenting such
an ultimatum, for not only had the bottom fallen
out of the wool and stock markets, but many of
the Westralian pastoralists had been hard hit by
a long drought. Realising this, a majority of the
shearers would have been satisfied to work on last
year’s scale —it meant anything from £7 to £l2
a week —but, as the custom is, they “left it to the
executive,” and the executive blundered. It rushed
into a stupid and unpopular strike. Tired of
being humbugged by leaders who didn’t know when
to come in out of the wet, members of the union
began to make contracts to shear for 1920 rates,
Peacemakers brought the parties together, and the
squatters offered to abide by the pending award of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, although West-
ralia was not a party to the case. This proposal
was hastily rejected by the union heads. When
the branches heard of it they wanted to settle. By
this time, however, the offer had been withdrawn.
The position now is that many pastoralists have had
their sheep shorn on the rejected terms, and by
union shearers at that; that the A.W.U. has .had to
pay large sums of money to maintain dissatisfied
men in idleness; that it stands self-convicted of gross
blundering, having foolishly rejected terms accept-
able to the rank and file, and changed its mind when
too late ; and that it has suffered heavily in prestige
as w-ell as pocket. The result may be that the dis-
satisfied shearers will secede from the A.W.U. and
form a union of their own, just as the dissatisfied
miners did on the Golden Mile. And the A.W.U.
oligarchy has selected this as a favorable time to
strike a levy of 10s. a head for the still unborn
Sydney daily to which the Westralian shearers con-
tributed a pound apiece 10 years ago. Apart from
those on strike, thousands of the men levied on are
out of work.
Politically- the influence of the A.W.U. (new
style) has been even more disastrous than its indus-
trial leadership. The old A.W.U. held steadfastly
to constitutional courses, and gained much of its
power thereby. But, lured on by the 0.8. U. will-
o'-the-wisp, and fearful of imported extremists like
Willis, Walsii and Garden, whose political impo-
tence has been demonstrated at election after elec-
tion, the present-day rulers of Macdonell House have
gone right over to the revolutionary gang—have
accepted council of action, socialisation, the “take-
and-hold” doctrine and all the rest of the poisonous
rubbish. It is the very delirium of folly-. If the
Labor craft goes to pieces—and the proceedings at
Brisbane certainly threaten it—-the A.W.U. will be
principally to blame.
The Baby’s Benefactors.
The Senate became agitated recently about
that fo bonus with which dad drinks the
baby’s health and thereby loses a day’s work,
or backs a loser, adding £o of his own to
make round figures. It will' absorb over
£700.000 this year, and there is no end to
its expansion, while the decline of revenue
is serious and the deficit is awful. Senator
Earle is among those who have an idea on
the subject:—
The amount, which is travelling- up to a million
a year, ought to be distributed to children’s welfare
agencies or other agencies, and supplemented by the
State authorities, so that it may be expended where
it is wanted and not where it is" not.
Presumably Earle meant a £ for £ subsidy,
so that the grievously-embarrassed Common-
wealth, and the impoverished States which
live on borrowed money and leave the infant
to pay, may disburse two millions because
they can’t afford one. Considering how
philanthropists seek the bubble notoriety by
rushing to his rescue with doles of other
people’s money, one might think that the
Australian infant was born lame, weak-
minded and with 10 incurable diseases, in-
cluding senile decay. He isn’t. His worst
trouble is that, quite apart from war debt,
which was in part unavoidable, he is born
in Queensland owing £lO6 and in Westralia
owing £l2O, and with assets which, judged
by the return' they yield, are worth from
Od. to 7s. 6d. in the £ of these liabilities.
And every infant receives from his selfish,
lazy ancestry a bigger burden than the one
before. A five-pound bonus, even if his father
didn’t spend it before the owner is a week
old. and even if it didn’t come out of the
deficit—which is more ultimate debt for him
to pay—is a cruel insult to an infant like
Flags as Smoke-screes
“And we realise that only by international organisation on revolutionary class lines, can the workers
successfully oppose and overthrow international capitalism."—Decision of the Organised Workers’ Group.
RED LABOR: -“l'm full of supporting you. Em going to cut the rope.”
that. If the amount was accumulated at
compound interest in reduction of debt, then
the child would get it for certain in the
shape of decreased liability, and so would all
succeeding children. If it went to build the
transcontinental railway and to clear the
place of its various burdens, he would get it
in the shape of a great and developed estate.
The other things which the baby’s sham
benefactors propose merely show them to be.
for the most part, either heartless vote-hunt-
ing frauds or thoughtless, careless drifters.
The Gramophone.
Ik a Melbourne park the usual soap-box
orator dilated on the “historical mission of
the working-class,” and proclaimed the neces-
sity for the “proletariat” to take command
of this backward country. In every city in
the world the same type of orator says' the
same thing in every language. The actual
conditions of a country make no difference
to him ; he has no interest in the customs,
industries,, culture and general character of
life that give any country its national being,
its soul. He has only one doctrine, that
there is going to be a revolution whether
anybody wants it or not; so his own fluent
platitudes have only an ornamental value,
for not even he. a coming leader, can either
make or stop the revolution. In the Labor-
movement to-day there are a number of
young men who have adopted this system of
economic determinism and old-fashioned
rationalism instead of thinking out any real
problem for themselves. They quote M \rx
refer to historical movements of which thev
know nothing, babble about the "dictator-
ship of the proletariat,” and haven’t one idea
in their heads. They say the same thing all
over the world. In New York, Glasgow,
1 ons, Vienna, Moscow, Melbourne or Perth
the orator makes exactly the same speech ;
it would be easier and cheaper to have a
gramophone. This doctrine is a product of
a bloated urban civilisation where Labor
is struggling for some elemental rights. But
m a country like Australia, with its vast
territory and scanty population, the "prole-
tariat ’ means only a few people in two or
three cities doing often unnecessary work
like watching the ponies. They have little
connection with the real life of the eountrv.
which would still go on without them. But
we have got into the habit of taking every-
thing at second-hand, even our national
policy and economics. AVe are not think-
ing hard enough how to build up a
new, free and great civilisation. We think
only of the City, never of the Country. The
City is always boss. Everything has to come
from the City, even a revolution. The old
cocky and shearer and timber-getter are
never to have a say. For when the "prole-
tariat” takes on the “dictatorship,” their in-
terests v'On’t be consulted ; and if a lawyer
or agent is no longer at the head of affairs
there will be a Two-up King or a Bottle-o!
. _ —> .
C. J. Dennis doesn’t turn the other cheek :
Not long ago we were told that the U.S.A. re-
fused to enter the. League of Nations because
(among other reasons) the British Dominions had
separate representation on the League’s Council.
Later it became known that the Latin-Americans
on that Council were raising objections to this
separate representation. In the cables the other
day we read that the United States and the Latin-
American republics had conjointly attempted to oust
us from the International Postal Congress. Twenty-
two votes were cast for the exclusion of Australia
and the other British Dominions, but so far I have
not heard that any member of our House of Reps, has
considered it worth while to ask the P.M.G. for a list
of the States that voted. Among them, no doubt,
will be found Panama (400,000), Costa Rica
(466,727), Honduras (650,000), St. Domingo
(700,000) and nine or 10 other Latin-American
hangers-on of the U.S.A., numbering from 800,000
to 3,000,000 inhabitants each.
But, after all, why shouldn’t the United States
flout Australia ? They know we’ll take it lying
down. The U.S. author obtains copyright for his
book in Australia by merely offering a copy of it
for sale in London : but the Australian author cannot
obtain copyright in the United States without com-
plying with a ‘'manufacturing” clause which requires
him to print and bind a separate edition of bis
book in the United States within six weeks of pub-
lication here. A short reciprocal Act of Parliament
giving the United States copyright here on the same
terms and conditions would not only bring about an
equitable settlement in six months, but might also
call the attention of the U.S. Congress to the fact
that British Dominions have a status in the world
which it is worth the while even of a big American
republic to recognise.
A note from Peter Airey :
Apropos of a recent contribution of mine on the
falling-off in the Scottish birth-rate and the causes
of this phenomenon, a recent article in the Times
is very interesting. The new census figures for Scot-
land have just been published, and they give the total
population of the country as 4,882,157, compared
with 4,760,904 in 1911, an increase of 121,253, or
21 per cent. “This is the smallest total increase
and the smallest percentage since 1851. The increase
in males is 39,457, in females 81,796. The greatest
losers are the prepondoratinglv-agricultural counties
and the remoter districts. Amnog' the burghs, Glas-
gow remains predominant, and has increased from
1,008,487 in 1911 to 1,034,069 in 1921. The city
of Dunfermline has increased by over 10,000, a per-
centage of 36.5, the largest among the burghs, a
prosperity to be attributed to the mining industry.
Dundee, Aberdeen and Edinburgh all show notable
decreases, for which the loyal citizens of these im-
portant towns will doubtless find sufficient reason.
The salient fact is that the population of Scotland
as a whole is still increasing.” Thus the Times.
None the less, there is little room for gratulaticm
over the fact that Caledonia has swelled her numbers
only 21 per cent, in 10 years. And the figures for
her principal cities with one notable exception lend
color to Dr. SalEkbv's contentions, to which I re-
ferred. Here are the comparative figures for 1911
and 1921:
1911. 1921.
Edinburgh . . 424,046 420,267
Glasgow . . . . 1,008,487 1,034,069
Dundee . . . . 178,351 168,217
Aberdeen .. .. 163,891 158,969
Perth . . . . 35,954 33,208
Incidentally, Saleh by contrasts the fearful death-rate
among children in leading Scottish and English
manufacturing towns with the very healthy state of
things in Connaught, where infant mortality
is phenomenally low and large families the rule.
Sal he by attributes this to the fact that in the Bri-
tish centres the mother goes to work in factories
and leaves her infants to the care of others, whereas
the Irish mother suckles and raises her brood un-
assisted.
• ♦
“Rio”: In view of the persistent cutting
down of the Defence estimates it is strange
that the Government should hang on with
such persistence to its Duntroon lads. One
was actually court-martialled recently for re-
trenching himself into a civilian job! The
opposite policy might usefully be followed.
The R.M.C. product does a lot of advanced
mathematics, besides field engineering, sur-
veying, physics and other subjects that form
part of an engineering course. In these cir-
cumstances couldn’t matters be arranged so
that the Duntroon course should count as
two years at a University? Then when De-
fence had too many graduates on hand the
surplus could be sent to a university to
finish the engineering course. Australia, as
it develops, must need many engineers of
various kinds, and this scheme, besides help-
ing to_ provide them, would create a reserve
of trained staff-officers for use in war. In
fact, if at any time at either Jervis Bay or
Duntroon a cadet is found to have special
gifts in some branch of knowledge (as has
happened in the case of several) he should
he allowed—-in fact, helped—to follow his
bent at a university or elsewhere. We don’t
want to spoil an Edison or Marconi by
making a subaltern of him.
The Federal Treasurer told Parliament the
other day that a storm is coming up. Aus-
tralia, in fact, can’t go on buying unpre-
cedented quantities of foreign goods, borrow-
ing to pay for them, discharging its own
workmen, and borrowing again so that these
discharged men may be employed making
railways that have to be supported directly
or indirectly by borrowed money when fin-
ished. It can’t go on like this even thougli
it makes a lot of paper revenue not worth
Id. a ton outside the country by charging
itself duty on its purchases. After spend-
ing its fortune and wrecking its constitu-
tion with drink, it may think it is saving
itself by fining itself a million for being
drunk; but salvation doesn’t come that way.
Treasurer Cook saw a fall in revenue com-
ing, but said languidly that he wasn’t mak-
ing provision to meet it. Dr. Earle Page.
leader of the Country Party, shattered much
precedent by moving that it was a first
duty to make the accounts balance; if the
income won’t come up, the expenditure must
go down. This doctrine is common enough
in many lands, and in all honest households:
but on present appearances the Common-
wealth Parliament would sooner go into debt
and leave the payment to posterity. And
the people who are most ready to do this are
the very ones w 7 ho profess to be so con-
cerned about the children that they want to
endow T what they call motherhood.


British General Electric Co. Ltd., Murray St., Perth,
HAVE FOR SALE
Large stocks of '
Tangryo Centrifugal Pumps
made by the well-known firm, Messrs. Tangyes, Birmingham, England, namely :■ —
TYPE “A.”—Suitable for 35 feet Head, 4in. to Sin. inclusive,
£lO/2/6 to £2O/15/- each.
TYPE “B.”—Suitable for 75 feet Head, 3in. to Bin. From
£l4/17/6 to £24/15/- each.
TYPE “C.”—Suitable for 120 feet Head, 2in. to sin. From
£l9/10/- to £2l each.
STANDARD “D.”—Suitable for 50 feet Head, 3in. to Sin. From
£9/12/6 to £l2/5/- each.
PRICES F.O.R. PERTH.
g
PRICE REDUCTION
PUTS ALL OTHER
VALUES in the SHADE.
The Standardised Overland Model Four
MODEL. OLD PRICE. NEW PRICE. REDUCTION.
Touring Impt. Body £525 £475 £5O
The Standardised Overland Model Four is a good investment, and justly called
THE ECONOMY CAR
Because of its moderate first cost and its unexcelled records for low cost of
operation.
■ 2o to 35 miles per gallon of petrol;
8000 to 10,000 miles to a set of tyres.
is the rule rather than the exception in owners’ experience throughout the
country under all sorts of road conditions.
GARRATTS LTD.,
' - ■ ■ *
173-5 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
ALICK McNETL. General Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The Red Raggers who dominated the
Labor Conference at Brisbane—early in
the proceedings, anyhow—were very solid
on tbe proposition that each industry
should be controlled by the workers in it.
But a few things were always lacking. No-
body proposed that the monopolists or con-
trollers should be compelled to do enough
work to supply the market. Nobody sug-
gested that they should be compelled to
admit and teach lots of new workers. Yet
if the trades adhered to the old policy of
restricting apprenticeship a time would
almost* certainly come when half the popula-
tion would be short of everything because
the monopolists were too few and were so
entrenched that they didn’t care a darn,
dnd nobody explained who was to make the
monopolists found new industries. “Capi-
talists” wouldn't build factories merely to
hand them over to other people; besides,
there would be no ca pitalists left. And all
the Australian union bosses put together
don’t found in 20 years even a new Work-
shop for making the holes to put doors in.
Judge Beeby, of the N.S.W. Arbitration
Court, was asked recently to reduce the
working week of N. S. Wales railway em-
ployees to 44 hours. As the railways are
losing about a million a year, in spite of
repeatedly increased fares and freights,
Beeby wouldn’t agree to give the drivers,
guards, conductors, etc., the reduced hours,
because the effect would show up immediately
in the accounts. But he allowed the reduc-
tion so far as the men on construction jobs
are concerned. The effect of that won’t
show up immediately in the accounts; it will
only show up in the future. The cost of
every line will be greater, and for all time
fares and freights will have to be slightly
more to pay interest on the extra capital.
But the future doesn’t matter: it is only
the present that has to be considered. This
sort of thing is expected from time-serving
politicians. That we should get it now
also from so-called courts is deplorable.
From a man who wasn’t far away :
The outstanding feature of the Brisbane Labor
Conference was the personal triumph achieved by
Theodore. Beaten two to one on the first day, he
never despaired for a moment, and snatched victory
from the cocksure Reds when the cause of moder-
atism seemed hopeless. The longer the proceedings
lasted the more the delegates bent to his will. It is
many a day since the extremists were so roughly
handled at an A.L.P. conference and on Thursday
they were bitterly resentful, but on Saturday they
all came to heel and tamely supported a vote of
confidence in Theodore’s financial policy. Unfortu-
nately that policy is precisely one of the man’s weak
points. If he would only drop the borrowing mad-
ness and the equally-demented system of “national-
ising” things utterly unsuited to Government owner-
ship, he might yet realise Donald Maclcinnon’s high
opinion of him. Mackinnon, it will be remembered,
said that he had met oaily two contemporary Aus-
tralians of statesmanlike stature, Theodore and
Lawsbn. And Holman’s estimate of him was just as
high.
The fact that the late N. S. Wales Pre-
mier was the son of a shipbuilder at Jervis
Bay is a condensed essay on retrogression
and lost opportunity. Fifty or 60 years
ago the 700 miles of the Ma State’s coast
promised to show a line of active little towns
with industries, prospects, civic pride and
souls of their own, just as the coasts of
Britain and France do. Ships were built
then at ports which are dead now because
railways were constructed, not to them, but
past them, for the express purpose of drag-
ging their life away. How marvellously
the town-killing policy succeeded may be
gauged by the fact that Brisbane dates from
1824, Eden (Twofold Bay) from 1834, and
Melbourne from 1835. Twofold Bay is the
best natural harbor of the three, and if it
had become the port of a new State, and
had got away from the soul-destroying in-
fluence of the old capital, it would, like Bris-
bane and Melbourne, be a place of conse-
quence. As things are, it has 600 people
and catches ap occasional whale. Portland
(Western Vic.), born the same year as Eden,
and so a year older than Melbourne, also
provided with a better harbor l than the
Yana, should be a place of consequence, too,
only Melbourne played the same game as
Sydney.
It was hard work to find plausible port-
folios in the readjusted N.S.W. Labor Cab-
inet for 13 hungry job-hunters. Standing
room in the Law was made for no less than
three—-McKell (Justice). Sproule (Solicitor-
General) and McTiernan (Attorne.v-Gen-
ei'al). The small State Industrial Enter-
prises, such as .the trawlers, the one-win-
dowed meat-shop, and the road-metal quarry,
are taken away from the rest of the Public
Works and made a department for ex-tailor
Lazzarini. Poor Kavanagh remains vice-
president of the Executive Council and no-
thing else. Should the A.L.P. carry its point
and get four more paid Ministers appointed
the crowding will be terrible, and a port-
folio of Sin and Misery may be created.
Premier Theodore arrived at the Brisbane
Labor Conference a worried man. A day
or two previously the Primary Producers’
Union, to which Vowles and his Country
party owe allegiance, had authorised them to
jhin with the Nationalists for the express pur-
pose of settling Theodore’s hash. An arrange-
ment of this sort, advantageous to both
groups, has existed in Westralia for nearly
five years. But hitherto the Queensland
Cocky has stood coldly aloof from his
Nationalist relative, a fact which has en-
abled the Government to prolong its melan-
choly existence. Now the parties in oppo-
sition are solidifying and the party in office
has commenced to crumble. Another seces-
sion like Peterson’s will be the Government's
finish.
S. Aus. Parliament has followed the Eng-
lish example and passed a Sex Disqualifica-
tion Removal Act. South Aus.. while par-
ticularly early in giving women a chance,
has done the job piecemeal. lii 1911, for
instance, it enacted that women could prac-
tise as lawyers, but when Mary Kitson took
advantage of this she found herself unable
to be enrolled as a notary, this detail not
having been expressly provided for. Now
the barriers have been taken down, and the
Supreme Court has made the notarial
appointment. Miss Kitson is the only S.A.
woman lawyer so far, but there are half-a-
dozen more at the Uni. following in her
steps.
The professional praisers who follow in
the track of the dead, like the obituary poet
with cards , for sale, eulogised late Premier
Storey because, when he lost his seat in
1904 and was out for two years, he went
back to his trade instead of hunting .for a
Government sinecure. But Government sine-
cures weren’t so easily got then, and pro-
bably the idea of looking for one never
crossed Storey’s mind. Carruthers was Pre-
mier, and with all his defects he ran the
State and made a surplus out of 11J) millions
of revenue and 14 million of loans —not 34
WHAT DO YOU ENOW?
“The Queensland Government has floated a loan
in U.S.A. Other Australian States are awaiting
particulars.”
SoBEr BUT THIRSTY STATESMAN : “ Speak,
brother! Where did you yet it? And
HOW?”
millions of revenue and 15 millions of loans,
like the recent Government made a deficit
out of. Nothing could better illustrate the
deterioration of political life than the sug-
gestion that a man who has been in Parlia-
ment for a term does something remarkable
if he goes back to his old job.
A heap of trouble can be started by a
crank with a vote. The proportional voting
scheme in N.S.W. Assembly lias led to some
electorates being disfranchised for months
and others “represented” by men whom they
turned down cold; also to there being 89
nominated members in Parliament and only
83 elected members, plus a seat which, under
the existing law, can’t be filled. And Oakes,
deputy-leader of the Nationalists, ruefully
admits that the thing was carried in his
party’s caucus by a majority of one.
‘ United States capitalists of the “Wall-
street” brand (and “Wall-street” is a name
of loathing in advanced Labor circles), hav-
ing lent Queensland’s Labor Government
about 2J millions, have broken the ice. The
N. S. Wales Treasurer now admits coyly
that Wall-street has been
pressing him to accept
large sums. Seeing that
the Ministry has almost
given up pretending that
Storey was assured of
191 millions, or even of
Is. 91(1. in London at
f>! per cent, it will pro-
bably consent in time.
Presumably it was the
vision of. money from the
same quarter which made
Sydney’s Lord Mayor
Lambert declare the
other day that he had
only to stretch out his
hand for three millions
and get it. Wall-street
has approached Jo’burg
fS’Africa) Town Coun-
cil, and the Egyptian
Government has also
been spoken to. Cer-
tainly if J. Bull is to be
wiped off the financial
earth it is necessary for
the new man to jump his
old job as the money-
lender of the nations and
universal mortgagee. But
the new man may be a
shade too rapacious to
he a success. Unless
Queensland can save
something by-and-bye on
exchange, the new loan will cost in the neigh-
borhood of per cent.
Possibly Tasmania’s National Ministry
has been so long iu office that it doesn’t
care whether it gets its job back at next
elections or not. Premier Lee’s health is
not robust, Treasurer Lewis grows weary,
Minister for- Works Hayes’s straightforward
speech and modest mien are giving place to
peevishness. In fact, the unwonted mild-
ness of Hean is the only Ministerial indica-
tion that a general election is only a few
months away. Premier Lee and Works
Hayes have both told recent deputations
that the only remedy for unemployment is
reduction of wage-rates, and this and other
.things constitute the greatest show of pre-
election indifference to working-class votes
ever staged in the Speck. If the Lee Ministers’
attitude is not a clear intimation that they
are weary of office and are beastly careless
as to the outcome of the elections, then it
amounts to an enthusiastic vote of confidence
in the disintegration of the Labor Opposi-
tion.
The Massey Government (M.L.) survived
two censure motions last week. Opposition-
lender' Wilford’s amendment was defeated by
38-20 on division; and Labor-leader Hol-
land’s attempt to overthrow Farmer Bill
found only five in favor of it.
Graziers in Queensland who employ abos.
are interested to learn that £160,318 is being
held in trust for Binghi. Some are asking
what becomes and is to become of this
money. Whoever dishes it out is very care-
ful with it. One grazier has had a black
boy in his employ for 12 years on good
wages; he neither smokes nor drinks, and
must have a credit balance of £3OO. Re-
cently Jacky applied to the trustee for a
tenner to buy a second-hand sulky (he owns
two neddies), but was turned down. Ap-
parently the money is being kept to buy him
a golden chariot. ' Meantime, no doubt, the
beautiful Government finds excellent use for
poor Jacky’s money.
With the Zeehan silver-field practically
deserted, the north-eastern tin sections
ditto, and nearly every sawmill closed, the
Speck’s chief trouble at present is unemploy-
ment. For the first time since 1898 Hobart
has this month staged an unemployed
demonstration. A deputation to the Mayor
of the city stated that upwards of a thou-
sand men were out of a job, and some of
them had been so long out that their sav-
ings had vanished and their families were
faced with hunger. The deputation asked
that certain projected municipal work
should be pushed ahead forthwith. But the
difficulty is in finding the money, except
at a ruinous rate of interest. The notion
of raising the necessary coin by honest
taxation is, of course, the. very last thing
that would strike Hobart aldermen, for the
four-vote franchise governs all Council
elections.
“Bananalander”; In Queensland the
Labor Government wiped out the excellent
old C.D. Act which, under Foxton, Airey,
Denham, Barnes and Grant, did yeoman ser-
vice and gained Brisbane the reputation of
being, according to sea-captains, the “clean-
est "port in Australasia,” and substituted
therefor a new Health Act which made all
venereal troubles notifiable, and directed
doctors and chemists to do theii* share of
the notifying. That was the paper side of
things. But not a single Labor Minister has
ever dared enforce the Act. Not one case
of prosecution has ever occurred since it
became law, and the Act is practically
JUST A CASUAL INQUIRY.
“Gooday, Bill!”
"G'day.”
“ Strikin' anywhere note?”
a dead-letter. But disease isn’t dead, by
any means, but rampant, in spite of the
excellent free clinic run by the Queensland
Health Department. The old C.D. Act was
at least administered, but the present law is
a snare and a delusion. “Administer the
blanky Act!” said a Labor M.L.A. recently.
“Why, look at the crowd we’d offend!”
At last the .Jap Government is breaking
the news that its little Emperor is not very
well, has no memory left and cannot stand
without being propped up by a couple of
minions. Those who know the Orient guessed
something of the sort would happen soon
after the. Mikado’s recent unprecedented con-
cessions to modern democracy. Apparently
the reactionaries are now going to have their
say, and we shall hear soon that the innova-
tor is either gathered to his ancestors or
so feeble that Prince Hirohito has had to
take on the regency.
The meatworks at Darwin, which cost
about a million and once gave support to
2000 persons, have hitherto been haunted in
their desolation by a few officials in case
of a re-opening, but these have now been
withdrawn. The great industry was still
young when the A.W.U. sent its agent there
in haste to stop it. Though the use of the
works could have been got for next to no-
thing, if the union or any other class-con-
scibtis body had wanted to run them on co-
operative principles and eliminate wage-
slavery, there were no offers any more than
at Mount Morgan or Broken Hill. It is a
purely destructive and uprooting body like
the wild elephant, which is great at hauling
down trees but plants none.
The Westralian Taxation Commissioner
has been writing bitter things about the un-
skilled laborer on Government loan works.
Although Groperland has borrowed harder
than any other State except Queensland to
provide this person with a more or less
useless job, he makes a practice of beating
it for income-tax. In politics he barracks
for “the extension of the economic function
of the State.” but in everyday life he doesn’t
scruple to rook the State shamelessly. ‘On
one Government construction job,” says the
Commissioner, “over 250 wage-earners wen'
found to be defaulters for income-tax to a
total amount of over £lOO, but only a few
pounds was collected, as all had left the work
and could not be located.” Of course this cold-
blooded bilking could be stopped in one act
by compelling the nomad to attach an income-
tax stamp to his wage docket, but votes
would be affected by such a; proceeding. And
to the present-day politician nothing else
matters.
HIS BIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gome rally, Dig., to the Union Jack
And give it a cheer with me,
And prove thereby that you do not lack
That spirit which all agree
Alone averted our Empire’s doom
When war was filling the world with gloom.”
“Now, who are you to suggest to me
That 1 need to prove myself ?
I left an arm at Hill Sixty-three,
And to-day I’m on the shelf
Because I fought for the flag out there.
Did you do as much, and if so, where?”
“I’ve half a mind not to make reply.
I fancy, I grieve to say,
1 trace Disloyalty in your eye.
However, I’ll now allay
Such doubts unjust as you might have had—
[ married a Digger’s widow, lad.”
x.s.w.
H. SINGEMOINE.


GEORGE— OFF TO— WASHINGTON.
GENERAL BRASSHAT: “Stick to us, George —you have been a good friend to us in the past.”


V /
5 =«
W
•jSn
P
IfUi'
i
S 5
V IF NOT THIS THEN THIS f
When you cannot go to the sea bring fresh breezes into your
home or office by using “THE WHIRLWIND FAN”
2l
ELIZABETH ST.
MELBOURNE
ers
1C
CO. LTD
cvccnocAu
3o4'
KENT STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Emolre.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Q 3
ftKisraa
CWt’MAN POWERFUL SPEEDY LOW-PRICED
mm=
©0
Quick Gears Pty. Ltd., 75 Penders Street, Thornbury, Victoria
The WILDCAL
COUMN
David Jones, Ltd., softgoods retailers
(Sydney)
Dividends.
Ist 2nd
Net Prefs. Prefs.
July. Profit. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£175,765
1920.. £101,249 £9OOO 10 p.c. =£40,980 227,034
Surplus from sale of property . . £9,000 236,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000 8573 71 p.c. = 37,090 125,355
That is how the directors give the result of
the year’s operations. But it can be put in
another way. Twelve months ago the man-
agement, which had already protected the
book value of stocks by a visible £50,000,
thought it had actual reserves of £227,034.
But £60,000 of those reserves have been
extracted during the year to protect stocks
further, and if that £60,000 represented the
actual falling-off of values, then, instead of
having earned the trifle of £3984 from turn-
over, the co. during the period made a loss
of about £56,000. After paying divs. and
crediting £9OOO profit made from the sale of
a city property the eo. has slipped £101,679
from the potion the directors claimed
for it as at July, 1920. There is some
doubt, however, whether David Jones, . Ltd.,
will eventually prove to have done quite so
badly as would appear from these calcula-
tions. The management does not definitely
admit having lost the £60,000 extracted from
reserves, but adds that amount to the
£50,000 already protecting stocks, and re-
marks that the £llO,OOO should be “ample to
provide for depreciation of stocks to present-
day values.” Their book value at July 31
last was £705,954, less reserves of £llO,OOO
(3s. in the £) =£595,954. But. when the
accounts were made up it was evidently clear
to the directors that a big slice of the
£llO,OOO was no longer a genuine protecting
reserve, and would have disappeared had
stock been taken at replacement values.
Maybe the reserve is kept intact for taxation
reasons; taxes were paid on the £llO,OOO
when in other years it was regarded as profit.
Assuming the whole of the £llO,OOO pro-
vided against stocks has gone the co. has
still very formidable reserves of £125,355
after paying divs. for the year not earned
during that period. But to all appearances
it is £50,000 weaker than when the public
became interested. The present David Jones
co. has been going 15 years. Until last year
it had heen more or less a proprietary con-
cern, and paid capital consisted of 150,000
6 p.c. £1 prefs. and 409,804 fully-paid £1
ordinaries. In August of last year high
prices of goods and the purchase of the old
High School freehold had put such ■ a strain
on finances that a quarter-million of 74 p.c.
cum. prefs. were offered. The co. succeeded
in placing less than half, of the issue, but
owing to the general tightness of money and
the 8 p.c. pref. issues on the market it. did
well to get in £114,304. The ordinaries put
in £84,725 more, so one way and another the
position of the co. has changed in this
fashion over the vear:—
1920. 1921.
Deposits . . . . . . . . £14,369 £9,565
Overdraft 287,259 174,980
Sundry Creditors.. .. * .. 121,620 89,113
Mortgages, etc. . . . . . . 203,585 147,284
Total liabilities . . . . £626,833 £420,942
Freeholds, leaseholds, plant, etc. 520,250 496,325
Stock (less reserves) . . . . 669,308 595,954
Book debts 199,632 208,688
Investments, cash, etc. . . . . 49,470 25,400
Notwithstanding the large and expensive
stocks delivered during the year the co.’s
position has been considerably improved,
liabilities having been reduced £206,000.
Assuming the stock values, less the reserve,
are right—the directors “feel that in view
of the treatment of the stock the future may
be faced with confidence” —-and that the hook
debts are all they should be there was, after
paying divs., a surplus of more or less liquid
assets over liabilities of £387.863. The
feature of the accounts is the £496,325 tied
up in properties; it exceeds the ordinary
capital, and much of it is earning nothing.
Portion of the new building site is occupied
by a crumbling old school of no letting value.
On this occasion the directors are silent as
to their building programme. From the point
of view of holders of ordinaries —ordinaries
are quoted on ’Change, too, nowadays—divi-
dend prospects have to be measured in con-
junction with the property load carried. Pro-
tection for capital, however, looks good.
When David Jones, Ltd., came before the
public there was uo reconstruction and no
goodwill figured among the assets; on the
other hand, substantial reserves were shown.
The two lots of pref. shares total £264,304.
and surplus liquid assets alone tot up
£387.863. That leaves a margin of £123,559
and the £496,325 of property, etc.—together
£619,884 —to represent _ the £494,529 of
ordinary capital.
William Adams and Co., Ltd., engineers
and contractors, headquarters in Sydney,
branches in all mainland capitals (Goocß
will, £10,500, is not regarded as an asset in
the table) :
, Dividends
Pref. W ritten
Apl., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. Off. Deficit.
1917. . £12,412 £1303 7 p.c. = £5,035 £1484 £592
1918.. 27,420 1750 10 „ „ 7,719 mi^lMlls
1919.. 22,794 1750 10 ~ „ 14,690 2206 19,776
War-time Profits Tax, . £5887 . . 13,889
1920.. 12,962 1750 10 p.c. = 17,188 2055 5,858
War-time Profits Tax refund, £740.. 6,598
1921.. 28,919 1750 10 p.c. = 22,194 2203 9,370
The original Wm. Adams co. was established
in ’9B with eight .shareholders and £30,000
of paid capital. The present eo. took over
in 1912, but the public did not become inter-
ested until three years ago, when the shares
were listed on ’Change. The table gives per-
formances since accounts have been made
public. Further information is provided by
these comparisons of balance-sheet figures:—
1917. 1920. 1921.
Paid capital .. .. £94,900 £197,379 £248,224
Liabilities . . . . 122,883 224,051 230,464
Freeholds and leaseholds 45,218 74,625 76,006
Plant, etc 6,957 14,130 22,742
Stocks 112,577 194,493 244,006
Book debts .. .. 56,733 132,666 135,804
War Loan .. . ■ 16,000 16,388
Shares in other cos. .. 611 1,438 2,639
Cash 803 3,457 , 2,528
The co.’s interests have expanded very
rapidly, particularly on the manufacturing
side, the war having given new opportunities.
Still there is some doubt as to how success-
ful some of the co.’s new activities will prove.
For instance, 12 months ago the manufacture
of machine tools had been got to the stage
that high-quality products were being turned
out at a cost which not only gave the co.
excellent opportunities in the home market,
but also put it in a position to compete
abroad. But a new wages award has upset
calculations. The directors put the position
in this way : —•
The margin between the cost of imported machin-
ery and the locally-manufactured article has always
been small, and as the recent award adds an average
of 17 p.c. to the cost of the local article, at a time
when wages in Great Britain are being materially
reduced, it is much more difficult to compete.
So the management is driven to consider
whether importing is not a sounder proposi-
tion than putting its own plant to work, on
some lines at least: —-
In the meantime the co. is in a fortunate position,
as, owing to its complete buying organisation in
London and New York, it is able to import on
favorable terms any machinery which the new award
has made it impossible to manufacture locally at a
profit.
For the present it is not possible to gauge
the prospects of the successful old co. Dur-
ing the past few years it has been energeti-
cally developing, and because of abnormal
trading conditions has so far not had the
opportunity to show how profitably it can
employ all the new capital. Shareholders
are certainly doing well with 10 p.c. divs.,
but, as the first table shows, reserves have
been cut into to provide those distributions.
However, the position will be clearer when
the present heavy load of stocks has been
worked off—they have been “materially re-
duced since the balance date,” the directors
state. Profits for the past two years have
suffered by unloading “even at a
sacrifice,” and, in cases in which landed costs
have been in excess of current market prices,
by writing down book values. The directors
in August declared their belief that the
whole of the stock as valued was “readily
saleable at a satisfactory profit.” At the
balance there were £25,000 of prefs. and
£223.224 of ordinaries. After payment of
final divs. there was a surplus of more or
less liquid assets over liabilities of £159,721
and £98,748 in properties and plant. Though
the future is somewhat obscure for the
moment, the Commonwealth’s recent rapid
industrial expansion should considerably
assist the activities of William Adams and
Co.
* * * »
The Pekdrxau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber goods :
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £15,397 12ip.c.= £12,160 £3,237 £9,526
1913.. 13,126 8 ~,,10,222 2,904 12,430
1914.. 15,597 10 13,000 2,597 15,027
1915.-32,353 121 ~„ 16,250 16,103 31,130
June,
1916.. 16,436 121 „ „ 8,333 8.103 39,233
1917.. 25,906 12J „ „ 20,659 5,247 44,480
1918.. 30,873 121 „ „ 26,006 4,867 49,347
1919.. 38,048 12 ~ „ 29,946 8.102 57,449
1920.. 43,667 12 ~ „ 36,412 7,255 64,704
Loss.
1921.. 924 5 ~,,21,512 - 42,268
For five years Perdriaus maintained 124 p.c.
divs. on a paid capital which moved up
during the period from £130.000 to £373,937.
so if a blank in profit-earning for one year
is the worst that happens shareholders have
little reason to kick. Except the big Dunlop
Co., which was apparently better conditioned
than its competitors to take a jolt or two,
apparently ail the rubber-manufacturers had
a rough spin in last year’s chaotic mar-
kets for raw materials. Prices soared
so high towards the end of 1920 that this
co.’s management admits tlnyt it would have
shut down on production had that been pos-
sible without disorganising, the business. The
high prices were, however, a Jaise-alarm;
for instance, instead of the anticipated cot-
ton famine, heavy supplies suddenly offered
and prices crashed. So before the high-cost
material could be manufactured and mar-
keted at a profit the public had got wind of
the slump and stocks had to be sacrificed.
Instead of closing' down the Perdriau Co.
rushed its high-cost stuff through its plant
and on to the market in the hope of quickly
evening-up things with goods manufactured
from materials purchased in the slumped
markets. The financial year closed before
the “averaging” effort could come to the co.'s
assistance. Hence, though turnover was
larger both in quantity and value than in
previous years, the books closed with a loss
of £924. That, however, may not represent
the full extent of the actual loss, for though
plant, etc., was no doubt fully maintained
out of revenue, on this occasion nothing goes
into the reserve for machinery, plant, etc.
There is at present £38,393 to credit of that
reserve, or nearly 25 p.c. of the book value
of the assets which it is protecting. As no-
thing has been written off the account over
many years, it probably represents something
more than a straight-out depreciation re-
serve ; so in the introductory table the accu-
mulation is included with genuine reserves,
If it be not so. included, the surplus of tan-
gible assets over capital is visibly a mere
£3875, which isn’t much in an 18-year-old
co. with a paid capital of close upon lialf-a-
million.
The very rapid expansion of the co. is
shown in this comparison of the. balance-
sheet figures:—-
Dec., Dec., June, June,
1910. 19t5. 1920. 1921.
Capital. . . . £70,000 £130,000 £373,927 £498,487
Liabilities . . 14,792 42,712 90,239 89,909
Stock . . . . 42,181 81,015 225,768 253,566
Freeholds, plant,
etc 30,019 82,757 161,655 245,589
Book debts . . 10,433 48,940 160,748 127,922
Other assets . . 951 879 2,944 3,587
The directors recently sought permission to
issue £lOO,OOO more capital, but their state-
ment that, for reasons which could not be
disclosed, the new shares might be placed
outside present holders caused considerable
dissension at the annual meeting. An
amendment was carried demanding that the
scrip should be first offered to proprietors,
but apparently the directors became more
confiding, and it was later rescinded. From
this it would appear that the management
has up its sleeve some scheme of extension
or amalgamation which will strengthen the
position of the co. in the trade. There is
now fierce competition in most lines of
rubber-manufacture, and the prospects of
good divs. on the large capital depend on
the Perdriau management being in a posi-
tion to turn out high-quality goods on a
costs-basis which will compare favorably
with those of its competitors. Since the
opening of the current financial year the
directors declare that operations have once
more shown “a satisfactory margin of profit
and the rate of increase in trade would
satisfy the most exacting management.” The
co.’s liabilities at June 30 were very mild
compared with • those shown by some other
concerns handling similar lines.
* * • * *
Mick Simmons. Ltd. (Sydney), which sells
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and sporting
goods:—•
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
1912. .£12,268 10 p.c. = £B,OOO £1132 £3,136 £17,541
1913.. 13,128 10 „ „ 9,000 1381 2,747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 ~ 9,000 1555 2,740 12,054
Added to goodwill. £BBO . . . . 12.931
1915.. 15,533 10 p.c. = 9,000 .1565 4,968 7,966
Added to goodwill, £738 .. .. 8.704
1916.. 16,166 10 p.c. = .9,667 2080 4,419 4,285
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 14,285
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. = 8,800 2215 1,940 12,345
Added to goodwill, £23.7 . . . . 12.582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.c. = 11,000 2622 3,608 8,974
1919.. 17,798 10 ~,,11,000 3942 2.856 6,118
Reserves.
1920.. 32.291 10 „ ~11,000 3684 17,607 11,489
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £30,625 . . 19,136
1921.. 27,768 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
When this co. began 10 years ago it had a
paid capital of £90,000 (£20,556 represented
by goodwill items) and a dozen shops in Syd-
ney. Paid capital is now £152,838, blit only
£22.213 more has been put in by shareholders :
surplus profits have fed the share register
with £40,625. Meantime regular 10 p.c.
divs. have been paid, except in 1917, when
the directors managed only 8 p.c. The rapid
progress made is shown by this comparison :
Gloss Trading.
Profits, etc. Expenses.
1912 . . . . £39,955 £28,819
1916 . . . . 59,441 44,855
1919 . . . . -75,943 62,089
1920 . . ■ ■ 106,780 • 78,178
1921 .. 112,112 87,201
Latest net profits gave 36 p.c. on the en-
larged capital, so substantial surplus profits
are being stored up after paying handsome
divs. Until lately the co. conducted its busi-
ness wholly in leasehold premises; but to
secure permanent headquarters both in Syd-
ney and Brisbane —the eo. extended to the
northern capital a few years ago—freeholds
have been purchased. Altogether £50,772
has gone into properties, and as a result
of this outlay and the holding of more ex--
pensive stocks liabilities are considerably
heavier than a few years ago
1912. 1916. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities. . . . £20,179 £30,896 £59,537 £95,837
Freeholds . . . . 25,687 50,772
Stocks . . . . 57,041 87,363 124,365 141,776
Sundry debtors . . 16,999 17,827 27,004 32,776
Plant, etc. . . 16,325 20,209 19,420 17,12]
Cash, etc 6,549 6,112 18,472 5,847
To represent the capital of £152,838 there
is a surplus of more or less liquid assets
over liabilities of £76,920, and property,
plant, etc., with a book value of £67,893.
/ • * * * . *
The Wellington Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (M.L.) :
Written To Be Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1910. £13,658 7 p.c. =£7,957 £5500 £196 £25,564
1911.. 11,685 7 „ „ 8,074 3500 .11) 25,675
1912.. 14,735 7 „ „ 8,074 5000 1,661 27,336
1913.. 17,150 8 „ „ 9,228 5000 2,922 30,258
1914.. 15,545 8 „ „ 9,228 5000 1,317 31,575
1915.. 31,756 13 „ „ 14,995 5000 11,761 43,336
1916.. 27,298 13 „ „ 14,995 500 Q 7,303 50,639
1917.. 26,958 13 „ ~14,995 5000 6,963 57,61)2
1918.. 28,712 13 „ ..14,995 5000 8,717 66,319
1919.. 29,95 i 13 „ ~14,995 5000 9,957 76,276
1920.. 41,705 13 ~ ■„ 18,495 5000. 18,210 94,486
1921.. 33,898 15 „ ~25,000 5000 3,898 98,384
That last line is not entirely satisfactory.
Usually the co. pays an interim 5 p.c., and
during recent years it has paid a final 8 p.c.
Last year, however, considerable new capital
was got in, and the interim div. rate is not
definitely ascertainable from the accounts.
Apparently it was a 7 p.c.; the final was an
8 p.c., but the directors do not disclose the
amount which was thus distributed, and
until the next accounts are presented only
approximate figures can be given. The war
gave the co. a big lift. For the seven years
ended 1914 net profits averaged £8750 and
divs. 7 p.c., and reserves over the period were
visibly strengthened by £7207. Since 1914
net profits have averaged £26,470, and the
div. fate more than 18 p.c., and meantime
about £66,800 has been tacked to visible re-
serves. The co.’s mills during recent years
have been going at full capacity, and
though extensive additions to plant have been
made, the management has been unable to
cope with the demand for some lines of
manufactures. Comparison over the two
seven-year periods follows :
1907. 1914. 1920. 1921.
Paid capital . . £82,851 £115,350 £149,830 £179,932
Liabilities . . 81,896 72,166 122,419 258,794
Fixed assets .. 70,573 80,313 130,850 185,729
Stocks . . . . 101.750 107,784 127,888 255,518
Book debts .. 19,121 35,416 70,398 59,800
War Loan, Cash,
etc. . . . . 528 769 48.906 49.761
The feature of the latest accounts was the
heavy outside debt: bank overdraft, alone was
only £l5OO short of paid capital. Such large
liabilities are not healthy looking, but the
directors had nothing to say on the matter
in their report. The borrowed money was
practically all tied up in abnormally large
stocks; so the immediate future of - the co.
depends largely on the maintenance of values
at which raw material and manufactured
goods had been included, though much of the
output may have been contracted for. And
in view of the handsome divs., and
because the wool position had improved a
good deal by the balancing-date, apparently
the management and the bank were both
satisfied that stock values were all they
should be. The co. is nowadays assisted by
large accumulations of surplus profits. As
at June 30 the book value of stocks, book
debts, cash and War Loan (£48,225) ex-
ceeded all liabilities by £106,285, which
together with £185,729 of lands, buildings
and plant was the visible backing to the
paid capital of £179,932. There are 20,000
ordinaries of £5 each fully paid and 20,000
of £5 prefs. paid to £4, except that £6B of
calls were outstanding at the balance. The
prefs. carry 6 p.c.—they were issued 14 years
ago and taken up mostly by old shareholders
—but follow the ordinaries point for point.
* * * *
The latest in banking amalgamations cen-
tres in the Bank of Queensland, which early
in 1917 amalgamated the Royal of Queens-
land and .the Bank of North Queensland.
Negotiations have apparently not gone far.
and the name of the concern which is seek-
ing the Queensland’s connections is not
disclosed. However, when the market got wind
that some move was afloat, the Bank of
Queensland directors promptly circularised
shareholders:—
In view of certain confidential information which
lias reached your directors, but which they cannot
disclose for the present, we beg to advise our
shareholders against parting with their shares, as we
regard them as being worth considerably more than
the present market prices.
The management proceeded cautiously dur-
ing recent abnormal years and did not at
tempt to lift divs. in keeping with the
dearer-money times, though the rate was in-
creased from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c. at the last
balance. The £lO paid shares were conse-
quently quoted on the market at a discount.


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited-
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate.,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
Do you use soldering irons in your business? So
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but, little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric-
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
* '* * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * #
An apt illustration of the method by which large
sums of public money are wasted is given in the
fact that £22,275 was paid recently as the cost of
cleaning 26 miles of city and 239 miles of suburban
water mains. One reason why “Pioneer” Wood Pipe
is growing so rapidly in popularity is its cheapness.
It is absolutely efficient and maintenance charges ate
practically nil. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.— Advt.
* * * *
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd,. “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassei, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tei. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.: Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins "street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Caiives, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
suiting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
19-.1 Models National ’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Svdney stock
Arthur Leplastrier k Co., Circular Quay (Hast).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Anparatus, As»av
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IF B. Selhv k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
r
W
YQ
BOORD&Son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Sivift & Company jLtii.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St..
<5
DT
S vclnev^U l
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
g
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufactured Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
HEAD
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
OFFICE: 4917-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
but in anticipation of what might happen
as a result of the rumored negotiations the
shares went from £8 10s. to above par. Paid
capital is £450.000, and at the last balance
the bank was handling more than 3 j mil-
lions of the public’s money.
Is everything to be told at the Electrolytic
Zinc pow-wow about John Bull’s zinc deal V
The way in which scrip has been * collared
is a hint that something is to come out.
Meantime Zeehan is selling houses because
it is afraid that-the Hercules and Mt. Read
will not re-open if zinc concentrates are to
lie had from John Bull almost for the ask-
ing. _ The British Government went into
zinc in mid-war owing to the squeeze by
Hughes and the Zinc Producers’ crowd, and
also, seemingly, to some extent in gratitude
for the grit the Digger was showing in
France. The Broken Hill cos. provide 'the
zinc concentrates, and, if they have it to
sell, also spelter. The British Government
lias to take the concentrates under its 10
years’ contract. But the zinc market is
shocking, and all poor old John Bull can do
is pay up and stack the stuff till the clouds
roll by or a willing buyer—at a price—
turns up. One willing buyer is the Elec-
trolytic Zinc, which is made up in the main
of the Broken Hill cos., the Amalgamated
Zinc and a small Mt. Lyell interest, to-
gether with the underwriters who were left
with the wad of shares the gefitle public
didn’t rush. Thus Broken Hill, as the pro-
ducer, having sold to Father Bull at
a price that brings in a good profit,
now buys back from Father Bull, who appa-
rently has to shoulder a big loss. Then, still
under the 10 years’ contract, the electrolytic
zinc made from the re-bought concentrates
presumably goes back to Father Bull at a
premium on the current market price of
spelter. So, if the market does not come to
the rescue it looks as though Father Bull
will be landed with two losses on the one
lot of stuff. In that ease, 1 Hughes, instead
of having squelched the Hun zinc industry,
has merely succeeded in putting the British
Government in an awkward hole. Hughes
should be told to table all correspondence
and reports t.o show the arguments put up
to the British Government to induce it to
enter into the contract. Meantime the less
some people talk about patriotism and their
unselfish affection for Father Bull the better.
“Awaruite”: The statement by the Elec-
trolytic Zinc (Tas.) relative to the purchase
of 750,000 tons of Broken Hill zinc concen-
trates and its effect on the development of
the Read-Rosebery mines bears out my claim
in the “Wild Cat” (5/8/’2l). That Tas-
mania was, and is, being “gold-bricked” out
of a vigorous working of the rich and im-
mense Read-Rosebery deposits is very evi-
dent now from the relationship of prospec-
tive output to refining capacity, the prefer-
ence of the co. for the cleaner and more
easily treated Broken Hill ore, and the tying
up of a possible competitive ore deposit. Of
course, a small amount of work is being done
at the mines to-day, and an accompanying
small research plant is in hand at Zeehan.
But of what use to the Read-Rosebery ore
reserve of million tons (grading 27 p.c.
zinc, 7 p.c. lead, lOoz. silver and .13oz. gold),
and worth millions at to-day’s prices, is a
paltry output of 400 tons per day of crude
ore? That would represent the whole refin-
ing capacity of the Risdon works were they
available for such treatment, which they
are not. Possibly the explanation is that
Electrolytic Zinc is finding the refractory
ore as hard a nut to crack as did Mt. Lyell.
In which case, why not let Gillies demon-
strate his process?
* -* •* *
“G.A.”: The Vic. gold yield continues to
diminish in a most alarming manner. Com-
pared with September, 1920, the decrease
for last month was 55230 z., or 38 p.c. .For
the nine months ending September 30 the de-
crease was 36,2110 z. compared with the
same period of 1920. a falling-off of 31 p.c.
The outlook is terribly serious, and neither
the State nor the Commonwealth Govern-
ment seems to be concerned. Gold is the
basis of credit, currency, finance, exchange :
vet the gold-mining industry is being allowed
to die out without a single politician raising
hand or voice to help it. .
Floated at 55., now at 20s. That is how
Freney’s Kimberley oil concessions, off the
Fitzroy River, in the Far Nor’-West, has
come into favor in Adelaide. It was Prof.
David’s confirmation of State-Engineer
Blatchford’s diagnosis that set the pot sim-
mering. Whether it will boil depends on
work, not on burning joss sticks in the vesti-
bule. The worst feature about the Westralian
oil business is the locking-up of huge blocks
in one license for five years. Pearson’s
syndicate, which sent Strevens nor’-west, has
rights over a still bigger area than Freney’s.
Other concessions have been allowed as big
as those of the early free people in the good
old broad-arrow days. Naturally a shindy
is developing in the State Parliament because
15 to 20 syndicates have mopped up pretty
well all the Nor’AVest —“subject to regula-
tions,” as Minister Scaddan retorted when
tackled on the question. Pearson’s Austra-
lian Petroleum Development Co., of 1250
shares of £2O each, is modest alongside the
Freney float, with its £150,000 nominal capi-
tal. The fever has not spread to Melbourne
yet, though Fred Tricks is out with a Vic-
toria River (N-T.) syndicate which says,
among other things, that it is well situated
in relation to other leases that are being
bored.
At present gambling in the West is all in
oil. Shares in Freney’s co., which holds a
Kimberley concession with “indications”
vouched for by Government-geologist Blatch-
ford and Prof. David, were subscribed twice
over, and the early flotation of another of
Blatchford’s Kimberley possibilities, Oakes’
bitumen find, is exported to be equally suc-
cessful. Outside Kimberley no oil discovery
has yet been authenticated, and in view of a
lot of rubbish which is about to be put on
the market this is a fact the public should
bear in mind.
Queensland Geologist Jensen s *, belief that
oil may be found north of Roma is likely to
be put to the test shortly, a syndicate having-
applied to the Government for boring rights
over areas along the Injune Oeek line.
When these are acquired it is proposed to
go to a depth of 4000 ft. if necessary ; but the
data is in favor of oil, if present, being found
at much shallower depths than the gas zone
at Roma. Jensen believes it probable that
the Injune Creelr coal series are corre-
lated with the Roma gas beds, and states that
there are gentle anticlines between Orallo
(the ter’minus of the Injune Creek line) and
Roma, where oil accumulation is likely in
the sandstones. Anyway, further bores are
badly needed in the district to tetet its poten-
tialities. In U.S.A. the discovery of a wet
gas zone such as occurs at Roma would have
at once prompted a dozen bopbs in the sur-
rounding country.
**. * *
Boola Boola Petroleum (Vic.), having suc-
ceeded in placing the 31,000 shares it offered,
called up 155., and on Sept. 26 set a 6000 ft-
. Imperial oil-drilling, percussion plant
at work in Rintoul’te Creek, Traralgon. Last
week the hole had gone dorwn 150 ft. through
very hard gravel and conglomerate. The
co. intends issuing yeekly reports, and as
the shares go on to ’Change there will be
fresh gambling counters ior the speculatively
inclined. Already die public is being told
that “the analysis of gas collected in the
district proves jarae to contain in addition
to ordinary methane gas a very favorable
percentage of ethanes. During the course of
drilling a good deal of sulphuretted hydrogen,
which is a. very favorable sign, has been met
with.”
Mararoa (W.A.) Is leaving Norseman,
where it did well for years, and is about to
concentrate its attenstioon on the so far dis-
appointing Light of .Asia at Cue. Boring
at depth has not disclosed any payable for-
mation. but further drilling is" in progress.
* * * *
Oroya Links has added to its already
extensive holding at Kalgooriie by acquiring
the Kalgurli. Mines declared to be worked
out by oos. have often made money, and
even fortunes, for tributors, and as the policy
of the Oroya Links is to work its shows on
a royalty basis the Kalgurli may do some-
thing.
* * * *
Hampton Daisy (W.A.), having failed at
Hampton Plains, moved to Lawlers, where
it acquired an old show which it has worked
energetically for same months. A few small
crushings have bejen extracted, and accord-
ing to the management mining prospects war-
rant the recent increase in the number of
stamps from five to 10 and the installation
of a cyanide plant. Meanwhile the co. has a
liability of about £B5OO to face, and to meet
this and find money to give the mine a chance
to show its real worth the issue of 40,000
new shares has been authorised. So far
operations have been mostly from hand to
mouth.
Westralia Block Diamond Collieries, Ltd.,
which began producing near Collie in March,
has paid a sd. ctiv., absorbing £IS7S. The
show is owned principally by old Ivalgoorlie
mining men, and is bossed by George Ridg-
way, late of the Boulder and Lancefield.
The mysteriotts “something” that Alec
Campbell was to pull off to help King Island
rScheelite out of the ditch hasn’t matured.
So the co. puts up the shutters. The big
shareholder is Broken Hill Block 14, which
embraced the show when Tolhurst’s winsome
ways helped Campbell through with the
deal that ended in the float. Voss Smith, of
Block 14, ran the rule over the big forma-
tion before that co. came in, and though
wolfram contents were low war prices for
tungstic acid brous-ht in profit for a time.
Assets figure at £37,275. The mine stands
for £15,000, leaving plant to renresent
£11,900, stocks £4OOO and cash items £5155.
The wash-out of the tungstic-acid market,
owing to tin' presence of large war stocks
and cheat) Chinese production since, is now
being followed by a threat that the TJ.S.
will impose a prohibitive duty. Australia’s
old friend W. J. Coring lias been hit; over
some Californian shows he dipped into, and
w ith others wants the Chink and Aussie pro-
ducts kept out of the ’Murkan market.
Bendigo A 1 has been getting lOdwt. yields,
and with the gold premiums that means a bit
to the good it the milling is big enough.
Lately the co. ran into rich stuff at 1242 ft.,
an east crosscut off the north level opening
up some of the best quartz seen for many a
day in the old claim. The co. is trying to
Pick up this shoot of gold at 13U0ft., where
a crosscut goes out. Bendigo is leaving the
market to Melbourne and that is the writing
on the wall; evidently the old hands are not.
confident over the length Of the shoot or
the. possible permanence of the ludwt. at
1142 ft., where the last crushing was got.
VVkat handicaps Bendigo is the steady drift
of the Amalgamated on to non-paying yields;
although Carlisle and Unity continue to earn
a crust, few others turn in profits.
* * * *
There is a prospect of North Queensland
lloating a co. to give the Far Fanning leases,
near Charters Towers, a run under modern
conditions. The Lancashire Lass and the Mt.
Melba are the chief mines, and cruskings
from these averaged about 355. a ton in
earlier dgys. There are no lodes; the gold
values are carried in innumerable small veins
penetrating a very large sandstone forma-
tion. A Cloncurry party, headed by F. M.
Murdoch and A. E. Sellers, had the con-
cern during the war, but as they could not
secure State assistance and were short of
capital nothing was done. The only hope of
success lies in open-cut work and big ton-
nages, but for this an unfailing water supply
is an absolute necessity, and this may prove
a big stumbling-block. R. 11. Crozier, en-
gineer for the last co., estimated values at
235. 6d. for 260,000 tons available by open-
cut on the Lancashire Lass, with working
costs (on a 200-ton-a-day basis) at 10s. Mt.
Melba underground workings are inaccessible
now, but a sampling of the open-cut over a
width of 40ft. by the Government geologist
showed ail average value of 13s. per ton. The
Mt. Hogan open-cut, belonging to the same
group of leases, exposes a formation 15ft.
wide, worth 355. To work these deposits
successfully there will be no room for blun-
ders.
Some copper gougers are making more
than a crust in the Cloncurry district,
despite the low level of prices. The miners
at the Referee claim, near Kajabbi, made a
profit of £6 a ton on several parcels sent to
the Chillagoe State works. But the ore
assayed 24 p.e. Half a dozen other small mines
are doing nearly as well, and a number of
gougers are pooling oro for rail and treat-
ment. The Referee looks good enough to be
noticed by the Big Three, if they ever re-
sume operations; but probably bv that' time
the eyes will be picked out, and the rich
oxides and black sulphides are very nice to
sweeten up the yellow ore lying below.
Iron has been S. Aus.’s big line lately;
during Wallaroo and Moonta’s two unsettled
years copper has taken second place in
the State’s mineral production:—
Copper. Ironstone.
cwt. tons.
1914.. 137,614 £417,487 42,622 £37,137
1916.. 145,580 822,527 188,329 200,382
1917.. 144,262 902,495 328,386 359,723
1918.. 143,378 828,556 257,029 277,279
1919.. 50,335 228,930 268,530 307,402
1920.. 86,784 423,601 413,038 478,434
Of the total mineral production worth 9*
millions over the 10 years 1911-20, copper
has accounted for £5,467,829 and iron
£2,015,657. The expansion of the B. H.
Prop.’s Newcastle works is responsible for
the increased iron output. Production at
Iron Knob was lately increased to 15,000
tons per week, and the Prop, intends to dig
still harder in future.
■* **•*
Zeehan, once-famous for its silver-lead
production but nowadays for its persistent
sponging on the Government, is to have still
further cash sunk in an attempt at restora-
tion. An Advisory Board is in operation,
mostly on the £ for £ principle. That Zeehan
will ever become a producer in a large way
again is a dream only entertained by those
residents forced to hang on in a township
undergoing a process of gradual demolition.
Deep sinking on the western and other
mines failed, geologists do not like the lodes
at depth, and Government-aided mines
(Western, Argent and others) have done no
good. Re-working of tailings discharged
from the old-time primitive plants under
up-to-date methods may offer some induce-
ment, but the deposits are to-day mostly
well-worked, water-logged areas of practi-
cally no value to any but tributors in a
small way.
* * * *
Story’s Creek tin and wolfram (Tas.) is
now let on tribute to a party of 20 men. This
is the first work done since the A.W.U.
called the strike there nearly two years ago
and threw 120 men out of employment, The
tributors anticipate getting enough tin oxide
to finance operations, leaving the wolfram
product an asset for a favorable market.
Story’s was one of the mines badly hit, first
by tbe Government-controlled sales during
the war. and then by the Chinese competi-
tion which knocked the price of tungsten
down to 11s. 6d. per unit. The Chinese out-
put sprang from nothing in 1913 to 10,500
tons in 1918, and they have since practically
controlled the world’s market.
Arba Tin (Tas.) has had its iinal clean-
up (111 tons oxide). All payable wash has
been exhausted, and operations have ceased.
A movement is contemplated towards con-
verting the State reserve on the I’reolenna
coal-field (Tas.) into a State mine. Minis-
ter for Mines Lewis favors the proposition
if for no other reason than that the comple-
tion of the State railway to the field will
enhance the value of the area, and that the
State should benefit correspondingly. Tests
indicate the value of the area to be better
than originally thought.
* * *
Tas. Geologist Reid has been investigating
the coal-seam that appears to exist on or
about the junction of the basalt and slate
of Ben Lomond at an altitude of about
2000 ft. A heading driven 35 years ago was
extended for SOft. in solid coal, and indi-
cates a continuation of the seam under fie
rugged basalt capping, which may possibly
be an intrusion.
* * * *
Mining on the Speck’s East Coast is not
flourishing. Following on the dismantling
of the Arba machinery, the Mara gold-mine
has suspended operations and dismissed all
hands. The natural resources of the Speck
seem to be petering fast, while the A.YV.U.
continues to declare that the mining industry
can be made an Arcadia of six pounds for a
30-hour-week.
Preliminary arrangements have been com-
pleted for the formation of the English ro.
to work the Hobonu goldfield (M.L.). The
area is an elevated one and costly to open,
but the grade of the wash seems right. A
water race 16 miles in length is to be con-
structed to the Ilohonu River to supply the
hydraulic sluicing plant.


SALVATION BY RESOLUTION.
Comrade Ratteehains (at the 325th meeting of the Goanna Vale Council of Action) proposes that next harvest shall be a 20-bushel one. (Carried unanimously.)


£
or Lunche®;igfs
an
; mi Pi
N>
Mr Ik f
>l% #JSSI
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA I
Management
G T Cheeseman
fgf
Hovaj looKind at You"
ABBOTS
LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
«-Q97.
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
7
yje
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years
research by the Scientists at the Mears' Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the onlv proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARMES
LINSEED
OIL
None of the 27 Vic. Premiers have died
in harness. The 22 under the sod waited
till they were out of office or out of politics
to ' have their funerals. Charles Duffy,
Graham Berry and Duncan Gillies took the
Speakership after holding the Premiership,
and Gillies was First Commoner when the
call came. Peacock, Irvine, Watt and Bow-
ser are the surviving ex-Premiers.
After 18 years in England (with one or
two flying visits home), ex-Agent-General
Taverner returned to find Peacock the only
one of his contemporaries in the Vic. Parlia-
ment. Maloney and Best, who, like Alec
and himself, got into the Assembly first in
1889, are in the Reps. Of the 94 who were
with Taverner in the 1889-92 Assembly, he
can trace only 15 who still survive—the
three already named, Bailes, Dow, Jack
Gardiner, Joe Harris, Tom Hunt, Joe Kir-
ton, Walter Madden, Jimmy McColl, Out-
trim, Tom Smith, Trenwith and H. R. Wil-
liams. There is to be a re-union of as many
of these as can be mustered after Christmas.
One American
visitor to the old con-
vict transport Suc-
cess, lately show-
ing in New York,
had a family inter-
est in the hooker.
This was Henry
Dwyer, chief of
Police at May-
wood, New Jersey.
His uncle, Michael
Dwyer, was sent to
Van Diemen’s
Land for seven
years as a political
exile, and the Suc-
cess carried him
there. He stayed in
Australia and pros-
pered, while his
brother John went
to U.S.A. from
Tipperary.
The latest of old
Victorian IVAr-
horse General
STANLEY.
•• J. C. Jensen, V.C., Licensed Marine Store
Dealer,” emblazoned on a cart, is a familiar
sight in the Adelaide streets. Jensen is of
Danish extraction, went away with the 50th.
Batt. and got the Cross at Noreuil.
John Mulligan, the man who discovered the
coal mountain which was the scene of the
recent colliery disaster in N. Queensland,
was one of a sextet who found the first gold
on the Palmer (N.Q.) in 1873. After that
find the Government handed a £lOOO cheque
to Mulligan, who gave more names to the
country in the Cape York Peninsula than
almost any other wanderer.
Trafalgar Day, October 21, recalls that
Nelson had quite a number of connections in
N. S. Wales. His favorite sister, Kitty,
married George Match; :n, of Kent. Their
son, Charles Horatio. Nelson Matcham,
started farming at Gosford in ’29. Then
he went to Tas., and finally settled at Bogo-
long, near Bowning (N.S.W.). For many
years his grave was unmarked in the church-
yard of St. Clement’s, Yass, but it has now
a neat headstone erected by the churchwomen
of the parish. A cousin of George Matcham,
Mrs. Mary Pitt, came to N. S. Wales with
four daughters and one son, bringing letters
of introduction from Nelson to Governor
Phillip and Gidley King. Her descendants
are innumerable.
John Cathcart Wason, who farmed in
Maoriland for some years and was a member
of its House of Reps, in ’B7, passed out in
London recently at
73. After he re-
turned to Scotland
he became Coali-
tion Liberal M.P.
for Orkney and
Shetland, tiie con-
stituency that is
alm o s t in th e
shado w o f the
North Pole, and
where even the
men knit. To
catch the eye of
the island women,
Wason learned to
knit, too, and at
his electioneering
meetings plied the
nee d 1 e between
speeches. He even
knitted in the
Commons when he
got there. The
thing, begun as a
political expedient,
became a soothing
habit. II e wa s
about as unfemi-
nine-looking as 6ft.
6in. can make a
man. His brother
Eugene also sat in
the Commons for
many years.
HUNTER, M.H.R
the new member
for Maranoa (Q.).
There was a fine day last week, and the
N. S. Wales Economy Government invented
a new job. It is sending Vere Gordon
Childe to the London office to report on
European developments in arbitration and
price-fixing, and expound Ma State’s indus-
trial legislation in Britain. Childe is a
bright young man of 29, who reached Syd-
ney University by the scholarship route, got
to Oxford in the same way, and since his
return has been in the Premier’s office.
Gone on his last voyage, Captain Hugh
King, one of the pioneers of the Murray.
He came from Scotland as a youth, had a
shot at gold-digging in M.L., then went to
Bendigo (Vic.), where he made most money by
mail-driving to Echuca and dealing in fish on
the return journey. This enabled him to
take up his life’s work of river-steamship
owning and running. He was up and down
the Murray till he retired at 70; then he
settled at Morgan (S.A.) and died there at
81. At one time he owned the whole fh?et
of what was afterwards the Gem Navigation
Co. His favorite yarn was of a voyage right
up from Goolwa to Bourke, in the Jane
Eliza, carrying materials for a hotel. He
struck the low river of the late ’seventies,
and took four years to get there. But on
the return journey he managed to tow three
barges, with 2600 bales of wool, and got £1
a bale for doing it.
‘‘T.0.1.” : Archgaiters Donaldson and his
brother L. S. Donaldson, retired S.M., were
the other day invited to visit Vaucluse House
(Sydney), the old home of W. C.~Wentworth,
where, said the trustees, Wentworth, Don-
aldson and others foregathered and concocted
the Constitution. But Captain Watson,_ the
research secretary of the Historical Society,
has shown that: Wentworth House, Church
Hill, the town residence of Wentworth
in the early ’fifties, is more likely to
have been the rendezvous of the Constitution-
makers : and it is very doubtful if Stuart
Donaldson was one of them. Wentworth
wanted Edward Deas Thomson, Imperial
Colonial Secretary, to be the first Premier,
but other influences brought in Donaldson. He,
however, held the job for only 80 days, being
succeeded by Cowper, who lasted 37 days.
Then came Parker, with Donaldson as Trea-
surer, and he held on for the last 11 months
of his official career. The Wentworth Hotel,
Lang-street, is on the site of Wentworth’s
town house.
Charlie Smith, who has become assistant
general-manager of the Argus, was a lino,
man not long before the war started. Climbing
on to the scribbling staff he made good on
Federal rounds, and was then sent to Gal-
lipoli and Salonika as a war correspondent.
On his return he was made chief of staff.
He went to the Cold Country to keep his
eye on Hughes on his last trip. Dumas be-
comes chief of the reporting staff, and
Bonney, ex-president of the A.J.A., deputy-
chief.
As Bishop of Salisbury, Dr. Donaldson’s
official signature will he “F. E. Sarum.”
The list of exiles in the First Fleet disclosed
that 12 were from Sarum, among them being
James Underwood, who became a prosperous
merchant, and John Limeburner, who died
September 1, 3847, aged allegedly 104. and is
interred in St. John’s Cemetery, Ashfield,
near an Underwood monument. James Un-
derwood returned to England, and died Feb-
ruary 10. 1844, at Tulse Hill. Surrey.
Watkin Wynne, of Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, contributed £2127 in probate duty,
his estate being valued at £26,591.
Alfred J. Taylor, Hobart’s Public Libra-
rian, has closed life’s book at page 73.
He bad held the job for 47 years, and was
supervising things at the Library the day
before lie died.
Vic. Treasurer McPherson told the State
Parliament and 40 representative outside
mep when they foregathered to eat with
hiiii the other evening at Agent-General
MqWhae’s invitation, that he began life as
a message-boy. As lie now sits behind a
couple of hundred thousand or thereabouts,
and feels fairly comfortable, he thinks it is
up to him to give his best service to the
State, and let fellow-directors and managers
look after bis proprietary company. Host
McWhae, the other wealthy member of the
Vic. Cabinet (now retiring), started as a
Union Bank clerk, but chucked the job .for
bigger things.
ft. J. Collins, Auditor-General and Con-
troller of the Maoriland Treasury, has
moved out of the job, which is a reminder
that the mortality among M.L. Auditor-
Generals is probably the lowest on earth.
Collins had only two predecessors. One was
a very brilliant man; the other a super-
latively competent public servant. The first
was James Edward Fitzgerald, who had
been the first Premier of the Islands, and in
1867, at the age of 51, was appointed Comp-
troller-General (the name was altered sub-
sequently). Fitzgerald stayed at the.
Treasury until ’96. His successor was
James Ivemmis Warburton, who had joined
the public service in 1862, and had in turn
been controller of the Savings Bank and
Public Trustee. Warburton, who lived the
life of an anchorite, was the real author of
the original Maoriland Advances to Settlers
scheme that brought so much political kudos
to John McKenzie and Joe Ward. He
carried on until 1910. Collins, then secre-
tary to the Treasury, was pushed into the
billet by his old friend Richard Seddon. He
is now 72 and has been on the pay-sheet
since he joined the Works Department as a
kid of 16 at New Plymouth. Collins would
probably retire with a brass band and a
guard of honor, for he loved to strut the
earth as a volunteer colonel.
A long-distance service record' is that of
Joseph Francis, boatswain of the s.s. New-
castle. He is now in his 50th year of bucket-
ing between Sydney and the coal city, and
in the whole half-century he hasn’t missed a
single run.
An unfortunate Sydney infant has been
registered and christened Longbay. Dad was
fined recently for failure to supply income-
tax returns, and pigheadedly went to prison
rather than pay. The name of the youngster
is a sort of proud memorial to the father’s
martyrdom.
The cooee of an old Australian:—
Zululand is to-day the bright spot in S’Africa,
and as usual where there’s pioneering to be done a
good few Australians are on the job, with Charlie
Hill, architect of the old Federal Bank buildings,
as chief of the clan. I struck Arthur Manning, Dr.
Sampson, Mahon (of.Dookie), Herberts (Maitland),
Clark (Queensland —you remember the great rider),
S’myth, of Melbourne, and others. When two or
three get within cooee they call a meeting and pass
resolutions. Billy Rumbelow (Q.) is a police Pooh-
Bah. Leaving me out, our men are among the
finest pioneers on the coast. Why the Common-
wealth doe-n’t develop the Northern Territory
(which has less malaria) with the same class that
has helped to push Zululand to the fore beats me.
After banking in most parts of the
Southern Hemisphere, Walter J. Morrisby
is going to give the North a trial. He
started in the Commercial Bank in his
native Speck, and then went to S. Africa.
After knocking about East London, .Jo’burg,
Ladysmith and even Beira in Portuguese
East, he crossed to S. America and put in
a dozen years at Valparaiso, Buenos Ayres,
Santiago and other spots for the Anglo-
South American Bank. Now he has been
moved to old Madrid, where he will still
have to patter Spanish.
A new use for the aeroplane has been
found by Australian airman Sidney Cotton,
who missed finding a ’bus in time for the
England-to-Austra-
lia flight, hut got
something like a
third af the way to
Cairo in the Afri-
can stunt. Cotton
is the bird who
has undertaken to
give air co-opera-
tion to sealers and
codfishers in the
North Atlantic by
locating their prey
and signalling by
wireless. Thus he
hopes to render
Kipling’s “O ap-
taius Courageous”
more or less obso-
lete, which is the
awful fate of
books in these
swift days. Th e
young Aussie con-
templates joining
the forest fire-
patrol in America
when there is no-
thing doing in the
fish line.
BADDELEY, pre-
sident of the Aus-
tralasian Coal and
Shale Employees'
Federation.
On another Imperialist Sinn Feiner :
i never read about Erskine Childers (B. lj/9/’2l)
•without thinking of Cyril Bryan, of the A.1.F., a
character equally strange. Westralian-born, and the
son of an old Imperial soldier, Bryan fought against
the Doppers in 1900, and returned from Africa with
bilharzia. When I knew him first he belonged to a
Liberal League, but, resigning impetuously from that
body, he became secretary of the Clerks’ Union, and
got into the Perth City Council as an advanced
very advanced—Labor candidate. In 1914 he was a
leader of the local “reds,” but, separating from them
on the war-issue, he went to Flanders as a captain in
the artillery. One of his brothers was killed at lies-
sines. Invalided out of the army, Bryan supported
conscription at the 1916 referendum. But going to
Melbourne to study medicine (though well past 40;,
he became a feverish admirer of Mannix, wrote a
book on the Archbishop, and was a Labor candidate
for the Senate iii 1917. By arrangement with the
ltepat. and the University authorities, he continued
his medical course in Dublin. From there he sent
red-hot Sinn Fein articles to a Perth paper, and the
external evidence suggests that he was an active
member of the Republican organisation. The fiery
soul is now M.O. at a big maternity hospital in
Oxford, of all places in the world.
Randall Alcock, pupil and business part-
ner of old-time Premier James Service, and
now head of the wealthy firm himself, is
Treasurer McPherson’s chief henchman in
the Hawthorn electorate (Vic.). He does not
agree with all McPherson’s political views,
but he told 90-odd members of the State Par-
liament the other night that he was pre-
pared to stand by him even when he thought
he was wrong, because he believed in him.
“That’s the sort of election chairman to
have!” breathed every politician in the room.
Carlo Camillo Lazzarini, M.L.A., the new'
Minister for State Industrial Enterprises
in N.S t .W., is son of a native of Florence,
Italy, and was born at Young iN.S.W.).
At the time of his birth Carlo Marina, an
Italian, held Moppity sheep-farm, close by,
and Camillo Marina, his brother, kept the
Australian Hotel in the township. Both
were Garibaldians, and Camillo was one
of a very few left of a battalion that was
almost wiped out. He used to say his name
beat Carlo’s because his was that of a flower,
whereas the other was a dog’s.
Hartley Williams, ex-J. of the Vic.
Supreme Court, who is 78, and is drawing a
£l5OO pension, would have been Acting-Gov.
of Vic. had George Higinbotham, C.J., lived
for another six weeks. As Higinbotham
wouldn’t conform to Downing-street require-
ments, Williams (senior puisne Judge) had
a dormant commission which would have
become active the moment Hopetoun went
away on six months’ leave. The Great Man
faded out as the year 1892 was ebbing away,
and Shiels made John Madden, C.J., A few
days later he took office as Acting-Governor.
If Williams had been Administrator Shiels
would have found it difficult to pass him
over for the C.J.-ship. For the old idea
that a puisne Judge must not be made Chief
Justice was already pretty well dead. Since
then Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania
have all gone to the Bench for a Chief
Justice, and the results have been quite satis-
factory.
“WILLIE! WILLIE !“
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His balance isn’t very good,
Yet what a lot of ground he covers!
.See on the topmost rail he’s stood
To spy upon the next-door lovers !
lie wanders out upon the street—
No gate has been devised to hold him —
To drift beneath the horses’ feet.
Now listen to his mother scold him:
“Willie! inMie!”
li baby sleeps 1 must creep round
In socks, my careful movements timing;
If he’s awake, then with a bound
A voice will snatch me from my rhyming.;
“Where has that blessed youngster gone?
John, can’t you answer? Have you got him?”
And then, of course, 1 can’t go on
Till from his travels home I trot him.
“Wil-lie ! Wil -lie!”
He sets the steps against the wall,
And then a voice calls ,sad and sickly.
“He’s on the roof! Good Lord, he’ll fall!
Oh, Johnnie, Johnnie, come here quickly.’
He has a neighbor’s child to-day
To play with, and he’shappy maybe.
“My gracious, come here straightaway!
He’s poisoned Mrs. Grundy’s baby !
Hh'Mie! H'iMie!”
On wash-day to the fire he tiies.
On me, his mother darkly frowning,
Buts all the blame, and prophesies
Our darling’s early death by drowning.
He falls into the bin of flour,
Or meets a larger boy and fights him ;
He teases Lawson’s dog an hour,
And howls blue murder when it bites him.
“Willie! Willie /”
\ ICTORIA.
EUDYSON.


■
1
1
TO-DAY is not too early to think about your Christmas Suit. You
have ample time to obtain patterns and make a careful selection.
The merits of these suits at Four Guineas will astonish you. In choice and
quality of materials, cut, workmanship and finish they are exceptional
value.
Your Summer Suit
to measure
of Australian Tweeds,
s 4 s O
A customer who is not fully satisfied with his suit on completion
‘needs simply to return it to us, and his request for a refund of
all moneys paid is complied with immediately and without question.
When in town call and leave your measurements for record. A
large variety of patterns will he sent you, post-free on request.
Orders delivered free in City, Suburbs and
Country.
m
£
a
IWIWe PR«t
486 George Street,
Opposite Centre of Q. V. Market
Building,
and Branch Store at
304 George Street, SYDNEY.
’*///,
•U 9
%
\ .
i
M
7?
m
johoPOavTS.
gf


The Summer Sun will not fade
this Italian Felt Hat—
m
m
It is of smooth-finish Felt, with high
crown and 2|-inch brim with turned
edge. It has the fashionable, well-
rolled sides. The 2-ineh band has bow
at side. Available in three colors:
Grey, Steel or Bronze.
PRICE 45 A
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Have you sent for Peapes’ New Catalogue?
It shows a complete readjustment of prices.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
A Business Man
is J udged by
His Letters.
df
Pen-written letters create the impression
that he is behind the times; poorlv-typed
letters have an atmosphere bf carelessness;
Coronatyped letters stamp him as progressive.
If you are not satisfied with the appearance of
you'r letters, buy a
CoroNA
The Personal Writing Machine.
Sole Distributors:
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, xMelbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCLETY
“Jarge”: “Tin Hat” (B. 6/10/’2l) gets
right on the nail when he remarks that
“Pompey’s” meekness in the Senate has sur-
prised some of his old chopping-blocks. His
most likeable attribute, in the opinion of the
Diggers, was his free-for-all cussing, which
in Egypt generally _ included the sky, the
desert and every living thing between. He
THAT EARLY-IN-TIIE-MORNING
ANGLE.
IVY: “You refused him?”
MAY: “Yes.”
IVY: “But why?”
MAY: “Well, he didn’t impress me as a man
for whom I could get up in the morn-
ing and cook breakfast.”
wasn’t particular. Out in the desert past
Ferry Post we had grown stale on everlast-
ing sand-shovelling by day and patrols by
night, so the Powers gave us a holiday in
the form of a field day, the main idea of
which was that everybody should career
round the desert cursing the man imme-
diately below him in rank. (The poor pri-
vate was allowed to curse up.) Our adju-
tant was on a horse for the first time, and
provided the only diversion in a day of tri-
bulation. Presently Pompey spied him.
"Colonel -, Colonel , why don’t y u
buy your adjutant a perambulator?”
he roared. And then offered half-a-dozen of
us three days C.B. for laughing.
* * * *
“Crunno”: Our Billy had a new experi-
ence when he was coming east from Perth, and
had got as far as the goldfields. There was
the usual crowd on the platform, and the
usual buttering. Billy seemed to expect
that: but even he was surprised when the
most ardent Imperialist in the community,
on the “Right away” being given, threw
both arms around the wayfarer’s neck, and
with all the ardor of the sentimental girleen
saying good-bye to her boy planted on his
race two noisy kisses. My bread and butter
has demanded my attendance on railway
platforms for 20 years, and I have witnessed
some thrilling oscillatory performances; but
this was the real daddy of them all.
* ’ * *' *
On a mild revolution in an ancient and
respectable church:—
The New State movement isn’t confined to politics.
At the recent General Synod in Sydney the historical
controversy between High and Low Church Anglicans
was almost obscured in the battle-smoke of the
contention between metropolis and country. The
veteran Archbishop of Perth began it by expressing
polite scorn for the kind of young priest who is
content to minister to a comfortable suburban con-
gregation. Bishop Trower, of the North-West, went
even further by suggesting that every young priest
should be compelled to put in at least three years
in the Backblocks.
Rightly or wrongly Synod was persuaded that the
metropolitan diocese was trying to dominate it.
On one innocent motion for the adjournment, de-
signed admittedly in the interests of Sydney dele-
gates,' the latter were rebuffed by 140 votes to 13.
The Standing Committee, which has been a side-
show of the Sydney diocese for 25 years past, was
so reconstituted that it now has a majority of
country representatives.
The debate on the nexus revealed a. corresponding
division. The question at issue was whether the
Australian church should become a national or
regional institution, with certain restricted powers
of self-government, or remain as at present, with
its ultimate Court of Appeal the Judicial Commit-
tee of the Privy Council. All the Sydney represen-
tatives, the Primate excepted, and half those from
Melbourne, took the conservative view. Against
them were ranged tlhe entire bench of Bishops and
the delegates from the rest of Australia. On a
hundred other matters the city dioceses displayed
reactionary, and the country dioceses progressive,
tendencies. /-
In fine, it was a memorable Synod, which exhibited
in many ways the increasingly national spirit of the
Anglican Church. Incidental objections to the
importation of bishops and the raising of funds in
England were received with such favor as to make
ifhe old-fashioned city churchman rub his eyes and
wonder what things are coming to.
* * * *
“Spare Corp” : Recently I have been hand-
ling a job in which I deal with many child-
ren, and I have received some shocks. The
failure of one girl at school caused inquiries
to be made, which she was mentally
below normal and never likely to make any
progress at work
requiring keen in-
telligence. It being
part of the job to
see that children
are provided with
work which will
supply a career, I
sent for the
mother. She
brought her
daughter with her,
and the descrip-
tion “below nor-
mal” seemed like
flattery. But; the
mother resented
the suggestion that
the child should
receive some
simple technical
training. “Oh, I
don’t see that is
necessary,” s h e
said. “I suppose
when she is grown
up she will marry
and settle down in
rrn << ~ the ordinary way.”
The ordinary way,” of course, meant hav-
ing children, and —well, what do you think
those children will be like?
* * * •*
“Costs”: Grumblings about the law’s de-
lays have not been heard lately in N. S.
Wales Divorce jurisdiction. Last vear closed
with an accumulation of about 500 suits
unheard, and as new ones are wheeled up at
the rate of about 20 a week somebody or
something threatened to be choked. But
they are getting shifted off like small-debt
cases since James, J., was deputed to rein-
force his brother Gordon. Gordon now- takes
the defended causes and jury efises; James
wrestles with the undefended allegations.
The latter are mostly dealt with by affidavit,
and as James absorbs the contents thereof
in great quantity each morning before break-
fast, everything is ready for getting a move
on when the attorneys line up at the bar.
NO COMPLAINTS.
“He says he’ll shoot himself if you don’t let me marry him.”
“Good business! Tell him to fire away.”
If the witnesses are moderately coherent
and the service papers in reasonable order,
James can sever holy bonds at the rate of six
per hour. The other day, when the machine
happened to be going nicely, three cases of
desertion by reason of failure to comply with
orders for restitution of rights came in
sequence. They went through in lOmin.
29sec.
“Red Tape”: A story with an East Lynne
flavor was revealed by the investigators of
a Sydney firm of solicitors searching for the
beneficiary under the will of a man who died
in S’Africa. An unmarried mother agreed
years ago to the adoption of her child.
Later, a desire for the youngster led her to
become a servant in the household without
disclosing her identity to the adopting
parents. The mistress of the house died,
and some time afterwards the widower mar-
ried the servant, making her the stepmother
by adoption of her own child. Dying in
Capetown, the man who had originally
deserted her repented, and left instructions
that a search should be made for her and
that his money should go to her and the
child. Perhaps she would never lirtve been
found had not her husband, through ill-health,
lost his position and his affluence. In these
circumstances an advt. hinting that there
was money awaiting her appealed to the
long-ago deserted woman ; and she was able
to establish her claim without any difficulty.
“R.T.H.”: Re “Invalid’s” query (B.
29/9/’2l) as to the pleasures or otherwise of
death by strangulation. I c-an’t speak from
experience, but Barcroft Boake tried it in
a spirit of fun at Rocklands station
(N.S.W.). and through a misunderstanding
was only cut down in the nick of time by
his mates. Here are his impressions as set
down in a letter to his father a few days
after the incident:—
I seemed to be dreaming. I felt no pain, but
gradually seemed to get a feeling of irritation.
Thoughts crowded before my eyes so quickly that it
was pain to watch them, but gradually they grew
dimmer and faded away.
It was at this stage, apparently, that he was
cut down, for he continues: —
I could hear water splashing, and felt it on my
cheek, and gradually realised my companions were
around me bathing my temples.
He goes on to describe the agonising struggle
to get breath when he was cut down ; but
that needn’t worry intending suicides, as
they won’t go through that part of the play.
Boake’s experience proved to be a dress re-
hearsal. for four years later, on the shores
of Middle Harbor, he hanged himself.
* * * #
“Bilbav”: Yes, Billy Hughes knows how
all right. I remember once when the First
Division was in the Chatelet district in Bel-
gium, after the Armistice, reveille was
sounded an hour earlier than, usual and
wildly-complaining Diggers were routed out
by the n.c.o.’s. After a hurried breakfast we
were marched off in full pack through the
show to Chatelet, and nobody knew what was
doing till we got there an hour or so later.
When the Colonel announced that the Pri-
minister wanted to address the divvy, the
things they called Billy would have shocked
a Tidworth sarn-major. After an hour’s
wait William Morris arrived —and inside
two minutes had talked that disgruntled divi-
sion into a smiling mob who marched back
through the slush declaring that “he would
MAKING HAY.
OLD JOSSER: “Hulloa! Going to be a good
man like your dad when you’re grown
up?"
ERNULPHUS : “Yairs —when I’se groiced up.
But I mean to have a what-dye-call-it
time while I’m a kid.”
do them.” How did he do it? He took his
oath we would all be home before June, 1919.
It was November before I left; and I wasn’t
the last by a hatful.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE SUMMONS.
[FOR THE NULLETIN.]
Jf.S.W.
Oh, now that the summer
Has brought back the swallows,
And dancing and prancing
O’er hilltops and hollows
Goes Pan with his legion
Of wood-folk behind him,
Let us be as children,
And seek out and find him.
Let us be as children
In spirit together;
For singing and swinging
To music, “Come hither,”
Cry Pan and his wood-folk— .
“Come hither and follow
Our lights and our shadows
O’er hilltop and hollow!”
Hark, hark to his piping,
Now rising, now falling!
His wind-notes, his kind notes,
His water-notes calling—
All calling, all calling
Us forth from the alleys
And streets to his mountains,
His forests and valleys.
They know him—the reed-birds,
The bell-birds, the thrushes,
As daily and gaily
Their melody gushes
At sunrise and sunset:
Oh, past all forgiving
Is he who thinks Pan dead,
Pan’s minstrelsy living!
Look, look, he is yonder.
And yonder and. yonder,
Wherever by river,
And woodway we wander!
Whenever to Nature
Meet tribute we render
We hearken his music
And gaze on his splendor.
RODERIC QUINN.


* :
■Hi
M)
1 m lag
m
«.... -,
mmm Hi wK I
HU
Hi
HB"- •
H
■
. ■■A ■■■■■'
■bhh bh
AAaA::..- Bill Hi m
m E
H
: :
H
H
§1
B
H
mm
m
m
m m
i ■ ■
mt
i m
■
mm
H
m
.
#.
MHBM
:
m
e
in
■ .■■
■
m
■
1
m
m
n
Hh a . J
w
iv
s Ml-
,<w
1
111
i
....... J
WMMi
M
■ AS
BB
H
HH
a-.:.
, /
■MI
1
■
■
■
■'•A.
The of SMusic
CARLYLE has said that "music is a kind
of inarticulate, unfathomable speech which
leads us to the edge of the Infinite, and com-
pels us for a moment to gaze into it.” It is the
universal language of the feelings which in-
creases sympathy and broadens the horizon of mankind.
HERBERT SPENCER, in his "Origin and Function of
Music,” has placed it at the head of the fine arts, declaring
that music cannot be too much applauded as a noble means
of ministering to human welfare.
Thus these two gifted Englishmen give voice to the feelings
which stir in the hearts of the masses.
The Beale Player-Piano is the one instrument for the whole
family. It is an unlimited source of pleasure to those who
cannot play by hand, and the golden mellowness of the
tone appeals to the technically proficient musician. The
children can listen to the best in pianoforte composition
and study expression as indicated by the world’s masters.
The better musician you are the more you will appreciate the Teale
Showrooms:
340 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BEALE § COM PANY IP
«8i
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar
Street,
ANNANDALE.
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victoria.: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE 6C COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
JMITHU
JOLIL>S
STUDI7-


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home ape assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
THE AUSTRALIAN GASLIGHT COMPANY.
NEW ISSUE.
“C” DEBENTURES (BEARER)
OF VARYING AMOUNTS AGGREGATING £430,000,
5 YEARS’ CURRENCY FROM DECEMBER 1, 1921.
INTEREST AT 7% PER CENT. PER ANNUM, PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY.
The Directors are prepared to receive applications for the above Debentures. Such applications to be
for sums of £lOO or any multiple thereof.
Applicants should sign and forward, application forms to the undersigned on or before November 30
1921.
The applications will be dealt with in the order in which they are received.
The Company shall not be called upon to recognise any application by an enemy subject or naturalised
person of enemy origin, and each applicant shall, if required by the Company, furnish the Company with
a Statutory Declaration as to his or her nationality. The Debentures of this series will rank pari passu
without any preference or priority one over another, and will rank next after the existing Debentures
amounting to the sum of £1,044,200.
Brokerage at the rate of half per centum will be allowed to recognised brokers.
By Order of the Board,
Company’s Head Office, Parker Street, Haymarket. C. U. B. GURNETT,
October 12, 1921. Secretary.
"For Ever Best/'
STAS
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
“Ted Eye” : The Jap pearl-diver working
the Straits beds doesn’t like too much local
competition from .the island “skin-divers.”
A favorite dodge, should an island boat start
working in the vicinity of a Jap-manned
craft, is to throw lumps of meat or other
appetising shark-diet overboard when the
naked natives go down. This attracts the
inaneaters to the spot, and enables friend
Nippon to have it all his own way.
* * * #
About the Beast that lurks in every man :
The Marquis de Sade was so convinced of the truth
of his theory that masculine passion, in its highest
expression, is a matter of inflicting injuries, more
or less serious, on the beloved that he presented his
book on the subject to Napoleon I. The great man
was as healthily normal as any 20-year-old surfing
enthusiast of our day. He ordered the “Memoirs”
to be burnt by the public executioner, and gave the
THAT’S HOW.
ANGRY DINER: “Now, how the devil did I
order these cogs?”
WAITRESS : "Well, you wasn’t too polite
about it.”
author 12 hours to get out of France. But the
hideous practices acclaimed in De Sade’s immense
work live on, and they are responsible every now
and then for motiveless tragedies or weird absurdi-
ties which leave the mind of the public thoroughly
puzzled. For the natural Sadist in the full flower
of his development the only safe place is a criminal
lunatic asylum; he is as dangerous as a man-eating
tiger. “Jack the Ripper,” who operated in the
Fast End of London 20-odd years ago, was one of
this class ; and Sydney entertained another some 10
rears later.
But the majority of Sadists are trained, not born,
and they rarely get as far as murder. If the cinema
had never been invented, and Arbuckle had had to
earn a living carrying bricks, he would now, no
doubt, be a happily-married worker with a family and
pews in his local chapel. But always with a tendency
to break out. Sudden wealth is usually fatal to men
of this type when the3' have no absorbing intellectual
or sporting interests to act as countervailing in-
fluences. The subtle but swift increase in z6st
is the peril that incessantly menaces the victims of
this craze—not to mention their victims. There is
a well-known Paris case of a stout, law-abiding
grocer who for years contented himself with slaught-
ering fowls. One day he came home unexpectedly,
and for no apparent reason cut the throats of his
two maidservants. He had gone over the line.
It could do nothing but good if the existence of
this disease, the conditions which encourage its onset,
and the symptoms which proclaim that it has a firm
hold were more widely advertised. As things are,
many a young woman who accepts the advances of
an apparently respectable male is taking her looks
if not her life in her hands.
»■* **.
“Saaedi” : Jim aud my cousin Annie used
to have periodical rows, whereupon the lady
would depart to her
mother’s for a week
or so, leaving her
worse-half to his own
devices. After one of
these departures Jim
got fed-up and wrote
to Annie saying that
he had decided to end
his life, which infor-
mation brought her
home in a hurry. The
house was very quiet
when she entered, and,
rushing upstairs, she
found Jim lying on
the bed, his white
face turned to the
ceiling, a half-benign,
half-stern expression
on his quiet features.
On the table was a
l.vsol bottle half
empty. Annie caught
her breath as she en-
tered; then she
b rough t her brolly
down with a mighty
thw a c k somewhere
about Jim’s equator,
yelling: “Get off that
bed, you brute —look
at the mess you’re
making of the quilt
witli your boots!” And with a howl Jim
arose from the dead.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Issy was trying to go into
liquidation, and, though most of his creditors
agreed to give him a spin, Einstein was
unwilling. Said Issy to Einstein one day:
“Look here, I’ll get oudt of dis all right.
Now you come in to der seddlement by gon-
sent, and I’ll make you a preference gredi-
tor on the quiet.” Einstein agreed and
waited a long time for his first instalment.
Then one day he tackled Issy. “Vot aboudt
this preference?” he said. “I tell you,” said
Issy, confidentially: “I aind’t never going to
pay anyone a bean. I’m tellin’ you dis as
der preference greditor. Der others gan find
out for themsellufs.”
* * * *
“C.”: Some time ago I examined an offi-
cial list of 2836 convicts sent to N. S. Wales
in 1831. Of these 25 were exiled for steal-
ing pocket-handkerchiefs.
A cabin-boy, aged 14, for
stealing bread, got seven
years; a baker, for steal-
ing plums, seven years:
a gardener’s laborer, aged
.19, seven years for steal-
ing apples; a lad, 16, 14
years for stealing cheese ;
and a nurse-girl, 16,
seven years for stealing-
apples. Don’t believe
the yarn that is often
told that the convicts
were sent here because
the British Government
wanted to populate this
country. With the first
batch, for instance, there
came a woman aged 60
transported for 14 years
for lamb-stealinv • an-
u er - aged 70, got seven years for
snop-liftmg; and one jaged 82 got seven
years for perjury. There were many more
who could not possibly qualify for baby
bonuses.
“Gregor”: War profiteering has had one
queer result. During the last 12 months
or so booksellers and second-hand dealers in
Australia have been steadily exporting to
England large quantities of the better class
of literature from the Commonwealth. The
modus operandi is to buy up libraries and skim
the cream for export, there being just now
keen demand in Britain for volumes suitable
for libraries, and one much greater than
dealers there are able to satisfy. One out-
ward-bound vessel recently carried 63 cases
of second-hand books in her hold. The par-
venus, like an Australian squatter on a
famous occasion, are buying such consign-
ments in ton and half-ton lots.
The Old Doctor’s story:—
The country doctor has many queer jobs, but the
queerest I ever was called upon to do was a bit of
burglary. I was then resident at a Victorian hos-
pital, and one day at noon three people, more or less
injured, were , carried into the accident ward. They
were Brown, a sawmiller, his wife and Jones, a
landowner from the same vicinity. All three had
been damaged in a collision. Brown, who had been on
business that had detained him for a day, coming
down the high road by night at a good' bat, had
collided with Jones. Mrs. Brown, as it happened,
was with Jones, although people who gjathered up
ihe wounded imagined she had been with her hus-
band. Brown was still unconscious from head in-
juiies, Mrs. Brown hud a broken collar-bone and
other damages, Jones had fracture of the skull and
PERHAPS HE WAS RIGHT.
MR. DUDD : “I got my jolly money by hard
work, old man.”
THE OTHER: “Go on, your old uncle left it
to you. Where does the hard work
come in?”
MR. DUDD : “Getting it away from the bally
lawyers — what!”
a broken wrist. I was able to tell Mrs. Brown
the same night that her husband would be about
within eight or 10 days, but that she and Jones
would be bed-bound much longer. Then the woman
began to fret. She worked herself into a fever, and
I soon gathered that something- was preying on
her mind ; but it was not till two days before her
husband was leaving that she made her agonised
request. I was asked to go out to her home, break
into the house and recover a letter I would find
reared against a jardiniere in the dining-room. The
house would be deserted, she assured me, as the
woman who had worked for her had left two days
previous to the accident, and the key was in the
water-tank into which it had fallen when she was
secreting it on the broken lid. I was to break open
a window and recover the letter at all costs. If I
agreed I ran the risk of being nabbed while burgling
a deserted house; if I did not agree I foresaw a
lively possibility of the woman dying of sheer
anxiety. I did it. I broke into the house, recovered
the letter, and handed it to my patient, who burnt
it before my eyes. To explain how she came to be
with Jones, she said she had taken advantage of
his oifer to go into the township to do some shop-
ping. Jones, I learned later, had previously leased
his property, and was going abroad. Brown and
his wife, so far as- I could gather, lived happily
together ever after, and Jones went abroad alone.
I leave you to speculate, as I have often done, as to
the contents of that letter.
* * * *
“Sixenate” : Judges in divorce are used to
hearing the petitioners call the co-res. by
queer titles, therefore one of them wasn’t sur-
prised in Sydney the other day when a
woman declared that she had seen her hus-
band with “his artificial wife.” A male
petitioner puzzled his Honor by reference
to his wife’s second fancy as his “deputy.”
His Honor discovered in another case that
when a wronged w r ife mentioned her hus-
band’s “incumbent” she desired to refer
slightingly to the creature as his concubine.
Another quaint petitioner referred to his
wife’s “auxiliary”—“She wasn’t content
with one husband, y’Worship: she wanted
an auxiliary.”
“Friday Island”: “Wodgil’s” doleful anti-
aspirin croak (B. 29/9/’2l) would be more
convincing if he quoted someone knowing-
more than do the members of a Public Health
Conference, the medicoes associated with
which are generally of the red-tape Govern- ,
mental-medical-clerk type who don’t meet
the general public in its home. The Aus-
tralian practitioner, who does know, is not
worried much about the future of the as-
pirin “victims.” Certainly the use of the
drug is fairly general, but it isn’t so harm-
ful as the popular opiate soothing-powders,
pain-shifters, etc. Nor has one found any
notable craving for cocaine in Australia.
-Most men and women in business to whom
“Wodgil” refers are unaware of it, and the
only devotees are a few wealthy degenerates
in the cities. “Doping” jis as foreign to the
average Australian as other beastly practices
found in congested areas of the Old World.
1 resli air, surf, sport and work are incom-
patible with these things.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig” : A Digger Ulysses arrived back in
Sydney the other day, seven years after leaving
with the first transports in 1914. Invalided
early in the piece, he deserted just as the
ship that was to bring him back to Aus-
tralia was about to sail. When he did get
home, after travelling in several parts of
the world, he found his wife a widow. His
absence had not been noticed until after the
transport upon which he was supposed to
be returning to Australia had cast off; and
as it was presumed that he had gone over-
board. his wife had re-married, only to lose
her new husband last year. Quite' by acci-
dent the returned Digger met her : and the
old partnership is now in full working order.
* * * *
“T.R.H.’s” un-Australian picture :
Xortheliffe offended the Ladies’ Benevolent Society
in Melbourne by saying there are no slums here.
But he was right. In Surry Hills and Woolloomoo-
loo, in Little Lon and Fitzroy, Australia hasn’t got a
slum worth tuppence. In the Radcliffe Highway
and in the filthy by-streets and blind alleys of the
Commercial-road, in the East End of London, in
the “closes” off the Gallowgate, in Cowcaddens, in
the vicinity of the Trongate and in the foul and
verminous “ticket-houses” of Glasgow—-in these
places I can find you not one but hundreds of single
“rooms,” each occupied by three or four families.
Slums ! Australia doesn’t know the meaning of the
word. When I accompanied two sanitary inspectors
round the infamous ticket-houses in Glasgow they
provided me with a pair of their own specially-made
leggings to keep the worst plague of Egypt from get-
ting into my clothes. These ticket-houses are owned
by slum-lords and sub-let to slum-sweaters, who get
£1 or £2 “key-money” for each room, then raise
the rent gradually until the tenant cannot pay. The
slum-sweaters then seize and sell “the sticks,” evict
the tenant, and get more key-money from the
next victim. Owing to lack of accommodation for
the poor, slum property in Glasgow and in London's
East End yields more money per foot than Park-
lane. Slums in Australia! In that abomination of
desolation in Nottingham, known as “The Marsh,”
I have seen the naked body of a baby lying on a
shelf while the widowed mother and a daughter made
“Nottingham lace” throughout the day and night
to raise 255. to save the kiddie from a pauper’s
tuneral. “What are you making?” asked a starving
A FORCED LOAN.
VISITOR TO PRISON: “What brought you
here?”
PRISONER : “Borrowing money, Madame.”
VISITOR: “But, good gracious, they don't put
men in prison for borrowing money.”
PRISONER: “Not as a rule; but I had to
knock a man down three or four times
before he would lend it to me.”
child, in one of the Glasgow slums, of its mother.
“I am making a dress for you,” was the reply. It
was a white one, and the child wore it three days
afterwards—in her coffin! In that same block of
buildings 11 families- —more than 50 people—had to
use one water-closet —and that was out of order.
THE COMPLETE EXPLANATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lloyd George said the present depression
was due to the shattering effects of the war.”— Cable.
We thought it might be due
To some little spots that grew
On the sun or on the moon or some Dutch cheese,
To the state of British beer,
Or the number of the year,
Or the prawn-crop in the Saragossa breeze.
We were filled with a suspicion
It might be the London mission
Giving niggers shirts and collars near the line
That had caused the winds to veer
In the Southern Hemisphere
Aid so made a deaith of pumpkins on the vine.
Then at other times we thought
That our trouble had been caught
By infection from Italians or from Greeks;
Or that gentle western gales
Had brought virus out of Wales
In the form of Hughes and George—without the
leeks.
Now, thank Heaven, we have no doubt
What has brought our want about,
How the hunger on our homes has daily crept.
The fact is made as clear
As the glass that held our beer
And the secret is no longer strictly kept.
Yes, the silence has been broken
And Lloyd George at last has spoken—
We can tighten up our belts and heave a brick ;
In a statement wise as clever
He has left no doubt whatever
It was war—the war we won—that did the trick!
Now let everyone feel gay!
There is nothing more to say
When the statesmen speak aloud with nought to
hide.
There is nothing left to cat
Where there once was bread and meat;
But our minds if not our mouths are satisfied.
Js.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


i i « m u u
m m m m «. ■
i
■ i- .i
■ i -
M
■
■
K
Pi »
jJ&XTf
...
>-5*5
3gf
S3*
**<
I,,;:
■
■
..
*
SS
Ul
X
o
m
■**?
h
tn
m
**w
\
i
■
rnmmmm
m
m
■
■
m
mmm
■
■
■
H
i
■ I
■ at
II III!
i IS|
llllli I
' I v < i ■ c\- ' +;.
I
: I
II
m
m
ggp
m
gJEj
MBS
pr;
-
MtwiMfiiHWM
IMHH
m
m
M Ilf: 111
g ■
THE CAR THAT KEEPS FAITH.
“THROUGH ROADLESS COUNTRY.”
Mr J Netter, of Bundle Street, Adelaide, writes as follows of a 1600-imle journey throug
wits
?“U'tountrVr“rS, ■Jhß I.OAIi.'VIIE EASIER IT SEEMED TO GRIP
like this nothing hn, pleasure."
What One Chandler Can Do. Each and Every Chandler Will Do.
Whether on a bush road or in Government House grounds, the Chandler trill keep faith!
We can supply, FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY, a Standard Model Seven-Passenger
CHANDLER SIX TOURING CAR —as illustrated—for £845.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Caw and Showrooms: 147-151 p Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., Light Square, Adelaidi
Agents for South Australia. —*


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
rHUB
[_R__TOffXS & CO., ■ Sydney. Agents.
Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
h B”‘" S "»» "S« ™sa
f
ƒg
J-iiey are constructed
on scientific principles,
aie soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing: nor irritate the ears,
the price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician),
is £l/1/- complete.
They usually last about
~ _ . two years.
ton%Z m ATjui S Shep P al "
pleasure in testifying to the benefit I
from the use of Wilson’s Ear-Drums. I have
wearing them for several years and hwa iw i.
any trouble with them. They are vml! K ad
and I could not dfWitfi f 1
several leading specialists without success.” * d
„ tor I<ree Booklet or order now.
H. WILKINSON, R6<mi 14, 178 Collins at.,
* MELBOURNE.
A Signal Success
*3
eorae IV
The TOP-NOTCH’Scotck
ABOPIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Jimsey”: “J.C.S.” (B. 29/9/’2l) asks
after\fll ? tO , the nearest water hole and vomits
after killing a bandicoot. He doesn’t. Although the
bandicoot is remarkably good eating no dog will eat
it, although lie will chase and kill it. After killing
the dog is always careful to get as much of the fur
as possible out of liis mouth. Perhaps this has given
J.u.o. ms wrong impression.
u * * * . *
“Dan”; Re the keeping quality of furs
°m„rT , animals CB. 15/9/’2l). 'lt doesn’t
methna P ° iS ° n USed aS the
method of using. Any poison which kills quickly
vhieh th y u he b6St ' Then ’ again ’ the seaso » hi
An n! , , P6 U / re SeCUred has a hit to do With it.
Any old bush tanner will tell you that the fur is
-oose at the end of the winter; hence the shedding.
C. Coral : What is the record “skin”
diving performance? Up in the Straits the islanders
go down great distances with simply a pair of
swimming glasses and plugged ears; and some of
inanilanders can also put up pretty good feats.
The ishind boys on the fishing boats think nothing
o 1~ fathoms; and on occasions will go much
deeper than that. Up at Murray Island the other day
one of the boats dropped anchor in over 12 fathoms,
and the mudhook fouled. A couple of boys from’
>e island went down and promptly cleared it.
"here the nigs are doing big depths constantly a
couple of years puts them out ot action, mostlv
owing to lung trouble.
. * * *
B.G.S. : "L.J.D.” is correct (B.
21) re the shot from a cut cartridge being
superior to the rifle bullet up to a limited range
but he neglected to add the warning to be sure and
not try it with a choke-bore. If you do, the result
will certainly be disastrous to the gun, and very
probably to you. The target will not be affected.
Bad Australian”: Re ti-tree bark as a
substitute for cigarette paper (B. 22/9/’2l). Maize-
husk is better material and much more widely distri-
buted over Australia than ti-tree. It is tough, pli-
able and practically flavorless. In Brazil and Para-
guay no other wrapping is used in the locally-
manufactured article.
“Jam Tin”: “Gad’s” par (B. 15/9/’2l)
abput the cat down the shaft reminds me that at
the Black Ridge, Clermont (Q.), in 1896 a digger
named holey fell down a. (iOft. shaft, with a couple
of feet of water in it. It was raining at the time,
and he had an oilskin on, with a bottle of red-
backed spider-juice in the pocket. We rigged a tem-
porary windlass, and pulled him up. When he got
to the top he wanted to fight all or any of us
You see, he hadn’t broken his bottle of comfort in
the fall. At about the same time and place a dis-
appointed digger named Moxham hopped down a
200 ft. shaft; but his vitality couldn’t stand that
and they had to shovel him up.
“Snell” : Seeing the same humanly-intelli-
gent dog working at the Melbourne Show reminded
me of Chip’s remarkable performance at Hentv just
after Dix’s clever little dog had carried off honors
at Albury. There was a bet of £5 that Chip would
not pen Spargo’s pet butting ram Sambo. For
an hour the ram resisted all Chip’s blandish-'
ments, butting after him with inexhaustible
energy whenever he made any sort of an
attack. “Leave him alone,” Dix said con-
fidently; “he’ll get the beggar.” But mean-
while it seemed that there was the liveliest
chance of the beggar getting him, and break-
ing a leg, or stoving in his ribs. Chip, how-
ever, was not unaccustomed to butting rams,
and he was very guileful and very patient.
He crouched and watched and waited, all
the time with an eye to drifting his quarry
nearer to the pen. At the end of an hour
and a half Chips had solved the problem. He
no longer tried to drive the pet ram- he
lured him. Offering himself as a target, he
had got the sheep by a series of . charges
light up to the.gate of the pen. Here Chip
stood in the opening, inciting the ram, yap-
ping softly, defying him. Suddenly Sambo
went up for a mighty plunge, and drove
straight at the dog. Chip bounced smartly
to one side, and Sambo plunged into the pen The
tuck was done.
“Wandi”: There’s more than a grain of
,™ th . ln . ‘Jarrum’s” yarn (B. 22/9/’2l) that an
oid shepherd cured snakebite by scarifying the part
and letting a dog lick it. When a snake bites
some of the venom is spilled on the surface, and if
that is washed off quickly the danger is considerably
essened. Then, by cutting immediately to make the
blood flow, and washing the cut, the victim improves
his chances a great deal more. The blacks mostly
applied the water cure; and when water is not
handy, the dog’s tongue is a good substitute.
* * *
“Oropotama”: Two sixpences don’t make
a shilling in some parts of Papua. When C W
Camp, of the Sydney Zoo, reached Pira-paka after a
bud-gathering trip into the mountains, his carriers
insisted on a shilling a head, and two sixpences
were, no good. He was one shilling short, but the
last boy would not take even three sixpences. Tie
preferred to go without anything. On the other
hand the mountain natives who snared the birds
had no use for money; cloth of a violent red was the
best bid, but mirrors, tomahawks and sheath-knives
came in handy.
“Tamata” (B. 15/9/’2l) says
he killed a black snake which contained 60 young- in
Its oviducts, including a. double-headed one, and
suggests that a previous statement of mine CB
11/8/’2l) restricted the number of young of the
black wriggler to 20. If he reads that paragraph
again he will see that 1 said the number was not
i esti icted 10 19, as was often suggested, but that the
young oi a single parent generally tallied Between
nfrnh ar f _0 ’ the latter being the authentic
number known on account of lack of reliable informa-
tion. I also suggested that the known 20 limit may
oecasionaHy be exceeded. I am quite ready to believe
that his specimen had 60 young; but it was certainly
a m ° St GX ; Cept,o,lal case - T he tiger is the most pro-
lific breeder among our venomous snakes, and there
is a record of a Tas. specimen which produced 109
youngsters at a single birth.
.. Q ueei ‘ crosses are part of the
01 dinary scientific wort* n : ri-»
r . "on. ot riic exporinicnt
m Minnesota (U.S A 1 One nf th , ' 1 101
■ , , ' die ot the most remark-
able animals lately produced is the “catalo ” a com
pound oi the buffalo and the ordinary (Galloway)
A ROOTED PREJUDICE AGAINST WOODHEAPS.
PURLICAN: "Hey, Jacky. I want you to cut some wood for me.”
JAC KY : "Or-nght, boss; but I not much good before dinner .”
PUBLICAN: "Righto, I'll give you your dinner .”
JACKY: "Or-right, boss; but I no plurry good at all after dinner.”
cow. It yields a lustrous black robe, which alone
fetches more money than the average steer. As
much as £6O has been paid for one. The “eatalo”
possesses the beautiful thick, warm coat of the buf-
falo and the meat and milk-yielding qualities of
or inary cattle. It is able to weather heat and cold
that would kill any domestic steer. The half-breeds
ate prolific. I heir steaks are tender, juicy and
deliciously flavored, and the females are superior
milkers. Another useful compound is the “zebrula ”
a cross between the zebra and horse. A new scientific
• "'I Wl ‘ lch . P romises to be of great benefit to man
is the guinea-turkey,” a cross between the guinea-
fowl and the turkey. It possesses the bulk of the
latter with the delicate meat of the chicken It
reaches a weight of 201 b. or more, and its eggs are
larger than those of the guinea-hen, and more palat-
able Nature herself has already produced a com-
bination between the zebra and the giraffe—the
animal known as the “okapi,” which is much
stronger than the giraffe.
THE DUMB PHOTOGRAPHER : BUT
HE CAN SAY “LOOK PLEASANT ”
ALL THE SAME.
“Jim Carew”: “Bad Australian” (B,
29/9/’2l) says that when he hooked a platypus the
line and float were pulled “steadily straight down-
wards.” I once hooked a platypus, but he swal-
lowed the bait at one gulp and then made for the
other side of the river at his best pace. I landed
him, but he gave me a lively five minutes getting
him off the hook. Can any Abo. say whose platypus
behaved correctly—mine or “Bad Australian’s”?
XTalua (Samoa); Anyone who knows
' v "' a Wll , l snllle at “ Te Pana’s” latest about All
iNations-stveet there (B. 21/7/’2l). As a matter of
. the Indlan )s conspicuous by his absence from
that famous place of kava saloons; it is the home
of Chows (mostly) and natives. The Indian H.Q.
is up t e hill at Toorak, and it was there that
the Indian rising of 1920 originated. The idea
, a . ,latlve girl “falling” to an Indian for a leg-
jangle or a pair of silk stockings is absurd, as
native women never wear either of them; and,
furthermore, native women and Indians seldom, if
ever, mix.
/? Australian”: Tell “Jimmy J.” (B.
mi ia, t those wallaby hunters forgot to explain
that the pheasants they were thinking about were
qnite different from the English bird. As a matter
ot fact they were referring to the lyre-bird, which
is almost invariably referred to as the “pheasant”
throughout the mountainous scrub country of Vie.
And, anyhow, the conditions in that scrub country
are not favorable to the English pheasant.
Ifiul C.”: Fifteen years ago I wrote
an Abo. par, setting out the astonishing fact, that
a neighbor had killed a
black snake in the act of
swallowing a death-adder.
The following issues' oi
The Bulletin were
flooded with know-alls
calling me names, and
as I hadn’t seen the
actual killing I had to
eat dirt and apologise for
being on the earth. 1
now have before me a
statement of the h e a d
seran'g of a Queensland
Museum to the effect that
he put a death-adder and
two snakes in a glass case,
and afterwards found the
death-adder had disap-
peared, the aldermanic pro-
portions of the black snake
proving that it had just
din e d well. Will those
who flung; dirt at me long- ago now please get off?
“Sassafras”; Tell “Jim Carew” (B.
him >/ 21) 1 haVe killed a Small B ' oanna and left
him near the camp and then watched a bigger one
devour the lot. I have also caught one, tied it up
d watched. A big- gentleman came along and
offered stoush His - challenge not being taken up
he set about devouring the tied-up chap—and man-
the ™ - DSl<le n l5 minUteS - As a can] P scavenger
the go. is on his own, and readily becomes very
(Continued on page 22. )
BROTHER WALLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now I’m talkin’ of parsons: there’s good an’ there’s
uaa,
An’ there’s some that’s betwixt an’ between-
Bu ‘ °. f . 31 „ th ® sky ' pilots that Sin has made sad
Brother tVal is the straightest I’ve seen.
He’d a little tin “holy” stuck out in the scrub;
it had neither stained windows nor paint •
An he batched in the skillion, an’ cooked his own
grub,
And did all his own chores like a saint.
He n ", as r ™ aybe a Shepherd of Souls in a sense,
i>ut 1 d alter the sentence to say
H e was boundary-ridin’ a mighty long fence,
tor his sulky was goin’ all day.
He was drivin’ all day, sometimes half through the
night,
On a long, weary, rough mallee track
An with scarcely a spell for a drink or a bite
For himself or his faithful old hack.
He had no cosy cop of a “corner” to tend
In “the spiritual vineyard”; his “call”
Was t 0 S rub «P the roots of all evil, an’ rend
•Snags of sin with a mattock an’ maul.
.Single-handed he worked in true pioneer si vie
Where men seldom wore collars or coats'-
lor the sheep of strange brands he had always a
smile, J
An was just like a mate to the goats.
THE DIAGNOSIS.
DOCTOR: “Just as I thoroughfare's an
obstruction in the auricular orifice.”
PATIENT: "’Ere, cut that out! It’s only
me [?]min’ ear staffed up”
He Co Z: ins a good sons: ’ an> couid spin a g °° d
Or soothe hearts filled with sorrow an’ pain •
He was welcome in parlor, or paddock, or barn
An no call for his help was in vain.
DUI ’“stand S ° od? We "’ U,e Judge froll ‘
Sees far more than us blokes on the rails -
Hut what Brother Wal's “near” never told his “off”
hand
Won’t be known till we’re all on the scales.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


SPORTING NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Australian Fiction Series.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiy
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,”
by Con Drew
“IN RACING SILK,”
by Gerald R. Baldwin
“THE MYSTERY OF THE
BOXING CONTEST,”
by Bert James
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND
NATIONAL,” by Jack North
“WOLAROrS CUP,”
by Ambrose Pratt
“THE MARE WITH THE
SILVER HOOF,”
by Bob Allen
“THE WHITE CHAMPION,”
by Don Delaney
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
by F. Agar
Sporting Novels by Arthur Wright
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.”
“UNDER A CLOUD.”
“A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
“A GAME OF CHANCE.”
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.”
“OVER THE ODDS.”
“GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“RUNG IN.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
MR. WRIGHT'S LATEST NOVELS:
“Fettered by Fate."
“The Outlaw's Daughter."
Recent Additions to the “Bookstall" Series:
“PRINCESS NAIDI’S FETISH,” by Claude Wynn.
“THE OIL-SEEKERS,” by Jack McLaren.
“BODGER AND THE BOARDERS,” by Ernest O Ferrall.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or from the Publishers.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney.
9
if
See this brand
on each shirt.
sg/gg yv v
iiH LI I a
COUMTS
Thistle Shirt Quality beats
the Price.
You may pay a little
more, but you will not
pay nearly as often.
THISTLE SHIRTS typify good taste in style, coupled with comfort
and splendid wearing quality. Perfect in fit and make, they are
also characterised by the fine patterns and tasteful colors.
Obtainable at all Leading Shirt Departments.
GIVE THISTLE PYJAMAS A TRIAL. Accept no substitutes.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.,
Makers,
BRISBANE & SYDNEY.
'This
Shirts
JONEs
gcXli
i
SEMBSkd
Look at it
AND SEE why “Rex'*
Luncheon Cheese is the
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how fresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex”—a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM l'r with a knife “Rex”
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
((
Advance '^ r Australia ! ”
a toast from the Motherland in the truest and best Spirit.
|4 m, .'IE
I
ast
y//V/Am MY///7//A
m-
!~+ -s*r
&us
SCOTCH
mi
Mi 1
By careful husbanding of stocks we hope to maintain regular (if
inadequate) supplies. But nothing will induce us to impair the un-
varying quality of ‘ P.D.’ Whisky.
o\b
D/VWSON
SPECIAL SCOTCH
Blended Whisioe
A
nmmmmniifflffwiiiwiiiip
* P.D, ’ —the Scotch Whisky
of Historic Lineage and
World - wide popularity.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.


If you want Absolute Satisfaction
wear ffoiepraof
Hosiery
“Richmond River”: Australia doesn’t
have to go to Japan for dwarf trees. W. S. Camp-
bell has had for 50 years two Richmond River, or
hoop, pines that are only 2ft. high though perfectly
sound and healthy. They were put in a flower pot
when they came from the Richmond, and have been
there ever since.
“Six and Eight” : Compared with tiger
snakes “Boomei-ang’s” black snakes (B. 22/9/’21);
with their families of 50, are only among - the “also-
rans.” A female tiger’s heroic endeavor to keep up.
the birth-rate is recorded, by Alex. Morton, of the
Hobart Museum, who found 109 living young in the
lady’s body.
• * * * *
“Spadger”: Out Tibbooburra (N.S.W.)
way the words used by Binghi for counting are" dif-
ferent from those quoted by “The Nark” (B.
22/9/’2l), but the system is' the same. “Wiehe
wallah” one, ‘‘barcoolah” two, “barcoolah wiehe-
wallah” three, “barcoolah barcoolah” four, and “bar-
coolah barcoolah wichewallah” five. In spite of his
clumsy method of notation the “civilised” abo. is
remarkably smart as a cribbage player.
* * » *
“Stl’or” : Re Binghi’s system of account-
ing. The Centralian abo. used a dialect entirely dis-
similar from that mentioned by “The Nark” (B.
22/9/’2l) as being in use among the Maranoa
tribes. Like them he used his fingers to illustrate
as he counted—“neetchi” one, “barcooloo” two,
“barcooloo neetchi” three, “barcooloo barcooloo”
four, and so on till he reached five, which was his
limit. After that everything became “wabba wabba,”
meaning a great quantity. When he wished to
describe what to him looked like an unlimited supply
of water it was always “wabba wabba,” and then
NO PLACE TO DALLY.
“You better get down quick, mister — -there’s
bulldog ants up that tree!”
very often he would lead the way to a pool from
which it would be difficult to fill a kerosene-tin.
Binghi used another expression frequently to express
large numbers; he would point towards the ranges
and describe a thing as “eetoo bompara” (“many
as the hills”). Altogether his ideas of arithmetic
were very wobbly.
“Hawk”: I dug a queer thing out of a bur-
row at Hill River (S.A.). It was a smoky-blue
animal about a fortnight old. with a fox’s head,
dog’s tail and body, very small ears stuck forward and a
bark which was undoubtedly a fox’s. It is still
alive and open for inspection. And it is seven miles
from a pub.
CHECNMATE.
“Tommy, if you don't sit still Ell whip yo u.”
"If yon do Ell tell, the guard my age."
“Black Bonnet”: A man from the North
tells me that one drop of tincture of iodine eve.y
10 minutes is a sure cure for snakebite. He says
he tried it on a cat bitten by a brown snake and
in extremis. In all 40 drops were administered and
the animal completely recovered. There were, two
witnesses. He hasn't had a chance of trying it on
humans yet.
“Betel Nut”: “Gizo” (B. S/9/’2l), in
saying a custom exists in Malaita and Guadalcanal',
in the Solomon Islands, of
killing a young woman (kec-
kenui) in honor of the
launching of a new war
canoe, has probably written
from and had most of liis ex-
perience at Gizo. Most of the
white pioneers of the Solo-
mons have all kinds of
romantic stories to tell about
the awful customs of the
little explored GaudalcanaS,
and less-known Malaita: but
I feel sure that the origin of
this one lies in a Malaita per-
formance, which once seen is
not easily forgotten. I was
doing survey work on Mala-
ita, about 60 miles up the
coast from Bownanni, when I
was asked by the chief of a
village to be present at a
kill. Curious, 1 went, and as
1 was told it was not etiquette
to retire until after the cere-
mony, I had to sit it out.
The lady in the case was led
unresistingly to the centre of
the arena, where, after much
jabbering and gesticulation on
the part of the chief, the
executioner was told to do
his duty. One blow from a
blade-shaped waddy, and the
victim was as dead as a door-
nail. This was the punish-
ment for infidelity and by
no means a propitiatory sacri-
fice. My inquiries were ex-
tensive, and satisfied me that
infidelity is the only reason
nowadays for a native losing
his or her life at the hands
of his (or her) own tribes-
men. Incidentally, the lady’s
lover is treated in the same manner when caught.
Moic of it in Australia would Scivc the divorce
courts an enormous lot of work.
".Tim Carew” : .Neither is “Monaro’s” (B.
29/9/’2l) 109-bushel crop from a fig-tree a record.
At Sackville Reach, Upper Hawkesburv (N.S.W.), in
1910—-the same year “Monaro” mentions—l helped
pull 122 gin (bushel) cases from one tree. The
soldier-birds accounted for at least another dozen
cases.
‘ ’E.C.Q.” ; ‘‘The Nark” asks (B. 22/9/’2l)
if Binghi’s five-finger arithmetic is universal. it
looks as though many tribes were fellows of the one
institute of accountancy, for 1 have seen the -ame
reckoning used by niggers in different'tribes from the
««« to hake Eyre. The numbers “one"’ and “two”
have different designations, altering every feu-
hundred miles with the dialect. Around Innamihcka
baicoola is one, and “wichawollv” two; then the
words are duplicated up to four’and amalgamated
lor five. After fire I have seen the other hand
brought into play, and the fingers ticked off again in
the same manner. The number (say) 30 was con-
veyed by this dark accountancy by both splayed
hands being smacked on the thighs three times —
an easy gesture •to comprehend. High denomina-
tions as we understand them were certainly beyond
even this Binghi’s power to express, but lie “know’m
anight.” He could not tell you how many cattle
there ought to be in the mob, but he'd tell vou there
were three short.
“I .12": Many experts have told “8.N..T.”
(B. 11/8/’2l) how to cure a bridle-breaker; but the
simplest remedy is the one we resort to out here in
the Territory. Put a, good bronco rope round the
yarraman’s nock and take a hitch round his nose,
then tie him to a corner-post.
“E.M.F."; I have tried “Box 20’s” advice
(B. 25/8/’2l) as to tanning sheepskins, and find it
At. Now will someone till me how to go about
dyeing the wool ?
“Elavala": The work of the missionaries
in Papua Sometimes has results
which the new-comer finds discon-
certing.. The Sunday after my
arrival in Port Moresby I found the
house-boy sitting on the kitchen-
steps, intent on. an elaborate toilet
in which a long-toothed wooden
comb, two scarlet hibisci and a
trade mirror played leading parts.
Being unaccustomed to dealing with
Black Brother, and having long- ago
had my spirit broken in encounters
with domestics in Australia, I sug-
gested respectfully that he apply, a
much-needed scrubbing-brush to the
kitchen table. Regarding me more
in sorrow than in anger, he shook
his head. “Lasi [No]. To-day e
Sundee. S’pose I washum to-day,
Jess Krice ’e get very wild along
me'.” I hastily assumed what I be-
lieved to be a Dominant Race man-
ner and informed the conscientious
objector. “Suppose you no washum,
1 get very wild along you!” His
cheerful compliance suggested the
philosophy “You can try anything once.”
“Ophis”: Tell “Golub” (B. 22/9/’2l)
that the relation between volume and potency of
snake venom has been extensively reported upon by
Dr. Frank Tidswell and Mr. R. Grant. The former
compiled a pamphlet which was published by the
N.S.W. Health Department in 1906, and the latter
wrote in “Australian Pharmaceutical Notes,” 1917.
It has been proved that the amount of venom ejected
by snakes varies according to their physical state,
their size, and the season of the year. The average
yields of Australian snakes are as follow (weight in
dried venom) : Death-adder ( Acanthophix antarcti-
ef/.v), .0567 grammes; tiger-snake (AV,f ■>~ris scu-
tatus). .02621 gr. ; black snake ( Pseudechis porphyri-
anis), ,01290 gr. ; brown snake ( Demansia textilis),
•00483 gr. The smallest amount of each which would
kill a rabbit per kilogramme of weight is: Tiger-
snake, .0000.-, grammes; death-adder and brown
snake, .0002 ; black snake, .0007. It is now clear
that weight for weight per kilogramme of rabbit
the venom of the tiger-snake is the most deadly,
while the death-adder and brown snake are second
(equal), and the black snake last. Deaths from
snakebite are controlled by several facts —the
species, size and physical condition of the snake,
and the amount of venom ejected, the species,
size and physical condition of the victim, and the
nature of the bite. This makes it a very difficult
matter for an experimentalist to come to definite
conclusions as to the relative potency of venoms
in regard to animals as a class.
t * * .
"Patella” : There is a Maorilaml parallel
for the story of .John Smith, of Virginia and the
daughter of Pocahontas. About 1830 Billy Bundy,
a Sydney whaler, who afterwards took part in the
defence of Nga-niotu, on the Taranaki coast,
against the Waikato hordes, was captured bv hos-
tile Maoris. They tied him to a post while they
prepared to turn him into a meal, and the oven
was just hot enough when the chief’s daughter
rushed forward and threw her mat over him. This
made him ‘.‘tapu,” and his life was saved. But there
were two differences. The Indians didn’t propose
to eat John Smith, and Bundy married the girl, an
act for whjc-h Smith lacked the courage.
‘I). Frost”: The Speck’s one real kan-
garoo, the forester, or “boomer,” still survives up
in the north-east, though it is getting very scarce
now. The other day Mrs. 11. L. Roberts, who runs
Hobart’s only zoo, added one to her collection. In
the early days the big fellows were found pretty
well distributed over the island. Names like Boomer
Marsh and Boomer Island (which isn’t an island but
a peninsula) survive to mark their former existence
in the south, where they have been extinct for the
best part of a century. There are still kangaroos,
so-called, in those parts, but they are really big
wallabies.
“Widgeon”: “Jim Carew” (B. 22/9/’2l)
asks if goannas kill and eat their own fraternity.
While fishing in the Lachlan (N.S.W.) I once saw
two old ’uns having a brawl. They wrestled like
men, each placing his arms about his opponent’s
back and striving to get a throat holt with his
teeth. At last one old warrior succeeded, and hung
on until the other was throttled. After about a
quarter-of-an-hour’s spell, without releasing his hold,
he commenced to chaw. As the process was very
slow I didn’t wait to see if he finished off his friend.
* * » *
“W. 0.”; “D.Y.” (B. S/9/’2l) says “ticks
are again the nightmare of N.S.W. North Coast
cockydoin.” Cattlemen of the South Burnett (Q.)
are also in trouble over the same insect, and it is a
toss-up which of the two Governments can make the
biggest muddle. About a dozen years ago, redwater,
the dread disease of which the cattle-tick is the
forerunner, stalked through the land, leaving de-
pleted herds, but also leaving a priceless immunity
ill the surviving cattle, which will .continue indefi-
nitely in them and their offspring as long as a few
ticks are on them every year. Private dips are all
HE QUITE AGREED WITH HER.
TIRED WIEE (to troublesome patient) :
"Sure, Jim, I'd rather have all the
children sick than you."
JIM: "So would I."
over the district, and the scourge is kept well in
check. But now a muddling and short-sighted
Government says it will “cleanse the South Burnett
of ticks,” Of course it won’t do anything of the
sort. But by cleansing a few handy farms it will
prepare the way for a further outbreak of redwater.
MUSTERED !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the gold of morning shone
On green leaves astir.
In a summer dead and gone,
Roving on and ranging on
Rode a musterer.
What he sang of who shall tell?
Maybe ’twas of her —
Her he loved and loved so well;
Her whose charms set every cell
Of his blood astir.
But where horse and rider wound
Down the Devil’s spur.
Death with neither sign nor sound,
Riding on his daily round,
Found the musterer.
Thus, with useless whip and spur,
All his riding done,
Mustered was the musterer,
He who sang so well of her,
’Neath the morning sun.
x.s.w.
B[?]GALOW


4
Ml
. ' V >
A
■
SISIItSI
!•
i
-
i
'»\v
■ai
:
■
L ; :
: :il ;
v
S:\
RE
e
.
W
.........
t i
■
r
■
Tarm
mm
■ :
lifels
:r. ;
■
■ J
il
I*B
111*
i |ti
.fit «
4Tf *
'
m mm
.
.
11l
V9MMMNP
.
• . ■ .v-':
m
- .
•••••.
< .
ii * * **''
mm, ’ i
tew
:
iggagji|i
-
I %pk--::4
■ bUNLAP *
Inlam Rubber
■ Mhttin g *
has to be seen and used to be appreciated It is
manufactured and laid in the sheet after the manner
of linoleum, but with this difference—it lasts a lifetime.
As a floor covering it is noiseless, non-slipping, water-
proof and thoroughly sanitary. Its construction
enables it to be laid upon existing floors, whether
of wood, stone, cement or iron, and to conform
with the plans of any hall, room, etc. There are no
cracks to hold dirt, consequently there is the minimum
trouble in cleaning. All joints are lapped and perma-
nently fixed with rubber cement; is made in runner
formation with solid back in any length, and from io"
to r 2" wide. Thickness or T" as required. The
design is not a surface one but is so inset as to ensure
permanency of pattern. The cost of installation is the
first and only one, and on account of its remarkable
durability it is the most economical floor covering ex-
istent. For Banking Chambers, Corridors of Public
Buildings, Hospitals, Billiard Rooms, Ship Saloons, Bath
Rooms, Vestibules, etc., this matting is ideal—the
weather has no effect on it. Made in various designs
and color schemes. We shall be pleased to submit
samples, particulars and prices to those interested,
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Launceston,
Wellington, Christchurch and Auckland.


CL
a '
m
EST 9
1038
wm
M
w.
free:
A HORSE
Suit-to-Measure at 4 Gns
is David Jones’ latest and much-availed-of offer. Already this
smartly-cut and well-finished suit of Australian Tweed has
popularised itself both for business and for best, and we urge you
to call and inspect our excellent range of materials before deciding
on your next suit. If unable to call, write for patterns and easy
self -measurement form. Wc pay carriage.
David (Jones'
for Service
Opp. G. P. O. SYDNEY Tel. City 6336.
If you own two horses and you were offered another one free with upkeep
provided—would you accept -
Of course you would.
Then why not fit to your waggons
Ball Bearing’
HUBS and AXLES ?
For the extra service they GIVE is equal to an additional horse without cost. They
reduce friction to such a negligible quantity that a mere push of the hand will start a
waggon moving This minimising of friction means that a 30 to 50 per cent, increased
load can be pulled without extra work on the horses; or that two horses can do the
work ot three or four, so enabling you to cut down your stable and yet maintain your
usual transportation capacity, or increase your transportation possibilities by merely
retaining the same stable. v
Undue wear and tear of your waggons will be avoided; they will need less attention, and
lubrication costs will be reduced by 8 0%, for SKF Hubs require lubricant only three
or tour times a year. Then, too, your horses will be retained at a strong and healthy
condition, for straining will be entirely averted.
Write for our pamphlet, “Why do you ALWAYS drive with the break On?” which gives
lull particulars.
/X
Ih
SK
GARDNER, W/ERN
and Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Hoad, South Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
329 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; Perth, Hobart.
The Methods of a Model
r'M'IHE model seated herself on the dais.
I She was not a young woman, but
there was a strange beauty in her
pale face with its clouds of dark-brown hair.
I went over and arranged her draperies.
“Do you mind if I take your hair down?”
I asked. “I want to do it up in a particular
way. ” She nodded, and I pulled out the
pins. I was astonished at the flood of soft
hair they released.
“Vi hat wonderful hair!” I exclaimed.
"You must Jet me paint you some day with
your hair down” I buried my hands in
the thick, silky masses of it. “I know some
girls who would give a small fortune to have
hair like that.”
She only smiled rather sadly. I knew
there had been much trouble in her life.
As I painted I encouraged her to talk. At
last my own curiosity overcame me, and I
asked what she did to make her hair so glori-
ous.
“Mine is always coming out,” I told her.
“I suppose I should have it cropped as most
women-artists do.”
‘‘l’ve never been in a hairdresser’s shop
in my life,” she said. “I’ve only used one
or two old-fashioned recipes which I make
up myself. 1 always shampoo with stallax.
I find you only need about a tablespoonful
to cleanse one’s hair thoroughly, and so it
does not work out at all expensive in the end.
Once I tried something else, but my hair
did not dry all soft and bright as it does
after stallax, so I returned to the old recipe.
If it shows any tendency to fall out, I obtain
some boraniuin from the chemist, and mix
it with a little bay rum; that soon makes
it grow thick and strong again. Perhaps
you wonder why at my age—l’m fifty, you
know—l haven’t grey hair? Once it did
begin to look faded and streaky, but someone
told me that the only real way to restore
the color was by dissolving some pure tam-
malite in bay rum and applying this lotion
to the hair each day. It’s wonderful stuff,
but people so seldom think of using any-
thing so simple, do they?”
I ' .
“They don’t, indeed,” I answered, “but
you’ve opened my eyes. You must; write it
all down, if you will be so kind. And now
shall we rest? You must be tired.?
As she nodded her head gratefully the
sun flashed on her head and brought out
unsuspected golden lights in that njonderful
After a brief interval she rpsnjned the
pose. As I re-adjusted her head I noticed
the extraordinarily beautiful texturje of her
skin. What claims she had to beauty, I
reflected, were due to the wonderful perfec-
tion of detail bore the closest Scrutiny.
I lingered longer than was necessary over
the arrangement of her head in order to
admire the clear, fine tone of her skin. He"
complexion was almost colorless, 'but the
slun showed hardly a crease; the! lips, I
noticed, looked warm and healthy, land her
eyelashes gave her rather pale , eyes a
shadowy beauty. Feature for feature, she
was not pretty, but there was a charm about
her tbah grew on one, and no one could denv
the loveliness of her soft hair anil satiny
skin.
As 1 painted everything feminine in me
v anted to ask her if she had any secrets for
veeping that wonderful skin, but politeness
forbade. To my joy, however, she resumed
our former conversation.
“It always seems to me that old-fpshioned
remedies are the best. Of course, I ! have to
consider the question of keeping such looks
as 1 may have, because being a model is
precarious work, and the market 'is over-
stocked with old models of the wrinkled
white-haired type. I always treat my skin
rather carefully because I look on it as busi-
ness capital. Every night I massage it with
pure mereolised wax, which I wash off in
the morning with warm water. That clears
the skin thoroughly, because the oxygen in
tie wax absorbs all the waste outer tissue
ot the skin, and exposes the new coriiplexion
underneath, which is quite fresh and smooth.
Ui course, this treatment is a great pre-
ventive of wrinkles, for they never have
time to form.
I have taken to using something for my
lips lately, as they used to be so dry and
sore. I bought an ordinary stick of prolac-
tum, and I do not think you could find any-
thing better. It is so soothing, and it gives .
one’s lips just a nice warm healthy look,
without any hint of make-up.
“I am very interested in all you have told
me,” I answered. “I wish-1 could tell you
some things, too. But I don’t believe there
is any little secret you don’t know.”
“I have not yet found anything really
good for the hands,” she told me, holding out
a pair of shapely but roughened ones ; “house-
work makes them so red and dirty!”
“Ah ! I exclaimed, “then I can give you
one tip. Get some bicrolium jelly from your
chemist; you’ll find that it will get all the
ingrained dirt right out of your hands, be-
sides making them beautifully soft and white.
I don’t know where I should be without it
myself.”
She thanked me very sincerely, and the
time being up, prepared to go.—Advt.


TKe
Purest
Spirit
irv tKe
UtHcL
f
A Prink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's scH^ vt>^
stands aloisie.
The Comfort
of an
always
sharp
Blade.
*1
r ,
I ffi
■ *
S
\ V
“VALET”
Safety Razor
It is easy to shave as closely and cleanly as a barber if
you have a “barbers edge” on your razor blade. Years
of practice have taught him how to strop his razor to
the highest pitch of keenness. With the “ Valet ” Auto-
Strop you can obtain such an edge every morning,
without serving an apprenticeship.
Built right into the razor is a self-stropping device which
puts the keenest edge on the blade. Half-a-dozen
strokes on its strop is all that is needed. Nothing to
unscrew—no separate stropping machine —no constant
expense for new blades.
And the “Valet” Auto Strop is as easy to clean as to
strop—just a rinse and a wipe, without taking to pieces.
THE STANDARD SET (as illus-
trated) consis s of heavily silver-plated,
self - stropping “ Valet” Auto Strop
Safety Razor, twelve “Valet" blades,
and “ Valet ” strop, complete
in handsome case lined 07/ f*
velvet and satin ** # / O
Of all dealers
through-out Australasia.
Managing Agents for Australasia:
RALPtt ABKRCROMBK, LTD.,
Broughton House,
Clarence & King Streets, Sydney.
h
&
=e=r==
safe
ORIGINAL
BALATA
dfd
BRITISH
BELTING
Thehig h char acte r consistently built into every inch of
DICK S Original Balata Belting is responsible for the
profound goodwill it enjoys with all leading Engineers
and Plant Owners. Its reputation for efficiency with
lowest operating costs is backed by over 3o years of
faithful service and sturdy performance.
Ihe plies of DICK S Balata Belting will not part under the
scveie mauling of shifters, as they are closely and firmly welded
together by powerful machinery. There are no seams or splices
to bump, wear, or damage machinery.
Being impervious to all conditions of dampness, DICK’S is
the ideal belt for use in Refrigerating Plants, Laundries. Butter
and Dairy r actories, and in all plants where damp conditions
prevail.
One of our practical men will be pleased to consult with you*
engineers regarding the correct application of belting, without
any obligation to you. WRITE FOR FREE COPY OF THE
h An AT A BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE 8 COY. LTD..
SYDNEY,
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE,
540-542 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
rnent a square or lend elegance to a facade.
To overcome tnis dniiculcy as far as bis
talents allow, the sculptor'glorifies his sub-
ject, with the result that the great man is
unrecognisable to his contemporaries, and
still fails as a decoration by reason of the
limitations imposed upon the artist by an
essentially inartistic subject. Mr. Fitzgib-
bon’s statue stands on St. Kilda-road. But
what it stands for is already forgotten by
nine-tenths of the wayfarers who buzz by
in motors or dawdle past on trams. Having
lost practically all value as a moral influ-
ence, and never having had any really
aesthetic claims, the figure is now merely
cumbering the earth.
r neighboring figure is that of the late
fiord Hopetoun, who was an excellent, tall
thin gentleman, almost as good a (Governor
as a Governor can be in a country that
rigidly restricts the activities of its Gov-
ernors to insignificant matters of official
detail and a sort of guardianship of the
social amenities. His Lordship being so
very tall and so exceedingly spare, the sculp-
tor put a gentleman whose functions were
essentially those of a footman on horse-
back, where Ins Excellency, a personage of
the mildest manners, has an air of strained
astonishment and uneasiness.
In the same vicinity is a bronze figure of
Robert Burns standing by a plough, pre-
cisely as if it were a farm-laborer and
not as a poet that Robert had earned uni-
versal regard. -I his error of judgment leads
to wide misconception, as, for instance, in
the case ot the twm Show-time visitors over-
heard discussing the identity of the man
behind the plough. Said one: “Burns is
his name. Never met him meself, but I
s P°se he was a champion ploughman in
his day —which he was, of course, but
that is not the moral the- bronze seeks to
drive home.
What incentive can the spectator be ex-
to find in the group commemorating
Uilliam Clarke, Victoria’s first baronet,
which stands at the entrance of the Trea-
sury Gardens, since the gentleman is already
forgotten, and there remains no man who
can say what special virtues of his justified
this elaborate effort to make him immortal!
Instead of perpetuating his memory, his
admirers have merely set up a riddle in
marble wdiich. Sphinx-like, refuses to en-
lighten the pilgrim. They have added the
inexplicable to the inconceivable, and call
it a memorial.
So in Melbourne we have a statue of late
town-clerk Fitzgibbon, and none of Graham
Berry; one of I onl Hopetoun. and none of
David Syme. William Clarke is in endur-
ir.g, if dumb, marble, and the claims of
Ge .rge. Higinbotliam are ignored. It is in
the nature of things that the mediocre per-
son who has not antagonised any section of
'the community by tine patriotic or social
efforts for the uplifting of his kind may
have a stone thrust up..n him the moment
he is dead, while the man of great works,
by reason of the antagonism of little minds,
is denied any public recognition of his
merits. Consequently the existing system
considered as a means of uplifting the
masses must inevitably fail, and that being
conceded, the way is open for the introduc-
tion of my scheme for adding a living in-
terest to our gardens, highways and greater
public buildings by the creation of a series
of fine monuments to the utterly unworthy.
Naturally, unworthiness in trifling things
would qualify none for marbled immortality :
only that citizen whose conduct has won him
general recognition as an infernal scoundrel,
or the public man whose disloyalty has in-
flicted great and abiding mischief upon the
country and suffering upon the people, would
be deemed worthy of a place in my rogues’
gallery. The statue in each case would have
to be symbolical and attractive, either as a
straight allegory or as a superb grotesque, the
idea being to provide a shocking example
that could not fail to impress the most cal-
lous or the least attentive. The spectacle
of an elderly gentleman of enormous dispro-
portions, attired in the voluminous skirts
of office, may never inspire us to integrity
in the conduct of municipal affairs, but a
group representing the late Mr. Deeming,
caught in the third act, as it were, done in
good Portland cement, with a flamboyant
Mephistopheles thrusting a trident into* his
vitals, preparatory to pitchforking him into
the matted flames of the nethermost brim-
stone pit, all conveyed in realistic bas-reliefs,
could not fail to convey a warning to us
all not to make a hobby of homicide. Ned
Kelly sculptured with the demon of the law
descended upon him, the pedestal with thrill-
ing vignettes representing the seven stages
of a successful hanging, would serve to rob
bushranging of its fictitious romance, and
to impress our youth with the belief that
life in a clerkship at 50s. a week, with the
possibility of a calm ending on a wire-mat-
tress, is much to be preferred to the mere-
tricious glamor of the life of a gallant ban-
dalero, with its worries, its brevity and its
final suspense.
The villain who introduced Scotch thistles
might be depicted succumbing to the
pressure of bis favorite vegetable. That
sprig of ignobility who introduced the spar-
row I would damn to all eternity in an im-
posing bronze, as an arch-fiend" liberating
his diabolical bird to prey vulture-like on
the vitals of the Australian Prometheus.
The foster-parent of the rabbit plague I
would depict in infernal guise, chortling
while an emaciated settler was being bitten
to death. Cast in appropriate brass I would
have caricatures of faithless or muddle-
headed politicians take the place of those
statues standing hopelessly insignificant
upon our thoroughfares, to" remind politi-
cians daily of the reward of incompetence
and chicanery.
As for the statues already in existence,
these I would invest with the enchantment
distance lends, endowing them with wonder
and mystery by setting them on great, lone
headlands; I would plant them on moun-
tain-crags overlooking the desert plain, or
the billows of bush land, where pilgrims
might come upon them in the dusk of day
ana marvel at their strangeness with a curi-
ous delight. Even Town Clerk Fitzgibbon
done in bronze might be invested with poetic
significance if seen in distance against a set-
ting sun on some weird, tree-circled peak of
the Great Dividing Range. So situated, the
statue might, at any rate, work the least
ill to the smallest number.
EDWARD DYSON.
A Satchel of Books
The Wrong Twin, by Harry Leon Wilson (John
Lane). “Main Street,” though it was too long
and dawdled too much by the way, nevertheless
had such a vogue that tales of quiet American
towns have since been poured out. ‘‘The Wrong
Twin” is one of the best of them. Its small town
is Newbern Center—this English edition permits the
spelling—and, as in “Main Street,” the handy old
war is used to account for some remarkable develop-
ments in character. In these days when hungry
Treasurers are offering ' bonuses for new ideas in
taxation and the discovery of virgin fiads, it is
astonishing that none of them has thought of making
the war a source of revenue. Writers who had to
spend weeks whipping their brains to find a reason-
able excuse for their sinner turning into saint or
their saint into sinner nowadays simply send him (or
her) to the war; or, if that is uncomfortable, then
at a pinch the change can be wrought by making
him (her) brood over the great tragedy at home.
There ought to be a charge for this use of the
war—and, of course, publishers should pay it. Four
go to the war from Newbern Center, and Winona
Penniman, who wouldn’t mention h-—1 for the world
and taught Sunday-school regular, comes back mar-
ried to a blinded pugilist, who, incidentally, has
got her to cut out cigarettes. But these are not
the twins. The couple are the motherless sons of
Dave Cowan, roving printer. The big landed people
of the district adopt one of -them —the one the
before-mentioned Winona has helped to make a little
prig. The two grow up in vastly different sur-
roundings, and —well, there’s' an obvious story.
Harry Leon Wilson has the usual good American ideas
about what America did in the Cleat War ; but, at
any rate, he has got hold of a capital main idea,
and developed it admirably.
Sarah and, Iler Daughter, by Bertha Pearl (Thomas
SeltZer, New York). This is the best fiction that
has come from the U.S.A. for a year. It is a tale
of N’York’s Ghetto, and if the writer does not
know that Ghetto intimately she is a rare artist
who can make us believe she does. Some of it is
not pretty. How could it be and be worth any-
thing ? The Mendels came from a small village in
the Baltic provinces. Elias was pious and orthodox,
clung to his Sabbath and saw the little capital he
had put into a soda-water stand disappear; for,
as his relatives argued with him, “people who go
to another stand on a Saturday go to it on a Sun-
day, too, and on a Monday and on a Tuesday.” But
it was no good ; so Elias Mendel lost his money, and
then died, and Sarah was left with her daughter—-
and two other daughters and a son. Matters were
not improved when Sarah married again; and
Sarah’s daughter went out alone to look for work.
She found other things waiting for her; and these
other things are told of plainly enough, but only
as part of the story. They seem to fit into their
place. Everything fits into its place. Even
the revolutionary talk, w’hich sounds so absurd
and is so absurd in Australia, seems in
its place here, where a population as large as that
of our continent is crowded into one horrible city.
After a tremendous struggle this girl can face it
no longer; she remembers one of the other things
and writes to the man (a Gentile, too!): “I have
been sick and in the Helina Heimath for six months.
I am much better now and ready to do as you asked
me to if you will make me independent.” Per-
haps it should have ended on that. The real story
does. If you think Bertha Pearl’s story ought to
it is easy enough to leave out the last short chapter.
You will have had your money’s worth, anyhow.
West Wind Drift, by George Barr McCutcheon
(Dodd, Mead). In the October after the U.S.A.
had come into the war the Doraine left a S. Ameri-
can port for the North with holds and cabins filled.
She was never heard of afterwards. McCutcheon,
the man who wrote “Brewster’s Millions,” explains
here what became of her. She was turned into a
derelict by high explosives planted in her most
vulnerable parts, and drifted with the West Wind
on.to an uninhabited island. Most of “West Wind
Drift’ is the story of what happened on the island
the story of how labor was organised, crops
grown, industries established—with a stowaway as
chief organiser: he had been a mine manager in
Bolivia or thereabouts, and, having lost all the
money he had in his clothes, had been in too much
of a hurry about joining up to wait for more. With
the love-story that is woven about him there are
some healthy hates; for the big ship’s company
included bad millionaires and worse S. American
halt-breeds, a queer situation arising out of the
fact that the half-breeds had more real money with
them than the millionaires. McCutcheon makes a
very readable yarn out of it all, though there will
be some complaints about the ending, and many a
reader will turn over hoping that there is an epi-
logue or something after the last chapter.
Trial by Ordeal, by Evan Morgan (John Lane).
Apparently a first book; and very immature. The
plot is frail, the characters ill-drawn and unreal,
the dialogue artificial, the construction poor and
the punethation vile.
Villiers (Hutchinson). A two-volume life-story of
the war-correspondent and artist covering five
decades of trouble. Villiers first smelt powder in
the Russo-Turkish scrap of 1871, and usually
had a front seat at subsequent disturbances; he did
great work as a white-whiskered veteran with the
British Army in 1914 and after. He was before
Plevna with the Russians in 1878, and his story of
General Winter’s victims is as grim in its way as
the description from the Turkish side by the Aus-
tralian, Charles Ryan, in “Under the Red Crescent.”
Villiers tried to keep up with the Greeks in the
scurry from the Turks in 1897, and he notes with
sardonic humor that the present King Tino was the
Marathon champion of the Greek rabble. In Egypt
foemen of a more formidable character were encoun-
tered in the followers of Arabi Pasha, Osman Digna
and the Mahdi, and the chronicler heaps bouquets on
the 1 fuzzv-wuzzies who charged in the open against
machine-guns. During the Gordon Relief Expedition
Villiers made a friend of Major French, Who was
destined to lead the “Contemptibles” in 1914, and
he had a dramatic meeting in the Boer War with
the young man who succeeded French in the com-
mand of the British Army some months later. Fol-
lowing the Chino-Jap disagreement of 1894 Villiers
saw the unique spectacle of the Chinese army going
into battle under a forest of umbrellas. It seems
that it began to rain when the Japs attacked, and
the Chinese general requisitioned all the gamps in
the town of Ping Yang to prevent the new uniforms
of his warriors getting wet. Ten years later the
artist was sketching different warfare from a hill
near Port Arthur, and the blood and tenacity of
that conflict are graphically depicted. His easy-
going yarn is worth reading, and so far as the pre-
sent reviewer can tell, it contains only two glaring
errors, lie describes the verse of Ella’Wheeler Wil-
cox as “incomparable,” and says bushrangers were
“rampant” in Victoria in the ’nineties. As to the
latter, however, he may have been alluding to land-
agents.
The Fortunes of Geoffrey Mayne, by Charles Rodda
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co.). A London blood of the
Napoleonic era falls under unmerited suspicion of
having tried to murder his one remaining parent.
Emigrating to N. S. Wales, he goes on the land,
strikes drought, takes to rum and the road, and is
reformed by a young person whose cheeks mocked
at the roses and whose lips were hued like some
wonderful wine. A rather theatrical yarn with
seme meritorious passages.


ƒg
The Flag
for
Woolgrowers,
and no strong puff is needed to attract
owners to it.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
give such good service and so consistently
secure top results, that sheepmen find it
invariably pays to consign wool—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON,
Sydney or Brisbane.
f
!\ f
* * *
W
&
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CYCXONE” and all other Chisholm-
Moore Hoisting: Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33(i01b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8450 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
CHATEAU
TANUNEA
StaTu3anl& 6 A Hospital
BRXNDY
J
ssalSd
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
A Clear, Healthy
Skin for All.
s
e
n
d
for
a
Tin
T
o=
d
a
y
No matter where you live it is
possible to be cured of Eczema or
any skin trouble by using
UCMOLLIENE
CREAM
in your own home. Send to-day
for a tin —two sizes at 5/6 and
7/6.
Gives relief at first application,
and cures permanently after a
short treatment.
1/6 will Secure sample tin.
Also try Toilet Soap at 1/- cake.
Write to-day to
W. H. MALYON & SON,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
AUSTRALIAN
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
ƒ
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
g
brand
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grsdC Zinc DllSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zlne
ZINC CONCENTRATES— Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address •
Zinc Producers’ Association LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS”STREET, MELBOURNE.
PLUMBERS’ BRASSWORK
Immediate Delivery.
“Medium” or “Country” Lines: |m., fin., lin. Bibs, Hose, Stops,
Ferrule Stops, Straight Ferrules, etc.
WATER-BOARD STANDARD. Melbourne, Brisbane, Hobart,
Perth, Adelaide, Sydney. All usual lines.
RANGE or TANK COCKS, fin., £in., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS.
ALDERDICE,
Brassfoundry, Warrnambool.
Waternferis
(Ideal)
FomitainPen
This Self-Filling Type
has a most ingenious little lever which fits
flush on the barrel and enables you to fill the
World's best Fountain Pen instantly. It’s a
wonderful invention which you must see.
Everybody wants one.
Three Types—“ Self-Filling,” " Safety ” and 'Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L.G. Sloan, Ltd., Comer
Kingsway, London, England,
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
. 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
r>
f
Watermans
Ideal
Kiis
f
The Suggestion of Satisfaction
can be turned, into realisation by
every smoker of this world-famed
pipe.
GBD pipes are specially prepared
from old French briar-root, shaped
and finished by London experts.
If you are not acquainted with
their merit —chum up with a GBD
to-day.
■ i
-' - _
On ca.e everyv/uere.
Many popular chapes.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Yoyang” : The wife of a wealthy squatter
in one of the southern N.S.W. districts made
£2oo.pin-money from the walnuts which grew
on the station last season. One of the south-
ern municipalities planted walnut trees in
the streets, declared it an offence for small
boys to touch the fruit, and netted a tidy sum
at the last picking.
Knowing something of their little ways,
Lawson and McPherson (Vic.) are going
to force companies that want advances under
the Fruit and Primary Products Acts to deal
with the Savings Bank Commissioners. The
politician won’t have nearly so much pull,
but there will be a far better chance of some-
thing like business principles being observed.
“Foulard” : A few of the big ragshops in
Melbourne retain the old-fashioned practice
of taking the name and address of a cus-
tomer presenting a tenner or liver in pay-
ment for goods, and sending these details
with the number of the note through the
tubes to the cash desk. The other night a
quiet-looking dame, after observing this pro-
cedure, got even by demanding and obtain-
ing a written statement that three specified
£1 notes and a ten-shilling flimsy supplied as
change had been handed to her by the per-
nicketty firm.
* * * *
“A.”: The Commonwealth has been im-
porting most of its telegraphic instruments,
but recently a set of the more ex-
pensive was built in Melbourne, and
beat the imported apparatus in both
finish and utility, though it was pro-
duced at little more than half the landed
cost of the foreign goods. Encouraged
thereby the Vic. telegraph workshops have
built several Wheatstone transmitters com-
plete with -improved electric-driving power
and controlling rheostats, specially designed
to suit Australian conditions. These are for
local use, but other States have been sup-
plied with instruments, and more are on
order.
“Jimmy Jamtin”: The governmental
business of Australia hangs on scraps of
paper. One day lately a head of a depart-
ment presented a subordinate with five pieces
of paper in a few hours. These have such
remarks as “Please investigate,” “Please
explain,” “Please obtain report” or “Please
note and act accordingly.” When the fifth
arrived the disgusted subordinate gasped:
“Why don’t you ask a man what you want
instead of giving him these tuppeny-lia’penny
pieces of paper?” The head was indignant
at such a display of commonsense, and re-
turned in a few minutes with a sixth memo,
on which was written : “Please explain what
you meant by your reference to the workings
of this department as tuppenny-ha’penny.”
South Aus. Government, shipping 4000
cases of oranges to England in July, kept a
few back for observation. George Quinn,
the horticultural expert, reports the result:
Oranges pack better in a perfect square than in
an oblong. fruit from the Murray packed in July
was too ripe; it will have to be harvested earlier
than that. Damp-proof wrapping is a necessity, and
you need a centre division, so that a lumper can
walk over the cases without the boards pressing
into the fruit. There must not be the slightest
scratch on the surface. In California they make
the pickers wear gloves ; when I mentioned that on
the Murray they laughed....l have opened a case
and found a light scratch on the surface of some. In
this is a growth of blue mould, the enemy of citrus
fruit, which accounts for 99 per cent, of their
decay. We often hear about handling eggs, but we
must handle oranges 10 times more carefully- than
that.
* * * *
“Barnacle”: Almost weekly we carry
groups of foreign immigrants to N.Q. and
these people are quickly acquiring the pick
of the best land in Australia, while the in-
different Britisher does the lumping on the
Cairns and Townsville wharves. A breath
of fresh air and cleanliness blew in a few
days ago, in the shape of a Canadian with
his wife and eight rosy-cheeked children,
bound for the Atherton Tableland to take up
dairying. He told me he had paid his own
way across and received no Government
assistance. Questioned as to why he had
picked on N.Q., he said he had carefully in-
spected it, and decided that nowhere could
he find a more suitable climate. The Cana-
dian winter robbed the average farmer of
his savings, especially in the dairying busi-
ness, and cattle at Atherton looked better
at the end of winter than did the Canadian
cattle at the end of summer. Is nothing
sensible being done to entice more Cana-
dians—or Scotch and English, for that mat-
ter —to come along and help to oust the
Dago and Mongolian from this particularly
fine N.Q. land?
BALLADE OF THE SUDDEN SEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I have been able to see for myself exactly what
you need.” —Lord Northcliffe.
In half-an-hour the truth prevails.
The Viscount makes a swift descent
On stations, farms and streets and gaols:
He understands this Continent
(Next week he’ll do the Orient),
And, Moses like, will take the lead
To solve our problems exigent—
He knows exactly what we need.
He’ll put us in his Daily Mails,
He’ll boom our statesmen eminent ;
Queensland will cheer ; and New South Wales
Will raise more Loans for Settlement
And Public Works of vast extent;
He’ll make us prosperous indeed -
With wild-cat schemes magnificent—
He knows exactly what we need.
He knows it all—our secret trails,
The things that Labor leaders meant;
He knows our little fairy-tales;
He knows how he and Hughes were sent
By Heaven a programme to invent
The world at Washington must heed,
Though fools the Conference resent—-
He know’s exactly what we need.
Envoy.
Prince of the Press, on progress bent,
We will adopt the Northcliffe creed:
Headlines and stunts, advertisement—
He know's exactly what we need.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


X
Renewal of Willard
Threaded Rubber Insula-
tion scarcely needs to be
given a thought. But that
of ordinary insulation
must, at least once before
the battery is worn out.
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation gives far
better protection to
plates and is the only
kind that can be depend-
ed on to last as long as
the battery.
Ĥ
STORAGE
BATTERY
,


T
- m w a Vii •
aBSMuS
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVER,
OIL
EMULSION
FOR ALL
fhesk^P 1 *
ANoWasHng
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
PENCILS
g
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
I)R A CCHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
¥
&
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
There’s no question that for a Clear, Neat
and Durable Name to mark any garment
or Article
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On.
Be sure and ask for CASH'S Names.
Prices: 12doz. 7/6—6 doz. 5/—3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
I tit I f ASH P ‘y- 85 Cubitt St.
J. tt J. UrtOll Ltd . Richmond. Vic.
WHITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
iiflllli
m
f
ƒg
f
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatrfe Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. .* Y3OOl, 300?. Apply Manager.
lliiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiminniiiiiiiiiitm"
iiiTiiLiiiiin'firirimniiniiniimiiniiiiniii'iuiuiiiiiiiuiiiiniiruiiiniiiiiinnmTninnTnTTiTTTTllllll)
V
uam/Jm
y
a a
STATES
EALISING that many
men allow but ten
minutes or so for the
selection of their hat, high
grade Mens’ Outfitters, to
save the minutes will invari-
ably offer you a STETSON.
They know a STETSON
Hat will render you Service
and Satisfaction—that the
STETSON is dominant in
Style, finely made, hand
finished and unimpeach-
in oualitv.
i
A STETSON is
PAR EXCELLENCE
a Gentleman's Hat
STETSON
Sole Australasian Agents; P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
Men’# Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies’ * * 4/-
(Soles and Heels),
per set.
Men'i Stout 2/6
.. Light 21-
Ladies’ ■ - 1/3
(Heels only ,
per pair.
tfjj THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
□J to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
tflT THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS Ltd.,
London, Eng,
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N. S. WALES, QUEENSLAND and VICTORIA:— J. M. ROHAN,
262 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S.A., W.A. and TASMANIA:—C. M. HANSFORD, 22 Waymoutli
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
If Pgweik ts
WHAT You WANT'
XjsePlume
If you want to feel the exhilara-
tion of driving a car, which, day
by day, is fairly tugging with
power, use Plume Motor Spirit.
You will feel this power the
moment you open the throttle.
Motorists speak highly of the
power developed by Plume Motor
Spirit. They say Plume doesn't
jib on the hills, that steep hills only
serve to show how powerful it is—
and it doesn’t let them down when
they are in a hurry.
Plume is all power—it gives the
pull and the quick acceleration that
are so essential to satisfactory
motoring.
Plume also gives that extra mile-
age that makes such a difference
to the petrol bill.
Fill up with Plume next time,
and experience the pleasure of
driving a car that is alive with
power.
P 4 X
f ,vw
W f mir
If I
),;>
■why
'tliX-
*■//"//.
Pi!
4
i
r.
PLUME £
VACUUM OIL CO.PTY. LTD.
PLUME
MOTOR SPIRIT
‘N.B.”: Two specimens of “comparison”
from recent exam, papers:—
til — dying—dead.
Well —dam—lake.
If a little bill now before the Vic. Parlia-
ment passes, the screw of the Board of Works
chairman can be raised from £l5OO to
£2OOO. Carre Riddell probably won’t mind.
1 itzgibbon got only £l5OO, but money went
further in his day.
Herbert Keck, who succeeds the late A 1 f
Hicks as Uppah House member for Bendigo,
is of the shire-council type. Heaven only
knows what would become of the Chambah if
six or seven who could be named without
any trouble dropped out.
"Tim Tiki”: The roi is very mort. A
lecturer in a Waikato (M.L.) town the
oilier day slid Dick Seddon on to the screen
before an audience of school children, and
asked if they knew who he was. After get-
ting Robert Louis Stevenson and Captain
Cook he took no more chances and told ’em.
“Austral”: The Bulletin’s photo" of C.
I- Dennis (1/10/’2l) made me look up the
school register, and I found that the author
of the “Sentimental Bloke” was enrolled at
the Gladstone (S.A.) public school in Sep-
tember, 1881, at the age of five years. His
father, a publican, kept the future poet at
this institution for eight years and left the
town in August. 1889.
Prof. Watson, of Adelaide, did a char-
acteristic thing when he went to Melbourne
to uphold the latest will of his old friend
Thomas Mates, His name was not men-
tioned in it, whereas he was down for £lOOO
in the previous one which would stand if
tlm testator was pronounced incompetent to
make the new one. Watson’s testimony was
probably the main factor in deciding the
Court that testator was able at that time
to make the fresh will.
The last night John Storey was in N. S.
V ales Assembly an old member ambled
towards a vacant bench and, stretching out
his legs, folding his arms, and opening wide
his mouth, was asleep in half a minute. He
had just dined. Soon his snores threatened
to interrupt the debate. “My God!” said
the doomed Premier. “I’ve been as good as
on the waggon all mv life—and look at me
and look at that! I’d give all I’ve got to be
like him for ,a day.”
“Meataxe”; The Williamstown Customs
officials have unearthed a record of vessels
that arrived at Melbourne between January
2, 1846, and January 25, 1847. The Sham-
rock, a 200-ton steamer, handled by Captain
and carrying up to 18 saloon
and 00 or 70 steerage passengers, could
reach Launceston in two days and Sydney
m four even that far back. Mention is also
made of “Crown-prisoner ships” from Port-
land and Port Fairy (Vic.).
No sooner did Mclver, the new Vic. In-
spector-General of Prisons, go away for a
holiday and leave Dicker, (Voveriior of Jt'eiit-
ridge, in charge than the strike-germ made
its way in. Dicker insisted upon doing his
job properly and searching thoroughly for
contraband. Regarding this as “insulting
and humiliating,” 100 of the guests refused
to work Nothing terrible happened. When
the leaders had cooled their heels they were
dealt with by a visiting magistrate.
“ B }ac kf Hars” : R e "Tin Hat’s” picture
(B- 22/9/21) of what happened when Lon-
don sa w the first Hun airship (it was a
Scliutte-Lanz, not a Zepp) brought down in
liames. Warneford, V.C., was not the youth
who did the trick—it was Leefe Robinson.
V.C. Warneford had then been dead a
year, having followed up his destruction of
a Zeppelin near Ghent on June 7, 1915, by
spending a hectic leave in Paris and coming
to grief within a few weeks of his pioneer
exploit in Zepp-smashing. London’s first
joyous vision of a raiding airship in flames
was on Sept. 3, 1916, the wreck falling at
Cuffiey.
Hartley Williams, ex-Senior Puisne Judge
of Vic., will be 78 on Oct. 15—lie was born in
lutzroy, then called New Town, at a time
when his father was one of less than half-a-
dozen barristers who practised before the
Resident Judge. Young Williams was sent
to Lngland for schooling, and was called to the
\ ic. Bar in April, 1868. One of his earliest
briefs of any note was as junior to J. H.
Dunne in the prosecution of Gerald Henry
Supple for the murder in 1870 of John Ses-
nan Walshe, a publican and ex-detective. The
late Judge has been drawing a pension for 18
years, and has lived in England most of the
time.
"T. 0.1.” : An old October birthday is that
of John Pascoe Fawkner, born on the 27th
in 1792. He left England on April 05
1808, landed in Port Phillip Oct. 19 and
remained till Jan. 14. 1804, when Captain
Collins removed his people to the Derwent.
He came to Sydney iii ) 8,14, returned to
V -D. Land in March, 1817, engaged in trade
at Hobart Town, and then removed in 1819
to Launceston, where he kept the Cornwall
Hotel and started the Launceston Adver-
tiser, which he sold in 1831. He settled on
the Yarra in 1885, and three years later
started the first newspaper in MS. In 1839
he launched the Port Phillip Patriot, was
in the first Council, and retained a seat until
his death in Smith-street, Gollingwood, Sept.
4, 1869. He had no children, and his widow
married J. J. Walshe. a barrister.
“Mugwump” : Lord Esher, who has written
a book to prove that Kitchener was too old
for his last war job, describes K. of K. as
“courteous, patient and stern.” An Aus-
tralian doctor once spent a night in clink
because lie ruffled this courteous, patient
and stern autocrat. Back during the Khar-
toum campaign, the doc. hired a native boat-
man to row him out to a gunboat, anchored
mid-stream in the Nile, whereon he was to
dine. Just as lie was stepping into the dug-
out a voice hailed him with one word :
‘Stop!” Looking round he saw an officer
and an orderly. The former spoke rapidly
in Arabic to the boatman. “Excuse mo, sir *”
said the medico, “that’s my boat, and I’m
just off to that ship.” “How dare you talk
to me like that!” was the courteous, path
out and stern officer’s reply. “Orderly, take
this man to the guard-houfee.” Then K. oi
K. got into the other fellow’s boat and was
paddled off to dinner.


w
m
Cf
Its
'
its
V;
n
O'?
L‘i*
5K
llrifTtf
9r
3
3MS
50338@jyt
sms
Pr«s«n
Swrfa c*»
S *C.JOHNSONXi(
sJtfcs
v.lit
r*V*t : *2.
m
c ßpnew Your Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.
HI
H
THE PERFECT GRAMOPHONE.
i if 3 MAS lER S VOICE is the instrument
which the world’s greatest artists have
selected as the best to reproduce their artistry,
and their records are only heard to their best
advantage when played upon the instrument
specially constructed for the purpose.
“His Master’s Voice”
The World’s Choice.
We stock all models of “HIS MASTER’S
VOICE.” Each instrument is complete with
every effective modern device for the perfect
reproduction of records.
CABINET MODELS.
GRAMOLA No. 2
GRAMOLA No. 3
LIBRARY GRAND
STUDIO GRAND
The " ‘
85 guineas
68 guineas
54 guineas
37 guineas
DIO GRAND .... 37 guineas
MELBA 36 guineas
TABLE MODELS. ~
Th C 25 guineas
ZEALAND 23 guineas
t£ C 17 guineas
The excels ::::::: ?® guineas
guineas
k
I ‘
branches—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.
LISMORE
in
a
338 George St.
Sydney!
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
AND FULL PARTICULARS
OF OUR EASY TERMS.


Itched and Burned, Face
Inflamed. Cuticura Heals.
“My skin became very hot and
itchv and in a short time pimples
broke out on my face and
spread to my neck. They
appeared in blotches and
formed great red lumps
which in time came to a
head. My face became all
inflamed and used to bum
and itch terribly.
“This Lasted about six months. I
then wrote for a free sample of Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and also bought
some, and I was healed.” (Signed)
J. Lawlor, “Gairloch”, 77 Wilson
St., Princes Hill, Nth. Carlton, Vic.
Make Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Talcum your daily toilet preparations.
Soapls.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointinentls.and2s.
For sampSe Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress]_“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
S9SRT Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
w
v
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by tile Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Cal]e
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
lt will pay you .
The convemenceand economy gained,
together with the constant pleasure
derived from healthy exercise, make
the purchase of a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings a paying
investment. Reliability and service
are the leading features for which
these machines are famous, and make
them invaluable for business or
pleasure. Look for the B.S.A. trade
mark on your new bicycle.
V
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A. Sign ol
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
ƒg
ƒg
f
g
t h
Xcutt
Reduced Prices
EFFECTIVE Ist JULY, 1921
Covers Tubes
Others in Proportion
Colo Covers and Tubes are
Guaranteed 4000 Miles
Your Garage can supply
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., Head Office: 5-7 Barrack St.,Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 11-13 Twin Street.
Perth: 33 Barrack Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swam on Streets
and Wanganui (N.Z.).
fin English Qarden lives again
A fragrance of England's best loved flowers, as real
and true as if borne to you through the quiet evening
air in an old * fashioned English village garden —-
such is the fidelity to nature of Zenobia Perfumes.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, dainty and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night - Scented Stock, another favourite perfume,
sweet and fragrant.
ra
7EN0814
hIW
ot the
v n
valley
T*!sit
fcSX
f
Zenobia Perfumes
are obtainable at
most high - class
Che m ists. Per-
fumers & Stores
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd.,
Loughborough, Leicestershire. Eng.
Sole Agents for New Zealand (Wholesale only),
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1102, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia (Wholesale only),
KENNETH BUCKMASTER, B
15 O’Connell Street. Svdnev.
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
"TRUSTWORTHY" CUTLERY
i i
158-162 CKFORDSTWI. 172. REGENT STW.I
2. QUEEN VICTORIA STE.C.4.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Illi
a
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12 perrons with Prince s Plate
Spoons and Forks, plain patterns, and
"Trustworthy” Cutlery. Price, com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company s own
Sheffield Works. “Trustworthy
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
“D.Y.”: Records in families? The Me-
Xeurs, of Whakatane (M.L.), have five sons,
and all are Presbyterian parsons.
October 10 was the OOtli anniversary of
the receipt in Melbourne of the news of the
death of Burke and Wills at Cooper’s Creek
and of the finding alive of John King. A.
M . Howitt was leader of the expedition that
made the discovery.
“P.C.L. V ’: Talking of families, in Rho-
desia (S. Africa) I struck a Boer farmer
whose wife, then 57 years old. had produced
70 youngsters, the eldest being 43. Ou one
occasion, she triumphantly told me, she had
five (three boys and two girls). Threes
were common, twins happened only once,
and a single when she was 15 years old.
“Wafui": "Haka” (B. 8/9/’2l) cannot
claim a record. One of our cockies clown
here (Cippsland, Vie.) lias gathered 13 olive
branches in his 15 years of married life. Re-
cently lie bought a sack of outsize and odd
.shoes at a bazaar and, in answer to inquiries,
boasted: “Don’t you worry. 1 betyer I got a
kid to fit any size boot ever made !”
“Sixenate”: When 1 met Jimmy Me-
Go wen on the Sydney Show Ground on the
day of the Eight-Hour sports, he mentioned
that it was the 35th year lie had marched
with his union in the procession. Even
when he was Premier, the solid James took
part in the show. He also mentioned that
among those who marched with him on this
last occasion were men of 85, S 3 and 82.
Chemist McLeod, of Dulacca, is exploiting
Bananaland’s second-greatest curse, and the
district is looking on with hopeful interest,
lie is manufacturing soap, potash, fertiliser
and other things from prickly-pear, and is
also turning out prickly-pear poison. The Gov-
ernment has been interested enough in the
work of this unostentatious chemist to grant
him a lease of 100,000 acres of pear country
to play with.
A pioneer of the 14c. State Savings Bank
system. Thomas Xortliover Wade, has signed
his last < hoque.- 1 lalf-a-century ago he kept
a bookseller’s shop in Collins-street, about
where the Royal Bank now stands. Five
years later he transferred himself and his
stock to Kyneton, and there becoming con-
nected with the local Savings Bank the
book-vending was abandoned. He was just
on 80 when (lie call came.
“Yacko”: That Archdeacon Scott who
tried to evict Edwin Smith Hall from liis
pew in St. James’s Church, Sydney, about
100 years ago (B. l/9/’2l) had been a wine
merchant. He came to Australia as clerk
to the Bigg Commission, during Macquarie’s
regime, and so diligently did lie ferret out
mismanagement that as a reward Earl
Bathurst created the position of Archdeacon
of X. S. Wales for him, with a salary of
£2OOO attached. But in less than 18 months
Scott retired and returned to England.
It is fortunate for Castlemaine that it
can raise not only a Premier but a Director
of Education, a chief State architect and a
Secretary for Public Works. Xo wonder it
has got tin' dandiest High School outside the
big centres in the State. It is in the very
centre of the town, on a lump of the sacred
Market Square, no less. Further down the
street, are the tech, and the junior tech.
The woollen mills and the big foundry help
to maintain the homes that send forth the
students for these special institutions.
“Jobber”: “Ik’s” Mention of ancient war-
riors (B. 22/9/’2l) reminds me of old Dave
McGregor. After battling round the W.A.
goldfields, he went to the Ivlondyke, and
was doing a perish there when the Kaiser
went off his base. Although over 50. Mac
got down into Canada and enlisted. In
France he took the count, and was sent
across to Blighty. After a stretch in hos-
pital. he rejoined his unit, and, I believe,
saw the scrapping through—one of the
toughest and bravest men that ever breathed.
Donald McLeod, chairman of the resusci-
tated ViC. Country Liberal party, is an octo-
genarian.. He followed Wheeler as member
for Daylesford 21 years ago, being then at
an age when the ordinary man, especially
after a strenuous life, thinks about an arm-
chair. He served under Irvine, Bent and
Peacock as a Minister, and if younger would
have been Premier within the last two years.
Deany will do the secretarial work of the
new party. Xo underground engineering is
expected just yet.
“Ex Central Australian” : The first time I
met the lately-buried explorer Frank Ilann
was at Oodnadatta (S.A.) . He had just come
out of the post office and was excitedly flour-
ishing a piece of paper. “What do you think
of that for the biggest insult ever offered to
a man!” he barked. The "that” was a tele-
gram which read: “Congratulations on fol-
lowing my tracks—Car Boyd.” It took some
time to pacify tlie old man. Xo doubt the
sender fired off the wire as a joke, but I
would not have answered for the safety of
his scalp if Frank had sighted him in the
next day or two. This occurred in 1906, and
the old explorer had just completed the jour-
ney from Laverton (W.A.). A highly-
civilised abo. named Talbot always accom-
panied llanu, who treated him as an equal.
There was trouble once at the Grand Central
in Adelaide when a seat at the same table
as the old man was denied Talbot. A hot
argument took place, but the abo. had eventu-
ally to retreat and have his meals somewhere
in the vicinity of the kitchen.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” among the tombs:
“The Nest” estate, at Mosman (Sydney), is being
cut up to pass under the hammer;. The house was owned
by Archibald Mosman, originally s&od in 30 acres,
and was built by convict labor. Hugh Mosman, son
or Archibald, was born there in 1843. He achieved
fame as the leader of the prospecting expedition
which ended in the discovery of Charters Towers'
(Q.). Two of Archibald’s daughters married Queens-
lander's, Arthur Palmer and Thomas Mcllwraith, both
of whom became Premiers. A whole tribe of notable
people had to do with The Neat after Mosman —
John Stirling, It. 11. Harnett, Henry Stuart Russell
(historian), Charles Nicholson and \Y. M. Boyd ; and
in later years the widow of Professor Badham lived
there for more than two decades. In the early ’sixties
David Grant Forbes —afterwards D.C. Judge—occupied
The Nest, and with Henry Stuart Russell in resi-
dence at The Rangers, there were some high jinks.
A couple of ancient cannon were mounted at The
Nest, and a playful habit was for Forbes to fire
these off on a flag signal from Russell. The Russell
boys rolled one of the guns over the edge of the
cliff, and it eventually found its way into the bay.
Archibald Jlosnnm .died in 1863, and is buried at
St. Jude’s, Randwick.


ƒgf
g
f
ƒ
g
the
ART
O F
DRESS
f
Front Lacing
will be found, priced within the reach of every woman, at
those stores where a superior and individual service assures
you the corset best suited to your needs. The conspicuous
superiority of these original front lacing corsets has given
them unquestioned prestige that it is our pride to guard
jealously by making each and every Gossard as perfect as
true artistry, fine workmanship and the highest grade of
materials can ma\e it. This pride of leadership is your
best assurance that every Gossard Corset offers you the true
economy of unequalled value.
Beautiful dress is chiefly beautiful in colour
—in harmony of parts —and in mode of
putting on and wearing. Rightness of
mind is in nothing more shown than in
the mode of wearing simple dress.
John Ruskin
The adoption of a mode of dressing that is
genuinely artistic and becoming depends
upon a woman’s understanding of physical
beauty. She must understand what it
means to stand erect without conscious
effort; that erect carriage is essential to
dignity and grace of movement; that the
appearance of proper height is largely a
matter of suggestion. A woman will look
ungainly tall or give the appearance of
being “squatty” as her body is improperly
proportioned by incorrect corsetry. The
proper proportions of correct corsetry un-
failingly give the impression of graceful
height. She must know the necessity of
absolute freedom for the muscles of respira-
tion, and that any garment that handicaps
free breathing, mars her speaking voice and
undermines the entire system.
There is a tendency to overlook the in-
dividual solution of the problems of dress.
Particularly this has been true in the selec-
tion of corsets. But as more and more
women have come to a better understand-
ing of those unvarying principles of beauty
and good taste that must be the foundation
of all becomingness in dress, Gossard Cor-
sets have found an undisputed place in the
wardrobes of thejvorld’s best dressed women.
If you have never worn a Gossard Corset
you will marvel at the artistry that has
anticipated your needs with models that
seem to have been created for you alone.
There is not a type of figure so unusual or
difficult to fit but can be gently persuaded
into graceful lines and proportions with the
proper Gossard Corset. And to this grace
of outline, these original front lacing corsets
add the comfort and beauty of unrestrained
movement expressed in poise and distinc-
tion of carriage; a correct support that
induces proper breathing and protects the
organs of nutrition; and a wearing service
far beyond the life of the average corset.
THE H. W. GOSSARD CO.
Chicago
Nenv York
London
Toronto
Sydney
Buenos Aires
Ideal Figure
Tall Slender
Ideal Figure
Short Slender
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
ideal Average
Figure,
Ideal Figure
Large Below Waist
Ideal Figure
Large Above Waist
t*
Ideal Figure
Curved Back
Ideal Figure
Short Waisted


A. Saunders’ finest-quality, double-cut Diamond Cluster
Expanding Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
g
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
f
A. Saunders’ fine, double-cut Diamond double-row
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £125.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Sounder:,
double-cut Dia-
mond Scarf Pin,
Isct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£25.
&Csv\vS
.
mmM
StS!H
iTO.OtViiVi'iViVi'iV
•:*:y. ,, .vlV‘vOv 1
msm
.
.
wmm
A. Saunders'
fine Diamond
Necklet, 15cf;
Gold, £l2/10/*
A. Saunders' fine
double-cut Diamond
Circle Broch, loct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
fine double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
lBct. Gold, £s(j.
Smaller Diamonds,
£36.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/.,
£lO,
A. Saunders’ fine quality, double-cut Diamond
Cluster and Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ finest quality, double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, concave, convex or
Flat, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
15ct, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.'s Set. solid Gold Hunting
Kevless Patent Lever, jewelled compensation
balance, £l2/10/-. Extra-heavy case,
£l5, £?0. w altham or Elgin movement,
£l5. Heavier case, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Links,
set fine double-cut
Diamond,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch,
loot. Gold, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold double-cut, Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, £25. Larger Diamonds, £3O.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE— IT’S FREE,
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED
POST, FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway- Station).
A, Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Goid, £lo*
I <
UfNOtRS
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid (Sold double-cut Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£25. Larger Diamonds, £3O.
THE “BILLABONG” PUMPING SEASON OPENS-
Eight “Billabong” Pumps, applying pumping principles in various ways, for the saving of
labor and reduction of expense.
“BILLABONG” LOW-DOWN
DOUBLE-ACTING FORCE
PUMP.
A powerful hand pump
suitable for filling
tanks, emptying dams,
draining cellars or
hulks, washing wag-
gons or buildings, irri-
gating small orchards,
or for use as a bush-
fire pump, etc. Has a
total force and lift of
60 feet, capacity 1680
Imperial gallons per
hour; piston rod is of
polished steel, and
packing glands of
brass. Heavier in
metal than the im-
ported pump and 25
per cent, cheaper.
r
ait
BCNC
3^
“BILLABONG”
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP.
This Rotary Pump, operated by belt
power, delivers enormous quantities of
water, and is compactly constructed on
sturdy lines for hard and continuous
wear. Made in sizes from 1-inch to 8-
inch; also in gun-metal, for use with
water containing corroding agents. Suc-
tion and discharge can be taken at any
angle.
“BILLABONG”
SEMI-ROTARY
PUMPS.
Well known
for tlieir
many uses
and ease of
operating. In
sizes from
-2-inch to 2-
inch, and
capacities
from 39(5 gal-
lons to 1848
Imperial gal-
lons per hour.
Write for
leaflet and
price list.
ƒg
BUTCHER’S BRINE PUMP.
For pickling- and salting. Made from
special metal which resists the forma-
tion of verdigris and poisonous acet-
ates. Made in two sizes, and
2-inch, and sold complete with two
needles.
POWER ROTARY FORCE
PUMP.
For pumping and circulating oil and
other suitable fluids. Made entirely from
gunmetal. The cast-iron pulley is 3Jin.
diameter, and the turned face is lfin.
Capacity, 200 Imperial, or 240 Ameri-
can, gallons per hour at 450 revolutions
per minute.
Suction and delivery, Jin. dia.
KEROTIN SPRAY
PUMP.
All brass—nothing to
rust. Will discharge a
bucket of mist as a
fine spray in 15 min-
utes, or force a solid
jet of water to a dis-
tance of, .‘5O feet. Use-
ful, too, for limewash-
ing, and washing down
windows and vehicles,
with hose, graduating
rest. Send for one.
Sold complete
spray and foot
A complete port*
able shower for
country use.
Brings the morn-
ing shower to
the bush. Sum-
mer is here—
send for one.
DANKS’
BUSH
SHOWER.
“Promptitude is the yeast of economy.” Order Now.
324-330
PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
JOHN'
kIM
SjS
391-403
BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE.
“BILLABONG” DOUBLE-
ACTING PISTON PUMP
is a medium-priced pump for use with
petrol or kerosene engines, and com-
bines power and capacity in a most
compact form. Suction may be taken
from either side, and delivery in four
different directions. We fit this pump
up as a sheep-spray outfit complete
with suction and delivery hose, foot-
valve, lever spray nozzles and safety
valve. Pump will exert a pressure of
751 b. to the
square inch.
Sizes from 2-i-
-inch to 5-
inch. Write
for leaflet.
f


For Sale.
Farm Tractor For Sale.
NEW Machine, latest America 11 Model,
thirty-five-horsepower Wheel JDrive,
ready for immediate use. Price £26» com-
plete. Landed Cost £450. Stock Spare
Parts available if needed. C/o BOX 2521.
|nfa n
piso
tile
rders
Use a medicine that allays
fretful and feverish con-
ditions, that prevents
sourness after meals, one
that is a gentle laxative.
The favorite remedy is
Kruses
fluid
Magnesia
50 years proof behind
every bottle.
Guard against imitation.
The genuine Kruse’s is
made by Felton. Grim-
wade & Co., Prop. Ltd-,
Melbourne
Amusements.
S' Y I) X K Y'S CIII E E Tll I? ATIiES
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY'S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
THEODORE AND CO.
CRITERION.
PADDY. THE NEXT BEST THING.
A ELAM W lLliiE’S SHAKSPEAREAN
riiOIHCTIOXs.
AUSTRALIAN TOUR: His Majesty’s Theatre, Perth,
commencing Saturday, October 29. Short Seasons.
Ansf 1•• in it- f.;:e re: RFO'lf I). WILSON.
17 The Ranking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
U N lON I'JC TLK IS TIIISAT It IS S
SET 'i’HE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
WEDDING BELLS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
FIREFLY,
With music that charms and a story that thrills.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
If tiny illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusement**.
Cl Nti’i" TIIEA I lilv UICI.ISOU It N 1.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
LAST NIGHTS OF SEASON.
BAILEY & GRANT present a brief revival of
Australia’s evergreen Comedy,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Plans at Allan’s.
Hoyts theatres, mklhou rn i:
Also SYDNEY.
UE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LY'CEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
HARRY CAREY in
HUMAN STUFF.
Also
ELAINE lIAMMERSTEIN in
THE GIRL FROM NOWHERE.
Prices as usual.
gy| AJICSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MONTE BLUE in
THE BROKEN DOLL.
Matindes daily at 2.30. Nights at S.
L YMP I A, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A Complete New Company Of English, American,
Continental and Oriental Artists.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- (plus tax).
, Reserved Scats- 6/- (plus tax).
Plan at Glen’s.
gltlTAx .*. THEATRE. MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| E1.15A THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE.
WORLD am) SKLZNICK.
This Booklet is a medically approved
guide to the Rearing of Infants and
the Care of Invalids.
It is offered FREE
by the Proprietors of
BENGER'SFOOD to—
Mothers and expectant
mothers ;
Those who have the
nursing of ill-in-bed
patients;
Parents who have
weakly, backward or
ailing children ;
Invalids, men and
women;
The Aged;
And the men with
health weakened by
wound or illness in
the great War.
To each it contains infor-
mation of importance. It is
instructive and informative of
Benger’s Food —so nutritious
that athletes use it in training,
so delicate as to be the great
Food in illness, and for Infants.
Invalids and the Aged.
.\\W""W‘V
you $
of
ood
ids
ate the S
>ed by
Jurses, S
ve the S
isibility s
d con- S
II find |
chor I
ins are
;t. and
ishing
neving
aval of a
rorrect
vays a
o give.
i it as
ns are
during
Is and
ffering
eeable
is also
ursing
find it
ishing. *
non of §
book.
vwwwvjjsi;
Bender’s has the great advantage of being always prepared with fresh
new milk. It is distinct from all other foods in possessing the powerful
ability to partially digest the milk with which it is prepared and also to
render perfectly soluble the wheaten constituents of the Food itself.
Benger’s is the most interesting Food to
prepare, the most delicious when made.
“Time and use have justified the
claims put forward —British Medical Journal.
gf
Food
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, Eng.
A 22.
COUPON FOR FREE COPY.
Fill in and post to -
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Name.
Jlddress
Amusements.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day ....... 29th October
Cup Day Ist November
Oaks Day 3rd November
Steeplechase Day . . 3th November
Stakes will amount to over £38,000.
The magnificent improvements add much to
the comfort of visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
SKETCHES
that
SELL
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
V
6*
If you are fond of drawing 1 you canVk
easily be taught how to make money in r \
your own home. There is sueh a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr. J. C. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by his easy
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexes are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks himself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don’t
YOU Learn ?
The Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Paj's” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks will be very pleased
to write you his opinion of it — free.
But write for the book now, and judge
for yourself.
J. C. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mtsslngr Friends.
TO WILLIAM WILSON, formerly of
Taupiri, husband of Jane Anne Wilson,
deceased, arid all persons claiming by,
through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
3rd day of Octobei - , 1921, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you
are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the Ist day of
June, 1922. your claims to the estate of /
JANE ANNE WILSON, who died at Tau- , n
piri, New Zealand, on the 3rd day of Sep-/M
tember, 1916, intestate, failing which thanE
said estate will be distributed amongst thosfe o.t
entitled thereto, disregarding your claims.
e;How
Dated at Wellington this 4th day () 7of §a j
October, 1921. iff xftiw
G. G. ROSE, (id gnv/y;
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office, oJ 7 > uo
Wellington, New Zealand.
'-iL. i ibinfl
fJ'lO LILY BELL, formerly of Napier,-liF* 03
llv. r -,, r—, —~
_L New Zealand, daughter of JOSEP|I,
PRIMMER, deceased, and to TUI 'WIN'I J
FRED BELL, daughter of the’' s'nld;' ’Li^‘ j ! .'; !
Bell, and all persons claiming 'b®,' thi-otrgh ajift
or under them. mldr,?? oUism
»08 fit) *LB VO/I
PURSUANT to an Order nnnle,on^ h ftal}
3rd day of October, 1821, by a Judge of_.
the Supreme Court of New —,
are hereby called upon to send in to
undersigned on or before the Ist day -
March, 1922, your claims to the estate of
Joseph Primmer, who died on the 17th day
of November, 1573, at Richmc r,rl X'e-,v
land, failing which the
distributed amongst
disregarding your clai^^ t
Dated at day of
October, 1921. i : ,
G- G. I*
Solicitor to thm§hddi£-Tr^v : f'ffiee, ; ■
STANHOPE HARVEY. WORSI.EY, son
of late Na|bariiel Worsley, of Salcombo
Regis. Devonshire, England, is requested to
write W. CThbrnas, solicitor, 33
Chancery Lane. London, England, who can
any person knowing his address please write
to abovenamed.
,;li j ' b t Jjf ; (
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your. fancy, write to the
Manager; who


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
,x
:ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
Rs-W MONT de PIETE
D Si I C?T LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74. Sydney
CAPITAL 5,200,000 ‘Phone City 9325
/Br<?/?cAes 29 King St.. Newcastle, NSW- 218 I 7 swanstom St Mei^Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q, 197 A Castlereagh 5tJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill. General Manager.
rv
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mcnt de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Maid of the Mountains"
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
Criterion .......... “Paddy, the Next Best Thing”
Hoyt’s ....... •: Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOUUNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Wedding Bells”
Her Majesty;'s “Firefly”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum -. Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦
It was like a Butt-Rumford lio’use that
gathered to listen to the Apollo Ciub con-
cert on Saturday night. Tue Sydney Town
Hall was wedged tignt, and from thie minute
the Conservator nun Orchestra opened in the
"William Tell” overture the huge audience
knew it was going to enjoy itself ; and when
the Apollos broke into song you felt there
was a hurricane of applause coining to them,
and you weren't, disappointed. Ot the open-
ing unaccompanied part-songs perhaps great-
est interest centered in Alfred tiill's arrange-
ment of .Jensen’s "O Murmuring Breezes,”
though the favorite "Rolling Down to Rio”
caught the popular hand. The choir s big
number was Zoilner’s "Indian Love Song,”
to which the orchestra supplied an accom-
paniment as tender as a moonlight night.
Contralto Gertrude Brookes raised her voice
in conjunction with choir and orchestra in
the Brahms "Rliapsodie,”' and came out of the
ordeal with added lustre. Soprano Etta
Field sang the "Aida” aria with charm and
force, aided and abetted by the orchestra;
and Harold Tollemache baritoned the
"Song of the Sword” with fine sweeping
effect. Alfred Hill’s orchestral suite more
than earned the surf of applause that
greeted it. but the modest little composer
who was on duty conducting the orchestra
could not be led to repeat even the sighful
charm of "Retrospect.”
In her twice-a-day resurrection at the
Sydney Tivoli Maggie Moore coniines her-
self to a 10-minute gallop, and no prelim-
inary canter is needed, for this old-time favo-
rite endears herself to the house by her ami-
able patter and rich brogue almost imme-
diately the curtain rises. With this appear-
ance at the Tiv. Maggie Moore completes
the full round of Sydney theatres —she had
previously appeared in all the others. Stuart
Barnes has departed, but the patrons are
not wearing crepe, for Claude Dampier and
Miss Attenboro are iii attendance to soften
their grief. Moon and Morris show no sign
of waning, and Lottie Collins, jun., still
warbles "1 Used to Love You Once.”
There is no ground for the belief, if any-
one entertains it, that Sydney i.s getting tired
of ’‘The Maid of the Mountains,” now in its
tenth week at Her Majesty’s. The lady has
a good way to go to beat her Melbourne
record of ISB performances, but the manage-
ment has hopes.
Dorothy Brunton and "Oh, Lady, Lady!”
will say ta-ta to an admiring Commonwealth
at the Sydney Royal on Friday night. They
will be succeeded on Saturday by “Theodore
and C 0.,” which has nothing to do with the
Queensland Government, nor yet with a more
or less red Labor Conference. It is mostly
concerned with two returned wanderers,
Willie Percy and Maude Fane.
* si: si: *
There are nine and ninety ways of speak-
ing stage Irish, and several of them are
on exhibition in “Paddy, the Next Best
Thing,” at the Criterion, Sydney. The diver-
sity of accents in members of the same family
is one of the agreeable features of the play.
Sydney Crystal Palace has struck a rich
vein on the mother-love diggings. “Mother o’
Mine” draws large sobful audiences, and the
only wonder is that the foundations of the
house are not sinking. At the Strand and
Majestic dear old Theda Bara gets into one
of the pn”ts that fits her like her skin, and
what she does with mere man, and how she
makes him play the measure of her “Siren’s
Song,” explains to the full the saying, “He’s
on the rocks.” In “Cheated Love” at
Hoyt’s, Australian and Piccadilly Carmel
Myers takes the part of a poor little Rus-
sian srirl, Sonia, who leaves her own country
to face Ellis Island and the Ghetto. Inci-
dentally she finds an adorable settlement
worker who loves her, and a gorgeous sing-
ing voice. The “Cheated Love” comes in
with the medical student Carmel had loved
away back home, and who came to America
only to become affianced to the daughter of a
man of wealth. Wallace Reid and Alice
Brady are rivals for the goodwill of cus-
tomers of the Globe and Haymarket.
The worried husband of uncertain age,
presented by Joseph Coyne in a success’on of
similar farcical comedies, is now striving to
make “Wedding Bells” go at Melbourne
Royal. On second thoughts one remembers
that Coyne is not a married man in “Wed
ding Bells.” Thanks to America’s renowned
system of easy divorce, a tricky little Rosalie
has left him free to marry Marcia, but the
old fondness for Rosalie returns with interest
when she pops up like a cork on the dew 7 y
eve of her former husband’s second marriage.
Finally Marcia has to find consolation in
marrying the stereotyped Spring poet of art-
less fiction, whose previous wife proves, ap-
parently, to have been a bigamist. These
cheap complications, intensified by the dis-
covery that Coyne’s valet is one of long-lost
spouses of Rosalie’s maid, do duty for a plot.
Naturally the situations in ‘‘Wedding Bells”
are ridiculously false from first to last, but
the dialogue is fairly bright and intelligent,
and the character of the trigamous valet sug-
gests that the author has swallowed Bernard
Shaw and digested a morsel of him.
* * * *
Marjorie Bennett plays with rather unex-
pected adroitness as Rosalie, the - charmer
who blows in so opportunely in order to rob
the other girl of her prey. Her sweet
speaking voice (it doesn’t amount to tup-
pence in song) goes for much in her gentle
beguilements; furthermore, her smile has a
considerable range of meaning. On the
other hand Clarice Hardwicke is crude and
meagre in effect, especially in the second act;
and Marie La Varre, as Marjorie Bennett’s
maid, is much too broad and boisterous to
seem possible as a lady’s maid to Marjorie,
or probable as one of the valet’s numerous
wives. A valet of Sydney Stirling’s deadly-
calm type would hardly lavish any of his ill-
regulated affections on so rough and rorty
a diamond as Marie, for her casual how d’ye
do amounts to a threat to smack a fellow in
the eye if he gets up to any funny business.
Stirling’s deadly calm, being rather over-
dressed, is too strong a contrast to the rest-
less, unimpressive Coyne, who works as hard
as ever for laughs and is a little less success-
ful than formerly. The same facial formula,
Order of gesture and stutter in the gait have
been exploited by Coyne every time; there-
fore the hollowness of his distressful gaiety
grows somewhat monotonous. Leslie Victor
gives an air of real humanity to the part
of a bachelor club-man, Gwen Burroughs
plays an empty-headed matron of some im-
portance, Lance Lister faithfully depicts the
inane poet of newspaper invention, and
Reginald Long capably answers the bell as
a Japanese houseboy.
-* * * *
Melbourne King’s scored a record money-
bag with “Our Selection” when that con-
sistent winner was staged again last Satur-
day. Part of the crowd was attracted by
the reappearance of Dad Bailey in the whis-
kers which had waved triumphant in Lon-
don since Maloney last relieved him of his
historic tooth on the Melbourne stage; to
another part the numerous changes in the
cast were an incentive; for everybody the
unqualified spirit of humor in Australia’s
best-constructed and least-theatrical melo-
drama was an attraction. Fun never flags
“On Our Selection ”
revival at Melbourne
King's.
Tom Cannam as an
Irishman.
in “On Our Selec-
tion,” and realism
radiates from Dad.
The roaring o 1 a
identity will rule
his family with a
rod _ of. harmless
irascibility for only
12 nights in all,
so the revival has
no time to outlast
its welcome. The
present co. gives
no cause for caus-
ti c comparisons.
Practice has im-
proved those who
have been longest
on the job, and no
part of the show
hangs fire. The
stage management
has the craft and
experience that
conceals artful-
ness. Whereas
exaggeration de-
velops in the per-
formance of many
a time-h onored
drama, Time seems
to have toned down
the faults of “Our
Selection” and pro-
duced two blades of realism where only one
used to grow.
* * *
The comparative shortcomings of “Fire-
fly,” in song, story and interpretation, may
not prevent that uninteresting musical show
achieving its financial object during one
more week at Melbourne Majesty’s. Mean-
while it continues to mark the difference
between two individual lady performers and
a number of less-polished companions. The
orchestra grows more efficient in the art of
dropping its voice to meet vocal requirements,
and the riot of color in the second scene is
still gaudy, with spring, summer and
autumnal tints all together. A series of Gil-
bert and Sullivan revivals starts on Derby
night.
At Melbourne Tivoli this (Thursday) is
the last day and night of Wilkie Bard, whose
name has been loud in the land because'his
style was otherwise. The co. has in other ways
changed more than once since Bard first
came to light in the Tiv. Latest arrivals
are Mr. and Mrs. Tree, in a revival of “musi-
cal thought-reading”; also the Dannellis.
with excerpts from grand opera.
ALFRED HILL, at the Sydney Town Hull.
conducting the Sydney Apollo Club as in
fancy it goes “Rolling down to Rio."
Melbourne is musically busy just now. At
the Playhouse four nights of "Martha,” with
Fritz Hart in charge of a full chorus and
orchestra, will run from the 19th to the
22nd. leaving the little stage clear for Mer-
maid Society productions of Shaw and Arnold
Bennett next week. At the Assembly Hall
the Cherniavskys are making melodious
sounds this week, and at the Town Hall
the commanding voice and presence of Dame
Clara Butt will be heard and seen again on
Derby night at one extra final concert.
** * *
Wirtlis’ Circus came to Melbourne Olym-
pia on a somewhat sorrowful Caulfield Cup
night, when the horsiest section of the public
wanted no immediate reminder of the noble
animal which costs it dear. There is still a
deal of Horse in a circus, though the inva-
sion of vaudeville in a Wirth programme
is stronger every year. In the equestrian
department the star is May Wirth, whose
bound into the ring is heralded by a few
appropriate remarks from uncle Philip; but
the “picture act,” the riding pony, the entree
on horseback, the miniature racehorse and
the little lady who achieves a serpen-
tine dance (of a sort) aboard a gee-gee in
gentle action, are also honored features of
the proceedings. The trained geese seem to
have escaped the Christmas massacre of their
less-educated fellows, and the elephants look
more docile than they feel. Gymnastically,
the circus is strongest in Belle Onra, a sweet
artist on the trapeze. Musically, the Weath-
erleys are a capital turn. For the rest the
Japanese troupe makes ample amends for a
dubious band of Arabs, the dog-and-monkey
combination appears again, and the best
efforts of the clowns deserve not dishonor-
able mention. But the success of a motleyed
jester on a Cup night depends largely' on
whether his audience suffered much or little
during the afternoon.
❖❖ ❖ *
At Hoyt’s (Melb.) De Luxe and Lyceum
the heroism of Harry Carey gets a Wild
Western environment after that dauntless
son of wealth has tired of ease and luxury
in Noo Yoik. Carey has a great time in
the West. Adventure claims him for its
own, and peril opens its loving arms to the
reckless rancher. Also the inevitable Girl
opens her arms and claims him for her law-
ful financier. Another Hoyt’s picture of first
imnortanee deals with the perversity of beau-
teous Elaine Hammerstein in holding her
tongue for the sake of nothing in particular
save sheer cussedness. At Melbourne Majes-
tic a detective, employed by Blanche Sweet’s
employer’s daughter, perpetrates crimes
whereof Blanche is accused, and the course
of Innocence runs rough till the bad man
falls in. Also Alice Joyce has central posi-
tion in a dream of fair girls and fine dresses,
incidental to the thrilling story of the
Scarab Ring. This week’s strongest card at
the Britannia is Ben Turpin in the theatri-
cal comedy of “Home Talent,” late of the
Majestic, whilst the Melba makes a splash
with Arlene Pretty in “Life,” where melo-
drama revels in romance, and existence is
well worth having on account of its glitter
and ginger. “The Pullman Bride,” on the
same screen, is a Mack Sennett comedy of
average humor.
Melbourne threatens to make an experi-
mental Music YV eek from November t> to
10, the chief novelty being the introduction
of a number of Australian compositions. All
sorts of music will be given, classical and
otherwise Music for everybody, evervbodv
for music” is the slogan. Other features
will be the songs of Fritz Hart and “com-
munity singing” under the direction of Gib-
son Young, an enthusiast for Australian art.
For once something exciting may happen in
November besides the Cup.
** % *
From an Adelaide critic:—
At the Preece Gallery is the first collection
Adelaide has seen of Shirlow etchings. He delights
in architecture, and is at his best in it. Still water
is good. But in a Sydney Harbor from Bradley’s
Head the waves look oddly like antheaps, a,nd a
conscientious nude is singularly unattractive. Mostly
he is faithful to Melbourne, and his buildings—some
now no longer in existence—remain as a valuable
record ; his favorite Law Courts are good from what-
ever angle seen. On the technical side his methods
are nearly flawless.
•Jc J;I !,<
Allan _ Wilkie is repeating, at Adelaide
Royal, his gallery of Shakspeare characters
thoughtfully played, with Falstaff in the
"Merry Wives” as a novelty. He is for-
tunate in his support. When Miss Hunter-
Watts is occasionally absent, Lorna Forbes
steps into the breach, and the Queensland
girl Jane King contributes several clever
sketches. “Julius Caesar” gave the other
men a chance; Wilkie took Antony, leaving
Brutus to Jack Lennon and Caesar to Augus-
tus Neville. In pictures, a remarkable fight
is that of Charles Ray at the Pav.; he takes
a hiding for three rounds, but gets home with
a lucky right in the fourth. Bill Ilart is
doing stoush at Wondergrapli. Elsewhere are
old stage friends: Barrymore in an Ameri-
can version of Arnold Bennett’s “Great
Adventure,” which is oddly presented as
comic ; and Iladdon Chambers’s sentimental
“Passers By,” at West’s, with a cowboy
Desmond as an additional attraction. At
the P. of W. the Fuller Co. deals with the
“Confessions of a Wife.” This wife talks —
but does not confess too much. And at the
King’s Flora Cromer has been added to an
already strong variety bill.
Norwood, an Adelaide suburb, has had £
strange sensation. The Town Hall ha*
modern tlieatre-fittings, and while the fire
proof curtain was being lowered the counter
weights—about a ton—were released by the
slipping of a cable. They fell and crashed
through the stage to the cement-floored
basement. No casualties, though a local
resident was struck by flying pieces of stage.
“S.T.S.”: London and Paris have both
been trying hard, but without success, to
find where the Forty Thieves (or Chu Chin
Chow) story really came from. Galland,
the Frenchman who first popularised “The
Arabian Nights” in Europe, admittedly added
both this and Aladdin from other sources,
and they have taken the public fancy as
about the best parts of the book. English
copyists have simply followed him, though
English translators of the “Nights” from
the Arabic have' honestly done without these
two stories. Lane-Poole, a nephew of the fam-
ous translator Lane, is preparing a new edition
of his uncle’s work, and realises that the
public now demands them both as part of
the “Nights.” He has found the Arabic
text of Aladdin, and translated from
that; but no search will reveal an original
for Ali Baba and the Forty, and he has
been compelled to rely on Galland’s French
version.
“Fax” : A forgotten tragedy of the Aus-
tralian stage was the last appearance of
George Melville, an old actor who was very
capable but never of much importance. It
happened at Melbourne Royal when Charles
Holloway was lessee and ’ manager, and a
clever pair of imported" people^Dora De
Winton and Charles Saunders —were the
stars. The play was “Our Native Home,”
and George Melville played Tiger Len. One
night he was struck speechless on the stage,
and that was the end of his career as a
mummer. He died in the Actors’ Home
nearly a year later. Quite as essentially
tragic, though it looked funny at the time,
was the final appearance (within my know-
ledge) of a singer who had been a leading
lady on comic opera and concert programmes
previously. After her return from England
she was a star turn in a Rickards show. One
night she came on with the cold, dignified
air of a very drunk lady, and tried to warble
her opening ballad as usual, but failed to
collect her thoughts. In a commanding posi-
tion in the centre of the stage she stood
silent, whilst the harsh voice of the stage-
manager was heard to say “Come off!”
Yet she neither spake nor moved. The voice
repeated its peremptory “Come off!” The
poor creature was evidently under the im-
pression that she ought to be doing some-
thing, but couldn’t remember how she ought
to begin. Then the manager roared “Come
orf!” She turned her head towards the
noise, saw a hand beckoning furiously and
walked off like a somnambulist. There ended
her engagement, and her celebrity, such as
it was.


Pay Less —Dress Better.
99
st
I#
rr«
MURDOCHS
1
3
3
H
«
11
r ;;;
i Ml
!JTJ
it M"
n ID
11
✓*B
TOp 1
a#
X
Wi
i
§k
3
IS
<S|_
Be Murdoch-tailored
Christmas!
a Smart Soft Felt T Oivly 8 Weeks Ahead!
—and a Money-
saving !
Men’s Soft Felt Hats,
made from superior-
quality Fur Felt in an un-
usually large variety of
the latest smart shapes,
turn-up or down, and
nleasiner color tones.
I
w
First-class trimmings alone used. Brims
2£in. wide. Sizes to 7s. Colors: Brown,
Cuba, Fawn, Beaver, Reseda, Qrey and Mur-
doch’s well-favored New Nut-Brown shade.
Worth 2 1 /-
Special Value
13111
Summer’s Favorite !
L W
—the
Panama
Men’s Smart City Pana-
mas. Genuine South
American. Light and
cool; ideal for the
sultry days. Fine plait and fitted with grease-
proof leathers. Creased crowns; 1 fin. or 2in.
Black Silk Bands; brims 2 fin. All sizes.
This distinctive model represents exceptional
value at
251-
i PEARLY BLEACH STRAW BOATERS
of superb quality, in a. range of the smartest
shapes, 3|in. Crowns, and 2in. or 2jin. Brims, fitted
with Side Bow, Elbow or Freak Bow,
as desired. All sizes.
7/6
ELEVENTH-HOUR transactions are rarely satis-
factory.
Good Tailoring is the outcome of faithful, con-
scientious, painstaking workmanship—and time is
necessary!
Order your Suit —To-day.
A High-class Suit made to
your individual wishes from
A ustralian Woollen Tweed
of splendid worth
Another reason. By ordering now you sail in
on the crest of a Tailoring offer that is unique.
A special purchase from the Mills, coupled
with the swift return to normal prices, have
enabled Murdoch’s to announce this excep-
tional value —
£4/18/9
Made to your measures
Choice of Cloth is not limited. The fine array of weaves embrace Dark
Grevs Light Greys, Fawn, Brown and many other popular shades, featuring
many pleasing and refined pattern effects. Select the Cloth in the pr.vacy
of your own home: simply fill in your Name and Address here and
POST THIS COUPON.
DESK R,
Murdoch's in Park Street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me free of all cost and without any obligation on my
part a nice range of your M/18/9 Suiting Patterns; also free Measure,
form Outfit.
NAME ‘ • ■
ADDRESS '••••'
POSTAGE PAID TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
Address your letter to Desk “R.”
MURDOCH’S
* In ParK. St. Ltd.,Sydney
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”


Virginia Cigarettes
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
\
It s odds on
the " Prince Charming’ '* m the
race for popularity. It is the
Prince of and a firm
favourite with smokers of dis-
criminating taste. You won't
find that captivating, mild
fragrance anywhere else —it's
the special distinction of'"Prince
Charming/
f . “
jsm
H
m
m
-^1
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd,, London, England.
A 23
Thoél& Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHÀMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
Pitt Streeter : An apologist for the
managerial policy of giving the public what
it is said to want in the way of theatrical
rare get, busy the other day, and amongst
other things said -
An analysis of the fate of drama and comedy and
musical plays in Sydney for the first nine months
ot this year proves again the taste of our audiences
i°r musical stuff. Among the dramas “Scandal
ran for seven weeks and “The Sign on the Door"
ior five weeks. The only other dramas produced in
tins period were “Outcast" and “The Great Adven-
ture, ’ both revivals, which each lasted a week.
bo that because such brilliant specimens
of up-to-date drama as “Scandal” and “The
Sign on the Door” were not conspicuously
successful it is obvious that the public taste
inclines to the musical-comedy stuff! By
similar reasoning it might be affirmed that
because a man refused oats as a breakfast
food he did not like porridge. Give the
public a real play, and Australia will be
there as heretofore.
“Wodgil” : Before tli£ Butt-Bumfords left
for Paris —the oue iu the Pacific—-they spoke
with enthusiasm of the reproduction of some
of their songs by the vitavox, the invention
of a young Westralian electrician, Stuart
Booty. Last week a Sydney audience
sampled the instrument lauded by Dame
Clara and Ivennerley, and pronounced it
good. Booty uses soft mica, instead of the
hard metal, in the vitavox reproducer, and
the amplifier is-a combination of wood and
steel. In the result he gets a singularly pure
tone, especially in the case of the female
voice; and when his partner, George Nicholls,
sang a duet (being present in the flesh) with
a canned contralto it was difficult to believe
that the lady wasn’t on the premises instead
of being 7000 miles away. Strange as it
would have seemed a while ago, Booty,
though a mere Australian, won’t have to
travel to the ends of the earth to place his
invention. He has found backing in Sydney.
“J.F.H.” (London) : The Times goes into
ecstasies over “Ginger Mick.” the sequel to
the “Sentimental Bloke,” recently screened
to a specially-invited audience. It is pro-
phesied that Ginger, larrikin and hero, will
prove quite as popular as the famous Bloke
that Jhe Bulletin first introduced to us.
Gilbert Emery’s performance in the title-role
is described as “a remarkable piece of work;
but the whole thing is so absolutely natural
that one feels throughout it is the man’s
ure-story that is being told on the screen,”
and the Times declares that “the Australian
producers of these films have done a real
f mi >erial service,” That Ginger Mick and
the Bloke are rivals, of Billy Hughes in the
race tor Imperial renown had never occurred
to some of us until* that moment.
“Cornstalk”: j vote Marie'Tempest’s third
act of “Tea for Three” as the finest exhibi-
tion of emotional acting seen locally. The
hrst and second acts were fearfully "talky,”
but that third act completely gripped the
audience. And there was no sign of ranting
or storming; every word was spoken by the
artists concerned (mainly Marie) with such
sott, though compelling, force that the effect
was electrical. The Sydney audiences de-
served all they got from Miss Tempest’s out-
burst after the final performance for not
supporting the comedy season better. It
wifi be a long time before we see artists to
outclass her and Graham Browne.
“10-2-4”: Marie Tempest says that ttyd-
noy s literary taste has degenerated. She
did not in the least mind having lost money
over her season. What disgusted her was
the discovery that the residents had no appre-
ciation of Art.
Let me put it this way, Marie. Had you come to
Sydney, say,
Some time in the middle ’nineties, would the crowds
I*4vc stayed away?
Even Artists grow demode. s- as, the eating years
creep by,
And some newer style or method takes the public's
tickle eye.
Shakspeare’s point about the laggard on the stage
he knew so well
l'inds, wherever plays are acted nowadays, its
parallel.
So it may be, little lady with the lofty scorn of pelf,
•hat the change you think you see in us is largely
in vourselL
“0.K.” : Jennie Pollock, who died the
other day, learned her acting under Bland
Holt s management, and was a likeable per-
former m her rather “gawky,” incisive voting
way when she was appearing in such dramas
as “The Prodigal Son,” “Breaking of the
Drought, “The Great Millionaire,” “In
London Town,” “The Bondman,” etc., in
the last years of Holt’s long reign as King
of Melodrama in Australia. No other young
actress of her time, or a previous time, was
so freshly and irrepressibly Australian. Be-
cause she was so racy of the soil she used
to look a bit of a misfit, as compared with
Frances Ross and Barrie Ireland, in any
typically English character jn very English
drama. But her gay and jaunty manner of
expressing herself was always refreshing.
“Hamfat” : Sundry of the newspapers ven-
tured a criticism of the latest Australian film
to he released, “Know Thy Child,” on the
ground that its story was not of Australian
”On Our Selection”
revival at Melbourne
King's.
Dad (Bert Bailey) as
a politician.
life. “The scenes
are laid in Austra-
lia. but the story
belongs to no age
or country.” They
even hinted that
this shows the
futility of efforts
to encourage the
local picture indus-
try. This merely
reminds me of the
politician in the old
foreign-trade days
who had no objec-
tion to Australia
making its own
cabbage-tree hats,
but reckoned i t
folly to attempt
any more stylish
varieties. A bush
story might b e
more healthy than
the "Know T b y
Child” one, but,
after all. the story
is in a better frame
for Australian
vision in home sur-
roundings than in
the artificial back-
grounds of U.S.A.
problem - drama
films; and it has
the advantage of
keeping money in
the country that would otherwise be paid
abroad for a similar picture. And life in
Australia, anyway, is not all Bush.
"Black Out": Eileen Sparks, just home
from U.S.A., and now with the Bert Bailey
co., is a Newcastle (N.S.W.) girl She
took her first curtain in her own town with
Jefferson Tait, who discovered her there.
Philip Lytton sand-papered the crude edges
off her work before she appeared with J.C.W.
A Melbourne critic after a Sabbath show:
The unwisdom of legislation against Sunday enter-
tainment is glaringly apparent in the rush to .such
public entertainment—-mostly Bolshevistic harangues
or dogmatic addresses—as can be obtained. But
TljyZT W r ed “ aUthorities ” openly make
1j 1 °. f th . e law b >' sanctioning the very thing
they ordinarily forbid in the name of Christianity
morality and the Nonconformist conscience. The other
Sunday night, for instance, a sacred concert, so-
called, was given at the King’s Theatre in aid of
sufferers from the Mount Mulligan disaster. Walter
luib,w organised the concert, the sacredness consisted
° , B ° the Poet ’ s song from “La BohOme ”
and Charlotte Hemming’s recitation of “Hullo,” and
the programme announced thru; the patronage of
be Gov.-General and the Gaiid Mayor was thrown
m. The Law forbids the sale of tickets for Sunday
concerts or lectures. Nothing more is permitted
bj the statute m Victoria than the taking of a col-
lection before the performance, instead of after it
as in places of Divine worship. Unofficially, how-
ever the collection is permitted to be compulsory
insofar that an applicant for admission who doesn’t
shell out is told that free-seats are “off.” What
kind of a game ’did this excellent King’s Theatre
concert have with the Law! An advt. in the
Argus and Age on the previous Saturday warned
tho public that “patrons are expected to contribute
"OH, LADY, LADY!” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Some phases of Frith.
not less than ss. and 3s. tor d.c. and reserved
stalls, and 2s. for stalls. Gallery is.” The house
was crammed, and considerably over ,£2OO was got
for the fujid. The name of Charity covered this
theatrical and official law-breaking, nor did anybody
—not even professional Piety— openly remark that it
Teas lawbreaking. Here was the crying need for
artistic Sunday entertainment candidly recognised.
The public simply jumped at this chance to dish
the parsons under the patronage of the G.-G. and
Gaud Mayor.
“Wymac ”: W. S. Percy may be included
m tlie circle of Sydney’s commercial artists.
He is now busy on the cover page and poster
for a forthcoming magazine, Stage and
Society of Australia. The Williamson-
Taits intend to publish it.
Mac” : Lee Ghee Loon, the Tivoli juggler,
made ins first public appearance at His
Majesty's, Geelong (Vic.), some years ago.
He was then unnamed, so director Claude
Heyward asked old Poon Gooey, a local
to suggest a title for tlie bogus
Chink. “Lee Cnee Loon” was the result,
that, according to Poon, being “man who
does tricks.”
Middle ldlue” : \ era Romeo, the wronged
girl of a thousand melodramas, came into
prominence first when she took Beatrice
Holloway's place in Max Maxwell’s show,
Beatrice having gone down with typhoid.
Vera once had dreams of a musical-comedv
career, but her frequent sobs over her che-ild
have frayed the singing voice at the edges.
“Adelaide”: “Lud” suggests (B. 15/9/’2l)
that “The Playboy of the Western World”
has “not been seen on any playbill in the
Southern world, so far a.s I am aware.” It
was played by the Adelaide Repertory
Theatre, just before the war. Leu Chamber-
lain, the inter-State cricketer, played the
lead, and—belonging as he did to an old R.C.
family—received a strong hint from Author-
ity not to do it again.
“T. 0.1.”: “The. Beggars’ Opera” recently
staged at the Lyric, Hammersmith (Lond.),
was produced at the Old Princess Theatre.
Spring-street, Melbourne, in the early ’six-
ties, Richard Stewart being the Macbeth,
with G. 11. Rogers and Julia Mathews in
the cast. According to “Who’s Who in the
Theatre” (1914 edition), it was last played
in London at St. James' in 183 G.
“Harnfat” : “Lud” talks about combinations
of English actors running their own shows (B.
29/9/’2l), and suggests that the thing might
be done in Australia. It is ancient history
here. My own experience was with a crowd
whose “manager.” intending to disperse,
voluntarily offered to allow the takings to be
equally divided for the last few weeks.
Although the scheme offered financial possi-
bilities, the show lasted only a few more
days. Jealousy and suspicion, always ram-
pant among theatricals, led to a sudden
break-up. The plan was tried also in Syd-
ney, and the public was given free entertain-
ments in the vicinity of the office when
stormy bands of actors and actresses every
few days demanded and secured a change of
management. Co-operative theatrical enter-
prise is a good scheme —on paper.
“Bi”: Memories of the first Australian
production of “Sweet Nell” were recalled
when Albert Gran (the picturesque “Lord
Jeffreys”) turned up in a Yankee film.
“Closed. Doors,” at Melbourne Majestic the
other night. The passing years have added
weight and girth, but M’Lord’s face is as
handsome and unlined as when our own
Nell shook her saucy curls at him.
“P.X.” on a fight with a combine: —
An interesting little tight has just come to an end
at Hobart. For years K. J. Miller ran a general-
stoic business at Zeehan; then, scenting disaster in
the distance, he put his whole stock on a train and
shifted it to Hobart, where he spread it out in
some old centrally-situated shops he had bought,
and sold every line. On the morning after the
auctioneer had finished he began to demolish the
shops and put up the Strand Theatre, probably the
best-furnished picture-house in the Commonwealth.
1\ hen lie looked around for a lessee he was made to
understand that competitors were few, so he decided
u> run the show himself. The combines laughed,
lit.it by that time Miller was on the way to the
U.S.A., where he arranged for films. He took off the
gloves, and with plenty of money behind him
battled through, and was soon able to command 4-.
for the best seats in his house. Offers to buy him
out he pushed aside ; but last month he accepted a
proposal from Sydney for a long lease, with solid
guarantees, at a figure which won't leave much out
of £lOO a week. Now he goes world-travelling—
he has no wife or family to anchor him. Kenneth
Ji road foot manages the show now.
“Leo K.”: Steamed out of Hobart a while
ago, John de Lacey, who was in the east
of Mclntosh's “Lilac Domino” and Taits'
“Eyes of Youth.” He is an Englishman, and
is now heading for the Cold Country to tread
familiar boards once more.
"Wyinac”: One can sympathise with
Mtyrie Tempest’s opinion that Australians
are indifferent to the theatre as an art.
Take, for example, "Mr. Pim Passes By.”
It was an exquisite comedy, capably handled
by the principals, yet the Sydney run was
three weeks; but an orgy of pyjamas and
piffle entitled “Nightie Night” filled the
house for 10 weeks. Perhaps it is harsh to
blame Australian theatre-goers altogether,
for since the good o'd days of Brough-
Boucicault we have been so dosed with the
nasal comedies from Broadway and the
Bowery that our palate has been spoiled.
“Ancient Prompter”: Two old Australian
stage favorites are associated in the cast of
a new play produced at Marie Lohr’s Lon-
don theatre last month—Arthur Wontner
and Henrietta Watson. The piece is
“Woman to Woman,” by Michael Morton,
author of “The Yellow Ticket,” in which
Muriel Starred a few years ago. Morton
was also responsible for the adaptation of
Tolstoi’s “Resurrection,” which 18 years
ago served to introduce the before-mentioned
Wontner—now one of London’s most attrac-
tive leading men —to Australia.
“C. Ockney”: Marie Lohr had barely
reached Canada to start her long tour when
she got the news that her business manager,
Henry Dana, whom she had left behind to
look after affairs at her Globe Theatre,
Shaftesbury Avenue, had died suddenly.
Dana, one of the most capable and best-
liked of London’s “front of the house” men,
was, previous to joining Marie Lohr, asso-
ciated with the late Beerbohm Tree, whom
he “managed” (ofttimes a most difficult
job) for 21 years.
“E” : Clemence Dane’s “A Bill of Divorce-
ment,” which is going to be produced by
the Melbourne Mermaid Society, is a propa-
gandist play gone wrong. The intention of
the author was to win sympathy for a wife
who preferred .somebody else to her husband-
lie was in an asylum owing to shell shock.
She gets a divorce—the scene is laid some
years in the future: —and then the husband
turns up perfectly sane. The wife, who is
supposed to be a sympathetic character,
marries the other man and hands her old
husband over to the care of her daughter,
who sacrifices herself for the mother. The
dramatic sympathy is entirely with the hus-
band, and this is not what the author in-
tended. But the central situation is so
harrowing, and people are so enthusiastic
at present about divorce, that the play, un-
real as it is, is the biggest success London
has known for years.
Barrie’s “Quality Street,” first produced
in 1902 and brought to Australia by Robert-
Brough, is having a revival at London Hay-
market. The returned-soldier .“motive” had
some appeal then, and has infinitely more
now. The first night was a triumphant suc-
cess, hut Barrie—loudly called for at the
end—had carefully stayed away. Ellaline
Terriss. the original Phoebe, was in the stalls,
and gracefully threw a bouquet to Fay
Compton, her successor in the part.
THE LAST RECITATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The terror of our boarding-house
M as Edgar Wallace Smid,
Who oft provoked us all to “rouse”
Bv shameful things he did—
An actor who when he did act
Was for small parts selected;
So very minor that, in fact,
They scarce could be detected ;
But he recited dreadfully, and that when least
expected.
He might break out at breakfast-time
Or at the midday meal
In leagues and leagues of horrid rhyme
That angered us a deal;
Or over dinner he would scream
That strong drink was an adder,
Or give us “Wilfred Denver’s Dream.”
Or something longer, sadder.
The other men went hungrier; they scarcely could
be madder.
On Sundays we were never safe.
Where two or more were met
He would break out and fume and chafe—
I think I hear him yet.
If we a little party gave
He’d plunge at “Eugene A rani.”
The visitors were very brave
If Edgar didn't scare ’em.
So mad our friends were, after months we often
failed to square ’em.
bong was it after midnight, when
He spouted one dark night.
Forth crept three anxious little men
To see if all was right.
And “Hiawatha” he declaimed—-
Sot as a, lisping laggard,
For forty stanzas he had f ramed:
A victim Jimp and haggard
He’d cornered, and the hapless man was absolutely
■staggered
A bull-necked burglar ’twas that Ed.
Had trapped red-handed there.
I raised my pistol. “Man,’’ I said,
“I’ll shoot you if you stir!”
The burglar turned an eye ou me-
lts ahguish would distress you—
And pitifully answered he:
“Ves, shoot, sir-,"and God bless you!"
I fired, but which of them I shot out of your wisdom
guess you.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


1C
ELECTRICAL
ers
*
CO. LTD.
Table Toaster
Ufi
n
This little Table
Toaster toasts two
pieces at one time.
It. is simple, quick,
economical and ef-
ficient. You simply
put the holder into
the nearest lamp-
socket, turn the switcn, and place the
bread against the side-bars.
Whirlwind Fan
The Fan that will keep yon cool during
- o summer months, either in office,
home, theatre, shop or workshop.
Cosmos Electric Kettle
is a very fine, efficient and artistic*
looking Kettle. It boils rapidly and is
quite moderate in cost.
Table Toaster=Stove
This is a complete Table Stove that cooks every way except roasting.
You can fry, boil and toast on it. Make griddle cakes, and
else you want. It heats up in 3-5 minutes. It is the ideal for table
cooking.
ƒg
Cosmos Electric Iron
tom.
The chief feature of this iron
is that it is fitted with end
stand, so that it can be
tipped on its back edge when
not in use for a moment,
avoiding the necessity for a
separate stand. Weight of
domestic-size iron, 51b.
Call in to our Showroom, and Select the One You Want.
m
Lamps and Lamp
Shades
A Beautiful Table Lamp or a Shade
to match the Furnishings should be in
every Home; call in and see the wide
range of Lamps and Shades we are
showing. You will be delighted, and
there’s sure to be something to suit your
artistic ideas.
When you are thinking of labor-saving appliances for your home—think
Electrically then come and see us, and let us show you how you can save time
and work by using Metropolitan Vickers Electrical Household appliances.
The Mark
f
of Efficiency
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne* 304 Kent Street, Sydney.
Power Plant: 84 William Street, Melbourne.
Departments: 12 Martin Place, Sydney; and at
Newcastle, N.S.W.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURN'S, PHILP & CO., LTD.. Perth and Ceraldton.
Harvey’s Special li i
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UniTED. Redfern. Sydney.
LEWIS &
WHITTY
MAKERS:
s
y?«
YtNQ
mem
mmi
Daylite Air-Gas Machines
For COUNTRY HOMES.
Lighting &, Heating.
s
Spring driven—no tower or weight required.
Full particulars.
395 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Cadet Rifles.
CAL. 297/230, with CLEANING ROD AND
SIGHT PROTECTOR. We have only a few
of these noted Sporting Rifles in stock. Fitted
with new B.S.A. barrels, and sighted up to
500 yards. Fire a bullet larger than .22 cal.
and cost only o/- 100. Cartridges always on
hand. Guaranteed in good order. Secure
one now 55/-
AUTOMATIC PISTOLS. F. N. BROWNING
.25 cal. vest-pocket size. Fire six shots as
quickly as you can pull the trigger £5
AUTOMATIC RIFLE. .22 cal. Winchester. The
quickest and surest. .22 cal. rifle yet produced.
Fires .22 Automatic Cartridges. . £lO/10/-
Gun and Rifle Repairs done on the premises.
- Work Guaranteed.
Q. „ ,
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DOMT TINKER
LET
DO SIMMONS
PROPERLY
Strange how the Caulfield Cup course
suits the best of the imported horses. When Lavendo
won the race in 1915 all three of the placed horses
were English-bred. Next year Shepherd King scored
the first win of his disappointing life over the Caul-
field 1? furlongs'. King Offa and Lucknow won
brilliantly in ’lB and ’l9, but all four of those
winners failed at
Flemington, with the
weights in their favor.
Three of them were
easily beaten by three-
year-olds in the Mel-
bourne Cup, and the
other, King Offa,
broke down when
Nightwatch did the
trick. Perhaps a
three-year-old will win
this year, if Euryth-
mic be not quite
champion enough.
Lionel Attwill was
only a length behind
Violoncello at Caul-
field and Sister Olive,
another Derby candi-
date, was at his heels.
The young ones may
not. be a brilliant lot,
hut the same remark
applies to everything,
bar Eurythmic, among
the older and more
artful ones.
J. WOLSELEY
FETHERBTON-
HAUGH a West,
ruling Turf Club
committeeman.
\ loloncello s first run on a Melbourne
course was disappointing. As he walked round the
birdcage previous to the Herbert Power Stakes the
appearance of the large and handsome English horse
was impressive enough, but his form wasn’t. At the
outset of the 11-furlong race which Eurvthmie won
so brilliantly from Lionel Attwill (giving him 3st.)
it looked as though Violoncello would be a pace-
maker, brit as soon as he was steadied he settled
down into the ruck and there lie stayed. Finally he
came fifth, sweating and, as it seemed, fully ex-
tended, a few lengths behind the leading pair, and
losing ground rather than gaining it.
As it turned out, the imported nag’s form on the
W ednesday had been all wrong. Kobodv was more
astonished than some of his early backers when
Violoncello scored a solid win in the Caulfield Cup.
With one exception the race had never been slower
since 1904, and the rather soft going appears, oddly
enough, to have counted in favor of the topweight.
His feet had something to do with his feat, and
the English-like climate was congenial. Violoncello
had a good run. always in the first three or four,
frqe from difficulties that hampered comparatively
clumsy Purser, who started slowly and had to cover
more ground. As the race was run it would have
been an easy thing for Lionel Attwill had the young
pacemaker kept a sprint in reserve; nevertheless the
three-year-old did better than when he knocked
under to Tangalooma, and Eurythmic over 12 fur-
longs at Flemington a fortnight earlier. Then it
vyas that Tangalooma ran his Cup race. The big' geld-
ing was ripe too soon. His defeat by Lionel Attwill in
the Herbert Power Stakes was a true indication ot
his wane. He weakened last Saturday because he was
overstrung, and unless he can put on a trifle of
flesh this week and next without detriment to his
inward condition the Melbourne Cup prospects of
Tangalooma are blue.
If Purser, on the other hand, is capable of thriving
on some winding-up gallops he may beat at Fleming-
ton everything he met in the Caulfield Cup, although
bib. of Violoncello’s penalty is already off his back,
so to speak. The Y.R.C. handicapper gave the
Britisher only Bst. 61b. for Melbourne, as against
the Bst. 121 b. he humped last Saturday. Granting
that Prince Sandy did lighten on a spare diet after
his arrival in Melbourne the fact remains that he
ran very badly indeed in the Caulfield Cup, whilst
Laddie Blue performed no better. The Metropolitan
form has lost considerable credit, and Sandy lias
evidently a lot of condition to recover in any case.
With Erasmus suffering from sciatica, or something,
it looks as though bad luck has befallen all three
of tiie placed horses in the Metrop.
Swift Shot just managed to snatch Sydney
Tatt.’s Handicap from the Melbourne-owned Wildun,
who 50 yards from the post was out on his own.
The att'air emphasised the nfoderate character of the
horses racing at w.f.a. just now in Sydney. In the
A.J.C. Spring Stakes David had to be ridden right
out to beat Swift Shot and Syce Knight. He certainly
made a picturesque run, but the merit of it seems
discounted by Wildun’s showing against Swift Shot.
Wildun started at 10’s, Swift Shot at 9 to 2, with
Malurys, who had given Prince Sandy a gruelling
race at the A.J.C. meeting, a hot favorite. Albert
Weed on Malurys was suffering badly from lumbago.
The Maorilaud Derby candidates, Winning
Hit and Bluff, were split by Greenwood’s colt Pluto
in tlie Dunedin Guineas. Mason prefers the couple
he brought to Australia for the Derby to the
Sutala colt. He is intended for the N.Z. Cup
(2 miles). Baronet George Clifford, to whom the
Autumnus-Winning Way cplt belongs, is the Pooh
Bah of racing in the Ricketty Isles, and this mav
be his third Derby winner. His last, 10 years ago,
was Masterpiece.
* * * *
The imported gelding Golden Sunset bene-
fited by:the apprentice allowance and scraped home
in Brisbane Tatt.’s Handicap. The winner is well
performed, but uncertain, and went out with the
weight-cloth carrying, the only metal on him. In
the Trial, another winning outsider, Defamation, had
to hump 71b. over to accommodate W. McCabe.
* * * *
A roaring westerly and clouds of dust
made a misery of the opening stages of the National
Rifle Association’s meeting at Liverpool (N.S.W.)
range last week, and the majority of the 800 in the
“B” series did rottenly. In the McAlister (10 shots
at 300yds.) R. E. Adrian and M. Hickey got cards
of 49, and four others got 48. In the Vicars (10 at
500yds.) the shooting improved, and T. W. Duvev,
J. Cooper, J. Kirk and S. Clancy each got u possible
50, and 10 more dropped only a point. In the
French (10 at 600yds.) W. Waite, G. Manning,
A. W. Harper, S. H,awkes and S. Stuart were on top
Avith 48 out of 50. The Brown Aggregate of the
three matches went to E. Westbrook (Parramatta)
with 140. W. Anderson and R. McNally each veered
139. R. P. Graham (Wagga) won the Douglas
with 143 from T. Fraser (Wunderlich) and Holt
.(.Gunning). W. Young, aged 93, who was one of
the performers, must have fired enough shots in his
time to keep several armies at bay. He hasn’t
missed a meeting of the N.R.A. since' they were first
started. .
**4 * *
Vic. League pennant for the season was
won by Richmond on Saturday, after the stiffest en-
gagement seen on the Melbourne ground; for years.
The conditions —a sloppy ground and a drizzling
rain—were slightly against the Blues; with a heavy
ball their long kicks weren’t so long, and their
marking wasn’t so clean as usual. Richmond’s
short passing and concerted play stood to them, and
the superior team won by jhst about what they
deserved, 4 points—36 to Carlton’s 32. Play was fast
and willing yet clean. Starting the last quarter the
Tigers gained a 10-point lead. Then for nearly
the rest of the term the Blues strove determinedly
for the two goals that meant everything. Thev
got one, but again and again the Richmond backs
broke away and sent the ball round the wing, only
to have it returned and meet another attack. As
the exceptionally low scores show, the honors of
the day lay with the opposing backs, especially His-
~lop, Thorpe and Smith for the 'tigers and Jamieson
and O’Brien for Carlton. Gate was £2015, and
came from 42,392 pockets.
The abandoned Ass. final, between ’Scray and
Williamstown, was replayed on the East Melbourne
ground, ’Town winning by 3 points only—6B to 65.
Play was vigorous, and trainers and first-aid special-
ists were kept busy. , The final, ultimate arid abso-
lutely last piay-olf between the two will occur next
Saturday. Gate amounted to £440, from an 8000
or 9000 crowd. •
* * * %
At Highbury (Loud.) last week an Eng-
glish-born XIH licked the ’Roc." by 5 points (1 try
1 goal) to 4 points (2 penalty goals) in an exhibition
game. Clarkson (Lanes.), who was playing his first
international match, brought the house down by
lobbing a superb goal from the half-way mark.
Horder was an absentee from the Aussie ranks:
Rex Norman acted as custodian, and Fraser and
skipper Oubitc were the centre-threequarters. On
Saturday Wigan was beaten, after a hard game, by
14 points to 6 in the presence of 30,000 people.
In the words of a cable of last week, “at
Havana Harry Wills, a negro heavyweight, knocked
out Gunboat Smith in the first of a 20-round bout.”
Wills is the giant punching-machine against whom
Dempsey is drawing the color-line. The best of the
blacks can only get a match nowadays with whites
who are desperately yin need of the money that a
public hiding represents—second-raters like Smith,
who was in his prime 10 years ago. The color-bar
device is, of course, a sound one for keeping cham-
pionships in the hands of the white races, and in
due course it may be introduced into tennis, cricket
and other contests. But it is questionable if a title
held on such lilies is worth owning. What effront-
ery it would have been for mere white trash to
have posed as champions in their divisions for any
length of time when Jackson, Johnson, Langford
Clans and others were at their best!
Kid Lewis, the Cockney Jew who left
England not so long ago as a featherweight, met
Johnny Basham, the old-time British welter cham-
pion, on the middleweight mark last week. Both
scaled about list. Lewis, who had already well
beaten Basham for the Lonsdale Belt (welter), com-
pelled the veteran on this occasion to sky the towel
in the 12th round. Basham is a pretty boxer who
show's great footwork, but lie leads rashly with his
right, which is a method that suits Lewis well.
The Albino, who is now' about 27, should be equal
to almost any man in his class in the world. He
has frequently challenged Carpentier.
* * * *
Pat Mills, a fair English boy with a
faint smile that refused to come off and a whimsical
lift about his eyebrow, met dour, hard-faced Sid
Godfrey at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. MilL
hopped into the fray as though he had never heard
about the devastating right of his opponent, and
won the first round l>y a fair margin. He did not
- win many others. Though both ‘ weighed out at
exactly 9st. BJib., the Australian gave the impres-
sion of being a stone or two heavier and-proportion-
ately stronger. No one could have been gamer
than Mills. He took punches that have knocked
bigger men cold and fought back like a tiger. But
after the fifth round lie weakened, and it became
merely a question of time when he would go. In
the ninth he was out on his feet, and only instinct
kept hint fighting. Godfrey dropped him with a
couple of wicked crosses as the gong went for
corners; and such is the visitor’s misguided courage
that he was ready for more after his rest. How-
ever, the referee considered he had done enough, and
so did the house. Mills had bad luck in being put
up against the champion for his first fight in
Australia.
* * * *
Llew Edwards (9st. 91b.) and Dick John-
son (9st. BJib.) provided the feast of stousfa and
flow' of gore at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night. Edwards won by a knockout in the 16th
round. He knew too much for the Victorian, who
exhausted himself by bogging in when, having a
good lead on points, he should have been boxing
for safety. All the same, it was a fine, stimulating
scrap.
*, * * *
N. S. Wales Cricket Association made a
move last week to put life in the pastime outside
of grade matches. Trials between the first- and
second-grade Xl’s, and similar teams from the Great
Public Schools are listed for November 30; and
towards the end of the year, if the country districts
show interest, teams will trip to Newcastle, Maitland,
Bathurst and Armidale. The Combined Country XI
will play at Sydney next April. It is the first" bold
effort by the Assoc, to keep the punch in the pastime.
The Assoc, also decided on the “expenses” for the
season. Sheffield Shield players will get 10s. or
claim for loss of salary (plus 55.) per day out of
the State, and loss of salary or ss. per dav in the
State.
* * *
Three out of the eight matches that con-
cluded the second round of Sydney grade-cricket on
Saturday were no-decision affairs. ’Varsity unexpect-
edly downed Balmain. The students’ break bowler,
YateS, struck a length, whereas the lialmainiacs,
Ironmonger and Folkard, didn’t. Glebe declared at
5 for 288 —Morgan (74), Mair (65), Kelleway (43)
and Gray (62 n.o.) —but the Oumberlanders, Gar
Waddy (70) and E. K. Brown (55), were still in at
the drawing of stumps with but two down for 142.
Gordon failed to win againet Mosman by 57. Had
Taylor (65) and Gerdes (51 n. 0.) got an earlier
start the end might have been closer. James (54)
of Paddington alone kept Waverley Worn bat-
ting. When they did start they, lost but 2 wickets
for 281. which was a century more than Pad.’s
total. Caswell (146 n. 0.) treated Noble and Trenerrv
with discourtesy, and his knock was chanceless. St.
George crashed heavily against Wests, for whom
Wild made a splendid 124. But both teams are
below first-grade standard. Manly went to the
dogs against Norths and for thin Prott (6 for 17)
was responsible. Bubb, for the Villagers, was less
destructive, but lie made all Norths scratch. Marrick-
ville were too intent on run-getting and overlooked
their chance of beating Petersham. Pete’s last man
was in -when the curfew rang, and they were' 96
behind. Both sides trotted out a centurion —That-
cher for Marrickville; Scanea for Petes. Asher
swooped down on Kandwiek’s tail, and they gave
Sydney only 160 to get. Brown (112-) found the
bowling simple, although Dowd kept a’good length
and troubled all the others. The colt promises
to be another Jim Maekay.
May, of Petersham, banged an innings of
16 in Sydney baseball v. Waverley on Saturday. In
a full nine-innings game Petes won by 29—8.
(1. Clifton's motor-cycle hill-climb at Wat-
son’s Bay (Sydney) on Saturday (300yds. in 19sec.)
is claimed as, a N.S.W. record. The side-cars did
the distance in 20 2-ssec. Harley-Davidson machines
filled the leading positions in both events.
* * * *
With Redfern (Sydney) Harriers last week
sprinter Walton Runt (scratch) won the 75yds. in
Bsee. at Hornsby. George Parker took the 11-
mile walk from scratch in 11 min. 55sec. —the best
showing these two champions have made since their
return from the Olympic Games last year. With
Botany Harriers, M. J. Grandemange lifted the
440vds. from scratch in 56 3-ssee.
* * * *
Sydney Sailing Club’s 18ft. Handicap last
Saturday attracted some notabilities. Annette Keller,-
man wain one of the crew of Gordon King's Mona,
and Rear-Admiral Dumaresq piloted the new craft
H. C. Press, and made a great showing after losing
over 2min. at the start. Mississippi eventually lobbed
home 2min. ahead of Arline, with Crescent third.
* * * *
Intercollege tennis in Adelaide ended in
a comfortable win for Prince Alfred over St. Peter,
by 10 rubbers to 5. The winners have had a bit the best
of things, on balance, during the last 10 years, but
the record is still 11 matches to 7 against them.
An interesting feature was the appearance on the
winning side of yet another Hone, aged 14. His
three elder brothers are all fine players. An uncle
who died yopng, and the boys’ father. Dr. Prank
Hovie, were both doubles champions in their day,
and the latter is still dangerous in any company
hut the very higfliest.
In the Speedwell Cycle Club’s 118-mile
Test Race from Launceston to Hobart on October
8. both J. P. O’Farrel (Vic.), who did the fastest
job in ohr. 59min. Bsec., and R. Stamford (Hobart),
Who did the next best in 6hr. 4min. 7sec., beat the
fastest ever put up before in the Speck’s biggest road
race—Fred Keefe’s 6hr. smin. 37 3-ssee. in 1908.
This trip H. Westbrook (Launceston) got in first in
Ohr. I7min. Bsec., with D. Malone (Hobart) second.
Though most of the money won on
Violoncello was taken by Sydney backers it goes
into a very few hands. Soon after the weights
appeared he was backed by owner Sam Hordern to
win about £lO,O-00. All his trainer Cecil Bryans
knew at that time was that the horse looked and
JOHN "BARON’
Brown, the New-
castle coal king and
horse-owner.
worked’ like a good
’un. At Randwick
the import did no-
thing impressive. The
only good gallop he
registered, was iff the
Hill Stakes at Roseliill
behind Beauford: but
e' en then he only had
to run over a lot of
well-beaten horses. At
Randwick on Satur-
day news of. his win
at Caulfield brought
joy to the ring. There
had been brisk bet-
ting on the race all
day, but the Hordern
horse was well off the
market. Tangalooma,
Prince Sandy, Lionel,
Vttwill, Purser and
Laddie Blue were the
popular fancies.
' A lovely specimen of the pony-meeting
bookmaker tried a big bluff at the Richmond (Melb.)
course while results from Randwick were coming
along. This bird had been busy laying wagers on
the Metropolitan up to the moment when the
Manders Agency telegram was posted on the notice-
board. Laddie Blue had won, and punters who had
picked it duly presented their pasteboards. Then did
the iron-jawed rhinoceros-hide coolly tear up the
winning tickets and offer the holders their stake-
money back on the ground that the bets were not
made until after the Metropolitan was run. But
the stipe stewards took a hand and Bluff, the son of
Bounce, Was ordered to gather up the fragments and
cash them.
* * * V#
A steeplechase at Murray Bridge ( S.A. )
has been “won pulling up” in unusual circum-
stances. There were only two riders in it at the
end, but they were neck and neck. A white post
just short of. the judge’s box caught their eve, and
both stopped riding, under the impression that the
race was over; and thus they ambled amicablv
together past the judgie. However, it is believed
that the nose which first came under his notice was
in front also when the misunderstanding occurred.
» * » *
Even the niqgt inactive participant in a
regatta is a bit of a sport, as compared with the
most furious and persistent of racegoers who take
no risks in the game. Anything may happen a
yachtsman in dirty weather. At the last Cowes
(Eng.) Regatta one of the competitors, Sir Charles
Seely, was swept overboard, and his oilskins and
sea-boots nearly dragged him to a watery end. His
brother-in-law brought the yacht round, and his
daughter helped throw out the main sheet, and so
the wet gentleman was eventually hauled aboard.
The same rough sea struck Field-Marshal Wilson and
knocked him out of his little boat. He went down
more than once before another military personage in
another yacht got him out of trouble. Yet a horse
reporter never speaks of men who go yachting as
“sportsmen.” Only the blokes who "follow the
gees as long as their money lasts are “sportsmen.”
Anything may be expected of young
MeConacliy, the Maoriland billiardist now in London.
He may not quite hold his own with the best of
them right away, but already billiard writers over
there are remarking the “intensity” of the man.
There is something in McConachy—character, deter-
mination, high intelligence and nervous force. He’s
the Henry Irving of billiards, with perhaps too much
quick intelligence for a long trial of patience, but
possessed of all the necessary capacity for playing
a dashing game. It was his bad luck to he seized
with the mania for the “Gray” stroke, as it was
called, at the time when it looked the one stroke
worth practising. In fact, McConachy visited Aus-
tralia as an exponent cf the wearisome, winning
hazard what time George Gray was in England. Now
that he plays the top-of-the-table game his real
talent for billiards gets a fair chance.
* » * »
“Te Pana’’: The crowd was the largest
in the history of horseracing at Waipirau (M.L.).
and there were not enough seats for the Maori
population. Arriving just before the Cup, Hori
and Mere dumped themselves on a couple of sacks
of potatoes. Then Henare Tekau, chief steward,
clerk of the course and owner of the favorite, dashed
up. “Ehoa, what te game, eh?” he growled. “You
sittin’ on te 'plurry Cup.”
“Adelaide” : A football club ruu in connec-
tion with a church isn’t a novelty; but I doubt if
outside Adelaide you could find entrance to a whole
association restricted to one sect. Blit we have a
flourishing “Churches of Christ Football Association.”
A Hindmarsh conventicle has just secured the pre-
miership for the fourth consecutive season—one just
before the war and three since.
m * * * *
Tommy Ryan, M.R.A., is credited with pull-
ing the strings and inducing the Vic. Cabinet to
refuse to ratify the City Council’s arrangement for
leasing the North Melbourne cricket ground to the
Essendon Football Club. Forced out of the East
Melbourne ground by the Railways, which want the
land for yards, the Red and Blacks have to go
somewhere, and the Essendon people want them on
their own back yard. Hence Tommy Ryan’s activity.
THE HUMANITARIANS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"I lie prize-money of the Melbourne Gun Club
w inch opened its spring season on Saturday, amounts
to about £750. On Friday, October 21, the Hospi-
tal Funds Meeting will occur.”
Behind their marks the sportsmen lounge and talk
of gentle deeds (
That doctors do in ’hospitals to banish pain and
grief;
Kaeh kindly pigeon-shooting heart with honest sor-
row bleeds ,
To think that anguish should persist where there
might be relief.
But in the traps the birds crouch low and wait the
fateful sound
That presently will bring a hail of lead across
the ground.
Upon the soft green grass the feathers lie. like flakes
of enow— ]
lake freakish pale-blue snow that lias been touched
with something red:
The dogs with eager zest about their dreadful duties
go,
J hey’ prey the battered tilings that now were
so much better dead;
And on the trees, beyond the fence, with crimsoned
wings awry,
And hanging legs and nodding heads the “misses"
slowly die.
A gracious thing is'charity, a pleasant; thing is sport ;
And each should aid the other in a self-respecting
way;
And both should band together, facing good or ill
report.
Regardless of what sickly sentimentalists may say.
So all day long the blue rocks fall before the crowded
stand,
Where cruelty and righteousness sit smugly hand-
in-hand.
X.S.W.
J. B. D.


aggregate balance sheet
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
at 30th JUNE, 1921.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
£ s.
34,515,485 8
7.985,465 18
d.
9
3
Savings Bank Department—
Depositors’ Balances
Capital—Debentures Issued
Reserve Fund
Redemption Fund ..
. . 36,190,389. 10 11
.. 1,725,682 11 11
.. 1,725,682 11 11
£82,142,706 1 9
Contingent Liabilities —•
Outstanding Credits per Contra . . 200.314 10 10
Total General Bank and Savings Bank
Departments 82,348,020 12 7
Note Issue Department .. *'• 58,225,787 0 0
£140,573,807 12 7
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances .. 5,371,13*9 19 11
Australian Notes .. . . .. 8,013,571 0 0
Money at Short Call in London .. 8,090,000 0 0
Investments—•
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£23,654,560 12s. Bd.) .. .. 23,473,735 7 11
Commonwealth Government Se-
curities (face value £9,911,312
4s. Id.) 9,830,780 11 9
Fixed Deposits of other Banks.. 929,000 0 0
Bills Receivable in Condon and
Remittances in transit .. .. 7,174,175 2 5
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and other
sums due to the Bank .. 18,6571722 8 8
Bank Premises .. .. .. 602,381 11 1
£140,573,807 12 7
.PROFIT AND LOSS.
Dr.
To Reserve Fund ..
„ Redemption Fund
£ s. d.
201,520 14 JO
201,520 14 10
£403,041 9 8
s. d.
Bv Profits for Half-year ended 30th
June, 1921 403,041 9 9
£403,041 9 8
RESERVE FUND.
Dr.
ďf
£ s. d.
By Balance .. . . • • •. 1,524,161 17 1
„ Transfer from Profit find Loss
Account of one-half of the Net
Profits •• 201,520 14 10
Dr.
REDEMPTION FUND.
Cr.
£ s. d.
To Balance .. .. .. •• 1,725,682 11 11
£1,725,682 11 11
£ s. d.
By Balance . . .. . ■ •• 1,524,161 17 1
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the Net
Profits 201,520 14 10
£1,725,p82 11 11
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled
from statements furnished by the several offices
of the Bank, is true and correct.
H. T. ARMITAGE, Secretary.
D B. MURDOCH, Branch Accountant.
DENISON MILLER,
Governor.
Sydney, Bth September, 1921.
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
T +>l „ nvnvicions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Bank Act 1911-1920 I have
In accordance withJ; P ■ t of the Commonwealth Batik of Australia for the half-year
to report that by officers under my direction, as well as by myself. The
ended the 30th June, 1921 has books aqd vouchers, with
?.he e Securities heldby the Bank, and with Statements certified by the respective Manager's and Accountants
° f hlt-’e'obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The. said Balance Sheet
has heen preparedTn the form prescribed by the Regulations under the Act, and, in my opinion, it
eXhi^ i Bth a September!T92°l. the affa "" ° f W. ISRAEL, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.
Balance Sheet of Note Issue Department
at 80th June, 1921.
DIRECTORS:
Chairman : Sir Denison Miller, K.O.M.G.
.1. J. Garvan, Esq.
Hon. George Swinburne.
J. R. Collins, Esq., C.M.G.
LIABILITIES.
Votes held by the Public . .
Votes held by Banks , • •
£
22,934,325
35,291,462
s. 'd.
0 (
0 0
£585225,787 0 (
.ASSETS.
Told Coin and Bullion
Debentures and other Securities
)ther Assets. .
£ s. d.
23,863,206 10 0
25.919,356 0 0
8,443,224 10 0
£58,225,787 0 0
Certified correct,
H T. ARMITAGE, Secretary.
D. B. MURDOCH, Branch Accountant.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
SYDNEY.
For and on behalf of the Board,
DENISON MILLER,
Chairman of Directors.
Sydney, Bth September, 1921.
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
, , . , . . T ;„hnitips and Assets of the Note Issue Department of the Commonwealth
The above statement of the Liabil t . 1 As. verified by officers acting under my direction.
Bank of Australia as at the 30th June fn i £ h@ Board . The Gold oo in and
other assets, as well * the Liabilities, have been
verifl^ e w ’t t atemenTraT a bTenTepared a, in the"for'm'prescribed by regulations under the Act, and I am o
the Titfseptemben * ** t the Commonwealth.
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to in
plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppifi Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AGENCIES:
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
GET THAT “FAT”
gf
Wbat’s the use of it, anyway? It just makes you feel old and
helpless. Turn it into good, solid, useful muscle! Reduce your w;iist
and increase your chest, and then you will feel what it is like to be
really and truly alive!
If you have been keeping fit, but are “running to seed,” you can
soon regain perfect physical condition by taking up the
Baker Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
After a few of these simple and enjoyable exercises you will
tackle physical and mental work with the energy and effici-
ency that spell success.
The Baker exercises have all been prepared by the famous
athlete Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, and are adapted to suit
the requirements of each individual pupil. They are of
great benefit in correcting flat chest, breathing difficulties
and other physical defects, and build up every nerve and
muscle of the body.
To learn all about the course and get examples of the
lessons, just write your name and address across this adver-
tisement, and send it with three stamps to cover nostam
for a copy of “Snowy” Baker’s booklet “Health and Strength
from Self-Culture,” which gives full details.
REG. t. (‘’Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
697 Municipal Buildings, 82a Oxford Street, Sydney.
K.YNOCH
AMMUNITION
ƒgf
■22 RIM FIRE.
ƒ
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
POST-WAR VALUES in
BURBERRYS
AT
LINCOLN,
STUART'S.
The new
season
Burberrys
have ar-
rived in a splendid
range of Latest Lon-
don Styles fcr both
men and women.
We are pleased to
be able to offer
them at the new
prices, which are
practically on a par
with pre-war values.
Light as air—porous
and self-ventilating
—proof against light
shower or heavy
downpour—the Bur-
berry stands alone
as the
ALL-WEATHER
COAT
At the same time —the exclusive
Cut, Style and Finish of all
“Burberry” Creations make
them a universal leader of
Fashion —and the choice of all
discriminating dressers.
m.
t*
g s
3
/j/-.
mz
m&t
"Y
/•
\
&
z
WE ARE THE
APPOINTED
“BURBERRY”
AGENTS FOR
MELBOURNE
FOR BOTH
MEN'S AND
WOMEN’S
COATS.
CALL OR WRITE. WE PAY FREIGHT.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


VJk
Y
SunughtSoap
The whole thing in a nutshell.
The Coconut Oil blend
is the secret of
Sunlight Cleansing
XOX
BEST LAUNDRY SOA°
g
f
g
f
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON- INTOXICATING
IT it isn’t,.
Its - Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of "BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s all shops '. Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, Mark Foy’s,
Gre'-n Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and country • ostage paid 1 9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter.
The Occidentul
collins St. melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Contral 1533, 11609
, Caulfield Cup day was a wild tornado
of storm following treacherous sunshine.
The holocaust of frocks was horrible, and
the sleety cold turned everybody’s make-up
purple. One proud dame wore her new
japonica red hat, and by 5 o’clock a gliss<3
red feather drooped-round a blue-red nose.
This japonica red is a craze, but it needs a
complexion that stays. In the Gov’ment
House party three henna hats rose over
muffling fur coats. Lyons, president of the
Hobart racers, was over, putting his socks
on his horse Tavistock. Melba was cheerful
in furs to her nose. When the storm came
up there was a mad rush to the carriage-
paddock, with motor-coats and rugs to the
rescue. But not everyone was caught. A
complete dress-list would have to mention
that Mary Flygirl had snake-skin shoes at
home but wore her old slippers under
goloshes, and that Mrs. did mean
to wear champagne tulle frills on a one-
piece of Lyons satin, but thought better of
it._ Melbourne women know their capricious
climate, and inter-State visitors are begin-
ning to realise its vagaries. One frocky
little. Tasmanian said: ‘‘l bring crowds of
evening frocks, but stick to tailor-mades for
the races.”
Sam Mackay did not get much satisfaction
out of his Lionel Attwill, but his wife looked
topnotch. Her navy frock was buttoned
smartly to the chin with a babv ’Lizabethan
collar round her ears and a tiny turban snug
down on her smooth hair. Mrs. Franken-
burg was cosily dressed in thick cloth the
color of bananas, and her hat had the fas-
hionable. rubberised roofing. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald got into warm tan-colored togs,
and had the newest flat heels to her shoes.
Baby Merson-Cooper glowed out of wild-cat
fur—striped black and white.
Dame Nellie Melba had a dinner-party at
the Occidental afterwards. Mrs. Armstrong,
who is putting up at the tavern for the
races, joined her in hostessing. Mr. Ber-
nard Yorke —a brother of the Dame’s great
pal, Lady Susan —was among the guests.
The whole party went on to see Coyne in
‘‘Wedding Bells,” and were boxed in great
splendor at the Royal.
The other afternoon the wives of Minis-
ters spread welcome-home tea-tables for Mrs.
Billy Hughes in the President’s parlor. All
the guests were political wives or daughters.
The George Pearce, Littleton Groom, W. M.
Greene and E. J. Russell wives were the
hostesses. Mrs. Hughes turned up in brown,
with a henna toque, and six-year-old Helen,
all blue silk frills and golden curls, clung to
che maternal petticoats.
The vice-regal Forsters’ son-in-law, Capt.
Pitt Rivers, who has been warming himself in
Papua, has skipped oil to the Far North on
his way back to the Cold Land, where his
family will meet him. The lady is just back
from farewelling him in Brisbane.
Trimmings of purple thistles and a fine
splashing of cardinal, gold and blue pro-
claimed a frivol at the St. Ivilda Town Hall
on Oct. 10 as the old Scotch Collegians’
ball. Otherwise it was just an ordinary, en-
joyable young persons’ dance, without any
special laying-on of bagpipes to brand it as (
a 70th anniversary shivoo of the college. The'
frocking was particularly tasteful, and no
doubt Scottish discretion and sense of
decency had something to do with there being
far less nakedness than usual.
There were youth, beauty and “tone” at
the Playhouse when Nellie Veiteh’s elocution
class at St. Catherine’s spread itself in
a three-act flower pageant and playlet for
the Children’s Hospital. The school heads.
Miss Langley (sister of the Bishop) and
Miss Templeton sat in a pen with the
Stradbroke Countess, who was theatre-coated
in black-and-gold brocade and vowed she
loved every minute of the attractive show.
With her Ex. were daughter Helena and a
Rous son, and Toorak mothers noted that
the boy’s black coat had been resurrected
from his sea chest. Mrs. AV. J. T. Clarke,
more royal than vice-royalty in ball-gown
and diamonds, was there with her bic hus-
band, and they were proud of daughter Wil-
ma as a dainty Fairy Queen. The Norman
Bayles pair, too, beamed on their golden-
haired chick, who grew in the Garden of
Flowers as an orchid. At the finish the
stage was swamped with floral trophies from
admiring friends and relatives, and then
Miss Guthrie, hon. sec. for the Children’s
Hospital, spoke some thanks from the bal-
cony before the Countess arose and told the
girleens how she had enjoyed their show. But
this didn’t please them half as much as her
confession that she in her youth had never
been able to hold herself up, or pronounce
long words properly. After that the girls
voted her “perfectly sweet.”
Mrs. Hughes, of the Women’s National
League, talks of giving up her presidency
because she isn't as young as she was, but
nobody looks very anxious to step in where
the dominat ng matron will some day cease
to tread. Skirted enthusiasm for politics
was never widespread, and the supply of
good material seems to be dropping’ off.
Only the best of it wears well. Since the
novelty blew off the A.W.N.L., most of the
shows of new season’s goods have been dis-
appointing, for a lot of the material has been
not even second-best. It was a bad day for-
the Cause when a war-weary little woman,
whose words carried weight in the outer
circles of Earnest Endeavor, began to preach
the doctrine that public affairs are an awful
worry, and one can’t pick up political
wrinkles without feeling older. “My dear,”
said the rebel, “the only sort of partv that
km going to vote for must give me a dance
and something to eat.”
Mrs. Norman Brookes gave a big luncheon
party for Dorothea Spinney on Friday, and
Melba was among the guests. Sassiety has
taken the Euripidean lady to its bosom.
This week, by the way, the Spinney breaks
away from her favorite, and will do some
Sophocles in English and also a bit of
Browning untranslated.
The Austral Salon’s at-home to the Butt-
Rumfords was the usual concert-tea at which
back-seaters’ acquaintance with the star
guests gets no further than a rear view
of their heads. The Dame was imposing
in a gold furbelowed black . satin coat,
black hat and a wide smile. The smile her
husband brought with him -.surxivfed ’the
spectacle of a double row of girls lining the
entrance to the Hardware Chambers lift
and flapping flower-decked wands; but it
withered when the pair alighted above-stairs
to find that the rapturous damsels had raced
up the several flights for more wand-waving.
Kennerley turned to hide his blushes and
found himself in the women’s dressing-room,
where he was presently unearthed by his
wife. After that they drank tea and played
audience to singers Walter Kirby, George
Brooke and others.
On Armistice night a concert, arranged by
George Cowley, will happen in the Town
Hall in aid of limbless soldiers. Singer
Irene Certo and pianist Natalie Dawson
will head a strong programme. If Mel-
bourne remembers, a crowded house will
prove that people realise what a fearful
sacrifice our limbless boys have made. But
does Melbourne remember?
Here is Lafayette’s view of contralto
Violet Somerset, who is having a compli-
mentary farewell shortly prior to taking her
voice to London. Trained by the late
Rudolf Himmer, she
made her first pub-
lic appearance and
sang small parts in
the German Opera
Co. that toured Aus-
tralia a few years
ago. Since then she
has sung much with
the Philharmonic.
She was the Mother
of Sorrows in the re-
cent production of
Cesar Ffanc k’s
“Beatitudes,” and
had a part in “The
Flying Dutchman,”
with Andrew Black
as basso. In 1909
she was heard in
Honolulu with Jessie
. Masson at the piano, and she has toured
Tasmania with Cappelli.. She is now con-
nected with the People’s Con., but on her
return from England is to have a post
in Fritz Hart’s voice-factory in East Mel-
bourne.
The Athenaeum Hall is housing a collec-
tion of soul-expressions in pant by still
another girl-artist. This time it is Miss A.
E. Oakley, and her canvases will decorate
the walls until the end of the month.
The next bright young Australian anxious
to show what she can do with an ordinary
piano is Ermyntrude Avery, who will give
,n recital in the Assembly Hall on Oct. 28.
Ermyntrude, still in her teens, is tall, fair
and classic in style. Father is an M.Sc.. and
lectures at the Working Men’s College,
while mother, a sedate and cultured M.A..
is one of the ringleaders of the Parents’
National Education Union. Ermyntrude’s
pyschologv has been studied from infancy,
and she has been brought uo according to
the book; but in spite of this, under Goll’s
guidance, she is expected to do big musical
things.
While the rain noured over the dismal city
last Friday the Town Hall was filled with
grown-ups watching babies from Carlton
playing within a chalky ring on the floor.
-Lady Forster, in nigger velvet and furs
opened this demonstration by the Carlton
I ree Kindergarten, and then watched the fun
the piatform. Beside her sat Dame.
Claia Butt, all amiable interest and sables
and shady navy-satm hat with long white-
spotted tails to it. Mrs. Pitt Rivers, in verv
smart tailor-mades, sat in the vice-regal
group with the- usual polite interest for a
good while.; but when the Carlton kiddies
began to sing and dance and act the good
old nursery rhymes, she made a dash out
into the rain and snatched two bonnie boys
or her own from a governess in the waiting
limousine, and hauled them in to see the fun.
„.*^S a r Wynne and his wife and other St.
rDlda. importants gave a supper-party on
Saturday night to ex-Mayor Sam Alford and
his lady. There were small tables in the
Council-room, and present-Mayor Cummings
and his wife sat with the Wynnes and the
Alrords. The Melbourne Town Clerk Ellerys
had a bunch of city councillors with them,
and the Alfords’ handsome daughter and
daughter-in-law were frockily conspicuous
at the table of the St. Ivilda Town Clerk
Chamberlains. During the evening Mrs.
Chamberlain, gleanrng with jetted tulle, was
handed a presentation diamond brooch ; Mrs.
Alford said thanks for a diamond pendant,
and Alford himself found diamonds in his
new cuff-buttons.
This is how Francie Young’s camera saw
singer. Alan Murray,
whose’ rich, finely-
poised baritone
threatens to soar to
the giddy heights of
fame. It has already
been raised at local
concerts with con-
siderable success, and
it got a further pub-
lic hearing in “The
Marriage of Figaro”
at the King’s.
At present Mur-
ray specialises in
folk songs; but lie is
a versatile young-
man, and cuts some-
thing of a dash as an
amateur mummer
with the Mermaid
Play Society. His
voice has been the special care of Theo-
philus Roberts.
On Saturday night the Lyceum Club had
a crowd at an ultra-smart recital by pian-
ist Cahill and tenor Brookes. Sassiety filled
every inch in the club reception-rooms. Rita
Hope sat ainrost on the piano and coo-ed
words of praise. Mrs. James gave a supper-
party at the finish.
The uncrowded first-night audience at
the Royal on Saturday included Dame Nellie.
She smiled freely throughout “Wedding
Bells,” except when little Marjorie Bennett
was trying to turn her phantom soprano
to song at the piano. From her position
in the box Melba couldn’t behold the mur-
muring songstress, and to have leaned for-
ward to see where the fitful little strains
were coming from might have seemed rude,
if not derisive. So the Dame simply sat
back and tried not to look sorry. She was in
white with a fur stole to comfort her, and
daughter-in-law had only a little color show-
ing in her outfit*. George Armstrong was
in attendance with another man. In the
opposite b Frank Tait had his wife among
others, and ’way down in the front row of
the stalls sat black-haired Rubi Trelease,
who had made a mildly-applauded entry
with a red roofing on her shoulders. It
seems that in Sydney Rubi had played the
part Marjorie Bennett was taking this time.
Mrs. Chia (Unie Russell) has obtained
her divorce from the young Chinaman she
married a few months before he was gaoled
for shooting at the then Celestial Consul in
Melbourne. She had to go to the Full Court
as Cussen, J., had grave doubts. Chia be-
haved chivalrously, and the letter he wrote
her beginning “you were once my adored
wife” to notify her that he would place no
obstacles in the way of her obtaining her
freedom won him quite a lot of sympathy
from old-fashioned and very modern folk.
The child of the marriage occupies a tiny
lot in an English cemetery.
The supper-dance at the Esplanade booked
for to-night (Thursday) should be a hr lliant
affair. It is to aid the Lady Stradbuoke
Day Appeal for the hospitals. Sassiety,
headed by the Earl and Countess and Dame
Nellie, has rushed to peg out claims, and the
lady Mayoress and Mrs. Hewison (hon.
sec.) have had their work cut out to allot
tables. Carlyon is giving the ballroom and
the supper as well as the services of his
staff, so, with the tickets at a guinea, the
Countess should get a nice little cheque out
of the frivol.
The social union of R.A.N. wives and
mothers had a shivoo in the Independent
Hall a few days ago. The Clarkson and
Creswell ladies, Mrs. Deakin, Mrs. Edmund
Collins and Miss Cole all helped in handing-
round tea and buns. There was good
music, and the R.A.N. babies had a lovely
scramble on the floor.
Syd Dalrymple, whose marriage with sweei
little Nancy Moule is booked for this week
has bought Point Cook sheepery. This was
one of the George Chirns.de properties rounc
by Werribee and the aviation grounds. Brick
Nancy Motile was a frequent jazz-partner of
Edward P. when he was in Melbourne.
Young Nathan, of Maoriland, son of that
David Nathan who established the dried
milk industry in the Rickettv Isles, is prowl-
ing round Melbourne. The young man lost
an eye and gained a mention-in-dispatches
on the Italian front in the Big Fuss, lie is
particularly interested in baby life-saving
charities, and that. - - «n’t altogether because he
arries on dad’s baby-food business.
Justice Schutt is trying to bear up under
the sentence of six months’ grass-widower-
hood passed on him bv his popular wife, who.
with cousin Lily Smith, is going off in
December for half a year in Italy.
Confirmation comes from pretty little
Rosamond Lumsdaine, Mrs. Harry Whiting’s
sister, that she has promised to make Alan
Spowers happy. He is the Argus Spowers’
eldest hope, and when he returned from
the French front he kept his rank and khaki
in action for a time as gent-help to the
acting-vice-regal Irvines.
‘ Another Melba yarn which ought to be true
if it isn’t. The song-bird turned up unex-
pectedly at a charity cafd-chantant, and the
hon. organiser in doing the amiable nearly
fell over herself. “Everyone wants to hear
you siug badly,” she burbled. "Then
they won't,” said the Dame, adding naively,
"because I can’t.”
The Shakspeare Society is helping to pass
round the hat for the Henry Gyles Turner
Memorial Fund, but somehow Society is not
rushing the idea of an Australian Historical
Research Fund out of which the Uni. will
provide occasional scholarships for Gyles
Turner scholars. The truth is it is only-
old dry-as-dust cronies of the late Gyle's
T.—fellow-committeemen in Shakspeare
societies and such things—who talk of keep-
ing his memory green. The descendants of
folk who lost in the big Melbourne land
boom were brought un not to hallow Gyles
Turner’s name, and the sight of a circular
inviting subscriptions makes some people
quite cross.
The Lyceum Club is going to have
an at-home on October 24. The host-
esses are the present president (Jess
Webb, M.A.) and ex-presidents Dr.
Connie Ellis, Mrs. Alf Deakin, Miss
Derham, Mrs. Wrigley and the Spencer lady.
The concentration of culture and intellect
within one building on that evening should
be terrific. There are about 500 members,
all with pretensions to some sort of mental-
ity—it is a condition of membership—and
they’re all invited!
Adelaide sends a little gossip:—
On Labor Day the whole town had a look at the
procession, then rushed for the hills, and National
Park became like unto a beehive. The success of the
“Eight Hours” procesh. was contributed to by the
timber-workers, who bore aloft a banner declaring
“We saw for 44 houns.” The committee had agreed
to give half the day’s proceeds to the Mayoress's
fund in aid of the Children’s Hospital, wherefore two
trollies had each a cot with a wee kiddie to repre-
sent the sick children, and the appeals of the pretty
nurses-in-charge for donations drew a respectable
sum from the crowd.
Queen Mary must take a great interest in our
municipal collection, as Mayor Moulden has just
received a letter from John Cockburn to say that
her Majesty had recently bought two engravings of
the late lamented King Mj’illiam IV. and Queen
Adelaide, and, thinking they might be appreciated
here, she was about to <?end them along.
The relatives have just presented to the Adelaide
corporation a portrait of Caleb Peacock, who mayored
the city in 1875-6. So our city museum will soon
be worth paying to see.
Josiah Symon, K.C., and his daughter returned
by the Narkunda from England and France, where
they have been touring extensively. William Sowden
came back from Colombo by the same beat.
Mrs. Donald, of Tbebarton, who, though she has
passed her 84th milepost, was prominent in all patri-
otic work during the war, was given a birthday party
the other day by her friends. There were about 200
there, and Lady Weigall presented her with a vase
on behalf of the mothers, and also handed the old
Lady an enlarged portrait of his Ex., little Priscilla
and. herself.
Girl Guidee seem to flourish in the country, where
there are no counter attractions, but in the city it
is rather a pathetic effort. Still, branches are being
formed. That at St. Peters got its kick-off the other
evening, with the blessings of Mrs. R. Butler, the
Mayoress- and Dr. C. Ivrakowsky. The movement
certainly ought to “go,” because a married Girl
Guide wrote to the papers recently thanking the
organisation for making her such a perfect wife!
For years the Burra was the terminus of our
northern railway, and that made it a camping-place
for the teamsters of a vast area, running across
the border into N. S. Wales and Queensland. So
the Burra got well acquainted with the back coun-
try, which was to its great advantage When Broken
Hill was discovered. One of the gainers was squat-
ter Mcßride. More than middle-aged then, he lasted
until now, dying last week at 91. During the last
20 years of his life he made numerous large gifts
to philanthropies.


Exquisite
Quality
ƒ
Paris Design Diamond Cluster
Ring, set in Platinum,
£lOO.
Sapphire and Diamond Ring, set
in Platinum,
£2lO.
Pearl and Diamond Brooch,
£25.
Pearls and Diamonds,
£25.
Gem-set Platinum Watch, on Platinum or Moire Silk Band,
From £l2O.
Diamond Circle Brooch,
£BO.
Pearl and Diamond Brooch,
£75.
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
Selections sent on Approval to any -Address in the Commonivealth.
We Bnimmonb £ Co-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON'S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWX, VICTORIA.)
ENQUIRIES INVITED
for
ANY MACHINERY PROPOSITION
such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
FORGINGS OF ALL KINDS.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
agents.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
h. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dnreau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Kencliurch Street.
GOLF SUITS
AT
BUCKLEY’S
—are the Acme of comfort to all
athletic outdoor men.
The garments we illustrate convey
the idea admirably and truthfully.
This smart, adapted Sports
Model is the result of a concen-
trated effort to produce garments
which will allow the excessive free-
dom necessary in a Golf Suit.
The gathered back, with inverted
pleats to allow freedom of action,
is controlled by a half-belt at waist;
the snug shoulders, the soft roll
collar and the large patch pockets
add attractive touches to the
genuinely comfortable coat.
The trousers are made with hip
straps, belt loops and turned-up
cuff bottoms.
In All-Wool Scotch
and
Australian Tweeds,
Tailored to Order,
6
Ready-to-wear, 5i Gns.
Write for full range of patterns and
self-measurement form.
/-
at
U
Mi*
ut
V
if t
•v-
BUCKLEY <SL NUNN LTD.,
BOURKE STREET — MELBOURNE.
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
OF
$0
%
a
TocW
/rVade
Toda
Sold
3
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
g


Under
Royal
Warrant
ƒg
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE,
CMcsHeifak
champagne
QjarlcsJlcidsiecK
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydnsy.
>
H
r
0
r
mHOJ
“The drink of good taste.”
With luncheon or dinner
you’ll find T.B. Light
ALE most appetising!
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
Join the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
-There’s a generosity about the blue sky
and the surf and the sunshine that enfolds
tins city of ours which warms the heart to
giving. And when Rose Day comes around
from the just-begun office-girl up to the
manager it would almost as soon be seen
dead as walk the streets without a Itose
badge. From early morning on Friday the
chocolate-wheel -whirred, and the collection-
box rattled, and stall-holders sold their
.tumble of goods in the interests of the 67
charities that benefited by the nearly £4OllO
collected. Women boarded home ward-
bound trams with bulging parcels that might
contain either a plucked fowl or a cabbage •
and Nellie Stewart, at her stall outside the
Commonwealth Hank doors, was a serious
Ejyal to the tellers inside. Three bands,
Hilly Hughes, Gladys Moncrieff and Nina
Gordon provided music, etc., in Martin-
place; and organising secretary Arthur Upp-
john looked about him and called the day
blessed.
All war-boat dances are the same dance.
Ihe same old awning encloses the decks, the
same Chinese lanterns swing aloft, the same
old section of Society meets the same old
intelligent-looking Navy. Last week the
Brisbane and the Melbourne were grappled
together, their decks were polished to an
ice-Lke suiface, and the two served as one
dancing space. Admiral Dumaresq was host
of Thursday’s flutter, and the officers of the
Sydney Brisbane -and Melbourne entertained
on I riday night. At first there was ail idea
that the division night signify a separation
of the sheep and the goats; but the goats
were at both affairs. The only difference be-
tween the two were that some of the older
people dodged the second night’s trip to
and fro m the launches, and that the women
who attended Thursday’s function wore a
complete change of outfit if they were at
If riday s.
. Commodore Edwards’s tall wife wore gold
tissue and lace the first evening, and changed
into dull blue embroidered with gold for
the second. The Bosenthal and Fuller
knights brought their ladies; Mrs. Sep Levy
bloomed like an early primrose in soft yel-
low satin and georgette; Mrs. Bertie Kelly
kept her hair secure with a gold head-dress
and brought daughter Beatrice of the prettv
auburn hair; Kosamund McM.llan danced
' I lb beatific eyes and a wilderness of bobbed
hair; graceful Clytie Coffey wore soft black
satin ; and the Westmaeott child wore wliat ■
looked like a chaplet of bays around her dark
head. Claude Cumberlege looked his most
soulful when dancing with flapper partners;
and Mrs. Cumberlege stuck to her tried and
found-true blue frocking. Vera and Judy
Coombe were two of the sweetest young
things in the crowd, and Marguerite Moreau
brought a gentle expression and a black
lace frock in contrast to the dashing outfit'
of sister Eugenie. A Forsavth girl with
melting brown eyes was one of the ladles of
Friday’s party. Mrs. Earp was accompanied
by her daughter, and son-in-law Red wall.
Mrs. Threlfall wore mauve pansy shoulder-
straps on a dress whose nied urn-length panels
were cut away from a shorter skirt. Com-
mander Ward-Hunt had a chest-full of deco-
rations ; the Hordern child, the Bolin sister,
Mrs. Neville Hangar, Commander Ross’s
pretty wife in a striking frock, and Maudie
Pane with her naval husband were others
who linked the northern with the southern
capital by jazz steps. And even these jazz
steps are of different gauges, by the way.
The girl who has learned to sew a fine
seam is coming into her own. The Arts
and Crafts Society lias at last brought itself
to regard needlework as also artistic expres-
sion, and the present show in the Education
gallery contains three adorable specimens.
Especially the exquisite white-work of Miss
Donagliey arrests the eye, and every woman’s
fancy is caught by a vision of piles of cool,
delicately-embroidered linen underwear. Ada
Newman’s china is, as ever, a thing of
beauty, and in days to come a bit' of New-
man-blue will lie as sought as the blue
glazes of the Orient. A shoe-buckie from
Gordon Holdsworth, of W.A., carries an
atmosphere of Sedan chairs and powdered
and patched ladies of Bath. Mrs. Vi Eyre’s
pottery is original and so charming that
much of it bears the “sold” ticket; the art
jewellery of Rlioda Wager smacks of adven-
ture and pirates and treasure trove; the
leather work is particularly good—the Art
Gallery was attracted bv the pyrography of
Mrs. Parsons, and carried off a fantasy in
gold fish nnd lapis lazuli water to cheer up
a corner. Gordon Holdsworth, Mildred
Greed and M. Donagliey are other Grafters
whose work will find a place in the Gallery,
llie professorial David lady’s soft voice de-
clared the. exhibition open last Friday after-
noon.
Mrs. Davis, from New York, was the
arresting figure at the French Alliance
party in St. James’s last week. Her dress
of cream brocade was swathed from the
ankles up. She might have been the lady
advertising de Milo cigarettes or the Yhrnu's
ot the same name, in her dark hair she
wore a high Spanish comb, and she carried
a wine-colored leather fan as a sort of super-
hmsk. She was with Dutch Consul Teppema’s
wA'e, win* was magnificent in black and gold
brocade. French Consul Campana’s wife was
one of the principals in the comedy of the
evening “II Sait”—and Belgian Consul
Segaert’s wife sat in the audience and
applauded her slim husband, who was the
dashing young man of the episode. Frenchr
teacher Irwin was, rather to her credit, a
trifle too sweet and demure for the some-
what naughty young person she was repre-
senting. Miss Soubeiran w T as in charge;
nearly every French teacher in Sydney was
present; and a flutter of young Freneh-
Australians made it their own party once
the jazz-music started.
The Padd.ngton Town Hall roofed the
Animal Ball last week, and the S.P.C.A.
collected a few pounds in the interests of
abandoned Fido and the overworked cab-
horse if. any cab-liorse is overworked in
these taxi-days. Eadith Walker threw the
weight of her grey tulle presence into the
fight for the dog’s rights; Mrs. Geoffrey
airfax, who was president of the com-
mittee, wore a graceful dress of black lace;
and secretary Mrs. Evelyn Andrews mixed
lace and black satin. Mrs. Macartliur On-
slow brought daughter Elizabeth, and jazz-
liends Pauline McMorran and Barbara West-
macott carried home two of the competition
prizes. Light-footed Miss O’Dea was a
good runner-up and got second place with
her partner, Mr. Lyons. Mrs. Ernest Watt
and Mick Ricardo were two other good-
dressers. (P.S. —In Westralia, lately, when
the S.P.C.A. held its dance, the guests
made such a raid on the supper-tables that
the following day a paper came out with
the heading “The Animals’ Brawi.”)
Mrs. Eva Wunderlich gave a welcome-
home tea-drinking to Mrs. Williamson and
Tootles last week in the old meeting-place,
the Winter Garden- Tootles, very tall and
slight in squirrel grey, and Mrs. Williamson,
in navy tailorings, look very well after their
travels. Another long-absent Australian
welcomed home was Mrs. Freshain, who was
Sophy Isaacs.
Seeking a new way to farewell the Sydney
High School’s Rhodes scholars (it has sup-
plied four in seven years), the Old Boys
made the departure of Allan Watt (the
1921 selection) the excuse for a dance at
Sargent’s, in Market-street, last week. Dur-
ing the supper President Ken Prior pro-
posed the toast of a departing Rhodes
Scholar for the third time in two years. Mr.
Watt leaves for Oxford by the Ceramic at
the end of this month.
The Mary Elizabeth is thinking of going
in for Gothic decorations. Sydney has just
assembled the bishops and the archbishops
of the Anglican Communion, and 21 church-
women, who read, papers on everything relat-
ing to the duty of servants to their mis-
tresses and of mistresses to. their servants,
partook of their daily noon-time refresh-
ment in the secluded room. But they didn’t
look on the wine in their fruit cup —that
was a strictly “dry” drink. Yet, poor dears,
if anything calls for a cup with a kick in it
surely it’s a Churchwomen’s Conference!
This is dark-haired
Maude Telfer, who
will sing the Leon-
ora arias at the
Sy dn e y Choral
Society’s perform-
ance of “II Trova-
tore” on Saturday
night. Maude re-
turned about 12
months ago from
London, where she
had been singing for
two years in Oscar
Asehe’s “Chu Chin
Chow.” Since com-
ing home to Sydney
she has made suc-
cessful nppearances
with the State
Orchestra and the
A polios.
The Filippini Opera Co. has made two or
three appearances in the suburbs since its
successful Queensland tour. Its members
adored the northern State,-although the tra-
velling and the work were both heavy. Prima
donna Jean Drummond sometimes gave as
many as eight performances a week, with
train and motor sandwiched in between. The
company’s performance of “Faust” the other
night at Balmain drew the Glebe music-
lovers in great numbers; and it was an audi-
enee that mostly came with the score In its
hand. One grej head, coming' up to congratulate
the performers, said he had heard the opera
10 times and had never enjoyed it more—
he had a special cheer for Jean Drummond’s
Marguerite and Filippini’s Valentine. The
co. tours again at the end of the month.
All this week there has been a steady pro-
cession to the marriage altar. The Ralston
Strathfield, and her doctor, and
liene Rankin and her doctor were in the
queue. Belle goes to her new home brist-
ling with presents and cheques. After much
argument with brother Archie, Mrs. Too hey
won the pleasure of hostessing the wedding-
feast.
The engagement is announced between Mrs.
Dmihe Johanna Ashbee-Backlake, formerly
lopSy Domela, elder daughter of Mrs.
Leonard Matters, of Perth, and Lieut.-Com-
mander 11. S. M. Herbert, R.N. (retired),
onlyjson of the late C. J. J. Herbert and Mrs.
Cissie Herbert, of London and Devonshire.
Gulden-haired Jean Croaker, of Creinonie,
married her bit of the Navy—-Bernard Foley
—at St. Stephen’s last week. She bore to
the altar an armful of white lilac and a pale-
p;nk: brocade train, in addition to a white
talfeta frock, a froth of veiling and a silver
wreath. Jessie Cameron bridesmaided, and
bride’s father and mother provided food for
all at the Waratali.
This somewhat old-fashioned photo is the
only one of herself that Nurse Jane Starl.-ev
possesses. Nurse
Starkey is n child-
ren’s friend, and Ims
turned the ground
about her house into
a playground for
kiddies of congested
areas, a large picnic-
shed being an impor-
tant part of the
scheme, so that, wet
or tine, the mob of
youngsters she gath-
ers once a month at
least may enjoy their
treat. Nurse Star-
key came to Aus-
tralia in 1887, since
when she has been
twice to America
and once to England
in the interests of
her profession; and she also owes much of
her training to our own women’s hospitals.
The playground is at Thornleigh, so vou
can imagine the delights of the monthly
party for the kiddie from Surry Hills or
Redfern.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret will leave
for the Melbourne Cup on Oct 27. Ladv
h orstef puts them up.
Two garden parties are listed for Satur-
day. Archbishop Kelly hosts one at his
Manly Palace, while G.-G. Forster as Com-
modore of the Yacht Squadron entertains in
the gardens of the Kirribilli Yacht Club.
For the dance in aid of the School of In-
dustry on Friday night, Mrs. Anthony Hor-
dern has lent the ballroom of Retford' Ilall:
and the tickets are a guinea each. Mrs.
Waley and Mrs. Wilkinson are the secs., and
Mrs. Rabett and Miss Blomfield the trea-
surers. If the family limousine is getting
shod, the Darling Point ’busman will drive
you to the dance between 7.30 and 8.30.
The little V.A. Club in .Tamieson-street was
fluttered one afternoon last week when her
Ex. dropped in to tea. Dame Margaret had
sent a ’phone - message to say she was com-
ing, and the little gas-stove worked over-
time that everything might be in order. When
the day arrived lilac all the way from
Bathurst was massed upon the tables; and
the _ Red Cross heads found it quite con-
yervent to be at the club at the appointed
hour.
Veterans of the 33rd Battalion will meet
at the Highland Society’s rooms on the 26th
to fight over again their battles of the old
eggs-a-cooked days. Roy Cormack, of 4
Underwood-street, which is the Bulletin’s
back lane, is doing the organising.
Another dancing venture will be opened
shortly—a Palais alongside the new Theatre
Royal, proceeds to go to the Prince Alfred
Hospital, whose auxiliary will staff; the
show.
Llewellyn Jones’s exhibition, which
opened at Anthony Horderns’ yesterday
(Wednesday), revives memories of the
Eaglemout camp on the Yarra, where he
with Condor, Streeton and Roberts did much
good work. But the Argus at least
thought their school almost sacrilegious, and
wrote of their first combined show that
there was scarcely a canvas in it that was
not an offence to the eye. Whereupon the
young men—they were very young men in
those days—gleefully posted the notice up
outside their exhibition. Inc’dentally. Stree-
ton’s “Still Glides the Stream.” painted
about that time, was sold to the National
Gallery for £7O: the other day his “Aus-
tralia Felix” went to the Adelaide Gallery
in exchange for its cheque for £7OO.
Travellers from London report the once
well-fattened louseph Ward, ex-Premier of
Maoriland, as lean as Cassius.
Two birds of passage by outgoing boats
will be Mi’s. Bertie Kelly, who is off to be
with her boy during his vacation in Eng-
land ; and Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne, who
faces America and the film world.
Leah Myers, whose success sounds like
something that happens in the movies, is
now on her way to Europe. First Switzer-
land, where the two children will be placed
at school; then, for herself, Paris and more
hard work with Lapierre before her debut
in the part of Louise in Brussels.
A liddle node frob Papua:—
Following a week of social gaiety, during the
visit of the Sainarai cricket and tennis teams,- Port
Moresby lias gone down to ’flu. Brown and white
are suffering equally, and European and native
hospitals are bulging with patients. The stores
are empty, alike of salesmen and customers; all
schools are closed, lacking scholars; even the
picture palace, Moresby’s only regular place ot
diversion, has shut down. The Leg. Council is
holding its annual session, and not one member has
had ’flu yet, proving, of course, that they are not
of common clay.
The Crichton, at 40 Dover-street. is
booming along, and netting all Australians
and Maorilanders of note. The first bip
party at the new little Australia in Loudon
was given by Mrs. J. (J. Williamson; and
the famous tables topped with flamingoes,
magpies, brolgas aud kookaburras from Ski
Long’s brush were placed to form a liorse-
shoe. All the peaCb melbas were of golden
Australian peaches and preserved Maoriland
strawberries, and a special lot of Westphal
and Clark’s wines bad arrived for the occa-
sion. Nearly all the guests were good old
Aussies. The J. D. Fitzgeralds, the ,1. W.
Braggs, flic Mcßride knight and his lady,
Lady Mildred Conynglmm (a niece of ex-
G.-G. Hopetoun’s) and Mrs. Ludlow, with
violinist son Godfrey, helped.
It is really too bad. In our spring a young
man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts' of a
double for the two Cups.
Andre Skalski, a Polish pianist, will be
heard for the first time in Sydney on Satur
day next, at the Conservatorium. It will
be a one-man show, and the programme is
enticing.
The Shipmans have just arrived back in
Sydney. The old headquarters, the Aus-
tralia, harbor the birds of passage.
John Fitzsimons, who dropped into Syd-
ney a few days ago after rnanv years *in
the Big Fog, left Australia in the first place
to manage the affairs of the Citizens’ Life
Co. when it set up in the U.K. He was
prominent at one time in amateur rowing
circles, and was chief of the Balmain Club
for a while. But his girdle is longer now.
Laurie and Dorothy Kennedy are flourish-
ing so well in England that they intend to
add another year to their stay in London.
Laurie is with the International Celebrity
Artists, and has a four arranged for the
present season. He uas been playing with
Tetrazzini, is appearing again at the Albert
Hall, and has had his portrait painted by a
I rench artist of note, ,so altogether the
world’s a happy place. Dorothy—she was
a S. Australian girl—is accompanying and
doing solo work and watching small-son
David grow in beauty. Dame Nellie played
fairy godmother to the two, who have also
been linking up with Esther and Betty
Paterson and David Low.
• A postscript from Brisbane
The various committees which provided comfort
for Qi; ; inland battalions are working now to get
funds fo) the soldiers’ ward in St. Martin’s Hospi-
tal. Mrs. Harry Cameron, was hostess at a party
in the Women’s Club-rooms to gather pennies for
this bos,
Mrs. T. Bridsen Cribb, only' daughter of the late
Lewis Thomas, the plucky little Welshman who
made Blackstone, and who was one of the founders
of Eisteddfods in Queensland, died suddenly a few
days ago. Mrs. Lewis Thomas is a tiny lady, still
young enough to travel miles if there is music to
be heard at the end of the journey 7.
Dr. Alec Murphy 7, M.C., only son of the late
C. S. Murphy and of Mrs. Murphy (she was a Miss
Raff, daughter of the Hon. Alec), has been made
happy 7 by Esme Hobson, elder daughter of that
talented musician, Stanley Hobson of Toowoomba.
The wedding was staged in Toowoomba, and mem-
bers of the Raff clan came from far and near. The
bride was in a brocaded satin gown ; Kathleen King,
in blue, Nell MeDougall, in primrose, and sister
Yulie, in pale blue, bridesniaided ; and a little niece,
Laurel Gill, was maid of honor.
A number of friends, O.C.’d by Mrs. W. 11.
Barnes, fa re welled Alexia Richards at Vaughan’s
cafe. Alexia and her mamma are going to England,
and lots of us believe that you will hear presently
of her as a star pianist.
Gov. Nathan arrived at Cunnamulla the other day,
and before he had a chance to wash the western dust
out. of his mouth the chairman of the Shire Council
rushed him off to view the honor board. Bumble,
however, omitted to mention that some time ago
when applications were called for the position 01
shire clerk the claims of several returned men were
passed over in favor of a local selector who doesn’t
sport a badge. They asked for bread and ye gave
them a roll—of honor.


Hi
m
mm i
■:-V: -■:■■:
'.■ MBBg
w
w/r\f t!
■r> iALiI. “i
£
%
M
m
. p
WMmSSmsmiMm
SHHUHH
H
Bhhl
K*
■
■H
■
Hi
: •
: , x - \-
mm
: ■
■
1
V ■■:.;./ i
1 :
HHR
1
1 I
i
; t
a
-■
H
2
vivt-Vt'tt
■
an
■n
m
m
si " ;/ >;
■
Pr#
i
m
%
!.. V.
k**
'i'iiff
HU
s**
*<r*
I
Vi : j.
i*v
n
H
m
J
■tv
H
E
g :
- kvv v !
K
I !
■ ; H
*1
if «*»!
■ #- t mCJ ,
. *
111
• a a
an
:
■V*
#.- f
■
■s ■ f.,
« # iskh
HU
if
r; hr * -
* * If i
• ?Uf* M
«**■
t
*
□
4
V J
PALMOLIVE links modern woman
with the romantic past
THERE is nothing new under the sun. Although we
have learnt to make many things better—improved
in their preparation or refinement —their use is as
old as the centuries.
PALMOLIVE SOAP is a noteworthy example. It contains
the Palm and Olive oils which were the delight and benefit
of the beauties of old who lived in cities on the edges of
the deserts.
The creamy, velvet lather of mild PALMOLIVE SOAP
—cleansing, soothing, emollient —is particularly valuable in
the hot and dry Australian climate.
Palmolive Soap sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake.
The yuest-room size cake of Palmolive >S loop irill lie sent post free on request by tlio
Palmolive Company (Australasia), Ltd., Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.


There’s Money in the Pen”
L-sV
**5
m
For You as well
as for Others !
And you can
learn to
draw, NOT TO
COPY, by tak-
ing up the Weston
Course.
Under our method,
which eliminates
drudgery, you work
in personal contact
with Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
a. cknowled ged
leader in commer-
cial art and poster
designing.
The demand for
original illustrative
work grows more
insistent daily, and
you can make big
money by taking
up this fascinating
course.
SEND FOR A
BOOKLET,
“There's Money in
the Pen,” which
tells you all about
the course. Simply
send your name
and address;
enclose three
stamps to cover
postage and we
will forward this interesting booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
B3 Union House, SYDNEY.
i
SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel. Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors’
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Strsat, Sydiey
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
A Great British Product
2 x / 2 ,5 and 8
Horse-power
Stationary,
Semi-Portable,
Portable.
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20.000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY USED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative:—
LEE K. MURRAY, A.M.I.Ae.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
pany, Ltd., 450-460 Ann Street.
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,
3 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: The Ridd Milking Machine Co.,
Ltd., 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE: The South Australian Farmers’
Co-operative Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin St.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HI
No.
101
THE
WESTERN HERO
TEXAS SADDLE.
This is an attractive saddle, neatly orna-
mented with basket or checker board
stamping on head and cantle as well as
on skirts and fenders. It has full seat
and cantle in one piece of stout solid
leather. It is double rigged with two-
cord cinchas, with saves under ring, and j
the stirrups are bent wood.
£18
Freight Free for Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Port or Station on
N. S.W. Railway System.
Our No. 98
‘‘TEXAS RANGER”
is a very popular Texas Saddle.
It has no ornamentation in the way of fancy
stamping, the skirts are square and it is double-
rigged with plain cord cinchas.
£12/15/- Freight Paid as Above.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF COWBOY BRIDLES,
SPURS, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers, 395 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
%
Si!
“Buy a Bundle”
PLYWOOD
BUY genuine “NATIONAL” PLYWOOD and see the
trade-mark is on every sheet. It is our guarantee.
-Made from Queensland Hoop-Pine, Maple a'nd Silky
Oak, Available in all sizes. Sanded and Unsanded.
Sold by all leading houses.
THE NATIONAL PLYWOOD CO., LTD.,
Ipswich Road, South Brisbane, Queensland.
n ATi
AC
RIDING BREECHES
Sports Coats
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
j*
W. CHORLEY
8 CO. LTD.,
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
SYDNEY CLARK, son of Mrs. Christina
Clark, deceased, late of St. Peters, South
Australia. Send present address to your
sister MAY. Very important.
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete ; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGLE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—au illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Made in Eugland: Loaded in Australia. For
all gauges of shot-guns, and loasded with the
best Powders.
In case of difficulty refer your dealer to ; —
KYNOCH LIMITED,
90 WILLIAM
STREET,
MELBOURNE.
f
277 CLARENCE
STREET,
SYDNEY.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
THE SIGN Of
AGOOD SHINE
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins are now on Sale.
4j OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volan
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
D.M.: Your motives are good, but your
verse is vile... .K.S.: Well enough done, but no new
ideas in it....Phono: We kept going until you
rhymed ‘'whole place” with “solace,” and then we
cried for mercy.... Casey Mac: Can you swear to that
yarn about the wireless man on the Sydney?....
White Aus. (Shanghai) : You ask us to print under
a pen-name a dozen statements which would cost ns
£5000 apiece if they couldn’t be proved up to the
hilt. . . .Glenelg: You are liable unless you at once
took steps to contradict the advt G.B. (Manly):
Poor stuff J.A.L.: Misses A.G.P.: Too slight.
• • • -Kildonon: Nothing in it. . . .A.E.W.: “Dogging”
fails. .. .John W: The verse is a worse disaster than
the other.... W.F.H.: No merit whatever.... Ralph
B.: Dull.... Betty G.: Too thin... .Oliver B.:
“Losing One’s Doe” is a sad, sweet blossom of the
tree of realism:—
Travelling in train t’other day,
Ore meets all sorts, as you know ;
There was one Spenrer O’Day
Taken down for all his doe.
Then the fun began,
As the other fellows one—
Spencer and his slang
Dished it out bang.
* Biff went one, two, three ;
He made a mess of two ;
The third, he was getting up to ’e,
Only give him one, only too true.
It was all over then.
Cards were shuffled again ;
“I think we’ll act like men
This time we 11 have a drink and be sports
again.”
Norman B.: Tedious Tam o’ Shanter: The
parable is absurd in that setting.... Davey H.: No
use. .. .H.W.G.: The string of murders, which amounts
to a sort of general massacre, is not in itself interest-
ing Maximus: The jingle takes all the force out
of it. .. .S.W.G.H.: One glowing stanza:—
Since boxing is a manly game,
Firm in our land we’ll have it put;
’Twill weld our souls and give us a name,
Heaven of skill in hand and foot.
Wafted back on the cool night breeze,
From the early .’sixties brought back by Thought,
Came roars of delight from men at their ease
Came the knock-out blows on the soft wind brought.
. ...H.R.P.: A sonnet must be better than that in
both thought and workmanship.... Teretana: “The
River” says nothing that has not been said better
10,000 times, .. .J.ILW.: Merely a dishing up of
old commonplaces L.N.C.: “Coals” don’t burn
brightly enough John W T .: That’s the style Talk
to them like an uncle: —
There is many a pretty girl that spoils her looks
with paint.
There is another class of girl that tries to make her-
self look what she ain’t.
They all seem to put it on, in big lumps and thick.
If you go to kiss a girl, it will nearly make you sick.
They are using it in the bush just the same as in
the town.
They’ve got themselves painted up, just like a
blanky clown.
You’ll meet those girls in the bush, a-riding on a
nag.
And they’ve got the powder dabbed on, like a hit
from a flour bag.
I’ve seen a big- black gin dabbing on the powder
white,
And I can assure you, my boys, she looked an awful
sight.
I don’t blame %'itm so much, springing up from the
black race “
But 1 am surprised at the white girls being ashamed
to show their face.
.... Tom H.: The yarn doesn’t work out well, but
it has a hint of cleverness. .. .R.G.H.: Rather crude
in manner and matter.... Magpie: Found a nest in
the w.p.b Lew C.: “The West” hasn’t im-
pressed you much if that represents your feeling
about it. ... J.W.B.: “Down, gently down, down,
slowly down” —keep going! The very lowest slums
of Tophet are not too far down for verse that
wobbles along saying commonplaces on an overworked
subject... .A.H. (Pymble) : Misses... .F.B.P.: Ter-
rible. .. .H.B.S.: Lame verse with nothing in it,
written in a fist that you surely don’t intend any-
body to read....N.M. (Paddington): Yerse poor.
Also, note that “ye” is a nominative....’Possum:
Hasn’t the touch. .. .M.G. (Middle Brighton): Too
thin; and not well told.... Douglas C.: Nearly; but
lines like “To add to the infinite glory of One”
seem meaningless.... .Tom C.: Sorry no use....
R.L.S.: Too long for its interest. .. .Baala: Seen
print already... .J.C.: What has the Klood got to
do with the origin of the race?. .. .Ponnnie: That
letter went the press-rounds long ago....Celt: Two
youngsters hopped off a cable-car and raced it to
the next stop, saj’ing rude things to the gripman
as they passed him. Why take two pages to say
that?... .Mugwump: That fellow who stole the
parcel with the defunct cat in it died of senile
decay years ago.... Hoogah: The coroner probably
knew the facts, concerning which speculation is
useless. .. .K.S.: The man who jambs his typewrit-
ten lines so close together invites rejection. Bad
handwriting is far less of a handicap.... Russell:
Hardly enough in “Traitor”; but you’re a good
trier....G.H.: “Happiness” missed by inches... .
C.E.M.: “Harmonics” is pretty thin gruel. .. .R.O.:
“Laura’s Lover” deserved better handling. .. .J.G.:
The circus didn’t arrive, partly because it took too
worn a road. . . .Enid C.: The last two lines nearly
saved it.... Chip C.: “Tony” is too protracted a
horror for us. ... J.F.N.: Lost in a cloud’of undis-
tinguished spring poems.... A.A.E.: “Romance” is
just so-so... .N.A.E.: The form of “Servitude” is
passable, but the thought is thin. .. .S.M.: “Real-
ism” moves too much like a steam-roller.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
O.K.: Will use one as Suggestion-... . G.H.: Look
at those boots again... .Ii.V.F.: Drawing not there.
. ...P.S.: Your grand-dad chuckled over that joke
when he was a kid.... J.J.: All out.., .M.R.: Ter-
rible. .. .J.C.B.: Nothing in it....Ted W.: A young
person who cuts out an old Bulletin cartoon and
sends it in as an original sketch wants his mental
gear overhauled —or some other part of him
spanked. .. .H.V.L.: Jerry-built sketch... .M.J.C.: A
poor but honest effort, with the accent on the
poor. . . .E.A.F.: Ancient gag. . . .A.W.: Even then
you’ve only slightly varied an old smoke-room yarn.
. ...J.lt.L.: Not enough in it... . J.W.: Haven’t learnt
to handle your pen yet....M.H.: Both fall short in
; drawiiig.... Ero: 01d....W.M.: Not up....Durer:
A lot to learn yet... .W.W.: Misses... .W.O’T.: Out.
... .II.P.S.S.: Drawing too microscopic... .Butter-
worth : Went the rounds of the clubs years ago....
H.W.: Below par. .. . J.A.O.: Drawing slips badly in
spots... . F.R.L.: Too scratchy.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Lttxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For ali information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street.
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities,
NEXT NOVEMBER 2.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone:.City 2282.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
■ THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
I
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; H Tl’
MACARTNEY; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH IVALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.; \V. M. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yaiuvood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . .. . . 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixpd periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, loth DECEMBER,
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu
R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £50.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 1st DECEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
'm
, mm
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, lor particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WA LCS.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
fg
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,435,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Hinnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditors: TV. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manaoer: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made toy and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up . . £2,909,025
Reserve Fund . . £2,360,000
Reserve Capital . . £3,000,000
£8,269,025
Bi
-
Directors :
G. J.’ Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Hank of England: The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery-.
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS* TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR .... £6/10/6
Covering first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Carries Ist. and 2nd Class Passengers.
Huddart Parkei L!^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice Versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge'Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I“HE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANEAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OItARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/- ... „ ,
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers. of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast. , ,
For further particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STItEEI, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILI
& CO., LTD,
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
Monthly - =-
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply' to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton. ’
Cable Address
"Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 6. S. N. Co. (at
Messageries Maritimes
Scottish Shire Line
Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Co. (at Melbourne).
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
land Ports). , , Ti , A _ , ,
Union S.S. Co. ot New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). „
Iluddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Vlso Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide,. Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Mary Street. Brisbane.


Richard Hunt 8 Co
&
.-*=>■
\
Sommer
Sporting Requisites,
Tennis, Cricketing and
Golf Shirts.
Cream Woollen, Sweaters
with club colors to order,
35/-
Tennis and Cricketing Shoes,
White and Tan.
Richard Hunt B Co.
3X4 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Fine diamonds,
in platinum,
£l7/10/-
Two choice dia-
monds, set in
platinum,
£2l.
Reduced Diamonds
Purchase.
i have a B'ain niade a large purchase of
Diamonds at the enormous reduction of
4L per cent, on the original cost price.
They are all superb blue-white Jagerfontein
gems, and were sent out by a diamond mer-
chant to a Sydney agent. He got stuck with
them. Could not sell them. Too good for most
houses. Too high in price. We'heard of them,
cabled an offer and bought them for cash.
They enable us to offer the finest diamonds
the world knows of, viz., Blue-White Jagers, at
prices unheard of during the last eight years.
Rings, brooches, pendants at ; far below Lon-
don prices.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
1 Cash'bnb! 23 8 25 Hunter Street,
**TS IMVJ&
Cc^c
*'*»/ I
I
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCKS
MALTED MILK
HORLICKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tkf
Manager, who will quote you price iov it.
Uhe fejVer 'Picnic
The DECCA just makes the
delightful difference between en-
joyment and complete enjoyment.
Try it! Have it on the river with
you. Music wherever you go.
No trouble, easy to carry,
compact, never in the way.
Fine tone, clear reproduction-
9ECC
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH!
o Models- —-
Leather Cloth £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Covvhide £lO
Obtainable all over Australia
from all Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors :
Stanley E- Green, Ltd., 379, Kent Street, Sydney.
5* f
9 n
2
Ba an
When you chopse
a phonograph
you choose for many years to come. Therefore your choice should
have, in its renditions, nothing of the artificial, no trace of unreality—
otherwise its music will quickly pall.
D.IMI
r
L
Blit you will never tire of The New Edison,
for it is an instrument of perfect realism-
in fact, the only instrument the tones of
which you cannot distinguish from the
human voice.
Interesting evidence of this realism is sent
post free, on request.
THOMAS A. KOI,SOX. LTD..
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The NEW
EDISON
UJ
OIjoDOIjoOJ
<9@
Dependable Guns
f
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong'.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
g
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- gauge, top lever, ,30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. o p/i n >
Delivered, “ “'i 0
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £6 lsb
WE REPAIR
GUNS# RIFLES
SUNOL ™ Tobacco
The World’s Best.
005
__ 818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
. . , English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
parrels, both ehcke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/'
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. lOd. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Fidi
By. "Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file cut rib, pislul
grip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight Tib. to 711 b,
Tested for . Jiito Powders Freight paid,
£l6/16-
sasgjaa
11.?. Remington Browning' Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
*l5/15/-
IJ2. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
f
B19. Midland Gun Co.’s D.B.B.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7{lb Freight paid,
£14/14/-
MYRROHL at TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
Steven s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6}lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. BB “EjcCtOr, 65/“ Fr «§ht paid,
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
UC
1/
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY*
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


The Ideal Girl is the
REXONA GIRL.
fg
ƒg
All Rexona Girls are
beautiful girls, and one of
the most charming is Miss
Dorothy Brunton, now
appearing in “Oh, Lady,
Lady,” at the Theatre
Royal, Sydney.
Miss Dorothy Brunton
finds Rexona and Rexona
Soap indispensable to her
toilet, and writes us as
follows:
“Please enrol me as
one of your Rexona
Girls, for I find Rexona
and Rexona Soap simply
indispensable to my toilet
My motto is REXONA.
“Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.)
DOROTHY BRUNTON.”
MISS DOROTHY BRUNTOK (from a photo).
REXONA —for Health and Beauty.
Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing-, healing, anti-
septic balsams as Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, the value
of which in the treatment
of skin affections is known
throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap regularly
once or twice a day, and see
if it does not quickly soothe
and cleanse the pores, lessen
the tendency to pimnles, and
leave the complexion clear,
fresh and velvety.
Rexona Soap—
1/- per Tablet.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
1/6 and 3/-
8»5
1
JJ
II
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney. N.S.W.
V.WW..V '■ '‘. v"‘^V-V:':"-:^'.)',^^^^'
*>••
WH4T IS IT!
*
-o
vs
UJ
C*
I'"
Hilt
mm
lIHM
111 “
Zmim
H
Hll
WlffiMlM
WEARS* BETTER—LOOKS
BETTER—FITS BETTER-
WASHES BETTER.
“TAFFATWILL” has the ap-
pearance of “All Wool” Taffeta.
Rich cream grounds with smart
striped effects of Blue, Helio,
Black and Grey. “Taffatwill”
Shirts never lose their smart
appearance, and must appeal to
the man who takes an interest
in his appearance.
Sizes 14in. to 18in. Neckbands.
Adjusted Price
(Collar to natch, 1/- Extr i).
SHIRTS
SPECIAL PRICE
12&
(3 for 36/-)
250 Pairs to be Cleared.
Cream Serge Trousers.
Don’t associate Tow Quality with the Leviathan’s Low Prices.
Tailored Ci’eam Serge Trousers, made to sell at a much higher
price, finished with belt loops, and side straps. o j
Adjusted Price, At // O
ORDER BY
POST.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
PTY. LTD .
Cor.
Swanston
and
Bourko
Streets,
Melbourne
The Enchanted City.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE where Dawn dreams ’twixt day
and night.
The world is walled with veiling
white:
The far, faint blue above the mist
Gleams like a ghost of azure, kissed
With moth-wings of insouciant gold ;
Below, the city sleeps, enscrolled
For one dim hour’s delicious flight
With wistful fugitive delight.
An elfin town of opal dreams
The fog-enshrouded city seems,
Made fair with frond and emerald lawn
Between the dusking and the dawn :
She well might be, from her attire,
Some lady of all men’s desire.
In place of that stone-hearted shrew
Whose yoke but yesterday I knew.
How very fair are sleeping things!
About them like an aura clings
The> light of that enchanted bourne
’mid dim fields of poppied corn,
The reddest of dream roses red,
Like battle lanterns of the dead,
Burn, drowsy-petalled, crimson-deep,
Across the haunted hill of sleep.
Ah, fair indeed are sleeping things,
And things that dream : but Time, .who brings
To all the pause, the brief surcease,
The golden moment of release,
The poignant bliss that none can tell,
Shall wake the city from her spell,
And from a softly, splendid fane
Of dreams create a mart again.
P>y day I loathe her, haggard shrew,
With greed and cunning peering through
The malice of her deep cold eyes;
And when bare to the night she lies
Begemmed, ’tis but a sensuous thing
Of hot, fierce lusts unwearying;
Yet now, at Dawn’s tranced hush, she seems
Dear as youth’s love and all men’s dreams.
Ah, day by day, athirst for pelf.
She lives, untrue to Beauty’s self,
Save when she sleeps; yet well I know,
When the long day-tides ebbing go
Out to the dark, and night wears round
To dawn, I shall behold her crowned
With dying stars and flushed with fire.
Dream city of my heart’s desire.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
The Green Lady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
t( | IGHT opposite to that camp we had
on the Murrumbidgee, but a bit lower
down, there’s a sort of island with
a tree right in the middle of the river,” my
friend Previous Convictions told me. “It’s
greener than anything anywhere around. It
doesn’t seem to belong to Australia at all.
The tree and the little island seem all one;
the island must be matted roots an’ moss
mostly, and it’s bin through an’ under God
knows how many floods. The whole thing
looks like a lady, dressed just as yer mother
used to dress in the ’seventies or the ’eighties
—bonnet and bustle, full-back skirt an’ all,
just leanin’ forward an’ glidin’ up the
river. They call her the Green Lady, and
she’s always glidin’ up the stream. The faster
the current runs the faster the Green Lady
seems to glide. While all other trees are
dark, with black shadders, there she is green
in the moonlight, gliding up the river, and
seeming more anxious than ever to get there,
as if she had a son in trouble up somewhere
at the head of it.
“I’d turned in; but just as it seemed I
was droppin’ off there was sounds—or,
rather, one great sound. It seemed to me at
first as if "it was the Sydney Town Hall
organ playin’ an’ all the kids round Darling
Harbor smgin’. I thought, for the moment,
that my mate Dotty had thieved the Heav-
enly Choir, or the other one, or both, an’
brought ’em to entertain me. I sat up quick,
and the sound went. I crawled from under
the tent-fly and knelt up and looked over the
log that was protectin’ us from the weather,
but there was nothing there, except the ever-
lasting old haunting of the bush in the moon-
light. So I stood up. The wind had
changed to another quarter, an’ it was
blowin’ quite warm. The moon went under
some of the bluey-white clouds that was
flyin’ home—like kids that had frightened
’emselves tellin’ ghost yarns. An’ I heard a.
man’s voice—it seemed like a mad preacher’s
voice. I jumped round like a party poli-
tician that smells dissolution. The moon
popped out from behind the flying kiddy-
clouds, an’ I looked along the steep clay
bank. There was Dotty, standin’ half-way
down near the water, on the steep clay bank,
on a sort of ledge we’d dug to fish from,
clear in ther moonlight.”
Previous Convictions paused awhile and
seemed to think of it as if in a vague way
he didn’t approve of it.
“It was Dotty all right,” he continued —
“Dotty standing there on that clay ledge
above the river that was full of black snags
in the moonlight. But the voice wasn’t
Dotty’s, an’ the man, to look at him, wasn’t
Dotty. Either he w r as—well, he was an-
other man and was raving; an’ the worst of
it was it was sane ravin’. Pie w r as standin’
up straight, facing across the river to the
Green Lady, and wavin’ his arms and ravin’
to her. He was ravin’ about his ruined life
and his wrongs and woman’s devilment and
lies—most of the things I knew about him
and a good many I didn’t. He raved about
his life before he was married, and his
family, and his wife, and the other man.
He raved about relations who spread lies,
and he cursed all neighbors who listen to
them, and all smug, comfortable magistrates
who listen to them, and who send innocent
men to gaol and starvation and disgrace, and
drive them to drink and madness. .And he
cursed ail soft, good-natured fools of hus-
bands ; though I don’t know what he did
that for.
“And the Green Lady didn’t say anything,
but kept gliding, gliding up the river as if
she was in a hurry to get past; but all the
other crooked old witch-trees up on the level
seemed to wave their broken, blackened arms
and ragged fingers an’ sing an’ curse an’
rave too.
“I sat down on a broken limb of the log,
about knocked up, an’ took me head in me
hands. If that was Dotty sane, I d rather
have him dotty. It was a lot worse than
the nights when he pinched the garden-chair
and the mat and the stained-glass angel for
me to furnish a stable with.
“What with worry and want of rest and
sleep and sheer funk, there were so many
sounds and voices in my head that I didn t
notice, for a minute or two, that Dotty’s new
mad voice had stopped. As soon as I
noticed it I jumped up, and couldn’t see
Dotty anywhere. I thought he’d gone into
the river and down with it. And then there
came to me a new, cold, sudden terror —
swift as they say things come to a drownin’
man. You know what it would look like to
come away from a place like that in the
bush without yer mate!
“Perhaps it was the worry an’ want of
rest, and the guilty knowledge of me old
criminal tendencies; but it was worse than
all me old previous convictions put together,
with a charge of housebreakin’ an’ man-
slaughter thrown in, and detectives stand in’
across the street lookin’ as innereent as four-
teen Chinamen outside a fan-tan an’ opium
joint. An’ here, of all times, them lines of
‘Gilrooney,’ the Outback poet, come ringin’ in
me ears:—
‘ ’Twas Murderin’ Mick who killed his mate between
the dawn an’ day;
He cut his throat from ear to ear, and left him
where he lay.
’Twas Murderin’ Mick that came to wear a queer
white cap at morn,
An’ ne’er before in Goulburn Gaol was cap so lightly
worn.’
“I had a mad thought that I saw that cap,
an’ wondered how it would fit me. I even
felt it over me ears, with an elastic-band
under ’em —an’ the band seemed to hurt more
than the rope did. No, / don’t want to wear
a queer white cap at morn, or any other
time, for that matter; and I don’t think I’d
wear it lightly, neither, for Dotty nor no
one else —no matter how much he deserves
it.
•‘But, just as I was sliding down the steep
bank to the river—whether with an’ idea
of savin’ Dotty from drownin’ an’ me from
ther gallows, or, failin’ that, drownin’ me-
self for the same reason, I don’t know —but
just then I seen a bunyip or something heave
itself onter the mud, an’ Dotty comes climbin’
up the bank on three legs, with a fish in the
other. He’d been down attending to the
lines, and got a fish off one of ’em. Either
his mad-sane fit had passed or it was all a
dream.
“Dotty put the fish in an old kerosene-tin
half-full of water that he kept for the pur-
pose. He reckoned it was cruel to string ’em
through the gills and mouth on a reed or
string or piece of wire, and hang ’em from a
branch or let ’em die slow in the dust and
dirt. No —he kept ’em alive an’ as happy as
they could be till he was ready to clean ’em.
Poor Dotty never knew how he got me in the
gills sometimes.
"I turne'd in an’ slept till the sun was up
amongst the tree-trunks, bright an’ white an’
hot; but Dotty had rigged boughs to keep it
off my face. He was cookin’ breakfast when
I woke; it was the smell of it that woke me.
(Did yer ever smell bacon or chops cookin’
at the camp-fire in the mornin’ when you
was hungry?) Dotty had fish and ham, and
last night’s bread from the station-hand cook.
Mine was fried ham, and Dotty brought
breakfast to me in bed in an old tin-plate
that he’d found and straightened and polished
with ashes. He was just his same old good-
natured idiotic self again. His old red cow
and calf came to the edge of the bank and
looked down at us—looked at Dotty in a mild,
anxious, motherly sort of way, as if she
thought he might have been a twin-calf that
she’d forgot. Me she gave a last look of
disgust and went away.”
Previous Convictions thought ' awhile.
Then he said: “That last night on the river
was enough for me, and I’d made up my
mind to bring Dotty away from it, whether
he was a stained angel or a stained devil or
a moon-struck lunatic —whatever he was.
We went to the station to say good-bye to
the ratty cook and the good-natured station-
hand, and take back the old raincoats they’d
lent us: but they wouldn’t have ’em, and
I’m glad they wouldn’t, though they’re a bit
more load; for we’ll want ’em on the Hay
track this winter.
“I forgot to tell yer that the men’s quar-
ters at Yanko are in the old homestead, be-
hind the mansion, an’ the pintpots and
bread and meat and sugar are slid out fer
‘travellers’ in the same old hospitable way
on the big old cedar dinin’-room table, in
the long old dinin’-room with its high pan-
elled ceilin’ an’ wall and deep panelled door-
ways and winders, an’ the cook stand-
in’ with his legs wide apart, an’ his
back to the big old-fashioned fireplace, pre-
sidin’ an’ beamin’ like a prodigal father. He
was short and stout, with a big apron, an’
looked like a sea-cook, an’ he was re tty—
like all station- and shearers’-cooks T’d ever
seen. He gave me some poetry he’d wrote
about old S’Sam and got pointed, and some
he’d made up about himself; and as much
tucker as we’d like to carry; and so we
went back to camp to roll up our swags.
“A lot of magpies come round and cursed
us till Dotty threw out the vest of the
meat for ’em. and they sung ‘P’or He’s a
Jolly Good Feller’ as we took the track.
“Before we struck the road Dottv called
at a little old slab-.and-iron cottage stand’n’ by
itself in a garden ’longside McCaughey’s old
main irrigation canal—all full of tall reeds
now except for a narrow channel of clear
water, and looking wonderfully fresh and
green. An old Irish counle lived there, pri-
vate and independent Thev were o’d re-
tainers. I suppose. They seemed to have
seen Dottv before this trip—perhans in one
of his nrivate pererrrinat’ors—and knew he
was affl'oted. for the old woman crossed her-
self, and the old man took off his hat. It
(Continued on next page.)


REPORT FROM
MR. CLEMENT L WRAGGE, F.R.G.S
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Met. Soc., F.R.C.1., late Government Meteorologist
of Queensland, and of Mount Kosciusko Observatory, also late lecturer to the Government
of India and founder of the Wragge Museum at Stafford, Eng., writes the following unsolicited
letter, the original of which may be seen at our office:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—
Port Pirie,
South Australia.
Some weeks ago I must have caught a chill,- and thereafter I suffered agonies from backache. A
rxen suggested that: I should try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and this I did. 1 am now about to state a
simple tact, and that is that one bottle of these pills completely cured me. This testimonial is entirely
unsolicited, and I send it in the hope that it may benefit humanity, and for no other reason whatever. “The
proo or the pudding is in the eating, and you may be sure that I am grateful, inasmuch that I am now able
to continue my nightly scientific lectures in ease and comfort.
You can publish this as you think fit.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.
Scientific Lecturer.
r , iJ• j un m ie 3a^ v is Ie ni Y s . sl 8’ n . a I of distress. Tf this timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its deadly grip—
i° L ' S 'l SIC Ef ss di st shov s itself in pains and disorders in other parts, and the real cause is too often hidden until fatal kidney disease
,as llu inspect the kidneys • if you are rheumatic and nervous, or have lame back, painful, too frequent or scanty urination
" ea v ieai , dizzy spel &, headaches, bloating or neuralgia. What you want is a special kidney medicine —not an experiment, but one that ha
stood the test for years. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve weak, congested kidneys
dilation,
has
. , — 0 r -banish backache —regulate the urine. Doan’s Back-
ac le . vidnev Luis have been relieving lame backs and sick kidneys for years. Doan’s Pills are made from onlv the purest drugs, and are
They are used and praised all over the civilised world.
absolutely noil-poisonous.
_ r s l >ae^ac^1 ® Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price bv Foster-
McClellan Co., IS Hamilton Street, Sydney.
f
ƒ
Backache
Kidney
g
f
looked, as if lie only took it off at other
times when he went to bed, V perhaps not
then. And they told us of a short cut
across the paddocks, an’ pointed where to
strike it. After we left them Dotty’s old
magpie caught us and come with iis and
nagged at us from the top of every wire-
fence post for about a mile; but he took
us the short cut all right, and gave us a
good hearty, affectionate cursiiio- ;1 t the
end.
HENAY LAWSON.
Suburbia’s Gethsemane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the Judge in Probate made an
order in the estate of Sam Span-
leigh. giving to Honora Span-
leigh, his wife, leave to proceed to adminis-
tration on assumption of testator’s death,
the incident attracted no attention from the
papers of that time. Spanleigh had vanished
twenty years before, anyway. The court had
not been moved to assume Spanleigh’s de-
cease until seven years had passed from dis-
covery at sea, upside-down, of the whaleboat
in which he had left Vavau for Samoa with
three natives. In the meantime he had not
returned to his plantation at Vavau. His
bank account at Auckland remained un-
touched. Xo trace of him ];ad been other-
wise discoverable. So no doubt Spanleigh
was well and truly in the locker of D.
Jones.
The dusty, crinkled clutter of affidavits
rifled from the official sepulchre .seemed
scarcely worth further reading and were
being again bundled up when a coincidence
ju dates signalled for attention. Spanleigh,
it appeared, made a will in favor of his wife
the day before disappearing from home. On
the previous day he had executed a trust con-
veying to her the income from the whole of his
estate. The effect of this was that until
Spanleigh died the wife received from the
trustee company the income from property
i alued at £JO,OQO and on his death became
entitled to the corpus. It seemed an odd
sort oi arrangement, kindling mild curiosity
to know more of Samuel Spanleigh and
Honora, his wife and legatee. But the
name of the attorney on the record had
long gone from tile list of practising Gents.
One. No one would remember anything
about an affair of this sort, in any case.
So the papers were decently tied up with a
pink bow and stowed in their place to rot.
A week or two after this perfunctorv
glance through ancient papers Tom was
admitted to the Bar. lie is a big man there
now, and long ago forgave me for inter-
fering between him and that sister of mine
whose engagement to him I did so much to
dynamite. She was a casual hoyden with
an aversion to every domestic art —wildly
extravagant with money, and miserly of
effort. Marriage in her case looked to me
to be the first step towards irretrievable
ruin. The notion of her “keeping house,”
for instance, was preposterous, a view of the
stiuation I placed before iier and Tom,
jointly and severally, with regularity and
emphasis.
Tom's charter to pursue Costs was, of
course, a joy to his relations, especially to
tue maternal grandfather, himself a barrister
but then retired through age from the prac-
tice of his dubious profession. Wherefore
it was natural that Maggie and myself—
she his fiancee and me his closest friend—-
should be invited with Tom to a Sunday
afternoon beano in honor of the new wig
at the suburban home of the ancient. He
was a shrewd, kindly old bird, extraordinarily
tolerant, for one of his years, of human
weakness, full of maxims rough-lieivn from
life. Towards the contemplated nuptials his
attitude was so offensively complaisant, not
to say enthusiastic, that I was moved, when
we were alone, to tell him I viewed the thing
with dread. I was certain that Maggie was
not of the sort to make a matrimonial suc-
cess and least of all with Tom. Both were
of the same easy-going, careless type. What
Tom wanted was a wife of decision and
ambition —one who was proficient in house-
keeping, who valued order and domesticity
and could achieve it by her own effort, and
so on and so forth. I fancy 1 must have
talked like an inspired shopwalker.
The wise old eyes registered neither dis-
like nor approval. If they suggested any-
thing it was that I rather than my yarn was
being weighed.
“Well, well,” lie mumbled, “so that is how
you look at it? Um ! All ! Let me see,
Charlie. You are about 24. Marriage and
housekeeping and happiness ! Ha, ha! But
excuse me. Perhaps you, being 24, know
best. Still” ——
“Yes, but isn’t it absolutely a condition
precedent to happiness in marriage that a
wife should be able to keep house—to cook
and sew and do what her mother did?
Maggie can do none of these things. Sim
despises them.”
"Perhaps you are right,” he answered.
"Lut be not too sure that your condition
precedent has any substantial place as a
fact, or that you know your sister as well
as you think you do. I was 24 once, and
hearing you to-day reminds me that accumu-
lation of the material for such reflections as
I am left with now on matters of this kind
began about that time. It is they who are
going to marry;—not you. And because they
are healthy and concerned with themselves
alone instead of the things you believe thev
should he worrying about, I am disposed to
view their mating with confidence in the
selective wisdom of impulse. Let me tell
you a story apropos of your dogmatism.
“Chance brought me to Australia. Read-
ing with me in London had been the Aus-
tralian son of a seafaring father who made
quite a lot of money here. He was a bril-
liant youngster, but of remote and solitary-
habit. We were ‘called’ together. Just
about this time his father died and it
hastened my friend’s return to Australia.
He persuaded me to leave England with him,
and on the day before our sailing intro-
duced me to a young woman whom he ex-
plained would follow six months later and
become Mrs. Spanleigh. His name was
Sam Spanleigh. The bride-to-be and
her mother came to the East India Docks
to see us off. She was more prim-looking
than pretty, of about his own age, with thin
lips and straight mouth. To me the onlv
permanent recollection, for a time at any
rate, was that inflexible mouth of hers and
an arresting precision of speech. Sam, I
judged, would have to keep step. On the
voyage he said scarcely anything about her
that was in any way intimate, but on every
occasion that he referred to her he spoke
with admiration of her great competence
as a housekeeper. I gathered that he had
an affection for her that was very real.
"On arrival I found a temporary post in
the Government service. Sam went to read
with a man well established at the Bar pre-
paratory to applying for admittance himself.
He worked hard and in six mouths took
chambers of his own, and, the girl arriving
from England soon after, they were duly
married. I, of course, visited them fre-
quently at first, and, living as I did in in-
expensive lodgings, at once began to envy
him his domestic environment. Ilis answer
would usually be a laugh and a movement
of the conversation along other lines. After
a few months I noticed he had stopped ask-
ing me to call again—that when we met in
town there was no inquiry about whether I
was ‘coming out on Sunday’ or anything of
that sort. So the intervals between visits
extended until there was nothing but interval
left, and Sam’s house knew me no
more. Naturally his attitude mortified me;
yet when we met —and he would often go
out of his way to find me—he was as agree-
able as ever and anxious to show his friend-
liness. On these occasions he never spoke
of his wife. I knew he was making a name
professionally and was working early and
late. He was a most conscientious man and
I think would have developed into a very fine
lawyer.
"The recollection I have of Spanleigh’s
wife and home are colored probably by what
happened. But I can easily recall how
perfect the setting seemed to be for that
frigid mouth, and how well attuned her pre-
cise speech was to the establishment. The
spick-and-span house was surrounded by a
geometrically fashioned garden as neat as a
shop window. When the door opened every-
thing stood to attention, so to speak, each
room the replica of an upholsterer’s show-
room. There was not a grain of dust. Hav-
ing a place for everything, and everything
in its place, had clearly been reduced to a
rule of conduct. It was the Impeccable
Suburban Villa —the Home Beautiful. T
was 24 then. I thought it splendid—all
except Ilonora’s mouth.
“Well, a couple of years’ detachment from
this .stainless habitation had passed when
one morning came a message asking me to
call round at Sam’s chambers. Tie was
waiting in rooms bare of everything but
books.
“ ‘What, moving, Sam ?’ I asked.
“‘Yes, and before I move I want to give
you these books of mine.’
“‘What the devil are you talking about?’
I inquired.
“ ‘Naturally,’ he wearily responded, ‘you
can make neither head nor tail of it, but I
am leaving to-day—and I am not coming
back. Aof coming back,’ he fiercely went
on, -remember that. I cannot stand "it. It
is driving me mad..’
" ‘What's driving you mad?’ I demanded.
■‘‘Mhat? What: I'ou ask me what!
lie raved. ’Good God, man, where have
your eyes been? Do you not realise that
■since I married I have lived like.a man in a
dungeon—that the home I have is a horror
unimaginable and damnable? The first day
there, Marshall, chilled me to the bones. In
a week 1 hated it, and have loathed it ever
since. I’ve done with it now, Marshall, and
am going.’
‘•You will see there was more shade than
light in this; but gradually I got all the
story and it came to this: that Honora’s
super-efliciency* and intense devotion to
domestic drudgery had made life to Span-
leigh insupportable. He found himself an
automaton—an intruder who brought dust
into the house and disarranged chairs and
made the hatrack untidy. If he moved a
boon it was an offence. When lie brought
papers home they were a nuisance. If he
dropped a crumb on the floor while break-
fasting it had to be at once pounced upon
and rescued from the floor. Should he more
a table immediate readjustment was enforced.
" ‘She never sits down,’ he wailed. ‘From
early in the morning till late at night she
is moving about, attending to this, that and
the other thing, sweeping and dusting and
rearranging and putting away and pulling
out. I’m sick of it, Marshall, sick to death
of it, and I am going where it can be
forgotten.’
“ *l T ou are providing for her?’
“ ‘Certainly.’
“That evening a schooner beat out through
Sydney Heads. Sam Spanleigh was a pas-
senger. Ten years later I had a letter
from him. He was very happy. The
woman ? Oh, she lived on and died in the prim
seclusion of her bridal home, saving nearly
all her income. She willed the lot to a
niece, whose husband built from it one of the
biggest piles amassed from South African
diamonds. She was a wonderful woman,
Honora Spanleigh—as cold as ice and as
superlatively competent as you imagine Toni
should have for wife, eh?”
Well, I was not going to be settled bv
yarns from an old barrister. My view of
Maggie’s future and of Tom’s was not
changed by reminiscences concerning eccen-
tric individuals of another generation. The
importance of the domestic arts was not to
be denied, and I opposed the marriage right
up to the fatal day. My revenge would
come later in justification by events. But
the worst of it is that this incompetent
sister of mine played the devil with even-
reasonable forecast by promptly becoming
the mother of seven children and managing
them and Tom and their house with the
calm authoritativeness displayed by a loco-
motive-driver over his complicated iron-
mongery. And I was so intent in watching
the amazing performance that I only remem-
bered when it was too late that I had not
myself married.
Tom says I would have chosen or been
selected by another Honora. I wonder.
MUJIK.


m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency. .
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. nminnon IAICCT El e lAfAire
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. uUNuUKU Vt to I, N. o. WALto
Victorian Office—9o Queen Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
It you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stare
VVE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it. and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
•with success in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can always
have “good looks” if you take Carter'*
Small Pill-
Small
Dosa-
Small
Price>i
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source of
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
They cure
Biliousne s s,
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
5/
For Work or Play Shirley President
Braces Fill Every Need
When buying a pair of braces one does not always think
of the various demands they may be subjected to.
In any position, whether for labor or play, ordinary pos-
ture or strenuous exercise. SHIRLEY PRESIDENTS fill
every need
Just remembei the name. SHIRLEY PRESIDENT
Look for it on the buckle and the printed guarantee on
every brace and you will have found that the manufacturer
has taken care of the extra tension needed in comfortable
braces.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
g
r.
Precision
Fire
In every instance the Remington
Model 51 Automatic Pistol per-
forms its task with precision.
The flat matted sighting rib, mat-
ted to prevent the gleam of re-
flected light, the low sights
peculiar to this pistol alone, have
proved a great aid to exact shoot*
ang.
feemfngto*
Ifor Shooting Right
Caliber, .380; length,
6 5/8 m.; thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21
ces unloaded; finish, dull black; magazine
»lds_ seven cartridges, one extra cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m Browning Short) rim-
less automatic standard metal cased ot
soft pointed, the same cartridge as is
used in other American Automatic
Pistols of this caliber.
Vt
f
mini
•"ssar
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
FOR THAT DIZZY FEELING
TAKE
BEECHAMS PI US
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
8 Ice-making Machinery
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Ah
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney. and b Aand r ! S N a z ne ’
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
J
t m i* if t f Established
Australian Mutual
omuSim Provident Society
Ttie largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375.000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
'
mo
& AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plum Rogov
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
126
each
Post Free
fgf
( Patented ),
M
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
g
The simplicity, lightness and excellence ol tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


44
BLACK .„ d WHITE
"1
vm
I
.. •*
HS ■ 1
■-I
>■
ssi
sg
.-%■
MnUOT
" -y *
11
§
II
.
'
1
*
Wfwi
n-y.
'
1
is
/■•: •■/• '■:
»
|k,J
JSL,
P%
i
11-’
m
11^1
a»
■
... a
;l£
■■' i
3M
. ■ ■
...
B 2:.v\
mm. m
y • • #■
■ > i »’i
■ - , *.■■ * ■
m
wm mWi 'mem *»-
.
" * »'*'
%• 3
: f I
* > * ' . V , « .Jg
.«!•' ~ ,' J 4«
. ■ ’ '
f»§
ft :
-v*-*
*&,.,
1
Wt&!
•■S'i&vsta. 1
'«; ’Ain, '-41
«*. • • iii- * %•-*
'i,, «*■ >- f ~ * ■*«- /
mm-it
■. f.
:
-ft
Miis
.. V
1
ti ■ W-ik^bm u» 7 JmA,*sL *
ry* .-. «■ , .■• - ■ t
WwMt 4. ftsfift >.?
f :■
iis
.
ft
,i; ft
A* ' ' -ft ...< „■ ft-
¥<t J V-
aft
if ■
a—MM
9 WsSmimm m
mti
. . -
m ||Blil@fc i ! jffr*te‘; i
'■“"*■ ■ % -' . / : '»J *’f- ! ; 7 'NhM|
■n
SCOTCH.
WHISKY
CUARtHTEED the Produce of SCOTLAND.
BOTTLED IN BOND
under the Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
