

THE
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
FOSTER HOME INDUSTRIES.
■/
t
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY’S STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE.
BLAST FURNACES, SHOWING NO. 3 NEARING COMPLETION.
HEIGHT OF FURNACE, 144 FEET; HEIGHT OF STOVES, 103 FEET.
PIG IRON,
RAILS & FISHPLATES,
INGOTS, BILLETS,
BLOOMS, TEES,
etc.
V
'p,
r
c,lt*V
m
&
&
nrrrm
ROUNDS, FLATS,
SQUARES, ANGLES,
STRUCTURAL STEEL,
SULPHATE of
AMMONIA, etc.
HEAD OFFICE:
Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2167
Thursday, August 25, 1921.
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Ady’T.,
:• ! ! ll3£
111
itaioalißa
■UK
B
fMk
iiSBSa
MRs
Mangrovite Leather beltlinq H,DE
stands the strain oi long continuous service, sending
maximum power to the machines and operating suc-
cessfully under all conditions oi manufacture.
Mangrovite Beltings are the product of over forty
years’ experience in the intricacies oi belting manu-
facture. All the natural attributes oi the hides are
retained to the right degree in the special Mangro-
vite tanning process.
Send your transmission problems to us. State the
kind and amount oi work you do, and we will place
our staff of belting experts at your service.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
Victoria : Corbett, Oerham&Co., 397 Little Collins St., Melb.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle.
Tasmania: Henry Clark & Co. Ltd . Collins St., Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” will be available
shortly, and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
Ctd
158-162 OXFORD 51 Wl. 1/2.REGENT ST W.l
iZ.QUEEN VICTORIA ST E.C.4..
LONDON. ENGLAND.
•: ■
m
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12perrons with Prince’s Plate
Spoons and Forks, plain patterrs. and
'"Trustworthy" Cutlery. Price com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company's own
Sheffield Works. “Trustworthy”
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
Dotastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
a
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YounfcLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlit) Remedy used by Army and Jiavy men.
Used since 1596. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health a .d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'a daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTED MILKCCX
SLOUGH. BUCKS. ENG.
S&amdt*
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
J.Uj
HtOKAi. »«m'
< r, - T :
DS
ON
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effectite bac
tericidally as is creosote.
TTnlike' cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contraj.
thev have a beneficial effect, as their antique
properties prevent abnormal fermentation 01 the h
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
A Tax on Serials
The newly-formed Australian Authors'
Association has already made a definite
effort to secure some measure of the settled
policy of the country for the benefit of the
man who digs for his daily bread with a
pen. Eminent authorities have been inter-
viewed, shoulders have been put to the un-
wieldy political machine, and, Eureka! it
moves, it moves! The initial effort is to
secure a substantial duty on syndicated
matter intended for serial publication in Aus-
tralia. There are scores of Australian papers
using this material, practically all imported,
and procurable at rates which render it im-
possible for any local writer to cut in unless
he has acquired an Oriental capacity for
living on a pinch of rice and the smell of a
soup-kitchen, and has possessed himself of a
Chinese indifference to anything in the way
of a wardrobe beyond a single garment, one
half patches and the other half holes.
If you are running a newspaper in this
country, and wish to pad out between the
advertisements at the smallest possible ex-
pense, you can get a serial of 70,0(10 words
for £7, or £1 for 10,000 words—say seven
columns of The Bulletin. It does not
follow that the far-off author of the serial
is paid such rates. His story is bought by
a firm in England for perhaps £lOO, and re-
sold to papers for publication by weekly
instalments in all parts of the English-
speaking world, the retailer deriving his
profit by trading off proof-slips of the book
to, possibly, 50 customers at £(> or £7 the
book. This is known as syndicated stuff,
and is a prominent feature of the contents
bill of the bulk of Australian daily-paper
supplements and the ordinary weeklies, only
a very few Australian publications holding
that it is wise Australian policy to give Aus-
tralian readers Australian reading.
One may safely anticipate vehement ob-
jection to the legislative action asked for.
The Authors’ Association, supported by the
Journalists’ Association, will be accused of
the shameful offence of seeking to impose a
tax upon knowledge. It is the outcry that
lias greeted every previous attempt to give
the Australian writer some few of the fiscal
privileges the Australian workman enjoys.
But there is no danger of a tax on know-
ledge, even assuming that the average cheap
English serial contains any such thing. The
effort is only to alter the medium for the
dissemination of knowledge. The Austra-
lian writer is just as capable of spreading
knowledge as his remorseless competitors
abroad; he asks only for the opportunity.
As things are, unless he is willing to impart
valuable information at rates would not
keep a kitten in whale meat if whales were
as plentiful as flathead, he is allowed no
ehance of demonstrating liis abilities in serial
fiction.
Australia has sent many professors to
•other lands. I know one artist, not con-
sidered fit to teach the pupils of a Melbourne
girls’ school, who is now occupying a pro-
fessorial position in the big university at
Washington (U.S.A.). America, by the
way, provides effective protection for her
literary producer, without suffering any
noticeable mental destitution as the result of
the tax on knowledge. Apparently the mis-
trust of Australian ability is not limited to
the literary field. As it is with books, so it
is with bishops; we are only confident of
them and comfortable with them when they
come in, duty free, from abroad. There is
little knowledge necessary to the writing of
good fiction that is not available to the writer
in Sydney or Melbourne —or Teddywaddy,
for the matter of that. Surely the Austra-
lian writer with knowledge is justified in put-
ting up /a fight for a fair opportunity of
displaying it.
But the wail about a tax on knowledge is
mere subterfuge, a repetition of the outcry
that was raised when Protectionists in Vic-
toria first sought a duty on boots. To-day
it is a tax on knowledge, then it was
a tax on comfort. Australians couldn’t
make boots that would not be of the most
primitive sort; the Australian race would be
made a victim to the awfullest corns. What
patriot could cry “Advance Australia!” if
his political actions served to pinch up Aus-
tralian toes in absurd Australian boots!
To-day Australians will be touchingly ap-
pealed to not to pinch their intellects with
Australian books, despite a column in the
London Times of the other week giving par-
ticular prominence to the new novel of a
young Australian, and holding it up to
English writers as a model for style and
construction; despite that the London
Morning Post lately referred to the Aus-
tralian paper which prints more Australian
stories than all the others as “the most
literary paper in the English-speaking
world.”
It need not he assumed that the imposi-
tion of an almost prohibitive duty on syndi-
cated material, notably long and short
stories, will lead to the elimination of serials
from country supplements. Stories short
and long may still be syndicated, but they
will be Australian-made tales, and will be
syndicated within the Commonwealth for
.the, benefit of the writers of the Common-
wealth. Indeed, the Authors’ Association
intends making the syndicating business a
feature of its activities.
E. D.
The Next War
The war to end war will not end war auto-
matically. If it is to do what it was said
'*• was going to do, its lessons will first
have to be driven home. And that is the
good purpose of The Next War, by Will
Irwin (Dutton, New York). Irwin was the
American war correspondent.who saw most
of the war —-not merely the little-of the war
that Uncle Sam’s troops saw, bvft the whole
thing, from the onset in Belgium. Appa-
rently the TT.S A. is still keen on hearing
arguments against war: at any rate, the first
edition of Irwin’s book in April was fol-
Toved by another late in the month, and
before the end of May two others had been
called for. By this time there have been
probably half-a-dozen more printings. No
new book has been so much talked of in the
U.S.A. for years.
And yet it is disappointing. To this ex-
tent, at any rate: it offers no new sugges-
tions for ending wars, and little more than
mentions the old suggestions. It certainly
does not meet the difficulties that have been
too visible in connection with pacifist pro-
posals. Irwin puts his conclusions this way:
We shall not strike at the root of wars until we
organise 50 or 60 sovereign nations and self-govern-
ing colonies of the world somewhat as we organise
individuals in a tribe or state or nation. In plain,
human terms they must get together, pass laws to
define arid forbid national murder and national bui-
glary, and agree to punish with their collective
force any violator of that law.
That means “a Hague tribunal ‘with teeth
in it.’ ” And while we wait for that “we
may use a few pain-killers and poultices,
most important of which is disarmament
“a pressing, vital question of the moment.”
This idea of a world’s police force is, of
course, old. The practical questions are:
(1) What is it to consist of? (2) Who is
to control it? Obviously it may not be
wholly of one nationality; for that would
be equivalent to every nation but one dis-
arming. The question of control is difficult,
too. The U.S.A. controls its own army and
navy; yet we saw that it took the U.S.A.
over two years to decide on which side the
rights lay in the Great War —two years,
moreover, during which the most awful
things were happening.
Yet, though Irwin leaves the problem in
the clouds, he does the service of showing
what a horrible thing war is, how much
more horrible it is now than it ever was be-
fore, and how much more horrible still it is
likely to be if the world just lets things drift.
France alone lost a million and three-
quarters of men : of her young soldiers, phy-
sically the elect of the nation, between 19
and 31 years of age, about (>0 per cent, died
in the war. Germany lost two millions.
Counting in llussians, of course, the total
loss of soldieis was about 10 millions. How
many civilians died of malnutrition and epi-
demics directly engendered by war the statis-
ticians are still trying to tell; a Danish
bureau has come to the conclusion that the
world lost 30 millions, including infants who
would have been horn had the horror not
come upon the world. But the grass grows
quickly over the grave. Irwin saw ‘‘the
rib-bones sticking everywhere out of Vimy
Itidge.” There w r ere no rib-bones showing
even in September. 1918; I saw cornflowers
blooming instead. But the debts are not buried
with the dead : and if the people can be got
to realise what it is costing them and is
going to cost them in money, the difficulties
will be faced with the determination to over-
come them. In our own Australian history
we saw nothing but the difficulties of federa-
tion for 30 years. Then somebody said, “The
only way to federate is to federate,” and we
federated, and left it to the future to tell
whether most of the difficulties were real or
bogus. The subsequent years have shown
that most of them were bogus. Irwin pro-
duces some diagrams to stir the imagination
of the people in this regard:—
The money the World War cost for a single hour
during its last year" would build 10 high schools
costing £200,000 each.
The .money it cost for a single day would build in
each of the 48 States two. hospitals costing £lOO,OOO
each; two ,£200,000 high schools in each State; 300
recreation centres, with gymnasiums and swimming-
pools costing £60,000 each ; and there would be left
£1,200,000 to promote industrial education.^
A bit more than that, in fact; because Irwin’s
dollars have .been converted to sterling at
five to’ the f. And then the vast, indirect
cost —-the cost of rehabilitating towns and
factories and mines and farms—
has not been taken into account. So ruin-
ously expensive is modern war that all the
wars of all the world, from 1793 to 1910,
including the Napoleonic campaigns, the
Crimean war,, the Franco-Prussian war and
the hundred little wars, , cost but a fraction
more than one-sixth of the fabulous expen-
diture upon the Great War. For almost
the whole of that expenditure we have thus
far given only an IOU. And it is not merely
that wealth has changed hands. It has .dis-
appeared-—most of it, at any rate.
Irwin says that if you have an army you
will want to use it. But that is only true
with qualifications. You will only want to
use it if you think you can use it success-
fully. To make his contention good he has
to tell us of 1914; “So the nations went to
war, armed to the teeth, ready as nations
never were before.” The truth is that Bri-
tain was as unready almost as -ever it had
been—more unready perhaps, having regard
to the size of the peril. Had Britain’s avail-
able land force not been so contemptible,
Germany would have hesitated to attack.
And had the U.S.A. been also ready to stand
by the right, Germany would not have at-
tacked at all. So disarmament —if it be
not universal disarmament —may breed war
instead of burying it.
Partial disarmament —the disarmament
which means the setting up of a tribunal of
any sort which shall say,. “You may have
so many men, so many ships”—seems - beset
with more difficulties even than complete
disarmament coupled with the establishment
of a world’s police force. What, then, can
be done —apart from ceaseless anti-war pro-
paganda of the nature of “The Next War”?
Is it not possible that the nations could
make a start by agreeing that certain things
are prohibited, and agreeing further to en-
force the prohibition? The Great War, for
instance, produced the aeroplane, the diri-
gible, the submarine, poison gas. If there is
another Great War the ghastliest of its hor-
rors will probably he due to. the development
of these agents. We have not yet really
gone very far with thorn. It might be pos-
sible to agree that we should not go any
farther, but should even retrace our steps.
Certainly some of these agents were prohi-
bited before —one, at any rate. But there
(Continued on page 25.)


r aae
Quality 8 Economy in Mens 8 Boys’Wear
Men know by experience that
at Anthony Horderns* they
can secure their clothing needs
satisfactorily, both as to qual-
ity and price. The former
desideratum is the result of
having our own clothing fac-
tory, where reliable material
is made up under strict super-
vision.
Value and
Variety m
Cricketers'
Needs.
Write for Our
Price List of
Cricket Material.
A Copy will be
posted free on
request.
-3T
«KV
S 3
as
Vf
rS^
? t “ s <
<w
: <
7vri*»
*&55;
c<*:
>fu
W
/>/
*ag
tf
I
v 9
*rfe
/©
«&&&
’JSih
«•
f&.
: *§4
SW
\<
IitSST!
'/X
w>fi
«*>
*S>
J
V'
«
**t-vX
SSi
T*
n"
•r
£
*
D
<=r
Every facility to expedite
shopping and secure for the
busy man quick and intelligent
service is provided at Anthony
Horderns*. If you cannot per-
sonally make your selections
post your order. We have an
experienced staff to attend to
all Mail Orders.
We Pay Carriage on Men’s and
Boys’ Wear to any part of N.S.W.;
and to the nearest port on Inter-
state orders.
Here are the
Suits Your Boys
Require.
S?ve DURHAM
PARISIAN.
Cream
Cream
Cream
CRICKETING TROUSERS.
Loops, Side and Hip Pockets, Cuff Bottoms.
Gabardine 20/«, 42/-, 63/*
Serge 37/6, 02/6, 50/-
Flannel yjy fB/6
White Drill 10/6, 17/6
Drab Crash ’ ’’ ’
Tussore Silk 30/-, 37/6
Khaki Drill 14/6, 16/6
MEN’S CRICKETING SHIRTS.
White Mercerised, with collar and pocket.. 7/11, 8/11, 9/6
White Mercerised, superior quality 10/6, 12/6
White Matt, with collar and pocket ... .... 9/6, 10/6, 12/6
MEN’S CRICKETING SWEATERS.
All Wool, made in Australia, double cuffs, to pull over head.
Chest: Size 34in. 36in. 40in. 44in.
Finished with roll collar .... 16/9 17/3 18/- 19/6
Finished with polo collar, button
front 17/9 18/3 19/- 20/6
MEN’S CRICKETING BELTS.
Tan Leather Belts, 1 Jin. wide, with buckle 2/-, 2/6, 3/3 4/3
Tan Leather Belts, with fancy buckle fastening, 4/3, 5/6, 6/9
Elastic Web Belts, in various club colors ... 1/10,2/3
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Men’s Best-grade White Canvas Cricket Boots, stout sewn, Leather
soles, with cap and strap 21/-
White Canvas Lace Shoes, with Rubberised Leather soles —
14/6, 16/6
White Canvas Lace Shoes, with Black Rubber soles— 5/11, 6/6
HATS AND CAPS.
Navy ’Varsity Cricketing Caps 2/3, 2/9
Navy Club Caps, plain 4/9
THE "HORDERNIA
SAC SUIT.
High-grade Materials, including all
the latest colorings in English and Aus-
tralian Suitings. Stylish in cut; faith-
fully made.
Coat has 2-button front, medium roll
collar, out breast pocket, no vent: vest
has 4 pockets; trousers have side or
cross pockets, hip, plain or cuff bottoms.
Vicars’ Tweed, Grey and Brown effects
Australian Tweed, striped and cheek
Fancy All-wool Tweed, Kent design
English Worsted, dark shades.... 100/-,
Fancy Worsted, new effect*
Vicars’ Blue and Brown Worsted, all wool
English and Irish Tweed, latest c"l ■’•’rigs,
155/-,
Navy Blue Cheviot Serge (Indigo Dye),
112/-,
Vicars’ Fine Twill Serge
Fine Rib Serge (English), Indigo Dye
59/6
70/-
90/-
105/-
126/-
137/6
157/-
115/-
135/-
168/-
THE DURHAM —Ideal for school wear, to fit
boys 7to 15 years. Four patch pockets, yoke and
stitched-down belt at back, plain or band and
button knickers.
All-wool Australian Tweed, 4 to '2 36/-, 36/6
All-wool Vicars’ Tweed, Brown ancj Grey, 6 to 13 38/6, 40/-
All-wool Vicars’ Tweed, Brown and Grey, 5 to 12 42/6
All-wool Vicar 5 ’ Tweed, Brown and Grey, 4to 12.. 47/6, 50/-
Fancy Worsted, 4 to 9 54/-
Vicars’ Navy Serge, 5 to 1 52/6, 55/-
Faney Worsted, 7 to 2 607-
Grey and Brown Fancy Mixture Tweed, 11 to 2..., 62/6, 65/-
Fine Rib Navy Serge, 7 to 11 66/6, 68/6
Fancy Grey Worsted, 8 to 2 75/-, 77/6
Light Grey Worsted, 9 to 2 90/-, 92/-
Medium Grey Worsted, 8 to 2 115/-, 117/6
THE PARISIAN. —To fit Boys 3to 8 years. A
smart style for small boys. Pleated fronts, stitched-
down belt at back, full skirt.
Smart Tweeds, Medium and Dark Grey and Brown shades —
25/-, 27/6, 36/6, 38/6
l4/6, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-
Poplin. Fawm and Brown
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


.. ■
■
m
m
Choose an
CurfeaSca^iJuc?
KODAK
because it is the only camera —except
its little brother the Folding Brownie
and the Film Graflex—with which you
can make notes on the film at the time
of exposure.
Besides this you receive every
improvement essential to mod-
ern picture-making. A good
model is the No. 1 Autographic
Kodak Junior, recently re-
duced from £4/18/- to 87/-;
takes pictures 2\ x 3i inches.
Ask to see at your Kodak
dealers, or
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane ; The Valley ; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide ; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Comer,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Give Your Children the Benefit
of the World’s Best Music
ilKk
$
3
©
&
&
&
5?
,1
F\
Hi
YOU want your children to acquire early a love of
beautiful music. You wish to encourage in them an
appreciation of the greatest music man’s genius has
produced. Bring the world’s best music to them through
“His Master's Voice"
the instrument for which the most celebrated singers and
musicians make records exclusively. By this means superb
operatic arias and any selection from the whole range
of music can be made familiar to them. Their minds
will be permanently enriched.
“His Master’s Voice’’ instruments and “His
Master’s Voice’’ records are one. Each is
made to operate with the other, and no other
combination can produce as satisfactory
results.
His Master* Voice"**
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney
“IHs Masters Voice "
Read. Trade-murk
“Gramophone”
Read. Trade-mark.


PINKETTIS
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
✓
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Maohine,
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
»
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 Red and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
THERE
IS
NOT
a better watch
made the world
over than our
“Super Fx and
R” Watch.
%
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTS
'V s
\
m
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R” fully-jewelled
lever, 84/-
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding.
For long life.
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After 81 years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 2 25 Hunter Street.
rS*' • 1
M*
:
»*
BEAUTIFUL
WALNUT HAIR
that is at once charming, youthful and
the object of general admiration, is
obtainable permanently and harm-
lessly by means of
DR. ALLEN S
WALNUT STAIN
Obtainable at all Chemists.
m.
u:m:
Tooth Paste
r Australian
Through and Through.
Not only do you buy a Dentifrice
that is antiseptic and flagrant, but;
you show your appreciation of the
fact that Australia can produce a
Tooth Paste equal to the imported
article when you ask your
chemist for “Eudenta.”
“EUDENTA”—
IT’S EASY TO
REMEMBER.
Waterman’s
(I cieal)
FowiitaTn/Peii
IDEAL
IDEAL
IDEAL
There are Three
types of Waterman’s Ideal—the
“ Self-fillin'?,” the “Safety” and
the “ Regular,” each with special
features. No matter which type
you buy vou have the finest
Fountain Pen made. Insist on
Waterman’s Ideal.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L.G. Sloan Ltd., (Lorttcr
Kingsway, London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
>LUM
MOTOR
SPIRIT
M ril be there on
time M
The feeling of certainty of " getting
there on time ” is common to users of
Plume Motor Spirit. There are good
reasons for this assurance ; Plume is
made from the world’s choicest crudes;
each process of its manufacture is under
the care of hig ly-skilled experts who
prove by laboratory tests and actual
service conditions that the high standard
adopted for Plume Motor Spirit
is rigidly maintained.
Therefore Plume is uniform
always, snd can be depended
upon to deliver full power and
full mileage, day in and day out,
without a hitch.
This dependability has made
Plume popular with most motor-
ists, who aiso praise its easy
starting, sweet running, and
economy.
Order your Motor Spirit by
name—say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 5 A
(
V
n
'W SP\v^
/f »
FEDERAL TAXATION RETURNS NOW DUE
INCOME TAX.
(Income derived during year ended 30th June, 1921.)
BUSINESSES 31 st August, 1921.
LAND TAX.
(Land owned at Noon on 30th June, 1921.) 31st AUGUST, 1921.
FORMS OF RETURN MAY BE OBTAINED AT POST OFFICES OR MY OFFICE.
FULL DETAILS OBTAINABLE FROM MY OFFICE.
Federal Taxation Office,
Warwick Buildings,
Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
T. S. HULME,
Deputy Commissioner of Taxation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sculptor.
Oh, let me be the sculptor of my days,
And chisel into each its own design,
E’en as the Architect supreme, divine,
Dreams of new planets for the starry ways.
J.et me be busy, asking of no man
Whether or not the carving that I do
Be right or wrong—he to another plan
Perchance may work, yet both the plans
be true.
N.s.w.
LOLA GORNALL.
Contentment.
O Life, withhold your secret yet from me!
Keep back your revelation! Let me be
Drunken each day with sights and sounds
and things,
That my whole being in delightment sings!
Enough for me the color of the earth,
Old books and love and children’s careless
mirth.
Smile when I question. Stop me at a breath
Lest I too soon should lift your veil, O
Death !
N.S.W.
ZORA CROOS.
Loloma.
My name is Love. Have you not seen me
pass—
A gleam in moonlight, shadowed by my
hair ;
Blind, for my eyes hold pain, my bosom
bare,
And bare my feet upon the secret grass?
Have you not seen me, ’neath a sky of brass,
Droop beggared on the roadside in the
dust;
My body bleeding from a wild, deep thrust
Of midnight passion, shivered like a glass
That lies unheeded after nights of wine?
My name is Love. Left naked from the
night,
Some morning I’ll lie sleeping in my
tears —
Roll over me, oh hundred thousand years!
Shut out the wrinkled, wan, despairing light;
Fill me with night and sleep, that I be thine!
victoria.
ENID CAMERON.
Mystery.
They made a cross upon your brow
And thought they named you true ;
Three names your sponsors gave, I vow,
Yet none of them are you.
A rainbow’s curve, a leaf on bough,
A purple bud that grew—
With all these names I name you now
And all, and none, are you.
For you are pain like searing fire,
And you are breathless joy;
You are fulfilment and desire,
A master and a toy,
An iron rod, a golden wire,
A strong man and a boy.
For you are anger, fierce and white,
And you are tenderness;
A priest who keeps an altar bright,
A sinner to confess.
And you are sorrow and delight,
Despair and happiness.
They made a cross upon your brow
And thought they named you true;
Three names your sponsors gave, I trow,
Yet not one name is you.
A cryptic look, a spoken vow,
A last year’s rose that blew —
1 press you to my heart, and now
I hold all things, but you!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The King’s Daughter.
God bless the day
By blowing water
I went to play
With a king’s daughter.
Her birth I knew
By the walking after
Of the windy-blue
Ladies of laughter.
Tall and fine
Ladies-in-waiting
Came nine and nine
To our merry-mating.
And this to wear,
Be sure I had rather
Her w r ind-tossed hair
Than the crown of her father —
Hair lightly fanned
About me, above me,
With each brown strand
To caress and love me.
By her eyes’ grey light.
Darkling and burning
Where the road winds white
For no returning,
I saw her heart;
And our hearts thereafter
Walked apart
On a mountain of laughter.
On the peaks that are stars,
On the airy ridges
And the windy bars
Of the rainbow bridges
Onward I trod
Till I came to the water
By the throne of God
With His happy daughter.
Holy and sweet •
In silver weather
It lay at our feet
And we drank together.
But this for bliss,
Be sure I had rather
Her morning kiss
Than the throne of her Father.
N.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


"A^Cake
Ko txs ekeepin q
easier <r W r itl&
Electrical Appliances
Have you considered the advantages you would
derive from the use of electrically-operated house-
hold devices? Until you have had the opportunity
of using some of these you can have no adequate
idea of their capabilities.
For instance, a dainty meal can be easily prepared on the table
with a grill, toaster, and coffee percolator. It is only possible to
iron m comfort the "Electric way” because the iron retains its
heat, the handle is always cool, and an attached stand saves lifting
Wherever electricity is employed for heating, ashes and dust
are eliminated-Electric Radiators are clean, safe, economical,
and portable. You would appreciate something to save weary
treadling when sewing—a small Motor drives the machine m
the modern home.
Sweeping and dusting are performed simultaneously with a
Vacuum Cleaner, and all dirt is collected in a bag. Then,
washing up—a disagreeable task the old way, but a pleasure
with the Electric Dish Washer. In the large household an
Ironing Machine is indispensible ; even the daintiest fabrics
can be ironed by it to please the keenest critic.
Finally, there is the Electric Washing Machine, into which the
clothes can be tumbled, the current turned on, and the hard
work done m a few minutes.
Can you be satisfied with your present methods of
housekeeping when comfort is so easily procured ?
iSm 11K if
vJuliuS
sfudios
Our showrooms , fully equipped with
everything for the utilisation of elec -
tricity, await your visitation ,
Call in to-day .
k
Edison Electric
Coffee Percolatoi
Edison ElectricTwo-
slice Toaster
it
Edison Electrir Grill with
ovenette for roasting
w\
Edison Glow
Electric Radiatot
Gdisdn Electric Sewing
Machine with treadle
speed controller
à
Edison Electric Iron with thumb
rest and attached stand.
u
m I
■
i■:
*
SSJ;
Thor Electric Clothes Washer
with reversible wringer.
Thor Electric Ironing
Machine.
Thor Electric Dish
Washing Machine
Liberty Electric
Vacuum Cleaner.
f
35-45 WENTWORTH JWENUE
SYDNEY
s
às
Box 2517 G.P.O.
Phone : City 3510
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
TASMANIA—OIiver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE, S. A.—Charles Atkms & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Phone Central 2646 Box 538 G.P.O.
PERTH, W A.*—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Mazda House,
894 Hay Street
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical 6C Engineering Co. Ltd.,
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN


The Bulletin
VOL. 42.—N0. 2167.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 1921.
Pbice 9a.
THE SONG OF ERIN: “THE DAWNING.”
“Oh that I might have my request, and that God would grant me
the thing that I long for!
When I lie down I say, ‘When shall I arise and the night be gone?’
And I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of
the day."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, S.vdnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbouiine Office : Empire Buildings, 2G8 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. you can have The Bulletin sent
regularly to you every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid. To any address
overseas, £2.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or tratislate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DinEC'r reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any pidtire containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London K.C.h;
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 31 High
Holborn, London, W.C.l.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and. Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
B.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. lluland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano's. 5th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia. Penn.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. .
Ceylon. — IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Sura : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe
Islands, lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
16oz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., lid.; 8 loz. to JOoz.,
■Id.; lOoz. to ltoz., Sid.; elsewhere, koz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTOPiAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in ttiis paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law, S. H. Prior, J. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 1921.
OPENINGS FOR A YOUNG MAN.
The surplus infant, or, rather, the infant
who is under sentence to be a surplus boy
in a few years’ time, has become a problem
in this thinly-peopled land. Some of the
superfluities get into the open unions of the
unskilled or little-skilled and overcrowd
them; a larger number become odd-
jobbers who don’t regularly belong to any
union. This is the class for which Govern-
ments, and Labor Governments in particular,
{irovide work at a cost of millions that are
eft to posterity to pay. This is also the
class which Joseph Carruthers wants to
put on the land at a preliminary cost of
£30,000,000 (also charged to Posterity, of
course), though when they get on the land
there is no one much nearer than England
to sell any more produce to, engineers and
other good buyers and heavy feeders of the
artisan sort being rare here. The super-
fluous infant, grown to be the industrially-
crowded-out boy and the unemployable man,
is the supreme problem in Australia, so
many are the minor problems that rest on
him.
■» * * *
Yet on the face of things the learning
of a trade, especially a highly-skilled one
which deals with articles in large demand,
should be a splendid opening for any young
man in Australia. It should be the ideal
opening. There is no peerage and no estab-
lished church, so everybody starts, so far as
the law r can make him, as everybody else’s
social equal. Nobody is given more political
power than anybody else. What tax exemp-
tions exist are all for the benefit of the work-
ers. They are equal shareholders with the
biggest capitalists in the public works and
the public estate, but, by reason of tax-
exemptions, not in the public debt. They
have more tribunals than it is easy to count
to look after their interests. Starting with
an education provided by the State, the
youth who begins life as an expert trades-
man has quite a large world before him—
in theory, at least. It is hardly possible
for him to set about the making of anything
for which there isn’t a great and assured
and growing local demand and a market at
the door. It is only necessary to make some
of the articles that are now imported and
indirectly charged up in part to loans, and
they are so numerous that the names of them
occupy as many as 30 pages in Knibbs’s
“Statistical Bulletin.” The average man on
the land looks for a great part of his outlet
to a highly competitive market at the far
end of the earth, and the handicap of 12,000
miles of freight is against him. The manu-
facturer has the handicap of all these miles
in his favor. lie has the only drought-proof
job in a thirsty land. Theoretically, lie is
on his way to be the “lord manufacturer”
that Tennyson sang about in a tuneless
moment —one of the race which, as soon as
machinery came to be a power, created the
wealth of Britain and much of (lie world
besides. At any rate—this country having
taken precautions against the accumulation
of great fortunes and the rising of “lord
manufacturers” —he should become one of
an army of small manufacturers employing
skilled white Australian labor at union
wages, which labor would also hope to set
up for itself in time. And, meanwhile, the
skilled artisan has a saleable asset that he
can carry over the world with him; and even
if he should become an unemployed and fall
back on some Government-construction job
he doesn’t lose the asset. With every union
free to all comers, subject to an examination
that would let in the Capable and exclude
the quack, skilled tradesmanship should be
the goal of almost every boy’s ambition.
* * * *
Unfortunately in Australia, under existing
conditions, the man who does break into a
skilled trade and escape the odd-job life has
few inducements to cultivate further ambi-
tion. To become an employer lie must,
according to the doctrine of “class conscious-
ness,” abjure his faith, break away from
his kind and join the body of “capitalists”
on which the newest sort of Labor leader
rains curses as brimstone and other com-
bustibles rained on Sodom. Against the
foreign employer there is no objection, and
about his methods few or no questions are
asked. But the tendency is to treat the
Australian producer of things very much
as an individual whose existence is a
proof of guilt. The proudest dog in the
political pack is the one who has invented
some new form or return for the Australian
employer of union labor to fill up, or some
new regulation for him to observe, or some
new hole for him to fall into. So far as
N. S. Wales is concerned the crowning suc-
cess would have been achieved if the Stohey
Government’s Profiteering Bill had become
law in its original form. It provided that
any productive industry might be overhauled
retrospectively by a Court answerable to the
Minister : any part of its charges for anything
sold or any service rendered might be de-
clared excessive; and any part of the excess
might be forfeited. A manufacturing con-
cern with a moderate capital and a large
turnover might easily have been fined twice
as much as it possessed for an offence that
was no offence until the Court said it was
one.
This and other samples of energy are pre-
sumably intended to wipe out Private Enter-
prise so that there may be room for the
State article. Yet in a continent where a
hundred million pounds’ worth of goods per
annum require making to replace imports,
there seems room for w-hole new towns full
of State industry without any preliminary
wiping out of anybody. There is always the
risk, too, that Private Enterprise may be
swept away and State Enterprise fail to
start, through lack of knowledge or industry
or versatility, as was the case in unfortunate
Russia. The State in Australia has a great
record for building railways, big stone struc-
tures of many sorts, vast monumental under-
takings which are no more productive of
permanent output or permanent employment
than those famous Egyptian relief works the
Pyramids. It has aiso done something in
trading and financial concerns, mostly of the
monopolistic sort. But in the purely manu-
facturing line the output of all State enter-
prises combined wouldn’t much more than
support a village. About the greatest’ self-
supporting manufacturing concern in Aus-
tralia are the Broken Hill Proprietary’s steel
and iron works at Newcastle. They were
founded by a versatile co. which found its
original job of silver-digging in a spot about
1000 miles distant on the down grade. If
the silver-digging co. had wound up instead
of breaking out in a new line, it would at
least have left no burden of debt to the
country. The capital would simply have
disappeared. That is the Private Enterprise
side. The State, on its side, has foufided
its latest new enterprise in the shape of a
drab little meat-and-fish shop on Circular
Quay, Sydney—.steak in one window and
mullet in another. This mere trading affair
was opened amid more flourish of trumpets
than the great iron and steel works with
their thousands of employees. If the meat-
and-mullet shop fails it will presumably
leave the usual interminable debt behind it,
lost State capital never being paid off.
Lacking the versatility of the silver-mining
concern, which took to steel-making, there
isn’t the least hope that it would develop
into a tweed mill if it found the meat-and-
mullet business failing. Should misgovern-
ment contrive to close the Broken Hill Co.’s
works, and the half-dozen factories depen-
dent directly upon them, the meat-and-mul-
let State enterprise will be a poor thing to
fall back on so far as employment goes. In
fact, hardly any of the enterprises that the
State dabbles fn offer much of an opening
for any ambitious young man; and it is
time the hundreds of thousands of fathers
who have or might have influence upon
Labor politics realised what the conse-
quences are of all this off-hand hostility to
private undertakings.
A PLAIN STEAL WITHOUT FRILLS.
“A project which, it was considered, would settle
many tnousands on the rich western and north-western
areas of the State would be the diversion of
the proposed North-South line to a route through
Queensland. It was hoped that the Commonweal ;h
would change its attitude on this question, and, rf
necessary, compensate South Australia for any loss
the deviation would mean to her.’’— From a report
cj the Govcmruor’a, speech at the opening oj Queens-
land Parliament.
“The Commonwealth shall construct or cause to be
constructed a railway line from Port Darwin south-
tcard to a point on the northern boundary of South
Australia proper.”— From the agreement on the
strength of which South Australia handed over to
the Commonwealth the 528,620 square miles of ,the
Northern Territory.
After much tentative speaking, writing and
printing to accustom the public to the idea,
the Queensland Government came out plainly
at the opening of its roll-stuffed Legislature
with the scheme of a transcontinental rail-
way steal. The idea is piratical and also
parasitical. The one good feature about the
announcement which was put in Excellency
Nathan’s mouth was that there was no
bland hypocrisy of patriotism, political
honor, political honesty or high Australian
sentiment about it anywhere. It was simply
set forth that it would be a pleasant and
profitable thing for Queensland if the Fed-
eral Government turned rogue and bargain-
breaker, and also if it did the fool's trick of
abandoning the development of its own great
estate and developed the Brisbane Govern-
ment’s instead. There wasn’t a suggestion
that the diversion of the cross-Australia rail-
way would be good for Australia in any
way—merely that it would be good for
Queensland. If any compensation was offered
to South Australia, as suggested, Queensland
would be liable for one-seventh of it. South
Australia, for its part, would be liable for
about one-eleventh —that is to say, it would
provide that much of the money to com-
pensate itself for being robbed. Of course,
Posterity would have the bill bequeathed to
it, and be the final loser, but of the new
land values created by the line the present
generation of Queenslanders would reap the
benefit.
Even such a scheme as this may be car-
ried through the House of Reps, if the solid
support of N. Wales is secured. And a
way to secure it has been suggested—by cut-
ting out >South Australia altogether, aban-
doning the long section of the transconti-
nental already constructed in the State which
pioneered the business, and making the
work an extension of the existing Sydney-
Bourke track. Later, possibly, by another
agile variation, the Northern Territory might
be cut out and the terminus fixed on the
Queensland section of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria. It would be as logical and as honest,
of course, to shift the whole concern into
Westralia and run it from Meekatharra to
Wyndham; and if Westralia had another
Bigjohn Forrest lie might engineer such
a scheme. The amazing thing is that
a section in Victoria —strongly repre-
sented by the Age, grown foolish in its
later years—should bitterly oppose the short
direct railway to which the Commonwealth
is pledged, with the result of retarding the
property in Which it is a big shareholder.
This section of Victorians was apparently
deluded by the earliest maps of the swindle,
which showed a sort of parallel line to be
built from some place in Queensland via
Broken Hill to join on to one of the rail-
ways from the Murray to Melbourne. Thus
Melbourne was to have its own route to the
Far North without the indignity of passing
through any other State capital. But no-
body is likely to build a long railway through
the driest part of Western Queensland and
N. S. Wales to connect with a State which
is steadily losing Federal members to States
further north. If Victoria joins in the
movement to diddle S. Aus., its fate will be
to be diddled itself. Should the great dodge
come off Victoria's road to the North, when
there is a road, will be via Sydney instead
of via Adelaide, and it won’t be presented
with the trade of Western N. S. Wales or
any part thereof. It will be a sort of
suburb of the Ma State, and it will help to
pay for Queensland’s development, while the
Federal estate of which it is a part-owner
lies desolate.
* * * *
The sordid conspiracy to break faith over
the Northern Territory transfer, which be-
gan before the ink was dry on the contract,
has been the Territory’s ruin. The place
is in every respect worse than before the
Commonwealth took it over and made it a
sink for public money. Andrew Fisher felt
he had to do something for the property. But
he neglected the one thing he was pledged to
do and the one thing that, according to all
Australian ideas, the case called for. When
it was a question of carrying life and civili-
sation to Kalgoorlie or Broken Hill, to Grif-
fith or Hillston, to the hills of Gippsland, or
to Cloncurry or any other patch of remote-
ness, the first suggestion has always been to
connect it with the nearest big place, or at
least to some existing big place, by sleepers
and steel rails. But any attempt to finish
the railway to the Territory—no very great
work, after all— meant bringing to an issue
the fight between the scheme which had little
save the interests of Australia to recommend
it and the steal which had a big voting
now 7 er behind it. So the Territory got a
w T onderful land nationalisation scheme, a
shoddy Excellency, enough brass hats to
make the place look like a solid, fire brigade,
untidy Federal pubs, experimental farms,
machinery to treat crops that weren’t sown,
terraces of Federal stables to hold Federal
horses for which there was no use, judges
and prize jumbucks, pomps and vanities,
scribes and Pharisees. In fact, almost every-
thing imaginable except a gallery of Old
Masters was sent out ahead of the ordinary
means of communication and marooned in
the wilderness, whereas in other places the
rule has been to make the means of com-
munication ahead (often too far ahead) and
let these things trudge after. Then the iso-
lated place which was paved with wasted
Federal gold fell into the hands of thieves
and loafers and wild men and other unde-
sirables. A Government which was several
weeks distant, and was afraid of its own
shadow when Territory affairs were men-
tioned, could do little. What used to be
public ownership before it changed to union
or political-boss ownership has seen many
vicissitudes in Australia. It has become in
various places a matter of building many man-
sions at the charge of Posterity so that they
may be taken possession of by A.W.U. or
0.8. U. potentates w T ho haven’t a civil word
to throw at a dog. But the effect has been most
remarkable in the Territory, where progress
lias been held up to give the railway'’con-
spiracy time to organise. Minister Poynton
on his return from inspecting the outer
suburbs of the Commonwealth, remarked on
the orderly progress of Papua, where white
population increases while in the Territory
it diminishes, where wealth grows while the
savings-bank deposits in the Territory tend
to vanishing point, and where the political
system isn’t a weird junk-store of cranky
experiments and costly theories. But.
then, no set of parochial manipulators had
an interest in discrediting Papua. It had
no railway to be stolen, and it was nobody’s
special interest to run it to ruin so that
the ddbris might be acquired cheaply.
THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA.
Next week the Victorian electors, will have
to choose between the serviceable Lawson
Government and the grotesque and ephemeral
Pken derg a st-Allan partnership, and it
shouldn't take them long. Under Lawson
they have had years of honest and fruitful
administration. While the Governments of
N. S. Wales and Queensland have been furi-
ously running into debt and making the
public pay tor it by doubling the taxes,
Lawson lias carried on with the lightest
burden of taxation and the lowest per capita
debt in the Commonwealth, lie has handled
the ship of State so carefully that it is stand-
ing the present rough, we'atlier better than
any of the sister craft: certainly he hasn’t
been reduced, like Storey, to begging humbly
for succor, or to raging, like Theodore, at
a creditor who coldly refused him money on
his own terms. Nor has he deprived his
people of about a twelfth of their year’s
earnings to pay interest on the line from
Bummers’ Creek to Dead Finish and add £7
a week to each politician’s salary and pro-
vide whole districts with strike (or post-
strike) pay. On his relatively small income
from taxation he even managed to pay oft
a loan or two (a proceeding almost without
parallel in the riotous history of Australian
political finance), in addition to helping the
country co-operative movement and releasing
Melbourne’s stranglehold on at least one of
the natural ports. And there is no reason
to suppose that his Ministry will depart from
this orderly, economical and connnonsense
kind of government—the kind most neces-
sary to Australia in its present situation—
if it is returned to power on August 30.
* * w , *
Assurance of such things is lacking in the
Allan and Phendebgast groups. No one is
certain what they would do, beyond author-
ising a compulsory wheat pool, if Lawson
were defeated in the constituencies: they
don’t even know themselves. They are the
most heterogeneous crowd that ever voted
against a Government. Apart from their
opposition to Lawson and his plan of a
voluntary co-operative wheat pool, their poli-
cies are wholly irreconcilable, and even on
that subject they differ to the extent that
Allan wants a compulsory pool controlled
by the growers and Fkendergast one con-
trolled by the Government. They had no
definite understanding when they voted to-
gether on the “composite” (ridiculously com-
posite) no-confidence motion, and they are
in that position still, each fighting for its
own hand. Neither party has the slightest
chance of coming back with a working major-
ity. A coalition Government is equally
out of the question; the constitution of the
Labor party forbids it. There remains
the prospect of Pbendergast taking office
( I'rendergast is the official leader of the
Opposition, and his will inevitably be the
stronger of the two groups) without a majox - -
ity or a working arrangement, and with a
programme like that of Theodore’s, which
has roused the Farmers’ party in Queens-
land to fury. Such a Ministry might last
until the Cocky section got the sort of
wheat pool it wants. After that the deluge.
If the Victorians wish to be ruled, for 10
minutes or thereabouts, in this blind and
capricious fashion, they will vote for Labor
and Farmers’ Union candidates. If they
prefer stability, responsibility, economy in
matters of government, they will return
Lawson.
Victoria had a general election 10 months
ago, and the present encore should not have
been necessary. It was brought about by
the aggressive sectionalism of the Farmers’
party, and by its desire to tyrannise over
the thousands of Victorian cultivators who
don’t want a compulsory pool. That party
needs educating up to a sense of political
responsibility and a proper conception of
the functions of government. It will
have to be taught that the interests
of the whole people are greater than those
of any section, however important, and that
no country will tolerate being rushed into
a political crisis by the freak of a third party
every time there is a local wrangle about
wheat or milk. Significantly enough the
Allan faction is getting precious little help
or sympathy from the Cocky groups in other
States. There is a strong impression in those
quarters that it has made a fool of itself,
and Gardiner, of Westralia, has put the feel-
ing into words. "If the Victorians are
wise,” says Gardiner, “they will certainly
return a Ministry which, in a trying time,
has so ably controlled the finances, instead
of a political combination without a common
incentive or objective.” That is the verdict
Of a man who was the Westralian Farmers’
party’s first leader and its principal repre-
sentative in the Leeroy Ministry. It looks
like being the verdict of Victoria also.
LAW REFORM IN N. S. WALES.
So far as the solicitor’s profession is con-
cerned, it has been possible in N. S. M ales
<“ >* sti " >» ? E f m f\ be “" e
on P a J Tment of a fee of frora
Latterly, however, even that privilege has been
withdrawn. Articled clerks are only taken
nowadays as a favor. Under the Supreme


Court rules (which were drawn up by soli-
citors) it is necessary in order to quality
as an attorney (1) To complete 10 years
in the office of aN. S. Wales solicitor (five
of them as managing dent) ;or (2) to com-
plete five vears in the offices of the Supreme
Court or the office of the Crown Solicitor,
and to have been chief clerk or clerk in
charge of a branch for two years; or Li)
to be a barrister of live years’ standing* in
X. S. Wales. In practice the first method
is the only one which can be resorted to b>
the average citizen. Inevitably, the way the
refusal of the lawyers to take any more
casual legal apprentices works out is that the
profession of attorney is being made a close
preserve (1) for attorneys’ sons and (2) for
the sons of their more influential (in plain
language their richer) clients. It is argu-
able whether the tremendous period of 10
years in a solicitor’s office (it was made a
rule at the instance of the Law Institute in
1900) is necessary. A barrister who knows
nothing of office work may be relieved of the
articled interlude altogether. And if, as
would appear from this arrangement,' it is
not essential for efficiency, then clearly the
chief object of it must be to keep the pro-
fession small and proportionately profitable
to the monopolists already in it.
* * * *
A scale of costs —in other words, the
solicitor’s living wage—is fixed by Orders
under the Conveyancing Act (1919). The
difference between the shearer and the soli-
citor in this connection is that whereas a
presumably disinterested Arbitration Court
fixes rates of pay for the manual worker,
the brain-worker virtually it for him-
self. Thus the latest N. S. Wales riw in
costs (it was gazetted Oct. 1, 1920) was
fixed by two Supreme Court Judges and the
Master in Equity (who, in the nature of
things, know little about the lower branch
of flic profession) and three practising
solicitors. The price of almost every kind
of service went up. The scale foe for obtain-
ing non-eontentious grants of probate and
letters of administration in estates not ex-
ceeding £IOOO used to be eight guineas: it is
now 12. The old charge for producing title-
deeds at the Land Titles Office was 10s. 6d.
—and fairly dear at the price, seeing that
any office-boy could do the job, which is a
mere matter of pushing a bundle of docu-
ments across a counter. The new fee is
three guineas. Stock mortgages (over
£1000) have gone to 10 guineas, and a bill
of sale and stock mortgage combined is 12
guineas: an ordinary memorandum of lease
where the rent does not exceed £IOO is £3
35.: investigating title to freehold and fixing
up the mortgage where the sum does not
exceed £2OO is £4 45., and so on. It is uot
suggested that this sort of thing is confined
to N. S. Wales or any other part of Aus-
tralia. It is Empire-wide. Graham
Wallas (“Our Social Heritage”) remarks
of the situation in England :
The main loss to the community conies from the
way in which the [legal] profession is organised
from top to bottom; the policy of “make-work”
is carried far beyond the dreams of the worst unions
of plumbers or bricklayers; the force which main-
tains the rigid division between barrister and
solicitor is the fact that it causes an enormous
amount of legal work to be done and paid for twice
over: the whole legal profession opposes the forma-
tion of a “land-registry” which would shorten
the process of transferring real property as the
power-loom shortened the process of weaving cloth:
the vacations close nearly all the courts for a
third of the year. The lawyers themselves practi-
cally decide what shall or shall not be “legal”
work; arid just as the mediaeval Church tried to
make reading and writing a monopoly of the cleri-
cal pro’ - ion, so the English lawyers try to secure
that the mechanical filling up of forms, which could
be done by a girl typist in a business office or
Government department, shall be “professional”
work to be done wastefully and paid for extrava-
gantly.
About £6OOO had to be squandered in Syd-
ney the other day to get from a jury a few
simple answers as to the mentality of a
young woman who had been locked up as a
lunatic, and as to the point of view of the
cleric who had moved in the matter. But
for the two legal unions which compartment
every service, and force each job (the get-
ting up of the briefs, the advice on evidence,
etc., etc.) to be duplicated and re-duplicated
by Iv. C’s., juniors and instructing attorneys,
such a case as this might have cost a tenth
of the sum it did —or a twentieth.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Parliament is entirely
to blame for the latest piece of legal price-
fixing, inasmuch as the Executive could not
have confirmed the recommendations if Par-
liament had taken up a strong stand against
them. In point of fact, Parliament did not
trouble to even discuss the episode, the idea
being that there are no votes in this sort of
thing. But another and bigger opportunity
will shortly offer. The Storey Government
has promised to introduce next session a
Legal Reform Bill. There is much money
to be saved, and a most edifying example to
be set to the working classes, by comprehen-
sive legal reform: there may even be votes
in it. All those who hold that more appren-
tices should be enabled to join (say) the
engineering profession should logically take
up the same attitude in reference to the
legal profession. All those who object to
the principle of price-fixing will be in favor
of putting the solicitors on the same mark
as the barristers and letting competition rule
their fees. And all who disapprove of pay-
ing two (and sometimes three and four) men
for one man’s work will vote in favor of the
amalgamation of the professions and some
device which will prevent the law in this
respect being evaded as it is in Victoria and
elsewhere.
LEX.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ireland.
One of the doubtful blessings of the present
day is propaganda. The war saw it used
with tremendous effect. The nation was not
only prevented by the censorship from learn-
ing the truth: it was fed with untruths.
Patriotism and the public safety, it was
declared, demanded all this. Now, though
the war is over, much the same methods are
employed in the interests of political parties.
And, naturally perhaps, since the Irish ques-
tion is the most bitterly contested, it is over
it that the party propagandists are doing
their worst. The British Government’s plan
has all the virtues of the hero of melodrama,
according to the Government’s elaquers; all
the vices of the villain, according to the
other side. It might not matter two
straws what the public thinks if the whole
subject of the future of Ireland was not
now a matter for negotiation ; but what the
public thinks does matter very much seeing
that the parties to the negotiations are
bound to appeal to that public sooner or
later. Yet how can the public come to a
conclusion that is worth anything at all it’
it is constantly misled by those party-colored
half-truths which are the most danger-
ous lies? Now, if ever, we want to
get at the cold truth and to draw
the only right conclusions from it. No-
thing eise will provide that lasting peace
between the two islands which is vitally
important for the safety of the Empire. The
great hope that springs out of De Valera’s
reply to the British Government is centred
in the fact that, while he demands things
which that Government cannot grant, he
specifically mentions the things offered that
are distasteful. This leaves room for in-
quiry as to what those things are and
whether they cannot be modified. But how
can we propose modifications if we mislead
ourselves into the belief that we have offered
those modifications already? The S. M.
Herald, for instance, says:—
It is not so long since Sinn Fein declared that it
would agree to that dominion autonomy which it
now rejects with such scorn. Moreover, as every
dominion knows, the autonomy which we enjoy in-
vests us with the most complete powers of managing
our own affairs.
What are the plain facts? Australia has
complete fiscal autonomy: Irelaud must not
impose a tariff on British manufactures.
Australia can, without any limitations in
the way of an annual validating Act, main-
tain a standing army in time of peace, and
it has had its own navy for a decade. Ire-
land is not to have an independent army or
a navy. The Dominions possess at least the
constitutional right of secession, and that
is expressly withheld from Ireland. And
then there is the partition question. The
probable truth is that De Valera would be
more than satisfied with Dominion Home
Rule, and will eventually be persuaded to
take something short of it, though a good
deal more than is now being held out to
him. Say some scheme embodying the prin-
ciples of the Australian Government Bill
(1850). Seventy years ago there were Aus-
tralians of English birth who hated Down-
ing-street as heartily almost as any Irish-
man does to-day, men who proposed to send
England cargoes of snakes in repayment
for ships’ full of convicts. And there were
eminent Englishmen (Disraeli was one of
them) who believed that the colonies would
cut the painter the moment they were given
Responsible Government. They got Respon-
sible Government, and an English county
is not more loyal to the British Empire than
Australia and Maoriland are to-day. This
is really the message that the history of
Australia and Maoriland has for both Bri-
tain and Ireland. To the one it is a call for
generosity: to the other for trustfulness, to
both for sincerity and candor.
• ♦-«
Loans.
The Sydney Chamber of Commerce has
passed a resolution that there should be no
more local loans after the present one —
only the foreign variety. A different Cham-
ber of Commerce might have proposed: (1)
That there should be no more foreign loans,
only local ones; (2) that there should be no
more local loans either; (3) that there
should be no more of any sort save re-
newal loans and any that war may make
necessary; (4) that a trifle should be paid
off old loans ; (5) that these things should be
fixed by Act of Parliament so that a new
borrowing Government couldn’t degenerate
into the old ways without a fight and a pub-
lic exposure. Foreign loans are far worse
than local ones because they are repayable
in gold—the thing we have so little ot that
Joseph Cook has taken the drastic step of
declaring that travellers must not take even
a single lialf-sov. away with them to buy
drinks with on hoard ship. Local loans, on
the other hand, are repayable in paper, and
Australia has £24,000,000 of that in useless
£IOOO notes alone. The new loan in London
has degenerated into “dope” pure and simple.
If five millions of gold are borrowed there
they stay there to pay interest on old loans.
Then, to keep up the pretence of permanent
and reproductive works, the unemployed here
are given five millions of paper to do some
jobs or repairs which probably don’t pay
interest on one million. But for that sort
of thing we would have to send to London
five millions in gold, which we can’t do; or
five millions’ worth more of the saleable
products of plain hard work, which would
mean several more hours’ toil a week and the
shutting up of half the pony courses; or we
would have to do with five millions’ worth
less imports, which would be the same thing,
as we would have to make the goods our-
selves. Works would go on just the same,
for all real connection between the public
works loan floated in London and the works
themselves vanished before the end of 1915,
when the boom in irredeemable £IOOO notes
marked the end of the period when wages
were paid in gold. The accumulation of lia-
bilities payable in the vanished currency,
save such as war made unavoidable, should
have stopped then also. If public undertak-
ings nowadays produce anything it is paper,
and all the paper produced by all the public
undertakings in Australia won’t pay a
month’s interest on 20s. worth of gold loan.
Disfranchised Women.
In the Westralian Assembly Mrs. Cowan,
this country's one lady member, took up The
Bulletin’s proposition that a married
woman should be automatically and ex officio
a member of her husband’s union. At
this suggested enfranchisement the rage
of some alleged Laborites was worth going
quite a distance to see. One McCallum
“indignantly protested against the sugges-
tion that wives should be allowed a voice in
strike matters”: it was well known (pre-
sumably well known to parties unknown)
“that women all the world over were the
strongest advocates of strike continuation.’
The lady member asked why they shouldn’t
be allowed to prove it by voting for the
strike, especially as sons and daughters of
16 could vote to take poor old mother’s bread
and butter away from her, and deprive the
baby of its bottle. The only reply to this
was an inarticulate roar. Some day some
Premier of the Lawson or Barwell sort
will waken to the fact that this enfranchise-
ment of woman means more to her than all
the. other woman laws as yet unmade, that
it is the barest kind of justice, and that
there is reason to believe it would do more
to end senseless work-stoppages than any
other possible piece of legislation —said
reason being that the professional strike-
monger foams at the mouth and becomes in-
coherent with wrath when it is proposed that
the married house-female should be lifted
out of her present condition of slavery.
Then that sort of Premier will engineer a
law declaring that the lady is made a union-
ist, and that any attempt, direct or indirect,
to prevent her acting or to penalise her for
acting as such shall carry a very heavy
minimum penalty. At present the union-
ist’s wife, instead of being a full partner
in the home, is divorced from control of
her own and her young children’s food and
clothes supply and rent money. Her rations
may be stopped not only by her husband but
by her misguided hobbledehoy son if he
thinks a strike holiday would give him more
time to “follow the ponies” ; by her flapper
daughter if she reckons that, even if she is
“resting,” the indomitable old woman will
feed her somehow ; also, by her young brother
or nephew. All their votes count in stop-
ping her food and clothes and fuel and rent,
and in deciding that the coming baby shall
be born in a home without furniture and
bedding; yet her own vote is absolutely non-
existent. These are just the matters regard-
ing which she wants the suffrage, and if she
had it as regards them and lost it as regards
everything else she would still be a gainer.
The fact that all such affairs are settled by
legislatures which are wholly out of her
control makes her the most remarkable in-
stance of taxation without representation we
know of, assuming that the making of deci-
sions which can and often do take from her
everything except the few clothes she wears,
and which might take them also if it was
possible to come home from the pawnshop
naked, is taxation and not spoliation. Aus-
tralian woman of the housewifely sort has
been sinking in the political and social scale
for years. The power of the organisations
which have the trade unions for their base
has greatly increased, and that of the Legis-
latures has correspondingly diminished. That
is to say, the centre of authority is shifting
from bodies over which woman has some sort
of control to others over which' she has none.
By way of a brutal jest it has been proposed
to meet the case, or to side-track the case,
by the organisation of a Housewives* Union,
so that housekeeping woman can no longer
complain of exclusion. This body, if its means
of livelihood were cut off by the wilful and
unjustifiable act of husbands and of wage-
earning children, could enter its own protest
and add to the sum of human misery by leav-
ing off work itself. It could cease to make
its own bed (if any), cook its own food (if
any), wash its floor, or wash and feed its
babv. In fact, each individual member
could sit among dirt and ddbris and degen-
erate into a beast, which, state, if the strike
was prolonged, would often become chronic
and incurable. The unionist’s wife didn’t
quite strike bottom when, through the admis-
sion of infants in the eye of the law’ to union
membership, her own unfledged offspring were
set to rule over her. But she would do so
if the Housewives’ Union took to doing the
only thing that could furnish a reason for
its existence. Wherefore, a union of that
sort is no good to her whatever. It is a
red-herring across the track that leads to
a real reform : and the strike-fomenting union
boss (male) is the person w r ho is dragging it.
When the Floodgates are Lifted.
“On the return of the Prime Minister consideration
will be given by the Ministry to removing restrictions
on the importation of German goods. Large quan-
tities of wheat have recently been shifted to Ger-
many, but owing to the embargo no German goods
could be imported in exchange, and against this
Germans are said to be complaining.”
Of course the embargo had to go some time,
though W. M. Hughes said in his tempera-
mental way that it never would. But Germany
needs this country’s wool and foodstuffs far
more than w r e need German’s cameras,
machinery, cash-registers, textiles and so on.
In other w’ords, it will pay us better if Ger-
many discharges its indemnity, so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, in cash rather than in
kind ; and it is in the hands of those who are
framing the tariff to decide w’hich of the two
we shall get. With a fulsome assumption
of Imperial patriotism Senator Gardiner
opposes almost every item on which an effec-
tive duty is sought w’ith the complaint that
the consequence, if not the design, must be to
exclude British goods. There are British
articles which nothing short of an em-
bargo will shut out, as there are Con-
tinental ones which enjoy the same assured
position. But, as a general thing,
the only result of low’ering the tariff is
going to be the undermining of our industries
to the advantage, not of British, but of Ger-
man concerns. Germany, in order to meet
its financial obligations under the Peace
Treaty, must produce an annual surplus of
exports over imports amounting to about
£300.000,000 within the coming decade. By
all reports the people, relieved of naval, mili-
tary and royal taxation, and satisfied that
hard work is the only way out for them,
are already on the long and painful road to
ultimate freedom from debt. The London
Daily Mail recently sent skilled investi-
gators to study the industrial situation in
Germany, and they reported along these
lines:—
The Germans show you new and often excellent
articles turned out by the thousand, they talk of
gigantic amalgamation schemes for practically all
branches of industry, and they point out that since
the Armistice many German industrial concerns have
increased their capital, and, though the dividends
are hidden in some cases, yet the published profits
are often enormous. Forests of scaffolding in the
cities show how leading German industrial and bank-
ing concerns are seeking to keep pace with the swift
upward trend of business.
It is natural that a beaten people should
get down to solid toil more readily than
their conquerors. And so, while the cock-a-
whoop British workers have been striking for
months at a time in their country’s key
industries, such as coal-mining, the Ger-
mans have swallowed their pride and done
very little in the strike line. The mark,
which used to be worth a shilling, has gone
to about a penny, and the German worker
is doing overtime to give him a living wage.
Plainly, anything but a high Australian
tariff is calculated to make an opening for
the coolie labor of Europe, which differs
from the coolie labor of Asia in that it
it much better organised and more skilful.
There are surer ways of standing by the
United Kingdom and the Empire than risk-
ing the Commonwealth’s industrial life for
the aggrandisement chiefly of our late
enemies. One way is to build up our in-
dustries as a means of repaying Britain
what we owe. Another is to put a pro-
portion of the surplus money which before
August, 1014, was spent in Benz cars,
Munich beer and Rhine wine into whatever
naval defence scheme the Imperial authori-
ties decide on for the Pacific.
Hakoyama and His White Relative.
Remarks of an ethnologist:—
A Japanese, Takao Osawa, is asking the U.S.
Supreme Court to declare that he belongs to a
white race and is therefore entitled to American
citizenship. It is a clever move—so clever that the
Japanese Government must be at the bottom of it —
but there is no danger of its being tried on our
High Court, whether it succeeds in America or not.
Australia is doubly armed against ethnological con-
undrums like Osawa’s; first by an Immigration
Restriction Act in which the test is linguistic, not
racial (an unwanted Hollander was ruled out the
other day by being asked to write 50 words in
Gaelic), and second by a Naturalisation Act ex-
pressly disqualifying “aboriginal natives of Asia,
Africa and the Islands of the Pacific, excepting
Maoriland.” The American action is interesting,
nevertheless. According to the cableman, “Osawa
claims that the Japanese are descended from the
Ainus and Yamatos, both Caucasian peoples from a
Mediterranean stock.” There is confusion here.
Yamato was the name of a province where the Em-
peror Jimmu, founder of the present dynasty, built
the palace in which he was crowned, but the
inhabitants of Yamato have not hitherto been re-
garded as a distinct race of European origin. The
ethnologists have a lot to say about the Ainus, but
nothing about the Yamatos, so far as my reading
goes. Perhaps what the correspondent means is that
Osawa claims descent from the Ainus of Yamato,
the Ainus, in the judgment of several more or less
competent investigators, having been white people
from Europe.
The Ainus—short, hirsute men with prominent
brows, straight noses and round, deep-set eyes— •
were the aborigines of Japan. Baeuz and other
authorities believe that they came from Europe, via
Northern Asia, at a remote period of history, and
occupied the whole Nippon group. The evidence so
far published is no more conclusive than that which
assigns the Maoris to the Aryan branch of the
human family (incidentally, Hori Grey always main-
tained that Japs and Maoris were blood brothers),
but there is nothing inherently improbable in the
theory. After many centuries Mongolians of the
Ivorean-Manchu type arrived from the neighboring
continent and drove the Ainus out of portion of
their old domains. Later and fiercer invaders swept
up from Malaysia, overcame the comparatively mild
Korean-Manchus, and nearly wiped out the original
possessors of the soil. In process of time Malay
and Manchu assimilated, grabbed, after the imme-
morial fashion of conquerors, the most desirable of
the Ainu women, and the modern Japanese is the
result. The Malay is the predominant strain —the
Emperor Jimmu was almost certainly a Malay,
although some will have it that he was a Poly-
nesian—but the Ainu element is now held to be
stronger than ethnologists used to believe or the
Japanese admit.
For until recently the Japs were utterly ashamed
of their alleged white relative. During centuries they
made war on him and reduced him to a despised
and hairy remnant of 15,000 or so. They called
him dog (inn means dog), spider, cave-dweller
and eater of rotten fish. And now, when political
conditions have changed, and the degraded Ainu is
almost extinct, they boast as mightily of the rela-
tionship as the modern Greeks do of their alleged
descent from Pericles and Sophocles, and with
almost as little cause, and cite it as a proof of their
racial identity with the white peoples of the West.
It is another of History’s little ironies.
*
High Freights and Poor Farmers.
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner Fraser,
talking to the Select Committee on Agricul-
ture, made a point about the reduction which
has been made in freight charges per mile,
though as there is a big deficit, and the
44-hour week will add nearly £BOO,OOO a
year to it, rates will presumably have to
go up again. The trouble lies in the fact
that there are so many miles nowadays. In
1883 N. S. Wales hay, corn and chaff
were hauled on an average 77 miles,
mostly bound for Sussex-street, Sydney. In
1920 the average distance was 321 miles,
and, though the charge per mile was rather
less than half, the average payment rose
from os. Bd. per ton to 12s. The distances
on all goods increased, though not all so
badly. If there were six little Sydneys
spaced out along the coast and inland, this
trouble wouldn’t happen. As it is, the great
city has to rake very far afield for its
provender in a land where the yield per
acre is small. In earlier days, to make things
still easier for the farmer, there was no
land- or income-tax where there are now two
of each, and a cheque didn’t cost 2d. and
Local Government rates hadn’t seriously
commenced and wages were less. Further,
the farmer didn’t pay freight for 12,000
miles on much of his wheat. Exporting had
hardly begun, and no one had struck the
idea that the Australian’s purpose in life
was to grow’ raw material for the Freetrade
English market in competition with the
cheap, adjacent, partiall.v-nude Hindu and
Egyptian. The average yield was bigger,
too (for 15 consecutive years, 1870-1884, it
was 141 bushels of wheat per acre), because
the agriculturist hadn’t been chased so far
out. The last 10 years’ average was 101
bushels. What the farmer needs is a doubled
or trebled and much better-diffused indus-
trial population to bring liis customer back
within the old 77-mile radius, instead of the
land distance averaging 321 miles, with often
a sea distance added; also, he needs that
population to help carry the land and income
taxes. He wants this relief more than he
wants Joseph Carrtjthers’s proposed mil-


T h j Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO.
ustralia
Limited
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND. Managing Director.
lion new r competitors. The latest wise saw
and modern instance advanced on behalf of
the million farms is that there are date
plantations on which the crop is worth
£IOOO per acre. They are in Morocco, w’here
they can’t be verified, and, anyw’ay, Morocco
is 15 times more thickly peopled than Aus-
tralia, and has the European market handy :
also, the people largely live on dates, and
are very poor, no matter how r many myths
they grow per acre. A weaving and spin-
ning plantation built of brick in which to
make our own clothes wmuld yield several
thousand pounds per annum to a quarter-
acre. It is free of drought, too, and if it
is built high enough six crops can be grown
one above the other, which is impossible on
the one-storey earth.
Another Cry from the North.
From a lonely part of Australia’s heritage:
It makes me smile wearily to read the assurances
of medical brass-hats, who have never strayed beyond
Brisbane or Geraldton (W.A.), that the white race
withers in the North. I live in the Gulf country,
and as my income varies directly as the incidence
of disease, I ought to know. The various brands of
fever which played old Harry in the days of the big
mining rushes are now practically non-existent. The
women, who bear, and moreover rear, large families —
larger than their southern sisters—for the most part
look fit and well, and the kiddies are just normal,
vigorous young Australians. Milk, meat, fresh vege-
tables and fruit are obtainable in abundance, and
mostly at prices below those ruling in the South.
All the same, I can see no future for us up here
till we are linked more intimately with our natural
markets.
Mining has about given out on the fields which
stretch from Georgetown, via Croydon, to Normanton.
Gold and tin still exist, as local assays show, and in
payable quantities, were conditions in any way reason-
able. But as soon as it becomes necessary to scratch
a few feet below the surface, the cost of labor and
material puts the lid on possible profits. The huge
areas which lie between the railway west from
Cairns and the Gulf of Carpentaria are eminently
suitable for cattle-raising, and could carry a large
population, but unfortunately there is a total lack
of adequate communication with markets. The train
—once a week —takes two days to race over the 261
miles between Cairns and the railhead —Forsayth.
This is the mail train. Heaven knows how many
days for a cattle train. Then there are two more
days by coach to Croydon—-130 miles —and after a
wait of two days a five-hour railway journey to
Normanton. Even then you are not on the Gulf,
and goods for sea-earriage have to be lightered
several miles down the river.
By whichever route one approaches the Cairns
market the delay and expense are disheartening.
Practically all supplies reach Normanton and Croy-
don by way of the Douglas Mawson, a miserable
little ditcher which once a month comes from Cairns
via Thursday Island to the head of the Norman
River. The freight from Brisbane is ,-610 a ton
measurement, and to this must be added lighterage
and railage for all goods sent inland.
If the railway were continued from Forsayth to
Croydon, and from Normanton right on to the Gulf,
then, when the Queensland northern railway is com-
pleted, there' would be a line from Perth (W.A.) to
Karumba; then settlers would have reasonable access
to the seaboard, and, incidentally, be able to get
their food supplies at far less than the present prices,
which are almost prohibitive. It is the fashion for
politicians to prate about “the vast empty spaces of
the North.” But they rarely take the trouble to
learn about the vast empty spaces at first hand, or
do anything calculated to make them less empty.
*
Fooling with Death.
There is to be a conference in Melbourne
next month at the instance of the Federal
Health Minister "for the purpose of a discus-
sion on the effectiveness of the present sys-
tem of legislation, of administrative measures
and of clinical methods in preventing and
controlling venereal diseases in the Com-
monwealth.” The six branches of the B.M.A.
have been asked to nominate a representative
each, and Victoria has chosen Dr. Maclure.
Tn something of the same spirit the eminent
Sydney surgeon MacCormick is said to have
been put in charge of a measles case on
Lemnos. Dr. Maclure is not a V.D. special-
ist, and he did not work at a dermatological
hospital while on service abroad. There are
plenty of medical men in Melbourne who
specialise in V.D., including one who held
high rank, at Bulford Hospital. The fact
that they were passed over is neither a
reflection on them, nor a tribute to their
colleague: it is simply a measure of the
wooden indifference of the profession, as a
whole, to one of the biggest problems facing
the Commonwealth. There is no menace
to the nation which has so many powerful
friends as these diseases. Part of their
strength lies in their very prevalence. One
of thr> reasons why the Victorian branch of
the B.M.A. did not choose a specialist to
attend this conference, which will be held a
few doors from where most of Victoria’s
specialists practise, lies in the fact that the
nrofession is fighting against the recognition
of specialism in this line. The plain truth
is the general practitioner cannot afford to
lose the business it represents. The churches
stand to V.D. by opposing almost every seri-
ous measure taken to check it on moral
grounds. The different women’s organisa-
tions are for it in fact if not in theory: they
claim that all such measures as notification
and registration are weapons sought for by
the dominant sex in order to tyrannise over
women. The Governments are for it —a
matter, of course, of the vote which the
horror represents. As a case in point the
Storey-Dooley Government was persuaded
to suspend compulsory notification almost
as soon as it got to work in N. S. Wales.
Even more or less independent public men
are betrayed into futile inconsistency on this
question. Thus Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., said
in the N. S. Wales Assembly:—
What was to be seen in the institutions for the
blind, the deaf and the dumb demonstrated the
tragedy caused by venereal diseases. In them were
people who through hereditary infection were a few
hours after birth deprived of ever seeing or hear-
ing the joys of the world. No measures to effect
a cure and clean the community, and no precaution
against the spread of the diseases, could be too
drastic.
And a few weeks later he was to be found
onnosing the registration of prostitutes
(which noticeably decreased V.D. in Cairo
DEMONSTRATION BY THE UNEMPLOYED AGAINST THE IMPORTATION
OF FOREIGN-MADE GOODS WHICH THEY GOULD BE EMPLOYED
MAKING THEMSELVES (ONLY ITS NEVER YET HAPPENED).
in 1915-16) and the use of prophylactics
(which in conjunction with the other meas-
ure practically banished V.D. from the
American Army in France). The heroic
methods that people are capable of where
minor menaces are concerned were well ex-
emplified in Melbourne last week. For many
years no dog has been allowed into Aus-
tralia from abroad without putting in months
in quarantine, the idea being to keep out
hydrophobia. Latterly, as hydrophobia has
been prevalent in England, the importation
of dogs was prohibited altogether; and Act-
in«- Minister for Customs Wise informed a
deputation from the Dog Fanciers’ Associ-
ation that he did not intend to alter the rule
at present. Every member of the confer-
ence which is to assemble in Melbourne next
mon’h will be aware that the V.D. menace
is 10,000 times more dreadful than the
hydrophobia menace; every member will
know that V.D. can be virtually wiped out
here as small-pox and the plague have been,
and that once it is got under it can be
kept out. But if one doctor or official came
out with the combined curative and preven-
tive programme which was shown to he
practicable during the war he would bring
on his head as much righteous rebuke and
scandalised protest as if he read an essay on
the advisability of legalising murder. In
the present state of official and religious
thought V.D. is a thing to be discussed, not
destroyed.
The inevitable Labor split was brought
appreciably nearer last week by a threat
to expel Catts, M.H.R., and. others for the
crime of forming a Propagandists and Orga-
nisers’ Union in N. S. Wales and by Premier
Theodore’s declaration of war on the
I.W.W.’s who are whiteanting the Queens-
land labor unions. In each case it is the
ooenin" round of a fight to a finish between
moderates and extremists, the latter begin-
ning hostilities in the Ma State and the
former in Theodore’s country. The avowed
object of each faction is to expel the other.
Says Theodore: —
The I.W.W. are simply a band of destroyers.
Their imported policy is a policy of direct action
and violence, a policy of despair and vengeance,
totally uncalled for in Australia, utterly at variance
with the spirit and hopes of the Labor movement.
They have wormed their way into some of the
labor unions and are carrying on a fatal propa-
ganda of sabotage and violence in North Queensland.
The time has arrived for the Labor movement to
take a hard if it is to survive. As leader of the
party I call upon all members of the A.W.U., the
Waterside Workers’ Union, and all other affiliated
unions to uphold the policy of industrial arbitration
and political action, and summarily expel those
who advocate the I.W.W. methods.
The language of the Catts section is equally
militant: —
Our ranks include the Premier and other Ministers,
Federal and State Labor members, city and sub-
urban aldermen, union and league secretaries and
officials, and leading Labor propagandists and organ-
isers. We have simply adopted a constitution and
rules under the laws of the land for regulating our
business and protecting our funds. This is seized
upon as the occasion for a grand attack. The head
and front of our supposed misconduct is that we
gather together and talk to each other. We regard
as a grave danger to the public welfare the super-
human effort emanating from the office of the cen-
tral branch of the A.W.U. to coerce the political
Labor movement. It is high time there was an
investigation by Royal Commission into the opera-
tions, and especially the political activities, arising
from the central branch of the A.W.U. We are
determined to stand together to resist the attempted
tyranny and coercion of Tammany bosses of the
A.W.U. and would-be Lexins and Trotskys of the
red revolutionaries, who would enslave and browbeat
us with a ruthless, ignorant dictatorship.
The meaning of all which is that the amaz-
ingly diverse elements of which the Labor
party is made up—politieal-actionists and
direct-actionists, State-socialists and anti-
socialists, democrats and Tammanyists, Brit-
ish Imperialists and Irish Republicans—
have arrived at the point of realising that
their differences are irreconcilable. It is not
remarkable that a party thus constituted
should be on the eve of dissolution; the won-
der is that it should have held together so
Now is the time in Victoria for electors to
exact promises from candidates; and a poli-
tical promise is worth having if only for
the satisfaction of proving the candidate a
uar. But a number of questions the answer
to which would need to be a definite promise
are not being put, as far as newspaper re-
ports show. “Will you vote for the total-
lsator ( is rarely applied to .Labor members
w’ho, in many cases, appear to have a pony-
meetmg reason for wishing to dodge it, or
to those Lawsonites who are in the thrall
the great god Wowser. Most people who
deplore the prevalence of pony-racing are
in favor of establishing the tote at registered
club meetings, but the unholy alliance of
evangelical Lawsonites and John Wrenites
blocks the way in Victoria. The question
of Parliamentary salaries and the aboltion of
useless officials in the House and elsewhere,
with a reasonable increase in office hours,
are not raised at every meeting as they
should be, especially at meetings where the
urgent need for public economy is mentioned
as a matter of course. Nor is the cost of
Lawson’s precious Coal Board, a creation
of strike times in the disguise of a merely
temporary expedient, touched upon by em-
barrassing inquirers at the back of the hall.
The Moderator of the Presbyterian Church
in N. S. Wales spoke some sound sense the
other day regarding a conventional attitude
towards the Bible. The basis of his argu-
ment was that the Bible may reasonably be
criticised if only because its compilation
was a matter of selection and rejection
(necessarily involving criticism) over a
period of “at least .1000 years”:—
But on the assumption with which the extremists
start, criticism is sacrilege. They call it “making
attacks on the Word of God,” “disloyalty to the
Word of God.” Yet without knowing it they also
criticise the Bible. They form their own judgment
while they read, and forming a judgment is criti-
cism, whether the judgment, is favorable or other-
wise. But the attitude we are considering is one
in which the reader is limited in his judgment
within the bounds of the assumption that what he
is reading is infallible in every particular. In other
words, he draws a blind over his window before he
allows himself to use it for the purpose of letting in
the light. And he cries out “Sacrilege” and “Dis-
loyalty” and “Dishonesty” to the man who tries to
remove the blind.
The same intellectual Prussianism is intro-
duced into other matters. Latterly the pro-
position has been put forward that it is
“sacrilege” and “disloyalty” to criticise anti-
Labor Governments. To do so, according
to Nationalist extremists, amounts to “mak-
ing attacks on the Union Jack.” To criticise
adversely what the Union Jack stands for —
that is, freedom and justice—would indeed
be political blasphemy, as it is the other sort
of blasphemy to jeer at the ideals which are
contained in the Bible literature. But the
Union Jack can be employed to justify rob-
bery and murder in the same way as the
Bible has been employed through all the
ages. Alva misinterpreted the Bible to
justify his treatment of the Dutch Protes-
tants: Henry VIII. to vindicate the spolia-
tion of the monasteries. The Union Jack
conveys a different message to Lloyd Geokge,
W. M. Hughes and others to-day from what
it did 20 years ago. In Australia at the
present time the Flag is being used as a
blind to conceal such things as the Federal
salary swindle, the perpetuation of repres-
sive war-time legislation, government by pro-
clamation and financial extravagance. Any-
one who attacks Nationalism, which is as
much to blame for these abuses as Alva
was for the 18,000 executions which occurred
during his seven years in the Netherlands,
is, according to our political extremists,
guilty of sacrilege and disloyalty to the sym-
bol of Empire. The fact is the opportunists,
are polluting the Flag by dragging it into
party politics, as scoundrels have for cen-
turies misused the Bible by first claiming
that it was infallible through and through
and then using stray phrases from it to
justify their
When the first instalment of Storey’s loan
of £19,500,000 turns up, if it does, about
4000 men are to be set to work on 16 N. S.
Wales railway-construction jobs. Nine of
them are extensions to or branches of
non-paying lines. When the work is
finished the losses will begin, and the
4000 will be out again, nind the
work of rolling the boulder uphill will
resume where it always does —at the bottom
of the hill. A few big woollen, cotton and
iron works, for which there is great need,
might, with good management and not too
many strikes, employ the 4000 for life, and
their children and grandchildren after them,
and grow till they employed 16,000, and
gradually pay off the debt (or capital) with
which they started. But things of that
sort have to pay their way, and publish
balance-sheets, and make the output cover ex-
penses. A railway-construction job has no
balance-sheet, which explains why the inept
politician and the politician who merely
wants to buy votes or silence rushes to it
every time.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS S
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
N S W MONT de PIETE
D $ I C<?r LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh 5t.74. Sydney
CAPITAL £.200,000 ‘Phone Cii,y 9325
Sr&nc/tej «?/■- 29 King St.. Newcastle, NSW- 71517 SwanstohSt Mei^Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q,l97 A Castlereagh 5t.,159 6eorge St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill, General Manager,
ã
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender Is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont dr
Uiete D. and I. Co. Etd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Vie. elections thus far:—
Eleven Nationalists, including Treasurer McPher-
son and Speaker Mackey, seven Laborites and pre-
vious Cocky-leader John Bowser have been returned
unopposed to the new Assembly. For the remaining
40 scats 104 gentlemen arid others will battle next
Tuesday. In most of the constituencies there will
be straight-out fights between Nationalists and Labor-
ites, or Nationalists and Farmers, but three candi-
dates are standing for Grenville, Hampton, Kara
Kara, Mornington and Upper Goulburn, four for
Collingwood and Barwon, and five for Eaglehawk.
In the lastmamed Heitmann, former M.H.R. for Kal-
goorlie, will carry Lawson’s colors against a Labor-
ite, an Independent Liberal and an unadorned “Inde-
pendent” who is a namesake of the Hayseed represen-
tative, A. A. Dunstan. Collingwood promises a
severe tussle for Martin Hannah, and stiff fights are
also expected in Kara Kara, Rodney and Prahran.
Pennington, the previous member for Kara Kara, is
strongly threatened by Alex. Cameron, a popular
farmer and grazier from Bealiba. In Rodney Hugh
McKenzie, a former Minister in three Cabinets, is
considered to have a great chance of separating the
Cocky general, John Allan, from his job.
The struggle at Prahran is interesting
because nobody knows Avhether young Parker
fluked the seat from Donald Mackinnon at
last election, or won it oh the strength of
a real Labor majority. South Yarra and
the dames of the A.W.N.L. no longer con-
trol the situation, nor is Dr. Fetherston
going to sweep the poll with gusty eloquence:
his politics consist mainly of references to bis
services as Health Officer and the necessity for
keeping all infectious diseases at bay save the
one disease which .Respectability prefers not
to dfccuss. _ Parker, on the other hand, ig a
glib Laborite, learned in ear-tickling. A
budding lawyer, he was formerly in Joe
Woolf’s office: and whilst Fetherston pleads
that medical men are wanted in the House,
bis opponent does not stress the fact that
too many lawyers already have their spoons
in the political broth.
Hughes has made his clerk Shepherd, now
keep’ng the High Commissioner’s chair warm
for Jocoolc, a delegate to Geneva. The
appointment is'an insult to the Common-
wealth and the League of Nations. There
is no real necessity for Australia to be re-
presented at every little League pow-wow
in Switzerland, but if a man is sent he should
have standing, knowledge and personality.
It is time the Primurster was restrained
from nominating utterly unsuitable persons
to positions in which the credit of Aus-
tralia is involved solely because they are
his creatures or favorites. The practice is
not only rotten in principle, but a rotten
advertisement for the country.
Douglas Mawson ought to know better.
After suggesting another route for the Adel-
aide-Melbourne railway to escape the hill-
ocks at the back of the S. Aus. capital, the
Antarctic exolorpr mentioned that the money-
for a new line along the water’s edge might
be found by S. Aus. giving up its lawful
claim to have the North-South line com-
pleted for a big cash payment. Mawson is
only a recent S. Australian; still, one would
have expected him to be a good enough Aus-
tralian 10 take the big viexv about continen-
tal development. In any case, there is no
“big cash payment” coming from the Coin-
momvealth for any such job. But that the
suggestion has been made in S. Aus. xviil
certainly add to the difficulties of those who
want the original agreement carried out.<
Maxvson couldn't have found a more mis-
chievous suggestion if he had explored the
North Pole as well as the South.
First in the unholy scramble for the
Labor nomination in West Sydney Avas Bill
Lambert, Avho bosses the Sydney Council
and the central branch of the A.W.U. S.mul-
taneously the Labor Propagandists and
Organisers’ Union, led by Catts,. M.H.R.,
announced that the political activities of
Lambert's branch needed dissecting by Royal
Commission, and called upon “every public-
spirited well-Avislier of the great Labor
movement to assist in preventing the worst
phases of New York and Chicago Tammany
permanently fastening themselves upon the
A.L.P.” Which almost looks as if the Pro-
pagandists and Organisers (xvho say they
include Premier Storey and Tom Mutch)
aren’t going to vote for Lambert.
Under pressure from press and public, the
S.A. Ministry has decided to drop its bill
for increase of Parliamentary salaries. There
Avas no “grab” about the measure, the pre-
sent payment of £2OO in both Assembly and
BEAUTIFUL, BUT
AUSTRALIA (to imaginative sculptor Carruthers): “It looks fine and handsome, Joe,
hut don't you think we've overdone that idea tor a hose?"
Leg. Council being admittedly too low for
these times: also Harwell made it a plank
in his platform at the recent general elec-
tion. Further, the Labor party suggested
'that the increase might well be to £5OO, in-
stead of the £4OO he proposed. But times
are bad, and the pruning-knife is being ap-
plied everywhere. It seemed the very worst
of times to claim an increase while argu-
ing right and left that the present scale of
wages elsewhere is too high. But it is
unconscionable sweating, all the same,
N. S. Wales Premier Storey returned from
the Cold Country with a promise of three
loans of £6.500.000 ap ! ece, a year apart—
£l9,soo,ooo in all. Presumably John’s Gov-
eminent isn’t to disturb the market with odd
loans, and £6,500,000 _tsn’t much for a crowd
that razzled away £15,485,000 last year and
could show little or nothing for it save a
clamorous horde 'of unemployed. It is
aimost penury. Four and a-lialf millions
arc earmarked for the repurchase of land.
The State sold the land first and used the
money as revenue. Now it buys some of it
back out of loans, and when it sells again it
may use the price received as revenue again,
and after that it may buy some of the land
a second or third time with fresh layers of
borrowed money. Every acre of N. S. Wales
land Avith a 10-inch or more rainfall is
already mortgaged to the extent of about
21s. for “development” alone, or about 405.,
including war and repatriation, with a little
more for municipal and private debts. John
Storey’s nexx' loan will add 2s. 3d. per acre.
Good old Ma is going the pace all right!
From the Federal Gallery:—
The limelight has been shifted to the Seriate,
where the visitor can be regaled almost daily by
(1) a polite feud between the Bananalanders and
Westralians, (2) “Pompey” Elliott’s disclosures
anent the Defence Department, and (3) “Jupp”
Gaydiner on Protection. The last-named is the fun-
niest, for he has now discovered that his ethical
regard for Black Brudder would prevent his voting
Protection against colored products even if his fiscal
sympathies lay that way. The row between the Q.
and W.A. representatives is an exhibition of mutual
State Frightfulness, each crowd fighting like the
Devil to protect industries in their own State.
Elliott’s criticism is more serious and enduring.
His allusion to Pearce as one “led like a bear”
hasn’t improved their relations, and matters have
been carried further through the alleged offer of a
Major-Generaley to “Pompey,” which headquarters
denies. No letter offering “Pompey” the extra pip
could be found, and Pearce was goaded into promising-
the sack for somebody if it had been removed from
the file. But nobody will be sacked. The truth
seems to be that General Brand, formerly Com-
mandant in Vic., assumed that Elliott would be
offered the step, and wrote to him on that assump-
tiori ; but there was somebody higher up than Brand
who had already decided to turn “Pompev” down.
„ rwom T) -i n .
• i" a tIVS.W. Railway Commis-
s-oner] handed tne Commission a map of Aus-
traka about Sin x6m On the man were
two dots—one about the size of a grain of
wheat and the other scarcely as large as a
threepenny piece. The former repiesented
the area of land under agriculture °a the con-
tinent in 1851 and the latter m IJ-U. •
Daily paper. And £420,000,0000 of hne
“developmental” loans went m the making ol
that threepence. Fraser added that m old
days (low-borrowing days) the tonnage oi
goods and live-stock on N.S.W. lines used
to increase by 10 per cent, per year, but in
the last six big loan years it grew by thie
tenths of one per cent.-—a twentieth of one
per cent, each year. It almost suggests
that the Government has been drinking.
Plain blank assertion goes a long way.
Creeds of all sorts are founded on it. During
one week in Sydney (1) Ford Mayor Lam-
bert said there were unemployed m every
State except Queensland, and (2) 1 remicr
Storey said all his unemployed troubles were
due to the Nationalist Government, which
died 16 months ago. Another politic.an
declared to a large audience that a m ile s}j
a half added to a pint of beer made is. bo.,
and proved it by producing 11b. of green
cheese.
The pursuit of man is or ought to be
hottest in Adelaide now. Hobart used to
have the largest number of females in pro-
portion to mgjes—1163 to every 1000 in 1911
—but ’Enry Jones’s jam and the big electric
scheme and the zinc and carbide works have
made a difference, and now there are only
1121 Jills to every thousand Jacks. Adel-
aide, on the other hand, has piled up its Jills
from 109 S to 1166 per thousand males. And
in S. Aus. the proportion of rural Jills hasn t
improved to any extent worth mentioning,
whereas it has increased appreciably in every
other State—from 778 to 832 per thousand
males in Queensland, for instance. The
figures are not good for South Aus. They
suggest a loss of young unmarried men ; and
that is unfortunate even from the large Aus-
tralian point of view, S. Aus. being a centre
of plain thinking and comparatively sober
living.
If the published forecast for next N.S.W.
session is correct most of the glory has gone
out of Minister Lough! in’s Land Confiscation
Bill by reason of promises John Storey had
to make in London before even the hum-
blest begging proposal would be considered.
The original scheme provided that the
perty of an owner could be “resumed,” all
save £20,000 worth. But the exemption was
not to mean £20,000 at present value —it
meant as few acres as might be worth
£20,000. Apparently in the partly-tamed
scheme present values are to be taken. An-
other feature was that payment for land
annexed was to be made by 4£ per cent,
securities redeemable in 38 years. Plainly
if the Government bought land for depreci-
ated paper and re-sold for cash a beautiful
source of revenue would open up. It Avas a
huge, cheap, compulsory loan scheme with the
land as a stalking horse. Now it appears
that payment for compulsory resumptions is
to be made in cash; and as the Storey sort
of Government never has any cash there is
not much reason left for the measure. Still,
it will probably be passed to “save face.”
Deputy-president Noel Webb, of the S.A.
Industrial Court, claims that the Court should
have credit for that State’s being now “in a
better position to face a financial and indus-
trial crisis than any other in the Common-
wealth.” He finds that wages in the various
capitals average from a maximum £2 Bs. in
Perth to £2 os. Id. in Adelaide, which is
loAvest; yet the amount per head of popula-
tion to the credit of depositors in Savings
Banks varies from S.A. £32 10s. (highest)
to Tasmania £lB 4s. (lowest). Thereupon
Webb: —
A reasonable inference to be drawn from these
figures is that, although S.A. has the lowest wage in
the Commonwealth, it has great material prosperity.
This condition of affairs is due in no small measure
to the work of this Court. Whereas sums of money,
running into many millions, have in many other
States been squandered in useless strikes, the indus-
trial peace of this State has been preserved almost
inviolate, and the money which would have been lost
through strikes is now in the pockets of employers
and employees.
Possibly. But there are half-a-dozen other
factors. And the greatest of them is that
Adelaide is, comparatively, a village where
the employer and employee are personally
known to one another; and it is hard to keep
on strike, even if you sro on strike, against
a man you’ve known all your life and pro-
bably called by his front name and gone to
church with. Which is one more reason why
the Big Congested City is a curse, and whv
every possible inducement should be offered
to people who think of starting industries in
country towns.
When the census figures are completed it
is fairly certain that rural Vic. will lose a
Federal seat to N. S. Wales, and it isn’t im-
probable that Melbourne will deprive Cocky
of another. The crowding into Sydnev w'jl
Five that village the seat lost by Victoria.
Sydney, in fact, will have two extra mem-
bers—the one taken from Vic. and another
obtained by knocking three of Ma’s outback
constituencies into tAvo. These changes will
mean rearrangements of electoral boundaries
all over both States, but it is not expected
that it will happen until after next election
THE KEYNOTE OF THE ROOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Although the atmosphere is seething with discon-
tent, the Government is clinging to the spoils of
office like a limpet to a rock. The root from which
all the difficulties of Queensland spring is Socialism
—the keynote of the Labor movement.” —Opposition
orator in Queensland no-confidence debate.
11l fares the land bereft of gilt,
By Demos plagued and Piute,
Whose airy superstructure’s built
Upon a rotten root.
From roots that decomposing are
Proceeds no burnished note,
Hence Queensland’s Ministerial car
Can hardly keep afloat.
No subterfuge will now avail,
The hare is firmly hooked ;
Red herrings laid across the trail
The Guvment’s goose have cooked.
The hopes that once like eagles ranged
From tropic North to South
At length, chamcleon-like, have changed
To ashes in the mouth.
The pot, by stormy petrels dogged,
Has faltered at the goal;
The ship of State, completely bogged,
Is fairly up the pole.
Yea, Theodore has come a thud,
And savage are the roars
Of rhetoricians out for blood
And frenzied metaphors.
x.s.w.
S. GUMM.


Vs/ zx lly't o w<z,r s. .
Until we got
used to the. Ides,
l-»^j f the fi'Liasts
migj-ht modi/y
their dress -
tway I hfcve the
p>l <z.2kSo *~ce. off tf>«. r>oL3<t
divr\c e ? "
In tfiCE.
Coiisarvfttory .
Tloe, Pofctry of
moti on .
A .
THE GENTLEMEN’S EVENING.
“Again referring to dancing, Mr. Herbert Booth advocated the confining of the practice to members of one sex in the drawing-room.”


IP
m xz\ r.
m
m
r i
«F Ij I «n\ -Jp
lli|l' * P 4 I m ,|^ w ¥f
l
Give a brilliant but' soft
CHA^rv.'^-
I ifHHVI
COSMOS
j/(Uitnfu
cos
CO- LTu
ELECTRICAL
2!Eliyjbplti 51’Mboume
ribMndble
<& call elcdricd shires
Jiciuphs 4£4uaii^o£
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Write
f° r <k
FREE
Q
REfISTtSEO
0/X€*A\AN POWERFUL SPEEDY LOW*
Wo£9€n
Quick Gears Pty. Ltd., 75 Penders Street, Thornbury, Victoria
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
ship Co., Ltd. (Sjdney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
19091 . £29,886 10 p.c. = £B,BOO £21,086 £29,594
Transferred to 'capital, £17,6j1.. 11,993
1910.. 24,621 10 p.c. = 10,120 14,501 26,494
1911.. 43,448 134 „ ~ 14,080 29,368 55,862
Transferred to capital, £52,803. . 3,059
1912.. 43,106 13$ p.c. = 17,601 25,505 28,564
1913 ..45,110 13j „ ~21,122 23,988 52,552
Transferred to capital, £52,803 1 ~ 0.-. q
1914.. 73,371 13$ p.c. = 28,162 45,209 )
1915.. 37,001 13$ „ „ 28,162 8,839 53,797
1916.. 30,245 13$ „ „ 28,162 2,u53 55,880
191/.. 28,436 13$ „ ~ 28,162 274 56,164
1918.. 30,168 13$ „ „ 28,162 2,006 58,160
1919.. 27,762 13$ „ „ 28,102 57,750
1920.. ? 13$ „ „ 28,162 ? ?
Co. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
and also one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 625 2,891
This co.’s accounts were out nearly a month
ago, but a thick fog then enveloped its affairs.
Twelve months ago there was a reconstruc-
tion, explained briefly in the table. At June
30, 1910 (no accounts were presented for
1920), the steamers were given a hook value
of £110,291. Last year, when Capt. Spinks
was called in to "ascertain the fair value
of the steamers for sale to the new c 0.,”
they were appraised at £350,000 —more than
three times their written-down book value.
Paid cap.tal of the old Go. was £211.212 in
281,010 £1 shares called to 15s. The new
ferry co. preserved the whole of these in-
terests, hut proprietors also received the
same number of bonus shares similarly paid
up. A new co., the Port Jackson Investment
and Insurance Co., Ltd., was established to
carry the ferry co.’s insurance risks. It was
launched with a nominal capital of £300,000.
in shares of £1 each, one-half ordinaries and
the baianee prefs. carrying 6 p.c. cumulative
and participating point for point with the
ordinaries in any distribution in excess of
that rate. Shareholders received one fully-
paid pref. in this concern for every two
shares held in the old co. They, therefore,
got £140.508 of bonus scrip in the insurance
co., the new ferry co. having the right to
take up and pay cash for “whatever number
of ordinary shares is found convenient.” To
date it has taken up 0000. The fog which
obscured the position of the enterprise has
lifted, the accounts of the insurance co. now
being available. So this comparison can be
made to show what changes have been
effected since the final balance-sheet of the
old co. was presented :
Old Co., r New Cos., 1921
1919. Ferry. Insurance. Total.
Paid capital. . £211,212 £422,424 £146,808 £569,232
Liabilities . . 2,548 2,964 605 3,569
* Assets.
Steamers .. 110,291 353,538 353,538
Property, plant,
etc.. .. 37,879 38,366 553 38,919
Book debts . . 704 2,323 1,945 4,268
Coal, stores, etc. 3,596 5,018 •—• 5,018
War Loan, mort-
gage? and de-
posits . . 94,608 38,241 132,358 170,599
Cash.. .. 2,513 3,466 5,232 8,698
Goodwill . . 17,008 17,008
Total assets £249,591 £440,952 £157,096 £598,048
That sets out the division of assets. The
principal feature of the reconstruction is the
new value given to the steamers. That their
value had been written down hard in the
books over many years was obvious from
the old published accounts; but how the
high figure uow placed upon them compares
with their actual value The Bulletin does
not know. That actual value depends to a
considerable extent on the continuance of
the co.’s traffic rights, for neither of the two
terminals is in .the hands of. the co. as owner.
Still, so long as it behaves itself there is
little risk of losing the rights it has, or of a
competitive service being established, though
it may be stung for higher “rentals.” Being
so well dug in, the main consideration of
the investor is the prospective earnines of
the service. The’ Manly ferry has been a
go’d-minc to old proprietors; but its swift
development and very fat profits in relation
to capital are ancient history now, and a
repetition is unlikely: Conditions have
altered. In pre-war days the blend of coal
used averaged 10s. Od. per ton ; nowadays
it is 30s. 41d. Wages all round in 1914-15
averaged £3 Bs. 3d.; by 1920 the average
had moved to £4 ss. lOd.; and now it is
£5 17s. sd. The tripper is the mainstay of
the co. —season rates, incidentally, have not
altered for 23 years —and there is a limit
to the fares which can be demanded of the
touring suburbanite. So while costs con-
tinue high and the present fleet is running
to practically full capacity, there are not
the opportunities which offered in days gone
by. Even should the traffic increase rapidly,
the cost of new steamers is now an item. The
Bellubera, Balgowlah and Barrenjoey cost
under £30,000 each in pre-war days. A new
vessel of about the same size now under
construction in Sydney will cost about
£BO.OOO. Incidentally, the fleet last year
made 30,948 trips, a total of 200,406 miles.
There are other reasons why the ferry co.
cannot be expecied to show such fat returns
in the future, formerly it earned an its
own risks —fire, marine, workmen s compen-
sation and pubLc risk —instead of paying
premiums to outside underwriters. The
losses have been negligible, so considerable
profits resulted, besides which interest on
cue insurance funds were helping earnings.
The replacement cost of steamers had be-
come so large, though, that the directors
decided that the ferry and insurance busi-
ness should be separated. So the P. J. and
Manly S. S, Co. is now wholly a ferry con-
cern. and the investor in its shares has no
longer to estimate the risks to which h»s
money may be exposed. What a sweet
thing has been the insurance side of the
business is evident from the first year’s
experience of the new co. It received £9378
of premiums from its parent, and losses took
only £7OB. Interest on funds provided
£6789, and after paying all claims and ex-
penses the year closed with £14,857 surplus.
After paying 6 p.c. on both classes of shares
and writing off £770 of preliminary exes.
£5279 went to reserves. The co.’s funds
represented by tang.ble assets now amount
to £135.000-odd, mostly in g lt-edged secu-
rities. But that does not make it an invest-
ment to which The Bulletin would intro-
duce its maiden aunt —the shares, by the
way, are dealt in on ’Change. Though losses
have been negiigible in the past there are
undoubted trg risks. For instance, should
two of the Manly steamers smash into each
other and go to the bottom most if not aU
of the capital w r ould be threatened. Public
risk is, however, apparently not formidable.
Urder the Navigation regulations that r ; sk
is fixed at £l2 ner ton, equal to about £6OOO
per steamer. So in such a collis’on as men-
tioned the co. would apparently be liable
for only £12,000 to the public.
The reconstruction has given the old share-
holders a bit more by way of divs. than
formerly. They have had their share-in-
terests increased 2§ times, and, assuming
they have held the insurance scrip, the past
year’s dividend on the lot was equal to 16
p.c. on the old co.’s capital. It had paM 13$
p.c. on a heavily bonus-weighted capital for
many years.
* * * »
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses:—
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1913. . £9,027 10 p.c. = £4850 £4177 £17,169
Doc., 1913.. 9.412 10 „ „ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 „ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1915.. 8,680 10 ~ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 „ „ 5312 31.42 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 5312 4212 10,051
Doc., 1916.. 10,140 10 ~ „ 5312 4828 14.879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10 „ „ 5312 2846 17,725
Dec., 1917.. 6,057 10 „ „ 5312 745 18,470
June, 1918.. 9,734 10 „ „ 5312 4422 22,892
Dec., 1918.. 6,396 10 „ „ 5312 584 22,976
June, 1919.. 2,975 10 „ „ 5312 20,639
Dec., 1919.. 9,789 10 „ „ 5781 4008 24,647
Reserves capitalised. £25,000 ( _ .
June, 1920.. 15,462 15 p.c. = 9375 6087 )
Dec., 1920.. 11,0u6 10 „ „ 7812 3193 8,927
June, 1921.. 9,074 10 „ „ 7812 1262 10,189
There is some doubt whether as much as
£9O/4 was actually earned during the past
half. A couple of years ago the manage-
ment opened a reserve for taxation and
dropped in a first instalment of £7lOO.
Eighteen months ago a further £2300 was
added, and six months ago £3OOO more, giv-
ing a total of £13,000. In the table above
these appropriations were not treated as
profits, 1 hough as the accumulation remained
untapped six months ago there was every
reason to believe that they could have been
so regarded. The latest accounts, however,
show that £5OOO has been extracted, but for
what purpose has not been disclosed. If
the withdrawal has been required to meet
current taxes, then Sargent’s has not done
so well as its disclosed profits for the past
year have indicated. But the management
was wise in taking advantage of unusunHv
profitable terms to provide for inevitably
heavier taxation. Of course, the £.5000
which has dropped out of the taxation
reserve may not, after all, have gone to
the Treasuries, and may have been utilised
for ent’rely different purposes. But wherever
the amount went, the wisdom of the direc-
tors’ policy in withholding some of the
abnormal profits is now fully apparent:
though disclosed profits are less than those
presented for many of the terms recorded
in the table, the co. is able to pay the usual
10 p.c. p.a. div. on the capital of £162,500
—£25,000 of it capitalised reserves—without
difficulty.
The recent death of the founder of the
business recalls its amaz.ng development.
From an obscure pie-shop in the near-
suburb of Paddington, George Sargent and
his very capable wife, with the assistance
of a small co., had by 1908 built up the
largest catering business in Sydney. Addi-
tional cap.tal was then required to finance
further expansion, and early in 1909 it was
decided to pass it over to a public co. The
old proprietors got 50,000 £1 fully paids
and £lO.OOO cash, the purchase price in-
cluding £-15,000 for goodwill. The public
was invited to nut in £30,000. So paid capi-
tal to -begin with was £BO,OOO, but only
£33,765 of it was represented by tangible
assets. Since the first balance at June,
1909, the business has expanded in this way
over two six-year periods:—
June,’o9. June,’ls. June,’2l.
Capital £BO,OOO £111,428 £165,124
Liaoiliiies 12,291 38,418 96,423
Freeholds 7,100 49,975 130,700
Leaseholds .. .. 12,550 22,000 15,500
Plant, etc 23,758 56,440 72,340
Stock 2,610 11,143 49,594
Cash, book debts and in-
vestments .. .. 6,904 18,192 19,411
Paid capital has more than doubled during
the 12 years, but £25,000 of the extra
£85,124 was transferred reserves, while
£4500 of premiums on an early share-issue
has also gone into the business. The book
value of net tangible assets has moved from
£40,631 in 1909 to £191,125 at the latest
balance. So while new capital and premiums
have helped the expansion to the extent of
£55,624, surplus profits have contributed
£94.870. Put another way, after paying
10 p.c. to shareholders continuously since
1909, providing for replacements and depre-
ciation of properties, etc., the directors have
withheld from distribution profits £14,000-
odd in excess of the paid capital with which
the co. started. It has been a remarkable
performance for a business in which so many
have gone under; two contemporaries, Harts,
Ltd., and A.8.C., Ltd., got badly mauled,
the former going under altogether, and the
latter, after a reconstruction some years ago,
still being in troubled waters. Sargent’s
success is more notable also because of the
fact that when it began, owing to the large
amount paid for goodwill, only Bs. sd. per
£1 share was represented by tangible assets.
Three years ago the goodwill asset was en-
tirelv written out of the balance-sheet, and
notwithstanding the £25,000 of bonus scrip
in the capital account at the latest balance
there were net assets of a book value of
235. to represent every £of pa ; d capital.
With 13 cafGs and tea-rooms in Sydney and
one in Melbourne in 1909. the co. now runs
35 in Sydney and half-a-dozen in the south-
ern capital. The management is as enter-
prising as ever: it recently took over Chin-
nerd’s one-time seleet Sydney fish cafe which
barf lost caste. Within a fortnight after
Sargent’s had set about re-organising the
business, the old cafe had been revived to
practically its old standing. Snlend-d oppor-
tunities should lie ahead of Sargent’s newest
enterprise, and the smellful Dago monopoly
of the fish business is confronted with, an-
other bit of serious competition—the most
serious perhaps it has yet met.
» *. * *
Walkers, Limited, engine-builders, etc.
(Maryborough, Q.) : —-
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1908 ..£3,288 3 p.c. = £2026 £2OOO £2,766
1909 .. 7,248 5 „ „ 3376 2500 4,138
1910 .. 11,144 7 ~ „ 4720 3000 7,056
£12,854 of interna] reserves disclosed
and transferred to capital.
1911 .. 22,125 9 p.c. = 7291 3000 19,390
1912 25.454 JO ~ ~ 8340 3000 33,504
1913 .. 21,014 10 „ „ 8020 3000 42,898
1914 .. 17.193 10 „ „ 8694 3000 48,397
1915 .. 16.874 10 „ 8694 3000 53.577
Reserves capitalised, £41,403 .. 12.1(4
1916 .. 11,669 7 p.c. = 9133 2500 12,210
1917 .. 11,859 7 „ „ 9133 2500 12 436
1918 .. 11,570 7 „ „ 9133 2500 12,373
1919 .. 47 Nil 12.420
1920 .. 12,005 7 p.c. = 9291 2750 12,384
1921 .. 12,198 7 „ „ 9291 2750 12,541
The 7 p.c. looks mild, but the rate of div.
must be considered in conjunction with two
entries in the table, which record that in
10 years capital account has been augmented
by £54 257 from reserves —an amount repre-
senting nearly 44 p.c. of present paid capital.
So the return to old holders is considerably
better than the present div. rate indicates.
Nevertheless, Walker’s is visibly not do'ng
nearly so well as in pre-war times. Over the
six rears to 1915 net profits averaged
£15,968 p.a. after setting aside £3OOO each
year in a depreciation reserve. During the
past half-dozen years net profits have
dropped back to an average of £9891 after
providing £2166 p.a. for depreciation. Even
making allowance for the wretched results
which showed up for 1919, when delayed
deliveries of materials and unexpected higher
costs ran away with all profits which had
been ant’eipated from contracts handled in
that term, recent performances have not
been nearly so good as those in the years
when the workshops were kept busy turning
out sugar-mill and mining machinery, loco-
motives and bridge-work, notwithstanding
that extensive additions have since been
made to equipment. The principal work
undertaken last year was the construction
of four 0000-ton cargo steamers for the
Commonwealth Government and 10 locomo-
tives for the Queensland railways. The first
steamer has beer, launched and is now being
fitted out, and a second will leave the slips
at an early date. The Government has,
however, decided not to go ahead with the
remaining two, the contract having been
amended, the directors announce, by mutual
agreement. That is all the information ten-
dered concerning Walker’s experience as
shipbuilders, and no inkling is given as to
what success has attended the experiment.
-Locomotives continue the mainstay of the
business, and 30 more are under construc-
tion for the Queensland Government.
Ten years ago the co. had £39,386 sunk in
property, plant, etc., and on the other side
had £6OOO reserved for depreciation. The
latest balance-sheet shows £115,'128 laid out
on works, etc., with £31,250 put aside in the
depreciation reserve. In the comparison of
balance-sheet, figures which follows fixed
assets are shown less the amount reserved
for depreciation :
1911. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. .. £10,207 £98,572 £135,354
Fixed assets .. . . 33,386 86,608 84,478
Stock-in-trade . . . . 14,741 30,315 33,258
Investments .. . . 28,415 61,958 63,918
Completed work, cash,
deposits, etc. .. 47,062 69,808 103,976
The depreciation reserve amounts to no less
than 2{ p.c. of the value set against fixed
assets, but whether the whole of the accu-
mulation is a necessary set-off against actual
depreciation of those assets is not apparent.
Assuming that it is a fair allowance, the 10-
years’ improvement can be stated in this
way: Additions to works, £51,092; growth
of more or less liquid assets, £110,934; and
meantime liabilities have expanded £120,087.
That shows an improvement of nearly
£42.000. New capital has contributed only
£5634: the balance is the aid which accumu-
lated profits have given the business. One
item in the accounts again calls for atten-
tion : every year is an entry, “Invested
funds,” concerning which the directors proffer
no information. There is now £63,918 set
against the item. Meantime liabilities have
grown to record dimensions—they now exceed
the co.’s combined capital and reserves.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1909.. £2712 8 p.c. = £2121 £591 £8,670
1910.. 2923 8 „ „ 2121 802 9.472
1911.. 3743 9 „ ~ 2386 1357 10,829
1912.. 4193 10 j>, „ 2651 1542 12,371
1913.. 6496 15 „ „ 3977 1519 13,890
1914.. 5131 10 „ ~ 2651 2480 16,370
Written off, £5OO . . .15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3691 10 „ „ 2651 1040 19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 .. 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9 „ „ 4295 ) - n , ~
Voted to Provident Fund, £lOOO j ’
1920.. 6363 9 p.c. = 4295 t 1068 4 25 8
Provident Fund, £lOOO )
1921.. 6321 _lO p.c. == 4829 1 9g2 5 260
Provident *und, £5OO )
The profits for the past year shown in the
table are much the same as those for the
previous 12 months. The net profit disclosed
by the accounts is, however, £1162 larger,
but shareholders voted that amount to pay
a 10 p.c. bonus on salaries, Queensland
Trustees, Ltd., having followed the lead of
a number of other trustee cos. and given its
staff a cut from the handsome earnings of
recent years. Simultaneously divs. move up
a point to 10 p.c., giving old hands a fat
return. Paid capital is £45,450, but £20,200
of that represents reserves capitalised four
years ago. The co. was established in 1888,
and no new capital has been called for in
the 28 years that The Bulletin records
cover. But profits exceeding the original
capital have been left in the concern. Busi-
ness expansion, the additional interest from
the co.’s own growing funds, and last, but
not least, recent all-round improved earn-
ings of trust funds have lifted net profits
till thev show almost 30 p.c. on the capital
originally put into the co. How the volume
of trusts in hand has swollen is shown next:
1908 .. £1,528,345 1918 .. £4.049,378.
1910 . . 2,135,244 1920 .-. 4,770,752
1915 .. 3,382,095 1921 .. 5,363,333
The figures are now more than double those
of 1912. Of course, appreciated values have
been to some extent responsible for the rapid
growth during recent years. After winding
up many estates the co. added to its trusts
in nine years as much as it had in hand at
the close of its 24th year.
Abnormal conditions have aided trustee
cos. to build up their connections. The
administration of dead men’s belongings was
at one time comparatively simple; nowadays
taxation and other problems have made it
essentially work for the expert. The cos.
which are equipped for the job have benefited
not only by being directly appointed
as executors, but also through many personal


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights vonr house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulbnrn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets.
Melbourne.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wrn. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Advt. [3
* * * *
Have you a puzzling pipe or tank problem? If
so, you cannot do better than consult the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.
Hundreds of miles of “Pioneer” pipe and tanks are
giving dependable, efficient service all over Australia
and under the most severe climatic and other condi-
tions. The company’s engineers will gladly help
to solve any difficult problem. —Advt. .
* * * » .
ASBESTOS. —The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * •* #
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassei, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * ,
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Chaliis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulpliuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
# # * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling*!
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemieals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Mell).— Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
—Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
# Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or ' Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estute to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
ā
ă
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ft
DT
-Swift & Company Lt«l.. Australasian A sent*. 26 30 Clarenre St.. Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
EJ
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
ti-ustees transferring their responsibilities to
tbn expert organisations. The cos. them-
selves, though they are disclosing handsome
profits, are not having so easy a time as for-
merly ; .working exes, are proportionately
much heavier, due principally to the appoint-
ment of additional officei-s to handle the
intricate taxation w-ork. But things would
have to go very badly with Queensland if
a reasonable retui-n could not be given share-
holders in this co. without increased charges.
At the balance capital and reserves totalled
£54.450, and there was £156.550 of uncalled
capital as additional protection for benefici-
aries should negligence or worse make holes
iu any trust. In public securities and cash
£-.2,739 was held, £37,600 was sunk in pre-
mises and equipment, and odds and ends
totted up £lO2B. The co. owed £5357, £5OOO
of it mortgage on premises carrying only 54
p.c., and which is being paid off in yearly-
instalments.
* * * *
It is proposed" to register in Melbourne a
co. to finance motor-cars on time payment,
the idea being to deal only with people who
can pay a deposit, say, of 20 p.c. on the
value of the car. The co. would pay the
balance of the purchase money and collect
it weekly or monthly from the buyer of the
car. The system has spread extensively in
the United States, and one co. is doing busi-
ness in New York with a capital of live
million pounds. There are altogether 110
cos. in ’Murka handling automobiles on this
system.
* * « »
Hampton Celebration shareholders were in-
formed at a meeting held in London last
month that there remained on hand about
£34,000 worth of cash assets. With regard
to the mine, chairman Newton Moore said
that the ore opened up above the No. 1 level,
100 ft. down, was estimated at 35,000 tons
assaying. 425. 6d. per ton with gold at. its
normal value. The premium will add about
255. more. Below 100 ft. results had been dis-
appointing, although sufficient work had not
yet been done to accurately estimate the
quantity or value of the ore down to 200 ft.
At 300 ft. the lode appeared to carry gold
throughout, and it remained to be seen
whether its average value after more ex-
tended developments would prove payable.
When the 300 ft. level has been further
explored the deepening of the shaft to 400 ft.
will receive consideration. Meanwhile ex-
penditure is being limited and the manager
has been told to confine operations to work
of importance. If the estimate of ore
reserves proves correct the co. has gold worth
about £117,000 (including premium) await-
ing the pick.
* * * •
Edna May Deeps, Westonia (W.A.) is
down with its No. 7 level and out with N.
8. .Stuckey’s half-yearly yarn. Both are
more or less disappointing. Cash six months
ago totted up £6167 and stocks £4212, with
sundry creditors for £2700. Cash now is
D*tsB,_ stocks £3739 and debts £1426, so
there is little variation in liquid assets. The
mine position, too, has not altered much
since November. But the labor outlook, from
the co.’s standpoint, is infinitely worse, be-
cause of the lift given costs by the Arbitra-
tion Court award. Having stoped 4000
tons between Nos. 5 and 6 levels onlv 1000
tons of pay ore is left, but there remains
a fair body of low-grade stuff which may-
give profits should costs ever be reduced.
Between Nos. 4 and 5 levels 2000 tons of
lOdwt. stone is available, and there is a
probable 5000 tons worth about 12dwt. be-
tween Nos. 6 and 7. Stuckey counts defi-
nitely on this reserve because the winze 100 ft.
north of the shaft at No. 6 has carried down
for the last 45ft. on ore running from 14dwt.
to 20dvvt., the reef having shaken off its
former flat underlie. This change gives
Stuckey pluck to declare that prospects are
more encouraging, and that the reef is likely
to regain width and value as it gets away
from the underlie shaft at No. 7. His opti-
mism leads him to talk of better levels still
deeper. All his present developments show
at depth in No. 7 is a 4ft. formation open at
one spot, with, some quartz leaders making
to it from the shaft. Water is heavier at
9000 gal. an hour, so stiff cement-packing
will be required to cut it off, and perhaps
additional power will be required to control
the heavier flow. Apart from water troubles
and the need to open up ore reserves, costs
are the chief cause of worry. Including de-
velopment, it took £20.238 to get 5580 tons
to the battery last half, or more than 725.
per ton. It was the £6358 of gold premiums
that kept finance safe till No. 7 level was
reached. The only purpose the Deeps serves
is to pav the mine staff, help maintain Pea-
cock’s office and permit an occasional flutter
in scrip.
* -K- * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is still a show of
big figures. Despite industrial and fuel
troubles the past year’s revenue, including
gold nremium, was £428,713. But only
£157,669 of that could be claimed as net
profit, and £131.250, or slightly more then
was obtained from the premium on gold,
was paid in divs. Expenditure per ton of
ore treated was 41s. 9d., compared with 265.
sd. in 1914.
* * * *
G. P. Doolette told Great Boulder (W.A.)
shareholders at the annual meeting that
from 1895 to the end of 1920 the mine had
produced £12,265,563, of which £7,068,259
was profit. The dividends paid to Dec. 31
last amounted to £5,794,300. And the end
is not yet in sight. Ore reserves are now
valued at £760,000, and if another guinea is
added for gold premium the value would not
be far short of a million. During the year
the co. had purchased one mine—the 0.K.,
at Norseman —and had sampled and turned
down a gold and scheelite show at Comet
Vale, which, though promising in parts, was
patchy and disappointing on the whole.
Boulder No. l’s debit balances grow mono-
tonous. That for last year, the published
accounts now show, was £IS63. This loss
reduces the P. & L. balance to £3026. The
co. is still looking for a new mine, and
meanwhile a little more or less unprofitable
work is being done on the original holding.
* * * *
The rush for shares in oil-prospecting ven-
tures continues in the West, and one float
is claimed to have been doubly subscribed.
Two cos. have parties searching in the nor’-
west. The possibility of petroleum being
found there reminds old hands of an early-
day find when lumps of stuff which ignited
by application of a match induced four
■<-Hl-known prospectors to peg out miles of
country and dream of millions. Samples
were sent to the Mines Department for test-
ing. Then a telegram was received from
the Mines Department: “Final result of
assay: exudations of ancient marsupial
droppings.’’
“O.B.”: All that the “Wild Cat” said
about Ives’ Reward (W.A.) is fully borne
out by Giblin’s report. It reveals that
development work has been very limited and
shallow, and that some of the poorer assays
were never passed on to the public. At. the
time of flotation 15 months ago a systematic
and exhaustive costeen and shaft sampling
by Jack McDermott, of the Ivanhoe, showed
the average assay value of the ore in sight
to be less than £1 per ton, and the only
really payable patch of stone that has been
exposed is at the 60ft. level of No. 3 shaft
workings, where the mine has possibilities.
* * * *
Several attempts have been made *over a
score of years to make a do of the aban-
doned deep-leads at Ivanowna (W.A.), but
the opinion expressed by all who tried was
that the ground was too low-grade. Only-
last year a Melbourne co. made an effort to
unearth pay values, but it soon gave up in
despair. Nevertheless, a local venture now
claims to have got hold of something good ;
but if it’s not a flash in the pan it’s a
miracle.
* * * •
A loss of £543 was Bendigo A l’s lot after
an anxious six months’ prospecting in the
New Moon mine. Work goes on from 1043 ft.
to 1241 ft. in spurry country. The tantalis-
ing truth is that the average of 6dwt. to
7dwt. would, in the old days, have given a
good profit; now it is just under the pay-
mark. Better stone may cut in at 1241 ft.
north, on the middle back, where the south
end of the spurs pitching underfoot at No.
7 has been reached in the form of 4ft. of
laminated quartz. The claim had a long
record of good returns, and is not so deep
as to cut off hope that the 1142 ft. and 1241 ft.
makes of stone may vet bring in profits.
A leeway of over £40.000 has to be recovered,
but that is not out of the way at Bendigo
when fresh formations have to be opened up.
* * . # *
Morning Star, Woods Point (Vic.), needs
to have ore reserves worked out and their
values told. Until that is done it is better
to back winners on the flat than try to pick
one at the new No. 7 level in the belief that
the ore which may be got there will keep
the battery on a monthly 1500-ton spin.
Stone in No. 7 so far goes over an ounce,
but how much there is of it is not told in
Forrester’s report and plans, which are sup-
posed to give a full index to “the potential
value of the property.” Length and width
of shoots, heights stoned and stone available
overhead are particulars which no Victorian
mine has given since the days of the elder
Zeb Lane’s Lord Nelson.
• * * •
George Dickenson’s AI, Gaffney’s Creek
(Vic.), lobbed on to a bit of stone off No. 6
level the other day. It does not seem to
be much of a strike, but some folk jumped
very sharply into the market. The stone
w-as not got where it is v-anted most. That
would be underfoot at No. 7, where John
Till will soon be searching in a new level
for the run of stone that went underfoot
at No. 7. Such a find would unset old
theories about Mountain mining—that the
closer-textured dyke at depth gives no room
for quartz floors to form. The AI has cash
assets of over £15,000. and can play the
game of hide-ard-seek in the dyke without
woi-rying its followers. Moreover, it dra°s
out enough 17dwt. stone overhead to yield
profits in aid of a progx-essive policy.
Elsmore (N.S.W.) has been doing spade-
work preparatory to getting on to the face
of Penbertky’s lead, where prospecting has
given promise of good returns. During the
12 months to June 30 15,350 c. yd. were
treated for 6 tons 12cwt. tin concentrates,
an average of just under the lb. But costs
went to 16.5 d., and a net loss of £1254
resulted. The plant is now in shallow but
profitable ground, Avhich would not stand up
to the cost of bringing the gear back at a
later date. Within a couple of months the
best portion of Penberthy’s will be attacked.
Elsmore 12 months ago had 24,000 shares of
10s. each, but 2s. per share was refunded
during the year from the sale of the co.’s
No. 2 plant.
The Speck Mines Department’s figures
for the financial year ended .Tune are not
cheerful reading. The value of production
for the 12 months was £1,071,000, compared
with £1,602,400 for the previous year, a
decrease of £530,500. This shows the drift
during the year :
Men
Output. Employed.
Sept, quarter, 1920 .. £351,770 569 i
Dec. „ 1920 . . 334,010 5459
Mar. „ 1921 . . 202,090* . 4422
June „ 1921 . . 1§2,830 3724
* * * *
One-time Minister Jas. Ogden, Labor
member for Darwin, who took such a pro-
minent part in getting Mount Lyell to work
again, has been endeavoring to convince the
worker that wages are paid from the pro-
duct of an industry, and that the mining
industry of the Speck cannot at present
afford increased wages. From Government
figures he presents the following interesting
tabulations showing the value of the yield
per man employed over the four quarters of
the year ended June: —
Per Per
Quarter. Week.
Ist quarter .. £Ol 8 0 £4 15 0
2nd ~ .. 61 1 0 4 14 0
3rd . . 45 8 0 3 10 0
4th ~ . . 49 1 0 3 15 0
It is safe to say that in no working mine in
the Speck do wages average less than £4 per
employee per week, and that leaves stores,
interest on capital and depreciation unpro-
vided for. How the mines are to meet the
latest union demands, amounting in the case
of the A.W.U. claim to an increase of
roughly 30 p.c., with a decreased working
time of 20 p.c., is beyond comprehension.
* ■* - * *
Round Hill (Tas.) is increasing its capi-
tal by £25,000; the 100,0()0 ss. shares are to be
callable to 10s. each. Under-capitalisation
• —the bane of Tasmanian-formed mining cos.
—has been this silver-lead show’s big trouble.
The mine responded to development in the
past and had every chance of becoming a
persistent producer, but timid financing is a
handicap that few of even the most promis-
ing Speck shows survive. The prevailing
idea seems to be that mines' should be self-
supporting from their inception. Even old
Mount Bischoff suffered in this way.
* * * If
Speck Geologist Reid has been overhauling
the coal resources of the Strathblane and
Catamaran districts. In the former he re-
ports a 3ft. seam of bituminous coal, of good
quality, and suitable for household and
steaming purposes. The area is not suffi-
ciently opened up to give an idea of the
tonnage available. The coal from the
Catamaran mine is highly prized for its
household and steaming qualities; it has a
low ash content, and is ohe of the best coals
available in Tasmania. The seam averages
24ft., and 360,000 tons of good quality are
proved and available for extraction. Both
areas are well situated for an export trade.
* * * *
A co. is being formed in Hobart to de-
velop the Lady Betty silver-mine, at
Scamander (Tas.L The formation is re-
ported to be a foot wide, averaging 200 oz.
to the ton. A parcel of 50 tons smelted
some years ago gave 5000 oz. silver.
* * * *
Tasman and Crown Lyell Extended has put
up the shutters; the property has been aban-
doned and available gear sold. Call difficul-
ties and an absence of favorable results
from the development Scheme outlined by
Ivlug left the old supporters of the show
bereft of enthusiasm. There will be a final
dividend of lid. on the 43,000-odd live shares.
* * * *
The Gilham Association, prospecting for
gold at Lefroy (Tas.), got on to Boz. values
and so has decided to continue prospecting
for another two months. The gold obtained
is iron-stained and in close proximity to an
ironstone formation so usual in the Speck,
and hopes are entertained of unearthing an-
other McGinty nugget.
The Beecroft, Inear Stanthorpe (Q.), has
cut a lode about 6ft. wide carrying good
values in arsenic. Wolfram and copper are
present, but arsenic is the co.’s objective.
In the same locality Sundown Options is being
got ready for operations. The preliminaries
of bailing and overhauling machinery
have been in progress some time, and it is
intended to sink the copper shaft a further
100 ft. and erect another furnace for roast*
ing the arsenic ores. The district promises
to be an important arsenic producer; the
State mine is there, and two cos. are being
floated to work lod&s near Red Rock.
* * * *
A co. is being formed to exploit the de-
posits ot ochre which have been d.scovered at
Cape Flattery, 30 miles north of Cooktown
(Q.), and prospected by Joseph Campbell,
the Norths well-known scientist. The de-
posits yield Indian red, Venetian red, red
oxide and purple-brown. Altogether 160
acres have been secured, and there is an
unlimited supply of fresh water in the driest
season. One hundred thousand tons ore are
declared to be in sight, the grade varying
from 42 to 15 p.c. ochre, with prospects of
millions of tons more. Pockets of raw sienna
also abound. For centuries the local abos.
have obtained their pigments for personal use
and adornment, also for barter with inland
blacks, from Cape Flattery.
* * * *
Burgowan colliery, on the Burrum coal-
field (Q.), which was taken over by a new
co. recently, looks as if it is going to be
the best on the field. The seam runs from
sft. to 6ft. of good, clean coal. Develop-
ment work is going ahead, and a railway is
being constructed from Torbanlea, about
three miles distant.
* * • #
Things are very quiet on the Stuart Range
opal-field (S. Aus.) owing to the slump
in the gem market. Recently the Govern-
ment geologist paid a visit to the field and
found over 200 miners at work. At first
only shallow gouging was carried on, but
now the diggers are going deeper. The field
is about 400 miles in the bush from Port
Augusta, and extends over 40 miles; and
scarcity of water has been a big handicap.
This year’s phenomenal rains favored a large
output, but the market collapse has brought
things to a standstill. Owing to scarcity of
buyers a number of the gougers have been
forced to leave, taking parcels with them.


INC BOOTH
THE VICTORIAN ELECTIONS.
L.B.M. (sings):
United they stand in appealing for votes,
But it needs not a wizaru to guess,
From the cut of their party-political coats,
They will not together progress.
Vie.
The combine can’t last. Though together they shout,
And some seats they will possibly win,
United those parties are bound to fall OUT,
Divided they both will fall IN.
O.K.


li 7~» 3 rmwpiß v
a / t u%s@*allw
or LuncrtS»ife
a//
■ U M
s.a
?KTTiir | i'
inn
~7,
'>v.
% J
*“•
£5^5.?
onSS'iJ
'W
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G TCheeseman
J-*nC
i
off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
ofhe Boer
Without a RiVaP
FROM PURE MALT &HO PS ONLT
m
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to tho>e who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use,-in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Meats Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you cur FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PIIONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
From the Federal Gallery:—
Senator Gardiner enjoys a privilege unique in the
annals of loquacity. As the only Laborite in the
Senate he is privileged to speak for the 15 or 20 of
his party who should be there; and he iS grasping
the golden opportunity. On the 9th inst. ...the
Senate went into committee on the Tariff Bill at
5.3 p.m. Inside half an hour Gardiner had spoken
five times. At 6.3 he rose with a half apology for
having “so far refrained from discussing the item.” In
the next couple of hours he was heard from 51 times.
The Temporary Chairman had occasion to mutter
something soothing to the effect that “nobody will
take away the Hon. Senator’s right to speak.” “I
shall take good care,” said the human geyser omi-
nously, “that no one does.” By 11 p.m. or there-
abouts he had got his name in Hansard 84 times,
and the last word was with him. The resemblance
to a series of curtain-lectures by Mrs. Caudle is
heightened by the fact that for all the flood of words
which he unlooses “Jupp” rarely says anything.
Matthew Charlton, who is the Moderates’
candidate for the Federal Labor leadership,
is, like Tudor and the late Ryan, a Victorian
native; he was born at Linton, near Bal-
larat. Charlton is now 55, and first got into
the Federal Parliament in 1910. Previous
to that he had two spells in the N.S.W.
Assembly, so his political experience is con-
siderable. lie has neither great mental bril-
liance nor magnetic personality, but his
transparent sincerity, his honesty and his
industry will win him strong support in the
Caucus.
/ x Mrs ‘ Richard Dailey, who died at Ashfield
(N.S.W.) last week, aged 80, was a sister-
m-law of W. B. Dailey. Dick Dailey was
considered to be far more brilliant than his
brother at school, but he died young. His
widow devoted herself to religion, good works
and the collection of pictures and old china.
At Waverley, where she lived for many
years, she had some S&vres winch was only
eoualled by the pieces at Greyclifle when the
Fitzwilliam Wentworths lived there, and she
also had a wonderful eye for antique furni-
ture. Her only son, John, died several years
ago.
il. S. W. Crummer, who went out last
week after completing four-score years, was
sou of Major Crummer, of the 28th Regi-
ment, who had seen service in the Peninsula
and at Waterloo. In 1835 the Major came to
Sydney with his corps, but sold out on the
regiment, being ordered to India. Newcastle
knew him as police magistrate from 1837
till 1840. One of his daughters married
the late E. Du Faur, who, in memory of his
martial father-in-law, presented to the
National Art Gallery an engraving of “The
28th in Square at Waterloo,” a bloody rect-
angle in which the Major himself figured. The
old soldier died at Port Macquarie, where
he was P.M. in 18(57. While in the island
of Colamos, as Commandant and protector
of the Greek refugees, he had married Kata-
rina Plessos, a Hellenic lady of good family.
The late II. S. W. Crummer entered the De-
partment of Lands in 18(58, and retired in
1914. He was a keen worker in geographical
science, and a founder of the R. G. Society.
Rod and P. E. Quinn lost their brother
James last week; and only the two poets of
the family are left. Jim Quinn, though
he wrote little or nothing, was a sound critic,
and, after 40 years in the Lands Depart-
ment, had looked forward to a fine time
with books when his retiring age arrived.
He died a month after he left his office-chair.
Jabez Wright, the old-time Broken Hill
undertaker, is to bring his soft, tieless collar
and his mordant wit back to the N. S. Wales
Assembly, the Labor caucus having decided
that he is the truest representative of the
“interest” Percy Brookfield represented. Per-
haps he is; yet Jabez will certainly vote for
the Government, whereas Percy’s speeches in
his last visit to Broken Hill were filled with
denunciations of John Storey and his Minis-
ters. Jabez was a carpenter before he became
a planter.
J. K. Powell, who is running for West
Sydney on the taxation refoi'm ticket, comes
from Westralia. Over there he was known
as an effervescent little man with a knack
of saving his deposit in forlorn-hope candi-
datures, and a penchant for calling upon a
blankly-indifferent public to rise up and do
something—something w T hich he never de-
fined. Powell has helped other men into
Parliament, and if he w'ere as worldly-wise
as he is energetic he would have got there
himself. A’habit of expending a tremendous
amount of enthusiasm on lost causes has
been his bane.
Old Joe Mandl, who lately died at Hoki-
tika (M.L.), was one of the many foreigners
who came to the Dominion in the go’d days.
He was an Austrian, and a recipe for beer
set him up in the brewery business when
the diggings failed. He weathered 85 years.
CIHEF JUSTICE POPE COOPER, OF
QUEENSLAND.
Some long-life records were established in
the family of just-dead John Hughes, of
Kelso (N.S.W.). John arrived in Australia
when he was six; and he was 95 when he
died. A sister, Mrs. McLean, died at 93;
another sister, Mrs. Goudge, of Parkes is
still hale at 90; and both parents reached
the vicinity of the nineties. John
Hughes’s wife, who died 18 months ago,
achieved 93. They are survived by a
family of sons and daughters who threaten
to maintain the family’s tradition of near-
centuries.
ESSINGTON
LEWIS, who
recently succeeded
G. D. Del prat an
general manager of
the Broken Hill Prop.
He is the Australian-
trained son of
John Lewis, M.L.C. of
South Aus.
Died last week, Maoriland’s most distin-
guished pietist—John Aitken, occasionally
Mayor of Wellington, member of the House
of Reps., and for one glorious year Moderator
of the Scotchbyterian Assembly. Since arriv-
ing fra’ Scotland nearly half a century ago,
John, in the intervals of making a fortune
trading as a merchant, was the ma ; n pilar
of the Y.M.C.A., the Sunday-school, the Bible
Reading Association and the Sabbath Observ-
ance Society. No missionary tea-meeting
was complete without him. He looked on
smoking as a cardinal vice. He almost
fainted at the sight of beer. The supreme
episode in his blameless life came one evening
when he urged the unemployed in Well ngton
to advance in a body on Parliament and de-
mand toil or Joe Ward’s blood or something.
They took his advice and tramped several
hundred strong through the wind-swept
streets of Wellington on their mission, and
John, standing on the footpath, watched them
pass, wringing his hands and wondering
whether his name was Robespierre. He was
72 at the finish, a portly, hairy old gentle-
man, with roly-poly legs and a visage as
solemn as a haggis.
Accepting an invitation from his home
town (Bendigo > East), Tom Brennan, a
leader of the Vic. criminal bar, is standing
as a Liberal candidate. He has always been
in the opposite political camp to brother
Frank, member for Batman in the Reps.; and
brothers Willie and Harry, pillars of the
Argus staff, lmard the same boat as Tom on
polling days. The Vic. Assembly could do well
with the keen wit of Tom Brennan.
George Martin, who laid down life’s bur-
den at Geelong (Vie.) the other day, at 82,
was one of the Kyabrainapootras carried into
the Leg. Assembly on the crest of the wave
in 1902, and swept out 20 months later.
But he made so little stir in the House
during three sessions that politicians found
difficulty in recalling him in spite of his
plenteous ziff. At one time he was president
of the Baptist Union, and looked the part
down to the very last whisker.
Prendergast, leader of the Vic. Labor
Opposition, has found the Premiership an
elusive craft. He had hardly relinquished
his job in 1913, after nine years’ occupancy,
when Elmslie, his successor, managed to
fluke the Premiership (certainly only for 13
days), and Prepdererast had to be content
with second place. The other day he had the
first Minister’s billet almost in his grasp;
and once more it was snatched away by an
unkind fate. Things might be worse, though.
As Opposition leader and member he now
draws £7OO a year, and it was only £3OO up
to the end of 1919.
The N. S. Wales turf lost a staunch sup-
porter when big-hearted Augustus Hooke, of
Walcha, died last week. His most successful
horses were Jeweller (third in the 1593 Mel-
bourne Cup) and True Blue; but his heart
was warmer towards the picnic meetings in
country districts. The trophy he valued
most was the Bong Bong Gold Cup, won by
successive victories of Goldsmith (1900)
and Merline (1901). Later, he was a
breeder of note. For 15 years there was no
more painstaking member of the A.J.C. Com-
mittee. Hooke was a keen polo player a
good cricketer and golfer, one of the best
with a breech-loader, and there were few who
cared to face the 20-stoner with the gloves.
He went out alter a short illness at 50.
Though a bit doubtful whether it hasn’t
missed its real centenary, Wellington
(N.S.W.) il getting ready to celebrate in
September; and it intends to honor Mrs.
James Thompson as the queen of the day
For many years Wellington was merely a
convict station; but in 1859 a bullock-dray
arrived with goods for the setting-up of the
first store. Geo. England (still alive) was
the driver; and Mrs. Thompson and her
husband were passengers. She is 85, and
honor comes to her naturally as the oldest
white-woman resident of the district.
George Mayo, just dead in Adelaide at 7(1,
was out with McKinlay nearly GO years ago
in the Northern Territory, when the party
had to kill their horses to save their own
lives, finally paddling from the Alligator
River to Darwin on a sort of raft made with
the hides. The experience nearly killed the boy
of 18, but d.d not prevent his joining the
Dixon party which explored the Westralinn
wild south coast. Later, he studied in Edin-
burgh under Kelvin, and returned to S.A. as an
engineer. Of the clever family he leaves the
best known are Elton, a professor in Queens-
land Uni., and Helen, doctor of medicine and
the only woman-member of Adelaide Uni.
Council.
At Riverview College (Sydney) there is
a son of the late “Teddy” Larkin, the
M.L.A. who died at the' Gallipoli landing.
He passed the intermediate exam, last year,
before he was 13, and has already turned
out some respectable verse.
“Jim G.”: The last time I met artist
Edward Officer was at Kallara station, on
the Darling, 18 years ago. He and his
brothers Grahame (geologist) and Henry
(lawyer), who had inherited the run, had
just taken it over with the intention of man-
aging it. themselves, and, incidentally,
wiping off a debt of £BO,OOO which had
accrued through bad seasons and other
things. As Edward left £lB,OOO when he
went west recently, they must have succeeded,
lie was a nice little man who looked out at
life between a beard and a shock of hair;
and in a studio on the station he did some
of his best work of that period. Kallara
at that time comprised half-a-million acres;
and the £BO,OOO debt reminds me that on
the run two Chinese made several small for-
tunes from a patch of less than 10 acres.
But there was also a pub on a quarter of
an acre at the same place which made even
more than the Chinks and much easiei\ too.
In the Vic. whirlwind election Lawson is
carrying out a country campaign in the
Graham Berry style, but with train and car
facilities far beyond anything the old
Liberal leader ever dreamt of. . Thousands
of people who had
no idea what man-
ner of man the
head of the Gov-
ernment was have
been flocking to
hear him. II i s
platform oratory
imoroves nightly,
and his frankness
and plain story are
gripping the elec-
tors. Despite th?
slight bald patch
(discernible only
by men over six
feet, who can look
over his head),
Lawson retains
much of the engag-
ing youthful man-
ner that made him
a favorite with the
midland crowd
when he was a
champion Castle-
maine footballer.
PRENDERGAST,
leader of the Vic.
Opposition.
“Exul”: The death of Matron Great at
Sydney Hospital Recently is another fatal
case of procrastination. She had had previ-
ous attacks of appendicitis, but always had
declined to be operated upon. In her last
attack she was ill for two days before she
would see a surgeon, and although Herbert
Maitland operated as soon as poss ble after
examining her, the favorable moment had
passed, and the end was inevitable.
With a retinue to guard him and shoo away
newspaper men, Ratana the Healer is tour-
ing the Shaky Isfies, and daily adding “cures”
to his already lomg list of successes. When
he arrived at Lyttelton from the North Island
Gov.-Gen. Jellicpe was a passenger on the
same ferry ; but the crowd wasn’t interested
in the G.-G. —it was Ratana who received
the glad welcome.
SHOPPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’s a pretty, dainty lady, he’s a ruddy, brawny
brute;
It’s but three weeks since they married, so the matri-
monial recruit
Is simple, he is trusting and obsessed by Kitty’s
charm,
And he faces his undoing without thought of meet-
ing harm.
To the ribbon-counter Henry’s led; contentedly he
leans
While his girlie lingers, hoping she can match a pair
of greens.
Henry doesn’t mind it really, but before the deed
is done
There’s an ache all up his backbone that is riot
exactly fun.
Little Kitty wants some laces. They are on the
second floor.
The elevator’s loaded, but it takes a couple more.
liis Kitty comes out smiling, and she won’t be half
a sec.,
So he stands till he is footsore and has spasms in
his neck.
There’s enough to fill a tramcar (Henry’s buried in
the lot),
But they haven’t got the lace she wants —she’s looked
at all they’ve got;
So she’ll see those Indian bronzes. They are in the
basement, ma’am.
Henry follows little Kitty. All that Henry says is
“Damn 1”
There’s the hat she saw last Monday. It’s a darling,
she declares.
'lhe hat department’s higher up, and soft and slushy
swears *
Are oozing out of Henry as he fights his way again.
In the murmurs of fat women is his reputation slain.
His tender darling tries on hats, all little hats that
be
But the one she saw last Monday. Henry sloping
dolefully
On adjacent counters wonders if the jaunt will ever
stop.
Now Kitty wants a pair of boots, and boots are at
the top.
Again the lift, and paeking-in rubs buttons off his
vest.
He leans upon surrounding dames, and longs in vain
for rest.
His darling tries unending boot 3. Some gloves she
has to get,
Then dives back to the basement for half-a-yard
of net.
Now she needs a bit of ninon, which is somewhere
near the roof.
'the day is hot, the air distills a nauseating whoof.
They try the stairs to dodge the crowd. He meets
with sorrow’s crown
In the turgid crush of laden dames that’s slowly
surging down.
She wants a pair of stockings that will match her
nigger-brown.
She wants a veil, some buttons and a little morn-
ing gown.
These things are all about the shop, and drifting at
her heels
There goes a wretch who dare not speak the anguish
that he feels.
victoria.
EDWARD DYSON.


SENTINELS
THE BEST WAGGONS IN THE WORLD
for Heavy, Speedy Haulage.
Ask us for Figures and a Demonstration to Prove This.
“SENTINEL”
FEATURES.
Vertical Boiler.
All Parts
Accessible.
Slow Running
Engine.
Simple 8 Strong
Transmission.
Large Paying
Load Carried.
Easy
Manoeuvring.
Neat
Appearance.
■ am
m
mr
m: m*
m
mt
f*
mm
Standard 4-ton “Sentinel.’
: ;ij
.
h**
-ra
WWM
T 1 - • 1 ■ * §
fjp , V.S'V:
:'. "...
..
‘ •>> , ■■': ■.- f V< ,
Standard 6-ton “Sentinel,” 4-ton Trailer.
"SENTINEL”
FEATURES.
Coke or Goal
Fuel.
Absence of
Smoke and
Nuisance.
Reliability.
Durability.
Low Cost
Operation
and Upkeep.
"Close-up”
Road View.
Driving
Gomfort.
STANDARD “SENTINEL”
MODELS.
ǻ
Prompt Delivery from English Works.
Thousands of “Sentinels” in use throughout England.
Full Particulars from the Australian Representatives:
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 COMPANY Limited
SYDNEY:
171-175 Clarence St.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward & Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St
ADELAIDE:
96 Currie St
NEWCASTLE
Watt St
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron St


r
Spring revives
the Sports Suit
With the coming of Spring Peapes’ Sports Suits
will be more popular than ever.
Illustrated is a new one in medium Grey English
Flannel, finished with half-belt and vent at back,
three-button front, and three outside pockets.
The trousers have side, hip and fob pockets, belt-
loops and permanent turn-up bottoms.
Although pictured here as a Golf Suit, it is equally
useful for general lounge wear, for travelling, moun-
tains or seaside. 84/-
Peapes Pay Postage.
Please state height, chest, waist
and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
£l7/17/-. COMPLETE WITH CASE.
TWO TYPEWRITERS IN ONE
Use Corona at tho office during the day. Use
it at home evenings. It’s easy to carry
back and forth. Weighs but 6 pounds.
Easy payments if desired. Why not try one
out to-day 1
CoroNA
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
19 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SC 5 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
“Fantod” : I was in the middle of a dance
the other night when I heard a tinkle of
metal on the floor and looking down saw a
bearing liner about the size that would fit;
on a half-inch shaft. “Some motorist with
a pocketful of spare parts,” I thought. At
that moment there was another tinkle and
a rap, and the second half of the liner and
a steel pin dropped. Then a queer thing
happened: the chap who dropped them
seemed to crumple on one side. I picked him
up, also the spare parts. He was dismally
sober. “Down to the cloak-room, quick,” he
said. I half-dragged, half-carried him down,
and when the door was shut he pulled up
the leg of his pants and putting the liners
THE CLOUD ON A PERFECT DAY.
THE ONE : “Stop yer prowling. I can't 'elp
the wind, can I?”
T HE OTHER: “ Who's saying anything ag'in'
the wind? It’s the dust I’m talking
about —I can't see the sights.”
back on the pin fixed up his artificial leg.
He was back in time to finish the dance with
his amazed partner. These modern artificial
limbs are wonderful things as long as they
hold together: that chap danced faultlessly.
“Friday Island”; The Commonwealth
didn’t lose over every sale of surplus war
stores and equipment. Kicker was an ultra-
mulish mule who, during the war, was
attached to the Royal Australian Garrison
Artillery at Thursday Island for machine-
gun transport duty, etc. The Armistice
ended his usefulness as a soldier. Live-stock
sales are rare in T.I. (two horses and
1,000,000 unbranded goats comprising
the local quadruped population), so a large
crowd collected to witness Kicker’s official
demobilisation. The auctioneer was a shell
agent, whose minimum retaining fee for
auction sales was £1 Is. Advertising and
Government proclamations came to 14 shill-
ings. An enterprising trader bought Kicker
out of the Army for 375. 6d., leaving the
Commonwealth the handsome sum of 2s. 6d.
with which to finance Repatriation problems.
A week later Kicker had forgotten his mili-
tary discipline and started a brawl in the
street, in the middle of which a bruised native
picked himself out of a melange of dust,
copra and bags exclaiming, “My word, horse
belonga soldier him plenty debil!” Atavism.
* * * *
“Iota”: Recently contributors have been
disturbing the forgotten past in their quest
for records of wife-dealers. The business is
by no means out of date if I read aright this
advt. in the Argus (16/8/’2l) :
Young Digger, in hospital, wishes to cash £7O
war-bond for wife. A.Z., Argus.
* * * *
“Centurion”: A lot of fuss is being made
about the recent outbreak of malaria in the
Northern Territory, and it has been at once'
ascribed to infection carried by returned sol-
diers. The writer,
on his return from
the Palestine
front, was one of
the first to sound
a warning in Tiie
Bulletin as to
the infectivity of
returned malarial
cases, but he had
in mind such non-
malarial districts
as Sydney, where
the anopheles mos-
quito is found, but
not in an infected
condition. Malaria
has been a source
of trouble to the
white man in Aus-
tralia since the
early days, especi-
all y in Queens-
land. The writer
and his brother
and sisters all had
it as kiddies on
the Upper Barcoo
in the early
'eighties, an d it
was common all
over Western Queensland. In
later days it disappeared, owing
probably to heavy stocking of
sheep, which abolished what the
golfers call “casual water,” in
which the anopheles breeds.
Malaria is still very common in
Northern Queensland, which makes
the pained astonishment of the
press the more remarkable. The
N.T. has nothing extra to fear
from soldier carriers. It has a
line brand of home-grown malaria
on the premises.
“W.T.M.”: When the gold rush to Mount
Brown, in the Barrier Ranges (N^S.W.) ■
took place in 1880, Duncan
Mcßryde, now a member of the
Board of the Broken Hill Prop.,
was living on his station,
Mount Poole, formerly known
as Depot Glen. The glen
itself, about 80 miles from
Broken Hill, is now known as
Rocky Glen, and is the tragic
spot to which Sturt’s explora-
tion party wms driven by the
burning drought of 1844. It
was here that Sturt’s second-
in-command. John Poole, died
in July, 1845, when, the drought
having broken, he was being
sent back, a very sick man, to
the Darling. Tip till 18S0 his
grave had been simply marked
by his initials, “J.P.,” cut in a
tree. Then Mcßryde had a
slab of marble carted to the
spot, and got a mason among the crowd of
diggers to carve an inscription. Still stand-
ing out on the lonely salt-bush plains, with a
rough fence enclosing the grave, it reads: —
To the Memory of John Poole, Seccond in com-
mand of Sturt’s Exploring Party. Died here on the
16th July, 1845.
Poole it was who climbed to the summit of
the Broken Hill, the highest point in the
Barrier Range, and, according to Sturt’s nar-
rative, peered out “on the blue inland sea”
—the deceptive mirage of the West Darling
plains which* lured the party to disaster and
Poole to his grave.
♦ * * *
From somebody’s “dental parlor”:—
From the Italian Madonnas of the early Middle
Ages onward the painter has usually found his ideal
of woman’s beauty in the oval face. Such a face
means small jaws. And small jaws involve a crowd-
ing of the teeth and work for the dentist. It isn’t
fair to give the artists all the blame; but they have
certainly helped to direct and develop that process
of secondary sexual selection which has played a
part in the evolution of the small jaw.
Prehistoric man, like modern politicians and most
present-day savages, had a lot of jaw. He was a
prognathous being with a square chin, like that of
W. A. Watt, and plenty of room for his teeth. His
modern descendants with pointed chins try to crowd
the same number of teeth into a smaller area and
get toothache. The point of the jaw is our weak
point. A British committee of experts which went
exhaustively into the question some years ago re-
ported that there had been no appreciable degenera-
tion in the skeletal make-up of the British race,
except in the jaws. Professor Keith thinks that in
course of time, say 500,000 years, we will have met
the position by having 26 teeth instead of 32, elimi-
nating the four wisdom teeth and the two lateral
incisors. In those happy days there may be no
dentists. Already there are some persons who
never cut their wisdom teeth, and many more who
leave it till very late in life. The lateral incisors
tend to get squeezed out.
It has been calculated that the aborigines had an
average over two inches more of grinding surface
than white Australians. If an abo. had teeth
trouble it was mostly due to wearing down by hard
tucker, not to decay or squeezing. Some years ago
Melbourne odontologists examined 500 school-
children at Port Melbourne and found but one abso-
REST FOR THE EYES.
“I don't think my husband would like to sec
me in that!”
“Bon disu, madame —are you necaire to con-
sider your friends ?”
lutely sound set of teeth amongst the lot. A little
later one of them, Dr. Brooke Nicholls, examined 24
Tasmanian half-caste children at Cape Barren
Island. Twelve of them had perfectly sound teeth.
We might rub along without artists, but in the
state to which they and other influences have brought
us we can’t do without dentists. But preventive
dentistry is almofct unknown in Australia. In N. S.
Wales the State dental clinics treated 15,926 children
in 1918 and 13,758 in 1919, out of nearly 300,000
attending State schools, of whom over 95 per cent.
needed treatment. It is safe to reckon that a very
small proportion are treated anywhere else. N. S.
Wales has 12 dental officers and six assistants; Vic.
has just plunged and put on a couple, while other
States mostly haven’t any. For the training of
dentists we depend largely on U.S.A. Sydney Uni-
versity has just added a chair of dental science with
Fairfax Reading as professor, but the far older and
larger Melbourne school (with 150 students as against
80) has no professor and dashed little else. There
is encouragement in Professor Keith’s idea that we
will be all right in half-a-million years, but long
before then a lot of us will have dug our graves
with the teeth we have but oughtn’t to have.
.*■ * * *
“Booleroo”: “M.D.” wisely remarks (B.
11/8/’2l) that other hospitals would do well
to follow the example of the Melbourne Hos-
pital in inoculating r.«.rses against typhoid.
He will be interested to hear that the Broken
Hill Hospital has been doing this for many
years, and, in addition, commenced in 1920
to protect them against diphtheria in a
similar way, using for the purpose a mix-
ture of diphtheria toxin and anti-toxin. Only
three injections are necessary, as in the case
of tvplioid. The protective mixture was
made in Australia by the Commonwealth
Serum Laboratories in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The Repat. has an idea
sometimes that only the paragon of the
family was killed. One family consisted of
five boys over 18, bes’des the younger child-
ren, and, whilst four of the boys enlisted,
only Jack was killed. Now it appears that,
dad being dead, Jack was the one who kept
the family going. At times it seems almost
}f a good thing for Tom or Jack
or Bill or whoever it was who died that he
is dead, his home job was such a tough one.
But occasionally the show is given away. Of
course, a brother is not reckoned as having
acted in loco parentis if there is an able-
bodied father about. A half-drunk came in
one day and announced that he was there
to shake things up. “They told me if I kept
away from ’orae I would get my cut out of
it; and I’m here to see what you’re doing.
How long d’ye expect a man to live on air? - ’
He left with the bearing of a man who felt
that he had moved things: and he had. Two
days later the refusal of the family’s appli-
cation went out.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: August 12 was the 80th anniver-
sary of the opening of the Melbourne G.P.0..
then a small brick building on the s«e of the
present pile. The first. P.O. was a slab hut in
Flinders-street, near King-street. Capt.
Baxter was the postmaster, but the work
was done by his wife. Later the office
was removed to a cottage in Chancery-lane,
where one David Kelch was in charge—an
old curmudgeon who could be civil to no one
excepting a crony or two. Kelch was the
first p.m. on the present site. In 1842
Governor Gipns visited Port Phillip and was
so dissatisfied with the postal arrangements
that, on his return, he sent Henry Darling
Kemp (accountant at the Sydney G.P.O.
under James Raymond) to inquire and re-
port. On that report Kelch was relieved
and Kemp himself was appointed first official
postmaster. The brick building was suc-
ceeded by one of weatherboard, which did
duty—with additions in the gold era —until
the early ’sixties, when the present big place
was commenced.
* * * *
“H.M.R.” : A dear old lady I knew, who
made her poddy calves remember the Sab-
bath day by feeding them then twice instead
of three times, has been matched in our
N. S. Wales township by a man, equally
devout, who, horrified by the gambolling*
of Fido on Sundays, nailed up the hound
in his kennel behind wooden bars. But the
hound, mistaking his part, howled dis-
mally, and a neighbor whose soul wasn’t
of the same complexion as the dog-owner’s
3aid an information against him, and had
him fined 20s. and costs for being a common
nuisance.
M. U •
ANOTHER OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE.
“But what makes von think her complexion
is applied ?”
“Three of her husbands have died from
painters colic!”
IMPENITENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We grieve not for our sins,
Though sometimes for our pence;
When sorrow barks our shins
We call it penitence,
And thus hope to placate
The vengeance of our fate.
At least I do not grieve:
I sinned perchance—or not.
My heart I’ll not deceive,
When grieving o’er my lot:
The thing that makes me sore
Is I can sin no more.
The cash too freely spent
I may perhaps regret,
Not as a penitent
Who would his deeds forget,
But one whom scanty pence
Compels to abstinence.
From ev’ry pleasant track
That lures my feet astray,
'Tis weary turning back
When thorns obstruct the way;
Yet, though I found its pain,
I’d take that track again.
Out, dull repentance, out!
Though trouble has me bent
Awhile, the thought I flout
That I should e’er repent
The joys I once found nice—
I cannot raise the price!
K.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.
MORNING NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wattle boughs are yellow,
But halt a world away
Some hurried eager fellow
Has sent us word to say
That the Russian famine is more severe,
That peace may not last till this time next year.
That nations are cheap and that money is dear
And the Empire pauses to scratch its car
At a phase of the Irish question.
Winds are madly shaking
The printed morning screed;
But through their merry-making
This is what I read:
That railway fares may be raised again,
That West Sydney election is cause for pain,
That the Good Roads Loan has been raised in vain.
For the highways are breaking under the strain
Of our unrelieved congestion.
Snnshfne laughs and dances
Along the happy hill;
Morning’s earliest glances
Find the statements still
That Ticklewell’s pills should be taken on tour,
That Lard and Co.’s ointment is safe and sure,
That Stickemon’s plasters will certainly cure
And that Puff’s Airy Fables are splendid for youl-
- indigestion.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


titijft ij| in fji lil ill 111 lil lit ill ill ill iis ill ill ill lii iiili iii iii in iii m ill ill ill ill iii ill ill ii| |*| |i| |!| |i| |t| m §!i |ii i 1! ill sis |!| m |!| i!f i?i ill |!i iii ill ill i!
<SMBa •Z-iT
«]
N
■r
Weft
m
m
VI
sa
u
p*s|
v>J
I
m
f
2
«>
as
H
i
[§j
1
m
i
ira
,w
J®?
0
HK
NH
1
Kg
is£23S^
m
mm
: UU
I 7/
i
imii
mm
Va
mm
u
vv.y.v/.v
99
99
m
iiViiV.V*i*v i
m
V.W.W.V.V*.
V* ••»•*•*.«**»
H
1
if
il
fr-l SBT!l
‘
' . - ■
m
m
m
9*
hi
>K<
I TTT
liiSS
m 4
SK
ilii.it
5
St
S 3?
rrr,.-:;,Tn
S 5
sa»
UtititiUUlit
123
WHHMIWKHf
fit•f«tititif
xl:—
fi a a.ut n mj a m na ii £
r
AS A
PIANO
FOR THE PIANIST:
student, amateur or pro-
fessional, the quality of
the Duo-Art as an in-
strument for hand play-
ing is the very highest
that the leaders in mod-
ern musical instrument
manufacture can pro-
duce.
The Steinway Duo-Art
is a genuine Steinway
Piano made by Stein way
& Sons. Its tone just as
distinctive, its action as
delicate, as if it were
a Steinway Piano and
nothing more.
The Weber Duo-Art has
all the famous Weber
qualities—its rich, lyric
tone, the ideals that were
originally responsible
for its reputationremain
unchanged through the
years.
The Stech and Stroud
Duo-Arts, while pianos
of more popular price,
stand in a position su-
preme in their class, and
offer unequalled value
at the price, both in tone
and elegance.
r THE
Duo- Art
Pianola
AS A
REPRODUCING
PIANO
flie Duo-Art Pianola reproduces keyboard
performances with absolute variety of detail.
From the first note sounded to the finale, the
entire performance will he the actual playing
of some notable pianist.
As the Artist plays, so one hears.
Just pause and grasp the significance of this
statement.
In one s own home, and at one s will, Pade-
rewski, Hofmann, Harold Bauer, Percy
Grainger and scores of others will step to
the pianoforte and play —will actually equal
their best performances upon the concert
stage.
The Duo-Art Pianola is built in the following
pianos only :
STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD
and famous WEBER.
Your present instrument accepted in part payment, and
moderate monthly payments arranged.
' AS A '
PIANOLA
For the thousands o£
lovers of music who
have never learned to
play, the Duo-Art opens
up a vast Treasure
House of music. The
Duo-Art is a Genuine
Pianola; the original
and standard player
piano, simple to operate,
playing any regulation
88-note music-roll.
It possesses famous de-
vices for regulating the
tempo and expression,
so artistic in their
effects, that anyone
who cares for music
can sit down and play
to his heart’s content.
Practically all classics
and modern music are
at his disposal.
The fascination of play-
ing oneself can never
he gainsaid. The privi-
lege and pleasure the
Pianola has brought into
countless homes can
never he computed.
The Aeolian Company (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporating The Pianola Company),
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
nnc-w CT RpiQRiNE 58 RUNDLE ST.. ADELAIDE.
Also at 252 COLLINS 3T„ MELBOURNE. 436 QUEEN ST.. BRISBANfc,
FILL IN COUPON, AND POST TO-DAY.
Please post me Art Catalog and
Price List of the Duo-Art Pianola,
Name .
Address
1060


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British-made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off, you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink-flow to suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in a flash from any ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTO.
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONCHURST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask for Onofo Ink —Best for ail Peos.
o
G
STR6
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
“Herodot” on a great man’s start: —
One of Australia’, l ! loading surgeons graduated into
the ranks of the specialists after a few years in a
large country town followed by a trip to Europe.
The day of his first, appearance in his city consult-
ing rooms saw him with no other resources than
youth, a boundless confidence in his skill and know-
ledge, and a few pounds. For the time being every-
thing in the rooms was in confusion; a case of in-
struments stood on the floor still unpacked, the wrap-
ings were unremoved from the legs of the brand-
new examining table, and even the telephone was
reposing on his desk, as yet unconnected with “Cen-
tral.” He certainly didn’t expect any patients just
yet. But in a few minutes the attendant announced
that a gentleman who looked pretty sick was wait-
ing to see him. As the caller entered the inner
room, in which sat the future leading surgeon, the
latter, with the idea of impressing him, picked
up the unconnected telephone and began an imag-
inary conversation into it. lie spoke of operations
Hint he was about to perform, insisting that he would
be unable to carve up an ailing Judge at -‘5 pan.
the next day, as he would be engaged at that hour
at the University. After five minutes of this, during
which the caller sat with a look of patient suffering
on his face, the great surgeon-to-be put down the
receiver, and, turning to him, inquired, with just
the right shade of professional inflection in his
voice, what he could do for him. The visitor coughed
hollowly, paused to regain his breath, then said :
"I’ve come to fix yer telephone.”
“General Practitioner”: In the good times
coming “typhoid carriers” will be reckoned
with seriously, and legislation will be intro-
duced so that the carrier, if he proves obsti-
nate and refuses surgical treatment (his only
chance of not being a pest to his fellow
ART AND THE TIM BERM AN.
THE PROFITEER: “Yes, I saw this picture,
‘Big Timber,' six months ago. What
do you want for it now?"
THE ARTIST: “Just the same 150 guineas."
THE PROFITEER: “The same! Why, dammit,
man, timber's dropped 20 per cent, this
month!"
citizens), will very likely find himself iso-
lated for the rest of his life. The Geelong
authorities are seeking for carriers to explain
the recent case of smallpox there, and a
malaria carrier has been found in the North-
ern Territory and accused of being respon-
sible for an outbreak of malignant malaria.
When epidemics occur there is an increased
tendency amongst medical men to look for
the human factor. In the war, when two
or three cases occurred in a unit, a man-
NOT HIS FAULT.
THE YOUNG WIDOW : "Oh, if that is so, how did yon come to propose to me last Fri-
day?"
THE YOUNG LAMB: "I didn't come to propose to you; I conic merely to spend the cren-
ing."
hunt immediately began, and there was great
jubilation in preventive-medicine ranks when
a carrier was found and despatched to
Blighty, thereby, perhaps, preventing a seri-
ous outbreak. Formerly, bad drains, bad
smells, oysters, slums and defective sanitary
arrangements got the blame in turn for
typhoid outbreaks, but the carrier is perhaps
a greater danger than all these combined.
#*• •**.
“Put”: The parsons are protesting against
the proposed N. S. Wales State Lottery Bill:
yet were not lotteries the
acknowledged form of gamb-
ling in Biblical times?
Aaron, Joshua, Jonathan,
David, Isaiah, Jonah and
a host of others all resorted
to it without let or hind-
rance whenever there was a
divide. Even the cheerful
Jeremiah could find nothing
wrong with a throw of the
dice. David certainly had a
grouch when the liberty of
casting lots for his raiment
was taken by the sons of
Belial, but he never ques-
tioned the casting Besides,
two Apostles have stated
that a lottery was held for
the garments of the Man of
Sorrows in order that some
prophecy might be fulfilled.
If lotteries were OK in
those days, how can the par-
sons escape the charge of
being up against the Bible
when they cry out that lot-
teries are sinful to-day?
# # *
“Advance” : The A.I.F. absentees of “Ex-
Dig.” and “Howitzer” (B. 11/8/’2l) are
overshadowed by the South Australian cham-
pion. He was the son of a John Hop and
his only incursion into “society” previous to
the war was by the tradesmen’s entrance
per medium of a milk float. This 19-year-old
swanker on his first leave raised three pips
and stayed at the Bitz (London) with a
munition girl, whose pal innocently gave the
show away by telling the manager that
“Lizzie, who had married a lord in the Aus-
tralian Army.” was wanted at the Arsenal
on the night-shift. That error of judgment
brought our hero 90 days. Then he went to
the war just in time for Passgbendaele and got
a machine-gun wound in the foot. That
took him to Brighton, where he went A.W.L.
again, and got engaged to the daughter of a
London stockbroker at the Metropole Hotel.
But her papa called at Horseferry-road for
the credentials of the gallant officer, and No.
2 episode ended with six months in the
cooler. Dumped at No. I Command Depot,
the ex-inilk-oh chafed at the monotony and
sallied forth as a "plain sub.” He joined
the shooting parties of dukes, the golfing ren-
dezvous of the elite were opened to him, and
the drawing-rooms of the nobility furnished
him with company. In Liverpool he gave
a dinner-party to a leading theatrical crowd
at the swagger hotel, but failed to keep an
appointment with the cashier. In another
town he reviewed the local cadets and
finished up by opening a Y.W.C.A. hostel,
The unfortunate occurrence of trying to raise
a loan from a military policeman ended his
English career, and he came back under
escort to the City of Churches.
"King Royce” : Before Jones went to the
funeral of his best friend the other day he
had attempted to drown his grief in beer,
and through the graveside ceremony he stood
staring down with pensive solemnity at his
old pal’s long, last home. The little congre-
gation, thinking he was. overcome by emo-
tion, looked with sympathy on the slightly-
swaying figure. At last the parson said in
mournful tones: “Ashes to ashes; dust to
dust.” There was an impressive hush ; then
Jones, nodding down at the coffin, said in
a conciliatory tone, “Well, vou can’t have
anything fairer than that now (hie), can
you ?”
* * # *
“Percy Pawnticket” in a shaky hand: —
Sometimes Sydney seems full of dogs; sometimes
it doesn’t. I spent the greater part of a recent cold
afternoon stumbling over mongrels that had seen
better days—chilled, despondent animals with droop-
ing tails, that sniffed desolately outside bar-doors at
the odor of counter-lunch which came from within,
or nosed the gutters. A big sympathy for the dis-
consolate curs swelled within me. With a glow of
benevolence which made me happy I entered a small-
goods emporium and purchased a store of hot save-
loys. With the bag in one hand and a saveloy in the
other, ready to bestow upon the first dog I met, I
commenced my pilgrimage. But every dog in Sydney
seemed to have suddenly gone away to a stop work
meeting or something; and all I met was a suc-
cession of friends, who didn’t appear cordial when
I waved the saveloy at them. After doing the block
I discovered a dog trying to obtain nourishment from
what appeared to be an old bit of leather. With
encouraging language and an extended saveloy I
approached; but the dog retreated suspiciously, and
when I approached further he turned tail. As I
ehased him he ran: and, pitying his fearfulness, I
threw the food after him, hoping he would stop and
pick it up. Instead it struck a stout citizen who was
just coming round a corner, and the cur dashed away
with a yelp. The stout citizen seemed annoyed in
spite of my apologies, and when I offered him a ni-e
new saveloy from the bag he became apoplectic. I
had a long search before I found another dog. One
snarled at me when I approached with the extended
food and retreating into a shop doorway prepared
to sell its life dearly; another grabbed so wildlv at
the nourishment that it bit off half before I could
let go the balance, and bolted for the horizon. The
next dog 1 met looked too well-eared for to need
philanthropy, but, having got tired of chasing needy
curs, 1 fed him, and he accepted my hospitality in a
fiiendly spirit. I was just giving him his third tit-
bit, apparently to the delight of the idlers, who re-
garded the spectacle of a man feeding a dog in
Geoige-street as a fine show, when the dog's owner
came from a shop and accused me of trying to poison
his property. I put my bag on the ground whilst 1
spoke to him, for he was inclined to be violent; and
I was just convincing him that my intentions were
honorable when we found ourselves in the middle c.f
a mixed dog-fight. A strange dog, with several
others on its trail, had found my bag of food, and
the well-fed animal had lodged an action for trespass.
1 n about two seconds there were over a dozen
animals scrapping; then one broke away with the bag
in his mouth. The bag burst, and the avalanche of
pursuit fell on the scattered sausages, after tripping
up two old ladies and a telegraph boy. A policeman
charged me with creating a disnnbance and was
inclined to be nasty ; but finally fold me not to do
it again. I won't.
“C.P.S.” : The law may be an ass; still, it
isn’t necessary to bray in its presence. At
Blackheath (N.S.W.) the other clay, during
a public meeting in a hall where smoking
was prohibited, one man called down upon
himself the attention of the police by light-
ing up. After the inevitable argument with
the constable he was escorted to the police-
station and a charge was laid against him.
On searching him the authorities discovered
a revolver. Further charge: carrying fire-
arms without a license. On closer inspection
the revolver was found to be of the Navy
pattern. As lie failed to explain satisfac-
torily how it came into his possession, the
police communicated with Naval 11. Q., and
word was received that the man’s descrip-
tion tallied with that of a naval deserter.
The argumentative smoker is now safely in
the hands of "bells.” Mannix said in Queens-
land: "There is a time to keep silence.” This
chap didn't know the .time —and a policeman
told him.
The ultimate good luck of a prisoner con-
victed of the theft of a big sum of money
from the house of a bookmaker at Kensing-
ton (Sydney) opened the prison gates for
him the other day. Incidentally, it gave
circumstantial evidence another bad bump.
When he was convicted, and sentenced to IS
months’ "hard,” the Crown case seemed con-
vincing, and his first appeal was re-
fused. Then a man who claimed that
three others had helped him on the job
became disgruntled at the manner in which
the spoils were distributed : and, having
rapidly dissipated the short share given him,
he took his story to the police. Meantime
the prisoner had been in Long I>av for two
months. It was only a foolish neglect of
the policy of honor among thieves that
enabled him to escape the other 14.
EVE'S LEGACY.
THE DAME : “This awful weather makes one
appreciate good warm clothing, doesn't
it?"
THE DEVIL : “Yes, makes you feel glad Ere
ate that apple, don't it?"
THE QUEEN OF THE GARDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
11 hen Margery, the wheelbarrow, was coming up the
hill
She kicked me thrice behind the shins —I feel the
bruises still ;
Bui Margery, the wheelbarrow, had other songs to
sing
\! hen I bade her think on Sunday of the blossoms in
the Spring.
1 hey say her arms are rather short; and, therefore,
when I bow
Between the shafts to lead her home she kicks me
like a cow.
But up and down the garden paths I make her sing
to me
Of tender pink that comes to crown the new-pruned
apple-tree.
It ith Margery, the wheelbarre-w, I jazzed a frosty'
hour
Until her wheel was dizzy with the thought of wattle-
flower ;
For, though a winter rose may nod and stocks grow
dusty green,
The short-armed lady with the kick is still the
garden’s queen.
The spring is blowing up the world. The hyacinths
are blue;
The split potatoes’ greenish eyes cry loud of work
to do.
The scent of fresh brown earth is keen for deeds
of new romance;
And Margery, the wheelbarrow, must do her song-
and-dance.
N.S.W.
GEO. STREET.


a
à
á
â
ã
ä
PLAYER-PIANO is invaluable only in-so-far as it is
truthful in its reflection of the operator s intentions.
The smooth, clear, rapid technique of the New Beale is en-
riched by a method of control which enables the subtlest
ckarlps of every composition to be fully explored. It is an
interpretive instrument upon which the musician with an indifferent
manual training finds pleasure as great as that of the virtuoso. It is an
instrument limited only by the performers own knowledge of music.
‘Descriptive ‘Booklets posted free to ctriy dddress.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
SYDNEY
BEALE s’COMPANY UP
Head Office and Factories
41-47 Trafalgar Street
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES-W StV ■ Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Vic: Maples in aU Melbourne Suburbs.
Wffia™ Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A, John Evans Ltd., Adel,He. W.A. ; J. A.Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
*•
1] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4k% Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
*3
King Cjeorge IV
TheTOP-KOTCH’Scotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Steve Hart” : I won’t have cungevoi men-
tioned by “Aragun” (B. 30/6/’2l) as a reliever of
the pain caused by the stinging-tree. I purposely
touched the tree with my left and right forearms.
Then I rubbed the right with the sap from the
stinging-tree stem and the left with cungevoi. I
am writing this par with my right hand and have
no pain in the arm, but the cungevoi-treated left
has five hard, white lumps surrounded by red angry-
looking skin, and is stinging like—well, yes, just
like that.
“Exul”: In this rabbit-cat controversy I
must now admit that “Hamer” and his supporters
are right and “Merlin” and myself wrong. My
opinion has been changed by an animal that I
caught while spinning for ’couta a fortnight ago
in Storm Bay (Tas.). This was a cross between a
cockatoo and a flying-fish. It had the head and legs
of the former and the fins and tail of the latter. It
was black and yellow-feathered above and had pink-
ish white scales underneath. I took it home and
kept it in my study in a bucket of water sur-
mounted by a wire cage. It soon learned to talk and
gave me much valuable biological information, which
I am forwarding to the Society for Psychical Re-
search with a request that they transmit it to the
late Charles Darwin. He will be interested to learn
authoritatively that his views on the mutual infer-
tility of different species, formulated after much
laborious and careful observation, were all wrong.
He will be astounded when he hears of fertility
between different orders (let alone species) such as
cats (carnivora) and rabbits (rodents), also cats and
monkeys (primates), and different sections of sub-
classes like cats ( eutheria ) and wallabies (meta-
theria). But my captive told me it was so. He
said his diet was a cross between oysters and wild
oats. At his own suggestion he posed on the
windowsill for a photo which I had hoped to send
along with this interesting account, but just as I
was about to press the button a lady flying-fox
sailed past the open window. The mating instinct
was too much for him—1 lost him for ever.
A woman's dry from a far-back station:—
Some time ago “Raggedie Wun” spoke of lonely
jobs. Well, I’ve been cooking here for 18 months.
There are plenty of people, but through no fault of
my own I happen to have been born a woman, and
I’m the only one on the station. A whole week will
go by and practically not a word will be spoken to
me. I being a woman the men avoid me because
of what the others might say, and if I make friendly-
advances to one the other fellows “put in the dirt,”
so I've got to keep to myself. Unlike “Raggedie” I
can’t hit my mate with the sauce-bottle, because I’ve
got no mate to hit. The loneliness that comes from
uncongenial companionship is much greater than that
which comes of complete isolation.
* * * *
“R. E. Dier”: I just want to remark that
•f. Torney, an employee of Teliehie station (S.A.),
last week walked from the siding, a distance of 35
miles as the crow flies, in eight hours, and that
the said P. Torney is 72 years young. Teliehie is
up in the dry saltbush country—out where the dead
men lie. But that’s where the live men do live.
* * * *
“F.II.T.”: Re “Booleroo” and his mos-
quitoes (B. 7/7/’21). The Stegomyia fasciata
(ealopus ), or tiger-mosquito, is known to breed in
house-water tanks, flower vases, fire-sprinkler tanks
(120 feet above road level), sump pits in gold-
mines (Charters Towers, N.Q.), sagging house-gutters
and occasionally in old tins, beer bottles, etc. Thus
it is essentially a house mosquito, as was proved in
the yellow-fever outbreak in New Orleans in 1902.
Stegomyia fasciata occurs in all the coast towns of
Queensland and many of those inland, in the N.T.
.and in Papua. It is an even bet that if you catch
10 skeeters (in the daytime) in a house in Queens-
land all of them will be tigers. At night-time they
will be associated with the “filaria” mosquito (Culex
fatigans). The eggs of the tiger-mosquito retain
their vitality after being dried for three months and
even after they have been frozen. So close scrutiny
must be made of all likely and unlikely breeding
places for the presence of Stegomyia fasciata when
combating it, as one place missed will nullify the
entire work in a tow r n. As to control methods, the
screening of tanks with brass or bronze gauze (zinc
gauze is quite useless, as it weathers) with a mesh of
not less than 20 to the inch, and the regular empty-
ing of all household utensils containing water at
least once a week, will be found, in general, to meet
the case effectively.
•» * *, *
“5690”: I can believe “Hamer’s” yarn (B.
19/5/’21) re the hybrid progeny of cats and rabbits.
The owner of a selection of 640 acres told me his
ground was netted and rabbit-proof. There were
some hollow logs, and three or four toms lived there
in a semi-wild state. In 1913 he put eight doe
rabbits into the section, and they crossed with the
tom-cats ; and in 1917, the year of the mouse plague,
there were about 1000 hybrids on the section, and
they took to killing and eating the mice. He
was the only farmer in the district that didn’t have
to drill in his seed the second time. This is a true
yarn and “Merlin” can eat anything he likes.
* * * *
“Iotefa” Being stranded on a forgotten
isle with many bicycles and, at times, no solution
for repairing punctures, can any Abo.-ite come to
my rescue? When a receptacle holding solution
is once opened the climate soon gets to work and
the solution perishes in no time. There are plenty
of old inner tubes about, and I am wondering if
they could be converted into a solution. If so,
would someone pass me the process ?
* * * *
“Bill R.”: The origin of the Australian
term “ringer” asked for by “Jimsey” (B. 21/7/’21)
lies in our time-honored assurance that our favorite
athlete can always “run rings” round his opponents.
The feat was once, at least, performed, when Tom
Ferguson, Marulan (N.S.W.) flier of last mid-century,
whirled in circles twice around a rival pedestrian
during the course of their 200-yards flutter for
£50 a side. “Jimsey” is incorrect in asserting that
the word is nowadays applied only to the sheep-
barbering fraternity. The top scorer at a hare- or
wallaby-drive still earns his three cheers for being
the “ringer” when the day’s slaughtering is done;
the best dog in a rabbiter’s pack is always his
“ringer,” and there is a “ringer” in every bullock-
team between Tibooburra and Twofold Bay.
“Lokohu”: While the Minister for Home
and Territories was in Papua recently a deputation
urged that the protection of birds-of-paradise should
be lifted. There has been an absolutely close season
in Papua for 14 years, and during this period the
shooting of the birds has been a source of great
profit. in German and Dutch New Guinea. When
it is known that the bird-of-paradise is protected
by nature until he is four years old, and breeds
ENERVATING.
MAGISTRATE : “It appears that accused hit you on Etc mouth, knocked your teeth out,
hit you in the eye, burst your jaw, dropped: you on the ground, stamped on
you and broke your ribs. Now, what did you do?”
COMPLAINANT: “ Nothin’. I never got so tired of a man in me life.”
after a year old, it is hard to see why the prohibi-
tion should be so drastic. The mature birds do not
grow' their wonderful plumes until they are over
three years of age; prior to this they are not worth
collecting. The deputation submitted a scheme to
allow of the collecting of mature birds under drastic
restriction as to number shot by any one shooter,
and permitting one section of the colony to be open
while the other five-sixths were closed. It was
suggested that an excise duty of £1 per head should
be collected on all birds shot, which would bring in
a revenue of several thousand's each year. At pre-
sent the Territory of Papua is a breeding preserve
for the benefit of shooters in the neighboring
colonies, for legislation doesn't prevent the birds
flying across the borders. By the way, England,
which initiated the preservation of wild birds, has
not so far brought into effect a Plumage Act; and
London is still the centre of the trade in feathers.
* • * * *
“A.M.8.”: Has any Abo.-liar any idea of
how far a frog will travel to return to his possie?
My' old landlady allowed two to camp under her bar
counter for over a year, and they were always to be
found there during sleepy time, no matter how far
they - might stroll in search of tucker. Lately one of
them developed a habit of crawling up among the
tumblers, so the old girl handed him to me one night,
with a piece of red wool tied on his leg, and asked
me to “stray” him for her. I “stray ed” him accord-
ingly—along the creek about three miles from town.
Three weeks later he was back in his possie, red yvool
and all.
THE THEORETICAL AXEMAN.
SALESMAN : “No, sir. The axe you require
is just out of stock. But you will find
the one you are handling quite a superior
article. In fact, I have no hesitation in
saying the best—quite the right balance
and weight—of flawless steel and excel-
lent grip”-
TIMBER-GETTER : “ ’Ow th' ’ell do you know?”
“Optometrist”: Re “M.D.’s” explanation
(B. 21/7/’2l) as to the three Wagragobilly (N S W
farmers who became dizzy and blind while working
in the same corner of-a field. He explains the
mechanism of accommodation of the eye, and how-
the cilliary muscle may be temporarily paralysed in-
the instillation of certain alkaloids; and also that
toxins in ancient and vindictive sausages or potted
meats may single out a muscle and suspend the
accommodative function. But he does not offer any
explanation as to why the farmers were affected in
one corner of the field only. And, judging from the
reports in the dailies, it only occurred to one at
first; but as soon as the others came to his assistance
they collected their issue. “M.D.” blames tainted
food, but in that case why were they not affected in
any other portion of the farm? Did it occur to
“M.D.” that in those districts such plants as Datura
stramonium (the plant from which daturin is de-
rived) and Atropa belladonna (the source of atropine)
are very plentiful? Both these alkaloids play tem-
porary havoc with the functions of the cilliary muscle
when instilled into the eye, and is it not feasible that
emanations from such plants, if, they entered the nos-
trils and mouth of any person and found their way
to the eye per medium of the mucous membrane of
mouth, throat, nose and tear ducts, would cause the
mysterious trouble?
* * * *
“J.11.C.”: “En Zed” (B. 7/7/’2l) has
fired two shots and scored two misses. I know of
many Maori wahines living with Chows. One has
but to walk up Hobson and Victoria streets, Auck-
land, at certain hours to see them lolling on the
doorsteps of Chinese laundries. As to the morals
of the women of our own race, God knows they
are bad enough, but no sane man would compare
them with those of the general run of Maori women.
“A.W.”: If “Raggedie Wun” (B. 4/8/’2l)
is looking for the Hebraic parentage of “shicker,”
or “shikker,” this might interest him: shikkor,
drunk, intoxicated, a drunkard; shikkbrali, a drunken
woman ; shikkoron, drunkenness. The accent is on
the last syllable in each case. Curiously enough,
dobe doesn’t mean sober, but is the general term
for drink, also a carouse—a jag, as it were.
* * * *
“Barcoo” : Someone spoke recently of the
daily records of jumbuck barbers who used one comb
and cutter. Shortly after machines became the vogue
in C.Q., in a shed where I bossed the board, Andy
Brown shore right through the day with one comb
and six cutters—a cutter each “run” (those were the
days—gone, thank goodness I —of six runs) —and he
put 166 clean-skins down the shoots. It is claimed that
Charlie Freeman—that cleanest of great shearers —
has shorn more sheep than any other barber, viz..
780,000. But this is doubtful, though I know he is
still adding to his tally at the rate of 120 to 130
each full shearing day. Brown and Freeman learnt
in the same year, if not in the same shed, on the
Darling (N.S.W.), and had Andy kept a diary of his
exploits, as did Charlie, then I imagine the former's
total would show from 30,000 to 50,000 to the good.
Both warriors are hale and hearty, and gaily tripping
close to the 70th mile-post.
* * * *
“Barney”: “Bora” talks of Jersey steers
as working bullocks (B. 7/7/’2l). Stone the crows,
you might as well break in a team of white mice!
A Jersey is never staunch, although I will admit
that a strain of Jersey is no harm. A Jersey-Dur-
ham is one of the best crosses for heavy team work.
Now, “Bora” says, he is killing the Jerseys for beef.
Well, I don’t suppose he’d want to waste their meat ;
all the same, Jerseys are absolutely the worst beef
cattle we have.
(Continued on page 22.)
SIGNS OF RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The salt is wet in the tin to-night; the camp-fire’s
smoking vile;
The ducks o’er the swamp are flying low in storm-
predicting style;
The sheep are making for the scrub; the cattle are
moo-ing low—
It’s going to rain—l say again—the signs all tell me
so.
Mark my words, mark my words.
The cattle and sheep and ducks and salt
Are telling as plain as plain can be—
And take it right here and now from me
Their prophecies of yes or no are wholly free from
fault.
The moon is on its end to-night—a certain sign of
rain.
Never have I predicted yet in such respect in vain.
Wruggcs may come, and Wragges may go, guessing
now this, now that;
But if my signs are wrong—well, I am willing to
eat my hat.
Mark my words, mark my words.
The moon is tipped on her end to-night,
Meaning there’s not a shred of doubt
She’s going to pour the water out —
I swear that what I’m telling you is absolutely right.
The frogs are croaking in the creek, croaking a queer
refrain—
The surest sign in the catalogue of rain, and yet
more rain;
The ants are climbing high above the highest and
steepest banks;
I’ve got a fierce, rheumatic pain in both my weary
shanks.
Mark my words, mark my words,
For they are true as truth is true—
The frogs, the ants and the ceaseless pain
Have never yet slung a tip in vain.
And you may laugh if you want to at hat I’m
telling you.
A BOOK AND ITS COVERS.
BOTTLE DEALER: “Got any beer bottles ,
lady?”
MISS PRIM : “Beer bottles! Do I look as
if I drank beer?”
B.D. : “Well, vinegar bottles, lady?”
The limbs are falling from the trees, although the
night is still;
The rabbits and the kangaroos move further up the
hill;
A cracked bell on some camper’s horse is sounding
strangely clear—•
I’ll bet it’s quite a mile away, and yet it’s sounding
near.
Mark my words, mark my words.
The moths are fluttering round the lamp ;
My corns are aching a blasted treat,
Torturirfg both of my aching feet
Enough for me—l’m going to cut a drain around
the camp!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


A New Novel by
ARTHUR WRIGHT
Australia’s Most Popular Novelist.
“FETTERED BY FATE”
Years ago, when Mr. Wright had written only a couple of
novels, reviewers hailed him as a new Nat Gould. Ihe
critics were right; Mr. VYight s novels proved instantaneous
successes, and all his earlier novels are still enjoying
regular sales. Encouraged by his earlier successes, Mr.
Wright wrote a dozen other novels, and here is the complete
list to date:—
“KEANE OF KALGOORLIE.” “THE HATE OF A HUN.”
(New revised editions of both will soon be ready.)
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.” “THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
“A GAME OF CHANCE.” “GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.” “UNDER A CLOUD.” “RUNG IN.”
“WHEN NUGGETS GLISTENED.” “A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
“OVER THE ODDS.” “THE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER.”
“FETTERED BY FATE,” the latest, is one of Mr. Wright’s best
novels. Another new novel, “The Colt from the Country, is now
in the press.
Every novel has a strong sporting interest. Mr. Wright’s fame as a
sporting writer has become known in England, and inquiries ha
recently been made by a leading London publishing house seeking the
English rights of his novels.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS.
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
9
The enormous difference in
value between a fabric which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour element in
SUNDOUR
UNPADABLE
FABRICS
is indestructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishings.
Sundour is made in a
great variety of fabrics
Including Casement Cloths,
Damasks,Tapestries, Reps.
Chenilles. Madras Muslins.etc
also
Sundour Washable Rugs
for Bathroom. Bedroom or Nursery.
Of a// thebest Fumisbrrj
Morton Tunr/our &Ancs
(Trade D*k) Cdr/tS/C..
m
1
i
%
I
I
I
i
i
5^
I
I
3
1
i
in
%
g&se
W///A
%g
%
£
<?
4z
'7?
Ltid
irt® >
Sec this brand
on each shirt.
M
UAUTY
count;
Thistle Shirt Quality beats
the Price.
You may pay a little
more, but you will not
pay nearly as often.
THISTLE SHIRTS typify good taste in style, coupled with comfort
and splendid wearing quality. Perfect in fit and make, they are
also characterised by the fine patterns and tasteful colors.
Obtainable at all Leading Shirt Departments.
GIVE THISTLE PYJAMAS A TRIAL. Accept no substitutes.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.,
Makers,
BRISBANE & SYDNEY.
Illlhl.
Advance
Australia ! ”
toast from the Motherland in the truest and best Spirit.
a
t
SCOTCH
By careful husbanding of stocks we hope to
inadequate) supplies. But nothing will induce
varying quality of ‘ P.D.* Whisky.
maintain regular (if
us to impair the un-
ten
Dawson
suciai scotch
Tended Whisky
* P.D. ’ the Scotch Whisky
of Historic Lineage and
World - wide popularity.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.


Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device in the world that will
refract and focus waves of sound upon the drum-
head, and assist the hearing power where any sound
can be heard at all.
ā
ą
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price .(not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or' physician)
is £l/1/- complete.
They usually last about
two years.
Mrs. Wm. Foster, of 35 Edward Street, Sheppar-
ton, Vie., writes, July 24, 1921:—“1 have much
pleasure in testifying to the benefit I have received
from the use of Wilson’s Ear-Drums. I have been
wearing them for several years, and have not had
any trouble with them. They are very comfortable,
and I could not do without them. I consulted
several leading specialists without success.”
Write for Free Booklet or order now.
H. WILKINSON,
*°°%: 4 E ' l .' B 7 S^ , N l r«
wmmsm
mmessm
wvzz&wm
Model 828
for
Luxury and
Reliability.
r <£f/Wv2/Zm
Write us for particulars
and prices of all models.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
184 Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
Representative in New South Wales:—
Scott and Holladay, Ltd., 31a Pitt Street, Sydney.
For real
pleasure
cycling
—ride a cycle
fitted with a
SADDLE.
Eczema Needs
Immediate and
Proper Attention
Don’t wait thinking that it will dis-
appear in time. A little
Ligmolliene Cream
applied to the affected part will doubt-
less relieve all soreness.
The Ligmolliene Treatment has cured
obstinate cases of Eczema, is a sure
remedy for Ringworm, Scurvy, Scald
Head. Barber’s Rash. Infants' Chafed
and Tender Skins, Chilblains, Psoriasis
and Piles.
All chemists sell Ligmolliene, 5/6
and 7/6 Tin. Ligmolliene Soap,
1/- Send 1/G for Sample to
W. H. MaLYON & SONS,
Ballarat, Vic.
“Hargo”: What is the allotted span of a
breeding ewe? Enoch Gazzard, of Clergate (N.S.W.),
turned one into mutton (and fat at that) a few
days ago which was dropped in September, 1903.
She had reared a lamb dropped about her 17th
birthday. She was herself one of merino twins
(Wanganella strain), and her sister is still in Gaz-
zard’s possession. The latter, a medium wool, he
guarantees to cut 81b. next shearing. Neither of
these sheep was ever hand-fed except in drought-
time.
■* * * *
“225”: “Aragun” (B. 30/6/’2l) in giving
the sap from the cungevoi as an antidote to the
stinging-tree’s “bite” might have added that care
should be taken not to allow any of the liquid to
enter the mouth, as it is extremely poisonous and
causes the tongue to swell frightfully. I have found
wood ashes moistened with my own saliva a good
and speedy cure; but I’ve seen stinging-trees grow-
ing a mighty long way from both cungevoi and wood
ashes.
* * *
“Xamilc”: Last drought I came to a fast-
drying waterhole on Jameson’s selection. Several
cattle were bogged, and others sprawled on the flat,
dead or dying. Crows sat in every tree or circled,
cawing, overhead. On passing one carcase my hair
threatened to push my hat off—l could swear the
thing moved. I put down Matilda and poked it with
a big stick; then from somewhere in its smellful
innards came an urgent whisper that sounded like
Jameson: “Keep on goin’, you fool; don’t let ’em
see yer torkin’ ter me. I’m a crow-trap!” I kept
on going.
* * • »
“Tarago”: I lifted a piece of bark and hap-
pened on a centipede about 6in. long, of the dark-
green, red-pointed variety, coiled up on top of a
pile of round white eggs, the size of sugar grains.
I felt curious as to the result of the hatching, but
having a hole in my pants pocket I had no way of
conveying the lady and her nest home. Can any Abo.
tell me whether the creeper suckles its young like
a hippopotamus or scratches for the brood like a hen?
JUSTICE.
FATTUN: “ There’s a strike on over there
but I got no sympathy for ’em.”
SLIMMUN: “Why, you don’t like to see poor
blokes workin’, do yer?”
FATTUN: “No, but it serves ’em right for
goitern ’ter work in the first place.”
“Capt. B.”: Re “Steve Hart’s” idea of
applying the sap of the tree itself as an antidote
to the stinging-tree (B. 9/6/’2l). The sap would
simply counter the sting with a far greater pain of
its own. Steve should come north on to the Ather-
ton Tableland and try his cure. For the last 10
years, to my knowledge, doctors and others have
tried to discover some cure for this burning sting,
but without success. I was stung rather badly about
three weeks ago, and 1 still feel the pain every
time I dip my hands and arms (the parts affected) in
water. And 1 have known horses to be sent abso-
lutely mad by the sting.
* * * *
“Crabtree”: Up Tingha (N.S.W.) way
the white-ants have developed a new habit. They
have taken to brick-chewing. The local paper, the
Advocate, recently had on exhibition a brick
which had been completely riddled. At Harris
Park (N.S.W.), when it was a comparatively new
place, something of the same sort occurred; while
the termites destroyed woodwork they seemed to
make their headquarters in brickwork. But that
was ascribed to badlv-baked bricks. It is claimed
that there is nothing wrong with the Tingha pot-
tery.
* * * Hf
“The Iceman”: The inhabitants are look-
ing for the man who named Sunny Corner (N.S.W.).
Perched on one of the most exposed positions west of
the Blue Mountains, it got smothered in snow and
was about the un-sunniest corner of the continent in
the recent cold snap. Everything was frozen, even
to the milk and eggs. One cow which took shelter
in a ruined house appeared next morning with a
brick frozen to her tail.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “New Chum” (B. 14/7/’2l),
whose sheepskins are at present of no commercial
value, wishes to know how to tan them. Here’s
how. Pour two quarts of boiling water over two
quarts of bran; strain off, after standing for 15
minutes; bring an
equal quantity of water
to blood-heat, and add
to it as much salt as
the liquid will absorb.
Then mix the bran and
salt water. To each
gallon of the mixed
moisture add loz. sul-
phuric acid when the
liquid is no more than
just lukewarm. Immerse
the skins, stirring occa-
sionally until tanned.
Opossum-skins will tan
in 20 minutes, kanga-
roo and wallatiy in
SOmiri., sheep in 70-
min. Larger hides
will take longer in
proportion to size.
When treated suffi-
ently rinse out in
clean water. Hang
the pelt in the shade
to dry gradually. Ex-
tra dry skins must be
immersed in water
and well soaked before
being introduced to
the tanning-bath. Be-
fore this takes place
all flesh parts adher-
ing to the hide must
be carefully scraped
off. The final process
of softening is carried
out by the use of
plenty elbow-grease in
working and rubbing
the pelt while still in a pliable condition, and the
greater the application the more valuable the anned
hide.
**• * *
“Box 20” : If lie wants to treat sheepskins
tell “New Chum” (B. 14/7/’2l) to take Crossbred’s
covering (fresh) and wash it extra well in warm
suds. Then rinse. Dissolve lib. alum and lib. salt
in a gallon of hot water: put the skin in and allow
it to stand all night. Next day drain and stretch.
While still damp sprinkle the fleshy side with 2oz.
each of powdered alum and saltpetre. Repeat this
dose in a few days. Now dry thoroughly and scrape
the flesh side with a pice of pumice-stone until pli-
able. A few treated like this will set off a stained
and waxed floor in great style.
* * * *
“Boneyarder”: Henderson was proceeded
against for allowing the rabbits to run wild over his
property. The magistrate irudealing out the penalty
remarked that the accused Rad apparently made no
effort to get rid of the pests. Whereupon Benson,
Henderson’s hired man, roared from the back of the
court: “Made no effort to get rid of them ! Strewth,
I've ate nothin’ but flamin’ rabbit since I’ve bin
workin’ with him.”
“Tarwin” : His suit-case proclaimed a very
recent overseas journey, and we were knocking out
a few posts when he interrupted us to ask the way
to Ilaughton’s. Darky did the honors. “Just down
the track you’ll see a pair of sliprails on the left-
hand side,” he said; “then you can’t miss it.”
“Aw, thank you,” said the owner of the suitcase, and
off he w’ent. Inside two minutes he was back.
“Those sliprails,” he said nervously, “are they
always there?” Darkey’s face suggested an ap-
proaching fit, but he managed to gasp “Yes.” The
stranger fidgeted about a bit, then he asked gently :
“Well, would you mind telling me if they are birds
or animals ?”
Archie Meston tells of wanderings North:
About midway between Cooktown and Cape York
lies Weymouth Bay, named by Cook in 1770, the
Co-Iveeng-on of the aboriginals, with Lloyd’s Bay on
the south and Temple Bay to the North. At the
entrance to Lloyd's Bay is Cape Direction —the
Ahpalligo of the blacks —where Bailey, the boat-
swain of H.M.S. Fly, was fatally speared in June,
IS4J. It is a headland formed by a dome-topped
ridge covered by scattered granite walls of most re-
markable formation, resembling the crude works of
some amateur savage sculptor who had left the un-
finished figures of men and kangaroos and various
uncouth animals roughly chiselled from the hard
grey stone. Old blacks showed me the rock beside
which Bailey was transfixed by the womera spear,
too nearly deadly aimed to err,” like the musket
which slew Byron’s Selim in ‘‘The Bride of Abvdos.”
Cape Weymouth is a low headland only a few
feet above high tide, with an inlet on the south
side bordered by dense mangrove. Half-a-mile off is
an island with a place in Australian history—a
small, very rough island, with a low hill composed
chiefly of great blocks of granite; and in that hill
there is a spring of excellent water which flows in a
perpetual stream into the sea facing the Cape. That
is the spot where Captain Bligh, afterwards Governor
of N. S. Wales, arrived on the Australian coast when
he was sent adrift by the mutineers of the Bounty,
and he called it Restoration Island —the Mal-al-becgo
of the present-day aboriginals. He could not have
landed more happily ; for several days he and his boat-
party rested by that beautiful spring, with the mar-
vellous Barrier Reef and coral ocean on the east, and
the magnificent mainland mountain scenery on the
west. On the first day of land one of his men was
disposed to be insolent. Bligh acted promptly.
Throwing a sword to the fellow he drew his own
with the brief remark: “Let us see who is to be
master here!” That was enough for the mutineer,
who was ever after a most obedient person. Bligh
was a very expert swordsman and a fighting man of
the first quality, a fact well known to his crew. From
Restoration Island Bligh sailed away north to com-
plete that wonderful voyage of 3500 miles with the
whale-boat in which the mutineers sent him adrift
in mid-ocean.
Two white men, Joe McNair and another, in more
recent years, were camped by the spring on Restora-
tion, and a party of mainland blacks swam over in
THE REPRIMAND.
BROTHER NANCARROW: “Taake and behave
yourselves, you three. Thee’st been
there for the last half-hour gigglin’ like
a pair of fools.”
the night with spears and worn eras and attacked
them. Both were badly wounded ; but one seized his
rifle and made two blanks in the aboriginal ranks.
The rest promptly swam back to the coast La ; er
the two white men were found by Christy Christison,
who took them to the Piper Island lightship, off
Temple Bay. One died on the way, the other on the
lightship. Both are buried in lonely graves on “K”
Islet, near the ship. About 200 yards from Restora-
tion on the southi side is a patch of rocks the blacks
call Coollah. Two pearl-fishers, John Anderson and
Angus Macleod, with a crew of four Malays, were
capsized in a cutter off Lloyd’s Bay’, the cutter
sinking and leaving all to drown or swim. Anderson
actually reached the Coollah rocks, where his coo-ees
were heard by the blacks on the island, and they
went out in a canoe and took him safely to the
spring. One o,f the Malays swam to Restoration and
the three others reached thp mainland. Those foim
Malays and the white man had swum several miles
through a sea infested by sharks, the mahwarra of
the aboriginals, an escape that seems incredible. The
blacks told me that wallabies occasionally' swim to
and from the mainland. The Rattlesnake people
in 1848 saw a wallaby swim out to sea at Rock-
ingham Bay to escape from a dingo. Fairlv long
swims by both wallabies and kangaroos have been
common enough in my experience.
“W.C.0.”: Ido not agree with “Aragun”
(B. 30/6/’2l) that cungevoi is a cure for stinging-
tree wounds. I have lived in N.Q. scrub for 20 years,
and though I have tried it often I have never found
cungevoi any use. The only relief I got after being
stung was to shave the place and immerse it in cold
water.
Alomokeni”: Noticing the prevalence of
pneumonia, and bronchitis in the Papuan village of
Kila-Kila, I asked the village constable, who was
shh ering with cold and coughing bronehially, why
ANOTHER HIGH-BROW.'
COUNTRY DOCTOR'S WIFE (to patient who
has been away on holiday): “And no
tell me — did yon hear Levitzki while
you were in town?"
PATIENT : “No; but I went to a most instruc-
tive lecture on manure, given by the sec-
retary to the Minister, for Agriculture.
It was DELICIOUS!”
the people did not seek warmer quarters in the valley
below, instead of remaining perched on the hilltop
exposed to the howling gales of the south-east trade
winds. His reply was characteristic of the Papuan
native: “From here we can see the steamers coming
through the reef to Port Moresby and we,” with a
flourish of his hand towards the gasping, coughing
crowd, “are the first people to shout ‘Sail Hoi’
Our fathers and their fathers before them have done
this ever since the first big ship came to Port
Moresby. If the village were moved into the valley,
who would cry ‘Sail Ho!’ to the people on Ela
Beach?” So, for the privilege and proud prerogative
handed down from the time when Admiral Moresby
Sailed H.M.S. Basilisk through the gap in the reef,
now called the Basilisk Passage, the people of Kila-
Kila are content to cough and shiver on their giddy
lookout.
“Adrian”: The other day, at my brat-
smaclcing dug-out, I noticed one, family very down in
the mouth, and inquiries elicited the harrowing in-
formation that their prize cow, Princess, was very
much off color, so much so that they feared she
would slip away to Cowadise and leave them desolate.
During lessons the father of the clan trod heavily
up to the door and asked to see his eldest lad. Bill
went out to his bewhiskered parent, and the whole
school heard the hoarse whisper: “She’s dead.” Right
on the stroke, the remainder of the family’ set up
a “Miserere” that fairly shook the building. Where-
upon Billo dashed back into the school like a red-
shank and shook his fist at them. “Shut up, carn't
yer!” he roared. “It ain’t Princess it’s grandma!”
“Watt Shaws”: We were all around the
bar in Duigan’s pub, and the bloke who had been
chased by the hoop-snake had been laying down the
law, when old Snowy Coulson chips in. .“Talkin’
o’ snakebites,” he says, “once I was out after rabbits
in the stone walls, and I’d been gettin’ nothin’ but
lizards all day. Then all at once me little dog
begins growlin’ and barkin’ over somethin’ in the
rocks. Clearing away some of the stones I looks
down, and there, not six inches from me nose,
is the biggest snake I ever seen just goin’ ter strike.”
He paused to sink one. We were all interested.
“Mhere did he bite you?” we asked. He lowered
his pot. “Bite me?” he said scornfully. “He didn’t
bite me —/ bit ’im l”
WHEN MARY MAKES THE BUTTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is a perfumed day, the scent
Conies blowing from the river,
Bush-musk with wattle perfume blent;
The lush gum saplings quiver
Where o’er her in the bended boughs
Adoring parrots clutter;
Wee pearls begem her snowy brows
When Mary makes the butter.
Her two brown eyes are crystal clear,
Her cheeks are pink carnations;
To taste her lips the bees draw near,
And offer salutations.
Of full white neck and dimpled arms
Could I meet praises utter,
I would surrender to her charms
When Mary makes the butter.
Her little hands go up and down,
A quaint old-fashioned churning;
Her lovely hair so crisp and brown
Curls where her ears are burning.
Maearthy conies out from the barn,
Or Bill to stand and stutter
His latest sentimental yarn,
When Mary makes the butter.
I swing my axe and catch an eye
That brims with girlish slyness,
And cannot speak, but grin hard by,
Six foot of painful shyness.
And “Paddy!” she may gaily call
To set my heart a-flutter —•
1 am the softest Pat of all
When Mary makes the butter.
Victoria.
EDDYSON.
LATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Many complaints have been made of trains run-
ning late on the Boomville to Bursthurst section.”
The weary train came up the last incline,
Gave three dull puffs, a snort and then stood still:
Its headlight made a sickly yellow shine
And squinted sideways down a muddy hill.
The station lay in ruins choked with weeds;
The town that once was there had long been dead.
The ancient rails 'that had supplied its needs
Were on white-anted sleepers rusted red.
Perished at last of senile, sad decay,
The engine-driver lay across his coal;
Only the guard remained, a wrinkled grey
Old shadow of a man without a soul.
He said one w-ord; and said it o’er and o’er.
“Late” was the burden of his low refrain,
As standing sadlj’ by the guard’s-van door
He heard the night amid the gums complain.
The train was late, too late it might have been
If any had been there to see or know ;
For this black ruin was the 12.15
Of August 18 forty years ago.
S.B.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


w&
m
| rtg,l
8$
1 Vi
•-. m-;* :
SSSlwv?
|BS|p
s*
<7 »J>'»,
.
4
lips ai-'*
1
1
, / .;-
• l '*' * Slf
* .'SK- «w
\v V,
.'. WM
MMMf
4 v ‘ :- ;
sill
~t,A
*i '-
;sM
Mifv
a 8 *
V* . •' >;. a^TfcHRR
*«**>«•* it
■ h
j
• '•?
->
r\
SKIM
ii
:■ ■•
.. V:
ft
% ,(; ft ftftftft
! ’ ! '4i *' : Vff
*• : - 111
Wst
VX. .V-. „•» • *.
*-■
i>S ftJ
f - ft* i
:f:^|
.vrVvft?
.>^s
*&*
4;s
m
i -- ? - - .
fe-P!
Sp
£3l
•If’
V.
/w*»-
2C
...
•<:
'.«*r
)-> J
v ?
v^t
* /.
MM
m
«
? * v. '♦ « ....
I »
jj- -i. £ t 0,,,: h
- ■■■ : -
C\ *•
' J -•> }
ft' '<
f, ?, 3 r .- ;v
u. ?■
I *
<u
“"X 1
ir-sra
/•
SOS&S?
i***W
1
ft'
V : .
L: W-'m,
mm
im
'' ! i -' ! s, ’ ‘
vM' m *
■ M‘-
i ■'
P 0 j
m
m
1 'V fcfa.j
'2^ %r v,
■JH-a i - V
what an important part hose plays in our industries.
In every direction Dunlop special hoses have to be made
for special purposes, each being different in construction,
thickness, strength, pliability, etc. We illustrate a variety ot
DUNLOP HO
that are daily rendering economical service—doing their work
silently and satisfactorily at the minimum cost. In mining
centres air hose is used for drilling machines, working up to a
pressure of 20001b5., whilst the hose used on hydraulic machines
is built to withstand a pressure of 30001bs. Steam hose has to be
constructed to withstand the burning effect on the inner rubber
wall of hose. Delivery hose is used for conducting water, under
moderate pressure, on railways and steamships, for horticultural
purposes, &c., &c. In pumping plants, tanneries, breweries,
irrigation work, and for mining and dredging, suction hoses are
essential, and are constructed so that there is no contraction of
sides of hose during suction operations. In breweries and
wineries a variety of hoses are used for conducting beer,
wine, &c., and have to be constructed with special inside rubber
walls to prevent damaging the taste of the liquor. Again, special
hoses are used for paint spraying, conducting oil, acid, and other
materials deleterious to rubber. The largest users of hose in this
country are the various Railway departments— the Westinghouse
brake air hose and vacuum air brake hose being essential to the
braking systems in operation on our railways, and upon which
the safety of the travelling public and railway transport depend.
Many of the above hoses have to be constructed with a covering of
flat or round wire, or woven cotton, to withstand abrasion in use.
All these hoses call for the highest quality of materials and
special construction, and in this direction “ Dunlop” Hoses have
won a fine reputation for dependability and economical service.
Another important factor is that, being made in Australia
they are free from perish and can be made without delay
to suit the requirements of every branch of industry. We have
an Illustrated Booklet that fully covers these hoses, and shall
be pleased to mail a copy to users of industrial hoses.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


THIS 21-inch HOEFER DRILLING MACHINE
as illustrated, for £65
<r * M
*■ S
fSiFI V-
The Price includes Back Gear, Automatic Feed and Lever and
Wheel Feed, and is fitted with Auto-stop, Ball-hearing Thrust.
Engineers’ Machine Tools
at Landed Cost Price.
The
Largest
Stocks
and
Cheaper
at
The Gin. centre x 6ft. bed Scrutton Lathe.
SCRBTTONS LIMITED,
161 Clarence Street,
Dept. G. SYDNEY.
mtii
m
ms v nosnuo r-D-s
y/
IP
I
II
1
t a
ml >
I V v
1 k<
Better Floors— Better Homes
Well kept floors—poiished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
Waste — Liquid— Wowdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson’s
Wax —there is no substitute
SL C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


THe
Purest
Spirit
intke
World
E
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schnap^
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
i
l ri
L
COLDS
COUCHS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TBOUBLZJ
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
©
TOSS
0
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
was no very active prohibition no prohibi-
tion which the nations whole-heartedly
meant; for they did not then know what
modern war and the use of these things
meant. A start has to be made somewhere.
It is safe to say that, though some may
finesse, every Government and every people
wants a start made. Is there a better one
offering immediately than this?
S. H. P.
Joseph Conrad
Joseph Conrad, whose full name is Joseph
Theodore Conrad Kerniozowsky, was born in
Poland in 1857, and did not know a word of
English until he was 20 years of age. He
went to sea before the mast, ultimately rising
to the position of master-mariner. In 1895
lie abandoned seafaring, and published
“Almayer’s Folly,” wherein for the first time
we met those lazy Malayan rivers, those
stout white men who drink, and those very
“native” natives with whom we are now so
familiar; and we realised that a new inter-
preter of the effect of East upon West had
arisen. Already his style was noteworthy,
and he had achieved the miracle that he, an
alien of a totally alien speech, had learned
to write English with a dignity and power
possible to very few Englishmen. It is not
difficult to learn a little English; that is
why it is the universal language of waiters
and bagmen. But it is probably the
most difficult of all languages to master, for
its vocabularly is so gigantic, its synonyms
—each with its own infinitesimal shade of
meaning—are so numerous, its prepositions
so senseless and yet so vitally important,
and it is capable of such infinitely delicate
expression, that one would be pardoned for
thinking that none but a very highly-culti-
vated Englishman, who had had every advan-
tage of education and environment, could
ever win a leading place among English
writers. The thing might be possible to one
of kindred race and speech, such as a Dane,
a Swede or a German, or perhaps even to
an exceptional Frenchman like Taine; a
priori it would seem utterly impossible to
one so foreign as a Pole. Yet I should defy
anyone, even if specially on the lookout for
faults, be his ear never so sensitive, his eye
never so critical, to guess that the author
of “Lord Jim,” “The Rescue” or “The
Shadow-line” —to name only three of his
books —was anything but a very highly-cul-
tured Englishman. Conrad’s manner of
thought, speech and diction, even the noble
cadence of his sentences, have become at-
tuned to the most splendid traditions of our
prose; a captious critic might hint that in
his latest b»ok —“On Life and Letters” —
he sometimes uses more adjectives than one
looks for in really great English. In a few
of these essays there is a tendency for each
noun to be attended by its adjective, so that
the writing settles down into a dull, jigging
rhythm which one constantly wishes to scan.
Such verbosity is rare; one notices it only
because it comes from so great an artist,
and where so much that he has written is
purely beautiful it would be folly to be cap-
tious. There are few writers who convey
to the reader an impression of so noble a
mind, or can so splendidly express the beauty
of the world.
His prose is not easily read, though he uses
simple words; you must not go to sleep
when you are reading Joseph Conrad. He
is intensely allusive. You find yourself fol-
lowing far-stretching trains of thought set
a-going by a sentence here, a hint there, and
you can do so at your leisure, for the action
as a rule moves slowly, giving you time to
ponder as you read. Conrad keeps his char-
acters thinking before they act; you can
see the thought budding in their minds before
it sets hand or foot in motion, and he shows
you the whole process of thinking which pre-
cedes the doing. “Quick as thought, for-
sooth !” one fancies Conrad saying: “I will
show you how slow, rather, is thought.”
The “New Age Encyclopaedia” says that
in actuality he rivals Kipling. In a way that
is true, for he has Kipling’s power of tear-
ing the very marrow out of a thing, though
he has none of Kipling’s compressed style
and rapid action. He is no master of terse
narration. He is far more interested in
the motives of his people than in
describing what they do; his style is less
suited to describe action than to register feel-
ing and thought. He loves to dive into a
man’s mind —or into still greater depths, a
woman’s —and to ascertain why that man
deserted his ship or why that woman betrayed
her lover, and to muse reflectively on what
might have happened if their psychical pro-
cesses had worked differently. He loves to
make his characters tell the story for him :
one may get lost among the multitude of
tellers and almost forget the actual progress
of the story in the maze of psychological
detail. Technically, this is probably the most
difficult method of novel-writing, and that
he has been able to pursue it successfully
in so many really great books would alone
entitle him to rank among the ablest of Eng-
lish novelists.
In spite of his slow and reflective method
he has written much that is extraordinarily
vivid; in the midst of deliberate pages of
analysis you suddenly come upon descriptive
sentences that are positively startling in
their grip of the heart of things. He has
written so many novels of the first rank that
I hesitate to mention any one individually,
but I think my own favorites are “Lord Jim,”
one of the early books, and “The Rescue,”
almost the latest: but I should be quite pre-
pared to admit “The Nigger of the Narcis-
sus ’ as a third, for it has what is compara-
tively rare in Conrad, a lively and saturnine
humor. Probably “Lord Jim” is the most
typically Conradian, showing his virtues and
his faults —grave beauty; deliberation and
complexity, if not absolute clumsiness, in the
telling; subtle analysis of motive and char-
acter ; sudden heart-searching moments of ae-
scription; sad tragedy as leading motive.
“The Secret Agent” I like least; it is squalid.
Taken all round, I should rank Conrad very
nearly, if not quite, equal to Hardy as the
greatest of living novelists. Of course, the
two are quite different; you could hardly
find two great artists more different. In
Hardy’s novels you get the apotheosis of
plot; in Conrad’s you get great books written
around an incident. Nor has Conrad any
of the gloomy philosophy which is so marked
in Hardy. But in both writers you get a
grave, wise and haunting beauty which re-
mains long in the reader’s mind.
C. McL.
Australia and the U.S.A.
We may want the friendship of “the other
great Pacific Power” (B. 28/7/’2l), but
there are very few other things of hers that
we need. We don’t need her films, we don t
need her books or magazines, we don t need
her outlook on life and on world-politics.
What Australia does need, badly and
urgently, is a habit of clear thinking,
straight talk and accuracy fn all things; and
the next thing she needs is a capacity for
seeing the whole woyld in one picture, so that
her values and desires may show up in the
right proportions. And from the TJ.S. she
gets everything that will teach her the oppo-
site habits and cultivate the capacity for
parochialism. Over all —or nearly all—-
American drama and films and books and
magazines reigns the sloiTpiest possible form
of inaccuracy: bad spelling, misinformed
writing, carelessness in every department of
thought and expression. The small boy who
haunts picture-shows has impressed on him
visually spelling like “delerium,” grammar
like “this phenomena was and is,” phrases
which are sheer sloppiness and ideas which
are cheap and often slimy. The newspaper
reader absorbs headlines (there is nothing
much else to absorb) like “Mary Vance
Death Quiz” —meaning the inquest on Mary
Vance’s death. Of the magazines I will say
nothing here; anyone can read them and
wallow in Robert Chambers and Co., or in
verse such as
Watch for these sights,
They are tremendously great,
When” Sol, in his majesty,
Thus closes the gate....
apparently' an ode to a San Francisco sun-
set. As for literature, even a fairly edu-
cated (and New Yorkers think him encyclo-
paedic) critic like James Huneker writes of
“Jepthah dancing to her death before the
Ark of the Covenant,” confuses Salome with
Herodias and Triton with Neptune, and uses
the mis-spelling “Sybillic,” all within two
pages. , . .
And American politics ! I am not thinking
of Tammany or the general welter of local
elections —at which they seem to vote the
party ticket for any office from High Court
Judge to street-sweeper—for we have our
own foetid varieties of the local stuff and
cannot throw stones at anybody. But imagine
the government of a really big nation mak-
ing its world-policies dependent on its muni-
cipal elections! Yet Frank Simonds, in
Sydney Sun (7/8/’2l) —-and Simonds is
among the best and soberest of U.S. journal-
ists—confesses that Presidential world-
policy is so dependent. Probably the most
important individual problem now demand-
ing solution by Allied statesmanship is that
of Silesia: the continuance of the Anglo-
French Entente on the one hand, and the
forthcoming of German reparation-money on
the other, seem to hang on a satisfactory
division of the Silesian mineral-belt. Yet,
says Simonds: —
An American support of the Anglo-Italian policy
in the matter of Upper Silesia might result in a
total change in the city government of Buffalo, N.Y.
Think of that, now!
Of course, by studious hunting it is possible
to find excellent American literature, decent
films, even good plays—perhaps even a few
statesmen. But hunting would be necessary ;
and the exceptions, when found, would be
also discovered to be unpopular and unrepre-
sentative. I have done no hunting: I have
merely quoted current or recent examples of
a sloppiness which I could illustrate pro-
fusely from every American mail as it
reaches Australia. As mail after mail brings
the poisonous germs along, the infection
spreads through Australian life in all its
manifestations; mainly, it is true, by the
medium of the films, but also by direct in-
troduction of shoddy religions, shoddy poli-
tics, shoddy industrialism (in that depart-
ment, it would seem, we can’t even borrow
the genuinely American ideals, but must take
to our hearts the super-shoddy Dagoisms of
the 1.W.W.).
Appeals to the Republic to refuse “to
allow itself to be put in the position of being
so misjudged” can only be futile. There is
no misjudgment. The evidence is over-
whelming. The U.S. isn’t all New York, or
all San Francisco, or even all Chicago; but
it is predominantly loose-thinking and slack
of expression and shoddy of soul. God knows
why! It had a fair start and a good run,
and might have been the greatest nation on
earth. The most charitable —and not alto-
gether improbable—explanation is that its
body has outgrown its mind; it is an unregu-
lated infant-soul in the body of a muscle-
bound athlete —though occasionally it re-
sembles rather a middle-aged matron with a
flapper’s brain. But, whatever be its nature
or the causes of it, it is not a fit example
(nr preceptor) for Australians. We have not
the bulk in the world, or the close relation
to vital world-problems, that Europe
attentive to the demands of the U.S. or the
whims of Holland and Switzerland. We are
a small people in a distant land ; our only
hope of getting a hearing at world-councils
—and unless we get a hearing we perish—is
straight talk embodying the results of clear
thinking and a sense of proportion. That
we shall not learn from America. Better
knowledge of British work will help us, no
doubt; but the best help we can get is from
ourselves. AVhen city Australians abandon
the attempt to make themselves over in the
likeness of William Hearst or Woodrow Wil-
son or. Ralph Trine, and cultivate instead the
straightforward virtues of (say) the A.L.H.
as Palestine saw them, we can begin to
hope for an Australia that is worth while.
POLLIO.
The inky Way
“Mirzo”: Let me introduce a class that Edward
Dyson escaped meeting during his pleasant afternoon
“in the Public Library” (R.P. 4/8/’2l). Collectively
and colloquially they may be termed “Bombs” —
Browsers on Medical Books. But, although, they
manage to achieve the untidiness so essential to
true scholarship, very rarely are they embryo meds.
in search of information wherewith to astound their
clinicians. Often they are neurotic individuals, with
facile imaginations; who suffer great mental torture
as their disordered minds insist that they are
actually suffering from many of the diseases they
read about. In close proximity is the prurient-minded
young man who gloats over illustrations of the pelvic
organs. Occasionally it is the “out-patient chronic”
poring laboriously over countless pages in search of
the elixir that will lubricate his stiffened joints
which at present prevent him from jazzing. It’s
a pathetic fact that the worse you become the
more certain you are that somewhere there is a cure
for all your troubles. But all the Bombs are not
males! Recentlv a young woman visited the gyneco-
logical department of a Melbourne hospital giving a
history that indicated clearly a malignant pelvic
tumor and immediate operation, although a careful
examination revealed nothing more startling nor
distressing than a three-months pregnancy. Sub-
sequently she confessed that she had “read up’
cervical cancer in order to deceive. And she had
done it in a Public Library.
“Mr. Ocky”: Once when the Melbourne dailies
were preparing to despatch teams of reporters to
the country to take and telegraph the then Pre-
mier’s policy speech, the local correspondent, a
bushy-whiskered cocky, sent an apologetic note to
his office. As a special favor he asked the paper to
send up a man to help him with the report. “It
would be awkward for me on my own,” he said,
“as I also have to act as chairman.” They sent him
five men.
“Gordonite”: Can anyone give me the date (or
supply some clue to enable me to discover the date)
of the unveiling of the memorial over the grave of
Adam Lindsay Gordon, in the Brighton Cemetery?
J. A. Ross on “Cain, the Devil and Mr. Pecksniff”:
Affirming that wrong popular conceptions exist
about numerous historical characters, “Solomon Mala-
prop” (B. 21/7/’2l) cites the examples of Cain and
David, among others. “Cain’s crime at the worst
was manslaughter,” “Solomon” says. “He slew his
brother in haste and possibly with provocation.”
Where is the evidence? All that the Bible says on
the matter is: “And Cain talked with Abel his
brother: and it came to pass when they were in
the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother
and slew him.” Is there any mention of haste or
provocation? Is it manslaughter or. fratricide—
murder in its foulest form ? Secondly: “Anything
else recorded of him [Cain] is g00d....He built the
first city.” Is that a good thing? Let “Solomon”
point to one city that has not more than its pro-
portion of misery, vice and crime. Let him point
out one city in history that has not been the same.
The other matters mentioned as Cain’s “good” points
are quite consistent with his being the wickedest of
men. “Solomon” questions David’s reputation for
valor. Now, David’s reputation for valor began with
his slaying of the lion and the bear; and in his
meeting with Goliath there can be no suggestion
that he took an unfair advantage. At any rate, the
Philistine soldier “disdained David,” saying, “Am
I a dog that thou comest to me with staves?” This
presumption on the Philistine’s part is hardly con-
sistent with the view that he had “no chance.” At
half-a-dozen other points “Solomon” is guilty of
drawing equallv false conclusions, which suggests
that the popular conceptions are nearer the right
ones than those which “Solomon” would have us
substitute.
“Jim Carew”: “Yacko” (B. 28/7/’2l) asks if
there is any truth in the yarn that some pages from
the “Felonry of N.S.W.” were torn out of all avail-
able copies. In the ’seventies a Castlereagh-street
bookseller was commissioned by three or four fami-
lies to buy up every copy of the book available.
At intervals a representative came and tore two or
three pages out of each copy and destroyed them,
leaving the rest of the book for the bookseller to
dispose of as he might. “Yacko” says he recently
bought a copy, but I am doubtful if he managed
to get a complete one. If he did he has a treasure.
“Bowral”: When “improvement” reaches Church
Hill, Sidney, some fine old buildings will fall. No.
15 Bang-street, one of the terrace Underwood built in
1828, will be among the most, famous. It has* served
manv purposes —a private dwelling, Colonial Treasury
(the' second), the office of the pioneer whaler Ben
Boyd and later the home of R.C. journalism. In its
loftv’ rooms much good copy has been written. Harold
Gray (“The Pilgrim”), W. B. Dailey, W. C. Duncan,
Hunt (“Flaneur”) and Henry Kendall were regular
Freeman’s Journal contributors when Tom Butler
sat in the editorial chair. Kendall wrote both prose
and verse and a present-day Father of the Chapel had
often to wait on the poet’s doorstep in Bourke-street,
Redfcrn, while the finishing touches were put to a
promised article. No. 15 is rich in memories, and,
besides, is one of Sydney’s best examples of the skill
of Macquarie’s architect, Greenway.
Walpole, the English novelist, suggests prizes for
the best books of the year, and offers suggestions
for such an award for 1920. The best .English poems, he
thinks, were Masefield’s “Right Rl>yal’ and Blun-
den’s “Waggoner.” Among novels he brackets Gals-
worthy, Conrad and Niven, with May Sinclair and
Sheila Kaye-Smith. In general work he prefers
Lubbock’s “Letters of Henry James, but allows
the alternative claims of Prof. Eltton s English Lit-,
erature” and Mrs. Asquith’s autobiography.
A Satchel of Books
Our National Danger, by A. E., Gay (The Ruskin
press, Melbourne). Herein Drill* is attacked from
every angle. “In alcoholic fungus
germs attack the sugar in the grape-juice and turn
it putrid, hence the ferment.” Shakspeare, Dickens,
Meredith and the rest who wrote so lyrically of the
bottle must have missed this pcint.
The Dragon in Shallou’ Waters, bv V. Sackville-
West (Collins). A grim story; of two working-class
brothers, one of whom is bliqjd and the other deaf
and dumb from birth, and the. tragedy that accumu-
lates round their frustrated lives. The writer has a
striking style and a Le Farm Hike gift for suggesting
horror.
Woman Triumphant, by V. B. Ibanez (Constable).
A Spanish tale of the Infernal Triangle, but robbed
of conventionality by the eccentric remorse of the
principal offender. His weird search for a female
who seems to his demented vision to recall the little
wife who has died of his .adulteries furnishes a fine
bit of ironic writing. The weakness of the book is
the intrusion of Americanisms. It is depressing to
read of “four-flushers” ami encounter references to
the “dollar” in the work of a novelist who, barring
journeys to Italy and Biarritz, never takes his yarn
beyond the suburbs of Madrid.
In Darkest Christendom, by Arthur Bertram (Allen
and Unwin). A cry is wrung by the War and the Peace
from an honest and religious-minded Englishman. He
has lost two sons, but it. has not embittered; him —or
anyhow, he does not think it has. The eight long
chapters with their numerous sub-headings are really
comminatory sermons directed at almost every im-
portant institution in the United Kingdom. He
has a poor opinion of all the Protestant Churches,
and lowest in the scale he puts the Established
Church. The Press is always employed for malign
ends. The Government, Spiritualism, Protection, the
Ulster Party, the Nietzschean philosophy, the books
o; H. G. Wells, Germanism (“swinishness”), militar-
ism-all these are raked fore and aft in vigorous
language.


M
/
The Hold
on this
RABBIT
is not one atom more secure than the cer-
tainty you will secure top prices for all
classes of skins by consigning to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, Bydney and Brisbane. LTD.
Top market rates are
the firm’s strong point.
-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
l~i b r>o I i f~&
ill
■
The cost of a home or any other class
of building constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send
for full information.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-3 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
raNmraswaK»ii(
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul,of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA. LIMITED.
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ǻ
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
æ
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
ǽ
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES — Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address —
Zinc Producers’ Association £?£
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
a
I
iaoiar
□
I
□
S®
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUN
*
Sirin. Continuous Wood Stave Pipe installed in
Java, 1918, for Hydro-Electric Work.
The Modern
Water Main.
Built for service —backed by
service! Wood Pipe has
the prestige of hundreds of
years of satisfactory service
—old London had mains of
it—and modern Wood Pipe
carries absolute efficiency
wherever it goes, together
with the goodwill that
prompt delivery and co-oper-
ation in laying can bring.
It is the scientific water conduit of the future, offering service from the
factory and service in the ground.
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe can be shipped immediately from stock. Send for
our interesting booklet.
We are also manufacturers of the famous WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
A footbath and a tallowed nose,
And “tots” of gin galore,
For winter colds was Grandpa’s pose
In crude old days of yore;
But since he learned a wiser way
Such stunts he won’t endure,
“That stopped it!’’ is his slogan gay,
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Advt.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
It
\
afe*
w-
The
5®
feci
Pipe
Pei
&
Behold the Fisherman!
His delight he seldom voices
But he none the less rejoices
As he waiteth—on a “bite intent.
So patiently and leisurely
He filleth up his GBD,
And smokes in sweet content.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mirza”: All the profiteers haven’t been
hanged yet. The other day 1 bought a
cake of soap for Is. 3d. It was enveloped
in advertisements which stated (1) that it
was incomparably the best; (2) that it was
used by Royalty; (2) that its price was
sixpence.
“Crookwell”: It is reasonable to be care-
ful when dealing with the Post Office, but
a farmer near Goulburn (N.S.W.) carried
caution too far. He had to send some money
to a storekeeper, so he bought a money-
order, which he took home and put carefully
away, When the storekeeper asked why he
did not settle up he replied that he had
posted the money and had kept the receipt,
as he didn’t feel like trusting the Depart-
ment too far.
South Aus. Government has settled on
fairly good terms the claim long pending
against it by the contractors for the Glenelg
breakwater, abandoned when hardly half-
finished owing to local difficulties which, they
said, ought to have been disclosed to them be-
forehand. The Harbors Board takes over
the temporary jetty, also all steel and con-
crete on the job. The contractors take all
the timber and other plant, and receive
£7OOO, mostly return or release of their own
deposits or “retention money,” with some
interest. And the contract, with all claims
on either side arising out of it, is cancelled.
“Hamer”: The telephone branch of the
P.M.G.’s Department is a bandit. A Sydney
citizen has a telephone which for months has
been unusable in spite of his efforts to get
the Department to make repairs, the fault
being not in the instrument but in the wire
outside the house. The other day the
damage was repaired, and the citizen wrote
a note asking how many calls had been
charged against him for the period of use-
lessness. The answer was almost prompt—
the call-bill for the period was 3s. lid., and
he would be charged sixpence for asking.
* * * ♦
“R. Trant”: A Scotch co. holding turtle-
fishing concessions on the north-west coast of
Westralia is about to commence operations.
A plant is to be erected at Mangles Bay, a
few miles south of Fremantle, and not far
from the Henderson Naval Base. The turtles
will be brought down by auxiliary schooners,
placed in sea pens on arrival and taken in
batches for killing. About 2000 will be
needed before killing commences, and when
the works are in full swing the management
reckons to deal with 500 per week. The
whole of the amphibia will be used, and soon
Westralian turtle-soup should be on the mar-
ket. besides many dainty cuts. The residue
will find its way into meat-meal for poultry-
farmers. During the slack season the co.
intends to handle fish-canning and other
side-lines.
* * -* *
“Carpentarian” juggles with pubs
In Cooktown (Q.) to-day rows of deserted shops;
empty houses and dead and dying hotels are about
all that is left to recall the golden days of the
Palmer. Lined with the ghosts of long-deceased pubs
the two-mile-long street that once hummed with—but
let’s get on to rents ; they’re more cheerful. Hotels
—there are 16 of them —rent on a weekly basis anti
run about 255. a pair, or, including some on the
outskirts, about four for 30s. Cooktown people buy
and sell hotels as casually as a Southerner buys a
collar-stud. Many a tin-gouger, in from the
hills for a supply of cartridges or something, wakes
up in the morning with a headache and two or three
hotels. But there was a time when gold flowed in
tons from the Palmer. An old teamster recently
assures me that he remembered “when that there pub
took a hundred quid as a regular thing before break-
fast.” He pointed to a wreck through whose second-
storey window a supercilious goat surveyed Mount
Cook as though he’d seen plenty better mountains.
“Who owns it now?” I asked. “Now you ask me,”
he said, “blamed if I don’t think I own it myself.”
He scratched his head. I offered him 30s. for it.
He didn’t close just then—said he’d see me again.
I completely forgot the outcome. I wonder did I
buy that hotel? In 1874 the Queen's was bought for
113500. Three days later he let go for £7OOO. Its
next price was £BOOO. In 1918 I saw it sold, lock,
stock and about 30 goats, for £6O. The
Great Northern once changed hands at £lO,OOO. I
saw it put up for auction without a bid. The Cook-
town licensing ceremonial is the simplest in the
Commonwealth. It consists of merely opening the
door. A lady once found her hotel mislaid, so to
speak. The next-door brick wall had sat on it. .She
just walked across to the Queen's and never lost a
blow. Houses rent per calendar month, and range
from £0 to 20s. There is no difficulty about buying
them. A friend of mine bought one by accident.
What he thought was rent was in fact purchase
money. He was quite surprised. Banks are let by
the week and run 12s. 6d. all round.
THE DROVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The police of Melbourne suggest the rounding up
of all suspects and known bad characters as a means
of stemming the crime wave.”
In vivid fancy 1 can see them pass
Down Bourkc-street, many thousands in a drove,
A noisy, lowing, dust-creating mass.
Where one or two might seem disposed to rove
They’re turned back to the mob by snarling jaw
Of any yapping sleuth-hound of the law.
The patter of their feet is like the sea
On rock-ribbed coast when angry winter storms.
And on their proud red horses gallantly
The stockmen ride in natty uniforms,
While some few drovers run afoot, and beat
With batons those that linger on the street.
And so they drift, an ill-assorted herd,
The burglar with his customary scowl;
The guns and heads slink past without a word ;
The Fitzroy pushes flic their “guns” and howl;
And young pickpockets slyly peep about,
Their doxies lending color to the rout.
Down Bourke with call of voices and the yap
Of collies into Swanston now they go,
And from the throng one wolf-eyed, famished chap
Attempts a break-away, and curses flow ;
Whips volley, and the thundering hoofs
Send echoes streaming on the city roofs.
The gaol is reached, and lashes, dogs and men
Unite in frantic urging. See tiie mob
Go surging through the gates, and then
The drove is yarded, finished is the job.
In town, from cellars free and warehouse shelves,
The many strays congratulate themselves!
victoria.
EDDYSON.


m
SSI
w.
I
w-
s2
&2
a
C/ara 53utf writes:
1
ti&SMk -(Main
&
IT is an event of outstanding importance in the world of music
when an artist of the rank of Clara Butt comes to our shores.
On September 6 this greatest of all contraltos will open her
season in Sydney.
Although thousands will be able to listen to her glorious voice in
person, there are multitudes who will not enjoy a similar oppor-
tunity. But, for them, on the testimony of the great artist herself,
there is in the Columbia Record a permanent means of hear-
ing Clara Butt, always at her very best.
Hear Clara Butt in person when you can! But, above all, hear
her on a Columbia Record in her great successes —many of which
are your own especial favorites.
Columbia Records of Clara Butt’s great successes cost only 6/- each for 10-inch and 8/6
each for 12-inch Records (Single-sided).
New Zealand Prices—7/- each for 10-inch and 10/- each for 12-inch Records (Single-sided).
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS—
GRAFONOLA. LTD., Dating House. Rawson Place, Sydney. N.S.W.; HUGO WERTIIEIM PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Agents for Tasmania and Victoria, 171-173 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria; KING & KING. LTD.. Queen Street,
Brisbane, Queensland; W. H. PALING & CO.. LTD., 86-88 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland; CORNELL, LIMITED,
122-130 Pirie Street, Adelaide. South Australia; H. R. FIRTH, Central Arcade. Perth. West Australia; ARTHUR
H. NATHAN. LTD., Customs Street. Auckland. New Zealand; BANNATYNE & HUNTER, LTD., Allen and Wakefield
Streets, Wellington, New Zealand; WEBLEY, SONS & GOFTON, LTD., Christchurch and Dunedin, New Zealand.
Columbia
a
magic notes


The “Home-made” Craze
“T/tT” finished? (That’s splendid.
\ \ Well, I’m afraid you ladies will
have to be idle for a little until
a fresh lot of tiles are ready: this comes of
‘hustling’!”
And the door closed behind the back of
the head of Department X. The four occu-
pants of the room settled themselves a trifle
more easily in their chairs. One, a slim,
red-haired girl, whipped a piece of lemon-
colored knitting from a drawer and bent dili-
gently to her needles.
“That going to be a jumper, Miss May-
field?” inquired a dark girl whose hair
tumbled untidily about her ears. Then, as
the other nodded, “you are clever: there’s
a regular craze for home-made things, but
I’m such an awful slacker. Oh, bother
my hair!” she broke off, vainly trying to
thrust back an unruly lock, “I washed it
last night, and I can't do a thing with it
to-day.”
“What do you wash it with?” inquired
Miss Mayfield. “Not Stnllax, I’m sure.
Ah, I thought not.”
“I do,” said a pretty fair girl who had
not yet spoken. “It’s simply splendid
stuff.”
“There,” said Miss Mayfield, “I told you
so. You try it next time. If you haven’t
any at home a chemist will always supply
it. It works up into the most lovely foamy
lather and cleans your hair in no time.
Afterwards it dries quickly and crisply, so
that it can be done up at once—none of
that untidy ‘eudy’ look the day after a
shampoo.”
“Well, well,” said the dark-haired one,
“that’s something worth trying. As we're
on the subject, do any of you know a cure
for falling hair? I'm convinced I'm getting
prematurely bald; also I’ve got quite a
little patch of grey hair—overwork, of
course,” she grinned.
The head of the room, a slightly older
woman whose face was redeemed from plain-
ness by the masses of soft brown hair sur-
rounding it, sailed into the discussion.
“I don’t think you’ll beat my recipe, Miss
Carey,” she said; “and, like Miss May-
field’s jumper, it’s home made. Get a pack-
age of boranium from your chemist, and
dissolve it in bay rum. If you rub this
into the roots of your hair at night you will
find; in a few days, that not only will your
hair stop falling out, but it will grow much
more thick and glossy. If you aren’t joking
about thaf grey hair I can give you a tip
whicji has been of great use to me person-
ally.”
“I’d be fearfully grateful, Mrs. Drewe,”
answered Miss Carey.
“Well,” said the other, “it is not unlike
the first recipe, only this time the bay rum
should have pure tammalite dissolved in it.
You:should apply the mixture with a clean,
small brush, and it will gradually restore
the ffaded part to its normal color. Of
course, this isn’t a dye; I know nothing
about hair-dyes, for I disapprove of them
entirely. But it’s a wonderful tonic.”
“Thanks so much,” Miss Carey said ; “I
ought to be a dream of beauty as regards
my hair. Seriously, though, I’m going to
try your ideas. Stallax, boranium, tamma-
lite—is that right? Thanks, Miss May-
field,! what a delicious jumper that is;
but my complexion would never stand that
color. You red-haired girls are lucky, you
always have such topping skins.”
“I had anything but a topping skin a
year ago,” replied the latter. I used to
freckle and burn and get dreadfully blotched-
lookjng. Then a friend told me that mer-
colisjed wax was by far the most scientific
and effective thing she knew. If it is rubbed
on at night and washed off with warm water
in the morning it gradually absorbs the outer-
skin; which has become stained and rough-
ened, and reveals the fresh new skin under-
neath. It sounded rather wonderful, and
so I tried it; and I’ve used no other face-
cream since.”
“Would you believe it?” murmured the
facetious Miss Carey. “I wouldn’t be half
so bad-looking if I had your skin, Miss May-
field. Is this wax very difficult to get?”
“Not a bit,” said the other; “any decent
chemist has some in stock.”
Mrs. Drewe looked up. “You all seem
great beauty-specialists! I wonder if one of
you experts know if there is any way of
curing blackheads, as I have a friend who is
quite disfigured with them?”
Miss Carey knitted her brows, but the
fair girl said quickly: “I think most people
use something called stymol, which you can
buy in tablet form. It closes the pores of
the skin, or, rather, reduces them to their
proper size, and that loosens any blackheads
and prevents others from forming.”
“How do you use it?” inquired Mrs. Drewe.
“For blackheads, I believe you dissolve a
tablet in warm water, bathe them and gently
remove them with a towel. But, though I
don’t personally suffer from blackheads I
often have a stymol face-bath. It’s so de-
liciously sparkling and refreshing.”
“Thank you so much; I am sure my friend
will be very grateful,” smiled Mrs. Drewe.
A step sounded in the corridor. “I’m
afraid this very enlightening discussion must
be postponed,” she continued. “I think that’s
the messenger with our files. Yes, here
they come. We must carry on with the
work now-.” —Advt.
c
Razor.
A dependable
“Safety” at a
Popular Price
The “ 7 o’clock ” is wonderfully simple in its construction
and use —no loose parts, cleaned in an instant, and
stropped without removal of the blade. It is used by
many men who could afford a far more expensive razor
but prefer the efficient simplicity of the “ 7 o’clock.”
Complete with razor, special strop in hinged parti-
tion as part of the case, and six lancet steel blades
15/-
Of all high-class dealers throughout the Commonwealth.
Sole Agents for Australasia, RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
§YQWY CYOY<?Vo
OV3
VVSNCto-
%
It
Spread;
like
Butter
This is the sensible, sanitary way to buy Cheese,
You are always sure of getting the same high
quality. You know it has never been exposed
to dust or flies —never handled.
“ Rex ” Luncheon Cheese has the most tempting
flavour —mild yet piquant. It is economical,
handy, a valuable digestive aid.
Be sure you get “ Rex.” Sold everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products,
Curers of ' Rex Hams and Bacon.
I 3953
Lii ivc neon
Cbeese
“J.C.B.”: The other night a thief broke
into the Sydney Musicians’ Club and got
away with a side-drum, stand, sticks, wood
block, foot pedal, cow-bell, bracket and two
cymbals. Here at last seems a practical
protest against the jazz affliction.
“Ford": I saw a curious bit of luck last
week. A workmate of mine who resides at
St. Kilda (Vic.) Avent down the street one
evening for some tobacco, and when he got
back found a fl note caught on one of the
nails holding a rubber heel on his boot which
had worked loose.
“Yarra Ben”: They will take chances.
Two young men, brothers, building a house
at Canterbury (Vic.), were one night
French polishing in a back room by candle-
light. The flame ignited the methylated
spirit vapor, and almost immediately the
whole room was afire. Both died next day.
“D. Furious”: A black outrage has lately
been committed at Windsor (N.S.W.). The
century-odd old Government House has been
pulled down and a concrete cottage with a
galvanised-iron roof run up in its stead. The
Hours of the old place were of red cedar, and
when the boards were taken up they were
found to be splendidly preserved. The His-
torical Society had some idea of getting
the old house kept as a relic; but it’s too
late now.
“Riom”: Goulburn (N.S.W.) seems to be
the Australian Aberdeen. In the early for-
ties most of the business there was in the
hands of the Hebrew race, and ‘‘As solid as
a Goulburn Jew” used to be a district pro-
verb. At present not one Jew is conspicu-
ously in business in the city. The Jewish
cemetery hasn’t had a burial in 20 years.
Some of the headstones date back to 1845;
and one has an inscription with the word
“testimony” spelt “testimoney.”
“Sixenate”: An alteration which might
have been introduced long ago has been made
by the N.S.W. Minister for Justice in the
procedure regarding convicted men. These
prisoners are entitled to ask for a reduc-
tion of their sentences by the period they
spent in prison aAvaiting trial; but hitherto
a special appeal had to be made in each case.
Noav a direction has been issued that the
Judges are to be given details, so that the
deduction may be made on the spot.
In 1020 young South Australia’s fancy
turned, to thoughts of matrimony. As a
result there was a record in knot-tying
—4881 couples. This is the Common-
wealth’s best performance, too, being at the
rate of 10.33 per 1000. N. S. Wales had the
next-highest rate for the year, with 9.96.
(Maoriland runs S. Aus. close with 10.32
per 1000.) In S. Aus. the Methodist Church
is top with 1414 ceremonies, followed by
the C. of E. 1329 and R.C. 558. The
average age of the bridegrooms was 28, of
the brides 25.
Mander, M.P. for Marsden (M.L.), is
retiring at the end of the present Parliament,
and Colonel C. E. R. Mackesey may succeed
him. In 1914 Mackesey was given com-
mand of Auckland Mounted Rifles (known
colloquially as “All Mackesey’s Relations”),
and served “for the duration.” He is a fine
orator, and so good a linguist that he
managed to pick up more than a smattering
of various dialects spoken in Egypt and
Palestine. For a time he was military Gov-
ernor of Sinai. These days he is a land-
agent in Auckland.
“Coolyak”: “Morob” (B. ll/8/’21) talks
loosely when he says that the injection of
white of egg or allied substances causes
death within a few hours. When any pro-
tein is injected into the blood-stream of an
animal, that animal develops a property in
its tissues that it retains throughout life.
If, after this property has developed, a
second dose of the same protein from the
same species of animal is injected, the ani-
mal suffers from anaphylactic shock —a
Anolent contraction of the smooth muscle
throughout the body, which may be fatal.
The time taken for the anaphylactic state
to come on depends on the size of the first
or sensitory dose.
Queensland dug up 23,655 tons of copper,
worth about £70 3s. per ton, in 1913, before
the war boom. When the boom was boom-
ing, and prices soared to near £130, produc-
tion got doAvn to 18,980 tons (1918) because
Avith bigger wages it wasn’t necessary to do
so much work. Prices last quarter were still
£2 10s. per ton above the 1913 level, but the
output was 234 tons —at the rate of 936 tons
a year. Mount Morgan and almost all the
mines of Chillagoe and Cloncurry are closed
as a “class-conscious” protest against accept-
ing less than the Avages of 1917 or 1918;
and as the prices of 1918 may not come back
till a.d. 2981 Queensland may be in for a
long starve unless somebody gets the thing
in the right perspective.
Minister Poynton has come back from a
brief tour in Avhich he entered the Northern
Territory via Darwin, in the farthest north
(97ft. above sea-level), instead of via Alice
Springs on the south (1926ft.), and surveyed
Papua mostly from Port Moresby and
Rabanl. He is “dubious about the suitability
of either Papua or the Territory for Euro-
peans.” Still, the N.T., Avith a death-rate in
1920 of under seven per 1000, against Eng-
land’s 14 or 15 per 1000, seems to be making
a struggle. Of course, the centre of the Ter-
ritory, with a rainfall of about 15in. per
annum, might seem di'y to some Europeans,
such as Dutchmen, who have to perpetually
pump out their country, and who swim up-
stairs to bed at night. But the Australian
is pulling through, thank you.
“Figurehead”: Captain J. Loxve, the latest
addition to Yarra mud-pilots’ ranks, had his
first walloping off the Horn in the ship Dur-
bridge in 1900 as an apprentice. Later he
served as that most unenviable person, the
third mate, then second and chief in the
same vessel. A cruise round SailortoAvn
Avhich followed caused the mariner to take
a job “before the stick” in the Loch Katrine,
which is now doing duty as a coal-hulk in
Sydney Harbor. Arch Currie and Co. then
claimed his services as an officer in the
Darius, from which he transferred to Hud-
dart Parker in 1907. Since then he has
commanded the Rotomohana, Moorabool,
Courier, Goulburn, Barwon and Wyallah. He
takes over in October when Captain Tom.
Liley, with more than 50 years sea and
nearly 30 years Port Phillip and Yarra
piloting to his credit, goes on the retired list.


$/k T
A battery that is months
old when you buy it has
months less of life in it
when put on your car.
The Still Better Willard
Battery is shipped “bone
dry” and is brand new
when you buy it It is
the only battery with
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation.
à
STORAGE
BATTERY


[SON HEAD
DISFIGURED CHILD
L
Very Inflamed. Used to Irritate.
Formed Eruption.CuticuraHeals.
*‘My little girl was only a few
months old when her head broke out
55
w-
+ KJ.
in pimples which were
very inflamed. They used
to irritate her so that she
scratched. The pimples
f then formed a big erup-
tion and it was very dis-
figuring.
“I sent for a free sam-
pie of Cuticura Soap and Ointment
and then got a full-sized cake of
Soap and two tins of Ointment and
persevered with them for a few weeks
when she was healed.” (Signed)
Mrs. McLaren, 379 Melville St., The
Junction, Newcastle, N. S. W.
Use Cuticura foralltoiletpurposes.
Soapls..Talcumls.6d.,Ointinentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Town* &. Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
2|V*Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
US West 31st Street,
New York, D.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Life seems made of songs and sorrows,
Buoyant hopes and haunting fears,
Glad to-days and sad to-morrows,
Noons of joy and nights of tears. *
Summers merged in winters dreary,
Bronchial ailments to endure,
When poor mortals, worn and weary
Treasure Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
RIDE A
O
MOTOR
BICYCLE
FITTED WITH
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
The smooth running, ease of con-
trol and ample power of a B.S.A.
Motor Bicycle is a revelation. A
long acquaintance with a B.S.A.
will demonstrate the sturdy and
scientific construction which en-
sures the unfailing reliability and
good service which can be confi-
dently relied upon from B.S.A.
machines.
Letters of appreciation from riders
in France, Burma, Australia, Egypt,
etc., etc., show that B.S.A.
machines give consistent good ser-
vice under the exceptional con-
ditions of colonial motor cycling.
AII B.S.A.
parts are
guaranteed
intercbange
able.
B.S.A. 6 7h.p.
TWIN
MODEL. .
á
Write for full particulars and Handbook to
D. Y. RENNIE
ißfpresenting B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Agents : BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
la
s*'
C
I %
/A*?
a
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R.3LA3L.TTO 1
“It's a STETSON!”
Clothes may make a man but a hat crowns
the effort.
To the thoughtful minded, personal pride
dictates the exercise of extreme care in
the selection of a hat.
Choose a STETSON and by the congratulations
from “ HER” and your other acquaintances, the
excellent fitting qualities, the lasting shapeliness
and unusual durability you will have reason
.. to be proud of your decision. ..
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies’ - * 4/-
iSoles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2 -
Ladies’ ■ - 1/3
(Heels only.,
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufmcturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS.Ltd.,
London, Eng.
All THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
‘ MILITARY'
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
tfJT THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
jJ give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fort
your
Boots
As worn by
thousands of
Au st r all an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G. WILLIAMSON, *6, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 263, Poet Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Confidence
</>
My*
at*
loo^
!/>
£*>»*
rHE COLONIAL- RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office: 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
JLadt
<£>.
JLxjJrvoJUa.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
KSK.S ’SSU’Stt—■ «*»•*•■
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Letter received by the secretary of a MX.
racing club in response to a demand for a member’s
subscription:—•
Dear Sir, —Larst yere you billed my farther, Henare
Wirihana, one guinea. He couldn’t pay. He was
dead. This year you billed him two guineas. He
earn’t pay now, neither. He is still dead. —Yours,
etc., H. \V. Wirihana.
* * * *
Archie Bradley, the Gympie butcher-boy
who licked ’Gene Volaire all the way at Brisbane
Stadium last month, is only 19 and makes
the lightweight limit with extreme difficulty. He is
about sft. Bin. in height, and has very long arms.
His supporters expect him to fill out presently into
a hefty middle.
NV. Booth, of Rosehill, with 21 winners,
again heads the Sydney metropolitan trainers for the
season, in the previous year F. Williams broke the
run of successes which Booth had revelled in for
three seasons. This time F. Williams led with 14
firsts. F. J. Marsden and J. W. Cook had 13$, and
S. Gore a dozen. Of the other 119 trainers, 32 had
two winners apiece, and 37 had only one.
A.J.C. (Sydney) has had another look into
its cash-box, with the result that -the Derby (1922)
goes from £6OOO to £7OOO, the Leger (1923) from
£2OOO to £2500, Sires Produce Stakes (1923) from
£4OOO to £5OOO, Champagne Stakes (1922) from
£2OOO to £3000; and the Metropolitan from £5OOO
to £6OOO.
Frank Dempsey is, for the second year in
succession, runner-up in the season’s list of winning
Vie. jockeys. He has been on 30$ winners, 16
seconds and 10 thirds. W. Duncan is again at the
head of affairs with 39 winners, 31 seconds and 25
thirds. Number three on the list is G. Harrison
with 26 wins. The three riders were in the same
places last season.
The popularity of the totalisator at Band-
wick grows. Bast year the A.J.C. handled
£1,280,861, or £49,969 more than in the previous
year. The State Government took £105,910 out of
the gamble. The A.J.C., also passed the Treasury
£40,103 racecourse admission-tax, and £7972 book-
makers’ registration fees. The Federal Government
collected another £12,003 in entertainment-tux.
* * * *
The man-driven aeroplane for skimming
over the landscape a few feet from the ground is an
early possibility. I’oulain, an old-time bikist who
won many prizes as a sprinter, has perfected a
machine with two planes that left the earth the
other day for 36 feet propelled by the legs of the
former champion. It doesn’t seem much of a dis-
tance, but the fact that he lifted the machine off
the globe at all will encourage experiment.
“The Punter” : The vogue of s.p. betting
is even more extensive than the Age and the S.M.H.
imagine. A school-inspector visiting my suburb was
testing a junior class in arithmetic. “Suppose I put
two shillings on a horse that won at 25 to I,’’ he
said, “how much would I win ?” “A pound,” roared
the class. “Nonsense,” he returned, “it would be
two pounds ten.” “No it wouldn’t,” explained a
bright urchin. “There’s a ten-to-one limit around
here.”
* # * *
“Step”: Queensland is moving to get a
Test match in Brisbane when the next English N 1
comes this way. Already the financial guarantee is
in hand. But where is the match to be lopped from?
Hitherto N. S. Wales and Victoria have had two
matches and S. Aus. one. The way out may be to
place one each in N. S. Wales. Victoria, S. Aus. and
Queensland, and swing the other between Tasmania
and Westralia. It will be a losing project; but it
will be for the benefit of the game.
The French Grand Prix has been cap-
tured for the first time by an American, J. Murphy,
on a Duesenberg car. Murphy fled over the distance
of 322$ miles —30 laps of 10-J miles —in 4hr. 7min.
10sec., averaging 78 miles an hour. His car, whicn
has oil-operated brakes on all four wheels, has
captured 66 world’s records for distances ranging
from one to 300 miles. One achievement, a flying
mile in 23sec., equal to 156 m.p.h., on Daytona
Beach (U.S.A.), will take a lot of beating.
* ■* * *
The Numurkah(Vic.) Agricultural Society
decided this year to raise money by pitting the local
football team against the unbeaten abo. side. A
great game ensued, and five minutes after the com-
mencement of the last quarter the score stood even
at four goals six behinds apiece. At this stage the
Blacks walked off the ground. Neither persuasions,
threats, remonstrances nor curses availed to make
them carry on, their skipper explaining gently, but
firmly: “We no been beaten and no wantch.”
* * * *
President of the Bendigo Jockey Club for
24 years and a member of the committee for two
years longer, Sam Lazarus was, to the surprise of
many local sports, rejected at the recent election.
When the result was known several members offered
to resign in order that the old identity, who has
done a lot for the club, might be re-elected. But the
ex-president declined the offers with thanks. Lazarus
alleges that the “trotting people” were mainly re-
sponsible for his -rejection, they having made a
dead set against him.
*■ * * *
From a Dalby (Q.) mate :
Tom McDiarmid, recently dead, w»as known from
here to the Gulf as one of the greatest horsemen
Queensland ever produced. One of his feats was to
ride the winners of the whole six events on the
programme at Condamine in 1901. And at the time
he couldn’t go to scale lighter than 9st. But his
biggest punches were made as trainer of that great
chestnut gelding Battalion, perhaps the best galloper
Queensland ever sent south. McDiarmid took Bat-
talion to Brisbane in 1894, and at his second start
he spreadeagled a big field in the Prince of Wales
Cup, paying a div. of £25 19s. He was saddled up
again on the last day of the meeting and won the
second leg, the Southport Handicap. On his return
to Dalby he was met by the owner and townsfolk
with a full brass band, and played to his quarters.
After winning the Brisbane Cup of 1897 with lOst.
31b. in the saddle Battalion, jockev W. McCabe and the
owner got to loggerheads. McDiarmid, though ill
and right out of form, thereupon rode his charge in
the Moreton Handicap himself, and carrying list. 31b.
made a dead heat of it with a great mare in
Archie's Daughter (9st. 31b.).
Court Jester, who won a 12-furlongs race
at Moonee Valley the other week, was surely one of
the best things that ever started at 10 to 1 in a
small field of very second raters. The fact that he
is a smallish animal to whom a light weight on a
very wet day would come as a real, boon was over-
looked by punters in general, because he had run
badly in many previous tries when he was looking
“off.” This time the gelding was looking bright
and jolly, and the race was a gift to him at the
weight—fist. 131 b. Gulgo, an even-money favorite, had
to give him 201 b. on a course where every ounce
mattered. They took 2min. 46 -ec, to run the mile and a
half, Court Jester leading practically from end to
end. In his time the dandy son of Comedy King
has run good races over the same distance, carrying
heavier weights—scoring a win at Flemington under
fist. 71b.. in fact. But it was the comparatively light
burden that made him such a good, though neglected,
chance on this occasion. As a three-year-old Court
Jester carried 6st. 91b. into second place for the Aus-
tralian Cup, and the same year he ran third to The
Fortune Hunter and Harriet Graham for the Sydney
Cup, with 7st. Sib. up. He was a stayer of some note
before he became disqualified for the stud. Now. as
an early eight-year-old gelding, the Jester still has
pretensions to win in moderate company when his
weight is light and the going heavy.
(Continued on page 38.)


f i
S ‘ H
r
One of the first things one learns about the Hupmobile is that one can rely
implicitly on that tremendous reserve power which literally floods forth tor
an instant get-away; a remarkably smooth, swift acceleration; or a dogged
high-gear pull.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-sea ter Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights,
ltain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn. '
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tvre-carrier —ex tra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain earners.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
L PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile
BRIGHT PERSONALITY IN THE HOME.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE,
PRICE LIST AND EASY TERMS.
'“P HE advent of a Player Piano in the home
* creates a i?ew and warmer mental
atmosphere —it creates almost another
personality—bright, delightful, interest-
ing, always ready to amuse and entertain
—an ideal companion, too, for the
children in their daily play.
We have eight different makes of Player
Pianos to select from, each one the very
best at its price. All complete with the
latest devices for perfect playing, and
including a transposing device for raising
or lowering the key to suit the voice.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.


A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, hand
burnished, plain design, £B/10/*
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders' Sauce Boats and Frame, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £4/10/-
Smaller size, 70/-
TABLE-APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £9/9/*
Others, £5, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £l5/-/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely
engraved and burnished, (i5/*
A. Saunders’ Hot-Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Rustic
Stand, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, plain
design, complete with eight detachable tubes £B/8/«
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE—IT’S FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (Oppositeßailway Station), Sydney
A. Saunders’ Hot-Water Jug, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, engraved
“Fern” design, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, complete with plinth,
£5/10/-
M
toill
»
a
i
W/l
%
7/,
,
%
7222,
m
jr*
m
&
m
m
n
Vs
l//l
M
m
ill
w
W
rr
3
GLANCE OVER THE ROOF-TOPS OF INDUSTRIAL SYDNEY AND
MELBOURNE, AND NOTE THE NUMBER OF CERTAIN-TEED ROOFS IN USE.
Certain-teed is weatherproof under all conditions
and is also acid-, smoke-, rust-, spark- and vermin-proof.
Many factories have been roofed with Certain-
teed, owing to fumes and exhalations inseparable from
certain trade processes being fatal to the ordinary iron
roofs.
We have laid and fixed Certain-teed roofs in
N.S.W. and Victoria od. all Sorts of buildings, and they
have given great satisfaction to owners, architects and
builders.
Our roof-layers give a quick, sound service—allow-
ing of a moderate price being quoted for all roofing
contracts—whether large or small—industrial or
domestic. Send your inquiries to our Roofing Depart-
ments. Specifications, samples and low quotations per
return.
Certain-teed rolls
are 72ft. x 3ft. , and
cover 200 sq. ft.
Each roll is sent
out with the neces-
sary nails and
cement for laying:.
324=330
Pitt Street,
Sydney
JOHN
391=403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne
Certain-teed Damp-
eourse is just as
good as Certain-
teed Roofing, and
5 s sold by Danks’.
Certain-teed Roofing
is a good substi-
tute for sheet lead
for bathroom floors,
etc.


With the object of adjusting
our Stocks, we are offering sub-
stantial discounts on our laree
range of High-Class English
and Continental Gentlemen’s
Attire.
These include: —•
English Collars
Spitalfield Ties
Jaeger Gowns
English and Scotch
Hosiery and Fancy Sox
Shirts and Pyjamas—
ready-made and
to measure,
Less 20 per cent*
Burberrys, Dexter,
Durward and
Nicholson Coats
Less 25 per cent.
Hats, English and American,
Less 25 per cent.
Oddments, 50 per cent.
AUGUST.
Our offerings are true, un-
equalled values for their cost,
and not. disappointing in wear,
but retaining the satisfaction
whch solid goods offer.
Richard HuntS Co.
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Amusement*.
■YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
1 J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HEli MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
AIR. PIM PASSES BY.
PAiAC E TIIEA T K E. SYl> N K V
Lessees: J. & X. TAIT.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
ON OUR SELECTION,
STEELE RUDD’S GREAT WORK.
BERT BAILEY’S INCOMPARABLE DAD.
EVERY NIGHT. MATINEES WEDS, and SATS.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
K
I X G ’ 8 H A E E . SYDNEY.
DOROTHEA SPINNEY,
THE WORLD-FAMOUS TRAGEDIENNE.
EXTRA MATINEE BECAUSE OF HER BOOM
WEDNESDAY.
Plans at Paling's.
I G O
GRA N D
OPERA
C O.
THURSDAY AT KOGARAH TOWN HALL.
MONDAY AT MANRESA HALL (NORTH SYDNEY).
A METROPOLITAN PRODUCTION in the SUBURBS.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, plus tax.
A EGAN WILKIE SHAIiSPEAHEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE, WELLINGTON, N.Z.,
FROM 27th AUGUST to 17th SEPTEMBER.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
N 1 O N PIC T U U E T II E A T K 15 S
u
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. i*>
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS in
LONDON and 155 Nights in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|f IMPS THEATRE. M 151.8 <» * I! NH.
,v Lessees: BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. Cosmo Hamilton’s
Daring and Fascinating Play, SCANDAL.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
MELBOU RNE
Amusements.
HO Y T’S 'i'll EAT It ICS,
Al-o S\ I > NICY.
DE LUXE, BOUUKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
THE LOVE OF MARGARET KIRBY.
Also
FRANK MAYO in
COLORADO.
Prices as usual.
LACI A R I UM, )1 ELBOU B. N E.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
IyiAJICSTIC THEATRIC, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SYLVIA BREAMER in
RESPECTABLE BY PROXY.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATUE,
WORLD and SICI.ZNICK.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Belt 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offioe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
â
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 467-
Post Free all over Australia.
CRAIG &AITKEN 5 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Roil Cigar Factory.
DECGV
This is the compact little phonograph that you
can take with you anywhere and that will
stand the stress of travel and weather.
Went through the war with distinction.
Plays all makes of records; clear re-
production and rich natural tone.
No loose parts —no case —ready
to play immediately opened.
3 Models:
Leather Cloth £9 10 0
Fibre 1110 0
Cowhide ... 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All
Music-dealers.
STANLEY E. GUKKN,
LTD.,
A tutraUan Agents £
7>
kJ
♦
> «
Al
'Ja
«. > , _-^V
\ \\ \ y • • a /
MOTOR
OIL
y.
>77
Mbrirahnq
»Us
/;■
‘ S 2P *
■ m/
/ra •
jr»fa:
'm : :
<SSk
*Ms£
Less friction
means gain
in power
"\\7HEN the Motorist finds that Shell
* * Motor Oil has eliminated that
* something” which weakens the energy of
propulsion, he has reached the turning
point. Thereafter each successive mile
will unfold the uniformity of the quaiity
of Shell Lubricating Oil and its reliability
for power, smooth running and unfailing
service.
Correct Lubrication is so vitally essen-
tial and the name Shell is a token of a
full, complete and honest product.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET - “THE KEY TO PERFECT LUBRICATION
SHELL
MOTOR
SPIRIT
Scientists have determined that the correct
method of judging a Motor Spirit is by its range
of boiling points. Shell Motor Spirit consistently
responds to this test.
Inferior spirit may drive a Car, just as inferior
oil may stop a squeak, but ultimately inferiority
will assuredly take its toll of your engine.
You will avoid this by using Shell Motor Spirit.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
ft!
iMH
tiirt
m
m
M
mm-.
■mat.
m.
nvtWWim
jm


The Hose of Excellence
The Rich Elegance, the Unhoped-for Lustre, the Captivating
Firmness of these Exquisite Holeproof Hose touch the enthusiasm
of those who appreciate the niceties of Dress.
A PAIR FOR EVERY OCCASION
at a Price for Every Purse.
Holeproof Hosiery
MM. FOR w/mEN, WOMEN CHILDREN-/
Wholesale and Indent—WALTER CATHRO PROP’T’Y, LTD., 50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
A
*228
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Maid of the Mountains’’
Koval “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
Criterion “Mr. Pirn Passes By”
Palace .... “On Our Selection”
lloyt’s Mown;; Pictures
Onion Theatres .. Moting Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Lilac Domino”
Koval “Niulitie Night”
King's ~ “Scandal”
Hoyt’s He Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mklua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Glaciaricm Ice Skating
♦
‘‘Man and Superman” was the dish of
brains thalt the Sydney Repertory Society
put before its audience at the Playhouse on
Saturday night. This is one of the hardest
of all Shaw’s plays to act, and it isn’t unfair
to say that Mr. McMahon’s company was
inadequate to the job of making Shaw’s tire-
works sound like the speech of real liesh-and-
hlood men and women. Gregau McMahon
was sincere as the talkative Jack Tanner,
the man pursued by matrimony in the person
of Ann Whitefield. Eva liraby acted Ann
with scarcely any modulation of tone, but
dressed the part with discretion. Eleanor
Ross, the old-fashioned, thoroughly respect-
able Miss Ramsden, did good work ; so. did
Beatrice ■ Hsmonde, who as Aim’s mother
quite lifted the end of the play by an
exquisite bit of comedy with Tanner just
before he capitulated to Ann and the wed-
ding-ring. F. H. Day (chauffeur Straker)
and Albert Coll ip s (Roebuck Ramsden) gave
good support to Oregon's lead. Mrs. Langloh
Want was the self-sufficient Violet Robinson,
Pixie O’Reilly a trim little parlor-maid.
B. J. Doyle, R. E. Winchcombe and C.
R. Rolleston helped to complete the picture
of middle-class England.
Levitzki was a sick young man on Satur-
day night when he faced his last Sydney
audience, but there was no sign of this in the
Tscbaikowsky and Chopin numbers, though
in the big Schumann Concerto the poor
youngster was evidently feeling the strain.
But Sydney has no cause for complaint.
Levitzki has given it unstintingly of his best
through a prolonged season, and Levitzki’s
best is good.
>Jc 5J< sj; sjc
The producer of “The Maid of the Moun-
tains,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is George
A. Highland. George A. is a Highland
surrounded by high C’s. The singing is the
thing in “The Maid,” and the brilliant Aus-
tralian girl who trips down from the moun-
tain scales the heights of song in a light
operatic sense. The play is- a winner for
J.C-W., and not less so fdi* Gladys Mon-
crieff.
*$ * *
Mr. Pim and “The Dumb and the Blind”
are in their last fortnight at Sydney Cri-
terion. where pleasant, wholesome English
comedy is to the taste of audiences that
have defects of neither hearing nor Sight.
Bert Bailey is settling down with his
family at the Palace and showing Sydney
the struggles, the shifts, the laughter and
“Scandal,” at Mel-
bourne King's.
Kenneth Brampton as
the hind and loving
friend.
the grim fun that
makes up life for
the Australia that
isn’t so wayback
as it is backward.
“On Our Selection”
shows no sign of
pulling up sticks.
At the Sydney
Tivoli next week
Wilkie Bard enters
the straight and
canters to the end
..of his Sydney sea-
son. This city has
seen only the
fringe of a very
extensive reper-
toire, and hopes
that he will boom-
erang back. The
melodists and acro-
bats of the show
keep their colors
flying, and Nina
Gordon has added
Dot Brunton in
“Oh, Lady, Lady!”
to her very good
imitations. A pic-
ture - without-
words makes its
dfibut--“The Old
Swimmin’ Hole,” with Charles Ray as
the star. It is an interesting experi-
ment, and will be carried further when the
picture-making business gets down to hard
work. At present 19-20ths of the films
would be mere guessing competitions with-
out the printed sub-t : tles.
** $ *
A Sydney show of pastels:—
They are the work of Miss Dora L. Wilson, and
do nothing very startling at Gayfield Shaw’s rooms.
Miss Wilson paints lady nudes chiefly, and appeal’s
to be more interested in discovering a new arrange-
ment for the body and two arms and two legs than
in painting them. The new arrangement of a sub-
ject is relatively unimportant; if the painting is
good the picture will be beautiful. And while Miss
Wilson may be arranging and painting naked Eves
as well perhaps as any of the thousand and one
(chiefly French) artists who have worked the sub-
ject to death, she is not giving us as much art as
she could if she got down to a careful rendering of
a tin-can or a pot of daisies. Or a nude, for that
matter.
Jack London’s “Little Lady in the Big
House” supplies the theme for “The Little
Fool” at Sydney Lyceum and Crystal Palace.
The heroine gains the love of two men
(“All for One” is the motto of the girl in
the movies) —her husband, Dick, and his
friend Stephen. In re Stephen, Paula breaks
the wise old adage about kissing and telling
and meets the fate she deserves. But only
temporarily. She has become a 10-year
habit with her husband, who likes to feei she’s
among the other bric-fi-brac of the household :
so there is the usual joyous homecoming.
Alice Joyce is the other Lyceum asset. As
Indiana Stillwater in “Her Lord and
Master” she leaves the pampered life of an
American billionaire’s daughter to face the
privations of the wife of an English peer.
Ever since Francis Thompson’s “Hound of
Heaven” men have been fascinated by the
vision of a Mystic Love that pursues the
fleetest-footed sinner until at length the
prodigal is brought to the fold. This is the
idea of the Nobel prize-winner. “Thy Soul
Shall Bear Witness,” by Dr. Selina Lagerlof,
“MAN AND SUPERMAN,” AT SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE .
Albert Collins as Roebuck Ramsden.
and presented by a Swedish cast. It’s got
all the thrills of “Ten Nights in a Bar-
room,” the graveyard scene of “Hamlet,” and
the revivalist ending of “The Everlasting
Mercy.” Good but gloomy, and the Strand
features it. “Buried Treasure” is drawing
to the Globe and Hay market. Hoyt’s sees
Eugene O’Brien through “The Lost Door”
and Harry Carey in “Human Stuff.”
** * *
Beatrix Vanderdyke’s bogus honeymoon
proceeds as before at Melbourne King’s. Also
public sympathy with the young woman’s
wounded vanity is on the up-grade. Maude
Hanaford states her grievance firstly to Ken-
neth Brampton, and secondly to Frank Har-
vey, with such air of sincerity and tone of
truth that one feels it was an awful thing
for a real nice girl to be ordered to bed and
told to do a freeze, so to speak. The lady
speaks with a lisp and is fluffy in her enun-
ciation as compared with other clever artists
in the company. But her scenes with the
two men together, and each in succession,
show her as an emotional actress of more
subtle intelligence and variety of expression
than half a dozen noisier sisters who have
preceded her from America. Miss Hanaford
gives an appearance of reality to impossible
situations, in a performance which is strong-
est in its last five minutes.
** * *
If any announcement of Dame Nellie
Melba’s musical intentions be necessary this
will serve as a reminder that the songstress
is to give concerts at Melbourne Town Hall
on Wednesday (31st) and Tuesday (6th).
** * $
At Melbourne Royal the troubles of Billy
Moffat continue to be somewhat alleviated
by Mrs. Billy’s yearning to get a kiss on
account of one thing or another. On the
other hand they are still aggravated by the
ill offices of his divorced sister. His modera-
tion in dealing with the suspicions, hints,
innuendoes and general cattishness of that
emb ; ttered nark in she’s clothing is as sur-
prising ns ever. There’s no obvious reason
why Billy should allow his terrible sister
the run of his flat, except for the purpose
of obvious murder or mysterious sudden
death. Trixie, in her Nightie Night, is an
unavoidable difficulty. Her outer garments
are off the premises, and she could escape
only by means of a reasonable explanation,
which is not to be thought of in farcical
comedy. But sister Ernestine! The in-
terests of domesticity seem to demand that
she should be pushed off the premises or
poisoned while she sleeps.
$$ $ $
“The Lilac Domino” has settled down at
Melbourne Majesty’s with every intention of
staying there till the weather gets warmer.
Music, scenery and fixings combine to shield
the broadest of the “Domino's” cheap comedy
from the scoff of scorn should it break out.
But as roars of merriment rush in where
the scoff of scorn fears to intrude there is
nothing for music, scenery and fixings to
apologise for, it seems.
* * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the vaudeville that
centres in Ivy Shilling has been somewhat
strengthened since last week. Among other
changes there is Suthcr, who calls himself
a “one-man musical review,” and carries a
certain air of importance on account of his
rapid and frequent change of clothes. Suther
plays a little something on a number of
different instruments, stringed or windy,
pleasing or otherwise. With each instru-
ment he assumes a different outfit; and
still the turn is unsatisfying. lie reminds
one of a table-d’lidte dinner, where every-
thing was scrappy and nothing excited an
appetite for more.
** * *
A Melbourne show that is worth seeing:—
Sid Long, whose art is too little known in Mel-
bourne, has an attractive show of etchings and
water-colors at the Decoration Gallery. The etch-
ings command attention for their uniform dexterity,
the artist revealing the possibilities of aquatint in
plates of decorative or romantic interest. A typical
specimen is “Pan” (No. 18). The scampering
foreground figures seem to belong to the imagina-
tive scenery wherein the background trees, inter-
laced and fantastic, recall the antics of smoke
spirals caught in a breeze. The artist has another
clever aquatint in “Moonlight Pastoral,” and he
interests etchers and the public alike in his com-
bination of aquatint and soft-ground etching (“The
Mill,” No. 15), using a rich green ink for the
printing. The soft-ground method gives a fine sug-
gestion of atmosphere and spaciousness in “Fishing
Boats, St. Ives,” but he is equally pleasing in clear
line, whereof “Port Moresdale” and “Passing Storm”
are charming examples. Long’s water-colors are
comparatively dull and uninteresting in the cases
of “Lisbon” and “Flinders Street,” but he is happier
in landscapes near the time of twilight with an
early moon rising behind.
* * * *
And another that is pretty good :
There are few flat and uninteresting canvases in
C. Hampel’s show at the Melbourne Athenamm, and
only one, “November,” with a drab wheatfield fore-
ground and a yellowish patch in the middle dis-
tance, that can be regarded as a failure. For the
most part Hampel depicts dawns and sunsets and
the high lights of blazing midday in the Malice
country with a conspicuously effective brush. The
veracity of his impressions has previously been re-
marked, and this opinion is substantiated as one
passes picture after picture which has obviously
been painted straight from Nature. A good example
of his honest and sincere v’ork is the big effort,
“The Desert.” The threatening clouds, the shadowed
and forlorn scrubland, make the subject forbidding
to the casual eye, but the artist’s determination to
concede nothing in the way of conventional pretti-
ness invests the picture with strength. Elsewhere
his understanding of tone relationship enables him
to paint plain scenery with success. This fact
is demonstrated in “Sunshine Through Trees,”
“Early Morning Summer,” and several others. •
** * *
At Melbourne Majestic all eyes are fas-
tened on Jane Novak, who hides her hus-
band in a coffin and drags him over a
Canadian snowscape to dodge the attentions
of the North-West Mounted Police. “Isobel,
or the Trail’s End,” is the title of the yarn,
and House Peters is the fascinating sleuth.
In “Simple Souls,” which follows, Blanche
Sw’eet shows how a girl can scramble out of
the proletariat into the limousine class and
eat her peas with a golden knife. Hoyt’s
latest is “The Love of Margaret Kirby” that
rises to great heights of self-sacrifice on be-
half of a crippled Wall-street broker. Elaine
Ilammerstein shows a devout countenance in
the principal part. “Colorado,” adapted
from the drammer of Augustus Thomas, be-
stows the freedom of a large block of coun-
try on sturdy Frank Mayo. Melba sup-
porters are watching the miracles of “The
Faith Healer,” and also the gyrations of the
Australian Clyde Cook in a riotous two-
reeler, “Don’t Tickle.” For the Britannia’s
customers there is “A Small Town Idol,”
which hasn’t much plot but is profusely em-
bellished with Girl.
After a brief season at Adelaide Royal,
Annette Kellerman has moved on with her
supporting company towards M.L. The only
spoken drama in sight is at the Prince of
Wales, where the Fuller Co. is about to
handle the problem of the unmarried mother,
and at the King’s a sound variety co., headed
by Sam Stern, is going strong twice daily.
In pictures “Jim the Penman” is at the
Majestic in a version which shows a new
imaginative selection from Jim’s early his-
tory before he repented. The Pav. has the
saccharine “Rocks of Valpre,” Wonder-
graph “The Kentuckians,” a mountain
drama in which the hero’s rival in love is
not a villain but another good fellow —which
is perhaps the essential thing that separates
drama from melodrama. And at West’s, in
“The Heart of Maryland,” Catherine Cal-
vert takes the old practical and athletic way
of ensuring that curfew positively shall not
ring to-night.
* * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
An unusual show is now at the Society of Arts
Gallery, which is borrowed by the State Art Gallery
"The Maid of the
Mountains" at
Sydney Majesty's.
Frank Freeman as
Baldasarre, the
Brigand Chief.
to show 90 paintings
collected in England
by lawyer George
Cowan and lent by
him: liis portrait in
wig and gown, by
James Quinn, is one
of them. Among Aus-
tralian artists. Long-
staff shows Westmin-
ster in a fog; H. S.
Power horses plough-
ing ; Blamire Young
a study of flower-sell-
ers who for some
mysterious reason
have no faces; and G.
W. Lambert a savage,
all-in fight, cynically
titled “Saturday
Night,” and painted
in the manner of Rem-
brandt. The most
striking picture, per-
haps, is Orpen’s child
on the beach; there
is his usual economy
of color, one pale-pink
wash representing
alike flesh, rock and
sand. Augustus John
paints Bernard Shn>c
in contemplative mood,
Tuke his usual boys
bathing, and Brang-
wyri a French farm-
yard, with figures
heavily treated. But
landscape is the back-
bone of the show. A
small farmyard by
Clausen is highly
characteristic of his
style, but the
Thames Embankment of Emile Claus might be
of Will Ashton’s doing. The Japanese Take Sato
paints Glovelly Harbor in a screaming blue that
never was on sea or land. Julius Olsson’s coloring
is at once recognisable in a seascape, Littlejohns
shows a dreamy blue city reflected in green water,
and Taylor a delightful Rio Janeiro by night. Even
famous figure-painters such as Walter Crane and
Dudley Hardy are represented here by landscape.
Billie Fresham, a Sydney boy of about
19, has been chosen as lead in a British
film-production, “The Fifth Form of St.
Dominic’s.” He takes the part of the bad
boy of the school. Billie has an expression
like one of Baphael Tuck’s cherubs; but
as soon as he said “Australian” they cast
him for the part of the imp.
The film-producers of this country are up
against the usual tough proposition that
blocks the profesh. every time it tries to
hire a well-known Society name to perch
on its billheads. The ladies are willing to
draw their hundred or so a week, but they
want to act in scenarios specially written
for them : and they produce the script in the
magnate’s office with an air of “Love me
love my scenario.” One little laidy naively
explained: “I don’t mind dancing or fencing
or riding or kissing (in moderation), but 1
won’t swim for them, nor get in and out of
bed for them.” And then she mentions that
the new play (written for her by a friend) is
lovely —“ I’ll be the only woman in it.” Eve
was in the same position in Eden. And yet
the serpent crept in.
Mungo MacCallum lectured the Repertory
Society on the poor palate of the modern
audience compared with that of the audi-
ences of Athens in the days of Euripides and
Pericles and of London audiences in Eliza-
bethan days. He thinks the decadence of
the audience has brought about a decadence
in plays, and pointed his moral by showing
how comparatively few people attend Reper-
tory shows. But, truly now, is that the fault
of the playgoer or of the play? Men like
Barrie and Maugham have no difficulty in
drawing crowded houses, whereas up to date
what has been introduced to Svdney as the
Repertory Play has at the best, some-
what amemic. However, the lecturer cleared
up one point, and that is why audiences re-
gard peanuts and chocolates as essential
parts of the evening’s entertainment. It
began in the good old Athenian days when the
playgoer started out at dawn for the Parthe-
non, carrying a basket of provisions to sus-
tain himself; for the old Greek sat in the
theatre all day. plays following one another
without intermission.


The Mark of
ã
Efficiency.
Brilliancy without glare, with Reduced Light-
ing Costs. Long Life and Reliability are the
chief characteristics of COSMOS LAMPS.
m
: ■■■:
■
gu
m
HU
■
wwtS
pis
iw.i
i#i>u!<*
if;;
m
\ws#jm
mmw
%
m©iawe®ltik
ana©!
lb®
[OP
m 4ke G@m°
were MgMedl
tike result
o
ä
Blctas
G
S
Supply Departments
Melbourne,
21-23 Elizabeth Street.
Sydney,
304 Kent Street.
Large stocks held of every class of Wiring Accessory, Lighting
Fixtures, Cooking and Heating Apparatus, Wires, etc.
Insist on “Cosmos.”
From all Hardware Stores and Electricians.
T-TF' \D OFFICES \ND HEAVY PLANT DEPARTMENT —MELBOURNE, 84 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY, 12 MARTIN PLACE; and at
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
AGENTS—ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.


One Cartridge
does for both
REVOLVER
and
RIFLE 32 or 44 Cal.
The Colt Target Revolver, 7iin. barrel,
£ll/10/-
And the Winchester Repeating Rifle
or Carbine. Full- or Half-magazine
Rifles, £B/10/-. Carbines, £7/17/6.
A great benefit is gained by sportsmen in
having a uniform cartridge for both arms.
Ross .303 Rifle. The cheapest .303 rifle
obtainable. £6/10/-
tyetice
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
C;
M
å
(idxl&ivl
Looks Like
a Guinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-made Lever
Filler. Made as well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
11/6 and 12/6.
SOLD AT ALL
STATIONERS.
The
CONWAY QTEWART
LEVER W FILLER
PEN.
SOLD AT ALL
JEWEL! ERS.
RIDING BREECHES
Sports Coats
4
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
j*
W. CHORLEY
8 CO. LTD.,
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
Model & Chandon
DRY IMPEARIAL
CHANPAGNE
Exquisites
“Concerto”: The playing of Romberg’s
“Toy Symphony” by a N.S.W. Conserva-
torium orchestra recalls Josef Ivretschmann,
who introduced it to Sydney 20 years ago
at the Uni. He also introduced Tschai-
kowsky’s piano concerto and Lizst’s arrange-
ment of the “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
incidental music by Mendelssohn. * Mark
Hambourg is generally credited with having
been the first to plav the Concerto here;
but our little Australian composer Esther
Kahn (who was “Kretchy’s” pupil) performed
both that and the Lizst arrangement at the
Centennial Hall —well, before Mark.
“Type T.”: Dorothy Helmrich continues
to do well in the Cold Country, and her
second recital at the Steinway Hall got gal-
lons of press praise. The Mosman songster
has just completed a concert tour of Scot-
land, and has been engaged for the November
Promenade concerts for the third time.
Things in the London musical world are,
however, very flat, and many singers are
appearing at the halls. Dorothy plans to
spend the summer holidays in Paris, where
she intends absorbing further musical know-
ledge. Florence Fawaz. the Melbourne con-
tralto, who recently made a most successful
London debut in opera, will probably accom-
pany the Mosman girl.
“Te Pana”: Dame Nellie throws Auck-
land the cold eye. She still harbors a
grudge over an incident at Gov. House when
she sang there a few years ago. Having
finished her song, much applause was forth-
coming, but above the clapping a dear old
lady was heard to say “Encourage' her! Go
on, encourage her!” So there you have it.
“Snell”: The greatest bull-roar the Aus-
tralian stage ever knew was Gus Glover’s.
Gus, in the Dampier days at the Aleck, could
deliver a message to the gods calculated to.
carry to the top of high Olympus. On one
occasion, when he was delivering a cu-rse
upon the head of a recreant village maiden,
a stage-hand working aloft slipped and saved
himself by clinging to a rope. Gus looked
aloft, whereupon the stage-hand addressed
him. “Howja expect a man to keep his bal-
ance on a bloomin’ plank,” he snarled, “if
you shake the bloomin’ theatre like that?”
“Stargazer” on the problem picture: —
On the American pictures “nothing’s wrong but
thinking makes it so,” and virtue and vice are two
ways of looking at the same thing. The heroine
of the “feature” at my particular resort last week,
being a poor girl of singular beauty with a de-
pendent little sister, endures great privations, and
finally is submerged in misery. The customary
Wall-street magnate then takes her up, and pre-
sently bears her off to his home. Here the lady
stays in sumptuous surroundings, with diamonds and
gowns that might excite the envy of an empress,
meanwhile keeping her little sister like a small
princess in a home apart. Presently the lady’s ori-
ginal love, a poor young engineer, turns up in the
home of the Wall-street magnate, and is introduced
to the little “wife.” Gasps and gurgles and great
moral anguish on the part of the lady, who resolves
to rid herself of “this man who is dragging me
down, down” —meaning the magnate, who up to now
has merely lavished great affection and untold
silver on her. She taps a secret of the magnate’s
to his detriment, makes an immense fortune on
Wall-street thereby with “this man’s” money, and
then clears out. The magnate follows to beg her
to return, whereupon the heroine runs his motor-
car down a clin, and while his dead body lies at
the mercy of the prawns, the lovely young engineer
gathers the poor, suffering girl to his heart, and
they live happy ever after, with the little sister sport-
ing with a thousand-dollar dog on a t.wenty-thousand-
dollar lawn, and over all broods the general assump-
tion that at length virtue is adequately rewarded
and vice has got it properly in the neck. No wonder
Australians cannot be trusted to write picture-plays!
And less wonder that queer ideas about wrong and
right are creeping in and cursing the country !
“T. D. Erndee”: What a pity it is that so
comparatively few mummers study the art of
speaking distinctly, and that so polished an
artist as Maude Hanty'ord should occasion-
ally have been guilty in “Scandal” of this
offence against the audience, the play and the
players. It is an argument in favor of the
personal methods of J. C. Williamson, who
sat in the manager’s box to satisfy himself
that the dialogue was not taken so fast as to
be almost gabbling. A clever craftsman fre-
quently builds a situation on what is appa-
rently an unimportant incident, such as the
handling of a letter in “The Argyle Case,”
or a phrase, as in “The Thief” ; and if one
misses the point the action may be unintel-
ligible.
“Ancient Prompter”: America gave “Adam
and Eva” to the stage; France has its
“Adam and Eve.” The new piece has been
acquired by the indomitable Sarah Bern-
hardt, who has not yet decided which part
she will play —“the male or female of the
species.” “Adam and Eve” is the work of
Sacha Guitry, son of the star who long ago
made the family name famous on the
Parisian stage, a bright dramatist who turns
out a new play about every six months.
“Old Pot” : Despite the conclusions drawn
by “Hal” (B. 2S/7/’2l), it is difficult to see
“The Maid of the
Mountains,” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Phil Smith as Tonio,
the comic brigand.
any connection be-
tween “11.M.5.
Pinaf o r e” and
“The Beggars’
Opera.” The Gil-
bert and Sullivan
opera was a clever
satire upon the ap-
pointment of book-
seller W. 11. Smith
as First Lord of
the Admiralty, and
much of its humor
was taken from
“Captain Reece, of
the Mantelpiece,”
which Gilbert
wrote in the “Bab
Ballad s.” All
London laughed at
the way the
Queen’s Navee was
held up to ridicule,
and it is claimed
that Gilbert’s satire
was responsible for
improvements a t
the Admiralty. It
was said that Gil-
bert intended to
write the libretto
of another comic
opera embodying
what would have
happened when
the gentle Cantain
Reece was replaced by a martinet. But it
remained one of the million things he never
did.
“Peter”: Cosmo Hamilton, author of
“Scandal,” is a brother of Sir Philip Gibbs,
the war-correspondent who is talking of
coming to Australia for a spell. At the
first night of “Scandal” in Noo Yoik Gibbs
did his bit for Uncle Sam’s Victory Loan by
auctioning a letter signed by Woodrow
Wilson, Lloyd George, Poincare, Foch,
Beatty and Haig. The document, somewhat
mangled in the nervous grip of the auction-
eer, was finally exchanged for 24,000 dollars.
“S.T.”: Eille Norwood, prominent “lead-
ing juvenile” here 30 years ago, has a front
place in film-making in London. As that
alleged industry always prefers adapting old
romances to getting new ones written, Nor-
wood has lately done a big double, going on
from Sherlock Holmes to the sword-and-
cloak hero in Weyman’s “A Gentleman of
France.” The latter gives a special chance
for showing off the fencing which is Nor-
wood’s chief recreation in private life.
“Old Pot” on a minor mystery : —•
The will of Essie Jenyns bequeathed to “the Sydney
Art Gallery in the Domain” her presentation copy
of the First Folio of Shakspeare, but search has
failed to disclose any such book. The 1623 edition
of Shakspeare, better known as the First Folio, is
probably the most valuable of all the editions, a
copy being worth about £2OOO. There is one in
the Mitchell Library in Sydney presented to the
Government of N. S. Wales by Sir Richard Tangye,
of the English engineering firm, who visited Sydney
about three decades ago. He was treated with
every hospitality and expressed his gratitude through
this gift, then worth about £750.
“Norbell”: “O. Blin” (B. 18/8/’2l) cites
the performance by Roy Redgrave in ven-
triloquising the pretty-pretty lines of Little
Willie in “East Lynne” from under the
bed. But that’s the ordinary procedure
with touring cos. A Little Bill is captured
just before the show, her bare knees are
carefully scrubbed —Willie is always a girl,
and usually grubby—and in a frilled nightie
carried as a prop she is posed on the bed
while Lord Mount Severn or somebody
crawls under it, and, artfully concealed by
a flowing counterpane, lisps the angel-child’s
lines. Meanwhile, Little Wjjlie’s real
mamma deadheads it in the front seats, and
makes audible comments on the singular elo-
cutionary skill of her precocious offspring.
Our capture at Daylesford (Vie.) looked
the part to perfection, but when the Lady
Isabel started to fondle the dying cheild,
Little Willie piped in a shrill treble, “You’re
ticklin’ me!” Even the lachrymose Isabel
joined in the laugh.
“T. 0.1.”: Bulwer’s play “The Lady of
Lyons, or Love and
Pride,” was first
produced in Aus-
tralia at the Vic-
toria Theatre, Syd-
ney, on April 15,
1839, for the ben-
efit of Knowles, the
actor, who had
brought the stage
copy with him from
England. Arabin, a
Dublin man, wdio
was in the cast,
was brought from
Hobart Town to
play Othello at the
opening of the Vic.
in March, 1838.
Mrs. Clarke, who
was also in “The
Lady of Lyons”
cast, was later on
lessee of the Hobart
Town Theatre. She
it w r as who helped
Rogers on the stage.
He was a sergeant
in the army and
well known in pri-
va t e theatricals.
She bought him
out of his corps
and then engaged
him for her corn-
“Scandal,” at Mel-
bourne King's.
Emma Temple as the
worried Mrs. Brown.
pany. He was the father of the late Horace
Rogers, of S. M. Herald, whose widow died
a few weeks ago.
“0.K.”: The Melbourne journal that de-
nounced “Scandal” as an insult to public
intelligence was proclaiming the unfairness
of its notices of previous plays, more impos-
sible in narrative, which were buttered with
praise. Melbourne doesn’t need to look be-
yond “Welcome Stranger” for a plot that
was ridiculous in comparison with the story
of the sham honeymoon in “Scandal.” A
Jew strolls into a one-store towmship at
night, without previous inquiry about its
pizness possibilities, bringing with him the
wherewithal to stock a rival store. He
hasn’t secured a store beforehand, nor can
he obtain one when he gets there. He just
blows into the only pub the township pos-
sesses, and is refused accommodation on the
ground that the handful of incredible in-
habitants are afraid that one Jew would be
“the nucleus of a ghetto” in the one-store,
one-pub place he has casually selected for
his venture. And the preposterous Hebrew
is saved from ruin by the friendship of an
aged dreamer w T ho creates a wonderful elec-
tric-power supply from the local waterfall,
whereby the one-store town becomes a mine
of wealth to the promoters within 12 months
of the aged dreamer launching his scheme
on the local market. There never was a
more' insufferable insult to public intelli-
gence than the tale of “Welcome Stranger,'
but it had the blessing of the same Age that
cursed "Scandal ’ for its alleged “impossi-
bility” and its impropriety in a bedroom
scene. As to that bedroom scene, it is pas-
sionless in dialogue and utterly free from
the immoral appeal of such an incident as
the mad pursuit of maid Mercia, the early
Christian, by Marcus Superbus in “The
Sign of the Cross.”
“Spec.” : Film history is repeating itself.
An Italian company having reproduced the
Bible in moving-pictures, an American firm
is trying to beat it to the market with a
similar film. The same sort of competition
gave trouble to Australian importers some
years ago. “The Last Days of Pompeii” was
being produced in Italy, when a Yankee
concern got wind of
it and made a hasty
imitation. Fraser
Films, in Sydney,
had booked the ori-
ginal, but the imi-
tation arrived first,
and the date was
fixed for its town
screening. T h e
Frasers knew that
their film was on
the way, an d
advertised that it
would be shown in
the suburbs on the
same night. Bui
tjae boat bringing
it was four hours
late, and the
Italian p i c-
ture missed the
train from Adel-
aide. Archie Fraser
wanted to bring it
over by special,
but the Railways
asked £6OO --for
running an engine
and one carriage,
and wouldn’t re-
duce the price even
when the firm said
that its man could
ride wi t h the
engine-driver a n d
wouldn’t n e e d
the carriage.
The figure was too
“Man and Superman,"
at Sydney Playhouse.
V.J. Doyle as
Mr. Malone.
lii"b, so the city shows had no suburban
competition when they opened with the
American production.
“Huffin Guffin”: “Norbell’s” yarn (B.
11/8/’2l) about the honoring of a pass-out
check 4U years old reminds me that St.
Leon’s circus visited our Vic. country town
about 1881. I was a boy, a poor boy with
no money to go to the circus, but was pro-
mised a free pass if I held up the big drum
for the drummer. About half-way through
the band performance outside the tAit my
old dad came along. I have no old pink
pass-out check; but I still have one ear a
bit longer than the other. My dad used it
as a handle to lead me away from tempta-
tion. I’m wondering if St. Leon’s will honor
that ear in the place of a pass when next
their show comes around.
“S. Horner” : Frank Crennan, of Sydney,
claims to have written the words and com-
posed the air of “Sally Horner,” which he
thinks was subsequently arranged by Mr.
Hall, leader of the orchestra at the old
Alhambra when it was being run by the late
Frank Smith. He says lie forwarded the
MS. to Wallace King, who was the first
to sing the song at that theatre. I always
thought the song was American; but has
any Poverty Pointer a further fact or two
at hand?
“Jimmy J.”: Re Sunday picture-shows (B.
11/8/’2l). Wonthaggi is not the only place
in Vic. that sports them. Port Melbourne
and Richmond both have Sunday pictures.
A referendum on the question is to be held
at South Melbourne; while the municipal
election at Richmond is being fought on
Pictures v. Pulpits, with the odds on the
pictures. Eight years ago shows were
open in Melbourne city itself; but the pray-
ers of the righteous were answered, and
Theda and Fatty were warned off the Sab-
bath grass.
“WAV.”: The picture-show entrepreneurs
of Hobart have just published an offer
to give any clergyman or church-autho-
rised layman 10 minutes’ talk at each of
the Sunday-night show r s on any subject cal-
culated to do the audience good. This is
a neat counter-move to a agi-
tation now raging against the Sunday-night
picture business, which the Mayor allows
or disallows on a citizens’ referendum.
“Coolyak”: Re Sunday “pitchers.” The
State with the woman M.P., with a free 'Var-
sity, and the most up-to-date V.D. laws in
the Commonwealth has had them in the main
street of its capital these five years past.
THE PHANTOM GRAVEYARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a cemetery wondrous, free from any other sounds
Than the intermittent sighings of the breeze,
I stood and stared at myriads of rows of grassy
mounds
Where lay the dead-and-buried at their ease;
And far away were monuments, on larger plots of
ground,
O’ershadowed by a thousand cypress trees,
Lit by corpse-light lanterns in the trees.
The prospect held me spellbound. In the graveyard
that I dreamed.
Where dead things in their millions lay beneath,
I wondered was it earthly, as in truth it hardly
seemed,
Despite its solemn majesty of death.
The blue lights in the distance with a sudden bright-
ness gleamed,
And I heard the hurried motion of my breath,
The output and the intake of my breath.
Then a vague uncanny Presence, in a filmy gown of
grey,
Came beside me as I marvelled at the scene;
And a bony finger pointed, and I heard the Presence
say:
“These are graves of murdered photos that have
been,
Graves of half-forgotten victims of a moving-picture
play,
Who died in mortal sin upon the screen,
Met a cruel, tragic fate upon the screen.
“The stabbed, the drowned, the poisoned slumber
here beneath the sod,
The victim with a bullet in his heart,
Are carried to this country where no human foot
has trod,
In a picture-undertaker’s phantom cart;
No pious priest is present to commend the soul to
God
Of a movie who lias played a little part,
A minor movie-villain’s little part.
“See the columns on the upland, where the corpse-
light burneth blue,
Or green, from lanterns swaying overhead,
Midst cypresses whose sadness, of an ever-changing
hue,
On that super-special resting-place is shed.
They mark the hallowed spots where super-reverence
is due —
The graves of ‘featured’ photos who have bled,
Of movie Ciesars numbered with the dead.”
And the filmy Presence vanished when his final word
he spake;
Like a whiff of icy wind 1 felt him go.
Then I shuddered ’tween the blankets, till at last I
was awake,
Dazed and frightened by the knowledge that I
know
What becomes of murdered shadows who their mimic
exits make,
The shadow-shapes of mortals here below
Doomed to perish in a movie-picture show.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


LEVIATHAN
TAILORING
FIT FOR THE BEST.
A Particularly Fortunate Purchase
Of English and Australian ALL-WOOL TWEEDS
in a wide range of Herringbone, Pinpoints and Mix-
tures in all the newest shades. Ensuring a perfect
suit, Leviathan tailored, under the most critical
supervision. The linings and trimmings are of the
same high quality as the material —the cut, the latest.
A Perfect-fitting Suit is Guaranteed, otherwise accept-
ance is not expected.
500 Suit Lengths
Reserved for Country Clients.
Tailored
to
Order
or
►\
%
m
\\
\\\
sg^rw
//
*
y
//
✓v
>»
SWw
Vs
\\\
//
«
\\\\'
VS
/y
ii/mMi
««■
/////
w\\\
<//✓/
Ww
Same Materials
To-measure
MACHINE SEWN.
:O:0
How Can We Do It?
WE TELL YOU CANDIDLY —these suits at £5/5/- are practically machine sewn throughout, thereby effecting a consider-
able saving in labor, but they will stand the maximum of wear. Tailored from exactly the same materials as the
£6/17/6 suit, and cut by the same well-known skilled cutters.
Money will be refunded if you are not perfectly satisfied, provided the suit is returned in good order.
HOME MEASUREMENT CHART and TAPE ON APPLICATION.
POST COUPON FOR PATTERNS NOW.
Order by Post—We Pay Carriage.
E>6e
hEfIATNAN P*y- Ltd >
Cor. Swanston & B our He Streets,
MELBOURNE. V
&
$
&
V
$
4-
*
O
A
/& &
A /3°
A 0 / ,£•
./ >
s
y%
<y v>
-o^
AV ‘A
> mvl .v v.
\&'t\° -«) ftM 1
<?*<>
\- . <Sb
N> v JhS>
V/
.■C-.aV
,'oV
wi
A /«*' V
#> f
• v w
</’ nf v
#
A% x


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian ' Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WiIITTYJ
MAKERS:
ssf®K3
®^££^*awa
sfvS
vmm
■■■-.
ssKSsau
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic— 3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA. J
The latest English criticisms of Arm-
strong are (1) that he did not give Ryder and
Mayne a “fair cdiance” in the Tests, and that he
bowled McDonald too often against the wind; (?)
that he suspiciously inspected the pitch in the fifth
Test, “not knowing that intentionally cutting up
the surface of a wicket in the good-length zone
is amongst the things not done in English cricket” ;
and (3) that (in company with Carter and Andrews)
he is a social failure, and will not be welcome
with the next Test team. The results achieved by
the team to date are the best answers to -English
criticisms of Armstrong’s tactics. As to his inspec-
tion of the pitch, previous English captains have
not only inspected, but have protested where a
fast bowler was cutting it up. Gerald Mordaunt,
sometime captain of the Oxford XI, stopped a
county bowler for this offence on a memorable
occasion, and W. G. Grace once objected at Chel-
tenham to the damage that was being done by
Mold. It is, of course, not cricket to destroy a
pitch on purpose, but it is certainly cricket to pre-
vent its being destroyed. All the shafts aimed at
Armstrong in connection with his knowledge of
the game and so forth have an odd way of proving
—as in the case where Tennyson illegally attempted
to declare the other day—that the Victorian knows
a great deal more about both the spirit and the laws
of cricket than his assailants. But he has cer-
tainly got on England’s nerves.
* * * *
Bardsley and Macartney had another out-
ing against the feeble Gloucestershire bowling, col-
lecting 127 and 121 respectively. Another heavy
scorer was Gregory, ivho banged up a care-free 78,
the innings closing for 438. Gloucester collapsed,
as was practically inevitable, seeing that the side
it fielded for this matrh would have had a poor
show against a N. S. Wales 2nd XI.
* ■* * *
Macartney’s 121 in the Gloucester match
leaves him with 424 to get to equal the record to w-
aggregate of 2570 compiled by Trimmer in 1912,
and there are five matches to go. Bardsley’s 127
brought his total to 1962, and as he made 2180 and
•2441 on previous tours, he is likely to have the dis-
tinction of scoring over the two thousand on each
of his three trips to England.
* * * *
Little Jimmy Munro, the most accom-
plished rider among Randwick apprentices, had a
day out at Canterbury Park on Saturday. He arrived
on John Clare in the second division of the Flying,
steered King Arthur to the front in the distance
handicap, dead-heated with The Wizard in the Park
Stakes and won in the run-off, and rode a dead-heat
for third on Sanctum in the event for maiden
three-year-olds. Jimmy only came into notice at
the beginning of last season, but thereafter performed
with conspicuous success and now gets more riding
than anyone else in his profession. Ilis dad and
mentor, Hughie Munro, the Randwick trainer, has
spent the whole of a long life among horses, and
few men have handled more good ones. He gradu-
ated at St. Albans.
* * * *
One of the first horses backed for the Epsom
was T. A. Stirton’s Kerman gelding Kerim, now
trained by Tom Scully. He was given a run at
Canterbury Park on Saturday in the second division
of the Flying. Backed as though a certainty he led
into the straight, but when asked to argue the point
shut up like a knife and finished last. Kerim ran
third in the Breeders’ Plate a couple of years ago
and was then put aside until the beginning of this
year, when he won at Moorefield in fine style. He is
a bold galloper on the track, and weighted at 7st. 71b.
looked one of the picks of the Epsom Handicap. On
Saturday’s performance he vvornd have no iriends
for the Publicans’ Purse at Bumbarumba.
* * * *
The August meeting of the V.R.C. is never
so informative as the one that happens four or five
weeks later, but it at least whispers of the Spring
handicaps to come. For the six-furlong flutter at
hlemington, in which a large field of apprentices
had mounts, a lot of money was dropped over three-
year-old Demetrius and imported Grey Abbey, the
winner turning up in Pannikin, Demetrius a close
third. Grey Abbey made no show, but his unbacked
stable-companion Tangalooma was quite forward
eioogh at the finish of the August Handicap (12
furlongs) to satisfy his early backers for the Caul-
field Cup. Lutepiayer, a useful evergreen, made
most of the running in this event, and was half a
head better than Crescendo when they battled past
the post. Meanwhile Tavistock, when looking dan-
gerous, had somehow lost his jockey.
Easirgwold, judged by his running in the Three-
Year-Old Handicap, is nothing to w’rite home about.
It might have been too much to expect him to give
261 b. to two speedy fillies, Bassi ar.d Switch, but the
stable thought he might do it, apparently. He never
got near them in the last half of the mile. Bassi,
who just outstayed Switch, is one of Land of Song’s
good-looking offspring. Daarew’in, said to have been
unlucky at Caulfield on the previous Saturday, w r as
not equal to giving 251 b. to Sinbad the Sailor in
the mile welter, though he made a good attempt.
Results in the two jumping races suggested that me
top-notchers of the winter carnival have had about
enough of it for this season, and will be glad of a
rest, lolaus found Tarmoola too fast for him at the
weights in the Steeple, and Telecles, with 12st. up,
finished no nearer than fourth in the Hurdle.
* * » •
“Bungarra”: In discussing Easingwold’s
failure at Hemington it shouldn’t be forgotten (1)
that Artileryman ran last in a similar handicap two
years ago, ar.d (2) that the Westralian colt won
all his races by rushing to the front and breaking
up the opposition. On Satui day he was ridden in
the middle of his field, and the unusualness of it
bothered him. He is a big animal, and needs room.
Palpably green, he requires time also —perhaps more
than he will get between now and the Caulfield
Cup, for which he has been heavily backed. At all
events, Easingwold looks a smasher, and the West-
ralian critics are positive that he was a finer two-
year-old than Eurythmic. Sibbritt, who rode both
chestnuts in their juvenile engagements, or some of
them, is credited with the same opinion.
# # * *
Spring is an early visitor to the West-
ralian goldfields, and the annual round of meetings
was begun at Boulder on Saturday. But there were
no Eurythmics or Misticos among the crocks saddled
up. The principal race, the Goldfields Newmarket,
was won by a 12-to-l chance in Marachowie (7st.
71b.) from the second favorite Brearley (7st.) and
Salveo (7st.), the 5-to-4 favorite Barragundi run-
ning nowhere. Barragundi, an importation from
N. S. Wales, had previously shown fine form, and
the distance (6f.) may have been shorter than he
prefers. The winner’? tote dividend was £5 ss.
24 points worse than his starting price in the ring, a
thing which rarely happens in the West. At Good-
wood, one of Wren’s courses, on the same day,
Beggarlean, winner of the First-class Purse, went
out at 15 to 1. but returned his backers £5l 3s.
for each 10s. speculated on the machine.
SID GODFREY,
who icon the
Lightweight
Champ, from
Harry Stone at
Sydney Stadium
last Saturday.
As'a was fully represented for the first
time in the history of the Davis Cup last week when
Japan met India and left it without so much as one
rubber to fly with. Kumagae, the sometime con-
queror of Tilden, Johnston and Williams, gave Sleem
n> quarter after winning the first set at 9—7. The
next two went to the little brown man at 6 —l each
time. Shimidzu beat Fyzee 6—2, 6—l, 9—7. And
Fyzee is no mug, seeing that in England he defeated
Norton (South Africa), who a month later extended
Tilden to five sets. In the doubles the Japs won
two sets each at 6—l, after which the Hindus
turned the table with two at 6—2. Then the Japs
came again in the fifth set, and ran right out to
the tune of 6—o. In the remaining two rubbers
Kumagae beat Fyzee and Shimidzu downed Sleem.
Evidently Jim Anderson is in great form
in America, but his wins against the Canadians,
Danes and Englishmen aren’t sufficient to justify
cocksureness regarding his meeting with the Japs at
Newport. He doesn’t appear to be fine enough to
knock out Kumagae and Shimidzu. Still, the history
of tennis is full of unexpected victories. Tilden’s
recent defeats in Paris and America and J. C.
Parke’s win over Norman Brookes for the Davis Cup
nine years ago are only two of several instances of a
recognised world-beater going down to some tenaci-
ous fighter who has refused to be licked by a reputa-
tion.
Melbourne pennant tennis provided a first-
class surprise on Saturday when Pat O’Hara Wood
(South Yarra) was beaten by Mclnnes (Uni.). The
match was very close. Mclnnes winning the first and
third sets 6—5, 9—7, and losing the second 5 —6.
Mclnnes has not been reckoned in the first flight of
Vic. tennis players, whereas Wood, according to
Gerald Patterson, ranks 15th among the world’s 20
best.
About 140 amateurs started in the 10-nrles
cross-country championship of Victoria ever Caulfield
racecourse and adjacent country on Saturday. The
selectors for the Vic. team for the coming Austral-
asian 10-mile championship were present. Up to
two miles the field was well bunched, and then Fred
Kohlman (Hawthorn), the Vic. five-mile champion,
and Fred Page (St. Stephen’s) nicked away from the
rest, leaving a gap of 50vds. at the turn. F. Fitch
(Coburg) headed the second division. The two lads
were together when the last lap was begun, Kohlman
being a stride in front. At a furlong from home,
the Hawthorn harrier got out the whip ard won by
a v out 12yds. in 59min. 4sec. The watches made
Page do 2sec. worse. About a furlong later came
A. E. McMillan (St. Stephen’s), the winner in 1919.
Boyd, who was runner-up to Kohlman in the five-
mile championship, ran into fourth place. F. Fitch,
a coming Coburg champion, was fifth, and Jack
Cooke (Carlton) sixth. Tom Vines (St. Stephen’s),
winner in 1912 aid 1913, orlv managed to finish
eighth, with A. A. Parker (Carlton), the holder of
the title, 18th. Billy Brown, the Australasian mile
champion and winner in 1915, and W. P. O'Neil,
runner-up last year, were nowhere. St. Stephen’s
completed the hat trick, winning for the third suc-
cessive year with a record score of 34 points, beating
that of 51 put up by the Melbournian Hare and
Hounds in 1892.
* * * *
Botany (Sydney) three-mile road race on
Saturday brought to the front a pronusii g junior
in T. Moore, who (from 3Jmin.) won by 39sec. in
ISmin. 52soc. H. S. Grandemange (scratch), who
finished second in the 10-mile championship the
previous week, made fastest time (16min. 36sec.),
and is running into form for the Australian cham-
pionship at Melbourne next month.
* * « *
In this year’s Queensland x\mateur
Athletic championships R. \V. Cook (Thompson
Ert-rtr) won the lOOvds. (lOsec.), 220yds. (22450 c.)
and 440yds. hurdles (62 4-ssec.), and was second to
T. H. i orsmt-on (N.S.W.) in the 440-ds. tUt in
53see. W. Morahan (Rocklea) took the half-mile (2min.
2 2-3scc) and mile (4min. 40sec.) ; and cross-country
champion 11. I’arcell won the three miles (ISmin.
42 2-ssec). Veteran W. Pitt (N.S.W.) won the
three-mile walk by 300yds. in 22min. 49 2-ssec.
from J. Corrigan. The mile went to Corrigan in
7min. 19 2-ssec.
* * « *
Vic. Amateur Athletic Assoc, turned down
Quecntlard A.A.U’s npnlication for the amatcuvUn-
tion of A. B. Postle by 26 votes to 4. A fair
thing, seeing that Postle has been a pro. for about
20 years.
* * * *
Mick Little, of Dulwich Hill, is N.S.W.
amateur road-cycling champion. On Saturday he
defeated 1.7 others for the 40-mile individual title
on the Enfield-Bankstown cour-e. He had the best
of luck, and won comfortably from W. Madigan and
O. Burness in 2hr. 25min. Little won the title
last year, but lost on a protest to Burness.
* * * * #
The Amateur Golf Championship of Vic.,
decided on the Oaldeigh links on Saturday, went to
C. H. Fawcett with a total of 305, six strokes better
than the runner-up, Bruce Pearce. Fawcett, who
was two hits behind Pearce at the end of the
second round, drew lei el with a fine 74 in the third,
and forged ahead in the final by superior putting, in
which Pearce was not as good as usual. Pearce’s
moderate card of 82 for the last journey was almost
solely due to uncertain play on the greens. T. F.
Rutledge, who ran third with 313, created a sensa-
tion by taking the first two holes in two strokes each.
The distance to the first tin is not far short of a
quarter of a mile, and Rutledge dropped the ball
in with a beautiful drive of 160yds.
*** ’ *
Legh Winser, Governor Weigall’s athletic
secretary, won the S.A. golf chamnionship on Satur-
day. He did 77 twice in the qualifying games and
78 and 77 in the finals. D. L. Giles fought out
the question of the title with him, but was badly
outclassed.
* * * *
The hockey “carnival,” played this year
in Adelaide, worked up to an interesting finish. All
the States but Queensland were in it, and the home
side and the Tasmanians stood out from the re«t.
Vic. did not win a game, Westralia beat only Vic.,
aid N.S.W. was too good for those two. South
Aus. and Tasmania beat all the rest, and when they
met each other neither side stored at all. They
thus tied for top place with three wins and a draw.
On goal averages the Adelaide girls had the better
of it, having scored 15 and lost one, compared with
the Islanders 10 to one. But there seems to be r.o
rule governing a tie, and it is possible to argue
that the Speck, previous holders of the premiership,
retain it, not having been beaten.
* *• * *
Some 25,000 Vic. League barrackers
parted with £320 at Victoria Park on Saturday to
see Richmond Tigers engage the ’Wood Magpies.
Something has evidently gone wrong with the Mag-
pies. Only during about 10 minutes in the second
quarter did they show a glimpse of their old sys-
tematic game. The rest of the time they were appa-
rently suffering from internal dissension. Richmond
won by 72 noiuts to ’Wood’s 46. South, having
drawn with Carlton at their first meeting, had hopes
of winning this time, and might hate done it if
they could have kept rp their furious pace; but
i-i the list t-rm the Blues ran over them: 81 —56.
Barring accidents this settles South’s chances. St.
Kilda (49) was walloped by Melbourne (56) ; and
Geelong outed ’Rov at Sleenv Hollow’ bv 86 to 64.
The more one conside-s Geelong’s invincibility at
home the more amazing their weakness abroad
appears. ’Roy, who had beaten ’Wood and the
mightv Carlton, took down their strongest team. Gee-
long Had two of their lest men absent through ill-
ness. yet they gate the Maroons no hope after half-
time, and finished with 13 goals 8 behinds to ’Roy’s
9 goals 10 behinds. Of the 13 gods Geelo 1 g's ee'tre
forward Cliff Rankin booted 10, which seems to show
a supremely organised system.
* * * *
Tasmania met N.S.W. under Australian
Rules at Sydney on Saturday, and won bv 94—83.
In the first quarter N.S.W., by high-kicking and
marking, led 46—21. Then the visiters fell back
on stab-kicking and team work, wined out the ■*
and led at half-time 67-60. TTie kst half waf
and the final state of the board was • Ta-mankf
13 goals 16 behind?; N.S.W., 12 goals'll hSu*
Brooks (rover), who played the finest game on the
ground, booted four goals, and H. Smith (centre'
three for Tasmania. N.S.W.’s best were caoSi-
Fitzmaurice (follower), who got three goals, and
Milton (forward) four goals. In four inter-State
matches Tasmania has won three to N.S.W.’s one ~
*** * *
The transfer of Essendon (League) F.C.
“ GINGER ”
McDonald,
Essendon's little
forward.
from East Melbourne
to the North Mel-
bourne gluepot isn’t
so easy as it was
expected to be. The
old North club hav-
ing disbanded and
transferred its best
players to ’Don, in
defiance of the Asso-
ciation’s veto, that
club approached the
City Council. Tire
Council, seeing ther.
was money in the
business, granted the
’Dons the use of the
ground, reserving
three Saturdays in
September for the Ass.
finals. Then the Ass.
deputationed Minister
i Oman, and persuaded
him to veto the
City Council’s pro-
mise. Premier Law-
son has promised to
look into the matter
with Oman—after tin-
elections.
In the presence of 10,000 Leaguites Glebe
met Newtown at Sydney Cricket Ground last Satur-
day in the eighth round of the Citv Cup series
Newts were first to score, but shortly after the
second spell started, when the scores were eight all,
the Blues event to the pack. Benson and Regan
combined spier didly for Glebe, and were forever
moving- forward. Tries were notched bv Coll and
Stapleton and Laidley. Burge hoisted three goals
I- inal scores: Glebe 23 (3 tries 4 goals), Newts 8
(2 tries 1 goal). In the remaining fixtures Saints
got their first win this season against ’Varsity by
18 to 16 ; the Rabbitos larruped Norths (premiers)
bv 16 to 5; Mains outed Wests by 10 to 5. Easts
(the bye) visited Goulburn, where the locals obliter-
ated them by 21 to 11. The City Cup table is now-
headed by Glebe and East with 14 points each.
Souths are 12 and ’Varsity, Mains and Newts 9 each.
. Easts tore the Sydney Rugby Union pre-
miership out of Manly’s hands on Saturday—scoring
a penalty goal and a converted try to two tries—in
a rough-and-tumble game. The partisan crowd at
the Village did not make the referee’s job a pleasant
one, although the losers were awarded three point*
from an obvious force. Cohen frequently saved
East" when the attackers were almost over. Walker
and Doutreband, however, deserve most credit for
the win, as they played the ball while most of the
others played the man. Dawson was almost over a
couple of times for Manly, and, with a reliable
centre to hand over to, the result might have been
different.
* » * *
The Springboks outed Auckland (M.L.)
on Saturday by 24 points to 8. Yeller (S.A.)
got over the line four times, and Ifwerson (recently
from the League) got a try and goal for the M.L.
side. The League game has grievously weakened
Union Rugby in Auckland.
* * * *
As a championship event the meeting be-
tween Harry Stone and Sid Godfrey at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday was something of a farce.
The Yankee admits to 34., and is probably more,
while he has endured some severe punishment of
late, owirg to his predilection for taking on middle-
weights ; and Godfrey has just been decisively
licked by Bradley, the Gympie (Q.) butcher’s boy.
Stone showed little of his old zest. Not once did
he unwind one of those furious 20-second rallies
with which he was accustomed to conclude almost
every round in his fiery youth. On the other hand,
he did rather more leaping, gyrating and clowning
generally than in the past. Godfrey was not moved
to either mirth or annoyance by these displays.
He just plugged on, trying his best to land a
convinccr on the Hebrew’s massive chin, or, failing
that, on some other part of bis anatomy. He missed
four times for every once that he connected, Stone
being as good at defensive work as ever. Stone
landed often with a light left, which eventually
cut the Sydney lad’s right eye more or less, but
that was all the damage either party sustained.
At the end of*2o rounds of dull boxing the referee
indicated Godfrey as the new champion; and Stone
registered profound grief and stupefaction for ihe
benefit of the house. Pie might have won by putting
more energy into the fray, but as the affair was
ronducted the margin was in favor of the-youthful
trier.
* * # *
Vince Blackburn, the Sydney feather-
weight, is rot the B’ackbu-n of old. He can no
longer stand body punishment, and should give the
game up befo'e it gives him in. Bert McCarthy,
who would have been “pie” for Blackburn three years
ago, stopped h'm in nine rounds at the Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. It was a good fight for
five rounds, but after that it was a tragedy, with
Blackburn the sport of the avenging furies and the
McCarthy’s unrelenting right.
The model yacht championship of Sydney,
decided last Saturday over the live Dock Bay course,
attracted a record flotilla of 41 boats. June (R-
Kellar), Botanv, was first home with one minute to
s’-'are from Hawk (W. Hayward), Botany. Mascotte
(S. Barrett), North Sydney and Rrdriek (D. Rod-
rick). Drurrmoyre, filled *he other places. Although
but 2ft. long these models carry enormous sails,
requiring in some - instances the stepping of a 9ft.
mast, and spars in proportion.
THE BULLDOG SPIRIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I have requested the Board of Control to attend
your theatre with the object of finding out anything
which might give cause for an action for libel.”—
H. K. Foster to manager of the Royalty Theatre
(London), ichere an act reflecting on English cricket-
ing methods is being staged.
For two depressing seasons
(Or very nearly so)
The Empire has heard reasons
E’rom people in the know
For England’s feeble cricket.
They claimed she’d had to yield
To daring at the wicket
And moral in the field.
The barrackers of Sydney,
The partisans of Perth,
And others of their kidney
Wherever round the earth
The game is played, all shouted
The same complaint. They said
The English had been routed
Because their nerve was dead.
The very actors started
Last week. They spake with smiles
About the “dear departed,”
Rebuking Armstrong’s wiles
As deeds which must be voted
An insult to the dead.
“be mortuis” they quoted.
Then Foster rose and said:
“The English need no mummers
To teach them how to fight;
Their pluck, as in past summers,
Is sound; their hearts are right.
They fear no sneering actors,
No taunts, no rude retorts.
They’ll deal with their detractors
Like sportsmen—in the Courts.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


build up your strength and
IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH.
ā
It is natural for you to be healthy—but you cannot retain your
natural', healthy state unless you aid Nature by keeping your system
thoroughly toned up. . , .
In your daily habits there are certain groups of internal muscles
which you scarcely ever use. Nature intended you to use them, or
they would not be there.
Unless you do use them they’ll wither and become useless. They
then cannot perform their natural functions —you will then have a
chronic feeling of weariness and lack of energy and ambition.
Imagine how much better it is for you to have your weak spots
strengthened—especially when you can so easily and
pleasantly do it by means of the HEALTH EXERCISES
which we teach by post.
THE BAKER METHOD OF
INSTRUCTION BY POST
will strongly appeal to you on account of its simplicity
and the rapid results it secures. It aims at building up
the muscles (both internal and outward) in a thorough
and systematic manner. No one part is built up at the
expense of the other, but YOUR WEAK SPOTS will have
attention. ..
Write for a free copy of the booklet, ‘ Health and Strength
from Self-Culture.” Send three stamps to cover postage.
Those who prefer personal tuition are invited to call and
have a chat with us about their needs, w-hen we shall be
happy to show them over the modern and perfectly
appointed establishment. Advice and consultation free.
REG. 1. ("Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
564 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
A Daylite Home is Always Bright.
The Most Economical
LIGHTING SYSTEM
on tho Market.
FOR COUNTRY HOMES, HALLS g SHOPS.
DAYLITE AIR GAS
CHEAP-EFFICIENT-AUTOMATIC.
Quotations will be supplied for complete
installations.
Apply for Booklet and full particulars—■
DAYLITE AIK GAS CO., LTD.,
395 Kent Street, Sydney.
This is the BE)T
Way to Mark
ail Linen
I
r
,C¥SHS <®> NAMES
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH’S _WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —l 2 doz.7/6—6 doz. 51- —3 doz. 3/6
So d by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
HSVD T T
UZ:
85 CUBITT ST., RICHMOND. VIC.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
Everywhere, Colum-
bia Dry Batteries ring
doorbells operate buzzers
furnish ignition for gas en-
gines— make telephones talk.
In the city or on the farm, in
the home, office, or factory,
they are steadily meeting
every requirement as no other
dry battery could.
Columbias cost no more—last
longer. Get them from your
electrical dealer.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
30 E. 42d St., New York, N. Y. ,U. S.A.
Cable Address: “Rayelbon” New York
COLUMBIA
w kJ
Also Manufacturers of Columbia Storage
Batteries for Automobiles, American
Flashlights and Flashlight Batteries, Carbon
Brushes, and Carbon Specialties F132114E
ą
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
Limestone
Coal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing Machinery
Stone Breakers, Portable Road Plants,
Elevators, Screens, Conveyors.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AGENCIES:
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you!”
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health.
u
SS7
n o
O o
H
SI
Don’t let ill-health discourage
you.
HYPOL
can do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially chest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sold at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOOH
■22 RIM FIRE.
nochl
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
v "Tvve.
ALL BRITISH
Order Your Suit
for the SHOW-NOW
The Big Show Carnival is now only three weeks away. If you really
want your Suit “Lincoln-Stuart” Tailored for the occasion you should
place your order immediately. This will permit us to GIVE you our
very BEST work and guarantee delivery ON TIME.
OUR SPECIAL
ALL-WOOL GREY
CHEVIOT
SUITING
£615
provides something right
out of the ordinary in
Suitings and Suiting
Values —a Texture splen-
didly suitable for Show-
week Wear—in weight
neither too light nor too
heavy, and possessing that
hard-to-get Shade of
GREY that is in perfect
taste, while being emi-
nently serviceable —an All-
Wool Grey Cheviot, for
which in the ordinary
course you would pay not
less than £B/15/-
“LINCOLN-STUART”
Tailored-to-Order
in accordance with your exact wishes —
with every point of workmanship flawlessly
correct —this is unquestionably the only
Suit Offer, from the point of value —
worth your consideration NOW.
WRITE TO-DAY.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
rri
Si
it
n§
li Bill IiHH
Lincoln,Stuart & Co. ptzi. ltd.
a Tailormq Specialists
ZA4 FLINDERS ST. MELBOURNE


a
Comfortable Elastic-side Boots
and well fitting Leggings.
Both these, though "special” to a bushman’s
work, can be invested with as much
character as a boot or other items of city
wear. Faim’r’s stocks are noted for
their ability to stand the strain of a hard
day’s work, yet possess style and finish.
URl —'Whole-front Riding Boots, elastic sides, light welted soles;
in black - 'or tan calf. Sizes, sto 10. Price, per pair .. .. 39/6
UR2—Tan Military Cossacks (not illustrated), on smart, comfortable
last; medium light welted soles. Price, per pair .. 37/6
UR3 —Tan or black Spring-front Leggings, smartly blocked in
excellent quality Polished Cowhide. Price, per pair .. .. 22/6
Farmer’s, Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. “The Store for Men. ” Box 497, G.P.O.
à
m
M
“Buy a Bundle
PLYWOOD.
There is only one “NATIONAL”
Plywood. There are manv var eties.
but the quality of “NATIONAL
3-Pl» is beyond comparison.
Made of Queensland Timbers—Hoop-
Pme. Maple and Silky Oak. Sanded
and Unsanded. All sizes, the principal
size being Oft. x 3ft. x 3/l(>'n. there is
nothing better either imported or locally
made. Buy the best. Builders and Furniture
Manufacturers are guaranteed every satisfaction by using
“.NATION AT/’ PlVwoods. Sold by all leading houses. In-
sist on “NATIONAL” brand and see the trade mark is on
every sheet —it is our guarantee.
The National Plywood
Co.,
Corinda, Brisbane,
Queensland.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
[?]
Speaker Mackey, Treasurer McPherson,
Mines Minister Barnes, Beardmore, Prohi-
bitionist Greenwood, Grandmaster Snowball,
Andy Robertson, A. F. Cameron, All’ Billson,
John Gordon, Dr. Stan Argyle (Ministerial-
ists) ; I’rendergast, Webber, Solly, Rogers,
J. L. Murphy, Cotter and Lemmon (Labor) ;
and cx-Premier John Bowser (Cocky)
these were the fortunate 19 returned unop-
posed to the Assembly at the week-end, and
they were the envy of the other 46 retiring
members who have from one to four inter-
lopers against them. The Speakership looks
a sure thing for Mackey again. He is just
as likely to get a Supreme Court Judgeship
from the chair if he wants it as from any
other position. There will be a vacancy
when Hood retires.
Colonel Selwyn Campbell, who died in
London on the 7th inst., was one of Mel-
bourne’s best-known figures, though the fam-
ily squattago was in N. S. Wales. (The
Canberra capital site is on it, and the tra-
veller journeying Yass-wards from the spot
where Lord Denman laid the first brick or
whatever it was pashes what was once the
Campbell homestead.) The old soldier had
a distinguished military career in an Eng-
lish line regiment, most of his service being
in Egypt, and theft took up A.D.C.-ing as
a hobby. He served under several imported
Governors, but his idols were the Maddens.
Rumor credited him with a hopeless attach-
ment for one of the pretty daughters of the
Chief Justice who w r as Acting-Governor so
often. He never married anyone else.
The National Gallery has an ambition
to have an authenticated portrait by Rae-
burn, but has deckled that 14,000 guineas
is the limit to which it can go in these times.
Raeburns don’t grow on trees; nevertheless
this amount of hard cash may tempt some
tax-stricken aristocrat to disgorge one of his
treasures. If it succeeds our Gallery will
be better off than the far-famed Wallace
collection, which possesses a dozen samples
of the art of Reynolds, and pictures by Gains-
borough, Romney, Lawrence and Iloppner,
but hasn’t a single Raeburn. The British
National Gallery is not very much better
off, having but four Raeburn portraits, three
of them of ladies.
The Gaud Mayor and his lady will give
a ball in the Town Hall on September 8, to
meet the two bunches of Excellencies —the
G.-G. E’orsters and the Governor and his
Countess.
Melbourne is threatened with opposition
to the ’Erald, which has had no serious rival
since the Standard amalgamated with it at
the end of October, 1894. The Evening
News, which Nat Levy, M.L.C., ran for a
few months, and on which he dropped a
tidy lump of money, could hardly be nailed
a rival. Sydney Sun is credited with an
itch to try to do better, but competition has
been so often talked of and nothing has hap-
pened that people now will only believe when
they see the first issue—which, according to
present arrangements, they will do about
next Easter. By the way, two of the old
Standard men who came over to the
Herald at the time of the fusion are still
at work and keeping young.
The only thing certain about Lord North-
cliffe’s visit is that what is printed about
it to-day will be contradicted to-morrow.
Perhaps the little trouble between the Times
and the Foreign Office is responsible: “nego-
tiations” have been proceeding briskly ever
since that happened. To Sydney the story
came that the visitor wouldn’t go further
south. But now the tale is that, “arrange-
ments” having been concluded, he will be
the guest here of Lord Forster. Not “of
the G.-G.” —just “of Lord Forster.” So
far. anyway.
Mayor Swanson is to wear the chain
again, but he will have to contest his seat
in the Council a month after his re-elect : on.
Justice Mann, who heard Willis’s action
for £5OOO against the Argus, laid it down
that you mustn’t assume a man has bombs
in his pocket because he wears a red tie.
But it wasn’-t Willis’s tie that condemned
him before the jury: it was his tongue. The
leader of the direct-action party among the
miners was a thoroughly bad witness —
chiefly because he seemed to be trying to be
a particularly “smart” one. So, though the
Argus had slashed at him right and left, the
verdict was in its favor except that it was
ordered to pay him a farthing for admittedly
miscalling him an importation from America.
What the U.S.A. consul might have recov-
ered if he had brought the action before the
same jury you can only guess.
At the Dorothea Spinney meeting in the
Civic Hall the suggestion that Society dam-
sels or public-school boys should be asked
to save expense at the recitals by acting as
ushers was frowned down, likewise the sug-
gestion that amateurs should take the dooi
tickets, etc. Mrs. Alfred Deakin reminded
Madame President that the Eurip.dean
Dorothea is not a charity object. Dr.
Deeper seemed disturbed that Miss Spinney
had no time to take tea with the Classical
Association, owing to the prior claims of
the society hostess. Classic recognition
was more to be desired for business pur-
poses than a whole batch of private whirls.
And, after all, it’s business, not art, that
brings Dorothea to Australia.
Pianist Rieke Parker, in deep rose pink
with several dimples in her cheeks, got
double encores at her recital in the Assembly
Hall. Singer Biddy English, who shared
the programme, wore bunched-up white and
aired her French in numerous songs. They
had a splendid house and lots of bouquets,
and in turn added another to the musical
treats Melbourne has had this winter.
Last week Melbourne mourned the death
of Walter Kirby—and then found he wasn’t
the least bit dead. He has been a patient at
Mount St. Evin’s Hospital, and one morn-
ing the dismal rumor of his passing rolled
like a snowball round the startled town.
Kirby can get a grim amusement out of the
incident —he had no idea his dearest enemies
were going to be nearly so sorrowful as they
said they were.
This is Girls’ Week —a special appeal of
the Y.W.C.A. for their Club and the estab-
lishment of more hostels in the suburbs. The
Club is doing things in a big, broad-minded,
way—the small, wowsery way is a thing of
the past. The central hostel whore cheen
lunch and dinner and dainty rest-rooms ’ are
available is now so popular as to be
overcrowded. At the Club in Russell-
street Miss Hardie is the general secretary
and Miss Dunlop the house secretary, and
each has an army of fine girls to help her.
Mrs. Gilfillan (May Vale) is showing
some of her work —Australian gems set in
hand-made mountings, beautiful enamels
and some fine water-color sketches. They
are on view at Oxford Chambers.
Well organised, the Old Xaverians’ annual
dance-supper at Bt. Kilda Town Hall was a
cheerful affair, and the decorations and
dresses were up to anything seen by the very
naicest this season. The 450 present had
sufficient elbow-room. Father J. O’Dwyer,
the former rector of Xavier and of Newman,
who is now working up the Studlev Hall
adjunct of Kew College, took a peep at his
old boys and their sisters and cousins; and
he seemed to think it was good to be there.
Rita Hope, one of the few Australian
pianists who learned her art from Lesche-
tiz k y in Vienna,
has a high regard
for her pupil, Rene
Morrissy, who exer-
cised her clever fin-
gers in a recital at
the Assembly Hall
the other night.
Rene, who is a
charming and unas-
suming damsel, has
heard very nice
things about her
music, but she trea-
sures Levitzki’s
opinion that she
has “excellent
talent.” He heard
her in a Chonin
Scherzo in Mel-
bourne, and pro-
mised introductions to several professors in
Paris. However, she is not going to Europe
just yet, but is concentrating on concert
work to increase her platform experience.
This view of the young lady is from the
Monteath studio.
Invitations are circulating here for a re-
union of the 106th How. Battery at the
Pavilion Cafe in Sydney on Saturday even-
ing. The 106th was really a . Vic. unit,
being of the 6th (Army) Brigade which
was led by Co’onel Cohen, of this city; but
some of the Diggers came from the other
State, and both the Majors.
The Association of the Sacre Coeur is
planning an at-home in the Kew Recreation
Hall on September 1. Ida Maloney, daugh-
ter of the doctor, is secretary, and they
threaten to dance till 2.
Val Buchanan breathed her vows to Rich-
ard Butler the other evening in Toorak St.
John’s. Her white satin bridal draperies
were clouded with an antique lace veil lent
by Mrs. Stanley Argyle, she being the
eleventh bride to dimole under its expensive
folds. A dash of pink radiated from the
white bouquet. Daddy Buchanan handed
his only girl-child over to young Richard:
and Kath. Grey Smith and Marjorie Butler
supported the bride in frockings of daffodil
muslin, to match their posies and black hats.
The bridal party, reinforced by 60 guests,
went to the Stanley Argyles’ place for the
health-drinking. This over, the company
once more gathered up its wraps and trekked
to the Kent Hugheses’ ballroom, which had
been lent for a final two-step. Toorak is a
nice, neighborly district these days.
Here is Mrs. Crivelli, director-in-chief of
all women’s committees for the Villers-
Bretonneux fund-
collecting move-
ment, Victoria hav-
ing agreed to
“adopt” Villers-Bret.
in defence of which
so many Diggers
fell. Madame
worked hard vice-
presidenting the
French Red Cross
while her sons were
away battling with
the Hun. They all
came back covered
with glory, and one
has settled clown
with a red lamp in
opposition to Dr.
Crivelli pere. Since
the start of the
war M a d a m e has
kept her hand in helping some charitv or
other, so organising “just comes natural” to
her now. The committee of the Villers-Bret.
fund has Gellibrand as chairman, and Gen-
eral Elliott, the Miller dame, Mrs. Arthur
Robinson and Mrs. Dyer are among the
workers. They will hold a French Week
from August 29 till September 3, and Friday,
September 2, will be known as Mascot Day.
Support is being given to the fund by many
shires, and about 16 metropolitan districts
have taken up the cause whole-heartedly.
The offices are in Australian buildings,
Elizabeth-street, but large cheques and small
contributions are being gathered in at the
Town Hall by the Mayor, who is hon. trea-
surer of the big effort.
The Countess of Stradbroke is surpris-
ingly like Du Maurier’s sketches of Mary,
the heroine in “Peter Ibbetson.” She could
easily have been the model for the drawings.
Remember Mary the Exquisite?—her French
adorer used to rave over her “beautiful
bones.”
There is much regret in the Apple Isle
over the loss of little Mrs. Percy Dobson —
formerly Phyllis Butler—one of the best-
liked girls in the Speck, who slipped quietly
out of the world, leaving a two-weeks-old
babe in her place. The bereaved husband,
who is a son of the South Yarra Frank
Dobson widow, took his place with the
old ITobart legal firm of Dobson after shed-
ling a well-worn suit of khaki.
Minister Frank Clarke has just seen his
eldest daughter off to the Colei Land. She
is emerging from the flapper stage, and
is to round off her education under friendly
guidance before returning a couple of years
hence.
Eileen Robinson, a young Australian who
appeared in Hugh Buckler and J. C. Wil-
liamson companies, has just come home after
spending two and a half years in America.
She first had a turn in the movies, then
joined a “stock” company whose repertoire
included “Scandal,” “Kindling” and “John
Ferguson.” “John Ferguson” is the North
of Ireland tragedy by St. John Ervine which
was staged as a Repertory show in New
York. The heroine is an exacting part, and
as Eileen was entrusted with it she seems
to have made great progress in the U.S.A.
Lady Headley, just now in Melbourne, has
come specially to see daughter Penelope’s
baby girl, who also happens to be Harry
Gullett’s daughter. Grandma was well
known on the Inky Way when she used to
be Barbara Baynton.
Marion Jones, holder of the National Gal-
lery Travelling Scholarship, sends a cheerio
from London, where she is settled at Carlyle
Studios, King’s-road, Chelsea (of course).
Professor Louis Bevan, of the Pekin Uni-
versity, is back home. Louis (his father
was the snowy-maned Rev. L. L.) is a
widower, and comes to see his children, who
are at school here. His wife was a Miss
Spfingthorpe, of Sydney, a niece of the
Collins-street doctor.
People can have too much of a good thing,
and the feeling is growing that Senator
Elliott is making too much of his own
squabble with the Defence Department, or
letting his friends do so. Most people were
pleased at his tilt at the Defence Bill and
at his slashing criticism of the Victoria Bar-
racks administration, but it will do “Pom-
pey” no good if the idea gets abroad that he
is more member for Elliott than for Victoria.
Miss McCrae, of the Oriental Hotel, has
offered to give a jazz dinner to help the
Villers-Bret. appeal during Caulfield Cup
week. Mrs. Norman Brookes and numerous
other Sass’ety leaders are forming a commit-
tee to market the tickets.
The widow of Dr. McCall, a former Agent-
General for the Speck, is doing a round of
station visits in Vic. She is a good specimen
of Appleland beauty 'and culture.
Mrs. Dllis Rowan is doing her bit towards
helping along Mollie O’Brien’s benefit con-
cert. She nas promised to paint 41 pro-
grammes, to be sold to booked-seaters before-
hand.
The Little Sisters of the Poor bagged a
neat cheque last week. Crawfords pre-
sented Miss Monk, of the Occidental Hotel,
with a case of precious whisky, and she held
an American auction of the bottles. The
£5O she netted was handed over to the
Little Sisters.
The other day a London paper mentioned
that the chambermaids in a certain hotel
were resplendent in glad rags, purchased out
of the fees provided by solicitors for their
divorce-case affidavits. A suggestion that
the sisterhood is paid to remember incidents
and stitch suspicious circumstances together
was apparently inspired by lawyers for the
defence. But how about the lift man?
Where does lie come in? A trained observer
of goings-up, goings-down, and goings-on is
the lift man. His light mechanical duties
leave his mind at full liberty to take obser-
vations. “I’m sure he knows an awful lot,”
Said an East Melbourne highflier after the
cage-director had called her back to get her
dropped hanky. “I’m sure he knows a lot.
It makes me feel quite wicked to look at
him.”
Little Maudie Hanaford, of “Scandal,”
is a “Westerner” who carries no swank.
She was raised in a Californian mining
camp, and is quite proud of the fact; and
prouder still of dear old grand-dad, now
dead. When Maudie’s father (a railway
conductor) went west, grand-dad plucked
the two-year-old girl and an elder brother
from a large group of fatherless children
and reared the pair.
Adelaide passes a few remarks: —
The Society of St. George conversazioned at the
Grand Central. Hotel the other night. President
William Sowden and vice-president Frank Downer
received the guests, who later nibbled food, drank
toasts and listened to much oratory and music. His
Ex. was present, and so were the mayoral couple.
Old friend Owen Smyth, who for fiery patriotism is
St. George and the Dragon all in one, was much
missed, but they managed Gor’ Save without him.
Adelaide is feverishly giving bridge parties,
dances—in fact, any old thing that will raise a
little money—for the unfortunates who find them-
selves landed with a stall at the 10 days’ fair to
be held next month in aid of the Children’s Hospital.
To furnish a stall nowadays takes a bigger cheque
than you can lift out of the housekeeping money,
and a woman has no choice but to victimise her
friends. The wealthy women have the inspiration,
the poorer folk pay the piper. Many committee;
have been formed, and at some meetings fur and
feathers have been flying.
A record crowd turned up at Findon to witness
the Point-to-point Steeplechase. The vice-regal
party arrived in an English drag, with much tooting
of horns and plunging of horses. It was a fight to
get tea in the marquee. His Ex. handed out the
prizes.
One of the very few remaining pioneers has
passed out at the age of 96 —Mrs. Helen Manteganr—
daughter of the original Kyffin Thomas of the
Register proprietary. She arrived in Adelaide by
the Africaine in 1836, being 12 years old at the
time. To the very end she retained a vivid im-
pression of the early days.
All the countryside gathered at the Peninsula
Memorial Garden, Strathalbvn, to see his Ex. unveil
one of the most beautiful monuments that have
been erected to fallen soldiers in this State. It is
a grey granite column, with three bronze bas-
relief panels, one depicting an Australian soldier
(life-size) on guard, another the Light Horse in
action, and the third bearing an appropriate in-
scription. His Ex. was accompanied by Lady
IVeigall, little Priscilla and staff, and they were
received by Mayor Elliott and his wife and a
sprinkling of the Ministry.
Until 1915 Adelaide citizens rambled along the
footpath at their own swet will; then “Keep to
the Right” was brought in, and they have ju?t
grasped it. Now Sydney and Perth are trying to
“Keep to the Left”; but our Mayor, with the echoes
of calamitous collisions reaching him from both
east and west, is not in favor of a change.
Mount Gambier was excited last week when the
longest direct-line telephone in the State was put
into use for the fir t time. The Deputy P.M.G.
“opened” it. The ‘inauguration called for two
parties, one in the Premier’s office and one at Mount
Gambier, and the respective mayors shook hands
over the wires.
Director of Education McCoy is to hand over his
daughter in marriage to Guy de la Poer Beresford
on September 7. He sits on a branch of the family
tree in which Lord Decies has a nest.
We are looking for possible moving-picture stars.
Any girl who cares to chance 2s. and her photo can
compete. A committee named by the Children’s
Hospital (to which all proceeds go) will select one
from each district, and the public will be asked
to vote the ultimate champion. It is guaranteed
that she will be filmed, and the result sent on appro-
bation to a producing co. in Los Angeles. The
weakness in the scheme is that in the preliminary
weeding-out half-a-dozer. good actresses may be
passed over for a slightly better-looking rival who
can’t play up to the camera at all.


Inlaid Tortoiseshell
Nothing could possibly be more exquisite or more
artistic than the very chaste Selection of Silver-
inland Tortoiseshell Brush and Toilet Articles which
has just reached the Firm from London. The,
tortoiseshell is of that fine semi-blonde variety, and
is wonderfully enhanced by the beautiful workman-
ship displayed in the inlaying. The whole selection
possesses a rich individuality, which may be appre-
ciated only by an inspection.
W&m. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BUCKLEYS
(Melbourne’s Leading Clothiers)
IMPORTED SUITINGS
MADE TO
MEASURE
á
Changing Conditions
Demand New Methods.
Our effort to meet the public
demand for a Suit cut to individual
measure and fitted with every care
has met with unprecedented enthu-
siasm; therefore, we have decided
to make it still further attractive by
including in this Exceptional Offer
a large consignment of
IMPORTED SUITINGS
in Neat Designs
Also an
All-Wool Indigo
CHEVIOT
of Excellent Value.
For the benefit of our customers
who live at a distance we have
arranged to reserve a quantity of
these Suitings—both Tweeds and
Serges—but you must act quickly.
Remember the price is the same, no matter
where you reside, as
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Send for Patterns and Self-measurement
Form, which will be sent post free.
â
ã
å
ā
BUCKLEY’S
(Buckley & Nunn Ltd.),
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
r
t
mu H ii
"’*%
Si
Miss Marie Tempest is not alone in
the appreciation of “ Robur” tea —it
appeals to all who have a refined sense
of taste, and we think the No. 1 Grade
will appeal to you if you give it a trial:
it has a delightful aroma, a delicious
flavour, it turns a lovely goldy creamy
color with milk and it is very saving
tea to use.
THE “ ROBUR ” TEA CO.
James Service &. Co., Proprietors


Under
Royal
Warrant
ă
SC c ■£«
,22 8
CHAMPAGNE
1 1 i?
champagne
OiarlesHeidsie^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Zhg.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress
ą
I
n is
•y
The
Santwill
WORK SHIRT
Sand in color. Twill u Hwte
The
“SANTWILL" i.
without doubt the
Toughest Work Shirt
yet introduced at it*
I t rue. i\ot only sturdy
in quality, hut sturdy ia
W co ' or as well. The Sand color defeats the efforts
f of dust and grime, and looks Clean and Present,
able all tbe time. Also in White—same price t
n is HO Well Made, so Strongly Sewn, the Buttons a*
*o firm, and the Measure of Cloth so Liberal, that Con*,
pet Hors have been amazed ! In it one finds Broad,
ihouldered Comfort. Perfect Fitting Sleeves, and Plent#
>f Room for the Muscles to Play In Comfort.
8/6
New Low-Level Price
each or three for
24/-
ISo Skimping ! Non-gaping !
Buttons Sewn on to Stay!
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Carriage Paid
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA
TOWNSVILL*
Please write to Desk “ WS*
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
Join the Dance and make free use of
' the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
-The fashionable thing to do last week
was to buy a fairing or uailodils or other
bp ring flowers from Farmer's, where, on
the ground floor, muslin-clad girls under
Hower-liung arches dedicated their service
to the glory of Spring. And then that petu-
lant person went and hid her face under a
veil of chilly cloud! The Horticultural
Society launched and steered the floral
barque, -which was passengered by the belles
of many a suburban garden. Sweet peas
lifted blushing heads from stems at least
14 inches long, and wore pink and lavender,
cherry-toned or deep-red petals according to
the taste of the spirit of their garden. Hut
the gold that was spilled out on Daffodil
Day! The leprechauns had been busy all
winter melting down their pots of gold to
paint the earth with the color they love best.
And so large were the trumpets it seemed
that many an elf must have burst in blow-
ing them up to their dimensions. The deli-
cate Iceland poppies and queenly carnations
each had their day, and there was even more
talk than usual of the necessity of increasing
the train service from Hornsby down.
The big charity ball of last week was in
aid oi: the North Shore Hospital, and out
of gratitude to the North Siders, who gen-
erally paddle their own canoe, ball-promoters
from every section of Sydney rolled up on
the night to Paddington Town Hall in their
best limousines and wedding garments. The
decorations were designed to have a nerve-
soothing effect —the massage staff of the hos-
pital had seen to them—and drooping wis-
taria everywhere breathed the IOU’s of Sep-
tember which June dishonors. Dame Mar-
garet didn’t come, but Mrs. Bertie Kelly,
under a wreath of roses, helped Mrs. Sep
Levy in mole velvet and steel embossings
to decide the jazz competition. The Cullen
and the Wade ladies came, the first toning
down her blue-satin frock with rich black
lace, and the second with soft drapings that
suggested a grey moth. Mrs. Joseland, who
shared the treasury job with Dr. Cookson,
wore black tulle and jet; medical-superin-
tendent Dr. Emma Buckley sported her new
engagement-ring and a cherry satin dress.
Of course there were hundreds of “others
present,” notably Matron West and ener-
getic Havilali worker Rose Merivale.
The G.-G. and Lady Forster come to
Sydney on September I. His Ex. and Dame
Margaret will shelter them.
When a week or two ago a merely-Sydney
young woman unleashed the Grecian play-
wrights, most of us shrugged our shoulders
and went on our way—a far way from St.
James’s Hall, where “The Trojan Women”
of Euripides wailed their woe. But the
American boa_t brought 11s another lover of
the old Greek; and, lo! the Millions Club
hailed her as High Priestess of Eurhythmies,
a sort of vestal virgin of the Greek drama
and so on. That is no fault of the new-
comer, Dorothea Spinney, but just the cus-
seduess of Grace Stafford’s luck in being an
Australian.
Dorothea burst on the Millions Club
dressed in greens that a Pastoral,
starting with her stockings and deepening
in tone till the velvet tunic was reached. She
made a speech of superlatives, all of them
to the glory of America: but the fire of her
eloquence enwrapped Henry Ford. Her
description of her first sight of Henry
through the window of the billiard-room
where she sat with his wife, and of his beau-
tiful, graceful body (the cars are built on
the same model), faun-like, “springing across
the lawn,” made the listener wonder what
her chairman and old friend Henry Braddon
might be metamorphosed into at a New York
or London distance. The Women’s Com-
mittee that has been working for Miss
Spinney sat at the table of honor —tall Ruth
Beale. Mrs. Holman, Jessica Lee and Sur-
geon McCormick’s lady.
,T. R. McGregor, of Strathkyle, one of
Sydney’s richest bachelors, has joined the
ranks of the married men. Alice Taylor, of
Townsville, gave him the right to surround
her for life with the works of art and carpets
from Bagdad—did it a week or so ago at St.
Stephen’s, in Phillip-street. Mr. McGregor
deals in wool, and during the war was an
appraiser for the Government. As a side-
line he sometimes acts fairy-godfather to
struggling genius.
Loi'd Northcliffe, writing to Sydney, says
he will remain only three days here, and
won’t proceed further south. He will go to
Brisbane for a day or two, thence to Towns-
ville, and from there sails on the return jour-
ney via the east coast of Asia.
Just worked his way back to Sydney,
artist Ellis Silas (Seelas, please), known in
Melbourne and Adelaide and Perth before
the war. In 1914 he enlisted from W.A.
and was in the Landing. Since war days
he has been busy in London with his brush:
he is a member of both the London Sketch
Club and the Authors’ Club. He’s the
champion for ever of Queen Mary be-
cause, after she had dropped in on his
show in the Fine Art Gallery, she com-
manded the whole exhibition to be taken to
Buckingham Palace for George to enjoy.
Edouard Silas, the composer, was a forebear
of the young man with the Vandyck face.
Death was merciful and came quickly to
Mrs. Knowles, the mother of Dr. Knowles,
of Rose Bay. The wonderful old lady with
the indomitable spirit was just on S 5, and
up to the last loved nothing better than to
discuss the political situations of the day.
Last year she underwent a serious operation,
and six weeks later was disposing in mas-
terly fashion of the difficulties of the situ-
ation in Ireland. Sixty-six years ago she
came to Australia from Galway. Dr.
Herrick was the only child, and the greatest
chum she had in the world.
A Judge is not often a Daniel to his
own blood-and-marriage relations, but Judge
Backhouse is different, and as far at least
as Mrs. Harry Musgrove was concerned he
was always on a pedestal. Poor Mrs. Harry,
who died last week, was a Miss Hills, of
Melbourne, and was considered to have one
of the finest complexions and a pair of the
bluest eyes in Sydney. Harry Musgrove, of
the Tivoli, small-son Pax and his devoted
nurse are left disconsolate.
These days when that alone-on-Broadway
feeling comes over her, Gwen Nelson slips
her hand into her peggy-bag and fingers her
contract with I .owe Muller. It runs into
40 weeks, and it’s for a rose-song act, the
idea of which bloomed in Gwen’s own head.
Bv the way, Gwen claims to own the only
poodle in the world who can do the “shimmy-
shake.”
A young man who is soon to nail up his
home-coming brass-plate in Sydney is Dr.
Peter Murphy, who has been doing post-
graduate work in gynaecology in U.S.A. and
England. Young Peter, who was with the
A.M.C. in Egypt, is a son of the Honorable
Peter of Brisbane.
All Sydney in London went to Winifred
.Tenner’s recital in the Wigmore Hall. Wini-
fred made her bow in a Paris model of gold
tissue of which she was as proud as she was
of her reception and the gorgeous flowers she
received. Since her concert she has had so
many tempting offers that she is wavering
in her original idea of returning to Sydney
to teach. However, she will have to come
back if only to set her affairs in order, so
Sydney may hear her creamy tones once
more in January.
The Shakspeare ter-centenary celebra-
tions in September promise a thrill. The
solid old “Merchant of Venice” is the fare
to be provided, Her Majesty’s the place, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly the Portia. Mrs. Bertie had
intended to set the stage for Portia’s estab-
lishment in the most fascinating way. A
wonderful bed and some cabinets of Italian
workmanship, and even a virginal, were to
be moved from the Carleon collection, and
Mowat Carter and two others in the livery
of Portia’s household were to provide
Chamber music of the period; but all that
is now in the balance. Mrs. Bertie (who
makes a fine Portia, and has appeared often
in the part) is providing her own costumes:
for the rest the Firm’s wardrobe and pro-
perties are at the disposal of the Shakspeare
Society. Walter Bentley mans the craft.
This is the lute-hung Nerissa of the piece,
though if Portia were really the woman her
speeches make her
sound, she’d have cut
the registry-office off
her list for supplying
such an attractive
handmaid. In real
life she is the wife
of Dr. Herrick
Knowles, of Rose
Bay; and before
that she was Lily
Titheradge and mak-
ing a career for her-
self with the Brough-
Boucicault company.
No Bulletin reader
needs an introduc-
tion to a daughter of
George Titheradge;
and, by the way, it
is interesting to re-
member tliat the last time the Shakspeare
Society put on “The Merchant” Mr. Tither-
adge and Ellen Terry (both sick people
then) were two of the principals.
Latest news from London about Stella
Power is that she starts on tour with
Kubelik in October, and two or three weeks
she was singing at Eastbourne with
Dame Clara Butt.
Artist David Barker and his wife are
packing up ror Blighty, where they expect
to remain for several years. David will
be busy on a film invention of his own, with
perhaps some brushwork in between.
Mrs. Bladen, the Red Cross sec., and Dr.
Emma Buckley leave together this week for
a holiday in Maoriland.
The Rose Scott Commemoration Fund is
well on its way, something like half the
amount required being in hand. Now the
committee begs the other half from admirers
of the indomitable lady. The commemora-
tion is in the form of a portrait of Miss Rose
b.v Longstaff; only her illness has kept it
from being completed by now. Subscribers
can remit to the bon. secs, at 426 George-
street.
Haageu Holenbergh, the Danish pianist,
has written to Jean Drummond, who is
soprano-ing southward-oil with the Italian
Opera Company, about a tour in Java, China,
Japan and India.
The Bush Book Club is out after Austra-
lian authors. Its new suggestion to book-
makers is for them to send at least two
volumes of their works to the 8.8. C., each
copy to contain the author’s name and
address, with a promise to answer at least
two letters from readers. The Club is of
opinion that, in addition to giving great
pleasure to lonely out-hackers, this plan
should promote the reading of Australian-
made stuff.
This gracefully-
posed head, by Ber-
nice Agar, belongs
to Molly Long, who
gives her first reci-
tal on Wednesday
next at King's Hall.
Molly has a rich
mezzo - contralto
voi c e, of whl c h
teacher Mr. Asprey
has high hopes. She
is only in her early
teens despite the
hair p i n s in her
pretty red hair.
The Frie u d 1 y
1 nion of Sailors’
Wives is feeling the
pinch, so its funds
are to be swelled
by the proceeds of a dinner-dance in
October. The great decision was arrived at
last week, when Commodore Edwards’s wife
called a meeting at Tresco.
Thursday afternoon’s Wilkie Bard matinee
lured the Profession like a piece of loaf-
sugar attracts ants in summer. Of course,
Marie Tempest (who looks even more attrac-
tive' off than on the boards) and Graham
Browne came to the show, the lady looking
over the collar of her sable cape like Barrie’s
Grizel. Dot Brunton clapped a hat on her
head and arrived in time to see Wilkie as
his inimitable theatre-cleaner draw his water-
filled cloth slowly up out of his bucket of
suds till it waggled a most astonishing duck’s
head at the crowded house. It; was a great
party.
The first dinner of the out-of-town mem-
bers of the Institute of French Conversation
was eaten last week at the Dainty, in
Hunter-street. About 10 were expected, and
26 sat down. French was spoken frequently
at the two ends of the table, and fluently in
the little group under the eye of Miss Sou-
beiran. Afterwards the diners went to the
assembly-room of the Women’s Club, which
b.v 8 o’clock sounded like a combination
of Le Cri and Le Rire.
This letter wants to give three cheers for
Dorothy Brunton as Faintin’ Fanny. Dot
has, at last, realised the Declaration of Faith
the Gallery Girl made in her years ago, and
if humorist Wodehouse could see her doing
that sprint upstage in a small-size eider-
down he’d probably devote the rest of his
life writing comedy parts for her.
St. James’s Hall held a Society audience
last Thursday, when the clever “Vagabonds”
presented “Uncle Ned,” an innocuous little
English comedy, in the interests of the Rose
Hall Motor-car Fund. Dame Margaret sup-
plemented a fur-collared green cloak with a
set of white furs, and in the interval made
an appeal for Rose Hall. Miss Eadith
Walker. Mrs. W. A. Sparks—one of Rose
Hall’s greatest friends—the medical Roths
and the Justice Streets were among the
applause-makers. A special honorable men-
tion goes to Ethel Sparks, Hugh Donald and
Ruby Coxhead for their acting.
The 16th Lancers, one of the crack
eavalrv regiments to be disbanded shortly,
has an Australasian for its colonel. Sir
James Babington (he was a Lieut.-General
in the war) is a brother-in-law of Chief
Justice Adrian Knox, having married Miss
Eleanor Lawson 20-odd years ago. Colonel
Babington was Commandant in M.L. at the
time, and the Lawson girls were living with
their brother Willie (now permanently settle,
sjnet ' “
hv A rt. other of , the doomed Lancer regiment*
by the way, has a Sydney interest throne!,
i s Lionel. That is the ‘2lst, which maS
of e i)-“r? U i S charg o into the-sand valley full
Fnwlo hes !lt Omdurftian. Colonel John
howle, who was m the charge, became
engaged shortly afterwards to Mrs. Willie
Mitchell, the wealthy widow of Sydney *
sporting brewer of other days, and spent
some time in N. S. Wales. Then the en-
gagement was broken off, and she married
an Anglo-Indian, and lie settled down to a
bachelor s existence.
. J-Pddy Cahill and George Brooke passed
through Sydney last week on their way to
treat .Melbourne to some concerts. The tw
young men are still flushed with their
Queensland success. Their last concert in
Bnsbane was in aid of the Children’s Hos-
pital (Mrs. Theodore, organiser) and raised
something like £lOO. Governor Nathan, be-
sides going to all their concerts, gave a party
in their honor. Next month the David and
Jonathan return to Sydney, where Teddv
tdays with the Orchestra and the two take
up a contract with the Ilayniarket Pictures.
The end of Brisbane’s busiest week:—
Show week ended as enthusiastically as it began.
On Thursday night the bachelors entertained the
naicest people in the South Brisbane City Hall. The
vestibule was turned into a lounge, and the supper
tables, instead of being concealed in the basement,
stood boldly round the walls of the ballroom.
Balloons and palms and sweet-peas were the decora-
tions. Mrs. Lubbock and Mrs. Pitt Rivers were
among the guests, the former frocked in black-anil-
gold brocade, and her sister in a sea-nymph gown
of pale green and gold.
But the most successful thing of the week was the
Anzac' Appeal Ball on Saturday night. The Cen-
tennial Hall is roomy and has a good floor, but it
isn’t an abode of beauty, so the committee wisely
bid walls and ceiling and odd corners with masses
of beautiful palms. The staircases were palm-
groves, too, and the band sawed away in a lattice-
and-palm enclosure that reminded one of Babylon’s
hanging gardens. The vice-regal supper-table was
decked with violets and mignonette, sent down from
Mrs. Barnes’s gardens at Canning Downs. Black,
pyramid-shaped shades, ornamented with mosques
and palm-trees and elephants and tilings, covered
the lights. The committee had so many flowers
that it was able to present each girl with a posy
of violets. The G.-G. and Lady Bolster, our own
popular Governor, Mrs. Lubbock, Mrs. Pitt Rivers, Mrs.
Deverell and Mrs. Parsons, with Lord Digb.v and
Captains Traill and Harboard hovering round,
arrived early and were glad-handed by Brig.-Oen.
•Tim Cannan, Mrs. Tommy Robertson, Mayor Did-
uams and Mrs. Maxwell (the Acting-Mayoress). Lot-
of nice sailor men came, and everybody had a good
time.
Tlie G.-G. opened the new golf links at Hamilton
on Friday afternoon, and lie and Lady Forster tea-jd
with president L. M. Bond and his wife, and cast, an
affable eye on the young people who danced in the
Club House afterwards.
On Thursday morning about 000 people wandered
up to the Brisbane Boys’ Grammar School .to
watch the G.-G. unveil the memorial gun. Head-
master Bousfield and his pretty little wife received
the visitors. The G.-G. made a fine speech, and
General Lachlan Wilson and Mr. Bousfield made
two others. The General happened to mention that
the gun was captured in Palestine by Lieut. Harry
Hammond, of Charlevilie, and Troopev Higgins,
whereupon the G.-G. became very interested and
Lieut. Hammond, looking horribly self-conscious,
was hauled out of the crowd to shake hands witli
him.
The last .day of the Exhibition meeting on Satur-
day brought swarms of racing enthusiasts to Ascot.
The lawns buzzed like a beehive, but the pretty
flocking made it seem as though a rather noisy
swarm of butterflies was abroad. The G.-G. and
Lady Forster, with Lord Digby on guard, and
Sir Mathew, with Colonel Parsons in attendance,
were there. Lady Forster wore blue satin, a blue
brocaded coat and a blue plumed hat. Mrs. Luli-
bock was as usual in black, and Mrs. Pitt Rivers
wore a steel-grey lace gown over black. Mrs.
Deverell’s silver-colored gown showed cheerful touches
of cherry, and Mrs. Bruche’s nigger-brown crepe de
Chine was embroidered in Oriental silks. Mrs. Jack
Fihelly wore navy blue, and a deep purple hat
laden with Cubist fruit. Mrs. Dick Godsall carried
black chiffon taffetas, ,embroidered in steel beads,
and a black hat with touches of gold. Mrs. Par-
sons's grey coat frock was finished with Egyptian
embroidery, and her small black hat showed a lace
brim. Mrs. William Collins also wore grey, with
a Duchess of Devonshire-ish hat. Mrs. Julian Mackay
wore navy blue cr6pe de Chine, with an overdress of
navy lace, and a plumed hat.
There was a jolly jazz tea on the Brisbane on
Friday afternoon, and a stately at-home on the
Brisbane and the Melbourne on Saturday night.
Rear-Admiral Dumaresq received the guests, who
included Hon. Mesdames Lubbock and Pitt Rivers,
Mrs. Deverell and Colonel and Mrs. Parsons, the
Premier, Ministers and their wives, naval and mili-
tary nabobs and their wives, various other bashaws,
a lot of other husbands and wives and very few
girls.
The visiting vice-royalties and their party finally
boarded the Sydney, and departed for North Queens-
land. Mrs. Lubbock and her sister will stay at
Coochin with the Bells for a while, and then go on
to Toowoomba for polo week.


■1 1 $v i*. |1
~ - ;
,Ift; v:;i : :..'sy: ■■>■• ® > .. -
-•:<
■Bll« : i
?
. \r/n
sm
sm
H
ffl ->
**~x
• ■-■->: r ,,
H
!' S
m
fi
-••' v
s/rtf/V"'''
H
,v»~ v
mm
;., |
I 1!
1
&ix
When the trader’s caravan
IN the far-off days of Royal Egypt, it was from the wares of the
itinerant merchant that the much-prized products of distant lands
were bought.
The arrival of a caravan bearing the precious Palm and Olive oils
was an event eagerly awaited by the elegant women of Egypt.
Those oils were all-important not only for their cleansing qualities
but because they guarded the skin and complexion against the ravages
of the climate and the dry and harmful winds from the desert.
How much better off is the modern beauty? At every chemist’s
in almost every store of prominence she can buy mild Palmolive
Soap (containing these same Palm and Olive oils). Regular use of
Palmoiive will protect and stimulate the skin and keep it soft, clear,
smooth and supple.
PALMOLIVE cleanliness is different. You will appreciate it.
PALMOLIVE SOAP
The guest-room size cake of
Palmolive Soap will be sent
post free, on request. The
Palmolive Co. (A ustralasiaj
Limited, Sydney, Brough-
ton House, King and Clar-
ence Streets, Sydney.
m
"
m
m
ill
M
m
m
m
mm


There’s Money in the Pen
For You as well
as for Others!
EPS
f?*
IV
And you nan
learn to
draw, NOT TO
COPY, by tak-
ing up the Weston
Course.
Under our method,
which eliminates
drudgery, you work
in personal contact
with Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
a eknowled ged
leader in commer-
cial art and poster
designing.
The demand for
original illustrative
work grows more
insistent daily, and
you can make l)ig
money by taking
up this fascinating
course.
SEND FOR A
BOOKLET,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” which
tells you all about
the course. Simply
send your name
an d address ;
enclose three
stamps to cover
postage and we
will forward this interesting booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
72 Union House, BYDNEY.
ǻ
he largest selling
qualiitj pencil in
the world.
VENUS
Vpenols
a
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Fashion’s Ultimatum!
WEAR A “ WOOLLERY " GOLFER,
OR BE OUT-OF-DATE.
For Elegance, Warmth and Long
Wear, the “Woollery” Tailor-made
Golfer is proudly Pre-eminent. Ordinary
Golfers have no chance against it. It’s
“Just like the Picture.” It can’t
sag, either.
GREAT
VALUE
FOR
2816
TO ORDER
IN 7 DAYS;
POSTAGE,
11- EXTRA.
Purest
Wool.
Close knit.
Any Color.
Any Stripes.
Belt or
Girdle.
Square or
"V"
à
SATEEN
BOUND
INSIDE.
Pockets.
“FITS LIKE A COSTUME
MAIL YOUR ORDER.
AVe Guarantee “Complete Satisfaction or a
Money Back.”
Or Write for Free Samples First.
THE WOOLLERY
(Keg.),
858 Bridge Road, Richmond, Melbourne.
Also at 24 Chapel Street, Windsor.
RUN BY RETURNED SOLDIER.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will Quote you price for it.
POLO
THE
KING OF SPORTS.
Write for our free Polo Booklet., con-
taining playing rules, illustrations of
all gear used and much information
about the game.
WE HAVE THE MOST EXTENSIVE
STOCK OF POLO GOODS IN
AUSTRALIA.
WHIRS
KOO-KOO-HOO-KOO
33
á
â
ã
ä
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
SELL ON THEIR MERITS.
THEY are kangaroo leather rig hi
THROUGH NO SHEEPSKIN FILLING.
Thongs—
-12-plait..
16-plait. .
20-plait..
«i't. 7ft.
17/- 19/6
19/- 23/-
23/6 27/-
Bft. Oft.
22/6 24/6
25/- 28/-
31/- 35/-
Handles to match— l6/0, 18/6 and 21/0. If fo»
Oft. Thong-s Prices are 18/-, 20/- and 23/-
Post Pree for Cash with Order.
Write for Our Catalogue of Harness and Saddlery, including Texas Saddles.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
Polo Specialists,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
å
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
<L T >
cj
E "PS*
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Jlaker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
CHATEAU
TANUNEA
Standards 6
BKMSODY
J*
t iT
iS
'/A
2
ZD.
Bpg^2ssWr
s*nr
n
sZf,
A-tf
A rich, pure,
health-giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb StIPPM—
J A Hit AH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring nnrl
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. ~ .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are FREE FROM MINERAL OILS,
and keep the uppers of shoewear soft
prolonging the life of the feather.
They are of the highest possible quality,
and pliable, thus preventing cracks and
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. In Bottles & Tubes.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
Long Life and Accuracy.
ā
You can’t get either of these points
out of a milling cutter unless it has
the foundation.
“Capital” High-Speed
Milling Cutters
have won so high a reputation on. this and other markets
because they have the foundation.
Made from High-speed Steel specially prepared to resist
wear, and with an accuracy that never varies, the
manufacturers guarantee every k-utter they put out.
Any that fails through defective ‘ workmanship or material
will be immediately replaced.
Sizes and stocks on application to Department “A.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Spee*l Steel,
879-381 Kent Street, Sydney;
266 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
48 Cliff Street, Fremantle;
John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Paul & Guay, Ltd., Newcastle;
B. L. Mill/.gan, Collins Street, Hohalt.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tartly submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Kio: (1) The Bulletin did not confuse
Military Law with Martial Law, if only for the
reason that there is no such tiling as Martial Law
under the English Constitution. Its proclamation
confers no new legal powers on the military or
anybody else (vide Wolfe Jones’s case). The point
is the Lloyd George Government has claimed in
America and elsewhere that the courts in the “pro-
claimed areas” were at least properly constituted
according to military ideas. (2) Whether Macready
knew the law or not he put himself in the
position of first publicly defying the Irish High
Court; and then knuckling under to it. (3) To the
question “What good would Justice O’Connor’s writ
of attachment have been if the Generals had treated
it as Sinn Fein would and resisted it by force —
who would have arrested them?”—if the army
defies the law, of course, no more is to be said—
until the rebels are overpowered, whereupon the
Generals and those who encourage them are shot.
....Velox: But you don’t say what he wrote, and
we doubt whether one Bulletin reader in 50
knows... .P.T.O.: Too cryptic... .B.W.J.: Dear
lady, it is hardly doggerel.... J. C. Northmead:
"Apcman” has merit, but isn’t quite real enough.
. ...W.G.B.: “Counters” had a chance, and failed
on the post because it didn’t persuade us it was
true... .Oliver B.: The patriotic fervor of the lines
would stir a bookmaker’s clerk to think of nobler
tilings:—
Come, come, welcome one and all,
To see our beautiful home;
Listen, listen, you hear someone call!
Our lovely wattles and beautiful loam.
Come, come, and see Australia’s blooms,
The sweet-scented morn, the sun all day long;
What, what more can one want with these lovely
perfumes?
Beautiful evenings, the twilights long!
Ah, come land on our beautiful shores,
Sec tile old gums, the valleys, the hills ;
Once here you’re safe and sure,
Roam where you will, with a free will.
All. then why not come to this great, sunny land,
The prettiest little spot on the globe?
Once here you’ll shake my hand,
Australia, Australia, the place, my abode.
. ...W.H.T.: Can’t find any thrill in the “more-less”
argument... .Amy F.: Too many words and too many
generalities. Start with the little things you know
intimately... .Bellerive: Ah, yes, Posey will outlast
flsh-and-chips:—
There’s a final post; to the voyage of life,
I’m battling on to the end ;
In my little den I move the pen.
For Posey is still my friend.
Side by side we’ve drifted along
O’er the trails of life’s rough ways;
She gave me will at the foot of the hill,
True since my boyhood days.
On the drama of life the curtain falls,
I’m battling on to the end;
I move the pen in my little den
For Posey is still my friend.
. ...N.T.R.: Doesn’t get near P.P.McC.; You
cannot use that stanza without direct imitation ; and
you don’t use it well S.W.G.H.: “Going out to
Bat” strikes an entirely fresh note: —
I say, mate, have you ever felt that queer sensation
When you went out to bat at the wicket ?
Well, I have; and I’ll tell you without hesitation,
For that’s the time to run down cricket.
Well, mate, 1 sat in the shade with my pads on,
With my trusty old bat on my knee,
When my cobbers started their flannels to don,
That’s when I got the feeling, don’t you see.
For I saw our man’s bails go flying,
So i went out to fill the crease.
When I got “middle,” I felt just like dying,
And my face seemed covered with grease.
The first ball, mate, hit me in the eye and raised a
great big lump
Whereat their ’keeper did sneer.
The next, mate, just missed me, and hit the middle
stump,
’Twas a straight, simple ball, mate, but it ended
my career.
. ...A.E.G.: “Red Mud” doesn’t stick... .J.F.B.M.:
“Old Fashions” didn’t make good use of its chances.
... .Brolga: “Ann” runs too sadly'... .F.H.K.: Paro-
dies are poor tilings at best. Yours is far from best.
. ...V.V.J.: Three uninteresting people and an
incredible murder... .Eric B.: Mixture of waves,
metaphors and platitude:--, and quite beyond compre-
hension .... Veritas: “Oil Sam” has a faint interest,
but you haven’t made story out of him.... Heemie:
Thin little tale of two men who are too mean to be
interesting... .Norman W.: All pretty rotten....
E.C.P.: Both very thin and weak... .D.D.N.; The
tale of the yout'i who went to hear a lecturer mis-
quote Shakspcare and use bad grammar is only-
worth a short par.... Pie: The point of the yarn
seems to he that her mother was wrong, while you
show that her mother was right.... A.E.L.: It’s as
hopeless as a story written so carelessly deserves to
be....B.: Fair verse without much pulse....
M.E.I.F.: Pleasant little thing, but this is a poor
market for such goods.... Isabel H.; You might sell
it somewhere else. .. .W.A.H.: Verses not well enough
done... .Aussie-ite: Lame in all its legs.... Mar-
ginata: The concluding couplet spoils the form ; and
the thought is pretty thin... .J.W. (Royal Park):
Not up, but they have a hint of quality-... .A.D.M.:
“Jones” probably enjoyed his humility.... Doris D.:
Sorry, but they are a thousand leagues from being
“poems.”... .M.M. (Malvern): Poor... .M.B.P.: The
little extravagances spoil the yarn for us... .II.M.G.:
“Isle of Vision” has too many bumps in it....
L.H.B.: No story there... .Leon: Jingle too slight;
try something that matters.... Sky rider: Not worth
its space... .A.C. (W.A.) : The verses don’t strike
us.... P.C.C.: The cry for nature is too weak
R. : Both miss....Timo B.: “Jim” isn’t strong
enough to push his way in....H.B. (Deniliquin):
“Evening Love” not quite up....J.W. (Adelaide):
Neither has any distinction.... Orl K.: Dreary effort
at humor. .. .Alpha: Very thin verse on a worn
theme... .Tiantiloa: Y£>u haven’t put enough into
the pig yarn. . . .B.V.L.: Why make Australian people
talk as if they came from Kentucky or a picture-
show? Wplgite: We have said all that many
times ; but the other view was entitled to a hearing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.H.: Bad Scotch.... J.J.C.: Both manner and
matter weak.... A.E.: Pretty awful... .T.II.R: Not
up. .. .C.L.S.: No virtue in puns and little art in
drawing... .McIntyre: Show improvement; but still
not up to the mark... .N.Mc.B.: Miss... .A.E.L.: A
fearful pair of kids R.W.C.: Nothing in it....
S. The worst of the week....D.W.: Try
Eomething original... .P.W.S.: Off the target....
T. : Ruled out... .O.K.:, Ditto A.B.C: Shock-
ing. .. .K.A.E.: Going back... .H.T.J.: Not well
enough done.... A.C.H.: The worst war-horror to
date... .G.H.: Still misses M.I.R.: Too scratchy.
K.U.F.: Not this time; but there’s hope for you....
J.J.: Misses. .. .A.L.: Faulty drawing.


Shipping'
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For ali information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2. 4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING AUGUST 31,
SONOMA.
IO.OUO.Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
- THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. ("Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir RORERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Ali new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love,
Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yakwood, F.C.P.A. ;
Geokge F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, JI.L.C. ;
Duncan Cahson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fair bairn.
Hgents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
y'DNEY BRANCH:
Corner G )RGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Bydney Office : 105 Pitt Btreet.
Paid-up Capital .. ... £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, ***»
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.)i Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
MAKURA, Bth SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 18th OCTOBER.
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Enrope.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also tha
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Tails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
'
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WA EES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Iteserve liability
ă
£5,000,000
3,435,000
5,000,000
£13,435,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Robert L. FaithfuH, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley. Esq. G ™ eral Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,035
ą
Dihectors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. liater, .M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Blrchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature's Masterpiece -For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
T usurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery.
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5, DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Coverin'* first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and ente-r-
-oovenng tainment at Oaves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
Shlnnln*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOB MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide, for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd..
7 Bridge St,
(Tel. 10684).
Iluddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge
St. (Tel. 9568).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd..
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
61 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Wed!7 "Howard Smith.
Aug. 24. Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
Sat., A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
Vug. 27. 7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Wed., Howard Smith,
Vug. 31. Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
Sat., A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
Sept. 3. 7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
J§Bombala.
(Omits
Bowen)
tWYREEMA.
|*CANBERRA.
(Omits
Bowen)
ILEVUKA..
Sat.,
Aug
Tues.,
Atig. 30,
4 p.m.
Sat.,
Sept. 3
Tues.,
Sept. 6,
4 p.m.
•Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
lst and 2nd Class Passengers.
1 Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
STranships at Townsville for ports as far as Camis,
Huddart Parker Ls
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. . -- . .
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T H *
North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND 111 E
BEAUTIFUL TWEED IUVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
8.5. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thuisday, 7 p.m.
5.5. OItARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of tiiese steamers is unexcelled on the
coast. , .
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA.
Steamer.
NIKKO MARU.
AKI MARU...
TANGO MARU.
Monuuy oMJiiJi&B lucicuitv..
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply to
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
inter-State Telegraphic Address:
‘Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address,
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd,
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blacklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Svdney).
P. & 6. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. tat Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Coolctown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


*
ABl<i
Don't
forget
the
Diggers
Loan !
Use "ADSTRAL” Brand
ANTI-FRICTION METALS
For Smoother Running, Longer Life
(Made in Australia).
\ T E are the largest producers of Anti-
\l \/ Friction Metals in Australia, and our
lines have long since proved them-
selves to the satisfaction of hard-headed
engineers in every branch of the trade.
Graphine Anti-friction Metal No. I. —A tin base
alloy for heavy loads and high speed. Contains tin and
some antimony and copper, but no lead. It is a fine
homogeneous metal, and, because of its low specific
gravity, it is cheaper than other anti-friction metals of
a lower price. Used for woodwork machines, axle-
bearings, pumps, dynamos, turbines, motors, heavy-shaft
bearings, thrust-bearings, traction-engine work, internal-
combustion engines, etc. Widely used in big-end bearings
of motor-cars.
Graphine Anti-friction Metal, Nos. 2,3, 4, 5 and 6,
offers a range to meet any requirement.
Babbitt’s Metal, Nos. 1 and 2. Also in original
formula.
Austral Navy Bronze (in ingots of 7 pounds).
Austral Plastic Metal (in lib. sticks or 71b. ingots).
Send for Catalogue to
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. Ltd.
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
SELLING AGENTS:
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney, and
125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. (Melbourne) Pty.,
Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and
Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from Geo. Kent,
Ltd., Perth; and Jones & Co., Clyde Quay,
Wellington, N.Z.
ABI6
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
r ORlMER.—lnformation is sought as to
the ■whereabouts of WILLIAM LORI-
MER, who left Bellaghy, Co. Derry, Ireland,
for Australia about eight years ago. Any
person supplying information will be re-
warded. Brother inquires.
Box 2521 G. 8.0., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Edison Amberol Records
i
for August.
In the new list of Edison Records is included something
for everybody : something for every mood. The Edison
Phonograph owner Avho cffiinot find therein a number of
selections to suit his taste will be hard to please.
An up-to:date selection is “Alice Blue Gown”—the de-
lightful number that was such a big “hit” in “Irene.”
Royal Purple Records.
2905S —V a 1 s e Sentimentale,
violin, piano acc. by
Andre Benoist.
Albert Spalding
29061 —Anges du paradis
(Angels of Paradise - )*
Mireille, tenor, in
French, orch. acc.
P. A. Asselin
290 G0 —Solvejg’s Vise, soprano, in Norwegian, orch. acc.
Marie Tiffany
Blue Amberol Records.
4066 —My Sahara Rose, Medley Fox Trot. Two
saxophones and two pianos, for dancing.
Wiedoeft-Wadsworth Quartet
4069 Beautiful Hawaii AValtz.
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra
4070 I’d Love to Fall Asleep and Wake Up
in My Mammy’s Arms.
Tenor, orch. acc. Reese Jones
4071 — My Lovin’ Sing Song Man. Orch acc.
Al. Bernard and Frank M. Kamplain
4073 —One Loving Caress. Soprano and con-
tralto, orch. acc. .
Gladys Rice, and Marion Evelyn Cox
4077 —Uncle Josh and the Sailor—a Rural
, Story. Cal. Stewart
407S —Sunshine and Cloud. Contralto and
baritone, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
4079 —-Oriental Stars One-Step, for dancing.
Green Bros.’. Novelty Orchestra
4081— You’ve Been the Sunshine of My Life.
Tenor, orch. acc. Lewis James
4082 Good-bye S'unshine, Hello Moon! Ed.
Wynn Carnival, contralto and chorus,
orch. acc. Helen Clark and Chorus
4084 — Wyoming Waltz, for dancing.
Max Fell’s Della Robia Orchestra
4085 Pretty Kitty Kelly. Tenor, orch. acc.
William Bonner
4090 — American Legion March.
Conway’s Band
4091 Kismet Fox-Trot, for dancing.
Green Bros.’ Novelty Band
4096 —Close to Your Heart, Honey Girl.
Soprano, orch. acc. * Gladys Rice
4099 —Pilot Brave, The. Tenor and baritone,
orch. acc. Charles Hart and Fred East
4108 —Alice Blue Gown-Irene. Contralto, orch.
acc. Helen Clark
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Dependable Guns
** X
2K
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION. '
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong-.
Price 2/» post free.
ǻ
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post tree.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, SOin. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, is above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£5/12/6
£6/5/-
WE REPAIR
GONS g RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
æ
ǽ
a
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
, , . English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gaug'e, 28-inch
bairels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7 Jib. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
“Kooiah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. lOd. each, post free.
Owing- to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
a
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.1i.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top itver,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
pri'ip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, Walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Jlb.
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid,
=£l6/16/
a
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel 'barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£151151-
£151151-
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
aa
g
Kglf«
819. Midland Gun Co/s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun. 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7flb Freight paid,
£l2/12 /
MYRROHL S'" TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra),
Steven's
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same a!
à
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 8 Ejector, 65/- Freight paid,
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


There is Nothing Like a Smile When
the Teeth are PLAZA Cleaned.
MISS SYIJIIJ SIIIRLEY (from a photo).
Plaza-cleaned teeth
aid a charming smile.
There is no charm like
the smile of a lovely
woman, but the essen-
tial of a smile is the
beautiful sparkle of
clean white teeth, and
what a delight to know
that your teeth are
white and pearly, and
that you can smile with
every confidence, and
not need to try and
hide the teeth.
Use Plaza Tooth
Paste night and morn-
ing, and see how de-
lightful it keeps your
mouth and gums. You
will find it a better
Paste than you have
ever used before.
Large Tubes, 1/6.
PLAZA Tooth Paste—
The RigHt Dentifrice.
“I have been using Plaza Tooth Paste for some time and consider
it a truly delightful dentrifrice for cleansing and beautifying the teeth.
It keeps the gums in perfect condition, and leaves a pleasant taste in
tho mouth.
I shall never be without Plaza Tooth Paste, and I will always
recommend it to all my friends.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) SYBIL SHIRLEY,
Double Bay, N.S.W.
i««v
«
K/jmmmW
■*&
4r • .
rsVV
Chocolates
Fresh from the Factory.
Mailed to you on the day
they are made.
Always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
& w a3^
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney,
/
t'B
m
mm
■
The Old Sea Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BETWEEN long hills with heather clad,
by slopes of fern and broom,
The Old Sea Road runs steeply to
the bay; . . . , „
The seasons travel down it bearing each a
sheaf of bloom,
And cast a glory round the rugged way ;
But misty dawns and radiant noons,
Long nights of stars and high, white moons,
Know only whispering silences
Along the Old Sea Road.
Long years agone the roving ships with
courses southward set
Slipped through the lucent waters of the
Upon the beach the captains of the sea-called
nations met,
While in a guardian ring their white ships
lay;
And through the valleys dim and long
There rang the sound of many a song,
Sung loud by royst’ring sailormen
Upon the Old Sea Road.
On Arctic reef and tropic strand their
crumbling wrecks are high,
The ships that clove the ripples of the bay ;
In lonely graves by untrod shore and out-
most sea they lie,
The men who steered the gallant ships
away.
And only wary wilding things,
With watchful eyes and ready wings,
Step softly in the silences
Along the Old Sea Road.
Rut when the quivering dusk-stars shine,
and rushing winds, are still,
A phantom fleet drops anchor in the bay,
The songs of long-dead sailormen resound
from cliff and hill,
Their chanteys echo down the narrow way ;
And through the dark with rhythmic beat
Is borne the sound of tramping feet —
The tread of ghostly sailormen
Upon the Old Sea Road.
MAORILAND.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.
The Right to Live.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EARLY morning. Belmore Park.
The toilers hurrying past me like
human ants, here and there stopping,
apparently vo exchange a fey’ remarks as
ants will, then on again. In the near dis-
tance anthills of bricks - and mortar where
they toil and build, love and hate and repro-
duce their kind, as Fate decrees.
From Sydney Central Station, the largest
of these anthills, they pour as though God in
a jocular mood had kicked it and made them
rush forth in anger at being disturbed —
some oniy to be trampled upon in the struggle
for existence.
I survey this scene from the aloof position
of a man well endowed with the world’s
goods, my income assured, and the knowledge
that I may sit and read my morning paper
at leisure.
“Could you spare me that paper, sir,
when you have no further use for it?”
I looked up from my Herald to discover
that the voice belonged to one of the many
gentlemen of no fixed place of residence who
had been reclining cn the grass, but who was
now sitting up and looking at me with eyes
that told their own story.
“Want to lopk for a job?” I queried.
A look almost of horror crossed his rather
pleasant features, to be replaced a second
later by a grin as though I had make a joke.
“No, I want to look down the Agony
Column,” he said. “Especially the Deaths.
It’s about the only real enjoyment I have.
Queer fuss some people make about dying,
and yet it’s as natural as being born,” he
added philosophically.
I agreed.
“Yes,” he went on, “if people only reasoned
clearly, I think they would be a deal hap-
pier.”
“Reason is cold,” I said.
“Not as cold as some are to-day who did
not stop to reason,” he said meaningly. Then,
after a pause: “To fully realise the lack
of that quality in some people, you should
have met Wilkins. He was the limit.”
“Wilkins? And who is Wilkins?” I
asked.
“If you have the time to spare I will tell
you,” he said ; and I told him to go ahead
with the yarn.
“Heavpn, how it rained that night!” he
started, reminiscently. “The streets were in
flood, the water making a gurgling sound as
it ran along the gutters and a sucking noise
as it entered my boots. I was here in this
park when it started to pour, so I made for
the Opera House and shelter. I stood there,
wet through, idly scanning the hurrying
people, and wondering just what sort of a
home each might have, when I noticed a
little, undersized chan scurrying along and
looking back now and then as if afraid of
being followed.
“He cam.e close to where I was standing
and stopped, though by the scared expres-
sion on his face I gathered that he might
bolt at any moment. He had been standing
there some time, his teeth chattering, w T hen
he at last ventured a timid ‘Good night!’
“ ‘Well, I’d hardly call it that,’ I returned.
“ ‘Yes, yes, of course, of course!’ he said
nervously. ‘A night when a man should be
in his home,’ he added bitterly.
“ ‘Yes, if he has one,’ I said meaningly.
“A light of understanding brightened his
features for a moment.
“ ‘Do I understand you liax r e no place to
rest this dreadful weather?’ he questioned.
‘Dear mg, dear me, how unfortunate!’
“He stood wrapped in thought for a time;
then, having apparently decided a weighty
problem, he said, ‘Fate then has been kind
to both of us in leading me here.’ He came
closer, and after a few commonplace remarks
be gasped. ‘Will you help me? In return for
your sen-ices as adviser and guide I am
prepared to assist you financially,’ and again
the look of fear came into his eyes. Turn-
ing to me he said. ‘Can we go somewhere
where we can talk privately, somewhere
where I can feel safe? This will convince
you that I am sincere in my promise of
financial assistance!’ He took out a wallet,
selected a note from a roll and handed it
to me. It was a tiver.
“His generosity nearly took my breath
away, and I felt like pinching myself to see
if I was dreaming.
“I stood there foolishly crackling the note
—it was a long time since I had handled
real money. Then I came back to garth and
the realisation that where that note came
from there were others; but I firs,t wished
to ascertain just where I stood if I did assist
him. You see, I didn’t want to get mixed
up in any police affair. I had come to the
conclusion that he was wanted for a robbery,
and that they were following pretty close
upon his heels; so I said, ‘Tell me what you
are wanted for. What’s the trouble?’
“‘I can’t tell you here,’ he answered
hastily. ‘They might find me at any moment,
and then’ He broke off with the same
look of fear in his eyes.
“Things began to look interesting, so I
threw caution to the winds and decided to
see it through. ‘Well, come along,’ I said,
and led him by unfrequented streets to a
place I knew of in Surry Hills. His actions
on the way there stamped him as a new
hand at the breaking-and-entering business,
and this his first job. But he appeared to
have made a big haul, and with so much
money to hand about I didn’t see why yours
truly shouldn’t have a share.
“We arrived at our destination wetter
than ever, if that were possible. Mother
Carey opened the door. I to her
and assured her that all was OK. She
looked suspiciously at my companion, and
was about to refuse us entry, when I Hashed
the note. That did it. Money was her god,
and no risk too great, providing the cash
was forthcoming. She led us to a back
room overlooking a smelly stable —a room
not beautiful, but a good .place for a quick
getaway if the police arrived. There she
left us, but took the fiver. When we were
as comfortably seated as wet clothing would
permit, 1 took a good look at him. As I
said before, he was a little, undersized man,
but a gentleman in appearance in spite of
the drenching he had received. His clothes
were of good material and well cut, and but.
for the haunted look he would have passed
as a prosperous business man w'ho had been
caught in the storm. He didn’t look like a
crook. Being anxious to find out just where
I stood, remembering his promise to confide
to me his trouble, I intimated that now was
the time to unburden himself.
“ ‘Are we safe here?’ he asked.
“ ‘Safe as houses,’ I lied.
“He cleared his throat nervously and
seemed loath to begin. At last he burst
out with, ‘Have you ever read Dr. Fakem’s
book on Diseases and How to Cure Them’?
I assured him that I had not that pleasure,
and wondered what it. had to do with the
business on hand, and said so.
“ ‘Wait,’ he said, ‘l’m coming to that.’
“ ‘Yes, but what about the job you are
wanted for?’ I asked.
“‘The job?’ he said, mystified.
“ ‘Yes, the job. What was it —soft goods,
jewellery or good coin of the realm? It’s
hard to get rid of the stuff nowadays; the
detectives watch the receivers very closely.
You want to be careful if it’s goods, take
it from ofie who knows,’ I said, trying to
help him over what was apparently an un-
savory topic.
“ ‘ “Softgoods, jewellery’, coin of the
realm !’’ ’ lie muttered.
“ ‘Yes, the plunder or whatever you care
to call it,’ I said.
“ ‘I —I don’t understand. To what do
you refer?’ was his halting question. ‘lf you
will only listen and allow me to explain in
my own way you will understand clearly.’
“ ‘Go ahead,’ I said peevishly.
“ ‘Well,’ he continued, ‘one afternoon —
about the eighth, I fancy—l was settled
cosily, enjoying a smoke, a happy, contented
man. My wife was in the kitchen busy with
household duties, and my daughter, Angelica,
who plays the piano, was midway through
“The Maiden’s Prayer,” when there came a
thunderous rap at the front door.’
“I wondered where all this family history
was leading to, but steeled myself to hear
him out.
“ ‘I hurried to the door and upon opening
it saw a tall gentleman, who smiled a wel-
come that made me warm to him at once!
He produced a book with a flourish that
astonished me ; where it came from I could
never tell. “No family can afford to be with-
out this book, Mr. Wilkins,” he said. “It
is shortly to be made law that every house-
holder shall possess one. Now I am going to
give you the opportunity of securing, at a very
small cost. Dr. Fakem’s book on Diseases
and How to Cure Them.” By this time both
my wife and daughter had put in an appear-
ance and were gaping over my shoulder.
Now, I am a man who has seldom been ill,
a cold or two perhaps and a few minor sick-
nesses, but my wife has always insisted that
I have not taken proper care of myself,
which of course is absurd. My wife pricked
up her ears, and looked interested. He
noticed the signs—as an expert assayer will
detect gold where you and I as laymen
would pass it by—and at once gave her his
whole attention. He had discovered the
weakness in my defence, and went for it
right there. I cannot recall all he said, but
the way he twirled that book and turned
the leaves, he had us fascinated. He
knew his power. We were as putty in
his hands, especially the wife. He told her
that it was the book she had been wanting
all her life, and she believed him. The rest
was easy for him. That man could have sold
bath-heaters in Hell. I bought the book.’
“ ‘Yes, but what,’ I began.
“ ‘Wait,’ he said; ‘I think I mentioned
that I am what you would term a fairly
healthv man. Well, that night the wife and
myself read that book and between us we
discovered that I possessed the symptoms of
every disease known to mankind and a lot
of others!’
“ ‘I, too, have suffered,’ I said with deep
sympathy.
“ ‘From that date my life became a bur-
den. Every day both my wife and daughter
discovered that I was at death’s door, and
that only an operation would save me. Their
repeated attacks were weakening my will,
and already I could feel the knife. I knew
that my life was in danger, and that the
only hope of saving it was instant flight.’
“ ‘Flight?’ I said wonderingly.
“ -Yps. Thev discovered between them
(Continued on next page.)


IS YOUR BACK
GIVING OUT?
m
r
I
a 3 tor
That bad back is probably due to weak kidneys, a
trouble that often follows a cold, a fever, worry or over-
work. It shows in constant, dull, throbbing backache, or
sharp twinges when stooping or lifting. You have head-
aches, too, dizzy spells, a tired nervous feeling and
irregular kidney action. Don’t neglect it —there is danger
of dropsy, gravel or serious kidney disease. It is usually
easy to correct these early troubles, however, and avoid
the more dangerous ailments by giving the kidneys
prompt help. Use DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS. Thousands have saved themselves serious
kidney ills by timely use of DOAN’S.
Mrs. E. Wilkinson, 29 Campbell Street, St. Peters, Sydney,
says:—“For some time I suffered agony from lumbago-like pains
across the small of my back. These pains prevented me from
bending or getting proper rest at night, and seriously hampered me
when attending to my household duties. Sometimes I was so bad
that I could hardly move, and if I tried to get about the house the
pain was almost unbearable. After trying all sorts of remedies
without success, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice, so I got some, and they did me good almost at once.
After taking two bottles of these pills I was ever so much better,
and eight bottles completely cured me. That was twelve months
ago, and I have been well ever since. I always keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the house and take a dose
occasionally, and they keep me in splendid health.”
Eight years later Mrs. Wilkinson says:—“l have been free
from backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me nine
years ago.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, Sutherland Street, Mascot, Sydney, says:—
“Some months ago I was suddenly seized with a terrible pain across
my back, just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought
at first it would, but, on .the contrary, it got worse, and I was soon
so bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled,
and even at night I got very little rest from the constant pain. I
could not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact no position
was comfortable for long. My secretions were affected, being thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies, but
they gave me no relief whatever. One day a friend suggested I
should take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely, driving the
pain out of my back, regulating the secretions and banishing every
other distressing symptom of kidney disorder. I feel splendid now.
and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
á
a
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St», Sydney.
thirteen different complaints from which I
suffered, and tor each one an operation
appeared to be the only hope. lam now an
outcast from my family. I ran away.’
“ ‘Well, I’m damned! Then you’re not a
crook .” I said, rising- in astonishment.
“ ‘Why, no,’ he replied; ‘whatever made
you think so 7’
“That did it. I sat down and gasped
weakly. When I recovered I hastened to
point out to him that the house which I had
brought him to was no place for an honest
man. He seemed surprised.
“ ‘But where can I go?’ he asked. ‘My
description and photographs have appeared
in the evening papers, and they have offered
a sum of money —my money—for any in-
formation as to my whereabouts. But" they
won’t get me,’ he said with a determination
strangely out of place in such a man.
“I could see that here was where I took
a hand and earned my money. I talked to
him like a stern father, told him to buck up
and be a man, to go back and defy them.
It was hard work, but at last 1 persuaded
him to return to the bosom of his family,
assuring him that both his wife and daughter
would be so anxious concerning his safety
that they would have forgotten all about the
operation business. Finally I convinced him,
and he allowed himself to be led from the
house and into the street, where he handed
me another fiver and called me his saviour.
Before he would allow me to say good-bye
he insisted that I accompany him to the
hotel, there to celebrate his release from
bondage in a glass or two. Once there, he
showed his independence by getting glori-
ously drunk.”
Here my friend paused in his narrative.
The remark about drink I who had listened
throughout with interest took as a hint
that he needed liquid refreshment. It was
a hot morning, and I wanted to hear the
end of the story, so I suggested a walk to
the Sydney. I tried to keep pace witli him
on the way across. Arriving there we got
comfortably fixed, and with a glass in my
hand I intimated that now was the time to
let me know the rest of the yarn.
“Oh, lie’s still alive,”. my unknown friend
said carelessly, and ordered another.
I felt I had been robbed of something;
there should have been a climax. He wiped
his mouth. This was my opportunity. I
took him firmly by the arm, led him to the
door and outside. I was not to be robbed
of my right to know the rest of what had
promised to be an interesting study in
psychology, so I said, “And what became of
Wilkins?”
His answer was a brief “Follow me,” and
he made off across the park to where a
dosser lay sprawled out upon the grass.
One glance sufficed: the creature was in
a state of intoxication and filth. So this
was Wilkins, this human wreck, this outcast
from society! Aloud I said, “Poor Wil-
kins !”
“Wilkins?” he echoed in surprise. “That’s
not Wilkins.”
Not Wilkins? I felt stunned. My collar
became too tight.
“Not Wilkins?” I babbled idiotically. I
saw red and wondered vaguely would they
hang me if I murdered him.
lhen through a sort of haze I heard his
voice like the droning of a bee : "That's Jones,
his next-door neighbor. Wilkins went back
to his family. AVilkins lent Jones the book.”
HORACE G. BROOIE.
The Serpent in the Garden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
]Vr IGHT was so beautiful that it
| seemed the stars were candles being
burnt by the high gods at her shrine.
A band made music and there were more
couples on the lawn than there are diamonds
on the iin.ers of a struggling bookmaker’s
wife. In tne light of the arc lamps the elm-
trees stood sharply defined as the canvas
forest of a stage setting. Everyone was
happy, including the policeman whose duty
it was to disturb with his electric torch the
couples in the dark corners. From the
presence of the lumps and the policeman
you will understand it was a iUelbourne
park.
The serpent—who was not the policeman
—came into the Garden. Needless to say a
woman found him.
“00-00-oo!” she said out of the gloom.
The policeman dashed about in the dis-
tance in quest of the tragedy.
"Oo —a snake!” cried the same voice.
It was very dark on the lawn, despite all
the lamps. You could see snakes’ eyes be-
hind every bush. Thirty-nine couples
sprang to their feet as one, and 14 hats
were badly trampled upon. The men’s cigar-
ettes looked like a flight of glow-worms. As
usual a strong man was available. He spoke
in voice of command.
“Stand still, everyone!” he shouted. “Lis-
ten !” *
We stood. The quantity . of assorted
rustlings was amazing. Snakes must have
been slithering through the grass on all
sides. One seemed to be waiting to pounce
upon every ankle. Thirty-nine groups of
statuary waited to be smitten.
The drunken, man came swaying over from
the path. “Peek-a-boo, I see you!” lie
cooed, hiding behind a tree.
“Go back!” ordered the unknown strong
man. "There’s a snake!”
The intoxicated gentleman greeted the
warning with wild laughter, lie put his
hat on the end of a stick and hung it on a
tree. “Never b’licve snake when y’see it,”
lie urged. “They’re not there at all. Only
think they are.”
He left his hat on the tree and passed
gracefully among us. Terror walked with
him. A roused snake is a dreadful thing
m the dark. Suddenly with a wild whoop
a dark figure snatched the newcomer’s stick,
and we heard a girl screiyn. “There it is—
quick !”
The figure crashed the stick down on to
something on the ground. The stick splin-
tered, and a terrified dog fled yelping into
the night.
The intoxicated gentleman grew indignant
“M’ stick smashed,” he protested, “me hat
up stree, you’ve murdered pore li’le dog
what nerra did any harm, and you say
there’s snakes —gettin’ pas’ joke !”
He attempted to smite the man who had
broken his stick, but missed and fell for-
ward into a waste-paper basket. When he
pulled himself out he had left his cigar
behind him, but had gained a fresco of
orange peel.
Somebody else attempted to move, but
the Unknown counselled restraint. “Don’t
move for a while, and if you feel anything
near you, shout!’’
“Shout!” said the drunken gentleman
with line contempt. “Nice ones you are to
talk about shouting! Standing there on
one leg and hittin’ li’le dogs. You wouldn’t
shout drop a gin for yer own mothers. Why
don’t you dance about, hey V”
Just then the paper caught fire in the
basket, and the gentleman yelled his de-
light.
“Hell’s come up through the ground get
y’all,” he said. “I don’t care —serves y’
right. Come on up, li’le devil!”
lie skipped about the flames with the
abandon of a dervish robbed of his young.
The policeman detected the tragedy at tins
stage.
"Took out for the snake!” we all shouted,
appealingly, as though we thought he
might injure it. The policeman sprang into
the air after a star, and his helmet fell off.
“Yah, yah, you’re funked!” yelled the
ribald gentleman.
That seemed to restore the Law’s man-
hood. lie switched on his electric torch,
and swung the pool of light to and fro
across the lawn. Everybody tried to swim
into that pool of light at the same moment
and the crowding was terrific. The drunken
gentleman alone remained in the gloom. His
valor cost him dear. With a strange little
cry he reeled to join us.
“Anything wrong?” asked the strongman
with judicial calm. The policeman let his
torch go out in order to produce his shiny
black notebook.
“Bitten !” screamed the intoxicated gentle-
man.
The policeman restored his torch, and
with simple dignity the gentleman raised
the end of one leg of his trousers and
showed us twin punctures on his calf. Three
girls screeched and fainted, and an un-
attached person who had joined the group
seized a fur coat and disappeared into the
night. We crowded round the victim, and
the pool of light which was the policeman’s
property. A man gallantly tore a yard off
the petticoat of another chap’s girl, and we
made a rough ligature to tie above the
wound.
“Run to the kiosk and get some whisky,”
ordered the strong man. Everyone except
the chief actors did so. We straggled back
breathless, with a bottle which we had
snatched from the beetle-like lady who had
emerged from the bowels of the tea-house.
The intoxicated gentleman took a long
draught, and a clear-headed bystander took
a large penknife from his pocket and pre-
pared to cut out the wound. The victim
moved away, taking another pull at his
medicine.
“Sleepy!” be,said, so we took him by the
arms and marched him up and down in a
frenzy, while the man with the knife fled
after us to perform his operation. We gave
the patient the rest of the whisky, and w
forgot all about the snake. Suddenly tF
intoxicated gentleman collapsed in a linu
mass. Those of us who had hats took them
off like they do in the pictures. Then he
reared himself up again.
"Too mean ter shout, y’ see,” he burbled-
“but I made yer—l done that bite with
pin!”
We were annoyed then. The policeman
stepped along firmly to get his helmet, and
we waited to see the impostor taken away.
The Law put on its helmet with dignity
Something long and black slipped out of it
and, cascading down his tunic, fell wriggling
to the ground. Everybody jumped at the
same moment, but it was the right foot of
the fat lady that came down on the serpent's
head.
“Pore li’le p’liceman!” said the drunken
gentleman kindly. “Get some whisky at
skiosk. He’s fainted ’way.”
He picked up the remains of the snake and
passed out of the group, dragging the yard
of limpness behind him. An excited helper
dropped a glowing cigarette on to the police-
mau’s face. The fatigued band in the dis-
tance expressed its loyalty and relief at the
conclusion of the night’s work with the
National Anthem.
DALE COLLINS.
A Woman Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU, who have made me earth’s
daughter
With a smile for the clouds as they
pass,
White arms to cleave the green water,
Feet that are glad in the grass—
With a heart for the plain’s homely features
Or the wrath of the mountain-winds’
strife,
With joy in all little, soft creatures —
What shall I give you, O Life?
You, who your pupil have made me,
With the mercy of punishment swift,
And never have spared to upbraid me
And send—lest I idle, adrift —•.
Failure, with lessons emphatic
And sharp as your lightnings above,
Pain that is almost ecstatic,
And the terrible teachings of love:
For pity and wonder and laughter.
For work and sweet weariness after,
For the music and wisdom of eld,
For my friends, for right hatreds that
burn —
You, who have nothing withheld,
What can I give in return
For all of my nights and my days
More than a whimper of praise?
Life, to your baffling commands,
Blindly I hold in all trust
The gift of mv two open hands,
Though you should fill them with dust.
YICTOBIA.
ELSIE COLE.


a
a
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office- 99 Queen Street, Meibotirne : ___
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
IX you are troubled with tbis complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. Tbis appliance does away
with all cumbersome -springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who ii despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability tit
temper are often caused by a dull, torpui
liver. Wake up yon. liver with
Small KiH
Small
Dom-
Sm&ll
Prica,
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
C*-t»r’« Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhcalthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young —purely
vegetable.
t !
vt4^
•>-
v«l>
Shirley President
Braces Move With
the Body Action
Nearly all the machinery in the
world is designed to eliminate
friction.
The thought that first created SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES
was based on the same fundamental principle. That delicate piece
of machinery, the human body, needed every help it could obtain
to relieve it of friction and binding.
Carefully designed SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES, with' their
hollow tubes mounted on swivels and cable cords that give and take
with each movement, do just this.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look tor the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
Ccmjttam/
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870 14 Cable Address: President
à
w ßZ m JM totl
2Z Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
'T' WENTY-TWO calibre rifles are more universally used than any
* other. It is with this calibre that every boy learns to shoot the
adult sportsman uses it for target and field shooting it is the arm
of small bore rifle clubs the world over.
for
Special descriptive booklet, showing various repeating and single shot models,
together with much interesting information on
shooting, will be sent you, post free, upon request.
á
â
ã
ä
å
a
* REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D, Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
beechaMl s
You must eat to live and as long as your stomach
digests and assimilates its food, sickness seldom
attacks you. But hasty and careless eating frequent-
ly interferes with the digestion and starts digestive
troubles. Good health depends so much on the
condition of the stomach, that unusual care should
be taken to keep it in good order. To maintain
A Healthy Stomach
take Beecham’s Pills at the first sign of a sick
headache, indigestion, biliousness or constipation.
A dose or two will usually right the trouble, tone the
digestion and improve the appetite. Made entirely
of medicinal herbs, these pills act naturally, without
any unpleasant after-effects. For more than seventy
years, the timely use of Beecham’s Pills has helped
men and women in all parts of the worn- to avoid
many of life’s ailments and keep a healthy stomach
In a Healthy Body
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, England. -
Sold in boxes, labelled 10id., ls-Hd and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
R. G. WATKINS <& CO.
107-109 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
Refrigerating $ Ice-making
nr.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their - strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N-Z.
33
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE,
2nd PRIZE,
3rd PRIZE,
value £750
value £3OO
value £2OO
and' 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
Chance for 1921.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 won by W. M. Neilsen,
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
Tickets from Local Agent in all Towns, 91- direct from
Arthur W. YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
■
as
CRAIG &
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
The P£um R aiov
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum.” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
a
a
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
M
(Patented)
12/6
c&cli
Post Fre
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
à
The simplicity, lightness ami excellence of th«
I'l'eaflnolisrlit is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road , SOUTH MELBOURNE.


11 ill 1 '
r
' ’'ll
1
{//
'III,-.III'
ij
ilk "Illy 111
«*
k
i
p
I
li. ,'HW !
•'ii y ii’
yjliy
IWyPIII
to
nHn
yny
W y *
ii li,.
y
, ■; ,
'
fcill
ai
P g||l*j
N
%
ii, |rii iii
n
*
y
P|
M
M
II
M
P
0
P!
N
ll
mm
i
\a
i
,> *
M”M
yp!
~iii Wii,
Ml
P
m
trii
y
PI
P®B
SUPPLIED TO THE,
ebbr
I-#
i
m
tf
6 h)&3T(SnD Clubs
John Deware Sons L d
Distillers, PERTH, (Scotland,) 8. LONDON.
Ml
P|
W
g
m
fiiiwii
Pi
tv
‘III! i
m
'Ull
j*,:
ft
*
..id
:
H 1
m
l:Wl *
'llwlf
I
*
y
' ii. <i ip
1
ani
IllWlK. \
riri
ili'Hi
, Ill'll. 1
r ll ill
„ll'
to
1 .ill* .ill
!i. 111.
ik'liiL
