

rf
t.s ui
!C3
r i
f i
i \%rnz,
! , ffn?!i?.ir r I <-
IK
ail
.
■v
fV*
.J*v >
r'i '
: - -
The pioneers of “Outback” were
exponents of “nerve.”
'
(But not like the gentleman illustrated above).
The voyages of Captain Cook are
a tribute to “ ”
IN your business and social career take
the centre of the stage, otherwise
you’re doomed for life “to sing in
*
the chorus!”
The big rewards in life have always fallen
to the folks who have “nerve” —self-
confidence—who make their own tracks
instead of following in another’s.
To have “nerve” you must have health,
and as the nerves govern your health, it
obviously follows that they need soothing
nourishment in the form of a dependable
medicine—such as CLEMENTS TONIC.
When the nerves are debilitated through
overwork, worry or illness, you’ll find in
CLEMENTS TONIC a beneficial restora-
tive effect that only a practical test can
amply confirm. For over thirty years
CLEMENTS TONIC has retained its
dependability as a positive blood and
nerve medicine in cases of insomnia,
nervous debility, anaemia and similar
ailments.
Build up your nerves to-day, and irrespec-
tive of your occupation in life, you’ll
experience a new feeling of self-confidence
and energy. Let CLEMENTS TONIC
help you, for it’s the tonic that “Puts the
‘Vital’ into Vitality.”
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42—No. 2157
Thursday, June 16, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOOK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Adyt.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
If not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
Eufhymol
TOOTH^ASasg
m
n
P
urn
MANGROVITE MEANS BELTING ECONOMY.
Cut from the centres of flawless Ox Hides and tanned for
toughness and durability by the special Mangrovite process,
it grips the pulleys and turns every ounce of generated
power into increased productiveness.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
has a reputation for solid and continuous service.
Its installation in your factory will give you the advantage
of belting economy, uninterrupted service and conservation
of. power.
Our engineers will gladly give you advice on your trans-
mission problems.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Brigh 1 &00., Fremantle.
Victoria : Corbett, Derham&Co. L ctie Collins St., Melbourne,
Tasmania : Henry Clark & Co. Ltc,, Collins St., Hobart.
PK
$
mlo
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there —and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin - free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“.Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores — everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
' Commonwealth, yiz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
He
CRAIG & AITKEN 3 654 George St., Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Factory.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Ltain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
5*2
ON
What the Medical World says;—The Laxcet:
“Proved to be as effective baetericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Eumenthol Co, Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
Mine Enemy Writes a Book
All the German war-“heads”—Hindenburg,
Ludendorff, Tirpitz, Falkenhayn and Bern-
hardi —have written books on the war. I
have read the whole five (Ludendorff’s is the
bulkiest) and been left with rather a mixed
impression. As an insight into German
psychology the experience has been valuable.
The time spent may not have been wasted,
though a certain sameness in methods of ex-
pression and in national outlook has made
the task boresome at times.
All five write for effect. They write of
things they know a lot about —things of tre-
mendous import in which they were prime
movers—but they write also as propagan-
dists. Each one wants to justify Germany to
the world. Each one, while truthful enough
in certain broad details, is a special pleader,
and therefore an inferential liar. Luden-
dorff, for , example, says or implies that the
conduct of the Belgian civilians while the
Germans were there justifies everything done
at Louvain, Lifcge and behind the lines.
“The Belgian Government,” he writes,
“systematically organised civilian warfare
....Our troops cannot be blamed if they
took the sternest measures to suppress it.”
This same Ludendorff makes passing mention
of the wholesale conscription of Polish labor
by Germany in 1916 and 1917, after the
attempt to enlist Poland in the German
armies had failed. This conscription of a
conquered country is referred to as a matter
of course; it simply does not occur to the
writer that either excuse or apology is
needed. They would not fight and there-
fore they had to work.
In no one of the five books will you find
any admission of wrong done by any German.
There is criticism of certain politicians; it
is clear that Chancellor Hollweg was re-
garded by the soldiers as a bad diplomat; Tir-
pitz cannot forgive him for not foreseeing
that Britain would enter the war. But there
is no suggestion or admission that one Ger-
man soldier did a brutal thing in Belgium,
France or Poland, in prison-camps or any-
where else. As for torturings of prisoners
and jeers at sinking ships, you would swear
that Hindenburg had never heard of them.
The Teuton slate is wiped clean. As propa-
ganda, it might be well enough, but even as
propaganda it seems overdone. A frank de-
nunciation of certain things that the Leipsic
inquiry is now dealing with would have been
better for the writers and better for Ger-
many.
Hindenburg is the typical Teuton. You
can see it in every one of his 450 pages.
Always he speaks of “my” Emperor, always
he prefixes the name with the title “All
Highest.” He speaks of a day “made
glorious” by the receipt of a message from
his All Highest. And this, at a time when
he was military dictator of the Empire, and
seventy million people were looking to him
as their salvation. One thing is clear from
Hindenburg’s book. Whether he actually
wrote it, or dictated the tone of it, there is
enough of the personal note to show what
sort of man he was —a good theoretical sol-
dier (he fought at Koniggratz as far back
as 1866), pompous, painstaking, assertive,
ostentatiously religious, satisfied that the God
of Battles took a special pride in Germany
and was concerned in maintaining the stabil-
ity of all things German. In the midst of
his hunt for enemy lives he could still at the
age of 68 find distraction in a deer-hunt
outside Kovno. This was during the Russian
campaign of 1915. Much of his military
glamor was due to the genius of his chief-
of-staff, Ludendorff. In 1916 they transferred
Ludendorff to another theatre of war, but he
had only been away a few weeks wlien Hin-
denburg besought “My All Highest” to send
him back. The request was granted and the
old war-horse felt much more comfortable.
Ludendorff is a higher mental type. He
has the Junker’s respect for authority—the
titular part of it as represented by Kaiser
and Crown Prince—but he does not sprawl
before it. He merely notices it, and passes
on. He is an apologist, but an able one.
Moreover, he does not boast. He is never
unfair to opponents. He belittles no one.
His was the real master-mind that for four
years overlooked four battle-fronts and
twenty millions of fighting-men. You need
to read his account of the March offensive in
1918, when the Teuton avalanche all but
overwhelmed France,, to get some idea of
what sort of a strategist he was. Not that
he talks of himself; he uses the first person
once for five or six times that Hindenburg
uses it. If Britain had had a general like
Ludendorff the war would have been over a
year earlier, and a quarter of a million
British lives less would have been thrown
away.
Falkenhayn Bernhardi can be dis-
missed shortly. The former only carries his
narrative to 1916. He was disrated in that
year because of the Verdun failure, and the
supreme direction passed to Hindenburg and
Ludendorff; He has neither the intelligence
of Ludendorff (who replaced him) nor the
open mind of Tirpitz. He writes of Verdun
as though it were a tactical victory, though
he must have known it was a ghastly failure.
He makes a passing and Junkerish reference
to the British as individually brave but
“clumsy in attack.” Even in 1916 he could
not see what was happening—that America
was coming in and that Germany was going
down. Bernhardi, who calls his post-war effort
“The War of the Future.” is a much more
subdued person than the man who wrote
“Germany and the Next War.” He can no
longer hector France or England : the sabre
that he rattled has fallen on himself and he
knows it. lie makes a wry face or two, talks
of things he says the war has taught him,
and ends on the same note as, and with
almost the identical words of, Hindenburg
and Ludendorff: “Germany will rise again.
She has a great future before her.”
The most likeable, or the least objection-
able, of the quintette is ex-Admiral Tirpitz.
This man was 65 when the war broke out.
and he wrote his book two years ago, when
he was 70. From the literary point of view
it is the most attractive. The sea and the
sea-breezes have helped to clear Tirpitz’s
brain. The main thesis of his book is that
Germany wanted a fleet and knew that a
fleet was indispensable if she was to be any-
thing but a shut-in European power. He
says that England was jealous of his fleet
from the start —and England needn’t object,
because his admiration for British naval
traditions and methods is not disguised. In
Tirpitz’s eyes Britain was the one foe that
mattered —from the day the bombs were
thrown at Serajevo to the day the Hinden-
burg line gave way.
Regarded as literary efforts, these books
are of unequal value, those of Tirpitz and
Ludendorff being the best. As history they
are perhaps invaluable —at any rate, from
the standpoint of the future. The style in
each case is clear and coherent: it has an .air
of ingenuousness; uuless you knew the vhis-
tory of the past seven years you would swear
that these five men were exponents of all the
Roman virtues who had in some mysterious
manner drawn a- circle of enemies round
them. If the spirit of these men survives in
even a part of their countrymen—rand you
can be sure it dbes-*— Germany will yet be as
big a menace as she has ever been.
ALFRED BUCHANAN.
The Child and the Wage
Though there are only 04 pages of it, The
Next Step: A Family Basic Income, by
A. B. Piddington, K.C. (Macmillan). I s 0110
of the most interesting contributions made to
the study of economics in Australia. Mr.
Piddington is hot merely chairman of the
abortive Interstate Commission; lie was
chairman also of the recent Commission on
the Basic Wage. Certainly that was abor-
tive, too; but it is for this very reason that
the present study is valuable. The Commis-
sion was appointed to ascertain, among other
things—
The actual cost of living at the present time,
according to reasonable standards of comfort... .for
a man with a wife and three children under 14 years
of age....
The assumption that the average working-
man has a wife and three children, and that
if he has any more he ought to be ashamed
of himself, and all the children of the out-
size family should be punished for it, dates
back, so far as the Commonwealth is con-
cerned; to 1907. In that year what is
known as the Harvester case was tried by
Justice Higgins, who had then lately suc-
ceeded Justice O’Connor as president of the
Arbitration Court. The survey of condi-
tions, so far as one can be said to have been
made at all, was thoroughly unscientific: and
it is pretty certain that, the Judge had uo
idea of the structure that would be built upon
his rough-aiid-ready foundation. All he
attempted to do was to ascertain ‘‘the average
weekly expenditure for a laborer’s family of
about five persons.” He does not seem to
have stopped’ to inquire whether “about five
persons” were really dependent upon the
average laborer, nor what would be the effect
if that guess was either too high or too
low. Perhaps it was felt that the Arbitra-
tion Court had to justify itself —even popu-
larise itself and thereby render strikes un-
popular—by making some wage concessions,
if they could be justified, and that not very
much justification was really called for.
But unfortunately “about five persons”
was adopted seriously as a basis when the
other part of the inquiry into the cost of
living became more thorough.; and, as we
have seen, upon it the Commission of which
Mr. Piddington was chairman was asked to
make its report. And make its report on
that basis it did, notwithstanding that it
was soon found that the figure was utterly
wrong. On his own showing no less than
62 per cent, of the total male wage-earners
are either unmarried or childless, and another
8 per cent, have only one child, so that 70
per cent, of the total male wage-earners were
unduly favored even when, as in N. S. Wales,
the State law directed that the basic family
wage should be taken to be the normal cost
of maintaining a man, his wife and two chil-
dren ; and the position is, of coui'se, worse in
S. Australia, Westralia and in other places
where three children are allowed for. So it
quite naturally came about that when the
Commission ascertained, as it believed, the
cost of maintaining a family of five persons—
it fixed the amount at £5 16s. per week —
and when it was proposed that that should be
made the basic wage for the adult male
worker, G. 11. Ivnibbs, the Commonwealth
Statistician, reported that it could not be
done, “because the whole produced wealth of
the country, including all that portion of
produced wealth which now goes in the shape
of profit to employers, would not, if divided
up equally among employees, yield the neces-
sary weekly amount.”
Mr. Piddington’s view, then, is that, even
apart from this conclusion of the Statisti-
cian, the finding of his own Commission was
thoroughly bad because the basis of
the inquiry and the determination was
thoroughly bad. The total of £5 16s. was
arrived at on the assumption that a man had
to maintain a wife and three children. Why,
he asks in effect, Penalise an employer by
directing him' to pay an employee for the
maintenance of children that he hasn’t got?
Or, more still, why penalise the
industries of this country, which have to com-
pete with the industries of other countries,
by loading them with the maintenance of a
million or so mythical children? And, at the
other end of the ridiculous business, why
penalise a man with five children by assuming
that he has to maintain only three? It is
this last point that plainly worries Mr., Pid-
dington most, because, though Australia is in
urgent need of population, such a scheme of
payment is calculated, if not to discourage
population, certainly to give it no encourage-
ment. His own solution of the problem is
that, instead of the basic wage being" £5 165.,
it should be £4, but that employers collec-
tively should be required to pay into the
Treasury sufficient to give mothers 12s. for
each child under 14. He declares that there
are 900,000 children to be provided for, that
they would cost £27,900,000 a year, and that
for every employee the employer would have
(Continued on page 29.)


A
uoe
J 3.
z
•W-
-SB?
II
3KU:
sr»
i-:c
W-.
IB* . -^3§§l
r
S
5
X.'-
rW
:■ :
m
rr&
»t
»_
WIWI 11 fl ITM IHTlTrTm"nHirill“l|r , ™TWl'
5
Anthony Horderns’
Unequalled Values.
Our immense resources enable us to command the
products of the world’s markets at to-day’s standard
of values. In consequence of this, our customers
benefit considerably through the medium of the
exceptional values we always offer The examples
featured here proclaim values that cannot be
equalled elsewhere.
We Pay Carriage on Family
Drapery to any part of N.S.W.
to the nearest port on Interstate
Orders.
Our expert Mail Order Staff
attends to your needs with
complete satisfaction to you.
Value in Flannel Shirtings
Housewives demand quality in Shirtings, as
service-giving fabrics mean economy—an air-
important point to consider nowadays. You could
not shop to better advantage than at Anthony
Horderns’, where quality and value in every offer-
ing are foremost features.
I.—Ceylon Flannel, lino texture, nice variety of stripes,
suitable for Sliirts and Pyjamas, 32 inches wide.
PRICE •’/« per yard
No. 2.—Ceylon Flannel, of superior quality, light Grey and
Blue grounds, with various stripes. 32 Inches wide.
PRICE 2/11 per yard
No. 3. —Crimean Flannel, medium weight, Grey grounds
with Blue, Pink and Hello stripes. 2!) inches wide.
PRICE 2/11 per yard
No. 4.—Crimean Flannel, medium weight. A new range of
bold designs, specially suitable for Pyjamas. 29 inches wide.
PRICE 3/3 p«r yard
N’o. s.—Andover Crimean Flannel; a warm, comfortable
material tor Men’s ami Boys’ winter -wear. 2!) inches wide.
PRICE 3/11 per yard
SMART FLANNEL BLOUSINGS
Crepe Flannels, a choice assortment of designs suitable for
smart Winter blouses. 30 inches wide. PRICE 4/9 per yard
Kremlaine Flannel, all-wool, unshrinkable, featuring Cream
grounds with narrow navy or black stripes. 30 inches wide.
PRICE 6 7 3 p er yard
FLEDGLINGS
i’he ideal fabric for making women's and children's
Dressing Gowns, also suitable for making Scarves. In
( ream, Vieux Rose and Cardinal. 32 inches wide.
PRICE 6/6 per yard
in Navy. Sky. Pink and Cream. 54 inches wide.
I RICE 7/11 per yard
A heavier weight, in Emerald and Violet shades only.
54 inches wide. PRICE vi/« per yard
e% M
/3
tl&t
»>v
&fcis
“VS
?SK£
<*r
i|gii&&3&
4T'
as
sseS
49
<K
g|^|g
7
1
6
*55
9
•'>•,>•■» v3f;
»*.v
•5*
v.\
'
Value in Dependable
Sheetings
The unequalled values offering in
reliable-quality sheetings featured here
enables thrifty housewives to get the
greatest value for money expended.
Per yard.
54in. wide 3/9. 3/3, 3/9, 4/6
64in. wide 3/11, 3 '6, 3/11. 4/11
725 n. wide 3/2. 3/9, 4/3, 6/6
805 n. wide 3/9. 4/6, 5 3, 7/3
90in. wide 4/6. 5/3, 6/6, 7/11
White Twill Sheeting:. Double Warped, special
value. 72 inches wide. PRICE.. 4/6 per yard
UNBLEACHED SHEETING
Per yard.
®4m. wide 3/6, 3/9, 3/11, 4/9
60m. wide 3/8. 3/6, 4/3. 5/11
72in. wide 2/11, 3/11, 4/11. 7/9
80in. wide i/6. 4/11, 5/11, 6/11
90m. wide 4/11. 5/6, 6/3. 8/11
FLANNELETTE SHEETING
Specially reeomniended for Invalids qnd
Aged Persons.
72 inches wide 7/6 per yard
85 inches wide 8/11 per yard
ALL-BRITISH TOWELS
Unbleached Turkish Towels—
PRICES .. 1/5, 1/11, 2/6, 3/3, 3/11, 4/9 each
Brown Einen Turkish Towels—
PRICES .... 5/3, 6/6, 8/-. 9/-. 11/6. 13/6 each
White Turkish Towels—
PRICES: 1/9. 2/11, 3/6, 4/11, 5 9. 6/6. 8/3 each
Huckabaek Towels—
PRICES 2/6, 3/6. 3/11, 4/3 each
Old Bleach Einen Huckaback Towels—
PRICES .. 6/6. 8/11. 9/11. 11/9, V. !). 15 (i each
ROLLER TOWELLINGS
Unbleached Turkish Towels, with Red and
w Lite stripes—Christy’s celebrated manufac-
ture—a most serviceable towel where heavy
wearing qualities are required.
Size: 24in. x 53in 5/3 each
Cnbleached Turkish Roller Towelling, with
colored stripes, 15—16 inches wide.
PRICES .... 1/6, 1/9, 1/11, 2/3. 2/6 per yard
White Terry Towelling—
-18 inches wide I/ll per yard
42 inches wide 2/1 per yard
24 inches wide 2/2 per yard
2b inches wide 3/4 per yard
Glass Towelling, Red or Blue check—
l/2, 1/4, 2/2, 2/11, 3/3 yard
Kitchen Towelling—
PRICES 1/11, 2/3, 2/11, 3/6 yard
Down Quilts
Keenly Priced
The principle of extra warmth, with-
out extra weight, which is the feature
of these Down Quilts, make them par-
ticularly appreciable on cold, wintry
nights. The exceptional values listed
here, and typical of every offering at
Anthony Horderns’, enable you to econo-
mise in the purchase of your needs.
Floral Printed Cambric, plain sateen panel
and border, piped edges.
Size, 6ft. x 4ft 48/6 59/6 each
Size, 6ft. x oft. 58/6, 59/6, 70/- each
Floral Printed Sateen, plain sateen panel and
border, piped edges.
Size, 6ft. x 4ft. —
65/-, 70/-, 72/6, 75/-, 80/-. 87/6, 95/-
Size, 6ft. x sft.
65/-, 77/6, 80/-, 84/-, 87/6, 95/-, 110/-, 120/- 125/-
Floral Printed Sateen, plain satin panel and
border, piped edges.
Size, 6ft. x 4ft 87/6, 92/6, 152/6, 155/-
Size, 6ft. x sft 110/-, 115/-, 192/-, 210/-
Value in Blankets
Blankets head the list of Winter
Wants, and thrifty buyers rely on
Anthony Horderns’ to supply their needs
satisfactorily and economically.
Those who are furnishing homes will
find these values attractive. Every
home, probably, can make use of an
extra pair, or two or three pairs, when
they can be obtained at the exceptional
values offered Ijere.
WHITE AUSTRALIAN
BLANKETS
Size, 72in. x 54in 32/-, .36/6, 40/- per pair
Size, 81in. x 63in 42/-, 52/6 per pair
Size, 99in. x 81in 64/-. 73/6, 80/- per pair
Size, 108 in. x 90in 89/- per pair
TRAVELLING RUGS
All-Wool Travelling Hugs, in choice designs.
specially-selected colorings.
PRICES—
-25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 45/-, 50/-, 65/-, 70/-, 84/-
Value in Fashionable
Winter Dress Goods
Featured here are several lines of
smart Woollen Fabrics, comprising the
weaves and colors wanted for the winter
season, marked at attractively-iuoderate
prices, which represent exceptional
values. This timely offering affords
you an opportunity of effecting money
savings in fashionable Winter Dress
Materials.
40 pieces of All-Wool Navy Serge, British
make. 54 and 5(5 inches wide. Originally 21/-
NOW 16/11 yard
6. —Winter Dress Tweeds, soft finish. Grey
grounds, with Purple Black. Navy and liuby
stripes, 42 inches wide. (No. 6.)
PRICE 6/11 yard
7. —Tweeds in Checks and Stripes, Grev
ground, with Gold, Blac-k. Saxe. Vieux Rose.
Emerald. Purple and Fawn shades. 42 inches
wide. (No. 7.) PRICE 8/6 yard
8-—New Cheek Tweeds, in Grey and Wine.
Nigger and Tan. and Nigger and Navy Mix-
tures. 52 inches wide. (No. 8.)
PRICE 9/6 yard
o.—All-Wool Tweeds, in BrovVh and Emerald.
Henna and Jade, Fawn and Saxe, Brown and
Navy, Saxe. Brown and Emerald. 42 inches
wide. (No. 0.) PRICE 10/6 yard
Costume Colth. in Saxe. Royal. Ruby. Bottle
and Grey. 50 inches wide. PRICE: 8/11 yard
Silk and Wool Mixture San Toy. in Grey,
Saxe. Mole, Nigger, and Navy. 42 inches wide.
PRICE 14/6 yard
All-Wool French Crepe, in Navy. Saxe, Grey.
Mole, and Nigger. 42 incites wide.
PRICE 12/6 yard
£U'rcY£ o 1 Skirt FabricSj lar^e overchecks, latest colorings. 54 inches wide.
t mtfc • 19 /« vard
Mercerised Cotton Poplins, in Cream. Sky. Pink, Grey.” Saxe "vieux Rose
NOW 0 ’ Amethyst ’ and B,ack - 38 inches wide. Originally 5/li yard.
Colored British Crepes, in White. Sky. Fawn. Grey, Navy Brown ’ mack
Vieux Rose. 40 inches wide. Originally 5/6 yard NOW . .. . 3/H’ya^d
BLACK DRESS MATERIALS
Black Gabardine—
WIDTHS 43
PRICES 12/6
Black Coat’ng Serge—
WIDTHS 55
PRICES 21 -
Black Costume Cloth. 50 and 54 inches
prices
ANTHONY HORDERN ® Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Always
carry a
Kodak
II
*
Si
mk
mm
wmv
m
' r \ '<)
'K
.
OI
It is easy to carry a Kodak in the coat pocket or carrying-case
when you go for an outing, and the Kodak picture story of your
“doings” not only gives fun in the making, but in its album
form becomes a permanent delight to you and your friends.
The No. I a Autographic Kodak Junior is a splendid amateur model, easy to us:e, and it makes
good photographs from the first. For pictures 2\ x4J inches. Price £5/3/6.
Other Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-. Ask for the Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; "The Block,” 284 Collins Street. Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba ; Flinders Street, Townsville ; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; "The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, H.z,.
4\
w
m
*
m
fix
9
ni
b
W CjAefatest
tyanceJtusic
“HIS
MASTERS'
VOICE"
Records.
So perfect is the time, so lilting the rhythm of
these new dance records, that the feet move
irresistibly to their alluring music.
Choose some of them for the private dance,
for the practice at home, to make winter
evenings merry.
10-inch “ZONOPHONE” DOUBLE-SIDED, 5/-
1941
j Blue Blazes—Fox Trot ..
' Yankyana Jazz—Fox Trot
Black Diamonds Band
Black Diamonds Baud
3185
( Winner Medley—Fox Trot (Accordion & Piano) Pietro
(Dandy Medley—Fox Trot (Accordion and Piano) Pietro
3189
(Behind Your Silken Veil—Medley Fox Trot ... Yerkes Jazzarimba Orchestra
( Hoses at Twilight—Medley Fox Trot Yerkes Jazzarimba Orchestra
3192
j Mystery?—Medley Fox Trot
I Oh!—Medley Fox Trot
Paul Biesse and his Novelty Orchestra
Paul Biesse and his Novelty Orchestra
3197
( When You Look in the Heart of a Rose—Waltz .. Joseph C. Smith’s Orchestra
t Taxi One Step Joseph C. Smith’s Orchestra
12-inch “ZONOPHONE” DOUBLE-SIDED, 8/6.
A246
J Maxina
( Missouri Waltz
Black Diamonds Band
Black Diamonds Band
A256
J Delilah
( Thrills
Yalse
Valse
Black Diamonds Band
Black Diamonds Band
10-inch “HIS MASTER’S VOICE” DOUBLE-SIDED, 7/-
B1022
( Bluin’ the Blues —Fox Trot Original Dixieland Jazz Band
I Sensation Rag—One Step Original Dixieland Jazz Band
B1027
f In a Pagoda Mayfair Orchestra
( Balloons and Kisses —Jazz One Step Mayfair Orchestra
12-inch “HIS MASTER’S VOICE” DOUBLE-SIDED, 10/6.
C960
S Bo-la-bo —Egyptian Fox Trot Mayfair Dance Orchestra
[Tell Me—Fox Trot Mayfair Dance Orchestra
C963
I The Blue Mosque—Valse Mayfair Dance Orchestra
1 Songe d’Orient — Valse Mayfair Dance Orchestra
C961
(Mystery—Fox Trot Mayfair Dance Orchestra
( Jolly Times—Fox Trot Mayfair Dance Orchestra
C887
\ The Tickle-toe—One Step
Over There —One Step ...
The Coldstream Guards
The Coldstream Guards
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Ilis Master’s Voice,
Reg- Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,”
Reg. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the dver-load by taking one
little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
ar6 greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimuiate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere!.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
Ihe Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete. Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope tor a Free Speci-
men of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Before “the great war" 1 .bought. garments galor
And swank salesmen would smile and bow,
But I’ve grown too poor for a “Stetson Velour,”
So I’m wearing a rag-hat now.
The price of apparel is measured in gold.
Such extortion is hard to endure,
And folks find it cheaper to keep out the cold
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JAR It AH and Tasinaiiian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MET,BOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
3
m
GREY HAIR
tells the
world yo u
are OLD!
Lose no time
in greeting
youth again !
Dr. Allen’s
famous Wal-
n u t Stain
offers a youth-
ful color of
Walnut, is
easy to apply, harmless, perma-
ment and waterproof. Procure a
packet from your chemist to-day.
You.cannot fail to be satisfied.
n
&
MEXICAN
! WAINUT STAIN!
EUdentA
Tooth Paste
f
CARE FOR YOURI
TEETH.
Eudenta is a dental luxury, a safe,
antiseptic dentifrice that cleanses
without harming the enamel.
Though luxurious it is priced
at a necessity level.
1/- per tube.
ASK YOUR
CHEMIST*
¥
MM
y/fi.
f)
I
(1
Dance
at home
You’ll thoroughly enjoy dancing at
home to News Edison Re-Creations.
The marvellous realism of this in-
strument, which Re-Creates the per-
formance of living artists so perfectly
that no human ear can detect the difference, gives you the
perfect rhythm and feeling as when dancing to noted
orchestras.
The NEW EDISON
Re-Creations, in fact, are just as though the actual performer were in
the room.
You can also play records of all other makes with a musical value impossible
in any ordinary machine.
Write for Illustrated Literature describing this marvellous instrument, post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
w
m
U
0
as*
ILllli
Am Ifi
&
A
m
B
ia
SSS
&
X.
2S
v^
Why bother with sweeping
and beating carpets when
these durable printed rugs
are quite as attractive and
so easy to keep clean ?
Think of it! All you need
is a damp mop.
In addition to their beauty they
Washable and Waterproof
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. xl2 ft. 9 ft. xlO ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 9 ft.
9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
have two features that make friends
for them on sight. They lie flat on
the floor without fastening —they
cannot be kicked up at the edges.
They come in a variety of patterns
—to harmonise with any color
scheme—to satisfy that “hard-to-
please ” shopper.
See that every rug you buy bears
the Gold Seal guarantee.
GUARANTEE
acnsEAcnoN guaranteed
Sole Australian Representatives :
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, and Perth
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Challenge.
I read the challenge written in your eyes,
And yet I fear to take the gauntlet up.
Ah, leave the gage of battle where it lies,
And be content with friendship—that is
best!
Beware lest envious Fate should overhear.
Words spoken lightly, more than half in
jest,
Bv vouth impetuous and not overwise,
And should bestow the gift unasked. No
more
Let either seek the other’s heart or eyes,
< >r, greatly daring, play at loving, lest
There fall upon us love’s relentless fire.
The gauntlet lies between us. Let it rest.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.
The Ballad of a Queen’s Going.
’Twas the finest day in the finest year
In the finest world of all;
The leaf on the vine was yellow clear
Before its autumn fall.
And the queen went out in velvet blue,
In the blue that midnight wears,
When all the grass is bent with dew,
The smoky cypress shares.
She twisted a beaded fire at her throat;
And blithely did she go,
Where silver dreamings softly float
That only love may know.
And there were roses fair and tall,
And roses pale and dead ;
And the leaf was near its whispering fall,
But the rose of life was red.
The finest world in the finest year
Had found its finest day,
For the leaf on the vine was yellow clear,
And love went all the way.
N.S.W.
D. MacUlladh.
The Overture: Passing of Euterpe.
In every budding bough and swinging spray
The zephyrs murmur, stirring, stealing still
Soft fragrant kisses, and frail petals spill
White magic on the way.
A wind from somewhere harps with higher
note,
And the rich viola slips quietly in ;
The brazen clash of cimi cymbals dm ;
Emerald streamers float.
A clarinet front some high tree-top rings;
I hear the trumpet, tue bassoon’s deep
sound ;
The ’cello sends its full voice from the
ground ;
A solo fiddle sings.
Crisp leaves and twigs in gay tattoo keep
time,
And slender trunks sway slow. The crested
palm
Shakes her red castenets in mock alarm,
Then softly rings a chime.
An overture that sinks, to dying swell
With rapture, ere it find the eadenced part
All rhythmic as the beating of a heart —
My lady weaves the spell. *
And all the melody of tossing trees,
The sweetest perfume and the rarest grace,
Are lost before the wonder of her face,
Lovelier far than these.
A recitative is her voice so clear,
She moves in concert with the vibrant air;
She frowns, the music’s mute, my world
is bare—
She loves me not, my dear!
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
Women’s Hands.
I have been haunted by slim, shapely bands,
White women’s hands, immaculately fair,
Fluttering an ivory fan, or weaving strands
Of silken thread for linen, pure as air.
Sometimes I see Lucretia’s hands of death,
Serving the poisoned cups of Borgia wine;
Sometimes the hands of great Elizabeth
Fingering her jewelled frock, divinely fine.
And there are hennaed hands, whose polished
nails
Glisten in cool seraglios of gloom ;
Nuns’ hands of ice, and hands that tell hot
tales
Of hissing daggers in a night of doom;
Immortal, hands upon blue, painted seas,
Or work-embalmed in tapestries of silk
By toilers whose brown fingers stay in these,
Flower-tapering in repose, and white as
milk.
Madonna hands of prayer gleam passion-
blue ;
Fale, starlight-colored hands of dying
queens;
Dark hands of savages, clean-splashed with
dew,
And hidden hands, whose deeds the dark-
ness screens.
Speaking in silence things no tongue dare'
tell,
They wave or beckon me, touch me and
go —
Medici’s hands, that might have stayed a
knell;
Lucrece’s palms of pleading, pitying snow.
But always one cold pair of hands, calm,
thin,
Haunt me perpetually, still as stone.
Pulseless, they mock me more than hands of
sin,
And more than pain, for these shall be my
own.
N.SAV.
ZORA CROSS.


• . ••
w%m
■mmmm
iwS
W?M y oo£y:
m
■z<:i
m
’ y WyW>.
sows
¥&:<•
Wm
•m
i/WWWZ.
m
mil
■#m
m
■ill :;
' i
W
■
Wi m •
g•/ /
§ ' v
ww
SS£
Mg
; W&m I is i S--
Ipilfet' ' '''
V O' s
Sr
fr'
NS
\ j
a. ’ *
fr
vO
/
Vfi' :
o- y
•£.
V;>
!
W*& i Hass*
I'
I. r
fci Sksb#? *
w
r^
£Ki
f f
1
/ v
■ ? Ws£-
...
r
is:
<§p£*.. * (@9 V
r
f
gp
,y
K«
L\®;
- ~ _ -'■*>>■
;: ... : ; .
rafe**?
%
$>
V
✓2
cP
V
r'\
45'/ L
mmi'Wa
"'.' 5 «
■ £?
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear
Eess at least 10 per cent, discount in
all departments.
10 per cent, discount (2/- in
the £) at least off everything
(excepting a few proprietary
lines).
GOWINGS' Winter Sale introduces a New Standard of
Values. What does that mean) It means that,
in all cases, selling prices are based on present
replacement values and ORIGINAL COSTS HAVE
EVERYWHERE BEEN DISREGARDED.
In addition to these drastic reductions, there is a straight
cash discount of 10 per cent. (2/- in the £) on all cash
purchases in all departments. THIS IS THE GREATEST
PRICE OPPORTUNITY FOR YEARS.
“Austral” Tailoring at Doable Discount Prices
Austral Sac Suits, made to
measure, of Brown, Medium Grey
or Dark Grey Australian Tweeds.
Usual Price 95/-
Reduced to 90/-
10 % Cash Discount 9/-
SALE PRICE. .
811-
MEN S CAMBRIC GOLF SHIRTS, made with
stiff collar band, reinforced neck and soft
double cuffs. Full roomy bodies and sleeves
insure comfort and wear. Colorings include
Black and Blue stripes on white grounds.
Either block or hairline stripe effects may be
chosen. All sizes.
Usual Price 8/6
Reduced to .., , , 6 6
10 % Cash Discount «/8
SALE PRICE. .
5/10
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS & COUNTRY.
486-494 George St.,
Ito 17 Royal Arcade
SYDNEY.
3
Pioneer Distributers of Australian Goods .
Branch Store at
304-306 George St.
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 42.—N0. 2157.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE FATTENING FOOD.
TREASURER JOE (who has just announced a new Federal loan): “My, but it’s wonderful how this youngster grows!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Svdnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TQ SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 l(is. per annum you can hace The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week lor a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid .
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Coinmuni cations to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
reiused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return ft trill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus : and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi ;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” hi High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C. ; the Boston Hat Works and
News Co., 10,9.1 Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta,
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 11U East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co.. Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentuno's. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New'York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt .-—Jacques, Horn Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt,
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —-IF. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1921.
IMPERIAL FEDERATION.
Imperial Federation has been the subject
of academic speculation amongst lawyers
for years: and it has been yelled for , at
intervals by the mostly-illiterate political
adventurers who are now trying to make
party capital out of the Union Jack. It is
difficult to imagine a surer method of smash-
ing the Empire to pieces. The outstanding
characteristic of every Federal Constitution
is the despotism of the Judge as against that
of elected bodies. One of the first principles
is laid down in Kent’s “Commentaries on
the U.S. Constitution” ;
Every Act of Congress and every Act of the
Legislatures of the States and every part of the
Constitution of any State which are repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States are necessarily
void. This is a clear and settled principle.
The average Australian will understand the
implications much better than the average
Englishman- The electors of Australia have
seen measure after measure, such as the
New Protection, Anti-Trust legislation and
Arbitration laws providing for a common
rule throughout the Commonwealth, thrown
overboard by the Courts after they had been
approved by the country—and thrown over-
board by a judicial majority vote of one or two
in most cases. The modern tendency—in the
overseas Dominions, anyhow-—is not towards
greater dependence on London officials: the
trend is in the opposite direction, and lat-
terly it has been recognised, not to say wel-
comed, by Downing-street. Thus, up to
1909 Australian Governors exercised a dis-
cretionary power in regard to the granting
of Parliamentary dissolutions. The discre-
tion had never been regarded with favor
locally, and Governor Ellison-Macart-
ney’s action in Tasmania brought matters
to a head. Since then it has been accepted
that it is the Dominion's Ministers —who
are presumed to represent the people—and
not the nominees of the Imperial Govern-
ment, who stand supreme in the sphere of
domestic politics. L nder any rigid scheme
of Imperial Federation Australia would
have to begin by sacrificing whatever
national spirit it at present boasts. The
Commonwealth would no longer possess the
attributes of a sovereign State. It would
not have the power to make laws; its mea-
sures would be mere by-laws in perpetual
danger of invalidation by a Court sitting
12,UUt) miles away, and composed, not of
Australians, but of men, however eminent,
with little comprehension of the Australian
viewpoint, and not improbably an even
stronger leaning towards Conservatism than
the local Judges who killed the New Pro-
tection.
* . * * *
The world’s Federations have not been
signal successes up to date, and in general
the bigger they get the more unsatisfactory
they become. Tlie German Federation was
only tested for strength once in its life:
under the stress of war it proved to be an
artificial organisation teeming with easily-
aroused hatreds, and it is frankly that now. ■
In our own Australia the friction between the
Federation and the States, and the difficulty
with which the electors find themselves faced
in translating many of their desires into
legislation—undesirable situations which do
not arise under the British or French or
Belgium political systems—have given rise
to a cry for unification before the Federal
experiment has so . much as reached its
majority. It was inevitable that it should
be so. A Federation is only a makeshift,
after all, an attempt to reconcile a number
of conflicting interests, and hence an arrange-
ment which is bound to be displeasing
to many people all the time, and to every-
body some of the time. Yet if there is any
portion of the earth’s surface where it
ought to operate without the creation of ill-
feeling it should in Australia, whose small
population is TS per cent. British and so
free from pronunciation that a man born
and bred in Perth is indistinguishable by
his accent, manners and habits from one
reared in Brisbane. The Imperial Confer-
ence, if it set out to draft a Constitution
for the Empire, would, on the other hand,
have to produce a Code based neither on a
common race nor on a common language or
culture, nor on common social and industrial
standards. It would have to meet the re-
quirements of the fishermen of Newfound-
land and the Tamils of Ceylon; the union-
ists of Australia and the coolies of Sierra
Leone: the cotton-pickers of British India
and the white men in the Canadian lumber
trade. No such attempt to blend oil and
water has been made in the political history
of the world.
The British Empire has got along remark-
ably well since Disraeli handed it, figura-
tively, to Queen Victoria as an assort-
ment of communities, white, black and
brown, united more or less loosely on a
basis of community of interest. Wherever
it has been sought to tighten the bonds by
legislative enactment, wherever Downing-
street has taken up an authoritarian atti-
tude, a distinct fraying of the tie has imme-
diately become noticeable. In the white or
dominantly-white communities (always ex-
cepting Ireland, the cockpit of age-old
party, religious and racial hatreds) the
present tendency is to encourage a spirit
of pure nationalism to the point of complete
independence of the Imperial Parliament —
the Tasmanian case above quoted is an inter-
esting instance in point. And wherever
that policy is followed Loyalty (not the
bullying Prussian importation which Nation-
alism has been trying in Australia lately,
but the real article) automatically follows.
Y’oung Australians who had never seen Eng-
land rushed to the Colors in 1914-15 because
they knew England as the bulwark of their
country’s freedom; and the astounding
spectacle was also offered of South Africans
who had fought against British soldiers a
few years earlier doing the same thing for
the same reason. In short, while there is
community of interest, added to that pride
in being part of an immense and beneficent
institution which is the source of patriotism,
there is no need for any tie; and once either
of those welding influences has gone ties
merely aggravate the trouble and hasten
the inevitable - break. There is one issue
and only one on which the Imperial Parlia-
ment should, within obvious limits, speak
for the Dominions: but no new constitu-
tional machinery is needed for the purpose.
It would be as futile for Australia (say)
in its present stage of national development
to go meddling independently in foreign
affairs as it would be for Bendigo or Bourke
to do so. When nations conduct those con-
versations whose upshot is peace or war,
they do not give consideration to virtue or
color or a high industrial standard or any
factor whatever except material strength
measured in armies, fleets and wealth. W.
M. Hughes, speaking in the make-believe
Embassy which is proposed for Washington
(tJ.S.), as the representative of 5,000,000
people with an out-of-date fleet and no
army, would get about as attentive a hear-
ing as Hiram Punkke, of Carson City
i Nev.), on the necessity of adopting the
monarchical system in his State. The Bri-
tish Foreign Secretary, on the other hand,
speaking in Australia’s interests as the
representative of a naval and financial com-
bination capable of laying half the world
in ruins, is a vastly different circumstance.
But British Foreign Secretaries are not
going to pull chestnuts out of the inter-
national flames, for us or any other
Dominion, indefinitely, free of charge; and
it is to be hoped that Australians have more
self-respect than to expect anything of the
sort. The size of our entrance-fee to the
Imperial Club is a fleet proportionate in
strength at least to the value of our over-
seas trade. Given that contribution to the
security of the Empire, there is no likeli-
hood of Britain either failing to see eye to
eye with the Commonwealth even on such
awkward questions as the White Australia
doctrine, or to stand solidly behind us
in any conceivable trouble. If the Com-
monwealth and the rest of the self-govern-
ing Dominions are going to shirk that duty,
no legal document can hold the Empire
together for long. If thev fulfil it. the
(lonn-nrous instrument must plainly be super-
fluous.
THE ALTERNATIVE THAT IS NO
ALTERNATIVE.
Considine, M.H.R., whose constituents, or
the bulk of them, haven’t done a tap of
work for two years, was maundering th“
other day about the iniquity of asking the
copper-miners to accept lower wages. ’’What
is the alternative,” someone asked, “seeing
that the price of copper has fallen from
£l2O to £7O a ton?”
Considise: The alternative which I suggest to
the workers is that they organise themselves for
the purpose of taking over the wealth-producing
agencies of the Commonwealth and running them
in their own interests.
Lamond: How would co-operative or communistic
ownership on the Mount Lyell mine make it pay?
Coxsipine: Communist ownership of Mount Lyell
or of any other wealth-producing agencies in this
or any other country would not be concerned with
the question of making enterprises “pay” at all. It
would he concerned only with the question of
producing for use, not for profit.
Lamond: Australia uses only about 10 per cent, of
its output of base metals. That being so, how many
men could be profitably employed at Mount Lvell ?
Of course Considine had no reply. Faced
with the problem of finding u market out-
side Australia for 90 per cent, of the out-
put, _with the cost of 'production about £•'<* >
m exTess of the*"priFe for the metal ’ruling in
that foreign market, he threw up a smoke-
screen of irrelevaneies and executed a strate-
gic retreat. It is the invariable practice of
his irrational tribe when challenged to lit
their windy theories to a concrete case.
Barrels of ink and cataracts of rhetoric are
expended by Labor editors and orators in
urging the “workers” — i.c., the unionised
minority—to unite and “take over the
wealth-producing agencies of tin* Common-
wealth and run them in their own interests,
producing for use and not for profit.” But
no one ever gets down to brass tacks and
explains how “the wealth-producing agon
cies” are to be taken over, or how “produc-
tion for use and not for profit” could be
made to work. A farm, for example, is a
wealth-producing agency, and so is a sheep-
or cattle-run. In the current Labor jargon
the small freeholder, bullocking seven days
a week on a N.S.W. Northern Rivers cow-
farm, is not a "worker,” though most Aus-
tralian farmers and many pastoralists
were unionists who saved their money and
put it into a bit of land. The process of
separating these men from their hard-won
property, and running the farms and sta-
tions “in the interests of the workers,” would
he exciting hut hazardous. If it succeeded,
which is improbable, the “workers” might
conceivably be worse off than before. For,
the old owners having been destroyed or
dispossessed, a new race of graziers and cul-
tivators would have to be developed, and a
generation bred up in the belief that hard
toil is a curse and pony-racing the noblest
work of man would regard the prospect
without enthusiasm. The taking over of
mines, banks, ships, shops, factories, ware-
houses, newspapers and insurance companies
also presents difficulties. The difficulties,
indeed, are enormous and their complexity
is baffling, but on this phase of the subject
the advocate of wholesale robbery, so voci-
ferous in other respects, is as dumb as a
shadow. It. is sufficient for his purpose
that the “workers” should be taught to be-
lieve, without getting inquisitive about de-
tails, that once they, become sufficiently
class-conscious the wealth of Australia will
be theirs to divide.
There is a similar lack of explicitness re-
garding the other chimera, “production for
use and not for profit.” No one ever
troubles to define “use,” or to explain
whether production in the new Utopia will
be limited to the needs of Australia (accord-
ing as the ruling oligarchy guesses or deter-
mines them) or will take in the Empire or
the world. It is apparently assumed that
some infallible authority will prescribe how
much wheat, wool, coal, gold, base metals,
fruit, sugar and vegetables and how many
articles of furniture, wearing apparel, jewel-
lery and so forth shall be turned out each
year; and that the rest will be as easy as
shelling peas. The trouble with this beau-
tiful system of fixing the output and re-
quirements of a nation by rule-of-thumb is
that it ignores Nature as well as human
nature. There are such things as droughts,
floods, crop diseases, strikes (even Russia
has had strikes under the communistic
regime), wars and epidemics, any one of
which might make the whole production-
for-use business look ridiculous or worse.
There are also human preferences, caprices
of taste and fashion. Consider the diffi-
culty of Compelling women to encase them-
selves in garments they abhorred. One can
imagine the whole female population revolt-
ing against a decree of the Commissioner
of Millinery that they should wear a parti-
cular make of hat. The Russian “workers”
took over the wealth-producing agencies of
Muscovy, or what was left of them. They
also tried for three years or more to pro-
duce for use and not for profit, until, by the
confession of sympathetic visitors like
Arthur Ransome, Russia became a land of
misery, a land without boots, soap, medicine,
modern tools or warm 'clothing, a land
ravaged by hunger and disease, its industries
wrecks, its railways ruins. And so we read
at last that “the Soviet Cabinet ha.s endorsed
Lenin's proposals for returning to their
owners the commercial and industrial busi-
nesses taken over by the State from private
enterprise.” But this confession of a great
failure will not be advertised by Considine,
M.H.R., or by the militants who will rage
at the impending Labor conference in Mel-
bourne. It is not in their nature to be
candid and practical. If thev didn’t delude
the wage-earners with catchwords their
occupation would be gone.
WHERE THE HELL-BROTH STILL
BUBBLES.
The position in what Europe calls the
Near and. Middle. East:—-
The issue of a warning to Greek subjects of mili-
tary age in - Australia that, their Fatherland may
want them is another sign that the age of wars is
not over. The most distinctive aspects of the ease
are that Asia is less like an extinct volcano than
it has been for a century or two, and that the long-
waited-for chance to make Europe safe for the
European has been botched in a fashion that amounts
to genius, or has miscarried to a degree that amounts
to fatality. Russia is less European than it has
been for a long while, and a Government which
brings Chinese troops to the west to tread on Euro-
pean civilisation has goiie back on its continent.
The Turk has turned' aggressive again in a way
that recalls the days of Solyman the Magnificent, and
the cloud of snioke and dust that he is raising
looks very dense at this distance. Add to these
things Bolshevism in Afghanistan and thereabouts,
troubles in India where the native seems more un-
settled with Home Rule than he was without it,
and the increased armaments of Japan, and the dove
of Peace might easily be npstaken for a hawk.
* * * *
During the war a question was raised whether it
wouldn’t be hest to declare that the effete trifler at
Constantinople was no longer Caliph and Com-
mander of the Faithful and all the rei-t of it. ami
to set up the Allies’ own tame potentate, at
Mecca in his place. There was abundant excuse for
this. The Caliph is supposed to he an Arab, and
the Sultans are Tartars, lie is supposed to prove his
descent from a definite Aral) tribe, and Abdul Fez,
the descendant of many purchased slaves, is of no
definite tribe at all. lie is expected to guard the
Holy Places, and he lost them all —Mecca, Medina
and Jerusalem. The suggested new man came of
the race which invented—the> -Faith,-which ■ wrobr-the"
Koran, and which supplied Islam with most of the
art, science, literature, invention and miscellaneous
genius that it. has developed. But there was a
disinclination to wholly capsize the old order. It
was feared that any drastic change might upset
popular feeling in India, though on the other hand
the substitution of a victorious Pope of Islam, sit-
ting in the historic seat of the Caliphs at Damascus,
for u walloped and discredited one further away at
Constantinople might really have been received
with applause. Anyhow, the forbearance of the
Allies in this matter doesn’t seem to have pacified
India much. To make a solution more difficult, the
utterly misgimV'd Constantine of Greece and his
wife, the disastrous Kaiser’s sister, took the wrong
turning. If they had joined the Allies and taken
possession of Constantinople because it was their oi l
capital and their rightful property, Abdul Fez might
have been chased off' the map with every show of
legality. But the Allies don’t want to take the
place and hand it over to the old owners so that
the lion knzollehn woman may reign there and plan
fresh mischief in that strategic spot. And they don’t
want to definitely annex or steal it themselves, and
then fight about it among themselves. So everything
has gone askew.
* * * *
Meanwhile a Sinn Fein Turkish Government, with
Mustapha Kkmal as its energetic De Valera, has
arisen at Angora, in Turkish Asia, where it uses the
prestige of the recognised Caliphate, yet takes no
more notice of the Caliph’s ostensible orders than if
he were dirt —or dead. This new Government looks
stronger to-day than anything Turkey has possessed
for a very long time, and it looks wild enough for
anything. It is in a defensible inland city where
it can scoff at the enemy’s big ships. It no longer
has Greeks, Serbs or Bulgarians alongside it as it
had in Europe. The Bolsheviks on one border are
friendly. The Persians on another are a wreck. The
Allies on another are tired. They don't want the
Sinn Fein kingdom of Angora for themselves at
present, for they have more troubles than enough.
Nor do they want it for'the Kaiser’s sister; for,
though there would be something poetic about restor-
ing the old empire which made so much history,
nobody has ambition to found a strong new Hohen-
zollern State. The old one was sufficient. As a final
element of strength the Angora country has a more
homogeneous population than is usual with Turkish
lands. Asia Minor is the stronghold of the real
Turk, and it was only necessary to extirpate two
Christian races, the Armenians and the Greeks, to
make a very united community indeed. This work
seems to be progressing favorably. When Abdul
Haaiid began his 33-years’ reign he had a full reali-
sation that the way to make the Turks a ruling
majority with, in consequence, legal claim to the
land was to kill off the non-Moslem majority. In
Europe the Ottomans were always a mere warlike
handful helped by the irreconcilable dissensions of
their alien subjects. They had lost successively
Hungary, Roumania, Southern Russia. Serbia, Greece,
some of the islands, their bit of Italy, Transylvania
and sundries through not killing off the Christians
when the chance was with them. Abdul, a man of
large ideas, resolved to save what was left by
making a St. Bartholomew's event of the two re-
maining more or less Christian tribes, the Bul-
garians and Armenians; and he may have had the
same intentions as to the large though scattered
Greek population, blit this is uncertain. Russia’s
intervention not only saved the Bulgarians but
shifted their province out of Abdul's dominions, so
the scheme as far as they were concerned was a
record in the vtay of a misfire. The Armenians,
occupying a territory on the south-east of the almost
landlocked Black Sea. where they have hung out
their door-plate since Abraham’s day or earlier, were
fairly secure so long as there was a strong friendly
Russia with a fleet on the inland sea and an army
in the Caucasus. But Russia went Botehevik during
the war. Greece didn’t seize Constantinople and
preserve a road through which help could arrive.
So the Young Turks set to work to wipe out the old
Armenian nation, and though there are scattered
specimens left its ancient haunts know it no more
Or know very little of it. Now it is considered that
a copious slaughter of the large and prosperous
Greek population in Asia Minor- —a population whose
ancestors settled thereabouts in the days before
will round off the situation. It will make the
Angora kingdom a solid proposition—not very large,
the siege of Troy, if there ever was such an event—
perhaps, but really Turkish and really defensible.
The Greeks, who didn’t put up a whole-souled fight
when allies were abundant and when their old
capital might have been the prize, are now, there-
fore, engaged in an isolated scrap under difficulties.
Because they brought back their pair of monarchs,
whom the Allies deposed as a public menace and a
Ilun institution, Western Europe is colder than it has
been since its heart warmed up to the Hellenes a
hundred years ago, and Byron wrote poems about
them. The fact that Mr. Kemal has taken to arrest-
ing British subjects may, however, force somebody
to action; but action is distasteful.
Meanwhile amid the general confusion there is a
certain cooling of enthusiasm about the new t Hebrew
State in Palestine. The place is certainly filling lip
with Jews, but they seem to be mostly Polish Jews
of a pronounced Bolshevik stamp—the kind the
Angora Government is friendly with. The resem-
blance between them and what David or Judas
Maocab.eus is supposed to ;have looked like isn’t
so marked' as was lioped for. The restored State
has been waited for very long, and if it proves
more an outpost of the new madness than of the old
heroic faith it will only be one more disappointment
among many.


THE SPOTTED MOUJIK.
While the revolutionary lava seethes and
eddies and consumes all around him, the Rus-
sian peasant stands hesitant at the cross-
roads, a man of destiny, although an unknow-
ing one. He represents 70 per cent, of the total
population of Russia; and the revolution
can neither succeed nor fail without him.
And until the revolution either succeeds or
fails the rest of Europe can do nothing
definite, for Europe without Russia, and par-
ticularly without Russia’s cheap raw materi-
als, is uot unlike a waggon without the
fourth wheel. Yet he stands there, spineless
and apathetic, neither for nor against
Lenin, nor yet even neutral. He is not
Red, nor White, but only spotted. He is
land-locked; absolutely land-locked; all the
Demosthenic eloquence and roseate propa-
ganda in Moscow—and there is a super-
abundance of both there —cannot stir him. He
has the soil in his veins. Lenin gave him
the land, and so he is not antagonistic to-
ward the Red ruler; but, then, Lenin seizes
all his surplus crop, and only remunerates
him with worthless paper money ; and so he
fails to wax enthusiastic over communism
or any other ism.
The Petrograd daily ration of black bread
and fish was so terrible that my friend the
Frencli-Roumaniun and l could ,seam4y
look at it without experiencing nausea, where-
fore we gave our Russian friends a liberal
supply of British and American gold with
which to bribe the .peasants to secretly
bring us daily supplies of eggs, milk, corn
and poultry. For a week this scheme
worked admirably ; each evening a peasant
woman, with shawl on head and bast shoes
on feet, smuggled us a basket of fresh dairy
produce; and then suddenly she failed to
show up. Probably she Intel been arrested
for “.speculating,” or else, fearful of this
disaster overtaking her, had stopped before
it was too late. The Government does not
permit either buying or selling in Petrograd ;
and all who are caught red-handed are sum-
marily dealt with. Another day passed with-
out her appearing; then, as our supply was
exhausted, we decided to make other
arrangements. One of the sons of the house
knew another peasant who was “in the
business,” and decided to call on him the
following morning. We accompanied him.
•We walked and ski-ed most of the way.
The Russian peasants never live on their
strip of land, but congregate in a village in
the centre of their district. The village we
visited, and which I believed to be typical, was
one of the most depressing sights 1 have ever
seen. It consisted of a church, a rubbish
heap and a collection of the filthiest of
hovels. There were no main streets, no
footpaths, no drains, no shops, no school
houses, but an abundance of dirty children
and mangy half-starved dogs. Outside,
the kindly snow, which in places was
several feet deep, mantled most of the filth
and imprisoned the stench; but inside the
allies of disease and death reigned supreme.
The windows were all boarded up for the
winter, and at first we could not distinguish
anything in the gloom ; then just as objects
began to attain definite contours the smoke
from the stove —there was no chimney for it
to escape—got into our eyes and nearly
blinded us. To add to the confusion and
wretchedness, children crawled up our legs
and cried, dogs barked, hens cackled, and half-
a-dozen Russians roared in chorus. It was
the Tower of Babel, Bedlam, the zoo and
the nursery combined.
The word passed around the village that
there were strangers in the fifth hut, and so,
of course, the entire population had to
turn out. Vassilly, my Russian friend,
whispered that this would be an excellent
opportunity for me to study the psychology
of the peasant and his attitude toward Bol-
shevism. He called out something to the
owner of the hovel, whereupon the crowd was
pushed back and we were invited to sit down
on a bench near the stove. Somebody lighted
a rush or a piece of. wood and it flooded the
room with a bluish light, which gave all a
weird, unnatural appearance. I saw the ikons
in the corner, half-a-dozen dogs fleaing around
the stove, and a woman washing a baby over
against the wall. I counted the peasants;
there were 10 in all, typical moujiks, some
in sheepskins, some in fur-coats, all shod with
bast shoes, all heavily bearded. Gradually
they converged around the stove again.
(I wonder what the peasants would do in
the winter time if they had to live without
a stove? It is built after the style of a
baker’s oven, and is the most serviceable thing
in Russia. Fowls and other small animals
are kept in a dugout under it; the food is
cooked in it; the washing is boiled on top of
it; the entire family, generally with all their
clothes on, sleep on or around it; and when-
ever the moujik decides that he needs a bath
he crawls into it with a bucket of water and
steams himself more or less clean. In some
of the richer villages there is a regular bath-
house. Here stoves are heated, water is
poured on them, and the peasants cook them-
selves in the steam. I have often seen them
dash out of this inferno, roll in the snow
until they were as red as cherries, and then
disappear back into the steam again. I tried
it myself, but only once; the steam nearly
choked me, and when I rolled in the snow I
thought I was stabbed all over.)
The first thing about my 10 peasants
which impressed me indelibly was their ap-
palling ignorance; with one exception, they
could neither read nor write. Not one of
them had ever heard of Australia; and
when I told them it was one of the six con-
tinents and a third the size of all Russia,
they looked at me suspiciously. At least
SO per cent, of the Russian peasants are
illiterate; and this is not to be wondered at
when it is understood that in 1914 the city
of New York, with a population of 5.000,000,
spent more money on education than was
spent on the 180,000.000 in the whole of
Russia. The reactionaries around the
throne knew that the enlightening- of the
masses meant the limiting of their own
powers, and so they strenuously opposed the
forward march of education, often going so
far as to exile those courageous souls who
attempted to illumine the gloomy, half-
developed minds of the workmen and
peasants.
“Are you in favor of Lenin?” I inquired
presently of the one educated moujik, a
middle-aged, sturdy Slav, who seemed to be
the village leader.
"Viet, tavarish ’’ (No, comrade), he re-
plied without hesitation.
"Then you are against him
“Met, 'met” they instantly answered in
chorus.
"Well, you must all he neutral, or apa-
thetic, which?”
“Neither,” replied the leader.
“Neither!” I repeated, as my mind per-
formed a series of mental gymnastics in an
effort to bring their contradictory answers
into focus. "1 don’t understand,” I said.
"Well, I will tell you,” said the spokes-
man. “For centuries our ancestors were
slaves. You see that old man over there,”
and he pointed to one bent and shaking
with senility. “lie was a serf and was
freed by the ukase of Alexander the
Emancipator. But although we have been
free for the last. 60 years we have not been
happy. Heavy taxes, famines, small plots,
poor soil and conscription have ever kept us
in wretchedness. The rascals at court
had champagne, while we starved ; our young
men were drafted, flogged and killed in the
ranks; our young women were forced to
work in the fields in order to live, and so
they were old before they were 20. V\ e
worked hard on our plots, but often they
were too small or unproductive, and so we
slaved part of each week for the landlord
in the big house, or in the winter we went
to the factories in the cities and worked 14
hours a day for 20 roubles (£2) a month.
And all the time we knew the land was ours
—ours, I tell you, yuspodirie. But those
rascals would not give it to us; and then
Lenin came, lie told us to take the land
ourselves, and to kill'whoever tric'd to stop
us. And we did, and so we have the land
to-day. But” and here he suddenly
broke off.
“Please go on,” I said. “I am intensely
interested.”
“But,” he continued, “it is no good to us.
We plough and sow and raise a big crop,
and then the Government takes it all away
from us, giving us only worthless paper
money in exchange. Bah!” and lie spat
on the ground. “The paper money is worth-
less'; we cannot buy anything with it. We
do the work, and the city people get the
benefit; but we are sick of it, and now we
are only putting in enough for our own con-
sumption : or else” —here he winked cun-
ningly—-“we hide our surplus and exchange
it with city friends for jewellery and furni-
ture.”
“But this cannot last,” I ventured.
“Nict! Soon, when Russia has defeated
all her enemies, and is recognised once
more, Lenin will resume trade, and then he
will give us machinery and household
goods and other things, and we will work
again and raise wonderful harvests, and Rus-
sia will be great once more.”
“You really believe this? You trust
Lenin? You think he will give you these
things?”
• “Da”: and as he answered he looked at
his friends, as though for approval. “Da,
da,” they repeated after him.
“And if he does not, what then ?” I
asked.
He did not answer at once, but deliberated
for a minute or two, and then- —-
“Ah, quspodine, who can say? We must
wait and see. All we know is that we must
give him a chance, fbr he is a great man.”
“Da, a great man,” exclaimed one of the
peasants, breaking in on our duologue for the
first time. “We must not let him fail,
for, if we do, those old rascals will come
back and we will lose the land and”
Quick as a flash he had pulled off his
sheepskin, lifted up a dirty old shirt and
exposed his bare back. It was all scarred
and furrowed.
“The knout!” I said; and I remember
that I shivered.
“Da! They flogged me after the 1905
revqlution failed. And they' will do the
same if this one collapses. But Lenin
will not let that happen. A great man,
Lenin,” he concluded.
After this dramatic scene we all relapsed
into silence. My friends did not volunteer
any more information, nor did I ask any
more questions, hut, instead, reviewed all they
had told me. Lenin gave them the laud;
he stood between them and the reprisals of
the old owners; and he was the supreme
power in Russia. This three-cornered ap-
peal to their gratitude, to their fear and to
their mysticism drew them toward com-
munism as definitely as his failure to reward
them for their services drove them away
again. And so they stand hesitant, an
inert, lethargic mass.
As we filed out through the door again one
of the moujiks grinned knowingly and beck-
oned us to follow him to his own hut. On
entering we found it much the same as the
other, except that a large table was stand-
ing near the stove. At least, we thought
it was a table, but on looking closer we saw
it was a magnificent grand piano. Amazed
at the sight of such an instrument in a
poor, ignorant peasant’s hut. we annroached
closer in order to see it better; and, as we
did so, the hens roosting on it flapped their
wines and cackled.
“Some great people in Petrograd gave it
to me for two poods (601 b.) of potatoes,”
exclaimed the enraptured owner.
TOM SKEYHILL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Smith and a White Elephant.
Having administered the Northern Terri-
tory for 15 months without being mobbed
as Gilrtjth was, deported as Carey and co.
were, or called out by the union and ordered
to picket his own department as Rylands
was, Stanifortii Smith has a right to be
heard. Ilis remedies or palliatives for the
Darwin distemper are (1) Parliamentary
representation, and (21 a railway. Smith
points out that the Territory sent members
to the S. Australian Parliament before the
Commonwealth acquired it. He is “confi-
dent that if the people of the Territory were
given representation, or, rather, if the repre-
. sentation they enjoyed under the S. Aus-
tralian regime were restored to them, the
political difficulties of past would dis-
appear, as they. did at Ivalgoorlie.” The
opinion may be sound, but the reference to
Kalgoorlie, though ingenious, is misleading.
Kalgoorlie, when Smith first knew it, was
certainly a rather turbulent place. Since
Forrest was forced to abandon the prin-
ciple that one vote on the coast was as good
as 20 on the goldfields, and more especially
since Federation, it' has become one of the
soberest political districts in the Common-
wealth. But the change is attributable not
so much to political as to economic causes.
The displacement of the alluvial digger and
other restless and radical types by conserva-
tive-minded wages men from Ballarat and
Bendigo and their womenfolk did more than
anything else to bring it about. Anyhow,
the political condition of the Territory,
relatively to the Commonwealth, bears no
analogy to that of Kalgoorlie in the days to
which Smith refers. The Westralian gold-
fields at that time had nearly half the adult
population, and more than half the adult
male population, of the colony. For years
after the one-vote-one-value principle, <>r its
approximation, was conceded, they domi-
nated both State and Federal elections. They
did this even after the loss of half their
population, by casting what was virtually a
block vote for one party —Labor. But in-
stead of being entitled, on a population basis,
to about 50 per cent, of members in the only
Parliament to which it looks for representa-
tion, the Territory isn’t entitled to the
tenth part of a member. At the present
time it could muster barely 1750 electors,
whereas North Sydney, the most populous
constituency in N. S. Wales, contains 54,000
electors, and even Wilmot, the least populous
in Tasmania, has 18,000. No doubt some
form of local self-government will have to
be devised, not only for flu 1 Territory, but
for North Queensland and East and West
Kimberley as well. But under existing con-
ditions it is impossible to allow flu* Terri-
tory a member on its own account, in either
branch of the Commonwealth Legislature,
nor could it be constitutionally tacked on to
any of the three adjacent electorates, Car
pentaria (Q.), Damnier (W.A.) and Grey
(S.A.). On the /subject of representation
Staniforth Smith is not impressive, lie is far
clearer and more convincing in dealing with
the railway. Brushing aside the proposed
Queensland diversion as unworthy of notice,
he suggests the extension of the South Aus
tralian railway system. It now stops at Ood-
nadatta; he wants it carried 2971 miles
north to Alice Springs. This, of course,
would be only an instalment of the Northern
Transcontinental, but in Smith’s opinion it
would do more for the development of the
Territory than anything done by the S. Aus-
tralian Government since 18(13 or by the
Commonwealth Government in the last de-
cade. And for these reasons, among others:
In the centre of the Territory, which the line
would serve, lies the biggest unexploited mineral
field in Australia. It extends from Terfnant’s Creek
south to the Macdonnell Ranges, a distance of 300
miles, and from the Tanami goldfields, on the Westra-
lian border to the Tarlton and Jervois ranges, near
the Queensland border, and contains, in addition to
many auriferous deposits, two wolfram fields. The
lodes at Tanami, from a geological point of view,
are almost exactly the same as those of Kalgoorlie. The
White Range, on which Arltunga is situated, con-
tains bands of gold-bearing quartz all through it;
gold has also been struck at Winnecke’s Depot. El-
kedra Creek, and in the Jervois and Tarlton Ranges,
Garnets, sapphires and beryls have also been found
on the Hale River, near the Macdonnell Ranges,
as well as a 14ft. seam of brown coal.
Like The Bulletin, Smith considers that
the Territory can only be developed from
the ‘south. The attempt to settle it from
the north is a self-evident failure; the
inevitable result was a concentration of effort
about Darwin, the poorest and most inhos-
pitable part of the region. He likens the
Territory to a tree with its roots deep in
the * centre of Australia; “the Common-
wealth,” he insists, “has merely been water-
ing the leaves.” And watering leaves is a
tragically futile business where the whole
destiny of a nation, the whole future of a
continent, is concerned.
The Forced Loan that Is Always
Looming.
Even Cleopatra, with her alleged pearl-
drinking habits, wasn’t in the same category
as a so-called Labor Government. N. S.
YVales is going to have £6,000,000 more
revenue than it had last year, and
£13,000,000 more than it had in 1918; yet
its Ministry talks of the necessity for
charging repairs to schools and roads against
loans, and expects a record deficit even then.
It hasn’t paid its wheat guarantee, nor the
promised £500,000 for losses on bygone wheat
pools, nor has it begun to pay its child pen-
sions, nor provided tor any new public works
out of revenue, nor done anything big and
palpable to account for seven or eight mil-
lions of vanished money. It has just been
the poor, shiftless, happy shaughraun with
a hole in his pocket and an incurable habit
of talking through his caubeen. When its
decision to spend a million of loan money on
school repairs was announced it was added
that the loan would be compulsory, if neces-
sary. And considering the failure of the
£3,000,000 loan which Treasurer Lang has
had like a bailiff or a ghost on the premises
for six months, compulsion will almost
assuredly be necessary. Now, neither State
Governments, nor shire councils, nor muni-
cipal councils, nor road boards, nor divisi-
onal boards, nor harbor trusts, nor any other
small institution should be allowed to go
on the compulsory-loan racket. : They
can only do it by putting the screw on the
banks directly and indirectly, and by com-
pelling people to take their money out of
local industries for which the supply is too
short already. One State, going solidly on
the compulsory-loan-at-low-interest plan,
and holding up its own local banks and the
local branches of outside banks for contri-
butions, either direct or indirect, could levy
on all Australia, and as the appetite of its
Ministry of Irresponsibles grew with eating
it might end by dragging down a terrace of
institutions in a smash that would mean
general ruin. If other States began to
imitate the example and go the same easy
road, partly because it was easy, and partly
to prevent one State having all the plunder,
a breakage would be fairly certain. The
Commonwealth has control of banking, in-
surance and company legislation, if it could
only be brought to remember the fact, and
it wouldn’t be amiss if it passed an Act
prohibiting such institutions from subscrib-
ing to or financing in any way any forced
loan that wasn’t a Federal concern. If it
could find power to wholly prohibit forced
loans in money, land or goods it would do
even better, and such a thing should be
possible. The threat of this compulsory
looting process has long been in the air, and
if the National Government does nothing
some State Ministry will screw up. its
courage and make a beginning, after which
anything may happen.
♦
The Uncertain Path of .Justice.
James Stewart, the ex-major who in Sep-
tember, 11)20, was sentenced to death on
conviction of criminally assaulting his 17
year-old niece in Sydney, and again (afte,
a new trial had been ordered) in November,
1920, was presented last week for the third
time and immediately acquitted. 11 is case
affords a striking example of the uncertain,
not to say, drunken, fashion in which Justice
so often runs its course. In the case of an
accused who possesses neither influence nor
money, a first conviction is usually enough.
Rareiy, indeed, is he heard of fighting for
his life through the Supreme Court up to
the High Court itself, and via that jurisdic-
tion emerging ultimately a free man. After
the ex-major’s first conviction the popular
view probably was that it served him right.
After his second public opinion veered ; and
in time, under the influence of that rough
commonsense which crowds always evince
after the first frenzy of prejudice has died
away, he began to stand out more as. a
moral offender than anything else. The girl,
it was argued, might not have been as will-
ing as the accused alleged, but if she was not
looking for trouble why did she seek it in
a man’s bedroom late at nightV By tin*
time Stewart’s third trial, was staged, it is
safe to say that not many juries in the Com-
monwealth would have found against him.
Money, good luck and other extraneous cir-
cumstances which ought not to influence any
criminal trial had operated in his favor; but
a far more powerful factor was the ferocious
sentence that had been twice passed on him.
It is some years since anyone was hanged
in N. S. Wales, but there is always a lurking
suspicion in tin* minds of juries who handle
capital cases that their man may be the
exception to the rule; and unless the crime
is particularly dreadful they act accordingly.
Almost everyone appears to appreciate the
disastrous effect of sentences which outrage
by their medieval severity the conscience
of the community. Chief Justice Cullen
was remarking, almost at: the moment when
•Tames Stewart was being acquitted amid
cheers in court, that “our sentences for cer-
tain offences are three times as severe as in
the United Kingdom.” What he did not go
on to say, though it would have been much
to the point, was that acquittals are about
three times as frequent—a phenomenon
which drew from a Circuit Judge a few
weeks ago the remark that “the jury system
was becoming a farce.” Obviously the death-
penalty should be abolished wherever the
sense of the community will not allow it
to be carried into effect —even in respect of
murder if it is to be automatically followed
by commutation to penal servitude.
in the interests of the public many or the
lesser penalties call for revision. The way
they operate is that a criminal has only, to
copunit certain offences carrying the punish-
ment which was considered fit in the 18th
century to secure an acquittal in the teeth
of the strongest evidence.
Australia’s Paper.
When it is pointed out that something is
very much wrong under his management
the specious porttolio-holder generally takes
refuge in the statement that the same sort
of thing is worse somewhere else. Our
paper money isn’t nearly so bad as that of
Russia; the North isn't losing population
faster than Ireland and isn’t so empty as
Greenland; if the shipbuilding business is
a muddle the Government still builds more
big vessels than Switzerland; the unem-
ployed aren’t so numerous as in England;
and if the transcontinental line isn’t built
the line across Tartary isn’t built either.
In other words, Brown is healthy because
his heart isn’t quite so bad as Smith’s, and
his kidneys are a shade better than Robin-
son’s, nor is his liver so hobnailed as
Briggs’s, and he isn’t so entirely mad
as Thompson, or so dead as Jones, or
serving so long a sentence as Hodges. It
is very easy and also very foolish. The
other day someone drew attention to the
state of the Australian note issue, about
which there are various things to be said.
It is inflated to the extent of £22,251,001)
(April figures), for that amount is repre-
sented by £lOOO notes, and the £lOOO note
was invented in 1914, not to supply any
need, for the community had got on better
without it, but as nominal security for com-
pulsory or semi-compulsory war loans with-
out interest. Any big note issue of which
the bulk is held by the banks and only the
minority part is used by the people looks
shady, and this one looks especially um-
brageous. Treasurer Cook rose to shake
off all such aspersions with the usual argu-
ment :
The Australian note issue has decreased by 3 per
cent, since the Armistice, while the note issue of
the United States increased lw H per cent.; that
of Britain by 22 per cent, and those of France,
Belgium and Italy on an even larger scale.
This may look convincing if it isn’t looked
at closely. But’ there are these other
points:—•
France, Italy raid Belgium (France especially)
were only at the beginning of a new lot of troubles
on Armistice Day, for it was then that the gigantic
repairing and rebuilding of their ruined towns and
cities started. Australia had no such contract on
hand, and didn’t require to issue new notes for that
purpose.
Even the increcsed issues of Britain and the
United States are less in proportion to population
than the decreased issue of Australia.
This country has gone on borrowing huge sums
abroad, while the others have been either borrow-
ing (in proportion to population) very small sums
or nothing at all, or have even been repaying some
oi their foreign debts.
And with all its borrowings there was appa-
rently nothing available to redeem or par-
tially redeem the bogus or inflated Austra-
lian currency with: for at the end of
April, 1921, there was more paper issued,


T h „ e Farmers'& Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY..
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 3 000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DLMOND, Managing Director.
and especially there was nearly three mil-
lions’ worth more £lOOO notes issued, than at
the end of December, 1020. It is this fact
that the currency is growing worse now that
creates a feeling of insecurity.
Hughes, Explorer and Pioneer.
One of Prime Minister Hughes's exploring
expeditions over the South-to-Norrh railway
route has capsized and just escaped out of
the debris of its burning motor-car. The
other one, composed of politicians, is to start
soon, if it hasn't started already. This
despatching of amateurs and newchums to
bump across the land and make notes repre-
sent Hughes s inability to take any real
interest in open spaces and pioneering ques-
tions.. It also represents the Parliamentary
machine man's inability to raise*any but a
perfunctory enthusiasm about a place like
die Territory, with a great future bul no
voting power to dispose of in the present.
It stands also for the party tactician’s dis-
like to tell either South Aus. that it is going
to be swindled out of the great work which
was clearly specified in the contract under
which it handed over 523,620 square, miles of
land, much of it really valuable, or Queens-
land, which has more votes than S. Aus., that
he isn’t going to divert a heap of Federal
money for the Northern State's benefit.
Furthermore, it stands for the Prime
Minister's tendency in recent years to
neglect everything else for the sake
ot what he regards as diplomacy, though
it is largely fuss and feathers. The
sending of new non-expert men at public
cost over the well-trodden track of the guar-
anteed line isn't expected to bring the work
any nearer, but rather to set it further away
and provide a further spell of rest. For
even after all the touws are finished, and the
tourists have dawdled back, they have
to write their reports, to consult about and
compare -their reports and to submit their
reports. And then committees have to be
appointed to browse and ruminate over their
reports, and to report on their reports. All
this tends to postpone the mental and politi-
cal struggle. Westralia secured its line be-
cause it had 11 Federal votes to sell and
Big JOHN Forrest to drive the bargain,
while the Territory lias neither. Yet the
Territory is a more promising proposi-
tion now than cither X. S. Wales or Victoria
was in their early days; but since those days
the .Australians have become the most “citi-
fied’' people on earth, and the shopkeeping
and office-keeping folk see nothing in pioneer-
ing that is likely to pay big dividends in their
lifetime. Nevertheless, they might remember
that in this matter something more even
than the safety of their children is involved.
Their own honor is involved—their honor b>
bnrry out the contract thev made with South
Aus. when they took over portion o r that
State’s territory and the rail wav to Oodna
dattn.
A- - - ••
The Tory Direct Actionist.
Mr. W. Copeland Trimble, the honorary
propagandist on behalf of the Lloyd George
methods in Ireland, who has been arguing
with Archbishop Kelly, was painfully un-
convincing in face of an accusation that
the Tories set the fashion in so fai-
ns the present generation of Irishmen are
concerned
Not one single blow was struck throughout, the
ulster movement. We Ulstermen exercised self-
control ; our business was to exercise and preserve
liberty, not to violate it. What was described to
mm as a “rebellion” was not a rebellion against the
king, the Crown or the Imperial Parliament, but
against the rebel forces now lighting the Crown.
Air. Trimble is evidently under the delusion
that to arm thousands of British subjects
with German rifles and machine-guns, and
to march them under a banner calling on
the Kaiser to come to Ulster and assist
against tiie King’s Government, did not
amount to an act of rebellion, because “not
one single blow was struck.” Sir Edward
Carson, who called the parade and reviewed
it, with the present Lord Chancellor of Eng-
land as his A.D.C., is a lawyer; and so he
made no such mistake. lie said at Glas-
gow (Oct. 1, 1912)
The Attorney-General.... says that my doctrines,
and tire course l am taking, lead to anarchv. Doe. v
he not think I know that:'
As a matter of fact, the only thing that
saved a blow from being .struck against the
King’s forces was that the Ulster rebellion
achieved its end without bloodshed. But
why should Mr. Trimble be scandalised
at the suggestion that Tories have re-
sorted to anarchy, rebellion and lawless-
ness generally when events have failed to
go their way? Influential men of this party
have always been the most insulting and
often the most- dangerous assailants of
the present Royal family. The language
that Tories like Ormond and Bolingbroke
used about George I. would get a private
citizen convicted of criminal libel if applied
to another private citizen nowadays. Lord
Oxford did what Sir Edward Carson did
in 1914 —called on a foreigner to free Eng-
land from the dangerous madness of Par-
liamentary reform. The oulv real differ-
ence was that Oxford was impeached and
Caksox was not. The Duke of Wei.lixgtox
•stood out against Parliamentary reform,
though \\ illtam II . wanted it; he treated the
King like a mutinous n.c.0., and,after his angry
resignation, rarely referred to his Sovereign
without curses. The present King’s father
had to put up with many slights from his
•subjects, and they were nearly all delivered
by Tories—either by men like the Duke of
Richmond and Gordo x, who objected to
him on personal grounds, or by those who
blackballed his humbly-born nominees for
the Travellers’ Club and the Royal Yacht
Squadron. In Australia it has been the
same. If the particular flag which a Ryrie
or an Argus likes to see at the head of a
procession is there, then all is peace and
harmony; if it isn’t, they talk Direct Action
as provocatively as any Red Rugger from
Moscow. That every Tory is at heart an
anarchist is a truism, though .some, such as
Mr. Trimble, don’t appear to even suspect
it; and few are prepared, like Mr. Trimble’s
former leader, to frankly admit it.
Remounts and Economy,
The Defence Department, after persevering
for less than three years with the horse-
breeding scheme which it inaugurated at the
end of 1917, has abandoned it; and the finan-
cial details of the venture were laid before
the House of Representatives the other day.
THE NASTY PART.
THE NURSE : "Come now, I can't, do much for you unless you take your medicine."
The total loss on the 28 months’ working
was £1284 ; and if it were five times as great
the scheme—or at any rate a scheme —would
still be not only worth while, but a national
duty into the bargain. At present all field
guns from 6-inchers down to 14-pounders,
and the whole of their ammunition, as well
■as most small-arms ammunition, are horse-
drawn. So during the late war were HO per
cent, of the supplies which went up to tin
front line, and that is bound to be the posi-
tion in this country of poor roads or no
roads at all for many a long year to come.
We still breed a few serviceable military
horses —and immediately sell them to foreign
buyers, mostly from Asia. But the average
Australian chance-bred horse is a weed, and
degenerating yearly, for reasons which are ex-
pounded tirelessly at country shows all over
the Commonwealth. It is a matter of
inferior mares and low-class, if not actually
unsound, stallions. One of the first things
that struck backbloeks Diggers when they
reached the Somme was the high and
level quality of the French army horses.
..very one of them was home-bred. They
were the product of France’s 3500 national
stallions, and they had cost the country an
average of 300 francs (£l2) apiece. Tim
r tench (rovernmeot has its sires distributed
about the country districts at depots, and
tliej are at the disposal of farmers owning
approved mares for a nominal fee. The
revenue does not benefit greatlv, but (1)
there is a steady supply of good-ciass animals
ior trade and agricultural purposes, and (2)
when war comes there is no acute horse-
shortage as there was in Australia at tin*
end ot 1014. and no remount-profiteering of
the sort that led up to the institution of the
lecently-abandoned Defence Department’s
stud Ihe Commonwealth haras, which is
bound to come, will in the first place restore
Australia s badly-besmirclied reputation as ■;
horse-producing country: and in the second
it will ensure an adequate supply of remounts
for the needs of an army of defence.
-*■
Sonic of Our Troubles.
I>KAK Bu.lktin, —I respectfully submit the
following newspaper extract as a strenu-
ous case of chewing soap to make a froth :
Eehuea (Vic.). —Speaking at the annual eom-
.nuni °n breakfast of St. Mary’s Church on Sunday.
Kei. Prior Foley said the Catholic Church had its
enemies and its priests their detainers. The hvmn of
hate reached its highest point when these' people
poured forth their abuse upon Archbishop Maxxix
whose name they were unfit to utter, and whose
shoes they were not worthy to unlace. The greatest,
crime of the Irish people in the eyes of a'certain
section was that they had the audacity to still love
their native land. His greatest glory would In-
to' shed his heart’s blood for the country he adored.
And if the rev. gentleman went to the land
he adores he might secure his greatest glory
almost any day, so promiscuously do bullets
fly. After all, I fancy that ‘'the greatest
crime of the Irish people” here, in the eyes
of many tired non-Irish people, is not that
they love their native land so much, but
that they seem to love it so dashed little that
they leave it to fight its lonesome battle.
If Ireland filled up with Irishmen, now that
the big absentee landlords have been shifted,
till it was even half as thickly peopled as.
England and Wales, there would be 5,500,000
more of them in the island than there are;
and then the ranks of the Republican
Army wouldn't be so pathetically thin. But
four-fifths of the nation stays abroad and
doesn't flock to the standard, though it
flocks into various Parliaments'and muni-
cipal councils. I wouldn’t blame it for not
flocking—possibly I wouldn’t flock myself-
if its absence from there wasn’t accompanied
by so much disturbance here, and by such
intense anxiety for profitable billets under the-
Saxon king. A man ought to love his conn-
try and bis wife. But it isn't necessary' to
advertise in every paper and s mut at every
banquet, political meeting, plain meeting,
public function, sacred function and com-
mon or garden function that lie loves his
wife, and to allege that the world is full of
murky people who have designs on the lady
but are unlit to wash her stockings.
Scotland is in the I nion on far worse terms
than Ireland, inasmuch as it has far fewer
members for a rather larger population; it
was ■’conscripted," which Ireland wasn’t;
it got no cheap loan of £106,000,000 to buy
out its big landlords, as Ireland did; and
for the last year covered by the figures in
the Statesman's Year Kook Scotland paid
£07,000,000 into the revenue, of which
£10,000.000 was spent in the country (its
contribution •to the war and the general
defence and upkeep of the Empire
being thus £7S,000,000), while Ireland
paid £87,000,000 and received hack
£22,000,000 (contribution only £1.1.000,000 1
That was the year from March, 10 is,
to March, 1919, when taxes were still
collectable. Scotsmen love their country
well enough—at least, they fought an
uphill light with England for it from
1998, when King Malcolm was de-
feated and killed at Alnwick, to 1089, when
Cuaverhouse won and was killed all the
same at Killiecrankie. That is saying no-
thing of the fact that they invaded England
and threatened London as recently as 1745.
set with all their patriotism and wars
and hatreds they never grew reallv
eloquent over the business, and now
that the Irish are at the summit of their
eloquence the Scots seem more taciturn than
ever. Possibly they are too busy running
the Treasurer’s job iu its various aspects and
getting more than square with the Sassenach.
Ireland never seemed to shine at that. Yet
a republic without finances is a roofless house
without walls. —‘Yours, etc., James Edmond.
♦
In the everlasting struggle for votes the old
Parliamentary hand is silent about the
shameless blackmailing to which Australian
politicians are subjected, but sometimes a
disillusioned novice speaks out of the fulness
of his heart. .1. Simons, M.L.A. for East
Perth, has been doing it in Westralia. Dur-
ing the nine weeks subsequent to his elec-
tion Simons received 82 begging letters from
football clubs, charitable organisations and
the like, the donation expected in each case
being at least a guinea. Flis salary for tin*
same period amounted to £O(5. And fox’ every
epistolary ear-biter there was a cadger by
word of mouth. This modern variety of
bushranging is one cause of the decadence of
public life. It helps to explain why poli-
ticians who are honest and decent in the
ordinary relations of life participate in
salary grabs. There is nothing for it but
to disqualify from service for five years any
member who directly or indirectly makes am
contribution to any person or institution
within his electorate or within the district
for which he is asking election.
In Ireland Home Itule has arrived. The
Northern Parliament has met, with the Home
Itulers of both kinds (the Nationalists, who
want to be ruled from London to the same
extent as other Dominions, and the Sinn
i'einers, who would prefer to burn London!
staying away.'and nobody there save Union-
ists who don’t want to be there at all. The
Southern Home Rule Parliament apparently
cant meet for want of a quorum, but if it
met there would be none of the old Home
Rulers in it—only four Unionists who want
to be in London, and 124 Sinn Feiners who
want I/ondon to he in perdition, which
makes 128 people who loathe the whole busi-
ness. Meantime L)e Valera’s star has
apparently set; He probably realised that
the way to independence was the well-trodden
one by which various countries have in
modern times achieved independence—-that is.
id securing some Home Rule, then more
Home Rule, and finally so much Home Rule
that it; merged into independence. But what-
ever negotiations in that wav the visible
president I>e Valera might be' willing to
•enter upon, the invisible (ieneral MrctrtEi
•Collins over-ruled.
Dp course, no one in his senses wants to
reduce the standard of living of the artisans,
t he wharf-lumpers and the railway employees
and other public servants of Australia; but
there is this to be remembered —if their
wages are higher than those of people doing
the same work in other countries with whose
wheat, metals, etc., our products have to
compete, then the standard 0 f living for our
own farmers, miners, etc., must be lower than
that in other countries.' This is on the
assumption that our farms, mines, etc., are
no more productive than those of other
•countries ; and, generally speaking, tliev are
on the poor side. The worker has "been
pointing to the “capitalist employer” as the
■eause of low wages and consequent low-
standard of living among his employees. Rut
it is just as easy for a powerful group of
workers, by forcing up their wages, to con-
demn other less powerful groups to a low
•standard of living.


SG
c Cke j^usiroJiar
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Horning: Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, I'rn'it Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IX THE
PRIVATE
Dinner or
a la carte,
DIKING ROOMS or
ROOMS at Luncheon,
Supper—All meals served
Order early and avoid
delay.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
a
POLITICAL
POINTS
Westraliu, in addition to having tin* big-
gest area, the biggest debt per bead, the.
longest row of deficits, the largest accumu-
lated deficit, and the record gold slump,
leads the way ill revolutionary ideas. The
latest demand is that no trains shall run
on Saturday afternoons or Sundays. It
being a land of long runs, passengers are
.idst to ‘‘camp on the way” when Saturday
boon marks the beginning of the 80-hours’
loaf. Nothing is said yet about coastal
vessels afaehoidhg ill deep water for the
week-end, but that may Oolite.- Nothing is
said,' either, about horses not running on
Saturday afternoon or Sunday. I’erbaps.
that may come too.
Nowadays the X. S. Wales Profiteering
Court dismisses almost all the eases that
home before it, and looks rather sick of the
tvkple business. It, set out to administer
a law biade Hi baste by an experimental
young Ministry Which thought that a separate
set of books could be kept fat each article
in a big store. Its business waS to take
account- of the 80 p.e. profits and leave the
50 p.e. losses to lie borne out of some mys-
terious fund described as "large reserves.”
Since these early days the Court has been
learning things at the public expense, and has
simmered down to the view that if the
whole show yields only 10 p.e. profit it isn’t
worth while to boil over if pne necktie in
the crowd yields 250 p.e. A lawyer lumps
his wares the same way. When Briefless
charges 425. for counsel’s opinion about a
drain he doesn’t base the fee on what it cost
him to learn about drains, which may have
been only 10s. His charge is supposed to be a
fair thing on the value of his whole stock
of knowledge, including that about the Insti-
tutes of Justinian, which may be quite un-
saleable.
Dooley (N.S.W.) has already opened 46
branches of his Rural Bank, and 54 more
to come will make 100. These are quite
Independent of the 148 branches of the
State Savings Bank. The 100 salaried staffs
al-e to await deposits, which they will lend
out to farmers when and if they get them.
But there will be no more money
to deposit because of them. There
will simply be a new layer of banks
Competing for it. The scarcity of real
tnoney of our own is severe, yet unless
Broken Hill and Ivembla and other places
c-an get into full blast, and there are fewer
idle Saturdays in other lines, so that there
will be more production of things that sell
fol* real money, the famine is likely to be-
worse. It is proposed, by way of more
high finance, to straighten up the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation muddle by “writing off
£3,000,000 of the capital debt.” But the
debt won’t be repudiated or paid off. It
Will be written on to some other account,
and the people will pay the interest just the
same, only the balance-sheet of the Irriga-
tion colony will look better, and be a fake
and a fraud.
The question of the moment in Queensland
is whether Tom Robinsoll will or won t.
A safe seat (Oxley) has been placed
at his disposal, and leadership of the
National group would follow. Thomas
has asked for three weeks to think
it oYor. Meantime, Charlie Taylor,
MX.A., for Windsor, has been selected to
keep the chair warm. Victorian-born, Tay-
lor is a seed and produce merchant —it is
ail unwritten law of Queensland Nationalism
that the leader of the party must be in the
produce line-—and has only been in Parlia-
ment since IMS'.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Massy Greene, pink-faced and obliging, maintains
an unruffled serenity despite the fatuous and irritat-
ing Freetrade arguments that are reiterated for his
education during the Tariff debate. His pleasant
manner and his ability to make explanations with a
minimum of language serve to expedite public busi-
ness. But when Joe Cook wanders into the House in his
overcoat and muffler, a couple (>f minutes sometimes
suffices to produce a verbal duel with an angry mem-
ber of the Opposition. The other night, for instance,
he charged Charlton, of all people, with “wasting
time” —Charlton. Who was buttling for more duties
on iron and steel, and was incidentally informing
the House that a slump in the Australian nail indus-
try, due to foreign dumping, had put a number of
toilers out of work. The unfair accusation, of
course, upset the peace of the committee and left
each man with a ruffled temper. If Greene wants to
get his Tariff through in reasonable time, he ought
io conspire with the rest of the Cabinet to keep nis
touchy chief out of the Chamber.
After tile public service arbitrator had re-
jected the basic-wage application, ways and
means of extracting tile £5 l<»s. <nl. minimum
from jiti impoverished country which is carry-
ing 20 per cent, more Government employees
than it can afford were discussed by Mel-
bourne officials find their friends. This was
one bright suggestion :
Mr. J. Riley, organiser of the Wharf-laborers’
Union, said that, if telegrams got mixed up, or
could not be understood, or if the letters got into
the wrong mailbags, things eoiiJd be made very
gwkwa rd.
Fnques!iomibly they could. More especially
if the mislaid letters contained drafts of
Inoney to out-of-work wharf-laborers, or if
the mixed-up telegrams included a “mother-
dying-come-at-ouce” message, and a member
of Riley’s union didn’t get it. in time. In
such cases things could he made extremely
awkward —for Riley. Nothing is likely to
come of the ferocious suggestion that the
whole community should be boorishly and
vindictively punished for the act of one man,
but union executives which seek the advice
of organisers with dull, aboriginal ideas of
vengeance are evidently not looking for sup-
port from the public. If they are, it is the
wrong way to get it.
THE MOXEY-MAKERR.
GOVERMENT PRINTER’S BOY : "Did yon say
ter print five million or fifty million
notes, sir?”
MODERN LABOR MINISTER: “Bah! Why
worry? A little hit of type's neither
here nor there!”
Thus McWilliams in the Reps, the other
night:—
Anyone who has read what the Iron and Steel
Combine has done in America knows that if there
is one industry in the world that has been ex-
ploited it is this, and that if any body of workers
has been treated in an infamous fashion it is the
ironworkers of Pittsburg.
Yet just an hour afterwards McWillians was
paired for the Noes against David Watkins's
amendment to keen that Combine from
operating in Australia. The McWilliams
brand of logic is very hard to understand.
Lenin, of Russia, having failed to attract
private capitalists to the country, talks now
about restoring the confiscated factories to
the old owners, having probably found, after
3i strenuous years, that he doesn’t know
everything and can’t be everywhere, and
that the old expert factory owner was often
a cheaper manager than some heated but
inexpert apostle. Also the Australian Gov-
ernment proposes to sell or lease its N. Terri-
tory pubs, having decided that when the
landlord is 2000 mile.s away as the crow flies
things go wrong with the grog—or at least
with the grog money. And the Westralian
Government, which has closed up its million-
pound meatery at Wyndhain, having nearly
gone broke trying to kill and freeze bullocks
at 2177-miles range, would be glad to be
rushed by a cash purchaser. All these
people thought, like simple John Storey, that
“it is easy to run a country if only one is
honest.’’ It is on the same principle that
John the Baptist would have been an ideal
manager for the Commonwealth Bank.
One of the pleas advanced before the
W.A. Arbitration Court for the stoppage
of trains on Saturday afternoons and Sun-
days was that “night running wasn’t done
in George Stephenson’s time.” Why doesn’t
this progressive union go a little further?
In George I.’s time day running wasn’t done
either.
The Good Roads Loan for patching the
highways around Sydney at the cost ,of pos-
terity was an ox-tail stew made out of part
of the rump of the three-million-pound gen-
eral loan. It was boomed furiously and
20,000 “stickers” were issued in one lot
pointing out that if the rich city got. 51 p.c.
and ideal roads thrown in it couldn’t boggle
at half a million. But it did boggle, possibly
because it had just got two income-tax
assessments; wherefore the drooping Dooley,
who was going at one time to spread the
Good Loan Roads movement far and wide,
now says that if the public doesn’t roll up
the roads of even Cumberland county must
just go to the Devil. It sounds pretty help-
less from a Government which, a year ago,
sakl its “activities would be limited only by
the available supply of labor.” If a Ma State
with £24,000,000 of revenue has to do with-
out roads, it is only a step to the time when,
through wasteful government, it won’t be
able to afford soan even though its revenue
is by then £50,000,000.
On two fiscal antagonists:—
.The tariff discussion in the House of Reps, has
mostly been an argument between Massy Greene and
Harry Gregory, and each in his own way has en-
hanced his reputation. Greene’s work has impressed
everyone, and nobody more than Watt, who declares
that “on no other occasion has a Minister displayed
such devotion, energy and wisdom in the preparation
of a tariff.” But as the panegyrist didn't, arrive in
the National Parliament till 1914 his testimony is
valueless as regards Kingston and Lyne. And
Gregory's industry in digging up pre-war statistics
to make out a sort of a case against post-walr duties,
and the terrier-like pertinacity with which he con-
tinues the fight after getting the worst of every
round, have extorted the gloomy admiration of the
Argus and the Telegraph. When the pugnacious
little man was a Liberal he was regarded as a
good Protectionist. But Liberalism faded in Dam-
pier before the onset of a Farmers and Settlers’
Association with a low-tariff programme, and, accept-
ing the change with philosophic resignation, the
Liberal Protectionist became a Cocky Foreign-trader.
The conversion was rapid, but the convert was suit-
ably rewarded. Gregory is an unwearied exponent
of the art of giving the constituency what the con-
stituency wants.
For the first time in its history the Speck
will this year ttalk of its revenue in millions.
That is to say, Treasurer Lewis expects the
year’s income to reach £2,000,000. Directly
he made this announcement the astute war-
rior went off to Westralia for three or four
weeks’ holiday, leaving his 199,009 feilow-
Speckers speculating as to the size of the
surplus. It will not be visible to the naked
eye; but the public debt will loom larger
than ever.
It is mentioned that 100,000 male calves
are destroyed every year on the X. S. Wales
North Coast dairy farms before their flesh
is of any value at all, or their skins of any
value worth mentioning. There isn’t room
for them on the dairy farms; they can’t be
sent up to the tableland to grow into up-
standing beef and hides, for no railways run
west from the Northern ports into the in-
terior, as they do from Sydney; and roads
are bad or non est. But a Sydney Govern-
ment would rather see a million bull calves
put in the ash-barrel every year than build
lines to any place save the Big City. And
there will be no improvement, either, till
the New State can build its own lines.
The N. S. Wales New State people are
secessionists who don’t know how to secede
and have done with it; instead they send
deputations to Sydney begging for a little to
show for their own money. A deputation
called the other week on Minister Estell, the
man who promised to stop all, works in the
North and spend (Ml its taxes in the S6uth
unless talk of separation was dropped. It
was told that “it was no use promising that
expensive works would be carried out in the
near future.” Yet most of the Ministry
was just back from Obteran, close to Sydney,
on the Western line, where a new railway was
promised immediately, and the first sod turned
on the spot. The place is only 16 miles from
the railway by a good road ; but Oberon is
impatient. Dorrigo, up north, in a more
fertile region, has had its line marked on
the map as “in progress” since ancient his-
tory. After 4f miles out of 44 had been
built, work was suspended for over two
years, but it is said to have been resumed
again if it hasn’t left off again. Lately
the little town was isolated for the blankth
time through the mountain road being washed
away, but owing to the fact that £500,000
is required for road repairs about Sydney
little could be done. The proposed New
State has been looking for a name. Would
Uriah Heep do?
JUST LIKE HOME.
SYDNEY VISITOR: “Er, I say, ain't this
Hell? ”
HIS MAJESTY: “ Ain't, it just! ft's a tip ice
hail from the Sydney City Council.
When it got so cold they cut the radia-
tors off, and -we had so many people
coming down just to warm up that we
had the place frozen over. But we'll
light the fires again next summer when
the W. and S. Board cuts the water off."
It was not a joke, that resolution of Gee-
long (Vie.) Trades Hail Council recommend-
ing the Australian Labor Conference to
adopt the Union Jack as Labor’s official
emblem. The men who carried it are incap-
able of either joking or seeing a joke. A
cynic among them who showed a tendency
to ribaldry was severely suppressed. The
argument used was that the Jack was essen-
tially a “people’s emblem” and the A.L.P.
essentially a people’s party; that many
Laborites objected to the Red flag, and that
yardstick patriots had so a bused the Jack
for sectional purposes that it was time
Labor bounded to the rescue. The subtlety
of the thing has Geelong industrialists
puzzled, and even the Nationalists don’t know
just what to think.
A while back Moses Gjibb, who defeated
Glynn for the Angas seat in the Reps., dis-
covered a gruesome humor in calling for
quorums when the attendance promised to
vanish entirely, and the other night he re-
started the old practice, to the great annoy-
ance of various gentlemen who consider that
interest in a tariff should be the last thing
expected oh them. Livingston, who occa-
sionally remembers that he is member for
Barker, shook a vast fist at the gleeful Gabb
and looked as if violent language was seeth-
ing within him. Doubtless he had good and
sufficient reasons for remaining outside; but
for his own sake the patriarch ought to
make himself more familiar to the Chamber
staff—if only to avoid the possibility of
being hustled by mistake into the Strangers’
Gallery.
Economy on the lines proposed by Vic.
municipal councillors and others, prodded by
the Taxpayers’ Association, isn’t popular
with Vic. State members. One of Lawson’s
Ministers declined to sponsor a recent depu-
tation, as it “wouldn’t be becoming.”
Heaven knows how much the introducing job
was hawked around before Jimmy McLach-
lan, Independent Labor member for North
Gippsland, was bagged. As the movement
was supposed to have pushed off at Sale
(although it was really fixed up in Collins
House), MoLachlan could not very well
refuse. T. R. Ashworth, one of the short-
lived Kyabramapootra legislators, sang the
old song of 1002 in a shriller voice, and
Lawson gave the soft answer. And the
woifld went spinning on.
THE FEDERAL ADVERTISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"In fulfilment of 11 promise made to ;l N: tC
Wales firm of manufacturers, Mr. Jowett,
wore a £5 suit of Australian tweed. Mr. Jowett
made his first appearance during question time, and
all eyes were turned on him as he went to Ids seat
on the front crossbench.”
There’s a firm here making singlets that lias every
cause to grouse
Since its goods attract no mention. Will a member
, with some nous
Command the joint attention of the Speaker and
the House 1
Some M’Sjf.i so far unemployed, might usefully
engage
To invite the House to notice now a fellow ditty
assuage
His thirst with brands of bottled beer not so far
all the rage.
he'll Humiliate an J1.11.-lt, to wear Pitzwilliam ties,
Aiid another who upon tile floor in most convincing
Will devour lht> Riehih&fid sttusage add the i'lt/.roy
mutton-pies.
if a whisky needs some pushing, is a corset shdrii
of hope,
Our fourteen several Houses offer advertising scope.
Joe Cook, in stays, can wash himself with Greaser's
scented soap.
Ilillstlckel'S on the outward walls might hang a
fide amp
Of theatrical advertisement* add poster* of the day,
Ahd paper all the Treasury with similar display.
Our Parliaments tlrfe costly as we run the things
to-day ;
bur methods Of employing theid are shockingly
astray :
Hut as advertising mediums they > v et nitty pay their
way.
vic-roim.
[?]


ULYSSES HUGHES.
"Despite the temptation in talk on various questions. Mr. Hughes has condemined him-self to a [?] day's [?]" Coble.
"The strens. by sings, were said to lure adventurrrs on to the rocks. Ulysses filled his erew's cars with wax, and was himself gagged an bound to the must. Thus, though he heard the retenneing voices, his ship passed by the dangerous waters."


—s
m
TRANSFORMERS
Metropolitan Vickers have made 16 of the
Ki r ngdom^ anSf ° rmerS ever built in the United
an M mi d tnnt >r nf h 7 B < i l rv goW Co . r P°ration, each have
20.000/6500 vJlt s 25k Va ' Smgle Ph - 36 «*>«.
1C
ers
ELECTRICAL
CO.. LTD.
Australian Offices:
84 William Street, Melbourne.
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Agents:—
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide, Melbourne, Perth
Sydney, Brisbane.
Turnbull & Jones, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland, Christ-
church, Dunedin. jo
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
Setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT '
ADMINISTRATOR OR ATTORNEY.
Established over 34 years, during w hich it lias successfully handled almost
every class of asset.
33 TO 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales: —
To lle-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Sept.,'l2.. 214,023 10 p.c.= 150,000 04,023 2,234.839
Mar.,’l3.. 259.004 10 „ ~156,339 102.605 2,337,504
Sept.,'l3.. 250,101 10 „ ~168,946 51,155 2,418,659
Mar.,’l4.. 275,746 10 ~ ~175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept.,’l4.. 246,324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., ’15.. 239,407 10 „ ~ 175,000 64.407 2,655,136
Sept., ’15.. 230,929 10 „ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar., ’16.. 227,885 10 „ „ 175,000 52,885 2,763,950
Sept.,’l6.. 246,425 10 ~ ~ 180,133 66,292 2,830,242
Mar., '17.. 279,050 10 ~ „ 194,464 84,586 2,914,828
Sept.,’l7.. 274,603 10 „ ~196,243 79,360 2,994,188
Mar.,’lB.. 278,784 10 ~ ~195,243 83,541 3,077,729
Sept.,’lB.. 273,560 10 ~ ~ 195.243 78,317 3,156,046
Mar.,’l9.. 277,057 10 ~ ~ 195,790 81,267 3,237,313
Sept.,’l9.. 302,425 10 „ ~ 199,368 103,057 3,340,370
Mar., ’20.. 304,219 1.0 ~ ~ 219,1a2 85,077 3,425,447
Sept.,’2o.. 338,633 10 ~ „ 244,697 93,936 3,519,383
Mar.,’2l.. 403,932 15 „ ~ 372,216 31,716 3,551,099
The magnitude of the latest profits is not
so surprising as the fact that the directors
have thought til: to disclose so much of the
extra money which the abnormal period has
put into the co.’s coffers. Probably never before
have the banks plucked such luscious plums
from exchange. During the war years Aus-
tralian importers found great difficulty in
securing stocks adequate to meet the demands
of customers who, instead of finding the bur-
den. of war pressing heavily on them, were
led to believe that they were better off than
ever before, and cleared the retailers’ shelves
in record time. In the hope of obtaining
supplies to meet this persistent demand im-
porters booked their orders further and
further ahead. Last year, however, they
were suddenly disillusioned concerning
the difficulty of replenishing stocks:
other markets having gone cold, overseas
manufacturers rushed their Australian
orders, and the greatest flood of imports the
Oommon wealth has ever witnessed began to
flow in, and at top prices, too. For the nine
months to March Ml imports amounted to
nearly 131 a millions, compared with slightly
more than 63 millions for the corresponding
period of the previous year. But for the
same periods the value of exports had fallen
off from 1121 millions to 07 millions, and
some of that 97 millions had already been
paid to the Commonwealth through the wool
and wheat pools. Within a few months the
banks found that, instead of having unusually
large cash holdings in London, they could not
finance importers’ liabilities there.' To hold
the flood, exchange rates were greatly in-
creased, the telegraphic transfer rate being
raised from 17s. 6d. p.c. to 30s. p.c. in
October, to 40s. p.c. in November, and to 50s.
P.c. in December, other charges being also
considerably increased. With these rates
operating in conjunction with the deluge of
imports, the Wales’s exchange earnings for
six months must have been very handsome.
No doubt they have nrovided the “excep-
tional profits” which have yielded the 10s.
per share bonus, “a very special matter,” and
a “special exception” to the settled dividend
policy.
The abnormal imports also drove traders
to. seek the hanks; support, and compared
with 12 months, ago the Wales’s ordinary
advances (that is, apart from wool, wheat
and War Loan business) increased almost
Sjf millions. These additional advances
must be adding' more than half-a-million oer
annum to gross earnings. How great has
been the call on this bank is evidenced by
the next comparison, going back to the March
half prior to the war :
Liabilities,
V. * Mar.,’l4. Mar.,’2o. Mar., ’2l.
•• £277,874 £715,668 £752,588
Hills, etc. .. 6,739.876 12,346,925 12,127,666
Deposits . . 36,699,816 49,417,059 51,692,437
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 24,215,065 37,988,446 32,052,134
Advances .. 24,829,406 32,001,495 40,470,115
Premises . . 780,000 . 800,000 815.000
During the seven years deposits expanded
by nearly 15 millions; but £15,G40,000-odd
more has been loaned to clients. In addi-
tion to the enormously-increased earnings
from that source, liquid assets are now much
more profitable:—
1914. 1920.
Coin, bullion, cash .. £11,403,891 £9,164,793
Short call, money .. 2,3115,000 1,830,000
Xotes • 1,246.125 6,251,406
investments . . . . 3,246,328 9,107,968
Hills receivable.. . . 5,923,721 5,697,967
While .the holding of coin, bullion, notes,
etc., has grown less than 2-j millions since
1914, £5,861,000 more has gone into Govern-
ment and other securities.
The expansion shown above has been
accompanied by big additions to capital to
stabilise the relation between the bank’s own
funds and its liabilities. Paid capital in
1914 was 34 millions; and -1 millions of
visible reserves had been accumulated. Paid
capital is now £4,965,200, and meantime a
further million of reserves has been stored.
The Wales’s funds now exceed 84 millions.
Total liabilities to the public at March .31
were £64,572,691, so the bank was working
on about £7 11s. of the public’s money for
each £ of its own. The additional capital
has thus kept the proportion well within the
£8 which is usually regarded as a prudent
margin in Australian banking. And despite
all the demands for accommodation by
clients, the Wales still continues to hold a
large proportion of its liabilities liquid. In-
cluding the Government-guaranteed advances
as being in that form at March 31, prac-
tically 53 p.e. of all liabilities was held
more or less liquid. The liquid assets, as
has been shown above, are a good deal dif-
ferent from the pre-war collection; they
reflect very clearly how big a part Govern-
ment paper played in the war. However,
the security for the Wales’s creditors is
there: for the paper assets are backed by
the entire credit of the Commonwealth. To
support the £25,400,000 of its liabilities not
covered by liquid assets the Wales shows
advances with a book value of £38,325,960,
besides which are its office properties.
* * * *
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) :—•
Nominal
Written To Re- Ue-
May, Profit*. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1910. . £10,863 10 p.c.= £6585 £3OOO £ 1278 £5,086
1911.. 10,909 10 „ „ 6586 3000 1324 6,410
1912.. 11,960 10 „ ~ 6585 3000 2375 8,785
1913.. 10,262 10 „ „ 6585 3000 677 9,462
1914.. 7,677 74 ~ ~ 4939 3000 9,200
1915.. 2,956 3J ~ ~ 2469 1500 8,187
1916.. 6,118 5 .. ~ 3292 2500 326 8,513
1917.. 8,501 10 ~ ~ 6585 1976 8,513
1918.. 8,924 10 6585 2000 339 8,852
1919.. 13,345 12£ „ „ 8231 4000. 1114 9,966
1920.. 11,014 10 „ „ 6685 2650 1779 11,745
Transferred to capital, £9150 .. 2,595
boss. Deficit.
1921.. 1,656 3} p.C.= 2813 1,871
Twelve months ago, after having had several
good years, the Castle Salt directors felt
so pleased with all Hie world that they de-
cided to “shout” £9150 worth of bonus shares,
increasing paid capital from £65,850 to
£75,000. The “Wild Cat” at the time re-
marked that, in view of past performances
and the general conditions of the industry,
the capitalisation was not justifiable. And
it wasn’t; for, like a lot of other people, the
Castle Salt crowd have now discovered that
they were living in a fool’s paradise, The
past year has been disastrous. Apparently
things ivere not going badly during the earlier
months, for a ninepenny div. was paid in
December; but when the accounts for the
whole year were made up they showed a loss,
wherefore no dividend at all should have been
Paid. This time the co.’s troubles have not
been due to an unfavorable “harvesting”
season. The set-back to the hides and meat-
canning industries —both large salt-consumers
—was chiefly responsible for a curtailed
demand, and, in addition, labor and other
costs stiffened. Unlike most producers the
salt cos. dc not sell to-morrow what they
produce to-day. The past summer’s harvest,
for instance, together with any unsold sur-
plus from previous seasons, provides the
stocks for the current year’s trading. The
cost of that harvest is borne by the accounts
under review, and the profit disclosed at
any balance depends a good deal on the basis
on which stocks on hand are valued. Whether,
in the light of the Castle (Salt’s latest experi-
ence, stocks proved to have been over-valued
in last year's sheets is not clear, but it is
obvious that costs in relation to the selling-
price (in N. S. Wales and Queensland prices
have been controlled) proved too much for
the reduced turnover. Salt being a low-
Di'iced commodity profits depend on the mag-
nitude of turnover, and additional labor costs,
higher freights and so on quickly re-act oil
profits when turnover is curtailed'and selling
prices are beyond the control of the producer.
Very few of the salt cos. bring their
accounts into the light, but the Castle Salt’s
latest experience has apparently been gen-
eral. There never has been much in the
industry to encourage investors, and only re-
cently one old co., the Australian Salt'Co
went the way of Lot’s wife. The war helped
salt-producers, as it did many others, by
curtailing foreign competition, for in’ the
bad old pre-war days Germany was actually
landing salt c.i.f. Townsville at considerably
less than the S. Aus. cos. had to pay in
freight alone from Adelaide to the North
Queensland port. Additional protection has
been afforded the industry by the new tariff,
but, now that wages overseas are coming
down (in some cases they didn’t go up) and
a battle of freights has begun, it is doubtful
if local industry is yet amply protected
against the foreigner. It is more than a
matter of_ cheap salt; the preservation of
tile salt industry is almost as important
as the preservation of sugar-growing. Dur-
ing the war the salt industry proved how
essential it was to the Commonwealth; with-
out it the hides and meat-canning industries
would have been helpless.
But people like the Castle Salt Co. do not
strengthen their foothold by issuing bonus
scrip when they acquire a mere handful of
reserves. The past year’s loss and the pay-
ment of the interim div. have wiped out the
reserves remaining after the capitalisation,
and a P. and L. debit balance of £1874
now mars the accounts. For the current
year the management is merely hoping that
things will go more smoothly—that the de-
mand will improve and the price-fixers give
it a chance. On these factors depends
whether the latest balance-sheet is all it
appears. Abnormally large stocks are shown
in the accounts, their book value (presumably
on_ the basis of production costs) being
£45,201, compared with £85,753 shown a
year ago. To finance its operations the co.
was learning on the bank for £28,503.
The Westkauan Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-.
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1913. .£lBBB 2<>g p.c.=£l6Bo £219 £14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 171,,,, 1150 £607 15,046
A pi., 1914.. 1587 254 „ „ 1650 —14,98 s
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „ „ ?00 - - 181 15,164
Apl., 1915. . 1267 10, „„ 700 567 15,781
Oct., 1915.. 1573 10 „ „ 700 873 16,604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 24( „ „ 1700 -•— 16.602
Oct., 1916.. 1102 10 „., 750 362 16,954
Apl., 1917.. 1721 23J „ „ 1750 16,925
Oct., 1917.. 2047 10 „ 800 1247 18,172
Ap)., 1918.. 2043 224,. ~ 1800 243 18,415
Oct., 1918.. 2098 10 „ „ 850 77 1171 19,586
Apl., 1919.. 1426 21 „ 1850 19,162
Oct., 1919.. 2260 21 „ „ 1900 360 19,522
Apl., 1920.. 1681 10 „ 900 - 781 20,303
Oct., 1920. . 2864 21 .. ~1900 961 21,267
Apl., 1921.. 2300 21 ~ ~ 1900 400 21,667
At recent half-yearly balances when the
shareholders haven’t got an extra bite the
staff has been given a bonus. On this occa-
sion, both get something extra. The accounts
show £3239 of net profit for the six months,
but £1)8!i of it lias been absorbed by a lid
p.c. bonus on salaries. Shareholders, as
usual, have had their div. at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a. (£900), but in addition they get
is. per share bonus (£1000). For the past
12 months they have had £3BOO, equal to
slightly more than 21 p.c. on the paid capital
of £lB,OOO. It means better even than that
for old shareholders, because paid capital has
been increased from £lO,OOO to £lB,OOO dur-
ing the past 10 years without calling on
proprietors for a penny. The return on the
former paid capital is thus 38 p.c. p.a. But
there is another aspect of the matter. The
Westralian T., B. and A. has been in busi-
ness nearly 28 years, and lias, piled up con-
siderable reserves, the accumulation of profit
not capitalised exceeding present paid capi-
tal by £3O6J. On total shareholders’ funds
in the business the past year’s dividends and
bonuses meant a return of 9-1 p.c. The co.’s
trust business is developing very rapidly, the
capital value of the estates under adminis-
tration having grown by more than £BOO,OOO
during the past year. There is now 3| mil-
lions under control, compared with If mil-
lion five years ago and £1,617,303 in 1911.
War-inflated values have no doubt had an
effect on the figures, nevertheless the busi-
ness has grown largely apart from that.
Appreciated values and the improved re-
venues of estates have also aided commissions
considerably. Gross earnings of the co. for
the April half of 1916 were £5315 ; for the
past six months, “after providing for con-
tingencies,” £10,667. Besides the co.\s own
invested funds of close upon £40,000, there
is a reserve liability of 325. per share on
the 20,000 shares. This means that to pro-
tect clients there is nearly £40,000 imme-
diately available and £32,000 within reach
if the worst should happen. And so long as
the management keeps its head shareholders
run very slight risks. More than one-half
of the co.’s funds are in public securities,
cash and book debts; the balance is in pre-
mise?. Six months e.go £6157 was spent on
a new building site, and there was talk of
selling 5000 more shares to build new offices,
but so far the directors have not proceeded
with the issue.
* * * *
Choiseui. Plantations, Ltd. — This Syd-
ney co. (it is under the Burns-Philp wing)
Tuns five estates in the old German
Solomons. All have now been developed so
far as it is proposed to do it yet awhile;
shareholders are told that “the limit of
7000 acres placed on the co.’s operations has
been attained, and development work has now
ceased, so that beyond the necessary plant-
ing of native foods no additional areas will
be dealt with for the present.” That means
that the drain on shareholders’ funds will
ease, and that it is now a matter of waiting
for the plantings to mature. To what extent
shareholders will be rewarded for their enter-
prise depends, of course, on the state of the
world’s copra market (which is at present
very sick), the availability of labor and the
health of the estates. Production has already
commenced: the 1913-14 plantings came into
bearing during the 1919 financial year and 60
tons copra were shipped; last year the out-
put was 211 tons; for the current term more
than 400 tons are expected. At the latest
balance the 1250 £lOO shares had given the
co. £118,750 (£9l per share), and of this
£108,958 had gone in acquiring and develop-
ing the properties. The co. has apparently
more or less overcome the labor-shortage
troubles which had retarded its progress: the
labor team in November last numbered 868,
but now that development has ceased the
force is to be reduced to 700.
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd.: —
Dec;., Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1910 .. £26,289 6) p.c. = £18,492 £56,823
1911 .. 34,910 8J ~ „ 24,656 67,077
1912 . . 38,009 83 ~ ~ 24,656 80,430
1913 . . 34,717 81 ~ ~ 24,656 90,491
Premiums on new shares, £1032 . . 91,523
1914 . . 24,970 8 p.c. = 24,000 92,493
Written off. £18.721 .. .. .. 73,772
1915 .. 15,522 5 p.c. 15,000 74,294
1916 . . 23,184 0 „ ~' 18,000 79,478
1917 . . 33,441 8 „ ~ 24,000 88,919
1918 . . 40,528 10 „ ~ 30,000 \ 0R „, ,
Vote to Superannuation. Fund, £2500 j ’
1919 .. 34,510 8 p.c. - 24,000 (
Vote to Superannuation Fund, £2092 ) ’
1920 .. 37,981 8 p.c, = 24,000 ( , 17 sns
Vote to Superannuation Fund, £1538 ) ’
This co. not only Show's its profits less cur-
rent taxes paid and provision for future
assessments, but also clips, both from profits
and dividends, the amount shareholders are
obliged to pass over to the British Treasury.
For the past year the British div. tax was
Bs. 4d. in the £ (it was 4s. Id. for the pre-
vious year), and instead of the 8 p.c. div.
absorbing £24,000, the accounts show only
£20,000 passed out to proprietors. So to the
£26,106 net profit given by the accounts,
in the table above the £4OOO div. tax has
been added and also £7875 of profits on
realisations which went directly into re-
serves. Considerable profits from realisa-
tions have been made in bygone years, for the
Melbourne, Trust originally set out chiefly
as a dealer in old wares, and it still shows
£220,648 worth of them on hand —all that,
is left of four derelict banks: the City of
Melbourne, Federal of Australia, English and
Australian and the Mercantile. After these
banks had crashed asset cos. took over all
that was left of them: the Melbourne Trust,
in turn, took over the four asset cos., though
the Mercantile’s wreckage was not towed in
until about IQ years ago. The Common-
wealth's recovery from the orgy of the
'eighties was so swift that the English and
B>cotch crowd who stood behind the Trust
did exceedingly well. By 1910 the deben-
ture debt of £802,485, with which the co.
was loaded.when it started, was paid off, and
the, management, was able to show £148,709
surplus of realisations over book values.
And values generally were so much improved
that it was then decided to write-up some of
the assets. As a result, shareholders were
presented with £246,559 of gift debentures
carrying 4 p.c. That happened just prior
to the opening of the introductory table.
There has been another re-arrangement since,
but all except £37,588 of the bonus deben-
tures have now been redeemed. This shows
how the several debenture issues have been
swept away, and also the fat profits that have
been made from unloading old assets:^—
Profit on
Purchase Profit on
Debentures Redeemed of De- Property
Outstanding, during Year, bentures. Sales.
1906. . £189,579 £72,804 £648 £31,274
1907.. 160,693 38,886 213 15,545
1908.. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
1909.. Nil 89,241 7 47,435
1910.. 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
1911.. 151,057 42.896 1838 3,624
1912.. 93.882 57,175 443 12,644
1913.. 92,970 912 49 7,677
1914.. 37,847 55,123 691
1915.. 38,087 2,127
1916.. 38,087 3,767
Loss.
1917.. 38,087 1,866
1918.. 38,087 3.239
1919.. 37,656 431 ? 1,842
1920. . 37,588 68 £7875
The co. is no longer merely a seller of busted
banks’ belongings. During the past year,
except for one city property, realisations
were “comparatively unimportant.” The pub-
lished balance-sheets clearly divide the
Trust's assets: —
Old Cos.’ New Purchasers' Cash.
Assets. Investments. Balances. etc.
1906. . £417,586 £8,034 £111,045 £26,664
1909.. 267,928 20,363 113,334 59,439
1916.. 329,207 68,480 58,976 1,485
1917.. 296,232 90,174 68,128 5,243
1918.. 253,571 113,680 78,048 30,369
1919.. 241,522 129,526 45,785 62.739
1920.. 229,648 133,374 42,421 88,607
The old assets are shown at the 1910 re-
valuation figures, but their approximate
present value is known only to those inside.
They include a sheep station and a sugar
estate, the latter having been lately passed
over to the Penang Sugar Co. for £125,000, the
figure at which it stood in the Trust’s books.
The Trust holds all the shares in this sub-
sidiary. Of the new investments no less
than £62,000 is War Loan holding. To
represent the £300,000 of capital, at Dec. 31
the Trust showed £214,161 of new invest-
ments, “well-secured” purchasers’ balances,


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flamo. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wjre handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets. Melbourne. — Advt. [2
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
Have you ever investigated the merits of high-
class wood pipe as a water conduit? If not you will
be wise to do so, for you will find that it affords an
efficient service at a cost, both first and last, that
will surprise and gratify you. “Pioneer” Wood Pipe
is much cheaper than metal pipe; it is preserved
by water and can neither rust nor corrode. Its
carrying capacity is, from 15 to 20 per cent, greater
than that of metal pipe, and this capacity remains
constant while metal pipe decreases with age. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove.— Advt.
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * #
Inventors. — Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office, tel. Cen. 5035. And at Chullis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• * « •
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, . England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants ;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
1921 Models “National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
„ —Advt.
* * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertlin"’*
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
. S ’ wnte for particulars. 11. B. Selbv it Co..
Ltd. 260 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for deliverv in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4|d,
1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada
j 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MTLWAItD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
r
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Si
DT
- Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
ELS
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
cash. etc. To represent the £8,1,830 of capi-
tal not covered by new assets there were the
£229,648 of sheep station, sugar estate and
other old properties. So while the credi-
tors of the old banks had to go pretty
hungry, there has been considerably more
than 20s. in the £ for the people who took
over the funeral arrangements.
* * * *
Adelaide City Council has decided to make
a change in its lighting. Gas has worked
alongside electricity till now, but the con-
tracts run out at the end of August next
year. The fresh terms offered seem to the
council to show an advantage in favor of
electricity, and it is to have a monopoly.
The Gas Co. is not worrying much. As the
demand for illumination lessens, that for
heating increases. Suburban Adelaide homes
have burnt wood hitherto, but n>w genei'-
ally demand gas-stoves. The co. if extend-
ing its mains everywhere, and is about to
float 8 p.c. debentures to finance the cost.
The Electric Co. got in first in this respect.
It asked for a quarter of a million at the
same rate, and the list closed last week
several times over-subscribed.
“Ex-Broker” recalls the bad old days:—
The housebreakers have demolished the Old Ex-
change in Coilins-street (Melb.), for so many years the
home of the Stock Exchange. What a pity it ever
left the building to cross the road! The purchase
of the land opposite from the E., S. & A. Bank took
place when the Broken Hill boom was on the crest
of its wave in 1888, and when the expenditure by
the Gillies-Deakin Government between 1886-1890 of
£10,000,000 of foreign loans caused a land boom,
compared with which the recently deceased boom of
1915-20 was a pigmy. The population of Mel-
bourne in 1891 was 490,896 ; it is now estimated
at 766,350. Seats on the Stock Exchange were sell-
ing at £2OOO, and one unfortunate, B. It. Harris,
Mark Moss’s son-in-law, paid £2500 for his cane
chair. But how we did turn over shares! Broker-
age on Hills at £l2 10s. was 2s. 6rl. a share, Cen-
trals at £l3 10s. cost 3s. and on Souths, at one time
£l7 10s., we charged 3s. 6d. It was a poor day
when my corns, did not top £lOO. The Exchange
committee sold so many seats at absurd prices that
they collectively lost their heads, and, instead of
buying the building they occupied, or a part of it,
the funds were invested through the Stock Exchange
Property Co. in a Gothic white elephant over the
way. If they had put their funds into Government
debentures instead of into griffins, gargoyles, stained-
glass windows and darkened' rooms, every old member
would have been drawing a pension, or, at any rate,
would have owned a seat worth £5OOO, instead of
the modern figure of £5OO. The late B. J. Fink,
who paid one half-penny in the £ on £1,520,175
of liabilities, was the leading spirit on the commit-
tee at that time. There were three sessions a day,
besides a truly enormous business in the vestibule
of the Exchange, a narrow strip or corridor between
the ramshackle wooden offices without ceilings on one
side and dark, airless cavelets on the other. Chap-
man and Wakley, Ltd., did the biggest business, and
so much feared were they by their fellows that a
rule was passed forbidding limited cos. to act as
brokers, or become members. G. VV. Staples, now
on the London Stock Exchange, was this firm’s
representative, and he lias never had an equal as an
operator for rapidity or courage. Staples had a
habit of bluffing by crying his bids in unmarketable
quantities to overawe the small fry. One night
during the daily “whisky buck” at half-past five
Staples yelled out “Buyer of 5000 British at £5.”
1 tapped him on the shoulder and said, “You’ve got
them, Stap.” To my delight he said, “I’ll give
£5 2s. 6d. for another 5000.” My retort was
“They’re yours.” So- Staples took off my hands
10,000 British Broken Hills which had been cabled
me from London that day. The late Billy .Tones
was another spectacular operator fond of bluff and
having a keen scent for the trend of the market.
His most famous “straddle” was buying Melbourne
Trams all the way up to £8 and selling Mercantile
Finance all the way down from £9 to 30s. We
had two proper “corners” in the old Exchange—
Round Hill, near Broken Hill; and Bear Hill, near
Hillgrove (N.S.W.) ; and there was one abortive
“corner” of Duke of York shares in the new build-
ing. The men who engineered these “corners” were
too gjreen and too soft to make the bears pay in full,
and not one of the squeezes made money for any-
body. “Bill” Clark, of Robinson and Clark, now of
London, was one of the coolest dealers, and the
late Harry Karlbaum, formerly of Adelaide, was
easily one of the pluckiest. The Exchange members
of the first Broken Hill epoch were an exceptional
body of men, the most notable being Robert Wallen,
John Goodall, William Noall, F. W. Howard, Gavin
Brown, Alfred Clarke, Alick Lilley, Tom Luxton,
James Vickery and Walter Slade, all of them gone
to their long homes. The years have fled and the
glory of the Stock Exchange has gone with them.
It is a drab, dull, haunt nowadays.
The premium on gold fell so much recently
that the Gold Producers’ Association has been
holding on in the hope of a recovery. For
the seven months ended January the aver-
age London price tvas 114 s. lid. per oz.
(fine), but realisation costs would have
taken 2s. of that. Australian producers did
much better, though, for the G.P.A.’s astute
management found markets which returned
its members 115 s. Sd. per oz. net, and gave
then £91,000-odd more than would have been
forthcoming if the gold had been sold
thi'ough London. But as chairman Teddy
Dyason pointed out in March, the combina-
tion of circumstances which made the super-
premium possible was unlikely to recur, and
something under London prices was the best
that could be looked for. At the beginning
of March gold was quoted in London at
105 s. 10d., but by May 20 it had collapsed
to 102 s. Sd.—the lowest since the metal was
first quoted at a premium. However, last week
there was a recovery to 110 s. Id., reflecting
the further fall in the dollar exchange; but
that 4s. 7d. per oz difference compared with
the average of six months ago means a good
deal to producers, unless, of course, there has
been a falling off in mining and treatment
costs. Apparently the gold-mining industry,
particularly in Westralia, has had little, if
any, relief in that way. The G.P.A. made
an interim distribution of premium on May
30; of the £144,523 passed out Westralia
got £92,234, Queensland £24,835, Victoria
£18,990 and N. S Wales £OOlO.
* * * *
Oil is Westralia’s latest fancy, and some
of the prospectuses that are being passed
round would adorn a rogues’ gallery. In at
least a dozen areas scattered between Wynd-
ham and the Bight, “strong evidence” of the
existence of petroleum is alleged to have
been unearthed, and everyone is assured that
a big boom is imminent. A familiar old
trick is in evidence: promoters are declaring
that only a few shares have been reserved
for local allotment, and in order to avoid
disappointment persons anxious to get them
are advised to apply right away. It is up
to the Government to deal with some of the
wild-cats.
* * * *
Someone has just reported favorably on
the Hampton Daisy’s belongings, in which
Perth and Adelaide arc interested. Floated
at the beginning of the Hampton boom, the
co. first tried and abandoned a duffer south
of the White Hope. Then it moved on to
Lawlers, where it has used up most of its
remaining capital in putting plant on a
show which has practically no ore available
for crushing, and which apparently contains
only short shoots and disappointment.
* * * ft
The glitter of gold having departed,
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has become inter-
ested in clay, a controlling interest having
been acquired in a Cornish deposit. In the
opinion of the Board, clay promises to be
more profitable than gold-mining. The co.
still holds a substantial interest in the Cali-
fornian Plymouth Consolidated, managed by
W. Loring. Since its flotation in 1914 that
show has had a steady and profitable career.
From Kalgoorlie: Minister for Mines
Scaddan has put a damper on the spirits of
south-end boomsters by announcing that
down to a depth of 600 ft. there was nothing
“which justified assay” in the core of the
much-talked-of “angle bore.” The bore
put down by the diviners was alleged to have
struck rich values in places, and on the
strength of this nearly 100 leases .covering
2000 acres or so of mostly lake country
were pegged. Then the Government took a
hand and had a second bore drilled under its
supervision.
* * * *
Recent happenings at the Golden Butter-
fly’s new venture at Southern Cross
(W.A.) appear to endorse the “Wild
Cat’s” belief that the show is a risky
one for the co. So far estimates have
not been confirmed by returns, and as usual
in the case of Adelaide-controlled cos.
the cost of working is much greater than
was predicted.
The Paris, on the outskirts of the St.
Ives district, is another Westralian venture
which continues to worry shareholders.
Some thousands of pounds have been spent
in grubbing about near the surface, but the
prospect of dividends appears hopeless.
/ * *
The latest Larut (F.M.S.) accounts cover
the 11 months to November 30 last, per-
formances comparing with those of the two
previous years in this way:—
T.eated Recoveries Realised Working
Dec., c. yd. lb. per yd. per yd. Costs per vd.
1918 .. 991,000 .91 10.9 d. • 4.9 d.
1919 . . 887,000 1.19 18.2 d. 7.5 d.
Nov.,
1920 .. 837,000 1.16 21.8 d. Bd.
But that last line is ancient history now;
and conditions have entirely altered. The
tin market having thudded, Larut, like all
other producers, has had to exert “great
effort” to bring down working exes. During
the period covered by the accounts the co.
averaged £176 per ton for its concentrates
(the average London price for metallic being
£305), and made a net profit of £47,418. Of
this shareholders got £30,000 (12s. per
share), a very sweet 60 p.c. on the £50,000
paid capital. The boom markets put Larut
on a great run. Before the dredge got to
work towards the close of 1916 the co. had
to go outside for £13,000 to help things along.
Since then £15,000-odd has been spent on
acquiring new areas, shareholders have had
£131,250 in divs. and shares in other cos.,
and at November 30 there was a surplus of
more or less liquid assets over liabilities of
£23,000-odd. There is still about 13* mil-
lion e. yards of payable ground ahead of the
dredge.
» * + *
There is a flutter in oil just now in Mel-
bourne. The Victoria Oil Co. went off flying
in 300 shares of £lO. It proposes to seek
oil indications in 002 sq. miles between the
Baines and East Baines rivers (N.T.), south
of the late Joe Bradshaw’s station. This
area was prospected by the late W. A. Camp-
bell, once an engineer on the Cairns railway,
who declared that he found a seepage and
is said to have brought back a sample of
petroleum. Percy Cook and Co. some years
ago sent an expedition headed by an elderly
oil-driller from California named Mac-
Donald, who was supposed to have got within
10 miles of Campbell’s seepage and then re-
turned to Darwin without finding anything.
Now one of MacDonald’s party, G. C. Colder,
has gone via Wyndham to look for Camp-
bell’s alleged find. People holding Govern-
ment permits and interested in supposed oil-
areas in East Kimberley and Victoria River
(N.T.) have sent J. L. Strevens to investi-
gate. If Strevens likes prospects his co.,
the Australian Petroleum Development Co.,
hopes to secure the backing of a leading
British oil group to exploit the areas. The
Northern Territory Petroleum C O . is another
.eo. which is being formed. It proposes to
send a petroleum geologist on tour with a
man connected with a previous expedition
to locate bitumen and mineral wax, or ozok-
erite, said to have been found in 11)01 by
the late R. Aikman, east of Blunder Bay,
on the Victoria River (N.T.). The geology
of the Victoria River basin is favorable: it
is tertiary and belongs to the younger jurassic
series.
Last month an average of 4fdwt. for 1402
tons was all Constellation could contribute to
Bendigo Amalgamated. But Carlisle has
been coming to the rescue with a lot of pro-
fitable ore, its 211)0 tons averaging almost
Odwt.
* * » #
Though 59} tons tin concentrates passed
through Great Britain’s bands during the
half ended April, owing to the sick tin market
and heavy costs the old Emmaville (N.S.W.)
co. could squeeze only £l4O of profit. The
Y-Creek ground has been in the hands of
tributors, and 25,500 c. yd. there gave 21
tons, an average of 1.71 b. On the co.’s 500-
acre lease at Emmaville it got through 21
acres on its own account, 33,294 c. yd. giving
38 tons, the average being But under
present conditions profitable working is not
possible there, and as an alternative to shut-
ting down the mine has been passed over to
employees on tribute. Great Britain fell back
on its substantial reserves to pay 4s. per
share (£2000) in divs. As a result the
liquid position has been cut into, but it is
still solid. At April stocks of tin, fuel and
stores, investments, etc., totalled £7500, and
on the other side there were creditors for
£4095, the surplus thus being £3471 —almost
7s. per 10s. share. The book value of plant
and machinery exceeds the paid capital of
£5OOO. The mines have been written down
to a nominal value of £2OO.
Development at the Clark-Wesley, Gun-
dagai (N.S.W.), has now reached a stage at
which the manager “earnestly advises” the
immediate installation of a battery. The
co.’s No. 3 shaft is down 79ft., but at 02ft.
the lode was found to have been displaced.
From a crosscut at 77ft. the lode has been
tapped, and, though water interfered with
thorough sampling, rough samples have indi-
cated 15dwt. It is now proposed to open
out at the 05ft. level. Down to 00ft. the
course of the lode has been proved for 700 ft.,
and calculating on an average width of Oft.
the Clark-Wesley is reckoned to offer 21,000
tons ore which “will return £1 per ton clear
profit” and keep 10-head in constant employ-
ment for three years. The No. 3 shaft is
being equipped with winding plant.
* * * *
The gold lodes at Mount Clear View,
which is one of the outside mines of the old
Cape River diggings (Q.), have been over-
hauled lately with fair results. Two of
the veins are small, but, generally, values
are good. The footwall lode runs to 2ft.
or 3ft. of quartz, but though it often looks
poor, some of the samples tried wept over
2oz. The lode is very noticeable, having a
big, hungry-looking quartz crop on top of
a ridge. Consequently it has been tried
several times, but it has never come up to
expectations, although not enough work has
been done to give it the test if deserves.
There are several other reefs in the locality
that give good prospects. The Oxley Queen,
on Oxley Creek, was one that showed nice
gold in a 2ft. reef when Shetland and Wilson
had it. The.t were driven out by drought,
and, taking on shooting, hit on the White
Mountain coalfield, down towards the Flin-
ders. The Queen was then turned down.
The mother lode at Ravenswood (N.Q.),
a big dyke formation carrying low gold
values which cuts the Grant, Sunset and
other reefs of that field, has been prospected
lately, but is now under exemption to see if
results attained are good‘enough to attract
cash to work it. A shaft has been sunk
36ft. and a tunnel is along the lode for 60ft.,
both in values ranging from 3dwt. to 4dwt-
A crosscut in 30ft. gives similar values, and
the management reckons on lSs. to 20s. a
ton from treatment if it can rake in the capi-
tal to give it a spin. Most of the cos. on
the Oaks held are crushing stuff worth less
than 10s. a ton, but at Ravenswood, which has
been accustomed in the past to reckon in
ounces instead of dwts., such low-grade ore
has hitherto been spurned. But these low-
grade propositions now seem the only hope
for some of the old northern fields.
From a man on the spot:—
No doubt, as. the ‘‘Wild Cat” says (B. 26/5/’2l),
the advent of sulphide ores was one of the reasons
why the old Norma nby field received a set-back.
But it was not the principal reason. The inaccessi-
bility of the field, combined with the diversion of
public interest to other new fields which were
opened about that time —the Palmer, Hodgkinson and
Towers—made it extremely difficult to coax capital
to work the Normanbv sulphides.
The ground now being worked is distinct from
the old field —it is six miles away, over a big range
of hills. And apart from what sulphides it may
bring forth, there is brown-stone ore down to 100 ft.
which will give years of work. Four distinct reefs
have been opened up, all of which, I am confident,
will crush 2oz. to the ton. There are miles of
reefing country, and I consider the area already
proved five miles square. So it is something more
than “a promising little field.”
The Billy Hughes co. has appointed as manager
Walter Colley, who ran the Percy mine for Chilla-
goe, Ltd., but more recently was inspector of State
mines for the Queensland Government. Mr. Colley
treated the difficult complex ores of the Percy with
great success, as he also did the complex ores of
the Etheridge district. Since taking on the Billy
Hughes he has had a look at the sulphides of the
old field, and is confident that they can be treated
successfully, and without prohibitive expense, by
modern methods.
(Continued on page 22.)


TVrn a .
''.Nevetr i»inj cLe^ane,. TifaXt t'urxz.
She i"ak<zs it frozen you ,
pull ha.r hair down*/
S u g ? g)«sir«£.cl ho
Costume, to Tr>a.W
tb« by
*sun<ico.y Sehaols. __
Vikiro-pm^
(or
-fK<z Umpire..
M T?<w*ri<z-. loo\.. z»t
the Boy
you,"
if n»
VV hare. •
Ka.c y
Non - Comba.'t'^nlrs,
' C2>ptAjtv dM you notice which Boy ~, storing '{ v
THE GRAND OLD WINTER GAME—UP-TO-DATE.
Sydney girls have decided to play Rugby football. Eight clubs ar being formed, and the costume will consist of jersey, short pants, etc.” —Daily paper.


A Peapes Sports Goat
of many uses.
This exclusive Peapes Sports Coat gives excellent sports
ser\ ice, and is ideal for travelling or lounge wear.
It is made ample, for freedom of movement, while the
woollen texture guards against chills after a strenuous
game.
In Brown Heather mixture Heavy English Tweed, with
full pleated back, half-belt and vent. Four outside patch
pockets, three-button front, leather buttons.
Peapes’ competitive price
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
UI.MUC pULL'IJ
72/6
Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Wl'k
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. r „
Vie Personal Writing "Mhchina
Has taken harder punishment
than any typewriter built.
Weighs
but
6 pounds
G
Price
only
£l7 17
%
Sole Distributors:—
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
19 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
363-365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
THAT WAS THE TROUBLE.
"I don't know what your father can have
against me, I’m sure. I’ve done no-
thing.”
“ That’s what father says.”
“6T6” : It was at an n.c.o. school at Rifle
Range (Q.). The school sergeant-major was
a W.O. whose job it was to “roar-up” all
ii,,. . . , , _
and sundry, and he earned Ins dough Dur-
ing a forenoon smoke-o he explained to a
mob of would-be corpoials that they had no
initiative and less brains; also that they
might make officers, but never decent n.c o.’s.
He wondered wliat under Heaven any of them
would do in a crisis. Glaring and pointing
Ins cane at a mild-looking chap, he said :
Mere you ever m a crisis i” The mild,-look-
ing chap said \ es.” “Ho! Missed the last
1 • s P°f e ) ;. Ao, the way-backer said,
slowly and deliberately. I once had to burn
dead blackfellow, and there was only green
wood to do the job with, and the police less
rhan 10 hours away.” The W.O. suddenly
remembered he had to get on with the war. ‘
io day motor-cars and cycles are run-
ning about on alcohol, which is purchasable at
a lower rate than petrol,” savs the Age. More
than ever the spirit moves us:
* * * *
“The Parson’s Daughter”: Hogan lay
d\ ing in his shack eight miles out from
Burnt Log. He had sent for the parson
three times in a fortnight, but after each
visit had recovered. The cleric received a
fourth call at midnight. "I'm not foolin’
>er this. time, parson,” said Hogan from
ins bed in the corner. “A blowfly settled
on me nose this mornin’. I says to him, 1
says, ‘You’re too early, my friend, too early.'
Me daughter’s druv him out times and again,
but he’s always came back; so yer haven’t
ad the trip fer nothing this time.”
* * * * *
E.L.R. :’I hi gripped one Maoriland trans-
port, and nearly everyone aboard went down
to it. But Paddy O’Rourke, of Timaru, still
stood on his feet, and, being invaluable in
a hundred capacities, was allowed manv
privileges, the most appreciated being an
extra ration of rum. One day lie was offi-
• iatipg at a funeral as padre, undertaker and
mourner all rolled into one. The corpse
slipped as it was being pushed over the side,
!!\\-i ildd y tugged at the ropes to steady it.
"Whoa, ye divil,” he grunted: “don’t be in
such a hurry—wait for yer little bit o’ eere-
moliy !
By a Bulletin man at Wellington (M.L.) :
\Vhen Professor and Mrs. Farr arrived on the
Llimaroa the lady caused a stir by refusing to
take the oath of allegiance, and consequently did not
land on the first day. I interviewed her on the boat
and she told me her refusal to take the oath was
nol because she was not a loyal subject, but for
reasons associated with her ease. “If it is intended
to incarcerate me in a mental hospital,” said Mrs.
Farr, “I wish the fullest publicity given to my case.
1 intend to ask for the support of the people here as
I obtained the support of the people of Sydney.”
The following day the Customs officials dispensed
with the oath, as she had expressed her loyalty, and
gave her permission to land. She was- at first still
indisposed to quit the steamer: she wanted to return
to Sydney, she said, because her evidence was needed
to assist in the agitation for an investigation into
the lunacy laws of N. S. Wales. Professor Farr,
who seemed much distressed, declined to say any-
thing beyond that his wife’s financial affairs were
in tlie hands of the Public Trustee, who was familiar
with the details of her case. The day before the
Ulimaroa sailed on the return voyage to. Sydney, Mrs.
Farr was before Page, S.M., who, acting on the
advice of five doctors, permitted her to go and
reside with friends in Wellington.
* * # *
“Copabella”: The pertinacity of the man
with a principle! The ranger of a .south
Vic. shire, trailing wand-
ering stock on a Sunday,
came upon the beast of
a stern Methodv in the
village street. He re-
ported the arrest to the
owner, but the latter not
only refused to pay the
penalty f g|t straying
stock but reported the
ranger to his council for
disturbing a ratepayer
on his wav to church
with gross thoughts of
money. The ranger took
civil action to recover
the pound fee, ss. The
Method y travelled 200
miles to defend the case,
rising from a sick bed,
but was so ill when he
reached the court that
the case was adjourned.
• . ~ , , A month passed and he
again travelled the 200 miles to defend. He
ti usted in the I.ord, not a lawyer, for defence
and was fined 10s and costs, and had to
pay the original ss. in dispute.
P>at”: I rarely think of military punish-
ments (including those that Pearce latelv
wanted to fasten on the cadets) without re-
membering the case of Olaf. Olaf was a
Finn, and, like many other Finns in the
AA.F was a good soldier, but touchv as to
discipline. It was after Bullecourt.’and at
inspection one morning the platoon was very
surprised to hear the officer reprimanding
Ulaf for having a smudgy rifle-barrel. We
heard Olaf swear: the officer pretended not
to. Next morning the same thing happened
More muttered curses and Olaf broke off and
cleared out of camp. Two days later he was
caught in Bapaume and brought back under
escort. In view of his good record the C.O
was very much puzzled, and at O R. next
day asked him why he had spoilt such a good
record. For two or three minutes he
vehemently declared that he was “set” by all
the officers, and did not intend to soldier any
more —he had. cleaned his rifle better than
ever before, and knew it was clean on the
second day. The C.O. sent for the rifle,
which was examined and found scrupulouslv
dean in the barrel, although it had lain aside
for a couple of days. Puzzled, he was in
the act of dismissing Olaf iu order to think
over the case, when he happened to notice
that the first finger and thumb of the Finn’s
right hand were discolored. Closer examina-
tion showed the fingers to be badly bruised
and the nails black. Olaf hissed out that
the damage had been caused through a Lewis
ANOTHER SORT OF CATCH.
"A month off for your honeymoon! Why,
when I got married it was on ,a Satur-
day afternoon and I was back at work
on the Monday morning."
"Quite all right, chief —but you couldn’t do
it with the pearl Em getting."
gun jamb three or four days previously.
About this stage the adjutant got a brain-
wave, and whispered to the C. 0., whose eye-
brows went up. The rifle was handed‘to
Olaf, who was told to ‘‘port -firms” for in-
spection. Sullenly lie did so. Into the
breech went the thumb of his right hand, in
order to reflect the inside of the barrel, as
js the custom. The mystery was solved.
The clean barrel reflected against Olaf’s
blackened thumb-nail had shown up as
smudged. Thus was a “nearly lost” good
soldier regained. <
“M.S.L.”: Some city magistrates will re-
lease the ordinary drunk p n his taking the
never-again pledge, arid the practice reminds
me of the one occasion that I acted as city
missioner. It was at Wentworth (N.S.W.).
The local drunk who had a reserved seat in
the dock appeared one morning after the
night before, full of tears, stale beer and good
intentions, pleading for just one more chance.
I’ll take the pledge,” he said. The Police
Magistrate (that’s me), knowing him as a
hard-worker when sober, risked it, and
THE INVINCIBLE LOGIC OF MAUD.
MOTHER: "Come, dear, it's petting late, and
you should he upstairs in bed."
MAUDIE : “But, mother, it won't be any
earlier up there than it is down here."
drew up the usual promise. The drunk
signed—and doubtless adjourned to the
nearest pub to celebrate the fact. Next day
the same old offender occupied the same old
seat in the same old dock on the same old
charge—plain drunk. The P.M. reminded
him of the pledge, and suggested this was not
playing the game. "Well, yes,” came in re-
ply, ‘‘l do remember signing something
yesterday, but I didn’t think it mattered!
seein’ as how I was drunk when I signed.
And,” lie continued, with a sudden burst of
indignation, "that’s where, 1 think, you took
a mean advantage of me state of mind!”
Since then I hae ma doots as to the efficacy
of police-court pledges.
"Orwell”: Sober, energetic and reliable,
Mrs. Phelan has an extensive clientele among
the housewives of our
neighborhood. Though
she has no children
the needs of a been'
husband keep her nose
to the linoleum six
days a week. Lust
Monday she turned up
with both eyes in
mourning. "M t . hus-
band giv' them to me.”
she replied to my in-
quiry. “I’m a good
wife to him, mend his
clothes, feed him and
give hint money for
beer and twortip, but it
ain’t no use. He's so
sensitive, ’specially
when lie gets drunk.
Well, a woman can’t
1' o rc e her feelings,”
she explained with a
sigh. “I don’t love
him, and lie knows it, and when he’s had too
much to drink he gets nasty about it and
—well. I get them!"
“Pastoria”: On our troopship coin inn
home the officers fed heavily, while the pri-
vates growled at their tucker. One young
two-pips in particular was a notorious glut-
ton. About a fortnight before we reached
Perth a daring Digger looked into the offi-
cers’ mess at mealtime and roared “Go for
your life, Nugget”—Nugget was the officer
in question—“you’ve only a fortnight left.”
* * * *
“Mr. Ocky”: I know why the War
Service Homes Department (Vic.) has
stopped carrying out its job. It is try-
ing to solve the problem of building
houses backwards. Opposite my hovel
one of the houses was started the other
year for a Digger who so far has paid
£2OO in deposits. Th,e first things to appear
on the ground were the window and door
frames; then some more wood, evidently for
mantelpieces, and a flagpole. A few dila-
tory workmen dug holes for a while. When
they were fed up they caught the train home,
and next day somebody shoved a few bricks
into the holes. The kids pulled most of them
out again on bonfire night. Not much could
be achieved after that pending the arrival of
the bath, which my wife reports to have come
at 10 a.m. and disappeared again between
3 and 2 p.m. Some of the bricks and holes
can still be seen where the kids left them,
and the window and door frames are getting
very hardy through being out in all
weathers. No work at all has been done
for the last few weeks, and I believe that
the Department refuses to proceed till the
Digger and his family are properly installed
on the ground, when it intends to build the
house around them, starting with the venti-
lators, the spouts and the dog kennel.
“Sixeriate”: The industrial law has been
got to such a fine point that the Katoomba
(N.S.W.) Council had to pay £2O recently
because it handed out tools of the wrong
shape to men on a muck job. Excavating
for sewerage purposes the workmen should
have used mullock picks, but were given,
instead, rock-choppers’ picks. This, of
course, made them rock-choppers; and the
Council had to spar up the amount men-
tioned to square the difference in wages.
“Tuart”: Into my ears comes a bellow
like that of a cow in the last agonies of
pleuro-pneumonia. It is Brown singing in
the bathroom. Every hashery has its Brown
—in fact, we are nearly all Browns to some
extent. Why do persons who have no more
feeling for music than a boa-constrictor, and
who would violently resent being asked to
warble in company, break into rude dishar-
mony at their morning ablutions? There is
nothing inspiring about soap ; and I dismiss
the suggestion that it is the musical tinkle of
Avater that sets the boa-constrictors going,
for a medical friend tells me that deaf mutes
also make a row in the bathroom. I sus-
pect that the habit dates back to a time
when a bath was a thing of fear and our
rude forefathers sang—just as the modern
boy whistles —to keep their courage up. In
a word, that there still lurks in the civilised
mind a crude, aboriginal dread of running
water.
THE ALBUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She gave me a little book
(Eyes upon me like a lover),
W ith a freshly gilt-edged look,
Crisp, new leaves and unstained cover.
“Dear”—her voice was like a kiss—
“ Please to write your name in thi>.“
Ah, her youth before me glowed,
Spotless as the book she proffered,
Whose unsullied pages showed
Not a scribbled line: she offered
Thoughts to me that caused me rue -
1 have got an album, too!
Stained anti blotted, leaves awry,
Torn and marred, with tattered covers;
Filled with names in ink king dry,
Thoughtless sins, forsaken lovers.
So; my soul cannot refute-
'Tis a book of disrepute!
Innocent l saw her stand:
Side bv side I marked our measure ;
But with even steady hand
Wrote a motto for her pleasure,
Such as moralists might write;
Then 1 passed into the night.
l.eft her. Will she some day know
What has checked me in my wooing '!
' outh’s young dreams with pure thoughts glow ;
Should my act be their undoing?
In that tattered book of mine
Are some early leaves I sliripe!
X.B.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


STA(a
LA6ER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
CLEAR YOUR LAND
&*■ m*.
i with the WONDERFUL
"DIGGER 1 WINCH
ONE MAN
GRUBBING MACHINE
It Saves Money, Time & Labor
Price Complete, from £l5
Undoubtedly the best but lowest
priced Grubbing equipment on
the market. Hundreds are now
in use.
WHY BE WITHOUT ONE?
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
and mention this paper
Quick Gears Pty. Ltd.
75 Penders Stree , THORNBURY, Melbourne, Victoria
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management ». f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Taixe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
"Sam Brown" : When the party broke up
after the G.L’.O. tower had drunkenl.v said
title o’clock twice, Simkins realised that he
was a bit too sozzled to go home to the wife ;
but after thinking it over he tossed up anti
decided to chance it. At his gate he steadied
himself, then crept up the path, and on the
doorstep carefully removed his boots. With
infinite patience and a panicky dread of
hiccoughs he crawled upstairs inch by inch,
slowly opened the bedroom door and slipped
inside. Then in the pitchy dark and grave-
like silence in which every hushed movement
sounded to his fevered ears like a shattering
crash, he undressed himself. It was a long
and nerve-wracking job. but at last Simkins
managed it; then he stealthily crawled into
bed and hung perilously on about two inches
of the extreme edge. When morning came
lie was alone, and it was then he remembered
that Mrs. S. was spending a few nights with
an old school-chum.
* _ » * s.
"Te Baharantiko” : The recent Balgowlah-
Manuka collision in Sydney Harbor calls
attention, to the behavior of craft when one
overtakes tin* other at low speed. Even when
a distance apart apparently sufficient for safe
passage, both craft, almost invariably come
together. Small craft under similar condi-
tions have an uncanny tendency to draw to
each other, despite the rowers’ efforts. Many
a good ash oar have I lost, snapped off in
such unquestionably unavoidable collisions.
Also, rowing-boats when approaching a
moored steamer broadside on at a slow pace
are caught in a sideways motion and snatched
against the steamer’s side. The accepted
explanation is that the universal attraction
of one body for another is given free play
in- the fluid medium of water; but the
strength of this attraction is worthy of in-
vestigation. In certain collisions at sea
it would seem to be just as important to
determine if the apparent was tin' actual
cause of the smash,, and whether the col-
lision was humanly avoidable, as to apportion
the blame to particular shipmasters.
“Swinger” : The dope used by lcadswingers,
such as iodine, burnt-sugar and washing-
soda (B. 12/5/’2l), was outclassed by the
petrol joke. A hypodermic syrmgeful' of
petrol was squirted into the cartilage of the
knee and produced a perfect case of syno-
TROUBLE AHEAD.
THE CLINGSOME THING : “It’s just lovely to
think that soon I will share your wor-
ries, Paul.”
HER LIGHT-HEARTED FIANCE: “But, yon
silly chicken, I haven't any.”
T.C.T.: M-m — but — er—when we are mar-
ried, I mean.”
v i t i s. This
malady was
v e r y prevalent
with the troops,
until a London
doctor, who was
making a nice
income fro m
slackers who
wanted to evade
service, was
caught. The
operation cost
as much as
£3O, I believe—
and then one of
his patients, an
A.I.F. sergeant,
got the wind up
and put his pot
on.
“Murkah” : The outbreak of war found a
number of German vessels wallowing around
our coasts, mostly along the southern
stretches. Immediately it was seen that
Britain would become involved all radiograms
were scrutinised, but only the message that
wasn’t clear on the face of it was blocked:
•so that outwardly Australian Radio carried
ozi as usual, and our harbors became traps
into which the German sailed. Everything
was going well w hen, with every ounce behind
it, Awanui (ALL.) screamed across the
ocean from Tahiti to the Bight a warning
"to all British ships” that a state of war
PATIENCE.
existed between Britain and Germany. Ger-
man ship-wireless was mostly attended to by
the fourth mate and watches were, lax ; but
one picked up the fool-message. Then the
fun commenced. lie started to broadcast
the warning, only to be “jambed” by Mel-
bourne Radio. For three hours the battle
continued, Melbourne sending continuously
from a book, each word backward. This
produced a ghastly .jumble, and rendered com-
munication an impossibility. After 1 three
hours the gear at Melbourne commenced to
bubble. Mount Gambier had been instructed
by urgent telegram to “come in” for jamb-
ing purposes, and Adelaide and Esperance
( W.A.) also chipped in to swell the discord.
Melbourne then stopped to cool off and to
prepare for the next devil’s chorus. Some
experiments produced a note like a circular-
saw going through bricks. Occasionally
amid the rasping Fritz’s piccolo could he
heard trying to fight a warning through. He
might as well have banged a jam-tin. One
by one the German vessels came into the fold
and were taken charge of. Coal-shortage
brought even the German man-who-knew into
Port Phillip. When one considers the possi-
bilities for mischief of a smart raider or
two among Australian shipping—well, de-
cidedly Australian Radio didn't fail that
time.
* * * *
“FY7” : Tlie money for buying tickets in
the big sweeps is often whipped up in queer
ways. None queerer than that which recently
bought a winning ticket in Queensland. The
old lady who purchased the ticket for herself
and her widowed daughter lived at Clermont,
a township which had been half wiped out
by a bursting lagoon several years ago. She
sometimes picked up a coin among the debris,
and when she had got enough she bought a
ticket. It hauled in £5OOO,
“Moe" discusses aspirin and nerves:—
The reflections of an autumn tripper (B. 2/6/'2l)
concerning the feminine habit of self-closing with
aspirin recall that “psychic effect” is commoner
among women than among men. Aspirin, which
chemically is acetyl-salicylic acid (that is to say.
ordinary salicylic acid into which the radical of
acetic acid has been introduced), is, from its
pharmacological structure, incapable of forming a
“habit” in the way that cocaine or morphine can.
Physiologically, it is not classified as a “habit-
forming” drug—that is, a compound which causes
tlie system to acquire a tolerance towards it, so that
the dose has to be frequently increased, with the
result that eventually a stage is reached at which the
system is thrown out of proper working order when
deprived of it. This property is essentially a charac-
teristic of the narcotic drugs, and is possessed by
only a few synthetic compounds. Yet, in spite of
this, thousands of women firmly believe themselves to
have formed the “aspirin habit,” a thing which does
not exist, and the fact that they suffer discomfort,
and in some cases acute distress, when forced to do
without their favorite poison, is due entirely to
psychic effect. In other words, they believe them-
selves to be the victims of a habit. Some time ago
a Melbourne private hospital had .among its patients
a woman of the highly neurotic and nervous type
who was subject to this delusion, and was convinced
that she could not go to sleep without her usual
issue of aspirin tablets. When the nurse refused
to give them to her she remained awake, apparently
in a condition of acute mental suffering; but imme-
diately she was given a couple of ordinary quinine
•tablets, which in appearance resemble aspirin, she
fell into a sound sleep.
“Casual Burglar’s Laborer”: The passing
of the, horse-drawn Black Maria in Sydney
will bring no regrets. The new motor-’bus is
a faster vehicle and offers more room to the
ladies and gents, who patronise it. The old
horse-drawn Maria had a partition running
down the centre to divide the males from the
females, but it was not thick enough to pre-
vent them exchanging pleasantries which
would make a bullock blush. In the narrow,
low-roofed coop the tile of prisoners had to
crush in each side in Sardinian proximity to
one another, I recall one trip in Maria.
Alongside me was a man I couldn’t see but
could smell. He remarked philosophically
that he would be glad to get out to Long
Bay again: he’d have a good hot bath and
reg’lar meals for a month or so, and then,
when he got out, he’d ask old D’Arcy (then
Governor of Long Bay) for a pair of new
boots. “I want that bath,” he said, reflec-
tively. “I been knocking about in all sorts
of places. I can feel ’em dropping off er
me!” I’m glad my next trip will be made
in the motor.
“Sidweelan”: The conversation had
turned on marriage ceremonies in general,
and the popularity of the military wedding
in particular. “Yairs,” drawled the hard-
faced Digger in the corner, “I ’ad a military
weddin’ myself. Her old man was so bent
on me marryin’ the girl that ’e said he’d shoot
me if I didn’t. Yairs, I was never so pop’-
lar in me life.”
* * * *
“M.D.”: To save trouble and heartache in
future doctors ought to be required to furnish
proper vaccination certificates setting out
the date and purpose of the scarification, and
whether it “took” satisfactorily, along with
the name and address of the vaccinator.
Travellers would carry these certificates
when leaving the country, and in case of a
hold-up in quarantine they should be required
to produce them before being set free under
surveillance. That would be more satisfac-
tory than a statutory declaration that the
scar was under seven. According to quaran-
tine regulations smallpox vaccination holds
good for only seven years, and it was this
that caught so many of the Niagara passen
gers napping in Sydney the other day. They
thought that once in a lifetime was enough.
Out of nearly 500 passengers a little over
60 were able to produce the half-inch scar
demanded by Dr. Mitchell; and, although
some of the scars looked a good deal over
seven—many of them indeed fully grown up
—a statutory declaration as to its juvenility
allowed the owner to go free provided he
reported himself daily. The fury of the re-
maining passengers, who could show either
no scar at all or only the remains of one
that had long ago perished from senile decay,
can be imagined. Naturally enough the pri-
soners took their revenge on the telephone,
but that didn’t help them much.
“Quirk”: Commonplace articles look
vastly different from 8000 ft. or so up in the
air. Our observation-balloon one day re-
ported “some curious white markings on the
ground at too great a distance for us to
say what they are.” (Map references added.)
In this particular sector we knew Fritz was
building a railway, but on account of his
clever camouflage its exact position was not
definitely known. An aeroplane was sent
over to investigate and photograph the
“curious white markings.” The pilot, who
had flown high, returned puzzled, and the
photographs, which showed some of the
marks to look like letters, only added to the
mystery. By this time lI.Q. were certain
that they were on to something big, so my
squadron was told to send over two machines
that were to fly low and definitely ascertain
the significance of the white markings. 1
was one of the pilots detailed for the job.
When we found the place one glance at
close range was enough, and we buzzed back,
all grins, to report. The things that had set
H.Q. agog were an innocent Frenchwoman’s
under-garments laid out on the grass to dry.
Some of m’lady’s ahems laid side by side
looked exactly like vv’s and v’s. After that
it was easier to crawl through the eye of a
camel than to mention whatyoumaycallems to
the balloonaties without becoming a casualty.
* * * *
“10-2-4" on the Public Oration craze:—
The unhappy man who, winning a Tatt.’s sweep,
never holds his head up from a pint-pot again, is
a common social feature. The war has evolved an
analogous unfortunate —the citizen who takes to
talk. Such a one is my friend Swingle. His former
military rank matters not, nor where he served, nor
"'hat he did. Suffice it to say that, despite the
furious protests of his fellow-warriors, he climbed
rung after rung of the British Empire Order till,
with the regretted arrival of the peace, he had well-
nigh attained the heights which are commonly
reserved for profiteers. Before the war he had lived
as quietly as any of us. He trotted off to a tram
at 9 a.m. ; passionately repeated what he had read
in the morning paper to his fellow-travellers;
plunged into a small office where, aided by a surly
boy and an ineffective telephone, he mysteriously
extracted a living from the community ; emerged at
5 p.m. and tore to a tram, repeating the arguments
of ids evening paper to his companions as he was
borne homewards.
With the crowding memories of past greatnesses
upon him the old existence became insupportable.
One cannot chaffer with people over telephones con-
cerning dripping or dusters while wearing full
uniform and two or three pounds of medals —and
out of uniform Swingle was wretched. Slowly but
surely he developed the public-meeting habit. His
wife wept and stormed; his friends reasoned. I n
vain. As the insidious habit grew his humble
business declined. The office-boy resigned .as a pro-
HIS FINISH.
“So Harry is engaged to he married! I
always thought he was such a trifler.”
“So did he—until he tried it on a widow.”
test against non-payment of wages; the telephone
was cut off. Swingle was now speaking publicly
two or three times daily. Church meetings, Rescue
gatherings, Empire Preservation bees, Freetrade
rallies, Anti-Socialistic revivals—all came alike to
him. So long as he could wear his uniform and talk
Swingle was satisfied. A day or so ago I read in
the sheet which had been his political and intellec-
tual guide for so many years, which had applauded
him in war, and reported him occasionally in peace:
Voluntary Sequestration.
Ebenezer James Swingle, agent. Mr. Cooperton
Smvthe, official assignee.
Another victim immolated upon the altar of success !
A WET NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It will be very wet in town to-night,
With hissing wheels .and yellow shining stones
And gurgling music and strange human tones
Of dripping eaves that whisper their affright
To the dark corners cringing from the sight
Of draggled Emily and squelching Jones....
And now the crowded tram with clangs and groans
Wades forward in a wavering pool of light.
But here a tender music on the land
Sings to the wet sweet things that drink the rain.
The warm lamp sets a soft luxurious glow
On friendly hooks that seem to understand
And gleam invitingly rich row on row,
Hearing the tinkling jewels on the pane.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


OV4-1
niiiimmniMiiiii 111 mYimriiiii mitt mm mm ill in
ftighi off ike Ice
ABBOT'S
LAGER
“ 3he Boer
Without a Rival "
! brewed from pure malt&hops only
•4900
W. ChorleySCo.Ltd.
S
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
J*
LADIES’ 8
CENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
j*
315 George St.
SYDNEY.
9
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst 'your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily, use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Hears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send .you a little booklet, and
place before you cur FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL.
N.S.W. Official
Assignee W. H.
PALMER
examines the
bankrupt.
The late Jim Page, M.H.R., was not an
avowed spiritualist, but. he had much re-
spect for Alfred Deakin’s beliefs under that
head. Page himself had reason to believe
in ghosts, for he swore he saw one on
several occasions in the western country.
It was a very restless spook which visited
the vicinity of his camp riding on a white
horse. It was visible also to Mrs. Page,
but on pursuit it always disappeared at the
edge of the forest country. Page several
times chased it fruitlessly on horseback,
lb' used to tell the story of the ghostly
horse and its ghostly rider in quite a matter-
of-fact way; and he could never be drawn
into jocular comment on spirit photography
or the like.
Australia lias lost another brilliant bird-
man in Harry Ryder Hawkins, director of
the Commercial Aviation Co. (N.S.W.). His
avro machine crashed with two passengers
at Gloucester on Saturday, and the pilot and
Tom Laurie, a returned soldier, were
picked up dying. Like “Toby” Watt, whom
he did not long survive, Hawkins was a
Legionnaire, and lie also had the M.C. and
the Croix de Guerre with palm. And he
was only 25.
Mention of Bishop Reunion's retirement
recalls how he nearly got pitched into the
shipping business. A cypher cablegram came
to the S.A. Governor in 1894, which, when
interpreted by the officials, read “Offer Ken-
nion Chinese junk.” His Ex. told them they
had better try again, and after another
struggle with the code book "Offer Kminion
vacant bishopric” was reached.
A man who knew a lot about the whim-
sies of old-time N.S.W. State Ministers and
their wives was Frauds Kirkpatrick, who
died the other day. Arriving in Australia in
1858, he shortly afterwards joined the Audit
Office, and thenceforward, until he retired
in 1904 from the job of Under-Secretary for
Finance and Trade, he had personal experi-
ence of 24 Ministers. Surviving his retiring-
age by 17 years, he was 81 when the end
came.
Adelaide has lost a lawyer of the old
school in Charles .Burton Hardy, who died
on June 1. He was born in a small cottage
on North-terrace, where the Adelaide Club
now stands; his father, a surveyor on
Colonel Light’s staff, helped in the laying
out of Adelaide. Educated at St. Peter's,
Ilardy was articled to Charles Cooper, a
nephew of the first Chief Justice of S. Aus.
Later he went into partnership with Charles
Fenn. Three sons, Burton, Thomas and
Guy, served in the war, and a wooden cross
marks the spot where the last-named rests.
On the discoverer of flying wombats:—
Louis Gricn, alias De Rougemont, who for a
season had the loan of the dear old Motherland’s
leg, is dead at last. He was that uncommon bird, a
seafaring Swiss, and below the gaudy superstructure
of mendacity that intrigued John Bull there was
this much fact, that during the ’eighties he saw
a good deal of life in Northern Australia. Grien’s
camping-ground in those days was Fremantle ( W.A. I,
and old hands speak of him without respect.
Rightly or wrongly, lie was regarded a> a quarrel-
some and rather shady adventurer. His disappear-
ance from Westralia coincided with the issue of a
warrant for his arrest on a charge of murder, but
the evidence seems to have been inconclusive; at
any rate the authorities never troubled to execute
the warrant in later days, when they had the man’s
address.
“L. Elby”: “M.D.” (B. 2(i/s* / ’2l) says
the blindness of Maxwell, M.H.R., may or
may not have been Caused by over-use of the
eyes. A knowledge of the man would sug-
gest that it was not. He reads but
little law ; his library would almost
shame a junior. Maxwell is a
God-gifted advocate —not a book-
learned lawyer. Poring over his
briefs? These receive generally
only a last-moment scansion, which
in his case suffices. It is told of
him that a solicitor, having deli-
vered a brief several weeks pre-
viously, requested, on the eve of
the trial, a receipt for the fees
paid. Maxwell’s clerk had no
record of the payment, and asked
when the cheque had been sent.
“It was pinned inside the brief when deli-
vered.” was the reply. The prisoner was
acquitted, notwithstanding.
Tom Skeyhill, the “blind signaller” of Gal-
lipoli, has got back to the U.S.A. from his
inquiry into Bolshevism and the social con-
ditions of Russia, and has started off on his
lecture tour with great success. He hopes
to pay a holiday visit to Australia in Sep-
tember.
Cecil A. Coghlan, a Sydney solicitor, is
vaguely mentioned as a likely appointee
to the Upper House and a probable Solicitor-
General if Sproule takes a judgeship. Coghlan
is a member of the brainy family which carries
Agent-General Timothy on its strength.
Brother Cecil has always been sympathetic
with the unions. In 1908, when the Clerks’
Union was formed, he was first man to help
its funds; he handed it a cheque for two
guineas with a remark that he wished it
well but thought it hopeless. It was a
good deed but a rotten prophecy.
John P. Luke, ex-Mayor of Wellington
(M.L.), has got a knighthood. He was an
unassuming mayor, of the accepted M.L.
wowser type, and a useful member of Mas-
seyjs Tory party in the House. Though a
supporter of the Cold Water party, he put
up a record in the ’flu epidemic, when all
the bars were shut. Knowing that brandy
meant saved lives, he opened a free municipal
pub at the Town Hall, and was his own bar-
man to the queues that lined up to get spirit
for their stricken fellows. The Luke family
is among M.L.’s biggest ship-repairers and
ironfounders; and most of them —John and
his wife in particular—did fine things for
the Digger during the war.
R. .T. Champion, who has been accountant
in the S.A. Agent-Genera l'.s office in London
for four years, is to return as secretary of
the Adelaide Hospital. His place in London
will be taken by E. A. Peake, eldest son of
the. Premier who died last year.
A real soldier-parson is E. H. Faulkner.
He was a dispatch-rider in France for the
artillery for two years. For the past two
he has been doing church work at Sunshine,
near Melbourne, and studying for full quali-
fication as an Anglican preacher. Last week
he got it, and with it the parish of far-
northern Orroroo in South Aus.
“Ajax”; Reference to the quick temper of
Richard Butler, Speaker-elect of the S.A.
Assembly (B. 2/0/’2l), reminds me. Butler,
who was Commissioner of Public \Vqrks in
1914, was asked in the House for certain
information about two bores in the south
park lands. “How can I tell the lion, mem-
ber?” said Butler impatiently. “I can’t
carry all the bores in Adelaide in my head.”
“Why not?” asked Bill Denny, from the
Labor benches. “You carry one on your
feet.”
Two trifles in the early judicial life of
N. S. Wales Judge Backhouse show he had
then the same reputation as he carried from
tin* Bench the other day. Nearly SO years
ago, when Sleuth, Ferguson and others
were sent to Deniliquin to be tried, things
were so contrived that Backhouse was
appointed an acting Supreme Court Judge to
take this court: and when it came to send-
ing somebody to Maoriland to make a report
—a sympathetic report, was hoped for on
tin l operation of the then brand-new Arbitra-
tion law, th»' same judge was nominated for
that job, too.
It looks as if Irvine, C.J., will lie Chan-
cellor of the Midbourne Uni., like his prede-
cessor, John Madden. He has consented to
accept nomination to the council, as Dr.
Marshall, of Scots’ Kirk, is not keen on
seeking re-election.
Irvine champions a
free Uni. now. but
when he was State
Premier and Trea-
surer he was not
nearly so progres-
sive educationally.
Kyabr a m a-
pootra wouldn't let
him.
LISTER, Nationalist M.H.R.
for Corio ( Via. ).
They will really have to get a sign or pass-
word to prevent this sort of thing. Gaud
Mayor Lambert, of Sydney, and Comrade
Wallace, M.L.A. for Albert Park (Vic.),
travelled from Albury to Melbourne in the
same compartment, and glared at each other
occasionally. Each mistook the other for a
Tory politician. Hall-an-hour after their
arfival by the Sydney express they were in-
troduced outside a pub. Then they mourned
the lost hours in the train.
A yachtsman’s memory :
“Old Sally,” who only became known to most of
her friends as Mrs. Morris when she died last week,
was easily the oldest inhabitant of Broken Bay
(N.S.W.). if not of the entire Pittwater district.
She also occupied about its choicest site. Her hut,
under the trees, on the tiny peninsula which juts out
into the famous “Basin” where every ocean-going
yacht in the State has dropped anchor some time
or other, looks eastwards across the bay; it is
sheltered from the southerlies, and it has an en-
chanting background of precipitous palm- and tree-
clad rock. Sally was a born beachcomber. She
never wanted anything more civilised than the
kerosene-tin stone-doored dwelling, with its papering
of colored supplement pictures and yachts, which she
came to as an active woman of 30-odd over half a
century ago. The visitor couldn’t give her a more
acceptable present than a bottle of whisky—unless it
was two bottles. Warmed by the spirits’ cheering
influence she would tell strange stories of Mark
Twain, old John Robertson (“a damned old scoun-
drel, lad”), Lord Carrington, B. I{. Wise, Dailey
(“Ah! he was the kind man to an old woman!”).
.Tack Want, and many other celebrities. Mark Twain
visited her with Archibald and impressed her by
his silence and gloom. She had the same eye for
a yacht that the bac-kbloeker has for a horse, and a
wonderful memory for faces and names. She knew
Potts Point when, except for a few big homes, it
was mostly tea-tree scrub, and the Victoria Barracks
when none of the present huge Moreton Bay figs had
been planted; yet she never troubled to run up to
Sydney and witness the changes that had taken pla;
since she left it in the sixties of last century.
Canberra has lost an enthusiastic sup-
porter in Jim Page. He never lost an oppor-
tunity of urging' the Government to pack up
and get away at once. One night he began
in his rogue-elephant vein on an early depar-
ture. and. jarred hv a reference to the Cotter.
spoke quite feel-
ingly abo u t the
noble stream. In
the lobbies after-
wards Page, as was
his h a b it, w a s
whistling shrilly,
whereat someone
a s ke d h i m t h e
name of the tune.
“Shall We Gather
at the River?" bel-
lowed Jim, and the
emphasis h e n u t
on “r ive r” was
beautiful.
T. C. BRENNAN.
the Melbourne
barrister who has
been appearing for
T. J. Bpan.
G.H.R., in his libel
netion agoinst
Hobart MERCURY.
A nephew <>(' the lute Philip Fysh was in-
vited once upon a time to an nris-Toornk-it
water-picnic, and, being delayed through busi-
ness, missed the 'bus, or barge, or whatever
it was, by about 10 minutes. There were
two others, strangers to him and to each
other, in the same predicament; so they
chummed up, chartered a motor-boat, and
started out to catch up the party before the
fizz had wholly evaporated. “M.v name’s
Currie, ’’ said one, as they got under way.
“That’s funny,’’ said the second, “because
mine's Rice.’’ The third was silent for a
moment, but finally remarked, "I expect you
chaps'll think I’m an awful liar, but my
name’s Fysh.’’
Long sentences, some of them life sen-
tences, with the option of renewal, were
once common enough in Australia, but the
longest one happened only a few days ago.
There were 107 words in it, and it was
part of a note of 4000 words written by
Sydney Town Clerk Nesbit to Minister
Mutch, because the latter asked if the Coun-
cil felt like contributing a trifle towards
ihe State orchestra. The effort didn't quite
equal the same gentleman’s recent letter to
a suburban council, but it was no small
affair. ' Two craters, long regarded as per-
fectly harmless, are Nesbit and Popocatepetl,
the peak that looms to the south of Mexico
City. Now they have begun to rumble
simultaneously, and it is time for the in-
habitants to remove their furniture. It
is never safe to forget what happened to
Pompeii.
There was a curious coincidence in a re-
cent Inverell (N.S.W.) shooting case.
Thomas Smith Deane was one of the prin-
cipal actors in the affair; but .Tames \V.
Deane, who was not concerned in the mat-
ter at all, and didn’t know the other man,
received a shot in the leg when the bullets
were flying. A still more curious case of
coincidences was opened in Woolloomooloo
some years ago. A stranger from the country,
named Smithers, met a woman of the same
name and was going along with her when
another Smithers, her cousin, who had been
“keeping company” with her, met them, and
the row started. A boy, quite unrelated, but
also of the same name, ran to tell a police-
man ; and it was a Constable Smithers who
stopped the battle. When the parties ap-
peared before Smithers, S.M., the general
pervasion of Smithers tangled the court.
The extended term for which Peter
Mcßride was appointed Vic. Agent-General
will be up in August. It is certain that it
will be stretched another six months, thus
enabling him to complete nine years in Lon-
don. If he wants it he can get leave of
absence before February, 1922, and Neale,
the sec., can carry on for a month or two
till a successor is selected. Mcßride may
re-enter the Assembly, picking the newlv-
cast constituency which takes in parts of his
old electorate of Kara Kara.
Will Crooks, just dead in London, had a
story of his early days as M.P. A coster
constituent asked for two tickets for the
House of Commons gallery in Christmas
week. “Sorry I can't oblige,” Crooks wired
back; “House not sitting.” The good-
natured elector replied that it didn’t really
matter. “Two tickets for the Zoo will do
just as well.”
(Continued on page IS).
ENFRANCHISED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
St. Peter stood beside the Gate of Heaven
And yawned and yawned—the hour was just eleven—
When sudden up the pathway from the earth
There rose a vision boding little mirth.
Her brow was wrinkled and her voice was hard:
“Come now, St. Peter, why's ihe pathway' barred t
In spite of all th’ opposing trousered clan
1 got my Rights on earth from thieving Man;
And you, who’ve seen the world, must know for
certain
The days have gone for harem, bolts and curtain
And tying woman down to |>ot and ladle,
And bidding her forever rock the cradle.
So now, good warden, get yon busy straightway,
Don’t keep a lady waiting at the gateway !
St. Peter stared and stared. “But gracious, madam,
You surely know the rules —the curse of Adam.
“Yes-yes! I know the stories you receive.
Bi t 1 have come to claim the Rights oi Kve !
“Rut, madam, see, I cannot let you in
Unless you show your ticket —‘Shrived of Sin’ ;
You come as just a poor forlorn transgressor
Without a line from parson or confessor.
Th-; rules are strict, and if 1 let you break them
Short would my shrift be from the Powers that make
them.”
“Who cares for Powers? With suffragettian hammer
I smashed old Babel’s windows with a clamor,
And gave the Commons, too, a dreadful raking,
And smote the Ministry with fear and quaking.
If I had Sylvia P. to help me storm you
I’d wager, Peter, that we’d soundly warm you.”
The Saint looked worried sore. Why, in a moment,
He thought, she’d have the city in a foment.
“See here, good lady, there within the Pale
The angels cry for ever ‘Hail!’ and ‘Hail!'
To One whom all adore as He and Him,
From proudest peer to tiniest cherubim.
He stands surrounded by his guardians male,
St. Michael and St. Gabriel near the veil;
And ne’er a female ventures nigh the Throne-way,
No matter how she rage to get her own way ;
Those angels who were women in their earth-time
We keep secluded till another birth-time.”
The suppliant heard and blazed. “If this is so,
I’d rather take my chances down below;
I’ve never yet got down to creep and grovel
In lordly palace or in lowly hovel;
I’ll face the Devil as a free and equal.
No matter what the mischief be the sequel; •
And if they make things hot for me in Hades,
I’ll not claim special treatment for the ladies!"
She turned and fled. The Saint gazed grimly after,
Then shook his ancient, sides with heathen laughter.
qUEENSLAXD.
P. AIREY.


iKfe*” l ?*" f v *
«...
;-g*r *>
V-.vViv ’■.•Hj-.SfVi?;-" 'V r
r .‘> '* ■' , . t-*,O w .V-• f-;-. ;* .
* *, / V** i::- •■.#>.
•'.v y-t'%:: -* -x.<.
:•• V>-*. >v• • vy\*v V * .4 1 * V■• •*! v :
v. :; . -•5 •/• •.:•' f ,Vr.‘-*r! .
!; ;.f •*. v - v 5 • f ’ : v - ... * H ..
y *. .'• < .'• t '•% •"v. i W**- ,
$
ess
; :*/!!!a '.«(-fi
sss
ST'S
1 1
g x ;•■>>:
si
«
JSte
§E
m
lessons fro*
OERW^
•i
ig\ tests o guo-tu aT e \
v/Vietea- 5 sk e^
B \Teue-'^ ded : te i
'°\ 0a .r®^ 611 ' 8 r/re re^« ed V'
bul torP^o esWe t l ® a4eo !»W,
1 Tv/ototl tore tfce oS t
su’btft 0 - 1 '^ 6 tie s uroiS tbe eft©** 3 \
vinS Pa r t 3 conce^^ g en \
d - W '"
NOW that COMOX Welding Stations are located
in every district and indicated by the blue and
yellow welder sign, there is no need for any
waste of time or costly replacement expenses when
machine parts or tools break or wear. If you cannot
employ a COMOX plant continuously in your work,
look for the sign or ask us the nearest address. If
you can use an outfit, get ahead of competition and
write to nearest of the following for prices and all
particulars.
Peace hath her victor-
ies no less renowned
than war!
THIS newspaper report suggests a fine war
victory for Oxy-Acetylene Welding. What
wonderful strength! Those gun
could not be shattered by the heaviest gunfire.
They could be pierced only.
Similar peace victories are being gained every
day, as more and more metal goods manu-
facturers, plant owners, garage proprietors, etc.,
go over to the speedy and more profitable method
of repair and production by means of the Oxy-
Acetylene blowpipe.
Manufacturers of metal articles, if you still use
obsolete profit-consuming methods such as rivet-
ing, brazing, etc., you need the speed and thor-
ough efficiency of the blowpipe to turn out a
better, cheaper article at a bigger profit.
Engineers and Machinery Plant Owners, a COMOX
outfit enables you to quickly produce and repair
machine parts and tools. It keeps your plant in
running order and prevents lengthy and expen-
sive stoppages.
Garages, Repair Shops, Etc., with a COMOX
outfit you can get through a vast amount of
work compared with any other known method.
Your increased business and profits will soon pay
for the first cost.
Oil tank, capacity 100 tons
made by Oxy- Acetylene >
.
Welding
rcAc
W
mm
Cutting up a
boiler •
m a confined
space
Welding
cracked
frame
Fractured flywheel made strong again by Oxy-Acetyl
welding
Metal goods of all
kinds are made, too'
quicker and better
motor lorry
Hoist wheel in colliery broken
where shown and
speedily welded
•!
r 'p,: n s
P'p r , «i „
j’j-n, °r
Filling r
defect ti
* big
casting
bed broken in transit
Foundries use
Oxy-Acetylene for .
removing risers
made whole again
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Limited
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins St. ADELAIDE—Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Grenfell St.
BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle St. PERTH—Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street
LAUNCESTON—Harrison Bros. & to., Ltd., 20 Patterson St SUVA, FlJl—Brown & Joske


Australian-made
Implements and Engines.
w
SUNDIESEL SIX.
Starts from cold on Kerosene. No Lamp.
No Magneto. No Plug. Unrivalled for Low
Fuel Consumption in Chaff cutting, Pump-
ing, Sawing, etc. Water Cooled.
Stationary or Portable.
Ask for Illustrated Catalogues (free and post free) of
SUNSHINE ENGINES and FARM IMPLEMENTS.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS,
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER. STREET, PERTH.
MELBOURNE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
“Sol M.”: The retirement of Judge Back-
house removes one of Sydney’s few remain-
ing belltoppers from active life. How many
remain, I wonder.
When W. A. Holman was in Broken Hill
recently he wore a red rosette in his coat
and the Barrier wondered if he had made a
final somersault and landed somewhere about
the spot where he made his first political
kick-off. Before he left, however, the Minep.
explained that the decoration was merely
the sign of his Legion of Honor.
“Mrs. Lance”: K.C. Dick Windeyer’s
grandfather, old Walter Windeyer—known
as “Ugly Watty” by his intimates —con-
tracted a bad attack of whooping-cough
when well up in years, lie was violently
sick with every paroxysm, and consequently
used to dron to his knees in the nearest
gutter as soon as it took him. This hap-
pened in Pitt-street one day, and a bobby
who knew not “ Ugly W a tty” insisted on
running him in as a drunk and disorderly.
It tickled the old chap immensely ; he laughed
all the way to tin* station, and he turned
up next morning to answer his name and
Veil th“ story.
A WRONG DIAGNOSIS.
SIMPSON (greeting his old friend ): “Why,
Jones, it’s ages since I saw you last.
Married now, aren’t you?”
JONES : “No, no, old man, it’s not that.
Just business worry and nerves.”
Sam Gompers, president of the U.S.
Federation of Labor, married at 17, and now
at 70 he has taken to himself another bride.
The lady is the divorced English wife of
a German-American, and is younger than the
baby among Sam’s four children. But
Gompers, although it isn’t widely known, is
English himself. He was born at Spital-
fields, and got what little schooling he had
in that dingy region. lie is a cigar-maker
by trade, but has been president of the Labor
Federation since it was founded in 1881, and
still rules without a rival.
Jethro Brown, known abroad for his clas-
sical judgments and at home for his rusty
straw-hat, now combines the duties of pre-
sident of the S. Aus. Industrial Court and
chairman of the newly-created Board of In-
dustry. Jethro, once a sailor, recently turned
down an offer of a Professorship of Law
at Oxford —in the hope, some of his friends
say, that he will get a seat on the High
Court Bench. Noel Webb, who is deputy-
president of Brown’s tribunal, earned a boy’s
crust in a Hour-mill. Sam Mitchell, Com-
missioner of Insolvency in S.A., served his
time as a carpenter. Justice Angas Parsons
was destined for the cocky industry, and
holds a diploma of agriculture from the
Rose worthy Co liege. Justices John Gordon
and Tom Poole, both sons of the Church,
have never touched anything higher than
law. • Murray, C.J., was born with a golden
spoon between his gums, and so far has
not found time to marry.
11 is first appearance for tin; defence on
the part of a now well-known Melbourne
lawyer occurred many years ago in a Gipps-
land town, when an infuriated actress called
at the office of the local Tki-
bune to take it out of the hide
of the small editor for certain
drastic criticisms of her work.
The quaking editor locked him-
self in his sanctum and listened
to the semi-hysterical outcries
of the avenger. Presently, how-
ever, there was a
sudden alteration in
the tone of the aggres-
sor, and a second
female voice took up
the air. The editor,
peering out, discovered
his enemy in flight,
pursued by a large,
red woman who flour-
ished the whip and
encouraged Jitliet: to
greater speed with a
cut or two. It ap-
peared that a small,
astute devil had in-
troduced the printer’s
wife, declaring that it
was her husband’s blood Miss Fortesque
Jones was thirsting for. That ingenious
office-boy is now the big lawyer.
Among the drinkers at the South Aus.
wine-growers’ dinner recently was Harry
Young, M.P., grandson of Lady Charlotte
Bacon, to Whom Lord Byron dedicated
“Childe Harold.’’ He is the owner of a
vineyard at Ivanmantoo (S.A.) and keeps
a few good horses.
When the Navy Office' got Commander
Darley in to take charge of the naval depot
at Williamstown —since moved to Western-
port (Vic.) —h e
stirred them up
about the dilapi-
dated and decayed
condition of the
depot and said it
ought to be cleaned
out and painted all
over. The naval
serangs proceeded
leisurely to call
tenders for paint-
ing, and finally
got one for £328.
In great triumph
they told Darley
about it and said
the y would be
read y to start
when lie was. He
sent back word
that his own men
at the depot had
painted the dashed
place weeks before,
and that if they
would sen d a
cheque for £2B he
w ould call it
square.
CAPTAIN
STRICKLAND,
head of Victorian
pilots.
From an art chronicler in London :
With tin; return of I ambert, Sid Long and Charley
Bryant, there are now only about three N. S. Wales
artists left in London. Fred Leist, who devotes his
time mainly to figure painting, is an 1t.8.A. and a
regular exhibitor at th n Academy. He was one of
the official arista with the A.I.F. in France, and
painted a striking picture of the Battle of Polygon
Wood. lie began his career as artist on the Sydney
Mail ; and coming to London did a series of draw-
ings for the Graphic, one of which was bought for
the Bradford Gallery. His picture in the Sydney
Gallery entitled “A Study” was originally called
“A Nocturnienne,” a title that baflled everyone but
the boys about town. Hal Thorpe, the second of
the trinity, is now interested mainly in the decora-
tion of the home. He is the author and illustrator
of “Is Your Home Beautiful ?” and devotes much of
his time to engraving colored wpod-blhcks. Previous
to that he had exhibited at the Academy, the Inter-
national and other shows. Before he came to Lon-
don 20 years ago he was one of the few doing etch-
ings in Sydney, and two of his prints are in the
Gallery. The other Sydney' painter in London is
Arthur Burgess. As a youth he had the entrOe of
the Sydney Naval Depot (Garden Island), and there
became acquainted with the practical side of the sub-
ject that attracted him as an artist. He has
painted more battleships than any other Australian.
He has contributed to the Graphic and the Sphere,
lias done a number of important commissions for
Vickers, Ltd., and other companies, and he painted
“H.M.S. Chester” for the Corporation of Chester, and
the end of the Emden for the Australian War
Museum.
A SONG OF GOOD REVOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He was very sorrowful; for he was very rich.”
-St. Luke.
When men shall weary of sorrow'
And turn from the shadow of grief,
And of great sweet wisdom borrpw
The way of the wind and the leaf,
Then the world’s exchange shall be laughter
And a jest be the price of bread ;
And health shall come running after
The noise of the good thing said.
Now the sorrowful world is dragging
A hearse that is priceless and old,
And the steps of its heart are lagging
Over paper that stands for gold ;
For wherever the script is golden
With a promise of life to pay,
(The laugh on the lips Is liolden
And the shroud sits close on the clay.
Dreary the watch of our keeping
With the word on our lips unsaid ;
Surely our hearts are* weeping,
W'eeping for gold long dead.
Out of its grave did we raise it
From its rock-made sepulchre deep ;
And we look at the corpse and praise it,
While the vigil of wealth we keep.
Out on the faded sorrow
That stifles the joy of youth!
We shall bury the dead to-morrow
In a grave that is dug by truth;
And the solemn faces shall lighten
At the sound of the falling clay
On the coffin of gloom that could frighten
The mirth of the world away.
Then laughter shall wing like an arrow
From the mouth to the smiling eye;
The morning shall chirp with the sparrow
And the evening buzz with the fly ;
And the world, in the thing that is written,
While the white stars sparkle and nod,
Shall play with its tail like a kitten
To the glory of man and God.
Out of the cycles of wonder
This is the strangest yet:
Olympus frowns into thunder,
But the master of men is debt.
He pays and you pay and I pay ;
And a dirge is the echoing sound,
While with laughter the sun and the sky pay
Their rent to the laughing ground.
Sombre in yellowing sadness
We droop to the autumn of man;
But the gold of our life is gladness,
Ouir wealth since the world began.
Pile up the ledgers and burn them,
O fools, with your gods of chaff !
There are wheels in the heart; so turn them —
Men are only men when they laugh.
I that am lord of eiglitpence
Make these impartial sounds.
Still from my youth did I hate pence,
Though willing to smile on pounds;
And therefore have I been solemn
Over debts and their sad arrears
As the person who stood on a column
And kept holy for sixty years.
x.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


Linseed
and
Linseed Oil Meal
The Best Products on the Australian Market.
’Z’%
.
■
- - J
*<s
*
. ...<#*,,.-.-i.
■■»■■■■
~:--r :
:
l
>**?
i"
;
H
wmm
m
H
s-r rjg ;!KM»
..w
m
r s
5wW
Hl®
it
.. . -
i:
■
-■
»
&
asi
-Csl
Jftr
1
m
m
Aeroplane View of Barnes’ Linseed Oil Mills at Alexandria.
JAMES BARNES LTD.,
Alexandria, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Australasian Distributing Agent for Linseed Oil and Oil Meal —
HAROLD MEGGITT. Daily Telegraph Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


i 1
W
i
■
I
If
H
11
UK
■
I
■
ffiaSi
ill
Wk
% %
BALL BEARINGS
SELF ALIGNING ■ RELIABLE ■ ECONOMICAL
Full particulars from GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO., Head Office, 384 City Road, South Melbourne
Distributing Centres: —SYDNEY —225 Clarence Street. MELBOURNE—369 Flinders Street.
ADELAIDE—I 22 Currie Street. HOBART—Medhurst Electrical Works & Telephone
Ltd.> 15 Argyle Street. BRISBANE—Horsham House, Adelaide Street. PERTH—Unbehaun
& Johnstone, 37 King Street.
Callender’s
Electric
“C.M.A.
Cables.
G
The Highest Quality
British - made Cable
Manufactured by
hd
CALLENDER’S CABLE and
CONSTRUCTION CO. LTD.
Rubber Cable Works:
Leigh, Lancashire, England.
Heavy Marine Cable:
Frith, Kent, England.
Members of British Cable Makers’ Association and Manufacturers
of Every Type of Insulated Cable called for in Modem Practice.
#
Large Stocks carried in Australia, Prices and all particulars from
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; and Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling
Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth.
Have Our Standards Slipped?
nyr O WAD AYS, though we still send
I y Law in fierce pursuit of the burglar,
forger and bigamist, there is a com*
plaisant acceptance of certain forms of dis-
honesty which are camouflaged by pet names,
but which, in cold terms, are common crimes,
“Pinching'’ is the pet name that disguises
extensive thieving; and among some sections
of the community the capacity is viewed as a
rather-to-be-admired smartness and regarded
light-heartedly as being in the nature of a
joke, like throwing the other fellow’s hat over
the fence, or placing a banana-skin for him
to slip upon. “Pinching” was rife in Dig-
gerland, of course, and was accepted eventu-
ally as a natural state. Everybody “pinched”
back in return, and punishment and ven-
geance were meted out on the spot. But
where everyone “pinches” or expects to be
pinched, everyone is on his guard, and acts
as his own policeman. And, any way, the
Digger’s point of view was unique and his
own, and does not come into this argument.
As you move on, you find the “pinching”
replaced by the “perk.” Every occupation
is expected to yield its toll. There are de-
grees in the collection of the trifles, of course.
Some callings are barren of any material
yield to their followers. Most clerking has
very little in it. Bank-clerking is speci-
ally unproductive. The teller who balances
with cash to the good cannot pocket so much
as a ha’penny ; yet he has to make up any
deficiency when the balance goes the wrong
way. Even at office-boy levels there is but
a pitiful picking of blotting-paper, nibs, sta-
tionery, etc., at best.
But look at wharf-laboring as an instance
of lucrative pickings. The perks are amazing
in their variety and extent. And Society—“
you and I and the employer of wharf-labor
—placidly regards the habit as a fixed con-
dition, and all in the day’s Work. Ilow
Would the forefather of the Wharf-lumper,
who was transported for poaching bhe miser-
able little rabbit, regard the present purloin-
ing which is winkedf at so oftefi that it has
come to be looked upon almost aB a right?
Then how could we deny railway officials
the little that comes to them “on the side”?
And surelv the carpenter or the plumber is
worthy of the odds and ends of tools and
suchlike that he can pick up!
In the softgoods business the perquisites
are more abundant than in most. Samples
are plentiful, and little perks are simply
like ripe plums asking to be plucked. Be-
sides, as every softgoods proprietor is notori-
ously a profiteer, why hesitate to collect the
crumbs that fall from his groaning table!
Looked at from this angle, life seems to
have become a sneak-game. And because
perquisites are winked at in most callings,
and “smart” deals are looked upon with
admiration, the whole social structure wob-
bles from spire to cellar.
A brilliant young barrister the other day
in Melbourne defended a soap-sud queen who
had made a practice of selecting her little
perks from the wash-tubs. The pathos of
her family history and circumstances,
strongly represented by the brilliant young
barrister, completely exonerated her, in the
the eyes of the jury, and the impression left
on everybody when he had concluded was
that other people’s property should be con-
sidered as her natural right.
Have our standards slipped? And were
the days of transportation for rabbit-poach-
ing the “good old days,” after all?
HATTIE KNIGHT.
The Betrayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J~E done me in the eye all right, but
I | by keepin’ back a few'little faeks
he saved me a hextra three years
in the pen, so I don’t hold it up agin him
wherever he is.
“My infirmation was to the effeek that
the place was deserted mostly. It was one
iv those bungalow cabooses down be the sea,
standin’ well out on its lonesome ’mong the
ti-tree, with a hut handy where the care-
taker slep’. I got in as easy as openin’ a
sardine-tin, and didn’t trouble my head to
put a glim over the doss, but settled right
down to business at a little chest of drawers.
Presently I gets the jolt of me life.
"‘You did knock, didn't you?’ says a
voice from the bed.
"I gripped me jemmy, and crouched down,
sayin’ never a word.
“ ‘One of the family, are you, old sort?’ says
the voice. ‘No?’ he says, gettin’ no answer.
‘Then this is all a little familiar, George—
assumin’ you are George.’ He was up on
his elber now, takin’ me measure. ‘What,’
he says, ‘not a burglar? You don’t say it’s
a burglar? Then I’m interruptin’ a business
call.’ He settles down in the blankets
agin. ‘Get on with it,’ says he. ‘Don’t mind
me. Leave me a bath-robe and a tooth-
brush, and I’ll be all right.’
“Here I hears somethin’ doin’ at the back,
and sneaks to the bedroom door. There’s a
bloke in the nex’ room, peerin’ about with a
lighted match. I gets back, all excitement,
lookin’ fer a way out.
“‘ls it Harry?’ says the bloke in the bed.
‘He’s my man. He’s an ex-pug, and he
carries a gun. You’d better mind your step,
old sort. He can shoot the feelers off a
snail at twenty paces. But I loathe man-
slaughter. It unnerves me. Get into that
big chest, and lie low.’
“Gor’s truth, I’m that excited I do it, and
down comes the heavy lid with a click, m v
idear bein’ that the guy in the bed is goin'
to be damn generous. Then Harry comes
pawin’ in with his match.
“ ‘Thought I heard somethin’, boss,’ says
Harry.
“ ‘Yes,’ yawns the swell in the bed. ‘lt’s
a bit of a burglar, Henry. You’ll find him
locked up in the box.’
“So ’elp. me cat, it is a fac’, and Harry
was a fat ole bloke I cud ha’ bit into like
a duck into hot porridge. And he didn't
have no gun.”
EDDYSON.


&
(Guaranteed Non-skid)
TheTyres that Always Exceed Expectations
SAFETY.
IMMUNITY from SKIDDING
ASSURED BY V.C. TYRES.
This is a proven fact, not a mere claim.
Well-known local motorists have tried
these tyres out in situations that consti-
tuted a very severe test of their capacity
to “hold the road” under all sorts of
conditions of speed and topography—
and in every instance the VACUUM
CUP TYRES have proved triumphantly
skid-proof.
So markedly skid-proof, indeed, as to
prompt many users of V.C. Tyres to
voluntarily proclaim their complete con-
fidence by written and verbal testimony.
The Service Rendered
By Vacuum Cup Tyres
is invariably on a plane that exceeds the most sanguine expectations
of its purchaser (based upon his previous experience of other
tyres).
Quality— as the outcome of the very high-grade nature of the
materials employed in their manufacture, plus the most perfect
process of treatment that practical knowledge and scientific
research can devise—provides a positive guarantee of reliability
and an assurance that every square inch of running surface will
give the utmost possible service.
VACUUM CUP TYRES are therefore the Tyres that meet the
requirements of the Times—since ECONOMY has become the
watchword of both the Nation and the individual.
1
Warn
oo^
I
F.L&ssetterSCo.Lii
Sole N.S.W. Agents,
George Street, Sydney.
Eliza Tinsley Propy. Ltd.
Sole Agents for Victoria and Tasmania,
644 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The Reason Why Vacuum Cup
Tyres Do Not Skid.
The hundreds of Vacuum Cups (see illus-
tration), "which give the V.C. Tyres such a
distinctive and handsome appearance, are
the reason why.
As each series of “cups” makes contact with
the road, the great natural law of vac.uum is
set in operation by the weight of the. car—
and for just as long as that particular series
is in actual contact with Mother Earth, the
“cups” hold with the tenacity of a bulldpg’s
grip.
Yet the “release” as the car goes forward is
so instantaneous (owing to the conformation
and arrangement of the “cups”), that every-
thing works as smoothly as the pendulum of
a clock —and THERE IS NO RETARDATION
OF SPEED, NO STRAIN, but unlimited
security.
i ‘Repeat’ 1 Orders Tel! a Tale.
Yes, the innumerable “repeats” constantly
received from all over Australia constitute
the very best evidence that could be adduced
of the V.C.’s satisfactory service. Follow in
the footsteps of hundreds of thoroughly satis-
fied motorists—Safety, Long Service, Savings
will be your reward.
I


m
m
ORIGINAL
BALATA
hd
BRITISH
BELTIMG
The above illustration, drawn from a photograph, shows a 16 x -8
ply Dick’s Balata Belt driving a la-kilowatt Electric Generator at
the South Australian Brewing Company. Pulley on Generator is
28in., and the driving pulley from engine 7<iin. Speed of Generator
is 500 r.p.m., and belt speed 3850 f.p.m.
The integrity of their power plant is strictly in keeping
with the progressive methods of the S.A. Brewing Com-
pany, Adelaide, S.A. In their decision to use Dick’s
Original Batata Belting on the above drive, such things as
sound quality, perfect workmanship, strength, continuous
production and the ability of the belt to transmit the
greatest degree of power at the lowest cost, were the decid-
ing factors.
In this plant the power is steadily and silently transmitted. Belt
trouble is unknown. The engineer's labors are lightened. Dick’s
Original Balata Belting is doing its work, standing up to its
reputation and building increased goodwill.
Before buying belting, consult with one of our practical engineers
who are engaged year in and year out,-in solving power tarnsmission
problems. WRITE FOR FREE COPY OF BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE U COY. LTD.
SYDNEY:
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE:
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
QUEENSLAND:
ADELAIDE:
30 Currie Street.
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, BRISBANE.
<3St REES ROTURBO
ROTARY JET CONDENSER
SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
i'C
TIIE IMPELLER,
the one and only
running part of
the Rees Roturpo
Condenser. It has
no rubbing con-
tacts. Thus maxi-
mum life is
assured.
SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
THE Rees Roturbo Rotary Jet
Condenser is a UNIT OUT-
FIT, and not an assembly
of units. It has ONLY ONE
IMPELLER, which PERFORMS
THREE SEPARATE FUNC-
TIONS.
(1) Acts as an INJECTION' WATER-
PUMP, spraying the water positively
into the Condenser.
(2) CONDENSES the STEAM and
positively REMOVES the AIR contained
in same.
(P>) Positively EJECTS the MIXTURE
of HOT WATER and AIR to atmo-
sphere.
Cioss-cut, showing the construction of the Rees Roturbo.
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence S 1 Sydney ~
Provident Life Assurance Co., of
Dunedin (M.L.), which is also doing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth: —
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Doe., Income. Claims, penscs. Fund. Fund.
1913.. £9,886 £1,867 £2,365 £5,652 £25,150
1914.. 12,127 3,043 2,533 6,551 31,701
1915.. 14,136 4,230 2,853 7,053 38,754
1916.. 16,465 4,731 3,014 8,710 47,464
1917.. 20,003 5,187 3.268 11,548 59,012
1918.. 25,564 11,494 4,484 9,586 68.598
1919.. 28.985 6,238 5,214 17,533 86,131
1920.. 33.68 S 5,759 0,185 21,744 107,875
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1913. . £41,602 £10,453 £25,123 '£673 £50,890
1914.. 46,302 10,287 26,513 856 59,536
1915.. 48,625 8,774 24,573 1050 73.764
1916.. 52.605 13,115 25,943 1050 86,261
1917.. 61,439 12,793 30,088 1050 103,769
1918. . 08,701 17,793 33,142 1050 120,485
1919.. 76,200 2-2,837 35,457 1050 136,341
1920.. 82,002 19.782 37,246 1050 100,325
Though Maoriland has produced several big
general insurance offices (the New Zealand,
South British and Standard), the Provident
is the sole Private Enterprise life office, it.
and the ■ State Life department being the
only home-grown underwriters of life-risks.
But there are 10 or so outside competitors
(including the big A.M.P. and a half-dozen
others from the Commonwealth) at work
in the same field, and the Provident has not
developed into a big concern. Judging by
the latest Maoriland statistics available, its
Ordinary income represents only a little
more than 1 p.c. of the total income col-
lected by all offices in the Dominion; but
according to the 1918 figures it was hand-
ling at least one-fourth of the total Indus-
trial income won by all offices. Incidentally,
the latter class of insurance lias not taken
on to the same extent in Maoriland as in
the Commonwealth ; in the Dominion ap-
proximately £8 Bs. of Ordinary income is
gathered in while £1 of Industrial income is
collected, and in the Commonwealth roughly
only £. r > 7s. of Ordinary income for each £1
of Industrial. So in the business which
can bo made to provide the greatest bite
for shareholders, there appears to be a big
field for the Provident to plough.
The Provident is not quite an infant.
Tt took over the Provident and Industrial
Insurance Co. 17 years ago, but an Ordinary
department was not established until 1908,
when additional capital was got in and
branches were opened in the Commonwealth.
Until 1913 tin* published accounts did not
separate operations: hence the introductory
tables do not co back beyond that year.
I low the combined business has grown is
shown hereunder: —•
Total Expenses
Income. Claims, (ino. divs.).
1899 .. .. £9,177 £2.835 £6,462
1904 .. .. 15,289 3,434 8,449
1909 .. .. 30,785 8,369 20,650
1914 .. .. 58,429 13,330 29,902
1919 .. .. 104,185 29,075 41,721
1920 . . . . 115,750 25,541 44.481
Ordinary income last year did not expand
as it did in most other offices. The manage-
ment did not hustle to write cheaply-got
war-gratuity policies, “since it appeared that
what we gained through having no expenses
we lost in the interest yield on the security.”
So only £1(162 of war-gratuity bonds was
taken by the Ordinary branch and £2304 by
the Industrial. Nevertheless, the business is
being built up steadily, and, what is more
important, at only a moderate cost. Last
year’s expenses in the Ordinary branch
amounted to £5388, equal to 17.3 p.c. of
income, compared with 18 p.c. for the pre-
vious year. That was a good performance
in view of the fact that £5029 of the year’s
total income of £31,078 represented pre-
miums on new policies. The Provident is
apparently writing its new business at a
smaller cost than'most of its competitors;
The Bulletin’s usual formula of allow-
ing 7 p.c. as the cost of renewals and
charging the balance of the year’s exes,
to new business shows the cost of getting
the latest lot of first premiums to have
been only a shade over 70 p.c.
As in other offices, last year proved a
very favorable one, and the lay-by was
easily a record. Funds,.including £3005 con-
tributed by the Accident branch, now amount
to £107,875, which is no doubt funple to
meet the actuarially-estimated liability under
policies. No policy investigation has been
undertaken since 1018, but in that year the
actuary, taking 34 p.c. as the assumed rate
of future interest earnings, disclosed a sur-
plus. Everything has worked out so satis-
factorily since that the protection for policy-
holders should be unquestionable. The Ordi-
nary and Accident funds are invested in
this way: Public securities, £lOO 923; loans
on policies, £5432 ; cash, etc., £3504. They
are a particularly safe lot, and they yield
a very satisfactory income. On average
funds last year's interest represented 54 p.c.,
whereas the actuary estimates liabilities
under policies'oh the basis of funds earning
two points loss.
Industrial income has practically doubled
over the eight years covered by the introduc-
tory table. In this department the expense
rate is also being steadily reduced: it has
been got down from 00.5 p.c. seven years ago
to 47.1 p.c. for 1919, and to 45.4 p.c. for
the past year. With the Industrial funds
the published accounts include the £21,000
of paid capital put Up by shareholders. For
some years this branch has given them regu-
lar 5 p.c. divs.. while the Ordinary and
Accident branches have for two years con-
tributed each another 4 p.c., making the
total return 0 p.c. 8o far, then, share-
holders have had little more than the co. has
itself earned from the investment of their
funds. The next valuation of policies will
he made as at Dec. 31, 1023, and if the
Provident’s affairs continue to run as
smoothly as they have during the past couple
of years something better than 0 p.c. might
he looked for. The whole of the profits made
by the Industrial and Accident branches are
apparently available for shareholders, and
also 10 p.c. of Ordinary profits.
The Farmers’ Co-operative Auction-
eering Co., Ltd. (Waikato, M.L.)
Di\ ideuds
(Pref. Bonus New
6 p.c.; Ord. and Share Re-
Jan., Profits.* 8 p.c.). Rebate. Premiums, serves.
1911.. £9.720 £4,538 £2,534 £8,139
1912.. 13,690 7,336 2,965 11,534
1913.. >8,922 9,832 4,320 £459 10,757
1914.. 19,105 10.653 4.991 ' 436 20,654
1915.. 18,767 11,748 5,493 341 22.521
1916.. 24,438 12,586 7,537 115 26,951
1917.. 26,032 23,803 ? 340 29,520
(Inc. co.’s
Income Tax.)
Bad debts reserve taken in, £19,000. . 48,520
1918.. 17,274 29,319 16.402 817 50.890
1919.. 50,874 32,033 17,521 644 52,854
1920.. 64,378 41,953 22,425 4452 57,306
1921.. 85,p39 ? 25,487 5676 ?
‘Before paying taxes.
In a circular to shareholders which accom-
panied the latest accounts the directors re-
mark that "the balance-sheet, as usual, is
drawn up to exhibit the maximum amount of
detail.” It does nothing of the sort. In
fact, the profits position is so obscure
that the table which heads these remarks is
more unsatisfactory than any other of the
"Wild Cat’s - ’ tabulations. The F.A.C.’s
latest report declares that “the net profit
for the lli months amounted to ffi9,B'»2.” Hut
it was not net profit, for no provision what-
ever had been made out of the year's earn-
ings to meet current taxation, which, it
appears, will amount to about £30,000. It has
been the same in previous years, and when
taxes have been paid the co. has not shown
how much has been demanded by the Mnor'-
land Treasury. Instead, as in the latest
accounts, outgoings arc lumped in this way :
“l*. and L. account, 31/l/’2O, £4I,!K>M; less
interest on pref. shares, div. on ordinary
shares, land and income tax and special bonus
to staff, £41,953.” As capital has been in-
creasing rapidly it is impossible, working on
the published figures, to separate the amounts
distributed among shareholders and thus •
paid away in taxes. So in the table above
profits are shown before payment of taxes,
and the amount of these taxes has neces-
sarily had to be included in the dividend
column, though there is no reason whatever
why the management should not disclose the
precise extent to which it has been stung by
the tax-collector. For purposes of compari-
son, with the profits shown in the table are
also included the amounts credited to co-
operators’ accounts by way of bonuses and
rebates during each year, except for 1917,
when the amounts were not disclosed.
The F.A.C. is one of Mapriland’s larger co-
ol).. farmers’ cos. (its. .turnover now exceed-
three millions), and it has grown witli amaz-
ing rapidity. It is only 14 years since the
co.’s present chairman and vice-chairman,
Jos. Barugh and H. S. Hawkins, two Far-
mers’ Union enthusiasts, decided that it was
time the South Auckland province had its
own co.-op. enterprise, and set’ about estab-
lishing this concern. A ready-made organ-
isation was secured at the outset, the business
of McNicol and Co., a proprietary estab-
lished in the 'eighties, being acquired on
favorable terms. £5OOO apparently being paid
for goodwill. The F.A.C. did well from the
beginning; the 0 p.c. divs., the 21 p.c. bonus
on goods purchased, and the 15 p.c. commission
rebates soon attracted the attention of the
Waikato cocky, and he rapidly flocked into
the co-op. concern. At the close of its first
year the co. had 735 shareholders, and its
paid capital was £44,730. By 1015 there
were 2253 shareholders, who had put up
£130,566, and at Jan. 31 last 5115 share-
holders, who had invested £475,098, and also
provided their co. with £13,000-odd by way
of premiums on shares. Of this paid capi-
tal £152,452 represents G p.c. prefs., the
balance ordinaries, which have had 8 p.c.
regularly for 10 years. But though Waikat <
has given its co-op. concern greater financial
support than has been accorded many other
such farmers’ enterprises, the F.A.C. *s
£580.0G0-odd of funds (including accumu-
lated profits) has hot been sufficient to
finance its operations. Last year’s flood of
imports had a considerable effect on the
latest balance-sheet position, of course, but a
view of how the co.’s interests have ex-
panded, and the extent to which liabilities
have meantime grown, is given in this com-
parison :
1911. 1910. 1920. 1921.
Capital. . .. £09,132 £164.735 £362,653 £475,098
Mortgages . . 4,000 7.060 32,890 33,212
Deposits etc.. . 42.554 102.233 128.720 120,170
Other liabilities 26,319 14,175 103,852 126,681
Properties . . 18,632 30,094 121,556 147,961
Plant, etc. .. 1,070 2,304 6,787 17,236
Stock .. .. 5,092 23,036 84,928 201,321
Hook debts } 1 461,350 474,828
Investments 1 136,918 299,289 (
and cash J ( 02,254 38,113
Liabilities at Jan. 31 exceeded £280,000, and
of that £93,401 represented trade debts and
£29,3X4 bank overdraft, while £84,572 was
with the co. on fixed deposit (concerning
which the management remarks that it has
“always adopted a conservative policy”),
and £35,597 was to the credit of customers'
current accounts. For several years the
F.A.C. has granted a bonus of 31 p.c on
goods purchased and returned one-fourth of
the commissions earned. But the feature of
recent operations has been that, after mak-
ing these rebates and paying dividends, there
has been very little left for reserves. Taxa-
tion is pressing heavily on these Maoriland
co-op. cos. For the current year the F.A.C.
management reckons that for every 20s. it
passes out to shareholders in dividends it
will have to hand over 20s. 7d. to the Gov-
ernment in income and land taxes.
* * * *
The Bligh Dry Dredge has been experi-
menting on the tailings at Black Ridge lead,
Clermont (Q.), but through various causes
the first run was not very successful. Re-
covery averaged Idwt. per ton, but it is
anticipated that better results will be
obtained after adjustments to suit this par-
ticular class of stuff. The Clermont gold
leads have been the richest worked in Queens-
land. and boring - was recently in progress
to trace them under the basaltic formations.


English
Lever t
JScUGold
Plain
Demi-
Hunting
Case.
#
High-
Grade
Fully-
Jewelled
Movement,
Special
Quality.
£5O.
GOLD WATCHES.
A Gold Watch at times forms a very useful and
acceptable gift for a man particularly i t e
movement is one which can be thoroughly relied
upon. The firm carries a large selection at prices
to accommodate every requirement, and as their
stocks represent only the very best English, bwiss
and American makers, every watch has their
guarantee, and may be absolutely relied upon tor
. accuracy and service.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
Wim. ®rummonb &j£o.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Coloups fhatcappy an
absolute
SUNDOUR
UNFADABLE
FABRICS
The Dyestuffs fopming
fhese pepmanenf coloups
ape made by fhe Sundoup
fipm, fhe only fipm in the
wop\6 producing goods
from Dyestuffs fo finished
Fabnics.
Sundoup Fabrics ave
made inCasemenf Clofhs,
Reps, Damasks,Chennilles,
Madras Muslins,Tapesfpies,
Rugs,' efe.
j&s.. OK
9
all thcbest ftwnishrrj
■ i-.'i - , ..- ,N<sS?'
Morton fundot/r fabrics
(Trade 0»\) Car/iS/t.
1
k^ggaigagsaias^gi
[•j :^tj?i&f 5\V? , » i i Fx&'v&gi
Ml
a®
MB
BW*
I
ss
?S
■m
7? ■,
Ini
)\
mm
W-
r
'!*»«*
wst
.
s
\\W
&
iv
g§£%>'
\v
«?*3
3
BSSC
£1
J
$
m
Vf>V-V
i;/»;
i
ss
as
*jfc§? ft
■' ■
W)0.
m
tm%
0m
m
m
■Mi&
*
• ■■:
/ 5
'
Vv.
vv. //
—CAUTION—
Look for the
Trade-mark on
the selvedge
every two yards
i
m
&&
mil!
»*
f t (
■M
&ti§s§i
'Wf-Jw vwrt».
T ..n,;
SwaiS
J&SI
i&Si
»4iil
#¥
&
TR^DE.
FOX
FOX BROTHERSeC? L™
WELLINGTON,SOMERSET, ENGLAND.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
Vj)GEWOJSfy
EXTRA HIGH GRADE*^
readyrubbed
3] R. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney. Agents.
Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4 Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 300?. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
<5
King (jeorge IV
wmimi
The TOP-NOTCHScotek
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
This comes from a Convalescent Hospital:
We are two Diggers “crocked” through wsr ser-
vice. The quack reckons that 12 months’ knocking
around the country would give us a good chance to
recover, as there isn’t- anything organically wrong
with us. So we have decided to buy a waggonette
and horses and go outback somewhere
Could you give us some information as to where
to make for? Perhaps a par in Aboriginalities would
get us an answer. Have you heard where foxes or
wild dogs are plentiful ? And how do we go about
tanning skins or preparing them for market ? You
see, we are raw at the game: but we are fighting
for our lives and don't want to be dependent on
anybody while we are doing it. And we want to
start right.
Now, then ! Replies forwarded to The Bulletin
will be sent to these good battlers. Australia owes
them something.
* * * *
“Merlin”: I don’t believe “Hamer’s" yarn
tB. 19/5/’2l) about the hybrid progeny of cats and
rabbits. Apart from differences in habit, one being
carnivorous and the other herbivorous, they are too
widely separated zoologically for fertilisation to
occur. The yarn is about as likely as that of the
crossing of cats and wallabies put up some months
ago, and which the writer also endeavored to squash.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: lias any Abo.-scribe killed a
snake by running over the crawler with a motor-
car? Hundreds of George-street buslunen will ray
“Yes” ; but 1 bet it can't be done unless the driver
lias his brakes hard on. Many hundredweight on
pneumatic tyres can pass over a snake’s frail body
and not squash it. Why? One more snake queryg
Can the reptiles burrow, or do they hire a flat from
some other earth-perforating bug? My vote goes to
the former. 1 have often pursued Scales over country
thick with yabbie holes, hut he will pass over
dozens, in any of which lay safety, and make for and
disappear into a certain one which he evidently
labels “home.”
“Extol”: “Hamer” (B. 19/5/’2l) describes
the offspring of a Wauyhope cat whose husband he
alleges was a rabbit. Let “Hamer” get some young
rabbits and kittens all below the age of puberty.
Let him put the male rabbits with the female kittens
and rice verm in separate enclosures and let ’em
grow up together to marriageable age in amity. I
have such faith in the law of the mutual infertility of
two species so fur separated that I'll undertake to
eat a new hat for every young kitten-bunny he gets.
His Wauchope kittens were cases of variation and
the charge against their ma is a cruel libel.
“Ten Eye”: “Ragar” (B. 10/3/’2l)
blames the missionary for introducing European
clothing amongst the natives, but he evidently knows
very little about such things. In New Guinea, for ex-
ample, the missionary policy is to discourage Euro-
pean clothing, and the administration is now backing
up the missions by making it an offence for European
clothing to be worn within certain areas. In the
South Seas, too, the policy of the Anglican missions,
at any rate, is to get the native to stick to the locally-
manufactured product. As a matter of fact, much
of the cast-off stuff “Ragar” refers to was intro-
duced by early traders, and I have also heard Gov-
ernment officials who disapproved of schoolboys wear-
ing the native lava-lava or calico, and put. them
instead into white-man knickers —much to the young-
sters’ disgust. As to the missionary introducing-
disease, “Ragar” surely isn’t simple enough to believe
that the missionary piles up work for himself in
this way. Other Europeans visit the islands as well,
and not everyone carries a clean bill of health, as
“Ragar” himself should very well know.
“Ragar”: Though “Bill B.” enjoyed his
feed of alligator tail (B. 21/4/’2l) Binghi didn’t
offer him the best cut of the bird. Next time let
him order a dish of alligator trotters, cooked a la
Papuan—that is. unskinned. He will find them as
tender and as white as the breast of a young chicken.
By the same token the flipper of the turtle is away
ahead of any other part of that very uninteresting
article of diet. Turtle meat is spoken about a lot
by those who have not had to live on the infernal
stuff for any length of time. It always reminds me
of very coarse buffalo meat—except the flippers,
for which I can generally find room.
“Sarky”: “Mellish Reef” on boobies (B.
26/5/’2l) recalls chatty moments with the pelican.
These birds would land on the deck of a steamer
I was aboard in the Peruvian sugar ports, and wait
for any scraps thrown to them. They carried an
assortment of lice on their pouches as big as bed
bugs; and, considering that the bird is diving for
fish all day, the lice must keep a good grip on their
benefactor. Our Chileno stevedores snared a couple
of the birds and dried their pouches in the sun.
They recommended them for use as poultices in V.D.
cases ; but I’ve never tried it.
“Femina” : Out dusky new help from the
mission can’t be brought to see the wisdom of knock-
ing before entering. The other morning she walked
unannounced into a gentleman visitor’s room. In
remonstrating he said. “Why, I might have been
dressing!” “Oh, I knew you wasn't,” grinned Mary.
“I look through keyhole first.”
* * * *
“C. Coral” : When I visited an island qf?
my usual rounds in Torres Strait some time back
the chocolate-skinned inhabitants were introduced to
me by their Christian names. One father proudly
brought out his offspring and said: “Dese shildren
he got English name. This girl, he Salad; name
belong dat one. Glass.” It took a lot of cross-
firing before I finally located the two names as
Charlotte and Clarice!
“Moe”: Those who visited the Manus or
Admiralty Group in pre-war days, when it was Ger-
man territory, will recollect the extensive menage
kept up by a wealthy German planter, who died
during the war in Namanula Hospital. Rabaul. The
native ladies in that part of the Pacific are noted
for their fine and regular! features and the perfect
DOWN FROM THIRSTY ISLAND.
CONSTABLE: “Now, what arc you up to?”
DRUNK : "Ish orright, eonshable. I'm dirin' for pearls."
symmetry of their figures, and the planter, having
had built about the largest and most capacious bun-
galow in the Pacific, installed a troupe of 20 or so
native belles, the pick of the group. • He went one
better than those of his fellow countrymen who lived
almost in a condition of polygamy, inasmuch as he
clothed them in European dresses, complete with all
the appurtenances of such a costume, and he was
wont to entertain visitors in a regal fashion. Finally,
his goings-on became too hot even for the German
Administration, and he received the tip from Rabaul,
only a few weeks before the outbreak of war, to cut
it out. When an Australian destroyer visited Manus
in the latter part of 1914 to take possession, the
crew found the ladies still clad in their civilised
outfits, and those Jacks who obtained shore-leave hud
the time of their lives.
* * * #
“Mirza”: In attempting- to disprove the
claim, made by “Ophis” and others that all our
venomous snakes and the cobra are colubrines,
“FY7” (B. 19/5/’2l) quotes Ditmars, who states
that they are elapinae. But all the elapinae are
colubrines. Ophidia colubridae are divided into
Opistoglyphia and Proteroglyplna and the latter is
subdivided into Hydrophinae and Elapinae. So by
“FY7’s” own authority “Ophis” is correct. But
if Ditmars states, as alleged, that the elapinae have
hollow fangs like the vipers, then Ditmars is an
unreliable authority. The groove is never abso-
lutely closed, though it frequently is “almost closed,”
as “Ophis” correctly remarked. Any Abo. who
wants a brief, accurate account of the world’s snakes
will find it in Osier’s “Modern Medicine” Vol. 1.
page 250>
CLASSIFIED.
THE REV. : “Now, after the cow—what is
the most useful animal on the farm?”
THE BOY : ”The old man.”
“Bouragi”: A feature of the barging that
has been going on lately between Papua’s Sydney
agent Bensted, on the one side, and T. Mac-Mahon
and other critics of Papuan administration, on the
other, is the assertion by the latter that the Armed
Native Constabulary is used to recruit native labor,
and Bensted’s denials that this has ever been done.
Both parties are right, and both wrong. Native
labor for Government work has always been recruited
by the A.NX', where necessary, lmt never for private
employers, unless in cases where the magistrate has
exceeded his authority. William Macgregor, when
he formulated his Native Ordinances, which are
practically unchanged to-day, laid down certain com-
pulsory duties for the natives. These included Gov-
ernment carrying, the making of roads between vil-
lages, planting of a certain number of cocoanuts
per annum and so on. These duties were to be
performed without payment. In practice, however,
the natives—carriers especially—were always paid,
though the “pay” varied with the customs which
grew up in the various districts. In some districts
the natives only Carried from village to village, a
new relay coming on at each village on the journey ;
but in the Northern division, in the days when long
expeditions among new and hostile communities
were the rule, the same carriers often went through
the trip of perhaps a month or six weeks. If the
magistrate could not order the carriers himself, he
sent reliable village constables or members of tlie
A.N.C. to get the number wanted, taking care to
give each village, or group of villages, its turn in
rotation. Punishment for refusal was practically
unknown—in the North, at any rate—the labor re-
quired always being ready and willing to oblige.
“Chuxnos” :' On May 24 a tornado, after
clearing a narrow track through Scarborough (Q.),
swept across Moreton Bay, causing a sinuous water-
spout, about 100 ft. high, which suddenly collapsed
on nearing Moreton Island. The sound of the falling
column of water was heard 10 miles away, and a
couple of days later the shores of Deception Bay, an
arm of Moreton Bay, were strewn with dead fish.
Concussion ?
* * * »
“Bright”: “Cane Grass” (B. 19/5,/’2l)
is talking through his headgear when he says that
the fur falls out of articles made from the skins of
poisoned animals. I can show him a ’possum-skin
rug made 12 years ago from animals poisoned with
strychnine, and it is a:s good to-day as ever it was.
It’s all in the tanning.
* * * »
“Barcoo”: This should he evidence enough
to corroborate “Aragun” (B. o/5/’2l), who says the
dingo prefers dead horse to ail other titbits on
the menu. The other day a teamster who hauls wool
from this station on the Thompson River (C.Q.)
went “ratty” for the time being and pole-axed a
fractious- horse. When he cooled down later he
decided to turn the tragedy to account by making
bait of the dead beast. The result was five dead
dingoes at daylight, all within, a radius of 100
yards. The procedure adopted for applying the poison
was to remove a strip of the beast’s hide about a
foot wide each side of the back bone, then draw a
sharp butcher’s knife through the flesh parallel with
the spine, dip the point of the knife into the bottle
of strychnine and draw it along through the incision,
distributing the dope from one end of the cut to
the other.
(Continued on page 26).
HARD CASES AT THE RACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m just one of them hard cases that attends at all
the races,
Though we know that puntin’ horses is a mug’s
game, as a rule;
We rush off without our dinners, layin’ odds an’
pickin’ winners,
Just because the sportin’ game has got us all well
by the wool.
While the knock-off horn’s still hootin’, every Satur-
day we’re scootin’
For the trains an’ trams an’ charabangs that rush
us to the track ;
Though our luck is mostly rotten, what we’ve dropped
is all forgotten
Till we’ve filled our cards, an’ done our dash, an’
caught the old ’bus back.
Every horse’s form we study, whether ground is hard
or muddy,
An’ we’ve all got secret wires an’ dinkum oil from
some pet jock ;
We know all the certs an’ fliers, an’ the dead ’uns
an’ the triers,
An’ we reckon we can’t lose a bet unless we lose
our block.
Gripes ! I think T hear them shriekin' as the crowded
field comes streakin’
Hell for leather up the straight for home, with
some outsider first;
Nerves with wild excitement tinglin’, men’s an'
women's voices minglin’,
Soolin’ on the fly in’, strainin' brutes to one mad,
final burst.
PLAIN DAWG.
1ST SUPERIOR PUP: “Pooh, he’s no class.”
2ND SUPERIOR PUP: “ No ?”
1ST SUPERIOR PUP : “No, he was born in a
Stray Dogs’ Home.”
That’s all over in a jiffy; you’re a winner or a
stiffy—
It's your luck or your misfortune an’ beyond a
bloke’s control;
But there’s one dead cert to follow: when you feel
your inside hollow,
With a sprat you'll back that sure thing—a race-
course “sav-a-roll.”
Who says sportin’ men ain’t given to the ways of
simple livin’ ?
Sinful pleasures of the table they cut out like
saints of old.
Back to nature an’ his fingers goes the pnnter as
he lingers
O’er the strictly moral diet of a good old “hot
or cold.”
Through the programme eaqh bloke dances, changin’
partners, takin’ chances,
Work an’ worry an’ all other narks are warned
right off the ground,
Till in one last plungin’ ticket, hit or miss, we try
to pick it,
Run to see the last mad sprint, an’ swell the last
loud burst of sound.
Smilin’, still, the mob disperses, bravely hidin’ its
reverses,
While the sunset shadows lengthen an’ the evenin’
breeze blows cool,
Thankful that the next day's Sunday for a spell
before the Monday,
When they’ll all go back to fact’ry, forge, an’
bench, or office-stool.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


THREE NEW NOVELS
“BODGER AND THE BOARDERS,”
by Ernest F. O’Ferrall (“Kodak”)
The most humorous Australian book published in recent
years. Includes several of the author’s best stories which
have appeared in “The Bulletin.”
“THE MYSTERY OF WALL’S HILL,”
by Sydney Partrige and Cecil Raworth
A capital story of Australian adventure and mystery.
“TAP-TAP ISLAND” - - -by J. M. Walsh
Thrilling Island adventure.
1/3 each. 1/4£ posted.
The same price as over 100 other First=class
Australian Novels in the “Bookstall” Series.
UNIFORM WITH AROYE—
“The Poems of Adam Lindsay Gordon/ ’
A complete, carefully-revised edition of the famous
poet’s best work.
“The Bulletin” Book of Humorous Recitations
and Other Verses.
AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING
in six entirely independent volumes,
by CHARLES WHITE.
“GARDINER, KING OF THE ROAD.” “MARTIN CASH.”
“BEN HALL.” “THE KELLY GANG.”
“CAPTAIN MOONLITE.” “JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER.”
All Bookstalls and Booksellers
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
m
r\
r.s
-Uv-
sc-
L-tv''
Gillette
Safety Razor
acknowledged by twenty-million
men the world over as the one
perfect safety razor. No stropping,
no honing. No waste of time.
Standard Set in neat leather case,
28/6.
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
MADE IN
CANADA
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
THE UNIVERSAL RAZOR.
THE LEVIATHAN 5
LUCKV PURCHASE
A 3 GUAAA£At
HAV/TWILL SUITINGS
MANUFACTURER OVERSTOCKED.
A Few Rolls specially kept for our Mail
Order Clients.
Materials, just purchased at oO per cent, less than ruling
prices, direct from the Mills, include Finest Indigo Twills,
Serges and Vicunas, manufactured from super two-ply
worsted yarns, fine and soft, which will not shine and
rub with wear, and will retain shape when made up.
Hand Tailored to Order. Tailoring is of
the Leviathan 1;? (Jns. Standard.
Linings and Trimmings are in keeping with the high
quality of the materials, and cut and fit are guaranteed
as perfect. You will not be asked to accept delivery
unless satisfied.
WITHOUT A DOUBT —THE BEST TAILORING OFFER
IN MELBOURNE.
ACT QUICKLY! THIS OFFER IS FOR A FEW DAYS
ONLY. SEND FOR PATTERNS NOW.
FILL IN PATTERN- COUPON.
NAVY TWILL SUITINGS.
Name • •
A ddretts
(Bui.i.htin)
Order by Post We Pay Carriage.
m t **
hIVIATAAN
Pty.
Ltd.
?>
Cor. Swanston
and Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
r
///
I >.
n
Shirts
m
\ >
//
m
%
J
4
v
J 7,
Wk
VV^> v
W 3
/I
brand
I-his
See
shire
each
on
%
isa
2s
Q,
£
&
£%& Fla®
i
»■
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you. the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
bftter service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62


Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device in the world that will
refract and. focus waves of sound upon the drum-
head, and assist the hearing power where any sound
can be heard at all.
■*9T,
Wk
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £ 1/1/- complete.
They usually last about
two years. The price for
a second pair is 165.., without instruments.
We will post you a booklet if you wish, but we
would advise you to waste no time and get the
Ear-Drums. Write to-day.
WILSON EAR-DRUM CO. (H. Wilkinson),
178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
The Standard
All-British Fountain Pen
THE
THOMAS BE LA RUE & CO. LTD., bunhill bow, london.
Australasian B«preseM»U,« : NORMAN BAKER & LONGBBRST Sstew A Molboum.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK BEST FOR ALL PENS
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.O.i Melbourne.
J SMYTHS V
ORIGINAL
BALBRICCAN
REAL
HOSIERY
ESTABLISHED 1780
.AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
MALLETT, PATERSON C Co.
"PENFOLD HOUSE"
116 Queen Street Melbourne.
“Returned Empty”: I saw an emu this
afternoon on Kensington Downs station (Q.) with
18 half-grown chickens. Can any Abo. tell me if
that is exceptional? I thought 12 or 13 in one
clutch was about the limit.
“L. & T.”: We had a demonstration of
the Morse code of the insect world the other even-
ing when strange tappings on a window gave the
family the jumps, There seemed some system about
the tappings, as they were in sets of one, two and
three knocks at regular intervals. An investigation
showed a huge “tarantula” telegraphing by lifting
his hind legs and bumping his body on the pane.
His signals were responded to by his mate or prospec-
tive mate somewhere near the roof guttering. Any-
one know anything about spider wireless?
“Canis” : The dog that put in three weeks
without tucker (lb 19/5/’2l) was a long way from
being the champion faster. At the village church
of Titherington in Wiltshire (Eng.), which some
Australians ran across when they were on Salisbury
Plain, service used to be held four times a year.
According to the local yarn, a fox-terrier belonging
to a farmer’s wife was accidentally locked in after
one service. When the church was opened three
months later the dog was still alive, though it
died soon after. It had had nothing to eat, unless
it caught a church mouse or two, but was supposed
to have obtained a drink by licking off the moisture
that worked through the bottom of the church walls.
THE INCONVENIENCE OF IT.
MISSUS: “How would you like a little white
baby , Mary?”
MARRY: “No good, missus! Mine tinkit white
pfella show plurry dirt too much.”
“Chota” : My Scotch-terrier will stare any
human being straight in the eye without blinking;
and I back him to last longest in a staring contest,
man versus dog. This is such an unusual canine
trait that I’m also game to bet he’s the only dog in
Queensland who can put up such a stunt.
“FY7”: "10.5” writes (B. 19/5/’2l) of a
hawk striking a duck with his beak. He’s about
the only man who has ever seen it, then, since the
hawk, wild and tamed, strikes with the talon, never
using the beak, which is, with these birds, a tear-
ing, not a striking, weapon. With the smaller
bird's the hawk usually breaks the neck with the
AN OLD CAMPAIGNER.
HE: “She's such a frail little thing—not at dll fitted to fight the battle of life."
SHE: “ Nonsense! She’s been in three engagements already.”
blow, the victim falling to the ground alone. With
larger birds the hawk often “binds,” as the old
falconers called it, seizing the victim after
striking and planing to earth with it. With the
heron as quarry, all old hooks on hawking enjoin
that the falconer must gallop quickly to the “bind”
and thrust the ‘heron’s bill into the turf to prevent
him spiking a valuable falcon after coming to.earth.
“J. Peter”: Will this convince “35^8's”
scoffers (B. 19/o/’2l) ? About a quarter of a mile
from the homestead, between Rochester and Echuca
(Vic.), I caught a goanna by the tail and banged
him on the trunk of a sapling. He disgorged two
hen eggs, which broke on the ground. As he was
still pretty plump I held a post mortem and found
two more hen eggs in his bread basket. They were
whole, but the shells were already soft.
* * * *
“Wessel”: One leading citizen of Thurs-
day Island had an amphibious sort of burial. He
passed out in the wet season, and when they went
to plant him it was found that the grave was full
of water. They put the coffin in, but it wouldn’t
sink. Someone proposed that they should put stones
on to weight it down, and a whopper was shoved
on top of the coffin for a start. This made things
worse, for it slipped to one end and made the
coffined corpse stand upright in the water. Finally
they got an iron bar or* two and sank the deceased
that way, after which the grave was filled in as
well as could be expected.
“FY7”: “Yoyang” mav rest assured that
the quail is a Mormon, like all of his order, the
Gallinae, with whom monogamy is a thing to be
scoffed at. The quail’s reputation for indiscriminate
love-making made his or her name an old English
synonym for “prostitute,” and it is used in this
sense by Shakspeare. The partridges, the quail’s
near relatives, are known polygamists, the harem
and, later, the offspring forming the “covey.”
“Jim Carew”: Some of the Binghis of
Northern Westralia will never mention the name of
a dead man, either black or white, though they will
talk about him without restraint, and are as ready
to discuss his faults as his virtues. Is this the idea
of a few tribes, or is it general?
* * » *
“D.F.” : There are few better drinks than
sassafras beer, made from the bark of the sassafras
( Athosperma moxhala) , along with yeast and one
or two other things. It’s light-yellow in color and
easy to take, with just enough acidity about it to
keep it from being insipid. And it is not only a
thirst-quencher but a good topic. The leaves of
the sassafras when chewed have a very pleasant
acid taste (though a bit too pungent for many per-
sons), and two or three of them in a billy of tea
improve the flavor —if billy-tea can be improved.
“Aragun”: Can anyone beat the death-
adder as a camouflage artist? On red, clayey soil
his coat is a gravelly red, in sandy myall country
he resembles a rotten stick, and in rough rocky
places he is made up to represent the rock he camps
on, with patches on his back like brown moss. Some
old bushmen say that the adder gives two knocks
with his snout in quick succession before striking —
that is, unless you tread on him. in which case
nothing slower than greased lightning can escape.
“Orwell”: Nevada City (GippsfancP was
once a populous mining town with about tlnee
thousand inhabitants wedged into a narrow gul;v.
To-day only rusty machinery and the grass-grown
remnants of numerous huts on the precipitous
hill-sides remain as mute witnesses of the place’s
past grandeur. A couple of years ago curiosity
caused me to leave the main road and follow the
20-mile bridle track to the place where 1. had once
made and spent a small fortune. I learned that
my old mate Tom Donnelly still lived on his miner’s
right three miles from the main settlement, now of
three houses, and 1 paid him a visit. As I was
leaving the next morning I remarked: “You have
money, Tom, so why live up here by yourself?"
“Well, it’s like this,’’ he replied. “I like peace
and quietness, so it’s better to live out of town a
bit.”
* * * <
“11.V.E.”: In many rivers of Tasmania
there is a lively little fish, usually called “herring,”
which is in fact the Australian grayling (Prototroctes
marccna) of the European species, of which old
Izak Walton thought highly, both as a sportive and
edible variety. Our grayling, which attains about
12in. in length, lias been foun3 also in certain
N.S.W. and Vic. rivers, but is much more common
in Tasmania. It is a lively fighter, and when in
the mood may take a worm or fly. As a table fish
it is reckoned first chop. Walton says that the
English grayling will take a fly “made of the red
feathers of the ‘paralcita’, a strange outlandish bird.”
Our fish may do ditto, and, if so, red “parakita”
(parakeet) feathers are usually easy to obtain—the
crimson parrot (lory) or rosella, -inter alia, are com-
mon, and will furnish what is necessary. One
remarkable fact about the European gravling—some-
times called flower fish in Walton’s time—-is that,
when fresh, it smells like a cucumber, a fact which
is reported to have attracted the attention of Saint
Ambrose. Our grayling has a similar smell. Aus-
tralian anglers who operate in fresh waters, by nosing
any strange fish they catch, may discover the ’gray :
ling, which is somewhat rare in our streamy.
“D.F.”: It ought to be easy to make a
pet of a musk-rat if they are all as friendly as one
specimen at Bream Creek (Tas.). This fellow ha-
taken, quite on his own hook, to climbing up the
hank into the yard and drinking milk out of the
cats’ dish. The cats don’t seem to take much notice
of him, and even when the owner is about the little
fellow doesn’t hurry away.
* * * ' *
‘‘Eddyson” : He wanted an interview with
Raymond, private, important and confidential, and
the squatter found him on inspection a lugubrious,
shabby man, with a white eye and a bitter griev-
ance. “I want to know,” he said, “what you think
of a feller who gets away with another feller’s
wife.” Here he applied a grimy handkerchief to
absorb his flowing tears. No bloke, it appeared,
ever loved his wife better’n Drill loved his Annie;
and now she’d forsook him for another. Didn’t Ray-
mond think in the circumstances that the lawful
’usband was entitled to compensation ? Honest,
now, would £5O be too much to ask? Here Ray-
mond wanted to know what the deuce it was all
about, and what this stranger’s domestic woes had
to do with him. <“On’y this,” responded the visitor
—“you’ve bin and married my wife.” Here the
poor man was overcome with grief, and wept copi-
ously. “Yes,” he wailed, “Annie Field is my wife.
She left me five years ago. She’s been your house-
keeper ever sinde. and yesterday you married her.
I was never so put about in all me life.” Raymond
arose unsteadily, and called the lady. Her bearing
on discovering Field left no room for doubt. “I
thought he was dead!” cried the distracted woman
out of a flood of tears. Raymond faced his visitor.-
“You are wrong in assuming we are married,” raid
he. “A family bereavement induced us to put off
the wedding, so you are free to take your wife.”
“What!” cried Field in amazement, “you’d give her
up ?” “I have to.” “Well, of all the faithless
brutes!” snorted Field. “Good day.” said the squat-
ter. “Take your wife and go.” “Take the wife?”
said Field, flabbergasted. “Take my wife! Here,
here, don’t let us go to extremes.” The sobbing
woman arose, and moved towards him. Apprehen-
sion seized him. “What yer mean, pretendin’ to
be fond of my wife, then turnin’ her down like
this?” he squealed. “ ’Snarin' her affections and
then throwin’ her over! I s’pose you thought she
had no one to protect her. You thought you
could trifle with her an’ ’ave no one to call you to
account. Well, you reckoned without me.” “Well,”
demanded Raymond, “what are you going to do about
it?” Jimmie looked at the open door. Then he
looked at Raymond. “Do?” said he. “I am goin’
to run like ’ell.” And he did.
"Magpie” : The wild eat has been known
to make a home for itself with the rabbos. On
several occasions I have come upon an odd tom play-
ing about the warren with younger members of the
bunny species as if he were a member of the family.
Perhaps he was.
“8.N.J.”: “Dingohanna” (B. 21/4/’2l )
and others have given some good beer-sinking per-
formances from a volume standpoint; but how is
this for alcoholic contents? A teamster’s offsider
the other night drank a bottle of Australian brandy,
neat, without taking the bottle front his mouth,
topped (his off with a “Jaek Sharp” of rum, also
in the wild state, then sang two verses of a song
and was just starting to do a jig when he collapsed,
lie is still mustering horses.
* * # *
“The Major": The simplest and ltiost
efficacious method of cleaning foul pipes is with
a feather dipped in spirit. In pre-war days I used
whisky, but now employ methylated spirit. If the
pipes are left in the sun for an hour no trace of
the dope remains. Ether and chloroform are admit-
tedly better solvents of nicotine, hut the price is
prohibitory, A feather is better than any pipe-
cleaner ever put on the market.
* * # #
“Chip": A packhorse of ours was bitten
by a tiger-snake, and fell dead in less than an
hour. One of our axemen, a German, was bitten
on the bare arm by a black snake. Me inverted his
pipe and held the glowing tobacco, on the bite for
some minutes. The heat seemed to nullify the
poison. He did not even knock off work. Another
snake bit him on the same arm a few days after.
He used the same remedy, apd, so far as we could
judge, felt no ill-effects.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Certain fishes get far out of
their accustomed latitude at times, and the tropical
species if they wander far south suffer from the com-
parative coldness of the water Thus in an estuary
HE LIKED TO MAKE SURE.
LADY (to tramp): “Do you ever drink in-
toxicants?"
USEFUL USTACE : “Before replying, madame,
is that an invitation or merely an in-
quiry?”
between Bermagui and Tathra (South Coast, N.S.W.)
I caught a black trevally (Sir/anus nebulosm), which
homes in the warmer waters of Queensland and the
more northerly coasts. The stranger was evidently
sick and in, a half-dazed state; and after a splashy
chase I captured it with bale hands. Similarly,
after very rough weather, a rifle-fish was found among
some derelicts cast ashore. This again is a variety
mainly tropical in habitat. From its long snout it
shoots a drop of water with unerring aim, and so
bags the unwary fly. The Japs keep this freak in
aquariums in order that they may watch its singular
mode of obtaining tucker.
THE ORIGIN OF A SPECIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mollie, the ourang-outang at Melbourne Zop. when
afflicted with a cold is doctored with rum and milk,
of which she is so fond that she has become a per-
sistent malingerer.”
A tall, pale man in dingy black
Came early to the Zoo;
' His dingy trousers hanging slack.
His brolly furled, his hair combed back.
His nose a holy blue.
He stood before the cage a space,
Then spread his books upon a case.
The picture of a liver stained
And calloused all with rum
lie huiig upon the fence. In pained
And soggy accents then he rained
Statistics sum by sum.
Teetotal arguments he used,
And all strong drink the man abused.
Within the cage the stoli'd ape
Blinked solemnly about.
The message took another shape.
The preacher said: “Ferment of grape
Brings all our evil out,
And drags us lower than the brutes.”
His tears fell down upon his boots.
“Oh, taste it not!” the good man cried,
“Nor touch it. Let it pass.
It blights the home, it kills all pride
In every honest thing beside.”
What did the ape ? Alas !
She raised her rum, and drained the jar.
Which shows what apes these humans are.
The Itechabite his vocal flight
With frenzied zeal does shape
’Gainst wicked men who, hating right,
Imposed their evil appetite
Upon the helpless ape.
But put we the position thus —
The apes imposed their taste on us!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


■;-T' ; '
:
»ssc '& a*.s* v
m
m
W!/
m'jo>
RUBBER
.
.
s-rm
for*
QlcaMhj,
kk,ax.
ComJ&Ct*
.sT T''' •
ALL BOOTSHOPS
mmma
.
Sisls
pmt
Hr ■ •/ ?
. jjffir /
f'* : '
W i y.
mg*JL m
Tnis
to stop the
v
.
■B .v...
Bir / ■• ,■?•■*».■.’
V
t ;■
i
;
■
m
m
*: u feP
*
The quality and construction of every DUNLOP Hot Water Bag
ensures long service without leaking. Being recently made
and free from perish, they are better than imported bags.
Ask your Chemist or Store for “Dunlop” brand—it’s your
guarantee of Value and Service. Guaranteed against defects.
All States DUNLOP RUBBER CO. And N.Z.


In the far-flung
Outposts of Empire
y
wm
SCOTCH
tll*. ~ll*
yd!'//J&frtArt'./Ajji jj*
, w -»/*/}}& tL'/w/z/Bi
is just as familiar and as popular
as it is in its native Scotland.
In these days of scarcity it is only by the most careful husbanding
of stocks we can hope to maintain regular (if inadequate) supplies. But
nothing will induce us to impair the unvarying quality of ‘ P.D.’ Whisky.
);
r j
-i* ?
mr*
nr**
Dawson
»*tei*i icon-
W-tHOED Whisky
&0
m
Of Historic Lineage
and World -wide
popularity.
Everyone’s favourite
Scutch — everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, LTD.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
1
ievland
Tor the quick delivery of perishable goods the Ley-
■*’ land 3 ton Box Van fills every requirement.
Speedy, strong and handsome, it affords perfect pro*
tection from sun, wind or rain. Specially suit*
able for Biscuit Manufacturers, Softgoods Ware-
houses, Millinery Manufacturers, etc.
Leyland Lorries always
in the “VAA’’
LEYLAND LOGIC
The 3 ton Box Van shown above
is fitted with worm driven rear
axle and patented steel spoke
wheels. The Engine is governed
to give 15 miles per hour on top
gear. A verg wide Steering lock
enables it to be turned in min-
imum space and with the great-
est ease. Efficiency and econ-
omy are features of all Leyland
Lorries. In addition the large
body space lends itself admir-
ably to advertising the owners
merchandise.
LEYEAND MOTORS LTD.,
London Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Pty.j Ltd., High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.
o
Q
VARIETY IS THE
SPICE OF THE
SANDWICH LUNCH
Folk who perforce have to take their lunch to
work will welcome a change in the shape of
“REX” CAMP PIE
This tasty compounded meat with its refreshing
wholesome flavor is always relished. It saves
your time because it is all ready cooked. It
saves money for the same reason —you will find
it cheaper than fresh meat.
BUY A TIN TO-DAY
Always keep a tin in the house,
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
ip
JEB6
inilULiUMiillJiMll]
imuiiiillLUiuulltO
Ha
Bacon.veal
NGVJE.
■SS
V
,Y‘
Every Man
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave. But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping
This is where the “Valet” Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shave. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-), and demonstrate the razor.
“VALET
Safety Razor
t\Si
=3
r77jWl ll , ‘
a&
mm
A
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
RALPH ABERCROMBY,
LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
The word “ Valet" on Razors,
Strops, and Blades indicates the
genuine product of the Auto Strop
Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207,
City Road, London, England.


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off"
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
e*S
1
iifaus;
1
cr,*.
COLDS
COUCHS
3
CROUP
LUNC
TP.OUBUJ
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
©
to pay 10s. 9d. per week. In other words,
that the difference between the basic wage
founded on ascertained truths about the size
of families and the basic wage founded on a
wild assumption, is the difference between
£4 10s. !)d. and £5 l(Js. And of course the
same general conclusion holds true with
respect to every basic-wage award made in
Australia founded upon the false assumption
as to “the normal family.” The inequity is
least in N. S. Wales under the State law,
but even there it is very considerable.
In plain terms, what Mr. Piddington pro-
poses is motherhood endowment; but he ridi
cules the idea that, so long as there is free
movement for goods and people between the
states, any one State can successfully apply
it.
The total obligation of the employer (i.e., wage
paid to the worker and tax paid to the Treasury)
would so increase the costs of production in N. S.
Wales [for exiunple] that States with a lower wage
and no such tax— -e.g., Victoria—Could undersell N.
S. Wales producers in their own markets.
And the last state of those mothers would
be worse than the first.
But all this is based on another assump-
tion —a larger assumption even than that
the normal family (counting in only
those children that are under 14) is
five. _ That assumption is that the cost
of living or supposed cost of living
should be the general basis of payment for
a workman’s services. It is fundamentally
wrong, though Mr. Piddington will probably
not admit it. The basis of payment should
be the earnings of the worker. The laborer
is entitled to the full product of his labor—
which does not, however, mean that the
laborer is the only producer: the organiser,
the engineer, the chemist are producers too.
Ao matter what the so-called “cost of living”
may be —the amount that is supposed to fix the
basic wage—if it is not produced it cannot
be paid, and in that case we must find some
other standard of living. To attempt to fix
a wage by any other standard than that of
production is not only unsound : it is unfair.
And it can be as unfair to the worker as to
the employer: it is the system on which the
exploiter of colored ceolie labor always
works he ascertains the colored coolie’s cost
of living, and pays him accordingly, no mat-
ter what the value of his labor may be.
Probably, as a sort of compromise, there
must be a living wage applicable to the
poorest paid of all labor; but the fewer to
whom it has to apply the better. For the
vast majority the principle of paying accord-
ing.to. the value of services rendered should
be insisted upon; and those most interested
m maintaining that principle are the workers
themselves.
S. H. P.
Inspiration and Technique
Speaking of Swinburne, Glutton-Brock
remarks: “To talk of his marvellous techni-
cal gifts as if they were separate from his
mind and character is to fall into a danger-
ous error about him and about the nature
of art. Only a great poet has marvellous
technical gifts in poetry ; and a man can be
a great poet only with the whole of himself.”
In that there is real insight and a full and
perfect reply to the constantly repeated idea
that the inferior craftsman in verse is great
because of the things he says so badly. The
critic, being more often an inspired brick-
layer who has missed his vocation than a
lover of poetry, is too ready to accept the
man who seems a little bit like himself with
the restraints of complete incompetence par-
tially thrown off. Me reads the musicless
and jarring line that seems to be trying to
say something, and his heart leaps up in
response to the crude effort. “That,” says
the critic, “is just how I should like to
write poetry if 1 could do it at all. See
how powerful it is. Why, an elephant could
almost walk on it without breaking it down
into anything like commonsense.” Then he
writes of the greatness of the rubbish; and
hundreds of readers, who believe that any-
thing seen in print must have some value,
labor painfully to discover where the great-
ness lies. Time settles the matter when a
generation has failed to get one quickened
pulse out of the attempt to read it; but by
that time the bricklayer critic is perma-
nently out of a job and a person with all
the real inspiration to be a greengrocer has
taken his place.
Poetical expression is the first requirement
°u tbe P oe t- I'he man who does not think
rhythmically and tunefully * can never de-
serve the name. Life at its deepest is
always rhythmical—at its shallowest, too, for
that matter, for the rhythm of the blood per-
sists through all. Yet the business of ordi-
nary life is not rhythmical, nor the ordinary
conversation of men in the street; but the
moment real depths of emotion are stirred
a rhythm of speech is noticeable. Even the
\ery drunk person will express his dis-
ordered fancy in incoherent refrains; and
the very angry person will not infrequentlv
speak in forceful lines that could be scanned,
in a primitive world this rhythmic tendency
or exalted or excited human speech was cul-
tivated ; as the years went by it was refined,
tutored, organised. Delicate devices of
measure and cadence and rhyme were experi-
mented with ; and the things found worthi-
p were left as a legacy to the future,
oetry is not a convention, but a primal
uman fact, as real as hunger, love or the
religious instinct; but going deeper than all
nese because in a sense embracing them all.
‘ no longer eat, or love as-did the anthro-
poid apes; men no longer sing as did the
st rude chanters dancing about the fire
the tribal camp. New rhythmic discov-
eries are possible; but they are not to be
55r e a , bad handlin 2 of the old well-tried
g that has expressed human emotion as Tt
could be expressed in no other way. So what
is called technique is not a trivial adjunct to
poetry, but something that is of its very
essence and life.
Consider the phrase “technical gifts.” A
man is born heir to a great poetical litera-
ture. He is drawn to it from his earliest
years by a great and abounding love for it.
lie finds lile there, the very reality of his
being. Every rhythm sings through his
nights and days; lie develops a strong
instinct for the best. Finer and finer grows
the edge of his poetical judgment. A pecu-
liar rhyme can stir him; the faint irregu-
larity, like a half breath caught in awe or
delight, becomes precious as a jewel; echoes
and echoes and echoes are forever with
him. Naturally lie sets down his own
rhythmic thinking, and in the practice of the
art of expression discovers more and more
of the essence of the medium he works in.
I' or a long time he is likely to be move or
less imitative—those echoes are too strong
but there is a hint of originality even in
the limitation. At last, having gained a mas-
tery of expression, the deeper things within
himself well up and demand to be sung.
r J hen a fool critic, who is not quite certain
of the essentia] difference between porridge
and verse, speaks of his “technical gifts” as
robbing his poetry of strength and vividness.
The technical gifts are the man, part of his
thought, because the thought can find full
utterance in no other way. Instead of
technique in verse being a weakness in mod-
ern poetry, more and finer technique is
needed ; for only by thus putting a keener
and keener edge on rhythmical expression
can the very life of life within us speak to
our brother men.
Nor does technique make verse more dif-
ficult to understand by the ordinary human
reader. Its whole tendency is towards sim-
plicity. To say the greatest and deepest
thing*- in the simplest and most perfect way—
that is the poet’s art. It is the person con-
fused by the jargon of the had technician
who finds simplicity hard to understand;
and while the bad technician wins applause
this must continue to be so.
But the poet who thinks in verse is the
only poet, after all. He is like the master
of the violin who at the touch of a chord
begins to improvise a true music. Because
verse is instirjetive with him his thought
finds fullest utterance there. For hours and
for days the prose of the shallower things of
life holds him ; but when he takes uip verse,
the instrument he knows so well, his thought
begins to sing. The music itself will lead
him into deeps of emotion—that is where
the inspiration lies. Because the instru-
ment on which the poet plays is instinct
with life itself, a real poetical inspiration
might come once in a long while to one who
had a very imperfect knowledge of the keys ;
but the single inspiration does not make a
poet. Because the perfection of rhythmic
method is the very nerve of rhythmic human-
itv, the deepest things of life come through
it naturally, frequently and with a force
that is more spiritual than merely intellec-
tual. The term spiritual may be misleading ;
but some term is wanted to convey the idea
of the super-intellectual that is akin to the
instinctive.
Possibly the great poet is himself a rhythm
in the ages of man. Possibly his technique
1S ltsp lf the hereditary gift of generations of
men. This, however, is certain—that the full
master of the greater music of words is a
gieat poet, that the past masters are poets
m proportion to their mastery and that those
who have no power of song are no poets.
D. M. W.
Forgotten Comedies
Carlo Goldoni’s father wanted the boy to
be an actor, and went so far as to build him
a theatre-annexe to the house; but Carlo
showed no sort of skill or even aptitude for
the stage, so (presumably in despair) he was
sent to Pavia to study ior the church, hue
the padres bxpelied him from the Papal
Ghisieri College, - not because he couldn’t act,
but because be wrote scurrilous satires upon
the padres. In 1731 old Dr. Goldoni died,
and Carlo was admitted as a practising law-
yer; but that proving no better than the
Church, lie started the writing of comic
almanacs. The real Venice of that day was
as simple as of any day, despite the repu-
tation of its aristocracy, and Goldoni made
money with his ingenuous almanacs. He
also got a little time to write plays, which
were accepted, acted and popular. These
looked so good for the future that he took
a chance and got married, moving over to
Bologna to see what he could make of a
household of his own. Here he wrote an
ode to Maria Theresa, and was put in charge
of the theatrical entertainments of the Aus-
trian Army. That job done, he went to
Florence for a time, still writing hard, and
eventually came back to Venice. In his
native town he started a new dramatic
school, kept it going with an inexhaustible
energy (in all he wrote 300 plays), saw it
gradually ousted by a popular return to the
old school, and snapped his fingers at the
lot. He accepted the post of Italian master
to the royal French children, and left for
I ans. The revolution brought Paris tumb-
ling about the ears of royal children and
their tutors; and Goldoni first lost his pen-
sion and then died in 1793.
That is the skeleton of Goldoni’s 85 years
of life ; the flesh and blood of it are better.
In the fantastic Venice of his day in its
motley and mockery, the Commedia' dell’Arte
or Impromptu Comedy supplied the people’s
dramatic food. This was bad food morally
and ergo artistically. Its view of life was a
mixture of the dirty and the splendid. The
Masks of the Commedia had mostly a climax
of “attraction” and surprising infidelity • the
cuckold was the comic “lead,” and the suc-
cessful lover not infrequently a priest. A
good deal of the action took place at Carni-
val or in circumstances of condoned license
to give some faint excuse for the vaguelv re-
giettable moral lapses of the drama-tis per-
sonae. Clad in the mad fantasv of an ever-
lasting carnival, the players acted the forced
and artificial comedies, shadows in motley
flitting in and out of scenes which were
entirely ornamental—a sort of Aubrey
Beardsley picture without the subtle conceal-
ments of that artist’s disclosures. On such
a basis it is obvious that the A’enetian 18th
century drama was farther from life than
18th century drama in general, and that is
saying something. Goldoni put up the best
tight he could against it. As comedy-writer
to the Sant’ Angelo Theatre his plays were
a direct challenge to the artificiality, the
absurdity of the existing tradition. His
stories were of Venetian life, sober, restrained
and decently aware that the population of
the world was not made up of priests aud
old dukes who had married too late, oc
Arabian and Chinese adventurers, of Casa-
novas and “merry” kitchen-wenches, of silly
sorcerers and magicians. Goldoni held his
nose over the smelly rubbish and wrote oi
merchants —quiet, kindly men of the middle-
class, hitherto presumably non-existent —and
their quick-witted daughters, gondoliers who
worked and were not disguised princes, ser-
vant-girls whose minds were as sweet as
their faces, shopkeepers who sold goods and
laughed and loved and died in the fear of
God, naturally and honestly.
Venice, used to her legalised orgy of smut,
was not immediately converted ; but by hard
and incessant hammering at her Goldoni
forced- her to listen to him. Three hundred
times he gave her a decent story, a comfort-
able, merry story to which khe could take her
daughter, a story of people whom she knew
in place of the strumpets and panders of
the Commcdia. The Masks fell gradually
into oblivion, and a true national comedy
theatre was established for Italy. Not with-
out trouble, of course; the Impromptu writ-
ers did all they could to keep their jobs.
They threw mud (and they were good at
that) at the reputation of Goldcni; they
crept behind his back to his managers; they
wrote and produced plays strong enough to
frighten an audience of pugilists: every dirty
trick imaginable they tried. But Goldoni
laughed serenely, and promised them that he
would write and produce 16 clean plays in
the season of 1750. winch promise he kept.
It was simple enough to tackle the rank
and file of the Mask writers. But above
the rank and tile stood a certain Abbot
Chiari, who wrote windy and in the real
meaning of the word vulgar plays. These
had a profitable popularity among the
adherents of the old drama; and since the
reverend man was almost as prolific as Gol-
doni he was very hard to beat —or, at least,
to beat permanently. Also, his work con-
sistently glorified the corrupt aristocracy
which Goldoni as consistently mocked ; and
aristocracy was stronger then than it is
now. However, Goldoni was gradually
wiping him out, and would have finished the
job but for the appearance of a much more
serious rival out of the ranks of aristocracy
itself. Count Carlo Gozfci was the type of
cynical sentimentalist who had been the
hero of the Impromptus; and his pen was as
skilful as his manners. He wrote fantastic
fairy-nlays which brought the Tibald buffoon-
ery of the Masks more or less to earth. He
had the weight of patrician Venice, his own
people, behind him, and some ingenious and
superficially attractive little plays to offer
as bona fides. In addition, his blue blood
was not above the lampooning of Goldoni.
For six years Goldoni stood it and carried
on ; but he had nothing behind him. There
was no hope of a fair deal: so in the end
he had to give in, and cleared out to France,
leaving the game in Gozzi’s hands.
It is all gone and forgotten now—the
Masks and the natural plays, the light, the
mud-slinging, the abbot and the aristocrat
who should have known better, and the poor
man who fought so valiantly for what he
knew was best. Even the Venice who took
herself so seriously is only a shadow
of her old self—a provincial town sitting in
rags and only half alive. Probably the best
thing in the story is the revolution which
cut away the old man’s income ;• it at least
carried forward the banner of the natural-
ness he had fought for. He could see some
distant chance of ultimate fruition if it were
only after death.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
A Satchel of Books
The Poems of Adam Lindsay Gordon (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.). A cheap pa per-covered reprint with
?> P, r ?/ a . ce .k- v -'■ G- Stephens. “A Voice from the
l>usn is included as an appendix.
The Tate of a Trooper, by Clutha N. Mackenzie
(♦ ohn Lane).. A belated war-book by a Maorilander
who saw plenty of active service and then was
blinded. All the around has been covered before,
but the story, which is told with simple directness
and force, will/revive old memories in many who
took part in the great campaigns.
Pope’s Manual of Nursing Procedure, by Amy
Elizabeth Pope (Putnam). The author, whose name
is attached to several well-known IJ.S.A. books on
nursing and dietetics, has written this guide “more
especially to facilitate teaching”; and the trainee
who has studied it will not have much to fear from
that ogre, the examiner. It will be found of great
value also in those places wherel the professional
nurse is rarely seen ; for the instruction given in such
chapters as “Baths and Packs” and “Moving and
Laprying 1 utients is as practical :as it is clear and
precise.
Winsome IVlhnie, by Stephen Leacock (John Lane).
Another collection of nonsense novels by the most
hifmorous ol modern professors,j Excellent fooling
at the expense of the dreary persons who perpetrate
American Civil War ‘trilogies,” post-Stevenson sea-
“Th leS ßi a " d excrescences/ of modern Action.
Ihe Blue and the Grey ’ is particularly happy bur-
lesque; it is just what a bared world has been
wading for. It its effect is to reduce the output of
',’‘ U a . r . tones', with their preposterously unreal
heroes, their Presidents who talk like dotards and
then generals who behave like imbeciles, Leacock
will deserve well of the reading public.
AJST" bJ <*—
“Where is your mother?”
“Gone out.”
“With that boy again?”
“Yes.”
~ “Well,.teH her lam off to Kumbling Bridge by
lp , I/ -40 ’ an<4 lt y°.Y see 1710 at* the races say I’m
awfully sorry to tail her; she wanted some tips.
Here is a list I made out for her. Don’t let any-
one see the letter. J
Babbles took the sealed envelope.
“Right you are!”
“Enjoy yourself, my dear, and be good.”
“As good as you and mother,” she laughed
making a face at him.
I hat gives you the sort of people they are.
Babbles has a varied career, and narrowly misses
being the victim of the wicked Count Nikolai. The
book is not particularly pleasant nor particularly
convincing, but the story keeps moving along.


Prices
for
Wool
«<
•v:
9ft
-SV-^Vf
•■“A
are not what they might be. But make the
best of the situation. Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling: Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE-
Trade records prove the firm’s skill and
success as salesmen.
CYCLONE
hd
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition —1915.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“C’YCIiONK” anti all other Chisholm-
Moore Hoisting Blocks stocked by M
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“ Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, SYDN EY.
’l’hone 8456 (6 Lines).
X,
/
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumesof its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless' taste.
Zenobia N gbt-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA. LIMITED,
boughborougb, Leicestershire. England
Agent for Australia:
. (Wholesale - only),
K. BUCK.MASTER,
15, O’Connsll Street, Sydney.
CONTINUOUS STAVE “WIREWOUND
«2S
■
Illustration of two Wood Stave Pipe Lines, 48i.n. dia., and * ,oln -.
installed in 1912 and 1910 respectively. These P’pes were laid fo.
the Tasmanian Government and are used in connection vv t h t
Hvdro-Electric Scheme at Ureat Lakes. Waddamanna (piessuie
varies from 20/200ft. head).
Costs only
a fraction
of that of
metal
pipe.
It is providing
the means of
unlocking Aus-
tralia’s water-
wealth, only the
smallest frac-
tion of which
has so far been
(1 e v e 1 o p e cl.
Wherever water
runs clown a
hill you find
w a t e r - power
possi b i 1 i-
ti e s awaiting
development.
“Pioneer” Pipe is cheap and reliable and provides
solves economically every water-conveyance problem.
an abundant flow. It
Place yours before our
experts. »
We are maKers of the famous WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE.
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
:
il'
In every business —
the pen is a necessity. Use Waterman’s Ideal
and make it an economy. Waterman s Ideal
saves time. It also ensures neatef work and
better-kept books.
Three Types—" Self Filling," “ Safety ” and “ Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere,
L. G. Sloan. Ltd., tbejfeii Corner
Kingsway, London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney
o
/
\
&fWm;
ritish.
The All
SliMffirrcl
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The Standard Car has fulfilled
every demand expected of it. It
has unusual power, and is especially
economical in running costs.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
V ;;
acKi'.iiniiiii
\wm x
innlW
pill'' 1
H.
■
E
m
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.
Coventry.
Agent:
I. FHIZtCKERLEY,
16E-171 Elizabeth
St eet,
SYDNEY.
“T.F.8.”: Just passed out at S 7, Ned
Gagan, for many years a familiar and well-
liked identity of the old Redfern (N.S.W.)
railway station. Travellers will remember
him best by the remarkable stentorian voice
with which he directed them to their various
trains. It used to shake the rafters, and
if Gabriel mislays his trump Gagan ought
to see him through when the Big Day comes.
“8.1. D.”: I bought some knitting wool
the other day imported from Canada and
paid Us. an oz. for it. When I opened it
up I found a statement that it was specially
made from “fine Australian wool.” No doubt
it is a good business for Canada to buy wooi
from us at 2s. a lb. and sell it back at
325. for us to make socks and sweaters
out of: but it seems a rotten business for
Australia.
“R.”: I agree with “Murkali” (B.
20/5/’2l) that it is only a waste of money
to send Australian engineers abroad to
study the latest telegraphic and telephonic
systems. 1 have in mmd a high Uovern-
ment official who, when an electrical engi-
neer, had a six-months’ jaunt at the country’s
expense, and so valuable was the informa-
tion he obtained that not one item of his
report was considered seriously. it still
lies in some dusty pigeon-hole of the depart-
ment; while the official never tires of boast-
ing of the good time he had, and the nice
little nest-egg he secured as exes.
Three Darwin residents have been sent to
gaol for refusing, as a matter of principle,
to pay income tax till the Northern Terri-
tory is represented in the Federal Parlia-
ment. It has hitherto been left out, like
Canberra and the city of Washington
(U.S.A.), not because anybody ’ wanted to
leave it out, but because a separate member
or members for such a handful of folk
seemed an anomaly. The income-tax is an
awkward point to tight such a question on,
anyway, for if nobody .should pay income
tax unless he is directlv represented in Par-
liament, then nobody should be represented
who doesn’t pay income tax. The rule
works both ways.
Captain Jack Burns, who developed an
illness in Gallipoli from which he never
recovered, left over £40,000, most of which
he had made himself. His father put him
on th<> land near Cootamundra as a young-
ster. Most of the money passes to Lieut.
Jim, his brother, wjio is in 8., I’, and Co.;
but the rest of the family is remembered
generously, two doctors at T.B. sanatoria
get £5OO apiece to deal out to the poor,
and there is a thousand or two for the Burn-
side Orphanage near Parramatta —the homes
which are his father’s special care. For his
own part the Colonel is just spending nearly
£30,000 on another little addition to the
homes. It is. his war memorial. But if
there wasn’t that excuse he would find an-
other.
Mrs. Robert Clark, who died at Ballarat
the other day, aged 87, was the widow of that
old goldfields stalwart who had a crowded
hour in 1802 when he was summoned to the
bar of the Vic. Assembly to answer a com-
plaint of having reflected upon Parliament,
in a leading article on the theft of the mace
printed in his daily, the Coukjer. Standing
behind the brass bar drawn across the gang-
way, Clark, with his long white beard, looked
venerable then, and that was 20 years ago.
It came out that he personally knew nothing
about the article, not being the editor. So
the House merely directed Speaker Bent to
admonish him, and Tummas, not overpleased
to have the job, delivered himself to this
effect: “I am commanded by this honorable
House to admonish you, and you are to con-
sider yourself admonished accordingly.”
“H. 11.” : The suggestion of Pope Benedict
XV. about healing Ireland’s troubles (B.
2/(5/’2l) was this: —
It would be opportune if the questions at issue were
referred for discussion to a body of men selected by
the whole Irish nation. When .this conference had
published its findings the more influential Irishmen
might determine a settlement in a sincere spirit of
•peace and reconciliation.
Well, the men (and women) wanted have
just been elected. There are 52 in the
North and 128 in the South —130 Sinn
Feiners, 44 Unionists and six Nationalists.
Let these —the cream of the nation —get
together and fix things. But perhaps the
remark about selection “by the whole Irish
nation” means selection with all Ireland vot-
ing as one constituency. Then the gathering
might consist of 180 Sinn Feiners, and the
majority would be proud while the minority
would be wilder than ever. Some of them
might even swear.
“Gregor” on thyroid treatment
“R.B.’s” remarks (B. 26/5/’2l) as to grafting
portions of a healthy tfiyroid gland into the abdomen
of a patient in a Tas. hospital disclose no advances
in medicine —for 10 years this operation has been
almost weekly performed in different parts of the
Commonwealth. The disease from which the patient
was suffering, apparently, was the one known as
myxoedema, a name given to it by reason of the
mistaken idea that the pathological distension of the
body, which sometimes follows an injury to the
gland, was due to the presence of a substance known
as mucin. It is now known that the thyroid gland
secretes a chemical compound called thyro-iodin, or
iodothyrin, and it is this which plays such an im-
portant part in the metabolism of the human organ-
ism, and the absence of which causes such wide-
spread pathological conditions. As soon as this had
been ascertained, it Was easy to work out the clini-
cal treatment, which consists merely of either graft-
ing in the healthy gland of an animal, or administer-
ing—hypodermically, or by the mouth —extracts
prepared from such glands, whereupon the sufferer
is invariably restored completely to health. The
principal drawback to the treatment is that, in the
case of the grafting of the gland, the operation is
not always successful the first time, and has to be
repeated until it is, while the administration of the
gland extract has to be continued for the remainder
of the patient’s; life, failing which a return to the
disease-condition will occur. Incidentally, it is
interesting to note that, although the element iodine
is found in the healthy human body only in ex-
tremely minute quantities, it is the principal con-
stituent of iodothyrin, the conclusion being that
iodine plays a much more important part in the
body-metabolism than was at first suspected, a fact
which is borne out by the value in medicine of the
iodides of the two metals potassium and sodium.


l
liW\v
m
<r-
vet
lout
ft Sunny ,
Queensland
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns —via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter.
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Wyamdra,
Bomhala, Wodonga, AraWatta.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every. Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz.: —•
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Westclox
1
q
10
3
4
Wes hi ox
nz
Little Brother—Baby Ben
Baby Ben has managed
to snuggle most of Big
Ben’s timekeeping quality
into a case that is half as
high and half as wide.
And looks so much like
him you’d think it was
Big Ben before he grew up.
And that knack of
running on time, ringing
on time, and staying oif
time, is largely due to
the kind of construction —
guaranteed by the name
Westclox on the dial and
tag.
Westclox Big Ben, 27/6; Baby Ben, 27 / 6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6;
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 25j-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/-;
Boyproof, 15/-; Pocket Ben, 151-
America, 1216;
Glo-Ben, 22/6;
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
The Only Original Drag Saw on the Market.
Beware of Imitations.
i Safety Angie, protect*
{ operator’s hands.
Adjustable guide plugs
4^
' *€> /
L 3
Wmm
;/ •''
Jiffy saw holder. Grip
or releases saw instajptlj
No hole% to drill, S>avc
2 hours daily
Split Pitman head. Takes
up all wear. Saves repair
bills.
p» - • *.Jv. ' H
u jMh[
The VAUGHAN DRAG SAW
The only Drag Saw made with the jiffy saw holder. It grips or releases saw instantly. Save two hours speec J
to drill. Turn a nut and the Saw is ready. Metal to metal clutch. No burned hn.ngs. P.clcs up load, a:
instantly and without grabbing. Always ready in an emergency. Fitted with safety ang e. ro °
hands and raises, lowers and guides saw.
Adjustable Pitman head. Takes up all wear on crank pin. Saves expenses.
Solid crank case ensures long life to bearings.
BACKED BY THE LARGEST MANUFACTURERS IN THE WORLD.
SAWS LOGS UP TO EIGHT FEET. SIMPLE, RELIABLE AND LOW-PRICED.
Illustrated pamphlet on application
to
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
The Engineers’ Depot,
Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


gjhg
"jL lavjest selling
quality pencil in
ike woxld
Y/OENUS
VEENOLS
vz
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere,
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Standard £? £? Hospital
BJt&MDY
2
j
y: • . _ £*<***•«-
.->%'kr.-'' r jsß i^ i< ■■?7v' ,
Mif
<£=* W~^
A rich, pine,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
g
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN 8t -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN.”
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
z
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
’Tis poor little motherless Mollie Malone,
A-tapping her tiny toy drum,
Singing so gay thru’ the midwinter day
Where the sunbeam shines in the slum.
Her doll’s but. a bottle arrayed in a rag,
A treasure-of-treasures, be sure.
It still seems divine —that now-empty shrine
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT
Underwear
1914-15 Prices.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED.
SCOTCH ALL WOOL.
vxz
Vests.
39in.
23/-
Underpants.
23/3
) Less 5% } dozen.
J Less 10 e /c i dozen.
ALL SIZES IN STOCK.
314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
>
“Some Say
Advertising did it ”
Certainly, there is a measure of truth in
the assertion, for the STETSON re-
ceived the kind of advertising that is
always effective —the voluntary praise
of thousands of discriminating, well-
dressed men.
tTATEi
nnmm'fuiim
4
MW"
ip
imiiiiiimmytuinnjniimiiiimiiminimnnniiniini
*ri
1
3 ml ml \\\
I I Ir ft *
s
v
iri
Consider your personal
pride—the satisfaction —
and the impression a
STETSON creates—not
the price, and your
choice will be a
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER & COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W
This is the BEST
Way to Mark
all Linen
v
m
%
fi
PBMgra
FoYgj
NAMES
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH’S WOVtN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —12 doz. 7/6—6 doz. 5/- 3 doz, 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH
PTT
LTD.
85 CUBITT ST..
RICHMOND. VIC.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
frorft Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
All AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
lid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news, from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High llolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
fag
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
bv CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
M^ 1
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their I
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 lork Street, Sydney.
An extra enterprising burglar, wlfo was
up before Justice Schutt at Melbourne the
other day, looked quite surprised when the
plea for leniency • urged by counsel on
his behalf was called ‘‘remarkable.” It was
true, the jemmy expert confessed, that he
had broken into an unoccupied house, but
his only object was the raising of sufficient
money to obtain legal defence against an-
other charge. The only other comment the
Judge was capable of was ‘‘Twelve months.”
Lest the Labor Opposition and tjie Farmers’
Union party should try to catch it napping
by declining to discuss the Address-in-Replv,
Lawson’s team has a batch of bills ready for
the Vic. Assembly when it reassembles in
July. McPherson is not expected till the
end of September. Apparently Lawson will
bave to speak an ante-Rudget piece in sub-
mitting the supplementary estimates. He
will avoid a deficit if he has to rinse out the
Treasury to do it.
Tallied his last mob, Bill McKenna, one
of the best-known drovers between the Blue
Mountains and the northern and western
boundaries of N. S. Wales. A native of
Brown’s Creek, he spent his youth in King’s
Plains, Bathurst and Blayney, and then suc-
ceeded to the (Jarryowen estate (Orange)
from his father. But that didn’t last long;
the big distances called him and kept him
till the end, which came at (iB. In his
younger days he was a dating rider, and he
was an authority on early Western history.
Capt. Jock Watt, D. 5.0., of Adelaide, who
was recently retired from the Defence De-
partment, has been made temporarily rich
by public gifts. Watt ought to have been
famous. He fought the late General Botha
in S’Africa and met him at the peace parley.
When the Union Government decided to
crush the Hun at its door nearly 20 years
later, Louis remembered Watt and dropped
him a iipe offering him a command. But the
Australian brass-hats wouldn’t hear bf such
a thing, and the old battler was sent to train
recruits. Now, the war decently over,
he has been pushed out pensionless.
R. N. J. Fletcher, recently elected President
of the R.B.A. in Broken Hill, is a nephew
of Sydney brewer Resch, whom Hughes in-
terned in 1917. The elder Resell and John
Penrose started as brewers at Wilcannin in
tjic ’seventies, and when Silverton rose up in
the early ’eighties they opened business there
and it put the firm on its feet,. From the
ashes of Silverton the still larger and thirstier
city of Broken Hill reared its head. Later,
brother Edmund put his money into the old
Waverley brewery in Sydney; younger
brother Emil joined the Melbourne combine.
Penrose died poor. The nephew above men-
tioned anglicised his name during the war.
“V.F.11.” (Lond.) : Conan Doyle, back
from his lecturing tour, has been cursing
Australian state socialism all round the com-
pass. Public control is a complete and abso-
lute failure everywhere, says the spook-man
—post-offices, railways, telegraph, telephones,
etc., are all alike abominable. “Everything
I touched was bad, not because of any
national slackness, but because the Govern-
ments are under the thumb of organised
labor.” He adds that the few public utili-
ties still operated by Private Enterprise,
notably the ferry system in Sydney, are, as
a rule, “extremely good.” However, he be-
lieves the solid level-headednes's of the people
will assert itself one of these days. His
Australian book is announced for early pub-
lication.
Bryce pays a tremendous tribute to Aus-
tralia in his great new work on “Modern
Democracies”: —
The Australians. . . .have committed some serious
mistakes and tolerated some questionable methods.
But they have a great recuperative power.... In
Australia it is hard not to be affected by the youth-
ful vigor and optimistic spirit of the peoble. We
may well wish that there were more of them, for
they are an asset precious to the world, as well as
to that Commonwealth of British nations whereof
they form a part, ,a virile and high-spirited race,
energetic and resourceful, a race which ought to
increase and spread out till it fills the vast spaces, so
far as habitable by man, of the continent that is its
heritage.
And when this “virile and high-spirited
race,” which is “an asset to the
wealth of British nations,” wants to speak,
three times out of four it passes the job on
to an unassimilated Welshman or Irishman
or (in its Labor affairs particularly) to a
newly-arrived Englishman.
A wail from Flatland: —
I am hunting for the name and address of a genius
who has invented a device for deadening sound in
flats. The apparatus, I learn, is simple and effective,
and can be installed at a cost of 15s. a room. Let
me record my willingness to take 15 bobs’ worth.
It is this way. I am third assistant window-dresser
in Rag and Rookems’, but I am working up a nice
little literary connection in my spare time. With-
out betraying confidences, I contribute the moving-
picture reviews to the Darlinghurst Daily, and
the Herald has published a little thing of mine,
signed “No Popery,” urging that failure to fly the
flag on Empire Day should be made a crime punish-
able with flogging and 14 years’ imprisonment.
Naturally I have to do all my writing at night.
That is where the trouble arises. The flattery I
reside in—for economy’s sake—is frequented by
resting barmaids and married ladies who have mis-
laid their husbands. Night is the time for what the
poet calls their “keen joyance.” When night comes
they take the lid off, ably assisted by their gentle-
man friends. Now there is nothing more inimical
to literary composition than the sound of the
female voice. When such a voice is uplifted in bois-
terous mirth and inharmonious song—and this goes
on for hours together—it is simply impossible for a
writer in the same building to apply himself to
constructive literature. Last night I had a splendid
idea for an article on “The Enemy in Our Midst.”
But I hadn’t written a dozen words when the noc-
turnal revelry started, and all my brilliant thoughts
—at least they would have been brilliant if they
had arrived at maturity—were whirled away in a
cataract of vocal inanities like the following:—
“Neow then, kid, cut out the rough stuff!”
“ ’Oo’s payin’ fer the oysters?”
“I done a poultice on Pigweed in the last race.”
“ ’Ow I love yuh; ’ow I love yuh, my dear ole
Swannie.”
“An’ I ses to ’im: ‘Don’t you get too fresh with
me, Steve, or I’ll parss yuh ore.’ ”
“My Celia, that’s the last of the fizz. Wotter
about one o’ these gents runnin’ round ter Tong’s
an’ gettin’ a few more bottles?”
“Keep yer ’ands off, Claude, or I’ll push yer face
in.”
So I am looking for a man with a patent sound-
deadeiler, and he will be 15s. richer when we meet.


In building the Hupmobile, the builders have ever in mind the driver’s point of
view. Hupmobile owners are proud of the appearance, comfort, performance,
sturdiness, and economy of operation of their cars.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater tonring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3% in. bore x 5% in. stroke, 83 x 104 nun.
Starting and Lighting'.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension mageto.
Carburetter.—Adjustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication.—Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.— -Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. Clincher, or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels.—Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile
o
120
11010010.20
IOO-
IO-
.20
ZERO
120 In the Shade
or 20 DelowZero
IT IS ALL THE SAME TO A
VICTOR PIANO
VICTOR PIANOS are so soundly constructed of the very best
materials that they will stand the strain of constant use and the
worst extremes of heat and cold; they are famous for standing
in tune and for DURABILITY, and by the severe test of time
have more than satisfied the multitude of VICTOR owners
throughout Australia.
VICTOR PIANOS ARE BUILT TO LAST A LIFETIME.
VICTOR PIANOS HAVE A DELIGHTFUL TONE QUALITY
VICTOR PIANOS ARE SOLD FULLY GUARANTEED.
VICTOR PIANOS ARE SOLD ON VERY EASY TERMS.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR CATALOGUE
AND PRINTED PRICE LIST
*
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.


Miss D. Phillips
Tells How Cuticura
Healed Pimples
“For some time I suffered from
pimples which came to a head and
festered. I started to pick
them which only made
matters worse and my
skin got so irritated I
could not sleep for some
time after going to bed. I
would scratch and my skin
got all red and blotchy.
“I tried several remedies but with-
out success. I then noticed the Cuti-
cura advertisement and sent for a free
sample. After using I noticed the
itching was not so bad, so I then
bought more and in a short time I was
completely healed." (Signed) Miss
Dorothy Phillips, 26 Sutherland St.,
West Brunswick, Vic.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment and Tal-
cum are all you need for all toilet
uses. Bathe with So?p, soothe with
Ointment, dust with Talcum.
SoaplB.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free :,d-
-dress: “R.Town»&Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
gs
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Fefed
Mulled Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Gentlemen! Gentlemen ! Gentlejnen! Rise!
Charge to the toast which we honor and prize !
Rise to the anthem! and make the hall ring,
Drink to our King! who is truly a King!
Drink it in whisky or drink it in wine!
Drink it in monopole vintage divine!
All who, alas! may have colds to endure
Drink it in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
gs
FITTINGS
and enjoy cycling .
There is no anxiety or trouble
with Bicycles built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings, they have been
famous for their sound construction
and excellent service for over half
a century. For town and country
riding, alone or with companions,
under all conditions they are in-
valuable, and will by their relia-
bility and the small amount of
attention required, prove a conve-
nience, economy, and a constant
source of pleasure. See you get
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Catalogue and particulars
post free to
D. Y. BENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
PLUME
MOTOR
SPIRIT
" 1 11 be there on
time M
The feeling of certainty of “ getting
f.hcre on time” is common to users of
Plume Motor Spirit. There are good
••easons for this assurance ; Plume is
made from the world’s choicest crudes;
each process of its manufacture is under
the care of highly-skilled experts who
prove by laboratory tests and actual
service conditions that the high standard
adopted for Plume Motor Spirit
is rigidly maintained.
Therefore Plume is uniform
always, and can be depended
upon to deliver full power and
full mileage, day in and day out,
without a hitch.
This dependability has made
Plume popular with most motor-
ists, who also praise its easy
starting, sweet running, and
economy.
Order your Motor Spirit by
ncme—say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
(
r
T ifli
Q
\ <
r 5 A
/ o - U/ y
jp\p>
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
ikK •
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKG.
SLOUGH. BUCKS,
ENG.
rim
£<»wcT»Mti
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodstisn 1b Australia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlit' Remedy used by Army aud Navy meu.
TTsed siti-e lf>!i6. FOR Write for Bo.it
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
.S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England,
insist on “ Singleton's "—refuse all substitutes.
it
PV
For Smokers Everywhere
Your anticipations of a cool, sweet smoke can
always be realised if you buy a GBD.
This French Briar Pipe is London made, shaped
and finished by experts. Prove its power to give
smoke-satisfaction during every waking hour.
The
Perfect
Pipe.
gs
The
Perfect
Pipe.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Kudex”: The souvenir bat which J. B.
Hobbs has been displaying in his Fleet-street shop
window is a rough-hewn outsize weapon- with the
bark on the back and kookaburras and wattle-leave*
painted on the face. Hobbs was induced to includ*
it in his luggage by the Adelaide Sports Club.
The famous English racing colors of Sir
Blundell Maple were .seen in Adelaide at the Birth-
day Cup meeting. His only daughter is the wife
of Governor Weigall, who bought the steeplechaser
Portee at the Morphettville meeting, and gave him
a run at Victoria Park in the old colors, white and
gold stripes, claret cap. He finished out of a place.
“Bung Eye”: A recent par about a man
who jumped a crosscut-saw at ait. 6in. reminds me.
About 16 years ago, when St. Ledger and J. J.
Collins were in their prime, St. Ledger was trying;
to make a match at sports held at Hendon, Darling
Downs (Q.). Not being successful he said he would
back himself to jump a crosscut-saw, teeth up. at
oft. loin. A bookmaker took the bet—and had to
pay. No one breathed during the performance.
The winner of the City Handicap in Adel-
aide, Repique, though he ran in the name of trainer
Timmens, really belongs to Lance Addison, of Elder's,
and was bred by Ben Chatfey. There were 26
starters, which beats a record standing since 1911.
The weight-for-age field, on the same day, was also
a record for Adelaide —16. Dr. Bennett had his first
win for over two years with Champion Chief, which
is the youngest of the Wallace stock now on the turf.
Arthur Baynes, Queensland’s amateur
sculling champion, who iOiieited his chance in the
Australian championship recently to pursue studies,
will represent Australia in next year’s Diamond
Sculls on the Thames. The (Queensland Rowing Asso-
ciation has already got a substantial amount in the
hat to cover exes. Ex-world’s champion George
Towns (N.S.W.) will go as coach, and Haynes's
father makes the third" member of the party as
manager and treasurer.
IT * * *
Very little new blood was introduced to
the betting market on the -Nationals when the weights
came out. The same old Sandule and Bright Plume
were coupled with lolaus and Mountain God for the
double. The brothers Godby are more than ever
masters of the situation—on paper. Hut there wms
some nibbling at King Neptune and others among
the lightweights. The Godbys haven’t a mortgage
on the Hurdle, nor is it reasonable at present to
credit Bright Plume, the profound disappointment, of
last year, with having made all the improvement the
handicap requires of him.
* * * *
W. M. Tilden, who will probably be one
of Uncle Sam's representatives in the Davis Cup
final, lias been refused permission to play right
through and take his chance in the forthcoming
singles championship at Wimbledon (Eng.). Tilden,
being last year’s winner, lias only to play off
the challenge game with the survivor of tne contest,
and, like Anthony Wilding of old, he sees that this
has its weak points. One of them is that the cham-
pion misses the practice, and may be handicapped
by ,having to pick impromptu sparring partners irom
among second-raters. The English Lawn Tennis
Association ought to abolish its antiquated rule.
* * * *
It is desperately hard to make a lot of
money and be strictly virtuous these hard times.
The S. M. Herald, which has started a crusade
against illegal betting, is one of the best friends of
illegal betting in N. S. Wales. In its anti-gambling
articles it is cqficerned to point out that city
betting-shops are run with such devilish cunning
that the police can’t identify them. Yet, like the
Herald’s advts. of the gentleman who offers a sure
£5OO per annum for £l5O cash down, the betting
establishments carry their identification discs on
their shirt-fronts, So to speak. Everyone who fre-
quents Pitt-s’reet knows some of them, and there are
few so aloof fr'-u the life of the city as to be
acquainted witk none. Least of all the Telephone
Department, which, as recent police-court cases
showed, thinks nothing of installing a six-line tele-
phone service in one of these resorts, though it
knows the wires are used practically exclusively for
illegal wagering. 1
* * » •
A dinner given by president Mostyn Evan
celebrated the jubilee of S. Aus. Cricket Association.
He was fortunate in being able to get so. many of
the old school, headed by John Hill, Ted Phillips,
Pettinger and Blinman; Frank King was too ill to
be there. The players who 'put S.A. in the front
rank 30 years ago were mostly available: A. H.
Jarvis, George and Waiter Giffen, Lyons and Reed-
man. Of later date were .Clew HiU and Gehrs.
Absent, but duly toasted-;. ’wereSee" Darling, now
M.L.C. of” Tasmania; Ernest Jones, somewhere in
Westralia ; and Pellew, in England. John Hill was
particularly prominent in local cricket 50 years ago.
As secretary of the Norwood Club he called the
first meeting that considered the matter of an
association. His own bat made the first century
scored on the Adelaide Oval when that was formed.
Since then he has been famous as father of a whole
band of first-class cricketers, with Clem the best of
them. The veterans had a great evening, and the
fact that the result of the Test match was just
through did nothing to spoil it.
“Ex-Englishman” : “Soso” need.-not have
been so amazed <\>r amused at the poker player who
(B. 26/5/’2l) declared himself the holder of a
routine flush “before anyone had a chance to bet.”
Certainly the story is new to print; but this is
because poker-stories mostly come from America,
and there the players are out for each other’s blood,
and don’t give away a chance. But among Aus-
tralians —good luck to them ! —the feeling is that to
go ahead indefinitely on this unusual good thing is
too much like betting on a certainty; and to say
“Don’t bet —I’ve filled a straight flush” is quite
the etiquette in some schools. Quixotic, perhaps;
but I’ve seen it done many a time. Another admir-
able Australian innovation is the barring of “poker-
talk,” otherwise plain lying. I’ve seen an American,
with a pat hand against him, buy one card to aces
and kings, “and I hope I don’t fill,” to give the idea
that he was going for a small straight. Another
Yank lised the same phrase on buying one card to
four aces; and shamelessly claimed afterwards that
he had spoken the literal truth, because the only
way he could “fill” was ly getting a fifth ace, and
then he would be shot by the other players! You
have to conform to local rules; but poker as one
meets it in Australia is by comparison quite a white
man’s game.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Racing club executives remind
one of the Bourbons, who learned nothing and forgot
nothing. No rule is older at Flemington than that
an ordinary day’s business must begin with the
hurdle race, if one be included in the programme,
and that the steeplechase must be fourth on the list.
It is a very good rule for spring, summer and autumn
meetings, where jumping is only a side show; but
when the winter comes the hurdle race is of more
general interest, as a rule, than any of the events
on the flat. Yet it continues to be the first item on
the hill, and lots of city men are dragged to see it
'who would have been glad to stay another hour in
town and miss the first race, if not the second too.
Why cling to the midsummer rule in midwinter? It
will be pleaded, of course, that the flat race course is
“dressed” for the jumping event before the curtain
rises, and the hurdles are removed before the second
race. But on a Grand National day the opening
item is a hurdle race, and*then comes a six-furlong
flutter down the straight before the G.N. One or
two hurdles are taken up after the .first race and
replaced for the third. Well, there’s never a winter
bill at Flemington or Caulfield that doesn’t include
at least one sprint race. Let it he the No. 1 item,
so that the folks who don’t bet ,on sprints, but
take a good sporting interest in the long jumping
races, can get late to the course without missing
what’ thev most want to see.
(Continued on poge J/6.)


wmmMk
H
■
»»
n
!
1
■
m
ii
■
hH
FTC
nWmTnrrfTfej
■
&
it
I
Mm
m
■W X
1
9
■
1
■
■
■
n
m
Hi
a
I
1M1; I
...
. '
91 »
■
X* ■■■
*
1111111
I :
■
—{
jfeSia., ;
.xxi..
'
I ■
1
aMHC
SB
n
i
&mm
mm
I
■h
■ ■
X- ■ •• • •
1
illßllli
:
;;•
BSi
BWilWi
MM!
x :••'• .:<v :; ;vx;.;
■
•* ': I
—■
<s^
m
.
EI HI
- ■ ■ ~:■■■.
H H
xx;
x.
■
-
u
BH
■**
: y
mSBm
Iliipß
■
m m
m
MUHUHfI
U
1■; aneEmsaM •• b® i. i
ffi- ~->® ••- f *r-Mg
MMI
■
BBraH
■bii
-
liliiillill
■»!flli
118 hHBHBI H
iIBH
x
B
jMMgi xyxxxxxxxy |r • ■ v . ■ ' --■ 'Q x x yxyxvxxyxx; lp*
mm
MMfflMMMmm
HB
888
11111111
x- • ■. ■ :; : ,
v, »» - ——--
u
i
«-
‘MgwiiwriWMiijx
m
its
H
H ; '
■
.. .
' „jS
'
'■'■ • -■ X
H
•:- : -::v. ; ; : x ; : ixi:§
fillfl
1,11
■:Vxx*”jxx
■x
wm i
H
H i
Xx,
11
i 1B
MH
x'^xix:-
X
riiilil
m
mm
>X-x
■
IHi
MM
■ ■
X.;..- ■•••
XXXxXX
i a
xx ; ■■ x; - ;; :.
fff| Hi - i ,
m H
■I
»»li*ilWip«iii«il
X
| -,y>X: :x ; X ; ' : -
w xxxyyyx'X'X xxyxx.yX:.;
XX X
■
■ ■
■ ■
wfmk ■
: K
I a
:
■
k /. ..." m :C
■
l~
■
■xx-•'
SI
x
• x.X":
SM\rnsj\)i\\}s
J*7UQi 9S s-
the Ne:W Beale Player-
D\ Piano has a technique far beyond
/the demands of the most difficult
piece of music ever written, and because
it possesses devices for the intellectual
control of that technique, in no sense
detracts from it as a piano for use by the
manually proficient musician.
To overlook this aspect of the JVew Beale is to
neglect what is possibly its greatest attribute. The
better musician you are the more you will appreciate
the New Beale.
c A Booklet descriptive of this wonderfully human player will be
sent post free to any address.
BEALE ©COMPANYIIP
Showrooms:
340 George St.,
SYDNEY
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.,
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES —N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goul-
burn, and Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
TASMANIA : Williams Bros.,'Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.AUST.:
John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. W. AUST.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd. Perth.
BEALE & COM PAN? (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


w*
A. Saunders’ Breakfast Combination, pure Silver, complete
with Egg Cups and Spoons, Butter Dish, Salt Cellar and Toast
Rack, 70/-
sr
*
■JJMiWWJfIBB!
A. Saunders’ Cake Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,,
highly burnished, GO/-
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sawie Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, gilt-
lined, handsomely fluted and burnished, £7/10/-
Si!
r*
„.~i:
W*
a-'!
-ws
:>r r
A. Saunders’ Fruit Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly
embossed, £9 /9 /■
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Pickle Jars, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality fiame, English Cut-glass Jars,
m
A. Saunders’ Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, £5/5/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, hand burnished, £5/5/-
I
r"
\ \
>
mm
mV ;I
mNa \ ?
4V‘ ''; S 1 i ! i'!«;|r"4". v
trail! 11 kt:'
/ 1: I ii; 1 I fLs*‘ v Mill * rfj
4i itli
tit
s.»ML..\ S
m
I '"' '. ■
» H || gg| \V\' \\
WA ■■
\V
At a Glance
this illustration shows the essentials of an IDEAL Heating System
as applied to modern dwellings. The Boiler is located at the lowest level
—not necessarily in a basement. The pipes are easily concealed, and
the system can be installed without trouble in old buildings as well
as new.
The following are the special advantages offered by
“IDEAL” Hot Water Heating'.
Hot water, heated in an “Ideal” Boiler, and circulated through “Ideal
Radiators, provides genial comfort throughout the home. Temperature
of any room may be raised or lowered at will.
t
“IDEAL” Convenience
Only one fire to look after. Less
trouble than an ordinary room fire,
“IDEAL” Cleanliness
No ashes, soot, smoke or fumes in-
side the house. No soiling or dis-
“IDEAL” Healthfulness
Nothing is added to the air but
warmth. No unhealthy gases or
“IDEAL” Economy
The fuel usually burnt in .one open
fireplace will heat four average
rooms. For an equal heating duty,
and may be left unattended for hours
at a time.
coloration of furnishings.
vapors. Like a bright spring day in
its freshness and comfort.
electric radiators will cost over
twenty-six times as much, and gas
fires (with flue) eleven times as
much as
“IDEAL” Hot Water Heating'.
. '• H
QC
m
>r
lb
Send us a rough plan ■of your house for an approximate
estimate of cost. prepare Heating plans on tracings
submitted to us by architects, builders or plumbers.
Write NOW for illustrated literature.
Sz
X
0
*5
& SO,N-Pty LtcL
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney
“IDEAL” BOILER.


Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture,!
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Text-Book of Land Drainage. By
JOSEPH A. JEFFERY. Illustrated.
iOs. 6d. net,
Agricultural Meteorology. The
Effect of Weather on Crops. By J.
WARREN SMITH. With Charts.
13s. net.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRAS BY,
F.L.S., Lecturer in Agriculture and
Fruit Growing, Perth (Australia)
Technical School. Illustrated. us.
Science of Dairying. By W. A. G.
PENLINGTON, M.A., Science Tutor,
Auckland Training College, New
Zealand. Illustrated. 3s.
Management of Dairy Plants. By
M. MORTENSEN. Illustrated, 12s.
6d. net.
Th# Farmer’s Business Handbook.
By I. P. ROBERTS. 12s. net.
The Breeding of Animals. By F.
B. MUM FORD, M.S. Illustrated.
±4s. net.
The Diseases of Animals. By NEL-
SON S. MAYO. Illustrated. 20s.
net.
Manual of Farm Animals. By MER-
RIT W. HARPER. Illustrated.
18s. net.
The Feeding of Animals. By W. 11.
JORDAN. 15s. net.
Principles of Feeding Farm Ani-
mals. By SLEETER BULL, B.Sc..
Illustrated. 13s. net.
Western Live-Stock Management.
Edited by Prof. E. L. POTTER. 10s.
net.
Judging Live Stock. By Prof. C. W,
GAY. 13s. net.
Breeds of Live Stock. By Prof. C.
W. GAY. 15s. net.
Science and Fruit Growing. By the
DUKE OF BEDFORD, K.G.,
F.R.S.. and SPENCER PICKER-
ING, M.A., F.R.S. 12s. 6d. net.
The Sweet Potato. A Handbook for
the Practical Grower. By T. E
HAND and K. L. COCKERHAM.
Illustrated. 16s. net.
The Potato. P»y Prof. A. W. GIL-
BERT, Ph.D., assisted hv Prof. M.
F. BARRUS, Ph.D., and D. DEAN.
Illustrated, 11s. net. \
Peach-Growing. By 11. P. GOULD.
12s. 6d. net.
Strawberry-Growing. By Professor
S. W. FLETCHER. ' Illustrated.
12s. net.
Manual of Fruit Diseases. By L.
R. HESLER. A. 8., Ph.D., and H.
LI. WHETZEL, A. 8., M.A. Illus-
trated. 15s. net.
The Principles of Fruit Growing.
By L. 11. BAILEY. 20th edition.
14s. net.
The Pruning Manual. (18th Edition
of “The Pruning Book.”) By L. H.
BAILEY. 20s. net.
The Standard Cyclopaedia of Horti-
culture. By L. H. BAILEY. In
6 vols. Illustrated. Vol. 1., A-B,
Vol. 11., C-E. Vol. 111., F-K. Vol.
IV., L-O. Vol. V., P-R. Vol. VI.,
S-Z and Supplement. 40s. net each.
The Principles of Vegetable Gar-
dening. By L. H. BAILEY. 15s.
net.
Manual of Gardening. By L. H.
BAILEY. 17s. net.
Manual of Tree Diseases. By Pro-
fessor W. HOWARD RANKIN,
Ph.D. Illustrated. 12s. 6d. net.
Manual of Vegetable-Garden Insects.
By CYRUS R. CROSBY and MOR-
TIMER D. LEONARD. Illustrated.
20s. net.
Farm and Garden Insects. By
WILLIAM SOMERVILLE, D.Sc.
With 46 Illustrations. Sewed, Is. 6d.;
stiff boards, Is. 9d.
Injurious Insects. Bv Prof. WAL-
TER C. O’KANE. Illustrated. 21s.
net.
Farm Poultry. A Popular Sketch of
Domestic Fowls. Bv GEORGE C.
WATSON. 10s. net.
How to Keep Hens for Profit. By
C. S. VALENTINE. Illustrated.
10s. 6d. net.
The Beginner in Poultry. By C. S.
VALENTINE. Illustrated, lls.net..
How to Keen Bees for Profit. By
D. EVERETT LYON, Ph.D. Illus-
trated. 12s. net.
Macmillan’s Illustrated List of Bool's
on Agriculture, etc., will he sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
if
tm
s»
** — ~Mp.
M
Wz
m
m
H«3o*.
am
i
Renew Your Linoleums.
YOU can easily bring dull looking lino
back to the original brightness of
pattern which it had when new. You
need only Johnson s Prepared Wax and
a cloth. The result will be a dry, dust-
less polish of great beauty and durability.
In less than an hour you can polish the ordinary sized
floor, making it easy to keep clean, and it may be
walked upon immediately.
joiNsors
PREPARED WAX
i .
Liquid and Paste
should be used m your home in polishing furni-
ture, woodwork and floors. For it protects and
preserves varnished finishes, covering up all
surface scratches. In one operation it cleans
and polishes.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Jim
SS2Q@CJI
41Bk
Sprinkled over any floor will
immediately give a perfect
dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to
supply you with Johnson's
Prepared Wax and the
many other useful Johnson
products.
S. C. Johnson & Son-
-379 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
For Use While Washing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF you live in the suburbs and do not sing
when you are taking your morning
bath there is something radically wrong
with vour universe or your liver,
ifdt, general as the practice is, hardly any
attention has beeii paid to if in the past. It
has been taken for granted that anything is
good enough to sing when the shoWCt is run-
ning. For my own part I never realised
how shockingly ill-equipped I was until re-
cently there came to me one fresh from the
North Sea, with his mouth full of chanteys
and forebitters and gun-room ditties —the
real things; not the anaemic rollickings of
pale poets for whom the sea means nothing
unless it be nausea. Now my heart is glad
when I burble in the mornings, and I am
late with greater regularity than ever before.
My suburban vice has developed a deviltry
which gives it a new charm; I lower my
voice here, hum a few lines there, and gener-
ally consider the neighbors. Splashing in
my bath, I am the singer of strange lays of
unknown seas.
We all know some of them in an emascu-
lated form j but the fun of the business is
to have them in all their virility. They are
not merely indecent, however J for instance :
Her lips were red, her eyes were brdwtt
(Mafk well what I do say!);
Her lips were red, her eyes were brown,
Her hair like glow-worms falling down —
So I’ll go no more a-roving with you, fair maid ;
A-roving, a-roving, since roving’s been my ru-in,
I’ll go no more a-roving with you, fair maid.
And the charm of the thing is that the
chap who could think of that compliment for
his lady’s tresses could continue in a strain
which makes the soft pedal essential for the
sake of the house’s good name. “A-roving”
is, of course, a well-known chantey, but do
yob know the sad story of Sammy Hall—Mr.
Halt wild) for a heinous offence, described and
justified at full length, had “to swing on a
blanky piece of string"'/ It has a good air,
and much mirth, ahd suits a male choir
very well. Hear Sammy give a sidelight
upon his execution ! — 1
Oh, the parson he was there, he was there, he waa
there;
The parson he was there, he was there, he was there;
The parson he was there, and he sanctified the air
With his blanky, useless prayer,
Blank his eyes! etcetera.
The last line, at which the soft pedal is
pushed down heavily, is the feature. After
many experiences S: mmy goes below: —
And now I am in Hell, am in Hell, am in Hell,
And now I am in Hell, am in Hell, am in Hell,
And now I am in Hell, and the blanky thing’s a sell,
For they do you blanky well
Down in Hell,
Blank their eyes, etc., etc.
There is the rise and the fall of the first
waves at the harbor-mouth in the refrain of
“Spanish Ladies," which takes the words
along with a gentle melancholy, and a dear
regret for the dead nights under the big.
stars: —*
Far.ewell and adieu to you, fair Spanish ladies,
Farewell and adieu to you, ladies Of Spain,
For we’ve received orders to sail for old England,
But we hope in a short time to see you again !
The opening stanza of “Blow the Man
Down” can be sung above the clamor of the
Board ef Works’ accompaniment:—
When I was a-strolling down Ratcliffe Highway
(With a heigh ho, blow the man down!),
I met a fine frigate a-standing my way
(Give us some time to blow the man).
So I upp’d with my tops’l and gave her in chase—
Ahem ! and so on. Another meeting also
can be shouted to high Heaven: —
When l was walking down the Strand
(Doo-da ! Doo-da !)
1 met three girlies hand in hand
(Doo-da! Doo-da day!).
It is a sad story this, to a lively air. Then
there is that airy, fairy fancy which tells
that
A parson a-strolling by the seaside
Spied a little crayfish a-swimming in the tide,
A-swimming in the tide by the light of the moon —-
Why can’t a feller enjoy his own room ?
He took that crayfish from out of the foam,
He put it in his pocket and he shoved along home,
lie shove'! along home by the light or the moon —-
Why can’t a feller enjoy his own room ?
A more solid and .substantial note is
struck in this: —
Now when you join a merchant ship to sail the seas
at large,
You must be very careful that you have a good
discharge;
It must be signed by the Board of Trade, and ev'ry-
thing exact
Or you won’t get a berth in a merchant ship, accord
ing to the Act!
So haul taut your weather mainbrace and ease away
the lee,
Hoist your jib-halyards and let the ship go free.
Hurrah, boys, hurrah ! We 11 sing the jubilee—
God bless the Navy, but a merchant ship for me !
There are a hundred more, and each has a
hundred verses, ninety-nine of which must be
sung to the plug. But the singing of them
will do us dwellers in suburb-a a m.nt of good.
The immortal soul demands a little spice with
a showej\
DALE COLLINS.
Building.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Great dreams, like that which came at first
to God
Of building this green house we call the
world,
Are with me when the morning tints the sod
With saffron lights and on the tree staffs
furled
Are all the banners of the marching hosts
Of color that shall hear the trump of noon
Shrilling to victory down the magic coasts
Great with the blue of summer. Late and
soon
I dream too large and vague and sweet a
thing
For this kind language which is masoned
stone
Cut for the high design my thought may
bring. . •
Let the high vision pass, heedless, un-
known,
If in the tremulous passing of rich hours
I build ohe arch that leads a path to
flowers.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


&
for Economy.
UPKEEP. —The “Z” Engines are speci-
ally built to use kerosene or other low-
grade fuels. They are not petrol
engines “adapted” for kerosene. So
here’s where you get your first economy
—the same power from a gallon of kero-
sene as from a gallon of petrol—and the
difference in cost goes into your pocket.
FUEL.— The sensitive Throttling Gov-
ernor on the “Z” Engines acts directly
on a balanced valve which regulates the
amount of fuel and air passing into the
cylinder. It thus maintains an accu-
rately proportioned mixture, as well as
a uniform cylinder temperature, giving
constant speed and power with greatest
economy of fuel, regardless of the load or
the weather.
TIME. —The trip-operated “Bosch” Mag-
neto ensures your “Z” starting—on petrol
—at the first kick, and a turn of the
valves changes it on to kerosene without
losing a second’s power.
SPACE. —Although the “Z” is water-
cooled, its compact build neatly disposes
of both water and fuel tank, and the
engine takes up little room on floor or
truck.
'M
m
m
%
5=S
—-^SSSEawwj
r
with the famous
BOSCH High-tension
Magneto.
The famous “Z” Engine is now equipped with the equally
well-known “Bosch” High-tension Magneto—the highest-
grade ignition system known. The Magneto is of master
design—simple, self contained and rugged—and is as accu-
rately made as a *watch. The high-tension system is simple—-
no complications-=--no moving parts—just a magneto and
spark plug. It gives your “Z” an intensely hot, powerful,
penetrating spark—unaffected by atmosphere or continuous
usage—that gets every ounce of power from your fuel.
Let us tell you more about the “Z.“ There s a size to suit
you exactly.
DANGAR, GEDYE|& cd, LTD Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD, Brisbane
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD Melbourne
MALLOCH BROS Perth
A. J. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD. .. . Hobart & Launceston
for Service.
OVER 300,000 farmers are now using
“Z” Engines. Surely in their wise
choice there is a message that vitally con-
cerns you.
Such widespread acceptance of the
Fairbanks-Morse “Z” was not achieved
by claims alone, nor by the high repute
of the house which manufactures this
farm-engine.
No! Performance and enduring de-
pendability have established its unques-
tioned supremacy. Its mechanical sim-
plicity, sturdy construction, plus power,
economical running and low upkeep have
combined to make the “Z” America’s
Master Farm Engine.
You will find that no effort is spared
in making the “Z” Engines 100%
quality in every detail. All parts are pre-
cisely fitted and standardised . for inter-
changeability. There is weight only where
it is needed to withstand strain—thus
giving strength and lightness as well. The
finely-ground piston and piston-rings en-
sure perfect compression. The water-
cooled cylinder and head eliminate heat
strains and help to keep the valves tight.
Effective lubrication —accessibility—re-
liability—are found in every “Z.” The
satisfactory service - given by*the “Z” has
earned the Seal of 100% Quality.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Tallow can be used for other things than
margarine and wax candles. A special grade
of it is used for greasing the ways when a
ship is launched. Like the Commonwealth’s
steel plates for shipbuilding, this used to be
imported; but someone found lately that
it could be turned out at Homebush
(N.S.W.), and now’ it is not only serving
the purpose here but has been exported to
Hongkong.
* * * *
“Pick”: Still another case. A N. S.
Wales school-teacher a couple of months ago
purchased a Japanese-made shaving-brush
and a whole colony of anthrax germs with
it. He is how in a Sydney hospital having
portions of his arm grafted to where the skin
and flesh peeled off his face. The importa-
tion of these goods is, I know, prohibited ;
but you can still buy them in country stores.
In fact, in many stores you can’t buy any
other brushes.
“C. Troop”: “Ned Kelly’s” horse was
always the best-conditioned in the troop owing
to his rider’s ingenuity in supplementing the
feed-issue. He successfully looted the most
carefully-guarded dump, his long suit at
night being his bag disguise, in which, when
alarmed, his small figure by a few contor-
tions would be made indistinguishable from a
bag of oats. “My hapniness would be com-
plete,” he used to say, “if I could only turn
myself into a case of rum!”
* * * *
“Camp Horse”: The hawker, picking his
mark, offered Bill a stylish diamond ring at
a very low price. Bill, after satisfying him-
self that the stone was genuine, wrote a
cheque for the amount. The deal completed,
the hawker sidled up to Bill and said: “I
have seen you presenting a good few things
to the tarts about this old town —just in
confidence, don't you present that ring to any-
one here.” “Righto,” chirruped Bill, "and,
just in confidence, don’t you present that
cheque to anyone here.”
**-*-*
“Wait”: To encourage wheat-growing the
Speck Government offered a couple of prizes
for the best fields of wheat raised in the
north and the south of the island. Arthur Hall,
of Wesley Vale, won the northern prize with
544 bushels of Federation, to the acre, and
Buchall Bros., of Sorell, the i southern prize
with bushels of Purple Straw. Yet in
ordinary years the Speck grows abott a
quarter of the wheat it eats. With arl the
guarantees, etc., last season’s crop reached
only 50 p.c.
* * * *
“Sirenopsis”: The way , Australian busi-
ness houses are modernysifig is pfiown by a
plan recently launched by Harris, Scarfe,
Ltd., Adelaide’s big hardware firm. For
the printing of its own catalogue iti has
installed a plant which cost in rhe region
of £lO,OOO. The book, of 1500 pages, is to
be of the loose-leaf kind, thus permitting
of alterations in the goods and prices being
inserted as they occur. The type used is
Australian-made. Simmons, an 1 ' Adelaide
youngster, who in the days of the big argu-
ment wore two pips with the> Australian
Engineers, is at the helm.
"Jean”: “Friday Island’s” dockyard pil-
lager (B. 26/5/’2l) was a talkative amateur
compared with Gimlet, a railway-yard car-
penter, who, using official time and timber,
made a long ladder. At knock-off time one
evening he donned a pair of blue overalls,
smudged his hands and hoisted the ladder
against the arc lamp-post second from the
exit gate. Having climbed aid? “examined”
the arc, he descended and repeated the per-
formance at the post just inside, the | gate.
Then, with eyes glued to one particular over-
head cable, he shouldered his ladder through
the gate and examined the arc just outside.
A bored gatekeeper lazily watched a “laimpy”
working his overtime way down the street
lights—and Gimlet collected a good price for
the ladder from a housepainter next day.
“Aniani”: The White Man’s Burden in
Papua is accentuated by the worries of
H.C.L. In Moresby, which is in the Dry
Belt, the settler lives mostly out of a tin.
At three-weekly intervals the arrival of the
mailboat brings a change for a few'davs
to fresh beef and mutton, butter and fruit;
but the rest of the month k it is a case of
disguising tinned horrors so that you may
be tempted to think you are eating real food.
It costs, on the average, £7 per month to
feed an adult, and almost as much for a
healthy child ; this does not leave any margin
for the purchase of clothing, boots and/ silk
stockings. House rent is also in the clouds:
a two-roomed shack of galvanised-iron, a
miniature furnace, absorbs from £3 to £4
10s. of your monthly screw. If you have
a decent-sized family you have to part with
£5 to £7 each month for their shelter. There
is only an odd house that has been built to
i
suit the climate. The Aussie boasts that he
"lives hard,” but here in Papua he mostly
dies hard, for the residences are better incu-
bators of tropical-disease germs than domi-
ciles for healthy Austral-Papuans. The
native Papuan in his palm-aud-thatch hut is
better housed than his master, and he escapes
tke H.C.L. bogey. A little exertion in his
garden gives him unlimited food, and he
wraps a rami (loincloth) {ground him when
he packs up for a (ong journey.
Australia makes most of her own beer
nowadays, but sends to the other side of
the world for the hops. In February of
this year she imported 239,6691 b., valued at
£42,544. There were 200,8131 b. from U.S.A.,
17,8501 b. from Maoriland and 10,9761 b. from
Czecho-Slovakia (formerly Bohemia). Even
war-ravaged Belgium can sell us hops, for
in March 14,2941 b. -came from that busy
little spot. One or two districts in the
Speck, mostly the Derwent Valley, are the
only Australia that grow enough of
tlie vegetable to mention. At one time the
business flourished in Vic., especially in
parts of Gippsland, but only mouldering hop-
kilns are left there. If there is one rural
industry that gives more employment than
another it-is hop-growing. And that is pre-
cisely why it has become unpopular. Aus-
tralia hasn't been looking lately for any-
thing that gives a lot of work.
* *
“H.H.”: Australia takes as unkindly to
new vegetables as a, cat does to the; surf.
Cotton isn’t exactly ,‘new, for the first bag
was sent from Queensland to England 93
years ago and pronounced good, and between
3867 and 1874 the exports, helped by a
bonus, averaged 600 tons a year. But then
the business died. Yet cotton is easy to
grow, highly profitable and in short supply.
So there has been a revival, and it is be-
lieved that this year's crop will amount to
168 tons of ginned cotton, worth £22,344 in
England. Australia requires to manufac-
ture out of its own cotton between 25 and
30 millions’ worth of goods to supply its own
needs, so there is a long, long, terribly long
way to go. If the country produced one
distinctive Cotton Ministry, among so many
Railway, Loan and Wheat Pool Ministries,,
things might There might even be
a Cotton pool, with a guaranteed price pay-
able to everybody who put a big hunk of pro-
duce into the stock. Cotton-growing has
always been under suspicion of being
“nigger’s work,” but an expert man or
woman can pick as much as 300 lb. a day,
and the wage was Id. per lb. even when cot-
ton was cheap; and 255., or even 205., a day
is too much to waste on any nigger.
* * * *
How we run our telegraph business: —
The “temporary” men, like the poor, are always
with us. In Melbourne office, after two years’
endeavor to do without them, they are being re-
engaged. Eighteen months ago a start was made in
Sydney to get rid of them. A few were sacked and,
three weeks later, asked to return. While in some
districts line-shortage is the reason for delay to
telegrams, irability to man existing lines is the
common • cause. The present daily average of tele-
grams delivered “next day” from Sydney office alone is
1000. This during the winter slackness! Therefore the
motion of a futile Post anti Telegraph Conference held
recently that all temporary men be sacked and their
places filled by permanent men—who don’t exist
was so much spent gas. It is well known that, had he
the power, the N. S. Wales telegraph manager
would appoint at least 20 temporary (or permanent)
men if they were available. Instead, there is a
chance that any day he will be instructed by a clerk
in Melbourne, who isn’t responsible for telegraph
delays, to dispense with all temporary employees.
There is no solid reason in the objection to tem-
porary hands. There are hundreds in the great
telegraph-centres of England, where a service like
that of Australia’s would result in a riot. The
whole telegraph business of America is handled by
temporary men —permanency is unknown. The pro-
posal of a minority of the Conference that the tem-
porary employees be made permanent would operate
unfairly. Since seniority follows salary, the appoint-
ment of the temporary men (including one who
started last week) would raise them over the beads
of permanent men of up to 16 years’ sendee. All
the same, these temporary men shouldn’t be liable
to be sacked any moment. The present policy of
“sack first chance” recently lost this country two
fine operators, with their families, numbering 10
people ; they went to San Francisco, and now they’re
wondering why they didn’t do it long ago.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Geelong (Vic.) Harbor
Trust has been hammered by the State
Auditor-General. Budded off from the State
Ports and Harbors Department under the
guiding hand of the masterful G. F. Holden
(now out of politics and in the chair of Mel-
bourne Harbor Trust), it was given a good
start by the State. It had large ideas. It
launched out and built a model meat-pre-
serving works —and had to farm it out to
lessees in order to cut its losses. It bought
an adjoining estate —and was glad to gain a
little patriotic kudos by giving the white
elephant to the Commonwealth, first for a
naval college, then for a nurses’ convalescent
home and now for submarine base head-
quarters. It tried irrigation farming on a
purchased property —and after several ad-
verse balance-sheets allowed its manager to
work the farm on shares. It equipped a new
wharf with up-to-date electric wheat-loading
appliances—and saw them remain idle all the
season because the Wheat Commission will
not pay wharfies for the time taken in reach-
ing the wharf from Geelong city, a concession
secured under a Federal award. Now comes
the Auditor-General with a reminder that
the Trust has an accumulated deficiency of
£57,624, with no provision for depreciation ;
and an unpaid interest bill to the State for
£68,000. It has also “mortgaged its rent” by
taking £15,000 from the lessees of its works,
upon which it is paying 5 p.c. interest. The
Trust is proposing that, it should take up the
business of municipal abattoirs, but the
writing on the wall indicates that the Trust
is itself a lamb being prepared for the
slaughter—either by curtailment of its scope
'•"* by its absorption into Melbourne Harbor
Trust.
* * * *
■ “Skyrider”: I struck a battered old pound-
note the other day bearing this on its back :
“God send you back to me.” I hope He
doe»
AN AFTER-HOURS SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though mugs of beer may sixpence cost,
With then some ounces missing,
The handled beaker is not lost —
Its lips I still am kissing.
And drinking mugs shall be my task
Till earth rocks on its axis:
A patriot, I only ask'
To pay this way my taxes!
’Gainst tyranny the free revolt:
Its rules in scorn we bury.
Though wowsers may the bar-doors bolt,
At six we still are merry.
Behind closed doors their laws we mock.
With eyes in mirth a-flicker;
They say beer stops at shicks o’clock—
We stop not till we’re “shicker.”
To worship in what way he will
Is man’s determination.
Libations to pur gods we fill,
And' will not stand privation.
Till midnight we keep revels yet—
Vain is the hope to track us —
With hymns to good wine rightly set
About the shrine of Bacchus!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


STORAGE
BATTERY
jrf
gp tff
±rt? •: n
All you have to do to
know that you are rid of
reinsulation trouble for
good is to make sure that
you get a Still Better
Willard with the Willard
Threaded Rubber Trade
Mark stamped on the side
of the case.
**s**+■
STORAGE
9 H BATTERY
gog
m
* fU


The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - Accepted from 1/- upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - - - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at 3i per cent, on any
excess up to £ 1000.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
THE
AL
<\ON
1
K
* •
KMC
> *
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. E$TABLISHEI
185S.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1, 320,000
£3,320,000
828,000
£4,148,000
Directors: —SIB JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHAKD. Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. II. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager; R. S. GREGSON. Sub-Manager: L. C. McCOXNAN.
George St. City Officfe, 350 George St. Manager; A. E. ECCLES.
Branches in Victoria, *o*ith Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
Brisbane — Manager ; WM. TIVEY, LONDON OFFICE; 7 Lothbury, K.C.2.
A Victory of the Bush.
f HE Englishman had started the talk
with a reference to the utter trans-
parency of the bush. “You fellows,”
he said, “could never have anything like the
legends that we have about our forests.
There’s nothing to conceal —no secret; every-
thing’s quite plain. Nothing dark or gloomy
or suggestive of mystery, like the German or
Russian woods, for instance. Where do you
suppose the brothers Grimm got their inspira-
tion? Why, their stories reek of the super-
stition of the forests! I’m hanged if I can
find anything of the like in Australia, and,
what’s more, I haven’t found any distinctive
stories of the bush. Either you haven’t got a
writer in tune with the bush, or the bush has
no stories to write. Eh?”
He smiled round on the four of us rather
triumphantly, as Englishmen will; and just
for the moment we had no answer. It was
left for the little brown man who had not pre-
viously spoken to resume. He had been a
little aloof in the corner of the compartment,
staring out of the window; but now he
turned to us and addressed the Englishman.
“So you think that we have no stories
peculiar to the bush?” he asked.
“Not exclusively of the bush,” the other
stipulated. “Homestead-life, cattle-stations
and all that sort of thing—l know those; but
they don’t seem to touch what I’ve been look-
ing for; why are there no stories of the
spirit of your bush? It. begets no mysteries,
no superstition, and therefore no stories.”
“Perhaps,” said the little man gently, "per-
haps it is because they are too terrible.”
He paused to assure himself that we were
interested ; approved our respectful silence ;
and with no further introduction began bis
story.
“1 used to be a prospector,” he said.
“When I was quite a youngster, twenty or
twenty-one about, 1 happened to bo tramping
into Peacock from the Dutton River —up
north in New South, you know, somewhere out
of Uralla. Wild country just around the
river; rugged and plenty of heavy timber. I’d
calculated to strike Peacock by nightfall.
“But I was late. I'd gone lame on the
road: my left foot blistered up, and I was
hardly able to put it on the ground. I had a
swag and a bundle of tools that were no light
weight, and, just to make everything com-
plete, it began to rain again, after holding off
for two days. Just on dark 1 took a short-cut
that I’d been told about, and which would
carry me over a hill and into Peacock inside
an hour.” \
He smiled reminiscently.
“Ever take a strange short-cut in dusk,
with heavy rain coming on? It’s a
fool’s game, believe me. Stick to your good
road any day; it’s worth it. However, I
was young and impatient, and I went. Pretty
soon I was slipping and sliding over wet
rocks and being slapped in the face by
dripping bushes. Several times stones rolled
over and tumbled me down, and it was too
dark to see the way well at all. The ground
was sloppy, or I’d have curled up somewhere
and waited for morning.
“Up the old creek-bed I went, then, groan-
ing and swearing by turns. My foot was as
tender as a scalded face by now, and rolling
and scrambing about wasn’t improving it.
“I was close to giving up when all at once
I caught a glimpse of a light, to the left of
the track. Lights weren’t common in the
middle of that God-forsaken scrub, I can tell
you, and I made a bee-line for it right away.
It turned out to be a lighted window : and it
meant shelter and perhaps dried clothes.
There was no introductory track that I could
see, and I had absolutely to break my way
through to the clearing. Never have I seen
bush so thick, though perhaps the darkness
and the wet helped the effect.
“The shanty was quite well-built, a neat
little bark-roofed place, rather unusual in
having a glass window. I knocked, and a
little old man, a funny little man who might
have hopped out of your Brothers Grimm,
opened the door. Informed of my plight, he
welcomed me in, heaved a pile of sapling-
logs into the fireplace, and offered me
whisky. I noticed that he did not smile. I
saw no trace of real humor in his face then
or afterwards. He struck me, oddly enough,
as being faded. You know the impression?
His clothes, which had been of various
shades originally, had become, through time
and wear, an indeterminate grey. His beard
was shabby, and struggled ineffectually to
cover his chin. Even his features had lost
what distinction they might have had, find
were colorlessly absorbed, blended into one
face, round and perfectly vacant, and —
faded. I remember he spoke in a toneless
voice, all on one note- —the sort of voice, you
know, that you have to hang on to or you
miss what’s being said.
“ “A prospector, eh?’ he asked when he
saw my tools. ‘Know the bush well?’
“Curiously, you know, he gave the im-
pression that he’d been eager to ask that
question ever since I’d come.
“ ‘Pretty well,’ I answered.
"He shook his head. ‘A mistake —that.
No man can ever know the bush. No man.’
“ ‘No?’ I waited for him to enlarge
on this topic. But he sat forward, elbows
on knees, looking into the fire, and said
nothing. I sipped my whisky.
“ ‘You see,’ he said after a while, ‘it con-
‘quers you.’ I didn’t at first quite see the
force of this remark.
“ ‘What conquers you?’
“ ‘The bush.’ He looked at me rather
with an air of surprise, as if I should have
known. ‘But perhaps you haven’t seen it —
properly. You know, it waits.’
“ ‘Waits?’
“ ‘lt listens. Come with me any day, and
I’ll show you. Haven’t you noticed? It’s
funny how some fellows can’t see anything
peculiar in the bush—anything more than
just trees and plants. Haven’t you heard
the birds stop singing—all at once? They
listen, with the bush. Do you know what
they’re listening for? What do they ex-
pect?’
“He shot this out with a stare from eyes
that positively blazed. The light in them
died slowly. ‘No man knows the answer to
that question. Why is it so? Why can’t
we find these things out? Why, the walla-
bies and rabbits and birds and all are always
waiting, waiting, waiting! Haven’t you
ever seen it? Spend a year alone hereabouts
and you’ll wonder that it never occurred to
you before. I’ve seen even the fish in the
river down there bunched together in the
shallows, without moving, looking scared,
and waiting, like everything else. Why?
It’s not like that in other countries that I’ve
seen, and I’ve seen a few. India’s hot
and steamy and crawling with life ; Brazil’s
got a surprise for you at every second step.
You get used to things like that.’
“ ‘But you can’t get used to the bush
here, and the endless waiting and silence.
It gets on your nerves. You see, nothing
happens.’
“He was silent for a space.
“‘Nothing happens, did I say? That’s
what it looks like at first sight. But those
who know the bush better are not so sure.’
He sized me up before he touched a deeper
level. ‘Perhaps you think it foolish to say
that the bush lias its own will? It looks
mad, I know. But it’s true. You’ve heard
of those trees on the Amazon that trap rab-
bits and things and eat them? It’s some-
thing like that. Only crueller ! There’s some
sort of will behind the growth of the timber
here, I’m dead certain. Maybe a clumsy
will, but very strong, all the same.’
“I must have stared at him rather sharply,
for he went on: ‘Has that never struck
you ? True, every bit of it. The bush....
“ ‘You know, sometimes it seems to me
like a great big animal. When the moon
comes up over the hill on a dark night it
shows all the timber coiled round my place
like —well, like a big black snake. Some-
times I’m fairly terrified; and yet I’m no
coward—at least, I usedn’t to be. I have
to run inside; and I can’t bear tp see the
flying-foxes cominer out into the moonlight
—they seem so frightened. You understand?
And all the time no sound at all—no sound
at all. I tell you it’s horrible; it’s the
silence that kills.
“ ‘lt’s a queer feeling when you under-
stand that the trees are fighting against you
like an army. And not only trees; there
are weeds, too. They prepare the way.
Always they’re coming on, creeping forward,
little bits here and there, you’d hardly notice.
But things do happen. The bush took my
wife and two kiddies for a start’
“I gulped a mouthful of whisky. ‘What’s
that?’
“ ‘My wife and kiddies. The little ones
were lost out there. Lost and never seen
again. I know—the bush got them. And
the missus went under after that, so it got
her too. You see how clever it is, don’t
you? All the same, I’m still fighting it,
just by staying here and defying it. Does
it seem brave to be doing that? There’s
nothing harder in this world. I’m not going
to give in—not yet. It’s playing a waiting
game, so am I. In it creeps through my
fences, and thinks that I won’t notice.
Slowly as it can. Can’t I be cunning, too,
when I like! There’s a young gum sapling
just inside the fence at the corner—been
there for some time now. Beginning to
think that I can’t see it. But to-morrow or
the next day I’ll take an axe and come up
to him softly and so! Ha. ha! You
see? There’s fight in me yet.’”
“The man was mad,” said our little brown-
faced comnanion, dropping his mimicry like
a mask. “You could see that in his eyes;
but it was impossible to believe there was
nothing at the bottom of his madness.
Everybody who has lived close to the bush
knows something of the kind. Well, I didn’t
want to excite him, and after a while he
showed me a corner of the room where, with
the aid of a blanket and my own dried things,
I was able to make a sort of rough bunk.
I was too tired to be particular, anyway,
and was asleep almost at once.
"The next morning I got up and went
on. He showed me to the edge of his clear-
ing, but refused to go further. I remember
turning on him curiously. His shrinking
eyes could not meet mine ; they turned aside;
and abruptly he himself wheeled about and
began to walk quickly in the direction of
his hut—at the last few yards, I think,
he ran. I am not sure. I was feeling rather
queer myself; although I was not afraid,
all the same there was a strange vacancy
and absence of normal emotion that seemed
to leave space for fear. Ever feel like that?
The bush faced me with that perfect and
annoying silence that the fellow had re-
marked. I had my general bearings, and I
strode boldly into the undergrowth.
“I remember that I had pushed some way
into the scrub without making any appre-
ciable headway, when there was forced on
me again the immense and unbroken silence.
I recall now that I was becoming rather
too apprehensive, and 1 cursed this man
and his wicked imaginings. I picked my way
past tall gums and stringy-barks, just a
pigmy fumbling through that gigantic wilder-
ness. Suddenly a strange idea got hold of
me: I fancied that the trees were watching
me—watching me ever so furtively, ever so
cunningly, and, I thought, even a little iron-
ically. Oh. it was—well, rather horrible.
I attempted to throw the impression off: it
clung all the tighter. I was clumsy and
confused and frightened before the evil star-
ing of the bush. I gave a bit of a laugh,
just to relieve the tension, but, strangely
enough, it only added to it.
“The first absolutely inexplicable business
was the affair of the thorn-brier. I saw it
in my path, and went to pass to the right
of it. Do you know, somehow or other, 1
missed my direction, and blundered helplessly
into the middle of it! I stepped back and
looked; there was a wider clear space to
the right. I made for that, but again I
brought up, in the prickly barrier. I gazed
to the right; the clear space, I perceived,
was no longer there. The crackling of the
thorns was for all the world like subdued
laughter.
“I began to feel frightened, to be less sure
of myself. I ducked once more to the left,
with the same result. The shrub seemed
deliberately to outwit me. The thorns
scratched my hands and plucked the hat from
my head ; and the intense silence mocked me.
In a sudden desperation—loss of temper, I
suppose—l struggled to drag through the
bush, vainly. At length, hot, breathless, dis-
hevelled, I stepped back from it.
“I saw suddenly how very absurdly I’d
been acting. Of course, there was plainly
easy passage on either side of the bush ; I
had been charging like a stupid fool at the
centre each time. I went on ; but my pre-
monition of danger had not left me yet.
Presently there was another incident of the
same kind. I was struck forcibly across the
face by the projecting branch of a tree; so
forcibly that I started back in affright. I
saw now that all the trees of the grove were
moving: thby had formed a solid wall before
me so quietly that I turned wildly to left
and right”
He made an indescribable gesture.
'••There, too! I wheeled swiftly and almost
fainted with dismay: the trees had sur-
rounded me. Slowly, with a quite sinister
deliberation, they came nearer. Replacing
one another in some kind of ordered con-
fusion, the trees seemed to writhe closer
and closer, working out the lines of some
infernal maze. I couldn’t see them moving
directly. As I’d fix my gaze on some root
or other, it would freeze perfectly still; and
out of the corner of my eye, dimly, I’d
glimpse the others pressing in. They joined
so completely, and in such great numbers,
that it w T as impossible to break through.
Closer and closer. I retreated, only to meet
the onset of the further side. Closer! I
was choking, suffocating ; I couldn’t breathe ;
the cruel, white bark of a gum came silently
against my face
"I screamed and awoke. There I was,
still in the cabin, lying on my improvised
bunk ; and the embers of the fire were fling-
ing long red lines of light across the floor.
Everything w’as calm: even the rair and the
wind had ceased.”
We saw that he had something further to
say.
“In Peacock, when I got there, they were
able to "tell me all about the man I had met.
He was mad, they said, and had been ever
since he’d lost his family as he described.
Quite harmless: only his queer dread and
horror of the bush made him different. They
called him Jimmy the Crab; nobody knew
his real name.
“I asked after him when I was in Peacock
a few years ago. ‘Oh,’ said mv host, ‘he’s
dead now, the poor old devil! Died six years
back. He was a funny chan, too, wasn’t he?
You knew him? Well, they found him one
day at the edge of his clearing with an axe,
hitting at the trees —the trees, mind you, the
blarsted trees. Shouting at the top of his
voice, as mad as a hatter'. Not chopping, yon
know, just hitting. Said he was fighting the
Devil. Yes. He got the idea somehow that
the bush was the Devil, and was prancing
about with this axe of his, fighting-mad. You
should have heard him sing out when they
took it from him ! Off he tears into the scrub,
yelling; goes over a log, poor cow, and
smashes his head. I saw it happen : and if
ever there was a man frightened to death, it
was old Jimmy. I used to hear people talk
of folk frightened out of their wits: I know
what that means, now. That was the end. of
Jimmy.’
“‘So the bush got him, too!’ I exclaimed,
deeply moved and surprised. ‘What about
his house?’
“ ‘His shanty! Oh, the bush is all over it
now—overrun the place in no time, after
he’d gone. You’d almost have to hire a sur-
veyor to tell you where it used to be.’ ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]Alan B.
Orders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE iron of many Arctic winters and
the steel of the mad thing men call
Duty had entered the heart of
Trooper Larry Kane and changed it into
stone. In his day he had hustled many
souls to Hell without a qualm, and now he
looked unafraid at the similar prospect in
store for himself. The gaunt, white-
washed walls of the orderly-room and the
Spartan simplicity of its appointments
seemed to have been cast in the same iiarsh
mould as the features of the little group of
officers composing the court-martial.
Kane was up against it, and weu he knew
it. He had toyed with the honor of the
Royal Northwest Police, and sported with
its traditions. Uut in the stark and sullen
solitudes that sentinel the Arctic Circle the
red-coated law-bringers had long held sway ;
and so jealously did they guard their honor
that no hint of scandal or impropriety on
their part was ever allowed to filter through
to me outside world. it was an unwriuea
law m the force that its members could ride
roughshod over all the ordinances of God
and man —so long as they were not found
out. For those who were caught the pun-
ishment was stern; for the Foreign Legion of
the North tolerates no failures.
Larry listened to the charge sullenly,
heedless of the glances of his escort, who
looked at him with tiie devotion 01 leashed
dogs.
He thought of the punishment meted out
to captured deserters, and in that mist of the
past he dragged up pictures of men who
had been sent straight from 12 months in a
log-cabin guardroom, out on a solitary patrol,
with insufficient supplies and doped dogs, on
a two months' trip. Somehow, it always
happened that they were despatched a few
days before the seasonal blizzards set in,
and later, in terse official language, the Big
Chief who presides over all the destinies of
the Mounteds at Regina would read that
Regimental Number , Trooper ——
had been "lost on the trail.” With an in-
voluntary shudder, Kane conjured up a
vision of a firing squad he had once offici-
ated with over the grave of a comrade
who had compromised a slim Sjwash
girl while paying out Treaty money to
her tribe in the Dore River territory. That
man’s was another case of "death through
singular devotion to duty,” vide the Post
diary. He had "volunteered” to run medical
supplies to the winter quarters of a party
of oil prospectors in the Fort Norman district
who had missed the last portage, trailing
1200 miles south to Athabasca Landing, be-
fore the freeze-up set in. Scurvy was soften-
ing their bones and loosening their t&eth.
Those supplies never reached their destina-
tion, for the trooper had trouble with his
(logs: and huskies when their ration of
frozen dog-salmon runs short are wont to
attain the ferocity of a bitch-wolf in pup.
The boys who formed the relief party re-
covered his double-aetion Colt and his frozen
body—at least, what the dogs had left. It
was surmised that, being inexperienced, he
had his mastery over the pack ; and up
in the North dogs are quick to sense fear in
their task-master, Man. The boys at the
Post had known that their farewell was
the last.
From the harsh gash which denoted that
the relentless, indomitable face of the major
oWned a mouth issued one sentence: “Guilty.
The Court will take time to consider your
punishment. For the present,” he added,
“you can go to Hell! Get out!”
Kane swayed when the escort released his
arms outside the guardroom door, and gave
him the run of the barracks, pending the
Court’s pronouncement.
Ten minutes later a big Colt barked.
They learn to obey orders, those men of
the Mounted Police.
A. WHITE PACKARD.


•A#-
m
■ , • 9
iSthk
1*1111
.
A
r lexible a.rrrv
£1901 standard,
with ask trair gr
match box holder
'f:\T '
-A
\
Urxolite rea.drn£-
lajrrvp "witK opaJ
diffusing globe.
r->.
m
h
,
■m ■ :
■
n.vj’j.-ia
mmmm —
as®i
■
Cui ilie 6l
c otare
ilk
V
With these facts iii view,
developed. Emeralite. is a portable table
desk lamp designed to protect the eyes rrc
all glare and strain, by means of a rich E
erald green glass shade, plated it
white opal glass, and shaped to gf
efficient distribution of light on the wot
This shade is mounted on a metalsp
heavily weighted and felted to protect
surfaces.
For reading, writing or sewing, then
better protection for the eyes than Eme
Come in and see them and the other mo<
illustrated, on 'view in our
7=3
>5-45 WENTWORTH AVEN UE
SYDNEY
116 QUEEISt STREET.
MELBOURNE
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins 6i Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street PERTH, W. A.—-Charles Atkins 8C Co (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd. 894 Hay Street
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets TASMANIA-—Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND —The National Electrical Sc Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON.
r~


FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent* Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESE MAN.
Do you notice the
wretched surface
of the roads
—or do you ride a
BROOKS
SADDLE
The Brooks Book illustrating all models
can be nad pose jrte on application.
J. B. BROOKS &• CO., LTD.,
134 Criterion Works, Birmingham,
England.
r y J
A
fa
•r
ECZEMA
GOES
And nil SKIN TROUBLES,
too, when this wonderful dis-
covery is applied. Numbers of
people owe their absolute re-
covery to it. Eminent doctors
recommend it. Speedy and
sure it cures. (Jet a tin to-day
from your .chemist, o/ft and 7/<>,
or 'special generous sample
from LIGMOLLIENE OI„
Alalvons, Sturt Street, Bal-
larat. Try LIGMOLLIENE
SOAP, unsurpassable for the
skin, 1/-
LIGMOLLIENE
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s "Firefly --
Criterion "Scandal”
Palace “Wedding Bell-"
Tivoli Annette Kellerman
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres- Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's "Oh. Lady. Lady!”
Royal "The Maid of the Mountains”
King's “The Great Adventure”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Du Luxe a Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mei.ua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
+. .... .—.
Seekers after what is wisest and best in
theatrical entertainment will prefer "The
Great Adventure,” now sit Melbourne King’s,
to a hundred American machine-made
melodramas, or spineless musical comedies
from Lordknovss where. Nevertheless, the
four-act play, for all its charm of oddity and
surprising black-outs, lacks the substance
of an abiding success. The characters, as
they appear on the stage, are sketchy because
the happenings are too weak, in dramatic
interest to permit of strong character draw-
ing. In the story there is no room for the
introduction of padding necessary to give a
roundness to certain situations in the play.
Such an incident as the intrusion of Mrs.
Shawn and her two curate sons into the
house of the disguised painter, claiming him
as a husband and father, seems inexcusable.
The intruders are well pictured by Leslie
Victor, Frank Allenby and Doris Gilliam,
but they fail to explain themselves adequately.
The fact that the sins of ('awe’s deceased
rascally valet are bound to be visited upon
the head of his eccentric impersonator is
neglected. A dull lirst act is insufficiently
explanatory in dialogue. In avoiding con-
ventionality of construction Arnold Dennett
lias fallen into obscurity. The Adventure, looks
Great in the, novel, where the adventurer
goes mad over the spectacle of bis own
funeral in Westminster Abbey,-but in the
stage version the Greatness is not insisted
upon. The effect of everything is sketchy;
the want of realistic detail is obvious.
Apart from Graham Browne as Ham Carve
(Heaven and the author only know why the
novelist’s names were changed in the play)
and Marie Tempest as the soothing widow,
nobody gels much to do. Little parts are
mostly well played, however. Father Looe
and his sister Honoria are the weakest
casuals, especially sister llouoriu. Herbert
Millard, Ashton .Tarry, Maurice Dudley and
Charles Lawrence are as useful in their
places as Leslie Victor aforesaid, who fills
two pairs of shoes —a cantankerous' curate
in Act 8 and a peace-making lord in the final
scene. Marie Tempest and Browne divide
the responsibility of making things go, and
the lady takes chief honors, not because she
lias the more humanly natural part, but
because she shows more art in suiting her-
self to it—in subduing herself to its simple
amiability—than Graham Browne shows in
assuming the difficult character of a painter
devoted to his art, and shy beyond all rea-
sonable limits. Ilam Carve should be. quite
masculine, despite his shyness. Diffidence
is a masculine rather than a feminine char-
acteristic. But Graham Browne’s manner
is feminine, and his stutter strikes one at
ANNETTE KELLERMAN'S SHOW AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Annette Kellerman in the glass tank.
the outset as being due to insobriety, not
to the perturbation of common timidity in the
face of a crisis. When excited, in the later
scenes, he grows hysterical, though the
painter as depicted by Bennett is not like
that. Still, Graham Browne drops many
hints of truth in his suggestion of what is
•>n almost incredible eccentricity, and many
another good actor might fall to do as much.
Melbourne will show an encouraging curi-
osity about "The Great Adventure." it is to
be hoped. The play is tastefully mounted,
and violinist Donald Mcßeath supplies solos
between the acts.
Weatherbeaten wheezes, cheap music and
displays of underclothing justify an unfavor-
able verdict regarding “Oh, Lady. Lady I" at
Melbourne Majesty’s. The music is the
least likeable feature, and here and there sug-
gests that the composer is indebted to his
eullud brother in Hawaii and Tennessee. In
fact, one of Dorothy Brunton’s songs is
crooned with the help of the Hawaiian ukel-
ele, and that backward cousin of the guitar
is strummed with a monotony that could
touch the soul only of a nigger. The plot,
however, is all white American, and the main
interest thereof is Fanny Welch, a pocket-
picker with De Luxe Annie embellishments,
who contributes her festive crookery to a
familiar tale of love in a Long Island setting.
Fanny creeps into the play with evil designs
on a pearl necklace, and her adventures in
pursuit of it upset a reputable household and
complicate her relations with Spike Hudgins,
a retired safe-breaker, who has returned to
respectability in the guise of a valet. Fanny
has an exhilarating moment as the bogus
victim of an allegedly sultry hero at the end
°f the first act, but her subsequent capers as
Spike's crinolined bride in and around a
sleep-out apartment, together with the gyra-
tions of the rest of the cast, recall the with-
ered business of many a bedroom farce.
Dorothy Bruuton, as Fanny, reproduces
her old gallery of
tricks in her first,
phase of wicked-
ness, without Mat-
tering her adorers
with any advance
i n li e r spurious
methods of bur-
-1 e s q it e. II e r
comedy, indeed, is
a little worn and
tired, and is hardly
equal to the light:
work in the second
act, where her part
owes much of its
popular appeal to
the delicate assist-
ance of Lingerie et
(he. Alfred Frith,
as Spike, is robbed
of half his glamor
b y -li i s fo r m'a 1
clothes, and grins
a welcome to every
chink in the dia-
logue'which he can
till with a sag.
Cyril Uitcluird is
the artless Wil-
loughby Finch, op-
pressed by thoughts
oil another girl on
his wedding morn,
but he is mistaken
"The Great Adven-
ture," at Melbourne
King's.
Marie Tempest as
Janet Cannot, the
common little Cokney
widow.
in the belief that his machine-gun
manner is appropriate to a youth with an
aching heart. Cyril partners Madge Elliott
in the usual paroxysmal whirl around the
furniture, and Madge is more effective here
than in the role of Marjorie Barber, in
which she has a tendency to be artificial.
Nancy Benyon, who appears as Mollie Far-
rington, is a newcomer with a “principal
boy” physique, but in neither her act-
ing nor her singing is there sparkle or
personality. She is too comfortably serene.
Hale Underwood, who is apparently an
affluent hanger-on in the piece, suffers from
the surplus energy of William Greene, whose
face and feet are ever on the move. The
scenery isn’t over-sumptuous, but the
girls are charming. The Bulletin takes
off its hat especially to the bewitching octet
led by Winnie Tait. Their dancing is the
only thing in the show that is worth the
salutation.
The “Irene” co., with a new principal
girl and Grace Lavers added, gave “The
Little Whopper” a first-in-Australia run at
Adelaide Royal. It is a pleasant and fairly-
origiual American musical comedy, with
(for once) a title that suggests the story.
“The lies have it,” decides Chester Clute
once, when the girls are arguing the appro-
priateness of Lie or Fib. The two heroines
are still at school. Ho are the girls of the
chorus, who thus spend all tho time with
their hair down; and girls (if they only
know it) look best that way. Kitty, a fluent
and accomplished little liar, wants a day's
holiday to get married, and invents some
highly-respectable Browns to visit. Janet,
the strietly-truthful, accompanies her, and
in a hotel corridor the two, being in danger
of discovery, rap at the nearest door. A
loud, masculine "Come in.” Lights out, and
up again to show the interior of the room,
with the girls entering. Harding, occu-
pant of the suite, and a reputed woman-
hater, rapidly thaws under Janet's influence,
till her parents arrive, demanding the
Browns. Janet becomes as big a liar as the
rest. Harding has to be Mr. Brown, and
Kitty Mrs. 8., and the rest of the play is
his courtship of Janet while posiue as Kitty's
husband, and the kindly endeavors of thi-
nk! people to lodge the "Browns” in the same
apartment—which delicate point is handled
without offence.
*■ * «
1 his light stuff is worked out in a fairly
clever “book'’ by the American llarbaeh,
while Friuil's jolly music constantly suggests
"High Jinks.” The acting is feather-weight.
Irene Maurice, the new lead, is a pleasant
little circumstance, though without tlyit evtl-a
touch of magnetism which alone wonfd'/jus-
tify her importation. Her specialty'is allying
hug, sustained a good yard from the floor, on
a manly chest. Chester Clute, another■ light-
weight, is the backbone of the show, which
wakes up only with his first, entrance. These
two make Grace Lavers (as 1 Janet) -’look
almost tall. She is steadily advancing,'in' both
acting and singing, and her personal charm
remains unaltered ; but her wide-eyed baby-
stare works too much overtime. Beaumont
Collins is just handsome. PauiU-eforfe is good
in a big part, a.s a ■ manservant, and Robert
Jowett is a more'animnted lover than of old.
On the other hand, Georgia Harvey-is uncon-
vincing as the schoolmistress, even to the
jerky bend-forward from the waist which one
had supposed tin- hallmark of the amateur:
and Milton Owen has apparently based his
methods on Frith, which makes tin* gulf
between them the more‘obvious. The play is
altogether too short for an evening's pro-
gramme, and a lot more work might be found
for Marion Earle and Peggy Maloney, who
score heavily in the little they have to do
near the end. But they come nowhere near
looking like what they seem to be intended
for, the little sisters of Grace Lavers, who
herself looks about 16.
Heifetz continues to draw those poor but
worthy citizens of Melbourne who can
afford half-guinea amusements. On Saturday
night the audience wagged its head in rhyth-
mic rapture 1 during the performance of the
Brahms D minor sonata. This is one of
the chosen bronze idols which, in highbrow
circles, it, is good form to worship. Chot-
zinol'l (who on this occasion was a joint
soloist with Heifetz) alohe seemed to throw
himself, metaphorically, on his knees. Heifetz
reserved the fine frenzy of his playing for
Popper's prismatics, and then brought calm
with the Schubert “Ave Maria.” Oriental
languor was the note struck in Rimsky Kor-
sakoff's ‘‘Hymn to the Sun,” which stands
as one of the young man's most: artistic
achievements.
At; Melbourne Royal, where the same bill
goes on for ever, “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” has a new brigand to announce her
capture, __ Leslie Victor having gone over
to the King's, there was a vacancy for a
brigand who could bring bad tidings in a
duly sensational manner, and Roy Redgrave
supplies the splash of color.
At Melbourne Playhouse, where Alexander
Watson will not he heard again until the
25th, the Mermaid Play Society will keep
the sacred lamp of intellectual drama burn-
ing three nights this week—Thursday to
Saturday. The bill is “The Land'of Heart’s
Desire,” by W. B. Yeats, flanked by
“Belinda.” A farewell violin recital by Gus-
tave Walther happens at the Melba Hall on
Saturday, and a week later (25th) Levitzki
will start his series of heated discussions with
a piano at the Town Hall.
At Melbourne Tivoli tin- pictorial trouble
this week is due to Norma Talmadge’s tragic-
attraction for her stepfather. Norma is
the Passion Flower of the screen i-oipunee,
and, though she makes no obvious eyes at
her mother’s moody husband, it tr.-Tiispires at
the finish that she really loved him rather
than otherwise while lie was taking steps to
remove her young sweethearts. Tin- photog-
raphy is fine and the meaning of it all
obscure: but its utter freedom .from comic
relief helps to atone for the shocking funni-
ness of a Mack Bennett film that follows. In
the human vaudeville section Moon and Mor-
ris appear again, and Jennie Hartley con-
tributes pungent ’ditties in her perkily-
persuasive tones.
Colin C’olahan has a show
folia Cpliihan is n<jw - commanding* attention as :i
portrait painter. Half-a-dozen: efforts in his exhi-
bition at the Melbourne Athenseum ate admirable
in tlieir unaffected simplicity’of treatment. Like
Mcldrum, he paints with a sweeping contempt for
pictorial conventions. A subject that is accepted
by the average artist as a color problem appeals' to
Colalian as a scientific'exercise in tone and propor-
tion. The difference between the two methods- is
demonstrated by two portraits of the artist—one by
himself and the other from the brush of'his’co-
exhibitor,‘‘John Farmer. Though the latter sets
down wintry effects with all the enthusiasm of a
Meklrum disciple, h'is portraiture is more orthodox,
and the result is that he furnishes his brother artist
with the complexion and meatiness of a brewer s
lorryman. Place beside this C'olahan's self-portrair,
and the latter’s veracity becomes astounding by com-
parison. The color is as nearly as possible liielike,
and the correctly-massed shadows give a perfectly
"CHAINS,” AT SYDNEY PLAYHOUSE.
Gregon McMahon as Mr. Massey.
modelled head. Similar evidence of Colahan's obser-
vation is disclosed in ilie portrait of Miss Vi Lester,
though tin* shadow-show strikes one as a trifle man-
nered. lie is realistic in a charming; profile of a
girl with bronze hair, but there is a suggestion in
the lull length (So. oO) that he can present un-
flattering facts with a Chesterfieldian politeness.
.Voluble matrons who, in former days, weni
six times to see an insufficiently-clothed
Marcus Superbus pursuing Mercia in a dim,
irreligious light, visit the Sydney Criterion
in large numbers to sec* ‘‘Scandal’’ and moral-
ise audibly on the degradation of the modern
stage. -Many of them have signified their
disapproval of the loathly play by going
again.
There are to be only two more “Nightie
Nights” at Sydney Palace. ‘‘Wedding
Bells” will be beard in the same locality on
Saturday, and some old favorites (among
them Frances Iloss) will help in the tin-
tinnabulating.
People may wrangle about flags, politics,
religion, Ireland, or the literary style of
Mr. Nesbitt, of Sydney Town Hall; hut
on the subject of “Firefly,” the show at
Sydney Majesty’s, there* is no controversy.
It is acclaimed by all.
The Sydney Repertory Society is busying
itself at the Playhouse with Lord Dun-'
sany’s “Lost Silk Hat” and Elizabeth
Baker’s “Chains.” As usual with Gregan
McMahon*? efforts these are well played and
produced. All the fat of the curtain-raiser
goes to F. 11. Day, who makes the poet as
wild and weird a thing as one could meet
in a London fog. In “Chains” Herald Carr,
as Charley Wilson, the young man who wants
to come to Australia to grow things, does
good work and sounds like a smouldering
volcano from start to finish : Evelyn Marsh,
as Lily Wilson, the wife, was nervous
through the first act, and as convincing
as this resurrection play would allow for the
remainder. Bee Macdonald made Maggie
Massey an alert young woman—a live per-
son trying to brush the dust of ages off a
long-tombed plav. Grogan McMahon, as the
master plumber, was very true to a character
that didn’t matter at all.
At Sydney Crystal Palace and Lyceum
Connie Talmadge is busy gettimr a job by
means of another's “Good References” as
secretary to a young millionaire whose aunt
wants him to take high C in the social scale.
The young man’s natural- inclinations are
all towards prize-fighting. Of course, there's
a yacht and a beach scene and various other
things before the young man comes to heel,
declares his intentions honorable, hands tin-
ring over to Connie and renounces it him-
self. At the same address Ethel M. Dell’s
“Rocks of Valpre” keeps a French court-
martial busy the wrong man to
prison for stealing the gun which ho himself
has invented. The Strand is serving the
labor problem over again in “The Danger at
Our Door.” _ On the same sheet Alice Lake
is the witness for the defence in the “Greater
Claim.” The Globe and TTaymnrket serve
“Chickens” and the “Passionate Pilgrim.”
Annette Kellerman and “my cobbers” con-
tinue to draw an enthusiastic populace to
Sydney Tivoli. The versatile mermaid has
added submarine evolutions, toe dancing and
wire walking to an endearing personality,
and between them they have captured the
multitude. Stuart Barnes natters amiably,
while impersonator Nina Gordon outrivals
tin* lyre-bird in its own department.


MURDOCH’S—
for Travelling' Rug's
INTER’S chill breath is shorn of its
penetrating power when you are
wrapped in the ample folds of a warm,
protective Travelling Rug.
Murdoch’s Showrooms feature a magni-
ficent stock of these Rugs—all low-
priced. Here are two specials
characteristic of Murdoch’s
surprising good values.
ALL-WOOL AUSTRALIAN-MADE RUGS
of excellent quality, in a variety of neat
and attractive designs. Usually 39/6.
7
Murdoch's
Price,
28/6
HEAVY-WEIGHT ALL - WOOL
AUSTRALIAN-MADE RUGS of
superior quality and excellent finish,
featuring many effective designs and
color combinations. Worth 45/-
Special Value, 37/6
WE PAY POSTAGE!
Addicts your letter to Desk R.
MURDOCHS
In Park Street, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store.”
Dainty Shoes & Corns don't go together
Dainty shoes and their pleasures
are only for those who are tree
from corns. Aching corns are
unnecessary evils, and one twinge
of pain should be enough to bring
about their end forever.
Apply a “Blue-Jay” Plaster, and
at once the aching stops. Then,
while you enjoy yourself, “Blue-
Jay” cures the corn, which
eventually comes out for good.
“Blue-Jay’* is a scientific prepara-
tion. The man who produced it
had made a life study of surgical
dressings. Note the illustration
below.
The felt pad, marked “A,” re-
moves pressure and stops the pain.
The wax, marked “B,” acts on the
corn alone, and nowhere else. “C”
is a rubber-coated, moisture-proof
tape, which adheres snugly and
securely.
B
C
Blue= jay
The Scierv+i-f- ic
Er\der
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS,
in Packet
4 in Packet
All Good Chemists will supply
Sent
Just Mail Coupon
_/I Maker of Millions
—and Millionaires
27 RARE LESSONS IN THE SCIENCE OF SUCCESS-POWER.
There are seven great basic powers upon which all human achievement
rests. They are: WILL-POWER, INTELLECTUAL SUPREMACY
BRAIN-FORCE, SELF-CONQUEST, PHYSICAL ENERGY, POWER
of the FIVE SENSES, PERSONAL INFLUENCE.
ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND people
are paying for the help and advice of
Prof. Frank Channing Haddock, a
scientist whose name ranks with such famous
mental-eulturists and psychologists as Berg-
son, James and Rovce. As a result of his
help these people are increasing their earn-
ings by leaps arid bounds. Here are a few
instances:—
One inan writes that a single day’s study
of Prof. Haddock’s advice netted him £2O.
Another man says that, after reading Prof.
Haddock’s helps, his first week’s profit was
£lOO. A third man was helped to close a
£2OOO deal which had been hanging fire for
months. Still another man increased his
sales from £2OO a week to £BOO a week.
Another remarkable case is that of the
young man who increased his earnings from
£3 to £2O a week as a result of Prof. Had-
dock's advice.
And what sort of help does Frank Channing
Haddock prescribe? He simply teaches men
how to increase their will power. He main-
tains that the one outstanding weakness in
every failure and in every partially success-
ful man is a weak will power. lie claims
that, through disuse, our will power has
become dormant to such an extent that when
we want to use it we are unable to. It is
just like a hinge that has grown rusty from
lack of use—it won’t swing when you want
it to, even though that is its natural function.
Undoubtedly, there are tens of thousands
of men who have every faculty necessary to
.success, yet who do not succeed. They plod
along year after year earning but a bare
existence. There are other men with no
greater knowledge of business affairs, with
no greater advantages of education, with no
gi eater desire to win success, who become
wealthy.
Prof. Haddock states that the difference
between the successful man and the average
man can be measured by the difference in
their will power. Two men may have a
hundred thousand pounds idea. One man has
the will power to put his idea across, and
the other hasn t. The brain capacity of each
man is the same. One man has the force of
mind to capitalise to the fullest extent w 7 hat
he knows, while the other is timid, afraid,
lacking in self-confidence.
Is it any wonder that thousands of people
every year ask for Prof. Haddock’s advice on
how r to increase and capitalise their will
power?
The secret of success is no secret at all—
it is a knack. Once you learn the knack of
turning all your efforts into money 7 your for-
tune is assured. And that knack is inter-
preted by thousands of people as Will Power.
Money is being made in practically every
business on the face of the earth. Somebody
is making it. You see it all around you.
There is money in your business. If not,
why do you .stay in it Isn’t it because
you are afraid—you haven’t the. will power
to ‘take a chance” by changing jobs?
It is most probable, however, that there is
money in the business in w r hich y 7 ou are en-
gaged. But you are carrying out the will
power of others. You are making someone
else wealthy, someone with more will pow 7 er
than you possess! Every year you learn
more about your w 7 orlt, and you earn a few 7
shillings more per week, but w’hat does it
amount to.' What w 7 ill y T ou be earning five
years from now if you don’t do something
startling w 7 ith your brain?.
Hundreds of thousands have found that
their w 7 ill power is their one weak spot—
is the one thing that had been holding them
back. It may very likely be the one thing
that is holding you back. Isn’t it worth find-
ing out, particularly at this trying time when
only the men with strong, dominating wills
are able to forge ahead?
Prof. Haddock, after twenty years of re-
search and study, has prepared a series of
r - i i es ’ I . as< " l ' s and exercises which are scien-
tifically designed to develop the brain
faculty called will pow 7 er. These rules
lessons and exercises do for your will what
physical exercises do for your muscles. They
are mental gymnastics, yet they are amaz-
ingly simple and easy to perform'. The very
first day you begin to feel like a new being
I here is a new* light in your eye. There is
a new determination in your soul. You feel
that success is just within your reach, and
t 0 get ir ‘ You begin to look
upon life from an entirely different angle.
Oostacles that looked like mountains begin
to look uae tiny molehills.
1 h(;sn rules, lessons and exorcises in in-
creasing your will power, prepared by Prof.
1 iank ( banning Haddock, have been placed
in book form by the Standard Publishing
Company. 1 urn authorised to sa.v that you
need send no money in advance —that you
may examine the book for five days free.
In other words, if, after five days’ reading,
you do not feel that the book is worth 355. Od.,
the sum asked, return it, and you will owe
nothing. When you receive your book for
examination, I suggest that you first read the
ai tides on: the law of great thinking;
how to develop analytical power; liow
to perfectly concentrate on any sub-
ject; liow to guard against errors in
thought: how to drive from the mind unwel-
come thoughts ; how to develop fearlessness ;
how to use the mind in sickness ; how to
acquire a dominating personality.
Some few doubters will scoff at the idea of
will jower being the fountain-head of
wealth, position, and everything we are striv-
ing for. But the great mass of intelligent
men and women will at least investigate for
themselves by sending for the book at our
risk. lam sure that any book that has
for thousands— what “POWER OF
\Y ILL” has done—is well worth investigat-
ing. In fact, to-day, “Power of Will’’ is
just as important, and as necessary, to a
man s equipment for success as a dictionary
lo try to succeed without “POWER OF
WILL” is like trying to do business without
a telephone.
As your first step in will training, I suggest
immediate action in this matter before you.
It. is not even necessary to write a letter.
Use the form below, and the book will come
by return mail. This one act may mean the
turning-point of your life, as it has meant to
so many others.
You hold in your hand this very minute
the beginning of a new era in your life.
Over £200,000 has been paid by readers of
POWER OF WILL” who sent for it on
free examination. Can you, in justice to
yourself, hesitate about sending in the
coupon. ll Can you doubt, blindlv, when you
can see, witnout a penny deposit,'this wonder-
book that has won fortunes for so many
readers, and for which £200,000 have
already been paid?
A FEW OPINION,S.
(The original letters may be inspected.)
"1 am working under better conditions, am
making my own hours, am under no obliga-
tion to any employer, making 00 per cent,
more money per hour, and my scheme is
hardly out of the 'infant class’ yet.”—J. S.
Caulfield, Auckland, N.Z.
“I learned to save money, and to invest it
judiciously. During the last four months
my earnings have doubled. Out of my sur-
plus I have purchased a farm. This is what
'Power of Will’ has done for me.”—R.D.R.
"1 have found the volume ‘Power of Will’
an education, and a very welcome addition to
my small Horary. It set me thinking along
undreamed-of channels, and is a powerful and
lasting influence.”—L. S. Soumpson, East
Melbourne.
"The firm supplying such a n excellent
book as ‘Power of Will' should receive every
consideration from we purchasers. I heartily
give you the required money, knowing that I
\ Z** n °t wasted it. ’ —Lovell, Masterton,
'• 'Power of Will’ must be worth 355. Od.
to any man, and to many it will be worth
a guinea a page/—H. Dunlop, Invercargill,
A ./i.
"Am thoroughly satisfied with my share of
the deal. The book is worth, of course, just
as much as a person makes it worth, but I
clon t think I have ever got such value in all
m '\t' / 1 is all that you say. and more.”
T~V • .J. Morrison, Leichhardt, X.S.W.
-MAIL
THE COUPON OR SEND A
LETTER TO-DAY.
Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd., The
Rialto, 497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
( Gentlemen, —Please send me a copv of
“Power 1 ne,,.,. ~m lt 1?’.
01 iemail the book in five days.
8./l(»/fS/'2l.
Name
Address ....


N-S W' MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74» Si-.,74. Sydney,
*** -ADVANCES-
!!ll!lll!lllll!l!ll!l!llll!!lllllll!ll!llllllll
IDIIIM""' lll'lll
"lUlliilillljljl
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
frj/tcfcjjf 215-17 Swanston StJVIb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane. ——
29 King St,Newcastle. St, & 159 George St,West, Sydney.
CAPI TAX & 200. 000 PKone City 95Z5 .
Joseph W.JiiJl, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW’’ says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.’’
Thoets Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Royee Rolls”: No one misses Yilliers
Arnold more than his old friend Charles
Workman. Some years ago they toured
Britain with a Gilbert and Sullivan co„
and it was .yilliers’ lot to drop into Work-
man’s part when the latter was knocked
over by. pneumonia at Cambridge. Work-
“THE GREAT
ADVENTURE,”
AT MEL-
BOURNE
KING'S.
Graham Browne
as Ham Garre,
the artist.
man eventually staggered back to health, but
it is a curious coincidence that Arnold should
go down to the same disease when they were
again using adjacent dressing-rooms in “Chu
Chin Chow.”
“Adelaide”: Nigel Brock, who is working
up the Australian section of the coming
Industrial Fair at Java, has taken an odd
route. Of an Adelaide family, he was, till
Wilson Barrett toured in Australia, busy
in a bank all day and in amateur theatri-
cals most of the night. He was introduced
to Barrett as having a good stage presence
and experience of various hero parts from
Orlando downwards. Unexpectedly lie re-
ceived an engagement, and presently found
himself allowed to "walk on” as a peasant
in “The Manxman" ; but he did his hit well,
and Barrett took him away from Adelaide
with tin* co. What sort of an actor lit
might have become has to remain doubtful,
liis banking experience was heard of, tested
and found useful, and before long he found
himself not on the stage but in the treasury
department. He came back to Australia as
manager of a Branscombe season, and has
been “managing” ever since.
“0.K.”: Roy Redgrave is now among the
brigands in “The Maid of the Mountains,”
and thereby hangs a suggestion. As the
brigand who rushes on with the, news that
Theresa has been captured he appears to be
just the same picturesque master of melo-
drama as the Roy who played in "L’Aiglou”
with Tittell Brune —a most effective swag-
gerer in a highly-colored character and a very
capable actor in any sort of character-part.
His forcible way of bringing tragic tidings
in “The Maids” is a convincing answer to
the apologists for Frank Freeman, who plays
tin' brigand chief. Freeman, the young lover
of “Tilly of Bloomsbury," was alleged to he
the best available man for his job because he
is “quite giwal style” in his performance of
the brigand chief masquerading as a vice-
regal person. As a brigand in charge of a
somewhat murderous gang, though, lie is
insipid. But what price Redgrave in the
nnrt, wherefrom all singing responsibilities
have been eliminated? The very man!
"Bourugi" : The recent discussion in I’ar-
Jiament and elsewhere on Australian copy-
right recalls that William Macgrcgm- was
once called on to settle an important ease
involving a Papuan copyright, over which the
big villages of Aroma and Koepena, in the
Central Division, were on the point of war.
The Koepena men,
in p f eparing a
g r e a t festival,
found themselves
without the neces-
sary songs and
dance music, and,
worse still, they
had no tame poet
o r composer t o
supply them. On
the other hand, the
musical comedies
and revues of the
Aroma people were
famous u p an (1
down, the coast : so
Koepena started to
rehearse tli c last
great Aroma suc-
cess. W h e n
Aroma hear.il of it
a (1 ema n d fo r
royalties w a s
made, and this was
blasphemously re-
fused : so Aroma
got ready to issue
a writ of prohibi-
tion with how and
spe a r. Sir Wil-
liam arrived just
in time and arbi-
trated, and the
upshot was that
Koepena agreed to
pay a royalty of
“Chains," at Sydney
Playhouse.
Victor Troughton as
Walter, the lover who
lacked action .
pigs and, cocoanuts,
with private boxes for the Aroma Conser-
vatoire. Thus was the principle of author's
rights firmly established in Papua.
“Rep” : Olive Wilton, late of Williamson’s
and Tait’s companies, has settled in Hobart
and opened an elocutionary school. With
HO pupils to choose from, she is trying to
found a repertory company, and Pinero’s
“His House in Order” is booked for this
month. “School for Scandal” is also being
rehearsed, and there is talk of showing plays
of Shaw, Barrie and even Ibsen, in the time-
worn Gamphell-street theatre.
“F. 8.” : Since the wide distribution of
mechanical players has made the general pub-
lic familiar with all the great concert piano-
pieces, star pianists have had to equalise
their mastery of both hands. __ Levitzki’s
left leaves one marvelling. No performer
can. claim star rank now unless lie is nearly
ambidextrous; but Levitzki tops all who
have ever appeared in Australia in that
quality. The pianola is used by most pro-
fessionals (Paderewski among them) to memo-
rise their pieces : and as all mechanical players
exhibit an uncanny left-hand performance,
the bass is emphasised as it never could have
been before the invention of the device. The
human performer is thus spurred on to rival
the machine. Hence increased will-power
on the pianist’s part and increased efficiency
of the left hand.
“Extra Turn”: Harry G. Musgrove has
engaged Wilkie Bard, one of the old brigade
of English red-nosed comic singers, for a
season in Australia. Wilkie has been a top-
liner in Britain for 25 years, and when not
showing in the 'alls has always been worth
his money in pantomime—Drury Lane had
him for two seasons. His best old ditties
have all been done out here, likewise most
of his pet gags: but no doubt he will bring
something fresh. If lie doesn't the public
will rate him as a copyist. It has happened
before. Hard lines on the originator, but
in a country where original stuff on the
stage is at a discount it can’t be helped.
“Charing Cross”: Samuel Chotzinoff, who
provides pianistic backgrounds for the
Ileifetz fireworks, performed similar duties
for Zimbalist for some years. With bis pre-
scut partner’s assistance lie makes a joyless
stage-spectacle. lie has one passion, full
of excitement and adventure —book-hunting.
Iu Sydney he dug up a Tennyson first edi-
tion. A South Yarra vendor transported
him into ecstasies with a copy of the short-
lived magazine venture of Leigh Hunt and
Byron, The Liberal. "The last place on
earth I should have ex pectin! to find this
rarity,” he said, “and I would gladly have
paid £2O to possess it.” Thirty-five shillings
was the price, lie handled the volume with
that lustful expression common to biblio-
philes and misers. It was useless then to
talk sonatas or Chopin to him. The
Liberal had gone to his head.
“E.T.”: "Cornstalk,” speaking of Ilnddon
Chambers’s “Passers By” (B. 0/U/’2l), is
under the impression that it "has never
bo|'n seen in the dramatist’s own land.” It
was staged at the Melbourne Royal oil .Tan,
27, 1012, with Hilda Spong and Ilarcourt
Reattv in the principal parts. It was done
in Sydney later in the same year, hut tic
Australian public did not endorse “Corn-
stalk’s” high opinion of it.
“Private Boxer” : One is glad to see the
old’ footlight favorites coming buck. Such
mummers a* 11. li. Roberts and Cyril Mao-
kny, now showing a bit of their old form in
"Scandal,” did not become popular players
for nothing, and one wonders why the deuce
our managers (or should it be “manage-
ment?”) “rest” them for so long. They are
worth a dozen importations. Now Frances
Ross, the graceful leading lady of the Bland
Holt days, is, after all these years, to make
an appearance with a .T, C. Williamson com-
pany. Let’s hope that, though managers for-
get, the public remembers.
"Rounds” :■ Thorold Waters, formerly of
the Age, who went to London 16 years ago
to woo fame as a tenor singer, has returned
to Melbourne to take an inside job on the
Herald. He will be correspondent for three
London papers in his spare time, and may
warble a trifle in concert-halls and churches.
With the blessing of his father-in-law, Col.
Reay, he joined the British Army in the Big
War, and gained an adjutancy at the Front,
Even now he hasn’t lost hope of becoming
a star on the opera stage.
“Sk.vrider”: Has any Poverty Pointer
come across Cyril Aldridge lately? I knew
him years ago in .southern N. S. Wales, and
as an elocutionist he was first-grade. But
lie couldn’t stand a laugh at .his own
expense, and that.was why the tour of his
highly-successful entertaining party came to
an abrupt conclusion at Araluen. Aldridge
was doing some really -fine stuff, miles above
the heads of his audience, and at one part
of the recitation, as he was approaching the
climax, an unearthly shriek shuddered up the
valley. The elocutionist proceeded : “O God,
what was it? What was it?” "All right,
sonny,” came from the back seats, “it's only
number three dredge blowing off!” There
was a roar; Aldridge lost his head, glared
wildly at the audience, and stalked off. We
found him, nearly in tears, in the dressing-
room. “The beasts, the chawbacoris!” he
stormed. “How can you elevate this bovine
herd?” Unfortunately the walls were thin,
the “bovine herd” caught every syllable—
and forthwith wound slowly o’er the lea.
Cyril never performed in the country again.
“Ibenshavv”: P. G. Wodehouse is an
inventive humorist with regard to his titles
for novels and short stories, but when lie
writes for the stage he seems to think that
anything will do —and probably he is right.
The last musical comedy his name was con-
nected with here was “Oh, Boy !” Now his
very latest, just produced by the William-
son firm, is called “Oh, Lady, Lady!” It
serves to show what living in Uncle Sam’s
country will do for a Britisher. “O tempora,
O movies /”
“Peter”: Pearl Ilellmrich, mentioned by
“Doodit” (B. 9/6/’2l), deserves bigger
opportunities than she gets as a leading
lady in Fuller bellowdrama. One of the few
little favorities in my gallery of stage-por-
traits is the saucy and matter-of-fact damsel
whom Pearl played in “Hindle Wakes.” I
have since inspected Miss Hunter-Watts in
the same part, and though the latter’s work
was striking in its phlegmatic reality, Pearl’s
conception had an ingratiating cheekiness
that seemed very proper to the type.
“Narnoi”: Compton Mackenzie’s full-
blooded novel “Carnival” lias been screened
in England With Matheson Lang and
Hilda Bay ley in the leads. Hilda Bayley
let down her ruddy hair as Light in “The
Blue Bird" at the Sydney Cri. about eight
years ago, It flowed to her waist like un-
checked flames. In the new film she i c *
chiefly clothed in it, with a few additions of
bunches of grapes—obviously meant to indi-
cate that woman is the wine of life.
“Mr. Heifetz,” said a well-known Mrs.
Profiteer in Melbourne to the violinist, “I'm
real glad to meet you : and if you care to
come out and play our pianola any time,
me an’ me ’usban’ will only be too pleased !”
"J.F.H.” (Lund.) : Sarah Bernhardt has
been appearing at the Prince's in "Daniel,”
a play written by_ her grand-daughter’s
husband. In her 77th year, and minus a
leg, she is a weird and pathetic figure. Her
Annette Kellerman's
Show at Sydney
Tivoli.
Stuart Barnes dis-
cusses the theme “Of
all my wife's relations
I like myself the
lest!"
s o 1 c remaining
asset is her splen-
did voice, which has
suffered compara-
tively little from
the r a v ages of
time. The plays
in which she now
appears are writ-
te n a u d selected
with it view to a
minimum of move-
ment, so that she
may remain seated
for nearly the
whole of the time.
When she has to
rise and acknow-
ledge applause she
can only do so
with the assistance
» f li e r leading
actor oil one side
and an actress on
the other, each
taking an arm.
She is carried on
and off the stage
in a chair borne
by a couple
of attendants. On
the other ha n d
good old Gen-
evieve Ward, who
is 85, is spouting
Shakspeare at the
old Vie. like a 17-
y ear-old stage-
struek flapper. She
still possesses a
pair of serviceable loss and makes plenty of
use of them, as well as of her fine, resonant
voice.
"Stargazer” : “The Maid of the Mountains”
has one feature in common with half a
thousand comic operas, a feature to which I
have always taken sullen objection. It is the
love of some pretty girl for the small, potty,
comic object who provides the base relief. I
suppose it is necessary to have a comedian
quite unlike an ordinary, sane human being:
hut why set some unfortunate girl to tlm
ignominious task of making serious love to
the unsightly grotesque? The association
of beauty and the gargoyle has nothing to
recommend it, and irritates every man who
hates to see a nice girl wasting her time.
“Hang Over”: The idea that our fathers
(and mothers) wouldn't have stood bedroom
scenes on the stage is like a good deal of
what we are told about our fathers (and
mothers). Long, long ago we had a very
good scena in “Fra Diavolo,” where Bettina
(I think that’s the lady’s name) did an
exquisite toilet act while warbling of her
joys.
“Film Up”: The recent Sydney Criterion
thriller, “The Sign' on the Door,” is being
prepared for the movies, with Norma Tal-
inadge in the part played here by Maude
Hanaford. The film rights are said to
have cost £13.000. But that’s nothing.
“The Tailor-made Man,” in which comedy
Max Figman tried very hard to convince us
he was “the goods,” was run up to £21,000.
“C. Ockney”: The bottom having fallen
out of Maeterlinck’s “Betrothed” at Lon-
don Gaiety, the management has switched
back to the stuff that made the house
famous—burlesque. A new travesty of
“Faust” now holds the. boards: it was writ-
ten by the good old reliable Adrian Ross
and a new collaborator, Firth Shephard.
Marguerite in this version is a “movie
queen” billed as the “world’s lump of
cuddle,” and the trail of the pictures is over
it all.
A new’ story of Henry Irving:—
“The art of noble elocution.” Sir Henrv said, “is
not confined to those of us who have studied it all our
lives. 1 have often paused to admire a poor, blind
mendicant who reads with his fingers on Blackfriars
Bridge. There are few finer exponents of the great
style in diction, and he does not read without just
emphasis. Listening the other day. 1 was fascinated
by his musical, rich tones as he read: ‘And the Lord
said unto Moses’ —the poor fellow had some difficulty
with the Braille, and turned back. ‘The Loid
said unto Moses’—-his delicate fingers brushed the
surface of the page, and at each repetition the voice
rose in fuller and finer volunnv ‘The Lord said unto
Moses.... Who the hell’s been putting sand on my
Bible?’ ” Sir Henry waved his hand lightly, waiting
with a grave smile to add, making his point: “An
actor—like the rest of us.” '
WHISTLING MILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You heard him on the long range-side,
He drifted down the shaded track,
And through the bushlund high and wide
His piping carol echoed bach.
He bore a canvas-covered swag,
A can and hilly clanked behind.
!tis. shirt Mas just a tattered rug,
ilis blanket a pptatQ-bag,
His whistle travelled on the wind.
He sr.t before the township pub
And whistled “Molly Riley-O" ;
A pint of beer, a bit of grub,
Was all he asked, and breathing- low
Have “Home, Sweet Home” or “Strawb’ry Fair.”
The “Last llose" blossomed in his mouth.
Arid many another well-loved air
lie piped, and Mills was free of cure
Where’er his road went, north or south.
He like u minstrel of old time ,
Was welcome in the summer lanes.
He whistled each familiar rime,
And asked of them no greater gains
Than bed and board and scant at that.
But, none so gay to Yam might come
As Mills was with his old dog Hat,
Ilis big red tie and rakish hat,
Who whistled jigs beneath the gum.
No flute, no shrill, glad piccolo
Was sweet and high as Mickle’s note.
His lovely melodies would flow
As from some wild bird’s magic throat.
They caught him like the lark one day.
And bore him off, and fine and proud
In painted face and quaint array
lie piped his merry roundelay
By night to please the city crowd.
They paid him twenty pounds a week,
The papers advertised his name,
And Mike grew rather fat and sleek,
An artist now and known to fame.
One day I saw him where he leant
Upon a wall. Ilis smile had fled,
His brow was dark with discontent.
“Tlie wattles 'heath their bloom are bent—-
This is tlie hard, hard life!” lie said.
But when to Peter’s hut we went
Below the range the other day,
With croon of falling waters blent
And call of magpie came tlie filar
Of flute-like notes, and soaring high
Rang out a Cornish dancing strain.
There, with his swag upon his thigh,
And twenty youngsters capering nigh,
Mills whistled out his heart again.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


„uon»*»»»w...
~i\'in»n .u»u i w ,
& ~%
m
m
mm
\V,\
1
rrrrfrrnmiimTamnTntnTnTrnmrTiriTniTmtnTmrnrnirmmTrfTT[TnrirnTrmmmnnTiTTTnnTmnTTTTiTTTTTimmrnTTiUTnrmirnTnirrnirqimiriTnirminTnnrrnnirrnTirrnTnrnm7inTTTniTr^
Mellowness is that alluring perfection of flavour that begets the happy smile of appreciation,
robs one of pleasure—be the anticipation ever, so great. Its charm of flavour is elusive
soft, rich, and yet crisp
Dewar's never
and exclusive?—


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIUP & CO., UTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WIUTTY
’S
&£ ,
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
-1
fir aw
s' 'Ss
n
.303 ROSS RIFLES
Special high-power Sporting Rifles. for big-
game shooting. The most reliable .303 rifle
obtainable. Price, £6/10/-
9m.m. BROWNING F.N. RIFLE
This high-power Browning Automatic Rifle is
also a splendid big-game firearm. Cal.. 9mm.
Price, £l5.
WINCHESTER RIFLES
Cal. .303 higli-power Rifle, £l2/10/-
Cal. 25/20, 32, 38, 41 Rifles, full or halt
magazine, £B/10/-. Carbines, £7/17/6.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Entries for nJI 35 big events ut (liis year’s
and V.A.T.C. Spring meetings show a big
drop by comparison with (lioso of last \ ear. The
Melbourne Cup lias 254 against 271 in'l92o and
the Caulfield Cup 245 against 208. In the “classics,”
1 .II.C. Derby has 474 against 490, and the Caulfield
Guineas has 329 against 370. It’s the high cost
ot stabling, of course.
It happened on King’s Birthday that a
four-year-old daughter of Comedy King and Artil-
lcne won the first race at the A.U.C. nifecting, and
her three-year-old brother ran a dead-heat with
another outsider for the last race of the V.R.C. meet-
ing. the mare, Powder and Patches, is a brown or
bay, while the edit, Crescendo, in C. T. Godby’s
stable, is a black, like ids sire. Something more is
likely to be heard of the colt, anyhow, although the
breed hardly suggests real stamina. Comedy King
certainly won a Melbourne Cup with 7st. 121 b. up,
but at w.f.a. he was not a stayer in the Trafalgar or
Poitrel sense of the term. And Artilleric, a Maori-
land-bred mare, failed repeatedly to stay 12 furlongs
in the best handicap company. 'Two years she looked
a great Caulfield Cup chance on paper, but each time
she knocked up in the last quarter of a mile.
The question of age is very prominent in
the calculations as to this year’s G. N. Hurdle, and in
a lesser degree (he steeplechasers are being estimated
on an age basis. It is in the flying race over the
little sticks, however, that comparative youth so fre-
quently insists on being served. The time has passed,
perhaps when an aged champion racehorse, like
Malua, could lie put over the hurdles and proved in-
vincible against a. field of commonplace professional
jumpers. Hurdlers in general are of a much better
class than they were even 15 years ago, let alone 30,
and the pace is so much faster that a long apprentice-
ship to jumping is essential to any anifnal that goes
for National honors. The favored entrants for the
V.R.C. event this year are mostlv under the “aged”
mark. Blight Plume and Sandule, the heavy-weights,
are six-year-olds, like Stagefright and * Tullilah.
Haoma and Woodfiehl are only four and five respec-
tively. King Neptune is five,'and Youghal only six'.
I'-ven Silver Heart is no more than seven. Against
these we have Gold Coin, Percolator, Oopina, British
Arch, Mount Miltsin, Sir Mnemon, Silent Way and
Front Rank, all of them eight-year-olds; also Pis-
tolier in the tens, and Two Blues, Telecles, etc., at
the comparatively venerable age of nine. On
a fast course, under circumstances that offer
every possible advantage to natural activity in a
National field, nine years are at least three too
many for the horse you have put your hopes, on.
The Williamstown meeting last Saturday
provided further conjecture and disconcertment re
the approaching Nationals. Five geldings that carry
money for the big race on July 2 were given a.
run in the two-mile hurdle, and the result was
most satisfactory to backers of Fiscom, a light-
weight four-year-old from S’Australia. He just
failed to catch Merry Bob. who will meet him on
somewhat better terms at Flemington; blit his
capacity to stay the longer course is greater than
Merry Bob’s, and with only 9st. 31b. in the National
he looks like being very hard to beat. Two Blues,
the third horse, scored another good finish after
being all behind in the first mile. Indeed. Two
Blues presents the most dangerous National appear-
ance of all the nags weighted above lOst. 71b.
Bright Plume and Sandule are losing money for
their friend's by running in flat races where the
company is a bit too last for them, and the weight
is stones lighter than they will have to carry over
the sticks. But Two Blue's is at least con-
sistently required to hump his National burden, or
a few pounds more, and practise jumping. Had he
been as expert at clearing the hurdles a year ago
as he is to-day, Two Blues might have won
the lust National, but now that he is further
advanced in old age there seems to be a dangerous
little lot of candidates among the lightweights,
t iscom, King Neptune and Woodfield are proposi-
tions worth considering.
The steeplechase at Williamstown gave
lolaus an opportunity to show vastly-improved form
since the previous Saturday, when Mountain God
‘>eat him so smartly. This time the God had all
the worst of the weights as compared with their
National Handicap, and the reversal of form was
not so remarkable as the difference which another
weeks work had made in the appearance of lolaus.
lhere was a distinct diminution of beefiness since
he ran unplaced at Flemington. Mountain God
looked as blooming as before, and is in a fair
way to be overdone rather than underdone for the
Steeplechase of three weeks ahead.
A crowd of 10,000 watched the Eastern
Miburbs-Glebe tussle at the Sydney Cricket Ground
in the seventh round of the N.S.W. Rugby League
Premiership last Saturday. In the first Half Pearce
mostly won the leather in the downs, hut the Reds,
smartly breaking up from the pack, kept the Tricolor
rearguard bottled up. The first score was notched bv
Ives who, blocking Proctor’s hoot from a punt by
Wright, raced across and touched down. Rex’ Nor-
man failed to convert from an easy spot. East 3
Glebe 0. Ogle, the Red’s winger, then got across
by intercepting a transfer from Watkins to Rex
Norman. Burge’s hoot failed. East 3, Glebe 3
Rex Norman shortly after raised both Hags from a
penalty. East Glebe 3. Lemon-time. Watkins
was pulled out of East’s pack and played-as an
extra oentre-threequarter, Glebe’s reply,-being to
play Burge opposite him. Ogle made a fine jjOyds
burst and crossed in for the Reds, but the try was
disallowed in consequence of Burge’s shepherding
Rex Norman, snapping up a low return by Proctor,
sent; to Watkins, to lluine. who went hard for the
eorner and got over, but he too was penalised. Tom
-McMahon debited him (unjustly) with uprooting a
corner post. Rigney pushed a transfer to Watkins
under the Surfers’ goal. Watkins dodged, butted
and tended his passage through a horde of Reds
galloped to within lO.vds. of Glebe’s chalk-line and
sent, to Caples, to Wright, who ambled across.
Again no score. Caples had passed forward. Wat-
kins registered the Surfers’ next score, after Kauf-
iiiiin, Caples and Hume had covered 40yds. in
attack. Ivess kick lacked direction. East 8,
Glebe 3. Kaufman, from a scrum at half-way,
now sent to Caples, to Norman, to Watkins, who
shook oil two tucklers, sent; to Hume, to Wright
who galloped in. Rex Norman hoisted the goal.
Last .13, Glebe 3. Shortly afterwards Kaufman
a *T l ,ass to (:a Ples, who missed, and so did
, , a,V , Nll a ’ l '* , Watkins ; but Hume snapped
np, beat the field and sent Ives over for
Ins second try. Rex Norman failed to con-
vert. East 16. Glebe 3. Ray Norman,
snapping the ball from the Reds’ boots, sent to
Caples, to Wright, who again scored. Rex Norman’s
boot, went wide. “No side.” East 19 points (.">
tries „ goals) to Glebe's 3 points (a try). Pearce’s
booting and all-round play at centre were superb, and
Cameron, Holmes, Lees and Ives supported him ably.
"BLUEY" WATKINS, OF EAST
SYDNEY.
Watkins was the best man bn the ground, and no
better centre-threequarter display lias been witnessed
tiiis season. The Glebe ruckers were solid and
tackled finely, Burge and Bert Gray being busiest,
l’roctor at back was much more finished than Rigney,
whilst Ogle on the wing made the most of his
chances.
In the other games, Norths licked St. George by
25 points to 13, Souths headed Newts, by 19 points
to 7, ’Mains walloped Wests by 20 to 7. ’Varsity
had the bye, and downed a New Zealand rep. team
at Armidale (35 points to nil).
In the bydney-Maoriland ’Varsity match
on .>aturuay me rust naif was fairly even, Sydney
forwards having the worst of the serums, but even-
ing things up in the line-outs. The home-quarters,
all the way through, played the more spectacular
football, and Raymond in getting his three tries out-
paced all the opposition backs. Black, on the
did not receive a tithe of his chances,
though he made use of whatever came to him. Aitken,
the M.L. centre, was the daddy of all the backs, and
showed plenty of foot. Morgan, the Sydney captain
and half, got the ball away in fine style, and time
and again his quarters looked just about to score,
lhe M.L. backs did not, as a whole, show to such
advantage, and their win was mainly due to the
lone-hand play of Aitken, Jackson, Scott and Hensen.
Among the Sydney forwards Erbv, Hoskins, Tavlor
and Coyle were easily the pick.' Nothling did'not
show to advantage at full-back, where he was fre-
quently bustled, and Wallace and Walters excelled
in everything but tackling.
Easts look like running away with the
Sydney Kugbv Union premiership. Norths engaged
to put a spoke in tneir wheel, but were seen to
have not a dog’s chance in the second half. Shore’s
strong point was their tackling, and they brought
bast down hard and often—so much so that their
backs, noticeably Carr, took to kicking instead of
running with the ball. Their full-back, G. Walker,
fielded and kicked well, and A. Walker invariably out-
pointed Humphreys, who, however, had to feed a
demoralised back division. Douglas was the win-
ners best forward, and Stone and the two Londons
were the pick of the Northern rabble. Glebe-Balmain
had no difficulty in licking Old Boys, who have an
acquisition, by the way, in Clowes. He was chiefly
responsible for bringing 0.8.’s to life in the second
halt. GWynne’s play, for G. 8., was spectacular,
though he hangs on overmuch. Buchanan was, as
usual, untiring. Maync, though tricky, is much
less aggressive than last season. Gatelv and Street
stood out from the outclassed team. Manlv and
Wests should have provided a better go, but the
Sundowners’ forwards let them down. The back*
played splendidly, and Wogan was always there or
thereabouts. |he \ illage forwards, however, headed
>y 1 horn, tore through the opposition and kept
Wests scoring division up against it.
There was a crowd of 20,000 at Brisbane
(Q.) Exhibition Ground on Saturdav to see the
home League XIII turn the tables on the Maori-
landers. Despite the heaviness of the ground and
the Blacks’ fine dribbling rushes, the Bananalanders
slung the ball about like tradesmen, easing up at
the interval with the tally 18 to 8 in their favor,
the Blacks livened up alter lemon-time and added
8 points (2 Lies 1 goal) to the Northerners’ ;>
points (1 try), but the spurt came too late, and the
Reds ran out victors by 21 points (5 tries 3 goals)
to lb points ( I tries 2 goals). There were no beg-
pardons, and the tackling was deadly. McElrcc ami
Wilson (M.L.) and Bath (Bananaland half) were
casualties.
* * # •
South Melbourne went to Collingwood on
haturday, but found the Magpies famous svstem still
in going order, and retired discomfited. W hen the
Magpies couldn’t stab-kick the ball to a mate thev
ha nub,-died it; and, keeping control of affairs from
start to finish, they wound up with 07 points to
south s 44. Carlton had a soft snap in EsiSendon,
collaring the bacon with 117 points to 80. Don’s
threatening dissolution has unnerved them, and they
play like a team that wants'only to be let die in
, Geelong, generally unbeatable at home and
unthinkable abroad, handed St. Hilda an old-man
trouncing. At lemon-time the tally was: Geelong 72
points; St. Hilda, 8. The Saints made the thing
look a little less shameful in the last quarter, and
ended with 35 points to the Seasiders’ 79. Richmond
ran against a snag in Melbourne. Holding a ?0-
point lead almost throughout, the Tigers took things
easy in the last term ; then the Red Legs' plaved up
determinedly, drew level, and would have won had
their forwards, succeeded in two easy shots. But
they missed, and the shuddering Tigers rushed three
behind* mas many minutes. Result: Richmond.
9o ; Melbourne, 92.
I ndcr Australian Rules Sydney went down
to Norths. Final score, 90 points to 60. Accurate
kicking won the day, Norths getting 14 goals
against 9. Fitzmaurice (North.) and Hill (Sydney)
kicked five goals each. Newtown idled up 100
points against Balmain’s 46. Paddington’s defeat
ot Easts (54 —49) happened in the last minute,
when a goal turned the figures. It was a spark-
ling game. FiH.gr,raid get three lovelv goals for
Paddington. Three players had to be shifted to
hospital for repairs.
* * * »
After X.S.W.’s hollow defeat on Monday
by the Q. Soccer reps., the selectors decided to
re-build the team, and only A. Fisher (full-back)
and E. Loveridge (half-back) were included in the
second game at Wentvtorth Park on Saturday.
Queensland led in the first half by one goal to
nil, >V. Mitchell finding the net after a fine sprint
along the wing. In the second F. Hancock (N.S W )
scored with a cannon-ball shot from over a dozen
yards out. There was no further scoring, and
‘ one-all” fairly sized up the game. Of the 19
matches between the States Queensland has won
10, N’.S.W. 6, and three have been drawn.
The Gloucester match gave the Austra-
lians some useful practice for the ensuing Test game.
Bardsley (132), Mayne (79), Macartney (149) and
Gregory (78) were the batsmen who made use of
the opportunity. Gregory hit Dennett for six twice
running. Macartney refused to run singles, and
Bardsley went on to bowl. Possibly the best solution
of the dispute now raging as to whether or no the
visitors should be allowed to rest a.t intervals is to
cut out the matches against obviously hopeless teams.
After all, it is not cricket to send a Ist XI to plav
a 3rd XI.
The left-hand stylist, F. E. Woolley, put
up a truly marvellous effort in the Second Test, all
things considered. He got 95 in the first innings
when, barring Douglas (34), he could get no one
to score with him and few to stay- with him. In
the second, faced by the useful Australian score of
342, and with no one but Dipper (who was bowled
by McDonald for 40) performing confidently, lie
amassed 93. The inclusion of Dipper and Tennyson,
which was criticised adversely here, shows that the
best judges are the men on the spot, as a rule.
Both performed to good purpose, the Hants amateur's
second-innings effort being particularly valuable.
Bardsley maintained his astonishing form with a
beautiful 88, and Carter contributed a score at the
desired moment, as he has a way of doing. His 4*<
meant all the difference between mediocrity and
impressiveness, so far as the Australians’ firs’
innings’ performance went. McDonald continues to
bowl with deadly effect. On figures Gregory is
easy by comparison with him; and Mailey—who
got four for 55 in England’s first innings—ha-
ul ready satisfied the crowd that there are not, as a
critic claimed, “four googly bowlers in England as
good as or better than him” —or, for that matter,
one.
Some idea of the class of modern Aus-
tralian boxing can be obtained by considering the
offer made last week by bookmaker- Charley Gilbert
to back the Californian Billy Shade to beat any
two men at present in Australia in the same
ling on the same night. It is much the same
even amongst the
lighter brigade. Oui-
side of Sid Godfrey
and Bert Spaigo
there is no really
first-class man.
though young: Dick
Johnson 1 may be the
makings of oue.
BERT
McCarthy,
featherweight
champion of,
Victoria, who
heat Dupre,
featherweight
champion of
France, on
Saturday night.
Dick Johnson, the spindle-shanked Mel-
bourne hoy, a Hied by Poor Condition, stopped Frank
Brogan a t Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
I ® ased U P in his training when the eccentric
Jlniix Stone refused to meet him sortie time back,
a ,!, . 01 l!v took , on Johnson (o fill a gap. Johnson
dm nimtterently against the larger man for the first;
halt-dozen rounds, but towards the end of the seventh
be slipped a sudden right to Brogan’s jaw. It was
virtually the finish. Saved by the bell and more
01 , s revivified by his seconds, the smitten 011 c
walked forth to participate in the eighth. Johnson
hurled a hefty right. Brogan salaamed dazedlv on
lus knees, and Joe vVallis went through the ritual
o! the count.
* * *
Howard, of Bonnie I toon, is again
JN.S.W. s amateur golf champion. lie could onlv
down Ivo Whitton (Vic. champion) on the last
stroke by one up; hut he settled Eric Apperly (the
holder) by 6 up and 5 to play, and in the final
Erie 1 ope lost to him by 9 up and 7. Howard
previously won the title in 1919. In 1913 he was
defeated by Jim Howden by 1 up in the final; and in
1912 by Apperly in the semi-final. Last year
Apperly again downed him—by 4 up and 3.
* * *, *
■f. 11. Kirkwood, Australia’s open golf
champion, put up a remarkable feat by getting into
the final of the pros/ tournament at Gleneagles
Most of the men Kirkwood heat for the right to meet
Abe Mitchell were familiar with the links long
before the young Australian with his seven comic
clubs arrived there. And the utter failure of the
Americans had just shown what a handicap British
conditions impose on strangers. Mitchell gave
Kirkwood a bad beating (by 7 up and fi to plav),
but the champion is evidently at the top of his form
(he had just beaten Ockenden by 6 up and 5 to
l>Ky), and the Gleneagles course suits his long-
driving style.
* * * *
This year’s A ictorian five-mile junior
cross-country championship brought out a big field
of 150, representing 13 teams. The race began
and finished at Caulfield racecourse. Before half-
way, A. C. Cameron (Canton) took the lead, and
hung out long enough to win in 29min. 59sec., with
\Y. F. Borlace (Melb.) 9sec. away, and G. William-
4sec. later. Eight of the runners finished within
a minute. Cameron, who has a fine stride and pace,
showed great form. Melbourne took the teams’ race
—its first win since 1903—with 146 points, Malvern
(156) and Carlton (175) coining next.
* * * *
N.S.W. five-mile cross-country
ship over the stiff Rose Bay (Sydney) course on
Saturday was remarkable for the great race between'
B. Swinbourne (Botany) and M. J.‘ McKenzie (South
Sydney). It was a battle over the whole journey,
Swinbourne winning eventually in 29min. 3sec.
McKenzie finished 2see. later, and D. Quinn arrived
after an interval of Imin. 31sec., with the straggled
field behind him. Swinbourne. who is the most
promising amateur athlete in N.S.W., recently won
Botany Club’s novice championship. The team-
championship was taken by East Sydney (27 points)
from St. George (36), Botany (38) and South Sid-
ney (41).
Dick Arnst badly licked Paddy Harman
for the world’s sculling championship on the
Wail ail (M.L.) on Saturday. The conditions suited
the stronger man—3 miles 100yds. against a head
wind and current. The time was 22min. 33sec.,
and £5OO stake-money went with the victory. Nearly
13 years ago Arnst, then only 24, first handled
the title by defeating William Webb (M.L.) ; but
a little over three years later Ernest Barry won
it from him on the Thames., Darcy Hadfield
(M.L.), who competed at the Olympic Gaines la-r
year, has challenged Arnst and put up £25 ,iy
deposit.
A SONG OF POLITICAL CRICKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thiy talk of cricket while the swift day snatches
Ihe time to trim the sails before the storm.
I can't condemn. It seems that these Test matches
Are kindly pointing hands to great reform.
It nations play the game, all must be well—
It may be foolishness, but who can tell?
When Persia roared through all the Grecian passes
And all but one last slender hope was gone
Historians tell us that , the Greeks were asses.
Because the great Olympic games were on
They didn’t worry about keeping fre'e,
But let three hundred face Thermopylte.
Most shocking, surely! But this observation
Must hold in spite of all that may be said:
If other games had kept the Persian nation
from fighting there had been no Grecian dead;
Leonidas and Xerxes, up in Thrace,
Might have found friendship in one chariot-race.
1 think I see the time when war’s loud blunder
Must fail because the people will not come
To play with useless blood and idle thunder
Nor listen to the beating of the drum—
Bed battle needs must spoil the finest Test.
But cannot show which nation plays the best.
Then ancient men in office, sad and biller.
Will write the word “Postponed” across war's door;
And all the world applaud the hardest hitter
And yell its gladness at the mounting score,
While military persons with much swank
Discover they are file as well as rank.
Then, if there must be wars, as some assure us,
bet agiVl statesmen fight them with their fists;
But to their empty stadium none shall lure us
While nobler champions fill the shouting lists;
In filth of battle none shall show their strength.
But in good balls that keep an even length.
We shall not fear the sudden deadly raiders.
Nor submarines that creep beneath the foam;
The nations’ honored heroes <nnd crusaders
•Shall be the teams that bring the ashes home;
And we shall have political fine weather,
Leagued to the willow, loyal to the leather.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


YOUR STRENGTH AND
IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH.
It is natural for you to be healthy—but you cannot retain your
natural healthy state unless you aid Nature bv keeping vour system
thoroughly toned up.
In your daily habits there are certain groups of internal muscles
which you scarcely ever use. Nature intended vou to use them, or
they would not be there.
Lnless you DO use them they’ll wither and become useless. They
then cannot perform their natural functions —-you will then have
a clnonie feeling of weariness and lack of energy and ambition.
Imagine how much better for you it is to have your weak
spots strengthened—especially when vou can so easilv and
pleasantly do it by means of the HEALTH EXERCISES
which we teach BY POST.
THE BAKER METHOD of INSTRUCTION by POST
will strongly appeal to you on account of its simplicity and
the rapid results it secures. It aims at building up the
muscles (both internal and outward) in a thorough and sys-
tematic manner. No one part is built up at the expense of
the other, but YOUR WEAK SPOTS will have attention.
Yjnte for a free copj of the booklet, “Health and Strength
kroni Self-Culture.” Send three stamps to cover postage,
those who prefer personal tuition are invited to call and
have a chat with 11s about their needs, when we shall he
happy to show them over the modern and perfectly-
appointed establishment. Advice and consultation free.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete *>f Australia,
501 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney,
Men’* Stout 7/6 _ , , .
Light 6/- C| * 'rubber plates, with raised studs,
Ladie*’ - • 4/. t° be attached on top of ordinary soles and
Soles snd Heels), heels, giving complete protection from wear,
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2-
Ladies’ • - 1/3
1 Heels only .
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Man vfacf u vers —
PHILLIPS'
PA 1 UNIS L.ti.,
Loudon, Eng.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
Cf[ THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
jnwtij
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON. 46. Wentworth Avenue.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN. 262, Post Office Place. Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22. Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Sydney.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
mrStkr
ilr J
7 ;c'.“ {
m
-
1
Steam-driven Pumping Set. comprising Triple Expansion Q.K. Forced
Rubricating Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 051b. per square inch.,
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
-Melbourne Office. Chaneery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Lid.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Etd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes. Fenchurch Street.
"V
r.
Sold Everywhere.
A dreary place would be this earth
H ere there no little people- in it.
Ihe song of life would lose its mirth
II ere there no children to begin it.
, There s no mirth in a child stricken with
ill health—chest troubles, for instance.
Treat a delicate child to a course of
HYPOL
and watch for fun and frolics.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Do not delay a single day. Avoid serious illness
by using HYPOL.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
K.YNOCH
AMMUNITION
■22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
Q
ALL BRITISH
tf I
*
45
Hi
wm
“VERIBEST”
GARMENTS
For Your Winter
Comfort
These have just been turner! out from our
Workrooms to meet your demands for
cosiness and comfort for this cold weather.
VERIBEST” SHIRTS-
FULL
WINTER-WEIGHT
—CRIMEANS—
16|6
High-grade materials, soft, warm, comfort-
;ible. that you will appreciate wearing now,
available in a full range of pleasing stripe
designs. The garments themselves tailor-cut.
displaying “Lincoln Stuart” thoroughness in
every detail—available with soft gauntlet
cult's and fronts—these “Veribest” Crimeans,
16/C. represent a winter shirt investment
without equal.
1616
VERIBEST PYJAMAS-
WARM FLANNELETTES—
DelightfiUly snug and warm— beautifully soft—offering a range of neat striae effects
less garmTnfs-Tvallabfe wRh Staf 'of Zg int ° flaw-
d P £^r ure 01 Avami ° th ’ comfo, ' t a,,d we:,r «>•»• th^-
CALL OR WRITE. WE PAY FREIGHT.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Smart Wool and Silk Scarves
and Allied Wear, for £Men.
VALUE in apparel begins with the quality of the
material selected. Unless this is unquestionably
:= —— l of a high order, the articles when manufactured
may simulate, but never achieve, high quality.
/
V
RAB
RAB White Lawn Hem-
stitched Handkerchiefs, Ksize,
% inch hem. Dozen, 14/6
RA9 —White Lawn Handker-
chiefs, with neat self coloured
border. Dozen 14/6
RAI0 —Special line of White
Linen Hemstitched Handker-
chiefs, three-quarter size, half
and one inch hems. D0z.,42/-
RAll—Wool Motor Scarves,
warm and of good length : in
tones, navy, brown, black and
purple, .with striped ends, as
illustrated, and in other popu-
lar contrasting stripes ; knotted
fringe ends. Prices, each, 12/6
m
R Al 2
m
RAH
RAl2—Pure Swiss Silk Motor Scarves for even-
ing or general wear ; st indard lengths. Procurable
in an exclusive range of colourings, in wide stripes,
including the very latest shades. Prices, from 63/-
Farmer’s, Sydney .
" The Store for Men. ”
We Pay Carriage. -Pox 497. G.'-P.O.
t
When the period knor.n as “the twilight of
Life” arrives, extreme care must be ob-
served to keep Colds, Influenza, and their
attendant Uls at a distance.
IRISH MOSS
ss
m
3-lt
IS BEST FOB COUGHS & COLDS.
If taken in time it will prevent serious developments. Insist
on getting Bonning ton's. Sold everywhere. BA 15
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Parie in the
Heart of
Molbourne.
Next Mec Majerty's Theatre
The Queenscliff golf links being now cooked
and ready, General Ryrie has been down to
open the season. Whereupon Queenscliff
suddenly buzzed into activity, and there
have been swarms of house-parties. Captain
and Mrs. Instone had Neptune Cottage
packed to the last corner, Dr. and Mrs.
Jermyu filled Maliaba with Geelongese, and
Captain and Mrs. Campbell had a party
from Melbourne. The hotels were crammed.
The Andrew Blacks were there, and the
Harold Staughtons and the Macmillans and
Addisons. The Austin girls motored from
Geelong to he in the thick of the test stakes,
and the Hewitts came with their sticks.
John Lang, of the Metropolitan Club, won a
big prize, and Captain Douglas (Riverside
Club) bagged the handicap with Miss Run-
dell of Geelomc Mrs. Jack Warren, of
Bendigo, won the ladies’ singles on the first
day, and Mrs. Harold Staughton (Warrnam-
bool) on the second day. Cards and music
and motoring and dancing were packed in
between the serious work of the meeting.
The links, which are on Swan Island, in
Black Swan Bay, have been nearly two
years in the making. The site was mostly
sand and swamp reeds; now there’s fine
turf and shrubbery and a good motor
approach, all in an ideal setting. The place
threatens to be tremendously popular.
The trouble with Lady Stradbroke appears
to be a fever of some sort, which she is
suspected, so daughter Lady Helena Rous
says, of having, picked up in. the tropics.
The trip to Australia must be responsible
for it. Mrs. Fred Knight, of the Falkiivw
clan, is only lately back from Colombo,
where malaria gave her a very bad time
The last effects of the sickness in her case
is a moulting of her beautiful hair, and
now she can only hope for a renewal of her
silken tresses in the Spring, tin la. The
philanthropic lady feels sad about her loss.
She has- had the habit of giving for years,
but in the matter of parting with her locks
she is no readier than 'the meanest of us.
While our Earl was at Ballarat last week
lie fraternised with some of Iris Masonic
brethren. One yarn recalled the unofficial
visit to that town of a previous Rubber
Stamp, who was G.M. of the craft. As
motor-cars were not then so much in evi-
dence, and as cabs were nothing to boast of,
a resourceful public man (also an apron-
wearer) borrowed the Catholic Bishop's car-
riage. The Bishop accompanied the loan
with abundance of goodwill. 41 ml hinted that
if ‘as many as the carriage' would hold
would come back with it after the capers in
the city hall, they would be made comfortable
for the night. But the State railway car,
which was on a, siding, served for a vice-
regal roost.
Our Earl affects a car which resembles
a motor-hearse. It has given some of our
Ministers the creeps, especially on Executive
Council day, when it stands at the foot of
the steps leading to the old Treasury. Our
last Earl (Hopetoun) had five Premiers
(Gillies, Munro, Sliiels, Patterson and
Turner) in six years, and the present Minis-
terial team —especially the men who came
in last Cup-time—don't like ill-shaped omens.
The Firm didn’t require an overdraft to
dress "Oh, Lady, Lady!” at Her Majesty’s;
still some- of the creations look fairly expen-
sive. Dorothy Brunton, showing a quantity
of drab leg as a pearl-fancier in the first
act, invades the second in pink crinoline
effects with the usual funnels of frillies un-
derneath. Madge Elliott: is not very glorious
in white with red facings, but something of
pale pink and silver restores her lost divin-
ity near the final, Nancy Benyon sticks to
plain white, but there is one gown that
might have been adorned with electro-plate
filings. The chorus is mostly a chaos of ver-
milion, flame color, amber, parched grass and
pastel tints: but one girl mortgages the
scrutiny of the house in a kneerhigh skirt
that seems to be a collection of old-fashioned
bell-pulls. Eight rosy nymphs with golden
head-dresses scissored several rainbows to
provide trimmings for a spectacular dance.
Last Sunday evening Miss Michaelis fed
the fiddling Heifetz and six of his suite at
supper. There would have been nine of
them, but one or two of the Heifetz girls
are in Sydney with their English governess.
The elder one is alleged to be able to work
wonders on the piano, and would act as
brother Jascha’s accompanist but that her
parents think one youthful genius is enough
at a rime. She is to mature in a French
school before venturing into the limelight.
Outside the musical circle Sassiety is re-
marking that a mayoral reception to young
Heifetz was an absurd concession to his
manager’s enterprise. Practically the Taits
dragged the Town Hall into their advertis-
ing scheme, and made the "Queen City of
the South” look painfully provincial. A re-
turned Australian of foreign fame would be
a fit enough subject for a Gaud Mayor's
welcome. But a Russian youth whose father
carries his fiddle whilst his other nearest
relatives stand around and shine in his
reflected glory! It will not bear thinking
about. It was the sort of bad joke which
must not occur again.
John Santos, a Herculean Portuguese
wharf-lumper, sauntered into the Children’s
Hospital office the other day and offered the
always hard-up institution £2OOO in money and
real estate. R. J. Love, the secretary, com-
mended bis proposed generosity, but asked
him to think over it well before he made
any transfer. Love was diplomatic: he
wanted to find out if his visitor was unfairly
cutting out members of his family who per-
haps had offended him. A few inquiries
showed that the money and landed estate
were there, and that he was free enough
and sane enough to do what he pleased with
the bulk of 20 years’ savings and the results
of investments. The gift was accepted
subject to the stipulation that Santos should
retain a life interest in one cottage in which
lie lives. In the morning of life, it seems,
Santos bad some' disappointment or his faith
was shaken in somebody in the sunny penin-
sula. and lie says simply that he wants to
feel be lias been working for children. The
records of philanthropic deeds in Melbourne
contain nothing more notable.
The marriage of Lesley Madden is to take
place very quietly under mother's roof, it is
understood, and meantime the chiffon busi-
ness knows her no more. Now it is said
that the Frank Madden girls have a com-
mercial project in view.
Lawyer Ned Herring, who was a Victorian
Rhodes scholar and wore an "A" on his
arm when the guns were booming, pleads
guilty of conspiring with Professor Lyle’s
medical chick, Mary, to dump her doctoring
career in the sea of matrimony. Dr. Mary
now decorates the indoor staff of the Mel-
bourne Hospital. She doesn’t need a brass-
plate to keei> Ha 1 wolf from the door, as dad,
now long-retired from the 'Varsity, lias his
bit, and mother was a wealthy Western Dis-
trict Millear. Herring hails from Wan-
garatta.
Max Meldrum, who is Regarded as the red-
flagger of Australian art, can claim a bou-
quet for the development of A. E. Newbury,
one of our most promising younger painters,
pictured herewith by Monteath. Before
Meldrum founded his
school he had inter-
ested the younger
man, who was gradu-
ally brought to look
at Nature from a dif-
ferent point of view
and incidentally for-
get a. Gallery train-
ing that had moulded
his art on orthodox
lines for .six or seven
years. Newbury had
been brilliant at the
Gallery, had won
numerous prizes and
had been runner-up
for the Travelling
Scholarship; but
the new principles of
art captured him
wholly and he went out to the bush to paint
as never before. After a while he had a
show which aroused an unexpected demand
for his canvases and netted him £3O0 —a
remarkable total considering the small price
he asked for his pictures. Since that time
be has been busily preparing for another
exhibition this month.
Heather Keep, a sporting lass who is the
daughter of the Ernest Keeps of Toorak, is
to change her name to Johnstone on June 28.
Major Richard Gordon Johnstone is the
man who persuaded her to do it. The wed-
ding will be at Scots’ Kirk.
E. J. Restless Atkinson is off tripping to
the Islands with his pretty wife and two
boys, Harry and Lionel. Daughter Yvonne
(three years old) stays behind to look after
the mansion in Lansell-road, Toorak.
Yvonne is of an adventurous disposition, and
one day last month, having commandeered
a whole turkey and some pate-de-foie-gras
sandwiches, set out for the Botanical Gar-
dens to. feed the ducks. Poet Rupert, miss-
ing Yvonne and the turkey simultaneously,
bolted after her in his second-best Rolls-
Royce, and caught the fugitive outside Nor-
man Bayles’s portcullis just as she was
in the act of hailing a tram. Meanwhile
E.J.’s new book, ‘‘The Renegades,” with
excellent illustrations in the Beardsley
manner by Christian Yendall, is waiting its
cue. Vicller publishes it.
If Miss M. Ingram, State-school teacher
of Geelong, is a fair specimen of the women
the Pivot can turn out, then let nobody call
the place Sleepy Hollow again. In putting
to Alec Peacock and Tate the case for equal
pay for equal work, she made them both
gasp with admiration. Her speech was built
oil statesmanlike . lines, and her delivery
matched it, while she brightened up her argu-
ments with many humorous flashes. Peacock
looked as if he would like to make an excep-
tion in Miss Ingram’s favor, but trotted out
the old arguments about men’s family respon-
sibilities and about schools being shop win-
dows of the marriage market. Still, he
looked hard at Miss Ingram When the
appointment of women inspectors of schools
was mentioned. The Department evidently
does not want to divorce her.
Melbourne lately discovered the ability of
Arthur L. Benjamin as pianist and composer,
and naturally wants to see more of him. He
is a Brisbane native,
n. n(I was pushing
ahead in hi s a r t
in i.undon when
the war decided him
to abandon the key-
boa r d temporarily
and join the long line
of khaki in France.
Serving at first in the
infantry, he later
won a mount In the
Flying Corps and
survived 2S air duels
before ho was cap-
tured by the Llulls,
lie returned to Aus-
I'o fu soothe his
troubled nerves, and,
discovering he r e
I■< rger opportunities
for development, joined the staff of the
Sydney Conservntorium, Me is now work-
ing industriously at composition. One
or the jobs on which lie will be shortly
engaged is a musical fantasy, "The Ship of
Heaven.” tin 1 libretto and lyrics of which
have been furnished by Hugh McCrae.
Mrs. John McWhae lms made a rapid re-
covery from a serious operation, and is now
back at Ellengerrin, Inverleigh, one of the
most favored of the squattage* held b,v lief
husband. A small house-party greeted lief
when she came home to EllengelTin. Two
sons lighten Me While's job of running sta-
tions, and leave hitn time to attend State
Cabinet meetings and study bills to be
handled in the Dreary House.
Defended by Maxwell, Jr.11.1t., Worthing-
ton, Assembly Sergeant-at-Arms, was again
before the police court last week over those
War Bonds in respect to which he sought a
reward for somebody said to he in unlawful
possession of them. Cohen, P.M., sent him
for trial, and the ease will come on in the
Criminal Court this month. Maxwell told
the Court that Worthington was a mere go-
between who sought no personal benefit and
had acted only with colossal foolishness.
The towering W. R. Rarstow, Clerk of the
Records, will shoulder the mace at the open-
ing of the session, and accompany the Sneaker
to the Bar of “the other place’* on July 0
to hear the Karl read his .speech.
Young Orlando, sou of Italy’s Prime Min-
ister, is a guest of Consul-General Grossardi
at his Hawthorn humpy. The young mart is
gay and debonair and that novelty to Aus-
tralians. n fair Italian. His English is
rather scanty, lmt he makes up for it by the
exquisite cut of his spats. He’s here to
push an Italian line of cargo ships.
Councillor Arnold Westley has been hav-
ing a strenuous bout with ’flu and pneu-
monia. He won on points, and although he
was roughly handled he is nearly fit for a
Town Hall appearance.
It was a surprise to most of those who
knew him that Surgeon Henry Michael
O’Hara had left only £2961, all personal
property. It went to the widow.
As his lately-deceased mother (author of
“The Rosary” and a string of other novels)
left behind her a nice little pile of £33,749,
Very-High Church parson Cyril Barclay will
not starve everr if Low-Church Archdeacon
Hindley does succeed in shifting him from
St. John’s, in Latrobe-street. His share of
the lump must be pretty substantial. There
is another High Church in Melbourne, but its
vicar is invulnerable. In a battle lie would
be David to somebody else’s Goliath.
Polly Hurry, whose portraits hang in the
Victorian Artists’ show, is a sister of Colonel
Hurry, of the old firm of Kyneton lawyers.
She joyfully proclaims her engagement to
a fellow-Meldrumite, John Farmer, whose be-
loved face is the subject of one of the afore-
said portraits. Joint bliss will be enjoyed
in the Dandenongs, where the happy couple
will paint subdued masterpieces of gum-trees
in repose.
Agnes Larkcom, F.R.A.M., on her way
from Hong Kong to London on a world-
encircling jaunt, arrived in Melbourne the
other day. She pleads guilty to 30 years’
teaching in the Royal Academy of Music
(London), from which she has sent out a
flock of nightingales, among whom Caro-
line Hatchard, Clara Butter worth ami
Gwen Roberts shine in this generation, sev -
eral Royal Princesses have also frequent
her studio, as even Crowns favor drawing-
room ballads as a marriage-market commo-
dity.
The Ministering Children's League, which
keeps up the Cottage by the Sea at Gueens-
cliff for convalescing children from hospitals,
is getting in trim to raise funds. -laid.'
Stradbroke has promised to preside at a
meeting in the Town Hall on June -o to dis-
cuss things.
In spite of the big roll-up for the Blind
Appeal the fund is still short. Mayoress
Swanson, with Mrs llewison and Mrs. Lox
as aides, has therefore arranged a Button
Day for June 24.
The Aero Club is to have a jazz at ( ar-
lyon’s on the 2()th.
The ball that is to help the Ambulance
Service Guild is due in St. Ivihla Town Hall
on June 2D.
A little lady, soon to be married, created
a sensation at a children’s party recently
given by the Jack Joshuas. She had been
listening to a medical student talking shop
(creeping paralysis, among other horrors)
when suddenly she began to develop symp-
toms of that terrible complaint. At last she
couldn't bear it nhy longer; she Screamed*
and a mouse ran out over her neck !
At a recent jazz-party d tiinid poet whs
talking to a nice furry old lady, iind inbi-
dentally admiring the activity (if one of her
daughters. “Yes,'’ said the dowager, “you
would never think to look at her dancing
that she was a married woman with varicose
A r eins and five children!” And it wasn’t
sarcasm either.
The mayor of a northern suburb is a man
of middle age. and when recently he was
planning his first official hall it occurred to
him that he and his contemporaries woijld lx*
rather out of it, the dances of the present
day being so different from those of his youth.
Thereupon lie organised an “old fogeys’ danc-
ing class” which lias beell meeting weekly
and is voted a whirling success by dozens of
couples who ill theit youth were expert
dancers blit for want of il leader hadti’t
troubled to break their toes into the stefis
of to-day.
Adelaide encloses a little gossip :
Feminine Adelaide rushed to the Mayoress’s
drawing-room on Friday; but only those who had
previously lunched availed themselves of the chair*
—the rest stampeded for afternoon tea. Many
eyes followed Miss <le Vezy, in navy silk, with
cape of chinchilla edged with ermine. While in
this city Mdlle. has purchased a ’possum coat that
will make every woman who sees it green with
envy.
Two “big” weddings are to come off this month.
The Mostyn Evans’ only chick, Enid, and Laurie
Gliddon are to be the parties to one, and Kathleen,
daughter of the David Shannons, and Hartley \\ il-
liams will supply the other.
A well-known Glenelg and Burra identity passed
out a few days ago—Charles B. Waimes, fourth
son Of the late Thomas Waimes, who owned Wool-
gangij l’afcooia and Perrin Vale stations. Of
late veals lie resided litost of his time at Glenelg.
lie was only 48 when the end cable.
Ills Ex.’s racing jacket will get its first airing
in this State on August 1. He has leased d
yearling called Recitation, and hopes she will make
her in the Fulham Park Plate. Lady
Weigall is also very keen on racing; her father
won the Two Thousand Guineas at Newmarket with
Kirkconnel.
Last week the Mayoress invited Adelaide's philan-
thropists to the Town Hall to meet Mrs. Strathearnc
and Sister Kathleen, who have come to Australia
to raise a modest £13,000 for the relief of the
poor in the slums of West Ham, London. The..'
might get it; but there are a few people in Aus-
tralia just now who could do with £13,000.
One of the most beautiful war memorials erected
in Australia is the bronze statue of ' St. Michael
presented to Angaston by C. H. Angas. It is the
work of Andrea Carlo Lucchesi, a famous London
sculptor, and stands upon a pedestal of pink Angas-
ton marble, bearing metal plates with the names of
the hundred-odd men who enlisted from the district.
Queen Adelaide’s brooch has arrived. The Council
has granted the Mayoress permission to wear it on
civic occasions. The Mayor says it is much too
valuable to be kept in the memento case in the
council chamber. The jewel is circular in shape,
with an outside ring of 29 whole pearls, and an
inner ring of smaller ones; then there is a circle
of royal blue enamel, and in the centre a large
button pearl surrounded by smaller ones.
The Adelaide Hounds officially opened their season
at Oakbank last week, and celebrated their 53rd
birthday at the same time. James Gemmell and hi-
family entertained the hungry huntsmen at early
lunch, and there was another snack at the Oakbank
course, where the run terminated. It was a great
rally, and “masters” of the past. 30 years put in
an appearance. A.D.C Houston Boswell had a spill,
but was soon up and away again.
Adelaide lias ji good joke against the Railways
management. In a suburban carriage a corner under
a seat had been consistently left undusted. Some
grains of wheat fell into it. and lately a young plant
eight inches long was harvested and has bten
widely shown about the city.


K. JF WILKS, Managing Director.
Ihe following Picture Theatres,
viz.:—
Grand, Strand, Globe, Majestic, Lyric, Empress,
Crystal Palace, Haymarket, Broadway, Hub,
Redfern, Palace, (Sydney) ; Melba, Paramount,
(Melbourne) ; Pavilion, Melba, Majestic, Britannia,
Strand, (Brisbane); Strand, Britannia, (Newcastle),
Have exchanged their Player-Pianos
for the world-famous
GULBRANSEN
2)ucstfcncerfo
Player-Piano ?
IF SO! Call and we will prove to you
what we have already proved to them.
Would You
Like to
Know h.
WHY Z
We give informal recitals daily,
and once a month an evening
recital, at which Sydney’s lead-
ing artists appear. Invitations
will be sent on application.
The indisputable perfection of Tone, Touch, Durability
and Simplicity of Control is evidenced by the fact of the
above theatres exchanging their player-pianos for Duo-
Concertos. In some of them this instrument has been
installed for over three years, and being used from 8 to
10 hours a day. Think what this means —24o hours a
month, or in all 8640 hours, and still as good as when
first installed.
1
m
If Unable to Call, Send for Catalogue R (Posted Free).
CASH OR TERMS. SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS
317, 319 and 321 PITT-STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
TWO DOORS FROM BATHURST STREET).
TEL., CITY 10751 & 10751
Agency: Newcastle. 483 Hunter Street.
Our Interstate Agents are:—
MELBOURNE:
MAPLES, Prahran.
ADELAIDE:
KUHNEL & CO., LTD., Rundle Street.
PERTH •
NICHOLSON & CO., LTD., Barrack Street.
BRISBANE
KING & KING, LTD.* Queen Street.
HOBART- —LAUNCESTON:
FINDLEYS PROPRIETARY, LTD.
LOWER PRICES for
BUCKLEY’S SUITS.
m
m
Vf?
vvswJv
at
m
V'
ss
»V7i
By challenging every item of expense in the
making, and through our buying organisa-
tion embracing the opportunity of securing
woollens for cash at a time when markets
were below replacement values, we
able to offer
14 8 16 Gn. Suits
for
£9ll m
Made to Measure
The mate als are all im-
ported f: ries, consisting of
real Sc- eh Tweeds in un-
limited .esigns and colorings.
West i England Worsteds
in ch< it, diagonal and mixtures,
also ndigo Blue, Saxony and
II unable to call, write for Pat-
terns and Self-ineasu reinent
Form—posted free.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.,
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Made entirely in Australia.
PACKED ALWAYS
IN RED BOXES.
**
Jl/St
foVew
******
A '•
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any
address in Australia.
Put St.
Sydney


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE <
champacne
UiaiiesHeidsiecK
Reims
Wwapncr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Ag-eirts—
SWIFT 6 COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
NL L. McRAE
Proprietress.
BOND’S
L
/
Australian■ made
Yellov
Diamond
Hose
Made in
Artificial
Silk — Smart,
Comfortable and
Guaranteed to give
satisfactory Service ;
‘'Yellow Diamond" which
/ sells at a very low price
stands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
Griffin
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS.
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
loin the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeprof
Hoslery
A little girl from a Darling Point seminary
had been told off to thrust a festive bouquet
upon Lady Davidson. The small girl has
plenty of confidence, hut when the morning of
the momentous day arrived she began to have
tremors. "Mother, will you he Lady David-
son while 1 present the flowers?” she im-
plored. Mother was agonisedly trying to
call up u telephone number. “Not this
morning, dear; I’m very busy.” The house-
maid and cook, when interviewed, were both
concerned with their own affairs, and
wouldn’t he viee-regality even for two
minutes. Finally the rehearsal took place in
the laundry, Mrs. Washerwomnn-b.v-the-day
consenting to take the part of her State
Ex. while the small girl dropped her curtsey
and passed her a bunch of home-grown
blooms.
All Maoriland remembers Amy Murphy,
the silver-toned soprano with the golden-
brown hair who was the islands' prin-
cipal coiieert-siiiger till the Firm in-
duced her to come to Australia and
introduce “The Chocolate Soldier.” In
the old .Maoriland days Amy nearly wore
out the routes between Auckland and the
Bluff keeping concert, oratorio and amateur
operatic engagements ; and when not travel-
ling she helped mother train one of Dunedin’s
principal singing connections. Well, dressed
all in pmrie-colored tailorings, she was mar-
ried very quietly the other morning to Steve
Daley. Nellie Black, of the “All Black”
family, gave her a farewell party al the Aus-
tralia, at which sister Diilcie (now the
widow Heath) and Mrs. Halley, another
sister, were .present, with ever so many other
old Maorilanders. The wedding-party was
held beforehand at mother’s house in Potts
Point.
Sydney lire Smith is the new president
of the Society of Artists, dear old Julian
Ashton having had to resign his chieftain-
ship, after veteran service, owing to continued
ill-healtli. The society is grief-stricken over
the retirement of Julian, the only consola-
tion being that his mantle has fallen on
somebody ,as comfortable to talk to as TJre
Smith. Julian and the artists gave the new
president a luncheon the other day, and made
him the richer by a collection of original
paintings and drawings from the brush and
pencil of Ileysen, Gruner, the Lindsays, Will
Ashton, Lloyd Rees, Muir Auld, Carter,
Florence IWdway and Julian himself. These
and a perfectly gorgeous address were
assembled in a morocco case by Wal Taylor,
and the defence of the presenters was the
work done by the presentee for art in Aus-
tralia.
Creams and browns are the dominant
tones in the color scheme of the new Surry
Hills kindergarten, which was opened last
week by Lady Forster, who had taken her
cue from the brooding clouds and mixed grey
with her navy-blue f rocking. All the
Kindergarten Union notables were on the
spot to hear the official blessing on this
tenth track they have cleared to the joys of
childhood; the John Macltays, the Sulman
and Desailly ladies, energetic little Mrs.
Fairfaxe-Smythe, Dr. Brooke’s slim wife and
Miss Roseby were among the hand-clappers
when Knight Braddon told that the land was
paid for—it cost something like £lOOO. Two
others blissfully satisfied with the party were
the small girl and boy who had the luck to
be first on the new roll. The little woman
handed over the customary flowers to Lady
Forster, and the small boy solemnly trotted
up with a silver key in a leather case.
“Toby” Watt’s friends are to mark his
passing with a fitting memorial: It is to
be a record of his years at the war and his
flying exploits. The book is to have many
beautifully-produced photographs, taken in
the air over France and Egypt. One, snapped
when his machine was in a bombing attack,
shows the bomb hurtling through the air,
and another at tfte very instant of explosion.
Toby, who was the most popular of mortals,
owned many signed photographs of people
worth while, and these will be included.
Enthusiasts in the matter of collecting the
matter are old friends Mrs. Jamieson and
Mrs. Jimmy Burns and brother Ernest.
The Old Riverviewers didn’t spoil the ship
for a ha’porlh of tar at their dance in the
Paddington Town Hall last week. The de-
corations started in the vestibule with arches
of wistaria or clusters of rambler roses —
whichever your imagination most fancied —
the same floral effects festooned the stair-
case, and thehall itself was like an autumn
lane. Autumn, however, hadn’t brushed the
jazzers’ heads. Crown-Prosecutor Coyle's
wife, in mandarin chiffon velvet, was under
the wing of a young son who was a grown-
up committee-man, and of daughter Madge,
who wore green silk to balance mother’s
orange. Tom Hughes came with his lady,
who wore handsome black and gold drap-
iugs, and son Geoff, who wore his English
accent. The blonde Mrs. Tom Dalton was
in soft black satin and jet. The Newing-
tonians and the old Christian Brothers were
represented, and the Mark Foy sisters—
one in old rose velvet, the other in pink and
silver-shot taffeta—wore the prize frocks
of the party.
The new Repertory happenings at the
Playhouse are Dunxany’s "Lost Silk Hat,”
an all-round-the-world laugh-raiser, and
“Chains,” a play of many meals and long
waits. It starts with a Saturday-midday
dinner of corned-beef and boiled potatoes,
finishes with a Monday-morning breakfast
and that day’s lunch all cut and ready, and
in between there is a supper-party, and a
tea-party oil the stage, and a tea-drinking
“off.” The play was well produced and well
acted -and is as vital as watered skim-milk.
If we are going to build a national theatre,
let us, to begin with, scrap the what-nots of
old England. Let’s have the problem of a
buslnnan who has been tried by lire and
Hood and hanks and tax-collectors.
Annette Ivellerman made the big splash
at St. Vincent’s old girls' dance at Sar-
gent’s on Saturday night. An old girl her-
self. she arrived late in a crimson velvet cloak
that bore a closely-worked decoration of
crimson taffeta rucliings on its deep collar,
taffeta rucliings of the same family adorning
it where it narrowed into a pair of the
prettiest ankles in the world. From this
Annette presently emerged in a gold frock,
straight as to the long bodice, and very full
as to the short skirt —she might have .been
a daffodil turned upside-flown. Arofirrd her
hair she wore a gold riband and ostrich-
frond arrangement. Other notabilities were
Mr. Partridge (Sister Ligouri’s brother),
and “the St. John of Politics,” as the lads
call Attorney-General McTiernan; also.
Mayor Lambert’s wife hugging an official
bouquet of winter roses. Old Vincentians
N. Casey and Mrs. Hatfield were vice-presi-
dents, and were delighted at tile success of
this year's flutter.
The garden of the Wentworth is going to
he very alluring to-morrow night, when the
P.A.IL dance will have every help to suc-
cess. There are all sorts, of wonderful prizes
for the most original paper and calico cos-
tumes, and Renee Maxwell and Rubi Tre-
lease are bringing on parties after “Firefly”
and “Nightie N : ght.”
One of the best-looking brides of recent
nights was Olga Russell, who became Mrs.
Ewing at Bt. John’s (Darlinghurst) in grey
jersey silk and the quietest possible manner —
the latter owing to the recent death of the
.’groom’s father, knight Thomas Ewing. The
bride, who is a handsome brunette, wore a
little hat all grey iridescence, the.exact shade
of her frock, and carried a sheaf of pink
carnations and autumn leaves. Mother and
little sister live at Virginia, in Macleay-
street; she herself has settled her own alu-
minium ware just round the corner in a
kitchen of Chester flats.
Here is Vernon Sellars, an Adelaide boy,
who went to the war early and loft it late,
returning to Sydney
last year as male
support for the
Renee Maxwell re-
citals. Since then
he has understudied
Jamieson Dodds in
“Lilac Domino,” and
at present is a sort
of composite silent
partner in “The
Firefly.” But lie
wants t o m a k e
noises on his own
account again, and
not stand waiting
every night on the
off-chance of the
principal getting a
fish-bone in his
throat; so there is to
be a recital in the King’s Hall at the end of
this month.- Vernon is adding a number of
Irish songs to his programme, having con-
tracted a passion for the Irish because of
the old lady in Ivillarney who trusted him
when he was a soldier on leave with a suit
length of her homespun, and did it wholly on
his face value. He says the Irish are the
most discriminating people lie ever met.
Vivienne Berke, who is to marry Victor
Audette on the 4tli of July at St. Philip’s,
with a covey of bridesmaids fluttering
around her, was given a party by maid-of-
honor-to-be Dorothy Peters. Every guest
brought a bit of something to stock the
bridal linen-chest; and the tea drinking was
the baptism of the Peacock room at the
Golden Gate. Flowers and foodstuffs alike
were colored purple and yellow, violets and
wattle forming the floral part of the scheme.
One day last week dentist Madge Barnes
said ”1 will” to Kenneth Robinson at the
Church of England, Neutral Bay. Mother
afterwards held out the glad hand to inti-
mate friends at Ravenseraig, hard by.
The Barnes family come from Mud gee way.
Though Madge only announced her nuptials
a week beforehand, the dental fraternity
handed her over a fine case of cutlery and
silver.
The Osterley takes Elsie Marjory Spencer,
8.A., one of the most brilliant Modern Lan-
guages students of Sydney T’ni. She is the
only daughter of T. \V. Spencer, of the State
Hansard and formerly leader of the Even-
ing News staff. After a series of triumphs
at the Sydney Girls’ High, Miss Spencer
went into residence at the Women’s College
and graduated B.A. with first-class honors in
French. Now she has been awarded an
Orient passage to Europe to continue her
studies in France. Mrs. Spencer goes with
her to France, where she hopes to get a post
that will further her ambitions.
Mrs. Titherudge, who has been seriously
ill ever since her arrival in England, has defi-
nitely turned the corner hack to recovery.
.Madge is playing Desdemona ; Dion is busy
writing sketches for the Prince of Wales
Theatre. At the moment lie is working
hand-iii-glove with old Tivoli success Lee
White and her husband.
This is Mayoress Whatmore, of North
Sydney, whose sew-
ing guild is doing
much to supply
North Sydney poor
with warm winter
clothing. “There's
quit e a n u n-
usual ain o n n t of
distress,” says Mrs.
Whatmore, “owing
to sickness among
the, bread-winhers,
and the number of
war widows”; and
the sewing-machines
at the Central Hall
in Walker-street are
kept whirring in pre-
paration for the
cold of July and
August. Robin Cale
made this picture of Mrs. Whatmore, whose
energetic husband is the great friend of
the Housewives, and gained the open markets
for the association on the North side.
N. S. Wales went hideously close to losing
a knighthood in the winter of 3936, though
no One dreamt it at the time. Then it was
that Ben Fuller called the press to him and
announced that he intended to enlist in the
spring, lie gave an inimitable reason for
not doing it at; once—that “winter in camp
might not agree with his health.” In the
• end the scheme came to nothing. As a
Digger— a mere person who had risked his
life for the Empire—Benjamin would have
had about as much chance of winning his
knightly spurs as of acquiring a dukedom.
Tom Burton Dibbs, who died in Geelong
(Vic.) on Saturday, was, with his hand-
some wife, a well-known figure in Sydney
till a few years ago. The death on active
service of two of his sons broke him up
badly. The widow of one of them married
Charles Jaques, a Sydney solicitor.
The tall, spare figure of “Ebbo” Browne
was seen in the Unjon Club last week. The
one-time crack polo-player looks a very sick
man these days. His wife—she was Muffle
Chirnside—is taking him to the Islands for
a health trip.
Ewan Frazer and his girl left by the
Niagara, certainly for years, and it may be
for ever. The cheery, fussy little doctor is
an immensely rich man, and such interests
as he has, apart from property, are in Eng-
land. When he first married Jessie Middleton,
the Goulburn pianist, he threatened to blos-
som out, as a racing-owner in a big way, but
he has long since dropped all such ideas, and
his main relaxation nowadays is golf.
Mrs. Alex. Ilay left for. England on the
Ormonde. She is taking her elder boy to
school at Winchester. Lord Chelmsford put
his name down at this exclusive establish-
ment. .years ago, but the long-windedness of
the war necessitated a re-adjustment of the
family plans.
Captain Ralph Verney is on his way to
London with his wife and family. He goes
to take up the job of private secretary to
the new Speaker of the House of Commons.
When his wife was in Sydney visiting her
relations a while ago there was no talk
of their leaving India.
St. Peter’s, Woolloomooloo, has lost its
beloved padre, Fred Tugwell. He goes to
Lismore* taking with him his bride, Hilda
Dunstan, who became his at her dad’s
church ; n Waverley one afternoon last week.
For wedding-gift his friends of the ’Loo gave
him a purse with £.30 in it.
At the opening of the Painter-Etchers'
show in the Education Building the other
afternoon Justice Street surprised everybody
by his intimate knowledge of the needle and
the acid. Instead of following up Education-
Minister Mutch with some futile remarks, he
made even the initiate take notice. The
opening was a Society feature of the week:
and the second day saw the sales mount up
to £BOO. The I)uterra exhibits in the old-time
section look like prehistoric stone carvings,
and represent Black Brother sitting and
standing, with and without martial acces-
sories. There is a small corner given over
to. Maoriland artists, the most original touch
being supplied by Mina Arnst, whose “Old
Jew’s Head” has been bought by the Gallery.
Two Fullwoods also attracted the Gallery’s
eyes, which, , besides, lighted covetously on
works of Grhner, Ileysen, Godson, Barker,
Ere Smith and the Victorian Herbert Rose.
How is this for the casual mother? The
other day a friend of the family met her
and remarked, **l hear your daughter is
married. What is her new name?” "i
can’t tell you,” replied mother with a shrug,
"1 was so annoyed when she told me she was
married, 1 didn't even ask who Hie man
was!”
There’s one lady in Sydney who must be
the grown-up little girl we all read about at
school:—
A good little girl sat under a tree,
Sewing as long as her eyes could see.
Then smoothed her work and folded it rigid.
And said, “Dear work, good night, good night!”
The lady’s name is Garrigan, and in Grace
Brothers’ recent exhibition of fine handwork
•she won five firsts, which carried tbh
number of her prizes won at exhibitions of
women's work in the various States to well
over a thousand.
One Darlingliurst train-conductor nearly
dropped dead the other morning when a lan-
guid lady drew out her cheque-book and
offered to make out her chit for the fare, if the
conductor would kindly tell her the amount.
She explained that she was so unused to rid-
ing in trams; but for once something had
happened to all the limousines.
The French Alliance is setting out on a
series of evenings at which everybody will
speak and sing French. Miss Gurney and
Mrs. Arthur Jewett.are handling the idea.
Mrs.. Jessie Strathearn, who with sister
Kathleen is visiting Australia in the interests
of a mission at YY est Ham, London, is going
to make Baptism by Immersion the one
religion for the admiring small boy. She
uncorks a perfectly wonderful cornet solo, all
done with the human voice. • And, besides,
pours out a melodious voice in such tried
favorites as “The Perfect Day.”
A Brisbane postscript:—
Mary Corrie, the pretty daughter of the Frank
Corries, lias accepted a diamond ring from Major
•Jack Pain, D. 5.0.. son of Mrs. Pain, of Cremorne.
Major Pain is on the Queensland staff.
At Roma Isabel and. May Laycock, daughters of
the haycocks of Mt. Beagle, cheered the district with
a double ceremony. Isabel’s choice was Claude
liinred, late of the sth L.H., of Tumut; May’s
was Ronald Leach, also a returned soldier, son of
11. X. Leach, sub-editor of the Daily Mail.
Last Friday, at St. Paul's Presbyterian Church,
Mollie Ferguson, daughter of the Fergusons of
Dumblane station, Barcnldine, was married to Capt.
Bob Cowlishaw, M.C., whose family lives at Brighton
(Eng.). Xessie and Elsie Ferguson, Margaret Ross
Munro and Nora Halford were bridesmaids. The
wedding breakfast was eaten at the National Hotel,
and the 'moon is being spent up south.
On Brisbane Cup Day the Ascot grandstand was
packed as tight as ever it had been. Threatening
weather made dark frocks the rule, and every second
woman had some touch of henma on her gown. A
number had it also on their heads. The Tom Robinson
dame wore navy tricotine embroidered in sand braid,
and made in the new cape coat mode; Mrs. Parsons
was in black satin and fox furs ; Mrs. Ted Theodore
was in black, with touches of white, and a blue
velvet hat with ostrich leathers; Mrs. Jack Fihellv
wore a tailored suit of navy gabardine, and Mrs.
J. \\. Irving was in mauve and grey velours cloth.
George Coates and 3iis wife (Dora Meeson) have
an exhibition of their pictures here. They can’t
complain of the number of people who are flocking
to see and admire, at any rate.
Constance Strover, the Central Queensland soprano,
made her first appearance in Brisbane at the Apollo
Club ' concert. Marie Lethbridge was the con-
tralto and Lilian Clancy organist. The little Cen-
tral Queenslander should find a career waiting for
her somewhere. Her voice is delightful, she knows
how to walk, and her frocking is artistic.
Mrs. Verbrugghen has delighted us with her folk-
songs. Arthur Benjamin, who wrote several of the
accompaniments for her (“Donald Couper,” a lilting
Heilan’ ditty, and a mournful Irish melody, “The
Lover’s Ghost”), played as wonderfully as ever.
Percy Brier was the accompanist.
“Chu Chin Chow” packs H. M. Theatre nightly. One
enthusiast arrived at the booking office at 6 a.m.,
provided with a camp-stool. He had only 10
minutes to wait before the next candidates for seats
arrived.
Chelsie Bell, of Laidley, a returned soldier, married
Ivy Needham-Walker at St. Andrew’s, South Bris-
bane, on Wednesday of last week. Bishop Sharpe
officiated. Holly Needham-Walker was bridesmaid.


MSB
; V
■■nHi
l|l : : ; :ll
I'kM'iMm <:■>>. y&..
y
m
... ; - .. ■;;■?
■
11
•■■:•■■ ;k
<• .V -
; : m;
'■
V*
1 MM
• *
•*\
4*4
>-:
Zm -
. *
M
Ifci mF\»iWf
■
Lmi im m 2
ifr?
s. ■
£'* imC; * 4* 1
v?- < <***
« -* << ... 2 .'...;
: Hi
V " 1
H
>C
S&gpgg
% > : . v
«r
• W*.
H
Igg |
1 - i
>
H
T f
1
%
W : m, W&
m m
mm
■
t: ■,:
mm
1
mm
m>A
-W'h
1 3 ::
mm
$
v ,
■ ,■ .
#
Pmnstft fsv* Th/y %
After a journey
two thousand years ago
TRAVEL stained caravans, halting
for the night, sought the same
source of refreshment as weary
travellers do to-day.
Palm and Olive Oils (to which Palm-
olive Soap owes its famous quality)
formed the great toilet luxury of that
remote period.
• These oils are among the finest cleans-
ers in the world. Modern science has
taken this discovery of the ancients
and perfected it in the form of mild
Palmolive Soap.
PALMOLIVE SOAP
sells everywhere at 1/3 per cak^
Write direct to the Sole Agent, Eldon
Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, if you
have difficulty in obtaining Palmolive
Soap.
NOTE: Erom the earliest recorded times Palm and Olive Oils have served a 3
cleansers and protectors to the people of oriental climes. Their wonderful qual-
ities have guarded for centuries the people of these countries against hot sun
and dry wind. -These same qualities are embodied in the modern Palmolive.
A


\m?m\
Ho/IERYI
! GOOD JUDGMENT
<£>«/"
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
ot womtm who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure si'.k, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
i SOLD BY LEADING
t DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
( Indents and Wholesale thru
Waiter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦’ 50 York Street,
Sydney
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN
\
'5-
do life vour i
SALARY
SATISFY .VOL . ,
or Would Vou like
to 1 get rig I) !
amongst Ihe men
who make ■ big
money by becom-
ing ; a commercial
artisi?
LEARN TO DRAW
- no) to coin ; ami
lean) easily and
plea-unit Iv by the
\V eS t o o Met hod.
The Harry .1. Wes
toil /RtV.tal School
of IMavv'jng. under
the personal direc
lion of Mr. We>
ton. Australia's
foremost commer-
cial ami poster
artist. Vi 11 develop
your latent artis-
tic .ability by a
series of simple
lessons.
Heetjtnr .a big
money-earn'er h y
taking up this
simple practical
course, every lesson
of \vhieh is a
pleasure. Mr.
AYesUiu’s book-
let. “ "There’s
Moray in the
Ren*’ mrljled free it you send address and en-
close three stamps to cover postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal vVchool of Drawing,
57 Union House, SYDNEY.
ARTESIAN WATER
LOCATED BY MANSFIELD’S PATENT
WATER and OIL FINDER
This instrument will
LOCATE THE PRESENCE
PURE WATER SUPPLY
And Prevent Futile Bores
itiHuiilfaUiuK.' .'Hid can be
operated by any intelligent
person
PRICES
Free on Rails. Melbourne :
i 200 feet, £6O
c ,,, , 1 500 „ £9O
Suitable for 77
any Depth v £145
Down to j 3500 „ £225
'4500 „ £3OO
The two larger instruments
will also locate Oil
If preferred, personal test of
site, without purchase of in-
strument, can be arranged
Thousands of Bores have
been successfully made on
sites located by these Finders
. iVI
For Further Particulars Arrangements for
Demonstration, or Inspection of Instruments
apply to
S. JOHN LITTLE
Consulting Mechanical & Refrigerating Engineer
BROKEN HILLCHB’RS, 31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
If anv illustration appearing in The
Bulletin fakes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote vou price for it.
*
u
<
V,
15hQ
WESTERN HERO"
TEXAS SADDLE
This attractive saddle is made in our own
workshop by an American-trained saddler,
and in style and workmanship cannot be
excelled by any imported saddle. It is
made on exceptionally strong tree, and
the leather used i< specially prepared for
this work. The basket stamping gives a
handsome finish to it. It has two oinchas
with leather saves under rings buckled on
offside and attached with latigos on near-
side. The skirls or bastos are lined with
felt and the stirrups are wood.
£lB
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to anyN.S.W.
Port or Station on the
N.S.W. Railway System.
OUR No. »« PLAIN TEXAS
SADDLE IS Cl2/7/6.
Write for description and catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers &. Polo Specialists,
395 George Street, Sydney.
0 II U If o
w
mm
m
4HSP*- 1
<r CT77
Ask your
Garage
THE, COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: T ltojal Court. Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: I Twin Street.
Perth: IT Kins Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
BO STOCK’S BLACK LIQUID
SUEDE DRESSING
keeps shoeware soft, does not lay down the nap,
and maintains their original perfect black.
Nigger Blown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, are now on Sale.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
Motor
Oar
Steel
Wherever there is strain
in motor-cars, engineers
use the strongest steel —
preferring that bearing
the brand of
“An Eagle on a Globe.”
We can supply immediately S.D. 21 Chrome
Vanadium Steel for Axles, in bars %in. to 2% in.
diameter inclusive.
S.D. 16 Nickel Steel for Gears (to case-harden)
in round bars Min- to i)%in. diameter inclusive.
S.D. 16 Nickel Steel Discs (to case-harden), all sizes
6 in. to 12% in. diameter by various thicknesses.
Prices and further particulars supplied on request to Desk "A.
The Eagle S Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street. Sydney.
161 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Cliff Street. Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Cl aries Atkins & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A 'o notice (except or a hostile character will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the. MSS. Mo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Raymond R.: Don’t know; but if Jews
don’t kneel to say their prayers, this paper can
only assume that that siorv-writer made his Hebrew
hero do it because his knees were less worii out titan
his l'eet. .. . H.T.F.: Thank you. If a person named
Grant is masquerading in Melbourne or elsewhere us
a sub-editor of this paper he's an impostor.. . A.W.K..
That wheat cocky who objected to the super tax lie-
cause he hadn't used ant for veals is an old friend. .
ll.tV.Ci.: Good; and don't fail to claim for evert
par. printed. . . .Titno: No sot of tarn could be made
of that. .. .\\ .M.J.: Very poor attempt.... lvemo: '
'loo little there Uethea: Rugged verse with litilt
point; .G.M. (Maoriland) : It bumps and wobbles
far too much.... Verb Sap: Stupid stuff in bad
verse. ...R.ILL.: lie was a bold, bad man; but
even his shocking conduct hardly calls for such an
outpouring of commonplace... .R.M.li.: Not up....
M.h.D.: li looks like a kind of crooked sonnet, but is
real It prose with a few rhymes where they don't
count.. .J.o.E. : Snake yarn doesn’t make g00d....
R.H.W.: Yarn doesn't convince: but it’s a fine testi-
monial to, somebody's whisky F.A.S.: Most of it
isn't, verse at all, and the little piece of it that is
verse is quite commonplace T.1.X.8.: An impos-
sible yarn, but not badly told Hawk: Too long
and wordy... .K..V.C.: The verse is better than the
matter... .C.K.T.: You pile up commonplaces and
seem to have hardly an idea of metro. ... Mary L. II.:
injunction to drink steadfastly and deep in bad
verse duly noted... .Oliver B.: The buekjumpihg
item has the proper thrill:—
'Dial j Is Bill taking her on? By holy snakes !
She's never been ridden by white or black-
lho dirtiest dog ever seen on dobbin bakes ;
Shifted everything that's put on her back :
Into the stockyard, on goes the tackling*.
Eagerly all eyes watching this brute:
book out ! She'll have you, as he draws the buck*
lings;
Then she squirms, squeals, didn't she root I
“Very nice, very nicely done,” says Bill.
“1 have something to say this time;
Vou can have it out with .vour will,
But, sure,* this time you’re mine.
"" <■ll .’ what you think of her now, boys V
Mile’s just about had enough, hasn’t she?
She limls that tackling’* no toys,
Now somebody’s going to get on, and it’ll be me’”
.. •. A.( .H.: “( hoice” is dull and foolish.... Kayo:
Ivot up; b :i the line ‘‘Like unto when” is remarkable]
. : Rubbish. .A.H.N.: Not for us. . 11.0. L
bar too long, and doesn’t strike us very hard....
Cap. I. I). : Roof verse without much thought or
feeling. ... star: The worst we have read for seme
hours... . E.F. W.A.: “The Sun-God’s Fadeless Dream”
is like its name, extravagant stuff that amounts to
nothing.. .Meg F.: It walks too heavily. . . .A.N.C.8.:
Misses. ... Harry P.: Vou, too. .. . W.G.R.: No yarn
there. .. .('.G.H.: Thin verse on a theme of no
general interest.... Magpie': Not quite wort h print.
..».W.D.J.: "hat's the good of* using a form of
prayer to get off a big brag?. .. .Steve lb: None of
them up. But you have an idea of writing. .. .
8.V.L.: Nicely written, but not in our line.. .Q.R.:
It doesn’t grip. . . .Italia : Not well enough done. . . .
Lillian L.: Not even for the bribe of a bob will
we make out a list of all fairly-wiTI-knowri Aus-
tralian writers and their pen-names. Vogel belongs
to Maoriland... .11. G. A.: The verses are by V. B.
Paterson.... L. MAY.: Both miss... .Gee Bung: Shock-
ing. ... Nellie : One superb stanza:-
For'months we were happy us children,
Little more was she,
This beautiful blonde goddess from the rules of
Eternity ;
God'diil.send this angel to this sinful, wicked wotld,
But she could not stand temptation,
In the deeming city’s whirl.
.. . .Knaka: Don't care for the “Fog.”. ... ~1.11. .(Q. I :
“Cathedral Sonnets” miss. ...loannides: Not enough
interest... .Ruby P.: Not for us; but there may be.
a market awaiting you elsewhere. .. .K.T.: Can't
imagine “Rain” fitting the picture. ... D.D.: With-
out the necessary feeling... .A.M.H.: Not up to prim
level... .J.R.H.: Look at the fifth line again....
R.A.S.: No use sending stamps for the return of
copy months after the event.. - • R.G.H.: Lord, save,
us from the calamity while the present picture-
makers are in charge!... . Mildred C.: No use....
A.lb (Medindie): Trite ideas' in poor verst.-...
Trion: Very slight.. .C.T.0.D.: “Wires” too obvious.
....Billion: According to the Oxford dictionary, a
British billion is a million millions; a French or
American billion is a thousand millions... .Crescent:
You’ll break your neck over your own verses some
day if you fill them with such cliffs and chasms....
R. : Quite a good idea to write two small jing-
ling lines and then complete the stanza with a long,
troJJoping, bumping, waddling paragraph. But it
is all about nothing... .Primus: No, nor even
seeundus... .Omnia': We can’t fathom the depths of
it. .. . A.A.C.: None of them quite do it.... Lang
Syne: Too thin... .M.K.M.: Very poor. .. .Philip U.:
Cvuilc... .II.C.II.: No use to us... .K.C.M.: Hope-
less.... J. Pat: Last year's ready-reckoner story be-
longs to grandpa’s day... .H.W.S.: “Bobby” is too
untidy. Interesting stuff lias been merely pitch-
forked together.... Hermes : “Joseph” is too super-
ficial ... .Industrialist: It got* over the ground, like a
road-roller, but makes no new points.... Beta : Now
what old cupboard did you get that out of . .A,M.H.:
An ugly thing which doesn’t quite read true; but
we should like to hear from you again... .M.L.: Too
wordy.... J.W.K.M..: Pars, used are paid. for... .
S. : All miss. ... K.T. Y. : Vour ideas trip over
themselves. . .Cal: But George Reid went aloft three
years ag0.... Flimflam: Anyhow, it gives us an idea
lor a Red Page article.
TO ARTISTIC (AID INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Monty: You’ve some way to go yet. . . .K.S.: Any-
thing submitted will be considered ; these not up. .. .
E.H.8.: The lady with the deformed arm is going-
hack to you W.S.; Admire your energy hut not.
your art... .G.C.: Pretty hopeless... .V.D.: Any
class as long as its high-class; this drawing is faulty.
... .G.H.: Weak joke and weaker sketch... AV.A.H.:
Misses Raygal: Out! J.S.: A scratchy night-
mare R.O’C.: The lady looks sozzled, and surely
you didn't mean that.
Paddy’s River, near Goulburn (N.S.W.j,
where certain polithrians were recently
stranded, was discovered by eariy-surve.vor
James Meehan on a £?t. Patrick’s Day—
hence “Paddy’s River.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Caiines-de-
Lu.re. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts an 1 Laundries.
Eor ali information regarding sailing
d i.ies. and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply.
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
lel - City 4246, 2, 4. 6 Spring Street.
4247.
4Bm Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands.
Honol lilu —Sa n Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
(jSreat Lakes —Great Pities.
NEXT SAILING, .H'XE 2!>,
SONOMA.
20.000 lons, 1 t Knots. Twin scruff,
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt ami Bridge 51 reels, SY DINKY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies. *c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1.000,00(1.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund. £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WI.I.UAM DAVIES • I n"
MACARTNEY : lion. Sir ROBERT PIIILI* K C M c ■
Hon. A. .1. THYN'NK, M.L.C.
Generai, Manager: J. M AC'KENZI K i.EES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Ofliee: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: Collins Street.
London Office: A Queen Victoria St.. R.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in xi’W
SOCTH WAIFS.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WOULD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 186::.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 707,198 TO 0
Reserve Fund 300.000 0 o
Interminable Inscribed-Deposit Slock 3.091.669 I 5
All new business since t8!)S specially protected.
Directors —Hon. O. \V. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love
Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. 0. Liiya, Esq.
General M in.user— M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney; E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OJLIICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London. .Melbourne, S.vduej and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200^000
Reserve Fund .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert it. Lisagut, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yakwood. F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman; Hun. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner CIEORQE and WYNYARI)
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund A; Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(INCORPORATED 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office ; 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600.000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 625.000
£1.850.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of . Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
the largest. NEWEST, fastest, and p.est equipped steamers trading
I SET WEEN At ST RA LI A AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers hooked to Glasgow. Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
MAKURA, 9th SEPTEMBER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to ail.' part of the United States. Canada, or to Europe.
'Hie Great Cities of the United Stutes can he seen on the journey across America, also the
(fraud Can.'on of Arizona. Yellowstone Park Niagara l ulls etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 28th JULY.
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST.
For ill’.ist rated inujiphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. -IT GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isies.
iriDs of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
.INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Innd
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
Directors
- £4,965.300
5,435.000
4,965,300
£13,355,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellur. K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.. President.
Thomas Dockland. Esq.
Charles Minnie. Esq.
Robert L. faith f all, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors': W. H. Palmer. Esq.: S. E. La id ley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —2o Threadneedle Street. E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji. Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collet;ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout tile World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up . . £2,500,000
lieserve 1-und .. £2,220.000
Reserve Capital . . £2,500,000
£7,220,000
Directors:
G. nJ. Cohi n, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses. M.E.C.
J. \V. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H, H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEOIiGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London liranch: 18 Itirchln Dane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England: The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Rarelavs Bank. Limited
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6 10 6
Covering- first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
i Shipping.
rua DiviijiJai.,
KOOK HAMPTON (Port; Alma), MAOKAY. BOW EX,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY ami CAIRNS.
(Transhipping- at Brisbane for Maryborough, Hunda-
berg anti Gladstone. and at Townsville for purports).
♦Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist ami 2nd Class Passengers.
lst and 3rd Class Passengers.
STranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerL^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“fjEVUKA,” <350*0 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents. Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Phiip & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
B EAU TJ F.U I.T WEF. 11 Rl V ER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.iu.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at'o .p.m.,
passenger flue in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m. ..
Through Fare, including:- . ■
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/;.
Seeond Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
cOast.
For further particulars applv > —
BOOKING OFFICE. 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 8 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHI UP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.'TIIURSDAY' ISLAND,
• ZAMBOANGA. MANILA. HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply— •
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.’'
Cable Address.
“Iroquois.'’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Cu. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co.. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates 'limited.
BlacUlieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOll:
British India Steam Navigation Go. Ltd. * (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Marlin k Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
\lso Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port. Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooldown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.


Am usenients.
Y D N
J.
EVS CHIEF THEAT K E S.
C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
firefly.
CRITERION.
SCANDAL.
PALACE.
WEDDING BELLS.
r i ( t u it E
t it i<: a i it
y MO N
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC' EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING'S ('ROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KUAN WILKIE SHAKSPKA K LAN
I* KOI) LOTIONS.
DUNEDIN SEASON:
JUNE lf> to SATURDAY, JULY 2.
Aiistrul'M:in Representative: HUGH D. W ILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A PIQUANT. UNUSUAL MUSICAL PLAY,
OH, LADY, LADY!
THE AIR it ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
K
INC.’S Til E AT'lt E. M UI.BO U It Vlt
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY and GRANT present MARIE TEMPEST
and GRAHAM BROWNE in ARNOLD BENNETT’S
/ play of Fancy,
THE GREAT ADVENTURE,
A Tender and Whimsical Romantic Play in Four Acts.
Prioes as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, .MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURIvE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridget.
CONWAY TEARLE in
ROAD OF AMBITION.
Also
EDITH ROBERTS in
WHITE YOUTH.
Prices as usual.
QLACIA It 111 M, M E L BOURNE.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION
AFTERNOONS
EVENINGS
2/6
2/3
M
ELBA
THEATRE.
.MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
DliinXMA THIiITIiE. -MI2HJOC ItNK.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICT USES.
Continuous Sessions.
Business Notice.
Oval Fireproof Ware in Electro Silver
Frame 00/-
Less 20 per cent, discount . . 12/-
48/-
CASSEROLES
Are Wonderful
in the hands of a lady housewife in producing
the daintiest dishes with a minimum of ett'ort
or care.
Hence their great popularity and the enor-
mous demand for them. We are showing Large
numbers of them in all sizes and shapes. Un-
breakable W are, in Electro-Silver second quality
plated frames. They will wear for many years.
Prices range from 40/- to 00/- net, according
to. size.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Pisures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSocidy
Tlie Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,336,402
£2,273,000
£44,000,000
£6,376,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
jsc
"The Little Nurse
for Little Ills."
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
For
Colds
RUB on plenty of
healing Menthola-
tum to-night on the
throat and inside the
nostrils. It penetrates
and brings instant relief.
And you’ll find Mentho-
latum is just as soothing
and healing for burns,
wounds and headache.
Do prove this for
vourself.
P 5
>— jThEAUNO CREAM\
Mentholatum
FASSETT & JOHNSON, LTD., SYDNEY.
Ooer 10 million pots sold last year.
N
THE SHALE PETROL OIL COMPANY LIMITED.
OTICE is hereby given that the undermentioned Scrip Certificates in the above Company have been
either lost or stolen:—
Scrip Certificate No. 162, Share Nos. 15851 to 15950, 100 shares.
506, ~ ~ 19433 to i 9 i 82, 50
” ” ” 27() .. 19483 to J 9592, 30
” 430,’ 21184 to 21283, 100
” 438 ~ ~ 3881 to 3980, 100
in the name of Horace E. Duncan of Adelaide. Scrip Certificate No. 543, Share Nos. 641 to 690 for 50
shares in the name of Hannah J. Duncan of Adelaide.
If the abovementioned certificates are not presented to the Company s office on or before the 25th
dav of June, 1921. it is the intention of the Board to issue duplicate certificates in lieu thereof, and n
the original certificates are subsequently presented same will be dishonored.
By Order of the Board, L. M. HANNAFORD, Secretary.
Mutual Life Chambers, 44 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
&
<23
that are reliable and accurate*
We carry the finest range in Australia
—
“.4 marvel at the price”
Bl. Steven's Little Scout Single-
shot Kifle, 22 calibre. lSln.. round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage —N.S.M., ~/3 i other States, 2/2.)
26 -
4i Simple and extra strong in construct ion.
BIO. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 100-i Model, fur 22
slmrt or long rim lire cartridges. 21lu. heavy rouno steel barrel,
ulain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over nil. oTAin.: bend front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b ......... a p,
1'ri‘itrht l aid. “
Bi>t. The Celebrated “Maitte" designed
for -- Short, long tir long litle curtrldgn, rim lire.
It on1 1 lm ttlkon uparl ottsil.v mid duiekly. by simply
misorewing the thhtltb-Herew located underneath the fore-
arm The ttWioh used is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceed!ngiv simpie. The barret is round. ISin. long, bored
ami rifled with the same e.tre as the military weapon, and guaranteed amirute.
Weight aliout 31b. Pitted with plain V-baek sight 00/“
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/0; other States, 2/S.)
ggyra;
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting
merlin of range and power ,
B25. Savag e Hi-Power Heoeatins Hairi-
nierless Rifle. 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 0 ,
shot, 20in. round tnpemf barrel, take down, weight 6Jlb„ muzzle veloci J’
2SOOft. seconds, may be Used up to 330 yards without changing
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets t<
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1200ft. pounds;
paid
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
1113, Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Mrwinl 10-shot 'JOln. round barrel, plain tug„ el -
>,0tle 1 1 ; li, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
aSSfWfe \ont"iircana.,,i; »e, S bt.
£6/17/6
- S ■
R 27 New Savage X.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully
’designed instrument of precision. It Ims full mihtau
stock, oil' finish, pistol grip, with hands and swivel foi
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed pnmanly foi tui o et
work. Weightabout 711 b. Freight paid -
£.7110/-
tkeaian
“A cheap and reliable weapon.”
B2. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle. -- calibre.
rifle
R.F.,
cart-
vnmid barrel. 20in.. chambered for
ridges case-lnirdened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
4 51-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerle s s
Rifle. Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel --
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s}lb
Freight paid,
;£9/10
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth : hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
B14. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or hall
magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Darrel
With Octagon Barrel
B16. Winchester Repeating Carbines.
25/20-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half
round barrel, weight about 5jlb
Freight paid, £8/15/-
. Freight paid, l\ O/"
1892 Model.
magazine, 20in.
. .. .Freight paid. • ' * * .
Illustrated Firearms and Sport Equipment List Post Free to any addres «
hlic/c Shamans M
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Men! Try a Rexona Shave
YOU’LL LIKE IT.
Mr. JOSEPH COYSE (from a photo by
Mr. Rudolph Buchner).
Mr. Joseph Coyne, the most
popular comedian Sydney
lias seen, for many a day, and
w ho is appearing with
marked success in “Nightie-
Night” at the Palace
Theatre, Sydney, is a strong
advocate of Rexona Shaving
Soap, and writes us as fol-
lows :
As a luxury, as a neces-
sity and as a unique
novelty I give the palm to
Rexona Shaving Soap.
The triangular stick is a
great improvement. The
Soap is perfect, and 1 can
assure you a Rexona
Shave is a pleasure to he
remembered. Rexona
Shaving Soap for mine all
the time.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) JOSEPH COYNE.
REXONA—The Triangular Stick.
.-•r.ssr'susrxtf'sK vs* ass* v*s
Ht ‘Bexo“n “ Shaving Soap contains the same soothing and healing powers which
~...,1,. Rexona the Rapid Healer famous throughout Australia, ho. men, il you
« teller skiS, remember Rexona is specially prepared for your needs It will
have a turner ’ HOothe vour skin and quickly heal any cut you may have the
misfortune to get. Make your next shave a “Rexona Shave.
You’ll like it. Sold only in triangular enamelled boxes,
PRICE 1/6.
SHAVING STICK
Used the
World Over
«
i
MOTOR
...CARS
If any Illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you pricq for it.
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
L
158-162 OXFORD 5! Wl. 172. REGENT SI W.l
2,QUEEN VICTORIA SI E.C.4.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
SSfV
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12per ons with Prince s P ate
Sooons and Forks, plain patterr s and
"Trustworthy Cutlery, Price, com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company s own
Sheffield Works. "Trustworthy
Cutlery is famed the world over tor
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
Prayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rlllS, then, shall he my prayer now
and hereafter,
Made to the yods who give men
tears and laughter.
Let me but have uutu the end of this
Moments of sudden joy and leaping bliss;
If there be depths where night is black and
deep,
Where grey regrets and stinging sorrows
creep.
Let there be heights where shines the wonder
sun,
Waiting beyond the gloom when night is
done.
Let me still keep a love in simple things:
The taste of bread, the sheen of brown birds’
wings,
A good white bed where there is rest and
ease,
The vuice of summer winds among the trees,
The challenge of a dimple and red lips,
And the strange magic of the sea-worn ships.
Let me not weary of the wide, round world,
Of foam upon a green wave whitely curled,
Of shadows fretted on the sun-kissed grass,
Of city streets when men and women pass
With all life written in their eyes to read—
Always, oh gods, let me give these things
heed !
I do not ask for wisdohi or for place,
Only the right to love the dear world's grace;
To keep my knowledge of the things that: are
And still to glimpse the message of a star:
To live, and living garner in tile mirth
Which .1 have found upon this good green
earth !
This, then, shall he my grayer now and here-
after,
Made to the gods whose greatest gift is
laughter.
VICTOIUA.
DALE COLLINS.
“F.O.B. Yokohama.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE Jap from Vladivostoek and lie <>i
I Tokio walked from the cherry blooms
and azaleas of Uyeno Park into the
quarter toward IJskiji, looking as much like
Europeans as they could. lie of r l okio
wore a small Beaufort coat and little
trousers, small varnished boots and a diminu-
tive silk hat en unite, with whiskers of Du
Maurier’s early manner, lie of Vladivos-
toclc, with the chameleonic habit of the Jap-
anese, had, from residence in Canada, be-
come American —on the scale of one millimetre
of America to the kilometre of Japan. His
hair was American, his voluminous sac coat
was American, and he was clean shaven a la
American.
They took themselves very seriously as they
walked through this city of little men, trying
to add a cubit to their stature by wearing
wooden sandals on stilts, and incidentally
keeping their bifurcated socks from the dirt
of the streets.
The wondrous color of their own people
had little appeal for them: the old-style
Jap selling rice and chilis and dried fish
and bamboo-shoots, in a color-scheme de-
noted by a green lizard and the feathers of
a Carpentaria finch; the girls in kimonos
of green with an obi of old gold and an
umbrella of sky-blue paper with a bunch
of cherries painted on the dome to give a
tang to the eye; blue-tiled, red-roofed houses
with blood-red eaves; short-legged, flat-
footed, thick-legged Madame Chrysanthemum,
kimono and front-worn obi all complete, and
black hair piled high and glossily; little
brown men building a fence and roofing it
with blue-black tiles so that it might not
get wet; and thousands of trotting women on
stilt-sandals, with children clinging to their
backs as the Australian bear holds to his
mother by toe and claw; horses drawing
archaic carts; fluttering pigeons; massed
flowers and paper houses that could keep no
man prisoner while he had a toothpick or a
finger-nail.
Kintaro, of Vladivostoek, and Takarad-
zuka, of Tokio, were not scenery merchants;
the coldest, most filthily sordid trade was
theirs. For them poetry was not, color a
thing unseen; women represented but the
ideographs for profit and deceit; women’s
uses were but to be coal-lumpers at Japanese
ports; to sell themselves for father or lover.
When Kintaro and Takaradzuka wished to
feel tremendously virtuous they had but to
quote such phrases as “Women are moulded
out of faults,” or “A son to worship at his
father’s tomb is honor: a woman is no-
thing.” So they dealt in many hundreds
of them.
He of Vladivostoek had arranged his
earlier business by letter, but had come to
Japan in person for this “shipment,” as he
styled it, owin'* to certain ridiculous objec-
tions to the traffic in Russia. To which he
of Tokio had replied that as heretofore he
could only accept responsibility up to the
time of shipping the cargo; and that he
was therefore glad that his honorable friend
-—now an exile in the cause of trade among
the ignorant white people of Siberia —had
designed to convoy in person his transport-
ees. Meantime, in pursuance of ordinary
business customs, he, Takaradzuka, must be
paid for the cargo on delivery f.o.b. at
Yokohama.
His honorable friend the exiled at \ li-
vestock replied that his very honoiabie
friend of Tokio was correct in saying tuaL
he would return on the same ship as tue
cargo, but not that he Would ship - it m
the ordinary way. It must be smuggle!,
which operation you not only tooled t
Customs Office but developed a nationa
virtue of thrift by saving the passage-monej.
Takaradzuka believed this a beautiful
thought, and expressed much admiration toi
his honorable friend, but stressed the tact
that he delivered his responsibility t.o.D.
Yokohama,” and was to be then paid the
cost; freight and insurance not being m Ins
department.
Kintaro assured him oil the point said
that the shm was the Star of Ponape, and
that he had secured the first-officer practi-
cally to agree to take the responsibility or
the smuggling; but as it was indispensably
necessary that the captain should have no
suspicion, hi' had asked the first-mate to
come to Tokio and conclude arrangements,
lie further assured his honorable friend ot
Tokio. who was full of admiration for his
friend’s cleverness, that the first-officer, one
James Benton, would arrive in Tokio by the
evening train.
In Yokohama that day Chief-officer Benton
had had some difficulty in getting leave.
Finally the captain, John McNair, had per-
mitted' the holiday, saying that he himselt
would stay aboard and write home for the
afternoon mail. For the captain’s girl li\e<i
not at his next port of call, but east and
south, in Oakland, by San Francisco Bay.
The Star of Ponape was a 4000-ton
steamer, half-tramp, half-relieving liner,
with the three characteristics which make
ships beloved of shipowners -cheaply
manned, a light coal-eater and wotth 1
knots. This run she was chartered tor
Y’ladivostock and thence to ports not .vet
fixed ; and she- had picked up half a cargo
in Yokohama. And as she was due out
in throe days and the Korea was leaving that
afternoon for Honolulu and Nan l-iam is(o.
Captain McNair wrote to his girl in Oak-
land telling her that prospects were improv-
ing, and that a year might see him back
with enough money to buy a cottage and
enough influence to get a Go.den Gate
pilotage. He told her he had made some
money that day; and so lie had -the repay-
ment' of a hundred dollars until now re-
garded its forever lost.
While Chief-officer Benton trained through
the country, yellow of mustard and green
in the rice-fields and about the ponds ot
lotus, the captain wrote all his hopes to the
girl at Oakland, and day-dreamed the old
wish that he might earn 40 pounds a month
instead of 22. For the Star of l’onupe was
a British ship : her crow, when it was white,
worked for £•”> a month, and for much less
when it was not; and her captain had the
responsibility of seventy or eighty thousand
pounds’ worth of ship and cargo—-and also
the care of a number of lives, which had
never been valued for Customs duty, and so
were negligible. For that service he received
£22 a month, and had at one time been
thankful that his employers had not made
him buy his own charts. Certain palliatives
came to his lot as they do to other men when
the conscience that began life wit.i tail
respect for itself becomes blunted in protec-
tion of its owner. Once he had indignantly
refused commission; now, so that it was
not too flagrant, he regarded it as a per-
quisite. It might be a present to a lady
in Manila, and 2. r > dollars for taking it; or
the running of a few prohibited exports, such
as hirds-of-paradise from New Guinea to
Manila —but nothing more harmful than
that. The shipowner sweated him for divi-
dends bv the thousands of dollars, and ho
ran a blockade for half a hundred. His con-
science fixed it with one of the reasons for
the decay of the American mercantile
marine—which is that a high-waged country
could not compete with the starvation wages
usual to the carriers of the sea.
Chief-officer Benton arrived at Tokio at
dusk, drove to the white man’s hotel at
Uskiji, dined, and later rickshawed to bis
engagement with Kintaro, just without the
Place of Heeds. Night was kind to these
slums, making the canals mysterious, giving
beauty to all these plain people clattering
in and out of paper houses on their wooden
boots. Paper lanterns feebly illuminated a
raffle of silks, plants, cottons, vegetables and
meat so red that it seemed to have suffered
scarlet-fever; cyclists ‘‘scorched” with their
kimono-tails flying and lighted lanterns at
their necks. Rickshaw-bells tinkled by the
hundred ; barbers’ shops flamed with red and
black lanterns tiff.' high, and the fiery por-
tents of electric signs flashed in hieroglyphs
and ideographs in an important street; and
then through a slum where old women
squatted in crockery-shops, and in the midst
of fish so old as to be phosphorescent.
And at last there flamed portents that did
not flash from darkness for advertisement;
and Benton’s rickshaw-man drew him under
an archway with streets of gilded, lacquered
by the acre—the Place of
Reeds. Benton stopped the rickshaw-man
and was joined by Kintaro, the highly honor-
able exile in Vladivostock.
Kintaro, talking earnestly, led him past
the cages of women with gilded lips and
blackened brows, painted and prinked and
dressed in gold and silk; past the ‘‘Willow
of Welcome” and the four cataracts of scar-
let light, and past yet more women painting
themselves behind banks of azaleas. Benton
regarded them all without interest, his busi-
ness being money. He listened to Kintaro
prattling of his high honorableness and his
tremendous gratitude to friends, and so they
passed the cages each with its perfect color-
scheme, crimson and brass, heliotrope and
black and gold, blue and red, wistaria and
amethyst—each worked to its last shade and
drapery.
“Twenty girl,” said Kintaro, “you take
the stowaway. For 20 girl I pay twent’-five
yen each girl. No danger, no trouble. We
bring your ship dark night—we give food,
water for stowaway. When come Vlad’stoek
all girl s-o ’way. No people know, l’ou
have the money.”
“I don’t like being mixed up in such a
thiDg,” said Benton, contradicting his words
by his presence.
(Continued on next page.)


Tired, Achy
All
Played Out?
"Every Picture
TeilsaStory "
p 1
/ *
rjc
■r
7J
w
m
4.
m
A
il
m
P2
4-'
I
Backache Kidney Pills. They have helped
Are you dull, tired, achy all over—bothered with a “bad
back” ? Do you lack energy for the day’s work? Evening
find you “all played out”? Don’t worry so much about
it! You can’t expect to feel up to par if your kidneys are
not acting right. The kidneys need help occasionally,
just as the bowels need help. A dull, nagging backache;
soreness, lameness and sharp, sudden pains are all
symptoms of neglected kidneys. You may have head-
aches and dizziness, too, and perhaps some annoying
kidney irregularity. Don’t wait for more serious
troubles. Get back your health and keep it! Use Doan’s
thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor!
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A WATERLOO RESIDENT.
Mr.?. W. Sullivan, 2 Brisbane Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:—“l suffered
terribly with my kidneys for some time. I had terrible pains in my back, and could
hardly move without suffering torture. Every time I stooped I would get a twinge
across my kidneys like the stab of a knife, and I could not help screaming out. I
was also subject to bad headaches, dizzy feelings, and had urinary trouble, the
secretions being thick and cloudy, and difficult to pass. Nothing I took seemed to
suit my case, and I suffered on in spite of treatment, but at last 1 got a good remedy
and that was Doan's Backache Kidney Pills. A friend advised me to take a
course of these pills, which I did, and I am pleased to say they cured me of every
distressing symptom mentioned above. I used ten bottles in all, and my cure is
perfect, for I have been as right as rain for the' last twelve months.”
Six years later Mrs. Sullivan says:—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
of backache and kidney trouble seven years ago. and I am still well, but I always
keep this remedy by me and take a dose or so now and then, just as a help to the
kidneys.”
A NORTH SYDNEY RESIDENT.
Mr. H. Holder, Euronga. Amhurst Street, North Sydney, says:—“Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful kidney medicine. I have proved this.
For a long time-1 suffered agony from backache and kidney trouble, and only those
who have been afflicted in this way have any idea what I went through. My limbs
swelled considerably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy, with a red sedi-
ment. and I had agonising pains in my back. When I stooped it was as much as
I could do to stand up straight again without assistance, my back wa.s so stiff
and lame. I was treated by a doctor, and tried all sorts of remedies, but nothing
gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally very worried about the serious .state
of my health, and when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under my
notice I decided to try them. It was a grand thing for me that I got this remedv.
for seven bottles cured me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and recommend them with every confidence to other
sufferers.”
Four years later Mr. Holder says: “I have still the same good opinion of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me of kidney disorder four years ago,
and I have had do return of the complaint since.”
S.NVOfI
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/0 per bottle, at
all Chemists and. Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
"Oh. Misterr Benton, it is not as in your
country. Here it is all so respect! Look
a-here, look at these places—quite respect.
It is no more that you stowaway coolie.”
“Well, how about the captain? He won't
stand for this if he knows.*”
"You leave to me. I go with him for
passenger. I ask him come ashore with
me get silk for smuggle. I give bim hundred
yen. While he ashore you stowaway girl.
Your captain take money for silk before.”
"No!”
"Yes: he take money for silk from Taka-
shimo in Kobe. I know.”
“Oh. well"——
“He take money for smuggle—you take
money for stowaway. What is any matter
with difference ?”
“Cash up before the—the stowaways come
aboard, then.”
The accents of Kintaro were those of a
wounded man——of a highly honorable gentle-
man stricken to his sensitive soul. He ex-
plained that his honorableness would not
permit him to any course but payment in
advance : he also knew that not a stowaway
would cross th(‘ gangway-plank until lie had
paid the price, but lie did not mention that
point. And so lie rook the yet wavering
chief-officer to a place where native brandy
offered itself to any man with a few sen in
his pocket, and Benton, wondering why in-
stinct should still speak against reason and
experience, rickshuwed back to Tokio sta-
tion and boarded the late train for Yoko-
hama.
“At any rate,” said Bent mi to himself,
with the excuse for all the mean things
that have been done on earth, “if I don’t do
it somebody else will.”
’Pile Star of Ponape was to leave the quay
at dawn, but Kintaro, the one “saloon” pas-
senger, came aboard early the night before
to see Captain McNair. Lie had a little
silk for a friend in Yladivostock : would the
captain oblige when sent to the ship by keep-
ing it in his cabin until after the Customs
had finished with the ship? Thanks. And if
the captain would accept a hundred yen?
Thanks -thank you very much. And if the
captain would be at that number in the
Benten Dorr at, say, !) o'clock to-night he
could introduce a. friend who wanted some
jewellery—some little diamond present—
taken also: and his friend would know that
he had to treat a friend well. He himself,
Kintaro- —no, he had never heard of Captain
McNair before: it was but that he was a
passenger of the Star of Ponape, and naturally
would in such matter throw himself on the
kindness of the captain. McNair hesitated
—it seemed but a little thing. He took the
money and promised to be in Benten Dori
at the time appointed.
“Anyhow, I’m not to blame alone,” he
said. “Low wages drove the American off
the sea and gave the British merchantmen
a crew of Punjabis and Klialassis and
brindled brothers generally. Sometimes the
British Heart of Oak is a Pong, but mostly
he's a Lascar. And I’m white, and I've got
to get out of it at my own expense.”
Meantime, certain gentlemen of prosperity
and rectitude, owners of the Star of Ponape
and a score of other Stars, dined in tire
certainty that all their ships were well em-
ployed and going about their lawful ocea-
sious.
Twenty little hobbled figures shuffled up
the gangway of the Star of Ponape; the
truck starlit night made ghosts of them
except for the clatter of their stilted wooden
boots, and the half-smothered laughter of
them —these slaves, sick of the monotony
and glad of even this adventure that might
be perilous.
Kintaro met the chief-officer at the door of
Benton’s cabin.
“S’h,” said Benton —“don’t let 'em clatter
on this iron deck. They might as well pound
a 40U-gallon tank with sledge-hammers.”
Kintaro spoke to the first jigoku, and she
passed the word to the others, at which they
stood each on one leg, safely as geese, and
dropped a wooden sandal, and then on the
other leg and dropped the second.
“Follow me,” said Chief-officer Benton.
“Down the companion—it’s ali iron, and the
deck below is all iron, too.”
Kintaro followed him, and the 20 women
padded softly forward, till by the dimly-
lighted forecastle Benton stopped and opened
an iron door on the starboard side.
“In there,” he said.
"The mattress is there—many of them,”
persuaded Kintaro, whispering to the women.
“All right—go in.”
A whispering of objection, a sterner tone to
the Ama, and these passive creatures entered,
giggling to hide their fears of the darkness
of this hold of steel. Forward shone a slant-
ing beam from the masthead light of another
ship—a beam that fell through the hawse-
hole, with its chain cable snaking through to
the peaked anchor. From the hawse-hole it
came down to a great heap of coiled chain—
it was the chain-locker of the ship.
Kintaro counted them in like sheep. Ben-
ton, wishing himself free of it all, closed the
iron door and locked it.
“Plenty mattress,” said Kintaro; “plenty
food, much water. Yes, I send them lnrs'
night.”
"All in,” snapped Benton. “Let’s get out
of this —the Old Man will be back.”
“Not yet. He safe one hour—two hour.
There is the money.”
Benton’s hand closed over it. He walked
away quickly, the Jap hurrying after him.
“They all right now?”
“Yes. right as rain. We go from wharf to
wharf. You can get 'em ashore the first
dark night at Vladivostoek.”
Benton, not Pking this smuggling of the
living for the first time, went away per-
turbed, and soothed his uneasiness first at
the bar of a big hotel on the Bund : then by
easy stages to a saloon in a little street off
Main, where he drank a Scotch whisky
forged in Janan.
Captain McNair went to Benten Dori and
was asked by an imnass’ve Jap clerk xybo
was dressed for Piccadilly, yet counted on
an abacus, to wait, as Mr. Kintaro was most
unexpectedly delayed. Tlie captain wandered
around Theatre-street and returned in ah
hour to find the unexpected delay still con-
tinuing. But Kintaro arrived on the heels
ox hixn, very cool from his rickshaw, very
apologetic—-xor that triend who wished a
little service in diamond-running had been
unexpectedly taken ill of the stomach, but,
would come to the ship to-morrow. And
McNair believed and strolled back at mid-
night to the ship—that ship which Kintaro
had left two hours before.
At daylight Captain McNair awoke early,
received his papers, took the last brown be-
lated fireman aboard and was readv for sea.
Kintaro came aboard .iust as the gangway
was ordered in: lie met McNair at the
foot of the bridge companion, and he nodded
but half-deferentially to the captain, who
barely acknowledged it. McNair felt some-
how that the Japanese considered him as
bought and paid for, and he resented it and
the hundred yen burned him. He determined
to hand back the money and refuse to run
the silk : but meantime the ship had to be
cast off. He ran up to the bridge where the
third-officer already waited, saw the chief-
officer was at his post on the fo’c’s’le-head
and the second-officer aft, and gave his orders.
"Slack your fore-spring! Haul your after-
spring! Mind your fenders there! Dead
slow astern.”
The telegraph rang. the forespring
slackened, the winch on the after-deck hauled
on the line bollarded on the seaward edge of
the dock ; and the Star of Ponape under her
winch and reversed engines slipped slowly to
tlie stream. The after-line slackened as the
ship backed completely from the dock; a
wharf-hand drooped the shoreward end to
the water and the winches raced, hauling in
the slack; the Star of Ponape swung her
head down-channel, and the telegraph rang
her to half-speed ahead.
Kintaro, easier now that the voyage was
begun, lounged by the rail under the bridge,
The chief-officer, glad to begin the beginning
of the end, left the third-mate to see, the
hawser laid in, and went aft, stopping in
the well-deck to speak to the bos’n.
On her port side was a muddy shoal, grey
in the ebb, and a current setting fast on it..
The Star of Ponape coasted it closely, but
with a proper margin of safety. She ran
along it for a mile or more, and the captain
had just given the order to port the helm
a little, when a burst of steam and the noise,
of. a dull explosion came through the engine-
room skylight, and the engines stopped.
Benton ran to the well-deck companion
and clattered up it, hut McNair’s whistle
stopped him. The captain knew the nois ;
so well that he acted on it instinctively ; the
ship, with steerage way off her, settled into
the current to the shoal, and McNair, seeing
her danger, shouted excitedly :
“Let go the starboard anchor!”
Benton shrieked “For Christ’s sake- !”
“What do you mean? Forward there —let
go!”
“Stop it—for God’s sake.” shrieked Ben-
ton, his eyes starting with the horror of the
thing.
Kintaro thought of himself and said no-
thing, his brownish-yellow face now a livid
green, his finger-nails trying to find a hold-
mg on the rail,
"liet go 1”
The patent anchor, hanging at the star
board bow like a broad-headed and inverted
A without ihe crossbar, was freed by on<
man, while Benton collapsed at the foot of
the companion. Another drove out the shackle
of the chain. Benton almost fainted as he
heard it. Then that great weight of steel
plunged into the channel and the coiled cable
n t . hain _ locker followed it to murder,
th lockcr therc was no escape from
that flyiug death that ture from its coil m
circles. Shrieks came from the locker:
b j ood ran with the chain from the hawse-
boje< y cry of horror came from the man
w jj o j iad driven out the pin of the shackle,
, in( j looking over the side, saw a little of the
death below him . The chain slackened at
fathoms and the Star of Pointpe swung
t(> her aQc .hor. The erv brought the captain
to the we ll-deck. Kintaro joined him,
knowing that plausible curiosity might ye.
save him from retribution : and Benton
followed, feeling he must know the worst, yi>t
a f a yjng at the limit of the little crowd,
Captain McNair opened the door of hell.
*
Kintaro went to his cabin relieved: of tin
mangled, breathing women in the chaiu-
locker there was none to tell of stowaways
f or Yladivostoek.
“Benton,” said McNair, “you knew. You
called ‘Stop it.’”
“i didn't—l said ‘Drop it.’ ”
*■[ sa i ( ] that, you.dog! You said ‘Stop
”
“j’n swear \ didn’t.”
McNair thought of the hundred yen he had
taken for running silk, and saw his unclean
bands.
“Who will believe either'/ Go and do the
first and last white man’s act you’ve ever
done or will. See who’s hurt in the engine-
room.”
The Star of Ponape settled her stern well
and comfortably in the mud of the shoal,
as Captain McNair signalled for the police-
boat,
* / ,
They broke him so that lie lost Ins ticket,
and for years lie was a. white-haired young
bos’n living for work and food in and out
of ridiculous little ports m the six hundred
islands of the Philippines. He wrote only
one more letter to his girl in Oakland, and
once when he heard that Benton was in
Manila as master of a China boat he'wouldn’t
go ashore. Yet McNair was not afraid ol
Benton, but of McNair. And if a Jap offers
him a hundred yen to run dutiable goods that
Jap is a very beaten little brown man indeed,
But Kintaro sports Ins little American
<-loth«>s. and still does business with Takarad-
z'lka> who wears a little Pans hat in Tokio.
, And the girl in Oakland hardened her
heart when she remembered that Captain
McNair had made some money two days be-
fore they dropped the starboard anchor to
hold the Star of Ponape off the muddy shoal,
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels Manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST,
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling’'
Small Pill-
Small
Dom-
Small
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mm‘"\
by taking
Carter’*
Littla Liver
Pill*, the
Great Liver
Invigorator.
Thousands
have attained
success by their
timely help.
Just try on*
after meals.
DECCA
.THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Underfour times
the size of this
picture.
The Decca ia only 11 { inches
square and weighs only 12
lbs., yet it has a mote powerful
tone than the largest Cabinet,
Instruments.
It is clear and natural in reproduction,
needs no case, and is ready to play
immediately opened.
Why not buy a Decca and have music
wherever you may be ?
3 Models :
Leather Cloth •• £9 JO 0
Fibre .. .. 11 10 0
Cowhide.. .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music Dealers
St AN LEY St. GREEK. LTD.,
Aultraliax Aunt*
s
“Tl
:n
Ci
" I
\
-
Contentment for Wearers of Shirley
Make Braces
There is a certain security in buying SHIRLEY MAKE
BRACES Security that you are buying a high quality
of braces. Security of the greatest amount of comfort.
Security that behind the products is a house of fifty
years" standing that guarantees every single pair with
their signature.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed
guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY MAKE’'
%Su£6&ndpr Cvnybantf
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1370
Cable Address: President
FOR THE I
General Good /
For over half a century Beecham’s Bills have been of un-
told value in protecting the health of the people. They I
have faithfully served the general good by relieving the I
everyday ailments of life, and in uncounted cases, pre- 1
venting serious illness. Beecham’s Pills have won public II
confidence by their great merit as a safe and dependable I
household remedy for the stomach, liver, kidneys and 1
bowels A remedy that acts promptly, safely and pleas- I
antly and produces no unpleasant or disagreeable effects. I
are a great help In relieving sick headache, biliousness, a dis-
tressed stomach, nervousness and constipation. They are com-
posed entirely of medicinal herbs, and contain no injurious or
habit-forming drug. Their action is mild, natural and sure. Use
them with confidence whenever you have a bilious attack, a dis-
ordered stomach, or need a tonic and corrective. These pills will not
fail you. Medicines come, and medicines go, but Beecham s Fills
have gone all over the earth, and have proved their value in a
countless number of ways by a most successful record of over
70 YEARS IN THE
Public Service
Sold In boxes, labelled 10fd., and 2s-9d.
(original English prices.)
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given 'result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
liance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
1
&1Z
IZii '•*«
ARROW
lr, k
MJ
“Wetproof” and Dependabil
“WETPROOF” is a co
word; it is a REM INGTON
word and stands for the special
patented process with which all
Remington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
tridge cases have long been made
of so-called waterproofed paper but
this exclusive “WETPROOF” pro-
cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
gun cartridges.
The wetproof compound of special oils
is applied, not only to the body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
loading, effectively scaling it against
moisture and giving to the contents that
protection which insures uniformity of
ipition. pattern, speed and penetration.
Sportsmen need not fear the effect of rain
or damp weather on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
SPeCU '-
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian
Box 686.
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
126
each
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
fiQ &
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of tbs
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
Z'',
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Tfie P£um
OKAXQ & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors,
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
*f^char r e ntee t 0 k< * P ** in ° rder f ° r two - vears ' free


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820 * Still going
%
nl
S 5
V
Hi
x&
:
X
§s
Ft
fi
9&m
7
M
&
V-*l
r
> y'
y.
j-i
JR
0
\
mm
y
r"-'7.‘fli^^7>
03083X4
o
\u
inM
0 Q
:-«,T'>?:'fT ;
U
Q
to
o
N
I,^o
.■■A.*
s
*A
o o
/
-4S»
0
Jl({£;
o
l>
ISi
o
o
9
js©
0
u
0
°/ Q
/
(Q
a
c?
$WGg*
: , '
a , *■* i
7JC*
r J
r -.•.-
SS
m
&S3SS
1
1
s»s
ssfcSnr
sss
P 3
rr>
■v»
&EfMm% Hncfr^
Wj
SS-s
?mmz
ft
»*
HONOLULU,
‘OHNNIK WALK
NO. 18
Naval Chorus: “Hawaii may be far from home, but it is close to
Johnnie Walker.”
Johnnie Walker: “Why do you put me in the centre ? *
r . ■ . : \ _ .... - ; k
Naval Chorus: “ Because you are the best in the Sandwich Islands.
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers. KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND
