

T,
m
m
5i
$
v\
r
i
m.
Speeding up Production.
In the short term of less than six years of its operative life the company has produced:-
780,000 tons of Pig Iron
826,000 „ „ Steel
340,000 „ ~ Rails
767,000 „ „ Coke
In the manufacture of which the following principal raw materials have been used:-
2,100,000 tons of Coal
1,650,000 „ ~ Ironstone
250,000 ~ ~ Limestone
Men at present employed 6,000
Weekly Wage-bill £37,000
The range of sections manufactured at the Steel Works embrace
Structural Steel of all descriptions. Rails and Fishplates.
Rounds, Flats and Squares. Angles, Beams, Tees.
Reinforcing material from £ in. to l£in.
Also
Pig Iron (various grades). Billets.
Ingots. Sulphate of Ammonia.
Blooms.
Zhe BROKEN HIIL PROPRIEURy
COMPANY LIMITED
MINE OWNERS - IRON AND STEEL MASTERS
Head Office: Eouifable Building, Collins SJ Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2146
Thursday, March 31, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney./ Tele. 6431.—Adtt.
“The Early Brush Catches the Germ.”
BRUSH EARLY
WITH
Euthymol
tooth/paste
KILLS DENTAL DECAY GERMS WITHIN 30 SECONDS.
ifr
p
on
,4
STANDS PRE-EMINENT AS A
POWER TRANSMITTER.
Efficiency in the machinery-room increases output, and you
can’t have efficiency unless your power transmission is per-
fect. MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE UELTING
is tanned by the special Jltmgrovite treatment that assures
long life and satisfactory wear. Manufacturers have proved
that it stands pre-eminent as a power transmitter. Man-
grovite Relting resists abrasion and gives maximum service
under the most trying circumstances.
We have the largest stocks of leather belting in Australasia
and immediate delivery can be had in any size up to 12
inches wide.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing: Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Cibbs, Bright &Co. Ltd.. Fremantle.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd.. Adelaide.
Victoria & Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Melbourne.
n
Get a packet of the new
“JUICV FRUIT*’ Flavour— it’s
the finest thirst-quencher and
appetite-producer you can find.
NOW THREE
DELICIOUS FLAUOURS
6
bars in packet for
economical, long»lastmg-
3a-
after every meal
Made in
A
m
?:
•9
ft
kj
&
tm
v:
&
K
£2
K
m
r//x
4^
r» -
!/
wn\
m
y
Ml
nm
* *
<*•»
3
The Red Page
The Late Victorians
I caught myself wondering a day or two agq
why it is that the names of Tennyson and
Browning are little heard of now. It seemed
to me that in my younger days no speech, no
sermon, no essay was quite complete with-
out either a reference to or quotation from
one of them. But it is long since I have
heard their names even in conversations with
men who are professed lovers of literature.
The question intrigued me till I felt myself
compelled to take Tennyson down from the
shelf. There was dust upon him—so I too
have joined in the neglect, it seems. I com-
menced to read “The Princess,” then several
of the Idylls, bits of "In Memoriam”—and
here I remember admitting to myself that I
huff never read the whole of it. Then fol-
lowed a few of the shorter pieces and lastly
“The Revenge.” There I stopped, for it, was
bedtime. But I felt that I had made the
first advances towards renewing my acquaint-
ance with Tennyson. I must confess to a
feeling of dissatisfaction. Most of what 1
had read seemed tiresomely respectable. King
Arthur's Knights, though constantly em-
ployed in doughty deeds, were pale ip blood
and over-fine in bearing. Even the sinners
among them sinned because Tennyson made
them sin, rather than through any zc?t or
•Just of their own. As I read I felt myself sur-
rounded' by the peculiar atmosphere which
one breathes in a carefully dimmed church. I
'could almost hear the unctuous tones of that
type of preacher who is particular to impress
the ladies who decorate the altar that his
complexion goes well with geraniums and
whose vestments are the absolute in church
millinery. So part of my question; was
answered. I felt myself, as a civilised man
living in the year 1021, to be out of sym-
pathy with the artificial conventionality of
Tennyson.
My next moments of leisure were spent in
reading Browning. For him the first even-
ing was too short. I read “Rabbi, ben
Ezra.” the “Death in the Desert.” “Lurid,”
parts of “James Lee’s Wife. “The Worst of
It,” "A Pearl —a Girl,” “The Grammarian’s
Funeral” and “Pippa Passes.” At the
end I confessed to myself that I had missed
something in forgetting to read Browning. I
loved the bluff reality of the man. His
people, whether they lived 500 years ago or
were his contemporaries, seemed to me to be
real people—the kind of folk I meet every
day. Through the printed lines I thought I
could sense the eager, passionate spirit of
the writer. His gospel may be trite, his
theories conventional, but at any rate he
believes them and he bends all the energy of
his soul to make me believe them too. I
liked him and I promised myself to read
“Saul” and “Balaustian’s Adventure,” two
boyhood favorites, at the very first oppor-
tunity. But this has not answered my
question with respect to Browning. For me
it has made the problem harder. In my
newly-awakened enthusiasm I cannot under-
stand the modern neglect of Browning. It
cannot be that we moderns are wholly con-
tent with the triolet and the rondeau and
would-be realism perpetrated under the name
of vers libre; Besides, it is only people
who boast of their love of poetry who read
these, while Browning—much of him, at any
rate —is the poet of the plain man. Nor
has the world gone beyond Browning. That
would be difficult, for Browning is the poet
of our common humanity—the humanity
which makes man man irrespective of the
superficial differentiations of changing
fashions and jargons.
So my problem remains unsolved so far as
Browning is concerned. But I should like
m.v friends to read him again and tell me
why I can’t answer the question.
J. W. C.
A Dream of Fair Women
Forty or fifty years ago there was
discovered in a cave at Cro-Magnon,
in Southern France-, the skeleton of a
magnificent old man. He had stood
more than 6ft. high; his chest had been
broad and deep; he had had the long
limbs of a hunter; and his head would
have seemed noble in any company. With
him lay the skeletons of a woman —her fore-
head smashed in—a child and two lads.
These people had slept •undisturbed in their
cave for possibly 25,000 years ; and no doubt
the woman and her sons had been sent to
keep their ancient company when his friends
perceived that he had slain his last mam-
moth. Since then many similar skeletons
have been discovered in France, especially
on the Riviera, and it is evident that that
favored land was at that time inhabited by a
race of gigantic size and splendid intellectual
capacity, which appears to have surpassed
apy race recorded in history. The same race
further north, away from the warm shelter of
the Mediterranean lands, was considerably
smaller, just as the British race in Europe
is smaller than in Australia. Before the
war I had to examine the papers of a large
insurance office which insured people both
here and in England, and I found that the
natives of Australia averaged more than an
inch larger every way than those of the Old
Country, and it was therefore no surprise to
me personally when our army was looked
upon in England as an army of giants. The
great race Of Cro-Magnon averaged more than
6ft. high, and Professor Fairfield Osborne
(Men of the Old Rtone Age, Scribner) con-
siders that from it came the makers of the
wonderful little etchings which I described on
the Red Page a few weeks ago—-men who
drew the animals about them with a vivid
art which has never been even approached by
any other savage people.
But their ideals of human beings were very
different: they overlooked their own great,
beautiful race, and confined themselves to
statuettes of short women, so fat, so shaped
like armchairs as to be grotesque. The
fa,c-es are unrecognisable, purposely slurred
over by the artist; they hang their heads,
and one perceives with a shudder that their
hair appears, if not covered by a cap, to be
frizzy. Indeed, the cap itself might be in-
terpreted as a sort of friz. But,
though the faces are slurred, yet the
bodily charms of the antique beldames
are depicted with a frightful candor, and
most of them are obviously pregnant. W hat
possible object could these splendid men have
had in carving these atrocious females:
Could these statuettes have been intended to,
represent the bestial Neanderthal savages who
preceded the Cro-MagnonsV Homo Acander-
ihalcnsis was a stupid, hang-dog, half-gorilla
creature, who could not hold his own : he
disappeared. He was not even one of our
remote ancestors, but a sort of by-blow of
Nature. Probably it was the Cro-Magnons
who delivered the last thrust at him. The
Taigai man in Queensland was of somewhat
similar race. llis skull is the greatest
treasure of the museum pf the Sydney medi-
cal school, where you can see it if you like
to ask.
Or could the statuettes have been meant as
a primitive version of the modern observation
that "Woman is the very Devil”’/ When
the cave-nmn found himself under some mys-
terious spell whereby he could not keep away
from the lady in the next cave, -did he re-
venge himself on his charmer by libelling her,
as our modern poet sings wrathfully of "A rag
and a bone and a. hank of hair”? It is more
likely that, exercising his manly privilege, he
smote the lady over the head, and dragged her
to his lair, there to cook horse for him
rather than for the miscreant next door. Pro-
fessor Osborne thinks the statuettes were
intended as objects for. worship; but what
right have we to assume that the cave-man
worshipped anything? Witchcraft probably
came long before worship ; and the one defect
of Osborne’s Book is that he is too willing
to believe that the “spirit of man” in a
modern sense early showed its beginnings.
Why should these beautiful great men wor-
ship objects so repulsive? There is what
seems to me a better explanation. It
has long been suspected that a much inferior
type of man was living in Europe at the time
of the Cro-Magnon race, and a few years ago
two curious skeletons, of a lad and of a
woman, were unearthed deeply buried in a
cave near Mentone. These skeletons strongly
resemble the Hottentot type; but it is fair
to admit that no other similiar individuals
have been found. Curiously enough some of
the women of the statuettes are afflicted with
the Hottentot charm of stcatopygy, which one
may modestly describe as undue prominence
of the female posterior curves. Not all
have this beauty; some are merely grossly
fat; but stcatopygy among them is so com-
mon that one may be certain that?the artists
had plenty of reasons for associating it with
many women. The two races, the noble and
the wretched, must have been bitter enemies ;
and I cannot help thinking that these dread-
ful women; steatop.vgous, repulsive, feature-
less, with frizzed hair, represent the ideas of
a Cro-Magnon concerning his enemies. And
to such a. man what could have been more re-
pulsive than his enemy’s woman about to
people the earth with more of her verminous
brood? Was she not a subject demanding
the intervention of all his magical powers?
Another theory is that the artists were
not Cro-Magnons at all, but pseudo-Hotten-
tot negroids. This theory is unpopular.
Possibly we believe what we wish to believe,
and shrink from the idea that the mean race
was more intellectual than the greater. But,
all the same, were these apocalyptic women
really ideals of female beauty to the artists;
If so. why were they all pregnant? Did
the poor little people welcome the advent of
population to their downtrodden race? I
do not know ; I rather shrink from the train
of thought it calls up. It is curious that
stcatopygy is not unknown to this day in
Southern Europe, and some of the statuettes
might have been carved from middle-aged
Frenchwomen. After all, we are not respon-
sible for our ancestors.
Nature was experimenting with the human
brain. She had evolved homo N cander ih ad-
amis, with his. large, shapeless, inefficient
brain, which even the struggle with the
sabre-toothed tiger could not improve ;, then
she produced the Cro-Magnonls. brilliant
physically and apparently mentally, huge
both in brain and in body; then'both struc-
tures became gradually smaller and more
useful for a work-a-day world, and, homo
sapiens —the Wise Man, the Man who Ex-,
periments—learnt to till the earth and to
tame rather than eat the horse, and civilisa-
tion was on the wing,
C. M. L.
Fiction for Boys
I have just: finished reading a boys’ novel-
ette—the familiar, paper-covered yarn turned
out by the hundred for the consumption of
office-boys and others of the same age.
Honestly, I got interested, not just because
I had an end in view in reading it,- but because
the yarn gripped me. I’m not going to say
I felt like hanging on to it as I would have
done when a lad. I could have thrown it
down any time and forgotten all about it.
Still it was a decent yarn, containing no more
revolver-shots and knife-play than any aver-
age American western novel for adult? —less,
really. The character-drawing was broad.
A bad man was an out-and-outer, while the
opposite characters were almost angelic. Still
a boy has no time for fine character studies-.
He likes to be able to spot his characters in
the first sentence they utter. Most of the
incidents were probable. A couple were far-
fetched ; but they wouldn’t seem so to a boy.
A boy between 13 and 15. being nearer to
childhood, when fairies are real folk, is
more imaginative than a grown-up person;
and what seems impossible to an adult is
quite feasible to the immature mind. I
came across a boy at school reading a Dead-
wood Dick. I asked him if he liked it. “It’s
bonzer, sir,” was his reply. The colored
cover-picture depicted the heroine shooting in
two a rope by which the villain was trying to
cross hand-over-hand a deep chasm. ' I
laughed at it. and said it couldn’t be done
at the distance. At once half-a-dozen bovs
who had evidently read tlie tale assured me
that it could be done easily.
The incidents were varying and swift. So
is a boy’s mind. His imagination leaps moun-
(Continued on page 25.)


Cdfiomiofd&asfoje
Anthony Horderns’ Values Excite
Your Interest in Newest Fashions
.......
Ai
LL
msagyj *&-mUu/4q&
i
D
7°3J
V
k
/
p
n
i
4 2
2
r/
b .l
j
D 520
M
1
v
I
D 72]
The charm of this season’s smart and authoritative
styles, as indicated by the representative examples
portrayed here, may be attributed to their effective
simplicity. The application of slight embellishments
used with admirable taste serve to
emphasise this* Anthony Horderns’ excep-
tional values intensify
your interest in fashion’s
fairest creations,
and make posses-
sion of them both
easy and pleasant.
D7O3.—A Very Smart Navy Serge Coat
Frock. The front is cut as a straight panel,
the bodice portion of which is flanked with
rows of buttons. The sides of the skirt con-
sist of three tiers of self-material, finely
accordeon-pleated and edged with narrow
braid. A smart design of stitching finished
the square neck.
PRICE £lO/17/6
The Hat worn with this Frock is a Genuine
French Velour Sailor, in Henna Shade.
PRICE 75/-
Ds2o.— Fine Navy Serge is used in this
Costume, and black military braid edged
the belt, the side empiecements and the roll
collar of the coat. The skirt is plain and
very smartly cut.
PRICE £l3/13/-
The Hat worn with this Costume is carried
out in Mole-Brown Scabia Straw and Satin,
with aeroplane bow of faille ribbon.
PRICE 63/-
D2B.—Tailored Costume in Grey Gabardine
of rich quality. Rows of stitchery trim the
side panels, and are flanked with buttons,
while the skirt is trimmed to match.
PRICE £ll/17/6
Sparrow-colored Duvetyn fashions exclusive
hat and bag set shown with this costume,
trimmed hand-made cockardes of golden-
brown wool and silk foliage of same shade.
PRICE £lO set
D72l.— A Coat Frock in Cream Gabardine
fashioned with jumper effect so far as the
bodice is concerned, and having a skirt
modelled on close, trim lines. A rich
design in fancy silk sitching ornaments
bodice front, belt and cuffs.
PRICE £lO/17/6
Hat worn with this Frock has crown of
Negre Lisere and brim of goffered corded
ribbon in Paon Blue.
PRICE 63/-
MAIL YOUR ORDER.
Distance should not prevent you from
shopping at Anthony Horderns’. A highly
efficient Mail Order Service ensures com-
plete satisfaction with every order en-
trusted to us.
WRITE FOR FASHION BOOK.
Send for our Fashion Book. It will be
posted free, and the perusal and contem-
plation of the season’s smartest style
revelations will interest and delight you.
SHOPPING CONDITIONS.
We pay carriage on Fashion Goods and
Family Drapery to any part of N.S.W., and
to the nearest port on Interstate and
Island Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


1
A
n
rxn
$
m
M
hJtj—U
Yf
v kV <
v.^F^vrSv^-iij
m
r
m
m
if ft
■PL
Er
r~
\\\
m
THE NEW LIGHT-SIX is Here!
A shipment of these famous Studebaker Cars has arrived aboard s.s. Kathlamba.
THE new Studebaker LIGHT-SIX is here—on exhibition
now in our salesrooms! And what a beauty it is! You
really must see it to appreciate its rare grace of line and
mechanical excellence. The big weather-proof crates that brought
these new cars safely across the water are being torn apart and
the cars are already on display, so that your early visit will find
us thoroughly prepared to assist your inspection in every way.
Gone are the days when even in a light-weight car one must sit
cramped for knee room. This new Studebaker has changed all
that. It is unusually roomy for a car of short wheelbase, and, in
fact, carries the same appearance of luxurious roominess as you
would expect to find only in cars of at least fifty per cent, higher
price. Yet this is only one of the many surprising features of the
greatest light-weight car value in the world.
The new Studebaker LIGHT-SIX Is manufactured complete in
the world’s newest and most modern automobile plant—a plant
constructed especially for this car at a cost of 20,000,000 dollars.
It follows that the LIGHT-SIX must be a car of exceptional
quality, performance and reliability. And, because it is almost
entirely a manufactured car, parts-makers’ profits are virtually
eliminated.
Built out of the experience of sixty-eight years of earnest endeavor,
the new Studebaker LIGHT-SIX truly represents the last word in
motor-car construction. It sets a new standard of achievement
in automobile engineering for refined and improved design,
scientific distribution and exact balance of car weight (2400
pounds evenly distributed over the entire chassis), quick
acceleration and power, smoothness and quietness of performance,
ease of operation and control, economy of petrol, tyres and
maintenance.
SEVEN FEATURES OF LIGHT-SIX SUPERIORITY.
arils?*®
TO
24-Horsepower Engine.
8J x 4-1 inch detachable-
head engine (79mm. x
114 mm.) ; cylinders and
crank-case cast integral;
generator, water pump,
oil pump, magneto and
relay mounted in one
accessible and demountable
unit; horizontal feed car-
buretter with warm air
connection. To insure
smooth, quiet operation
and perfect balance of
reciprocating parts, crank-
shaft and connecting rods
are machined all over.
n
Internal Hot Spot.
The Internal Hot Spot is
the result of combining
the intake manifold with
the motor head so that in-
let passages are directly
over each combustion
chamber at point where
head is not cooled by
water-jacket, and is very
hot. Manifold passages
are inclined slightly down-
ward and so arranged that
unvaporised petrol is car-
ried directly to heat areas
of intake walls, where com-
plete volatilisation occurs.
TV
- Ho
Inclined Valves.
Valves are inclined at a
20-degree angle, making
possible a freer passage of
gases to and from the
cylinder, reducing heat
losses and giving quicker
and better combustion and
entirely eliminating poc-
kets which store up dead
gases. By multiplying
action of the bell cranks,
a 5/16-inch lift of the
valyes is obtained from
3/16-inch cams, thus insur-
ing quiet valve action.
m
Semi-Elliptic Springs.
Both front and rear
•springs are semi-elliptic,
underslung in the rear.
Front springs are 38 x 2
inches with 7 leaves; rear
are 52 x 2 inches, with 7
leaves. Drive is of the
usual Hotchkiss type
through the rear springs
without troublesome torque
arms or radius rods. All
spring eyes are bronze
bushed; rear springs are
provided with flanged
bushings, which are
machined to exact width
to eliminate side play and
reduce rattle and wear.
M
Cord Tyres.
The NEW EIGHT-SIX is
equipped with 32 x 4-inch
Cord Tyres both front and
rear, which means not
only welcome freedom
from tyre trouble, but,
even more important, bet-
ter roadability and higher
tyre mileage. Incidentally,
Studebaker is the largest
user of Cord Tyres in the
world.
L
Upholstery.
The upholstery of the
NEW LIGHT-SIX is char-
acteristically Studebaker
in every respect. Seats are
wide and roomy and cov-
ered with French-plaited
genuine leather, built up
over long spiral springs,
heavily padded. Note the
wide-opening door, robe-
rail, and ample leg-room.
nm
Accessories.
Standard equipment in-
cludes rain-vision, slant-
ing windshield; built-in
thief-proof transmission
lock: electric horn, electri-
cally lighted mahogany-
finished instrument board,
on which are mounted
carburetter choke, light
and ignition switch with
lock, oil indicator, speed-
ometer driven from propel-
ler shaft ammeter and
fuse box.
See this wonderful new Siudeh ulcer—ride in it —and let us prove to you by any test you may suggest that
this is, indeed, the World's Greatest Light-weight Automobile.
CAYCE-PADL MOTORS LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
BAGOT, SHAKES & LEWIS LTD., Adelaide.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart.
CORRICK, Launceston.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Creek Street, Brisbane.
ARMSTRONG MOTOR & CYCLE AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
F. N. ADAMS, LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Since the pioneer days of vehicle building, 68 years ago, the name Studebalcer has stood in every country on
the globe for the highest quality, dependability and guaranteed satisfaction. In the entire industry, there
is no other name more highly regarded than that of Studebaker.


PINKETTES
FOR SiCK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-headache. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. JPinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the. ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. I hey
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
3
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
See it working at
The Roya! Easter Show,
Stall 30, Industrial Hall.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
n
m
nm
Protects
both
Property
and Pocket.
It strains tighter, stays
rigid, is of uniform
strength, has full length
in every coil and COSTS
FAR LESS than imported
wire.
Fence with
“Wciratah. ”
Get Free Booklet.
wxww^
n
m
n
mn
m
the >
ro mt ftNtt
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
11& West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
Stutes, 3d.
r
I
v-W
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young,' hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure—you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure—four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure—no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
nm
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
t> y CHBISTOPHE K
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
£.GISTe-
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ihe
Ruptured Persons
—Wear a Truss.
✓
When Rupture first becomes evident there is no
doubting the wisdom of immediately wearing a Truss.
A good Truss offers a necessary support to the rup-
tured part, and prevents the trouble from assuming
a more serious character.
Among all safeguards DENVER’S ELASTIC TRUSS
stands out with a great reputation. It offers to
ruptured persons all the necessary-features of a Good
Truss, with the addition of being extremely comfort-
able. The soft elastic bands do not pinch or irri-
tate the body. The wearer has the utmost freedom
of action, and all the time knowing that his Truss
is functioning properly. Get this Special Elastic
Truss of Denyer’s, and have the great satisfaction it
yields.
SINGLE, 35/-; DOUBLE, 47/6
Send for a copy of our Free Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
TRUSS SPECIALISTS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELCAR-SIX.
A BEAUTIFUL CAR AT A MODERATE PRICE.
It is a strictly higli-class production, embodying such famous components as Continental
Engine, Borg & Beck Clutch, Muncie Gear Box and Salisbury Axles. Inspection will at once
indicate to you the wonderful value we are offering.
THE NEW BRISCOE.
This is the mghtweight Economy Car, and its design and construction will be a revelation to
you—we have fitted the chasses with most attractive bodies.
Vou will like the New Briscoe. Price £595.
BROWN & HELLICAR, LTD.,
74 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
ELCAR-SIX, BRISCOE, WAVERLEY, A.C., METZ.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
* *
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Od. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsod since 1596. FOR Write for Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
m
• /IN
Don’t content
yourself with
wishing for a
good pipe—
ensure satisfac-
tion, smoke a
From the first pipeful to the last
you are assured of a good smoke-
time when your pipe is a GBD.
Made by experts from French
Briarwood, thoroughly matured
—the GBD takes pride of place
with smokers all the world over.'
n
Many popular shapes.
the perfect pipe
On sale everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wheel-Song.
I am the feckless woman’s child —-
Whir, wheel, whir!
All day I chase the blue wind wild
For songs for her.
I bring them home when shadows creep—
Run, white thread !
And sing them till she falls asleep
Like one long dead.
She may not know the little words—
Turn, wheel, turn !
She thinks they are a flock of birds
From ben and burn.
She sits amid her streaming hair—
Spin, wmol. spin !
Outside the naked winds are bare
Like witches thin.
The village children cry to me —
Fly. wheel, fly!
“Mad Nan’s bairn has come to see
Grey geese go by.’’
And so I sit alone, alone —
Stay, wheel, stay!
My heart is heavy as a stone
Where moss grows grey.
But when the world sleeps with no stir
And no black fears,
I know that God drops over her
His small, sweet tears.
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Blended.
She fell to sleep in the sultry air,
The sweetest rose in the garden fair,
And as she slumbered she dreamt a dream
Of things that happen and do not seem ;
She thought she woke as a lovely girl
With face that paled to a tinted pearl,
That someone tenderly touched her lips
And pressed so softly her finger-tips ;
That someone sang of the things above,
Of light and laughter and lilt and love;
That life was thrilling and soft and warm
With tenderest pulses throbbed her form.
The sweetest rose in the garden fair,
She fell to sleep in the sultry air.
Sweet Phyllis slept in the garden fair.
The rose was near in the scented air;
And Phyllis dreamt, as a maiden may,
She bloomed a rose in the sweetest way ;
That bees made love in the quaintest wise,
And gaily whispered the butterflies —
In a kind of beautiful winged prose
They told a secret that no one knows.
And Phyllis blushed in the flowery close,
A girl no more —she was all a rose,
'Pill the lovers passed with a cloud o’erhead
And the loveliest songs in the world were
fled!
And so they dreamt till the dream passed by.
And both woke up to the gleaming sky.
The formal path and the gay parterre,
And queried, “What have I been and where?
So poor just now and of late so rich —
A girl? A rose was 1? Which was which?
If Ileav’n is kind to a ’wildered brain
Let waking pass and the dream remain!”
But wo who live and have eyes to see
We may not marvel that such things be.
For the roadside hedge and the garden close
They show us daily how beauty grows,
How Nature twines in a loveliness
The bursting bud and the shining tress,
And blends in a magical grace that flows
The rose-red girl and the maiden rose.
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
The Mourner.
In a ruined room a ruin
That once was strong and brave,
A dead man, worn and pallid,
Lies coffined for the grave.
From the outside world there rises
Life’s ceaseless pulse and roar;
One ray of sunshine slanting
Lights up the footworn floor.
From the shabby walls and ceiling
Hang webs, made thick by dust,
And tawdry, tattered paper
That shakes at every gust.
From a pavement ’neath the window
Of that death-room on high,
Feet echo, fevered footfalls
Of men that hurry by.
On a shelf a candle gutters,
Its light made dim by day;
With every breeze it trembles
With thin, white flame asway.
Through the door a woman enters:
Her eyes still bear the trace
Of tears new-shed, and clutching
Her heart, looks on his face.
Of a piece with all around her.
Poor, tawdry, there she stands,
Hard-used by life, hard-bitten,
Lined brows and work-worn hands.
In the silence o’er him bending
Her tears fall thick and hot;
His ears, his eyes fast shuttered.
He hears, he sees her not.
On the floor the sunray narrows.
Shot through with motes and flies,
And on the shelf the candle
Burns down, and sinks, and dies.
By the dead man. softly sleeping.
Wild tears, waste tears are shed.
* * * *
Who die should mourn the living,
And not who live the dead.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


c
\\ W 'll', 1 ij/// /, B
XaV, tv 1 ; i IV//// 1
GREAT AUSTRALIAN
featuring? L! TT LE
PRODUCTION
NORMEY '
. . a * n _x >■ / l
IT*
" A :» / • «'
We pay "t&>S
SIAU.S f A . d n +i 1
PKE.9S r H
CIRCLED •• \
.111
t*^x
A
*o*
umms
a v
no
/ < '/
Jz/A z/
or^
W-L p W|
TT 7 771!'- -
111 pp hi--;f » i;. -.trni ,?.;■■■, wfrWj
Kittle
i N
,/J ,
the great
ll AUSTRALIAN
■HI -PRODUCTION
%M\! U/
i f !.// //
*»aa
FEATURING THE NORMEY
ICTURES are for young and old, and so are Normeys,
the finest sweet produced in Australia from the dried
fruits of the Sunraysed Settlement. Parents are urged to
take home a packet, as packed by the A.D.F.A.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2146.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 1921.
Pbice 9d.
THE DOG IN THE MANGER.
“Political perversity or a sad misconception of Australia’s welfare has led the Trades Hall Council to oppose an immigration policy.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Nor £ 1 10s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
7 o any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted , whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short 'Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable NS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IVhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi;
E. T. Hole , Ilolerth Satire Service , 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 31 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
C anada.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))1 Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. lloland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Miohigan Boulevarde. Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., 7) West Madison Street. Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency,7l9 Market Street, Chicago ;
Clark Street Reading Club, 1)1 N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco : Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle; Liberty
News Co., Seattle, Washington, New York: Bren-
tan o’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, )2nd Street and
6th Avenue , New York City. Los Angeles, Chas.
Olson, Pershing Square News Stand, Los Angeles:
George Hussey, Central News Stand, 103 East sth
Street, Los Angeles.
Honolulu.— Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, nonolulu. '
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn A- Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores , Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fijl— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one Newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 81oz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3id.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
3l, 1921.
APPOINTING OUR KINGS.
A long step has been taken towards the
formation of a new Parliament and Govern-
ment for Australia, in which more than three-
fourths of the adult population —say, 2,200,000
present voters —are to have no voice, while
about 650,000 run the show. The idea was
mooted at the “All-Australian Trades Union
Congress” recently held in Melbourne, and
the All-Australian Congress having ap-
proved, the conspirators dispersed to secure
the adhesion of their several States. The
other day N. S. Wales, the most populous,
adopted the new Constitution “unanimously.”
The drafting of the Constitution in Mel-
bourne wasn’t done by any openly-elected
body, like the Convention which drafted
the present Australian Constitution. It
was the work of a gathering about whose
origin those outside the 650,000 unionists
know little, while few of those inside know-
much. Its deliberations weren’t accessible
to the press and public, like those of the
Federal Convention. Apart from the fact
that brief official statements w-ere issued to
the common herd as a favor, the mak.ng of
the new order of things might have been a
Nihilist conspiracy or the meeting of a
dishonest Board of directors. Any differ-
ence lies in the fact that the Nihilists and
the dishonest Board make a secret of their
secrecy and profess that nothing is happen-
ing. while the handful of new Constitution-
makers intimate that they are toiling to
completely alter and refix the destinies of
Australia, and ask the great bulk of Aus-
tralia what business it is of theirs. And the
said-to-be-unanimous acceptance by N. S.
Wales was not the work of a popular refer-
endum like the acceptance of the Federal
Constitution—an act done in the light of
day, with a blare of trumpets and a public
counting of the votes. It was the work of
about a hundred "representatives” sitting
behind closed doors in a room that was no
brighter than it ought to be.
The methods by which the new Parlia-
ment and Government are to be created
are also indirect, surreptitious, and full of
side-stepping. In each State the trades
unions are to be organised into 12 constitu-
encies or electoral colleges. These are each
to elect two members (24 in all) to a State
Council of Action, and the N. S. Wales
Conference appointed and threw in a pair
of extra ones, making 26. They were the
inevitable Garden and the invariable Howie.
The persons qualified as electors for N. S.
Wales’s new Parliament will, according to
the latest available trades-union figures, be
255,899, including the boys who work as
wheelers at the collieries and create most
of the strikes. The State electors, as far
back as 1917, numbered 1,109,830, and would
have amounted to many more if uncouth
boys had been included. So the number
who will be disfranchised for the new State
Parliament —the only one which will count
for anything if the promoters’ schemes are
even reasonably successful —will be between
550,000 and 900,000. The woman elector
goes out almost unanimously. It is an
amazing reversion to narrowness and Tory-
ism—a wonderful putting back of the clock.
The idea obviously is that nobody who isn’t
strong enough to keep his share of authority
with a club deserves any share of authority.
The method by which the very limited con-
stituency will elect its 24 members (two
nominees being provided already) isn’t
stated, but presumably the choice will be
made behind closed doors too. The State
Parliament or Council of Action will, by
ways not set forth, elect the State’s repre-
sentatives to the Great Council of Action or
Federal Parliament, so that even the limited
constituency will only have a say at third
hand in choosing its ultimate rulers. And
the Great Council will create the Ministry,
if any—the people’s choice at fourth hand.
Instead of nearly 3,000,000 people having at
least three chances every three years to elect
their rulers —for the State Legislative
Assembly, for the House of Reps, and for the
Senate —in an open, exciting, breezy fashion,
a mere 650,000 will be allowed to vote at
a simple preliminary election, and after that
the persons elected will elect each other.
Nothing is said about the formal disfran-
chisement of the 2,200,000 people who aren’t
bound to the service of Howie, Garden,
Walsii and their kith and kin. Anything
of the sort would be crude but honest, and it
is wholly foreign to the “white-ant” policy.
It would raise a direct issue, and the raising
of direct issues is to be avoided. If all real
power is taken from the body for which
nearly 2,900,000 people have votes and
concentrated in the one for which only
650,000 have votes, the 2,200,000 may re-
tain their shadow of citizenship till the
crash of doom without the possession doing
them any good. They can have their old
seats in the train, but the engine will go
off and leave them. And about the authority
which the Grand Council proposes to arro-
gate to itself there is no doubt whatever.
It is to “take charge of and regulate food
necessary for the working class to live.”
It is to be empowered “to order a cessation
of work,” and the whole organised industrial
force of the community is to obey. And it
is “to take any action deemed necessary.”
That last proposal amounts to a Constitu-
tion in itself, and makes other clauses super-
fluous. Internal dissension might stop the
Great Council’s giddy career, supposing it
decided to go the whole hog with the
authority granted to it, though the country
might be as bad as Russia before that came
about. Or the local army might put it down.
But if it had the firm hold which it is pro-
posed that it should have on the able-bodied
section of the community from which the
army is derived, the latter possibility is
doubtful. A force from outside might sup-
press it, and, having done so, might re-
main and suppress a lot of other things.
But the Law Courts could do nothing save
shake a futile wig at the situation, especially
if the Policemen’s Union was taking its
orders from the Council. And the Parlia-
ment in Eclipse could do nothing oven if it
sooled the Sergeant-at-Arms and the Black
Rod on the enemy.
* * * *
It is no light thing to propose to set up, in
a country which possesses adult suffrage on
the most liberal scale, a Parliament and
Government unknown to the Constitution,
based on a narrow franchise, the Govern-
ment endowed with unlimited power and the
constituents pledged to unlimited obedience.
No king or pope or kaiser ever held with
the consent of his people an authorisation
to “take any action deemed necessary,” and
few have held it without consent. As a
conspiracy against the self-governing rights
of the people the idea stands alone. Yet
Australia’s general attitude is one of torpid
tolerance. It holds apparently that “such
things don’t happen,” which is folly, for the
world is littered with wrecked constitutions,
and the biggest wreck of all —the one which
the present camarilla sets up as its model —
is weltering before our eyes. Or it holds
that at least “such things don’t happen
here,” which only means that they haven’t
happened previously. Yet no one can deny
that the proposed revolution looks much
more feasible than it did five years ago and
infinitely more so than it did ten years ago.
Inside another five years, if the movement
is allowed to go on, nobody knows wha?
may not be possible. The Australian people
have been enervated by 60 years of ease
(though the position was so much a matter
of course that they didn’t know it to be
ease), born of cheaply-won gold, big land
revenues which came without labor, and sud-
den bogus fortune in the way of stupendous
loans. In war they were “all storm troons”
like the scented .gallants of Louis XlV.’s
Household Brigade, and in peace time they
are almost as blind to the stodgy responsi-
bilities of life as these same gallants. This
country takes the possession of political
liberty for granted, even while liberty is
slipping away—probably because it was
never necessary to put up a bitter hght
either to gain it or to recover it. But even
if there was no danger (which there
assuredly is), a nation with more love ot
country 7 and less immersed in faction, uigu-
ment and horse-racing, should resent the
gross insult embodied in the proposal by
which a knot of virulent nobodies are to
take its affairs out of its hands and make
kings of Garden and Howie.
MORE SIGNS OF WAR.
The old race for ownership of the most
massive and threatening sea armaments lay
between Britain and Germany. Other
nations, with the exception of the United
States in later years, either looked on or
lagged so far behind that they didn t count.
They were armed for a healthy scrap among
themselves, but not for a light with either of
the two giants. In those days it was
Britain s policy to maintain the two-Tower
standard —to have a navy capable of fighting
the other giant and Ins best-possible ally.
This was feasible, because Germany, having
too many land frontiers, and being an expert
in the clumsy art of making enemies and
addicted to big ambitions, was trying to
possess at once the best army on the earth
and the best navy on the waters that wash
the edges of tlie earth. No Power with
which we are familiar ever managed that
save Rome, for Persia’s achievement was too
brief to count. Now there is reason to
believe that a new competition for sea power
has begun —that it commenced almost on
the day that perpetual peace was lixed up.
According to all the evidence it is a matter
of Japan or the United States for first place,
with tired and impoverished Britain running
third, and admitting for the first, time that
it can’t keep up the pace. If anyone talks
of the two-Power standard now it is Uncle
Sam. The two new competitors are the
Powers which came out best from the war.
That is to say, Japan made hardly anything
but profit out of it; and the U.S., despite
its spendings in the closing months of the
struggle, didn’t lose, because of what it
gained in previous days of neutrality. In
fact, the war raised it to the position of the
universal creditor. The competitors are alike
in one respect. Each mother country has no
dangerous land neighbors, as France, Ger-
many, Italy and Russia have (for Canada
and Mexico hardly count), so they can, for
as long as may be necessary, reduce military
expenditure to a minimum and concentrate
on preparation for an Armageddon at sea.
The reduction of military outlay would, of
course, involve certain sacrifices and risks,
and in this respect Britain is the worst off.
With a mere skeleton army Japan might lose
Korea and its hold on Siberia, but they
should be easily recoverable. The United
States, might lose something to local insur-
gents in the Philippines, but the chance is
imperceptible. Britain would stand to lose
India, Burmah, Baloochistan and a lot of
Africa, and the loss might be irreparable.
Still, the visible competitors for supremacy
at sea are now all distinctively sea Powers,
Britain being the least and the United States
the greatest in human tonnage. Britain,
with Ireland on its hands, is the only one
that has an enemy of size within its gates
and a white ant in its union.
* * * *
Of the three nations Japan alone has this
excuse for being aggressive, that it wants
room and a place in the sun. It hasn’t space
at home as the U.S. has, being nearly 12
times as crowded as the republic, and it has
no roomy Mexico or Canada alongside, as
the U.S. has, to be easily stolen at leisure.
It hadn’t Britain’s luck in annexing empty
sunny places. Those it occupies in Eastern
Asia are shady and fairly well populated.
Not even the wildest optimist would regard
Eastern Siberia as a place in the sun. It
has a racial or color question to argue with
the world, a question which neither the U.S.
nor Britain has. However old it may be in
years, it is young and spry in world politics,
as Macedon was when Alexander decided to
have a flutter at empire, or Portugal when
it went out on a career of annexation like a
gallant mosquito stealing elephants. Japan
has taken to reading foreign books, thanks to
white men who wouldn’t let the sleeping and
illiterate dog lie, after he had been lying for
more than two centuries; and there is a
natural temptation to resume the argument
at which Darius the Persian failed and at
which the succession of Mahomet made only
a qualified success. According to present
signs the new race of armaments won’t last
so long as the old one. Ships age so fast
that no race should last more than 10 years.
Kaiser William talked the “trident” and
the “mailed fist” for the best part of a life-
time, with the result that when he went to
war he was too old and his colleagues were
too old, and a good deal of young enthusiasm
had evaporated. So he went in confusedly
and came out badly. The programme of
' the new competition, if nothing goes wrong,
provides that no more than about seven
years hence the two superb navies of the
world will belong to Japan and the United
States, that they will be about equal, and
that they must fight or superannuate. If by
any chance they should decide to fight each
other, the sea will probably be strewn with
their ruins. If by any chance they should
agree to give each other a free hand —well.
Canada is handy to the United States and de-
fenceless Australia is handy to Japan, and
the world may be strewn' with the ruins of
the sudden, dazzling, short-lived British
Empire.
* * * *
A certairt ear-mark distinguishes the coun-
try. or rather the Government, which pro-
poses making a heroic bid for conquest. The
one which only spends as much money and as
much of its manhood on armaments as it can
afford to lay out permanently is probably
only taking precautions as any country must
do. The one that piles up military or naval
preparations and incurs debts for the purpose
on a scale that is liable to run the nation
to a standstill, bankrunt. in money or man-
hood or both, in 10 or 20 years, assuredly
pronoses to make the world sit un at the end
of 10 or 20 years, or earlier. It would be
ridiculous to work up to a grand climax and
then have no climax, and watch all the
climax machinery becoming obsolete and fall-
ing into decay. Britain is at present spending
6 per cent, of its revenue on its navy, which
doesn t suggest hostile intent but rather a
tired effort to keep up with the procession.
Considering its world-wide responsibilities
the effort looks very tired. The United States
is spending 10 per cent. Considering how r
much 10 per cent, amounts to in the case of
Uncle Sam, and taking account of the
fairly compact nature of his territory,
that suggests a resolve to be ready for
either defence or aggression, the latter for
preference. Japan’s naval programme is
costing 33 per cent, of the national income.
That suggests, making an unparalleled effort
for seven or eight years and then, before the
ships begin to go to the scrapheap, collecting
the price of the preparations from some one
in territory, loot and indemnities. Alex-
ander the Great, wffien he spent his last
bean on preparations, had to loot Persia or
admit himself a false alarm and settle dowui
to agriculture. His case was typical. No
war can be the end of war unless all the
world is licked at once, and it never is. War
isn’t likely even to make war less frequent.
If all the nations save one are ruined for the
time being, all the more reason for the sur-
vivor to get busy among the wreckage before
they recover! An ambitious race which has
been one among six equals may find itself
or think itself through the disasters of the
other five the temporary boss of the situa-
tion. And the only way to fulfil its ambitions,
which are probably as legitimate as those
of anybody else, is not to join a league of
peace and let the five recover, but to sit on
them hard, friends and foes indiscriminately,
and prevent the recovery. Every great em-
pire has been built up by promptness, ingrati-
tude and strenuous taking advantage of
friends’ misfortunes. Friends and allies
are the best people to take advantage of.
they being less.suspicious than enemies. And
as speed is the great factor when it is a
matter of taking advantage of a ruined
world, the shorter the time since the last
war the nearer is the probability of the next
one. This may be a paradox, but paradoxes
have an unrdeasnnt habit of coming true.
A HEATED MAN ON A DOORSTEP.
A typical scene in Australasia’s Queen City
these days has for its middle figure a stout,
hot, distracted, round-faced man on a big
official doorstep surrounded by unemployed
or people who profess to be such. He has
little loan money in his pockets and no ideas
in his head that are of the slightest use
without loan money. He recognises in the
crowd—or thinks he does —men whom he
sent away to country jobs a month ago, only
they came back, and whom he also sent away
a week ago, only they came back a second
time. They want to be sent away to more
country jobs next day so that they may be
back again next week; at least, that is the
view that the heated man, who is plainly
losing his faith in humanity, takes of the
case as regards many of them. He declares,
among other things, that no previous Gov-
ernment had in such a short time spent so
much loan money on “reproductive works,”
though he couldn’t to save his soul point
out one of them that reproduces more than
half the interest, and few of them do that.
As he expects some sort of gratitude there
is no pretence that the expenditure was
justified in a business way or was anything
else than a cruel pawning or looting 'of the
children of the future to buy immunity from
annoyance for the well-paid old man of the
present. As the unemployed seem to be all
back on the helpless stout man’s hands again
and have returned with as low an opinion
of him as he has of them, he calls all the
heavenly host to witness that he dunno what
to do next. His attitude is to the general
effect that the whole structure and super-
structure and habit and nature of things is
a “fair cow.” A little of the trouble is
ascribed to the influx of workers from other
States —workers who were attracted by
assurances that when the stout man and his
colleagues got into their giant stride the
only difficulty would be shortage of labor.
As none save optimists of the worst sort be-
lieved this story, this alleged influx was pro-
bably very small. But there are plenty of
real causes. Thus the Government proceeded
to club every town industry with its pro-
fiteering law; it promised to hit every coun-
try one with its large holdings law; it pro-
mised sheol to everybody who attempted to
employ anybody; it spent two years’ loan
money in nine months, thus making a sudden
collapse; it encouraged every strike or short-
hour or less-work movement to reduce pro-
duction, and thereby increased imports which
drained the State of money; and it borrowed
and blewed what money was left so that
there was none wherewith to create new in-
dustries. The result is a kind of stranded
whale which does a great deal of floundering
that leads to nothing and uses a great deal
of language that no whale would be guilty of.
* * * *
A recent feature of the case was the appeal
of Acting-Premier Dooley to private em-
ployers to provide work somehow. It was
accompanied by the usual grumpy innuendo
about private employers “seeking opportunities
to pay men off,” for even when begging a
favor of “the employer class” Mr. Dooley
couldn’t be quite civil. Employers don’t really
Want to reduce their business and their
earnings ; but imported goods are coming into
the Ma State at the rate of over £90,000.000
a year times the rate in the last year
before Dooley), and the market is so full
of them that many local goods are almost
unsaleable. Then the banks have had
so much to do in finding money for
imports, and through Dooley and others
borrowing all the spare cash for cor-
morant and unreproductive works, that
a manufacturer, even with the best security
to offer, can hardly borrow the price
of a new loom. Add to that the risk of hal-
ing to phy 48-hour Wages for a 44- or 40- or
even 90-hour week (the biggest union has de-
clared for 30 hours'!. the frequency of strikes,
increased taxes and sundries, and the reason
for the unemployment is clear enough. Pri-
vate emplovers have to make their old and
new industries pay their way, which Dooley
hasn’t and doesn’t. They can t borrow .iom


noqfpritv as he does. They are subject to
laws from which Ooma a
exempt. It was not a beautiful thin ß , theu,
for the boastful Government, on the rocks
after 10 months of olfice, to appeal for aid
to a crowd of little, hard : prcssed men whom
it has never addressed m the past except
with scorn or threats. Quite apart from the
profits of its vast “reproductive works, the
loan money the Government handles amounts
to more than the earnings of all the mjnu-
facturers of the Stato put togctlici tnc
amount available for interest, fuel, light, re-
pairs. rates, taxes, bad debts, new plant, new
buildings and profit. # t
The scene in which the stout, angry man
holds daily recrimination with his subjects
is itself an anomaly. A population of
2.000,000 has no more use for such a city
than a young share-farmer has for an un-
saleable Koh-i-noor. The lure of cities is
admitted all the world over. Iu N. S. Wales
and some other States it is extra-violent, all
the lure being concentrated in one city. The
N. S. Wales Minister for Labor alleges that
when he attempted to send 200 men, all sup-
posed to be ravenous for work, to well-paid
jobs five miles from the Ministerial door-
step, 33 were missing on the first day and
10? «n the second day. They had hastened
back to the meal tickets, the Domain doss,
the “demonstration” game and the flesh-
pots wdiich were promised and which are
still hoped for. Out of another squad of 60
declared to be foodless and homeless the
Minister bitterly declared that 40 _ had
been recently equipped with free railway
passes, tents and blankets, that they might
go to work, and now the goods were
non eat, though the men weren’t. But pro-
bably it isn’t merely the fleshpots and the
lights and the picture-shows and the joy of
baiting the Cabinet and prodding the Lord
Mayor to hear him roar that make it so hard
to get certain people away. They don’t
want to miss the revolution which the 0.8. U.
is allowed to openly foretell and promise.
They don’t propose to be absent when the city
is looted. The Queen City is the only place
in 300,000 square miles where a revolution
can start, and where jobs in a Provisional
Government can be distributed. To go away
when demagogues and demijohns and other
vessels of wrath say the event is so near
would be akin to the case of the foolish vir-
gin whose lamp had gone out. The destiny
of the Ma State, if it hadn’t gone mad or
astray, was to have four or five coastal
centres, with at most 200,000 people in each,
so that the lure of the city would he divided,
and a revolution, to he successful, would
have to break out in three places at once.
And the Government should be in none of
the cities, but in an inland town away from
big mobs, terrorism and the madding crowd
generally. In this matter Maoriland is an
example. It lias rather more than half the
Ma State’s population, but its biggest city is
not half the size of Sydney—only one-sixth.
At the same time the fourth city is five times
larger than N. S. Wales’s fourth. The capi-
tal isn’t the biggest centre. It stands for
one-twelfth of the population, instead of more
than two-fifths, as Sydney does, and the
four cities, not widely different in population,
are scattered along the coast from far north
to far south. Maoriland isn’t an elysium
(no place is), but still the Premier doesn’t
look so like being butchered to make an
O. holiday as does the one beside Port
Jackson.
UNCLE SAM DOES THINGS
DIFFERENTLY.
It is significantly reported from Uncle Sam’s
country that two classes of American citizens,
imported for the most part, have got on
Uncle’s nerves. One is the class that urges
him to get violently excited and go to war or
go on strike because there is an occasional
street brawl or hedge scrap in Dublin or the
Wicklow Mountains. The Other group is
aggrieved because Samuel perversely refuses
to do away with his President, Senate, House
of Representatives, State Legislatures, muni-
cipalities, Judges, and majority rule generally,
and to substitute the Orientalised com-
munism that 600,000 armed fanatics have
precariously imposed upon an illiterate and
sheeplike foreign people, half European and
half Tartar —with, of course, power to seize
the land and loot the banks. Australia suf-
fers from both inflictions, and is as tired
of them as Uncle is, but lacks his capacity
for rugged speech and instant action. “We
Americans will not allow the foreign-born
to decide American questions for foreign
reasons.” That was said at a New York
meeting last week by General Pershing,
leader of the American armies in France,
and beyond doubt it expressed the real
America. It was a thing that had to be
said, and Pershing, a national idol, was the
man to say it, and the need for a similar
utterance from the full heart of the native-
born is equally urgent here. Almost simultaner
ously the American Federation of Labor
issued a declaration of independence of the
European Labor movement, remarking that
it has no use for the Marxian socialism
which has got the European workers, or
their leaders, by the wool, and that it will
stand by American institutions against all
the unshorn doctrinaires and red wreckers in
the world. For this the Federation, and par-
ticularly Gompers, its head man, is sure to
be savagely assailed, both in Europe and in
Australia. The Australian Labor bosses —
at least the extremist section—have had no
time for Gompers since he ranged the
Federation on his country’s side during the
war. The Sydney Worker is especially in-
dignant. That paper has an extraordinary
notion that the American worker is a poor,
ill-used beast of burden compared with the
Australian unionist and the Bolshevik Rus-
sian. In reality, wages are far higher in
the U.S.A. than they are in Australia, and the
extent to which welfare work has been car-
ried in American industries would astonish
the average Australian Labor Government,
which is frenuentlv claimed by Labor papers
to be “the ideal employer.”
* * * *
After somehow persuading itself that the
American Labor movement is “a tragic fail-
ure.” the Worker complains that “Samuel
Gompers, president of this enormous mass
of incompetence" (i.e.. the American Federa-
tion of Labor), is paid a salary of thousands
of dollars (the number of thousands isn’t
stated) a year. John Storey Labor Premier
of N. S. Wales, gets £2445 a year, and
Bill Lambert, chairman of the. A.L.P.
executive and Lord Mayor of Sydney, draws,
in salary and allowance, about £2OOO a year.
According to the Labor Government of which
John is Premier and the Labor executive
of which Bill is boss, N. S. Wales, which
has had a Labor party for 30 years and
Labor administration for almost a third of
that term, is about the best country in the
world for immigrants to avoid. On the other
hand, in another paragraph of the issue which
tore the mask from the incompetent Gompers,
the Worker mentioned that immigrants
were swarming to the land where the slaves
of Capitalism drudge long hours under
brutalising conditions: —
More than 3000 immigrants pass through the Ellis
Island immigration station, New \ ork, daily. For
the fiscal year 1920-1921 more than 1,000,000 will
have passed through the station. More than
10,000,000 are waiting in war-stricken Europe to
swarm to America as soon as transportation can he
obtained.
Strange that none of the 10,000,000 think of
coming to Australia! With singular persist-
ence they prefer the rather crowded country
with a Federation of Labor that is ‘‘an
enormous mass of incompetence” to the
rather empty country which has a Labor
movement with all the latest European im-
provements. It is uncommonly obtuse on
their part. One would imagine that they
would have to be kept out of this Labor
paradise with cannon. In the matter of immi-
grants Australia sadly realises that it never
is, but always to be. blest. But there may
be something in the American attitude, after
all. It may even be possible that Gompers
and his Federation know enough about their
own affairs to get along without gratuitous
instruction from Comrades Lambert and
Dooley and Boote, under whose rule N. S.
Wales has become, according to the warnings
which their own party issues, such a splendid
place to keep away from.
RACE MOVEMENTS.
Because the Goths rushed down on decadent
Rome and so smashed the world, it has been
customary to speak of great European race-
movements. The idea of the historians
appears to be that in earlier times the whole
population of a country like Russia suddenly
made up its mind to settle in Spain or South
Africa or somewhere, and proceeded to carry
out the idea by smashing all opposition with
an axe. Nothing of the sort ever happened
in Europe, though Asiatic invaders with an
organisation that seems incredible did actually
try it; but the attempt was never particularly
successful. Much that is described as race-
movement was nothing more than raiding for
plunder.
But there were real race movements
exactly of the sort we know to-day. Thus in
the Hittite Empire, which once occupied Asia
Minor, Armenia, Syria and some other lands,
there were a great many Europeans akin to
the Greeks of later years. They were there for
some centuries, and their language was strong
enough to get mixed with that of the main
population—a fact proved in the Hittite in-
scriptions found in the capital city of Khatti
and written long before there was any thought
of the Hittite himself being dispossessed by
the Phrygian. Again, in Palestine, the
Hebrew incursions from the desert were on
a scale big enough to make the Egyptian
governors of the country write home about
them a century or two before Joshua is
supposed to have crossed the Jordan. What
no doubt happened in nine cases out of 10
was the thing that is happening now
in Australia. There was a cry for popula-
tion. Immigrants were sought to develop the
vast resources of thinly-peopled lands, and
probably before the Dorians invaded Greece
there had been posters on the walls of villages
by the Danube pointing out the advantages
of working for the great lords of Tiryns, of
Mycenae or of Crete. The call for population
was now and again too well heard ; the immi-
grants took charge; the original population
tried to put them out and did not always
succeed. In the case of the descent of the
Gauls on Rome the matter was entirely differ-
ent. There a party of young bloods from
beyond the Alps— Mommsen says this, and
his history of events about which he has no
data is as accurate as that of anybody else —
came southward looking for wine. Rome
barred the road to the great southern pub;
but the bold boys from the North wouldn’t be
stopped by a little thing like that. They
sacked Rome, had a spree which lasted 12
months and went back to work. The other
Gauls who went to Asia a century later were
very different. They came in successive
weaves, bringing their wives, children, cattle
and farm implements. They travelled m
carts exactly as did the settlers who crossed
the North American continent SO years ago;
and it is far more likely that they were
attacked by the Macedonians and Greeks
than that they started the trouble. The Gauls
were good fighters; but they didn’t usually
take the baby into battle with them. It was
when the Greek interrupted the baby that
they took the Dago person as an enemy and
after hammering him to a standstill robbed
and plundered him to a finish.
The Anglo-Saxon conquest of England is
usually regarded as a complete race-move-
ment begun by Hengist and Horsa and not
finished until the whole of the Angles, Saxons
and Jutes had crossed from the continent of
Europe to Britain. But the evidences don t
support that view. Bong before Julius
CiESAE invaded the country there were
Angles and Saxons settled on the south-east-
era coast. In the time of Constantine the
recognised Saxon coast settlement extended
from Braneaster in Norfolk to Shoreham m
Sussex, while there is proof of Teutonic
settlement in Yorkshire before the Roman
legions withdrew. Further, neither m British
bardic story nor in Saxon chronicles is there
any mention of the subjugation of the eastern
counties, though the conquests in the south,
west and centre are fully recorded. The so-
called race-movement of the Saxons was thus
really immigration to a land long occupied by
cousins and uncles, which at last became _ so
rarrd that it led to war with the British
majoritv in the previous population. Nor are
the Teutons who thus invaded Bn tain to be
regarded as whole races of men. The names
of important families in almost every great
Germanic tribe are to be found in English
place names, proving that the settlement of
England was an adventure which called to
men anxious for change all over a wide area
of the continent, and not a mere surge for-
ward of an already homogeneous race.
So the idea of successive waves of Indo-
Europeans moving from east to west by
some great instinct like that of the migration
of birds goes to pieces. Men moved east and
west and north and south very much as they
do at present, to better their fortunes or find
homes more to their liking. When war was
provoked and a territory conquered, the
friends of the conquerors came in to exploit
it; yet even when such was the case there
Avas never a war of extermination over any
very wide area. If the mass of the popula-
tion of all the European lands to-day could
be put to some sort of blood-test to show to
what race it originally belonged, the slight-
ness of the actual change would probably
surprise the historian. The reason the
Saxon elements in England seem stronger
than the British is because the British them-
selves were only the conquerors of an earlier
race. That earlier race is to-day stronger
than either Briton or Saxon. Compare the
type of the ancient Welsh, as they have
been described to us by old writers, with the
present people of Hampshire, and you are
convinced that there is nothing left of the
former British strain; but carry the com-
parison further and look for the big. fair
West Saxon men who made England. They,
too, are utterly gone from their old strong-
holds. But there were Stone Age people there
before either Briton or Saxon; and if you
could mix 20 men of Hampshire to-day with
20 men of the same district in 6000 u.c., the
chances are that you Avould be unable to tell
the. difference.
There never have been any race movements
on a large scale. Transport and organisa-
tion in all ages made it impossible. The
conqueror came; but he seldom brought his
wife with him. Only an aristocracy could
afford such luxury of travel; and because
the rank and file of the conquering armies
married native women, the native race re-
mained. Even in Palestine races far older
than ITittite or Hebrew or Saracen cling to
the soil. The biggest race movement in his-
tory has probably been the settlement of
Australia. I know of no other instance in
which so many people of uniform customs,
language and race crossed the seas to a new
country within a single century. Even North
America falls behind; for there there was
a movement of at least 20 different races into
one republic. The Australian experiment
stands alone; and, curiously enough, it is a
movement from west to east, and defies the
supposed law of migration.
D.M.W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exit the Bolshevist Religion.
When Arthur Ransome visited Russia last
year he found the alleged industrial efficiency
of the Bolshevik regime a figment of the
imagination. Instead of using ploughshares
the peasants were scratching tlie ground with
burnt staves. Instead of harrows with
steel teeth they had weird constructions of
wooden spikes bound together with wattles.
The supply of axes, scythes, saws, sickles and
spades—this in a land with any amount of
iron, coal and labor —had almost given out.
It was the same with matches, salt, boots,
knives, forks and metal spoons. Soap was
so rare a commodity that it was doled out
as a prize for good workmanship or public
service; during the typhus epidemic, when
cleanliness w T as essential, the only way of
getting the people of Moscow to go to the
baths w r as to bribe them with scraps of
soap:
Townsfolk were starving, and in winter cold.
Houses were falling- into disrepair for want of
plaster, paint and tools. People living in flats,
complete strangers to one another, brought all their
beds into the kitchen for warmth. The supply of
locomotives had been reduced to one-fifth of the 1914
number, and to English observers in those days the
efficiency of the Russian railways was a joke. In the
villages children could be seen—l have seen them
myself—playing naked about the stove, without
boots or anything but a shirt, if that, in which
to go and learn to read and write.
That was the evidence of a trained observer,
a Professor of Modem History, who wrote
without bias one way or another. It ex-
plains why the Bolshevist leaders have
abandoned the policy of imposing their doc-
trines on foreign countries by force. It
reveals the secret of the trading agreement
they have concluded with Britain and of their
humble appeals to the U.S.A. (which re-
cently expelled the Soviet Ambassador) to
follow the British example. With all their
beautiful dictatorship of the proletariat,
their debt-repudiation, industrial conscrip-
tion, looting of the gold reserve and so on.
they have utterly failed to make the simplest
necessaries of life. Beyond filling thick
heads with the little learning that is danger-
ous and causing hundreds of thousands of
deaths by hunger and in battle, they have
effected nothing. Upon the vast inert mass
of Russian ignorance and laziness (‘‘it is
estimated,” says Ransome, “that the labor
of a single workman produces now only one-
quarter of what it produced in 1916”), their
gorgeous communistic experiment has been
shattered irreparably. In the agreement
with Britain the Soviet admits its liability
(which it had repudiated) “to pay compensa-
tion to private persons who have supplied
goods or services to Russia for which they
have not been paid,” undertakes that in the
ensuing treaty “claims in respect of property,
rights or obligations incurred by former
(Russian) Governments — e.g., the British
part of the repudiated debt —shall be
equitably dealt with.” and binds itself not
to conduct propaganda in any foreign coun-
try against the institutions of the British
Empire. W T hich means that Bolshevism, in
its- character of a religion propagated by the
sword and recognising no obligations to
countries which have not accepted the law
and the prophets, has. for the moment, at
any rate, ceased fo e-iet.
Dodging the Real Labor Problem.
The Queensland Arbitration Court met a
large' problem the other day: and'you couldn't
see its heels for the dust it made in dodging
the discomforting thing. It was a question
whether a certain award should apply to
Mt. Morgan. That mining concern, having
been hit by the falling bricks of a collapsed
metal market, is itself tottering, and it was
stated bluntly that if the was made
to apply to it it would simply have to shut
up. The union reps, pressed that the award
should apply to the big employer as well as
to the little. The Court would not listen to
any such heresy: it cut Mt. Morgan out of
the order on the ground that it wasn’t
enjoying average or normal prosperity. The
same practice, with a slight variation, is fol-
lowed in connection with other primary in-
dustries —wheat-farming and butter-growing,
for instance. In short, where it can be
tested whether the industry can really sup-
port the rule of high wages and short hours,
the Courts either lind that the rule is out
of the question, or shy off even inquiring into
the matter. But the rule is made to apply
to secondary industries. These really de-
pend on the primary ones, and if the latter
can’t afford certain conditions the others
can’t either. The only difference is that
we cam test whether conditions are support-
able by the primary industries; as to the
others—well, they can “pass on” the extra
cost. But they merely pass it on to the
primary producer, in the last resort; and as
lie can’t repeat the process, it is obvious that
to award conditions for the secondary in-
dustry which are held to be out of the ques-
tion for the primary industry is merely
another way of unfairly loading the primary
industry—and that, again, is another way
of congesting the cities, where most of the
secondary industries are carried on, and
emptying the country, which is the home of
the primary ditto. The Queensland Arbi-
tration Court may think it is being very just
—perhaps even very generous—to a primary
producer in the Mt. Morgan case; but it <s
really being very illogical. The union which
protested against any differentiation was on
much solider ground. The Court’s procedure
was just as absurd as if a builder decided
that certain foundations were not strong
enough to carry a first storey of brick, but
wasn’t concerned at all about any subsequent
storeys.
Four Cities and a Census.
The Australian census, which is to be taken
on April 3, may reveal some surprises. In
Westralia last month it was discovered that
just ou 50 per cent, of the electors (actually
81,035, the total being 104,688) lived and had
their beer in and about the capital. Tim
means that more than half the population of
a State 975,000 square miles in extent hangs
out in Perth and its extensions, for the pro-
portion of children is considerably larger in
the city than elsewhere ; in some of the out-
lying electorates there are nearly as many
pubs as kids. In other words, Perth must be
carrying a population of at least 175,000
which is quite 20,000 more than it was be-
lieved to have, and how that many people can
manage to get a living in a metropolis built
on sand, With few manufactures, no mines
and only isolated patches of fertility (cer-
tainly* there are six racecourses, all in working
order), is one of the mysteries of life. Still,
the Westralian capital wasn’t supposed to be
such a horrible example of congested popula-
tion as Melbourne (estimate 40.07 per cent,
of the State’s total) or Adelaide (estimate,
54.82 per cent.). It was set down as just
1.43 per cent, more horrible than Sydney,
with its estimate of 41.38 per cent. A sus-
picion arises that these other conjectures are
equally untrustworthy, and that there has
been an understatement of the case all round.
The census wfill probably show that Mel-
bourne holds more than half the Victorian
people, and that the appalling Adelaide pro-
portion is three-fifths or thereabouts. And if
the estimate is maintained in the case of
Sydney, even with its Blue Mountain suburbs
cut out (and they shouldn’t be cut out), it
will be a miracle. During the last 12 months
Sydney has acquired a Government which
issued a general invitation to unskilled
laborers to come and get £4 ss. Od.
a week for shifting sand. In addition
to the sand-shifters there has been _ a
migration of “sports” from Melbourne, dis-
gusted at the attitude of a Government which
doesn’t treat horse-gambling with the rever-
ence accorded to it in N. S. Wales, and which
cut out race-trains during the latest strike
to save coal. These newcomers, together with
the customary inflow of bright young agents,
aspiring show-girls, sold-up tradesmen,
starved-out cookies, miners from shows that
have closed down and youths from the coun-
try who want to become policemen and tram-
conductors, have made the capital an object
so gross and distended that if it proves to
contain less than half the population of the
Mothah State there will be astonishment. It
is ouite on the cards, although Brisbane and
Hobart will pull the average down a bit, that
the census will reveal a 50 p.c. record of con-
gested population for the whole continent. In
that case one-half of the Commonwealth will
be justified in demanding a Royal Commis-
sion to inquire how the other half lives.
»
Australian Beauties and Australian
Modesty.
On a crime that goes on calling for atten-
tion :
Lord Forster recently expressed his admiration
of the beauty spots of Australia. He had heard
accounts of the .richness of the soil and the geniality
of the climate, but he had to discover the beauties
for himself. He was struck with the scenes that
presented themselves'' from the time he landed at
Fremantle, nncl was amazed that he had not heard
Australians boast of these things.
On beginning his journey across the continent
he found, at Perth, beauties peculiar to the locality
—a calmness of atmosphere and color not met else-
where. He found, too, evidence of public spirit in
the preservation of the banks of the Swan from
encroachment, and in the reservation and plantation
of King’s Park, a memorial to the civic sense of
Bigjohn Forrest.
Coming east, despite the want of great beauty in
the location itself, he had a display of what may
be achieved where a city is laid out to retain or
heighten such natural charm as may exist. Thanks
to the farseeing plans of Colonel Liowt. carried
through in the, face of very strong opposition which
eventually broke- him down,... Adelaide to-day, with
its squares and park lands, and its distant views


HI
m
m.
El
C 3
BU
5
i\
hfil (Oh
Not the same as others.”
es
SS'O
For flat city roofs and low-pitched roofs Malthoid is particularly
satisfactory. It gives splendid service, is economical in cost, fixing
and maintenance.
Samples and illustrated booklet post free.
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Cballis House, Sydney.
oof in
of the hills preserved, is a city of which the
residents do well to be proud.
At Melbourne, too, in a situation owing nothing
to natural advantages, the improvement brought
about by the efforts of the local bodies, chielly
in tree-planting, has made it one of the Cities
Beautiful.
But when Lore! Forster reached the metropolis
of Australia, what then? A setting, one of the
glories of the world, not even preserved, but, where
touched by the hand of man, usually disfigured!
The glorious wooded shores of the harbor have
been defiled, and in parts not a vestige of their
former charm remains—not a tree to relieve the
harshness of a vista of terraces of houses unsightly
in their drab uniformity. Man was not asked to do
anything to beautify Port Jackson. The only duty
east upon him was to see that Nature’s bounties
were not ruthlessly destroyed. To judge how this
obligation has been dishonored it is only necessary
to observe the encroachment of stolid rectangular
structures on the harbor frontage, destroying the
beauty of the place for ever. A substitution
of unsightly flats for graceful trees and pleasing
rock effects goes on apace, and year by year the
harbor parts with its natural glories, the ghastly
monuments to a commercial age replacing them.
It would appear as if people were apathetic. Yet
most of them deplore this sacrifice of Nature's
bounties. There is, however, no cohesion amongst them,
and for want of that the desecration is unchecked.
Some take a hopeless view—“lt is a pity that the
shores were not preserved in the first place, but it
is too late now.” The brutal truth is that the
early administrators of the country had more
regal'd for the public welfare than we of a later
day, and endeavored to see to it that the fore-
shores were preserved. Take as an example
the grant to Milson by Governor Brisbane of 60
acres at Careening Cove in 1839. Not only was all
stone and gravel and indigenous timber required for
the construction of roads and bridges, or for naval
purposes, reserved, but also all land within 100 ft.
of high-water mark of the sea-coast, and of every
creek, harbor and inlet. But something happened
afterwards to the grant that was then known as
“Perfection Gaze,” and now the gaze is upon the
beauties of a gasworks!
Nor can the local authorities of to-day plead that
Parliament has left them helpless. On the contrary,
N.S.W. municipalities are fully empowered (Local
Government Act 1919, Sec. 365) to do all that is
necessary ; for not only are the councils authorised
to “protect, acquire, preserve and maintain places
of historical or scientific interest,” but also “natural
scenery.” Yet it is more than a municipal, more
even than a State, obligation to guard one of the
world’s most beautiful treasures. It is a Common-
wealth obligation, and local bodies should, if neces-
sary, invoke co-operation in bringing the vandalism
to an end. It is too late to entirely repair the
damage that has been done, but it is not too late
to preserve what remains.
The Importer and the Farmer.
The Producers’ Associations’ Central
Council, representing pretty nearly every-
thing that grows on the land or perambu-
lates there on four hoofs, stands for a good
deal of the Country Party, which is becom-
ing a power these days. And it has deeded
that it wants a low tariff or no tariff at
all on, among other things, meat wraps,
iron and steel wire, galvanised iron, barbed
wire, wire-netting, agricultural, horticultural,
viticultural and dairying implements, ' trac-
tion and portable engines, sheep and cattle
dips, reaper and binder twine, corkboard
used for insulation of refrigerating cham-
bers. and rabbit- and dog-traps. The best kind
of statesman sees a century ahead and pro-
vides for the future. The poorest kind of
politician looks a cow’s length ahead and
provides for the next meal, which generally
proves to be goat stew. The cutting up of
Australia into small States is a thousand
times more important to these country folk
than temporary cheapness of imported dog-
traps. Every State would have its capital,
and experience has shown that even the
ill-placed capital of a needlessly microscopic
State like Tasmania grows into a place of
some importance (which only capitals do
in this country), quite capable of manufac-
turing rabbit-traps, dog-traps, fly-traps,
rattle-traps, rat-traps, mouse-traps, one-horse-
traps, and, if the police are not active, even
man-traps. It is all a question of a little
energy and wise encouragement. Then the
country producer can save 12,000 miles sea
carriage and sometimes as much as 700
miles of land haulage, and all manner of
middlemen’s profits on his traps, meat wraps
and contraptions, and has a lot of adjacent
trappists to sell his eggs and bacon to, thus
saving return freights, charges and rob-
beries. The cow-man, with a big town near
him, might even put a little money into
these businesses and make profits. But the
grass-fed habit is to ask favors, seldom
granted, from the political masters in the
distant city rather than strike out a new
line.
♦
“Gross Profit.”
The N. S. Wales Full Court has told Judge
Beeby that he was wrong, in the first case
of importance under the Profiteering Act.
in taking so much notice of the thing called
“gross profit.” The Marcus Clark Co. had
bought from a furniture maker a certain
article for, say, £lO, and offered it for sale
for, say, £IS. The difference between £lO
and £IS was called “gross profit, - ’ and £8
being apparently a lot of “profit” to make
“gross” on £lO, the Judge held that the onus
was on the firm to show that it was not pro-
fiteering. The Full Court held that that was
a wrong basis and a wrong assumption.
And the Full Court was right. The term
“gross profit” is an absurdity ; yet the com-
mercial community is itself to blame for
putting it into general use. It sprang
chiefly out of the desire of business managers,
especially of companies, to present impres-
sive figures to their shareholders, actual and
prospective. There was a time when such
figures had no interest for anybody else, ex-
cept in some cases the company’s creditors;
but that time has passed. Every concern
dealing with the public has now to realise
that it is being viewed from the standpoint
of public service as well as of private profit.
That being so, the use of utterly misleading
terms like “gross profit” should be abandoned.
And of course this one is utterly misleading.
Some time ago it was possible for an Aus-
tralian to buy water alleged to be from the
river Jordan for something like 10s. a pint.
This water had to be carried eight or ten
thousand miles ; it had to be stored ; it had to
be advertised. Those things accounted for
the outgoings of the retailer: the original
cost was nothing. A pound of dirt from Central
Mount Stuart would probably not be hawked
in any Australian capital for less than half-
a-crown. Yet. it could be bought on the spot
for half-a-farthing. A great deal of the miscon-
ception about profiteering is due to failure to
“WOMEN AND CHILDREN FIRST.”
“The All-Australia Labor Conference has deter-
mined to appoint a Council of Action, which will
lie empowered to call a general strike at any moment
in order to combat ‘the deliberate challenge by the
employers to the strongest unions of the Common-
wealth.’ ”
realise the almost appalling manner in which
costs pile up between the actual producer
and the actual consumer. A certain amount
of these costs is unavoidable. But there is a
great deal for which we ourselves are wholly
to blame. The bloating of cities is the chief
cause. The larger the city the larger the area
from which its supplies have to be drawn, the
greater the freight its supplies have to bear,
the more crushing the rent its middlemen
have to pay. Every borrowing boom
accompanied by the employment of men for
the sake of providing them with a job adds
to the trouble, for it means taxation, and the
middleman’s taxation has to go on to the
costs between producer and consumer. The
N. S. Wales Labor Government is crying out
for a reduction in the cost of living before
wages are reduced. Well, though it is rather
late in the day, even that can be managed
within certain limits—by honest decentralisa-
tion ; by stopping public expenditure on un-
productive works, and thus and by public-
service economy reducing taxation; and by
encouraging the improvement and produc-
tivity of country lands. In short the Gov-
ernment can do it by a complete reversal ot
its present policy.
The Annexation of Australia.
Dear Bulletin, —The thrill of the Patrick's
Day doings in Melbourne lay in the strenu-
ous efforts of extraneous parties to tear
away the Union Jack and put up the Sinn
Fein banner in its place. The Union John
stands equally for Australia’s four recog-
nised grandparents —England, Ireland, Scot-
land and Wales. The Sinn Fein flag stands
for Ireland alone, and is symbolical of the
Irish attempt (a not unsuccessful one either)
to own and rule this country. Also the Sinn
Fein flag stands for republican and separated
Ireland, and when it is hoisted here it pre-
sumably implies that separated Ireland pro-
poses to take Australia away with it, and
that this country is reckoned on as Ireland’s
first colony whether it will or not. If the
persistent hoisting of a foreign and hostile
flag isn’t meant to signify annexation, especi-
ally as it is usually accompanied by frenzied
efforts to haul down our own flag, then what
does it mean? There is no other known
signification that I ever heard of. I think
there are few in Australia save leading
Irishmen themselves who have any incurable
objection to Irish independence, complete
and absolute. There are hereditary objec-
tors, of course, and conscientious objectors
and passive resisters and ignorant resisters,
but they only require to be educated up to
the immense advantage that Irish independ-
ence will confer on Australia and their hos-
tility will vanish. It is the Irish by birth
o r parentage with
positions in politics,
the Church and the
civil service who stand
to lose heavily by be-
coming alien subjects
under the free Sinn
Fein flag. No other
Australians have any-
thing to lose. There-
fore the leading Irish
residents compromise
plausibly on the
nationalist's demand
for that Irish auton-
omy which Ireland
itself has utterly re-
j eeted. This keeps
them in touch with
the mass of Austra-
lian Irish who are
frankly and honestly
Sinn Fein. But the
day when England, the
“predominant par t-
ner,” calls an elected
Irish convention like
the Federal conven-
tion here and bids the
country decide its own
future, these “mod-
erates” politicians,
officials and clerics —
must decide to make a
big sacrifice on the
altar of their country,
or their own people
will turn on them and
rend them. As mat-
ters stand, Ireland,
except when it deli-
berately stays away,
governs Scotland a
great deal more than
the Scots do them-
selves. There are 105
Irish House of Com-
mons votes ruling
Scotland and only 74 Scotch votes ruling
their own country. At one time the position
was worse than that, Ireland having nearly
two votes to Scotland’s one. The Sinn
Feiners alone, if they cared to drop in at
Westminster, could balance Scotland’s vote
on its own affairs. Ireland has 105 votes
in Welsh affairs, while Wales has only 30.
The hold of Ireland on Australia lies in the
fact that Irishmen (Irish by birth, or Irish
by parentage though born here) have not
only the voting power that their numbers
entitle them to, but have almost wholly cap-
tured the only church which can exact a fair
measure of obedience from its members, so
that even its non-Irish members can be
turned to a political use. Though the
2,600,000 Catholics in England and Scotland
are not so far short of the 3.240,000 in Ire-
land, the preponderance of Irish names in
the Australian priesthood during recent years
is remarkable. This combination of reli-
gious and political power makes Irish rule,
in some parts at least of Australia, a very
real and very considerable thing. But when
the Irish republic is established the objection
to the influx of purely foreign clerics will
almost assuredly make an end of all this.
Even if the existing foreign (Irish) priests
are not displaced, as they easily may be, there
will assuredly be a bar to the perpetual
swarming in of more foreigners. The change
will be stupendous, almost amounting to a
religious revolution. That is to saj, these
things will happen unless republican Ireland
annexes Australia and takes it out of the em-
pire with her. The tendency to hoist her
flag here seems to suggest a great effort in.
that direction. —Yours, etc-., J.E.
It is symptomatic of the demoralisation and
degradation of the electorate that almost
daily a boast is made on behalf of the N. S.
Wales Labor Government that it has in-
vented more public jobs for the unemployed
out of loans than any previous Ministry,,
spent more loan money, and handed out more
doles, blankets, rations, meal tickets, doss
tickets, clothes for naked babies, clothes and
blankets for partially-naked mothers, medi-
cine, second-hand pants and sundries, and
so has more gratitude owing to it for it
“generosity” than ever a Ministry earned
before. There is nothing in the intermin-
able tale about the creation of self-support-
ing, self-respecting industries which will pre-
vent pauperism, but oceans of verbiage about
how every pauper, provided he is loud
enough and keeps close under the official eye,
shall have temporary relief given to him so
that he can go away blessing the squire
and his relations. A Ministry should be
a brain to organise and a machine to work
automatically, not a flabby hand and a beam-
ing face dispensing broken victuals out of a
window.
.4 —_
The idea is mentioned that the versatile
John Scaddan, who was five years a Labor
Premier in Westralia, and later a Nationalist
Minister under Mitchell, may have a third
time on earth as Premier of a Country-party
Cabinet. He has joined that party in the
course of his rounds. A person with greater
claims to be left politically roofless and home-
less for the rest of his natural life it is im-
possible to imagine. Finance is the supreme
trouble in Westralia as elsewhere, and in
finance Scaddan was. in Ins day, the worst
sample of a particularly bad lot. It is thanks
to him and his disastrous wild cats that
Westralia’s gross debt now amounts to fill*
per inhabitant, for he rushed up the total
liability from 24 millions to 40 millions in
his brief debauch, and then left off unrepen-
tant and with no more wisdom than he
started with. If the war hadn’t made money
scarce he might have debauched even more
than he did. As it was be got the loan ex-
penditure up one year to £ll Hs. 7d. per in-
habitant. His craving for State enterprises
was, as is usual in such cases, only surpassed
by his incapacity to manage them. State
ownership of works and industries would be
a great idea but for the fact that the State
usually owns none of them. It is in all Aus-
tralian cases merely a very bad works mana-
ger with unlimited liability for the owner's
losses.
♦
By dint of being ambitious, taciturn, adept
at wirepulling and skilful in employing the
machine to crush opposition. Bill Lambert.
of the A.W.U., worked himself into the Lord
Mayoralty of Sydney and seemed likely to
become the power behind the Labor throne.
His position was strengthened by a cam-
paign of vilification against him, just as
the Girondist attacks on Robespierre gave
that dreary fanatic an importance beyond
his deserts. And had Lambert been shrewd
enough to stick to the methods which made
him prominent and continue to pose as the
dumb oracle, the silent, strong man, con-
temptuous of detractors, he might have be-
come the Robespierre or Boss Croker of
N. S. Wales Labor politics. But in an un-
guarded moment he began to talk. Then
was the charm broken and the mist dispelled.
Formidable as the man had seemed with his
hand on the lever of the machine, in con-
troversy he cut a miserable figure, being
turgid, platitudinous, ill-informed and feeble
in repartee. The effect of his utterances
was such that opponents who had been on
the point of abandoning the field to him
decided to put up a fight. The more he
talked the more their courage rose, and
when the A.L.P. conference met last week
the anti-LAMBERT movement had become a
formidable revolt. Whatever the result of
the struggle between factions nominally led
by Catts, M.H.R., and Lambert’s offsider
Bailey, M.L.A., it is certain that the
people won’t stand Lambert as a dictator,
even if the A.L.P. does. His reputation
for sagacity withers every time he makes a
speech. In his presidential address at the
conference he declared that “the solution of
the unemployed difficulty lies in a bold and
vigorous public works policy,” the dull
expedient and phraseology of every shiftless
Australian Government for the last 40 years.
These words reveal the limits of Lambert’s
mind. In essentials he is a Tory, albeit
the new Tories are a bit more wooden and
cocksure than the old.


Hotel de Luxe,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4 % Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl. 300?.. Apply Manager.
£J 3Db
CODES: Bentley’s and Lleber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
y
■
, '=t
oco
mill*;
/
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
* r
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO..
7 Hamilton Street. Sydney.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO..
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Riverina movement for the formation
of a new State or annexation to Victoria —
at any rate, for separation from N. S. Wales
—crawls along. A league has been
formed, hnd it is said that every
property-owner from the Murrumbidgee-
Darling junction to the sea is favor-
able to a change. But, owing to the inertia
of large objects, things to which everybody
is favorable may never happen. Patriotic
folk who see that the policy of huge cities
and huge political estates is eating out the
soul of Australia favor a new State, with a
Government of its ow T n. Stodgy people with-
out enthusiasm are content with the idea of
annexation to Victoria, because Melbourne
is nearer and railway freights are lower, and
debt and taxation are less. The purely com-
mercial annexation scheme has the lazy ad-
vantage that it will get active support in
Victoria. But it would leave Australia as
before, in five unwieldy, stagnant hunks.
Australia did its manufacturing in 1919
with the aid of 1102,176,713 worth of ap-
pliances—machinery, buildings, etc. The
A.W.U. demands that all this apparatus shall
in future work 18 hours less per week (30
in place of 48), and it is a matter of simple
arithmetic to show that this will require
nearly £40,000,000 worth more apparatus.
When eight clerks are put on to do the work
of five, it is plain that three more pens are
necessary. The bill for interest on
£40,000,000. also for repair and replacement
when obsolete (unused machinery goesiout of
date as fast as used machinery), must be met
by either reducing wages or raising prices,
for the entire net profits would hardly meet
it. It isn’t in the least likely that Lambert
and his brethren see this, but then they rarely
see anything. The theory is that the man
coming back to work invigorated by 18 extra
hours’ pony-racing will make up time by
doing extra-good work. But the machine
hasn’t been at the pony-races. It has been
doing solitary confinement.
The brotherhood of man —even the brother-
hood of unionists —came another crash the
other day, and the pieces are hardly worth
picking up. The demand for coal at New-
castle is so much ahead of the supply that
over a score of ships are waiting there for
cargoes, and some of them have been wmiting
for months. Yet, when the Labor Govern-
ment, on the advice of its Labor Department,
reckoned that work could be found for 300
unemployed Broken Hill miners on the
coalfield, and offered to shift them to the
distant, job, the bosses of the coal-miners’
union warned the Barrier men off. With a
few hundred more miners on the field the
union bosses might not be quite so well able
to play ducks and drakes with the industry.
So the 300 Broken Hill men, for whom
well-paid work is waiting at Newcastle, stay
where they were, and a spineless Government
continues to feed them.
Another violent effort is being made to
get the Australian farmer to vote Freetrade.
The old crowd that wants to _tax his land
values out of existence assures him that he
isn’t interested in building uP manufactures
in Australia. Well, he might notice that,
as soon as ever it became a question of
selling wheat to Australian millers to grist
for export, the price had to be reduced.
That ought to be a good enough hint to him
as to whether or not he is interested in hav-
ing a manufacturing population in Australia
to consume his products.
The woes of government with a Cabinet
that isn’t strong in administrative ability
have made Vic. Premier Lawson a very tired
man, and there is an idea of forcing him to
give up the helm and take a long spell in
some inaccessible spot where the clamor of
politics cannot reach him.
From the Vic. State lobbies:—
The dismissal of the two railway men over the
alleged Sinn Fein resolution in Melbourne may yet
provide trouble for the Lawson Government. A
large part of the Railway Union is strongly inter-
ested in the woes of Erin, and this embittered
section, reinforced by other toilers who are alarmed
by the precedent of sacking men without trial, might
quite easily carry a ballot for a strike and cause a
revival of the ugly feeling that arose over the Union
Jack incident the other day. The full size of his
error is beginning to dawn on Lawson, but believing
MARA GROWS DOUBTFUL ABOUT HER LITTLE LAMB.
MARY HUGHES: "lf he starts pulling away I'm not sure that this string is as strong
as it used to be."
that a climb-down would be politically ruinous he
is going to stand by his folly, supported by a more,
or less fluttering Cabinet. Whatever the result of
the disturbance Lawson’s reputation for astuteness
has been seriously damaged, and he has further
suffered in his personal prestige by weakly yielding
to the truculent “loyalty” of the press.
An ungrateful crowd of admirers and un-
employed lately explained his duty to
Queensland Premier Theodore. He was told
that as “the workers” find the money to keep
his Government going it is the duty of his
Government to see that no one of them lacks
the necessaries, if not the comforts, of life.
This attitude must have interested Theo-
dore. Going by. the Federal figures, which
are much the same as the State ones, there
are about 406,000 land- and income-tax-
pavers, male and female, in the Common-
wealth. If each of these stands for four
people then 1,624,000 people pay and
3.700.000 don’t. The people who issued the
ultimatum were among those who don’t.
They pay Theodore neither Customs nor
excise, for he collects neither. Nor does he make
much out of them in probate and succession
duties, or in stamps on share transfers and
conveyances; in fact, it is difficult to see
that they pay him anything except for occa-
sional railway fares, which, in the present
state of the railway revenue, means that he
sells them a service for about half what it
costs. The special claims of a section which
doesn’t pay for Australia, doesn’t always light
for Australia, doesn’t work any more than it
can help for Australia, refuses to be even
commonly civil to Australia, and collects
old age and invalid pensions and distress
rations from Australia, grumbling bitterly
the while, are not easy to size up.
“Until we have successful land settlement
in this country,” Lord Mayor Lambert told
the A.L.P. conference, “immigration is un-
thinkable.” And while this pearl of wisdom
was dropping from his Labor Lordship’s
lips, British ironworkers and their families,
to the number of 109, w T ere landing in N. S.
Wales under engagement to Lysaghts, of
Newcastle. Given increased protection
there will be a vast increase of this sort of
immigration within the next decade; even
as it is, British manufacturers have arranged
to start works in, and introduce a leavening
of skilled labor to, pretty well every State.
Immigration is only unthinkable to persons
like Lambert, and they never think.
Proportional representation puts the N. S.
Wales Government in a queer difficulty over
Brookfield’s seat. The late member belonged
to a party of one, and there are no defeated
candidates of the same color for the Govern-
ment to choose from. Of course what it
will do is to appoint one of its own
more-or-less dependable hacks, although in
his very last speech at Broken Hill Brook-
field charged the Government with the
blackest crimes against “the working-class”
(the “working-class” he was talking to
mostly hadn’t done more than a month’s work
in the last 18 months), and declared that if
he hadn’t left the party two or three years
ago he would have been compelled to quit
it now.
Frank Clarke, Vic. Works Minister, up-
holding the levy made by the Country Roads
Board on metropolitan municipalities for
£50,800 towards constructing the Melbourne-
Geelong road, has decreed that the protest-
ing councils must pay un. As they have
314 years to find the money, and as the
widened tar-paved highway is “an arterial
connection with the city,” Clarke arrived
at the conclusion that the Board was
right in principle in tapping the metropolitan
ratepayers for a trifle. City folk are never
tired of telling Hayseed that he is “the back-
bone of the country,” but when it comes to
co-operation in bringing the backbone’s goods
to market he is regarded as a superfluity if
not a disease.
Shaken up by Fred Hagelthorn and John
Lemmon, who endeavored u> have the trouble
patched up, the Vic. Railway Union has
written to the Lawson Cabinet asserting that
no resolution relating to “hired assassins of
the British Government” was passed at the
recent conference, and therefore it was wrong
sack Morrison and Wilson for something
they didn’t move. The truth seems to be that
Morrison and Wilson submitted a motion in
which “murdered in the execution of their
duty” was used in reference to railway men
shot down at Mallow (Ireland), but that it
was an interjector who suggested putting in
“by hired assassins of the British Govern-
ment” after the word “murdered.” The form
of a suitable motion seems to have been left
to the executive, and a clerk gave out. the
varn which the press got in error. Morrison
and Wilson have thus about as good ground
of complaint against the union as against
Ministers. Frank Hyett would not have per-
mitted such blundering.
Queensland Premier Theodore made the
usual stern and necessary, but, it may be.
perfunctory, remarks on St. Patrick’s Day
about England’s shocking treatment of Ire-
land. But so far as the report shows he
didn’t say clearly whether he is Royalist or
Roundhead, Nationalist or Sinn Feiner—
advocate of Home Rule on the Australian
plan under the hated English King, and sub-
ject to the veto of the hated English Gov-
ernment, or republican and wholly anti-King.
This carefully-camouflaged difference between
the two branches of pro-Irelandism in Aus-
tralia is, when one comes to think of it,
just the difference between George 111.
and George Washington. G. Three was
perfectly agreeable to autonomy under
the Crown —in fact, the States had always
possessed their own Governments of a various
sort —while G. Wash, stood for a republic
and no crown. Yet the; idea of G. Wash, and
G. Three being a joint movement seems
absurd enough.
Cocky gets it in the neck every time, and
will continue to do so while his affairs are
mostly managed for him by city boiler-
makers, house-agents and hatters. When the
world’s price of wheat was equal to 12s.
or 13s. in Australia, the price for Austra-
lian consumption was fixed at 9s. And the
city boiler-maker and hatter got it for 9s.
Now, however, when the world’s market has
fallen, and Australian wheat has to be sold
for less than 9s. to the foreigner, Frank
Tudor, the hatter, leads a yell of anguish
that the outsider is getting our wheat for
less than the Australian has to pay. And
it looks as though the price to the Aus-
tralian will be brought down, too.
The bathos of it! Parramatta-road is to
be officially opened on April 9. It dates back
over a century. Most of that time it was
the greatest highway in Australia. In re-
cent years it was allowed, through sheer
imbecility, to fall into such neglect that
broken-down vehicles were abandoned on it—
at the gate of Sydney! No other white man’s
city on earth could show a worse entrance.
Now it has been patched out of expensive
loan money, at a price so outrageous that
somebody should go to gaol over the matter.
An episode like that should be buried at dead
of night, instead of being celebrated in open
day with blare of trumpets and bray of poli-
ticians.
All the talk about the triumph of General
Smuts’s broad policy cannot alter the fact
that, owing to some great blunder in the
plan of a United S’Africa, the Orange Free
State threatens to be the Ireland of the
Union. Whereas Smuts’s S’African party
polled a nearly three-to-one majority in
Cape Colony, a 2}-to-l majority in the Trans-
vaal, and a 14-to-l majority in Natal, the
Orange Free State electorates didn’t return
one supporter for Smuts.
“D. Tired”: Terrible is the ire of little
Teddy Millen, who returned from Europe
expecting to bask in a hothouse atmosphere
of press puffery and struck chilling blasts
of indifference instead. The buzzing wrath
of a mosquito that has been brushed away
from a bulging neck is nothing alongside his
fury. I learn from the latest symposium of
the Great National Party that Millen
“obtained” the mandate for the administra-
tion of what used to be the Ilun islands,
and Millen modestly admits it. Alone he
did it. Eet justice be done to the sacrifices
of one of our great National statesmen. 1
had been under the mistaken impression that
the A.I.F. did it
“R” : Nothing could be more stupid than
the N.S.W. Parliamentarians’ voyage to Lord
Howe Island to view the rat plague; and
the diversion of the pilot steamer Captain
Cook from its proper uses is worse than
stupid. Here is an excellent opportunity
to give the Rodier method of extermination
the conclusive test. Rodier’s method —the
unbalancing of the proportion of the sexes
—has been successful on rats and rabbits
wherever it has been tested .on a small scale,
and island conditions are ideal for a trial
to settle the value of destruction on a large
one.
Bread from the State bakery is now sold
at a loss in various localities of Sydney'—
those that return Labor members. The price
is sid. instead of the Gjd. fixed by the
Court as the lowest possible. The community-
pays, and if the Government likes to sell
bread in return for support at lid. it will
still pay. It is rough on the private baker
whose business is cut into, but he doesn’t
count. No one is very clear as to what
Parliamentary authority there is for the
business, but the Dooley Government has
pretty well forgotten the existence of Par-
liament.
FRUITS OF VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We have surely a right to reap some o i the
fruits of victory.” —Joseph Cool:.
We are reaping in the meadows where the peaceful
blossoms wave
That have grown so very quickly o’er a hero’s
honored grave;
Not the simple crowns and baubles that our fighting
grandsires won,
But things sure to be remembered from Australian
sire to son.
We have gained with blood and treasure what we
never dreamt to win,
Some large debts of money squandered that bear
interest like sin,
Debts that even politicians feel a little touch of
shame
To mention as an adjunct to the high imperial
game.
We have grasped the fact securely through our vic-
tories afar
That the people mast not question what their
leaders do or are,
That the right to be Australians in the happy years
to come
Is dependent on our aptitude for being deaf and
dumb.
We have gained the overturning of our democratic
plan
And the absolute denial of the simple rights of man;
We have scored the abolition, without hoping for
redress,
Of the right of free expression with the jaw or
through the press.
We have added to our honors as a nation grand
and new
Right to wear the brand of traitors if we hold a
special view-;
And —in triumph we assert it —heroes died and
women sobbed
That the nation might appreciate the joy of being
robbed!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


THE SMELL AT THE KEYHOLE.
"It is suggested that the recent meeting of the Federal Country party was for the purpose of consolidating its forces for an attack on the new Tariff.”


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd,
PRODUCERS op
LEAD —Soft Pis, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SlLVER—Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
dust
Also of LITHARGE —(Assav and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS. ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-UEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
H. L SHACIvELL. Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellntnbi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 0 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary
ADELAIDE:
6*2 BKOOKMAN BUILDINGS
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, .JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL.
H B HA lt TIER.
Representative-
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
BHAS
AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd., proprietors of coal
and shipping interests: —
, Dividends.
I’i'ef. To Re-
Dee., Profits. (Gp.e.) Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ •£ £ £
1915.. 155.178 30,000 S p.c.= 111,200 i. - 5 o 553
Prelim, exes, written off, £425 1 ’ ’
30,000 10 p.e.= 147,169 44,280 57,833
1917.. 195.30.000 10 „ „ 148,597 18,598 76,431
1918.. 196.794 30,000 10 „ „ 149,790 17,004 93,435
1919.. 201.823 30,000 10 „ ~ 150,000 21,823 115,258
Dropped into reserves, £523,456 . . 638,714
1920.. 265.880 30,000 15 p.c.= 225,000 10,880 649,594
Howard Smith’s is a holding co.: instead of
being direct proprietor of steamships, collier-
ies, and so on, it holds the shares of other cos.
which are the actual owners of the ships and
coal. So the Howard Smith shareholder
cannot gauge accurately what there is to
represent his money, unless he can ascertain
the true position of the subsidiary cos., and
since Australian Steamships, the most im-
portant subsidiary, publishes no balance-
sheet, any satisfactory inquiry into either
assets or earnings is impossible. There are,
however, some other concerns in which the co.
is interested whose position is more or less
clear; Caledonian Collieries, for instance,
in which Howard Smith’s has a large hold-
ing, does publish accounts. So also does the In-
vincible, a N. S. Wales western colliery which
Howard Smith’s has financed and manages.
Besides the divs. from these and other con-
cerns, the co. earns something as managing-
agent of several of them, and also has a
considerable income from its own invest-
ments in public securities, etc. Practically
all the investor has known about Howard
Smith’s has been that for four years it paid
10 p.c. with ease, but no hint has ever been
given as to what proportion of the profits
made by Australian Steamships was passed
over to the parent co. Last year, it seems,
that subsidiary had a reconstruction, the de-
tails of which have not been made public,
but as a result of this shuffle the parent’s
balance-sheet has benefited, though perhaps
not to the extent of the half-million or so
by which reserves have grown. Twelve
months ago shares in other cos., “at valua-
tion,” stood among Howard Smith assets at
£2,047,353; in the latest' balance-sheet the
entry was £2.270,476, an increase of only
£223,093. From this it would appear that
while the Australian Steamships re-arrange-
ment augmented the parent’s holdings con-
siderably, the latter co. had meantime been
unloading other interests. Portion of the
£523.436 which went into reserves may,
therefore, have included surpluses over book
values in connection with these deals.
An examination of the liquid position over
the past 12 months throws a little further
light on the subject
1919. 1920.
Assets apart from properties,
plant and shares in other cos. £718,619 £1,041.116
Liabilities . . . . . . 716,458 485,447
Surplus liquid assets . . £2,161 £556,669
In that comparison the 1919 surplus is
shown after paying the final div. for that
year: the latest surplus gives the position
before paying any div. to shareholders for
the past 12 months. Deduct the £285.880 of
net earnings for the year, as disclosed by the
accounts, then the liquid position was other-
wise improved by £167,628. So whatever
effect the Australian Steamships re-shuffle
had on the “shares in other cos.” entry, it is
quite obvious that there have, been other
movements of considerable magnitude. One
way and another, the ordinaries’ interests
have during the year shown an improvement
of almost 7s. per £1 share. But to what
extent a writing-up of book values in Aus-
tralian Steamships has affected that result
cannot, of course, be ascertained. Further,
this writing-up, or capitalisation of reserves,
or whatever happened in Australian Steam-
ships, is no guarantee that that concern is
now 7 in a position to feed larger divs. to the
parent concern.
The latest profits disclosed are the most
handsome the co. has yet produced, so the
ordinaries div. has been taken to 15 p.c.,
absorbing £75,000 more than was required
to meet the previous 10 p.c. Though the
margin of profits shown as available for re-
serves, after making this distribution, is
smaller than in any other year, that is no
guide to the true volume of undistributed
profits: that depends on how much has been
left with the various subsidiaries, which is
known only to those inside. Shareholders
are entirely in the hands of these select few
also in the matter of assets shown to repre-
sent share capital. There is not the slightest
doubt, of course, that Australian Steamships,
like all shipping cos., has had a magnificent
run during recent years; but with respect to
the latest reconstruction it is necessary to
recall that only six years had elapsed since
the previous reconstruction. In 1914 the old
Howard Smith co. was split up, Australian
Steamships taking the fleet and Caledonian
Collieries the coal interests, and the writing-
up of assets gave the ordinaries five shares
and a bit for each one previously held. But
whatever is the true position of the subsidi-
aries. this much is clear concerning the
parent: besides the 21 million-odd holdings
in other cos., and £BB.OOO or so of properties
and plant, it had £330,000 of surplus liquid
assets after paying the latest divs. The
true position otherwise hinges entirely on
what actually stands behind the large share-
holdings, and that is a matter in which the
investor in Howard Smith’s can learn very
little.
Howard Smith’s owned, and presumably
still owns, the whole of the shares in Aus-
tralian Steamships. Its next largest in-
terest is Caledonian Collieries, in which it
apparently holds £032,934 of a paid capital
of £1.191.755. That co.’s record since it
was established has been as follows: —
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd:
Dividends. Nominal
Net f - A - \ To Re- lte-
Proflts. 0 p.c. Pref. Old. serves, serves.
Dee., £ £ £ £ ,£
1913.. 79,721 20,200 8 p.c.= 47,328 12,193 45,290
1914. .101,831 20.200 10 „ „ 60,001 21,030 60,920
(7 p.c.)
1915.. 52,769 17,675 7 „ „ 42,000 60,014
(6 p.c.)
1910.. 17,192 15,150 Nil 2,042 62,056
1017.. 59,131 16,224 6 p.c.= 38,148 4,759 66,815
1918.. 77,666 21,935 6 „ „ 49,570 6,161 72,976
1919.. 71,631 21,935 6 ~ „ 49,570 126 73,102
(8 p.c.)
1920. .138,218 29,247 10 „ „ 82,617 21,554 94,450
From the dividend performances it would
appear that Howard Smith's was not being
made fat by this coal co.; but there is a good
deal of difference between the average 04
p.c. which has been paid over the eight years
and the actual return on the cost of the
enterprise. Howard Smith’s took over from
a Scotch crowd, but the show was capitalised
at a figure far in excess of what had been
paid for it. In fact, the first Caledonian
directors protected themselves with a special
indemnifying clause in the Articles, whereby
they were “absolved from all liability or
duty to take further steps to ascertain the
value of the property.” But the Caledonian
was a co. with excellent prospects, particu-
larly because of the powerful shipping in-
terests behind it. Its principal areas are
at Maitland, where it has 11,000-odd acres
on the Greta seam. But besides these Aber-
dare mines, it also runs the. West Wallsend
and Extended, on the Borehole seam (New-
castle). and the Waratah, on the Burwood
seam (Newcastle). During the past 12
months the coal-producers have had a record
run, and the profits disclosed by Caledonian
Collieries are easily the best to date. So the
ordinaries’ div. has moved to 10 p.c. and the
prefs. also to 8 p.c., which is their limit.
The £133,218 disclosed may not have repre-
sented the full net profits earned the
accounts are not at all informative. No P.
and L. account is presented, and one line in
the balance-sheet giving the “balance for the
year” is all the directors submit on the matter
of earnings. Nor does examination of the
cash position help, for the co. is still develop-
ing and equipping a couple of its Aberdare
(Maitland) properties, and considerable
funds are flowing in that direction. These
gi-ouped balance-sheet figures show the prin-
cipal movements during the past year:—
1919. 1920.
Fixed assets . . £1,353,414 £1,446,763
Liquid assets .. 181,969 273,262
Total assets .. £1,535,383 £1,720,025
Liabilities . . 222,380 369,621
£1,313,003 £1,350,404
Some idea of the extent of the amounts spent
on development and equipment can be got
by going back seven years, when .the book
value of fixed assets stood at £898.771. The
item has grown by almost £548,000 after
making cuts for depreciation, etc., though no
inkling can bo got of the amounts so pro-
vided.
As a result ,of the continued heavy outlay
on properties, * the co.’s liabilities at Dec. 31
were equal to almost one-third of paid capi-
tal, and there was an excess of liabilities over
more or less liquid assets of £96.000-odd. As
a good deal more has still to be spent to get
the most out of the properties, the directors
are issuing 99.313 £1 prefs. and double that
number of ordinaries, one pref. and two
ordinaries being available for every 12 shares
of either class now held. Howard Smith’s
intends to take up its full quota, and so well
does it regard the prospects that it proposes
to wolf all new shares not applied for by
other holders.
Cronulla Hotel, Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Nominal
Jan., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914.. £l6O Nil £l6O £825
Preliminary exes, written off. £144 681
1915.. 1118 5 p.e. £723 395 1076
1916.. 748 5 p.c. = 733 15 94/
Preliminary exes, written off, £144 932
1917.. 625 5 „ „ 738 834
1918.. 969 5 „ „ 740 229 1063
1919.. 1181 6 „ „ 889 292 1355
1920.. 1614 10 „ „ 1492 122 1477
1921.. 1044 6 „ „ 898 146 1623
Twelve months ago, when the div. was sud-
denly elevated from 6 to 10 p.c*., The Bul-
letin questioned the advisability of distri-
buting practically the whole of the term’s
profits. It is now evident that the 10 p.c.
was unjustified. The fall off of £570 in net
profits has been due, the directors explain,
“mainly to the loss of £276 on the sale of the
air-gas' plant (replaced by electric light),
£278 for repairs and painting, and a com-
pensation fee of £139 paid to the Licenses
Reduction Board.” The directors must or
should have known a year ago that they
would have to meet expenditure under at
least two of those heads, and if they then
contemplated putting in electric juice, some
of the profits should have been held back for
the purpose. An 8 p.c. div. for 1919 would
have been quite a satisfactory return to
shareholders, and then the same rate might
have been paid with ease for the past year.
Reserves are labelled as nominal in the table
because goodwill (amount unspecified) is
included among assets. It is thus impos-
sible to ascertain whether the whole of capi-
tal is represented by tangible assets. Be-
sides the paid capital of £14,906, the co. is
working on a £6OOO mortgage, the purchase
and equipment of the hotel having swal-
lowed £22,067. At January 31 £14,13 was
also due to sundry creditors. Stock, book
debts and cash, etc. (including £250 deben-
tures in a golf club, which cannot be re-
garded as very liquid), totalled £2874. There
was thus an excess of liabilities over more or
less liquid assets of £4579, compared with
£6627 seven years ago; but £6OO of new
capital has been got in meanwhile. The
near-Sydney seaside resort which this co.
moistens has developed very rapidly during
recent years, and the hotel’s revenue is
steadily' expanding: liquor sales have in-
creased £6220 and house takings £ll7O in
three years ; but exes, are, of course, now
much 'heavier. Prospects depend entirely
on good management, and the Cronulla
Hotel has already had three changes in its
short career.
Rotiiwell’s, Ltd., outfitters (Brisbane) :
Net To
•lan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £4386 8 p.c. = £2400 £1986 £7,507
Premiums on new shares .. 142 7,649
1912.. 4808 8 p.c. = 2800 2008 9,657
1913.. 5297 8 „ „ 3200 2097 11,754
1914. 4535 8 „ „ 3200 1335 13,089
1915.. 4624 8 „ „ 3200 1 _ .ooui
Written off, £l5OO ) ’
1916 . . 4359 8 p.c. 3200 1 , cn i ° 179
Written off, £lOOO ) ■
Loss.
1917.. 344 Prefs. = 350 12,478
Profit.
1918. . 4415 8 p.c. =. 3200 1215 13,693
1919.. 4182 8 „ „ 3200 982 14,675
1920.. 5302 8 „ ~ 3200 2102 16,777
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO 6,777
1921.. 6761 8 p.c. = 3983 2778 9,555
To carry stocks adequate for this old busi-
ness, the directors 12 months ago set about
raising £lO,OOO from shareholders. As an
inducement to subscribe, a similar amount of
reserves was capitalised, making 20,000
new £1 shares paid to 10s. for a start. At
January 31 all but about £BOO had been got
in, and, including calls contributed in
advance, paid capital stood at £59,196, com-
pared with £40,060 12 months previously.
The co. had a good year: gross profits were
£6440 better than for the previous year, and
the £6761 of net profits represented a return
of slightly more than 11 p.c. on the enlarged
capital, and as the usual 8 p.c. has been dis-
tributed a tidy amount has gone into reserve.
The co. may have done even better than the
directors admit, for a taxation reserve now
shows up in the balance-sheet, and the £2040
to the credit of this account may represent
something more than provision for current
taxes. Balance-sheet figures over a number
of years have moved in this way:—
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. . . £30,000 £40,000 £40,000 £59,196
Mortgage . . . . 11,825 12,041 9,950 9,650
Sundry creditors.. 4,962 4,236 7,557 12,125
Freeholds .. .. 16,932 20,616 21.212 21,535
Plant, etc. . . 1,418 2,247 2,446 2,855
Stock . . . . 14,529 22,083 33,436 46,137
Sundry debtors .. 20,284 25,259 20.170 24,646
Cash, etc. .. 1,568 3,784 719 1,376
There are three lots of shares —5000 Ist
prefs.; 10,000 2nd prefs.; and 45,000 ordi-
naries—but 8 p.c. has been paid on all
classes for many years, except in 1917, when
only the prefs. got a taste. The war affected
business, but the succession of loans, gratu-
ities and so on fully compensated for that
dull period, though now that the loan boom
appears to have fizzled out and prices are
collapsing the compensation may not prove
all it seemed. Rothwell’s enlarged capital
is fairly well protected by the £9555 of re-
serves accumulated. Besides acquiring vis-
ible reserves the eo. has also probably
been protecting its substantial book debts.
In early war days the management discovered
that some of its customers’ accounts were
not all thev should have been, and in 1915-
16 £2500 was written off as lost. Since that
experience the directors have no doubt kept
a sharper eye on its credit-customers. These
accounts and stocks made up £70,783 at the
balance in January last, compared with
£53,606 a year previously, with the result
that notwithstanding the new capital got in
during the year liabilities were heavier.
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- He-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1912..£1543 4p.c. =£loso £4OO £93 £9,857
June, 1913.. 1312 4 „ „ 1050 200 02 9,919
Dee., 1913.. 1640 4 .. .. 1050 450 140 10,059
June, 1914.. 1385 4 ~ ~ 1050 200 135 10,194
Dee., 1914.. 1670 4 .. ~ 1050 500 120 10,314
June, 1915.. 1378 4 ~ „ 1050 250 78 10,392
Dec., 1915.. 1786 4 .. ~ 1050 500 236 10,623
June, 1916.. 1547 4 „ „ 1050 250 247 10,875
Dec., 1916.. 1808 4 ~ ~ 1050 000 258 11,133
June, 1917.. 917 4 ..,,1050 - 11,000
Dec., 1917.. 1863 4 „ ~ 1060 550 253 11,253
June, 1918.. 2090 4 ~ ~ 1060 700 330 11.583
Dee., 1918.. 2030 4 .. ~ 1060 650 320 11,903
June, 1919.. 2027 4 ~ „ 1060 550 417 12.320
Dec., 1919.. 1730 4 „ .. 1075 250 405 12,725
June, 1920.. 2621 4 „ „ 1075 1050 496 13,221
Dec., 1920.. 2503 4 ~ ~ 1075 1000 428 13,649
This little co. was established nearly 6.1
years ago. but there has never been any-
thing obese about it. Until the mid-’nineties
it was paying 6 p.c. to shareholders; shortly
afterwards the div. rate, dropped to 4 p.c.,
and has stayed there ever since. That is a
very poor return, particularly in these dear-
money days, but during recent years the
management has had considerable trouble to
earn ' even that trifle for shareholders.
For the past 12 months the co. has done
somewhat better, increased prices having
more than counteracted heavier costs. This
lias given the management the opportunity
of providing twice as much for depreciation
as had been the average for the previous
two years. The gas output has been grow-
ing steadily, lately, as this comparison _for
December half-year shows: 1665. 18,125.500
c. ft.; 1910. 19,677,200; 1915, 22,647,400:
1919, 28,374,900; 1920, 29,326,100. That
makes the return to shareholders look even
poorer; they get no more though gas pro-
duction has increased nearly 50 per cent,
in 10 years. The expansion of manu-
facturing is not bad going considering
the slow growth of the Speck and the fact
that there is a municipal electric enterprise
in competition. The harnessing of the Esk,
which does not strike or demand increased
wages, has no doubt been chiefly responsible
for the mild profits shown by Launceston’s
gas co. After paying 4 p.c. there has been
little available for reserves, and what has
been accumulated over the 60 years or so
has all gone into the business. Apart from
customers’ accounts the eo. had no cash re-
sources at Dec. 31 last: instead, there was
a small bank overdraft. Paid capital is
£50,000, but in addition the co. is working on
£27,634 of debentures. The position of the
co. at the latest balance compares with that
of 10 years ago in this way :
1910. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. .. .. £37,972 £29,171 £27,660
Assets other than works
and mains . . .. 15,976 • 10,568 11,102
Excess liabilities . . £21.996 £18,603 £16,558
After paying a regular 4 p.c. to shareholders,
maintaining works and plant "in good order"
and providing for extensions, the co. has
thus lightened the load of excess liabilities
by £S4UO-odd in 10 years, but practically
£2OOO of that improvement has bedh effected
during the past 12 months. Considering the
mildness of the div. rate and the fact that
after oyer half-a-century there are assets
with a book value of only £63,649 to repre-
sent the £50,000 of capital, this Launceston
gas co. has been more of a civic-improvement
concern than an investment enterprise.
United Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co.,
Ltd. (Brisbane). —This co.-op. concern was
floated by the Queensland Graziers’ Associa-
tion in 1919, to “improve the facilities to
shareholders for the shearing of their sheep,
and for the organisation of the available labor
to the best advantage; and also to engage
general pastoral labor.’’ Divs. are limited
to 7 p.c. and the promoters endeavored to
enrol subscribers on the basis of five £1
shares for every 500 sheep shorn in 1918,
with a minimum holding of five shares and
1000 as the maximum. The system adopted
the first season was to charge pastoralists
actual cost, plus Id. per head to cover ad-
ministrative exes. Though the co. did not
get to work until March last, and so missed
the early shearings. 89 contracts were
handled and 2,312,085 sheep shorn. The
contracts gave £9561 of “gross profits"—
what a stupid and misleading term that is!—
and commissions contributed £llO2 more.
Exes, took £5893, so the year’s operations
showed a profit of £4768. After setting
aside £750 for taxation, writing 10 p.c.
(£201) off plant, etc., and writing off
one-lialf of flotation exes. (£614). there
remained £3203 available for distribution.


If vour house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Kinging Transformer
vvill ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
* * * •
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe is the only water conduit in
use in Australia the capacity of which does not decrease
with age. It is carrying water to-day to many
thousands of acres that were once desert, and is
making them bloom like a veritable garden.
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe supplies pure, sparkling water
at the lowest possible cost. It lasts infinitely
longer than any other kind of pipe, and its carry-
ing capacity does not decrease with age. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Olfice; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Chuliis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ * # «
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc..
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and .Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * # •»
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Uraun'9
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
WICHITA.
THE MOTOR TRUCK OF WORLD-WIDE USE
The striking features of the Wichita chassis are Strength, Simplicity, Durability and absence of unnecessary parts to get out of order.
Those who are seeking profits will find it to their advantage to investigate Wichita Trucks.
REFERENCES TO MANY SATISFIED USERS IN AUSTRALIA.
U AND 2-TON CHASSES TO ARRIVE PER STEAMER GORALLA.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Campsrdown (City), SYDNEY.
’Phone: LIOB4 or L 1238. Red X Trams George Street to first stop past University grounds.
For a start a rebate of one-eighth of a penny
per sheep shorn was distributed; a diV. at
the rate of <>3 p.e. absorbed ±444; and the
balance of £1577 was carried forward. £So
though only 201 of the 2UOO members of the
Graziers’ Association have so far linked up,
the co. has made an excellent beginning.
“The most pleasing feature.'’ the directors
say, “is that in the majority of cases we
have established our contention that shear-
ings can be carried out at a less cost under
our scheme than was previously paid by
owners under the contract system,” notwith-
standing that the co. was hampered consider-
ably by wet weather and that a new organisa-
tion could not be expected to run quite
smoothly. At Dec. 31 36,057 £1 shares had
been taken up and paid to ss. Including
calls contributed iu advance, paid capital
stood at £0793. The co. owed £4030, but
it had £0575 of cash and there were book
debts for £3OOO. So its position was snug.
A sign of the coming storm is the proposed
reduction of wages at Mount Morgan by 30
per cent. Failing acceptance the only pros-
pect is closure. Even with the 20 per cent,
reduction there will be no profit for the share-
holders, so the workers will be getting the full
product of their labor and the use of an
enormous mass of machinery i/ratis. If the
shareholders get tired of having no return on
their money, or if copper falls further (it is
still £0 10s. a ton above the 1914 price), or if
gold drops below £5 ss. 3d. (it used to be
about £3 17s. od.), or if the ore becomes
poorer there must be a further reduction.
Mount Lyell has proposed to its staff a 10 to
15 per cent, drop, but wages were never so
high there as at the dusty town outside Rock-
hampton.
The “works committee” at Risdon (Tas.)
zinc factory recently submitted to the man-
agement a proposal, emanating from the em-
ployees, suggesting a reduction of from seven
to 10 per cent, be made from existing wage
rates and that the amount be applied in pur-
chasing 8 p.c. cum. pref. shares in the co.
After consideration, the management turned
the scheme down on the score of “difficulties
in the way of giving the suggestion practical
effect.” i’art of the proposal was that the
co. should guarantee the continuous employ-
ment, for a reasonable period, of the same
number of men as are employed at the works
at present. This was probably one of the
“difficulties in the way,” but Justice Isaacs’s
ruling, which in effect said that the time-pay-
ment purchase of shares by deductions from
wages was unallowable because it might cir-
cumvent an award of the Arbitration Court,
was doubtless the chief obstacle. Some of the
Zinc co.’s workers are under Arbitration
awards at present, others are controlled by
Wages Board determinations. It has just
been agreed between the parties that existing
wage rates shall be maintained until
September next, and that in the meantime
Parliament shall be required to establish a
Zinc Industry Wages Board, which will fix
the wages of every employee on the job,
whether he manipulates delicate chemical pro-
cesses, controls a huge electrical engine, or
shoves a common shovel.
* * * *
Since A. W. Palfreyman underwrote Tong-
kah Compound to provide the cash to work a
block alongside Tongkah Harbor’s Puket
Sound reservation, the little co. has turned
out 3679| tons tin oxide from 102 acres
dredged. The metal realised £443,802, of
which shareholders have had £210,250 in divs.
Costs from 1911 to 1917 ranged from 4£d. to
osd.per c.yd., but the last two years’ work done
saw exes, at between and 9d. Of course,
these high costs were in a boom tin market,
so profits were at their best, save during the
memorable 1912 to 1914 campaigns, when
they ranged from 19:}d. to 33 Id. per c. yd.
Now the Compound passes on its plant to the
Compound No. 2, in 100,000 shares. Of this
scrip 25,000 shares are paid-up, but Com-
pound shareholders individually have nibbled
so cautiously at the balance of 75,000
offered that the Compound Co. has had to
father 33,287 shares and part up 6s. per
share to help put the dredge on to the new
ground at Seremban. However, the plant is
thei’e now and is soon to be churning out tin.
But the co. starts with £5475 owing to sundry
creditors, against cash and sundry debtors of
about £4OOO. Compound’s chairman Meagher
now’ comes forth with a new pi’omotion: the
Mantin Setul. which shows 139 acres worth
.9791 b. per yd., 90 acres going fib. and 125
acres averaging .5921 b. Meagher proposes a big
plant to keep down costs at. this show, and to
help finance it he counts on the Compound
No. 2 repaying its loan.
Ravensthorpe (W.A.) appears to have a
chance in a new’ direction. A local chemist
has located large beds of jarosite in the
locality. So far a row’ of holes has been
run east and w’est for about a quarter of a
mile, and though these are mere prospecting
pits, from three to six feet deep, all are in
solid jarosite, and none has passed through
it. No boundary to the deposit has yet
been found, but it is known to exist in the
range on the other side of a deep gorge near
the potholes, and is also to be seen chains
away further east. Jarosite is a basic sul-
phate of iron, potash and soda, which is very
easy to treat, a gentle roast rendering the
soda and potash soluble in water. The water
can be returned until saturated, and then
the potash and soda can be collected separ-
ately in settlers. The residue of oxide of
iron is a bright purple red, suitable for paint-
making. This jarosite is said to go about
5 p.c. potash.
* * * *
With Golden Hope friendless, Mutooroo
shunned, and Hampton Properties neglected,
White Hope and Celebration are now the
only two gambling counters on the Hampton
Plains field. The former still falls far sliort
of Herbert Daly’s expectations, and ore re-
serves have in the last six months not been
nearly “doubled or possibly trebled,'’ as hoped
by that expert. On his return from London
a few months ago, Daly said that when the
reserves had been further increased he would
recommend the erection of a treatment plant,
but judging by recent developments that time
is not vet, and may never be. Celebration’s
new shaft is down 300 ft., and the shoot, if it
is there, is expected to be met in the crosscut
in a few weeks.
# * * *
Riverina South (W.A.) may improve its
position. At the 298 ft.-level there appears to
be a length of 2000 ft. of ore, but it will be
necessary to drive 600 ft. before this can be
proved to be continuous. The lode averages
4ft. wide, estimated to average 60s. per ton.
The gold values occur in shoots ; portion of the
lode is practically barren, which is perhaps
a good thing, for where low values exist a
great deal of cash is frequently wasted in
extracting them. The portions of the lode
between the shoots in Riverina South offer
no temptation to the mine-manager to in-
dulge in unprofitable stoping operations.
Should stoping be confined to the known
shoots of payable ore. and this probably will
be done, Riverina South may yet produce a
div. or two.
A syndicate promoted by rod-diviners re-
ports a bore-hole telluride development at a
depth of about 1060 ft. in ground south of
the Boulder and Horseshoe, Kulgoorlie.
Other bores are to be put down to “confirm
the high assays already obtained,” but in the
past so many attempts to find rich stuff
alleged to have been struck by the diamond-
drill in the West have proved resultiess that
very little notice is at present being taken of
the latest “discovery.” A shaft will probably
have to be sunk, and the wealth sa.d to have
been cut exposed, before any real value is
attached to the find.
* # * *
South-Western Oil and Shale Co., whose
leases are between the Paliinup and Fitz-
gerald rivers, and round about the Gair-
diner River and Mt. Barren, 266 miles east of
Albany (W.A.), has received reports from
Dr. G. B. Pritchard, of the Melbourne XJni.,
and 11. F. Kessal, an Australian oil-man.
They give no hope of finding petroleum in
that district. The tertiary rocks are not
thick enough to justify drilling, and the geo-
logical structure generally does not en-
courage boring. A substance like bitumen
in appearance, relied upon by the local pros-
pectors as evidence of petroleum, proved to
be soluble in water, and was probably of
animal origin*
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop., hitherto controlled by
Dorrie Doolette, is now in the hands of
Bewick, Moreing and Co. No reason is given
for the change, except the bald announcement
that the chairman, old-man Doolette. has
retired from active control. At the annual
meeting held in London on January 27 Doo-
lette admitted that present labor costs added
to dearer supplies had made a substantial pro-
fit impossible, and that without the gold pre-
mium the co. would have had to close down.
Several attempts had been made to secure a
new property, but the options so far investi-
gated had proved disappointing.
Valla Gold and Arsenic Mines. Ltd., has
been registered with a capital of £50,000 in
£1 shares, 40,000 of which have been issued
as fully-paid up to the Valla Syndicate. This
show is in the Bellingen district (N. S. Wales
North Coast) and comprises a fairly well
developed mine, equipped with a crushing
and concentrating plant. Of the 10,000 con-
tributing shares, 2000 are being issued and
are being subscribed by local residents.
Numerous samples assayed from time to time
have given an average of 15dwt. gold per ton
and 40 p.c. arsenic. The first parcel shipped
to Bendigo (20 tons) returned lSdwt. Bgr.
gold per ton and 39 p.c. arsenic, and realised
nearly £l5 per ton. Production costs amount
to £3 per ton, while transport runs away with
about £5, leaving, say, about £7 per ton pro-
fit. The weekly output of concentrates is 25
tons, blit manager Blackman expects to double
this. Should the demand for arsenic be main-
tained at the present rate, furnaces will be
erected and the greater part of the £5 per
ton transportation thus cut out. The main
shaft is down 240 ft.. and a number of drives
are in at the 140 ft. and 190 ft. levels. Ore in
sight is estimated at 100,000 tons, averaging
36 p.c. concentrates of the above value.
Cope’s Creek Central (N.S.W.) shows a
loss for its latest six months’ work, though
sales of tin gave £13,010. But No. 1 plant was
shoving through a belt of tailings before it
could get into position to operate on pay dirt.
Working No. 39 paddock it gathered in 28-i
tons, or at the rate of slightly over ilb. per
c. yd., which was not good enough with costs
at over Is. At Skeleton Creek No. 2 plant
put through 170,450 c. yd. for 51i tons oxide,
but tough ground lifted costs 2d. per yd. to
11.33 d. No. 4 dredge got to meandering round
Bald Nob before it was decided that it had no
chance there, and that it would be better to
get it back on to Skeleton Creek. Poor wash,
dear mine supplies and the tin-market col-
lapse all contributed to the half-year’s loss of
£2BBB.
* * * •
J. W. Roberts writes: —
Re Greenwood’s reef, Vaughan, near Castlemaine
(B. 17/3/’2l). I have a vivid recollection of a
crushing from this reef being put through Rowe’s
battery at Kangaroo Hill in the early ’sixties. It
was a parcel of specimen stone (burnt quartz, as it
was then called! brought in small bags—not more
than 4cwt. I should say—and it yielded close on
400 oz. gold. 1 have seen richer stone in bulk at
Bayley’s, Londonderry, and Wealth of Nations (W.A.),
but nowhere in the Eastern States save at Hill End
have I seen the equal of Greenwood’s. The gold was
mostly in. iron-stained nuggets, many pieces flattened
out under the stampers being as large as ordinary
saucers. It was a pleasing spectacle to watch
Mr. Greenwood drawing these lumps of gold out of
the old-fashioned screenless splash mortar-box.
There were several rich crushings from the reef,
but Greenwood impoverished himself in quest of
more. 1 should say that this reef was typical
of dozens of others in the same locality: merely
rich in dabs, which has proved to be the character-
istic of the Castlemaine district in general. It has
been unaccountably disappointing as a reefing field.
Taking the original Mount Alexander goldfield, which
embraced one of the most extensive and* richest
alluvial goldfields in the world, it is a strange fact
that, if we except Chewton and Tarrengower, no
system of payable quartz reefs has been found.
Hundreds of reefs have been worked, and a great
deal of prospecting has been done. It may be that
much of the failure is attributable to all attention
being paid to quartz formations, to the neglect of
ironstone deposits, as was the case at the Boulder
and Hannan’s at the outset. Some of the plateaux
workings along the Loddon were noted for the rich-
ness of the cement, and it was an accepted fact
that the more ferruginous this was the richer it was
in gold. At what was known as the Ironstone
tunnel, between Vaughan and Tarilta, I have seen
40oz. of gold panned from a nailcanful of man-
ganic-iron rubble. At this point, and also at
Sailor’s Hill, hot far distant, all the gold was
associated with manganese. Of course, a lot of this
may have resulted as secondary precipitation, but
my recollections indicate that in many of the parcels
of ore put through the battery ironstone was the
matrix. The people who have taken up Green-
wood’s reef must not assume that it has been
prospected only on haphazard lines. Greenwood
was a man of high scientific attainments, who held
an important position on the professional staff of
the Victorian Mines Department, and it would be
absurd to suppose that his special practical know-
ledge of geology was not applied in the attempt to
solve the problems associated with the reef.
Mount Cobalt is the principal centre of
activity in Cloncurry mining at present, and
the erection of a £40,000 concentrating plant
reflects the confidence of the management as
a result of 12 months’ development work.
When Government Geologist Reid reported on
the show r in November, 1919, it was merely a
prospect, with several shafts dow’n 20ft. on
very rich ore, but his report w'as glowing, and
the owners decided to go full steam ahead. The
main shaft is down 120 ft. now, and with a
drive 60ft. along the bottom a big tonnage has
been blocked out. Mt. Elliott is providing a
Babcock boiler to assist the new T plant. There
is much high-grade ore in the channel, but
even this will have to go to the tables, as
every possible scrap of gangue must be
eliminated on account of high packing charges
and stiff railways freights. Outside of the
main ore channel there are indications of a
large body of lower-grade ore, but an ex-
ceptional grade of concentrates should be
obtained w r ith efficient treatment, as the sul-
phides are of almost theoretical pui’ity.
* * * *
A fine seam of coal has just been opened up
by the Burgowan Coal Co., on the Burrum
field (Q.). The section averages sft. of clean
coal w’ith a low ash. and is considered the
best seam on the coalfield at present. Most
Burrum seams around Howard have been on
the small side, but there has never been any
question of their quality, and it is no over-
statement to say that thousands of tons of
run-of-mine coal have been won not going 5
p.c. ash. Th ; s seam promises to maintain the
standard, and the co. is now after a branch
line from Torbanlea (31 miles), after which
it should be easy to push the output up to
300 or 400 tons a day.
* • * *
“P.L.”: In connection with the Maoriland
contract to import 150.000 tons of coal from
Cardiff (Wales) during the present year, it
is not generally known that Blair Athol
(Central Queensland) was sounded as to its
ability to supply this fuel. Blair Athol
immediately commenced to make arrange-
ments with the Rockhampton Harbor Board
to provide shipping facilities at Pt. Alma for
coal-export, but the Board jibbed and de-
manded an assurance of so many thousand
tons of coal per annum before it would take
action. This the co. could not give. Glad-
stone, hearing of the obstruction, offered to
provide shipping facilities, but the freight
from Blair Athol to Gladstone was promptly
put up to such an extent that the project
could not proceed—the old Rockhampton
desire to stifle Port Curtis being as vehement
as ever. Deputations to Premier Theodore
followed, pointing out that in a country
swarming with unemployed the prospect of
giving a couple of hundred men work was not
to be lightly turned down. Now Rockhamp-
ton is taking fright and wants to resume
negotiations. But the 150.000-ton order has
passed away.
Since the closing down of the Bamford
(N.Q.) mines, the miners have been pros-
pecting the Dover Castle line of country.
This is a silver-lead and tin belt, and some
small but very rich surface shows have been
opened up recently. The Dover Castle
mine itself is being unwatered and will be
further prospected.
* * * *
Industrial Pigment Co., Emuford (N.Q.).
after spending a good deal of money on trac-
tion and improving the roads, has applied
to the Government for a grant to fix up
the Petford-Emuford road. The co. produced
125 tons of fluorspar worth £375 during
February, but is handicapped by the upkeep
of the roads owing to recent downpours.
“Itellu”: Since the metal market collapse
the old Soldier’s Cap district (Q.) has been
receiving some attention. It was by inspi-
ration gained from the reefs there that the
late W. C. Brown made the discovery of
Croydon. A lot of people still believe that
the Soldier's Cap country is worth another
go. In early days the Cloncurry district
was chiefly famous as a goldfield; and its
reefs are sure to be opened up again some
day.


Tv*k.vmg secured to. ltody /A.L-A, we look yorwtvrd
to interesting; developments
Possikly In* kous«-vrif«ly
instincts of ika. -farnzAa, me-mloar
will survive.
it is kigk. tuna.
influence mzA* its®!/
y«2,lt in ft»is wr<ztoK<z.cL pk»>c<z. .
Bl<z>£s my soul
wkalcvev did you do
txrfove Securing
decent kouSC'”• »
*7Va-v<rr" At A
1 sc-a. 2*. lot
pooif tn«n
$o skiktn<zfu")ly
*I Ao lovcz. io ~
Sa«- the
looking? tiJy ’
” Thera'now, <dont lot
mo- k»fe>V"<Z- "to ho
you spavin.. I will not
your ]ilt<z.r* on my
cl<Zr*%n floors
“ i'ts •Sx "pity vtfa. Trx&ya. suck 2i i>on«.~ idle-
lot o/* W2*srt<z.n;s in lkis ck.^mka.n* - n v
-you do Ido - a*vul work
THE NEW “HOUSE”-WIFE.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
Iv.C.K.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay. R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. <:. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
ANWSWWV
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I amson „ Store Co 102 D* kin 8 House,
UallloUU Service Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor 200 High St.. Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little y Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL.—Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet—4ooo feet.
BOILERS.—Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES.—Stationary Steam. 20-30 H.P.
ENGlNES.—Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to 14in. d.iam.
AIR • COMPRESSOR.—S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGlNE.—Portable Kerosene. 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
[l
Kif-
Iff
gMsao
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH”
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Some April birthdays:—
Rev. Dr. Abraham (Melb. Synagogue), 66, pasto-
ralist W. E. Abbott (Wingen), 77, and ex-Judge Docker
(N.S.W.), 79, on Ist; Bishop Armstrong (YVanga-
ratta), 64, on 2nd; Archdeacon Boyce (N.S.W.),
77, and ex-Speaker Henry Willis, 61, on 6th; artist
Streeton, 54, on Bth; ex-Prime Minister Watson, 54,
T. Trumble (Defence Dept.) 49, and O. A. Bernays
(Clerk Q’land Assembly), 69, on 9th; poet Bernard
O’Dowd, 55, and 11. H. Massie (Commercial Banking
Co. of Syd.), 66, on 11th; L. C. Mackinnon (Argus),
73, and Dr. Maloney, M.11.R. (Melb.), 67, on 12th;
A. W. Meeks, (A.M.P. chairman), 72, Geo. Brook-
man (Adelaide), 71, and A. A. Simpson (ex-Mayor
of Adelaide), 46, on 15th; Gen. Harry Chauvel, 56,
on 16th; John Walker (Ballarat Kirk), 66, on 17th;
David Barclay (Tas.), 75, on 18th; ex-Sydney Mayor
Tom Hughes, 58, and Dr. J. 11. MacFarland (Melb.
Uni.), 70, on 19th; L. A. Adamson (Wesley Coll.,
Melb.), 51, on 20th; Jas. Edmond, 62, and S. Talbot
Smith (S.A.), 60, on 21st; playwright C. Haddon
Chambers, 61, on 22nd; A. Robinson (Vic. Minister),
49, and J. Oxenham (Postal Dept.), 61, on 23rd;
Dr. Maudsley (Melb.), 62, botanist J. H. Maiden, 62,
and Prof. Phillipson (Adelaide Uni.), 44, on 25th;
editor W. J. Sowden (Register), 63, Dr. Greig-
Smith (Syd.), 55, and J. MacCallum Smith (W.A.),
53, on 26th; Premier Jas. Mitchell (W.A.),
55, Vic. Railway Commissioner Shannon, 53, J. T.
Lingen, K.C. (N.S.W.), 73, on 27th; Richard Teece
(A.M.P.), 74, on 29th.
You could almost feel Fate’s irony when
Brookfield, M.L.A., after borrowing a police-
man’s revolver, went out after a drunken
Russian who was having a little revolution
on his own account at Riverton (S.A.),
and was fatally shot. Brookfield was on his
way back to Sydney from Broken Hill, where
he had addressed his constituents, glorifying
the Russian outburst of direct action, prophe-
sying that something of the sort would soon
be happening in Sydney, and promising his
woolly supporters that he would be in it up
to the neck. But, with all his wild views,
Brookfield was one of the most popular men
in the N. S. Wales Assembly—a quiet, cour-
teous young man to meet, and so generous
that, after paying for his board and his
little flutter at the races, he never had a
penny in his pockets. He was unmarried.
Ernest Lee Steere, who crossed to Sydney
to see his champion Eurythmic win the
Autumn Stakes, is a son of James Lee
Steere, Speaker of the Westralian Assembly
from its origin in 1890 to his death in 1905.
Ernest hasn’t inherited his father’s flair for
politics, but racing legislation interests him
keenly—he is chairman of the W.A. Turf
Club —and flippant horse-reporters move
him to AA*rath. Privately he is a pastoralist.
in a comfortable way of business, but Euryth-
mic is the most successful live-stock deal
he has ever made.
On a magistrate of the old school:—
In Augustus Sandford Roe, Avho died the other
day, Perth has lost the best P.M. it ever had. He
was a shrewd, kindly old Groper with a quiet Avit
and a wise tolerance of headstrong youth, though
he could be severe enough on the hardened male-
factor. He had done a lot of seafaring- in the
East Indies and about the North-West pearling
grounds, and had acquired numerous Asiatic dialects,
besides a deep knowledge of the Asiatic character. But
in the midst of his career of usefulness he had the
misfortune to displease the Labor Government of the
day, and it retired him, along with Fred Hare, the
Police Commissioner, Charlie Gale, Protector of
Aborigines, and other veteran civil servants who
had similarly offended, and the rank injustice of the
proceeding embittered his last years. Roe was one
of the characters in a yarn that lias been often
told. A roystering citizen, locked up overnight, was
dismissed by him with the admonition to go and
jag no more. But when be arrived iu the police
court next morning there was the inebriated one
in the usual place. “What, Mr. Ginanbitters,” said
Roe, “drunk again ?” “No, Mr. Roe,” replied Ginan-
bitters cheerfully, “same ole drunk!” A fine old
Westralian of a vanishing school was Gus Roe.
It wasn’t for want of pluck that Brook-
field didn’t go to the war; but he probably
paid for it with his life. For even the
dullest of Diggers learned more than Percy
seemed to knoAv about advancing under
cover.
ANDREW FISHER.
R. H. Lathlean, just dead in Adelaide at
50, was the kind of hardworking and success-
ful lawyer who is not likely ever to become
K.C. or Judge, but may end as a first-class
magistrate. He was generally in the Local
Court while Holland, his partner, looked
after the office; and he had a bulldog grip
and an almost uncanny knack of winning his
cases. In private life he was a prominent
Methodist and Freemason.
Alec Peacock finished his 32nd year in
Parliament on March 28. His pocket
borough lias remained faithful to him since
1889. Not one of the other 142 members
who sat in 1889 now keeps him com-
pany in the Vic. Legislature. A defeat
he suffered in 1903, which he has never re-
gretted, was when Robert Reid licked him
for the Senate. The electors who then re-
jected him were the members of both Houses
of the Kyabramapootra Parliament.
Fate played another ironic trick on Easter
Monday at the expense of J. C. Mclntosh.
At Pithara, in Westralia, the man who had
risked death a thousand times in the dilapi-
dated old airbus that brought Roy Parer and
himself to Australia crashed in a perfectly
good Avro machine, and when help arrived
Mclntosh and a passenger lay dead in the
wreckage. The gallant Scots-Australian had
fought all through the war, returned to Aus-
tralia by aeroplane and to W.A. by motor-
bike, only to perish on a peaceful joy-ride.
Percy Brookfield was a practical social-
ist upon occasion. Just outside Broken Hill
he met a down-and-out constitutent on the
tramp, and after a short yarn mentioned
that a handy-man was wanted at a place
he had just left, and the first suitable man
to apply would get the job. “But hold hard,”
he added. “You’d better have a clean shirt
to go in : that’s a filthy thing you’ve got on.”
A couple of minutes later the man was on
his way to the job wearing Brookfield’s shirt,
collar and tie; and Brookfield re-entered
Broken Hill wearing a singlet.
A Avave of curiosity SAveeps through Mel-
bourne re the newly-appointed Common-
Avealth Trade Commissioner in China. Why
did he get the appointment? llow did he
get it? Is he a friend of Mr. Shepherd, the
Prime Minister’s former secretary, Avho
has gone to London on a large salary? Is
the power that always Avas behind Mr. Shep-
herd the same force that pulled the strings
for Mr. Little? No doubt where there are
numerous female relatives of disappointed
applicants for a tempting billet you always
fand a large and angry demand for more
light on the subject. Nevertheless, what is
the exact story of Mr. Little?
The Petit Parisien credits Bonar Law.
vho has just laid down his Seals in the
Lloyd George Cabinet, with spending a hard
day at the Peace Conference in restraining
Billy Hughes and winding up with this sigh:
"Britain sometimes resembles the hen that
hatches a duckling.” Incidentally the duck-
ling has just been bargaining with Dowmng-
street for a house all to himself, his much-
travelled dame and infant when he goes to
London in June. Other Oominion representa-
tives may put up at the Savoy as a guest of
J. Bull, but the duckling must be separate) \
provided for.
“Karee”: When my Swiss friend Walter
Gerber got his discharge from the A.I.F.
he bet me that he’d die yet with his issue
boots on. This descendant of one of Louis
XVl.’s guardsmen, apart from his service
in the. Swiss Army, had fought against
Arabs in the French Foreign Legion, Indians
in the North-West Canadian Mounted Police.
Boers in Strathcona’s Horse, niggers in the
Rhodesian Mounted Police and Turks in the
Bulgarian Army. He enlisted, though han-
dicapped by a blatant German-Swiss accent,
in the 2nd Light Horse, when the big war
was young. Sheer merit won him the three
stripes, but after the evacuation he threw
these up to join a “Suicide Club” unit in
France. He managed to collect there more
than his whack of iron ration and gas, a
mention in despatches and two pips for
dogged pluck against odds before making
back to Queensland —to be prosaically killed
by a railway engine at the Soldiers’ Settle-
ment, Beerburrum.
“Fax” : Bonar Law is said to have been
astounded by the medical order that he must
drop politics and take a long holiday. The
doctors pronounced sentence on the fact that
a week previously the Unionist leader of the
Commons had lost his memory for two
minutes while delivering a speech at Glasgow.
The temporary breakdown was diagnosed as
being due to the effect of over-exertion on the
heart’s action. That may be what’s the
matter with Alexander Watson, the brilliant
meiuoriser and reciter, when he suddenly for-
gets his lines during a performance, and is
utterly unable to pick up lost threads. It has
happened a good many times during his
career that Watson has stopped dead, and
either got on to another recitation or apolo-
gised to the audience for sending it away. This
happened once, or oftener, in Australia, and
his hearers naturally assumed that his tour
was ended—a man stricken with sudden loss
of memory on the platform looks very like a
“goner,” as far as public speaking is con-
cerned. But Watson made light of the matter
to his manager, Carlyle Smythe, and next
night spouted thousands of lines as usual. lle
said the breakdown was due to liver trouble.
LI is worries about heart’s action and blood-
pressure !
Probably the oldest enlister i” the A.I.F,
was William Henry Gilchrist, a veteran of
the Boer and some
other wars, who
joined up at 67
and actually saw
service in New
Guinea. Then he
wanted to get over
to France; but the
malaria which he
brought with him
from the North
prevented that:
moreover, the
authorities s u s-
pected he was not
the mere lad of 40
he had said he
was. In the
S’African war Gil-
christ was a ser-
geant-major, bu t.
in this one a mere
private. The old
fellow is still in
Sydney, an d
doesn’t look any-
thing like 73.
EDWARD S.
LITTLE. Com-
monwealth Trade
Commissioner for
China.
Passed out recently, at <54, James Russell,
one of Hobart’s “characters.” A bachelor,
with no visible causes of worry, and possess-
ing a huge store of anecdotes and good humor,
the bustling little man spent most of his .time
trying to drag a smile from the city’s
gloomiest-looking personages, and in mildly
pulling the legs of those who took life and
themselves in too solemn earnest. A couple
of far-off nephews get his worldly goods. He
was understood to have made profitable invest-
ments in Broken Hill early in the day, and
was a large shareholder in the best-paying
Melbourne caravanserais.
TIIU MAN THEY HANGED ON TUESDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man they hanged on Tuesday came through
the misty rain,
And tapped with pale, white fingers upon my
window-pane;
He tapped upon the window, and oh! I pitied him
Standing mourning in the sky’s tears, where the
night Avas dim.
Upon his neck the rope’s kiss had left a scar of red,
And all awry and crooked hung his poor, wet head;
A-tremble his features Avith the sudden shock of
death,
And a prayer he painted on my Avindow with his
short, quick breath.
The terror of the cold stars and of the depths of
space
Was written in the shadOAvs upon his dead, damp
face—
I knew the path he dreaded, the Avindy path of
doom,
So I opened Avidc the windoAV and he came into the
room.
The man they hanged on Tuesday on lieaAy feet
stalked in,
About his lips there hovered the stark shreds of a
grin;
His prison clothes Avere deep-stained Avith clay and
ruddy mire,
Hoarsely, harshly sighing, he crouched down before
my lire.
In silence Avhich is pity I let the dead man Aveep,
And through his gleaming rib-bones I watched the
red flames leap ;
We understood each other, we had no Avord to say,
For Avliat were empty Avords to him Avho’d see no
more the day ?
His ears would never hear again the droning song
of bees,
While summer Avinds sighed softly among the sigh-
ing trees;
He’d never see daAvn’s rosy arm stretch up across the
sky,
For him was only the long, long journey where the
lost stars cry.
A JOT RIDE.
“What sort of a time is your friend having
on his motor tour?”
“GreatJ Eve had only two letters from
him —one from a police-station and the
other from a hospital.”
He’d drunk his draught of passion, and tasted all
regret,
No more for him would hot lips glow tremulous
and wet,
No more his senses tasted the sadness and delight,
But starkly lone before his feet stretched the end-
less path of night.
The man they hanged on Tuesday sat there with
head awry.
And who so dumbly helpless, and who so sad as I
That might not light his darkness, that had not
ant- art
Which could kindle, which could quicken, that dead
shadow of his heart?
And yet he found some comfort, some solace in
that place—
He read my sad soul's striving, he read it in my
face.
know he felt my pity, I think he knew my hope,
As I sat weeping vvith my chill guest—my guest
they killed with rope i
I gave him my pity, which was all 1 had to give,
And just for one brief second I saw his cold eyes
live;
And then he steeled his spirit, and, standing tall
and stark,
With ghastly grace ho said farewell, and turned to
face the dark.
His neck bore the rope’s kiss, his head was
turned around,
But ah! his soul was stronger for the pity he had
found,
Was stronger for my sorrow and shelter from the
rain
Which was sighing for him, tapping for him on
the window-pane.
The man they hanged on Tuesday smiled on me, this
I swear,
’And Avent into the great dark relieved of doubt and
fear;
Down the garden, down the neons, I heard his great
feet plod—
Standing fearful in the midnight, for a breath’s
space I was God!
ATOTOItIA.
DALE COLLINS.


\
w
\
ft
X
&
\
r^*t
1
kv\
;
WWW
\\v
\\
■\y3ree Cas%.
Cigarettes
HEAVY WEIGHTS
* there's ho s wee ter tobacco
COMES FROM VzRGZNIA
AND NO BETTER BRAND THAN
THE 'THREE CASTLES."
T/iackerays The Virginians
Unrivalled fa excellence
of QUALITY and
PERFECTION o/MANUFACTURf
W.D.fcH.O.WIIXS(AUsmLiA) I™ SYDNEY.


Warm Half=Hose for the Winter.
V
Quoted here are two lines of sox, both all wool. They will
give that warmth and comfort never found in the cotton
mixture sox so prevalent to-day.
One is a heavy-weight all-wool sock in Heather shades,
made in England. Competitively priced by Peapes’:
7/6 pair; 43/6 half-dozen pairs.
—the other, a lighter, but still All-wool, Cashmere Sock,
strong, well-knit, warm. Made in England. Peapes’ com-
petitive price:
6/6 pair; 37/6 half-dozen pairs.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W.ChorleySCo.Lta.
m
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management ? Host
Usher, the Comforts uf a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
THE THINGS A WOMAN KNOWS.
HUBBY: "It would take a fearless man to
practise what he preaches.”
WIFEY: “ Well , it would take a shameless
man to preach what he practises.”
The difficulties that beset the historian
who wants only the truth are well illustrated
by the astonishing difference in accounts of
the shooting affray at Riverton (S.A.).
Officials who had seen it all described it
thus an hour or two later; —
1. A N.S.W. constable: “Mr. Brookfield said ‘Give
me that revolver, and let me have a go at him.’ I
said: ‘lt is no use. There are two live cartridges
in it, but they won’t go off.’ He answered: ‘Give
it to me, and we will go for him with it.’....As
we rushed in, I heard about five reports, and then I
closed with Tomayeff and knocked the revolver out
of his hand... .After a short struggle on the ground
I overpowered him.... Mr. Brookfield didn’t have a
chance to get to grips. He fell just as I got to
the man. 1 can thank him that I am now alive.
The Russian naturally concerned himself most with
the inan who had the revoher.”
2. A guard: “No man could have acted more
bravely than did Mr. Brookfield. Without anything
in his hands he approached the fellow from behind,
and when he caught hold of him two shots were
heard and they fell. As the assailant got up, Mr.
Brookfield caught him by his legs, pulled him down,
and rolled over on him, and two more shots rang
out.”
3. A local constable: “Mr. Brookfield took the re-
volver and ran right out in the open, firing as he
went.... The Russian’s revolver jambed, and that
stopped him shooting. Three fellows on either sine
of me pounced upon him simultaneously with me.
Somebody gave him a crack on the head, and down
he went. Even with that blow, it took four of us
all our time to secure him.”
Brookfield himself, who made such a brave
man’s finish, said to the surgeons in Adel-
aide : “I don’t think I ever got within six-
feet of him.”
“Conabella”; An enterprising young miss
in a Vic. provincial town, alter some years as
ladies’ clothing expert to a b,g firm, started
business for herself, and proved a very effective
amateur of publicity. One of her ideas was
to sport an outdoor electric light of vivid
blue, \ery noticeable among the ordinary
whites. Thereupon strange men began to
call at her chic emporium, marching in
boldly, hesitating at sight of the fluffs and
frills, and then with muttered exclamations
of error and astonishment bolting out in con-
fusion. The town sent an extra-large con-
tingent of Diggers to Europe, and “Blue
Light” aroused in their memories a line of
business very far from the thoughts of the
lassie who put up the sign. A tactful Gent.
One explained the position, and the shop
lighting was changed back hastily to plain,
unambiguous white.
* * * *
“D.”: He was a very stout gentleman, a
gentleman, I should say, wholly out of sym-
pathy with the prohibition ideals of Brother
Snowball. He was addressing the penn.v-in-
the-slot weighing machine on the Brighton
(Melb.) platform in terms of scathing re-
proach. He offered me some explanation.
“Makes me 11 stone — me 11 stone!” said he
bitingly. “What’s that mean? Profiteerin’,
d’liberate profiteerin’. Can't put up the
price. So what’s it do? Gives short
weight!”
* # * *
“C.M.”: High blood-pressure is common
among politicians. This race differs from
others, because it makes a
living by its bawlings, which
are bad for the heart. The
atmosphere of hate and
anger in which it lives so
changes the bodily chemistry
that the kidneys are unable
to excrete enough of the
food which is consumed, thu,s
causing spasm of the small
arteries and hardening of the
big ones. This is the
essence of high blood-press-
ure, that a man shall eat
more than his internal
organs are able thoroughly
to burn. Woodrow Wilson
became paralysed, and
Lloyd George has suddenly
given up smoking, probably
through discovering that his
blood-pressure tends to rise.
T. T. Ewing died of it after
many years of ill-health ; the
late Jock Garland of a
“heart-seizure,” no doubt
originating in the same way.
Bonar Law has had to cease
from the struggle, and the
blameless John Storey is also
affected. It is a mysterious
illness altogether, but there
is no reason why, if a man
has only a moderately high
pressure and takes care of
himself, he should not reach
old age. One of the most
serious features about it is
that it may cause neuras-
thenia, and it is generally
unwise to tell a man that
his blond-pressure is too
high. There are too many
fine minds among its vic-
tims. which seems to show that politics is
no occupation for good men. Probably that
is why such men keep out of Parliament.
* * * *
“D Strap” swears it’s true: —
He was a Digger on his second Blighty leave.
On his previous visit to London he had “clicked”
with “a bonzer tab” who worked in a big laundrv,
and of course he wanted to see her again. He
couldn’t write, as he didn’t know the address of
the laundry, but he could find his way to it, and
he did. Then the question was how to see her,
as no visitors were allowed. Dig. thought it out.
Then he went to the office, saw the manager, and
explained that he was interested in a laundry In
Australia, and would like to look round. The affable
old pot personally took him over the show, and
explained all the latest gadgets. At last the Dig.
spotted his tab., and she gave him the office when
to meet her, so everything was right. When the
tour of inspection was over our young man tried to
break away, but the manager stiff wanted to talk,
H.C.L.
“ I’m going to buy you something real nice for your birthday.”
“ Good-o , old girl. But don’t give more than a quid for it — I’m a bit short this month.”
“You say you are interested in a laundry in Aus-
tralia—but you’re not in such a big way as this,
are you?” “No,” replied Dig. “I am in a very
small way, indeed. In fact, 1 don’t think it could
be smaller.” “Ah, how is that?” asked the mana-
ger. “Well, to tell you the truth, old chap,” said
the Digger, as he edged towards the door, “I dirty
the clothes, and mother washes ’em! ”
“P.L.” : Gentle woman’s tendency to “seize
the instant way” utterly regardless of
whither it leads has long provoked mascu-
line admiration. A charming young thing
who stuck up a Rockhampton bank recently
deposed in court that on a Wednesday she
found she was short of money, so next day
she “procured a revolver and a pillow-slip
and proceeded to the Commercial Bank.”
With a pillow-slip full of bank-notes she no
doubt felt she could face the future with a
smile. The revolver, however, was her strong
suit, ©nly in her eagerness she forgot to fire
it.
Some of “Eddyson’s” reflections:—
Women make a newly-married man feel like a
caught fox —out of the hunt, and not welcome at
the table.
No roue is utterly “abandoned” until his sins have
forsaken him.
Nothing makes for longevity like detestation of
one’s heirs.
Many a charitable man fails to recognise that his
wife is the most deserving object he knows.
Where we are incredulous of a blue ribbon, we
always believe a red nose.
There was no other woman, consequently there
was no excuse for Adam in not looking after his
own wife.
There is nothing so ageing as a good working
conscience.
It is always a mistake to confound appreciation
of human suffering with the desire to alleviate it.
So many people love to exercise their emotions.
Old maids take satisfaction in thinking of the
men they would have refused if they had had the
chance.
•*•***
“Waro”: Hamer’s waitress, who pre-
ferred "an ’omely joint” (B. 17/3/’2l), re-
calls Flaherty’s place, in Melbourne, known
in the good old days before the war as the
’Ole in the Wall. Though it was wedged in
between a motor-garage and a livery-stable,
and could only be reached through a narrow-
passage alongside a tenth-rate pub, it was
the abiding ambition of the proprietor that
his set o’ smalls establishment should be
“classy.” Hence the mystification, one
night, when the first patrons discovered that
all saucers had disappeared. “Yairs,” ex-
plained Flaherty, in answer to the query of
a customer, “I’ve took ther sorcers away.
S’long as I left them there some cow was
alius pourin’ his tea out in them and lowerin’
ther tone of ther joint.”
* * * *
“Snell”: We met him coming down the hill
track from Skeeterbite, carrying a sft. x 3ft.
6in. pine table balanced on his shoulders,
with its legs in the air. If you have carried
a sft. table in this way for half a day you
will understand what the task implies. And
he was a small man for the job. His whis-
kers almost swept the dusty track as he
wobbled along. Ilis wife followed, carrying
a baby and an amorphous bundle. Natu-
rally no writing-man could allow a thing
like this to pass unquestioned. Yes, the
little man with the big whiskers would
help in emptying a bottle. He re-
versed his table, and set it on its legs fo.
our convenience. The lady was grateful for
just a drop, too. Their name was Birtle.
They had been burned out the night before
last. He was not going anywhere in par
ticular, but was just looking round for a job.
He had been looking round all day yesterday.
He thought hands might be wanted at Two-
foot, nine miles down. "But why in the
name of Heaven are you humping that table
all over creation?” I asked. Birtle looked
puzzled. “Why, it’s our table,” said he;
“it’s about all that was left from the fire.
And of course we’re going to set up house
again one of these days.” He hoisted up
his table, and off he went. I shouldn’t be
surprised to hear that he’s carrying it still.
“Dad”: Little Doris had just been to Sun-
day school for the first time. Her mother
told her to wheel the baby outside till
tea was ready. Presently the child was
observed playing on the verandah with th<*
pram nowhere in sight. “What are you
doing, Doris? Where’s baby?” “Outside*.
It’s all right, mother: God's minding him."
THE SURE
PREVENTIVE.
WIFEY (in the hotel lounge): “John , what
are you doing at the piano? You know
you can’t play.”
JOHN: “Just so. Neither can anyone else
while I’m here”
“Hamer”: Recently Sydney was visited by
a Melbourne undertaker, who called upon
various of the larger planting firms and took
part in several funerals as a sort of official
visitor. It was a queer way of spending a
holiday, but presumable he enjoyed it.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE PATIENCE OF THE PAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lying his length in the tufted thyme
He piped all day to a wandering rhyme
That came with the breeze and as lightly fled
In and cut of his nodding head ;
And the Greek girl listened and gazed at the sea,
For patience was golden ir. Thessaly.
Yet, if I should sing or twittle a reed,
Where is the maid that will stay to heed ?
Not a cushion of silk in a great armchair
And a strain in praise of her eyes and hair
Would tempt her to sit and listen to me
Till 1 brought her to stanza thirty-three.
Give me a season of bardie peace
On the top of a hill in ancient Greece,
With a number of sheep that have nothing to do,
And three short reeds and a. fancy or two;
And find me the maid that they used to see
In the joy of 508 n.c.
They could sec her all day, but she did not speak,
On the tufted top of the mountain peak ;
And the song went up and the song went down,
But from morning till sunset her hair was brown ;
So the year 508 n.c.
Was a notable one for ecstasy.
Twittle and twitter, and toot-toot-toot,
And neither the bard nor the girl took loot;
But he played and she listened and everyone knew
It was just what a man and a girl should do,
Till the sheep were as weary as sheep should be,
And the love and the music went home to tea.
Up there on the top of that beautiful hill
The whole of my being would throb and thrill;
I would sing what has never been sung before
Till the girl with her eyes would ask for more —
Oh, toot and twittle! Our tea could wait
While Miss Patience was kissed in 508.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


I
D EWars
ii
{ffiperiar
&
§IS
II
1
€
m
m
m
ii
l§!
L^
£
4
i®
■
#
i
//.
m
m
mm
fWr
i
.(/-
rtW
T^lV-
'lll
i’«
'«H
“u
\h
‘ll-t-
Ui/
W/?U
%
%
u
u *
f/y
till
V
‘UI
1
•>
\ v /
l\\l/'
'V
1/ttMUH
mh
V l l
i 111,
'iW Ai‘ tC , 11..1111
-'V 11 \n‘%
Hkt%
A TIP WORTH HAVING,
«-Vj


158. All Diamonds, £l3/10/.
No. 144. All uia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131.
Exquisite design.
Diamond set,
£l7/10/-
Xo. 157.—Single Diamond. £7/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect 'at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawson &(9<w.)Ltd.
Sz/clne y <£siablisments r
185-187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER -4*12 GEORGE ST..
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, £l7/10/-
No. 140. Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 148.—A1l
Diamonds,
£l6/10/-
No. 156.—Single Diamond. £9/10/-
“Ex-Dig,”: There were men in the A.1.1'.
with whom “stillness” seemed a disease; but
Dm stillest” man I remember was Bowers,
who, owing to penalties and leave stoppages,
did not get leave from 1914 till 191 IS. lie
was actually on the boat for Blighty when
the Berman push started, and tin* leave-
takers were ordered back to the units.
Directly leave reopened he was given his
again; but a bombing airman got him on
his way to the coast. Another, after simi-
lar leave delays, reached England, and then,
determined not to go back to France, put in
a claim for return to Australia “for family
reasons.” Held in camp in England, bo was
cursing the delay in receiving a reply, when
lie met a girl who pleased him so well that
he tried to cancel his application. But sud-
den orders came that lie should join a boat
for Australia, and he was put on board,
wildly protesting. When he arrived here h >
found his home sold up and his wife hod :
and then, after he had got a divorce and
arranged for his English girl's passage to
Australia, she engaged herself to another
man on the voyage out and married him- at
Melbourne. “A bloke’s stiff.” lie told me ;
“1 haven’t been able to collect the tenner I
deposited for her passage.”
The Rev. Prohibition Hammond is the
man who would most gladly say that six-
o’clock closing of N. S. Wales hotels had
been a success; but, at Bathurst, he ad-
mitted its failure. Last year, in Sydney
alone, the convictions for drunkenness were
2000 more than in the previous year; and
the increase in drunks was vastly more.
WELL COACHED.
T OPSY: “Will that pudding harm me,
mother? Or is there enough?"
Woollpomooloo, Darling-hurst, Surry Hills,
Kedfefn and l'yrmont-— not to mention other
places- are now a network of sly-groggeries;
and the man who can stand for three
minutes on any street corner away from
the main thoroughfares and not be accosted
by someone who hoarsely whispers, “Lookin’
tor a booze : ’ must have the appearance of
a wowser or a tec. Early hotel-closing
made sly-grog selling highly profitable. At
night now the determined drinker pays more
for his liquor, drinks it surreptitiously in
side-lanes or parks, and, if he is quarrel-
some, has an empty bottle left to lie
lasty with The police, who know just
what .the shutting up of the pubs has done,
would welcome a re-opening for reasonable
Hours,; and it is good to find Hammond
admitting the ill his work has done. A
prohibitionist so seldom admits anything—
except gingerbeer.
“Graeme" : The razors have got their hooks
into the old Stock Exchange building in
Collins-street, where The Huixetix’s Mel-
bourne staff spent many days before it shifted
into Flinders-street. The property was ac-
NO TIE DOING NOW.
HE (after the tiff): “Never mind , dear, true love never runs smooth."
SHE: “ That's all very well; but don't make it an excuse for buying me a Word instead
of a Rolls Royce.”
quired a while back by the Commonwealth
Bank, which will erect the latest in modern
piles. March 1, when the bank gave all
remaining tenants notice to quit, was a day
of sackcloth and ashes for the old hands, one
or two of whom have spent practically their
whole business lives under the roof. Trying
to induce one grief-stricken veteran to dry
his tears I asked, “Are you one of the old
tenants?” “No, not quite.” he said. “I have
been here only 27 years.”
“Blacklip” : The mutual unfriendliness of
Japanese and Malay is not confined to
Broome ( W.A.). On Thursday Island (Q.) the
Jap has become so arrogant and intractable
that the sliellers are reflecting sadly on the
virtues of the Itotomah boys whom they dis-
pensed with to hire mere Nipponese. Last
year the Wanetta and
Wyben fleets indented
Malays, and there
followed a Japanese
divers’ strike. Then
the price of shell
dropped heavily, and,
taking their courage
in both hands, the
owners returned' the.
worst of the malcon-
tents to Nippon. This
summary action has
had a beneficial effect,
but Fujimura likes the
replacement of his
fell ow-eo unt r y men by
Malays rather worse
than the average youth likes taking his future
mother-in-law for a walk instead of her
daughter.
*#. $ *
“Harrv .1.”: In three years with the
A.I.F. I only once saw mutiny in the face
of the enemy. Our company took a sec-
tion of Turkish trench on Hill 60. about*
midway between Suvla and Anzac, and lialf-
an-hour later another company extended at
the foot of the hill, and, advancing in three
waves, commenced an attack right alongside
us on our left. Those of us on the left
of our line did our best to keep the enemy
fire down for them, but the machine-guns
played the devil in their lines. Still they
plugged on, in short rushes. Now and
again we could glimpse it all —-cruel work,
but fine. As they drew near us some of our
fellows showed signs of getting restless, and
the order came down the line: “Stand firm
on the left —we’re not in this charge.”
This admonition had been passed several
times from mouth to mouth along the trench
to the excited left by the time the attackers
had to make their last short rush. Up they
rose, only a handful of the number that had
started; the rest lay still in singles, doubles
and bunches all down along the hill. “Stand
firm on the left,” came the order again.
“We’re not in” But there was a rush
of tramping feet, a rattle of equipments, a
flash of bayonets, yells of “Inislii, you black
blanks,” and our chaps were into it, jab,
smash, point and parry. “Stand firm on the
left!”—the left had mutinied to a man !
* ■» * *
“Ileggid”: A Digger wedding-party blew
into the studio the other day without an
appointment, and I asked them to wait.
The best man grumbled that he had “no
bloomin’ time to waste.” I pointed out
gently that his duty was to assist the 'groom.
“Well,” lie said, “why don’t he get his best
man? I ain’t the proper best man— he went
to the football match, so they roped me in.
I reckon I’ve done my job and I'm goin'.”
Brisk departure and consternation. The
bridesmaid burst into tears, exclaiming
through gulping sobs, “I'm not going to be
made a fool of in public—y’oughter be ashamed
of yerself.” I explained hurriedly that I would
be free in an hour if they cared to come back.
I went on with my work and at the end of
the hour found the party still there —once
more complete. They had waited. I fixed the
groom and bride, then turned to the re-
maining male. “You’re the best man. aren’t
you?” I asked. “I dunno wot I am,” he said.
“This bloke come behind me ’bout arf an
hour ago and says, ‘Hey, Dig., come and ’ave
yer photo tbok—l’m in a bit of a ’ole,’ so I
come along. I don’t know 'itn from a bar
o’ soap.” The group will no doubt enrich a
family album bound in red plush.
“Griffith Nloses” on the habit of throwing
things overboard :
When the Caspian fleet, revolted against the Bol-
shevik tyranny the sailors threw Lenin’s commis-
saries overboard. This habit of throwing a disliked
individual overboard is characteristic of partially
civilised races. The early Romans dropped the
person who had ceased to be indispensable over the
Tarpeian Rock. When the Japanese decided that
Christians were a nuisance they hung the convert
by a rope over a precipice—and cut the rope if he
wouldn’t change his mind. The Bohemians had a
habit they called “defenestration.” In other words
they declared war by throwing the enemy’s ambas-
sadors out of a top window. The war which ended
the independence of Bohemia opened with the throw-
ing of the Austrian envoys Martinetz and Lob-
kowitz out of a high window, and the fact that they
got away almost uninjured was reckoned a bad sign
for Bohemia. The Philistines, it is said, used to
throw convicts into the sea, and the legend of
•Jonah is probably based on this. So is the Scrip-
tural remark about a person being thrown into the
sea with a millstone for ballast. An old Turkish
plan was to tie the superfluous wife in a sack with a
brick for company and cast her into the Bosphorus.
In mediceval France the criminal whose high treason
was higher than the average was sometimes put in
a sack with a boulder and a quantity of live cats
and sunk in a river. The idea was that cats made
lively company for the condemned in his lasi
moments. Calvinists of the worst sort still throw
their deceased enemies overboard into the bottom-
less pit. which is presumably another name for
space. Pirates made their prisoners walk the plank,
and there is talk of doing the same to W. M.
Hughes. It is understood that the dropping sensa-
tion makes death extra-disagreeable. Even in a
nightmare a person dies downwards—never upwards.
* * * *
'‘Orb”: At Wonthaggi (Vic.) recently I
saw the escort set out from the bank to the
mine office, about a mile away, with much
pomp and the fortnightly pay. They car-
ried about £10,1)00, but there was not much
chance of a bagsnateher or a bushranger ap-
pearing. It recalled the job my brother
had when we were all much younger. He
was pay-clerk for Walker and Swan, the
railway contractors, when they were making
the Goulburn-Gooma line. Once a month
Jim had to go from Ingalara by coach to
Bungendore. thence by train to Goulburn
and on to Sydney, where he drew £12,000 or
so in hard cash. This he took back to Inga-
lara in a gladstone bag, quite unescorted
and with no other protection on the long
night journey than an air of honest poverty.
Yet every navvy on the line and every cocky
on the Monaro knew all about his mission.
Jim carried on for about 31 years without
incident. Certainly there were no movies in
those times to tell impressionable young men
how to be highwaymen.
“Sir Spen” : In the Prederickton(N.S.W.)
cemetery rest the ashes of a little maid be-
loved of Tragedy. Years ago a family of
settlers on the Nambucca Itiver were mur-
dered by blacks. The killing had been done
some time before a passer-by noticed the
mangled remains of the elder members of
the family, and then found a baby girl alive
among the pumpkin-vines near the house.
She had evidently been thrown there by
the blacks as being unworthy of more dras-
tic attention. Nestled alongside the baby
was a cat, which, by providing animal
warmth, had helped to keep the child alive.
She lived to the age of .15, was one day
overtaken by a suicidal mood, and finished
the last chapter in the waters of Christmas
Creek.
“J.M.8.” : Jimmy, the priest’s groom, had
been spending the afternoon in the same old
way. At dusk lie staggered back to the
presbytery, fell down in the yard, and
slept. During the night a messenger came
to Father Scanlan with an urgent sick
call. Jimmy was found still snoring to
the stars, was wakened up, and told to har-
ness the horses at once. When Father came
out, 10 minutes later, there was .Timmy
not yet off his back, pawing and kicking at
the air. “In the name of Heaven, Jimmy.”
gasped the priest, “what is up with you?"
“Shure, Father,” gurgled .Tim, “I can’t find
the blanky ground !”
SOMETHING TO GO BY.
ViSITOR: “I like that new telephone girl of
yours. She appears to he a very well-
in formed woman.”
PROPRIETOR: “I expect she is. I saw her
blushiny while you were speaking to
her just now.”
PUZZLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
j'nl limp. My brain is fagged. The brand of Ink
Is on my brow. I've read a book I bought:
“Symbolic Symphonies!” I cannot think.
I in dumb. I'm stultified. I'm over-wrought.
A mist obscures the pages I’ve perused.
I’d like to rise; 1 can’t. 1 moon and sit.
To put the matter mildly—l’m confused.
Oh, am I (a) Something? (b) Nothing? (c) Me?
or (d) IT?
’Tis vain! I cannot, must not, will not shrink.
1 face the question boldly. I am taught
By all the life I’ve lived that heavy drink
And lobster suppers are with nightmares fraught.
But can it be that “Ego” thus abused
Becomes a dream with dreadful portent smit?
A swollen bulb of murkiness contused ?
Oh, am 1 (1) Ego? (2) Nothing? (3) I? or
(4) IT?
Beneath the Mystic, Cosmic waves I sink,
In octopus-tight undercurrents caught.
The eyes of Freudish Devils leer and blink,
Arid watch Insanity engulf my thought;
The more I fight, the more they are a nu-ed
And grin that “Poisons poise and Razors slit!”
Whilst either would oblige—if but I choosed !
All, am I (i) Ego? (it) Madman? (in) Me? or
(*>) IT?
Envoy.
I think I would explode if 1 were fused!
I have not yet decided. Not a bit!
A question, gods, from one a bit abstrused—
Oh, am 1 (m>) Something? (x) Nothing? (y) Me?
or (2) IT?
N.S.W.
GAGL
BAITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beckoning eves and tilted noses
Make a frightful wreck of things.
Oh, they’re snakes among the roses
Beckoning eyes and tilted noses!
.Just when some poor fool supposes
He is safe, an arrow sings.
Beckoning eyes and tilted noses
Make a frightful wreck of things!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. H.


Watch Them Grow.
r7 x *
* m
s n
>;\
-
\t
- \ff v*f
r/’W^r 4
\
3?
i
r
&
ilhiL
m
vv^>
\
If'l
tjlt
/
\\
w
X\
staff
W
%
s
fcs
v
x-
*
x
V
5S
Jj
X?
//
>■
%
%
<9.
'±±JlS&:’-
r
K
i*r
WW
w^==7?
The pig excels in economy of converting the gross products of the farm into edible products
for man.
Of all the domestic animals he is the most prolific.
Sufficient concentrates should be fed to keep pigs thrifty and gaining.
Have you tried the concentrated balanced ration?
The “Ideal Concentrate” is Meggitt Limited’s @ Pig Food. It is a smooth, evenly-ground,
soluble powdered food, and contains the nourishment for vigorous growth and vitality.
Pig Food will rapidly develop muscle, bone and frame. It is appetising and whole-
some and can either be given in the form of porridge or mixed with milk, soup or other
foods.
BY RESULTS i IS CHEAPER.
Write for Booklet on Scientific Feeding to $$ Stock Foods Department.
A G EXT8 — Messrs. Harrisons,
Brisbane. Messrs.
Wellington. X.Z.
Ramsay Pty.. Ltd,, 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
William Adams & Co.. Ltd-., King Street, Perth.
Messrs F. W. Heritage 6 Co.. Ltd., Hobart and
Messrs. R. S. Exton d Co.,
Messrs. Johnston cC- Co., Ltd.,
Launceston.
Ltd., Queen Street.
Featherston Street,
fa
ÜBEDMIQI
/AEGGITT L T
StfvtboyoTitkebag
guarantees quality ”
e
HFAD OFFICE ‘ZC KING ST SYZ3STEY(^jrks-.PaTraraatta)
of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal, Specialised Stock Foods and lonic Meals.
Manufacturers
i MEGOTTS
UNSEEO
m
/ABCCITT L TO Wjr '>
\ WVRRAMATTA »
°/Ae Jboy on theJbao
quauvmtiees CfU£tli(y


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT BTBEET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. * A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Brewed at Home
2*
If it rant.
" its Better
A Tin of “BEVAIIA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of-
Non-intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
traba. 0R POSTAGE PAID PROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
King George IV
th E TOP NOTCH"scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Murkah” : “Adelaide Street” (B. 17/2/’2l)
questions my steam-explosion theory as to why the
lightning dug the shell-hole; but if he were 'better-
versed in physics he would see that he wrecks his
own theory and does not in any way damage mine"
He alleges there is not sufficient energy in a light-
ning flash to decompose even a gramme of water.
Admit it. Water decomposes (i.e., splits up into
its component elements) at a temperature of approxi-
inately 3000 degrees centigrade. Long before this
enormous temperature had been reached the
steam-pressure would burst any container that
man could devise. Certainly the lid would be blown
off the earth long before. Water in a boiler doesn’t
get within thousands of degrees of decomposition point,
but no one doubts the power of steam. Electricity
of itself can do nothing. It merely produces effects
(in this case heat and consequent expansion) by
which the real work is done. The earth was dis-
rupted by pressure—there is no other way. I say
steam-pressure. “Adelaide Street” rules that out,
alleging insufficient power. Obviously if there wasn’t
sufficient energy the work couldn’t be done in any
way whatever. But “Adelaide Street” submits break-
down of insulation (t’.e., sheer decomposition). He
kicks his own theory' into the gutter. Mine is still
on the footpath.
* * * *
“Bright”: “Bullnh De'lah” (B. 3/3/’2l).
who says hair does not grow on the body after death,
might be interested to know that a friend of mine
who died not long after shaving and whom it was not
possible to bury for a couple of days, had to be shaved
again owing to the abnormal growth of his whiskers.
Shaver’s name and address on application accompanied
by stamps. More fact. During the recent removal
of an old Melbourne cemetery a number of relatives
of the more recently buried attended to view the
transplanting of their dead. A number of the coffins,
on being moved burst open, to reveal in several in-
stances a box full of grisly hair.
* * * *
“T.A.S.”: “Orney's” pommy, who drowned
the chickens because the hen had not enough milk
for them (B. 3/3/’2l), reminds me that years ago I
saw a pair of chummies on the N.S.W. South Coast,
man and wife, taking the crupper off Dobbin. One
prised the tail up with a sliprail and the other poked
the crupper off with a clothes prop. Asked them how
they got it on, and they said a neighbor put it on for
them the night before. But they got there just the
same. Twenty years later they owned 500 acres and
It boys, and sent four to the war.
* * * *
“Don Mac”: “Yaeko’s” (B. 17/2/’2l)
experience of wedge-tailed eagles attacking lambs is
exceptional. Scores of sheepmen in N. S. Wales,
Vic. and Q. who have been circularised by the Mel-
bourne Le Souef are unanimous in a verdict of “Not
guilty.” I can give “Yacko” the names of a dozen
pastoralists of many years’ experience along the Mac-
quarie, Lachlan and Bogan, round about the Conda-
mine Plains and in the neighborhood of the Macintyre
(Q.), who declare they have never seen the wedge-
tail kill lambs. Scarcity of game may drive him to
take a live lamb, but it is generally a sick weakling
which has been left behind by the mother. The
good the eagle does in attacking pests more than out-
weighs any harm he may do in this way’.
“Sassafras”: Tell “M.G.C.” (B. 24/2/’2l) ,
that a snake courtship starts with the female making
the first move. She is always
the wooer for the first few
days, then she retires, and his
lordship is complete boss for
the remainder of the term,
which may last a fortnight—
this depends on the species.
A carpet-snake is in no way
disturbed during mating
season, but black and other
venomous kinds become very
nasty if molested at aii.
Have been among the wrig-
glers now for 24 years and
never heard a “hiss” yet.
A microscope on the snake's
mouth and throat shows that
their formation will not allow
a “hiss.” The snake’s natural
noise or call is hardly audible
and is not unlike the noise
produced by drawing- the lid
off a box of wax-vestas. The
best authority on snakes in
the world, Dr. fl. A. Boulenger, formerly of the
British Museum, and now in Brussels, to whom l
have sent specimens, backs me up in this.
* * * *
“FY7”: “H.V.E.” and “Culub” have as-
serted in recent issues of The Bulletin' that the
poison of Indian snakes is much more deadly than
that of their Australian cousins. Both seeni to have
overlooked the fact that most of the poisonous Indian
snakes are vipers, injecting the poison through a tube
inside the fang. The Australian snakes (colubrines
with one exception, the death-adder, a viper) run
the poison down a groove on the curved back of the
fang, which is open on its posterior surface. In
biting some of the poison is liable to be lost before
entering the wound, especially when clothing is
bitten through. Again, the fangs of the colubrines
are nothing like as long as those of the vipers, as
an examination of those of the death-adder, un-
doubtedly the deadliest of our poison snakes, will
show. Moreover, as “H.V.E.” notes, the Indian
snake has quantities of bare people to bite, whereas
local industry in this line is handicapped by the
amount of clothing worn. Our tiger-snake does his
best to overcome his handicap by his habit of hang-
ing on like a bulldog and injecting every last drop of
venom. That is why he runs his viper cousin a close
second in the Morgue Stakes.
* * * *
“Wafin”: If “M.G.C.” (B. 24/2/’2l)
selects a healthy black snake and throws him upon a
sheet of glass, polished steel or other smooth surface
he will hear more “hissing” than Fender credits
Sydney barrackers with having bestowed on him.
“Murranji”: I agree with “Barcoo” (B.
30/12/’2O) when he says Lanee Skuthorpe was a
balance rider. “XXX” (B. 17/2/’2l) is also right
when he says Skuthorpe could ride behind pads. But
he talks through his top thatoh when he iys Lanee
“invariably rod, behind pad. in hr, ekhibitions." I
THE CONSIDERATE HUSBAND..
MOSES: “ Didn't see your wife with you at the races, Ike.”
ISAAC: No, Motheth; but I took the paper home tho the could read about ’em."
have seen the deaf chap in every part of Queensland,
i and each time he gave an exhibition he rode a bad’un
in a light exercise saddle: sometimes with stirrups
and sometimes without. The public contest in Bris-
bane in 1906 (which 1 presume is what “XXX” refers
to) was not won by Waite, neither did Lance Sku-
thorpe compete. The contest was won by Duncan
Reilly, of Ipswich. Turner, a yellow fellow, was
second, and Billy Dingle, of Miriam Vale, third.
Maite did not compete. I know, as I was one of
the committee appointed by Skuthorpe to conduct the
contest. My diary shows all the riders and their
performances, as I was in attendance the whole eight
nignts. During the contest Lance rode a bay horse,
Queenslander, in a light poley saddle. It was the
best exhibition given during the show.
* ¥r * *
“Boomerang”: Seven Christmases ago a
tramp died at Wentworth (N.S.W.), and the
coroner found that he passed out from heart-failure
accelerated by shock—he had been bitten by a
harmless green tree snake! Any bush medico can
tell of men who have died of imaginary poisonous
snakebites, and Several northerners have died from
the bite of the “deadly” red-backed spider which is
not deadly. Modern scientists hold that the red-
backed spider cannot possibly kill, or even paralyse,
a man with its venom; but a nervous person who
imagines the bite to be mortal can work himself up
to such a pitch by his own mental suggestion as to
bring upon himself a state of coma, from which death
may result if he remains undisturbed.
* * *- y.
Spook’: Let me hop into this argument
between “Bad Australian” and the Vic. School
Paper (B. 3/3/’2l). Three months ago I went gunning
for Brother ’Bat in the moonlight. Got a shot at him.
and he disappeared into a handy burrow. Partner
brought a hurricane-lamp and long-handled shovel.
We found the burrow full to overflowing with water.
After a three-quarters-of-an-hour’s fight we dragged
the ’bat to the surface by the hind leg alive. A
post-mortem in the morning showed death from
strangulation—not from gunshot, wounds, nor from
asphyxiation.
Mon C. : The sedate young man in
charge of. the aboriginal mission station at Bangle-
dool was accosted by Doris. “Look here, boss,” she
began, “mine want it divorce that pfella ’Arry.”
“Yes, Doris,” replied the mission man, “tell me all
aboui, it; I may be able to arrange for a separation.”
“Well,” she went on, “that ’Arry alwis trinkin’ too
much.” “That’s no good, Doris, because you drink
just as much as Harry does.” “Well,” she said, “that
Arr\ boomally me too much—him blacken my eves
lars Monday.” “That won’t do either, Doris, be-
cause I saw you boomally Harry with a nulla-nulla
last Sunday.” Doris had depended on drunkenness
and cruelty to procure for her the desired divorce;
and now she became desperate. “Look here, boss,''’
she said, “I got it good idea that lars-pfeller
piccaninny no belonga him—put that in.”
“Sassafras”: Re “14’ s ” u-hite int* (B
24/2/’2l). The nests rannnt v , . ~
direct contact with il U ? f theJ '- V
adopted throughout n 6 , ear ! b ’ and the pnnclp e
OTtfSSShttS? "* Territory, the
ing S'S,”
that the house stands on. No nails should lie driven
through the iron, as the smallest hole allows the
white ant to get through. Would advise “14” to
get a bottle-jack, lift his house a quarter of an
inch all round, slip the iron caps on his blocks, and
he need not worry any more, as the white ants will
automatically exterminate themselves. They will
certainly eat away a block or two, but these can be
replaced at any time.
'Six-and-eight": Liquids of different
chemical compositions require varying degrees of heat
to make them boil. The reason why “Jim Carew's”
billy of hot artesian water (B. 24/2/’2l) took nearly
as long to boil as his mate’s billyful from the water-
bag was probably because the bore-water and the
waterbag-water were not chemically identical. The
occurrence might also have
resulted from (1) the open
fire giving heat unequally
to tlie billies, or (2) the
cubical contents of the
billies not being the same
—it takes less heat to boil
a pint than a hogshead.
THE BIG LOTTERY.
“But do yon mean to tell me that when a
man wants to get married he's got to
pay for a license?"
"Certainly. A man's got to put some money
up in any gamble."
“Friday Island”: Tell “Struth” (B.
10/3/’2l) that thrashing will never reform poultry-
eating terriers. Tie one of the dead birds around
Snapper’s neck for 24 hours. If he doesn’t shun
poultry after that I'll sell my farm and go to sea.
(Continued on page 22 .)
THE WOMAN ON THE LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you feel your bosom swellin' as some glib-
tongued bloke is tellin’
How the Bush was tamed an' harnessed by man’s
strong an' willin’ hand;
W hen you hold your head more proudly as you sing
“Australia” loudly,
Do you have a thought to spare about the Woman
on the Land ?
T her e s romance in every acre; every man’s an
Empire-maker
W here the light is waged with axe an’ saw, an’
spade an’ plough an’ brand;
Every Aussie heart should glory in the tellin’ of the
story,
But should never skip the bit about the Woman
on the Land.
There are queens in skillion-houses, robed in cotton
skirts an’ blouses
Reignin’ grandly o’er selections of pure brumbv-
scrub an' sand;
They don't need no legislature, the? are autocrats of
nature,
An' their kings are proud to rule beside these
Women on the Land.
In Australia’s vacant places thrones are made of
kero.-cases,
Royal gems are love-lit eyes that shine in faces
weather-tanned ;
(Towns would just be awkward-lookin’ stuck on
queens that do the cookin’,
But the old felt hats are fetch'iri’ on the Women
on the Land.
Hardships they are daily darin’, all their sex’s bur-
dens bearin’,
har from comforts that their sisters of the pam-
pered towns command,
But they keep on bravely smilin', years of lonely toil
beguilin’
For the men who sweat an’ labor for the Women
on the Land.
THE LIMIT.
ERBERT: “Take my advice, ’Grace, and don’t
trust Sam; e’d' do yer for yer socks.”
On selection, farm and station there’s a tough voung
generation
Springm - up to keep Australia white, from bush
to silver strand—
Souths*who know no law but duty, maidens blessed
with health and beauty,
Laughin’, freedom-lovin' children of the Woman
on the Land.
When you join the mob in praisin' those who spend
their lives in blazin’
I racks for other men to safely tread, our pioneerin'
band,
Don t forget that loads are lightened, and long days
cf trial brightened,
By the love and brave endurance of the Woman
on the Land.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


mn
BUILT-IN” QUALITY & SERVICE!
Cooper T-iittle Giant. Deep
Well Pumping Jack.
m
Cooper Power Sheep Spraying Outfit.
The Quality and Efficiency of Cooper Products
are being emphasised daily by the satisfaction
and enthusiasm of owners all over Australia.
You are assured of efficiency, economy of operation and long years of
service when you instal Cooper machines. They are the product of
more than a century’s constant working towards these aims.
For pumping, shearing, spraying, etc., Cooper machines stand supreme.
Write for full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING GO. LTD.
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane. N. Z. Loan &M. A. Co., Hughenden, Towns-
ville, Rockhampton. Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Perth. Aust. Imp. &H. F. Co.,
Adelaide. Buchanan, Davidson, Ltd., Hobart.
nm
The famous Cooper Air-cooled
Handpiece.
Fits any make of Shearing Gear.
Cooper Improved Belt
Overhead Bear.
Cooper EITTEE WONDER 2 -®t and
Shearing; and Crutching: Outfit.
HAVE YOB EVER CONSIDERED THIS QUESTION:
How often are you able to enjoy
MUSIC played upon your own piano?
YOU, in all probability, have not had time or
opportunity to acquire the skill necessary to play
the piano, and have had to depend upon others
for your musical enjoyment. The remedy is easily
found. As the possessor of a
VICTOR PLAYER PIANO
you are no longer dependent on the trained pianist for
your music; you have at once the power that has taken
them years of drudgery and practice to acquire, and
YOU can sit down and play the music of your choice
whenever you feel so inclined, providing not only
continual enjoyment and entertainment for yourself but
also your family and your friends.
surcr
COME IN and talk the matter over with us and see how easy it is to secure a “VICTOR.” Your
present piano can be taken in exchange at its full value and the balance spread over a period of
years by moderate monthly payments.
CATALOGUES ARE FREE. WRITE FOR ONE.
n
358 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE “VICTOR” IS THE MOST POPULAR INSTRUMENT IN AUSTRALIA.


There is no 8-hour day for housewives!
Toiling at least 16 hours per day the average
housewife gets little time to rest her weary
limbs. Especially now during the summer
months she feels the need of a nourishing,
stimulating tonic. Why not CLEMENTS
TONIC? For over thirty years CLEMENTS
TONIC has maintained its popularity in
Australian households. Pleasant to take,
economical to buy—CLEMENTS TONIC is
a boon to women workers who feel the need
of a tonic. Better order a bottle from the
chemist or grocer now!
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, X.S.W.
“Muza”: Notwithstanding “H.V.E.'s”
assertion (B. 24/2/'2l) the cobra (Saja tripudians)
is far more deadly than either the black-snake
(Pseudechio porphiiriocus ) or the tiger-snake (Hop-
locephalus curtus). The toxicity of their venoms is
approximately the same, o.ooo2sgram being th*
minimum lethal dose per kilo body-weight in tin
rabbit; but the amount of venom ejected differs
considerably. Tims the cobra ejects o.2f>gram (dried
weight) and the tiger 0.00, while the black's dona-
tion is only O.Olgram. Further, the venoms are al
viscid fluids varying in color from pale amber to
deep yellow—not colorless as “H.V.E.” alleges. In
a dry state the venoms have been preserved for as
much as la years without undergoing any marked
deterioration. His remark that “seropathists have
evolved nothing effective as a snake-bite cure” is un-
fair to the seropathists. Antivenins for cobra,
tiger, water moccasin and others have been in use for
many years. They are produced in a fashion similar
to the übiquitous diphtheria antitoxin and are quite
specific.
“Choppy”: Don’t know about the bull-
bullock combination (B. 3/3/’2l), but once I worked
a gelding and a stallion as a pair for six months
on the farm. The gelding was in good condition when
they started, but lest condition rapidly, and was very
poor at the end of the time. He was usually a good-
tempered beast, but both animals were restless and
irritable when coupled in harness. An old cocky
told me that a.gelding when worked with a stallion
falls off in condition because the latter looks on him
with contempt. I dunno.
* * * *
“Eddyson's” tragedy of the Nine Mile :
When Taddy’s 20-year-old daughter, Anne, weary
of the depression of the Nine Mile, dropped a bundle
out of the back window of the wretched four-roomed
crib, walked through the front door, hatless, and
struck a bee-line for Sedgeton and
the up train, Taddy remained for three
days cogitating o'er the note she had
left, and he faded strangely in that
short time. Then he wandered down
the track himself, speaking to Colt
and the .Bennings by the way. His
daughter, he said, had gone to Mel-
bourne for a few days. Already he
was expecting her back. “Of course
she’ll come back,” he said with con-
viction. “She bein’ the only one left
since Nick was shot in the war.” He
passed on to the township, and waited
for the train. When he did not find
her among the passengers he told the
porter he “s’posed somethin’ important
kep’ her. She can’t come up till ter-
morrer now.” After that, for r.s
long as his coffin-headed old bay
horse survived the strain, Taddy drove
in every day to meet the train and
take his daughter home. After the
horse died, Taddy was always too late
for the train, and he put in half the
day drifting about Sedgeton seeking
people who might have .met Anne,
and every week put a year on to
Taddy’s age. Time passed, and Taddy
grew too weak to walk to the railway,
so he spent much of his time on a
big stump on the ironstone road wait-
ing for Anne, and eventually the
neighbors had to sec to it that he
did not actually starve. Taddy was
only 50, but he looked 80. One day
a girl carrying a bundle came up the
ironstone road. He knew her, and
took her in his arms. “I knew if the
mother- couldn't come her daughter
would,” he said. And he told his
neighbors that his daughter Anne was
dead, but her grown daughter had
come back to old Taddy, and he
thought now maybe he could die in
peace. Everybody humored him, but
as a matter of fact the girl who had
gone and who had now come back had
been awav only 11 months.
“Steve Hart” : N.S.W. North Coast sleeper-
squarers are not a bit surprised at “J.G.’s” bloke
(B. 17/2/"2,1) who squares the four sides of a sft.
Sin gauge sleeper in 21 clouts—but “J.G.” omitted
to say bow many shouts it takes to square the man
who passed it. Here’s the record of Jack Payne, a
X.C. squarcr near me: a 6ft. Gin. x Bin. x fin.
squared in 90 seconds. In a recent competition for
squaring he did two Bft. x 9in. x oin. sleepers in
11 minutes, winning the prize.
“Eddyson”: How account for the likes and
dislikes of the common or garden mosquito? I have
just witnessed a marked manifestation of favoritism on
the part of the detested insect. Of two little girls,
cousins, sleeping in one cot, one was ruthlessly bitten
in the course of the night, the other escaped without
a. spot. The bitten babe is a pommy. My dad, who
came to this country as a boy, has had all the other
“colonial experiences,” but has never been bitten by
a mosquito. I thought I had the same
immunity till one summer a few years back
when I went to stay a night at Port
Hacking (N.S.W.), and then I was literally
riddled. Here in Melbourne no mosquito ever dreams
of probing me. How comes it that I have to go to
Port Hacking to revel in the common experience?
Possibly the mosquitoes there will eat any old thing,
About the Gippsland lakes district they turn me
down, yet this is one of the most mosquito-infested
places on earth, and a resident told me that it
wasn’t safe to throw a newly-removed cow-hide across
the fence, as the mosquitoes would puncture and ruin
it. Is it a question of skin quality? If so, why not
investigate the peculiarities of the mosquito-proof
cuticle for the possible benefit of tiie too susceptible?
OLD CAMPAIGNERS.
FIRST SMALL BOY: “My dad was shut in a French castle for a week, surrounded by
Germans."
SECOND SMALL BOY: “Pooh, what's that ter skitc about! Why, ice been shut up in
dozens of houses surrounded by bailiffs."
“Ragar”: “Murkah’s off-hand explanation
(B. 24/2/’2l) of “T.E.A.'s” mysterious floating lights
leaves me cold. I’ve seen similar lights, and the ex-
planation won't do. Every Abo.-liar knows all about
“the decomposition of vegetable matter producing
phosphorated hydrogen, which on contact with the
oxygen of the atmosphere spontaneously ignites and
burns with a phosphorescent glow.” But the night-
lights that I’ve seen were over drought-baked country
as innocent of vegetation as Venus was of clothing,
and as dry and hot as the hobs of Hell. Also the
light was not intermittent, but as steady and con-
fined as a street-lamp in a fog. Can any other
scientific Abo. pass along a better reading of the
riddle? There was no decomposing corpse, human or
otherwise, in the vicinity either, for I thought of
that, and looked.
“Bright” : “Arthur R’s.” par (B. 24/2/’2l)
reminds me of a remarkable cure which came under
my notice some year;, ago. A girl about
nine years of age waS bitten on the leg
by a small foxie, and the doctor, after
vainly trying for 12 months to check
the spreading trouble from the wound,
decided upon an amputation at the knee.
One morning the girl was sitting on the
Verandah nursing, the bare wound while
her mother prepared the dressing for it,
when the family canine, a large collie,
(ame nosing around and wanted to lick
the sore. Thinking that it might case
the almost intolerable pain the girl
allowed the dog to do so. This went on
for several days, the child’s mother not
being aware of it. When the doc. called
to say that things were ready for the
operation he was surprised at the im-
proved aspect of the wound, and asked
as to the cause. Being scared the kiddie
confessed. The quack told them to let the
dog lick the sore for another week or
so and he would see how it looked
then. The operation wasn’t necessary, as
the wound was completely healed within a month.
The saddest part of the case was that the collie
himself died within a few weeks after his lapse
into medicine.
“Murkah”: “Dean"’ asks (B. 3/3/’2l)
why dogs roll on dead things—the deader the better.
Probably it is to stink out the parasites—fleas, etc.--
with which dogs are infested. The one portion of a
dog's anatomy that he can’t well scratch is the upper
part of his neck. There the fleas congregate, and
that is the section that gets most careful attention
when a rolling-seance is on. The fact that a per-
fectly clean dog performs the rite with the same
attention to detail has no bearing on the case. The
instinctive impulse built up by 10,000 generations of
dogs can’t be resisted.
“Sliprails”: “Murkah” (B. 24/2/’2l)
says that if moonlight affected the eyes of sleepers
all the swaggies in Aussie would be blind. Xon-
sense. On a summer moonlight night they cover up
every inch to beat the mosquitoes, ° and oil a winter
moonlight night they say they can’t sleep unless
they’ve got their ’ead between their legs. I’ll bet
“Murkah” 10s. to a two-years’ drought that he can’t
spot an inch of a swaggie after lie says
Saw one with a cheesecloth mosquito-net, and he used
to chuck his strides over the top of the net to
shade off ihe moon.
“S.C.McL.”: Eric McDonald, who Tie
veracity is undoubted, told me how he lost a valuable
three-months old red sheep-pup. While mustering,
with the pup following, he chased a doe kangaroo
with a big joey in her pouch. She didn’t go far be-
fore she threw out the joey, as is customary with
them. Eric secured the joey and the pup followed
the doe, who stopped after going a short distance and
waited for the pup to come up. To Eric's astonish-
ment the doe caught up the pup, pushed him into
her pouch, jumped a fence and was soon out of sight.
“Centre”: “Murkah” slates (B. 24/2/’2l)
that “the power of light, after reflection, is the
merest fraction of its original strength.” Has lie
ever tried the power of reflected sunlight through a
OVER THE ODDS.
THE CRITIC : “Yes. but aren't these goose-
berries rather dirty?"
THE MERCHANT: “Dirty! Think a bloke can
wash 'em and part their 'air in the
middle for fourpence a pound these 'aid
times?"
burning glass? An ordinary match is fired in
exactly' the same time by the reflected rays of the sun
through a reading-glass as by the direct rays
through the same glass. How’s that? I'm not dis-
puting his argument against the power of the sun’s
rays as reflected from the moon. Mv reflector was
just an ordinary hand-mirror, and the reflection was
thrown from the further end of the verandah, 22ft.
from where I held a reading-glass over a match.
ON THE DISADVANTAGE OF COMING SECOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Along the road to Jericho
He went as one that grieves;
lie saw the rose of Sharon blow
And thought of thorns and thieves;
For there the good Samaritan
Had picked a victim up.
He felt as one who “also ran”
And did nbt win the Cup.
A Levite and a Priest went by.
“Not these,” he said, “for me.” •
The Levite heaved a tender sigh ;
The Priest walked gingerly.
And then he saw the thing he sought,
A wounded man and sore,
A person that the thieves had caught,
Who weltered in his gore.
1 do not know what “welter” means
But it seems fair in rhyme,
The sort of word that softly leans
Against an “elder” time—
The time our fathers knew, “in sooth” ;
It “little boots” to tell
How all his spirit yearned in “ruth”
For that sad “wight” who fell.
These words removed from off his chest,
He raised the injured man
And tried to do his level best
Like that Samaritan.
In fact, he did a little more;
He got him on his back
And took him to the tavern door
Along three miles of track.
And there he called a doctor in
With much display of wealth
To dress the holes made in his skin
And dose him into health.
And then with flourish and with twist
He wrote the tale of woe
And went with his subscription-list
Through ancient Jericho.
He raised a sum of twenty pounds
To help the man in need;
The doctor on his morning rounds
Proclaimed his splendid deed.
The women o’er the back-yard fence
Discussed it all the day
Till children brought their hoarded pence
To where the sick man lav.
A STUDY IN ANATOMY.
“Your laugh shows me that you arc abso-
lutely heartless.”
“Good gracious, did I open my mouth as
wide as that!”
The hero smiled a gentle smile,
As heroes always do.
His heart was proud, but free from guile;
His fame increased and grew.
“Ah, now,” he said, “the deed is done
And I can calmly sit
Assured that I have fairly won
A place in Holy Writ.”
Alas', alas, the man got well;
A heedless soul was he.
He took his cash, as gossips tell,
And went upon the spree.
And then the hero joined his fall,
He felt so badly bitten;
For no one noticed him at all
When Holy Writ was written.
Along the road to Jericho
The thieves still strip and rob.
The Priest and Levite wisely go
Straight by and save a bob ;
But good Samaritans have curst
With frequent objurgation
The one who, chancing to be first,
Bought cheap his reputation.
For tuppence in the limelight's glow
Is worth ten quid forgotten:
And down the road to Jericho
Arithmetic is rotten.
A thousand splendid deeds are done,
But not one scores in seven ;
And few men care to “also run”
Within the eyes of Heaven.
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ HOSES.


mn
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality—a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
SrSTE(gPRpSS
CIGARETTES
>
N 9333 20-1/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
))’
%
%
L 2
vP
''O
V
o>
O'
A.
i
O
large size
VT'
i mm mak
m
m
m
Wmwffw


indicates stHol^dl
in PERDRIAU TYRES
J
*
Sk
■; ' ffe- 4
—» —„„ I —\ ... if
! -I- '
m w
M
A
i&m
H
m
■ ■
d
f ' ■
m
m
1
\
iiSsE-
Ml
R
Sgfi^Vj
;
»SWfi
smi{'h £. Ju*i w 5
sfuC!os
r
£3
H
mu iiiiiiiiyliii
■
liiiai
liwiiiliia
■
m
1 ■
■
m
31% lbs.
POSITIVE PROOF
Positive proof of the quantity of rubber and
canvas in a tyre is provided by the scale test,
and the more rubber and canvas "built in’'
the better the service that comes out.
Tested on the scales Perdriau Tyres are
proved to contain from 12 to 33 per cent.
more rubber and canvas than
other leading tyres.
Compare the 'weights!
OBTAINABLE FROM
PERDRIAU RUBBER
CO. LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Perth
These big , substantial\ Terdriau Tyres
certainly deliver the extra service . ”
Perdriau
’ Sturdyl
Australiaiv
m


Tkt
Purest
Spirit
&&
&
&
Fife's schnap^
nm
MARSHALL
Locomobiles.
#
\
To owners of big power-plants and to those interested in mining
machinery, textile machinery, flour mills, saw-mills and crushing
plants the Marshall proposition will appeal., Low fuel consump-
tion is an outstanding feature—this means economy in running
costs.
Marshall Locomobiles use wood, coal or any combustible fuel.
High pressure, super-heated steam.
50 to 350 H.P.
Get particulars.
n
Phone Cent 403/
mn
NATIONAL MUTUAL BUILDINGS
ENGINEERINGS l T - D
C? COLLINS 8, QUEEN STREETS
Bo*l3O3CPO* MELBOURNE •
N.S.W. Agents: AUSTRAL. ENGINEERING CO., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents: PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: GENERAL MACHINERY & ELECTRICAL CO.,
Brisbane.
What the
MULT/GPAPH
IS
A compact printing
plant that will enable
you to turn out efficiently
and economically your
printing within the privacy
of ynur own establishment.
The Multigraph Senior Printer
It is operated by elec-
tricity, fed automatic-
ally and prints from printers’
type and electrotype forms
(cliches) in the same manner as
a large cylinder or rotary press
at the rate of from 2400 to 4800
copies per hour.
It is the means of securing
your printed matter with-
out delays and inconveniences—
without turning your organiza-
tion into a print shop—but at a
saving of 25 % to 75%.
The Multigraph also pro-
duces clear cut typewritten
letters, printed by means of type-
writer type through a ribbon.
Any number can be produced
and the last is as clean and sharp
as the first.
Let us give you detailed infor-
mation.
Stott & Underwood
70 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
tains at a bound. He takes no thought of
the toil in climbing. Obstacles are to be got
rid of, not surmounted. There was little
humor, save of a very broad kind. I could
see the joke a long way off, and didn’t laugh.
As a boy I would have chuckled. I remem-
ber that I read every week about the
adventures of Jack, Sam and Fete, and the
doings and sayings of the blaekfellow Fete
used to send me and my mates into fits of
laughter. A few years later I couldn’t read
the same yarns, could see no humor in them.
And the love element was almost entirely
eliminated, though a beautiful girl was one
of the characters and had to be rescued by
the hero. Of course a boy likes to imagine
himself doing such things (I used to), but
he is not sentimental about it. That phase
of life is about 17 and 18. Then Charles
Garvice comes in.
Finally, the book appealed in a subtle way
to a boy’s filial affection, very strong at this
age; and it also upheld the dignity of the
law, while the courage displayed by nearly
all characters bar the one coward would fire
any boy reader.
As a teacher I don’t see why these yarns—
-1 don’t mean the blood-and-thunder ones,
which are dying out, anyway—should not be
included in school libraries. I know I am a
Goth for making such a suggestion. But
why not? I have known dozens and dozens
of youngsters who very, very seldom read a
school-library book—selected by adults, of
course—but are faithful readers of these
penny and threepenny “weeklies.” They are
good yarns from a boy’s point of view, and it
is according to his ideas, generally speaking,
that school-library books should be chosen —
not according to the ideas of the teacher, or
any other adult.
There are certain books that adults have
read, and think are absolutely the “real
thing” in boys’ literature. One of them is
R. L. Stevenson’s “Treasure Island.” That
story was risked as a serial in Young
Folks, then a very popular journal. Adults
praised it. A plebiscite of the boy readers
showed that they would sooner have had the
yarns of Alfred Phillips, now an almost for-
gotten writer.
COUNTRY PED.
“Now, Gents, Please!”
John Keats ought to be London’s greatest
pride. There have been other poets born
within the sound of Bow Bells; but not
only are they beneath Keats in achievement,
but none is so intimately cockney. It is
true that Edmund Spenser was born in East
Smithfield, but the London of 1552 is not
the London of George 111. _ Geoffrey
Chaucer, too, was probably a native of the
little town of Edward 111. set in its green
fields and separated by dangerous stretches
of open country from Westminster, though
his father had land at Ipswich, and he
might have seen the light in Suffolk. But
Keats was the son of a servant at a London
inn in the cock-fighting, port-wine-drinking,
snuffy times when Nelson was destroying
the French fleets and Australia had her full
quota of convicts. In the 17 lines which
Keats dropped from his “Eve of St. Mark”
—lines which, after he had discarded them,
his biographers are still careful to record —
a curious cockneyism is found: —
For sooth to sain from everich house
Be it in City or village
Wol come the Phantom and image
Of ilka gent and ilka carl.
“Gent” is pure cockney. It never could by
any chance have stood in any old script -with
“ilka” and “carl.” The first literary use
of “gent” is as late as 1654; and it is
conjectured that where it is written it is
merely an abbreviation, and thpt the reader
would give it the full value of “gentleman.”
Frequently it appears with a full-point after
it in the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-
turies, showing that it is a contraction; but
there are a few' examples of it w’ithout the
point in otherwise good writings of the late
eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.
The imaginary script of the life and death of
St. Mark, which Bertha is supposed to read,
should, however, from its language, date
back at lenst to the fifteenth century; and
“gent” is as much out of place there as
“bosker” or “dinkum” would be. The in-
teresting thing about the use of the word in
such a connection is the proof it affords that
it. was prominent in Keats’s own vocabulary.
We can understand him addressing Shelley
and Leigh Hunt as “you gents”; and the
phrase doesn’t go well with “The coming
musk-rose, full of dewy wine.” There are
smoke and stale beer and tips for a sad-
eyed waiter in a phrase like “you gents.”
M.M.C.
The Brontes
The literary problem of the Bronte sisters
has as strong a fascination as ever for the
student; and that fascination is in no way
lessened by the fact that the four books and
handful of verses on which their fame rests
have faded a good deal with the years. The
woman novelist was no new thing in 1847
—the year in which “Jane Eyre” was pub-
lished. For nearly a century stories of
greater or less merit had appeared over
women’s names: and many of these had
attained as great popularity in their day as
anything the Brontes wrote. It was the
striking self-revelation of the books that
gave them their place. No woman had writ-
ten in this way before, written of the inner
things of life with knowledge, frankness and
eager sincerity; and when the literary world
discovered that the books were the work
of two young women who led an almost
cloistered life in the Yorkshire moors the
thing became more than a nine-days’ won-
der. It was an acute problem, paralleled only
by the mystery of Sbakspeare and the in-
spirational marvel of the boy Keats. Scores
of books have been written on the subject
and thousands of articles: there is even
a Bronte museum somewhere in which relics
of the family are reverently preserved.
Bronte worship is, in fact, a ver£ wide cult;
and the changing litany of praise runs to
very extravagant statement. Thus, a Swin-
bourne could declare that the perfect trinity
of English female greatness consisted of
Charlotte and Emily Bronte and Mrs.
Browning. George Eliot and Jane Austin
did not, in his view, get a look in; yet on
a fair reading of the Bronte w r ork such a
judgment is seen to be more sentimental
than critical. No Bronte novel is true to life,
because each has a background of pessimism
and cynicism. "Jane Eyre” is a good story
of a gloomy sort; “Shirley” a fair story
which drags rather wearily in places; “Vil-
lette” is a bad story astonishingly well told.
“Wuthering Heights” is an amazing book,
which seems to contain a great promise;
but the narrative is wild and confusing, and
the interest is constantly centred on people
who are mere grotesques and gargoyles in
their primal passion and spleen. Very much
praise has been lavished on Emily BrontS’s
poems; but there again it is the promise
rather than an achievement of the first mag-
nitude that calls forth the applause. Much of
the verse is poor; most of the thought is
slight and rather commonplace; but there
are gleams to be thankful for. But while
the Brontg work may be faithfully summed
up in this way, the Bronte family might have
produced a great deal less and still remained
an object of intense interest. The writers
have been accounted for in all sorts of ways,
but seldom in the most direct and simple
fashion. Thus C’lutton-Brock says of Char-
lotte :
We wonder that she should have come out of that
Yorkshire parsonage, as if she wrote by a miracle
about things she had never seen or known. But it
was the contrast between her real life and what
she desired that made her art. Everything good
in it is taken from external or internal experi-
ence ; there is the dark foil of reality to all her
dreams. The plot is always made by the adventures
of her own soul, and they are stranger than any
adventures of romantic heroes in outlandish coun-
tries.
Just so ; but the story of her soul was the
story of romantic adventure in an outland-
ish country. The father of the novelists was
born in Ireland within a day’s walk of the
very centre of Irish legend and romance.
The girls to the last always spoke of the
Ireland they had never seen as “home.” The
Bronte family was, in fact, a little bit of
the warm, passionate, eager heart of Ire-
land set in the coldest, harshest and most
forbidding part of England. The girls lived
in bright dreams and felt bitter realities.
They wrote by way -of unconscious protest
against it all in the cause of something finer
and sweeter which was racial and which they
instinctively knew.
In Ireland they would never have formed
those harsh, cynical views of life, however
hard the pressure of mere circumstance,
There would always have been room there
for laughter and for tears. In Yorkshire
their eyes were dry, their mouths unsmiling,
The people they met were foreign to them;
they missed the heroic; they painted life
as they had met it, painted it to its shame,
Perhaps in Ireland Charlotte would have
been a kindly matron and good neighbor,
loved and honored, but not famous; Emily,
I think, ivould have risen to nobler heights,
would have found romance, idealism, faith
and a great love of life: and would have
sung long and grandly. But Haworth and
the father who had renounced Ireland and
poverty for a singularly barren English
career were too much for them,
C.O.M.
A Satchel of Books
Bergson and his Philosophy, by Alexander Gunn
(Methuen). The business of re-constructing the cos-
mos to suit the fashion of an age has a fierce attrac-
tion for a certain class of mind ; and the modern
philosopher gets a hearing more because people like
to play with words than because the words in the
mass are likely- to be of any practical use. Plato
lives because he had imagination; and in any case
ancient philosophy dealt with things which got close
to the practical. But modern philosophers live in a
different place. They are the spiritual descendants of
the Christian philosophic fathers who chopped
theology into such fine fragments and split hairs so
delicately rather than of the sturdy pagans who
taught in Athens. Bergson has a present popularity,
and this book tries to explain him. Take a sample:
“Our ordinary conception of Time.. that which
comes to us from the physical sciences, is, Bergson
maintains, a false one. It is false because so far
from being temporal in character, it is spatial. We
look upon space as a homogeneous medium without
boundaries; yet we look on Time too as just such
another medium, homogeneous and unlimited. Now
here there is an obvious difficulty, for, since homo-
geneity consists in being without qualities, it is diffi-
cult to see how one homogeneity ; -can be distinguished
from another. This difficulty is usually avoided by
the assertion that homogeneity takes two forms, one
in which its contents co-exist and another in which
they follow one another. But this we are surely not
entitled to maintain, tor we are then distinguishing
two supposed homogeneities by asserting a difference
of qualitv in them. To do this is to take away
homogeneity.”
All this may be quite true, it may even be
amusing; but it is mere playing with words.
It belongs to the sphere of those who drew up the
Athanasian Creed rather than to the realm of Plato.
Much of the book contains matter quite as lucid and
entertaining as that quoted.
A Son of Courage, by Archie P. McKishnie
(Thomas Allen, Toronto). A boy’s book with plenty
of schoolboy pranks, a considerable plot and very
fair portrayal of character. The scene is near a
Canadian lake, and a lot of matter of a kind fresh
to Australian readers is introduced. Pleasant work.
The Early Explorers of Tasmania, by Clive E.
Lord. The author of this compact little handbook is
curator of the Tasmanian museum; and the informa :
tion is of the kind likely to lead the reader to
inquire further. Details of the work of 14 explorers
from 1642 to 1816 are given. There is also a list of
places named during these early expeditions.
Romance and Reality, by S. N. Hogg. The author
says that “this book has a message and meaning for
all time.” It may have; but it is a pretty crude
medium of fiction in which the message is delivered.
Manner and matter are poor; and the absurdities are
many but not joyous.


FiFFolTTfe
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
For Interior and Exterior
Walls and Ceilings.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are con-
siderably cheaper than wood, steel, lath and
plaster, or other materials for Interior Walls
and Ceilings and cheaper and more durable than
weatherboard for Exterior Walls. “Fibrolite”
is fire-retardant, white-ant-proof, and improves
with age.
Write for Free Catalogue “11.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“ASBESTOS HOUSE,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
■f/;
A Look Before a Leap
is a wise precaution. But it invariably pays
to take this step.
Send your Kangaroo, Rabbit, Fox, Goat,
Whiptail and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen Only, LTD,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
TOP MARKET VALUES. PROMPT RETURNS.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
for Colonial Riding.
Conditions make it imperative that
only a bicycle of proved merit be
chosen when buying a new mount.
Start well from the beginning and
purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings. The reliability and
long service of bicycles con-
structed of B.S.A. Fittings make
them an investment which pays
immediately from the date of
purchase, and saves many troubles.
m
All B.S.A. Parts
are guarantee
interchangeable
A
K Sign ol
Quality.
Send tor Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.).
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
mm
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
n
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust -Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES—various sni \».
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—•
Zinc Producers’ Association Ztd
Contractors with tlic British Board of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mn
A. W. High-speed Milling Cutters
for ACCURACY, ENDURANCE and CUTTING POWERS.
Manufactured by
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.,
Manchester, England.
Stocks carried in all States of all sizes in IIOUGHING,
FINISHING, SLOTTING. SLITTING. SIDE and FACE,
CONVEX, etc.
GILBERT LODGE. & CO. Ltd.,
115 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 506 Little Collies Street, MELBOURNE.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Ciilwulla Chambers.
C'astlereagh Street. SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
On noi Summer driivK
KINO OF TABLE WATER?
Rir'k in
Contain? Linu>so<lal/itttia *>Ma£np?ia
" * P*lJ . luid .
* BallArAt & Sijcbtm]
PURVEYORS TO VICE-ROYALTY
NS
ASP
tsx.
~*ut
Ntfalu
0
Rowlands
A Perfect Drilling Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
I
Description.
Greatest height of drill ..
Greatest distance from spindle to base
Greatest distance from table to spindle
Distance, column to centre of spindle
Diameter of column
Vertical feed of spindle ..
Diameter of table
Spindle fitted for Morse taper .
Size of largest cone pulley
Size of smallest cone pulley
Tight and loose pulleys ..
Revolutions of driving pulleys.
Floor space .. .
G9'm.
394iu.
24 in.
10§in.
siin.
95 in.
15fin.
No. 3
9in. x 2in.
4in. x 2in.
Sin. x 2Jin.
250 R.P.M.
40 in. x 16in.
Call or write for further particulars.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
SCRUTTONS LTD.,
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
m
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Panhandle Pete’’ strikes luck :
I was humming around South Africa before the
Boer War, doing odd jobs for the clergy and others
—mostly others. The Government was just then
throwing open a lot of diamond-mining land, and
to play ’em all fair ground was being thrown open
at 12 o’clock on a Thursday. All the Yids were
after it, of course. About a week before the stunt,
old Beit sent for me. “Pete,” he said, “I want you
to look after our man. See he gets his pegs in
without interference, and see him hack first to the
Warden’s office to register.” “And, Pete,” he says,
“Barney’s got Tug Murphy looking after his man, so
you’d better get a few lads to give you a hand.”
"Righto 1” says I, and off I went and passed the
word for a dozen tough 'uns to report for duty. They
turned up, and, ’struth, I was frightened of ’em
myself. On the way out we saw Tug and his bunch.
Gee-whiz, they were worse than mine! The two men
dead-heated on the last peg, and hopped into the
seven-mile straight neck for neck. Tug and I follow-
ing our fancies and keeping off outsiders. A blazing
day, the going hard and the pace hot, on they
went, plug-plugging, mile after mile, and Barney’s
man won into the office by a head. As I was scrap-
ping with Tug, who was trying to hold us off the
door, I saw his man putting his application over the
counter, and feeling in his pocket for the coin—
and then looking surprised. ■ Quickly I passed my
man up to the counter, and he registers and pays
up. What was the other bloke doing? He couldn’t
pay for his application. His bodyguard had picked
his pocket coming up the straight!
* * * *
“Lahore”: Before the war Germany had a
monopoly of the potash trade. The great
Potash Trust possessed large deposits that
lent themselves to mass production at a low
price. The use of potash as a fertiliser was
enormously increased by a world-wide propa-
ganda. the effect of which was to induce agri-
culturists to use more than they needed. A.
J. Finn and 11. N. Makin. inspectors pf
Agriculture in N. S. Wales, in their book
On vegetable-growing, remark :
The results from potash manures are not seen in
our soils on the same scale as are frequently reported
from other parts of the world | ? Germany], In
fact,, the present writers have never yet seen an
instance of increased production from the use of
potash manure alone.
The thoroughness of the German potash
propaganda may be realised from the follow-
ing extract from a photographic journal:
Modern photographers do not worry much about
the high price and scarcity of bromide of potash, as
it is now generally acknowledged that there is no
real necessity to use potassium for photography,
sodium salts being equally good.... The Germans
had almost a. monopoly of potash sources, so they
flooded not only their own literature, but the photo-
graphic text-books of other countries, with formula-
which mentioned potassium bromide, potassium meta-
bisulphite, and other potassium compounds, deliber-
ately avoiding the suggestion of sodium salts.
Though the N. S. Wales agricultural experts
seem to have discovered the futility of adding
large quantities of potash to the soil, the
Queensland Department of Agriculture con-
tinues to recommend potash as a valuable
manure. Whaffor?
* * * *
“Itellu” : On May 14 an area of 47,000
sq. miles is to be heaved open for pastoral
occupation in Territoria. Over 200 leases
will be offered, and when the occupation and
improvement clauses are put into operation
the new principality will get a start with
more people than Phillip commanded when
he “settled” Australia. It will be nearly
as big as England, fully as big as Roumania,
and four times bigger than Belgium. Ac-
cording to present plans the occupation of
this new country is to be celebrated by much
typewriting and a few scrapes of a fountain-
pen. If I were Hughes 1 should order it
differently. I should begin by calling the
place lliighesbank-—of course—and then de-
clare it a port of entry for airships. I
should take out a party—consisting mostly
of newspaper men—to llughesbank and en-
tertain all the wirewhiskers at a champagne
lunch, which should last for a week. There
certainly should be some function to draw
eyes that way. Many of the new settlers
will become rich on eleauskins immediately.
Fencing and water-supply will find work for
hundreds; and quite likely valuable discov-
eries of minerals will be made —the country
is known to contain gold, wolfram, tin and
copper mines; and coal and oil want looking
for. lii the southern States of Australia it
has always been the fashion to libel the cli-
mate of the North. This has been a greater
hindrance to progress than all the stories
about alligators. The people of the North
utter no complaints when they are up there.
But once they are loose in Sydney or Mel-
bourne they are apt to become worse than
roaring liars.
BALLADE OF SAFETY MATCHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am not fluent in Chinese,
Or swear-words of Afghanistan,
Xor have I the facilities
Of speech of the McTavish clan,
And nothing but a chimpanzee’s
Obscenity of gesture can
Relieve a spirit stirred by these
Match-making efforts in Japan.
I found it jolly once to tease
A little maiden, surnamed San:
I never could correctly seize
Her Christian name. Behind her fan
Iler eyes were almonds cracked to pleaso
The honorable Englishman;
But education tends to freeze
Match-making efforts in Japan.
And then I used to sit at ease
Smoking upon a dim divan,
But now my phosphorescent sneeze
Disturbs the blossoming vales I scan;
For each light struck, with spurt or wheeze,
Expires in fumes as it began.
Count with the devil’s industries
Match-making efforts in Japan!
Mikado, if you would appease
This useless friction, why not ban
With one of your divine decrees
Match-making efforts in Japan?
VICTORIA.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.


Gillette
Gillette supremacy is the supremacy
of perfect materials, scientific design,
and specialised workmanship.
In the Gillette, the makers for the
first time satisfactorily solved the
problem of quick and easy shaving.
Since then, their approval has been
endorsed by twenty million men —
men of every race, every color, every
nation.
A turn of the handle adjusts the
Gillette to any beard —no stropping,
no honing.
Standard set in neat leather case, 28/6.
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors —S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LID.,
Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide.
MADE IN
CAM ADA.
nm
•KNOWN THE
world ove*
ar
/
ft
9
a£
u
A
VEA^
5 I
(I
<0
NEW TASTES
FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES
Give the kiddies these wholesome
meats on their Sandwiches —
“REX” HAM PATE and “REX”
VEAL AND TONGUE PATE
They spread readily and are so appetising
that everyone enjoys them. They are all
pure meat, prepared and packed by the
most hygienic methods. You can have
nothing more wholesome. “Rex” Pates are
great for suppers, parties, picnics, lunches, etc.
Your grocer can supply.
Packed by—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1096
n
POLDI STEEL
Better than ever.
m
Just landing large shipment of
High-Speed Steels
Special Alloyed Steels
Carbon 8 Other Tool Steels
Motor Car Steels
Greatest range of sizes ever landed
in one shipment in Australia.
All enquiries promptly attended to.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The poldi steel works
343 SUSSEX STREET.
SYDNEY.
This _
*^~shirts
7/^
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns —a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory W ear and
Service.
AS 61
Vpee Hus
Uorand on
each shiri
3U
ss
&
AC
<D
i
ft
SSS^
I
<w
m
1
u
m
\\
4*
&


\P
o*
*
I
o
8
\
<rz
%
eg
J
O'
es
t/'
■52
eg
oT
$
y^n
#
Cam breaifie
"Professor Uvertab"
SHORTNESS of breath is not always heart trouble.
Frequently it’s the stomach. The medicine
for it is that remedy for all digestive disorders —
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
They are a pleasant tonic laxative, and a perfect remedy
for indigestion, biliousness, heartburn, palpitation, liver and bowel
troubles. They are especially good for women and children.
Chamberlains Tablets
FOR THE STOMACHanbLIVER
DodgeErothers
MOTOR CAR
The two things above all others which
you will hear about Dodge Brothers
Motor Cars everywhere, are that they
call for little repair and that their
petrol consumption is unusually low.
Except in case of accident or abuse,
replacement of parts is rarely required.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
S 3
6
\
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd.,
Melbourne. Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., L,td.
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co.j Ltd.,
Adelaide.
The cable reports the arrest of a Sinn
Fein commandant who was “disguised as a
cattle-dealer.” What kind of cocked hat
and sword does one wear to look like a
cattle-dealer? It suggests the problem of
making a noise similar to a fresh egg in the
distance.
The only creature at the Zoo that in-
spires real terror nowadays is the stork.
A candidate for an in-and-out record
has put up a brisk performance iu Adelaide.
He was let out on Wednesday morning.
By lunch-time he had called at a jeweller's,
asked to see wedding-rings, and pocketed
two. He was arrested in the afternoon,
trying to sell them at another shop, anu
eariy on Thursday morning was sent back
for another six months.
You must not teach boys to sew on buttons
if you expect men to marry.
“Snell” : If asked to name the Vic. centre
most afflicted with miners’ disease I would
have nominated Clunes a few years ago. To-
day the discredit goes to Omeo. I know
seven women there, cousins, every one of
whom has lost her husband through the
underground worker’s scourge. In another
Omeo family, the father of which has died,
live of the members are similarly afflicted,
and none of these was ever down a mine.
A stitch in time may save nine, but a
stitch in the side is Nature’s reprimand to
the hurried man.
The increase of business in Tas. courts,
for which the new Watkins Divorce Act,
providing divorce for proved desertion, is
largely responsible, has moved Chief Justice
Xicholis to order several extra sittings of
the Supreme Court for April. The Speck
(population 212,000) manages to rub along
with three Judges, and the Supreme Court,
in its various jurisdictions, deals with
pretty nearly every class of case, from pitch-
and-toss to manslaughter.
The most time-honored precedent was
established when Balaam’s ass spoke.
A “Wipers” League has been founded in
London. Ypres is reckoned to have been
the best-known town along the British-Aus-
tralian front, and to have cost something like
a quarter of a million lives in defence. All
who either served or lost a relative there are
being roped in to the league, of which General
French is presidentj annual subscription, ss.
The main object thus far is “to preserve at
Ypres a roll of the dead, and to secure the
erection of an outstanding memorial of the
defence.”
The snob shows his appreciation of a higher
order, just as the more familiar parasites
do, by infesting it.
“Sanitas” : I’ve been waiting for some of
the Brisbane Health folk to make the rather
obvious suggestion that special railway car-
riages should be set apart for children suf-
fering from whooping-cough when going to
the seaside. There’s a whooping epidemic
in Brisbane at present, and any morning one
may see at Melbourne-street station the un-
happy little sufferers engaged in distributing
tk*e germs in various carriages. A very little
commonsense would enable the sick to get to
the ozone without jeopardising the healthy.
“Maranoa”: Melbourne is training up a
multitudinous army of mendicants. Race-
courses and other places of public enter-
tainment are haunted by hordes of small
boys, who cadge under the very noses of the
police. At the suburban picture-show I fre-
quent I have often seen 20 urchins rushing
the trams, as they disgorged their loads, and
sticking up passengers for “thrippence to go
to the flicks.” At half-time they beg pass-
out checks, and, when the show finally
empties at 11 o’clock, the imps are still
there, whining for half-empty boxes of choco-
lates. I w'ent into a bar at Flemington
racecourse, and a nipper of about nine dusted
my boots and held out his dirty paw for a
penny. The performance was repeated by
two other embryo garrotters inside the gates
and by another on the railway platform.
Older boys infest the bar on the Caulfield
flat, and shriek music-hall ditties in nasal
sopranos. Punters throw them odd coppers,
and it pays them better than work. As
things are shaping, the crook-catchers of the
next generation are going to be provided with
plenty of ready-made material for their
labors.
“McNorth” on the outlook in Fiji:—
The O.S.R. and other Fiji planters are deeply
agitated about the labor position in the group. The
native Fijian being an easy-going person of great
dignity and not to be regarded seriously as a worker,
requirements have been met by importations. from
India. The coolies came under indenture, and there
were any number of fresh batches to take their
places when the contracts expired and the toilers
returned to their native smells. Though everyone
appeared to be more or less satisfied, a year or two
ago the Indian Government, acting mainly under
pressure from parties who alleged that the coolies
were not getting a fair deal, put a stop to the inden-
ture system ; and ever since Ram Chowder has been
leaving in large quantities and nobody has been
coming in to fill the gaps. One vessel recently took away
2000 of him, and many more are waiting. The
planters have made various appeals to the Indian
Government to reconsider its decision. The Bishop
of Polynesia and other people of tonnage went to
Calcutta and riddled various statements regarding
ill-treatment and so forth. But all they got was
a hard, unfeeling glance and a cold statement that
no Indian would be allowed out of India under
any sort of bond, contract or indenture whatever.
Even an offer to assist the coolies to pay their pas-
sage to Fiji—Ram Chowder in his native land being
a poverty-stricken person —and allow them to work
as free men, was turned down, it being held that
such assistance suggested an obligation regarding
the repayment of the passage-money. The Government
reiterated that if any coolies went at all they must
be absolutely free. So the planters are abandoning
India as a recruiting-ground and turning their
attention to China. In some quarters .Japan is
spoken of, but in view of the way the sons of
Nippon over-ran Honolulu after being imported as
coolies, this suggestion is unpopular. In any case,
the matter of having a Japanese colony so close is
one that Australia should have a say in. Meantime
the plantations of Fiji are trying to rub along with
about a quarter of the labor they should have, and
large areas of cane and bananas are going out of
cultivation.


.V -
is®
8
.••V"
1
ir
sti <
•- ■
jfl B
40SipMMl
s' " -■ --
am | img
HS3
•• ..:
. ■ ‘ *
mm
m
m
S *?*?!»*
;'^-3§r : % ij'SR
SS
I
,r
■t' •-
■:
HI
m.
■
H
•■ ' .l
r " ‘ ,V < e :
m
Since *B9 from Pure Grape Wine.
The quality of the grapes produced at the famous Chateau Tanunda Vineyard is second to none in the world.
Chateau Tanunda Brandy is distilled from the purest wines made from these luscious grapes, and it retains the
valuable ethers which go to make its medicinal properties. Its distillation is carried out under Government
supervision.
Chateau Tanunda Brandy is supplied to most hospitals and Government institutions throughout Australasia.
OBTAINABLE ALL' HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
Proprietors: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD.


rhey Know That Cuticura
Will Soothe and Heal
Whether it is an itching, burning
skin trouble, an annoying rash, irri-
tation, cut, wound or burn Cuticura
will soothe and in most cases heal.
First bathe with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. Dry and anoint with
Cuticura Ointment. In purity, deli-
cate medication and refreshing fra-
grance Cuticura meets with the
approval of the most discriminating.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S. W." Sold everywhere.
SV'Cuticun Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland-
7ENOBIA
nm
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom — the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night*
Scented Stock—
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
n
in
a
JL
<§»
Showing
Bottle
de-mouDted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from } a-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on al! out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalrfetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
the icy-hot BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
w
WVkW
m 0
mm
The Key lo Economy
IN YOUR FACTORY
True economy depends on Total Value received,
and not on first cost. The man who still uses
Plain Bearings on his Lineshafting and Machinery
pays more for his power than is really necessary.
Plain Bearings consume Power in overcoming friction ;
SKF Ball Bearings turn friction into power, reduce the
power consumed, save lubrication and labour.
Instal SKF Ball Bearings in your Factory
Write for our Pamphlet:
“Save Money—Turn Friction into Power”
The Advice of an Expert from the
Home Factory i* at your dUpoial.
Gardner, Waern (EL Co.
Head Office: 384 City Road. South Melbourne.
Distributing Centres —-Melbourne: 369 Flin-
ders Street. Adelaide: 122 Currie Street.
Perth: Unbehaun k Johnstone, 37 King
Street. Sydney: 226 Clarence Street. Bris-
bane : 329 Adelaide Street. Hobart: The
Medhurst Electrical Works k Telephone Co. t
Etd., 16 Argyle Street.
SKF
WjA
mn
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
n
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.O-, Melbourne.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
OSTER Bull-Dog Stocks and Dies, being made without a leader
screw, can be used to screw threads of special pitch. For instance,
they can be equipped, if desired, with dies to screw not only the
British Standard Pipe threads, but also American Standard Pipe
Threads, or the Bore Casing Threads.
Put your requirements up to us. We are at your service.
DISTRIBUTORS :
('has. Atkins £ C 0... Ltd., Adelaide.
Clias. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd.. Sydney.
.John Banks £ Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash. Ltd.. Newcastle.
Paul & Gray. Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. ,1. Cane & Co.. Ltd.. Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
mn
R
MANUFACTURING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
[l6
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The A.J.C. (Sydney) is opening wide its
purse for future “classic” races. The Derby
(1922) will carry £7OOO added money, and is now
the richest three-year-old race in Australia; the
Metropolitan (1921) has £6OOO added, and the
Sires' Produce Stakes (1923) is weighted with
£5OOO.
Gloaming’s brother Hare Hatch, who has
been racing with indifferent success in S. Aus. and
Westralia for four or five years, won a race in
Pertli recently, but it was only a Jumpers’ Flat.
And Jumpers’ Flats are chiefly remarkable for a
large percentage of non-triers. Hare Hatch i- a
rather shapely beast, but he has been tried over
short distances, over a journey and over the battens
with equally unprofitable results. He has never
shown a trace of his brilliant brother's speed.
Adelaide Racing Club, which uses a large
slice of the eastern park lands of the city, has
declined the offer of a renewal of the lease ai a
much-increased rent. The City Council just “re-
ceived” the refusal, and resolved to take no further
action. Racing men, however, are not much worried
over the prospect. The rent may be a matter
for negotiation, but it is hardly possible that the
club will move its quarters, after having spent < o
much on making Victoria Park a fimt-class and, inci-
dentally, beautiful home for racing.
Ohrysolaus has run his last race. He
broke down badly in the Rawson Stakes, and had
to be pulled up. A great, but uncertain, racehorse,
Chrvsolaus never showed the best that was in him.
He went wrong- last spring when he gave promise
of eclipsing his Chelmsford Stakes win, and if lie
had been withdrawn from all engagements he might
have been patched up. But his owner, Miss I'na
Clift, did not wish to disappoint the public, which
had backed him heavily, so the vet.’s views were dis-
regarded, with unfortunate results. Chrvsolaus will
be "old at Faster, and as Roi Herode horses are
valuable propositions in England, he will probably
bring a big price as a sire.
# # * *
The half-crown totalisator has arrived in
South Aus. At the end of last session, when the
racing clubs were pushing a bill through Parliament
to allow the tote to be extended to the flat, an
amendment was forced on them requiring all courses
in and about Adelaide to issue half-crown ticket ■.
The idea may have been to help the small investor,
or possibly it was the work of an opponent, in-
tended to make the whole scheme difficult or ridicu-
lous. Anyway, it has to be complied with, and the
Port Adelaide Club was the first to get it in work-
ing order. The half-crown windows were opened
in the higher-price enclosures as well as on the
flat, and the club made them a separate pool. The
main practical result is an enormous increase in
the cost of working ; to gather in the same amount
requires at least a 50 per cent, increase in the num-
ber of officials.
* * * *
E. S. Collin’s 3min. 19sec. in Queensland
recently is much slower than the versatile North-
last week is much slower than the versatile North-
erner has done previously. Last December at Bris-
bane he covered the distance in 3min. 7sec., and at
llobart recently was second to Ivan Stedman in the
Australian championship in 3min. Bsee. Collin is
also the holder of the Australian 440yds. breast-
stroke title, won at Melbourne last month in 7min.
6 2-ssec.
“15-30” : Rainey, a prominent Vic. tennis-
player, is one of the most remarkable figures in
the game. Forty or thereabouts, and wearing
knickerbockers instead of the regulation flannels, he
puts up a valiant fight on a vegetarian diet. The
other day he gave O’Hara Wood a good run in the
M.C.C. Autumn Championships in Melbourne, and in
his unfaltering service, good driving and placing there
was a will to victory that might have startled Wood
if his enemy’s spirit had been reinforced by' a good
tough steak. Rainey is a comparatively recent
recruit from cricket. Away' back at Melbourne
Grammar School, which has an extraordinary record
in producing good tennis men—Brookes, O’Hara Wood,
Heath and Wcrtheim are its four stars—Rainey was
the school cricket captain, and his large Roman nose
had many a scorching while he was bowling and bat-
ting in a hot sun.
* * * *
Towards Hie close of the Englishmen's tour
Johnny Douglas found his batting punch to some pur-
pose. He got 133 not out v. Vic., 50 and 60 in the
fourth Test, 46 and 82 not out v. N.S.W., 68 and
32 not out in the fifth Test, and 106 not out v. S.
Aus. —an average of 144.25. This form would have
made all the difference to the team had it come
earlier. In Test averages Douglas, was second with
39.33, and he also took eight wickets, averaging
52.50.
First-class cricket in Australian this sea-
son produced some gre'at figures. Warwick Arm-
strong (1051 runs—average, 95.74) and C. G. Macart-
ney (754 —75.40) are on top; then come Patsv Hen-,
dren (1178—62), .1. W. lTearne (434—62), Jack
Gregorv (794—61.07), J. M. Taylor (854 —61),
A. C. ‘Russell (818—58.42), Warren Bardslev (972
—57.17) and J. B. Hobbs (924—51.33). The Eng-
lish Xl’s trouble was a tail, and four players at the
bottom of the list scored only 131 runs in 30 innings.
As to century makers, honors were even, each end of
the earth having eight, with Hendren (271) and Arm-
strong (247) in the lead. With the ball Arthur Mailer-
(7B at 23.20) got the fullest bag; then come Jack
Gregorv (43, for an average of 22.18), E. A. McDon-
ald (43—29.28) and C. H. Parkin (43—31.25).
In the “Tests” there is a wider margin in the
figures. Macartney (80.60). Armstrong (77.33), Jack
Gregory' (73.66), 11. L. Collins (61.88), and C. E.
Pellew (5:3.16) top the half-centurv for Australia :
but the consistent Jack Hobbs (50.50) alone did it
for England. Collins (557) amassed the highest
aggregate, with Hobbs (505) next; and Arthur Mailey
(36 at 26.27), Jack Gregory (23 at 24.17) and Eng-
lishman C. 11. Parkin (16 at 41.87) collected most
wickets. In centuries, Australians got 10 against
England’s four. In cold figures, the result of the
tour is shown thus: —
Batting.
Australia —3230 runs for 73 wickets, average 44.24.
England—269l runs for 100 wickets, average 26.91.
Bowling.
Australia —94 wickets for 2691, average 28.62. (Six
run outs.)
England—64 wickets for 3230, average 50.46. (Nine
run outs.)
* * *
"J.8.H.”: “O.K.’s” remark (B. 3/3/’2l)
that F. R. Foster -was the only vi-iting amateur he
ran recall who was “an all-important factor in
the success of Ins side,” suggests a defective
memory. B. J. T. Bosanquet made even more
of a stir than the Warwickshire left-hander, while,
going back a bit, A. G. Steel has a better average
than either. On the batting side, Stoddart, Ranjit-
singhi, R. E. Foster, and that greatest of English
amateurs in Australia, Maclaren, had a little to do
with the success of their sides, and there are others.
That “out-and-out amateur,” who paid his own ex-
penses and was so “valuable as a wicket-keeper”
with Stoddart’s team —the first, presumably—that
they could hardly have got on without him, has me
guessing. Two ’keepers, both amateurs, came out
with that team, on the usual terms. Of these Gay,
a Cambridge blue and a member of the Surrey XI,
only played a game or two in Australia, and then
faded unaccountably out of the picture. The other,
Phillipson, an ex-Oxford and Middlesex ’keeper, did
most of the work “behind” during the rest of the
tour. His batting was not, as “0.K.” says,
“decent,” but rotten. As the team included Stod-
dart, Maclaren, Ford, J. T. Brown, Albert Ward,
Peel, Briggs, Richardson and Lockwood, I can hardly
think a medium stumper and an outsider bat was
indispensable, especially as “Stoddy” himself was
very' handy with the gloves on occasion.
(Continued on page 38.)


Dependability
The Winning of Public Confidence.
In spending large sums of money
in seeking the goodwill of the public
for any article unless the quality is
behind the goods the money is wasted. It costs
much more than the profit on any article of common
sale to induce the first purchase. The profit comes
when the person is satisfied and continues a
customer. This is the secret of the success of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. People once try them
and then continue to use them regularly. From
time to time other so-called remedies are boomed
and tried, but soon found to be ineffective, and
prompt return to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is
made with gratifying results. For many years this
remedy has been in constant use in Australasia.
Families have grown up with scarcely any other
medicine in the house, and the present generation
look back from childhood to having had their
mothers give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills if they
showed indications of being out of sorts. To-day the
remedy stands higher than ever before in the esteem
of thousands as a good dependable article of the highest class,
sold at a reasonable price within the reach of all classes.
JUMorses
i
Wm
m
vzm
LIVER
for Tn^—
They Make You Feel Brighter.


A. Saunders' Jewel Box, pure silverplated A 1
qualify, engraved ribbon design, silk lined,
55/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, highly
burnished, finest quality instruments, in silk-
lined case, 45/-
A. Saunders’ 14-inch Morocco Writing: Attache Case,
fitted with necessary conveniences, £3/15/-
USEFUL GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Three-piece Carving Set. selected stag handles, with
silverplated mounts and ferrules, finest-quality Sheffield steel, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Polished Mahogany Inlaid Cabinet
Cloek, 8-day movement, strikes hours and half-hours
on cathedral-tone gong, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brusli Set.
finest-qunlity bristles, sterling silver
shields, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Sliavin.tr Cup and Brush, nure
silVerplated, engraved ribbon design, porcelain
lining, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush and Comb, highly
burnished, finest quality bristles, in silk-lined ease,
63/-
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
STEWART SANDEMAN LIMITED
Marine Engineers, Iron and Brass Founders, Boat Builders and Shipwrights
Thistle Works: Careening Cove, N. SYDNEY Reg. Offices: Union House, 247 George Street, SYDNEY
MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS
“Thistle” Marine Oil Engines
Unequalled in the Southern
Hemisphere for —
EFFICIENCY
ECONOMY
LOW GOST OF UPKEEP
DEPENDABILITY
HIGH CLASS
WORKMANSHIP
Engines for all classes of Commercial and Pleasure
Craft for Rivers, Harbour, Island and Coastal Service
The best Engine for a Hot Climate —One Island Company has
over 20 Thistle Engines at work on Island Commercial Craft
EXPERT OPINION OF
THISTLE ENGINES
DESIGN. —Highly efficient and superior to
several high-class imported engines.
WORKMANSHIP and FINISH. —Surpasses
anything seen on Engines imported or
made in Australia.
We are High-class Builders of Yachts,
Launches, and all classes of Commercial and
Pleasure Craft.
We have Slipping Accommodation for
Launches, Yachts, etc.
Selling Agents —
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN
MACHINERY CO. LTD.
Collins House, - MELBOURNE
Union Bank Buildings, BRISBANE
Active Selling Agents Wanted
throughout Australia, New
Zealand, Pacific Islands and
the East.
ENQUIRIES SOLICITED
For High-power and Efficiency the Thistle
Reversing Gear and Clutch stands unequalled
u
2 3
* ..JL
V-
Fig. S 6. A “Thistle” 12-16 H.P. Double Cylinder Marine Oil Engine


Amusements.
SYDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
HOIPTY DUMPTY.
CRITERION.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
PALACE.
HIS LADY FRIENDS.
QRAND OPERA HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Evenings at 7.45. Matinees Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD.
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
.£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
w
I R T II II K O S. CIRCUS.
Sole Proprietors: WIRTH BROS.. LIMITED.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
EUAN
WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
H. M. THEATRE, BRISBANE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D, WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
gNI O N PICTURE TREAT It K »
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
CT WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
BABY BUNTING.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
A l*o SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridget.
A SELZNICK STAR PICTURE,
THE MIDNIGHT PATROL,
and
HARRY CAREY in
SUNDOWN SLIM.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
K
ING'S T II EAT I! K. 'I E rH ° ll K N Et
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. .
.JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN m
WELCOME STRANGER. ,
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan s.
gy| AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CATHERINE CALVERT in
DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
IVI
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the worW’s fllnas. Including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATH ,
ivniii.D and SKLZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND REST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Legnl Notice.
T)URSUANT to the Trusts Act 1915 NOTICE is ,
P hereby given that all persons having claims ,
against the estate of MEYER SINGH late of Kerang
in the State of Victoria Farmer but recently of
Village Mughlani Jandiala Guruka in the Local
District of Tarsawan District Amritza Pun.iaub
India deceased who died on the Twenty-second day
of October 1918 and Probate of whose Will was
granted by the Supreme Court of the said State in
its Probate Jurisdiction on the First day of March
1921 to NORMAN BROWN FRASER of Kerang
aforesaid Bank Manager and SANDHURST AND
NORTHERN DISTRICT TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED of View Street
Bendigo in the said State the executors named
therein are hereby required to send particulars in
writing of such claims to the said Norman Brown
Fraser and Sandhurst and Northern District Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited care of the
undersigned on or before the Twenty-third day of
April 1921 after which date the said executors will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said Meyer
Singh deceased which shall have come to their
hands amongst the persons entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which they shall then
have had notice AND notice is hereby further given
that the said Executors will not be liable for the
assets so distributed or any part thereof to any
person of whose claim they shall not have had notice
as aforesaid.
DATED this Sixteenth day of March 1921.
WILLAN & McKENZIE of Victoria Street, Kerang,
Proctors for the said Executors.
m
V/A
m
m
'x
m
m
m
Y//1
I*l lii
w;
IBI7»
mini
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drinit which maintains
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK's daily. ft
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.3.W.
HORUCK S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUCH. BUCKS. ENQ.
In sizes, of all
Chemists and
Stores.
ALL THE NEWS FROM THE
OLD COUNTRY AND EUROPE
is contained every week in
THE OVER-SEAS
DAILY MAIL
(The Weekly Over-seas Edition of The Daily
Mail” —Britain’s Great National Newspaper.)
Post Free 101 ™ 52 Weeks.
Some of the regular features are:—
Our London Letter, by “One Wanderer Returned.’’
A selection of the special articles Avhich appear during the week m 1
Daily Mail.”
A complete digest of all the week’s happenings.
Social and personal items. ~ 1f
Complete accounts of British Sport and , P^y— Racing Golf ’
Boxing, Billiards, etc., with occasional Tom Webster Caitoons.
Commercial Supplements which mark stage by stage the enterprise an
progress of Britain’s leading manufacturers and industrial concern...
SEND YOUR ORDER TO-DAY TO GORDON & GOTCH
(Australasia) LTD., Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY,
where a current specimen copy may be seen.
IT KEEPS EX-SERVICE MEN IN TOUCH.
For 52 weeks “The Over-seas Daily Mail”
will be sent to any address in the world Post
Free for a single payment of 10/- direct from
CARMELITE HOUSE, LONDON, E.C. 4.
I.egal Notices. .
mo ALLAN KENNETH FRASER ROSS formerly
1 of Hobart in Tasmania Assistant Surveyor but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
twenty-fifth day of February one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-one was issued out of the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania in its
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction citing
appear and answer the Petition of MARY kOsS of |
Launceston. in Tasmania Pianist praying for a dis-
solution of her Marriage with you on the ground
that without just cause or excuse you deserted her
and without any such just cause or excuse you have
left her continuously deserted during two years and
upwards.
IN default of your appearing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and you will
not be allowed to address the Court.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within three calendar months
from the date of the Second publication of this
advertisement to attend in person or by your Proctor
at the said Registry and there to en.er an appear-
ance.
W. 0. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, i
ALBERT EDWARD RICHARDSON, 70 Collins
Street, Hobart, Proctor for the Petitioner.
To JAMES ARTHUR SHEPHERD for-
merly of Timaru New Zealand
brother of LETITIA IRVINE
SHEPHERD deceased and to all
persons claiming by through or
under him.
PURSUANT to an order made on the
9th day of March 1921 by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand you
are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the Ist day of
August 1921 your claim to the estate of
Letitia Irvine Shepherd who died intestate
on the 23rd day of June 1913 failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
DATED at Wellington this 9th day of
March 1921.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Wanted' to Buy.
MACHINERY.
IT7 ANTED TO PURCHASE TRAVEL-
It LING JIB CRANE, lattice steel
jib about 60ft. long. Lift about 5 tons. Jib
to swing three-quarters of a circle.
Box 358 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Out-West
Watches
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised
Steel 15-je\velled Lever
Watch, 84/-
Our celebrated super “Ex and R” batches are
the BEST for Out-West Districts.
The movements are 5-plate Levers.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have 15 jewels, with jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have screw cases or jointed cases.
The screw cases are practically dust- and water-
They go with profound accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga: “The
watch has kept excellent time, stood hard rid-
ing, buckjumping horses, and all sorts of
weather. 1 don’t think a better watch can be
got.”
Fairfax 8 Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Fisrures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of eoery “ Mattamac
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Refuse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a “Mattamac .
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
£
m
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21ioz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac” Stormproof
The “Mattamac”is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Malta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE
\ A*.
'i-M *- \s
M
:;K¥
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illnstrations are direct ‘Draw ngs
from actual Photographs, and ore, conse-
quently, truthful representa'ions of the Feather-
weight '*Mattomac Stormproof, W-ich
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 21%0z. weight; without
Belt. 19oz.
GENTLEMAN'S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
2 / soz.
MADE IN ENGLAND ...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If vou' regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write tous. We will send you, post free, the‘‘Mattamac Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat tor Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.) _ ,
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET,
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) (g)
The “ M ATT AM AC" TRADE MARKS are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)


Italian Wines.
o
'P
-7
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor
Gold Medals,
London and
other
exhibitions.
Sole Agent 3
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
A
.
mumr .iiiiiKiuiMfl
&H 1
Vli
When You
ask. for
Lager*
ABBOTS
The Beer
without
a Rival ’*
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Hoof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEM.\>'.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Hunipty Dumpty”
Criterion “The Lilac Domino”
Palace “His Lady Friends”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
In ion Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOUUNE SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ltaby Bunting"
Koyal .... “The Maid of the Mountains"
King’s “Welcome Stranger"
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s He Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Miclua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
"Chu Chiu Chow” was Sydney’s theatrical
Easter egg. as giitteriug and wonderful to the
senses as ever was Easter egg from Biarritz
to childish eyes in the long ago. And Saturday
saw the Opera ilouse packed tight with
grown-up youngsters all anxious to crack the
shell of it and see the wonders within. Oscar
Asche has transmitted to the stage a real
Arabian Nights story, with its color and
splendor, its romance and comedy, the story
of Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves, the lov-
able rogue of an Ali who tippled and stayed
out o’ uights and had to face a scolding wife
the morning after.
Of the 15 scenes from the broad brush of
Harker Bros, the palm goes to the oasis «u
the desert. So exquisite is it in both sunset
and starlight that it. might reconcile even an
American to the great dry way. For the rest
there are palaces and groves threaded together
by love songs and sensuous dances: there is the
slave market where beauty succulent and
sumptuous unwinds itself from the gaily-
colored bedspread which enwraps it, and.
cunningly intervening the bedspread between
itself, and the audience, reveals its charms to
the slave-dealer up-stage, leaving only the un-
satisfactory shadow-show for the disappointed
orchestral stalls. The lot is bought whole-
sale without even a 10 per cent, beginning-of-
the-season reduction by the wicked Chu Chin
Chow, who is really Abou Hasan, the Arab
boss of the 40 thieves, and at the end of the
deal, having cleverly taunted the other dealers
to show the color of their gold, he scoops the
whole pool—girls and gold and all. At the
silk stall, where Ali’s vinegary wife (Ei.ly
Malyon) revels in a special mannequin par-
ade. such lavishness of color, such fantasy -if
design assaults the eye that even her tongue
is tied with delight. But what might it not
have said had she known that the sly Ali
would order the whole trousseau sent not to
her, the wife of his bosom, but to his newly-
nominated queen of the harem? There is a
group of luscious dancing-girls that makes
you sorry that Kasim Baba. Ali’s brother,
hadn’t stayed at home to play with them
instead of giving way to greed and dashing
off to rob the robbers’ cave, where he was
caught between the rubies and the emeralds
and carved in and out and round about by
Hasan’s merry men.
Charles Workman’s Ali Baba is a merry
and a mellow soul: a human wine-skin, lie
has caught nothing but the rich humors
of the ruby-red and golden grape-juice within
him. His acting is as smooth to the senses
as the bouque* of a century-old port to the
“THE LILAC
DOMINO ,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Steyne as Norman, friend of everybody.
palate. Vera Pearce, as Zahrat-Al-Kulub,
the desert girl, is dramatic and statuesque,
and on occasion meltingly soft, as when she
creeps into the arms of her tuneful though
lachrymose lover (Frank Charlton). Frank
Cochrane’s part as the Cobbler was taken
by William Haines, who was quite good as
fhe substitute. Louie Pounds revelled in
the part of the juicy Alcolom, the carved
Kasim's wife, who woos Ali with wine and
newly-acquired widowhood. Maggie Moore
brought joy to all as Zanim, the slave-dealer;
and Ida Griffin and Gregory Stroud (Ali,
junior), as the youthful singing lovers, were
attractive and tuneful. Abu Hasan (Chu
Chin Chow) is a spectacular rather than an
active part, and Ethel Keys’s dancing was.
or so it seemed, quite Arabic.
At the sign of the Fatted Ox :
Every year at about the time when the Anglican
Archbishop of Sydney is preparing a fervent pro-
test against the giving of profane performances on
the movable anniversary - of Christ’s martyrdom, the
circus and variety-show managed by The Bclletin’s
old friend Monty Somer begins to pitch its tents
and house its large menagerie in Moore Park. This
year the turns were more numerous and the
menagerie more varied than ever. Also, the gape
of the largest crowd that has ever paid gate-money
to enter the big show has been wider. Governor-
General Forster never saw anything like it in Eng-
land, and State Governor Davidson proved the
genuineness of his admiration by taking his little
girls there unofficially—after the manner of Bill
Smith and Jimmy Jones, who are wont to tow the
missus and the kids round the vast entertainment.
It has been a good show—nothing like it since
the Agricultural Society held its first meeting in
Parramatta Park—and president Sam Hordern, sec-
retary Somer, and all the scene-shifters, carpenters,
drum-beaters and spruikers who annually get busy
over the function have reason to congratulate them-
selves.
Horses, cuttle, pumpkins, dogs, sheep, fowls,
apples, wine, foodstuffs and machinery provide an
endless round of sight-
seeing to the hundreds
of thousands who have
been flocking into the
Agricultural 'Ground
during the 10 days of
the exhibition: but
there is nothing in
the catalogue so typi-
cal of Australia as
the people who com-
bined to make up the
heterogeneous dai 1 y
population of the en-
closure. There you
s a w samples of all
sorts of Australians—
from the tnon who
have grown the pump-
kins, and bred the
cattle and horses, and
developed the country
these 10 years past,
to the people who are
exploiting them glee-
fully, and with an
ever-present hope of
exploiting them still
further. The man
who made 20th cen-
tury Australia was
entertainingly mingled
with the man who
makes what he can
out of him, and his
enjoyment of his visit
to the Show did not
seem to be very much
marred by a con-
sciousness of the fact
“Baby Hunting at
Her Majesty'll,
Melbourne.
Dorothy Brunton as
the wife for twenty-
four hours.
that he was rubbing shoulders everywhere with
those whom he customarily regards—at home on
Billvgoat Creek or at Haymakers’ Flat—as his
worst enemies. The fact is that the Sydney Show
is regarded as a happy annual meeting-ground,
where the producer may even drink beer with the
abominable middleman.
** $ *
“The Lilac Domino,” withdrawn from the
Sydney Tivoli, has taken a new lease of life
at the Criterion. At least, that is how the
press-agent puts it, and Brutus, founder of
the fafnily, was an honorable man. The close
of four months finds Bene Maxwell singing
with undiminished charm, nor has that
strenuous baritone Jamieson Dodds gone
under to the malady that crippled Caruso.
His change of address notwithstanding,
Joseph Coyne continues to be a man of
troubles and acquainted with strife. “His
Lady Friends” are making things as tumul-
tuous for Joseph at the Sydney Palace as
ever they did at the old home.
The “House Full” sign hasn’t been rusting
at Sydney Majesty's. Neither has the
spruiker whose unwinsome word is “stand-
infoomonlybaekofthestallsfiveshillings” been
allowed to go blue-mouldy for want of vocal
exercise.
Sydney Tivoli has entered on its movie
career. Sydney saw the First National pic-
tures released under its almost prehistoric
roof, and Vera Pearce replaced by Connie
Talmadge as its queer;. Connie played “Dan-
gerous Business,” lightly shackling herself
with matrimony, never realising that, though
love may laugh at locksmiths, only a divorce-
court judge holds the keys of the wedding
padlock. “The River’s End” sends a thrill all
up and down your spine, and, as the patent-
medicine labels say. puts the red corpuscles
back into your blood. “The Misleading Lady”
holds the Strand in thrall, and Bert Lytell, a
young civil engineer, becomes an uncivil cave-
man to win the girl of his heart. At the same
address George Walsh romps through New
York Chinatown in “No. 17”-size mystery.
The Lyceum and Crystal Palace are showing
Fenimore Cooper’s impressive “Last of the
Mohicans.”
Lilian Frost at. the organ and Arlom od the
flute were the big and small of it at Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night. Quality varied
as well as size at the concert, which included
in its bill of fare Bach and Willeby. Ella
Caspers, in an old-gold gown and a Greek
coiffure, looked like a classic and sang like a
cherub. “The Lost Chord” and Costa’s
“Evening Prayer” were both encored. Jean-
nette Ethelston sang beautifully from behind
a silky-terrier forehead-fringe, and bagged
flowers and encores.
Wirth Bros.’ Circus, at Sydney Hippo-
drome, got its share of the Easter spending-
money. and is now collecting its whack of
what was left.
Old Clem had no supporter —not an uncle nor an
aunt —
To help him fit the town out with a 'leetric powev
pLant;
His hopes were down to zero, and Ids prospects
pretty blue.
When an angel came from Boston, angel Izzydore,
a Jew.
Oli, that scheme of Clem and Izzy it was sadly
short of casli
When the wicked mayor endeavored to bring both
of them to smash.
(The one Yid. fat and comic, was a seraph from
the skies,
Whilst the mayor, lean and tragic, was u Hebrew
in disguise.)
Now, all the stored possessions of good Tzzydore the
Jew
Were lying unprotected, the insurance overdue:
So his foeman fired the building (note the nature of
the crime),
But Clem, with wise precaution, paid the premium
in time.
The biter thus was bitten: fortune thwarted thus the
knave—
The men he would have ruined he had only served
to save.
Droll Izzydore's insurance gave the firm sufficient
pelf,
And he prospered on that fire which he did not
light himself.
There’s a charm for Chosen People in “The Welcome
Stranger” play:
It boosts their “will to prosper” in a mighty
pleasant way:
It states that God assists them—though the yam
is rather tough—
In their Chosen occupation, which is piling up the
stuff.
There's a charm for Chosen People in the fat and
forempst pari,
Of the frank, unselfish Izzy, with the soft, forgiving
heart;
And the villain’s act of arson no true Isaac will
condemn—
May not one Jew sow a tire, if another reaps the
prem. ?
“The Welcome Stranger” is now at Mel-
bourne King’s. Considered as a propaganda
comedy, written by Aaron Hoffman and pro-
duced “by arrangement with Sam Harris,
of New York City.” this reminder of “Wal-
lingford” plus “Potash and Perlmutter” is
a good business proposition, because it
amuses a lot of people who are not attracted
by the propaganda. But it never clears
itself of stage atmosphere—anyhow, not as
it is played by the present company. In
secondary Yankee character-parts, Waller,
Lloyd, Esmelton and, in a lesser degree,
Lester, are unconvincing. Lizette Parkes
presents a weak, familiar fiction of ’Murkan
melodrama; a couple of mild young men are
the limit in unsophistication; and even John
O’Hara, whose utterance is none too in-
cisive whe,n he ceases to talk at the rate of
five words, a minute and becomes compara-
tively rapid, is somewhat crushed by the
absurdity of his position. There is' sup-
posed to be pathos in his having vegetated
for years and years in a one-horse town
where nobody has nous enough to help him
exploit his rights in the local waterfalls.
But. you can’t have pathos without proba-
bility. Clem Bemis wouldn't have thus
vegetated. He’s a libel on the electrical
engineering fraternity. As for Jules Jordan,
who makes the play’s success, be is a real
Jew, acting a highly unreal part in an un-
affectedly comic way. Even his appalling
grimace seems natural to him, nor does his
habit of talking straight at the audience
make any difference to the drastic effect
of a story that never rings true.
At Melbourne Majesty’s struggle to
win public esteem for “Baby Bunting” will
be abandoned on Friday. Dorothy Brun-
ton is said to be returning to London
shortly, and the present season will conclude
with five nights of “So Long. Lettv,” com-
mencing on April 2.
The verdict of many weeks' experience of
"The Maid of the Mountains,” at Melbourne
Royal, is that the baritone’s opening song
with bandit chorus is one of the most dur-
able bits of melody in the opera, the fisher-
folk's chorus in Act IS being another num-
ber that wears well. Unfortunately the
“HUMPTY DUMPTY .” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Edwin Brett as king of Humptiland.
baritone's average falls olf when lie visits
tue (Governor under false pretences, whereas
the boss bandit (Freeman) finds the situa-
tion more suitable to his haw-haw manner.
The excuse for Chisholm, however, is his
baggy green outfit. It pleads pardon for
the young man. Also, it amounts to ample
punishment for his shortcomings.
Johnny Wallace, who played Bambini in
the original Australian production of “Tam-
bour Major” years ago, is keeping an eye
on an amateur revival of the piece at Mel-
bourne Princess's just now. People in the
left wing of the orchestra stalls saw a good
deal of Johnny’s directing arm on Saturday,
and no doubt the veteran will get producer’s
cramp before his army reaches a semi-pro-
fessional standard of deportment. In other
respects the show was fair to middling,
though none of the warblers suggested that
they found anything specially fetching in
Offenbach’s music.
Constance Talmadge heads the First
National programme at Melbourne Tivoli in
“Dangerous Business,” a rattling honeymoon
comedy that is guaranteed to break up the
fiddle-faced and start stout dowagers rock-
ing in their harness. A more serious note
is struck in “Snows of Destiny,” a Swedish
film that shuttles between the poles of love
and hate, and preaches strongly on the beauty
of sacrifice. At the Majestic Sessue Hay*
akawa has taken the name of Li Ting Fang,
and bears the burden of a. Chinese affection
for a rich and impulsive American heroine.
Sessue’s partner for the week is a lady
dancer, Donaldina, whose educated legs make
her a goddess in a South Sea effusion, “The
Woman Untamed.” Hoyt's are throwing a
searchlight on the Chow quarter of a Yankee
city, and Enid Bennett's Sister Marjorie
comes out of the shadows as the pawn in a
foolish conspiracy. The title of the yarn is
“The Midnight Patrol.” Some relief to this
violent story is afforded in the fetching
humor of Harry Carey as an American tramp
in “Sundown Slim.” “The Country Fair,”
which has been travelling round, is now
open at the Britannia, and the Melba is
picturing the clean-up of a modern Sodom.
“Irene” is just starting at the Adelaide
Royal, and “Cinderella” at the Prince of
Wales’, now under Fuller management. The
Majestic says goodbye to its long run of
Variety, and starts yet one more picture-
theatre. Amy Castles is at the Town Hall,
there is occasional boxing at the King’s, and
Maggie Moore is on the screen at the Ex-
hibition. The Vogues and Vanities are still
chancing the weather in the open air. Dancing
is a great feature in their programme, and a
pleasant novelty is a “Little Blue Duck” song
which has been well received —words and
music both by local presswoman Edith Aird.
In pictures West’s have a big theme hi “Half
a Chance.” recalling our great Australian
convict drama with its small-girl heroine,
escape and shipwreck: but the hero here gets
his Chance when cast with a case of lawbooks
on a desert island, and comes back (in every
sense) as a great lawyer.


itif, .%• 3«.'.
■
■ * vr--'' ■
*
■
m
'" ~''-s"“ -- -
/
■
_j
A Touch of Paris in the Heart of Melbourne!
Frocking for the Season’s Forthcoming Festivities.
Visit the New Showrooms of
J. C.Williamson’s'Modes’’
(Next Her Majesty’s Theatre),
Under the direct supervision of MADAM BROOK,
MELBOURNE’S SELECT FASHION CENTRE,
and view the cream of Paris, London and New York's latest designs for Day wear, for
Dinner and Dance.
These exclusive models in Frocks and Millinery have produced ovations that will stand
beyond comparison.
SPECIALISTS IN EVENING WEAR.
MADAM BROOK will give you every attention.
The flooring of the premises and show
windows are covered throughout in “futurist ’
design with
RUBBER LINO
Manufactured, designed and
laid by
Barnet Glass
Rubber Co.
Ltd,
Founders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia.
SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE.
I' ■
MfiPW
liil ,%
II
cV\* v ; i*?t
I.
■
£ f.
?
BI
m
I
•s
I
asm
1
f
I
■
s-
'
m
*
Corner of Showroom
Fitting Room


If
If r
anal MiTuclwm
.. .^j..ri
SYDNEY
TIVOLI,
Commencing
April 2,
n
MELBOURNE
TIVOLI,
Commencing
April 2.
Harry G. Musgrove presents, in association \tith other unusual features, the screen’s greatest
personality,
CHARLES in Forty-five Minutes from Broadway.
HE’S ANOTHER SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
m
f
(fi
fi i iS 5
',r r ‘-
Si
iwi==OT^im^ii
POVERTY
POINT
Thaet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exuisite
“0.K.”: Nothing in panto succeeds like
“Cinderella.” Of all the old fairy tales it is
the most popular with children. It has so
much eternal human interest that makers of
musical comedy have tricked it out in modern
society dress. At least two musical-comedy
versions of the evei’green story have been pro-
duced in Australia. The late John F. Sheri-
dan produced one adaptation; and a more
recent plagiarism was “The Catch of the
Season,” staged by the Firm with Andrew
Higginson and Fanny Dango in principal parts.
For panto purposes “Cinderella” lends itself
to any sort of revival—conventional or some-
what different; richly spectacular or com-
paratively cheap. Young Nellie Stewart’s
name was identified for a long time with the
sentimental heroine in a Williamson, Garner
and Musgrove production wherein Maggie
Moore and Docy Stewart were also concerned
some 35 years ago. Meynell and Gunn ran a
more refined panto of tne same name for more
than 100 nights in opposition to a prosperous
\viiliamson panto, the M. and G. co. being the
same that hac. appeared in “Miss Hook ot Hol-
land,” with the iairy prince played by a young
man instead of a female principal boy. Tins
Christmas in Melbourne, when tnree pantos
were battling against “Chu Chin Chow.” the
panto that lived longest was the Fullers’
K show, not because it catered for the masses
at lower prices, but because it was “Cinder-
j ella.” The subject needs a periodical rest, of
course. The public mustn’t be surfeited with
the same old thing. But in comparison with
“Dick Whittington,” “Aladdin,” “Forty
Thieves,” “Mother Goose,” “John the Giant
Killer” and “Sinbad,” the charm of “Cinder-
ella” is always fresh. The work-girl of every
new generation is at heart a Cinders.
“E.T.”: Australian-born Cyril Keightley is
appearing at the Booth Theatre, N.Y., in a new
play, “The Green Goddess,” which is accounted
the best thing on Broadwmy. It was written
by William Archer, the veteran English critic
and litterateur, who spent his early life in
Queensland. American commentators ex-
press surprise at him turning out such a
workmanlike drama at a first attempt. But
it is not that by a long way. Archer has in
addition to criticising plays been writing
them practically all his life. Twenty-three
years ago he had a piece called “Australia, or
the Bushrangers,” staged at the Grecian (the
old City-road). He was also responsible
about that time for a play based on an early
Ibsen drama which he called “Quicksands,”
and, as everybody should know, the best
acting versions of the entire Ibsen series are
Archer’s translations. But it was not until
now, at 64, that he was ever in danger of be-
coming a popular dramatist.
“Private Boxer”: Bert Bailey has brought
back from London the scripts of two or three
plays in the English language and intends to
produce them as soon as he can arrange it.
One, “The .Teffersons,” has had a long run
with Wilfred Shine, a brother of Harry, in
the leading comedy-character part. Another
is a comedy called “Ann,” written by Lech-
mere Worrall, one of the authors of “The
Man Who Stayed at Home.” A third is Cyril
Maude’s “Grumpy,” which he intends to re-
vive.
“Spec.”: Beaumont Smith is the first Aus-
tralian film-producer to do anything b.g in
the way of night scenes. For “The Be-
trayer,” now shown to Melbourne, he got the
use of a hotel ballroom and filmed several
incidents there under studio lights. He is
also the first to take a big company out
of Australia. His players went with him
to Rotorua (M.L.), and made Maori parts
of the story in right surroundings. Syd-
ney is mostly represented by Pitt-street.
Martin-place and Coogee beach.
“Wart”: Oscar Balfe, who took his last
call the other day, once arbitrated on a strike.
“Humpty Dumpty," at
Sydney Majesty's.
Albert Le Fre as Queen
Claudianna.
The Launces-
to n Operatic
Society was
giving “The
Pirates of Pen-
zance” in the
Albert Hall,
and the chorus
smuggled a keg
of beer into the
dressing - room.
Just before the
show started
the heads got
wind of the
beer, comman-
deered the keg
and locked it
up. Then the
chorus struck,
and flatly re-
fused to go on
until it got its
beer back —the
principals had
a bottle or two
of whisky in
their dressing-
room, so why
shouldn’t the
chorus have its
beer? After a
lot of arguing, it
was agreed that
Balfe should
arbitrate. His
award was that
whisky and beer
should both be
locked up till
after the show,
but that every-
body _ should be allowed one drink at
half-time. Then the show started, just as the
audience was beginning to say things.
As Randolph Bedford sees it: —
Poverty Point par. to the Effect that Gay’s
“Beggar’s Opera’’ has been “secured’’ for Australia
moves one to ask what author’s fees were paid to
secure it, the “Beggar’s Opera” being anybody’s
property, like Shakspeare and the Sermon on the
Mount. Similarly, anybody may sing “Ring the
Bell, Watchman,” without fees. But even robustly-
healthy literary copyrights are not protected from
the stage-thief or moving-picture pirate. A Fox
film entitled “Scuttled,” recently showing in Syd-
ney, is a direct lifting of plot and treatment from
Charles Reade’s “Foul Play” and R. L. Stevenson’s
“Ebb Tide” —the throwing away of a ship with a
cargo of water insured as wine (“Ebb Tide”) and
the scuttling of a ship with the daughter of the
chief scuttler aboard (“Foul Play”). In
Charles Reade’s book Arthur Wardlaw has the
bar-gold of the Proserpine shifted to the
Shannon and lead substituted, and then has
the Proserpine scuttled, believing that his sweetheart
has shipped on the Shannon, whereas she is a pas-
senger on the Proserpine. Both are excellent stories,
but these half-illiterate scenario writers know just
enough to steal the chaff and throw the grain aw-ay.
“Old Pot”: George Titheradge hated mak-
ing speeches and “shop” was odious to him ,
but I question his objection to applause (B.
24/3/’2l). The last time I heard him in
public he certainly seemed to relish it. That
was at the farewell dinner to Hugh J. Ward
in Sydney Town Hall. The late “Dicky”
liichards was Mayor at the time, and being
an amateur actor in the old days and a keen
student of the drama right up to the end, he
got Tith going through an apt quotation.
Tith beamed, set out on the reminiscent path
and told some good stories. The applause
was “loud and continued.” and the old man,
who was then nearing the end, was quite
obviously pleased.
“0.K.”: Managerial practice gives one
distinction to Gilbert and Sullivan works and
other classics as compared with musical
“Baby Bunting ,” at
Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Hettie Hartley as
Mrs. Hubbard.
comedies and
comic operas of
later growth. It
doesn’t print a
list of items in
each act, with
names of singers
attached. For in-
stance, a pro-
gramme of “The
Mikado” doesn’t
inform you that
Ko-Ko sings “Tit
Willow.”
“Smike”: Lewis
Waller, when re-
hearsing “Henry
V.” in Australia,
was presented with
a local aspirant
who it was alleged
would make a per-
fect Pistol. Waller
gefierousiy tried
the youngster in
his office and then
said (sadly:
“Young man, I
fear your Pistol
was made in Bel-
gium.” The allu-
sion was inspired by a current crime-wave
with cheap firearms, and the young amateur,
deciding to be bright, remarked: “You mean,
sir, that my Pistol won’t go off.” “ Yes,” said
Waller smiling grimly, “and it won’t go on
either.”
“Dido”: Bert Bailey was sitting in his
Little room at Melbourne King's waiting for
his call, when there came a rather timid
knock on the outer door. “Come in!” cried
Bert. A pause, and then another timid knock
on the inner door, “Come in!” yelled the
popular comedian. The door opened a little,
and Bill, a stage-hand, put in his head.
“Good evenin’,” he said. “Good evening.
What is it?” “I wish you’d speak to Thomas,
sir.” “Who the devil is Thomas?” “lie’s
that tall, thin puper with the white face, like
the ghost of a girafft. I wish you’d speak
to him.” “Well, what about?” “Better come
and see, sir.” “I can’t spare the time. What
am I to speak to him about?” “Well, sir,
he will persist in bangin’ hisself down in the
corner near the stage door.”
“Eve”: A lady with a patch of discolored
blood in her veins sits by the waters of the
Yarra in sizzling indignation. She is an
amateur mummer and her successes inspired
an admirer to write and dedicate to her a
one-act playlet in which the lead is a flash-
ing-eyed half-caste. He sent the MS. to his
idol, with a note to the effect that she had
all the attributes for the role, and that the
chance had now come for her to soar to dizzy
heights. In the past the actress has done her
best to grease-paint over all traces of her
mixed ancestry, and her wrath was such that
the would-be Bernard Shaw has scuttled from
the limelight to study tact and the White
Australia policy.
“Film Up”: I have never been to New
York, and I’m not anxious to go there. It
appears to be if not a one-horse town a
town of only one street. That is, if one may
judge by the “pictures.” I’ve lost count of
the times I’ve seen in the “Million Do’lar
De Luxe Super Specials” a view of Wall-
street. I know the narrow, congested
thoroughfare by heart. If there’s another
road in N’York I should like to see it for a
change.
‘ Ibsenshaw” : I have no doubt Galsw’orthv
is heartily ashamed of “The Skin Game.”
yet it is the most popular piece he has given
“The Lilac Domino,"
at Sydney Criterion.
John De Lacey as
Cornelius Clevedon,
the frisky father.
to the stage. It
registered 350 per-
formances at the
Duke of York's —
theatre where,
ironically enough,
the author’s far-
better plays,
“Strife” and
“Justice,” cost
Charles Frohman
so much money
that he was forced
to abandon his big
Repertory scheme.
“T.E.”: Hugh
Buckler, whose
good stage-w r ork
will not be forgot-
ten in Australia,
is playing lead iu
the English pro-
vincial co. w’hich
has the big Drury
Lane winner, “The
Garden of Allah.”
The piece, boomed
like a circus, tra-
vels like one.
When it arrives
in a town the
grand parade com-
prises six lorry-
loads of scenery,
properties and
animals. Seemingly it out-Chus “Chu Chin
Chow.” Buckler, who has not had the best
of luck of late, is in a real success at last.
“Rienzi”: One stage manager of my
acquaintance developed the habit of. writing
memos to his company for alleged faults in
make-up, speaking or deportment; and usually
his dignified reproof was received in fear and
suffering. One morning a memo arrived for
Adolphus Fumer, the heavy villain, stating
that his necktie was too well tied on the pre-
vious night to suggest that he had drunk four
breweries dry and wa s waiting to boil his
grandmother in oil. The pro. said nothing,
but at the next show he purposely missed his
cue by two minutes. This brought the ex-
pected complaint about his tardiness, where-
upon Adolphus replied regretting “a delay
that was caused by my endeavor to give to my
tie the requisite appearance of dissipation de-
manded bv an evident connoisseur of such
things.” Ever after Adolphus tied his necktie
as he darned well pleased.
“C. Ockney”: Bernard Shaw is pretty
well-to-do —for a Socialist. But financial
ruin awaits him if he allows any more of
his plays to be performed in Central Europe,
whence the greater part of his royalties
came in pre-war days. A letter to his
agent at Budapest acknowledges “the
princely but platonic sum” of 1083 kronen
credited him, and continues: —
Consulting the current rate of exchange I find thiv
to be exactly 155., on which I shall have to pay ss.
Income-tax and super-tax to the British Government.
In these circumstances 1 must beg of you to do what
you can to prevent further performances taking
place, as I really cannot afford any more Continental
success.
The situation seems to call for a new Shavian
piece, say, “Tax and Super-tax; or Alms and
the Dramatist.”
“Ancient Prompter”: Apropos of Henry
Irving’s Macbeth and Ellen Terry’s Lady
Mac. (B. 17/3/’2l), an extract from the
lady’s, diary, reproduced in her “Story of My
Life”:—
It [Macbeth] is a most tremendous success, and
the last three days’ advance booking has been greater
than ever was known even at the Lyceum. Yes,
it is a success and I am a success, which amazes
me, for never did I think 1 should be let down so
easily. Some people hate me in it. Some —Henry
among them —think it my best part and the critics
differ and discuss it hotly, which in itself is my
best success of all.
Very actressy, all of it; but very character-
istic. By the way, Ellen does not mention
ever being out of the bill during “Macbeth’s”
run, nor does she once refer to Amy Roselle,
though scores of players are spoken of in the
book.
“R.K.D.N.”: A theatrical par. in my
week-end paper informs me that “Mr.
Robert Courtneidge’s London comedy com-
pany, which was to have appeared in Aus-
tralia in ‘Paddy the Next-Best Thing’ and
Galsworthy’s ‘The Skin Game,’ has been dis-
banded following upon the change of plans
involved in the amalgamation of the man-
agements.” So the Combine is not an un-
mixed blessing to playgoers. A good many
of us would have liked to see Galsworthy’s
piece. We’ve lost the chance, apparently,
because of “The Skin Game” the managers
played.
“Stargazer”: Much has been made of the
action of a newly-imported vaudeville star
in flying over Melbourne. But —
Compare her aeroplane with what
Some pros, have had to hie with,
Who’ve flown from towns when they had not
A feather left to fly with!
THE TIRED FIRST-NIGHTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am weary of press-agents blowing hot air into
shows.
I am weary of the critic printing all the bosh he
knows.
Critics of the art they know not, painting-critics
who can’t paint,
Writing-critics who can’t write and whose intelli-
gence is faint;
Sculpture-critics who can’t sculp, and music-critics
all tone-deaf,
And high and haughty lecture-people who don’t
know the treble clef;
Critics fat and svelte and skinny, fourteen stone of
cold boiled pork,
Or mere Grief and Bones, and long-beaked like the
highly-curious stork,
Help press-agents with the hot air, join \frhe
claquers’ brassy band,
Eating dope and boom for all shows from the
advertiser’s hand.
Oh, the happy days of childhood, when the circus
/ came to town,
And the sense of childhood’s losses when the circus-
tent came down;
And the elephant and camel and the educated hog
Left us for another township with the monkey and
the dog,
Left us but a sawdust circle, when the fairies all
took wing—
On the village green a circle that then seemed a
fairy ring!
Now we know the stage unhinnan, and its mouth-
ings but pretence,
With its speeches made of nothing and its lack of
commonsense.
Now we wouldn’t care a great deal if the theatres
fell down,
Burying all the sham and falsehood of the trifling
shows in town;
Shoddy, masquerading passion, fustian playing noble
rage,
And the fearful sense of boredom of the shows seen
on the stage.
Take me from the stalls or circle and the comedy
that’s thin,
And the nasty, furtive, venal lusts disguised as
honest sin ;
From the lightweight “comic” opera full of yawns
and sighs and gloom*
From the “witty” farce that fills me with prescience
of the tomb;
From the lightweight drama with its curtain rising
after eight,
And with two long “intermissions” to make ten
o’clock look late;
Plays of Indians and thunder, built by mechanists
round a storm,
And the “Heart of Breakfast Cereal” running abso-
lute to form ;
And the highbrow bedroom-drama built on virtue
being blind,
And the dud imported actress boomed because the
agreement’s signed.
Take me down unto the sawdust and the smell of
orange-peel,
For the circus still is honest and the elephant is
real;
And the trained geese all are dinkum, and the
horses horses yet,
And the steeplechasing pony’s tail still wears a
blue rosette;
And the camel is no falsehood, and the grizzly-bear
is true,
And tlie peanuts are real peanuts, and the monkey’s
stern’s true-blue.
From the shoddy and the fustian that “amuses”
tiie tired earth,
Take me down unto the circus and the honest show
of worth.
X.B.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


mn
Get in Early !
15he
Murdoch-made
Football Jersey.
BUYING from Murdoch’s you buy from the maker
DlRECT—this saves you all agents’ profits,
while the splendid reputation of Murdoch s is
wholly dependent upon giving you workmanship
of the very best.
Strong Cotton Football Jerseys
Made in Murdoch's Workrooms. Plain Colors. Linen Collar.
Button Front.
Murdoch’s Low Price: 1216
All Wool Football Jerseys
of strong, robust make, with White Linen Collars and Button
Fronts. 32in., 34in., 3(iin., 38in. Chests. This splendid Jersey has
4in. hoops in Blue and Gold, Green and Red, Black and
Gold, Black and White, Royal and Sky, Green and Gold,
Black and Red, Black and Sky, Maroon and Gold, Royal and
White. Plain colors —Royal Blue, Sky Blue, Navy Blue,
Black, Maroon. Also 2in. hoops in a large variety of colors.
Murdoch’s Good Value: 16/11
Any combination of colors desired supplied
in Club quantities without extra charge.
Write for complete lists.
WE PAY FULL POSTAGE.
MURDOCH’C
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney.
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store,”
SPECIAL SUIT
At 8i Guineas.
m
rPI
i&l
v l .
SV
a
wv
f
5W
V'>\
&
P
i\
Wife
i%s-
Lui
POSITIVELY THE BEST
VALUE OFFERED IN
MEN’S WEAR.
E are proud of our record of
achievement in the produc-
tion of SPECIAL SUIT at 8£
guineas. The materials are
all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Aus-
tralia, the trimmings—the
inside foundation not seen
by the purchaser—are in
keeping with the high-
grade materials and hand
tailoring which goes into
every Special Suit.
BUCKLEY'S SPECIAL
SUIT has another advantage
—that the materials, being
lighter in weight than most
Australian-made Tweeds, meet
the need for a highly-
dependable Suit at a Mode-
rate Price.
Write for Samples and Self-
Measurement Form —Sent Free
on Application.
SPECIAL SUITS
MADE TO MEASURE,
8£ GUINEAS.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & NUNIM LTD., Bcurke St., Melbourne
Certain-teed
FLAT ROOFS,
I#
**
wm
■Ol
*8
... *
Rgr-fliS
Aeroplane photo Certain-teed Roof, Lewis Berger & Sons, Ltd., Paint Factory,
Rhodes, N.S.YV. J. A. Kethel, Architect. Robert Wall & Sons, Ltd., Builders.
The wear, utility and economy of Certain-teed Roofs have been well established
by the number of industrial and commercial concerns using them. The aero-
plane photo of Messrs. Lewis Berger & S»ns, Ltd., Paint Factory at Rhodes,
Sydney, which was roofed by our staff of expert roof layers, shows the
effectiveness of Certain-teed Roofing. This roof had to be acid proof as well
as weather proof, owing to the exhalations from the white-lead stacks beneath
it. Certain-teed fulfilled this condition, and is also smoke, spark, rust and vermin
proof.
Certain-teed is good for all roofs, makes a good flooring for positions exposed to
moisture, and is an excellent dampcourse. Each roll contains sufficient roofing
to cover 200 square feet, and is supplied with requisite nails and cement.
Sample cax-d and price list per return for your address.
Write, call, or ’phone to your nearest house, and our representative will call
with full particulars.
324=330 Pitt Street
Sydney.
JOHN
391=403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOGRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUtt© ?
i
LCWIS&WrIITTy MAKERS
CP
m
&
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
All Hotels & Licensed Grocers
GUARANTEED
PURE
DISTILLED FROM
FINEST
AUSTRALIAN
GRAIN
. - *«!•»»
m
Iwo days before the commencement of
the Sydney races, Poitrel, who was to have
measured strides with Eurythmic in the Autumn
Stakes and the Cumberland Stakes, strained a tendon
in a foreleg:. By Saturday it was known
that he would not start at the meeting. On .Mon-
day came the announcement that he would never
race again. It was a disappointing business, for the
gallant little Melbourne Cup-winner had been going
splendidly on the track, and the long-distance w.f.a.
events would have definitely settled the question
(undecided at Melbourne) whether lie or the West-
ralian chestnut was the greater horse over a journey.
But after the Autumn Stakes it began to be felt
that the accident had occurred luckily for Poitrel’s
reputation. As that race was’ run he could not have
beaten Eurythmic. The son of Eudorus simply
loafed on his field to the turn, settled the burly
Richmond Main in a few- strides, and came home
at his leisure, lie gets up top speed too quickly
for Poitrel to have had a chance with him in a
slow-run race. Had the St. Alwyne horse been a
starter it would have been the C. B. Fisher Plate
over again.
In the Sydney Cup the horse from Westralia out-
Poitrelled Poitrel. For the greater part of the
two miles he ran among the back division just as
Poitrel used to do, and when the straight was reached
he sped pasi his field in the inspiriting Poitrel
fashion. But his masterly exhibition over the last
half-mile was even more magnificent than Poitrel’s
conquering run in the Melbourne Cup or the effort
that a year ago landed him second to Kennaquhaiv
in the great Bandwick handicap. Six furlongs
from home Eurythmic was near the tail of a strung-
out field. At five furlongs he was noticed to be
moving forward, and at the half-mile he was in the
middle bunch. Round the turn he came, galloping
like Carbine, with ten horses behind him and six
to beat. Not for a moment did he falter or shirk
his job. With machine-like precision he cut down
Syce Knight, Nautical, The Rover and Braille,
flashed past Amazonia, who was running second, and
tackled the leader. Arch Marella, who, at the dis-
tance, seemed to have the race in hand. For a
moment the issue was doubtful, for Arch Marella
was travelling well, but with a supreme effort the
invincible chestnut thrust half his gallant length
in front of Logue’s horse, and a great roar from
80,000 throats proclaimed him winner of the 1921
Cup.
There have been finer three-year-olds than Euryth-
mic, _ but he is undoubtedly the finest four-year-
old since Carbine’s time. And if he goes on improv-
ing he may be ranked greater than Carbine, for
he thrives on racing, and with Poitrel gone there
is no other Australian horse in his class. .Kike
Carbine, he can win over any distance, from a
sprint to a test of stamina. He is a handsomer
though less massive chestnut than the grand old son
of Musket, and he has Carbine’s trick of objecting
to go to the post, though when the barrier rises he
jumps away smartly and runs as true as steel. Like
Carbine also, he has improved amazingly from his
third to his fourth year. If he is sstill on deck as
a six-year-old he will have beaten Carbine’s record
in the matter of siake-money; including the Sydney
Cup, his winnings exceed £ 23,001). and he lias
been first home in 17 of his last 18 starts, the other
being his fourth in the Melbourne Cup. But races
were less richly-endowed in Carbine’s day. «
Eurvthmie wasn’t the only chestnut to distinguish
himself at the first half of the meeting, for horses
of that color won the St. Leger and the principal
two-year-old events. In the St. Leger, Salitros, the
Y.R.C. and A.J.C. Derby-winner, turned the tables
on Nautical, who had defeated him in the Flemrng-
ton St. Leger; and David, a likely-looking customer
who should be worth putting aside for the next
Melbourne Cup, was a fast-finishing third. Erasmus
performed so badly that his disgusted owner with-
drew him from the Sydney Cup. This colt and
Elfacre, who is a regular aristocrat in appearance,
require plenty of racing to get them thoroughly
fit. Neither of them had had it, and neither was
seen at his best. In the Doncaster Handicap, Elfacre
left the barrier smartly, but had the misfortune to
carry away a strand, and it settled his chance.
However, on his appearance and subsequent running,
he could hardly have beaten the smart three-year-
old Speciality, who caught the outsider Wish Wynne
in the last 50 yards, and beat her to the judge’s
box, with the favorite Beauford a respectable third.
Speciality started at 10 to 1, but he was coupled
liberally in doubles with Eurythmic, whose s.p.
quote was returned at two's, albeit many alleged
bookmakers (50 per cent, of the Randwiek lot are
mere cumberers of the ground) refused to lay more
than 6 to 4—less than was paid by the place tote.
Furious, a Randwick-trained but Victorian-owned
filly by The Welkin —Danaide, indisputably proved
iierseli the champion two-year-old. In the Sires’
Produce Stakes she was adjudged rather lucky to
defeat the Victorian filly Isa, in the same ownership,
but in the Champagne Stakes, with practically the
same field Starting, Isa was beaten out of a place,
and Furious silenced all arguments by winning
decisively. She stays better than most of The
Welkin’s progeny, and may have to be reckoned with
in the Derbies.
On the first day of the Auckland (M.L.)
Racing Club’s Autumn Meeting the Great Northern
Oaks (14m.) for three J year-cild fillies 'went to
Demosthenes's daughter Pente. She won by three-
quarters of a length from Isabel, with Allison’s
Sylvan (Tressady—Silvana) in third place. Absurd,
the fashionable sire, was responsible for Tamatete,
out of Tabu, who beat the other two-year-olds in
tlie Great Northern Champagne Stakes. The mueh-
raced mare Silver Link met no Gloaming in the
Easter Mile Handicap, and scored easily from the
Australian-bred Geoffrey.
* # * *
About half the adult population of Adel-
aide went to the Onkaparinga races on Easter Mon-
day and lost its money, according to custom. En-
counter King won the Hurdles from Ilaoma and Sir
Mac, and returned his backers AS 10s. for £l.
The Oakbank Cup went to the outsider Telegony
(div. £l4 165.), with Pistol Princess and Klaxon in
the places; and the Great Eastern Steeplechase, in
which 11 started and four finished, was annexed by
the well-backed Albaree (div. £4 Is.) from Adian-
tum (div. £8 55.) and Press Through. The race
was a procession, and the topweight, Miss Rosslyn,
was among the steeds that • fell.
* * # #
A spirited effort at job-control threatened
to stop racing in Adelaide recently. At a Port
meeting the jockeys engaged for the steeple pleaded
that the course was not safe for the 24 starters on
the card. The stipes determined that it was, on
which the jockeys announced that they would not
take the risk with more than 20 starters. The race
looked like being “off,” but at the last moment
scratchings brought the number down to 20. and it
\Vas run. The stipes (Hogan, Wigley and Clem
Hill) met later and suspended Ryan and Hale
(spokesmen) indefinitely, ar.d several others for six
months. On appeal, S.A. Jockey Club reduced this
to two weeks and one week, the former period just
covering the Oakbank meeting. The Jockeys’
Assoc, then declined to do any riding at all “until
the embargo is lifted,” but offered to confer with
the S.A.J.C. That ruling body warmly declined
to confer, and tlie deadlock seemed complete. Some-
leading and popular owners then took a hand, got
the jockeys to sc« that there must be a controlling
body somewhere at the top and Induced them to
take their medicine. So no racing was missed,
and the boys who lost engagements had their riding-
fees made good by their comrades.
* * * *
A mild practical joke played on a police-
man brought the joker into Adelaide Police Court
to explain just exactly how funny he had meant to
be. At one of the new evening trotting meetings
on the Jubilee Oval the constable was asked “Are
you betting? I w r ill lay you 4 to 1 Ginger.” The
second man who offered him odds was arrested on
a charge of unlawful betting, and proved t;o possess
a raceeard with no entries on it, and Bs. 9id. in cash.
The defence was that half-a-dozen of the boys had
agreed to engage in leg-pulling, and that any reason-
able person would have known that Ginger was an
odds-on favorite, and so the offer couldn’t possibly
be serious. Dismissed.
* * « *
“Topo”: Tom Walker, killed at Mitta
Mitta (Vic.) races on March 21, must have been
the doyen of Australian amateurs over the jumps;
he was 59. His wife had for 3'ears pleaded with
him to abandon the dangerous game, and on the
eventful morning Tom promised her that it would
be his last ride. It. was. To add to the coincidence
it was the jubilee of his first victory; exactly
50 years before, as a boy of nine, he won his first
race.
* * * *
A crowd that yielded an offertory of
close on £3OO squeezed itself into the Sydney
Domain Baths to see Ethelda Bleibtrey, Ludy
Danger and Pau Kealoha reaffirm their superiority
' yer N. S. Wales swimmers. It was a still moon-
light night and the water was like glass; neverthe-
less in the 300 metres ladies’ championship Miss
Bleibtrey failed by 1 3-ssee. to lower Fanny Durack’s
world’s record of 4min. 32 2-ssee., although she de-
feated Mina Wylie by 25yds., with 15-.vear-old Thea
Cavill third. The 400-metres handicap went to
Ludy Danger, who, conceding W. Longworth and
F. S. Cotton Bsec. and 9sec. respectively, romped
home in smin. 35 1,-ssec. from Cotton and Long-
worth. In the 100-rnetres handicap Pau Kealolia
won his heat from Harry Hay (3sec.) and Keith
Kirkland (osee.) in 62 2-ssec., and dead-heated with
Hay in the final, the time being 61 4-ssec.,
establishing an Australasian record for the distance.
The teams race was won for Australia by Lottie
Fewer, May Lovelace, W. Longworth and Keith
Kirkland, the Americans —Misses Bleibtrey and
Dowd, and Ludy Langer and Pau Kealoha—being un-
placed. But perhaps the Yankees didn’t take it
over-seriously.
By the Moeraki last week went Dick Cavill,
erstwhile Australasian champion and world’s record-
holder, who is to coach the members of the Columbia
Athletic Club, Ohio. Dick is no stranger to the
U.S.A.; as instructor to the Illinois Athletic Club,
Chicago, he taught Perry McGillivray the Australian
crawl. In his prime Cavill was a magnificent
swimmer. He won 18 Australian championships
and 22 N. .S. Wales titles.
Two more State rowing championships
have been decided. For the Tasmanian eight-oar
title six clubs lined up, but Derwent had an easy
victory, leaving the three miles astern in 16min.
45sec.' Cecil McVilly, one-time Australian singles
champion, pulled No. 6 in the winning crew, and
five others were in the Speck crew in last year’s
Australian championship. G. Westbrook (Derwent)
won the singles sculls comfortably from F. Cover-
dale (Aus. champion in 1913). In Queensland Wide
Bay beat Brisbane in the inter-district eight-oar
race by a length and a half, and the winning crew
will represent its State in the Australian champion-
ship in Tasmania on April 25.
* * * *
The second day of N.S.W.A.A. champion-
ships at Manly on Monday left all the State records
intact. The only double winner was It. G. Piggott
("East Sydney), who took the 440yds. hurdles (61
I-ssec.) and the 880yds. flat (2min.). Paul Tran-
quille proved his 220yds. Dunn Shield Championship
wasn’t a fluke by defeating the best over a similar
distance in 23sec. ; and H. S. Grandemange also
showed well in the three miles (15min. 17 3-ssec.):
BOYD EDKINS, who has seldom been
beaten to the top of the hill in Auto-
mobile Club hill-climbing competitions.
<T. K. Harbison’s high jump (sft. 9in.), Q. R.
Parker’s mile walk (6min. 44see.), and A. \V.
Winter’s hop, step and jump (47ft. Bin.) were the
victories of top-notchers. In the field events the
members of the Police A.A. showed ability at throw-
ing things about. C. T. Ferguson won the 161 b.
hammer (137 ft. B|in.J, A. W. Reid took the javelin
(167 ft. SJin.) and R. Thompson (97ft. 2iin.) was
second to K. J. Naukler (103 ft. Sin.) in the discus.
The one-mile teams’ relay almost splintered the
record; East Sydney won in 3min. 35sec., the
best figures being only two seconds better.
* * * «
Victoria cut a mediocre figure in tlie inter-
state baseball rubber at Sydney. N.S.W. defeated
them by 16 —1 and 6 —4. It was the fifth suc-
cessive win for N.S.W., the matches at Melbourne
recently going to the visiting IX by I—o, 9 —o
and 10 —9.
* * * «
The Australian Cycling Derby at Sydney
on Saturday brought together the best sprinters in
Australia. Conditions were half-mile heats and
semi-finals and one-mile finals. In the “A” Grade
(restricted to heat-winners), Hans Ohrt was too
good for W. Fitzgerald (Vie.) and Ken Ross in
2min. 45sec.; the “B” Grade went to ex-amateur
Gerald Halpin from Alf Grenda, and C. Hannemann
in 2min. 40see. ; and in the “C” Grade C. L. Pap-
worth defeated Bill Erskine and J. G. Atkins in
2min. 27sec. Fitzgerald also rode finely in winning
the mile handicap from 50yds. in lmin. 56sec.;
and Alf Grenda wound up the meeting by taking
the five-mile scratch from Erskine and Wells in
lOmin. 50sec.
Tommy Benstead put up a fine effort in
winning the 100-mile motor-cycling championship
at Goulburn (N.S.W.) on Saturday. The three other
starters were outdistanced. Benstead left the stretch
behind in 11 lmin. Bsec.—just under 55 m.p.h.
N.S.W. bowlers were badly rattled by
S. Australia a-t Sydney last week. The score-book
showed in the visitors’ favor by 103 —90, 92—105
and 101-90 —296 to 286. S. Aus. were “up” in
seven out of 12 rinks.
This year’s Davis Cup will fuinisli a com-
plicatccl and widespread argument. Including the
holder there are 13 nations represented, and the
hist draw leaves plenty of room for discussion as
to where the preliminaries will be played. France,
for instance, has to tackle India ; Czecho-Slovakia is
pitted against Belgium, and Britain has a date with
spam. In the event of these countries being unable
to aecide on a ground the American Lawn Tennis
Assoc, will have power to bring them to the U.S.
and let them play off in the big cities, where a
large gate can be guaranteed. As a matter of fact,
the 1 anks ara already providing for this possibility,
and the chances are that they will stage every game
except the one between Australasia and Canada.
As regards this contest there are the liveliest rumors
on both sides of the Pacific. Canada is said to be
talking of withdrawal, and this country isn’t sure of
providing a team. Anyhow, the Yanks, who will
probably be Tilden and Johnston, should not be
greatly troubled in holding the Cup. Presumably
Britain's main suit will still be Kingscote, who
drove Tilden to five sets at Wimbledon last year,
and if the little warrior is reinforced by Parke, who
knocked out Johnston at the same tournament, J.
Bull should get into the final round. France, with
Gobert, Decugis, Laurentz and others to call on,
will be strongly represented, and the active little
Shimidzu, partnered by his countryman Kumagae,
who ranks about seventh among the 100 best men in
America, will also take beating.
The Vie. Lawn Tennis Association is con-
sidering a suggestion to invite the French Davis
Cup team to visit Australia after this year’s struggle
is concluded. The Gauls play the effective 1 net-
rushing game, and would have a very warm wel-
come. If Mile. Lenglen could also be induced to
come the gates should easily cover the expenses.
Francisco Flores, an alleged tiger from
the Philippines, stepped out of his lair at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night and prowled about after
Syd Godfrey for 15 rounds. But the Sydney boy
strenuously objected to furnishing the reputed jungle
cat with his supper. Although badly fouled in the
first spasm he managed to win almost all the others
by the use of a worrying left. Flores hit low a
second time, but referee Wallis let him off with a
caution. Again in the 15th round came a clan-
destine delivery, and this time the referee sent the
man-eater growling to his dressing-room. Flores is
a powerful fellow and can punch, but what he
doesn't knew about the fine points of the game
would fill a directory.
Another Filipino in Villon, with the characteristic
Filipino ruggedness and lack of polish, was pro-
duced on Monday night against the Russian leather-
weight Paul Demsky. It was mostly slog and
scramble for 13 rounds, with Russia behind on
points, and then the Muscovite hit low for the
severalth time, and was declared to have lost on
a foul. The prevalence of fouls grows wearisome.
If the Stadium management doesn’t stop it, by de-
priving the next offender of his share of the spoils
and ototing him for six months, the public will stay
away in large numbers. Neither Demsky nor Villon
will ever be in the first flight. With a little en-
couragement there are a dozen young Australian
boxers who would account for either man, but mere
Australian thumpers are not sought after nowadays.
»•*-**
The West Melbourne Stadium was re-
opened on Saturday with a fight between the
Victorian fedder Bert Spargo and the little
Englishman Joe Symonds. It was a good
scrap for seven rounds, during which the
Plymouth man exhibited all his box of tricks, but
the splendidly-conditioned Spargo dropped him in
that bout with a right swing, and two rounds later,
after being hustled from pillar to post and punched
from belt to forehead, a slugged-out Symonds lay on
his back and listened to the count. He is not
solid enough for Spargo. And there is a hint of
glassiness about his jaw.
+ * * *
“Nemo”: I once saw a glove contest in
a church —an old Baptist tabernacle that used to
stand in Eagle-street, Brisbane. The fight was
between Jim Barron, of Sydney, and a Queensland
crack named Maguire. The altar rails had to be cut
down to allow the ropes to be set, and the tank
in which the brethren and sistern were wont to be
dipped was boarded over and formed portion of the
ring. Barron, about the best little man in Aus-
tralia at the time, won easily. The old chapel has
long since been pulled down; its site is now
occupied by a store.
This year’s M.L. “King’s” winner is E.
E. Vennell, a Te Wharau farmer. His aggregate was
549, which won him the Ballinger belt, gold medal
and badge and £5O. Vennell will be the Dominion
rep. at Bisley in July. A Nielson (Napier) was
runner-up with 643, and H. V. Croxton (Karori)
third with 639. In the inter-island match (20
aside, seven shots each at 300vds., 500yds. and
600yds.), South defeated North narrowly by 1831
points to 1819. The only two possibles were made
by J. C. Carlton (600yds.) and W. K. Williams
(500yds.), both of North Island.
* * * #
The tripping Australian XI had two
matches in Westralia before heaving luggage aboard
the Osterley. Against Goldfields XV the tourists
smacked up 256 (Taylor 60, Armstrong 52), and
Goldfields responded with 123 and 4 for 65. On
the wet wicket left-hander Collins took 7 for 50.
The fixture v. Westralia was also spoiled by rain.
Australia had a dry patch and scored 396 (Ryder
102, Andrews 54, Taylor 52 and Jac-k Gregory 50) ;
and Westralia was crashing heavily with 9 for 88
when a deluge ended the match. The wicket-keep-
ing of Harold Evers, the 18-st. Westralian captain,
was admirable; he gave away only six sundries in
the Australian innings. Evers one time did big
things in Sydney premiership cricket.
* * * *
The modern practice of having a new ball
every 200 runs was carried to an absurd length in
the last match of the English XI at Adelaide. Run-
dell and the colt Harris were both in the eighties
and going strong. A single brought the 200 up.
Fender, without completing his over, claimed a new
ball. The umpire hadn’t one about him. and,
instead of signalling for it and going on with the
game meanwhile, he actually left the ground to get
it. Fender had only one ball of the over left to
deliver with it, and that one bowled Harris.
THE RACING OF THE FUTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie horses raced for cup and plate;
The horses died and passed away.
Man grew to grander age and state
And calmer thought from day to day .
The ages rolled, the comets turned
With fiery tails about the sun ;
\ et, isoul to soul, the public yearned
For races lost and races won.
The giant thought beneath each dome
Of hairless, shining, eager head
Moved like some cyclopedic tome
Where, robed in words, the sages tread.
let sport remained. Vast bets were made
On stellar movements high and far;
Millions to one were calmly laid
Where science backed a favorite star.
And sprints were known, wild, whirling things
That lasted scarce five hundred years,
Where, bred by Summers out of Springs,
Great oak-trees raced amid their peers.
Up, up the breathless tuft of green
Sprang from flie well-backed acorn seed ;
in fifty years the tops were seen
Tearing the sky with fearful speed.
And what a burst of long applause
Went heavenward from the frantic crowd,
When, with the rain-bit in its jaws,
A bough shot up and turned the cloud I
They reach the straight—three, leaf and leal'
lio, Druids of an elder day !
The strife is keen, the struggle brief—
“ Won by ten years,” the papers say.
N.B W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Gan You Defend Yourself?
Can you rely on your knowledge o£
how to use your hands to get out of
a “scrap" and protect yourself pro-
perly '?
You can learn
BOXING
BY POST
quickly and thoroughly if you take up the* I -
clearly-explained course prepared b> jv j-
(“Snowy") Baker. It teaches you, m ® , ,
illustrated lessons, all the moves ot defence,
and attack, from the simplest rudiments
game, right up to the fine points of rmgciaft,
on “Snowy" Baker's wide personal experience.
While learning this most useful art you are engaged
in a healthful, enjoyable pastime.
Send for "Snowy" Baker's interesting illustrated
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in \our Home. It tells
you all about the Baker course, fees, etc., and gives
you many valuable hints.
.Just cut this advertisement out, write your name
and address across it. and send it to us with tmee
stamps to cover postage. The book will be sent
you by return.
1
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves anti shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
ANI> BROTHERS.
453 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
aBS!
IMPt
>*q
w.
me
■t.s
"WoiuD/BEsr
n^foTOK^Piwr
ir\ Cdus'tr&jG&.
k BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COT ltd, AU _5 Ifi TtJ U H l
Used the
World Over
E 2
MOTOR
...CARS
CENSUS
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
4th APRIL, 1921
A CENSUS will be taken of ALL
PERSONS in the Commonwealth on
the NIGHT BETWEEN SUNDAY,
3rd April, and MONDAY, 4th April,
1921,
A Collector will deliver the Census,
Slips at every Dwelling, but any
person who has not received the
necessary Slip before Sunday, 3rd
April, is required to immediately
report to the nearest Post Office
or Police Station.
PENALTY for Refusing to Supply
the Required Information - £lO
For Wilfully Untrue Statement * £5O
G. H. KNIBBS,
Commonwealth Statistician.
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Dressing
The increasing popularity of this brilliant polish is due to its
remarkable leather-preserving qualities. Containing ingredi-
ents that nourish and preserve the leather, it lengthens the
life of footwear, in addition to imparting a bright and lasting
polish.
COLORS—BIack. Brown, Dark Brown. Ox Blood, and White.
In tins, bottles and tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
BEWARE OF
CHILLS
caused by these sudden changes of
weather. Chills result in so many dan-
gerous throat and chest complaints, when
not attended to. At the first sign of
shivering or feverishness get a bottle of
Greathead’s Mixture
In so many cases the use of this old and
valued remedy has prevented chills from
developing into influenza. Greathead’s
is a sure cure for all colds, coughs and
sore throats. It will cure you, as it has
thousands of others. Sold in good-sized
bottles. ,
Get a Bottle from
Store or Grocer.
E.A.C. High Torque
(Single Phase) Induction Meter.
Noteworthy Features
TEMPERATURE —Meter remains accurate with-
in British Board ot Trade limits at any tem-
perature.
STARTING CURRENT. —Registers at less than
one-third of one per cent, on full load. Reads
accurately on low loads.
INSULATION.— Makes it highly suitable for
tropical elimates.
OVER LOADS.—WiII stand one hundred per
cent, over-load in current, and fifty per cent, in
voltage for any length of time.
GENERAL DESIGN.—The unit system has been
adopted throughout; by taking out two or three
screws any part can be removed for inspection or
repair. Every part is thoroughly standardised
and interchangeable.
Has dust- and damp-proof case. Terminals
arrangeable at top or bottom.
FURTHER PARTICULARS FROM SOLE
AGENTS.
Homewood 8 O’Neill
Pty.,
Ltd.
Head Office: 172-176 William Street, Mel-
bourne.
Workshop N'o. 1: Somerset Place, Mel-
bourne.
MANUFACTURERS: ELECTRICAL
Workshop No. ‘li Ferrars Street,, South
Melbourne.
Sydney Ofttee: :{?5 George Street.
AFP AH A XUS CO., LTD., LONDON.
Capital” High-Speed Milling Cutters
INVOLUTE MILLING CUTTER.
Set a high standard in the world’s market
because, being
Made of Finest Sheffield
Steel, they retain their
Cutting Edge
and
They Are Accurate.
These are the points that are necessary for
high-grade work and a bigger output at a
lower cost.
Prices, etc., supplied promptly on application to Department “A.”
THE EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Makers of Ultra. Capital .Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY,
act Latrobe Street, .MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE.
Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
I‘aul & Cray. Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
K. L. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART, Tas.
The THORNLEY Lathe
(Australian = made).
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
n
THORNLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, and
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
Gin. centres x 6ft. bed; ljin. Hollow Spindle: Swing in Gap,
20iu. dia. x 7^in. wide in front of Face Plate. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground ; All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding; Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw; Lead Screw cut on Thread Miller —
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for specifications and complete particulars to
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


The New Lamp Shades
add to Home Adornment
The most important part of a room is its lighting arrange*
ments, of which Lamp Shades are an integral part.
Very dainty Lamp Shades, with scalloped edges; for reading
and bracket lights. In colored Jap. silks of any desiaed tone;
finished with French braids to match. Price .. . 19/6
Large French Shades, in floral Jap. silk, veiled with ninon and
trimmed gold beads and long drops to match. 35/- and 37/6
Large Dome Shades, with scalloped edges, covered in gold
tinsel and lined with Tap. silk; neady finished with gold braid
and beads; decorative as well as useful. Price, each .. 39/6
French Candle Shades, in Jap. silk daintily trimmed with
tinsel, braid and beads. Prices from 3,9 to 15/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
Qs
r
a
cPV^
BOND’S-
Australian-made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
Made in
Artificial
Silk Smart,
Comfortable and
Guaranteed to give
v satisfactory Service ;
Yellow Diamond® which
sells at a very low price
stands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
“A TOUCH OF PAMS IN THE
HEART OF MELBOURNE.”
View the New Show Rooms of the
MSf
BDES-J
Next Her Majesty’s Theatre.
Exhibition Street, MELBOURNE.
UNDER THE DIRECT SUPERVISION OF
MADAM BROOK.
The cream of Paris, London and New York’s
latest designs, for Day Wear. Dance and
Dinner.
Exclusive Models that stand beyond com-
parison. Highest values at lowest costs.
EVENING WEAR SPECIALISTS.
Madam Brook will show you every attention.
Melbourne
Chatter
NOW
OPEN
Mrs. Swanson spread a tea-party in her
rooms at the Town Hall to welcome the
homing Hennessy dame, who came in the
ciitest Parisian tea-frock of frou-frou blue
silk and had her quiverful of daughters
with her. The girls were rigged in after-
noon suits that had also been shopped-for in
Paris. The eldest chick was kilted and
jacketed in fawn cloth. The next wore
the fashionable kilt, and her jacket was
embroidered in blue stitching. The baby
girl hung a cerise bow trickily over one ear
from a smart turban, and wore a clingy
guernsey affair of Oriental colors over still
another kilted skirt. They all wore shoes
that are presumably the last cry in footwear
—miniature copies of the kind of high,
smooth, unlaced shoes that riding-men wear
below their leggings. Mrs. Swanson, in
mustard-colored silk crepe, had the rooms
decorated in monster dahlias in tawny
colors. Mrs. Stein, just back from motor-
touring over three States, came out in a
striped petticoat, a velvet surtout and many
ermine skins. The homeless Hennefisys are
Hatting at the Grand and looking for a
large nest, in which to rest. They have been
living in travelling-trunks for the last 18
months, and the schoolgirls are now con-
sidered “finished.’' They have “seen every-
thing" in a wild rush round the Continent
and England, and are fed up to the eyes
with impressions of big cities, crowds, tourist
sights and shop wares.
The social flag of Collins-street was at
half-mast last Saturday. News had been
published of the sudden death of Napoleon
Boffard on a railway platform just when
the Easter holiday was commencing. “Poor
old Boffard'’ wasn’t very old in years—sB
on the previous Monday—but he had so long
been a familiar sight in the neighborhood of
the music-shops that he seemed more aged.
Alt' Vincent’s drawing of Block-trotters in
the_ last year of last century showed him
twirling an immense mo. in the top row.
The plump Frenchman was a decorative
identity even then. His small, sweet,
tremolo tenor voice, his moustache and his
jewellery were much mentioned and mildly
ridiculed. His well-trained tenor was so
very small for so expansive a chest, and his
air of noblesse was suspected of false pre-
tence. All the same, the stout gallant is
said to have been Baron Boffard before he
died, though he never assumed the title.
Napoleon’s happiest time was when Bland
Holt engaged him to sing and act in a cafe
scene in “Women and Wine,” for he just
loved himself in melodramatic fancy-dress,
and celebrated the event with a lavish dis-
tribution of photos. People learned to like
what they had laughed at, grew to think of
the persistent Frenchman as an artistic
warbler of drawing-room ballads, and finally
as a courteous concert manager in a small
way.
Or. Stapley, who Gaud-Mayored for a while
during the war, has been presented with his
portrait in oils, painted by George Bell, an
Australian artist who lias done excellent
work in London. As Mrs. Stapley lias re-
ceived a replica (and, incidentally, a diamond
ring), the original has been handed back to
the Council, and it will be hung alongside
other studies of departed mayors.
The raffle initiated by the Mayoress on
behalf of the £25,000 appeal for the blind
lias this advantage over a lot of other raffles
which invite contributions —it is practically
certain to be drawn on June 21, as pro-
mised. People were getting rather shy of
charity raffles, which all too often have a
habit of coyly hiding their results from the
promiscuous ticket-buyer. But this raffle for
the chest stocked with linen, and the tiger-
skin rug. and the wardrobe full of men’s
clothes, etc., will be the Mayoress’s parti-
cular care. She was the first ticket-buyer,
too. Dot Brunton sold the first book of
chances to her when the campaign started
at Buckley and Nunn’s. After the dressy
gathering of campaigners liad been refreshed
with tea, Dorothy resumed her job as sales-
woman, and the raffle got a great send-off.
His friends in the Federal Parliament
were shocked at the change in Ernest Hell-
man, formerly M.H.R. for Ivalgoorlie, when
he arrived from Adelaide the other week. He
had been doing well in business in the cen-
tral State when an internal malady made its
appearance and its progress was so alarming
that the doctors decided there was no hope.
The patient was so desperately ill when be
boarded the express that it was feared he
might not live to the journey’s end. But he got
through somehow, and a Melbourne special-
ist said there was still a chance, since
when -Heitman has made encouraging pro-
gress in his manful fight for life. And there
is another little Heitman to live for since
he came from South Aus.
Toorak looks down on other suburbs which
have out-distanced it residentially. It prides
itself upon the fact that it housed vice-
royalty so long ago as 1854. When Hotham
was Lieut.-Governor, before Responsible Gov-
ernment was established, all papers were sent
to him at Toorak, and he usually came into
Melbourne about twice a week. Lately the
suburb narrowly missed having Government
House again : but it was thought better to
rent Stonington at £2OOO a year than buy
Kilbride outright.
In announcing that next meeting will be
on April 1, the lady sec. of Melbourne
Shakspeare Society calls attention to the
Soc.’s new address —Queen’s Hall, 181 Col-
lins-street. Any member who drops in there
to-morrow night will hear M. M. Phillips
discourse on recent research with regard to
Shakspeare’s life in London. If any naughty
disclosures are threatened there ought to be
a crowded meeting.
Reporters, policemen, drunks and others
at the Melbourne Court are missing Notloy
Moore. The poor old P.M. is down with
neurasthenia of the worst kind, and has
obtained leave to dose himself with fresh
air. He more or less lost his dash in 1917,
when his two sons went west in the slaughter
at Passchendaele; but in spite of a shat-
tered system he has stuck it till now.
Here is Monteath’s picture of pretty
Evelyn Cooke, whose acting ability was first
discovered i n
Gregan McMahon's
Repertory Co. in
Melbourne. She had
a part in “The
Mad r as House.”
and afterwards took
the big role of Mar-
jorie Dennison in
St. John Hankin’s
“The Charity That
Began at Home,”
revealing in that
delicate comedy the
qualities of an
experienced actress.
II e r first profes-
sional job was in
“Nothing but the
Truth,” but the part
was so small that
she was lost in the crowd. Later on her
brilliancy struck Diana Wilson, who played
the well-remembered divorcee in “Lightnin’,”
and that generous lass barracked for the
young Australian to be given a chance in
her own bright role, offering to stand down
for a matinee; but the Firm wouldn’t have
it. So the young artist, tired of lingering
in the backgrounds of imported plays, is
travelling to the Cold Country next month
to see if London managers will be kinder.
Carre Riddell, who succeeded mighty Fitz-
gibbon as Chairman of the Board of Works
in the days before the world w r ent mad, is
to leave next Saturday on a nine months’
trip to the Cold Country. He has a pull
the other side, and may come back with a
C.M.G. or something.
The Lundgren-O’Brien breacli-of-promise
suit has had another little flutter in the
Supreme Court. This time the gallant air-
man, who was alleged to have laid siege to
the affections of the fascinating widow, got
leave to amend his defence by adding that
Mrs. Lundgren had caused him to believe she
was a pattern of propriety, whereas he now
had (he declared) information which caused
him to plead that he would not fulfil his con-
tract to wed her because she had been the
cause of a divorce which had been granted in
Sydney. Schutt, J., however, would not agree
to the Captain tagging on another item of
defence to the effect that under the law of
Belgium (where the seeker after damages had
obtained a divorce) she could not marry for
10 months from November 27 last. A further
extension of the immunity of the Captain from
arrest under the warrant ordered to be issued
by Irvine, C.J., was granted. Now people are
wondering whether after so much diamond-
cut-diamond prologue, there will be any play.
Elinor Mordaunt wrote the foreword in the
Ruby Lind. Book. She came to Australia in
1902 and stayed several years; since when
she has made something of a hit in London
as a novelist. Her first acquaintance with
Ruby Lindsay was w r hen they occupied
adjacent studios in Oxford Chambers, Mel-
bourne. Ruby turned out a lot of work there
and balanced on a favorite three-legged chair
as she did it.
Bachelor Fred Boyd, of Melbourne, died
last week in Bananaland after an operation.
He was visiting cousins on their cattle sta-
tion up north. Fred was one of the large
family of squattocratic Boyds, grandsons of
Justice ilßeckett, and was a brother of Mrs.
Gurner, the Judge’s wife.
Of course there are scores of Boffard
stories. He never made a fortune out of his
voice, and on one or two occasions years back
even a humble job with a steady salary would
have been welcome. During one of these
periods of stringency he was urged to emulate
the example of Footler, who was then giving
another of his many “Farewell Concerts” prior
to leaving for a “World-wide Tour” —around
Ballan and Bungaree. Napoleon’s moustachios
seemed to rear at the insult. “Sare.” he said
haughtily, “I veel haf no ‘Farevell’! I may
geef a concert, but no ‘Farevell’! I veel not
infringe Meester Footler’s patent.”
. J. B. Athol wood, now playing a small part
in “Welcome Stranger” at the King’s, is talk-
ing proudly of his daughter Sybil, who is now
understudying Dot Brunton in “Baby Bunt-
ing.” Sybil has a lot of her father’s gift for
the stage, and given reasonable chances her
fine voice and appearance should soon earn
her the glory of a speaking part.
A woman’s motor record was put up
recently by Mrs. R. C. Buchanan, of Ormi-
dale, who drove her car, with Mrs. C. H.
Butt for company, from Tallangatta across
the Australian Alps to Glen Wills, Sunny-
side, Omeo, Bruthen, Orbost, the Prince’s
Highway, Bega, Cooma, Turnut, Yarrangobilly
Caves and Tooma station, and then returned
via the Upper Murray main route. The 700-
mile trip was done practically without mis-
hap. Good Samaritans appeared from Alpine
fastnesses to remove trees lying across the
track save in one instance when the ladies,
with the aid of an axe, did the job themselves.
There’s no mention of any ill-effects having
befallen a sprightly young man of an
alleged .103 springs who was lately treated
to a tour of the air above St. Arnaud.
Captain Roy Smith was the aviatox 1 , and
a doctor passed the youth as fit for a 10
minutes’ trip. He just loved it, he said.
If he were a bit younger he’d go aviating
himself. Discussion about Mr. Dick (that’s
the devil-may-cai - e name of the giddy cen-
tenarian) cropped up at a tea-table the other
day, when the hostess spoke of artist John
Longstaff, whose father is in a fair way to
be tlie popular centenarian of Shepparton,
as “Bill” Dick is the representative ancient
of St. Arnaud. The Longstaff couple,
parents of the painter, are the pride of the
place, and the residents declare that the
winner of Victoria’s first Travelling Art
Scholarship showed fine discernment in his
choice of forebears.
Gibson Young, Melbourne's musical critic,
has quaint ideas regarding harmony in the
home. He has borrowed a seaside residence
at Mentone and scattered the news broad-
cast that any ai’tist in need, of a bed and
crust can domicile with him for the barest
living expenses. A poet and a budding musi-
cian have already grabbed the bright oppor-
tunity, and others talk of doing it. Mrs.
Gibson bosses the show with the help of
a motherly housekeeper whose roast-beef
spells beatitude after boarding-house hash.
The household relieves the monotony of muse-
wooing with mixed bathing and philosophical
talks under the ti-tree. Young brought the
notion from Manchester.
Adelina Leon is to play her ’cello to the
new Countess and Sassiety generally at the
Assembly Hall next
week. Mr s. T.
hßeckett Weigall will
accompany her with
piano music. Adelina
was a pupil in Paris
of Pablo Cesal, but
before that she studied
at the Royal College
of Music and bagged
a degree. She has
travelled Europe with
her big fiddle, and is
a fine linguist—caif
talk fluently in three
languages, and make
herself understood in
lialf-a-dozen. During the war she spent her
time playing to soldiers in England, France
and Malta. Diggers made her a presenta-
tion at Australia House after the war, and
now she has come to see what Billjim’s
country is like.
Dora Wilson is about to exhibit her latest
pastel drawings in the new Fine Art Gal-
leries. The show will run from April 14
until April 23.
Boyce, of the Tourist Bureau, who went
holiday-making, under medical command, for
the benefit of his shattered nerves, is already
back upon the same old war path. A long
sojourn in the mountain wilds of Gippsland
was not the medicine for busy Boyce. After
a month of tiresome rest and strenuous
repose the poor man returned to town to re-
cover his lost appetite. He now appears to
be once more thriving on hard work, and
takes a fierce delight in telling other nerve
cases the nice quiet spots where they can go
and get worse.
H. I. Cohen, the new K.C., has been made
president of the Old Scotch Collegians. A
year or two ago Col. Harold Cohen was presi-
dent of: the old Xaverians’ Association.
bux*ely Grammar, and Wesley can complete
the square.
The Royal Melbourne Golf Club usually
celebrates April 18 with a tea-party and some
frill; but this year there will be competitions
tor putting and 10-liole matches, and no
party. President-of-the-assoeiates Mrs. Gate-
house has decided to give the money that
would otherwise be spent on entertaining as
a donation to help the Earl Haig appeal, and
the entrance fees for the competitions are to
be added to it.
Norah Gurdon, daughter of the doctor, has
packed a swag of paintings which she is
going to show to the Banana landers. They
may be seen in the gallei’y in Kent’s Build-
ings for a week or so from April 11, ami
they are worth looking at.
The Display Block was opened in Mel-
bourne last week. It is a sandwich of a
building that towers to seven storeys in
Tittle Collins-strcet: in its arms it holds
half a hundred shops, and at the heart
of it is a comfy tearoom of exquisite ser-
vice under the control of Mrs. Panther.
Under the one roof a woman may fill all
her day’s shopping needs, side-step for mani-
cure, pedicure or a marcel, and then recover
her poise with a rest and a cup of tea. A
manager controls the whole show. He sits
up aloft in a nest of offices. The tardiness
of workmen made the opening rather sudden
and scrambled, and finishing touches were
left for a future spare moment; but all the
sections get into range with an excellent
show.
Things are humming in preparation for
’Varsity Commencement. The students are
to have a real fete time. Frenzied re-
hearsals are going on for a students’ play
in the Melba Hall on the night of April 21.
The next night there will be a ball in the
Melbourne Town Hall, given to graduates
of 1921. Anyone not a graduate of this
year must pass muster at the club before he
or she may pass out half-a-guinea for a ticket.
Things will be giddy but exclusive. On Satur-
day afternoon “Commencement” happens
at Wilson Hill. This is to be followed by
a sports meeting at the Oval, and a gala
night in the University grounds. Some
time during the programme such serious
things as exhibitions in the engineering and
geological departments will balance the
frivol.
Man has his own way of solving a problem.
A yarn is being purred at the cat-parlies
about an actress whose work now suggests
some of the genius of a famous aunt. The
niece did not always have a motor to hurl
her home from the footlights. In the old up-
hill days she was forced to sole it, and her
way led along a lampless street. The fellahs
soon got wind of this, and they prowled about
the neighborhood on the off-chance of en-
countering her in the dark with the whisper-
ing of sweet nothings. The damsel was dis-
tracted. and consulted her manager, a well-
known wag. “I’m worried to death about it!
What would you do?” she tearfully asked
him. “I’d humor them, my dear!” he re-
plied sagely, with a friendly chuck under her
chin.
A little Adelaide gossip :
Easter is the signal for matrimony. At St.
Matthew’s hist week two station families were
united by the marriage of Dorothy Pryor,
of Walkerville, and Laurence Kempe, son of the
late E. C. Kempe, of The Peake. A couple of days
later Dorothy, daughter of G. A. Connor, of Wood-
ville, promised to obey George Sweeting, son of a
late canon, of Perth. Then Laura Western said
she would to air-Lieut. Kilsby. The bride grew up
in the scent of orange-blossoms at the Marion, and
the ’groom hails from Glenelg.
According to the will of the late S. Australian
Major L. G. Hawker, V.C., of the Central
Flying School, Wilts (Eng.), who left £24,000
for the benefit of his mother, there is a provision
that all IGU’s due to him shall be cancelled. Many
of his military pals must offer up a silent thanks-
giving.
A shower of Belgian medals has just descended.
The Medal of Queen Elizabeth fell on J. H. Symon’s
lady and Mrs. Winnie Fairweather, and the Medal
of King Albert on J. A. Riley, secretary of the
Chamber of Commerce, and on Allan Simpson, an
ex-Mayor of Adelaide. The metal-work was be-
stowed on them in recognition of services for the
relief of distressed Belgium during the war. The
decoration of Officer of the Crown has been passed
to W. Herbert Phillipps, the Consul for Belgium.
Their Exes, have left Marble Hill and taken up
residence once more on North Terrace.
Last week the Mayoress invited a big batch of
friends to meet Amy and Eileen Castles, who have
come to sing, and were thus given a fine preliminary
advt.
J. A. Kennedy has resigned from the Education
Department to go and live in England, where most
of his family now are, including the celebrated
Daisy. The veteran teacher was farewelled last
week, and handed a rug and writing-case. He is
leaving with Mrs. and Miss Kennedy by the Borda
on April 9.


mn
After the long day,
what thinks the tired man ?
TOO weary to frolic
with the children
to-night! 1 just
want to fall into an easy
chair in a dark corner
and shut my eyes—and
let things slide” ....
‘‘Ah! A little distance
does plane the edges
and corners off the
youngsters’ noise”....
(Sigh-h-h-h).
‘‘There goes their old
favorite, ‘The Magpie
and the Parrot.’ That
must be the end of the
juvenile programme. I
thought so. Here they
come. Good-night, Mary.
Good-night, Boy. Sleep
well.”
(Sigh-h-h-h).
‘‘What’s this now? Oh!
‘The Caretaker.’ The
girls get a lot of amuse-
ment out of Bransby
Williams’ patter. How
they giggle! He’s a droll
chap, Williams, and I
suppose ‘The Caretaker’
is one of his best
records.’’
(The Grafonola plays again.)
Star of Eve’. . Lovely.
That must be for me. I
never thought a cello
could sound so well. No
doubt they’re right when
they say that Casals is
the greatest master of
the bow of all the players
of stringed instruments.”
‘‘Ah! Eisdell now. Sing-
ing well, too. I’ve often
heard Eisdell, but I never
heard him sing better.
Beautifully smooth. I’ll
bet Tosti himself would
like to hear ‘Parted’
done as well as this.’
‘‘Daisy Kennedy’s play-
ing well to-night. That’s
the Brahms Scherzo in
C Minor. There’s no
denying it—you have to
keep on hearing the good
music to know it—and
you have to know it to
appreciate it. This is a
gem, and Daisy cer-
tainly knows how to
make it sparkle.”
* *
(A longer pause, and then the swell-
ing majesty of Clara Butt’s voice fills
the quivering air with “O, Lovely
Night.”)
** * *
‘‘Yes, there’s only one
Clara Butt. You feel
inclined to think the
others are as good—until
you hear her. My word
—what a programme to-
night. This last number
alone was worth coming
twice as far to hear.”
(The book slips from the listener’s
hand and—he awakes with a start.)
‘‘Why—why—ablest if I
haven’t been at home all
the time.”
Columbia
Records
No. 2530—“ The Magpie and the Parrot.”
From “A Love Episode in
Birdland.”
By Princes Orchestra
No. 388 —“The Caretaker.” Humorous
Recital.
By Mr. Bransby Williams
No. 7167 —“O Star of Eve” (Tannhauser).
’Cello Solo, by Pablo Casals,
with Orchestra.
No. Lll2l-“Parted.” Sung by Hubert
Eisdell, with Violin Obligato
by Mr. Albert Sammons.
No. L1337-‘‘Scherzo in C Minor”
(Brahms).
Daisy Kennedy, violin
No. 7141 —“O, Lovely Night.”
Clara Butt
The Perfect Encore—a
Columbia Record on the
Grafonola.
iitll
% ■: lliitl
a
:■
m
M
r
r—
■ ,-,
/ r
: v ; .
[
S'
85
Gr^
, -
a
• Hf ■" - -
. I"-*
P i
l-Lfe*
I
■
IIISB
■
/U
r-^i
M
Sc
. ;
■9E
*
i w**
7
"
■
■
H
"■
■
in
■i
11
iti
se
Ml
i aadliilP*
m


CIMRLES
fIEIDSIECIfi
Vintage 1911
CMflMffi
HE PLUS ULTRA
f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
f lumtHiuiur
■
*
FLAWLESS FLOORS
Can best be obtained by using one of the
five beautiful Art Shades
of
ii
■
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throughoul the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Saturday proved a delusion and a snare
as far as the dressing for Randwick was
concerned, liain and heat, sun and cloud
chased one another from hour to hour, so that
the stands looked like a carnival of the sea-
sons, Summer, Winter and Autumn dressings
sitting side by side and blessing or reviling tne
day as it blew fair or foul. All Sydney and
half the other States were present, and the ofli-
cial-stand ticket-window hung out the sign
of “House Full” early in the proceedings,
lhe official stand, like the Day of Judgment,
divides its patrons into the sheep and the
goats, one gateway and side for the gold mem-
bership badges, the outer darkness, as it
were, for the mere guinea day-tickets. In
the membership enclosure, with a pride that
is almost solemn, sit the high priests and
priestesses of Sydney Society-pillars of the
Church and State and Law. Over the fence
sit mere Human beings out for a day’s sport,
and in among them slips an occasional Philis-
tine from the gold-mounted elect. As for
the members’ stands and grandstands—well,
they are for the multitude, and the vice-
regal pew seems to be the spot that the vice-
regal party is mostly popping out of.
Dame Margaret on Saturday wore black
panne velvet and a black hat with a lace
valance. With her were the Chief Justice
Irvines from Victoria, the Whittinghams, the
Dyre Kennys, the Otway Falkiners and Mrs.
Swinson.
Ribbed silk stockings in two tones were
everywhere, and every woman wore a hat
darting out on the right side, with a feather-
duster arrangement or tickler dangling from
it. Mrs. Tom Rolin’s jade-green feather en-
circled a straight-brimmed hat, while
daughter Joan had a rust-colored ribbon
dangling from a hat of the same tone. The
dressing was as decorous as a Scots funeral;
apart from a pair of outsize Royal-blue
brocade shoes on a pair of very long feet, a
tall lady in geld and amber tones looking
like the whole mannequin parade from “Chu
Chin Chow,” and a stranger in our midst
who wore an astounding hat that climbed
to a central summit on which an immense
sunflower had apparently gone to seed, there
was not a thrill in the dressing. Legs from
the knee downwards were everywhere; in
fact, they are so common that nobody bothers
to look at them, wherefore the lady in the pea-
cock-green tricolette might have saved her
expensive material and ended it with her
underslip just at the knee. Mrs. Bertie Wat-
son, with her milk-and-roses complexion, was
in the first row of the beauty competitors;
and, of course, Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne,
with her warm coloring and wonderful eyes,
was another. . She had wrapped a fawn cloak
about something black and white and gone
to the revels with her Henry. Mrs. Claude
Cumberlege, in nigger brown from veil to
shoe-cap, brought her own atmosphere of the
women in Kipling’s Hill-station stories. Mrs.
Tony Hordern, all priceless feathers and
pearls, walked with Mrs. Ken Richards and
Mrs. Oliver Osborne. The Byrams, lawyer
O’Shea, Minister McCormick and the T. ,T.
Ryans were a corner of Queensland. Carrie
Moore Wyatt added a lovely ermine wrap to
a summer rig-out. Mrs. Leonard Dodds was
black and white from her stockings up, and
her daughter, Mrs. Metcalfe Jackson, wore
a vivid cerise hat with her navy tailor-
ings. Dennis Allen, just back from India,
was a centre of interest; Mrs. C. E.
Waters looked cash-down in rich brown
charmeuse and brown feather trimmings.
Knoxes by the score, McMasters and Mere-
wethers and Una Clift and Mrs. Hill (who
was Dolly Hordern) and her Colonel (thev
are staying with Libby), and carloads of
wounded soldier-boys from the hospital helped
to make up the changing groups.
Of course you went to the Show, and
entering the gateways stepped into the
colony of little wooden huts, of chalets, of
engineering yards, of pumping stations,
windmills, motor-cars, aeroplanes, sewing-
machines and the neat little allotment all
wrought-iron gates and wire-fencing that took
your breath away for a minute because you
thought it was a miniature cemetery, where-
as it was only an exhibit of neat boundaries
for that little suburban lot you have in your
mind’s eye.
King of all the exhibits, because it em-
bodies most of them, and has many things
entirely it own, was the Northern Rivers’ dis-
play. In its barricade of sugar-cane, with
rich and luscious pineapples negligently stuck
among the canes; with little mountains of
almonds and walnuts, preserves and noney :
with all the sumptuous belles of the tropics
and the hardier subtropical beauties side by
side —it had taken 10 men working a fort-
night to arrange them so that none of their
points might be hidden—it was a display to
make you glow because you are an Aus-
tralian !
The Show opened itself automatically on
Monday, but it was not till after the official
turkey and champagne had been consumed
on \\ ednesday that the official opening took
place. Just as the band finished the last bars
the "Toreador” song, in walked the prize
oulls w r ith the oppressive dignity that befits
the Vere de Vere. Slowly, almost solemnly,
the cattle paced the ring, not two by two as
ordained by Noah (steward of the first
pastoral show on record), but one by one.
each with its human escort. The beeves and
fatlings, horses and oxen, showed their paces
and marched ring within ring in as intricate
and alluring a design as the latest William-
son ballet. There were white stockinged
horses, and grey horses, and horses in which
the colors had run ; and coal-black steeds that
might suddenly have breathed fire through
their nostrils without causing the slightest
surprise. Very high-spirited they were, and
it seemed hard to endorse the lugubrious
tern ale in the gaunt hat who remarked:
* ouldn-t they look real handsome in a
hearse!”
Slowly the ring began to empty itself, the
played “God Save,” aud down from ttie
official stand came a procession of figures in
grey frock-coats led by our disgracefully
handsome G.-G.—in profile'he’d make a film-
producer swoon with desire. Monty Somer,
looking more like a farmer from County
Cork than ever, welcomed the top-hats into
the sacred flag-screened enclosure with its
little cane chairs reserved for Place and
Power. Of course Sam Hordern was there,
black stock, tie-pin, shiny silk hat and all;
and Billy Hughes’s ears, keeping his grey
hat neatly tethered to his head. The Digby
lordling might have been making calls in
Mayfair. Dame Margaret mixed yellow and
mastic and a black velvet hat. His State
Ex. looked more like a little sunbeam in
the home than ever. Sam Hordern’s lady
was neatly smart in navy crepe-de-Cliine
tailorings and a tight-fitting hat, and
daughter Doreen wore a dressing of cream
with dashes of pink. Victorian Chief-Jus-
tice Irvine and his wife were among the
specially invited.
When the rows of silver cups had been
duly presented (mother will he able to utilise
them at a pinch as a bath for the baby),
the party made its impressive way back to
the official stand, where tea was served from
tables that were a pond of water-lilies in the
middle and a rose garden around the boun-
daries, intersected by little paths of black-
and-white streamers. At this function the
gentle Lamb came in useful and looked after
Daphne and Diana and the nurse. On the
stand the Ministry and Consuls hobnobbed,
the Fuller lady came with her George, and
Muffle Layton chaperoned her handsome
dad; Mrs. Willie Collins was girl-like in
white cr§pe de Chine and a veil as green
as a seamaid’s eyes; and picturesque Mrs.
Metcalfe-Jackson wore a lavender veil that
toned in miraculously with the pinky-red
stripes of her Fuji dress.
Dame Margaret, robed in cerise, smiled on
Bega last week from under a sun-shady hat.
Her Ex. fell in love with the cow paradise,
now green as a leek, and thinks of sending
Diana and Daphne down for a holiday. The
hostel built by brewer Tooth as an adjunct
to Kameruka will most likely shelter the
little ladies. The loyal convent children,
when inspected by the gubernatorial pair,
sang “God Save,” but the equally loyal
public-school infants didn’t.
Herewith Esma’s picture of little Ettie
Robertson, whose strings of decorations
make her look like
a n embryo Lord
Mayor. But she is
much more import-
ant, she promises to
be Australia’s cham-
pion girl swimmer—
her records at 13
have pulled down
even Fanny Duraclc’s
for that age. Ettie
has been winning
championships since
she was nine, and at
the recent All
Schools’ Girls’ Car-
nival she cost her
dad 14s. for entry
fees, but carried
home eight first and
one second prize.
The youngster is junior champion of the
Metropolitan Ladies’ Swimming Club—
Sydney’s biggest. She swims breast stroke,
back stroke and lately the American crawl.
There were practically no vice-regal func-
tions this Easter. Lady Forster says Admi-
ralty House is too small for entertainments.
and the State Excellencies’ list included only
a dinner for heads of the A.J.C.
Frank de V. Lamb, who has for nearly
two years been private sec. to the Davidsons,
leaves the job next month. No man could
be a more gentle shepherd of the vice-regal
tiock.
The presidential Godsells, of the Institute
of Architects, banged the gate on their own
attractive garden-space at Roseville one
afternoon last week, and served tea and music
in the gallery of the Education Department,
whither an exhibition of architectural work
had been drawing home-hungry and beauty-
loving Sydney. Very graceful and alluring
were the cottage interiors and exteriors, and
any girl who suspected her “regular” of hesi-
tating on the brink might have given him
the last fatal push into the whirlpool by
bringing him to browse on front elevations
and sunken gardens as depicted by John 1).
.Moore, or Wilson, Neave and Berry. There
were no less than three designs for a new
David Jones’s: and handsome and imposing
banks and commercial buildings were thick
as mushrooms ought to be and toadstools
mostly are in the sunrise hours of an autumn
day. Hostess Mrs. Godsell, looking like a
grand-opera standard.
The first exhibition of the Society of
Architects is an alluring affair of cool porch
depths and graceful stone columns, of old
“Colonial” style houses with shuttered win-
dows and wide verandahs running the whole
front. One bit of modelling shows a cot-
tage that looks an exact reproduction of old
Mt. York farm, in the long ago the inn
where Macquarie and his Sophy stayed over-
night on their first trip across the mountains
into the Bathurst Plains. May Moore’s
house at the Spit and some romance-breath-
ing homes at Kirribilli and Mosman make
the Darlinghurst dweller realise the grisly
horror of flats and “residentials.” There’s a
dream cottage set in a dream garden, and
a very dignified and stately pile of masonry
is a suggestion for the completion of the
I ni. Quadrangle. There are banks that look
solid and respectable, tobacco factories that
suggest Carmen and grand opera, and busi-
ness houses so sleek and prosperous that they
would never dare to go bankrupt.
All the Law and Order of Sydney found
its way to Strathfield on Wednesday to the
wedding of Madge (Margaret) Sly, daughter
of ex-Justice Sly, and Keith Ferguson, son
of the Supreme Court Judge. Padres Little-
more and Mathison tied the knot at the Con-
gregational Church. Madge looked like a
“Sundae special” in frothings of white-
frilled ninon and pink georgette, and her
sister Nerida and Keith’s sister Dorothy
bridesmaided in brown and pink-shot taffeta
and nigger-brown tulle hats. A party that
sounded like the opening of a Law Court
term took place at Wirringulla, the Sly home
at Strathfield. Bridegroom, best-man John
Mant and groomsman Brian Keys were all
Diggers.
_lt has been a week of dances. The Edward
Knoxes, the Arthur Allens and the Surprise
supper-dance for the Women’s Hospital
netted the goldfish, including the G.-G., for
Monday. Town and Country Girls also had
a jolly hop to celebrate Easter, and St. Vin-
cent’s Ball was so crowded that the tables
under the eastern gallery were scowled
almost out of existence.
Helen Laidley was the belle of the ball on
the Melbourne the other night, when the
captain and officers entertained. It was high
moonlight, and Garden Island lent a pic-
turesque background to the flag-decked ship.
The Cumberleges, the jolliest host and
hostess, received the guests, who were mainly
the younger set. Helen was clothed in soft
white satin, and her fair hair was bound
with a white satin ribbon brought low on
the forehead and finished off at the side and
rear with jet leaves. Dashing Pauline
McMorran, sweet Mollie Dangar. Joan
McCall McCowan and Margaret Tooth (both
of these flashing engagement rings), Mrs.
Henry Hill Osborne in soft yellow satin,
crowds of good-looking navy men and Fob
Wilkinson and Toby Watt helped the party
to be the success of the week.
Dr. Mildred Staley, who passed through
Sydney last week on her way to Suva, where
she is to be in charge of the Indian women
in the hospital there, is small and frail-
looking : but her courage isn’t to be meas-
ured. She was at the French and Serbian
fronts, and her work among the native women
in Further India has been talked about afar.
Her greatest enemy in attending her brown
sisters on their native heath is, of course,
the village sorcerer, who is also generally
the village moneylender, and will grab a
patient’s last cocoanut-tree in payment for
a charm to remove the sickness. It makes
one feel thankful for Macquarie-street.
The Broadwood pair have booked the top-
pest-deckers on the Ventura for San Fran-
cisco and Ola’s “little mother.” From San
Francisco they go to Canada, and from
Quebec to London. Ola spent all Easter
Sunday forenoon at the Zoo looking for
native-bears. She asked one hundred perfect
strangers where little native-bears could be
seen, but no one, including an official, had
knowledge enough to tell her that they were
m the trees—asleep.
chiys after the Great War started
.Mrs. lom Buckle convened a meeting at her
home, and with Mrs. R. R. S. MacKinnon
as chairwoman formed the Cremorne
Branch of the Red
Cross, an energetic
body of workers
which is still very
active. Mrs. Buckle
has been its presi-
dent ever since it was
born and she is also
patron of a junior
branch. It would be
easier to list the
charitable ventures
Mrs. Buckle has not
been connected with
than those with
which she has been.
One of her feats was
a record collection of
£1233 at her stall for
“Our Day.” In con-
junction with the
North Sydney Comedy Club she “organised”
many hundreds by a series of matinees at
city theatres. She is also an enthusiastic
worker for Graythwaite and the Wentworth
Kindergarten—one of her last kicks was to
get over £2OO to buy a motor for the use of
ihe incapacitated men at Graythwaite. After
seven very strenuous years Mrs. Buckle
leaves with her husband by the Orvieto on
April 20, and will be absent for over a year.
After visiting Europe (including the battle-
fields) they plan to return by way of America
and Japan.
The month of May will see J. I). Fitz-
gerald on board a steamer bound for Italy,
where his singing daughter and her husband
and the only grandchild in the world will be
waiting to greet him.
The Ranee of Pudukota last wrote to Aus-
tralia from Cannes, which was then in the
height of its carnival season, time being
nothing but a succession of fStes and balls.
Our Ranee had become noted as a tennis
enthusiast.
Mrs. Gordon Wesche will leave shortly
for England, accompanied by her son, who
is going to New College, Oxford.
Mrs. R. A. Bell, who, since the death of
her husband, the popular manager of the
N.C.S.N. Co., has lived in the old home.
Cherry Hinton, Summer Hill, goes to Eng-
land with her two daughters in a few
months.
Mrs. Pearce-Foster, the tennis crack, is
going to England in the Ascanius. Her
husband is a naval officer, and has a wealthy
mother in England. Mrs. Pearce-Foster
looks like sweet 17, and is not much over
the 20 mark. She is very pretty, and is a
great cobber of her stepmother, Mrs. Sand-
ford, wife of the General, living now in
Roslyn Gardens.
To H.M.A.S. Melbourne goes Lieut. Eric
Feldt, one of the original batch of Jervis
Bay cadets to pass out from the Naval Col-
lege as a finished product of Australian
training. Since then he has had his share
of war-time wanderings. He comes from
Queensland.
The newest engagement is that of Marie
Le Varre to Andre Dupre, a youthful French
boxer, and even as you read this the wedding
is about to be celebrated. Strangely enough,
blondes have proved as attractive as free
drinks to the French boys, and they reckon
the Sydney acterines could show the Opera
Comique a point or two Maybe.
A Brisbane postscript—
The members of the United Service Club gave
their first dance of the season the other night. A
musical programme, much jazzing and a supper
which appealed even to the chaperons (there are
a few still extant) made everyone happy.
Kathleen Hughes, a Canadian journalist, has been
tea-ing with us. The lady, a recognised authority
on the timber trade, was for some time sec. to the
Premier of Alberta. The horrible waste of Aus-
tralian wood shocks the lady.
Our Gov. is going to Toowoomba for the Eistedd-
fod, and will be the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Aeneas
McDonnell.
In spite of very wet rain, several dozens of bowlers
and their wives turned up to the president’s at-home
at the Toowong Bowling Club. He and Mrs. Lloyd
are leaving for England next month.
Wynne, the youngest of the trio of the
musical Jefferies sisters, has come back to Brisbane
after five years’ study in England. She mentions
that young Archie Day, the Queensland boy pianist
and organist, is living up to the expectations his
friends here have of him.
Doris Anning, the pretty youngest daughter of
the late F. A. Anning, of Reedy Springs, has just
been married in Melbourne to Percy Bond, third
son of the Hobart Bonds.
Toto Beith, the fluffy daughter of the William
Beiths, once of Toowoomba, now of London, is en-
gaged to Captain Hugo Pierson, of the Indian Array.
Col. and Mrs. Lyster have joined the colony of ex-
service officers in the Channel Islands. These specks
seem to be the only part of the civilised world
where H.C.L. is not a roaring lion.


is •
1853
ESTB
New Designs in
Diamond Brooches.
Selections are sent on approval.
Platinum Circle
Brooch, with
Diamond Spray,
£35 0 0
Illustrated
Catalogues
posted free on
request.
Diamond and Pearl
Fancy Circle
Brooch,
£44 0 0
Diamond Bar Brooch,
£9O 0 0
Diamond Oval Brooch,
£5O 0 0
Diamond Fancy
Circle Brooch,
£55 0 0
The Brooches illustrated are selected from the Company’s
choice collection of Diamond and Gem Brooches. The stones
are of finest quality, set in pure platinum, and the workmanship
throughout is of highest standard.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
London,
Always Reliable !
o
0
*»
¥ <
<
*fe
fe* iJfcf/o-
“Perfection”
Dental Alloy
A High-grade Alloy
for Amalgam Fillings.
Comparative tests place it on a level with
the very best Alloy that European or
American manufacturers have produced.
Samples on application.
Read what a Client says:—
“I exclusively use ‘Perfection’ Alloy and find it
equal, if not better, than any other I’ve used during
my 20 years’ practice. I’ve been using it now for
a few years, and all Fillings I’ve examined since
are in perfect order.”
Manufacturers of
DENTAL GOLDS
SOLDERS
PLATINUM and its ALLOYS
PLATINISED WIRES, etc.
REDISTILLED MERCURY
Specialists in the economic and scientific treat-
ment of
DENTAL RESIDUES.
US
“THE DENTAL
METALLURGISTS”
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Laboratories and Works : ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the States and New Zealand.
Kruschen San
or a teaspoonful d
JT souW be taken each nwrnj^
Kruschen Salt is a rerneuy
rorn the hlrvvt
Hal!
| lr ®ri the blood
I siifti
Fetation. Livv
W most useful. \
K should be
to assiv
•xcraory^
Rheuma l J
Kidney
e griff
y
Your liver decides whether
you’re fit for anything or
good for nothing
EFFICIENCY and deficiency sound much
the same. Yet, in meaning, they are a
whole world apart. The first comes from a
liver that’s doing its work —the second from
a liver that’s slacking.
If a man gets plenty of fresh air and exercise;
eats, masticates and digests the right foods,
his organs will perform their functions and he
will extract from his food all the elements
which are demanded by his physical economy.
But that lucky man will be only one in a
thousand. Our climate is hard on the liver
and we need the help of Kruschen Salts. From
its use are derived the salines necessary for
healthy life.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
“ Half-a-tea spoonful ”
All Chemists —2/6 per bottle
Enough for two months
Kruschen Salts (“Half-a-teaspoonful”) not only relieve
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout and Constipation
(the direct results of a disordered liver), but they prevent
them.
Kruschen Salts are now sold in the New Dry Powder form.
This is a great improvement on the Crystals, the new
style allows the dosage to be measured better. . This means
greater exactness, better results and—the Salts go farther.
Australia —Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by H.
Austran . w Grear, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked
W ew z,eai Fairbairn Wright and Co., Christchurch,
Wellington, Auckland and Dunedin.
NOTE Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes Ltd., established L 56, in the reign
of George the Second.
700 a


nm
YOUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luxite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and ■withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose-* such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. * 50 York Street.
Sydney
Learn to Draw
I
& Q
Send for
Mr. Harry
J. Weston’s
instructive and
interesting booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen.”
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by the Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work are given.
The IV os ton method
is simplicity itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by
a series of easy,
progressive lessons
gives you a thor-
ough grounding in
the basic principles
of Art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
m a n y successful
Weston pupils
have done ? You
have the ben-
efit of Mr.
M eston s personal advice on every lesson!
Send three stamps and your name and address to
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
postal .Vchool of Drawing,
39 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE
British
MADE
Perfection
RUBBER
Public Notice.
WAR GRATUITY BOARD.
NOTICE.
ALL claims not already lodged from
relatives or dependants entitled to
participate in the War Gratuity due on
account of the service of
No. 249 Private James Alfred PITHAM,
40th Battalion, deceased, and
No. 7453 Private Frederick David Arthur
PELBIN, 12th Battalion, deceased,
must be lodged with The District Finance
Officer, 6th Military District, Anglesea
Barracks, Hobart, on or before the 14th
April. 1921, failing which they will not be
considered.
( Sgd. > W. W. ALDERMAN. Lt.-Colouel.
Agent for the Prescribed Authority, War
Gratuity Board, Hobart.
THE HALLMARK
OF THE
SMART WOMAN.
By MIMOSA.
m O be really smart a woman must con-
vey the impression of being daintily
fastidious regarding her personal
belongings and appearance. Her hair and
skin must look as though they retained the
appearance of youthfulness as a result of
cleanliness and care. This is impossible
where the skin is spasmodically subjected
to experiments with all sorts of preparations.
The really smart woman will know' what
she is using, and those who follow this
advice will use only simple, pure ingredients
that can be procured in original packages.
If the chemist does not have what you want
he can easily obtain it for you, if you insist.
Clammy Hands —After washing your
hands, rub over them a little fuller’s earth
mixed with Orris, powdered. I think you
will find that this will help.
Beauty’s Cheeks —Some face-creams
have a tendency to induce a growth of down
on the face. You can be on the safe side
by avoiding made-up creams, using instead
Mercolised Wax. It will protect your face
in motoring and holds the powder perfectly.
It is the last word in smart, effective toilet
luxury.
Beautiful Lashes —The character of
the eyebrows and lashes certainly has much
to do with the beauty of the face. Get a
package of Mennaline and apply a little at
night, brushing gently in the mornings This
will bring about a decided improvement in
the texture of your eyebrows and lashes.
Washing Hair Brushes—- Scrupulous
cleanliness of the brushes is necessary if you
wish to keep your hair in good condition. The
best way is to use Curd Soap and a little
household ammonia in warm water. Let
the brushes soak for a short time, then
wash them thoroughly. Rub as dry as pos-
sible and air in the sun.
Velvet Skin— lnstead of several layers
of face-cream and powder try a solution of
Cleminite. Get a package, dissolve it in
four ounces of water, and bathe the face
with the solution, patting it until it is quite
dry. You will have a “skin like velvet”
effect that will last for hours.
Scanty Locks —Thick glossy coils of your
own hair means devoting time to brushing
and scalp massage, also an occasional use
of hair tonic to keep the hair healthy. The
best and simplest tonic is Bay Rum and
Boranium. Get a package of Boranium
and mix it with a i-pint of Bay Rum. This
will clear off any dandruff, and materially
aid in producing the desired result.
Large Pores and Blackheads —This is
the formula: Obtain a package of Stymol
tablets from the chemist’s and dissolve one
in a cup of hot water; after the effervescence
has subsided dab the face, using a small
sponge. The result is quite startling. This
is an excellent astringent. Used every day
will close the enlarged pores and prevent
w-rinkles.
Bloom of Health —The use of rouge if
obvious is rather vulgar. You can get over
the difficulty and still have nice, rosy cheeks
by using Powdered Colliandum. Get a small
tin and apply a little with the tips of the
fingers. It is quite harmless, and its natural
color blends with the tint of the skin, so its
use can never be detected if it is applied
properly.
In Bad Odor — l do not know of any safe
way to check excessive perspiration, but you
can instantly kill the odor, which is not
only unpleasant to you but to those about
you, by applying a little powdered Pergol.
Cupid’s Bow—The best thing to use for
your lips is just a stick of soft Prolactum.
Rub this over the lips, and it will give them
the desired color and keep them soft and
fresh.
Superfluous Hair —You can remove that
undesirable down on your face with Pherni-
nol. Get a package and apply a little to the
hair, which can soon be rubbed off, leaving
the skin quite clear. It is also useful for
removing hair from the under-arm.
Lack-Lustre Hair —lf your hair is dull
and lustreless after a shampoo, you are
using something that is too soapy. Try just
plain Stallax. Get an original package, as
it is more economical. A teaspoonful in a
cup of hot water for each shampoo is suf-
ficient, as it foams tremendously and rinses
off easily, leaving the hair lustrous and
fluffy, with a dainty suggestion of perfume.
Premature Greyness —This trouble may
be easily overcome and the hair restored
to its natural color by using concentrate of
TammaJite. Mix it with about the same
quantity of bay rum and apply with a small
sponge.— Adyt.
n
ABBEY
SHOES!
Noted for their fine quality and good
finish, the features that keep them always
in the front rank of footwear values.
A style for every fancy and a fit for every
foot.
Abbey Shoes spell “comfort.”
This Tan Willow Oxford Shoe has a per-
forated vamp, and is stocked by us in all
sizes, C and D fittings.
PRICE 55/- PER PAIR.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
mn
In your pocket a
sealed tube.
Dozens of Onoto Pens are sent
every day through the post full
of ink, often in silk-lined cases.
1 hey get shaken and tossed
about in the mail-bags. But it is
perfectly safe to send them in this
way.
For the British-made Onoto
cannot leak. When you close it,
with a . turn of the finger and
thumb, it becomes a sealed tube.
Not a drop of ink can possibly
escape.
When you open it again, you find
the finger - hold dry, though the
m
ink in the nib
r emains fresh and
moist, so that
you can start
writing at once.
And when you
want more ink
the Onoto fills
itself instantly
from any ink
supply. It is the
simplest pen to
use.
When you are a Pillar-Box
remember o gel an
L NOTO.
AfK FOR ONOTO INK
Best for AH Pens,
Thomas De La Rue
8C Co. Ltd.,
Bunhill Row,
London. E.C.I.
Managing Age h :
Norman, Baker Si
Lrnghurst,
Sydney & Melbourne
Missing: Friends.
TN the estate of ERNEST FRANCIS TURNER, late
of Forest Vale Farm, via Condobolin, N.S.W.,
Paymaster and Bookkeeper (died Ist February, 1919).
Any solicitor or other person able to furnish informa-
tion regarding the whereabouts of a will of the
abovenamed deceased is requested to communicate
with the undersigned. T. IV. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castle-
reagh Street. Sydney. 15th March, 1921.
PATRICK ANDREW, son of John and
Elizabeth Fowler, of Camberwell, Victoria,
nephew of Patrick Fowler, will hear of something to
his advantage by communicating with National Trus-
tes Company, 113 Queen Street. Melbourne.
FLORENCE CARSON, daughter of John
Carson, formerly residing at German
Bridge, Mount Gravatt. near Brisbane, and
late of Castlemaine and Maryborough (Vic-
toria). is requested to communicate with
NEWELL & LAWSON, Solicitors, Castle
maine, Victoria.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character} will be
taken of communications stamped,
fiame and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.V.AA.: Glad to get your view of John
Wren as a philanthropist, who runs pony-courses so
that “the workers may get out of the rut they are
in.” Now will you send us your assurance that
St. John scorns to make money out of his philan-
tl.rophy, and lives the life of a penurious ascetic....
Bobs: No snap in it....L.F.: String of puns of no
value... .Hold All: Don't write on both sides of
paper. .. .Babs: Promising, but not enough interest.
....Sirius: Both, with variations, have seen print
already Beer: Gone flat Colv: W.P.B. just
managed to hold it. .. .Thirty-one: Irish yarn pen-
sioned long ag0....D.K.: Sorry you were “bared
by the authorities”—but the weather is still toler-
ably warm.... Don M.: Too late; a couple of replies
have been printed in the intervening live months....
Edjames: Its length killed the chances of the
prose. The verse had none Stanley C.: “Bushed”
hasn’t enough in it... .F.O’N.: You won’t do any-
thing while you merely try to use up all the bad
lines in verses you remember. That “Chill Decem-
ber” shows the sort of slavish way you follow. The
December temperatures you know generally touch 100°
in the shade.... Bernie: The curse doesn’t work....
Mr. B. W.: Dreadful.... Hugh G. C.: Very uninter-
esting “Clouds” Mildred C.: What on earth do
you mean by “ruled reason’s raft”? .Stronach:
Workmanship too crude. For instance, Mac says
“noo” in one line and “now” in the next.. .P.R.D.:
Nothing there... .Jack A. W.: One slab:—
The enemies of England,
Oh! How they fume and boil!
Imagine them sweeping on London Town
To ravage, and plunder and spoil;
No sympathy with the aged ;
No mercy to Nelson’s Tomb;
Oh! See their wicked visages
Like fiends from ihc nether gloom!
Doreen C.: Your friends advised you badly. The
stories are not in our line W. 8.: “Cows”
doesn't make its point sharp enough....
J. : “Ward Three” doesn’t strike u 5....
E.J.L.: Held for inquest W.H.N.: “Dog
Hunter” must go back J.M.W.: Not what
we want. . .A.L.G.: “Spring Cleaning” goes drearily.
O.U.T.: “Liquid Love” doesn’t tickle us to a
smile Leo S.: Too crude... .Eric: The winking
person doesn’t get the laugh J.R.F.: Y'ou’ve yet
to learn how a yarn is written Sibelius: No use.
. ...T.J.L.: “Prussian’s Gold” must go home....
K. : Too weak and wobbly... .A.N. (Geelong):
Nothing there Austin B.: Yarn well told, but
matter too thin T. Weed: Idea a bit crude. It
would have taken very fine craftsmanship to make a
story of it... .'L.C.M.: It’s not badly told. Try
something less lamentable Bellerive: “The Moth
and the Spider” has all the old charm:—
Said a moth unto a spider:
“You’re artful and you’re sly;
You fancy you’re an hero
When you prey upon a fly.
You wouldn’t face a centipede,
A soldier-ant or bee;
You’d hideth from a scorpion,
A hornet from a tree.”
“Bah,” replied the spider,
“You frail object of the night.
Bloodless is your carcase,
And wanton is your flight.
You buzz against a window,
And dasheth anywhere.
Till you perish by your folly
In a lamp or candle glare.”
Joan: The chief need of the verses is thought
and feeling. You can’t write verses just as you knit
socks... .A.F.M.: Very bad Bobby B.: Verse
written in thin treacle and beginning “Oh thou, ye
mighty awful deep,” rejects itself with enthusiasm.
... .Chaino: No good. .. .L.C.C.: It doesn’t get
within kicking distance... .Conor: You call it
“Thoughts.” We call it trouble R.M.8.: Very
thin and lacking in skill Eyelette: Sorrowfu'l
stuff R.R. (Essendon) : Not nearly Phalene:
“Butterfly Man” flutters a little too feebly E.D.
(Randwick): Also ran.... Kay K.: Can you give it
more point ?.... See B.: Very lumpy... .N.T. (Q.) :
Get something to say before you try to write.
Top: “Bill” is. no good; “Pup” held for a further
reading.... Phill O.: Far too much loose eloquence.
* ... -Lorna: Not up— .A.R.A.: Flimsy stuff with no
point... .T.T.H.: Verse goes heavily and has too
many commonplace tags... .Rigger: It doesn’t move
us to open the cash-box Victor Pax: Common-
place rubbish....R.R.F.: There is a charm about
the finish:—
M e know not the place nor the hour
The dearest from our bosom torn:
Even with all the wealth and power
Know we not what bringeth the morn!
So just learn to labor and love,
With hope of reward overdue.
And never with spade give a shove
In matters that don’t concern YOU!
.... P.McG.: They don’t get near.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.M .: Drawing weak ; and policeman’s English
uniform suggests larceny King Daub: No
F.K.K.; “Near Enough” isn’t Suche: Misses
A. : Dabby sketches ruled out K.F.: A
woman like that’s no joke... .Hilda McC.: Scratchy
little futilities.. . .R.A.: A long way short. .. .H.G.:
Amazing series of scrawls in blue ink useless.’...
L.J.H.: Hopeless....R.M.R.: Feeble joke; feebler
drawing G.H.: A poor fist of it E.P.: Pencil
marks on ruled note-paper don’t interest us
K.W-C.: Old jokes E.E.L.: Drawing prettv hope-
let* T -°- : Pencilled atrocity oil its way home
B. : A long way short.
. “ A l udi .°” : T, ? e Erench do things differently :
ill colonising they admit the black man to an
equality that the English official, military or
civil, wouldn’t tolerate even for the sake of
government. In the earlier stages of
the war, when French troops were stationed
at Alexandria, I often wondered how a white
man could submit to be ordered about bv a
e°k>red ser geant; yet I have seen companies
fr °m the base depots that comprised prettv
!T eII evel ,' y s ! ladft of color, from the pale men of
t,le “orth of France to the black Senegalese.
? n< the darkest man in the procession was
frequently m command. For some weeks I
Piaf^n^f'ci 01 ' at th , e Ilouse °f two French
ese was a ° Dt cain . p - ASene S al *
** o|Uent fellow-guest and used to
; n "U CO -?? pariy hy addressing the ladies
m the tami liar second person singular.
him to tate°n libX hfiS mrfT* 8 ® 1
”* *>*ly ejected from the
acted the part of ejector with great pleasure.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIKNT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
'l'el. — City 4246. 2, 4. B Spring Street.
4Si o! Sydney,
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By vray of
south Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. APRIL 27.
SONOMA.
10.0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 0 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, He.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, li.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . • • • • 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,069 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
DIBBCTOKS —Geo. Edwd. Running, Ksq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : .lames I.ove, Ksq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, Bouth Afrloa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagut, Chairman; Geohoe
J. St,y, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todmax ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbaiiin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
RETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CON UNO
Passengers booked to Glasgow. Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 7th APRIL, 3 p.m.
R.M.S. MAKURA, THURSDAY, sth MAY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 2nd JUNE.
AND EVERY 2S DAYS THEREAFTER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z)„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States. Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara tails, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. MARAMA, 25th April.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 21st April.
And every 28 days thereafter.
'or illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
WSMm
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OP THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 1:1,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
I’ERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
° London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15.000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MII.TIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8.000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Ferth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WA L£S.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
nm
- £4,958,260
3,350,000
- 4,958,260
£13,266,520
Director*
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Hubert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, F.sq.
The kon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Hea.r Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office-29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
350 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Asrents and Correspondents throughout the world. . nlDrp . „ .
Agents a J mn de to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DTRKCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World,
Commonwealth
■ BEAD OFFICE
m
jBaufc°'Australia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2)
Savings Bank Department
nt all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3i% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
(AMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.0.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Jan. Ist. 1921. Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (port Alma), MACKAY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports)
♦Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
fCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerllM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbo me to New Zealand ports
and rice versa. Pavticu' as to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv throe weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED;
COilinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
SPECIAL NOTE." —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PIITLP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian Uniteil Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Black heath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOE :
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except ai
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Menageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug- and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bumlaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
n
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., lAd...
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.


V '
(Read)
BILLIARD &.SNOOKE
%
I
n play they are resilient—faultless in running
h ar and away superior to any other ball.
true to angle and of perfect balance.
Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizcs: lfin. lfin. 2in.
17/3 21/- 25/- set
(Postage on One Set-N.8.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Sues: lfi n> l|in. 2in.
£6/6[- £7/7/- £B/8/- set
(We Pay Carriagre on Bnooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributors
LlC
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
line Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
Hunter Street, Sydney. ’
m
■——
fg
hf
Lonqclotho,
the. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
ghfgh
uZ3ES£ES222£Hg
US
ESSEX
I
lOlij
M
Every member of the family
greets the New Edison
with pleasure.
They know that each of them can enjoy the exact kind of
music preferred.
The New Edison will perform grand-opera selections,
instrumental solos, sentimental ballads, dance and jazz music
with the perfection of the original performers.
No other instrument no matter how high-priced—can sustain the severe
tests to which the New Edison has responded with marvellous success.
You should learn all about this wonderful instrument at once. Illustrated
literature, post free, on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
s :
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
in » to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £38/10/-
Correspondence invited.
P. & W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ ■
JjutVebiM
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
An Ideal Treatment for
INDIGESTION GASTRITIS
and
ALL STOMACH AILMENTS
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6. ti
■
B:
Vital: Q
mg
The CLUB REIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
If unable to secure from
your Tobacconist, send for
a Trial Box of 25. Post
Free, direct from—
CRAIC & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.


DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Make Weak Backs Strong.
The pain I suffered with my
hack and kidneys for over four
years was almost unbearable. I
was advised to try Dr. Sheldon's
Gin Pills, and I am very grateful
to say that, after taking two
boxes, I got absolute relief, and
they seemed to suit my system
perfectly. My health has im-
proved out of sight, and if you
only knew how glad I am that
my health has reaped such
great benefit, you would under-
stand my writing stating how
grateful I am to Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for how they have
cured me.
You may use this testimonial
if you wish.
(Sgd.) Mrs. NELL GLENN,
12 Rutliven St., Waverley.
MRS. NELL GLENN (from a photo).
YOUR OWN VALUE
„. * i ier own value, and how much her health, happiness
Every w work or enjoyment matter to those about her. Mothers are
and general fitness " f L* world is built up, yet how can a woman prove
the frame upon which klnd mother or a ‘sympathetic companion if she is out
a cheery, helpful wife, a wise k H dacheB backaches, depressed nerves, sleep-
„f health, over-weary or dispirited? ““break up more homes than any human foe.
™j., >»....» « ** «■>*»
» “7;’* "‘.f •?*•*?• ?».'Zv~
good health and abundant spirits. SHUnd health is for all. With healthy
you will never be strong agai . » in „ symptoms you have endured so
kidneys once more acting free n()W dolng for others what they can
long will vanish. 1 • ► . ‘ xi. while Turn over a new leaf for health and
.. air-tight, ~.t«t .....
containers, price 1/6 and 2/6. _______
D r S ffELDONS
BANISHES
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER.
AND U BINARY TROUBLES.
CHOCOLATES
Mailed to
any address
in Australia
on the day
they are
made.
Always in
red boxes.
3/-, 5/6,
7/6, 12/6,
20/- and
30/-
Post Free
/
ti'O.
Vi
«■
-
V.
©
JTV-
P^TEKISoW
QJXuix
The wise man wins
HIS GIRL WITH »
ttiC&ets
162 Pitt St., Sydney
A Canticle of Gold and Blisters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE slab of gold was four feet wide,
And two feet deep or so.
It lay there blushing like a bride,
And yet we had to go
And leave our treasure all alone
Upon a hot and careless stone.
Thompson and I had sailed the sky
That day from early morn,
Above some stony wastes that lie
Almost on Capricorn;
Two hundred miles or so we new
From any place that mankind knew.
At four o’clock our engine stopped,
The warm air let us down;
By various arts and tricks we dropped
Upon a hill’s low crown,
So softly that at 4.15
Nothing was smashed but the machine.
Two hundred miles in upper air
Is not so very far.
’Tis nothing to a goddess fair
Or to a sailing star,
And even on a monoplane
It can be crossed and crossed again.
Two hundred miles upon the boot
Is quite another tale,
It tells of seared and blistered foot,
And weary ankle stale;
A granulated mass of bones
Is she who walks eight days on stones.
We talked the dreary matter o’er,
And cursed our luck unkind ;
Two hundred miles lay on before,
Two hundred leagues behind.
Thompson had india-rubber shoes,
And mine were such as barmaids use.
Another matter full of dread,
Of which I hate to speak,
Was that I had arranged to wed
A man in town next week..
I almost tore my best new hair
Two hundred miles from anywhere.
But Thompson’s strong, unhurried mind
Upbuoyed my sinking heart.
He said the world was hard to find,
But we must make a start;
And thinking of the bridal feast
I turned my features to the east.
We walked that day and all the next
To reach the world intent,
A quantity of hunger vext
Our fancy as we went;
But till the long, hot week had flown
I stepped from weary stone to stone.
The sun came up, the sun went down,
And Thompson led the way ;
I felt my features turning brown,
My heart’s blood growing grey.
And when six deserts we had crost
Thompson declared that we were lost.
We found Australia very wide.
My shoes were faint and few,
And Thompson’s socks no more could hide
The ends of him from view;
But on and on and on we tramped,
And when the darkness came we camped.
A fortnight passed. Each day arose
And did not care the least
How hard we pressed with eyes and nose
Against his shining east.
But all before were stones and air,
And all behind us was despair.
And then we came upon the gold,
And both our hearts were glad.
For wealth like this to have and hold
Was still my special fad.
I sat a while to gaze and gloat
While Thompson capered like a goat.
We marked it with a piece of chalk
To find the spot again,
And then we started , out to walk
Across another plain,
And after that we crossed a hill
And found the world some distance still.
We passed a stunted tree last week,
And on a mountain’s brow •
We thought that we had found the sleek
Brown features of a cow.
But the resemblance passed when we
Climbed up two thousand feet to see.
But on we go from day to day,
And we shall surely reach
A place where little lambkins stray
Or housewives stew the peach.
With such a mass of wealth to share
We cannot yield to stark despair.
The sun comes up. the sun goes down, ■
And Thompson leads the way.
My features now are rusty brown,
But all my heart is gay—
A gross of deserts, more or less,
Cannot disturb my blessedness.
The slab of gold is four feet wide
And two feet deep or so,
And round it with peculiar pride
The saltbush scrublings grow.
We made our chalk-marls very plain
That we might find the place again.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
On the Road to Ballarat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE coach from Geelong for the gold-
fields lumbered along the scratched-
out track hugging the west bank of
the Moorabool. The day was very hot, and
the leaden atmosphere oppressed the lean
horses, on which a copious sweat dried in
thick rime.
“Curly” Hunt, Cobb and Co.’s star driver,
was running a record load. There were six
inside, two on the seat with him and three
clinging precariously to the low iron rail
on the roof, sliding amongst the loose lug-
gage and letting it be heard what an in-
grained- digger could do with the English
language every time the coach pounded into
a deeper rut and bounced them ignore piously
among the swags and bags. Hun: sloped
against the box seat rather than Sitting
it, thereby securing a good grip
heels, held his horses up to their work, nan
ling them with the forbearance of a Iona
mother, swinging the long whip merelj t
titillate their ribs and remind them tnen
boss was awake and watchful.
Hunt was a big man in a huge hat, a
seasoned cabbage-tree of the flexibility and
color of which (both the outcome ot pro-
tracted use) he was extremely proud, tie
was clean-shaven and raw-boned, and n s
flesh, wherever visible, had the tint ot an
old penny. There was something statuesque
in his rigid figure and the clean-cut passivity
of his bronze face. The passengers beside
him had long since given up the attempt
to maintain a conversation, and sagged dolor-
ously, putting what little energy remained
with them into the task of fighting off a
storm of famished flies that came again with
maddening persistence.
Inside the coach was the same quiet. Here
there was more interest to sustain a certain
mental alertness; but even the presence ot
“Flash” Barnes and the little brown gnl*
cowering back and seeking poor seclusion
behind an effective veil, failed to preserve
in three of the passengers any open regard
in defiance of the heat and burden ot Uie
dav. It had been noted that she had slim,
neat hands, and that her hair was pretty and
her eyes seemed fine, being curiously lumi-
nous behind the gossamer covering them.
The passengers had observed, too, that her
figure was slight and girlish. Each had
indulged in a certain amount of speculation
concerning her. W hat, for instance, was
she doing with the flash man by her side,
whose authoritative hand was so often on
her arm? He was a well-oiled man, with
close, curling black hair and plenty of it,
quick, black eyes, and full, red lips showing
through moustache and beard with some-
thing of a negroid effect. He wore a black
velveteen coat, a light fancy vest sprigged
with lilac, cord trousers tucked into high
Wellingtons shining like mirrors, and a
smart white stock. To-day lie would have
been taken for some eccentric feature ot an
American circus; in the Roaring ’E lfties lie
would have been called “Flash Barnes
wherever he put in an appearance, and would
have been picked out as a sporting store-
keeper with a stock of sly grog bidden in
a patent ham, or the proprietor of a shanty
with a compact gambling outfit. M
Only the corner passenger facing “Hash
Barnes maintained his interest in the couple
opposite. He alone had noted that when-
ever the lay of the country offered him an
opportunity the man opposite took off his
new panama, and, thrusting Ins head out or
the window, looked back the way they had
come. Every time lie did this the girl by
his side leaned forward to catch a glimpse
of his face. The watcher marked her con-
cern. 00
The man in the corner was perhaps zb,
lithe but powerfully built. He, like “Curly
Hunt, seemed little affected by the weather.
He was wide awake, his movements were
quick and emphatic; there was about him
the masterful air of a man confident of
himself. His face was clean-shaven, the
strength of character it betrayed in every
line was softened by a twinkle of humor
playing around his eyes and in the corners
of his mouth. The nose was slightly dam-
aged, but a good nose still. There was a
scar over the left eye, and the left ear was
mauled somewhat.
This man’s name was Andrew Fastor.
The powerful hands lying entwined on his
knees had attracted the girl. They sug-
gested tremendous energy, but were a little
too white and bore no trace of labor. Obvi-
ously he was not a digger. What was he ?
She allowed herself a moment from the stress
of her own perplexities to wonder what he
might be. His garb was black; he might
be a clergyman; the right sort of clergyman
for the men and manners of . the time.
Andrew, little dreaming that the girl enter-
tained any thought of him. took an increas-
ing interest in “Hash” Barnes. Presently
when Barnes had looked back for the fifth
time in an hour, and the girl turned to him.
an eager question on her lips, the hand
went to her wrist with such a w r rench that
she sat back with a little gasp of pain and
tears sprang to her eyes.
Here Pastor, swinging up his right leg to
cross it over his left, brought the toe of his
boot sharply under Barnes’s kneecap, just
in the nastiest place. It was a sickening
jolt, and an oath flew' from the sufferers
lip as he braced tw'o hands over his hurt
and hugged it. his round, black eyes fixed
on Pastor with a snake-like viciousness.
“You clumsy hound!” said Barnes.
“Can’t you be more careful with your in-
fernal big feet?”
Pastor seemed not to hear, and Barnes
continued with undiminished truculence: “I
believe you’ve lamed me, damn you. It
would serve you about right ? to pitch you on
vour head out of the coach.”
He rubbed his knee, and continued mut-
tering for over a minute. When he had
subsided Pastor said quite cordially :
“Cobb and Co. don’t give a man room to
turn in these dog-boxes of theirs, do they ?
and dropped the subject as of no particular
moment. ... , ,
The other passengers had barely flickered
their eyelids at Barnes’s demonstration.
Quiet was resumed, and the summer air
passed through the coach like a flame. After
about 10 minutes Andy Pastor fished a
leather bag from under the seat, and extracted
from it a small metal flask with a cup top.
Pouring a small quantity of the contents of
this flask into the cup, he offered it to the
you would like a drink, miss. ’
said he. “Don’t be afraid, it’s only a harm-
less cordial, and very refreshing.
The <drl came forward with a trace of
eagerness, and took the cup. Thank you,
thank vou,” she said. But Barness grip
was on her wrist with such force that she
gasped in pain, and almost dropped the
CU Once more Pastor, changing his position,
kicked Barnes sharply under the kneecap
and dropping the girl’s wrist Barnes rubbed
the injured leg, drawing his breath m be-
tween 'his teeth with a hissing sound. If
(Continued on next page.)


HOME ACCIDENTS
Treated Quickly & Safely with Zam-Buk
It is to mother that the crying youngsters bring their
hurts; to whom all the family come for advice and
assistance m accident or emergency. Mothers provided
with Zam-Buk have the best healer and first-aid it is
possible to get; one that is soothing, safe, easy to use
and thoroughly antiseptic. Zam-Buk is the pure, refined
herbal balm which suits the tenderest skin of the
youngest babe. It prevents little hurts from becoming
big and troublesome, and ends skin trouble like nothing
else can.
Mrs. N. Cooper, of Churchill Street, Adelaide, says: “When my little girl
noris was three years old, we came over from New Zealand, and while on board
she got a scratch on her knee. The dye from her tan sox got into the scratch
and set up blood-poison, and she had a terrible leg. It was frightfully inflamed
and I had a very anxious time for her. I applied Zam-Buk to the wound
with surprising results. Zam-Buk drew out all the inflammation and matter
thoroughly cleaned the wound, and healed it perfectly. 1 recommend Zam-Buk
to all with every confidence.”
&
A\
mr
/r
m
•v€S
*
X
500 THING-HEALING-ANTISEPTIC.
ilk
am
Zam-Buk is the ideal home healer for Cuts,
Bruises, Scalds, Burns, Sores, Bad Legs,
Ulcers, Abrasions, Mosquito Bites, Rash,
Pimples, Blisters, Abscesses, Ringworm,
Barber’s Rash, Scratches, Scalp Diseases,
Sore Feet, Boils, Sunburn, Piles, Sprains,
Scabs, Blackheads, Chafings, Barcoo,
Insect Stings, Sore Heels, Eczema, Poisoned
Wounds, Stiffness, and Injured or Diseased
conditions of the Skin generally. Price,
Is. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per pot, of all Chemists
and Stores, or Post Free from C. E. Ful-
ford (Aust.), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
eyes could stab Pastor would have fallen,
riddled, there and then.
“There,” said Pastor almost cheerfully,
“I've done it again !”
Barnes, breathing oaths, surveyed the man
opposite, meditating an attack, but his eyes
went over the powerful figure and rested
on the big, capable hands, and he contented
himself with muttered abuse, which Pastor
did not .seem to hear.
“Thank you very much.” murmured the
girl gratefully, passing back the cup.
Barnes turned a spiteful glance upon her,
and his hand went towards her wrist, but he
changed his mind, and continued rubbing his
hurt. Pastor’s foot had lifted in a most
suggestive way.
There was a stop at Steiglitz. The pas-
sengers climbed out to stretch their limbs
and try what tepid refreshments the tumble-
down, wayside shanty could supply. Fresh
horses were brought forward.
At this stage Pastor developed a boister-
ous turn. lie insisted on “Curly” Hunt
drinking with him, and after that,' in a tit
of boyish whimsicality, beat one of the fresh
horses on the rump with his heavy palm,
till the animal broke away and bolted down
the road. The coach was delayed 15 minutes
while the animal was being recaptured, and
then, when all was ready, Pastor literally
dragged the driver into the bar again.
There was an ugly glint in Hunt’s eye,
but lie did not accept the advice of “Flash”
Barnes which was smash the brute; lie’s
drunk. He isn’t fit to travel with decent
people, anyhow.”
Emitting a big laugh, Pastor rubbed
limits panama \voll down ovor his Gye.s
and hauled Hunt into the crib. Hunt ac-
cepted the drink as the quickest way out of
the difficulty, but the longing of his troubled
sou] was to take a cast-iron fist to the
Despite all Andy’s
efforts to further delay the coach, Cobb and
( o.’s line was presently in full flight from
Steiglitz, Andy, now in the position next the
driver, vociferating that it was a merciless
act of inhumanity to ask Christians to travel
in this heat.
“We’d go on if the track was straight
through the ash-pits of Hell,” said Hunt.
“Cobb and Cos. stop for nothing.”
“Man, you’re head engineer for the Devil.”
fried Pastor, laughing derisively. “There’s
smoke coming out of your ears.” He seized
the reins, and pulled the -pair in the pole
on to their haunches.
It was playfully done, but Hunt beat at
1 astor’s knuckles with the butt of his whip
“Do that again, and off this coach you go,
neck and crop,” said he, “drunk or sober.”
Inside the coach the old digger who had
taken Andy’s place lay back and drowsed,
utterly indifferent to “Flash” Barnes and
his charge. The change was to the great
satisfaction of Barnes, but in the girl's
heart there was a pitiful feeling that she
had lost a friend.
The heat increased after noon, and an
almost deathly lassitude fell upon the travel-
lers, but Barnes had not lost interest in the
load that lay behind them. He kept up
a rumble of complaint about the slowness
of the horses.
“By (I —and, we won't get away after all,
my dear,” he said onee, "if this infernal old
ramshackle doesn’t speed up.”
"Oh, I’m afraid 1 have done wrong,” re-
plied the girl in little more than a whisper.
"I know 1 have done wrong. 1 am sorry.
I—l want to go back.” Her tears began
to flow.
"Don't be a damned little fool!” replied
Barnes curtly, his grip again upon her
wrist.
Ten minutes later the coach lurched vio-
lently. a hub ground against the butt of a
gum, and all came to so sudden a standstill
that one of the on-top passengers fell head
over heels off his perch into the thick dust.
The drowsing travellers, jerked from their
seats, scrambled for the door. Evidently
the obstreperous passenger had interfered
with Hunt’s driving again. The two were
stripping off coats and hats, with a pro-
fusion of high words. Everyone recognised
the preliminaries to a fight. The others
leapt out, the girl alone remained in the
coach, cowering in a corner, peering through
the window with terrified eyes.
No time was wasted. Hunt and Pastor
were already sparring up when Barnes
landed from the coach. He moved around
the lighting men in a sort of splenetic frenzy.
“Beat him over the head,” cried Barnes.
“We can’t be delayed like this by a drunken
swine. Let him have it.”
Barnes armed himself with a handy club,
but the digger who had been tumbled in the
dust, nowise prejudiced by his misfortune,
was determined on a fair go. He tore
Barnes’s weapon from his clutch, and tossed
it aside.
“This is goin’ to be a clean mill,” said the
digger. “Any spoil-sport diggin’ in with a
waddy will have me to deal with, and they’ll
be dirty dealin’s, let me tell you.”
So Hunt and Pastor fought. They were
both big, athletic, powerful men. They
swung limbs that seemed as potent for evil
as sledge-hammers, but while seeming to be a
wild and venomous battle the encounter
presently relapsed into an inept showing of
wild drives and vehement but inconclusive
swings. Pastor did not hit Hunt, and
Hunt could not hit Pastor. The former’s
big fists shot about Hunt’s ears, missing his
face by the fraction of an inch, and when he
punched for the body, his blow, if it
landed, had a cushiony softness that did no
mischief in the world. If by chance Hunt
got a blow in, it was like hurling a dump-
ling against a granite wall. But once Pastor
went down to one of these blows, and lay,
limp and apparently unconscious, on the
ground. No one stirred to help him.
With a cry of pity the girl sprang from
the coach, and, kneeling by Pastor, raised
his head.
“Oh, he’s hurt, he’s hurt!” she pleaded.
“Won’t someone get some water?”
Then she looked into Pastor’s face, shielded
from the others by her body. His eyes were
open; he greeted her with a raffish smile,
and deliberately winked. The girl dropped
Andy’s head with little concern, and started
back, perplexed and ashamed, and Pastor lay
on the dry grass apparently unconscious.
“Throw out his luggage,” commanded
Hunt, preparing to resume his coat. “He
can stay where he is. It’ll teach him better
manners.”
But at this Pastor was on his feet again,
surging towards the driver. The seeming
slight tap he landed on Hunt’s nose must
have had a little more devil in it. Hunt
uttered a yell of rage, and rushed his oppo-
nent once more, and the fight went on as
before, lumberingly foolish and without dis-
coverable harm to either, and more than
once when Pastor’s face was turned to the
girl he sent a sly smile in her direction as if
to reassure her.
Perplexed, the girl leaned upon the step
of the coach, and all of a sudden a kind of
understanding came to her. This man was
fighting her fight; he was seeking to serve
her. Her eyes went swiftly back along the
bush track. She started forward, her hands
aloft.
“Father! Father!” she cried.
A light gig drawn by a steaming grey horse
was bearing down upon them from the top
of the rise they had recently negotiated, the
driver standing in his place, lashing his
jaded horse. Barnes turned and saw the
pursuer too, and broke into furious maledic-
tions. He would have fled, but Pastor, no
longer interested in his battle, had a hand
on his shoulder, with fingers of iron, it
seemed, turned in the slack of his coat.
The driver of the gig, an elderly man, tall
and raw-boned, sprang to the ground, and
disregarding the weeping girl, ran straignt
at “Flash” Barnes, his whip upraised.
"You slimy scoundrel!” he said. “You
low. dirty villain, I have got you!” Ib*
addressed the passengers. “This wretch de-
luded. my poor, motherless girl into running
off with him. She is a mere child, an inno-
cent, knowing no more of the world than a
baby. Here she stands.” lie drew the veil
from the girl’s face, and threw a protecting
arm about her. “I’m Jamieson of the Ford,”
he said.
For a moment there was silence. All eyes
were upon the girl. Her loveliness, the
sweetness of her youth, impressed the rough-
est. In that moment Barnes made seven
new deadly enemies. The girl was not more
than 17. Ingenuousness sat upon her
almost childish face like the freshness of a
flower.
“Let me go, damn you!” snarled Barnes,
twisting in Pastor’s grip.
Pastor swayed him to and fro, and then
sent him spinning like a dead leaf in the
wind. . He fell, sprawling, ten yards away.
“Don't let him escape,” said Jamieson
hastily. “He robbed me, too. He has five
hundred pounds of mine.”
Pastor secured “Flash” Barnes again and
towed him, squirming and snarling like an
angry cur, to Jamieson’s feet. His hand went
over the rascal, searching him, and presently
he tore a bundle of notes from a breast
pocket.
“Bank of England five-pound notes,” said
Jamieson. He gave numbers.
Pastor submitted the notes to Hunt.
“That’s correct,” said the driver. “What
are we going to do with this low hound?”
The girl sobbing in her father’s arms
was protesting. “I did not know that;
father. I did not suspect that. We were to
be married in Ballarat. I thought he was
honest. He said he loved me. Oh. I am
glad you have come! I am glad! I am
glad ! I want to go back with you.”
Before they parted Agnes Jamieson put
a small, tremulous hand in Pastor’s, “i
understand.” she whispered. “Thank you
for your goodness. I shall always be grate-
ful." She added in a lower voice. “Please,
don’t let him follow us.”
It was Pastor threw Barnes into the
coach with as much ceremony as if he had
been a bag of mail matter. It was Pastor
kept an eye on him all the way to Ballarat.
There he was permitted to take his own
way. with only a kick to help him.
Three weeks later "Curly” Hunt went to
the big heavyweight fight off Plank-road.
Ballarat. The prize fight was for a purse
of £3OO and the championship of Australia.
He watched the contest to the end in silent
amazement, never taking his eyes off one
of the boxers. He saw the victor coming
towards him through a scramble of vocifer-
ous admirers, and felt himself seized by the
pugilist and towed along to the dressing-
tent. Here the fighting-man swung Hunt
up before several of his friends.
"Mates,” said he, “here is ‘Curly’ the
ooachdriver, the only man who has ever
beaten me in fair fight. Give him a drink.”
“Curly” Hunt took the liberal dose of
brandy poured out for him, and raised it
to his lip.s. “Here’s good luck to you. Andy
Pastor,” he said, “and thanking you kindly
for not killing me that day.”
EDWARD DYSON.
This Have I Asked.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HIS have I asked of Life: to have
content
JL In simple, ordinary daily things.
To taste delight without presentiment
Of evil or the envious murmurings
Of fools and shrews, to go my little way
A little more happily still from day to day.
This have I asked of Love: to know the dear
Security of perfect confidence.
To walk companioned, cloudy skies and clear.
By joy of tender trust outshining sense,
To have my riches in one faithful breast,
With never a covetous thought for all the
rest.
This have I asked of God: that I may be
Still to myself for always very true.
That I may know the best humility
Of utter indifference to what others do.
That I may live at peace by gentle streams
That wimple musically to my dreams.
But, Life has left me sad and sore and spent.
Bankrupt of fortune, ay! and scant of
breath;
A nd God and Love, their promptings queerly
blent.
Have goaded rne until I long for Death —
For Death the brotherly comforter, since he
Will keep his word and give me sleep, maybe.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


ishb
s*.
WESTIHGIOUSE
Morse Silent Roller-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum vve\r—
Maximum life and hithest effi-
ciency. \
Chains in stock—wheek manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars ani Book-
let BM 414. \
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Viotorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. SAWALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
1£ you are troubled with this complaint, wiite
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feei-
in<>- of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented, for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions.. To prove what w sta.'
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach ot
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
rn™
If any illustration appearing m ±Ht
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SUCCESS IN
To succeed in life good spirits and
thoughts are required. Thc man wh
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pill* and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
your health and'
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no ,
discomfort. Thousands recommend
Good for old and young-purely vcjgetab
Small Pill—Small Dos#—Small Pi
CART
W ITT'LE
IVER
PIILS
GENUINE must
bear signature
n
health
0t J.Colfis Browne’s
CWorodyne
The Original ami Only Genuine,
THE BEST MEISICINE FOK
Coughs, Colds, Asthn
and in tlie Cousrli of JißONCHl'i’iS
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
in the pains
NEURALGIA, T
| ACHE, rheuma
ry
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysent
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and S/
' -Made in England. ;?\ :
mn
A Modem Engineer’s
Workshop is not
complete without a
GOOD BE AXING OUTFIT
In this line of goods we admit no competitor superior in knowledge
or range of stock.
BRAZING EQUIPMENT
suitable for use with I" I
Kerosene, Petrol or Gas Fuels.
. , T rvf r>
The following is informative.
brazing lamps
BRAZING LAMP
PAINTERS’ BLOW LAMP ..
VESUVIUS PAINTER’S LAMP
Length
Capacity of Flame.
1 pint 9i n *
21 pints 14in.
| pint 7in.
1 pint wide flame
Price.
48/-
75/-
35/-
42/-
BENZINE LAMP, 1 pint (will melt l Copper Rod in \ min.),
PRIMUS 6 STOVE for Meeting Babbitt or Simila * 2^ each
gas brazingToutfits.
ALL IRON BELLOWS, with Continuous Blast with Blow Pipe, or
woootd FOOT BELLOWS, Blast,
Iftvl4 in.. 47/9 each. 12 xlB m.. 53/- each.
FLETCHER RUSSEL’S WORLD-
FAMOUS BLOWPIPES, for use
■with above Bellows —
53/9, 57/-, 70/-, £5/12/-
BEST COPPER SOLDERING IRONS,
lib., 3/9; 21b., 6/9, 31b., 10/6 ea.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
tv-
HLJou muAt cat to lixfe.but
8
Co
I
.Jm
y r
r
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
WB SUPPLY—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring anc
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by- the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of TaixH
and all Particulars
Shave w L th “Plum”
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “Plum” Razor has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years’ Satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen agains *- ■=
beard. Requires but little stropping.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 20/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle W
Ca6,e !' each, from 10/C
“Plum Strops • —BM«a
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVETt 35 __
654 Geoirge Street, SYDNEY.
1
¥,
126*301 ' 2*
'S*TS
ARROW
Li 5
m
“WETPROOF” is a coined
word; it is a RE'MINGTON
word and stands for the special
patented process with which all
Remington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
tridge cases have long been made
of so-called waterproofed parer but
this exclusive ‘‘WETPROOF” pro-
.cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
gun cartridges.
The wetproof compound of special oris
is applied, not only to the body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
loading, effectively scaling it against
moisture and giving to the contents that
protection which insures uniformity of
ignition; pattern, speed and penetration.
Sportsmen need not fear the effect of rain
or damp weather on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
brands treated with this special, patented
‘‘WETPROOF” process.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, live.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian
Representative, Box 686,
G.P.0., Melbourne


N
Ldr'
>
\
k
r
jpr' SSE
?.:*> ■-.
CT'-
V&BS&Sk
#*&
|4<fSf«s#'/. •;v-
- is9KHHSS? .... . ■*sate<«* ,^f<»e»
HU
mm
IP
-■ .V
i ■
. . * v*3. &M'
-,. .i5*.,... : - K -
-*
-V
' .-.I s XSWSfc&i
e
ar
The Choice of the Discriminating Motorist.
The far-sighted motorist chooses the 'Wolseley for many reasons.
l i St n ® tance ’ reputation dates back to pioneer days, and all along the line
the Wolseley has been a leader in its class.
The Wolseley Post-War Fifteen has been the striking success of the year, having
attained the long-sought combination of high speed, great hill-climbing power and low
running costs.
Cheapness is relative, and the “Wolseley Fifteen,” with its fine design, high efficiency,
low up-keep cost, beauty and distinctiveness, is cheap in the true sense of the word,
being the best motor-car value ever offered.
After years of faithful and efficient service it is still a saleable asset of high value.
In the manufacture of the Wolseley the raw materials used, produced largely by the famous firm of Vickers, Ltd.,
are the very best procurable. The coachwork is designed on the most graceful lines, with upholstery specially constructed
for comfort.
Eivery car possesses in a marked degree that individuality and distinction so characteristic of the British Motor Carriage
of the highest type.
Full Information on Request.
REPRESENTATIVES:
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO., LTD.. Phillin Street Svdnev
r STRAIJ V—H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., 64 Hindiey Street Adelaide
LT ® ’ 105 Macquarie Itree?, Hobart.
\\ ESI’e AUSTRALIA—THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR & CYCLE AGENCY, LTD., Hay Street,
NEW ZEALAND-—G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS BROS., Wellington; RETT &
Dunedin Palmerstou; 1(),)I) BROS., LTD., Christchurch; TODD BROS., LTD.,
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia—-125 William Street, Melbourne
(Proprietors—Vickers, Ltd.)
Works—Adderley Park, Birmingham, England.
A
WEED
